-- Fed Says China's Data on Slowdown Are Probably Accurate
-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 2013-03-25T17:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-25/fed-says-china-s-data-on-slowdown-are-probably-accurate.html
China ’s slowdown last year probably
didn’t exceed government reports, researchers at the  Federal
Reserve Bank of San Francisco  said, differing from concerns
voiced by some analysts about the accuracy of the official data.  The expansion of gross domestic product reported by the
world’s second-largest economy paralleled other indicators of
growth, including electricity production, rail shipments and
lending, the Fed researchers said today in a paper describing
their comparison of official and independent economic data.  “We find no evidence that China’s slowdown in 2012 was
greater than officially reported,” the researchers said in
their paper. “Output data are systematically related to
alternative indicators of Chinese economic activity.”  An economist at  Standard Chartered  Plc said last month
China may underestimate price increases in services industries,
meaning inflation-adjusted growth was lower last year than
official data indicate.  Stephen Green , head of Greater China
research at Standard Chartered in Hong Kong, provided in a
report a “guesstimate” of 5.5 percent growth for 2012,
compared with the official reading of 7.8 percent.  China’s economic growth slowed for seven quarters before
recovering to a  7.9 percent  annual pace in the final three
months of 2012, led by government-directed spending on
infrastructure. The economy will probably grow 8.1 percent this
year, according to the median estimate of 51 economists in a
March 15-20 Bloomberg survey.  The San Francisco Fed report cited  Li Keqiang , who was made
China’s premier this month and was quoted in 2007 as saying he
monitored data on power, rail cargo and loans because GDP data
were “man-made.” Li’s remark in a leaked diplomatic cable was
published by WikiLeaks in 2010.  The  San Francisco  Fed researchers -- John Fernald, Israel
Malkin and Mark Spiegel -- also tracked consumer sentiment,
construction of new floor space, raw materials use, airline
passenger volume and new residential real estate construction.
They examined data on China’s imports and exports produced by
non-Chinese sources.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Kearns in Washington at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  