-- Finland Needs 64% Power Price Jump to Secure Russia Imports
-- B y   T o r s t e n   F a g e r h o l m
-- 2013-03-25T17:26:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-25/finland-needs-64-power-price-jump-to-secure-imports-from-russia.html
Finnish  electricity prices  need to
rise by 64 percent from last year’s average to attract imports
from  Russia  after flows into the Nordic country slumped to the
lowest level since 1997, an academic said.  Prices above 60 euros ($78) a megawatt-hour for a period of
at least four hours would encourage flows from  Finland ’s eastern
neighbor, Satu Viljainen, a professor of power markets at
Lappeenranta University of Technology, said on March 22 in a
phone interview from Lappeenranta, Finland. Wholesale prices
averaged 36.64 euros a megawatt-hour last year on the Nord Pool
Spot AS exchange in Oslo and delivery for tomorrow settled at
45.47 euros.  Finland is a net importer of electricity and foreign
purchases surged 25 percent last year to a record 21 percent of
demand, according to data from the country’s Energy Industries
Association. Imports via cables from the west fluctuate as
 Sweden  and  Norway ’s output from hydro power plants, which
accounts for more than half of the region’s supply, is
intermittent.  “Traders should prepare for low power shipments from
Russia into Finland in the future, except for periods when the
Finnish power price really soars,” Viljainen said. “Nothing
indicates a return to the situation from 1981 through 2011, when
Finland bought large baseload electricity volumes from Russia,
both night and day.”  Power imports from Russia dropped 59 percent last year to
4.4 terawatt-hours from a year earlier, the lowest since 1997,
according to  data  from the energy association.  Capacity Tariff  High-voltage links were from 1981 through 2011 used to ship
as much as 1,400 megawatts of power around the clock from Russia
to Finland, according to data from  Fingrid  Oyj, the nation’s
network manager, based in Helsinki.  Russia levies a capacity tariff of about 25 euros a
megawatt-hour on power exports at times of peak demand,
according to an estimate by Lappeenranta University,
the only Finnish research institute to publish an estimate for
the charge.  The levy was introduced in 2006 to secure revenues for
owners and builders of power-plants. It’s hurting Russian power
export monopoly  OAO Inter Rao UES (IRAO) ’s ability to compete with
Nordic generators as shipping power abroad gets more expensive.  “The Russian government’s power-plant investment plan
means new stations will supersede old units and get even higher
payments, pushing the capacity tariff up to 34 euros a megawatt-
hour by 2015 according to our estimate,” Viljainen said. “This
will further severely restrict Finnish power imports from
Russia, with no end in sight.”  Viacheslav Leonov, a spokesman at Inter Rao in Moscow,
wasn’t available to comment on March 22.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Torsten Fagerholm in Helsinki at 
 tfagerholm@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  