-- French Companies Largely Favor U.S.-EU Trade Pact, Bricq Says
-- B y   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i
-- 2013-03-25T13:32:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-25/french-companies-largely-favor-u-s-eu-trade-pact-bricq-says.html
Most French companies favor a
proposed free-trade pact between the European Union and the
U.S., with carmakers and some farm sectors opposed, French trade
minister Nicole Bricq said.  Any accord would require complicated negotiations, Bricq
said in Paris as she presented results from a survey of 287
companies and trade associations and 122 other associations.  “One can only favor a trade pact when you look at U.S.
growth rates when compared with  Europe ,” Bricq said. “We have
an interest in attaching ourselves to a growing zone, but we can
see it will be a long and difficult.”  With duties and quotas already low or non-existent between
the two sides of the Atlantic, talks would focus more on  farm
subsidies , food labeling, health protections, industrial
standards, and environmental guarantees, as well as trade
barriers such as the U.S’s “Buy American Act” for public
procurement.  The EU plans to present draft plans this month to kick-
start the negotiations. The U.S. and the EU have given
themselves two years to complete the talks. European trade
ministers will discuss the proposed pact at a April 19 meeting
in Dublin.  French President  Francois Hollande  on March 15 presented
his red lines, saying  France  wouldn’t give up its bans on
genetically modified food nor its “cultural exception” -- code
for French insistence on laws mandating a certain level of
French content on television and radio.  Bricq confirmed that “cultural identity” and European
rejection of genetically modified foods are not negotiable.  Car Industry  French industrial companies “were very largely in favor,”
Bricq said, with the exception of carmakers  PSA Peugeot Citroen (UG) 
and  Renault SA. (RNO)   Toyota Motor Corp (7203) , which has a factory in
France, and French car parts makers were in favor of opening
talks.  “Not many French cars are sold in the U.S., but our German
friends may have a different idea,” she said.  Meat, ethanol, and corn producers expressed concern that
U.S. producers have greater economies of scale, she said. Other
farm sectors were in favor as long as the U.S. eliminated non-
tariff barriers to selling in the U.S., she said.  “There are definite advantages we can gain from these
talks, but the EU must come up with a clear and firm mandate,”
she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gregory Viscusi in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  