-- GE Bonus Gives Immelt Motive to Tap NBC Cash for Deals
-- B y   T i m   C a t t s
-- 2013-03-25T20:13:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-25/ge-bonus-plan-gives-immelt-incentive-to-plow-nbc-cash-into-deals.html
General Electric Co. (GE) ’s new
incentive pay plan gives Chief Executive Officer Jeffrey Immelt
motive to tap $16.7 billion from last month’s sale of the rest
of NBC to fund industrial acquisitions.  The three-year program will pay Immelt in part for
increasing the share of GE’s profit from manufacturing
businesses, the company said last week in a Securities and
Exchange Commission filing. It replaces an arrangement from 2010
to 2012 that rewarded his success in shrinking the finance unit.  Immelt, who earned $12.1 million under the previous pact,
must also boost earnings per share while amassing cash and
increasing return on capital to receive the maximum payout,
which the company didn’t disclose. GE will probably look for
more deals like its $4.3 billion purchase of Avio SpA, which
bolsters its jet-engine business, Daniel Holland, an analyst
with Chicago-based  Morningstar Inc. (MORN) , said in a phone interview.  “There’s a good opportunity for the company to grow this
year on the acquisition front,” Holland said. “If that’s how
I’m going to get paid as the leader of the company and my bonus
is dependent on growing a certain side of the business, and I
have this cash available to me now, I’m going to do everything
within my power to make that happen.”  Seth Martin , a spokesman for Fairfield, Connecticut-based
GE, declined to comment on the company’s compensation practices.  Industrial Sales  Earnings at divisions making products from locomotives to
medical scanners will account for about 65 percent of GE’s
operating earnings by 2015, the final year in which Immelt’s
performance will be measured under the new plan, the company
 predicted  at a meeting with investors and analysts in December.
Those earnings made up 55 percent of profit, on the same basis,
in 2012.  At the same time, sales growth at the company’s industrial
units is projected to slow this year, excluding any benefit from
acquisitions. So-called organic revenue growth will fall to as
low as 2 percent in 2013, compared with 8 percent last year,
executives said at the December meeting.  By divesting assets including the Business Property Lending
Inc. unit and its Irish mortgage business,  GE Capital  reduced
its ending net investment, a measure of its size, to  $419
billion  as of Dec. 31. That was a decline of 18 percent since
the beginning of 2009 and exceeded the company’s December 2011
forecast that the measure would shrink to $440 billion last
year.  Consumer Lending  The new compensation plan gives Immelt incentive to further
shrink the finance unit, perhaps by separating the private-label
credit card business, and to make acquisitions to fortify the
industrial divisions, said Steven Winoker, a Sanford C.
Bernstein & Co. analyst in  New York , who has a market-perform
rating on GE stock.  “On the GE Capital side, it raises the motivation to
divest some of it or spin some of it off,” Winoker said in a
telephone interview. “They don’t have to spin all of it off --
there are reasons to think they could just spin off the consumer
piece, for example.”  In addition to reducing GE Capital’s balance sheet, the
2010-2012 pay program gauged performance based on the industrial
units’ return on capital and cash flow from operating activities
as well as earnings-per-share growth. GE’s operating earnings
climbed about 8 percent to $16.1 billion, or $1.52 a share, last
year. The company earned $1.31 a share on that basis in 2011.  GE climbed 39 percent during the last incentive program,
 outpacing  a 28 percent increase by the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index and a 26 percent gain by the  Dow Jones Industrial Average .
The shares have advanced 11 percent this year to $23.24, as of
the close of trading today in New York.  Share Buyback  Immelt’s success over the next three years will help set
pay for about 1,000 top GE employees participating in the long-
term incentive compensation plan, including Chief Financial
Officer  Keith Sherin , Global Growth and Operations CEO  John Rice , GE Capital CEO Michael Neal and General Counsel Brackett Denniston.  GE agreed to sell its 49 percent stake in  NBC Universal  to
Comcast Corp. on Feb. 12 and announced plans to increase the
size of its share repurchase program to $35 billion the same
day. The divestiture will also give the company “the
flexibility to do more M&A,” Sherin said in a conference call
with analysts at the time.  After an initial sale of 51 percent of NBC Universal in
December 2009 for $9.8 billion in cash, GE embarked on an
acquisition spree that included Dresser Inc. and the well-
support division of  John Wood Group Plc. (WG/)  Those deals helped the
oil and gas division’s revenue grow by 57 percent since 2009 to
$15.2 billion last year.  “It’s a big ship and it takes a lot to change course when
you’re that size, and that’s why they’re attacking both
shrinking the financial business while growing the industrial
side,” said Christian Mayes, a St. Louis-based analyst at
Edward Jones & Co. who has a hold rating on GE.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Catts in New York at 
 tcatts1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net . 