-- Gillard Shuffles Cabinet After Failed Leadership Challenge
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2013-03-25T04:03:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-25/gillard-shuffles-cabinet-after-failed-leadership-challenge.html
Australian Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  announced a new Cabinet lineup, replacing ministers who
backed  Kevin Rudd  in a failed bid against her leadership as she
seeks to build momentum ahead of September elections.  Gary Gray will join the Cabinet as resources minister,
while Transport Minister Anthony Albanese will take on
additional responsibilities for regional development and local
government, Gillard told reporters in Canberra today.  Australia ’s first female prime minister is seeking to
rebuild her frontbench after three senior Cabinet members who
backed Rudd departed last week. She faces the challenge of
ensuring her message isn’t drowned out by disarray in the ruling
 Labor party , as polls show voters consistently preferring the
Liberal-National opposition ahead of elections due Sept. 14.  “Gillard needs to put the last week behind her, because it
damaged her hopes of presenting Labor as being able to govern in
unified, rational way,” said Zareh Ghazarian, a lecturer in
politics at  Monash University  in Melbourne. “She obviously had
to make changes to her team and is putting a positive spin on
it, but voters know the reason for the change is because of all
the disunity in her party.”  Labor trails the coalition 55 percent to 45 percent on a
two-party preferred basis, according to a Galaxy poll published
in the Herald Sun newspaper yesterday. The measure is designed
to gauge which party is likely to win enough seats to form a
government under Australia’s preferential voting system. The
poll of 1,005 people was conducted March 22 to March 23. It
didn’t provide a margin of error.  Gillard ‘Appalled’  Gillard, 51, called the leadership contest on March 21
after former party chief  Simon Crean  urged Rudd to challenge for
the role he lost to her in a June 2010 party coup. Gillard won
uncontested after Rudd, who failed in a February 2012 challenge,
decided not to run.  In the aftermath, Crean, who was regional development
minister, Resources Minister  Martin Ferguson  and Small Business
Minister  Chris Bowen  departed Gillard’s Cabinet.  “Like Australians around the nation I was appalled by the
events of last week,” Gillard said. “It was an unseemly
display but out of that has come clarity. It is now very clear
indeed that I have the confidence of my colleagues to lead the
Labor party and to remain as prime minister.”  Gray, who will also take on the portfolios of tourism and
small business, worked as corporate affairs director for
 Woodside Petroleum Ltd. (WPL) , Australia’s second-biggest oil
producer, before being elected to parliament in 2007 in the
Perth seat of Brand.  Highly Regarded  “Gray is a sound appointment because of his contacts and
rapport with the resources industry,” Ghazarian said. The
Australian Mines and Metals Association said in a statement that
“Gray is highly regarded by the resources sector” and
employers look forward to working with him.  Environment Minister Tony Burke adds arts to his
responsibilities, while Trade Minister Craig Emerson will take
on the tertiary education portfolio. The Department of  Climate
Change  will be merged with the Industry Department and will
become the Department of Industry, Innovation, Climate Change,
Science, Research and Tertiary Education, Gillard said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Johnson at 
 ejohnson28@bloomberg.net ;
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  