-- Gillard Rating Drops to 18-Month Low After Labor’s Ructions
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h   a n d   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2013-03-26T01:02:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-25/gillard-poll-rating-slumps-to-18-month-low-after-leadership-win.html
Australian Prime Minister  Julia Gillard ’s personal rating slumped to an 18-month low in an
opinion poll conducted after she won last week’s leadership
contest as her ruling  Labor party  faces defeat in elections.  Gillard’s satisfaction level fell 6 points to 26 percent,
the weakest result since September 2011, while opposition leader
 Tony Abbott  rose 3 points to 39 percent, according to a Newspoll
published in the Australian newspaper today. Labor slipped 6
points to 42 percent on a two-party preferred basis, while
Abbott’s Liberal-National coalition rose 6 to 58 percent, the
biggest gap in almost a year, the survey showed.  Gillard won a leadership ballot unopposed March 21 when
predecessor  Kevin Rudd  refused to challenge, and yesterday
announced a new ministerial lineup after three Cabinet members
who backed Rudd departed. Australia’s first female leader faces
the challenge of ensuring her message isn’t drowned out by party
disunity as the government prepares its budget ahead of
elections due Sept. 14.  “Last week’s events have punched a bigger hole in Labor’s
popularity,” said Paul Strangio, a senior lecturer in politics
at  Monash University  in  Melbourne . “All Gillard can do is work
hard on governing, focus on any policy strengths she has, and
hope there’s enough time to sway some voters back to her side.”  Community Cabinet  The prime minister flies to the resource-rich state of
Western Australia later today and will hold a community Cabinet
meeting there tomorrow as she tries to restore her party’s
standing.  Western Australia, more than three times the size of  Texas ,
is enjoying a decade-long boom, comparable with its 1890s gold
rush, on Asian demand for its resource riches. The state
conservatives increased their majority at local elections
earlier this month, leaving Labor in opposition in the four
biggest of the nation’s six states.  The  Newspoll  survey of 1,136 people taken March 22-24 had a
margin of error of plus or minus 3 percentage points. Abbott
leads Gillard in the category “better prime minister” by 43
percent to 35 percent, the survey showed.  “It was an appalling week last week, there is no point
trying to gloss over that,” Gillard, 51, said late yesterday in
an interview with Channel Ten. “But now we’re in a position to
move on with unity and with confidence and certainly with a
sense of purpose. What we’ve lacked is a sense of unity.”  Seats in Jeopardy  The Australian said that based on today’s poll, five
ministers would lose their seats: Treasurer  Wayne Swan ; new
Resources Minister Gary Gray; School Education Minister Peter
Garrett; Trade Minister Craig Emerson; and Defense Minister
 Stephen Smith . The two-party measure is designed to gauge which
party is likely to win enough seats to form a government under
Australia’s preferential voting system.  On the primary vote, which tallies respondents’ first
voting preference, Labor slipped 4 points in the poll to 30
percent, against the coalition’s 50 percent.  The government is trying to reconcile weakening tax revenue
with promoting its plan for a third term as it prepares the May
budget. The government late last year was forced to abandon a
pledge to return the books to the black. Abbott yesterday said
he intended to move a vote of no confidence in Gillard’s
minority government when parliament convenes for the budget.  “I am confident that the prime minister’s strength, her
values, her leadership, and the policy program of the
government” will allow it to return to office in September,
Gray said in an interview with Australian Broadcasting Corp.
radio today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net ;
 Jason Scott  in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Johnson at 
 ejohnson28@bloomberg.net  