-- Gillard Wins After Losing Three More Men Obscuring Policies
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   A n s t e y   a n d   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2013-03-25T01:51:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-25/gillard-wins-as-julia-after-losing-3-more-men-obscuring-policies.html
The day  Julia Gillard  decided to
close a chapter on Australia’s intolerant past also became
another page in the story of the prime minister’s unrelenting
battle to prove her legitimacy with men.  Gillard, 51, found herself on March 21 facing her second
Labor party leadership vote in a year, minutes after her apology
for forced adoptions of children from mothers deemed to be unfit
during the last century. She stared down her rivals for a third
time in as many years, winning uncontested and losing three
Cabinet members who didn’t back her.  The episode is symptomatic of her challenges since taking
office in June 2010, as accomplishments from a tax on carbon to
a jobless rate less than half the level of the euro area are
overshadowed by efforts to erode her popularity, aided in part
by policy missteps including a failed deal on coping with asylum
seekers. Describing elections in September as a contest between
“a strong feisty woman” and a “policy-weak man,” Australia’s
first female prime minister today shuffled her Cabinet as she
seeks to stamp authority on a government lagging in polls behind
an opposition led by  Tony Abbott .  “The question is: Will Julia be allowed to get away from
this constant leadership speculation, will attention now turn to
her policy agenda?” said Peter Chen, who teaches politics and
public policy at the  University of Sydney . “No women leaders in
Australian political life have ever got much of a fair shake and
her gender has been problematic.”  Legislative Record  Chen, author of “Australian Politics in a Digital Age,”
said Australia’s inexperience with minority administrations also
explains unease with Gillard, who formed such a government after
the closest election in seven decades in 2010. “On one level
Julia Gillard has been pretty successful,” he said, pointing to
a deeper legislative record than her Labor predecessor,  Kevin Rudd , had before the party ousted him in June 2010.  Along with the carbon tax and the first plain-packaging
rule for cigarettes, Gillard’s government put a levy on natural
resources aimed at harnessing Australia’s  mining boom . On March
21, the last day of Parliament’s sitting before it reconvenes in
May for the annual budget, the prime minister sought to focus
attention on an apology to the victims of forced adoptions.  Australia’s Shame  The practice targeting single mothers affected about
140,000 to 150,000 children in a period between 1951 and 1975,
according to a government  report  released last year. Gillard’s
apology on behalf of Australian authorities followed by about
five years the first national atonement to Aborigines taken from
their families for assimilation with the white community,
offered by Rudd to the so-called Stolen Generation.  “What should have been an important day that recognized
past wrongs simply got swept aside,” saidHaydon Manning, an
associate professor in the Department of Politics and Public
Policy at Flinders University in Adelaide. “She doesn’t get the
clear air even when she’s got a chance to do something good and
project her government as one in control.”  Gillard, a former labor attorney, also last week won
approval for a national disability insurance program, while
having to shelve legislation revamping oversight of the media,
which would have created a public-interest test for mergers and
acquisitions.  Flubbed Challenge  The substance of the parliamentary proceedings that day
contrasted with a flubbed effort by Gillard’s Labor opponents to
bring her down. Rudd, 55, declined to run against Gillard after
former party chief  Simon Crean  urged the prime minister to hold
a so-called spill and Rudd to contest it.  Rudd told reporters he was sticking to a pledge he made
after losing to Gillard in a February 2012 spill not to
challenge her again. Even so, he remains in Parliament and plans
to contest his seat in the Sept. 14 federal election. That may
keep alive the potential of another leadership contest.  “What is he waiting for, what does he want -- that media
narrative will continue as long as he is sitting there in the
back bench,” said Sally Young, a political-science professor at
the  University of Melbourne . “They’ve got a very short space of
time to present themselves as a unified party.”  Gillard today said the party had an “unseemly display” last
week, as she rolled out her new Cabinet lineup. Gary Gray, who
worked as corporate affairs director for Woodside Petroleum Ltd.
before entering Parliament in 2007, takes over resources and
energy, Transport Minister Anthony Albanese will take on
additional responsibilities for regional development and Trade
Minister Craig Emerson gets the tertiary education portfolio.  Cabinet Departures  The changes follow last week’s departures of Resources
Minister  Martin Ferguson , Regional Development Minister Crean,
and Tertiary Education Minister  Chris Bowen .  Labor’s leadership strife is taking a toll on its public
support. A Galaxy  poll  published in the Herald Sun newspaper
yesterday showed 71 percent of respondents believe the office of
prime minister was damaged by last week’s spill. The party
trails the opposition Liberal-National coalition 55 percent to
45 percent on a two-party preferred basis, according to the poll.
The measure is designed to gauge which party is likely to win
enough seats to form a government under Australia’s preferential
voting system.  Young, author of “How Australia Decides: Election
Reporting and the Media,” said that a strong majority in
Parliament might have given Gillard an easier time. “It was a
pretty bad day for her, but in the end it showed how tough she
is and how resilient she is. The prime minister will be hoping
the media could move on and focus on her policy achievements.”  Family Man  Abbott, 55, who is married with three children, has
emphasized family values, drawing a contrast between himself and
Gillard, who is unmarried and childless. He told Parliament in
May 2011 that as a husband and father he understood “the
financial pressures on nearly every  Australian household .”  For much of her term, Gillard played down suggestions of
gender bias. “Australian culture is blokey in some ways, yes,
but also egalitarian,” she said in a 2011 interview.  That changed in October last year, when she stood up in
Parliament and labeled Abbott a sexist and misogynist. The
verbal barrage, in which she accused the opposition leader of
“catcalling across the table at me,” went viral on the
Internet, garnering over two million views on YouTube.  “The leader of the opposition says that people who hold
sexist views and who are misogynists are not appropriate for
high office,” she said. “I hope the leader of the opposition
has got a piece of paper and he is writing out his
resignation.”  ‘Should Celebrate’  Julie Bishop , the deputy leader of the opposition, said at
a media event this month that “the use of the word misogyny
against a man who’s happily married with three beautiful
daughters and three sisters and a mother” was disappointing.
Bishop also said “the fact that Julia Gillard occupies the most
powerful and prized position of this country is something we
should celebrate.”  Even so, much of the country hasn’t celebrated. Even in a
nation that honored women’s right to vote years before
counterparts including the U.S., Gillard has had to contend with
opposition-supporters’ taunts that she’s childless, and
protesters at anti-government demonstrations carrying placards
reading “Ditch the Witch.”  “Gender has played a role” in undermining support for
Gillard, Eva Cox, founder of the Women’s Economic Think Tank and
author of “Leading Women,” said before the March 21 events.
“Some of the ways they have criticized her wouldn’t have
happened if she was a bloke -- it’s sharp and made nastier some
of the debate,” she said, referring to media comments.  Career Choice  In 2005, Gillard had posed alone for a photograph in the
kitchen of her home in  Melbourne , backed by stark bench-tops and
an empty fruit bowl, a shot that stirred public association with
her choice to build a career rather than to marry and have
children.  “I was horrified,” said Julie McKay,  executive director 
for  UN Women Australia , part of a United Nations arm that seeks
to advance  gender equality . “From the very beginning there were
the articles about whether she had fruit in her fruit bowl.
Whether she was a good housekeeper or not should be irrelevant
on whether she could be a leader.”  Besides confronting a media unaccustomed to covering a
woman in the top job, some of Gillard’s difficulties have been
of her own making, according to Young. “There’ve been policy
missteps along the way.”  Policy Missteps  Shortly after becoming prime minister, Gillard announced
plans to open a refugee processing center in East Timor to cope
with a surge in the number of asylum seekers arriving by boat --
without having completed talks with the northern neighbor. East
Timor’s Parliament then voted against the facility.  Gillard’s administration also had to backtrack on a pledge
to deliver the first  federal budget  surplus since the 2009
global recession by the current fiscal year. Treasurer  Wayne Swan  announced in December that it was unlikely the target would
be met.  The government then announced Feb. 8 that its historic
mining tax had raised in its first six months less than 10
percent of the A$2 billion ($2.1 billion) that the Treasury had
forecast for the year through June.  The opposition, which has promised to rescind the 30
percent levy on  iron ore  and coal profits if it wins the
election, painted the shortfall as another of the government’s
fiscal blunders. Australia enjoyed six years of budget surpluses
until Swan unleashed a stimulus program in 2009 to shield the
economy from the impact of the global recession.  Jobless Comparison  Reversals on fiscal targets exposed the government to
attacks over its economic management even amid growth in excess
of 3 percent, and a national  unemployment rate  of 5.4 percent --
compared with 11.9 percent in the euro region and 7.7 percent in
the U.S.  One challenge masked by the macroeconomic figures is the
corrosion to Australia’s manufacturing that’s been the flip side
of strength in exports of iron and coal to China. The mining
surge has propelled a 29 percent jump in the Australian dollar
against its U.S. counterpart over the past six years, to $1.0444
in late trading March 22.  Stocks have underperformed, with the benchmark  S&P/ASX 200
Index (AS51)  advancing 11 percent since Gillard ousted Rudd to become
prime minister in June 2010, compared with the 32 percent climb
in the MSCI World Index over that period.  Manufacturing Pain  With the Aussie damaging domestic competitiveness,
purchases of locally made cars slumped 18 percent in the four
years through December, according to Federal Chamber of
Automotive Industries data. Full-time employment in transport
manufacturing declined to 82,800 workers in February, from
98,800 in February 2008, government data show.  Australia’s largest manufacturing region, Western Sydney is
also home to at least eight lower house seats that Labor won in
the 2010 election by less than 10 percentage points -- leaving
it vulnerable as concern about job security spreads. Rosella, an
iconic  saucemaker  founded before Australia became a nation in
1901, announced it would shut down March 1.  “Julia Gillard isn’t disliked because she’s a woman --it’s
because we gave her a chance and it didn’t work,” Michael Wane,
a 50-year-old  taxi driver  who moved from Shanghai in 1987 and
lives in the south-western Sydney suburb of Hurstville, said in
an interview earlier this month. Wane, who voted Labor in 2010,
said it was too early to decide how he would vote this time.  Political Handicap  Resource-rich regions in Western Australia and  Northern
Territory  that have helped hold down the national unemployment
rate are areas that historically haven’t favored Labor, posing a
handicap for the party in the so-called two-speed economy.  Abbott, who also has pledged to overturn the carbon tax,
has focused his attacks on Gillard’s credibility, saying she and
her government are willing to compromise on principles to stay
in power. He told reporters on Jan. 30, the day Gillard set the
date for the election, that the vote would “be about trust.”  A loss for Gillard would leave just four women as heads of
government in the Group of 20 major developed and emerging
nations, with Germany, South Korea, Argentina and Brazil today
having female leaders.  Australia’s antipodean counterpart New Zealand has a longer
record of women in the top government job. The smaller neighbor
had more than a decade of female governing when Jenny Shipley’s
1997-1999 term was followed by Helen Clark, who left office in
2008.  “There’s a little bit of a lack of cultural sophistication
among Australians -- we’ve got a bit of a way to go,” said Chen
at the University of Sydney.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Anstey in Washington at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net ;
 Jason Scott  in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  