-- GM Shows Updated LaCrosse to Set Buick Apart in New York
-- B y   T i m   H i g g i n s
-- 2013-03-25T12:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-25/gm-shows-updated-lacrosse-to-set-buick-apart-in-new-york.html
General Motors Co. (GM)  today revealed
an updated version of the Buick LaCrosse as it works to refresh
the brand’s lineup in the U.S., where it sells fewer vehicles
than in  China , within a 20-month period.  GM, based in  Detroit , showed the 2014 LaCrosse, which was
last redesigned in 2009, in an e-mailed statement in advance of
the  New York auto show  where the car will be displayed this week
along with an updated version of the Regal sedan. The automaker
will also reveal a redesigned Cadillac CTS sedan and updated
version of the Chevrolet Camaro as GM brings about 20 new
vehicles to the U.S. after last year’s 88-year-low market share.  The  Buick  and Cadillac cars are among a number of luxury
models set to be featured this week in New York. Hyundai Motor
Co. is showing a refreshed Equus sedan, while the Land Rover
Range Rover Sport and Infiniti QX60 hybrid will be among the new
sport-utility vehicles shown. Buick is going after car-buyers
who want a sculpted look and quiet, comfortable cabin.  “We evolved the interior and exterior design, increased
luxury amenities and materials, and enhanced the safety and
personal technologies to give customers more reasons than ever
to rediscover Buick,” Tony DiSalle, U.S. vice president of
Buick marketing, said in a statement.  The 2014 LaCrosse will have an updated exterior that
includes wing-shape LED lighting and new interior that includes
a luxury package with semi-aniline leather seats and Tamo Ash
trim, the company said in the statement.  Chevrolet Separation  The automaker needs the updates to the LaCrosse as it also
brings out a similar-sized Chevy Impala, said  Jesse Toprak , an
analyst with TrueCar Inc., which tracks auto sales.  “The market, especially in that segment, demands fresh
product, especially for Buick, which is trying to lower the
average age of their buyers,” he said in an interview.  Buick brand U.S. sales rose 1.6 percent to 180,408 last
year compared with 2011, failing to keep pace with GM’s total
increase of 3.7 percent and the entire market’s 13 percent gain.
LaCrosse sales declined 2.4 percent while Regal sales plunged 39
percent. The brand delivered almost four times as many vehicles
in China last year: 700,007.  The updated versions join new offerings by Buick including
the Encore sport-utility vehicle and Verano compact car.  The 2014 LaCrosse has front headlights with a more angular
appearance that share a similar look to the 2013 Buick Enclave
crossover. Inside, designers gave the car a new center console
with a standard eight-inch, color touch-screen, a sleeker look,
more comfortable seats. Options include blind-zone alert, rear
cross-traffic alert, and an 11-speaker Bose surround-sound
system.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Higgins in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net  