-- Goldman Rejects Proposal That Firm Run for Elected Office
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 2013-03-25T17:22:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-25/goldman-rejects-proposal-that-firm-run-for-elected-office.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , the
investment bank nicknamed “Government Sachs” because of senior
executives who have moved into public posts, won’t be entering
politics itself.  A shareholder proposal that the New York-based company run
for office instead of funding political campaigns was discarded,
according to a  letter  last month from the Securities and
Exchange Commission, which agreed the firm can exclude the
measure from its annual meeting.  Harrington Investments Inc. President John Harrington
submitted the proposal last year, saying the $6.39 million in
2012 political contributions from the firm’s employees risks
doing more harm to its reputation. He said the bank should
explore running for office, using a U.S. Supreme Court ruling
that corporations have similar political rights to individuals.  “It would be less damaging to the integrity of our
political system and our company, for our corporation to
directly run for office as a person under federal or state law,
than to continue in the current form of political
participation,” Harrington wrote in the proposal.  Goldman Sachs said in a letter to the SEC that it
“currently has no involvement, never has had any involvement,
and has no plans to become involved in the business of running
for political office.”  The bank also said that its political action committee is
funded by voluntary employee contributions, not shareholder
money. The  Supreme Court ’s 2010 Citizens United ruling gave
corporations the same rights as individuals to spend money
independently to support candidates.  ‘Social Objectives’  Harrington Investments provides advisory services for
investors “who want their investment portfolios to serve
progressive environmental and social objectives while yielding
positive long-term returns,” according to its  website . The firm
expressed its support for Occupy Wall Street protesters.  Two former Goldman Sachs chiefs,  Henry Paulson  and  Robert Rubin , served as U.S. Treasury secretaries after leaving the
firm, and another,  Jon Corzine , represented New Jersey in the
U.S. Senate and as governor.  Mark Carney , the incoming Bank of
England head, European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  and
Federal Reserve Bank of New York President  William Dudley  are
among company alumni now setting monetary policy.  Harrington said he will continue to search for ways to
bring up the issue of corporate political involvement, as well
as the balance of power between shareholders and companies’
management teams and boards of directors.  “It’s too bad we didn’t get it on the ballot, it would
have been a good discussion piece,” Harrington said today in a
phone interview. “You begin to see a pattern of how much
influence corporations have on our political balance, and now
it’s so skewed that you figure, ‘Why don’t we have Goldman run
for president and JPMorgan Chase run for vice president.’ And
that way, they can run the system for real.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Moore in  New York  at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  