-- IMF Backs Latin American Measures to Ease Impact of Inflows
-- B y   R a n d a l l   W o o d s
-- 2013-03-25T18:54:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-25/imf-backs-latin-american-measures-to-ease-impact-of-inflows.html
The  International Monetary Fund 
said it supports measures that would ease the impact of capital
flows into  Latin America  that have caused some of the region’s
currencies to climb at the fastest pace in the world.  The IMF wants to help Latin America design fiscal and
monetary policies, including so-called macro-prudential policies
that would protect banks and boost direct investment, the
lender’s Western Hemisphere director said today, without naming
specific tools.  Countries across Latin America have intervened in currency
markets and changed  reserve requirements  to stem inflows fueled
by robust economic growth and higher benchmark  interest rates 
than in the developed world. The inflows can inflate currency
values and create temporary volatility in financial markets, the
IMF director, Alejandro Werner, said in an interview posted on
the Washington-based lender’s website.  “The role of the fund in these countries is to assist them
in the design of the optimal monetary-fiscal policy mix, one
that strikes a balance between accommodating the capital inflows
and avoiding financial excesses or new vulnerabilities,” Werner
said. “Macro-prudential policies can be very useful to strike
this balance.”  The interview comes after the IMF last year reversed its
decades-old opposition to  capital controls  in a report that said
targeted and temporary measures could be effective in preventing
asset bubbles and currency rallies. Werner joined the IMF in
January this year after directing corporate and investment
banking at BBVA Bancomer.  Brazil Barriers  Brazil is the largest economy in the region and in recent
years has been the most aggressive in erecting such barriers by
raising taxes on foreigner purchases of bonds and levies on
offshore loans. Chile’s government is analyzing whether to
follow suit by implementing policies to control its peso,
Finance Minister Felipe Larrain said last month.  Uruguay’s peso in the past six months has appreciated
faster against the  U.S. dollar  than any other global currency,
with  Paraguay ’s guarani trailing two places behind, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The gains come as Latin American
economies are expected to expand 3.5 percent this year,
exceeding the global average by more than one percentage point,
according to analysts polled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Philip Sanders in London at 
 psanders@bloomberg.net ;
Randall Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net . 