-- India’s Nifty Futures Climb on Reform Outlook, Cyprus Agreement
-- B y   R a j h k u m a r   K   S h a a w
-- 2013-03-25T02:08:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-25/india-s-nifty-futures-climb-on-reform-outlook-cyprus-agreement.html
India  stock futures rose, signaling
shares may rebound after the biggest weekly loss in 15 months.  SGX CNX Nifty Index futures  for March delivery climbed 0.6
percent to 5,697 at 10:06 a.m. in  Singapore . The underlying CNX
 Nifty (NIFTY)  Index fell 0.1 percent to 5,651.35 on March 22. The S&P
BSE  Sensex (SENSEX)  index dropped 0.3 percent to 18,735.60. The gauge
fell 3.6 percent last week, the steepest fall since the five
days ended Dec. 16, 2011. The Bank of  New York  Mellon India ADR
Index of U.S.-traded shares lost 0.3 percent. Derivative
contracts expire on March 28 and Indian markets are closed on
March 27 and March 29 for public holidays.  India eased investment rules for foreign funds buying
government and corporate bonds on March 23, lessening concerns
Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s reform agenda may be undermined
by the exit last week of the ruling coalition’s biggest ally.
The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  climbed 0.7 percent after Cyprus
agreed to the outlines of an international bailout, moving the
country toward eliminating the threat of default and an exit
from the euro.  “Despite the political developments, we think reforms are
unlikely to be reversed” in India, according to a Deutsche Bank
AG note dated today.  The Sensex slumped last week as the lower house of
parliament was adjourned for a third day amid accusations the
administration worked with the Sri Lankan government to “water
down” a United Nations Human Rights Council resolution on
alleged wartime atrocities in the island nation. The Dravida
Munnetra Kazhagam party withdrew from the coalition on March 19
over the issue, leaving Singh’s alliance 44 seats short of a
majority.  Bond Limits  The accord between Cyprus and the “troika” representing
international lenders was reached in overnight talks in Brussels
and ratified by finance ministers from the 17-nation euro area,
as the  European Central Bank  threatened to cut off emergency
financing the country’s tottering banks. The European Union
accounted for 17.2 percent of India’s exports in the six months
ended September 2011, according to the commerce ministry, making
it India’s largest trading partner.  The government will remove all restrictions and sub-limits
on overseas buying of state and corporate bonds starting April
1, keeping the cap for sovereign debt at $25 billion and $51
billion for securities issued by companies, Finance Minister
Palaniappan Chidambaram said on March 23.  Foreign Funds  The measure is the latest in a series of policy changes
Chidambaram has spearheaded since September to revive a
faltering economy, including opening up aviation and retail
industries to foreigners. The government estimates India needs
more than $75 billion of foreign capital this year and next to
fund the  current-account deficit , which widened to $22.3 billion
in the three months to Sept. 30, or 5.4 percent of gross
domestic product.  “It makes it easier for foreign institutional investors,”
said Prasanna Ananthasubramanian, an economist at ICICI
Securities Primary Dealership Ltd. in Mumbai. “It will increase
the ticket size of investments since the sub-limits have been
removed. It will widen the pool of foreign investors.”  Shares of  Indian Oil Corp. (IOCL) , the nation’s largest refiner,
may be active after the company raised diesel prices by 45 paise
per liter, effective March 23. Stocks of Hindustan Petroleum
Corp. and Bharat Petroleum Ltd., which typically follow Indian
Oil’s price changes, may also move.  Overseas funds bought a net $75.7 million of Indian stocks
on March 21, according to data from the market regulator. That
boosted net purchases this year to $9.86 billion, a record for
the period, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The Sensex has retreated 3.6 percent this year amid the
weakest economic growth in a decade, the highest inflation among
major emerging markets and as more company earnings  missed
estimates  in the three months ended Dec. 31 compared with the
previous quarter.  The gauge trades at 12.7 times  projected 12-month profits ,
compared with the MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index’s 10.4 times.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rajhkumar K Shaaw in Mumbai at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  