-- Indonesia Vets Martowardojo for Central Bank in Reshuffle Bid
-- B y   N o v r i d a   M a n u r u n g
-- 2013-03-25T03:56:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-25/indonesia-vets-martowardojo-for-central-bank-in-reshuffle-bid.html
Indonesian lawmakers will assess
today Finance Minister Agus Martowardojo’s suitability to become
the next  Bank Indonesia  governor, testing support for the
president’s bid to reshuffle his top economic team.  Commission XI, a parliamentary panel for financial affairs,
will vet Martowardojo’s credentials for the job today and a
decision is due tomorrow. President  Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono 
last month nominated the finance minister, 57, as his sole
candidate to succeed Governor  Darmin Nasution , whose term ends
May 23.  Yudhoyono’s nomination of a candidate who was rejected by
the same committee for the top central bank post in 2008 has put
the president’s influence in parliament under scrutiny. Success
would also make way for a new finance minister as  Southeast
Asia ’s biggest  economy  grapples with a weakening currency, a
current-account deficit and inflation stemming from power-tariff
increases and higher wages.  “If he fails to get approval from the parliament, it
postpones the result and will show that Yudhoyono has bad
coordination with parliament,” said Agustinus Prasetyantoko, an
economist at University of Atmajaya in Jakarta. “Martowardojo
has background as a good banker previously and experience in
fiscal policy,” and will help the central bank produce
“solid” monetary policies, he said.  At stake is safeguarding the central bank’s leadership and
curbing prolonged vacancies in an institution wrestling with
inflation that exceeded 5 percent in February, a  trade deficit 
that widened to a record in October, falling foreign-exchange
reserves and a rupiah that’s weakened more than 5 percent in the
past year.  Plan Blocked  Yudhoyono, who can’t run for president in elections due
next year after serving two terms, has had difficulty getting
support in parliament for his proposals. He struggled to win
backing from within his own coalition last year for a plan to
raise fuel prices and contain subsidy costs.  Indonesia  limited
the use of partially government-funded diesel in January, after
protests in the world’s fourth-most populous nation derailed the
plans to raise prices in 2012.  Still, earlier this month the parliamentary commission
approved Perry Warjiyo to become the central bank’s deputy
governor for monetary operations, a post vacant since 2011. His
appointment was confirmed at a plenary session of parliament
March 19.  The finance committee has 14 members from Yudhoyono’s
Democrat Party faction, 10 from the Golkar faction, and eight
from former President Megawati Soekarnoputri’s Indonesian
 Democratic Party  of Struggle faction among its 49 members. After
a candidate passes the commission’s scrutiny, the decision must
be endorsed by a plenary session of parliament.  Past Vacancies  The process underscores the difficulty that Indonesia’s
political system can pose for a speedy succession at the central
bank. Of the members of the finance committee, 12 are from
opposition parties. Yudhoyono’s Democrat Party has the most
number of people on the commission.  Nasution, 64, assumed the central bank governor post in
September 2010 after more than a year as acting governor. It
took the president about a year to nominate him after the
previous governor, Boediono, resigned in May 2009 to become
Yudhoyono’s running mate in the presidential election.  Martowardojo started his career at Bank of America Corp.,
according to the  Finance Ministry ’s  website . He was president
director of PT Bank Mandiri, the country’s largest lender by
assets, before becoming finance minister. The Amsterdam-born
banker holds a bachelor’s degree in economics from the
University of Indonesia, according to Bank Mandiri’s website at
the time of his appointment to the finance role.  Finance Minister Replacement  Yudhoyono hasn’t said who he would appoint to replace
Martowardojo at the finance ministry should he win Parliament
approval to move to the central bank. Julian Aldrin Pasha, a
presidential spokesman, has denied rumors that Martowardojo and
Bank Indonesia Governor Nasution will switch jobs.  “Right now, the market is waiting for who will be the next
finance minister in this short-term period to replace him as
Indonesia is facing serious problems in the current account and
budget deficit,” said Wilianto Ie, head of research at PT
Nomura Indonesia in Jakarta.  The government is targeting economic expansion of 6.5
percent to 6.8 percent this year after gross domestic product
rose 6.1 percent last quarter from a year earlier, the slowest
pace in more than two years.  Indonesia’s inflation accelerated to a 20-month high in
February and the economy has expanded above 6 percent for the
past nine quarters, limiting the central bank’s scope to cut
 interest rates . Bank Indonesia held its benchmark at a record-
low 5.75 percent for a 13th straight month in March. Widening
trade shortfalls are a constraint to an investment grade rating,
 Standard & Poor’s  said last year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Novrida Manurung in Jakarta at 
 nmanurung@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  