-- Iraq to Fall Short of 2014 Target for Oil Output, Lawmaker Says
-- B y   N a y l a   R a z z o u k   a n d   R o b e r t   T u t t l e
-- 2013-03-25T11:59:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-25/iraq-to-fall-short-of-2014-target-for-oil-output-lawmaker-says.html
Iraq , the second-largest producer
in OPEC, won’t reach its target of pumping 4.5 million barrels
of oil a day by next year and plans to announce revised
production goals in April, senior government officials said.  The country will fall short of its target partly as a
result of bureaucratic hurdles and the lack of an energy law,
Adnan al-Janabi, chairman of the Iraqi parliament’s oil and
energy committee, said today at a conference in Dubai. A draft
energy law is “stuck” because of political disputes and won’t
be passed soon, al-Janabi said.  Thamir Ghadhban, an adviser to the prime minister, said at
the same conference that Iraq’s oil exports, including those
from its semi-autonomous Kurdish region, will average 2.9
million barrels a day this year. The Middle Eastern country
plans by 2030 to spend $275 billion on projects to develop and
produce crude and will disclose new production targets next
month, he said.  Iraq, helped by foreign investors, is boosting output and
upgrading energy facilities that were damaged and neglected
during decades of war and sanctions under  Saddam Hussein ,
toppled in a U.S.-led invasion in 2003. Crude production swelled
by 24 percent last year, and Iraq overtook Iran in June to
become the biggest member, after Saudi Arabia, in the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries.  Record Output  The country seeks to raise oil output to an average of 3.7
million barrels a day this year and at some point in 2013 to
match its 1979 output record of 3.8 million, Oil Minister Abdul Kareem Al-Luaibi told reporters in Vienna on Dec. 9. It produced
3.2 million barrels a day in February, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “I don’t think we can reach 4.5 million barrels a day next
year,” said al-Janabi, the lawmaker.  Iraq has boosted output after inviting international  oil
companies  such as  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ,  Total SA (FP)  and  BP Plc (BP/)  to
bid in oil and gas licensing rounds starting in 2009.  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) , which operates the West Qurna-1 field in
southern Iraq, will have opportunities in Iraq’s next round of
oil licenses, Ghadhban said. Al-Luaibi, the oil minister, warned
Exxon in January to stop doing business with the Kurdistan
Regional Government if it wants to continue working with the
central government in Baghdad.  Kurdish Dispute  Chevron Corp. (CVX) , Total and Exxon are among companies that
angered the central government with proposals to explore in the
Kurdish area of northern Iraq. While authorities in Baghdad
don’t recognize contracts signed by the Kurdish government
without their permission, foreign investors say the Kurds offer
more attractive terms.  Iraq may have 300 billion barrels of crude reserves, more
than double its declared 143.1 billion, al-Janabi said today.  The country expects to halt the flaring and wastage of
natural gas by capturing all the gas it produces by 2015,
Ghadhban said. Iraq contains the fifth-largest gas reserves in
the Middle East, according to BP’s 2012 Statistical Review of
World Energy.  The country, which suffers regular electricity blackouts,
wants to conserve gas to serve as fuel for  power plants  and
eventually to export the fuel. Iraq signed a 25-year agreement
with Shell and  Mitsubishi Corp. (8058)  in November 2011 to develop its
gas resources.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nayla Razzouk in Dubai at 
 nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net ;
 Robert Tuttle  in Doha at 
 rtuttle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Raj Rajendran at 
 rrajendran4@bloomberg.net  