-- Tishman Said to Market West Los Angeles Office Campus
-- B y   N a d j a   B r a n d t
-- 2013-03-25T21:27:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-25/tishman-said-to-market-west-los-angeles-office-campus.html
Tishman Speyer Properties LP, owner
of New York’s Rockefeller Center, is seeking a buyer for its
Campus at Playa Vista, a four-building office complex on the
west side of Los Angeles.  The property will probably fetch more than $200 million,
according to a person with knowledge of the matter. Offers for
the four-story buildings, which have an occupancy rate of 97
percent, are due on April 2 and a sales contract is likely by
the middle of that month, according to the person, who asked not
to be named because the deal is private. Tenants include
 Facebook Inc. (FB)  and  USC Institute for Creative Technologies .  In the fourth quarter, the vacancy rate for top-quality
offices on Los Angeles’ west side, which also includes areas
such as Beverly Hills and Century City, was 17.6 percent, and
the average asking rent was $43.72 a square foot, according to
brokerage  Jones Lang LaSalle Inc. (JLL)  That compares with an 18
percent vacancy rate and $34.89 average rent for comparable
office space in all of Los Angeles county.  The high occupancy and strength of the area’s office market
makes it “a very good time to harvest the value that has been
created,” said Rick Matthews, a spokesman for Tishman with
Rubenstein Communications Inc. The company is also “looking
forward to the next phase of development on an adjacent
parcel.”  Christy Ingle, a spokeswoman with listing broker CBRE Group
Inc., declined to comment.  Tishman Speyer, based in New York, developed the 325,000-
square-foot (30,000-square-meter) complex in 2009. The campus,
which opened the following year, is in Playa Vista, an area
between Santa Monica, Culver City and Venice.  Among the company’s other holdings in the area are five
Beverly Hills properties including UTA Plaza, headquarters of
Playboy Enterprises Inc., according to Tishman’s  website .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nadja Brandt in Los Angeles at 
 nbrandt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  