-- Italy’s Lobbies Push Bersani to Make Deal With Berlusconi
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2013-03-25T15:05:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-25/italy-s-lobbies-push-bersani-to-make-deal-with-berlusconi.html
Pier Luigi Bersani, the Italian
prime minister hopeful facing a shortfall in parliamentary
support, was encouraged by business and labor lobbies to seek a
deal with political adversaries, including  Silvio Berlusconi .  “We have to form a government, form it at all costs,”
 Raffaele Bonanni , general secretary of labor union CISL, told
reporters after meeting Bersani in Rome today. That perspective
was shared by Carlo Sangalli, chairman of retail lobby group
Confcommercio, who exited a meeting with Bersani and said the
creation of an administration is “an absolute necessity.”  Italian lawmakers are under pressure to put aside their
rivalries and form a government capable of confronting the
country’s recession and prevent fallout from the financial
 crisis in Cyprus . Bersani, a former communist and ex-industry
minister, has previously refused to compromise with Berlusconi
and his People of Liberty party, or PDL.  The possibility of a so-called grand coalition government
was invoked by President Giorgio Napolitano on March 22 when he
gave Bersani the mandate to negotiate with rivals in search of a
majority. The inconclusive Feb. 24-25 parliamentary elections
gave Bersani a majority in  Italy ’s lower house, the Chamber of
Deputies, while splitting the Senate into three blocks.  ‘Mission Impossible’  “Numbers in the Senate suggest that his goal of forming a
coalition without Silvio Berlusconi’s PDL is a political  mission
impossible ,”  Riccardo Barbieri , chief European economist at
Mizuho International Plc, said in a report. “Bersani appears to
be moving toward the only viable solution, namely a coalition
agreement including the PDL that will also involve a deal on the
election of Italy’s new president.”  Bersani is meeting with lobbyists and the national assembly
of his  Democratic Party . He’ll begin consultations with rival
parties tomorrow.  A deal with Berlusconi would be a reversal for Bersani, who
has challenged the 76-year-old billionaire about his criminal
convictions. Berlusconi is free from prison pending an appeal of
an October tax-fraud sentence and a conviction this month in a
wiretapping case. He is also standing trial on unrelated charges
of paying for sex with a minor and abusing the power of his
office, allegations he has denied.  Milan judges today suspended Berlusconi’s trial pending a
supreme court decision, newswire Ansa reported.  Bersani’s attempts to put together a Senate majority
without Berlusconi have been stymied by the refusal of Beppe Grillo’s Five Star Movement, the third-biggest parliamentary
force, to take part in coalitions.  Berlusconi is willing to consider support for a Bersani
government if PDL General Secretary Angelino Alfano were made
deputy premier, Ansa reported, citing comments by the lawmaker.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Frye in  Rome  at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  