-- Italian Consumer Confidence Falls After Vote Amid Recession
-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 2013-03-25T09:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-25/italian-consumer-confidence-falls-after-vote-amid-recession.html
Italian  consumer confidence  fell
more than expected this month after the Feb. 24-25 election
failed to produce a clear majority for a new government that can
deal with the country’s fourth recession since 2001 and rising
unemployment.  The confidence index declined to 85.2 from 86 in February,
the Italian statistics office Istat said in Rome today.
Economists had predicted the index to fall to 85.8, according to
the median of six forecasts in a Bloomberg News survey.  On March 8 Italy’s credit rating was cut one level by Fitch
Ratings as last month’s vote produced political paralysis that
threatens the country’s ability to respond to the economic slump
and to a joblessness rate at the highest since at least 1992.
Fitch said it expects the euro region’s third-biggest economy to
contract 1.8 percent this year. That compares with a March 21
forecast by outgoing Prime Minister Mario Monti’s government
saying that gross domestic product will fall 1.3 percent.  While allowing  Italy  to keep its deficit within the
European Union’s ceiling of 3 percent, Monti’s policy mix of
higher taxes and spending cuts pushed Italy deeper in the
recession. Those policies were refused by supporters of Beppe Grillo’s anti-establishment Five Star Movement that totaled
about 25 percent of votes in the elections and obtained a
blocking minority in the Rome-based Upper House.  As Italy’s manufacturers face contracting domestic demand,
carmaker  Fiat SpA (F)  brand sales fell 16.8 percent in February.
Consumer spending will decline 2.4 percent this year after
falling 4.3 percent in 2012, retailers lobby Confcommercio said
in a March 22 report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorenzo Totaro in  Rome  at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  