-- Japan’s Takehiko Nakao Is Sole Nominee for ADB Presidency
-- B y   K a r l   L e s t e r   M .   Y a p ,   K y o k o   S h i m o d o i   a n d   M a y u m i   O t s u m a
-- 2013-03-25T05:50:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-25/japan-s-takehiko-nakao-is-sole-nominee-for-adb-presidency-1-.html
Japanese currency chief Takehiko Nakao is the sole nominee for the presidency of the  Asian
Development Bank , Philippine Finance Secretary Cesar Purisima
said in a mobile-phone text message today, ensuring that  Japan 
will maintain its hold on the top post at the lender.  ADB member countries will vote on the next president in an
election from today to April 24, the Manila-based  development
bank  said in an e-mailed statement earlier this month. The
nomination period closed yesterday.  Japan has held the presidency of the ADB since the
institution was founded in 1966, and is tied with the U.S. in
having the largest voting power at the bank. The Japanese
government nominated Nakao to replace former president  Haruhiko Kuroda , who became the  Bank of Japan (8301)  governor last week.  Vice Finance Minister Nakao, 57, oversaw the government’s
biggest-ever one-day currency-market intervention on Oct. 31,
2011, after the yen reached a postwar high of 75.35 per dollar.  In a statement released this month, Nakao said he will
ensure the ADB is backed by sufficient financial resources if he
is confirmed as president, and called for the bank to promote
public-private partnerships.  Nakao joined the finance ministry in 1978 and has an MBA
from the  University of California , Berkeley. He is the author of
a 2008 book, “America’s Economic Policies,” and a paper on
Japan’s development policy.  Japan plans to name  Finance Ministry  official Mitsuhiro Furusawa to replace Nakao as the country’s top currency
bureaucrat, two government officials said earlier this month.
The officials asked not to be named because the appointment
hasn’t been made public,  Yen Criticism  Furusawa, 57, who heads the bureau in charge of bond
issuance, will take up the post as trading partners from South
Korea to Germany have criticized Japan over the yen’s almost 16
percent fall against the dollar since mid-November.  The yen was 0.4 percent lower at 94.85 per dollar as of
2:47 p.m. in Tokyo, extending a fall of about 9 percent since
the start of the year.  South Korea’s new Finance Minister Hyun Oh Seok last week
said the Group of 20 nations should revisit the issue of yen
weakness.  South Korea  expressed concerns about the currency’s
slide before and after last month’s meeting of the G-20 in
Moscow, where that organization refrained from criticizing
Japanese policies.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Karl Lester M. Yap in Manila at 
 kyap5@bloomberg.net ;
Kyoko Shimodoi in Tokyo at 
 kshimodoi@bloomberg.net ;
Mayumi Otsuma in Tokyo at 
 motsuma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Scott Lanman at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net  