-- Japan, European Union Announce Free Trade Talks to Start April
-- B y   A n d y   S h a r p   a n d   I s a b e l   R e y n o l d s
-- 2013-03-25T11:29:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-25/japan-european-union-announce-free-trade-talks-to-start-april.html
Japan and the European Union
announced they will start free trade talks in April, as Japanese
Prime Minister Shinzo Abe pushes for deregulation in a bid to
revive the world’s third-largest economy.  Negotiations on an agreement covering free trade and
political cooperation will begin in April, according to a joint
Japan-EU  statement  issued by the European Council today.  “I believe that today marks a historic event in the
history between Japan and the European Union,” EU Trade
Commissioner Karel  De Gucht  said in  Tokyo  after meeting Japanese
Trade Minister Toshimitsu Motegi. “We are convinced that such
an agreement would greatly contribute to the welfare of both
peoples.”  Today’s move comes less than two weeks after Abe announced
Japan would seek to join talks on the Trans-Pacific Partnership,
a U.S.-led regional trade agreement, in defiance of opposition
by farmers. Buoyed by the popularity of his plans for bold
monetary easing and fiscal stimulus, Abe is now pursuing growth
strategies including free trade and regulatory reform as the
third prong of his economic policy.  Big manufacturers such as  Nissan Motor Co. (7201)  have long urged
the Japanese government to catch up with  South Korea , which
already has free trade agreements with both the U.S. and the EU.  Japan is seeking the removal of EU tariffs on cars and
other products, while  Europe  wants to scale back non-tariff
barriers in the Japanese market for financial services as well
as for goods. The two governments have agreed to unify car
safety regulations, the Nikkei newspaper said on March 21.  Japan posted its longest run of trade deficits in three
decades last week, as February  exports  fell.  Tariff Reduction  The EU, Japan’s third largest trading partner, applies a 10
percent tariff to Japanese cars, while there is no tariff on
European cars imported to Japan.  The agreement was cleared by EU governments last November,
and De Gucht said at that time that the negotiations could
easily last two to three years, and that it could take four to
five years for any deal to be ratified.  Japan will also start free trade talks with  China  and South
Korea on March 26.  Abe, EU President  Herman Van Rompuy  and European Commission
President  Jose Manuel Barroso  held a phone conference today as a
scheduled summit was postponed because the European leaders were
involved with talks over Cyprus’ bailout.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andy Sharp in Tokyo at 
 asharp5@bloomberg.net ;
Isabel Reynolds in Tokyo at 
 ireynolds1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Scott Lanman at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net  