-- Kerry on ‘Same Page’ as Karzai Easing U.S.-Afghan Tension
-- B y   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n
-- 2013-03-26T10:16:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-25/karzai-pledges-cooperation-after-conciliatory-talks-with-kerry.html
Secretary of State  John Kerry  said
the U.S. was “on the same page” with Afghan President  Hamid Karzai , downplaying irritants in bilateral relations and
expressing confidence they would secure an agreement for some
U.S. troops to stay in  Afghanistan  after 2014.  “I don’t think there’s any disagreement between us,”
Kerry said. The U.S. “has no interests except to see the
Taliban come to the table to make peace.”  Kerry spoke hours before  Australia  announced that most of
its troops will exit the South Asian nation by year-end, leaving
the job of fighting the Taliban increasingly in the hands of the
Afghan security forces. Comments by Kerry and Karzai at a news
briefing in Kabul contrasted with tensions that marred Defense
Secretary Chuck Hagel’s visit two weeks ago.  Speaking to reporters at the presidential palace last night
during a break in their discussions, Karzai and Kerry cited
their friendship and said they shared goals for peace talks with
the Taliban, free and fair elections next year and a full
transition to Afghan-led security and economic development.  Kerry’s visit, his first as the top U.S. diplomat, wasn’t
announced in advance for security reasons. The trip followed
disputes over matters including the transfer of detainees to
Afghan custody and the expulsion of U.S. Special Forces from a
restive area. Following Taliban suicide attacks during Hagel’s
trip, Karzai was quoted saying the extremists’ actions were in
the “service of America.”  Rocky Relations  Karzai acknowledged “ups and downs” in the U.S.-Afghan
relationship. U.S. officials, asking not to be identified, said
the transition to full Afghan-led security won’t always be
smooth because of sensitivity over issues of sovereignty.  Karzai said his comments during Hagel’s visit were
misinterpreted to suggest that he had accused the U.S. of
colluding with the Taliban, and that he intended to send a
message that extremist violence only serves to prolong the U.S.
military presence and block the path to peace. The remarks
outraged lawmakers in  Washington  who said they called into
question future American aid.  Kerry cited President  Barack Obama ’s commitment that the
U.S. will stay engaged with Afghanistan after American troops
move out of a combat role in 2014. Afghans “remain grateful”
for U.S. efforts and sacrifices to rebuild Afghanistan and its
security forces, Karzai said.  Prison Handover  Both men praised yesterday’s handover to Afghan control of
the Parwan detention facility near the Bagram Air Base north of
Kabul, which had been a source of dispute. Kerry said the final
accord, reached after months of delays, addressed U.S. worries
over the release of dangerous detainees. Karzai said the two
sides agreed to share intelligence and exchange views on those
who might return to the battlefield if released.  Parwan houses about 3,000 prisoners including foreign
nationals, Afghan General Zahir Azimy said by telephone. While
some non-Afghan detainees remain under U.S. control, he said his
government’s priority was to regain sovereignty over its own
citizens.  Referring to another source of friction, Karzai said his
order for U.S. Special Forces to leave part of Wardak province,
after an investigation into abuses alleged by villagers, was
intended to “correct the situation” and not “to offend our
allies.” The U.S. has denied involvement in any misconduct.  Karzai said he plans to visit Doha, Qatar, this week for
talks about setting up an office there for Taliban
representatives willing to engage in talks to end the almost 12-
year conflict.  Taliban Interests  Asked why he thinks the Taliban may be ready to make peace,
Karzai said, “it’s in their interest to renounce violence” and
return to their homeland. Afghan officials say many insurgents
operate from  Pakistan .  Kerry also said Karzai “could not have made more clear his
commitment” to holding free elections in April 2014. The Afghan
leader, whose re-election in 2009 was marred by charges of
fraud, pledged that under “no circumstance” would Afghanistan
repeat its experience from the last vote.  Both men referred to their friendship, which U.S. aides
said was forged in a dozen meetings over more than 10 years.
Kerry was chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee
before becoming secretary of state this year, and met Karzai
five times during Obama’s first term.  U.S. and Afghan officials are seeking to redefine the terms
of their relationship in advance of the planned withdrawal of
all international troops in a primary combat role by the end of
2014, following a war that began in 2001. As of yesterday, 2,183
Americans have been killed during the conflict.  ‘Absolutely Confident’  Obama has ordered the withdrawal of half of the roughly
68,000 U.S. troops by next February. American officials have
said the president is considering keeping 8,000 to 12,000 forces
from the U.S. and NATO to support and train Afghans or play a
limited role fighting terrorists if an agreement can be reached
to secure their immunity from local prosecution.  “I am absolutely confident based on the conversation that
we had” that the nations will reach a deal on immunity, Kerry
told reporters.  Australian Defense Minister  Stephen Smith  said in a
statement today that a majority of his country’s troops would be
home by the end of the year. The decision to close an allied
base at Tarin Kot in Uruzgan Province by the end of the year
“is in line with the timetable to transition to full Afghan-led
security,” Smith said.  ‘Still Hoping’  Kerry today met with female Afghan entrepreneurs, including
the founder of an educational  software company  and a woman who
started a construction and trucking conglomerate. Hassina Syed,
president and CEO of Syed Group of Companies, said she started
her business with a $500 loan from her father when she was 19,
shortly after the fall of the Taliban.  Syed told Kerry that “we are still hoping” the
international community will continue to advocate for women
throughout Afghan society after 2014.  Before leaving today, Kerry also met with politicians and
activists to discuss next year’s election. He praised the group
for their contributions to democracy and told them “the whole
world is watching” their preparations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in Kabul at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  