-- Kenyan Shilling Fluctuates Between Gains and Losses on Vote Case
-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 2013-03-25T14:13:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-25/kenyan-shilling-weakens-for-third-day-as-election-hearing-begins.html
Kenya ’s currency swung between
gains and losses against the dollar as the  Supreme Court  began a
pre-trial hearing into election petitions filed by Prime
Minister  Raila Odinga  and two other parties.  The currency of East Africa’s largest economy weakened as
much as 0.4 percent and advanced as much as 0.2 percent. It
traded unchanged from yesterday’s close at 85.85 per dollar by
4:51 p.m. in the capital, Nairobi, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Odinga is challenging the result of a March 4 presidential
election that he lost to Uhuru Kenyatta, the son of the
country’s founding father. The country’s highest court began a
status conference in Nairobi to discuss preliminary issues. The
six-judge body is expected to deliver a final ruling by March
30, according to rules in the constitution.  “We’ve seen a trend with the market in wait-and-see mode
ahead of the conclusion of the presidential election case,”
Duncan Kinuthia, head of trading at Commercial Bank of Africa
Ltd., said by phone. “We also are seeing that liquidity
conditions aren’t optimal because some of the electronic trading
systems have failed with slow connections.”  Seacom Ltd., a closely held company that operates a fiber-
optic link off  East Africa , is  repairing  cuts to its data link,
which has reduced Internet capacity since March 22.  Uganda ’s shilling gained 0.5 percent to 2,625 per dollar,
heading for its highest level since Dec. 24, while Tanzania’s
currency climbed 0.7 percent to 1,613 per dollar. A close at
that level would be the highest in almost two months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  