-- Kerry in Kabul to Discuss Security, Taliban Amid Frictions
-- B y   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n
-- 2013-03-25T13:14:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-25/kerry-in-kabul-to-discuss-security-taliban-amid-frictions-1-.html
Secretary of State  John Kerry 
arrived in Kabul today to meet Afghan President  Hamid Karzai ,
with whom he’ll discuss the conditions for any U.S. troops to
remain beyond 2014, the outlook for peace talks with the Taliban
and the security and economic transition.  Kerry’s visit, his first as the top U.S. diplomat, was not
announced in advance for security reasons. The trip comes on the
heels of a series of disputes between the two nations over the
transfer of detainees to Afghan custody, the expulsion of U.S.
Special Forces from a restive area and Karzai’s recent
accusation that the U.S. was colluding with the Taliban to stoke
violence in his country.  Kerry has met Karzai five times in the last four years and
they have a good working relationship, according to U.S.
officials speaking to reporters traveling with Kerry. They asked
not to be identified because of the sensitivity of the issues.
Kerry has not come to lecture Karzai and wants a frank and open
discussion, officials said.  U.S. and Afghan officials are seeking to redefine the terms
of their relationship in advance of the planned withdrawal of
all U.S. combat troops by the end of 2014. President  Barack Obama  has yet to say how many non-combat troops may keep in
 Afghanistan  after next year to support and train Afghans. The
two countries are in talks over the status of those that stay.  Hagel Visit  The U.S. and Afghanistan yesterday agreed that prisoners at
the Parwan detention facility outside Kabul will be turned over
to the Afghans today. The agreement will remove one element of
discord in U.S.-Afghan relations, assuming it holds and Karzai
doesn’t free certain prisoners the U.S. considers likely to
engage in terrorist acts.  Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel’s first visit to Afghanistan
in his official capacity earlier this month was marred by
Karzai’s assertion in a speech that the U.S. was holding peace
talks with the Taliban and that suicide attacks by radical
Islamists were in the “service of America.”  The allegations drew an angry response from U.S. lawmakers,
including Representative Jim Moran, a Virginia Democrat, who
said the comments reinforced his view that U.S. troops should be
brought home faster.  The U.S is currently trying to exit a war it’s been waging
for more than 11 years at a cost of 2,170 American lives so far.
President Barack Obama has ordered the withdrawal of 34,000 of
about 68,000 U.S. troops in Afghanistan by February. Former
Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  said last month that the drawdown
will occur in stages, with the force dropping to 50,000 by
November, after the summer fighting season, and then to 34,000
by February.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in Kabul at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at   jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  