-- Keystone Foes Downplay Senate Vote Hailed by Supporters
-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 2013-03-25T18:59:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-25/keystone-foes-downplay-senate-vote-hailed-by-supporters.html
Environmentalists reacted swiftly
to downplay a bipartisan Senate vote backing the Keystone XL
pipeline, which supporters said underscored widening political
support for the project.  The Senate approved 62-37 language that encourages
development of the $5.3 billion pipeline, which would link
 Alberta ’s oil sands and refineries along the Gulf Coast.
Seventeen Democrats  joined  all Senate Republicans on March 22 to
add the pipeline amendment to the budget plan that is at odds
with the House version.  “This has always been about the president,” Daniel
Kessler, a spokesman for 350.org, an environmental group that
supports action on climate change. “We never expected Congress
to do the right thing.”  Environmentalists are opposing the pipeline that they say
would increase emissions of gases tied to climate change.
President  Barack Obama  14 months ago denied a permit for the
pipe, citing concerns tied to  Nebraska ’s drinking water, and
Calgary-based sponsor  TransCanada Corp. (TRP)  refiled with a new
route.  Lena Moffit, a lobbyist for the Sierra Club, said while the
San Francisco-based environmental group wasn’t happy with the
vote, it wasn’t “putting much weight” on it because it is non-
binding.  She said the amendment’s language is “vague” and
“fluffy.”  Environmentalists led by 350.org said Keystone would
increase the risks of climate change by promoting development of
oil sands, which would release more greenhouse gases than other
most conventional drilling.  Minimal Impact  The pipeline cleared a milestone March 1 when the State
Department released its updated environmental impact statement
of the route TransCanada proposed after opposition scuttled an
earlier plan. The analysis found that the impact would be
minimal because the oil sands would be developed with or without
Keystone.  The department, which has authority over Keystone because
it crosses an international border, is expected to make a
recommendation to Obama by September.  “The Senate vote is another sign of growing political
support for the pipeline, which now seems more likely than not
to gain approval from the administration,” Paul Bledsoe, a
senior fellow on energy at the German Marshall Fund, said in an
e-mail.  Keystone’s backers said the Senate vote is a sign momentum
was on their side.  ‘Clear Voice’  “The Senate spoke with a clear voice on the Keystone XL
pipeline,” Benjamin Cole, a spokesman for American for Energy
Alliance, a Washington-based group that supports fossil fuel
development, said in an e-mailed statement. “It is telling that
the amendment garnered such overwhelming and new support from
across the political spectrum.”  Environmental groups urged senators to reject the
amendment, sponsored by North Dakota Republican John Hoeven.
Representatives from 350.org met with aides for Democratic
Senators Michael Bennet of  Colorado  and Mark Warner of  Virginia ,
among others, prior to the vote, Kessler said. Both men backed
the amendment.  “It’s impossible for a U.S. senator to say they’re for
action on climate change and support the pipeline,” Kessler
said. “It’s like saying you’re against obesity and then putting
soft drinks in every school.”  Jamie Henn, also a spokesman for 350.org, said groups were
upset with Delaware Senators Christopher Coons and Tom Carper,
both Democrats, who switched sides after opposing a Republican
effort last year to force Obama to approve the pipeline.  Office Visits  “We’re going to turn out people to visit their offices or
public events and make their disappointment known,” Henn said.  Kevin Hall, a Warner spokesman, said the senator supports
Keystone, and wants the review to move forward with “public
input and transparency.”  Warner opposed the Republican effort last year because he
felt it would short-circuit “an established review process,”
Hall said.  Warner and Coons are up for re-election in 2014. Bennet is
the chairman of the Senate Democratic Campaign Committee.  “Senator Coons has consistently said that it’s up to the
administration to decide whether the pipeline should proceed,
and this vote is consistent with that,” Ian Koski, a spokesman,
said in an e-mail. “He supports the administration’s process
for making a decision.”  Ian Sams, a spokesman for Carper, said the senator
“continues to support letting the approval process by the
Department of State and ultimately President Obama go forward.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  