-- Korean Won Advances Most in Three Weeks on Cyprus; Bonds Rise
-- B y   S e y o o n   K i m
-- 2013-03-25T01:16:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-25/korean-won-advances-most-in-three-weeks-on-cyprus-bonds-rise.html
South Korea ’s won strengthened the
most in almost three weeks after Cyprus reached a tentative
agreement on an international bailout, easing concern  Europe ’s
debt crisis will escalate.  Government bonds  advanced, pushing the three-year yield to
a record low, and the Kospi Index of shares climbed 1.4 percent
as finance ministers from the 17-nation euro area approved the
Cyprus accord. South Korean Finance Minister Hyun Oh Seok said
on March 23 that won gains against the yen pose a risk to the
nation’s exports and said stabilizing exchange rates should be
an important part of government policy.  “The news on Cyprus helped ease investor concerns about a
 European debt crisis , prompting currencies like the won to
rise,” said Son Eun Jeong, analyst at Woori Futures Co. in
Seoul. “Exporters are also seen to sell dollars from their
overseas income, while government comments on the currency may
limit further gains in the won.”  The won rose 0.5 percent to 1,113.80 per dollar as of 9:50
a.m. in Seoul, set for the biggest gain since March 5, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. One-month implied volatility, a
measure of expected moves in the  exchange rate  used to price
options, climbed six basis points, or 0.06 percentage point, to
8.37 percent. Against the yen, the won rose 0.7 percent today
and is up 23 percent for the past six months.  The yen is weakening as monetary easing boosts the supply
of the currency, giving Japanese manufacturers of electronics
and cars an advantage over Korean rivals. South Korea’s Hyun
called on the Group of 20 nations to discuss the “weak yen
problem.”  The yield on South Korea’s 2.75 percent bonds due December
2015 fell one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 2.57
percent, according to prices from Korea Exchange Inc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Seyoon Kim in  Seoul  at 
 skim7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  