-- New York Seeks Approval to Finish Merkin Settlement
-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r   a n d   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2013-03-25T22:40:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-25/new-york-seeks-approval-to-finish-merkin-settlement.html
New York  Attorney General Eric Schneiderman asked a federal judge to let the state go forward
with a $410 million settlement with J. Ezra Merkin, using his
law enforcement powers to compensate Merkin investors whose
money was lost in Bernard Madoff’s  Ponzi scheme .  Madoff brokerage liquidator  Irving Picard , who seeks to
collect $500 million from Merkin for people who invested
directly with Madoff, is trying to block the deal. Schneiderman
has argued that Picard has no claim to the settlement money and
lacks power as a bankruptcy trustee to stop the state from
enforcing the people’s legal rights.  U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff began a hearing in  Manhattan 
federal court today by asking the parties to address the state’s
argument that Picard had waited too long to try to block its
suit. David Ellenhorn, a lawyer from Schneiderman’s office, told
Rakoff that investors refrained from bringing their own claims
against Merkin in reliance on the attorney general’s suit.  “There would be real prejudice -- not theoretical
prejudice -- to real people with real claims” if Rakoff were to
block the settlement, Ellenhorn said.  Investors in Merkin’s  hedge funds  lost more than $1.2
billion in the Madoff fraud, New York has said. Madoff, arrested
in 2008, is serving 150 years in prison for the largest Ponzi
scheme in U.S. history, which effaced an estimated $17 billion
of investors’ principal.  ‘Get Screwed’  Ellenhorn argued that Picard’s efforts, if successful,
would leave Merkin’s investors with nothing. Rakoff suggested
the law could require such a result.  “When someone like Madoff commits a fraud of this
magnitude, an awful lot of people get screwed,” said Rakoff,
who is considering Picard’s request for an order blocking the
settlement. Rakoff said he will decide the question by April 15.  The combatants portray their deadlocked fight as a clash
between state law, governing a top law enforcer, and bankruptcy
law, regulating trustees in fraud cases. Rakoff took over the
case from a bankruptcy judge to decide if Schneiderman can
complete the deal with Merkin.  No Talks  Amanda Remus, a spokeswoman for Picard, said earlier this
month the parties hadn’t had talks to resolve the dispute “of
late and none are anticipated.” James Freedland, a spokesman
for Schneiderman, has declined to comment on the possibility of
a truce.  Picard has said that only he can sue investors who
allegedly participated in Madoff’s fraud, compensating brokerage
customers whose claims he has authorized.  “We get to go first,” argued  David Sheehan , who
represents Picard. “We get the opportunity to try to bring that
money in.”  New York sued Merkin to pay investors in his hedge funds
who wouldn’t get paid by Picard because they weren’t Madoff
customers. Schneiderman is trying to complete the settlement of
that suit.  With Picard’s consent, the settlement agreement struck with
Merkin was filed under seal in court after Merkin requested
confidentiality for some material he provided.  ‘End Run’  Schneiderman has accused Picard of using intimidation
tactics to block the Merkin deal, and making “absurd”
pronouncements about the settlement. Picard accused Schneiderman
of making an “end run” around bankruptcy law with the
settlement.  Picard began by threatening to sue the attorney general if
he didn’t “agree within 48 hours that the  bankruptcy court 
would have exclusive jurisdiction” over the fight, Schneiderman
said in court filings. Schneiderman refused, was sued and asked
Rakoff to take the case.  Last month, Picard said Schneiderman made a secret
agreement allowing Merkin to use some of the settlement money to
help fend off Picard lawsuits demanding $500 million.  Ellenhorn told Rakoff it is “required, and appropriate”
to pay Merkin’s lawyers for facilitating the settlement, which
requires Merkin to give up $410 million of his personal assets.
Most of the money will go to Ponzi victims after Schneiderman
recoups $5 million for three years of litigation against Merkin,
he said in a filing.  Picard Fees  Picard has taken “far more” in fees for just this one
case than the amount that will cover the costs of New York’s
Merkin settlement, Ellenhorn said in the filing.  The Madoff trustee and his firm, Baker & Hostetler LLP,
have run up total fees and expenses of about $390 million since
the con man’s December 2008 arrest, according to court filings.
The Securities Investor Protection Corp., which runs an
insurance fund to compensate investors for losses, has paid the
bills.  Picard, a bankruptcy lawyer, has challenged a state
attorney general before. U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  Burton Lifland 
sent him into mediation after his fight with California Attorney
General  Kamala Harris  over her $270 million lawsuit against an
alleged beneficiary of the Ponzi scheme. The mediation
continues.  Separately, Merkin has said Picard is “extremely
unlikely” to win his lawsuit against Merkin and his hedge
funds. Rakoff shouldn’t allow the trustee to block the
settlement because “in the unlikely event” that Picard does
win part of his suit, Merkin’s funds would still be able to pay
him, Merkin said in a filing.  Invested Principal  Picard compensates only former Madoff brokerage customers
who lost invested principal. Investors who took more money out
of the brokerage than they put in don’t get paid. Nor do
investors in hedge funds that funneled some of the money to
Madoff, as New York accused Merkin’s funds of doing in the 2009
suit it settled.  New York’s suit alleged Merkin betrayed hundreds of
investors, including charities, by “recklessly” feeding money
to Madoff’s Ponzi scheme while falsely claiming he actively
managed their funds. Merkin controlled four funds that invested
more than $2 billion with Madoff, according to Schneiderman.  The case is Picard v. Schneiderman, 12-cv-06733, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net ;
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  