-- Noma to Per Se, Top Restaurants Warm to British-Style Tea
-- B y   R i c h a r d   V i n e s
-- 2013-03-25T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-25/noma-to-per-se-top-restaurants-warm-to-british-style-tea.html
Order tea in many smart  London
restaurants  these days and you will be offered a choice of
gourmet options, often accompanied by a note on the supplier.  Rare Tea Co. ,  Jing Tea Ltd.  and  Lalani & Co.  compete for
this business and are growing internationally as restaurateurs,
sommeliers and hotel executives focus on fine brews.  Henrietta Lovell, 41, isn’t just the face of Rare Tea: She
is the company and hers is a remarkable story. She worked in
corporate finance in the U.S.,  Europe  and  Asia . She was
diagnosed with  breast cancer  after quitting her job and
returning to  London  from  New York  to be with her ailing father.  “My father had so many plans for his retirement, but he
died and I realized I had to crack on with what I wanted to
do,” Lovell said in an interview. “The next year, I got back
from  China , having signed my first contract, and I was diagnosed
with cancer three days later. Within a week, I was in
chemotherapy.  “It’s very hard to sell tea with no hair and no eyelashes,
so I changed my business plan just to sell online. It was quite
an aggressive cancer and I had three years of treatment.”  An oncologist friend in the U.S. recommended she take the
drug  Herceptin , which wasn’t approved by her medical insurer.
She and her partner raised 200,000 pounds ($300,000) for her
treatment and her cancer has been in remission since 2007.  Lovell said she supplies Noma in Copenhagen and Momofuku in
New York and has signed a contract for a new restaurant in
Dubai. In London, her tea is sold at  Gordon Ramsay , Hix, the
Square and Murano among other restaurants.  World Travel  She declined to give detailed sales figures, saying only
that her revenue is less than 1 million pounds ($1.5 million).
Lovell employs four staff and is moving the business out of her
home. She travels around the world buying tea direct from
farmers and arranging to ship their crop back to London.  “When I started, there was no market,” she said. “People
didn’t drink quality tea and they didn’t want to pay more until
they tried it. When you taste exquisite tea, it’s like a fine
wine. A sommelier can sometimes by fooled by a cheaper wine: No
one, from a tattoo artist to a chef, is fooled by cheap tea.”  Jing Tea  Meanwhile, Jing counts among its customers Per Se (New
York),  Joel Robuchon  ( Tokyo ), La Dame de Pic (Paris) and Marque
(Sydney). It also supplies Dabbous, Dinner, the Ledbury and
Sketch in London and the soon-to-open  Mandarin Oriental in
Shanghai .  The company was founded in 2004 by Edward Eisler, who
studied Chinese and Chinese medicine at university in London.
Eisler, 34, estimates he has visited China between 50 and 100
times. He started Jing (which means “essence” in Chinese)
because he couldn’t find good tea in the U.K. at that time.  “I’m someone who was either stupid or arrogant enough to
start up a business without giving it too much thought, though I
did write a very detailed business plan,” Eisler said. “The
point is that you just couldn’t do this without incredible
passion. We travel around the world setting up the whole system
for serving a perfect cup of tea every time.”  The Fat Duck has just begun a new service in which a
customer can sample three different teas, Eisler said.  You won’t find Jing tea in supermarkets, he said, although
he does sell online. The business is focused both on consumers
and on the luxury hospitality business, restaurants and hotels.
Eisler declined to give sales figures or to detail the relative
importance of the different elements of the business.  Lalani Tea  The new kid on the block is Lalani, which was founded in
2010 by three brothers: Nadeem and AK, both 24 years old, and
Jameel, 26. Their parents moved to the U.K. in the early 1970s
from Kenya and  Uganda , where their uncle owned tea estates.  Restaurants the company supplies include Hibiscus, the Hand
& Flowers (each holds two Michelin stars) and Trishna, which has
one star. At Coya and Gauthier, Lalani has developed tea pairing
menus that are a first in London, Nadeem said in an interview.  “With the level of focus we have, we can push the
boundaries with things like tea-pairing,” he said. “We engage
with restaurateurs and sommeliers, sharing our world. We call it
contemporary British tea culture.  “We’re not a brand. We see ourselves as curators. We team
up with the small, artisan, family-run gardens and we introduce
chefs to the people who make the tea. We disclose every detail
of the provenance, down to the day the leaves were picked. 
Garden to glass is our farm-to-fork phrase.”  (Richard Vines is the chief food critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . He is U.K. and Ireland
chairman of the World’s 50 Best Restaurants awards. Opinions
expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Jorg von Uthmann  on Paris arts,
 Robert Heller  on music, Patrick Cole on  charity  and  Elin McCoy 
on wine.  To contact the writer on the story:
Richard Vines at  rvines@bloomberg.net  or
 http://twitter.com/Richardvines .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 