-- Obama Urges Lawmakers on Immigration Law at Naturalization Event
-- B y   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n
-- 2013-03-25T16:09:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-25/obama-urges-lawmakers-on-immigration-law-at-naturalization-event.html
President  Barack Obama  said the
time has come for U.S. lawmakers to “finish the job” on
rewriting immigration laws so the nation can continue attracting
“the best and brightest the world has to offer.”  The U.S. immigration system has been flawed for years and a
consensus is finally developing in Congress for a way to fix it,
Obama said at a naturalization ceremony in the White House. He
said he wants to see debate on legislation begin next month with
a plan ready for him to sign “as soon as possible.”  “This issue is not new,” Obama said. “Let’s get this
done. And let’s do it in a way that keeps faith with our history
and our values”  A bipartisan group of senators that has been working since
last year to craft a measure had originally said they would
complete their efforts this month. That’s now unlikely with
Congress on a two-week recess.  The senators unveiled their principles in late January,
including a path to citizenship for the estimated 11 million
undocumented immigrants in the U.S.  White House officials told religious leaders who met with
Obama on March 8 that they anticipated the senators drafting
immigration legislation would miss their March target date and
instead unveil the bill in April. Obama has said he would hold
off on unveiling his own proposal to give the Senate group time
to do its work.  The ceremony was for 28 individuals from 26 countries,
including  Afghanistan , China,  Ethiopia ,  Mexico , Germany,
Ukraine, and  Peru . Among them were 13 service members from the
Air Force, the Army Reserve, the Marines and the Navy. Homeland
Security Secretary Janet Napolitano administered the oath of
allegiance in the East Room.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Julianna Goldman  in Washington at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  