-- Lofty Wage Demands Risk Weighing on German Economy
-- B y   S t e f a n   R i e c h e r
-- 2013-03-25T08:37:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-25/lofty-wage-demands-risk-weighing-on-german-economy.html
While German wage demands promise
to spur domestic consumption, they also risk putting longer-term
pressure on  Europe ’s biggest economy.  Even as benchmark bund yields hover close to the lowest
level since reunification in 1990, offering shelter from the
region’s debt crisis, analysts and policy makers said German
industry will lose its edge if wages rise too fast.  IG Metall , Germany’s most powerful labor union, is seeking
pay increases of 5.5 percent for 3.7 million engineering and
metal workers at companies, including  Bayerische Motoren Werke
AG (BMW) ,  Siemens AG (SIE) ,  Daimler AG (DAI)  and  Volkswagen AG (VOW) , before the current
contract expires on April 30. That comes on top of 4.3 percent
won last year. IG Metall locked in a 3-percent wage deal for
75,000 steelworkers on March 6.  The pace of salary gains may be “disastrous” for Germany
and the euro-area economy, Deutsche Bank AG chief economist
David Folkerts-Landau said at a financial summit in Frankfurt
last week. The 17-nation currency bloc and its largest member
would “lose competitiveness vis-a-vis the rest of the world,”
he said.  While the union says German wage increases at more than 3
percentage points above the rate of inflation will help a
shrinking euro-area economy by boosting consumption, policy
makers such as European Central Bank Executive Board member
Joerg Asmussen and  Chancellor Angela Merkel  are less optimistic.  Merkel’s View  Wages increasing at a faster rate than productivity is
“something we need to keep an eye on,” Merkel said March 20 in
Berlin.  Asmussen, who was a state secretary in the  finance ministry 
before joining the ECB in January 2012, took the state of the
German economy to task in a speech last week in Frankfurt. To
maintain its lead in Europe, Germany may need a second set of
labor market reforms to follow on from former Chancellor  Gerhard Schroeder ’s Agenda 2010, he said.  “Germany was a decade ago called the ‘sick man’ of
Europe,” Asmussen said. “Since then, the country has become a
showcase of how well-designed reforms can turn the situation
around. But this example also serves as a warning. Others can
just as quickly catch up. If struggling countries continue to
pursue ambitious reforms and  Germany  rests on its laurels, it
could once again be this country left in the slow lane.”  Trade Balance  With unemployment near a 20-year low and exports reaching a
record 1.1 trillion euros ($1.42 trillion) last year led by
locally made high-technology machinery and automobiles,
Germany’s economy looks the picture of health. The nation’s
trade balance has been positive each year since reunification.  While the  euro area  is stuck in its second recession in
four years, the German economy grew 0.7 percent in 2012 and the
Bundesbank expects growth of 0.4 percent this year. Investor
confidence unexpectedly rose to a three-year high this month and
 retail sales  climbed by the most in more than six years in
January.  The  benchmark DAX Index  has gained 4.9 percent since the
start of the year after advancing 25 percent in 2012. The yield
on the 10-year bund stood at 1.41 at 8:20 a.m. in Frankfurt,
down 50 basis points, or half a percentage point, from the March
22 close a year ago.  Germany’s strong economy and its  trade surplus  are reasons
“why there’s still room to increase wages,”  Andrew Bosomworth ,
managing director at Pacific Investment Management Co. in
Munich, said in a March 22 telephone interview.  Germany’s Competitiveness  “That’s particularly true if you compare German wages to
those in other European countries,” he said. “The real
competition takes place internationally vis-a-vis other export
countries like Japan or China. That limits the room for
increases, but I don’t think that at this stage higher wages are
seriously damaging Germany’s competitiveness.”  On the negative side, companies, including  Beiersdorf AG (BEI) ,
the maker of Nivea skin cream, and  Adidas AG (ADS) , the world’s
second-largest sporting-goods maker, recently reported earnings
that fell short of analysts’ estimates amid stronger
international competition. German  business sentiment  dropped
unexpectedly last week for the first time in five months.  Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA)  scrapped more than 760 European
flights last week as cabin crew and ground personnel went on
strike to oppose Chief Executive Officer Christoph Franz’s plan
to freeze pay as part of an initiative to lift operating profit
to 2.3 billion euros by 2015.  Relative Costs  While labor costs increased by an average 1.6 percent per
year between 2002 and 2011, they rose by an average 2.1 percent
from 2008 to 2011 and jumped 2.6 percent in 2012, the German
statistics’ office  reported  on March 11.  In Spain and Portugal, relative unit-labor costs fell below
Germany’s for the first time since 2005, according to the
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development.  Data  from Eurostat, the EU’s statistics arm, show that
productivity isn’t keeping pace with the cost of Germany’s 42-
million workforce. Eurostat estimates that productivity declined
0.2 percent in 2012 and growth will be 0.5 percent in 2013.  “It is important to have competitive prices if you want to
stay successful as an export nation,” said Christoph Schroeder,
an economist at Cologne Institute for  Economic Research 
specializing in unit labor costs. “A lot of other countries
have made progress in the past few years, and Germany hasn’t. To
ask for much higher wages in such an environment is endangering
Germany’s competitiveness.”  While Germany’s industrial manufacturers are more
competitive than many of its euro-area peers, they lost ground
over the past five years to Spain, the Netherlands and  Austria 
and were outperformed by countries such as the U.S. and  Canada 
to Japan and  South Korea , according to the  U.S. Bureau of Labor
Statistics .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Riecher in Frankfurt at 
 sriecher@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  