-- Oklahoma City Gets Downtown Debt at Smallest Penalty: Muni Deals
-- B y   R o m y   V a r g h e s e
-- 2013-03-25T11:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-25/oklahoma-city-gets-downtown-debt-at-smallest-penalty-muni-deals.html
Devon (S5OILP)  Energy Corp. will gain urban
improvements around its new headquarters as the  Oklahoma  City
Economic Development Trust sells $117.7 million in taxable
bonds, with yield penalties on such debt touching record lows.  This week’s sale, the largest of its kind for Oklahoma
since July 2010, also includes $25.9 million in tax-exempt
securities. The offering will fund downtown improvements in the
 state’s capital  around the 50-story building, including work on
a botanical garden and conservatory and additions of a
restaurant, band shell, performance lawn and dog park, according
to bond documents.  Devon has about $7 billion of cash after divesting overseas
and offshore assets to finance drilling in the U.S. and  Canada ,
Chief Financial Officer Jeff Agosta said Feb. 20. The company
completed its $835 million tower in October. As part of a
redevelopment agreement, Devon must give the authority a minimum
of $11.3 million annually for 21 years. The City Council will
dip into its general fund for debt service if the payments fall
short, said  Standard & Poor’s , which rates the securities AA,
third-highest.  Moody’s Investors Service also gave the deal its third-
highest grade, Aa2. The city anticipates “a strong investor
reception” because of the issue’s ratings and the city’s
backstop, Kenton Tsoodle, assistant finance director, said in an
e-mail.  Yield premiums on taxable debt hit a record low of 106
basis points over U.S. Treasury securities in the week of March
11, according to a note by Citigroup analysts led by  George Friedlander , head of municipal research. Issuance of taxable
bonds is on pace to reach $44 billion this year, compared with
$32.6 billion in 2012, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Romy Varghese in Philadelphia at 
 rvarghese8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  