-- Holder Transfers Millions to Protect Prisons From Budget Cuts
-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 2013-03-25T19:02:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-25/holder-transfers-millions-to-protect-prisons-from-budget-cuts.html
The U.S.  Justice Department  has
transferred $150 million to the Bureau of Prisons to avoid
furloughing correctional officers, Attorney General Eric Holder
said.  Holder, in a memo to Justice Department employees, said the
department would have furloughed 3,570 federal prison employees
each day without the shift in funding. That represents more than
9 percent of the approximately 38,000 bureau employees.  “The loss of these correctional officers and other staff
who supervise the 176,000 prisoners at 119 institutions would
have created serious threats to the lives and safety of our
staff, inmates, and the public,” Holder said in the March 22
memo obtained by  Bloomberg News .  The Justice Department must cut more than $1.6 billion in
the last seven months of the fiscal year from its budget as a
result of across-the-board cuts known as sequestration took hold
at federal departments and agencies on March 1. Lawmakers on the
House and Senate appropriations committees approved the fund
transfer, though the government funding bill passed by Congress
last week did not provide any relief from the total cuts to the
department, Holder said.  “I am deeply troubled by the impact the sequester will
have on the Department’s capacity to prevent terrorism, combat
violent crime, partner with state and local law enforcement
agencies, and protect the judiciary and our most vulnerable
citizens,” Holder said.  The Justice Department has instituted “extensive cuts” to
travel, training and outside contracts because of the cuts,
Holder said in the memo.  He warned that the transfer to protect the prison officers
and employees would only last through the end of the fiscal year
in September.  “These actions do not address the serious life and safety
issues that the BOP faces next year under continued funding at
the post-sequestration levels,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Mattingly in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Joe Sobczyk at 
 jsobczyk@bloomberg.net ;
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  