-- Monte Paschi Rescue Won’t Spur Recovery as Losses Seen
-- B y   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i   a n d   F r a n c e s c a   C i n e l l i
-- 2013-03-26T09:53:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-25/monte-paschi-bailout-won-t-spur-recovery-as-loan-losses-surge.html
Banca Monte dei Paschi di Siena ’s
4.07 billion-euro ($5.2 billion) state rescue won’t resolve the
troubles of Italy’s third-largest bank, which is poised to
report a second straight loss on soaring bad-loan provisions.  The world’s oldest bank may post a 2012 net loss of 2.33
billion euros ($3.03 billion) when it publishes results on
Thursday, based on the mean  estimate  of 10 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. The Siena-based lender had a 4.69 billion-euro  loss
in 2011 , and will probably be unprofitable in 2013 as well,
analysts’ estimates show.  Italy’s economy remains mired in its  longest recession  in
two decades and a month-old political impasse threatens to
increase sovereign-debt yields and bank funding costs. The
lender’s outlook is further complicated by probes into the
actions of former managers after derivatives were used to hide
losses.  While the bailout will replenish capital, “concerns on low
profitability, poor credit quality and high exposure to the
country’s sovereign debt remain,” said Wolfram Mrowetz, the
chairman of Alisei Sim, a Milan-based brokerage. “There are too
many structural issues still to address.”  Monte Paschi fell as much as 3.9 percent, the worst
performer in the 40-member  Bloomberg Banks and Financial
Services index , and was down 2.4 percent to 19.42 cents as of
10:47 a.m. in Milan trading. Shares almost halved in the last 12
months, giving the bank a market value of 2.27 billion euros.  Bad Loans  Chief Executive Officer Fabrizio Viola and Chairman
Alessandro Profumo, appointed last year to turn around the 541-
year-old bank, are trying to regain the confidence of investors
after the lender was forced to seek a second state rescue in
four years and to take a 730 million-euro hit linked to the
derivative contracts.  An increasing number of Italian firms and families are
struggling to repay debts as austerity measures put in place by
the caretaker government of Mario Monti curb economic activity.
At the same time, the Bank of Italy is forcing lenders to set
aside more money against doubtful loans.  Bad loans at Italian banks rose to a record in January,
exceeding 126 billion euros, the Italian Banking Association
said last week, adding that further deterioration is expected.  Monte Paschi may report a 43 percent jump in bad-loan
provisions to 666 million euros in the last three months of 2012
from a year earlier, the survey of analysts found. The bank’s
fourth-quarter loss probably amounted to 761 million euros.  Capital ‘Quality’  “The group now has to focus on improving the quantity and
quality of its capital,” Azzurra Guelfi, a London-based banking
analyst at Citigroup Inc., wrote in a report on March 8. “Monte
Paschi has a high stock of non-performing loans, and we are
concerned about asset quality conditions in Italy.”  The bank’s ratio of non-performing loans to total lending
was 12 percent in September. That exceeds the 8.3 percent ratio
at Milan-based  UniCredit SpA (UCG) , Italy’s biggest bank, and the 7.3
percent at  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP) , the second largest, calculations
based on their third-quarter earnings statements show.  Monte Paschi’s loans exceed its deposits by 30 percent, an
“unsustainable” level, Profumo told reporters in October.  Fourth-quarter revenue may show a decline of 3 percent to
1.21 billion euros and net interest income a drop of 22 percent
to 710 million euros, analysts estimated.  Profumo, 56, and Viola, 55, are reviewing the business plan
they presented in June, after the losses linked to derivative
contracts hidden by former executives forced the bank to seek
additional aid to comply with regulators’ capital requirements.  ‘Execution Risk’  The  new management  said in June it would strengthen
finances by selling its leasing and consumer credit units,
closing 400 branches and eliminating 4,600 jobs by 2015. The
revised plan has to be submitted to the  European Banking
Authority (BMPS)  by June.  “The executives’ plan seems convincing and I don’t expect
major changes,” Alessandro Frigerio, a fund manager at RMJ Sgr
in Milan, said by phone. Still, “it faces execution risk due to
the investigations, which may still raise unwelcome surprises
and are subtracting managers’ time from their core business.”  Profumo and Viola declined to comment for this article.  Regulators and prosecutors are scrutinizing derivative
deals dubbed Alexandria, Santorini and Nota Italia that obscured
losses. Bloomberg News first reported on Santorini on Jan. 17.
The bank’s shares have since dropped 34 percent in Milan.  Prosecutors are also probing former executives for alleged
market manipulation, false accounting and obstruction of
regulatory activity during the 2007  takeover  of Banca
Antonveneta SpA, people with knowledge of the matter have said.  Italian Debt  “The new management team contributed to bringing more
confidence in the stock by capping the downside of the
derivatives-related losses,” said Antonio Guglielmi, an analyst
at Mediobanca SpA in London. That said, “the bank’s future
remains more in the hands of external factors than in the hands
of the new management.”  Guglielmi cited political gridlock, a sluggish economy and
the potential for wider spreads on Italy’s sovereign debt.  Monte Paschi’s holdings of Italian government bonds, which
amounted to 22 billion euros at the end of September, put the
bank at risk if Europe’s debt crisis worsens.  Italian bonds fell following the inconclusive national
election on Feb. 24-25, driving 10-year yields as much as 45
basis points higher to 4.90 percent. While yields have since
retreated to 4.52 percent, risks remain.  ECB Loans  The bank’s holdings of Italian debt are the largest among
the nation’s biggest banks relative to its tangible equity.
Between 2009 and 2011, Monte Paschi made an ill-fated bet on
sovereign debt, buying government securities and arranging
structured deals underpinned by Italian bonds.  Monte Paschi may also struggle to repay 29 billion euros in
funds obtained by the European Central Bank in its longer-term
refinancing operation, said Andrea Vercellone, an analyst at
Exane BNP Paribas SA, in a January note.  Monte Paschi is one of the 10 biggest users of the ECB’s 1
trillion-euro LTRO, which must be repaid by 2015. It plans to
sell assets to reimburse the loans.  The planned sale of assets “would provide the necessary
liquidity, but in our view no buyer would be willing to acquire
unfunded businesses at book value,” Vercellone said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net 
Francesca Cinelli at 
 fcinelli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  