-- TOP Oil Market News: WTI Surges to Highest in Month on Cyprus
-- B y   R o b   V e r d o n c k
-- 2013-03-25T13:00:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-25/top-oil-market-news-wti-surges-to-highest-in-month-on-cyprus.html
The following is a selection of the
most important news affecting the oil market.  WTI Oil Rises to One-Month High on Cyprus; Brent Spread Narrows  West Texas Intermediate crude rose to the highest in a
month as Cyprus agreed on an international bailout, allaying
concern that  Europe ’s debt crisis will worsen. WTI narrowed its
discount to Brent to the least since July.  CRUDE NEWS  Iraq to Fall Short of 2014 Target for Oil Output, Lawmaker Says  Iraq , the second-largest producer in OPEC, won’t reach its
target of pumping 4.5 million barrels of oil a day by next year
and plans to announce revised production goals in April, senior
government officials said.  Kuwait Oil Minister Says Market is a ‘Little’ Oversupplied  Kuwait “generally happy” with  oil prices  at moment, Hani
Hussain tells reporters.  Russian Baltic Sea Urals Crude Oil Exports to Jump 20% in April  Russia plans to ship 1.95 million barrels a day of Urals
crude from two export terminals on the Baltic Sea in April,
according to a preliminary loading program obtained by Bloomberg
News.  Iraq to Boost Kirkuk Crude Oil Exports to 19 Cargoes in April  Iraq plans to increase exports of its Kirkuk crude in April
from the Turkish port of Ceyhan to 19 cargoes, nine more than
this month, according to a loading program obtained by Bloomberg
News.  Libya  Raises April Es-Sider Oil Price to 5 Cents Premium (1)  Libya’s state-run National Oil Corp. increased its official
selling price of benchmark Es Sider crude for April to a premium
of 5 cents a barrel over Dated Brent, up from parity in March,
according to a price list obtained by  Bloomberg News .  Nigeria Delays One Okono Crude Cargo to Load in May, Plan Shows  Nigeria ,  Africa ’s largest oil producer, will export one
cargo of its Okono crude in May, the same number as for next
month, according to a loading program obtained by Bloomberg
News.  Nigeria to Boost Forcados Crude Exports in May to Nine Cargoes  Nigeria, Africa’s largest oil producer, will increase
exports of its Forcados crude to nine cargoes in May, three more
than in April, according to a loading program obtained by
Bloomberg News.  Hedge Funds Raise ICE Brent Crude Net-Longs by 6,982 Last Week  Hedge funds and other money managers raised bullish bets on
 Brent crude  by 6,982 contracts in the week ended March 19,
according to data from ICE Futures Europe.  Crude Official Selling Prices and Formulas by Country (Table)  The following table shows official prices, formulas and
relative values for crudes from the  Middle East ,  Asia , Africa
and the Americas. Figures represent outright prices in dollars a
barrel, or premiums and discounts to regional benchmarks where
plus and minus symbols appear.  REFINERIES  Map global refinery outages  TOP ENERGY STORIES  Sinopec Joins  China  Peers in Posting Lower Full-Year Profits (1)  China Petroleum & Chemical Corp., Asia’s biggest refiner,
joined PetroChina Co. in posting lower 2012 profits, as the
nation’s largest energy companies look to overseas growth to
counter the impact of price controls at home.  Centrica Buys U.S. Gas in 20-Year Deal as U.K. Output Wanes (1)  Centrica Plc, the U.K.’s largest household energy supplier,
signed a 20-year deal to import natural gas from the U.S.,
securing supplies as production from British North Sea fields
decline.  Russia Lets China Into Arctic Oil Rush as Energy Giants Embrace  Russia’s decision to give China a share of prized Arctic
exploration licenses as part of a “breakthrough” deal signals
how the world’s largest oil and gas producer and the biggest
energy consumer are redrawing the global energy map.  Bullish Natural Gas Bets Surge as Fuel Hits $4: Energy Markets  Hedge funds  boosted bullish bets on U.S. natural gas to a
record, pushing the fuel above $4 for the first time since
September 2011, as a late-winter cold snap increased heating
demand and cut into a stockpile surplus.  NRG Skirts Utilities Going Straight to Power Consumers: Energy  NRG Energy Inc., the biggest power provider to U.S.
utilities, has become a renegade in the $370 billion energy-
distribution industry by providing electricity directly to
consumers.  China Thermal Coal Supplies Rise to 32-Week High as Price Slides  Power-station coal stockpiles at China’s largest port for
the fuel rose to the highest level in 32 weeks as prices slid to
a three-year low.  Chinese Utilities Face $20 Billion Costs Due to Water, BNEF Says  China’s five largest power utilities are heavily exposed to
water supply disruptions and face costs of as much as $20
billion to curb the risk, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  OTHER MARKETS  European Stocks Advance as Cyprus Reaches Agreement on Bailout  European stocks climbed, rebounding from a weekly loss, as
an overnight rescue deal between Cyprus and euro-area finance
ministers lowered the nation’s risk of default and an exit from
the currency union. U.S. index futures and Asian shares also
rose.  Euro Pares Advance Amid Qualms After Cyprus Deal; Yen Weakens  The euro pared its advance against the dollar amid concern
that a deal to bail out Cyprus won’t be enough to eliminate the
threat of default and stave off contagion to other euro-region
nations.  Copper Falls in London as China’s Usage May Slow; Lead Advances  Copper declined in  London  on speculation China’s government
will take steps to slow inflation, curbing metals demand.  Gold Falls in London as Equities Climb After Cyprus Agreement  Gold declined in London, following a three-week rally, as
equities climbed after Cyprus agreed with euro-area finance
ministers on a rescue package.  Cyprus Salvaged After EU Accord Shuts Bank in Euro Bailout (2)  Cyprus dodged a disorderly default and unprecedented exit
from the euro by bowing to demands from creditors to shrink its
banking system in exchange for 10 billion euros ($13 billion) of
aid.  Hedge Funds Most Bearish Ever on Copper, Favor Gold: Commodities  Hedge funds are making the biggest bet against copper on
record as global inventories expand to a nine-year high, while
concern that Europe’s debt crisis will spread spurred the
biggest gain in gold bets since 2008.  Risk Unrewarded as Emerging Stocks Lag Behind Most Since ’98 (1)  The link between risk and reward in stocks is breaking down
as  emerging markets  post the worst first quarter since 2008 and
lag behind shares of developed economies by the most in 15
years.  SPORTS  Florida Gulf Coast Makes NCAA History as a 15th Seed in Final 16  Florida Gulf Coast University made college basketball
history as the first No. 15 regional seed to reach the final 16
at the National Collegiate Athletic Association men’s
tournament, where the Eagles are joined by traditional powers
Indiana, Kansas and Duke.  Tiger Woods ’s Chase to Regain Golf’s No. 1 Rank Delayed by Storm  Tiger Woods’s bid to return to the top of golf’s world
rankings was delayed a day by a thunderstorm and tornado warning
that suspended play at the Arnold Palmer Invitational, where
he’s pursuing an eighth win.  Yankees’  Derek Jeter  Is Set to Miss First Opening Day Since 2001  Derek Jeter will probably miss  Major League Baseball ’s
Opening Day for the first time in 12 years as the  New York 
Yankees’ shortstop and captain is set to start the regular
season on the disabled list.  Elvis Dumervil Joins NFL’s Ravens After Six Seasons With Broncos  Pro Bowl defensive end Elvis Dumervil agreed to a five-year
contract with the Super Bowl champion  Baltimore Ravens  after
totaling 63 1/2 sacks in the six seasons he played with the
 Denver Broncos .  ENERGY PRICES  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Raj Rajendran at 
 rrajendran4@bloomberg.net  