-- Oriental Soft Porn, Magic Carpets, Bedtime Tales in Paris
-- B y   J o r g   v o n   U t h m a n n
-- 2013-03-25T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-25/oriental-soft-porn-magic-carpets-bedtime-tales-in-paris.html
Baghdad and Damascus are not
exactly considered dream travel destinations.  Yet, once upon a time, those two cities were among the most
attractive and glamorous in the world.  The show “Les Mille et Une Nuits” (One Thousand and One
Nights) at the Institut du Monde Arabe in Paris uses the
collection of the famous fairy tales, to explore that lost era.  Alongside illuminated manuscripts of the tales also known
as “The Arabian Nights,” the exhibition displays ancient maps,
carpets, ceramics, jewelry and other objects that conjure up the
ancient world of oriental splendor.  On sofas, you can listen on headphones to some of the tales
-- just as Shahriar, the emperor of Persia and  India , had
listened to Shahrazad, or Scheherazade, his beautiful and clever
bride.  Disappointed by women, he had sworn to spend just one night
with each new wife and have her executed the next morning.  Yet Shahrazad’s tale was so thrilling that he stayed her
execution by one day so that he could learn the end of the
story. Shahrazad knew a thing or two about cliffhangers, and
kept him in suspense for 1,001 nights until he gave up and
married her for good.  For the non-expert, the biggest surprise of the show is
that the book, though based on oriental sources, is to a large
extent a European creation. The first edition (12 volumes, 1704-
17) was published by the French orientalist Antoine Galland.  Magic Lamps  He translated a Syrian 15th-century manuscript, then added
other stories a Syrian traveler had told him -- including some
of the most popular such as “Aladdin and the Magic Lamp” and
“Ali Baba and the Forty Thieves.” The first printed edition in
Arabic appeared only in 1814.  There are many parallels with European literature. Tales
embedded in a frame story can be found in Boccaccio’s
“Decameron” and Chaucer’s “Canterbury Tales.” The adventures of
Sindbad the Sailor are similar to those of Ulysses as related by
Homer.  No wonder the “Nights” had a lasting influence on European
literature, fine arts and music. The show includes amusing
canvases by academic painters who catered to a bourgeoisie keen
on oriental soft porn.  In 1985, an overzealous prosecutor in Cairo tried to have
the book banned as immoral and an insult to Islam.  Costume designs and photographs remind us that
“Scheherazade,” with music by Nikolai Rimsky-Korsakov, was one
of the triumphs of Sergei Diaghilev’s Ballets Russes.  Marlene Dietrich  Hollywood, of course, couldn’t resist cannibalizing the
juicy stories. Dominican Republic-born beauty Maria Montez (in
“Arabian Nights”), Marlene Dietrich (in “Kismet”) and others do
their best to look exotic.  The most beautiful items, however, come from the Orient.
Persian miniatures, Egyptian swords, Syrian panels, Afghan oil
lamps and Mughal paintings evoke a universe of high culture and
exquisite taste utterly different from contemporary life in
those countries.  One of the show’s Arabian Nights heroes is the caliph Harun
al-Rashid (766-809) under whose reign Baghdad reached its
zenith. Legend has it that he acted as a one-man polling
institute: On sleepless nights, he wandered through the city in
disguise and asked people what they thought of their ruler.  The sumptuous show catalog is 39 euros (about $50) and will
probably become a collector’s item.  “Les Mille et Une Nuits,” which is supported by the
Fondation Total, runs through April 28.  Information:  http://www.imarabe.org .  Muse highlights include  Richard Vines  on food,  Robert
Heller  on music, Patrick Cole on  charity  and  Elin McCoy  on wine.  (Jorg von Uthmann is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer of this review:
Jorg von Uthmann in Paris at  uthmann@wanadoo.fr .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at  mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 