-- How to Make America a Global Tax Haven
-- B y   R a m e s h   P o n n u r u
-- 2013-03-25T22:30:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-25/how-to-make-america-a-global-tax-haven.html
“It’s just far-fetched to believe
that Congress would lower corporate rates at the expense of
small business,” says Representative Devin Nunes, a California
Republican.  That, in a nutshell, is why corporate-tax rates are
unlikely to fall, even though there is a bipartisan consensus
that they’re too high. Nunes may, however, have the beginning of
a solution.  The U.S. corporate-tax rate is higher than that of any
other developed country. We have kept it at 35 percent even as
other countries have reduced theirs. Republicans,
unsurprisingly, want to cut the rate; most of them think 25
percent is the right target. President  Barack Obama  has
suggested that eliminating loopholes would enable a reduction to
28 percent.  A lower rate  would lead  to more investment, and thus higher
wages, in the U.S. But most businesses, especially small ones,
don’t pay corporate taxes. They file under the individual
income-tax code, partly because it treats investment better than
the corporate code does. These businesses have no stake in
seeing the corporate-tax rate fall -- especially since their own
taxes just rose at the start of the year, when the Bush tax cuts
on high earners expired.  No Agreement  Both the White House and Republican Senator  Rob Portman  of
 Ohio  are willing to tackle corporate-tax reform in isolation
from the rest of the tax code. Many members of Congress will
balk, however, at enacting a 25 percent corporate-tax rate just
after letting rates on a lot of small businesses rise to 39.6
percent (and even higher in practice, once some features of the
tax code are accounted for). Portman is isolated in his party on
this issue.  Reforming the entire code, individual and corporate alike,
doesn’t hold much promise, either. There is no bipartisan
agreement that the top individual rate should fall. Nor is there
any agreement on which tax breaks to eliminate or reduce to pay
for lower individual rates. So the two most obvious paths for a
corporate rate reduction -- a reform of the corporate code, or
of the whole  tax code  -- appear to be blocked.  That’s where Nunes comes in. He suggests a new approach: a
“business consumption tax” that treats all businesses the same,
whatever their organizational form. Instead of taxing their
income, it taxes their cashflow -- income minus expenses, except
for interest payments. That way, businesses would no longer
write off their investments according to a complicated
depreciation schedule. Investments would be tax-free.  Both U.S. and foreign companies would have more reason to
invest here, Nunes says. “This would make the U.S. the largest
tax haven in human history.”  I’ve run across two objections to Nunes’s idea. The first
is that it is simply too ambitious to be politically viable: If
Congress is having trouble reforming the corporate tax, goes the
argument, it won’t be able to digest an entirely new approach to
taxing business income. What this objection ignores is that the
moderately ambitious proposals all face obstacles that are
probably insuperable -- obstacles this proposal avoids.  The second objection is that Nunes’s proposal would cost
the federal government a lot of revenue. A Joint Committee on
Taxation estimate of the proposal’s budget impact would make it
possible to evaluate this claim, but it sounds plausible. If it
turns out to be expensive, though, the concept can still work:
The tax rate would just have to be higher than the 25 percent
that Nunes has tentatively put forward.  Economic Boon  Even if the rate were left at the 35 percent that currently
applies to corporations, the shift to the new tax would still be
a boon for the economy. The statutory rate would be higher than
that of other countries, but the number that matters -- the
effective tax rate on investments -- would be a very competitive
zero, thanks to companies’ ability to write off their costs
immediately. Eliminating the deduction for interest, meanwhile,
would end a destabilizing distortion in the economy: the federal
tax code’s preference for corporate financing via debt rather
than equity. That preference also gives an advantage to
established firms that have greater borrowing capacity than
startups.  If Congress still finds the Nunes proposal too ambitious to
contemplate, it could undertake reform on a much smaller scale.
Leave tax rates alone, keep the separate schedules for different
types of companies, and just make a trade: Companies would get
immediate write-offs on investments and in return lose the
interest deduction. That trade would probably leave the
government’s revenue at roughly the same level. It would
certainly be simpler than most other proposals to reform
business taxation. And it would encourage more investment and
less debt.  Two things have to happen for these ideas to have a chance.
More people in  Washington  must realize that the conventional
approaches to these issues aren’t going to work. And they will
have to start listening to Nunes.  ( Ramesh Ponnuru  is a Bloomberg View columnist, a visiting
fellow at the  American Enterprise Institute  and a senior editor
at National Review. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Ramesh Ponnuru at  rponnuru@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 