-- Pakistan’s Army of Overseas Workers Keeps Economy Afloat
-- B y   K h u r r u m   A n i s
-- 2013-03-26T06:09:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-25/pakistan-s-army-of-overseas-workers-keeps-economy-from-collapse.html
Living in poverty in a mud shack in
 Pakistan , Mazhar Ali dropped out of school, sold the family’s
two buffalo and bought a visa to work in Dubai. The money he
sends home is paying for a new house.  “We’re going to build three rooms with bricks and cement,
plus a courtyard and a washroom,” said his younger brother
Azhar in Larkana, hometown of the ruling  People’s Party  about
300 kilometers north of Karachi. “We will then start marrying
one by one, starting with Mazhar sometime this year.”  The family’s change in fortunes reflects a rising trend of
rich nations with aging workers tapping poorer ones for labor --
total remittances to developing economies will rise 7.9 percent
this year, and reach $534 billion by 2015, the  World Bank  says.
For Pakistan, the income offers a source of stability, with the
country poised for its first civilian handover of government in
May even amid power shortages, bombings and a Taliban insurgency.  “This is our savior for keeping Pakistan out of the oxygen
tent,” Farooq Sattar, former Minister for Overseas Pakistanis
said in an interview in Karachi last month before his party quit
the government alliance. “It has kept us from a complete
economic collapse.”  Almost 10 million Pakistanis work overseas and the sum
they’ve sent home has doubled in the four years through June, to
a record $13 billion.  Revenue Shortage  The rising tide of funds from overseas contrasts with a
struggle by President Asif Ali Zardari’s administration to raise
enough revenue to fund programs that would boost domestic growth.  Pakistan had to pay about $7.5 billion to the IMF between
2012 and 2015, Moody’s Investors Service said in July. The
government repaid $3.2 billion as of Feb. 26, the central bank
said.  The government is evaluating a possible further loan from
the fund as a buffer against shocks, Saleem H. Mandviwalla said
in December as Finance Minister.  The local currency has fallen on concern loan repayments
will erode  foreign-exchange reserves , which fell to $7.5 billion
in January from $11.8 billion a year earlier, according to the
central bank. The rupee traded at 98.35 per dollar at 9:30 in
Pakistan, near a record low.  Rising Deficit  Pakistan was among the 15 lowest revenue-gathering nations
in the world as a percentage of GDP, according to the U.S.
Central Intelligence Agency’s  World Fact Book  2012. The South
Asian nation recorded the highest  budget deficit  in two decades
in the fiscal year through June as it missed its tax target.  The nation’s fiscal deficit may be 7.5 percent of gross
domestic product this year, wider than the government’s target
of 4.7 percent, the IMF said in January.  Among the biggest challenges for the government is the need
to add almost 4,000 megawatts of power generation to end a
shortage that’s causing blackouts for as long as 18 hours a day,
idling factories and swelling unemployment. The government said
energy shortages cut economic growth last year by as much as 4
percentage points.  “Extreme poverty has not risen as much as it would have
without remittances,” Rashid Amjad, a professor at the Lahore
School of Economics said in an e-mail. “Most of the remittances
are flowing into consumption, real estate, housing and the stock
market, and have played a critical role in keeping Pakistan’s
economy afloat.”  Coming Election  Pakistan will hold parliamentary elections on May 11, after
the outgoing government, led by Zardari’s  Pakistan Peoples Party ,
became the first democratically elected administration in 65
years of independence to complete its term.  The Peoples Party, dogged by the energy crisis, security
concerns and inflation above 7 percent, garnered half the
support of its leading rival, the Pakistan Muslim League of
former premier  Nawaz Sharif , in a March 4 opinion poll published
by Gallup Pakistan.  Remittances that fuel a thriving underground economy may
rise further in the next few years as more Pakistanis seek
employment overseas, said G.M. Arif, an economist at the
Pakistan Institute of Development Economics in Islamabad.  Pakistan was among the world’s top 10 recipients of
recorded remittances in 2012, according to the World Bank.
Sattar estimates billions of rupees from abroad are unreported,
transferred with the help of illegal money operators known as
hawala or hundi. Pakistan’s recorded remittances would double if
the illegal channels were closed, he said.  Tax Evaders  Some Pakistanis also use the system to avoid paying tax,
said Nuzhat Ahmad, director of the Applied Economics Research
Center at the University of Karachi.  “If I get a remittance and I buy a house from it, I can
say my brother has sent me the money from abroad, and I don’t
have to pay income tax,” she said from her office. “That’s a
big downside” for the government.  Only 856,000 of the country’s 183 million people pay tax,
according to the Federal Board of Revenue. Each taxpayer
contributes on average 13,673 rupees.  In December, the government approved a plan to offer 3
million of Pakistan’s richest tax evaders a chance to pay a one-
time 40,000-rupee penalty on undeclared income and assets of as
much as 5 million rupees, in an effort to widen the tax net.  Meanwhile, many Pakistanis continue to abandon roles in the
domestic economy for the promise of greater wealth overseas.  Dubai Hotel  Qamar-uz-Zaman, 33, works as a security supervisor at the
 Sofitel Palm Jumeirah resort  in Dubai. He left his home in Kotli
in Pakistan-administered Kashmir in 2011 after he realized his
teaching job wouldn’t pay enough to feed his family. In two
years he’s sent enough money home for his brother to set up a
small cosmetics shop.  “Things have totally changed for us and now we’re very
excited to plan Qamar’s wedding for which we definitely have
enough money,” Zaheer Abbas, the family’s youngest brother,
said by phone.  The rise in fortunes for families such as Qamar’s show why
workers are tempted to take jobs in countries that often have
harsh conditions for migrants.  A 2011 report in the Health and Human Rights journal cited
cases of construction workers suffering heatstroke during 12-
hour shifts in temperatures as high as 55 degrees Celsius (131
Fahrenheit) and female domestic staff working 100 hours a week.  For Mazhar, the gamble with the family’s cows has paid off.
The 935 dirhams ($255) a month he earns has allowed him to repay
an uncle who loaned him part of the cost of his visa, and the
new house is almost finished.  “Then we will try to replace the cattle,” his brother
Azhar said. “Before, we couldn’t think of buying anything. Just
food.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Khurrum Anis in Karachi at 
 kkhan14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Merritt  at 
 dmerritt1@bloomberg.net  