-- Penn Sues St. Jude Hospital Over Cancer Treatment Patent
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 2013-03-26T01:02:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-25/penn-sues-st-jude-hospital-over-cancer-treatment-patent.html
     March 25 (Bloomberg) --The  University of Pennsylvania  sued
 St. Jude Children’s Research Hospital  over a patent for creating
genetically modified versions of immune cells to treat cancer.  The university asked for a court order declaring it hasn’t
infringed the patent held by researchers at St. Jude, which it
claims is invalid, according to a March 22 complaint in federal
court in Philadelphia.  “The University and St. Jude have adverse legal interests
with respect to the 645 patent, and a substantial controversy
exists,” lawyers for the university wrote, referring to the
patent number.  The lawsuit is the latest chapter in a dispute over the use
of the therapy which reprograms T-cells to specifically target
leukemia cells. The approach was used by Penn Professor  Carl
June  to treat patients suffering from the blood cancer in an
experiment reported in 2011 in the New England Journal of
Medicine.  Novartis AG in August acquired the university’s technology
as part of a $20 million agreement to fund a research center at
the school. Novartis was one of three companies to negotiate
with the university, June said at the time.  St. Jude, based in  Memphis ,  Tennessee , sued in July
accusing the university of claiming the technology as its own in
scientific publications and seeking to commercialize it without
consent.  Three Lawsuits  Penn then sued St. Jude in July, accusing the hospital of
interfering with its prospective contractual relations. In the
new action, it is asking a judge to rule on the validity of the
therapy’s underlying patent, which was issued to the hospital
last week.  St. Jude “is confident in the validity” of the patent,
said Gary M. Stephenson, a spokesman for the center, in an e-
mailed statement.  “St. Jude is committed to sharing its research discoveries
to stimulate other discoveries benefiting children and adults,
and provided the University of   Pennsylvania  with an innovative
molecular receptor now covered by this patent.” Stephenson
said. “It is our longstanding practice to not comment on
ongoing litigation.”  The invention is for an artificial molecule that attaches
to normal T-cells and reprograms them to attack cancer cells
before they are re-injected into the body. It targets cancers
such as acute and chronic leukemia and non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma,
according to the complaint.  The case is Trustees of the University of Pennsylvania v.
St. Jude Children’s Research Hospital, 2:13-cv-01502, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of Pennsylvania (Philadelphia).
To see the patent, click: 8,399,645  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia
at   spearson3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 