-- TPG Scopes Out ’Emergent’ Vietnam Companies to Invest
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-03-25T00:30:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-25/tpg-scopes-out-emergent-vietnam-companies-to-invest.html
TPG Capital, the private-equity
firm run by David Bonderman and James Coulter, is seeking its
first  Vietnam  investment in almost four years as the country’s
growing middle class offer growth opportunities.  TPG Growth fund, which manages $4 billion, is scouting for
“emergent” companies with growth potential that want to
leverage the fund’s global expertise, Managing Partner William McGlashan said in an interview in Hanoi. The company previously
invested in  Masan (MSN)  Group Corp. and  FPT Corp. (FPT)  in Vietnam.  “There are a lot of very exciting, developing companies
that may not be on the radar because they don’t have the scale
of Masan and FPT yet,” he said in the March 21 interview. “We
want to find those kinds of opportunities: emergent, interesting
scale companies that may not be pristine today.”  A fifth of private-equity investors surveyed in a Collier
Capital December report said they are turning to emerging Asian
markets such Vietnam and  Indonesia  amid concerns that rewards in
 China  are getting smaller with higher risks. The pivot toward
Vietnam underscores foreign investors’ attraction to its growing
middle class and a population where more than half of the
nation’s 90 million people are under the age of 35.  “The beauty of this market is there’s so much opportunity
here for growth,” said McGlashan, who was in Hanoi for the
fund’s first annual investor meeting outside of the U.S. “You
have a consumer-driven economy with one of the youngest
demographics in the world. You’ve got an opportunity to
participate in a coming-out party here in Vietnam of biblical
proportions.”  Deals’ Target  Vietnam is set to become a target for deals as investors
look to Southeast Asia as a primary destination and branch out
beyond Singapore and  Thailand , according to Ernst & Young LLP’s
2013 outlook report on Asia-Pacific region released in January.  “Right now, Vietnam is looking for capital, as the
financial sector is doing quite poorly,” Kelvin Lee, Ernst &
Young’s transactions leader for Vietnam, said in the report.
“In the Southeast Asia region, this is one place that needs
private equity more than anywhere else.”  Vietnam is “desperate” for foreign investment as economic
growth slows, and the cost of entering the market has dropped,
according to Ralf Matthaes, a regional managing director at
market research firm TNS. The company has seen a “mild but
serious” increase in interest from foreign investors this year
after a drop in the last two years, he said.  McGlashan says he’s not concerned that Vietnam’s government
is struggling to revive economic growth, which has lagged to its
slowest in 13 years amid a credit slump.  Masan’s Growth  TPG invested $35 million in Masan, a food and soy sauce
maker, in 2009. That year, Vietnam’s growth shrunk to 5.3
percent, then the slowest expansion in a decade. Masan’s sales
have more than doubled to 10.4 trillion dong ($497 million) last
year, while net income more than tripled to 1.3 trillion dong.  KKR & Co. (KKR) , the private equity run by Henry Kravis and
 George Roberts , also invested in Masan in 2011 and doubled its
investment this year with an additional $200 million.  In 2006, TPG also made a $21.5 million investment in FPT,
Vietnam’s largest listed telecommunications company, which it
has since exited.  TPG is more interested in the performance and management of
specific companies rather than the broader economy, McGlashan
said.  “Vietnam right now is not a particularly popular place to
invest for lots of reasons,” said McGlashan, who will be based
in Mumbai starting next month. “Since it’s more about the micro
than the macro, it represents a more attractive time for us to
come looking for companies that we can partner with.”  Asian Opportunities  The fund is interested in pursuing investments in Asia in
consumer, technology, financial services and health-care sectors,
he said. He declined to say which industries the company is
looking at in Vietnam.  The nation’s economy is forecast to expand 5.5 percent this
year, from an average of 7.3 percent annually in the decade
starting in 2000.  The benchmark  VN Index (VNINDEX)  climbed 22 percent in the past three
months, making it the best-performing Asian stock market in U.S.
dollar terms.  TPG and investors met last week with Deputy Prime Minister
Hoang Trung Hai, McGlashan said. The company would like to see
more “business rights” in Vietnam, including broader
intellectual property protection.  “Ultimately, Vietnam is going to have to reform a lot of
these controls if they want a robust capital market, liquidity
and if they want the kind of partners that we represent to come
in and help their companies mature and grow to global scale and
quality,” he said. “I’m optimistic they’ll get there.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
K. Oanh Ha in Hanoi at 
 oha3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Linus Chua at 
 lchua@bloomberg.net  