-- Pope Francis Should Look East to End Poverty
-- B y   W i l l i a m   P e s e k
-- 2013-03-25T21:00:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-25/pope-francis-should-look-east-to-end-poverty.html
Philippine President  Benigno Aquino 
faces a huge roadblock in his push to end the poverty weighing
on his 106 million people: the Catholic Church.  I was in the predominantly Catholic nation earlier this
month when the Vatican named the first non-European as pope in
more than 1,200 years. Filipinos rejoiced in the choice of a
Latin American pontiff with a passion for helping the poor. One-
fifth of Filipinos live in slum conditions even as the economy
grows 6.8 percent.  News of Pope Francis’s election came just days before
Philippine bishops stymied Aquino’s bid to curb the
overpopulation that perpetuates poverty, pressuring the  Supreme
Court  to reject the Responsible Parenthood and Reproductive
Health Act, which Aquino signed into law in December. The law,
blocked repeatedly since 1998, provides free contraceptives to
the poor. Its implicit message is that families shouldn’t have
more children than they can realistically afford.  There is still a chance the law may go into effect. The
court’s 10-5 vote called for a 120-day restraining order, with
hearings set for June 18. But the Philippines has already waited
too long to rein in one of the most obvious impediments to
higher  living standards . As of mid-2012, one in four Filipinos
lived on less than $1.25 a day and more than 10 percent of
workers have gone abroad for work. It is no coincidence that the
Philippines  population-growth  rate is twice the Asian average.  Case Study  The archipelago nation is a timely case study of how
religion and economic  development  often don’t mix. The church
professes to help those most in need and preaches the gospel of
protecting society’s weakest -- poor women and children. How,
then, can the bishops who wield such disproportionate power over
Southeast Asia’s fifth-biggest economy fight a step that might
do much to achieve those goals?  The  United Nations  is hardly doing the devil’s bidding by
arguing that less population growth would reduce Philippine
poverty. Nor is former World Bank economist William Easterly
being religiously intolerant when he points out that, “the most
unprepossessing candidate for the Holy Grail of prosperity is
seven inches of latex: a condom.” Although priests or religious
leaders of any order should always stay out of politics, that’s
especially so when they don’t understand basic economics.  The nexus of God and prosperity has long fascinated
economists. In his seminal 1776 tome “The Wealth of Nations,”
 Adam Smith  explored how religion impacts growth, and vice versa.
In the mid-1800s,  Karl Marx  famously concluded: “Religion is
the opium of the people.” In 2009, Robert Barro and Rachel
McCleary of  Harvard University  looked at how religion affects
behavior in the Internet age. Their conclusion? Countries in
which a belief in hell is strong often grow faster than average.  In the Philippines, though, the church’s influence
undermines democracy. Recall that in July 2005 the Catholic
Bishops’ Conference of the Philippines literally decided whether
the nation would experience a coup and whether then President
 Gloria Arroyo  would resign. That made it all too clear how much
leverage ordained officials have over elected ones.  It’s beyond irresponsible for  church  officials to call
family planners propagandists who espouse a “culture of
death.” Condoms and diaphragms aren’t the same as abortions.
Anyone who argues as much to a nation’s people should go to
confession. Maybe the new pope will realize how antiquated
beliefs about contraception are at odds with his determination
to address poverty and environmental degradation.  Misplaced Anger  Religious leaders in other nations also fall prey to
misplaced anger. Take  Indonesia , an economy beset by endemic
corruption. Rather than demanding that public officials root out
fraud, religious leaders opt to keep pop performers such as Lady Gaga out of their arenas. In  Malaysia , spiritual leaders seem
more obsessed with Beyonce’s wardrobe than graft. If only the
bishops in the Philippines focused all this energy on the
scourge of rent-seeking.  Aquino, let’s remember, hails from one of the nation’s most
celebrated dynastic families. His much beloved mother,  Corazon Aquino , held power from 1986 to 1992 after the assassination of
her opposition-leader husband. And Aquino knew the seriousness
of the fight he was picking, enduring threats of ex-
communication from the church and a torrent of criticism that
ranged from boxing champion  Manny Pacquiao  to former first lady
 Imelda Marcos . Aquino’s father was killed for trying to unseat
her dictator husband,  Ferdinand Marcos .  So why did Aquino choose this battle? Because it’s so
necessary. His predecessors, from Arroyo to  Joseph Estrada  to
Fidel Ramos to his mother, avoided the confrontation because
they knew their presidencies depended on clerical support. After
early successes in battling corruption, Aquino took his high
approval ratings out for a ride with family-planning legislation
-- only to be impeded by religious dogma.  If you are a credit analyst at  Standard & Poor’s  or Moody’s
Investors Service mulling whether to grant the Philippines an
investment-grade rating, you have to wonder how this will shake
out. Bishops in the Philippines have every right to guide their
flock to a better, more fulfilling life. Thwarting efforts to
end poverty isn’t the way to do it.  (William Pesek is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
William Pesek in Manila at 
 wpesek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  