-- Puerto Rico Has Biggest Loss Since 2008 as Pension Changes Loom
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e
-- 2013-03-25T19:07:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-25/puerto-rico-has-biggest-loss-since-2008-as-pension-changes-loom.html
Municipal debt sold in Puerto Rico
fell 1.44 percent on March 22, the biggest one-day loss in
almost five years as the commonwealth deals with deficits.  A Standard & Poor’s index of debt sold by Puerto Rico and
its issuers, widely held because it is tax-exempt in all U.S.
states, lost  1.44 percent , the most since Sept. 18, 2008, said
J.R. Rieger, vice president of fixed-income indexes at S&P. A
measure of the broader $3.7 trillion municipal-bond market, the
S&P National AMT-Free Municipal Bond Index, lost  0.07 percent 
the same day.  “Investors are beginning to get very worried about the
actual actions necessary to right the economic ship,” Rieger
said in a telephone interview.  Governor Alejandro Garcia Padilla, 41, of the Popular
Democratic Party, took office in January and is working to keep
Puerto Rico’s investment-grade rating. All three rating
companies grade the commonwealth one step above junk with a
negative outlook, meaning it could be downgraded soon. Its
projected deficit for the fiscal year ending June 30 has almost
doubled to $2.2 billion, according to Moody’s Investors Service.  Garcia Padilla last month announced pension changes to
bolster the island’s largest retirement system, which is 6.8
percent funded and will run out of assets in 2014.  A Puerto Rico Aqueduct & Sewer Authority bond due July 2042
traded today as low as 88.14 cents on the dollar, the lowest
ever and down from about 93 cents on March 21, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Meeting Investors  Even with last week’s losses, debt sold in the commonwealth
is earning more this year than the broader muni market. It has
gained 0.37 percent in 2013, according to the S&P index, beating
the 0.22 percent of the S&P National AMT-Free Municipal index.  Puerto Rico’s debt lost value the day that Treasurer Melba
Acosta and Javier Ferrer, president of the Government
Development Bank, the island’s fiscal agent, met investors in
New York.  The governor and legislative leaders have pledged to pass
laws by early April that will boost the retirement age, increase
employee contributions, and require the commonwealth to direct
as much as $200 million annually to the pension fund, Ferrer
said. Otherwise, Puerto Rico would have had to pay about $900
million a year from its general fund to retirees, he said.  “This is not a short-term solution,” Ferrer said in a
telephone interview last week. “This is a long-term solution to
a very serious problem in Puerto Rico.”  -- Editors: Stephen Merelman, Pete Young  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Kaske in New York at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  