-- Quicken Chief Says Higher Rates Won’t Limit Housing Rebound
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   D e x h e i m e r
-- 2013-03-25T19:27:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-25/quicken-chief-says-higher-rates-won-t-hold-back-housing-rebound.html
Quicken Loans Inc. head William Emerson, whose online home lender is buying mortgage servicing
rights from  Ally Financial Inc. (ALLY) , said higher interest rates
won’t damp housing’s recovery and his industry will benefit from
refinancings if the economy cools.  As the labor market rebounds, interest rates may “tick
up,” Emerson, Quicken’s chief executive officer, said on
Bloomberg Television’s “Market Makers” during an interview
today. “I don’t think you’re going to see rates jump that
much,” he said. “It’s going to be a great opportunity for
people to buy homes when we start to see jobs come back.”  Should there be a slowdown in housing and rates stay low,
“there are still opportunities for people out there to
refinance,” Emerson said, citing federally backed programs to
help struggling borrowers. “There’s plenty of things still to
be done, regardless of what happens economically.”  Quicken agreed this month to pay about $280 million for
Ally’s remaining contracts to manage mortgages for agencies such
as Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. Quicken said the deal will vault
the firm into the top 10 among U.S. servicers, which handle
billing, collections and foreclosures, and that it’s pursuing
more purchases. Quicken and Ally are based in  Detroit .  Ally received a $17.2 billion taxpayer bailout that left
the U.S. Treasury Department with a 74 percent stake in the
company, which says it’s No. 1 in auto loans and leases. The
Federal Reserve rejected Ally’s capital plan this month, saying
the planning process and capital ratios didn’t meet standards.  Home Sales  Purchases of new homes surged 15.6 percent to a 437,000
annual pace in January, the most in two decades, according to
the Commerce Department. The Federal Reserve, seeking to boost
economic growth, said March 20 it will leave its key interest
rate near zero as long as unemployment remains above 6.5 percent
and the outlook for inflation is less than 2.5 percent.  The servicing rights Quicken will get from Ally are tied to
Freddie Mac- and Fannie Mae-backed mortgages. The borrowers are
current on payments with “higher-than-market interest rates,
which could substantially benefit from refinancing,” Quicken
said in a March 21 statement.  Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac have pressed lenders for refunds
on loans sold to the two government-backed mortgage financing
firms after discovering faulty data about borrowers and the
properties that led to billions of dollars in soured debt.  Refund Liability  The loans being sold to Quicken are expected to be
refinanced,  Gina Proia , a spokeswoman for Ally, said in an e-
mailed statement. Ally will remain liable for refund claims
until that happens, with Quicken bearing the risk after the
refinancings, she said. Aaron Emerson, a spokesman for Quicken,
declined to elaborate on the terms.  Lawmakers have been discussing ways to wind down Fannie Mae
and Freddie Mac after both needed public bailouts during the
2008 credit crisis. William Emerson said Quicken continues to
work closely with both companies.  “We have to be very in-tune with what Fannie and Freddie
are doing,” said Emerson, 50. “As that continues to shift and
change and Fannie and Freddie are around or not around, we’ll
make business decisions around that. But today they are very
real and we have to make sure we’re talking with them and
understanding what they want to do.”  Remaining Balance  The Ally loans had an unpaid principal balance of about $34
billion as of Jan. 31, adding to Quicken’s $90 billion servicing
portfolio. Quicken said it originated $70 billion in residential
mortgages last year to rank as the nation’s third-largest
mortgage lender. The firm doesn’t have publicly traded common
stock.  Quicken is taking advantage of the collapse of rivals,
retreats by some of the largest banks and hurdles faced by new
competitors. The company overtook  Citigroup Inc. (C)  as the fifth-
ranked originator in the third quarter, and then surpassed U.S.
Bancorp and Bank of America Corp. Owned by billionaire Dan Gilbert, Quicken was the 34th-largest mortgage lender in 2006.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Dexheimer in  New York  at 
 edexheimer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  