-- Rajaratnam Said to Be in Custody, Appear on Charges Today
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2013-03-25T14:50:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-25/rajaratnam-said-to-be-in-custody-appear-on-charges-today.html
Rengan Rajaratnam, the younger
brother of imprisoned hedge-fund founder Raj Rajaratnam, was
taken into custody by FBI agents yesterday when he arrived at
 John F. Kennedy International Airport  on a flight from Brazil, a
person familiar with the matter said.  Rajaratnam was indicted by a federal grand jury in New York
on charges he took part in an  insider-trading  scheme tied to his
brother’s fund, Galleon Group LLC. Rengan Rajaratnam, 42, is
accused of conspiring with his brother Raj to trade in 2008 on
material nonpublic information about  Clearwire Corp. (CLWR)  and
 Advanced Micro Devices Inc. (AMD) , Manhattan U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara said.  Rengan Rajaratnam was accompanied on the flight by FBI
agents who arrested him once on U.S. soil, said the person, who
asked not to be identified because they aren’t authorized to
speak publicly on the matter. Rajaratnam is set to appear today
for an initial hearing in Manhattan federal court.  Prosecutors alleged that Rengan, while working as a  fund
manager  at Galleon, made almost $1.2 million from trades that
occurred on March 24 and March 25 of that year based on tips
provided by his brother and his Rolodex of insiders. He was
implicated during his brother’s trial, where wiretapped
conversations between the two men were played in court.  ‘Shared More’  “Rengan Rajaratnam and his brother shared more than DNA,”
Bharara said last week. “Along with his brother Raj, Rengan
Rajaratnam was allegedly at the heart of an insider-trading
scheme that swept up an unprecedented number of people.”  Bharara’s office has charged and won convictions against
more than 75 people over the past 3 ½ years as part of its
broader insider trading crackdown, including more than two dozen
people tied to the Galleon probe.  SEC Suit  Kelly Langmesser, a spokeswoman for the FBI, declined to
comment on the arrest. The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission also filed a parallel insider-trading suit against
Rengan Rajaratnam, describing a conspiracy that the agency said
began in 2006 and lasted until 2008. Rajaratnam reaped more than
$3 million in illicit gains for Galleon and his own firm, Sedna
Capital Management LLC, the SEC alleged. The SEC said its
investigation is continuing.  Rengan Rajaratnam was named in a federal indictment,
unsealed last week, charging him with one count of conspiracy to
commit securities fraud and six counts of securities fraud.
Conspiracy carries a maximum five-year prison sentence, while
fraud carries a 20-year maximum.  The criminal case was assigned last week to U.S. District
Judge Naomi Reice Buchwald while the SEC case was assigned to
U.S. District Judge  John Koeltl .  David Tobin, an attorney for Rengan Rajaratnam, said in an
e-mailed statement today that his client returned voluntarily
after seeing press reports of his indictment.  “Rajaratnam immediately volunteered to return from Brazil,
where he had been living and working for the past year, in order
to defend himself,” said Tobin. Rajaratnam denied the charges.  SAC Capital  Rengan Rajaratnam co-founded Sedna, a hedge fund advisory
firm, after leaving SAC Capital Advisors LP where he worked as
an analyst from May 2003 to January 2004.  A graduate of the  University of Pennsylvania  and  Stanford
University ’s business school, he has also worked at  Morgan
Stanley. (MS)  The SEC alleged that after Rengan Rajaratnam closed
down Sedna he worked for as a portfolio manager at Galleon from
2007 to 2009 when the fund closed after his brother’s arrest on
insider-trading charges.  Raj Rajaratnam, 55, is serving an 11-year prison sentence
after being convicted in 2011 on 14 counts of conspiracy and
 securities fraud  in the largest crackdown on hedge fund insider
trading. Dozens of people have been convicted as part of the
probe being handled by the  Federal Bureau of Investigation  in
New York and Bharara’s office.  ‘Career Arc’  “Rengan Rajaratnam’s career arc paralleled his
brother’s,” FBI Assistant Director George Venizelos said in a
statement. “He followed in Raj’s footsteps by obtaining an MBA
from a top-flight business school. He went to work for Raj at
Galleon. As alleged in the indictment, Rengan also engaged in
the same illegal conduct as Raj.”  Rengan Rajaratnam took illicit tips from his brother and
traded on AMD, Clearwire,  Polycom Inc. (PLCM) , Hilton Hotels Corp. and
 Akamai Technologies Inc. (AKAM) , regulators said.  The indictment quoted from telephone calls that were
secretly recorded by federal agents and played during  Raj
Rajaratnam ’s 2011 trial. That case was the first to make
extensive use of wiretaps, a tactic used in organized-crime
investigations. At Raj Rajaratnam’s trial, jurors heard more
than 40 recordings of him in which the fund manager can be heard
gathering secret tips from his sources.  Pleaded Guilty  Rajiv Goel, a former  Intel Corp. (INTC)  who pleaded guilty to
insider trading with Raj Rajaratnam, testified that he told the
Galleon co-founder Intel would invest $1 billion in a new
wireless network company formed by Clearwire and Sprint Nextel
Corp. Goel was a friend of Raj Rajaratnam’s and his former
business school classmate.  The U.S. alleged that Raj passed the tip about Clearwire to
Rengan in March 2008 so the two could execute trades on Goel’s
tip. On March 25, 2008, six days after Goel and Raj spoke, the
FBI recorded the brothers discussing a newspaper article
describing the deal.  “It’s all over the Wall Street Journal,” Rengan told his
brother at 8:22 p.m., according to the wiretapped recording
played for jurors in Manhattan federal court. “They’re short on
details, but they kind of say, you know, they’re looking to
raise as much as $3 billion.”  “OK, sh-t,” Raj Rajaratnam replied. “But I think
Clearwire’s share price is gonna rip tomorrow.”  Rose Sharply  A day later, Clearwire’s price rose sharply in response to
the article, prosecutors said. The U.S. said that Rengan made
$101,000 trading on Clearwire in his own personal brokerage
account, that he and his brother made more than $231,000 for a
Galleon fund and that Raj took in more than $851,000 for a
Galleon technology fund, according to prosecutors.  Described Trading  The government also described trading in AMD based on tips
provided by  Anil Kumar , then a director at McKinsey & Co., that
the chipmaker was getting a multibillion-dollar investment from
Mubadala Development Co. of  Abu Dhabi . Kumar was also a friend
of Raj Rajaratnam and had been a business school classmate of
the fund manager.  “I just heard that ... AMD had a handshake with the ...
Arabs to put in six billion dollars,” Raj Rajaratnam told his
brother on an Aug. 15, 2008, call, which was cited by
prosecutors in the indictment.  Later that day, Rengan Rajaratnam called his brother to
tell him he had conferred with David Palecek, a former Stanford
classmate who was in charge of semiconductors for McKinsey.
Rengan Rajaratnam said he asked Palecek about buying AMD stock
and the proposed deal.  Spilled Beans  Rengan later called his brother that day and told him
Palecek had “spilled his beans” about the deal.  “He’s like, ‘Buy it, buy as much as you can as soon as you
can,’” Rengan Rajaratnam told his brother on the call.  In a later conversation that was also recorded, Rengan told
Raj that his former Stanford friend was “a little dirty” and
that he was “definitely, you know, thinking about playing
ball” with Galleon.  “‘He said my best ideas are inside information,’” Rengan
quoted Palecek as telling him.  Palecek died in 2010 of a virulent staph infection, his
lawyer, Catherine Redlich, said during Rajaratnam’s 2011 trial.  “What the tape does not reflect is that Mr. Palecek never
agreed to ‘play ball’ with the Rajaratnams, never received money
from them, and never agreed to put his wife on Galleon’s
payroll,” Redlich said.  Prosecutors said that neither Rengan nor Raj Rajaratnam
made any money on the AMD tip because of an overall decline in
technology stocks, prosecutors said.  Pretrial Hearing  During a 2010 pretrial hearing in Raj Rajaratnam’s case,
prosecutors and regulators said they were first drawn to focus
on insider trading by Rengan Rajaratnam in 2006.  An earlier investigation by the SEC and U.S. prosecutors in
San Francisco in 1999 had only resulted in the prosecution of
former Intel employee  Roomy Khan . She pleaded guilty in April
2001 to wire fraud and agreed to cooperate with the U.S.  Andrew Michaelson, one of the principal SEC lawyers
investigating Galleon in the later probe testified that in
September 2006 the agency opened an insider-trading
investigation focusing on Galleon because Raj and Rengan
Rajaratnam “appeared to be exchanging nonpublic information.”  Michaelson, who would later be a prosecutor in the Raj
Rajaratnam case, said the SEC questioned Sedna and Galleon
employees under oath, reviewed millions of pages of documents
and looked at every one of Rengan Rajaratnam’s e-mails and
instant messages for 2006. Soon regulators had another target:
Raj Rajaratnam, Rengan’s older brother, he said.  Hit Wall  Prosecutors said that after they “hit a wall” in the
criminal investigation of Raj Rajaratnam, they decided to employ
court-authorized wiretaps against the fund manager.  The recordings would eventually also ensnare  Rajat Gupta ,
the former Goldman Sachs Group Inc. director who was caught on
wiretapped calls talking to Rajaratnam.  Gupta, 64, also sat on the board of Cincinnati-based
 Procter & Gamble Co. (PG)  and ran the consulting firm McKinsey & Co.
from 1994 to 2003. He was convicted in June of passing insider
tips to Rajaratnam in a conspiracy that ran from 2007 to January
2009.  Gupta, who was sentenced to two years in prison, is free
pending his appeal.  The SEC said last week that it has sued 33 defendants in
its Galleon-related enforcement actions, with insider-trading
reaping more than $96 million in illicit profits by trading in
stock of more than 15 companies.  The criminal case is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 13-cr-00211, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan); the
civil case is SEC v. Regan Rajaratnam, 13-cv-01894, Southern
District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in Manhattan federal court
at   pathurtado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  