-- RBNZ Wants Banks to Hold More Capital Against Risky Home Loans
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2013-03-25T21:37:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-25/rbnz-wants-banks-to-hold-more-capital-against-risky-home-loans.html
New Zealand ’s central bank plans to
require banks to hold more capital to strengthen their balance
sheets against the risk from high loan-to-value ratio lending.  “The aim of the current review is to ensure that banks’
baseline capital requirements for housing loans properly reflect
risk in the housing sector,” Deputy Governor Grant Spencer said
in an e-mailed  statement . “The bank is proposing higher capital
requirements for high LVR loans.”  Raising the capital adequacy requirements could prompt
banks to seek more capital, which may push up  interest rates  and
slow New Zealand’s housing market, in which prices last month
rose at the fastest pace since early 2008. The central bank is
reluctant to raise its benchmark rate because that may boost
demand for the currency and curb the overall economy.  The review of capital adequacy will precede the development
of a set of prudential tools the central bank wants to deploy to
counter excessive credit growth that may increase risks for the
banking system.  “It makes sense to get the baseline  capital requirements 
right before the macro-prudential framework is introduced,”
Spencer said. The RBNZ also intends to review other aspects of
banks’ capital holdings against housing loans, he said.  In New Zealand, borrowers may be able to purchase a
property with a deposit of as little as 5 percent of the value.
RBNZ Governor Graeme Wheeler earlier this month said about 10
percent of loans are at a ratio of 90 percent or higher.  High LVR lending is more likely to result in defaults when
there is an economic shock, the RBNZ said in a consultation
paper on its website. It is seeking feedback on its proposals by
April 16.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  