-- Treasuries Yields Touch Almost Week Low on Cyprus Concern
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2013-03-25T21:19:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-25/treasury-futures-fall-most-in-two-weeks-on-cyprus-plan.html
Treasury 10-year note yields
touched the lowest level in almost a week on concern an
agreement to help Cyprus avoid a default may undermine long-term
financial stability in the euro region.  The benchmark  note  erased losses after as a Cypriot
lawmaker said his nation must consider leaving the euro. Cyprus
agreed to shut its second-biggest bank, largely wiping out
bondholders and raising concern the restructuring will pave the
way for losses on deposits in other European nations. The U.S.
will sell $35 billion in two-year notes tomorrow.  “There have been policy mistakes that have opened up a can
of worms that have kept the bid for safety,” said Guy Haselmann, an interest-rate strategist at Bank of Nova Scotia in
New York, one of 21 primary dealers that trade with the Federal
Reserve. “If  Europe  doesn’t show the seamless ability to fix
small problems like Cyprus, how are they going to be able to fix
bigger problems if they come up?”  The 10-year  yield  was little changed at 1.92 percent at 5
p.m. in New York, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. It
rose five basis points earlier to 1.97 percent, the highest
since March 15, and fell to as low as 1.8938 percent. The yield
reached 1.8905 percent March 19, the lowest since March 5. The 2
percent securities maturing in February 2023 gained 1/32, or 31
cents per $1,000 face amount, to 100 22/32.  Thirty-year bond yields were little changed at 3.15 percent
after rising four basis points to 3.19 percent.  ‘Noise,’ Fed  The Fed bought $1.46 billion of securities today due
between February 2036 and February 2043 as part of its $85
billion in monthly bond purchases to support the economy by
capping borrowing costs. Policy makers said last week the
central bank will keep buying until there’s substantial
improvement in the U.S. labor market.  “There is a lot of noise from Europe that is helping to
keep the market bid, as well as a continually dovish Fed,” said
Scott Graham, head of government bond-trading in  Chicago  at Bank
of Montreal’s BMO Capital Markets unit, another primary dealer.
“Eventually the economic data will rule the day, and we will
drift higher in rates. As we get closer to a resolution,
investors should sell strength in the Treasury market.”  U.S. consumer spending rose 0.6 percent last month, the
most in five months, economists said before the government
reports the data on March 29.  Cyprus Deal  The accord between Cyprus and the so-called troika of
international lenders -- the European Commission, European
Central Bank and International Monetary Fund -- paved the way
for 10 billion euros ($13 billion) of loans.  The agreement will see Cyprus Popular Bank Pcl, the
nation’s second-biggest bank, wound down, with uninsured
depositors and bondholders, including senior creditors, largely
wiped out. Senior bondholders will also contribute to the
recapitalization of Bank of Cyprus  Plc, the biggest bank. The
deal spares bank accounts below the insured limit of 100,000
euros, which an earlier plan would have taxed.  Until now, euro-region officials had left bank depositors
and senior bondholders untouched as they tried to rescue the
bloc’s struggling economies in a series of all-night summits
over the past three years.  Dutch Finance Minister Jeroen Dijsselbloem, who heads the
group of euro-area finance chiefs, said banks “should basically
be able to save themselves, or at least restructure or
recapitalize themselves as far as possible” before approaches
with public money are considered.  Dijsselbloem said later in a statement that restructuring
programs are “tailor-made to the situation of the country
concerned, and no models or templates are used,” he said.  ‘Similar Fate’  “Cyprus haircuts prove just one thing: without growth,
highly indebted EU countries will eventually suffer a similar
fate,”  Bill Gross , who runs the world’s biggest bond fund at
Pacific Investment Management Co. in Newport Beach,  California ,
wrote today in a Twitter post.  Nicholas Papadopoulos, a Cypriot lawmaker and chairman of
the parliamentary finance committee, said in an interview in
Nicosia on Bloomberg Television’s “The Pulse” with Ryan Chilcote that the accord will hurt confidence in the nation’s
banking and political systems.  “We wish to stay in the euro zone, but leaving the euro
zone now is a valid point that has to be explored, because we
are going to enter into a very deep recession, high unemployment
with no prospect of growth, and we need to examine if there are
other ways to solve these hurdles,” Papadopoulos said.  Cyprus is the fifth euro country to seek international
assistance since the 17-nation currency bloc’s debt crisis broke
out in  Greece  three years ago.  Treasury Losses  Treasuries are still headed for a loss for March and for
the first quarter even after gaining last week as a deadlock in
Cyprus stoked demand for safety. U.S. government securities
dropped 0.1 percent this month and 0.5 percent this year as of
March 22, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index gained 9.7 percent
including reinvested dividends this year to the end of last
week, buoyed as the U.S. jobless rate fell to a four-year low of
7.7 percent in February.  The U.S. will auction $99 billion in notes, including
tomorrow’s sale. It will sell $35 billion of five-year
securities March 27 and $29 billion of seven-years the next day.  Treasuries are set to close worldwide on March 29 for Good
Friday, according to the New-York based Securities Industry and
Financial Markets Association’s  website .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  