-- Republican Challenge to Arizona Voter Map Goes to Trial
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2013-03-25T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-25/republican-challenge-to-arizona-voter-map-goes-to-trial.html
A Republican voter challenge to
 Arizona ’s redrawn election districts over claims they favor
Democratic candidates for the state Legislature will be decided
by a three-member panel of federal judges.  A Republican voter group, in a case set for trial today in
Phoenix, accuses the state’s Independent Redistricting
Commission of diluting their votes “deliberately,
intentionally, and in violation of the one-person/one-vote
principle of the Fourteenth Amendment” of the U.S.
Constitution. The group seeks a ruling that the electoral map is
unconstitutional and must be redrawn.  The commission systematically packed districts with
Republican majorities while leaving districts with Democratic
majorities underpopulated to increase Democratic strength in the
Legislature, the Republican voters said in a March 18 filing.
There was no legitimate or constitutional reason for the
population deviations among the districts, they said.  Arizona Governor Jan Brewer, a Republican, unsuccessfully 
tried last year to fire Colleen Mathis, the chairwoman of the 
redistricting commission. Arizona’s Supreme Court overruled the 
governor, saying Mathis hadn’t shown “substantial neglect of 
duty” or “gross misconduct in office.”  Texas Map  Leading up to the Nov. 6 election, at least six challenges
were filed to state redistricting plans in the U.S. In January
2012, the U.S. Supreme Court threw out judge-drawn voting
districts for state and federal elections in  Texas , ordering a
lower court to create maps more similar to those drawn by the
state’s Republican-controlled Legislature.  Of 17 legislative districts in Arizona that have a
Republican plurality -- more registered Republican voters than 
any voters registered with another party -- 16 have more 
residents than the ideal population of 213,067, according to 
the plaintiffs. Only two of the districts with a Democratic
plurality exceed the ideal population, they said.  Brewer accused Mathis, a registered independent, and other
commissioners of conducting business in secrecy and not
following constitutional requirements when they adopted draft
maps of electoral districts.  As the only independent on the commission, Mathis was
selected as its leader by the other members, two of whom were
chosen by Republicans in the Legislature and two by Democrats.
The commission was created by a voter referendum in 2000 and is
one of the few politically unaligned bodies of its sort in the
U.S.  Minor Deviations  “Plaintiffs will not be able to meet their burden that the
actual reason for the population deviations is improper
partisanship or that the commission otherwise acted for an
improper purpose when it approved a map with minor population
deviations among districts,” the commission said in a March 18
court filing.  Because the maximum population difference among the redrawn
districts is less than 10 percent, the redistricting plan is
legally presumed to be constitutional, the commission said. That
puts the burden in court on the plan opponents to show that the
variances were the result of an unconstitutional policy, the
commission said.  The case is Harris v. Arizona Independent Redistricting
Commission, 12-cv-00894, U.S. District Court, District of
Arizona (Phoenix).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in Los Angeles at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  