-- Russia Vows to Seek Recovery of Late Tycoon Berezovsky’s Assets
-- B y   S t e p a n   K r a v c h e n k o
-- 2013-03-25T11:08:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-25/russia-vows-to-seek-recovery-of-late-tycoon-berezovsky-s-assets.html
Russia  will continue attempts to
return the late tycoon Boris Berezovsky’s assets from abroad,
Deputy Chief Prosecutor Alexander Zvyagintsev said.  “Berezovsky was accused of committing a number of grave
economic crimes,” Zvyagintsev said today in an e-mailed
statement from the prosecutor’s office in Moscow. The office
will continue its efforts to ensure that “Berezovsky and his
accomplices’ criminal assets, legalized abroad,” are returned
to Russia, according to the statement.  The 67-year-old tycoon, one of Russia’s first and best-
known oligarchs, was found dead March 23 at his U.K. home.
Thames Valley Police, which is investigating at the property in
Ascot, near  London , said yesterday it had found no evidence “at
this stage to suggest any third-party involvement” in the
death, which remains “unexplained.” Police said they would
announce the results of the autopsy early this afternoon.  Berezovsky lived in self-imposed exile in the U.K. to avoid
potential prosecution in Russia. Once a close patron of Russian
power as a friend of Boris Yeltsin, he sparred publicly in
recent years with President Vladimir Putin.  Berezovsky fled Russia for the U.K. in 2000 after backing
Putin in his first presidential campaign. He was given political
asylum three years later. Berezovsky said in a 2007 interview
that he was worth $4 billion and that he was using a part of his
fortune to finance “a revolution in Russia without blood.”
Forbes magazine dropped the tycoon from its rich list in 2010,
after estimating his wealth at $1 billion the previous year.  During the Yeltsin era, Berezovsky built his political
influence, serving as Security Council deputy secretary in 1996
to 1997 and as a lawmaker in 1999 to 2000. He gained holdings of
companies including OAO Aeroflot, Russia’s biggest airline,
state-run television channel ORT and the Kommersant publishing
house. He claimed stakes in OAO Sibneft, the oil producer now
named  OAO Gazprom Neft (GAZP) , and Russian Aluminum, now part of fellow
billionaire Oleg Deripaska’s United Co. Rusal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stepan Kravchenko in Moscow at 
 skravchenko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  