-- Russia Stocks Climb Most in Week as Oil Gains on Cyprus
-- B y   K s e n i a   G a l o u c h k o
-- 2013-03-25T11:03:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-25/russia-stocks-climb-most-in-week-as-oil-gains-on-cyprus.html
Russian  equities  climbed the most
in two weeks as Cyprus agreed on an international bailout,
boosting crude oil, the country’s main export earner.  The  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  gained as much as 1.2 percent, the most
since March 11, and traded 0.7 percent up at 1,450.82 by 2:37
p.m. in Moscow. OAO Sberbank, the nation’s largest lender, added
1.3 percent, while VTB Group increased 0.8 percent, snapping two
days of declines. The dollar-denominated  RTS Index (RTSI$)  jumped 1.1
percent to 1,487.24.  Cyprus agreed to the outlines of an aid package, paving the
way for 10 billion euros ($13 billion) of emergency loans to
stave off the threat of default. Crude traded up 0.5 percent at
$94.16 per barrel in New York. Oil and gas contribute about 50
percent of Russia’s state revenue. OAO Rosneft, Russia’s largest
oil producer, added 2.1 percent.  “The Cyprus situation has started to get resolved,”
Victor Markov, an analyst at Kapital Asset Management LLC, said
by phone from Moscow. “There was a lot of uncertainty regarding
the future of banks, now uncertainty is gone. Oil is trading at
high levels, this is positive for Russia.”  Russian lenders and companies had about $31 billion placed
in Cypriot banks or their own units at the end of 2012,
according to a March 13 report from Moody’s. Bank loans to
Cypriot companies of Russian origin created at least $30 billion
in further exposure, the ratings company said.  T+2 Settlement  The Micex retreated 3.6 percent last week as Cyprus --
Russia’s biggest direct investor because of a dual tax-avoidance
treaty -- proposed a levy on savings accounts that was later
rejected by lawmakers. The  Bloomberg Russia-US Equity Index (RUS14BN)  of
the most-traded Russian stocks listed in the U.S. fell 2.6
percent last week. The Russian Depositary Index of companies
rallied 1.2 percent today, as OAO Gazprom and Sberbank both
climbed 1.9 percent.  “The market underperformed last week against developed and
emerging markets because it became clear that larger depositors
will need to take a bigger hit,” Peter Szopo, head of research
at Alfa Bank in Moscow, said by e-mail. “For the Russian
economy overall, the event however is not such a disaster and at
the same time Eurozone risks will be receding for a while,
supporting more risky assets like emerging market equities.”  The Moscow Exchange, which is modernizing to lure more
foreign investors, debuted two-day, or T+2, settlement for
sovereign debt and 15 of the more than 1,000 equities today,
bringing it into line with markets such as the U.S. and Brazil.
The entire exchange will shift to T+2 by Jan. 1 next year,
Deputy Chief Executive Officer Andrey Shemetov said by e-mail on
March 22. The bourse shares added 0.9 percent to 52.03 rubles,
the first advance in three days.  Dual Listings  Russian companies from Gazprom to OAO Mobile TeleSystems
also list stock in London and New York as foreigners are
deterred by rules requiring Moscow trading accounts to be set up
through local custodians. While Euroclear Bank SA, Europe’s
largest settlement agency, started working with Russian
government bonds last month, stocks won’t be accessible on the
bank’s international platform until July 2014.  The RTS Volatility Index, which measures expected swings in
the index futures, tumbled 3.4 percent today to 20.57.  The Micex trades at about 5.4 times  estimated earnings  and
has lost 1.6 percent this year. That compares with a multiple of
10.5 times for the MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index, which dropped
2.8 percent over the same period.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ksenia Galouchko in Moscow at 
 kgalouchko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  