-- S&P Seeks to Appeal Judgment Over Securities Ratings
-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 2013-03-25T06:58:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-25/s-p-seeks-to-appeal-judgment-over-securities-ratings.html
Standard & Poor’s  and two other
defendants who were ordered to pay about A$20 million ($21
million) to Australian towns for losses on top-rated securities
whose value plunged during the global financial crisis, sought
to appeal the judgment, IMF (Australia) Ltd. said.  “IMF will provide funding for the defense of the appeal,”
the litigation funder said in a statement today. The federal
court of appeal must agree to hear the case for the hearing to
go ahead.  Australia Federal Court Justice Jayne Jagot in November
found S&P, ABN Amro Bank NV and Local Government Financial
Services Pty liable for misleading the towns with descriptions
and ratings that gave the impression of safe investments. She
awarded the towns A$20.2 million plus costs incurred in the
litigation in a ruling earlier this month.  The ratings were based on the “good faith judgment of
analysts,” Richard Noonan, an S&P spokesman, said in an e-
mailed statement on March 1 after the court ruling. “The ruling
is at odds with a number of well-established legal principles,”
Noonan said at the time.  Rembrandt Notes  Twelve Australian councils lost more than 90 percent of the
A$16 million they invested in notes rated AAA by S&P. The
ratings company unit of  McGraw-Hill Cos. (MHP)  was accused by the U.S.
last month in a separate lawsuit of inflating grades on
mortgage-backed securities to win business, helping trigger the
worst financial crisis since the Great Depression.  The U.S. is seeking as much as $5 billion in damages in its
lawsuit filed Feb. 4 in  Los Angeles . S&P rated more than $2.8
trillion of residential mortgage-backed securities and about
$1.2 trillion of collateralized-debt obligations from September
2004 through October 2007, according to the U.S. complaint.  In Australia, the so-called Rembrandt notes were arranged
by ABN Amro Bank NV, now part of Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc, rated by S&P, and sold to the Australian councils by
municipal adviser Local Government Financial Services.  The case is: Bathurst Regional Council v. Local Government
Financial Services Ltd. NSD1268/2010. Federal Court of  Australia 
(Sydney).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  