-- SABMiller Sees Latin America Sales Rising on ‘Affordable’ Drinks
-- B y   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 2013-03-25T13:56:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-25/sabmiller-sees-latin-america-sales-rising-on-affordable-drinks.html
SABMiller Plc (SAB)  predicts the volume
and revenue of its beer sales in Latin America will rise as it
attracts drinkers by selling more affordable beverages.  “We believe we can continue to deliver mid-single-digit
volume growth and upper-single-digit revenue growth for the
foreseeable future,” Karl Lippert, president of the Latin
America unit, said today in a statement ahead of an investor
meeting in London.  The maker of Aguila, Grolsch and Peroni said it will lure
drinkers away from local spirits and illegal alcohol by
providing “affordable alternatives.” It’s introduced larger
bottles in Colombia for drinkers to share, and said it’s
increased the amount of beer drunk as a percentage of all
alcohol consumed regionally. The company anticipates a “nice-
sized middle class” by 2020 onwards, Lippert said today. Low-
income consumers are currently its key market in  Latin America .  SABMiller generated about 33 percent of  earnings  before
interest, taxes and amortization from Latin America, its largest
unit ahead of  Europe  and  South Africa , in the fiscal year ended
March 31, 2012. Brewers are offsetting tough economic conditions
in Europe and slow growth in the U.S. with sales in  emerging
markets  such as central and Latin America.  SABMiller shares rose 0.9 percent to 3,447.50 pence at 1:55
p.m. in London trading.  Profit Margin  The company expects to increase profit margins in Latin
America by 0.6 percentage point to 0.8 percentage point over the
medium term from 2013, it said today. That compares with a
forecast SABMiller made in 2011 for 0.6 percentage point to 1
percentage point. The narrowed range wasn’t because “we’re more
pessimistic, just more precise,” Lippert said today at the
meeting.  SABMiller said about 10 percent of its volume in Latin
America is accounted for by so-called premium or super-premium
beers, including  Miller Lite  and Miller Genuine Draft. Revenue
per hectoliter will increase 3 percent to 5 percent in the mid-
term in the region, where volume will advance 4 percent to 6
percent, the company said today.  The brewer had said in 2011 it expected Latin America
volume to increase 5 percent to 8 percent in the medium term,
with revenue per hectoliter rising 2 percent to 4 percent.  Larger competitor  Anheuser-Busch InBev NV (ABI)  last year agreed
to buy full control of Grupo Modelo SAB for $20.1 billion in a
bid to fully access the fast-growing market of  Mexico .  SABMiller’s Latin America lager volumes rose 4 percent in
the first half ended Sept. 30, where revenue per hectoliter,
excluding currency shifts, climbed 4 percent, the London-based
company  reported  in November.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clementine Fletcher in  London  at 
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  