-- Sanusi Argues to Hold Nigeria Rate Amid Call for Cuts
-- B y   M a r a m   M a z e n
-- 2013-03-26T11:05:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-25/sanusi-argues-to-hold-nigeria-rate-amid-call-for-cuts.html
Central Bank of Nigeria Governor
Lamido Sanusi said he supports keeping the benchmark  interest
rate  on hold to contain inflation in  Africa ’s top-oil producing
nation as policy makers increasingly opt for a cut.  “My own inclination is to just hold and just continue
doing what we’re doing, because it has worked very well,”
Sanusi said in an interview on March 24 in Lagos, the commercial
capital. “But I’m only one vote in the Monetary Policy
Committee. The votes to ease are beginning to increase.”  The 12-member MPC, led by Sanusi, left the  key rate  at a
record high of 12 percent for a ninth meeting last week to help
bolster the naira and keep  inflation  below 10 percent. Three
members voted for a reduction, up from two in January, to
support the economy. Policy makers have so far rejected calls
from businesses and the government to lower borrowing costs.  Inflation in  Nigeria  accelerated to 9.5 percent in February
from 9 percent in the previous month. At the same time, the
naira has dropped 1.3 percent against the dollar this year,
making imports more expensive.  The impact of interest rates below inflation could be
“horrendous” for economic stability, Sanusi said. “In the
short term, the country has to live with high rates.”  Sanusi, 51, said on March 20 he won’t seek a second term as
governor when his contract expires in June next year. A former
chief executive officer of First Bank of Nigeria Plc, Sanusi was
appointed in the midst of a debt crisis that threatened the
country’s banking industry with collapse.  ``I informed the president going back to 2011 that I would
not be interested in serving for two terms,'' Sanusi said. ``The
job has been done, largely.''  King Defeat  In the euro area, which has also been afflicted by a debt
crisis, Cyprus earlier this week dodged a disorderly sovereign
default and unprecedented exit from the euro by bowing to
demands from creditors to shrink its banking system in exchange
for 10 billion euros ($13 billion) of aid. Cyprus is the fifth
country to tap international aid since the fiscal crisis erupted
in  Greece  in 2009, pushing the euro area into a recession and
forcing central banks to boost stimulus.  In the U.K.,  Bank of England  Governor  Mervyn King  on March
7 was defeated for a second month in a vote to expand stimulus
as the majority of policy makers said more bond purchases might
erode their credibility. U.K. inflation accelerated to 2.8
percent in February, the fastest in nine months.  By contrast, euro-area inflation slowed to 1.8 percent in
February from 2 percent, falling below the  European Central
Bank ’s 2 percent ceiling, as the economy struggled to emerge
from a recession. European  economic confidence  probably fell to
90.5 in March from 91.1 in the previous month, according to the
median estimate of 30 economists in a Bloomberg survey. The
European Commission will release the report tomorrow.  Nigerian Slowdown  In  France , the euro area’s second-largest economy,  consumer
confidence  fell in March, the national statistics office Insee
in Paris said today. The economy may recover later this year
though the rebound will be “weak,” European Central Bank
council member Benoit Coeure told Europe 1 radio.  U.K. retail sales unexpectedly stagnated in March, with a
gauge of annual sales growth dropping to zero from 8 in
February, the London-based Confederation of British Industry
business lobby group said today. That’s the weakest in seven
months. Economists in a Bloomberg survey forecast a gain to 9.  In Nigeria, economic growth slowed to 6.6 percent in 2012
from 7.4 percent a year earlier, hurt by a contraction in the
oil industry, Sanusi said March 19, citing the National Bureau
of Statistics. The economy will probably expand 6.8 percent this
year, according to the statistics bureau.  ‘External Shock’  Inflation may slow to below 9 percent in March and will
probably remain between 9 and 11 percent this year, Sanusi said.  “Our own forecasts don’t show us getting back to the kind
of 12 percent to 13 percent levels we saw last year,” he said.
“Inflation is where we’d like it to be.”  The central bank manages the naira to help keep inflation
under control. It sells foreign currency at  auctions  on Mondays
and Wednesdays to keep the naira within a band of 3 percent
above or below 155 naira per dollar.  “Unless there’s some major external shock, the foreign-
 currency market  looks to me one in which we can have
stability,” Sanusi said. The bank has enough reserves to defend
the naira and “keep it where we want,” he said.  The  House of Representatives  passed a resolution on Feb. 20
ordering its committee on banking and currency to request the
central bank lower its policy rate to below 10 percent to
encourage borrowing and investment. Finance Minister Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala said in July record high interest rates pushed up
commercial bank rates to about 20 percent and were making it
difficult for businesses to borrow.  More MPC members may follow by voting for rate cuts.  “Who knows?” Sanusi said. “Maybe the next MPC there
might be four or five, and so my own deputy governors might vote
against me as they’ve done before.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maram Mazen in Abuja at 
 mmazen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  