-- Sarris Says Russia ‘Disappointed,’ Relationship Not Over
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 2013-03-25T05:14:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-25/sarris-says-russia-disappointed-relationship-not-over.html
Cypriot Finance Minister Michael Sarris said  Russia ’s ties to Cyprus will continue even though it
has been “disappointed” by an financial-industry overhaul that
will lead to losses for Russian investors.  “The relationship is not over,” Sarris told reporters
early today in Brussels after European authorities announced
plans to impose losses on depositors in a bank restructuring as
a condition of providing 10 billion euros ($13 billion) in aid.
Russian companies and individuals have an estimated $31 billion
in Cyprus, according to Moody’s Investors Service.  Sarris said he drew a mixed reaction on his trip to Russia
last week, where he met with Finance Minister Anton Siluanov and
First Deputy Prime Minister  Igor Shuvalov  after an initial
rescue package fell apart. Some of the Russians he met with
expressed disappointment while others said, “we can deal with
you through good times and we’re going to stay with you through
bad times,” Sarris said, without providing details.  Cyprus avoided a default and unprecedented exit from the
euro currency by bowing to demands to shrink its banking system
in exchange for the bailout. President Nicos Anastasiades agreed
to shut Cyprus Popular Bank Pcl, the country’s second-largest
bank, and restructure the larger  Bank of Cyprus Plc , as demanded
by a German-led bloc of creditor nations. Sarris served as
chairman as Cyprus Popular last year.  Banks in Cyprus, which have been shut for the past week,
will remain closed until further notice, and Sarris said he did
not know yet how and when banking operations would resume.
Lawmakers in Cyprus voted last week to impose  capital controls 
to prevent a run on deposits when they reopen.  European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  provided
assurances that Bank of Cyprus and other Cypriot banks will
retain access to emergency funding, Sarris said. Ongoing
Emergency Liquidity Assistance, or ELA, is “a key element” of
protecting the financial sector, he said.  Sarris said Cyprus planned to compensate welfare funds at
Cyprus Popular by providing them with shares. As part of the
rescue package, Cyprus Popular will be shut down and its
unsecured creditors are expected to be nearly wiped out.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rebecca Christie  in Brussels at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  