-- SEC Approves Nasdaq’s $62 Million Settlement for Facebook
-- B y   W h i t n e y   K i s l i n g   a n d   L i n d s e y   R u p p
-- 2013-03-25T16:15:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-25/sec-approves-nasdaq-s-62-million-settlement-for-facebook.html
Regulators cleared  Nasdaq OMX Group
Inc.’s (NDAQ)  plan to pay $62 million to compensate brokers for its
mishandling of  Facebook  Inc.’s public debut, dealing a defeat to
Wall Street firms that say they lost many times that amount.  The Securities and Exchange Commission  approved  Nasdaq’s
request to change its rules and expand the compensation pool for
member firms in the May 18 initial public offering. The funds
will go to traders who lost money after a design flaw in the
exchange’s computers delayed Facebook’s open and left them
confused about how many shares they owned.  “This announcement is a positive in that it removes a
layer of uncertainty, although it was likely expected,”
Christopher Harris, a Baltimore-based analyst at Wells Fargo &
Co., wrote in a note to clients today. “We continue to believe
further damages from this episode will be either minimal or
manageable.”  Nasdaq ’s proposal was opposed by  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and UBS AG,
which said in letters urging the SEC to reject it that losses
within their market-making units exceeded $62 million. Nasdaq,
balancing its role as an organization with legal immunity for
technology breakdowns with its obligations to members, said the
pool covers “objective, discernible” losses suffered by
brokers.  More Compensation  While agreeing the proposal won’t pay all purported losses,
the SEC said it provides “significantly more compensation for
eligible claims, outside of litigation, than would otherwise be
available,” according to its order. “Approval of the proposed
rule change will make more funds available to compensate
investors and Nasdaq members under Nasdaq rules, which the
commission believes is in the public interest,” it wrote.  UBS has not changed its opinion of Nadsaq’s “inadequate
and insufficient” proposal, Megan Stinson, a New York-based
spokeswoman for UBS, said in an emailed statement today. The
bank filed an arbitration demand against Nasdaq for the losses
from the  Facebook (FB)  offering, Stinson wrote.  Scott Helfman, a spokesman for Citigroup, declined to
comment on the settlement.  Under existing rules, Nasdaq’s liability for losses related
to computer malfunctions is $3 million, and may have been as low
as $500,000 in the Facebook case, the SEC said in its order.  ‘Appropriate Restitution’  “We’re pleased that the Securities and Exchange Commission
has approved our accommodation plan, which will enable our
customers and members and market participants to receive
appropriate restitution as FINRA promptly begins processing
claims,” Joseph Christinat, a spokesman for Nasdaq OMX, said by
phone today.  The pricing of the first public transaction on May 18, a
trade known as the IPO cross, took a half hour longer than
Nasdaq planned because of technical malfunctions. In May, Nasdaq
OMX Chief Executive Officer Robert Greifeld acknowledged “poor
design” in software put the opening auction into a loop that
delayed its completion.  Nasdaq’s handling of the  Facebook IPO  may still end up in
court. In approving the rule change needed to accommodate the
payouts, the SEC said the question of whether Nasdaq is entitled
to regulatory immunity in its handling of the offering is
outside the scope of the decision. Nasdaq has made releasing it
from legal liability a condition for receiving compensation.  That immunity argument was raised in a letter sent to the
commission in August by Citigroup. Decisions made by the second-
largest U.S. equity trading venue in the IPO were aimed at
protecting profits rather than member firms, the company said.  ‘Profit Driven’  “Market participants suffered hundreds of millions of
dollars of losses as a result of Nasdaq’s profit-driven conduct
prior to and during the Facebook IPO, not as a result of
protected regulatory activity by Nasdaq, or routine system
failures,” Citigroup wrote in August. “Nasdaq should not be
permitted to hide behind regulatory immunity.”  The proposed plan is “inadequate to address the magnitude
of Nasdaq’s unprecedented failures,” UBS told the SEC in a
letter on Aug. 22. The bank entered multiple orders for Facebook
shares because it didn’t receive confirmations, leading to
losses of more than $350 million, UBS said. It asked the SEC to
work with Nasdaq to reformulate the proposal to increase the
amount paid and cover a broader range of trading losses.  Equity Wholesaling  Citigroup, Chicago-based Citadel, UBS in Zurich and  Knight
Capital Group Inc. (KCG)  in Jersey City, New Jersey, operate equity
wholesaling groups, brokers that execute orders for individual
investors sent by securities firms such as Charles Schwab Corp.,
TD Ameritrade Holding Corp. and Fidelity Investments. Combined,
the firms claim they lost almost $500 million in the offering.  Citadel and Knight previously said they supported Nasdaq’s
repayment proposal.  The SEC confined its decision to issues of exchange
rulemaking and said Nasdaq’s proposal was consistent with laws
that require regulations to prevent fraud, remove impediments to
a free and open market, protect investors and the public
interest, and deter discrimination among customers, issuers,
brokers and dealers.  “Commenters have raised a number of concerns about the
proposed rule change, many contending that it is not a fair or
equitable approach to compensating market participants,” the
SEC wrote in its order. “Nasdaq has explained, however, that it
did not design the proposed rule change to compensate all claims
of loss suffered by market participants,” it said.  Rule Change  “Rather, Nasdaq, in the accommodation proposal, is
proposing to change a Nasdaq rule that in its current form
strictly limits the amount of compensation that may be paid to
users of the Nasdaq Market Center,” it wrote. “In considering
whether to approve the proposed rule change, the commission
takes into account the existing circumstances and the manner in
which the Nasdaq rule would operate if the commission
disapproved the proposed rule change.”  Delays and malfunctions on the Nasdaq Stock Market were the
first signs of trouble in the Facebook IPO that burned investors
and prompted lawsuits against the company, its exchange and the
underwriters. The  stock  has fallen more than 30 percent from the
price set by underwriters. It slipped 0.9 percent to $25.51 as
of 10:18 a.m. in New York.  Facebook was sold by underwriters at $38 on May 17. The
pricing of the first public transaction, a trade known as the
IPO cross, took place at 11:30 a.m. New York time the next
morning, a half hour later than Nasdaq planned. About 30 minutes
after that, the  market owner  reported a delay confirming trades
from the opening auction with the brokers that placed orders.  The transaction reports, normally distributed immediately,
were sent at 1:50 p.m., leaving market makers, brokers and their
customers uncertain about whether orders submitted into Nasdaq’s
opening cross had been executed. Traders and individuals
couldn’t sell to limit losses until they received the reports
and knew how many shares they held.  The payout proposal covered what’s “directly attributable
to the system issues experienced by Nasdaq,” the exchange
operator told the SEC in a Dec. 7 letter.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Whitney Kisling in New York at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net ;
Lindsey Rupp in New York at 
 lrupp2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  