-- Senator Tim Johnson Said Expected to Bow Out of 2014 Race
-- B y   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 2013-03-26T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-25/senator-tim-johnson-said-expected-to-bow-out-of-2014-race.html
U.S. Senate Banking Committee
Chairman  Tim Johnson  is expected to announce today that he will
become the fifth Democrat in the chamber to retire after the
2014 election, a Senate Democratic aide said.  Johnson’s retirement after the 2014 election would lead to
a reshuffling of the committee chairman’s position if the
Democrats retain control of the Senate. Four other Democratic
senators and two Republicans have said they won’t seek re-
election next year.  Johnson, who suffered a brain hemorrhage in 2006 and was
re-elected two years later, has scheduled a news conference
today at the University of South Dakota in Sioux Falls.
Spokesman Perry Plumart said the senator would announce his
plans for the 2014 election.  Senate Democrats expect that Johnson, 66, will announce
that he won’t seek a fourth term, said the Democratic aide, who
requested anonymity before the formal announcement.  Johnson’s retirement would further complicate the
Democrats’ ability to defend their control of the Senate next
year. With a 55-45 majority, Democrats must defend 21 seats,
including seven in states such as South Dakota that were carried
by Republican presidential candidate Mitt Romney in the 2012
presidential election.  Senate Democrats  Jay Rockefeller  of West Virginia, which
was carried by Romney,  Frank Lautenberg  of New Jersey,  Carl Levin  of Michigan and  Tom Harkin  of Iowa have announced they
won’t run for re-election next year.  Medical Problems  Johnson has suffered a series of major medical problems,
including prostate cancer and the brain hemorrhage, which
impaired his speech.  He survived a couple of close electoral battles in his
Republican-leaning home state. In 2008, still recovering from
the brain hemorrhage, Johnson waged a re-election battle aided
by fundraising and campaigning by his Democratic Senate
colleagues, and won a 25 percentage-point victory over state
Representative Joel Dykstra.  The non-partisan Cook Political Report had rated Johnson’s
re-election chances a toss-up. Former South Dakota Governor Mike Rounds has announced that he will seek the Republican nomination
for Johnson’s Senate seat. The state has voted Republican in
every presidential race since 1940, save for the 1964 election
won by  Lyndon Johnson .  If Democrats keep their Senate majority in 2014, Rhode
Island Senator  Jack Reed  is next in seniority to succeed Johnson
as chairman of the banking panel.  Committee Assignments  Reed, a retired U.S. Army officer and graduate of the U.S.
Military Academy at West Point, may opt instead to succeed Levin
as chairman of the Armed Services Committee. New York Senator
 Charles Schumer  would be next in line to become chairman of the
banking panel.  Two Republican senators,  Saxby Chambliss  of Georgia and
Mike Johanns of Nebraska, have said they won’t seek another term
in next year’s election.  Republicans are defending a total of 14 seats, and only one
-- in Maine -- is in a state that Romney lost. In the Maine
race, three-term Senator  Susan Collins  is favored for re-
election.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Rowley in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  