-- Senators Give Unanimous Support to Ending Too-Big-to-Fail Banks
-- B y   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s
-- 2013-03-25T20:44:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-25/senators-give-unanimous-support-to-ending-too-big-to-fail-banks.html
Critics of banks deemed “too-big-
to-fail” gained political support in the waning hours before
the  U.S. Congress  adjourned over the weekend when senators voted
unanimously in favor of ending perks enjoyed by the largest
banks.  Senators voted 99-0 in support of a non-binding measure
calling for an end to implicit subsidies the credit markets give
banks over $500 billion because of the perception that the
federal government would bail them out.  “The measure was non-binding, but it was an important step
forward,” Senator  Elizabeth Warren , a Democrat from
 Massachusetts  and a critic of large banks, said in a statement.
“I’m glad that Republicans and Democrats can agree: ‘too-big-
to-fail’ needs to end and these big-bank subsidies make no
sense.”  The amendment, sponsored by Senators David Vitter, a
Republican from  Louisiana , and  Sherrod Brown , a Democrat from
 Ohio , is seen as an early gauge of support for a bill the two
lawmakers said they will introduce next month to provide
economic incentives for banks to reduce their size.  Brown said the goal of the legislation is to take way the
“economic advantage the market gives” large banks and to
reduce the risk they pose to the entire financial system. He
said support for a too-big-to-fail bill has grown over the last
10 to 12 months.  “I’m confident that support is growing,” Brown said in a
March 10 interview with Bloomberg Television. “I don’t know
that we’ve got the 50 or maybe 60 votes we need yet.”  $500 Billion  The upcoming bill would impose additional  capital
requirements  on the largest banks -- defined in the amendment as
those with more than $500 billion in assets. The new capital
rules would not include risk weights that “can be manipulated
and gamed,” Vitter said in remarks on the Senate floor on Feb.
28.  Six U.S. banks have more than $500 billion in assets,
including  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Bank of America  Corp., Citigroup
Inc.,  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and  Morgan
Stanley. (MS)   The amendments come as more public officials have said they
believe the 2010 Dodd-Frank Act didn’t do enough to end the
perception that the government would step in to rescue large
banks. Federal Reserve Governor  Daniel Tarullo  and Dallas Fed
President  Richard Fisher  are among the most prominent supporters
of taking additional measures to curb bank size. The Brown-
Vitter bill also incorporates ideas from Federal Deposit
Insurance Corp. Vice Chairman  Thomas Hoenig  and former FDIC
Chairman  Sheila Bair . The bill would require banks to rely more
on tangible equity for capital and less on risk weighted assets.  ‘Mean Business’  “This is a really impressive sign that we mean business on
ending too-big-to-fail,” Vitter said in a release following the
amendment’s passage. “Mega-banks are still receiving special
handouts that create an uneven playing field -- making it harder
for our community banks and credit unions to compete.”  Debate over an implicit subsidy for big banks was sparked
in part by a Bloomberg View editorial that calculated that big
banks save as much as $83 billion in borrowing costs because of
the market perception that they would be bailed out by the
government if they fell into financial distress.  Brian Gardner , senior vice president for Washington
research at Keefe, Bruyette & Woods Inc., expressed skepticism
that the Senate’s vote on a non-binding resolution would
translate into legislative action.  Motherhood, Baseball  “Being against too-big-to-fail is like being for
motherhood, apple pie and baseball,” Gardner said. “Nobody
could possibly vote against that amendment because you’d be seen
as in favor of the big banks.”  Jaret Seiberg, senior policy analyst at Washington Research
Group, a unit of Guggenheim Securities LLC, estimated the
chances of a bill similar to the Brown-Vitter amendment passing
Congress at one in three.  “We do not see a specific path forward for this amendment,
but will be watching to see if it gets added to regulatory
reform legislation that might emerge this spring,” Seiberg
said.  Large bank lobbying groups issued a brief on March 11
arguing that the Dodd-Frank Act, passed by Congress in response
to the 2008 credit crisis, greatly diminished whatever advantage
the biggest lenders held over smaller rivals.  “The financial services industry is strongly of the view
that no institution should be too-big-to-fail, and that taxpayer
money should never be used to rescue financial firms from their
mistakes,” said  Rob Nichols , president and chief executive
officer of the Financial Services Forum. “Government policy
should be to close down failing institutions, regardless of
size, and prosecute individuals who break the law.”  ‘Wake-Up Call’  Karen Shaw Petrou, co-founder of Federal Financial
Analytics Inc., said these moves illustrate the public’s growing
sentiment against the largest banks, whose response has been
sluggish.  “It’s a wake-up call,” Petrou said. “I have a seen a lot
of things happen regardless of the most nominally sophisticated
lobbying. They need to be more than scared.”  Joseph Engelhard, a former Treasury official who is now
senior vice president at Capital Alpha Partners LLC, an
investment advisory firm, said the most likely impact will be on
regulations, including on the Fed’s capital buffer for systemic
institutions and living wills.  “These amendments passing incrementally add to the
political pressure that regulators are already very cognizant of
as they finalize the rules,” Engelhard said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cheyenne Hopkins in Washington at 
 chopkins19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  