-- Sinopec Seeks More Assets From Parent Following $3 Billion Deal
-- B y   B e n j a m i n   H a a s   a n d   A i b i n g   G u o
-- 2013-03-25T16:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-25/sinopec-seeks-more-of-parent-s-oil-assets-after-3-billion-deal.html
China Petroleum & Chemical Corp. (386) ,
 Asia ’s biggest refiner, expects more asset deals with its parent
after creating a $3 billion joint venture to replace dwindling
reserves with oilfields in Kazakhstan, Colombia and  Russia .  “We will continue to inject assets into the listed company
and ensure these transactions are beneficial to both the parent
and the unit,” Vice Chairman Wang Tianpu said in Hong Kong.
“This joint venture helps reduce liability to the listed
company.”  Chinese companies are looking abroad for oil and gas assets
to feed the energy needs of the world’s second-biggest economy.
Securing foreign fields will raise production revenues and help
 China  Petroleum, more commonly known as Sinopec, counter losses
arising from government price controls on its domestic refining
business, even as those losses have narrowed over the past year.  Sinopec stock rose 2.7 percent, the most since Jan. 2, to
close at HK$8.99 in  Hong Kong  yesterday after the Beijing-based
company announced the 50-50 venture with its state-owned parent
China Petrochemical Corp. It also posted full-year earnings that
beat analyst estimates.  The company has traditionally favored minority stakes and
joint ventures to reduce investment risks, Wang said at a press
briefing yesterday. The company won’t rule out outright
takeovers in the future, he said.  Overseas Acquisitions  Sinopec and its parent have announced $28 billion of
overseas acquisitions in the past decade, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. Most recently, Sinopec’s parent agreed to pay
 Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK)  $1.02 billion for 50 percent of 850,000
acres in the Mississippi Lime formation, it said Feb. 25.  The latest joint venture will boost Sinopec’s proven
reserves by 9.1 percent to 3.1 billion barrels and its annual
crude oil production 11 percent to 365 million barrels,  Gordon Kwan , head of energy research at Mirae Asset Securities Ltd.,
said in an e-mail yesterday.  After two years of losses, Sinopec and  PetroChina Co. (857) ,
China’s second-largest refiner, may turn a profit on refining
this year.  Sinopec’s operating loss for refining reached 11.9 billion
yuan ($1.92 billion) in 2012, compared with a loss of 37.6
billion yuan in 2011, according to a March 24 earnings
statement. PetroChina lost 43.5 billion yuan on refining last
year, narrowing from a loss of 60.1 billion yuan in 2011, the
company said March 21.  Refining Turnaround  “The refining business will be a main contributor to
profit after China enacts fuel pricing reforms,” Wang said,
without providing details. The company plans to spend as much as
17 billion yuan this year on upgrades to produce higher-quality
fuel after record-low  air quality  in Beijing in January.  It plans to ask the government to raise retail prices for
better-quality fuels to help compensate for its upgrade, Wang
said. Consumers should shoulder part of the cost by paying
higher prices at the pump, he said.  Sinopec’s refining business may have already become
profitable in the fourth quarter of 2012, said Simon Powell,
head of Asian oil and gas research at CLSA Ltd. in Hong Kong.
Sinopec doesn’t report quarterly refining numbers.  “Gradual improvement in refining margins helped turn
around the business in the second half of the year,” Sinopec
said in a statement yesterday.  Fuel Prices  On Feb. 25, China increased fuel prices for the first time
since September, raising gasoline by 300  yuan  a metric ton and
diesel by 290 yuan a ton. Gasoline and diesel prices are set by
the National Development and Reform Commission under a system
that tracks the 22-day moving average of a basket of crudes,
comprising Brent, Dubai and  Indonesia ’s Cinta. The commission
plans to shorten the fuel price adjustment window, former NDRC
Chairman Zhang Ping said March 6, without providing details.  Sinopec says it will raise production capacity for a pilot
project, the Fuling shale gas block in southwest China’s
Sichuan, in pursuit of “major breakthroughs” in shale.  Several test wells have been drilled at Fuling and the
results are “very encouraging,” Wang said yesterday. “By
2015, the project is expected to produce about 1 billion cubic
meters of shale gas a year based on what we see now from the
test production,” he said.  China aims to produce 6.5 billion cubic meters (230.4
billion cubic feet) of shale gas annually by 2015 and 60 billion
to 100 billion cubic meters by the end of the decade, the NDRC
said in March 2012.  Costly Drilling  “Drilling wells is very expensive, so we want to make sure
the resources are right there before we get started,” Wang
said. It usually takes about 70 million to 80 million yuan to
drill a shale gas well in China, he said.  Sinopec and its state-owned peers PetroChina and  Cnooc Ltd. (883) 
failed to win blocks in China’s second round of shale gas
auctions in December, while coal miners and provincial
government investment firms, with no experience of shale
drilling, were among the winning bidders.  Wang said the winners overpaid. “Most bidders that have no
experience in natural-gas exploration at all would simply
propose a number that is totally out of touch,” he said.  China, holder of the world’s biggest shale reserves, has
yet to commercially produce the fuel, while output in the U.S.
quadrupled in the four years to 2010. The Asian country holds
25.1 trillion cubic meters of exploitable reserves of the fuel,
according to the Ministry of Land and Resources.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Benjamin Haas in Hong Kong at 
 bhaas7@bloomberg.net ;
Aibing Guo in Hong Kong at 
 aguo10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net . 