-- Slovenia’s New Cabinet Under Pressure to Avoid Cyprus Fate
-- B y   B o r i s   C e r n i   a n d   A g n e s   L o v a s z
-- 2013-03-26T15:46:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-25/slovenia-s-nascent-cabinet-under-pressure-to-avoid-cyprus-fate.html
Slovenia ’s six-day-old government
is being urged to prevent the nation becoming the euro region’s
next bailout battleground.  Prime Minister Alenka Bratusek’s Cabinet must quickly carry
out a plan to revamp the country’s ailing lenders, the central
bank said yesterday. The former Yugoslav nation needs about 3
billion euros ($3.9 billion) of funding this year, while banks
need 1 billion euros of fresh capital, the International
Monetary Fund said last week.  European Union officials are striving to contain a debt
crisis that prompted Cyprus to join  Greece ,  Portugal , Ireland
and Spain in agreeing on a bailout. Slovenian banks such as Nova
Ljubljanska Banka d.d. are struggling with surging bad loans
that equal a fifth of economic output, fueling investor concern
that it may be next to seek aid.  “If the government starts implementing the plan, in the
end they can avoid going to the EU for a bailout,”  Lutz Roehmeyer , a fund manager at Landesbank Berlin Investment, who
oversees 10 billion euros in assets including Slovenian
government and corporate bonds, said yesterday by phone. “If
they don’t move and do nothing, I think we’ll have the next
crisis in Slovenia in a few months.”  Rescue Plan  Concern that Slovenia’s banking woes will trigger a bailout
request boosted the yield on the country’s benchmark dollar-
denominated bonds, which mature in 2022. The yield rose to 5.538
percent at 4:43 p.m. in Ljubljana, data compiled by Bloomberg
show.  The cost to insure the bonds against non-payment for five
years with credit-default swaps rose 9 basis points, or 0.09
percentage point, today to 278, the highest in more than three
months. The contracts, which decline as perceptions of
creditworthiness improve, pay the buyer face value in exchange
for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
borrower renege on its debt agreements.  Moody’s Investors Service cut  Nova Kreditna Banka Maribor (KBMR) 
d.d.’s long-term deposit rating two levels to Caa2 from B3, with
a negative outlook, on a weakened credit profile and the need
for additional capital, the ratings company said yesterday.  Cypriot Agreement  With the European Central Bank threatening to cut off
emergency financing for Cyprus’s tottering banks, Cypriot
leaders agreed yesterday to shut the country’s second-largest
lender, Cyprus Popular Bank Plc, also known as Laiki Bank, as
part of a 10 billion-euro emergency aid accord with the EU and
the Washington-based IMF.  The Cyprus aid package isn’t a model for future accords and
Slovenia should “manage the situation” because “reforms are
under way,” European Central Bank Governing Council member
Ewald Nowotny told reporters in  Prague  today.  Bratusek met with President Borut Pahor yesterday to
appraise him of the situation and pledged that Slovenia would
avoid a similar crisis “on its own” in what she called “a
crucial year,” according to an e-mailed statement from the
government.  “Solving the situation in the banking system must be a
priority,” the central bank, based in the capital, Ljubljana,
said in a response to e-mailed questions from Bloomberg News.  Most Vulnerable  Slovenian and Hungarian banks are the most vulnerable in
the region with non-performing loans at about 20 percent and
growing, analysts at Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services, led by
Paris-based Pierre Gautier, wrote yesterday in a research note.  Nova Ljubljanska, the nation’s biggest lender, reported a
loss of 275 million euros in 2012, its fourth consecutive
negative result. Nova Kreditna Banka Maribor, which had a 205
million-euro loss last year, fell to the lowest level since its
2007 listing after a debt-equity swap increased the government’s
stake to 79 percent. The shares plunged more than 40 percent
last week and were up 3.8 percent today at 82 euro cents in
Ljubljana.  The government vowed to stick with a bank-recapitalization
plan of as much as 4 billion euros, though with unspecified
modifications, as surging bad loans fuel investor concern that
the country may require a rescue.  Nova Ljubljanska needed 381 million euros last year, with
Slovenia and its agencies providing all of the money, after its
second-largest owner,  KBC Groep NV (KBC) , withdrew from the
transaction because it failed to win approval from the European
Commission.  Cyprus “is by far a different situation than you have in
Slovenia,” Erste Group Bank AG Chief Risk Officer Gernot Mittendorfer told Bloomberg while attending a financial
conference in Prague today. Slovenia’s “banking system and the
problem in the banking system is, relatively in terms of size,
much smaller than the problem in Cyprus.”  U.S. Market  Slovenia, rated A- at S&P, last tapped the U.S. debt market
in October with a $2.25 billion bond sale. It considered selling
more dollar-denominated debt in January, according to former
Deputy Finance Minister Dejan Krusec. The plan was scrapped
after a political crisis erupted with corruption allegations
against then-Premier Janez Jansa, whose government was ousted
Feb. 27.  Roehmeyer said he holds Slovenian government bonds and debt
of Slovene Export Corp., or SID bank. Landesbank Berlin
Investment isn’t adding to those positions “because we see no
progress on reforms and we’re not selling because we think that
the yields are high enough to justify keeping these bonds in the
portfolio,” he said.  Euro Switch  Slovenia adopted the euro at the start of 2007, becoming
the first post-Communist European nation to make the switch.
Pumping out exports such as household appliances from Gorenje
d.d., the small open economy outperformed that of  Europe ’s
common currency area for most of the past decade.  A debt crisis that has swept the continent since 2008
damped demand for consumer goods, pushing the economy into two
recessions over the past four years. Gross domestic product
shrank 3 percent from a year earlier in the fourth quarter, its
third consecutive contraction.  Compounding the issue, Slovenia’s advantage of low debt has
eroded with the financial crisis. The debt to GDP ratio will
rise to about 60 percent this year and 70 percent in 2014 from
about 30 percent in 2008, Timothy Ash, chief emerging-markets
economist at Standard Bank Plc in  London , said yesterday in a
note to investors.  Having entered the crisis with low government debt,
Slovenia and can survive without “drastic action,” according
to Lazlo Belgrado, a money manager who helps oversee about $20
billion in fixed-income assets at KBC Asset Management SA in
Luxembourg.  Still, contagion from a worsening of Europe’s crisis could
put Slovenia under market pressure because it’s a “rather small
economy,” he said.  “It’s not too big to fail and it has some of the same
problems that Cyprus has,” Belgrado said. “The  economy  got a
bit over-leveraged in the boom before Lehman. And the banks are
now wrestling with a bad credit problem.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net ;
Agnes Lovasz in London at 
 alovasz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net ;
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  