-- SNB’s Danthine Says Ceiling for Franc Is an ‘Absolute Necessity’
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   B o s l e y
-- 2013-03-25T17:41:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-25/snb-s-danthine-says-ceiling-for-franc-is-an-absolute-necessity-.html
The  Swiss National Bank (SNBN) ’s cap on
the franc is essential given that there is no threat of
inflation, Vice President Jean-Pierre Danthine said.  “Clearly there’s no inflation risk,” Danthine said during
a speech at a business event in Morges,  Switzerland . He termed
the cap of 1.20 per euro an “absolute necessity.”  The SNB set a cap of 1.20 per euro on the franc in 2011 and
cut its benchmark rate to zero to shield the economy from
deflation and a recession. Although the euro area is its biggest
trading partner, Switzerland has managed to avoid the recession
that has befallen the neighboring bloc.  “We consider that in a situation of normalization, the
franc should depreciate,” he said.  The SNB has seen its foreign-currency holdings balloon as a
result of its campaign to defend the ceiling. Last year, it
spent 188 billion francs ($198 billion) on foreign currencies,
up 10 times from 2011. It holds nearly half of its reserves in
euros.  Danthine said there is no limit as to how far the SNB could
expand its balance sheet. Also, the dictates of monetary policy
come before any drawing-down of the balance sheet, he said.  “If we really want to reduce the balance sheet long-term,
we have to resell that forex,” Danthine said. “But we can only
do that if monetary policy allows it.”  The SNB can also absorb liquidity quickly via issuance of
its own debt, so-called SNB bills, he said.  The SNB expects growth of 1 percent to 1.5 percent this
year. At its most recent policy review nearly two weeks ago, the
SNB warned of the risks stemming from the euro area. It stands
ready to take further steps to shield the economy if necessary.  At its annual review last week, the  International Monetary
Fund  said a tax on excess reserves held by commercial banks with
the central bank could be a step taken if the franc faces severe
appreciation pressure again.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catherine Bosley in Morges, Switzerland at
 cbosley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  