-- Snow Delays U.K. Crop Planting While Drifts Strand Some Animals
-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 2013-03-25T15:17:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-25/snow-delays-u-k-crop-planting-while-drifts-strand-some-animals.html
Snow and cold weather in the U.K.
are extending delays in spring grain and oilseed crop planting
and endangering young livestock during lambing season.  Central and northern England should expect “severe” cold
 weather  and icy conditions this week with snow showers occurring
in the northeast, according to the  Met Office . Some areas had as
much as 24 centimeters (9.4 inches) of  snow  on the ground as of
yesterday, the national weather forecaster said. Areas of
 Scotland  and Northern Ireland are under snow or  ice  warnings
until tomorrow.  Snow-covered, muddied fields are keeping farmers from
sowing crops including barley, a spring grain that farmers
normally would be half-finished planting by now, said  Charlotte 
Garbutt, a senior analyst at the Agriculture & Horticulture
Development Board. She declined to estimate what percentage has
been planted so far. Farmers may still be able to make up for
lost time if the weather turns drier, she said.  “We had a couple of weeks where it was slightly warmer,
and people managed to get a few crops in, but now we’ve had
really wet weather and it’s gone cold again,” Garbutt said
today in a telephone interview from Kenilworth,  England .
“That’s creating difficulties for farmers to make progress with
their spring planting, in a year when there’s been quite a lot
of emphasis on spring planting because winter plantings were
down so much.”  Planting of  winter  crops including wheat and rapeseed fell
18 percent from a year earlier as the U.K.’s second-wettest year
on record in 2012 kept farmers out of the fields last autumn,
the AHDB said March 21. The wheat harvest in the past season
totaled 13.3 million metric tons, 13 percent less than a year
earlier, according to the Department for Environment, Food &
Rural Affairs. Feed wheat futures on NYSE Liffe in London rose
to a record in November.  Lost Lambs  The cold weather and snow also is coming at the peak time
when  lambs  are being born in the U.K., with drifts stranding
some animals and prolonging feed delivery, according to the
Scottish National Farmers Union. Snow and high winds came “at
the worst possible time” and  farmers  are working to bring
animals indoors,  Northern Ireland ’s Ulster Farmers’ Union said.  The government is relaxing  restrictions  for truck drivers
this week on the number of hours they’re allowed to work without
taking a break, as long as they’re delivering livestock feed,
Defra said yesterday.  “We are well through our annual lambing so the snow
couldn’t have hit at a worse time,” Andrew McCornick, a farmer
in Dumfries, Scotland and a regional chairman of the Scottish
NFU, said in a statement released by the farmers group today.
“The drifting snow is so bad that there are still many
vulnerable sheep that we are still battling to get to and we
know that we are likely to face losses when the snow has
cleared.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney McFerron in  London  at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 Ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 