-- Somali Man Admits Aiding Terror Groups, U.S. Says
-- B y   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e
-- 2013-03-26T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-25/somali-man-pleads-guilty-to-aiding-terror-groups-u-s-says-1-.html
A Somali man who was captured at
sea and interrogated by the U.S. in 2011 admitted aiding
terrorist groups including al Shabaab and an al-Qaeda branch,
federal prosecutors said.  Ahmed Abdulkadir Warsame pleaded guilty in December 2011 to
a nine-count indictment charging him with conspiring to provide
money, equipment and other resources to the groups, which are
designated by the U.S. as foreign terrorist organizations,
prosecutors said in a statement. The plea was unsealed yesterday
in federal court in Manhattan.  In another terrorism case, a New York man who flew to
 Pakistan  allegedly to join the Taliban or al-Qaeda was found
guilty yesterday by a federal jury in Brooklyn, New York, of
lying to U.S. agents about the reasons for his trip.  Warsame was captured by the U.S. military in the Gulf of
Aden between Somalia and Yemen in April 2011 and was questioned
by the U.S. for more than two months, according to the
statement. By the time he entered his plea, Warsame, who
authorities said is in his mid-20s, had agreed to cooperate with
the U.S., prosecutors said.  ‘Thorough Questioning’  “The capture of Ahmed Warsame and his lengthy
interrogation for intelligence purposes, followed by his
thorough questioning by law enforcement agents, was an
intelligence watershed,”  Manhattan  U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara
said in a statement. “The handling of Warsame represents a
seamless orchestration by our military, intelligence and law
enforcement agencies that significantly furthered our ability to
find, fight and apprehend those who wish to do us harm.”  Lee Alan Ginsberg, a lawyer for Warsame, declined to
comment on the plea.  Warsame faces a maximum sentence of life in prison along
with fines and other penalties, according to his plea agreement.
Under his cooperation arrangement with the government, Warsame
had agreed to disclose all foreign intelligence known to him. In
exchange, the government said it would seek leniency at
sentencing.  Warsame is accused of conspiring with terrorist groups
dating back to at least 2007. He is alleged to have worked to
broker a weapons deal between al Shabaab and al-Qaeda in the
Arabian Peninsula, and to have planned to provide training in
making explosives, destructive devices and weapons of mass
destruction, according to the indictment.  From 2010 to April 2011, Warsame received training in
explosives-making from al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula and
intended to share the information with al Shabaab when he
returned to Somalia, according to prosecutors.  Grenades, AK-47  U.S. military forces captured Warsame while he was
traveling back to Somalia, prosecutors said. While in Yemen, he
had possessed and used grenades and an AK-47 assault weapon to
commit crimes of violence, the U.S. alleged.  At the time of Warsame’s capture, U.S. officials seized a
laptop computer, a hard drive, two USB thumb drives and a memory
card, Assistant U.S. Attorneys Benjamin Naftalis and Adam Hickey
wrote in a July 2011 letter to U.S. District Judge Colleen McMahon.  Al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula was formed in January
2009 and operates primarily from Yemen and Saudi Arabia,
prosecutors said in an August 2011 court filing. The group
claimed responsibility for an attempted Christmas Day bombing of
a Detroit-bound plane from  Europe  in 2009, according to the
filing.  Brooklyn Trial  In the Brooklyn trial, Abdel Hameed Shehadeh, 23, was
convicted of three counts of making false statements. Jurors
found terrorism was involved in two of the instances.  Prosecutors alleged that Shehadeh’s objective for the
journey was to wage “violent jihad” while he later told agents
he had intended to attend a religious school, a wedding and an
engagement party.  Shehadeh was denied entry into Pakistan when he arrived in
June 2008 and immediately returned. Federal agents kept in
contact with Shehadeh for more than two years after the event,
at one time leading him to believe, falsely, that he was working
as a government informant.  A lawyer for Shehadeh, Frederick Cohn, argued during the
trial that his client was manipulated and that any statements he
made about his trip were immaterial.  ‘More Care’  The jury “took a great deal of time and more care than I
expected” in reaching its decision, Cohn said to reporters
after the verdict was read. The jury of five men and seven women
began deliberating March 22.  Shehadeh faces a maximum sentence of 21 years in prison.  During the trial, which lasted about a week, witnesses
testifying for the prosecution included law enforcement agents
and two of Shehadeh’s friends who described his interest in
violent jihad.  “As you heard, the defendant wanted to go and be a
martyr,” Assistant U.S. Attorney David Sarratt told jurors in
closing arguments on March 22.  A New York native from Staten Island, Shehadeh attracted
the attention of U.S. authorities when he purchased a one-way
ticket to Islamabad, according to court documents. Agents first
confronted him at John F. Kennedy International Airport before
his plane left and then checked in with him regularly.  Failed Trip  After his failed trip to Pakistan, Shehadeh made other
attempts to fight on behalf of terrorist groups, a federal agent
told jurors during the trial. He tried flying to Amman, Jordan,
where he was denied entry, and bought tickets to Dubai, which he
couldn’t use because he had been placed on the “No Fly” list,
the government said.  Prosecutors alleged that Shehadeh also attempted to join
the U.S. Army so he could turn his gun on fellow soldiers in the
battlefield. He was rejected because he failed to disclose the
Pakistan trip in his travel history, according to court filings.  During the trial, jurors were shown violent messages and
images of al-Qaeda leaders from websites Shehadeh ran that the
government was also investigating. One of the sites,
www.civiljihad.com, displayed a logo that appeared to drip with
blood.  No witnesses were called on behalf of Shehadeh. For much of
the proceeding, he sat calmly next to his lawyers in khaki jail
attire, which he chose to wear even after U.S. District Judge
Eric N. Vitaliano said he could have other clothing given to him
for the trial.  His face showed no reaction when the verdict was read.  “He’s a realist,” Cohn said after the verdict, commenting
on his client’s demeanor. “He knew from the beginning that this
was going to be difficult.”  The cases are U.S. v. Warsame, 11-cr-00559, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan), and U.S. v.
Shehadeh, 10-cr-01020, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of
New York ( Brooklyn ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christie Smythe in Brooklyn at 
 csmythe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  