-- Stockton Creditors Dispute City’s Insolvency at Trial
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h   a n d   J a r e d   G o y e t t e
-- 2013-03-25T18:51:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-25/stockton-s-fate-turns-on-four-day-bankruptcy-court-trial.html
Stockton,  California , creditors
asked a judge to end its bankruptcy case, saying at the start of
a four-day trial that the city should cut excessive employee pay
and pension benefits before seeking court protection.  Creditors such as  Assured Guaranty  Corp. and  Franklin
Resources Inc. (BEN)  must prove at the trial that began today in
 Sacramento  that the city isn’t truly insolvent and didn’t engage
in good faith negotiations. Guy Neal, a lawyer for bond insurer
Assured Guaranty, said the city should be thrown out of
bankruptcy and allowed back only after it trims “excess fat.”  “The city is not insolvent,” Neal told U.S. Bankruptcy
Judge Christopher M. Klein.  Stockton is among three municipalities that have said they
will try to force creditors, including bondholders, to take less
than the principal they are owed. Bondholders have complained
for months about the city’s plan to cut their debt while
maintaining tens of millions of dollars in future pension
payment to the  California Public Employees’ Retirement System ,
or Calpers.  That issue isn’t directly in front of Klein today, though
lawyers say it will eventually be the key battle in court when
the city tries to adopt a plan to adjust its debt downward.  Forced Reduction  “The city has always believed, and continues to believe,
that it is eligible for bankruptcy,” Stockton’s lawyer,  Marc Levinson , of the law firm of Orrick Herrington & Sutcliffe LLP,
said before the trial began. He said the city didn’t go into
bankruptcy “happily.”  No city or county since at least the 1930s has used the
power of a  U.S. bankruptcy court  to force a reduction in the
principal on its debt. The other two that are trying to do so
are California’s San Bernardino and Jefferson County,  Alabama .  If Stockton’s creditors win at trial, they will be free to
sue the city of 300,000 in state court, where it’s easier to
force asset sales, cuts in city services or a boost in revenue
to pay debt. While in bankruptcy, Stockton, located 80 miles
(129 kilometers) east of  San Francisco , is shielded from such
tactics and has more power to choose which bills to pay.  A trial victory by Stockton would allow the city to pursue
its original debt-reduction plan. Before filing for bankruptcy
in June under Chapter 9 of the U.S.  Bankruptcy Code , the city
asked bondholders and other lenders owed more than $300 million
to take less than full repayment.  Little Choice  Creditors of the city, which listed assets of more than $1
billion when it sought court protection, have little choice
other than to pursue their claims in the trial, said bankruptcy
attorney Dale Ginter, who represented retired workers of
Vallejo, California, when that Northern California city filed
for bankruptcy in 2008.  Should Stockton survive the eligibility challenge, it will
gain more freedom from creditors than corporate debtors have
under Chapter 11.  To win, the creditors must show the city failed to meet at
least one of three primary tests specified in Chapter 9 or
California law. Before turning to bankruptcy, a city must be
insolvent, have permission from its state government, and have
tried in “good faith” to negotiate a deal with creditors.  At least 18 creditors were involved in failed talks with
creditors which started in March 2012 and continued until the
end of June, just before the city filed bankruptcy.  Two Tests  The creditors are focusing on two of the tests, insolvency
and good faith negotiations.  Assured, based in Hamilton,  Bermuda , argued in court papers
that the city, in an effort to become insolvent, manipulated its
budget process by refusing to raise taxes and limiting service
cuts.  The insurer would be on the hook for tens of millions of
dollars in bond payments if the city wins permission to
eliminate the debt.  On the good faith test, creditors led by Assured and the
other bond insurer in the case,  MBIA Inc. (MBI)  unit National Public
Finance Guarantee Corp., claim the city wasn’t serious about
striking a deal during months of pre-bankruptcy talks required
by California law.  Franklin’s subsidiary, Franklin High Yield Municipal Fund,
and Wells Fargo Bank NA filed court papers saying they support
the objections of Assured and National Public Finance.  “The city’s agenda was clear before the process began:
They would restructure by targeting the capital-market
creditors,” Matthew M. Walsh, an attorney for National Public
Finance, said in court today.  Good Faith  The city never held talks with CalPers, which provides
 retirement plans  for city employees. The biggest U.S. public
pension fund refused to negotiate with Stockton, claiming that
under state law it isn’t authorized to reduce the city’s
contributions to the fund.  Creditors are mostly upset because Stockton is treating
their debt as a lower priority than payments to CalPers. That is
unusual in a bankruptcy case, where the philosophy is that
similar debt should bear similar losses,  Chris Dickerson , a
bankruptcy attorney with DLA Piper LLP said in interview.  “They don’t want to be the schmuck who’s the only one
taking a haircut,” he said.  Lawrence Larose, a lawyer for Armonk, New York-based
National Public Finance Guarantee; Guy Neal, a lawyer for
Assured Guaranty; and James Johnston, a lawyer for  San Mateo ,
California-based Franklin, didn’t respond to e-mails seeking
comment on the trial.  Vallejo Challenge  Vallejo, a onetime U.S. Navy town of about 120,000 on  San
Francisco Bay , successfully fought off a challenge to its
bankruptcy by three labor unions, which tried to show in court
that the city wasn’t insolvent and hadn’t filed its case in good
faith. Stockton lawyer Levinson also represented Vallejo.  Later, Vallejo cut costs and reached a deal with lenders to
repay principal in full while extending maturities and adjusting
 interest rates .  The collapse of the housing market left Stockton to contend
with mounting retiree health-care costs and an eroding tax base
in the wake of the recession, while accounting errors overstated
municipal revenues.  California’s cities have struggled to keep up pension
payments that have been climbing, partly because many of the
plans have become more generous over time and partly because of
investment losses suffered by CalPers.  Sweetened Pensions  City councils across the state, spurred by then-Governor
 Gray Davis ’s move to enhance pensions for California Highway
Patrol officers in 1999, sweetened retirement benefits for
police, firefighters and other workers in the decade that
followed. Public-safety employees could retire after working for
30 years, collect 90 percent of their top salaries and take jobs
elsewhere while still in their 50s.  Pension liabilities in the cities of Fairfield, Inglewood,
Pomona, San Bernardino, Stockton and Vallejo rose 6 percent to
$4.3 billion for the year ending June 30, 2010, from $4.1
billion in 2009, according to the most recent data available
from Calpers.  The case is In re Stockton, 12-32118, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Eastern District of California (Sacramento).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware,
at   schurch3@bloomberg.net ;
Jared Goyette in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Sacramento  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  