-- Stocks, Euro Slump as Enthusiasm for Cyprus Bailout Fades
-- B y   M i c h a e l   P .   R e g a n   a n d   S a r a h   P r i n g l e
-- 2013-03-25T20:27:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-25/stocks-euro-gain-as-cyprus-nears-bailout-deal-gold-bonds-fall.html
Stocks slid, erasing early gains,
amid concern that Cyprus’s bank-restructuring plan will pave the
way for losses on deposits in other European nations. The euro
weakened against all 16 major peers while Italian and Spanish
bonds erased gains.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index retreated 0.3 percent to
1,551.69 at 4 p.m. in New York after climbing to as high as
1,564.91, within one point of its 2007 record close. The Stoxx
Europe 600 Index lost 0.3 percent, reversing a 1 percent rally.
Italy’s 10-year  bond yield  rose 10 basis points to 4.61 percent,
after decreasing eight points earlier, and Spain’s yield jumped
10 points. Ten-year Treasury rates fell one point to 1.92
percent, while oil led commodities higher.  Stocks turned lower and the euro  extended losses  earlier
amid concern the Cyprus deal will be used as a model in other
euro-area nations that need to recapitalize financial
institutions in the future. Cyprus agreed to the outlines of an
aid deal that imposes losses which two European Union officials
said would be as much as 40 percent on uninsured depositors at
Bank of Cyprus Plc, which will take over the viable assets of
Cyprus Popular Bank Pcl as that bank is wound down.  “I think that there’s going to be a bitter aftertaste on
the part of small depositors, not only in Cyprus but possibly in
Greece and Spain,” Alan Gayle, senior strategist at RidgeWorth
Capital Management, said in a phone interview. The Richmond,
Virgina-based firm oversees about $48 billion. “Moving through
the  old high  is likely to require some strong positive news.
Cyprus was just not the catalyst to drive this market higher.”  ‘Hard Day’s Night’  Cypriot President Nicos Anastasiades agreed to shut the
country’s second-largest bank under pressure from a German-led
bloc in a night-time negotiating melodrama that threatened to
rekindle the debt crisis. Anastasiades said that his country
will remain in the euro, despite feelings of bitterness over the
treatment the country received in its request for financial aid,
in comments televised on state-run CYBC.  “It’s been yet another hard day’s night,” European Union
Economic and Monetary Affairs CommissionerOlli Rehn told
reporters in Brussels early today. “There were no optimal
solutions available, only hard choices.”  Stocks and the euro sank to their lows of the day after
Reuters reported that Dutch Finance Minister Jeroen
Dijsselbloem, who leads the group of 17 euro finance ministers,
said the Cyprus bailout should be viewed as a template for
solving banking problems in the region. Imposing losses on
depositors and bondholders must be part of the bailout toolkit,
he told Reuters and the Financial Times in comments that were
confirmed today by his spokeswoman, Simone Boitelle.  ‘Specific Case’  Equities pared losses after Dijsselbloem later released a
statement clarifying his remarks, saying Cyprus is “specific
case with exceptional challenges” which required the measures
agreed upon.  “Macro-economic adjustment programs are tailor-made to the
situation of the country concerned and no models or templates
are used,” he said in the statement.  Among U.S. stocks, Bank of America Corp., 3M Co. and
McDonald’s Corp. lost more than 1 percent to lead the Dow Jones
Industrial Average down 64.28 points to 14,447.75. Industrial,
commodity and health-care shares the biggest declines as all 10
of the main industry groups in the S&P 500 retreated.  Apollo Group Inc. surged 7.1 percent after the for-profit
education company’s quarterly earnings topped estimates. Dell
Inc. climbed 2.6 percent after saying Blackstone Group LP and
activist investor  Carl Icahn  have submitted proposals to buy the
company that may be superior to  Michael Dell ’s $24.4 billion
buyout plan.  Euro Reverses  The euro erased an earlier gain against the dollar,
triggered after the provisional agreement was struck that would
make Cyprus the fifth country to get a rescue since the debt
crisis broke out in Greece in 2009. The shared currency fell 0.7
percent against the dollar last week, the most since the five
days ended March 1, and tumbled 1.5 percent versus the yen, the
most since the week ended Feb. 8.  European banks in the Stoxx 600 erased earlier gains to
slump 1.9 percent as a group to the lowest level of the year.
Intesa Sanpaolo SpA and Societe Generale SA lost more than 6
percent to lead losses.  The  DAX Index (DAX)  slipped 0.5 percent. German advisers cut the
nation’s 2013 economic growth forecast to 0.3 percent, from its
previous estimate of 0.8 percent, citing “the sharp decline”
of gross domestic product in the fourth quarter of 2012.  Meyer Burger Technology AG fell 5 percent on a new share-
sale plan.  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  added 2 percent after a report
said the carrier may sell its stake in its joint venture with
Verizon Communications Inc. for $135 billion. Metso Oyj jumped
9.6 percent, the most in eight months, after saying it may spin
off some units.  European Bonds  Italian bonds fell for the first time in four sessions.
Earlier gains sent the price of the 5.5 percent securities
maturing in November 2022 up as much as 0.66, or 6.60 euros per
1,000-euro face amount, to 108.755, climbing above the 108.60
closing level on Feb. 22, the last trading day before
inconclusive elections sent the securities lower.  The rate on Germany’s 10-year bunds, Europe’s benchmark
government bonds, declined five basis points to 1.33 percent,
near the lowest level of the year. U.K. and Dutch rates also
dropped, while Portugal’s increased.  The euro weakened 1 percent to $1.2856 after reaching
$1.3048, the strongest level since March 15. The shared currency
was down 1.4 percent against the yen, erasing an advance of as
much as 0.9 percent.  Emerging Markets  China’s  yuan  strengthened beyond 6.21 per dollar for the
first time in 19 years after the central bank raised the
currency’s reference rate. The Indian rupee rose to 54.1800 per
dollar after the government removed sub-limits governing foreign
investment in the nation’s bonds. Overall caps of $25 billion
for sovereign debt and $51 billion for corporate notes were left
unchanged.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index added 0.6 percent,
rebounding from its lowest level of the year, as Malaysian and
South Korean stocks led gains.  The link between risk and reward in stocks is breaking down
as emerging markets post the worst first quarter since 2008 and
lag behind shares of developed economies by the most in 15
years.  The  emerging markets index ’s 3.8 percent drop this year
through last week trimmed its rebound from an October 2011 low
to 22 percent. That compares with a 33 percent advance for the
MSCI World Index and marks the first time since 1998 that
developing-country shares have underperformed during a global
rally. When adjusted for price swings, emerging market returns
are 37 percent smaller than in advanced nations, data compiled
by Bloomberg show.  Commodities  The S&P GSCI gauge of 24 commodities added 0.4 percent,
paring a gain of 1.1 percent. Oil rose 1.2 percent to $94.81 a
barrel in New York.  Copper slipped 0.6 percent to $3.445 a pound in New York as
speculation that China’s government will take steps to tame
inflation added to concerns that global growth will slow,
curbing metals demand. Hedge funds are making the biggest bet
against copper on record as global inventories expand to a nine-
year high, while concern that Europe’s debt crisis will spread
spurred the biggest gain in gold bets since 2008.  Speculators raised net-short positions in U.S. copper
futures and options by 53 percent to 25,719 contracts in the
week ended March 19, according to Commodity Futures Trading
Commission data that begins in 2006. A jump in bullish bets on
corn, gold and natural gas boosted overall holdings across 18
raw materials for a second consecutive week.  Copper Bets  Copper prices are heading for a second consecutive monthly
loss in what would be the longest slump since the end of 2011.
Stockpiles monitored by exchanges in London, Shanghai and New
York stand at about 873,000 metric tons, or almost five months
of North American demand, and Barclays Plc is forecasting a
second annual surplus. Gold climbed for three weeks, the longest
rally in six months, amid turmoil in Cyprus.  Japan’s Topix Index of shares climbed 0.8 percent,
rebounding after the first five-day drop in five weeks. Japanese
bonds also rose, sending 10-year and 20-year yields to the
lowest in almost a decade, on expectations that Bank of Japan
Governor Haruhiko Kuroda will use parliament testimony tomorrow
to outline new stimulus.  The  Hang Seng Index (HSI)  gained 0.6 percent in Hong Kong,
rallying from losses in the previous two weeks. Thailand’s SET
Index rose 3 percent, its biggest gain since October 2011.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael P. Regan in New York at 
 mregan12@bloomberg.net ;
Sarah Pringle in New York at 
 springle1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  