-- N.Y.’s Suffolk County Cut by Fitch as Sandy Hurts Revenue
-- B y   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 2013-03-25T22:26:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-25/suffolk-county-rating-cut-by-fitch-after-sandy-hurts-tax-revenue.html
New York’s Suffolk County, home of
eastern Long Island’s Hamptons beach towns, had $1.4 billion of
general-obligation bonds cut to A from A+ by Fitch Ratings as
the region recovers from  Hurricane Sandy .  County Executive Steve Bellone declared a fiscal emergency
a year ago after the county’s spending plan ended out of balance
for the first time in two decades. The municipality’s budget
office is projecting a $51 million shortfall in 2013 on lower
sales- and property-tax revenue last year because of Sandy,
according to a report from New York-based Fitch.  “Projected results for 2012 are worse than budgeted, and
the 2013 budget projects a deficit,” Fitch analyst Karen Wagner
wrote. “The potential negative consequences from Super Storm
Sandy will continue to challenge the county’s ability to restore
structural balance and improve reserves to an adequate level.”  Fitch’s A rating is five steps below AAA, and the company
has a negative outlook on the debt, meaning another downgrade
may be made. Standard & Poor’s and Moody’s Investors Service
have the county at four levels below their top marks.  S&P revised its outlook for the county to negative from
stable today, hours after the Fitch move, citing a “persistent
structural imbalance,” including the effects of “one-time
events.” The outlook signifies a one-in-three chance that the
New York-based company will lower its rating in the next two
years, S&P said.  County Strength  One of Suffolk County’s strengths is its wealthy tax base,
resulting in a manageable debt burden, Fitch and S&P said. Hedge
fund billionaires John Paulson and  George Soros  are among those
who have bought houses on a 60-mile (95-kilometer) stretch from
Bellport to the eastern tip of Long Island.  Sandy struck the Northeast on Oct. 29, packing hurricane-
force winds and driving flood waters that left more than 125
dead in 10 states. The storm inundated New York City’s subway
system and ravaged shore communities from New Jersey’s Atlantic
City to Bridgeport,  Connecticut .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Chappatta in New York at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  