-- Swiss Stocks Advance as Cyprus Reaches Bailout Agreement
-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 2013-03-25T16:59:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-25/swiss-stocks-advance-as-cyprus-reaches-bailout-agreement.html
Swiss stocks  rose, snapping two
days of losses, as Cyprus and euro-area finance ministers agreed
on a rescue package, dodging the risk of a default and an exit
from the currency union.  Syngenta AG posted the best performance on the Swiss Market
Index, while  Roche Holding AG (ROG) , the world’s biggest maker of
cancer drugs, contributed the most to the benchmark index’s
gain.  Meyer Burger (MBTN)  Technology AG slumped to its lowest price
this year as it posted a full-year loss and announced that it
will sell new shares.  The  SMI (SMI)  added 0.2 percent to 7,758.22 at the close of
trading in Zurich, after earlier advancing as much as 0.9
percent. The gauge retreated 1.5 percent last week, its first
loss in six weeks and the biggest drop since Nov. 16. The SMI
has still  climbed 14 percent  this year. The broader Swiss
Performance Index also gained 0.2 percent today.  “There was some uncertainty in the markets before the
Cyprus deal,” said Peter Buergler, a trader at Luzerner
Kantonalbank AG in Lucerne,  Switzerland . “Some market
participants saw the difficulties in Cyprus as an opportunity to
push share prices lower. Now that the uncertainty has moved to
the background, the liquidity, which is still around, flows back
into the markets.”  The volume of shares changing hands in companies on the SMI
was 2.5 percent greater than the average of the past 30 days,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Cyprus won a 10 billion-euro ($13 billion) international
bailout after agreeing late yesterday to shrink its banking
system, instead of a previous demand to impose a levy on all
bank accounts. The accord with the troika of the  European
Central Bank , the European Commission and the  International
Monetary Fund  was ratified by finance ministers from the 17-
member euro area.  Cyprus Deal  President Nicos Anastasiades agreed to shut down Cyprus
Popular Bank Pcl, the country’s second-largest lender. The Bank
of Cyprus Plc will take over viable assets of the failed lender,
along with 9 billion euros in emergency loans, according to
three European Union officials familiar with the matter.  The revised accord spares bank accounts with less than the
insured limit of 100,000 euros. A loss of no more than 40
percent will be imposed on uninsured depositors at the Bank of
Cyprus, two EU officials said. Uninsured depositors at Cyprus
Popular would largely be wiped out, two other officials said.  Swiss stocks pared some of their gains after Reuters
reported that Eurogroup chairman Jeroen Dijsselbloem said the
Cyprus bank restructuring plan should be seen as a template for
the rest of the euro area.  Syngenta, Roche  Syngenta, the world’s largest maker of crop sprays, gained
1 percent to 400 francs.  Roche added 0.6 percent to 218.80 francs. Chugai
Pharmaceutical Co Ltd., a Roche unit, said  Japan ’s Ministry of
Health approved Actemra injections for rheumatoid arthritis that
does not respond sufficiently to one or more existing therapies.  “The approval of a subcutaneous formulation of Actemra in
Japan is likely to be followed by a respective approval later
this year also in the U.S. and in  Europe ,” Olav Zilian, an
analyst at Helvea SA in Geneva, wrote in a report.  Meyer Burger  Meyer Burger slid 5 percent to 6.66 francs after saying it
will raise 150 million francs ($158 million) by selling new
stock to existing shareholders. The solar-equipment maker
reported a full-year net loss of 2.33 francs per share.  “Meyer Burger’s performance and outlook reflect the
ongoing gloomy state of the solar market,”  Michael Foeth , an
analyst at Vontobel Holding AG in Zurich, wrote in a note to
clients today. “The wave of consolidation and bankruptcies is
now hitting  China . While Meyer Burger is not at risk in the next
12 months, the dry stretch is likely to continue even if
management expects significant increases in order intake during
2013. Uncertainty remains high and we continue to advise staying
on the sidelines.”  Gottex Fund Management Holdings Ltd. (GFMN)  retreated 4.6 percent
to 2.67 francs after reporting a full-year operating loss of
$4.1 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  