-- U.K. Stocks Retreat as Cyprus Optimism Wanes; RBS Drops
-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 2013-03-25T16:49:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-25/u-k-stocks-rise-on-cyprus-s-agreement-with-the-euro-area.html
U.K. stocks  declined, erasing the
 FTSE 100 (UKX)  Index’s earlier advance, as banks and mining companies
retreated after investor optimism faded over Cyprus’s bailout
from the euro area.  Barclays Plc (BARC)  and  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  fell more
than 2 percent as bond yields climbed in Spain and Italy.
 Vedanta Resources Plc (VED)  tumbled 4.8 percent as copper dropped in
London.  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  rose 2 percent after a report the
company has held talks to sell its stake in Verizon Wireless.  The FTSE 100 lost 14.38 points, or 0.2 percent, to 6,378.38
at 4:30 p.m. in London. The equity benchmark earlier rallied as
much as 1 percent after Cyprus struck a deal with the euro area
to obtain a bailout. The broader  FTSE All-Share Index (ASX)  decreased
less than 0.1 percent today, while Ireland’s ISEQ Index
increased 0.2 percent.  “Today’s session has turned on a sixpence after initially
investors were jubilant that a deal had been struck to save
Cyprus,” said Angus Campbell, head of market analysis at
Capital Spreads. Investors have begun to question “what sort of
precedent the whole debacle will set for the European sovereign
debt crisis.”  Cyprus agreed to shrink its banking system, shutting the
country’s second-largest bank, in exchange for 10 billion euros
($13 billion) of aid. The  finance ministers  of the 17-member
euro area ratified the country’s accord with the troika of the
European Central Bank, the European Commission and the
International Monetary Fund.  Cyprus’s Bailout  Stocks erased their advance after Reuters reported that
Dutch Finance Minister Jeroen Dijsselbloem, who chairs the
meetings of euro-area finance ministers, said the Cypriot rescue
plan may become a template for future bank bailouts.  Cypriot lawmaker Nicholas Papadopoulos, the chairman of the
parliamentary finance committee, said his country must explore
whether leaving the euro area would help its economy.  Barclays dropped 3.4 percent to 282.1 pence after earlier
rallying as much 3 percent. RBS slid 2.1 percent to 287.2 pence
and  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY) , the U.K.’s largest mortgage
lender, retreated 1.7 percent to 47.8 pence.  A gauge of U.K. lenders fell 1.1 percent, its longest
stretch of losses since July 2010, as bond yields in Spain and
Italy rebounded.  Vedanta fell 4.8 percent to 1,039 pence as copper erased
its advance on the London Metal Exchange. Antofagasta Plc
dropped 2.4 percent to 1,008 pence and Kazakhmys Plc tumbled 5.3
percent to 443.6 pence.  Vodafone Advances  Vodafone climbed 2 percent to 187.2 pence, after the Sunday
Times reported that the world’s second-largest mobile-phone
operator has held talks to sell its stake in Verizon Wireless to
Verizon Communications Inc. for $135 billion.  The discussions included the option of combining Vodafone
and Verizon, according to the report, which cited unidentified
bankers and investors.  ARM Holdings Plc (ARM)  increased 4.2 percent to 916 pence as Bank
of America Corp. added the shares to its Europe 1 list.  Centrica Plc (CNA)  rose 1.3 percent to 362.1 pence after signing
a 20-year deal to import natural gas from the U.S. The U.K.’s
largest household energy supplier will buy 1.75 million metric
tons a year of liquefied natural gas from Cheniere Energy Inc.’s
Sabine Pass plant in Louisiana. The fuel will supply the
equivalent of 1.8 million U.K. houses.  Avocet Mining Plc (AVM)  surged 9.3 percent to 20.5 pence after
the gold producer secured a financing agreement with its biggest
shareholder, Elliott Management, and Macquarie Bank Ltd.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Xydias in  London  at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  