-- U.K. Met Office Warns of Freezing Weather Causing Disruption
-- B y   C o l m   H e a t l e y
-- 2013-03-25T09:31:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-25/u-k-met-office-warns-of-freezing-weather-causing-disruption.html
The U.K.’s  Met Office  issued a
weather warning today, saying while any snowfall will be light,
freezing temperatures and gale force winds will make travelling
hazardous across much of Britain.  “Snow lying in many areas will melt by day to refreeze
overnight leading to icy patches developing,” the national
weather forecaster said on its website. “In addition drifting
of this lying snow in strong to gale force winds will affect
some roads.”  The U.K. has been hit by snowfall of as much as 30
centimetres (12 inches) since March 22 and freezing conditions
as cold air from the east met with a band of rain from the west,
the Met Office said.  Airports across the country reported flight delays and many
schools have had to shut because of heavy snow. Almost 50,000
homes in Northern Ireland and thousands of homes in  Scotland  are
without power as heavy snow and ice bought down power lines over
the weekend.  U.K. newspapers reported that the unseasonable weather
conditions are expected to last into the Easter long weekend.
“Freeze hell gets worse,” said the Daily Mirror. “Heard the
one about the heatwave?” opined The Daily Telegraph. “Met
Office says it’s on the way.”  While no further heavy snowfall is forecast for this week
temperatures will remain below average, a spokeswoman for the
Met Office said today in a phone interview.  London ’s Heathrow airport,  Europe ’s busiest, was
experiencing delays because of high winds, according to
Eurocontrol, the region’s air traffic oversight agency.  The Highways Agency, responsible for monitoring traffic
conditions across  England , reported the closure of the Trans-
Penine A66 Scotch Corner - Brough and A628 Woodhead Pass because
of severe weather conditions.  About 2,000 homes in Northern Ireland are still without
power today, the region’s electricity service said on its
website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Colm Heatley in Belfast at 
 cheatley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Lytle at   dlytle@bloomberg.net . 