-- U.K. House Prices Rise Most in Three Years on London Jump
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2013-03-25T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-25/u-k-house-prices-rise-most-in-three-years-on-london-surge.html
U.K. house prices rose the most in
three years this month, led by a surge in London, as demand
outstripped supply.  Average values in England and  Wales  increased 0.3 percent,
the biggest advance since March 2010, property researcher
Hometrack Ltd. said in an e-mailed statement today. In London,
prices jumped 0.7 percent, the most since February 2010.  The Bank of England’s Funding for Lending program has
helped ease credit conditions, while plans announced by the
government last week to assist prospective homebuyers will also
support the market, Hometrack said. It also said the weaker
pound and turmoil in the euro area will continue to lure
purchasers from abroad.  “Lower  mortgage rates  as a result of the FLS have
supported increased activity,” said  Richard Donnell , director
of research at Hometrack. “The weakening pound and concerns
over Cyprus and the  euro zone  will only serve to further boost
the flow of international funds into the capital.”  The pound has fallen 5 percent against the euro since the
end of 2012 and is the second worst performer after the yen this
year, based on Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indices. Rightmove
Plc said London home sellers raised asking prices by 1.9 percent
this month as the weakness of sterling fueled interest from
overseas buyers.  Property Outlook  Seven of 10 regions assessed by Hometrack showed price
increases in March compared with the previous month. Two showed
no change and one, the northeast, recorded a 0.1 percent drop.  While the stock of homes available for sale has risen 3.5
percent over the past six months, and 13 percent in the last
two, demand in the past two months has surged 19 percent,
according to today’s report. The  Royal Institution  of Chartered
Surveyors said earlier this month that its gauges on the outlook
for the  property market  improved in February.  Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  announced two
programs on March 20 to help Britons buy homes as the recovery
of the broader property market struggles to gain traction. The
government will  extend a program  to help with purchase of new-
build homes from next month, and starting next year will offer
mortgage guarantees to help those with smaller deposits.  Minutes of the BOE’s March policy decision published the
same day showed officials saw a picture of “broadly flat” bank
lending from the FLS since it started in August. Still, the BOE
added that the outlook “appeared more promising” and the
housing market “had continued to show some signs of thawing.”  “While scarcity of homes, support for lending and new
housing will act as a support to pricing levels, the problems of
affordability and deposit levels still remain serious
impediments to a full-blown” recovery, Donnell said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in  London  at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net . 