-- The Conditions for Staying in Afghanistan
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-03-25T23:32:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-25/u-s-must-set-conditions-for-remaining-in-afghanistan.html
U.S. Secretary of State  John Kerry 
and Afghan President  Hamid Karzai  had plenty to discuss Monday,
when Kerry dropped by Kabul for an unannounced visit. Karzai has
developed quite a knack for making Americans think twice about
their involvement in his country. Here’s the message we hope
Kerry delivered: The U.S. still wants to help -- but with
conditions.  On March 10, during a visit by U.S. Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel, Karzai said that two recent suicide attacks by the
Taliban were in the “service of America.” A year and a half ago,
Karzai memorably said that if war broke out between the U.S. and
 Pakistan , “we are beside Pakistan.”  Strange comments from a supposed ally. The war in
Afghanistan has killed or injured more than 20,000 Americans and
cost $557 billion so far (including bigger outlays on
reconstruction than the U.S. has spent on any other country).
This toll, compounded by Karzai’s bizarre opinions, makes a fast
withdrawal look all too attractive.  It isn’t so simple. The U.S. needs to safeguard its huge
strategic investment in  Afghanistan . That demands a realistic
appraisal of what will happen as U.S. forces withdraw. It also
demands a quiet but firm message to Karzai about conditions for
continued assistance. The U.S. shouldn’t accelerate its plans to
withdraw 34,000 more U.S. troops by February 2014 -- so long as
Karzai does his part.  Start with plans for a force of 352,000 Afghan security
personnel. That number has become fixed in planners’ minds,
though  estimates  of the cost of attaining it have fluctuated by
several billion dollars. Even a somewhat less ambitious goal
would cost an estimated $4.1 billion, which exceeds current
commitments: The U.S. Government Accountability Office cites a
$600 million gap after counting pledges from allies and the U.S.
contribution of $2.3 billion.  Meanwhile, the Afghan government’s promise to pay $500
million a year is wishful thinking. Its revenue in 2011 was less
than $2 billion -- an amount that covered barely one-tenth of
its spending. That $4.1 billion cost is not just for one year
but for many, sapping investment in health, education and
infrastructure. For these reasons, we have argued in the past
for a smaller, more affordable and better-vetted force.  Managing declining aid will also be a challenge. The $15.7
billion in aid delivered to Afghanistan in 2010 amounted to
almost its entire gross domestic product. On the bright side, a
diminishing international presence will curb the corruption that
an influx of foreign funds tends to promote. Also, because much
aid money leaves Afghanistan through imports, expatriated
profits and remittances, the cuts won’t fall entirely on
ordinary Afghans. Still, real GDP growth  may fall  from 9 percent
a year in 2000-2010 to 5 percent or 6 percent over 2011-2018.  The most affordable way to improve security while keeping
privation and unrest to a minimum is to focus on two immediate
challenges: encouraging a settlement between the Afghan
government and its enemies, notably the Taliban, and promoting
fair elections for president in 2014 and parliament in 2015.  As long as insurgent leaders, including the Taliban, agree
to give up fighting, accept the Afghan constitution and sever
ties to terrorist groups, they should be allowed to enter
Afghanistan’s political arena. That’s an unappetizing prospect,
to be sure, yet if Afghanistan’s past decade has demonstrated
anything, it’s that the country’s troubles require a political
solution.  That means Afghanistan must begin to stabilize its
politics, beginning with credible, fair and inclusive elections.
The last presidential contest in 2009 was marred by fraud -- and
that was with a huge international presence. Outsiders will have
less influence over the April 2014 elections.  Smart suggestions 
for electoral reform abound, but at a minimum Karzai must
surrender his powers to appoint members of the country’s
supposedly impartial election commissions.  Karzai needs to know that a fair and inclusive electoral
process is a condition for continued U.S. assistance after 2014.
An Afghanistan headed in the other direction is no longer worth
supporting, arming or defending.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 