-- U.S. Stocks Decline as Optimism Fades After Cyprus Deal
-- B y   S a r a h   P r i n g l e
-- 2013-03-25T20:42:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-25/u-s-stock-futures-advance-after-cyprus-obtains-bailout.html
U.S.  stocks  fell, after the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose to within a point of its record
high, amid concern Cyprus’s bank-restructuring plan will pave
the way for losses on deposits in other European nations.  Industrial shares retreated as Textron Inc. and Caterpillar
Inc. lost at least 1 percent. BlackBerry slumped 4.6 percent
after Goldman Sachs Group Inc. lowered its rating on the stock.
Dell Inc. climbed 2.6 percent after saying Blackstone Group LP
and activist investor  Carl Icahn  have submitted proposals to buy
the maker of personal computers.  The  S&P 500  fell 0.3 percent to 1,551.69 at 4 p.m. in New
York, after rallying as much as 0.5 percent earlier. The  Dow
Jones Industrial Average  lost 64.28 points, or 0.4 percent, to
14,447.75. About 5.9 billion shares traded hands on U.S.
exchanges today, 6.1 percent below the three-month average.  “We’re in an environment where in both  North America  and
 Europe  we have some serious policy decisions that have to take
place,” Ron Florance, the Scottsdale, Arizona-based managing
director of investment strategy at Wells Fargo Private Bank,
which has $169 billion assets under management, said in a phone
interview. “When a policy misstep is bad it’s real bad, and the
discussions last week were really bad decisions. That’s been
resolved, but it always puts people on edge.”  Equities rallied early in the day as Cyprus, the euro-
area’s third-smallest economy, met the terms for a 10 billion-
euro ($13 billion) bailout after agreeing early this morning in
Brussels to shrink its banking system. The finance ministers
from the 17-member euro area ratified the country’s accord with
the troika of the  European Central Bank , the European Commission
and the  International Monetary Fund .  Europe Banks  Stocks turned lower as Reuters reported that Dutch Finance
Minister Jeroen Dijsselbloem said the Cyprus bailout should be
viewed as a template for solving banking problems in the region.
Dijsselbloem later released a statement clarifying his remarks,
saying Cyprus is a “specific case with exceptional challenges”
which required the measures agreed upon.  The S&P 500 declined 0.2 percent last week for its second
weekly drop as Cyprus struggled to raise enough money to obtain
the bailout and a report showed euro-area manufacturing
contracted more than expected. The gauge has still  climbed 8.8
percent  in 2013, and advanced today within a point of its record
of 1,565.15 set in October 2007, before erasing gains. The Dow
reached an intraday high last week after first surpassing its
all-time record on March 5.  ‘Positive Catalyst’  “Moving through the old high is likely to require some
strong positive news. Cyprus was just not the catalyst to drive
this market higher,”  Alan Gayle , senior strategist at
RidgeWorth Capital Management, said in a phone interview. The
Richmond, Virgina-based firm oversees about $48 billion.  The  bull market  in equities entered its fifth year this
month as the S&P 500 more than doubled from its bottom in 2009,
driven by an unprecedented three rounds of bond purchases by the
 Federal Reserve .  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said today that low  interest
rates  in advanced nations benefit the world economy while not
creating a disruptive diversion of trade through weaker
currencies. New York Fed President  William Dudley  said in a
speech in New York that he sees the U.S. labor market improving
slowing, warranting a continuation of “very accommodative”
policy.  Industrial and raw-material shares fell at least 0.7
percent, as all 10 S&P 500  groups  declined. Textron stumbled 3.5
percent to $29.69, while Caterpillar slumped 1 percent to
$86.64. FedEx Corp. slid 1.5 percent to $97.02.  BlackBerry ‘Disappointment’  BlackBerry (BBRY) , formerly known as Research In Motion Ltd.,
tumbled 4.6 percent to $14.23. Goldman Sachs downgraded its
rating on the Canadian smartphone maker to neutral from buy,
citing a disappointing debut for the company’s Z10 phone in the
U.S. Citigroup Global Markets Inc. analyst Jim Suva also said
today the BlackBerry 10 introduction at AT&T Inc. was a
“disappointment.”  Red Hat Inc., the largest seller of Linux operating system
software, dropped 3.6 percent to $48.99. Raymond James &
Associates Inc. equity analyst Michael Turits cut his rating on
the Raleigh, North Carolina-based company to market perform from
outperform, noting increasing risk of Linux growth deceleration
as well as challenges among license sales.  Apollo surged 7.1 percent to $18.25 as second-quarter
profit and sales topped analysts’ estimates, even as enrollment
fell. Apollo’s profit was driven by the higher-than-expected
revenue combined with “slightly better cost controls,” Jeffrey Silber, an analyst at BMO Capital Markets Corp., said today in a
note to investors.  Dell Buyout  Dell (DELL)  gained 2.6 percent to $14.51. Blackstone, the world’s
biggest private-equity firm, outlined an offer valued at more
than $14.25 a share, while Icahn said he would pay $15 a share
in cash, Dell said today.  Best Buy Co. added 1.8 percent to $23.20. Founder Richard Schulze will return to the company as chairman emeritus after
failing in a six-month attempt to take over the electronics
retailer he started more than four decades ago.  Visa Inc. rose 2.4 percent to a record $164. Nomura
Holdings Inc. said a long-term global shift away from cash would
help the bank-card network at Western Union Co.’s expense.
Western Union, the world’s largest money-transfer business,
added 0.1 percent to $14.66, erasing an earlier loss of as much
as 1 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Pringle in  New York  at 
 springle1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  