-- U.S. Hard-Winter Wheat Abandonment May Reach 11-Year High
-- B y   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s
-- 2013-03-25T23:45:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-25/u-s-hard-winter-wheat-abandonment-may-reach-11-year-high.html
U.S.  hard red winter wheat  farmers
in 2013 will abandon almost 24 percent of planted acreage, the
most since 2002, after drought ravaged crop prospects in the
southern Great Plains, Futures International LLC said.  “A poor winter in terms of lack of precipitation and a bad
start for winter-wheat ratings prompted us to raise our 2013
U.S. hard-red winter wheat percentage area abandonment,”  Terry Reilly , a senior commodity analyst at Chicago-based Futures
International, said today in an e-mail. Growers last year
abandoned almost 16 percent of the crop, he said.  Growers seeded 29.1 million acres with hard-red winter
wheat from September through November, down 2 percent from the
prior year, according to the  U.S. Department of Agriculture . The
 area planted  in  Kansas , the biggest producer of the variety used
to make bread, was 9.3 million acres, down 2.1 percent, USDA
data show.  Wheat futures on the Kansas City Board of Trade, where
hard-red winter varieties are bought and sold, fell 0.3 percent
to close at $7.59 a bushel today. The price has gained 8.1
percent in the past 12 months, partly because of the most-severe
drought since the Dust Bowl era of the 1930s.  In  Oklahoma , 26 percent of the crop was rated good or
excellent as of yesterday, up from 24 percent a week earlier,
the USDA said today. In  Kansas , 29 percent got the top ratings,
unchanged from a week earlier. Freezing weather today and
tomorrow in parts of the southern Plains may harm plants,
Telvent DTN said in a report.  In  Nebraska , 61 percent of the crop was rated poor or very
poor, and just 6 percent was in good condition, government data
showed.  “ Nebraska  is in terrible shape,” Reilly said. “Look for
a larger-than-normal hard-red winter abandonment this year.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony C. Dreibus in  Chicago  at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  