-- U.S. Credit Swaps Index Rises as Cyprus Obtains Bailout
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S t i l w e l l
-- 2013-03-25T20:48:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-25/u-s-credit-swaps-index-falls-as-cyprus-obtains-bailout.html
A gauge of U.S. corporate credit
risk rose as Cyprus reached an agreement with international
creditors on a rescue package to prevent a default.  The Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, rose 0.7
basis point to a mid-price of 91.1 basis points at 4:15 p.m. in
New York, according to prices compiled by Bloomberg.  Cyprus agreed to shrink its banking system in order to
obtain a 10 billion euro ($13 billion) bailout. Finance
ministers from the 17-member euro region ratified the country’s
accord with the European Central Bank, the European Commission
and the International Monetary Fund that will help Cyprus dodge
a disorderly default and potential exit from the euro. Investors
are concerned the deal may become a template used for other
distressed nations.  “These are good headlines, but the underlying tone
suggests this is a small example of a bigger problem that still
exists,” Timothy Cox, executive director of debt capital
markets at Mizuho Securities USA Inc. in New York, said in a
telephone interview. “These are warning signs. People have a
keen eye on the immediate impact of the Cyprus situation for
that reason.”  GE Capital  The credit-swaps index typically rises as investor
confidence deteriorates and falls as it improves. The contracts
pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point
equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of
debt.  GE Capital Corp., the finance unit of  General Electric Co. (GE) ,
raised $1.4 billion with a two-part sale of five-year debt. The
company issued $1 billion of 1.625 percent bonds that pay 90
basis points more than similar-maturity Treasuries and $400
million of floating-rate securities yielding 71 basis points
more than the three-month London interbank offered rate,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The unit’s $4 billion of 5.625 percent securities due May
2018 traded at 118.5 cents on the dollar to yield 1.8 percent on
March 21, according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of
the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  The risk premium on the Markit CDX North American High
Yield Index rose 3.5 basis points to 400.5 basis points,
Bloomberg prices show.  The average relative yield on speculative-grade, or junk-
rated, debt added 2 basis points to 497.5 basis points,
Bloomberg data show. High-yield, high-risk debt is rated below
Baa3 by Moody’s Investors Service and less than BBB- at Standard
& Poor’s.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Stilwell in New York at 
 vstilwell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  