-- Affirmative Action Review Expanded by U.S. Supreme Court
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 2013-03-25T15:12:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-25/u-s-supreme-court-expands-affirmative-action-review.html
The U.S. Supreme Court expanded its
scrutiny of affirmative action in higher education, agreeing to
review a Michigan law that would bar public universities from
considering race or gender as an admissions factor.  The high court already is considering whether the
University of Texas is violating the constitutional guarantee of
equal protection with its affirmative action program.  The justices now will review a federal appeals court’s
conclusion that a voter-approved amendment to Michigan’s
constitution impermissibly limits the political rights of racial
minorities. The initiative was a response to a 2003 Supreme
Court decision that allowed race-based admissions in a case
involving the University of Michigan Law School.  At stake are policies that have been a fixture on U.S.
campuses since the 1960s. All but a handful of the nation’s
selective colleges and professional schools consider race as
they seek to ensure a diverse student body.  The decision to take up the Michigan case at this stage
marks an unusual move for the court. Litigants on both sides had
been poised for a ruling in the Texas case in the next three
months. Typically, when the court is preparing to rule on an
issue, it defers action on appeals that raise similar questions.  Next Term  Under its normal scheduling practices, the court wouldn’t
take up the Michigan case until at least October, when it starts
a new, nine-month term. One possibility is that the court might
hold off ruling in the Texas case and consider the two cases
together in the next term.  Michigan voters approved the 2006 measure 58 percent to 42
percent. The law also bars racial preferences in contracting,
although that issue isn’t before the high court.  The law was immediately challenged in court by a civil
rights advocacy group, known as the Coalition to Defend
Affirmative Action, Integration and Immigrant Rights and Fight
for Equality by Any Means Necessary.  The group argued in court papers that the Cincinnati-based
6th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals correctly concluded that
racial minorities had been put at a disadvantage compared with
other groups. The 6th Circuit struck down the measure on an 8-7
vote.  “The universities may now adopt any factors authorizing
departures from their baseline criteria of grades and test
scores for any purpose -- except that they may not consider race
for the purpose of admitting black, Latina/o or Native American
applicants,” the group argued.  Voter Choice  Michigan’s attorney general, Bill Schuette, argued in his
appeal that “more than two million Michigan voters have now
been disenfranchised of their choice to eliminate considerations
of race in education.”  Justice Elena Kagan didn’t take part in the Supreme Court’s
decision to take up the case and isn’t participating in the
Texas dispute. Although she didn’t give reasons, she may have
been involved in the litigation while serving as President
 Barack Obama ’s solicitor general.  In the Texas case, the question is whether the university
can use race as a factor in admitting about a quarter of its
class. The university admits most of its freshman class each
year on the basis of high school class rank under a system known
as the “top 10 percent rule.”  The court’s Republican-appointed majority voiced skepticism
about the program during arguments on Oct. 10.  The case is Schuette v. Coalition to Defend, 12-682.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  