-- Lufthansa Considers Low-Cost Carrier Targeting Asia
-- B y   T i m   C a t t s
-- 2013-03-26T11:16:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-25/lufthansa-considers-low-cost-carrier-targeting-asian.html
Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA)  said it’s
looking at establishing a long-haul, low-cost venture to help
sustain its market share on routes to Asia as rival operators
syphon more and more traffic through hubs in the Gulf.  Lufthansa may form an intercontinental subsidiary similar
to its Germanwings short-haul unit, Chief Financial Officer
Simone Menne said at a briefing in New York. Other options
include an alliance with a Middle Eastern or Asian airline.  Europe’s second-largest carrier won’t be able to keep pace
with rivals such as Dubai-based Emirates and Etihad Airways PJSC
of  Abu Dhabi  without a change in strategy, Menne said, adding
that the Cologne-based company ended services to Hyderabad and
Calcutta in India last year because the routes were uneconomic.  “The threat from Gulf carriers, for us, is Southeast Asia
and it’s India,” Menne said. “That is a concern for investors,
and the answer is we look at all strategic options. That can be
partnerships, it can be joint ventures, it can be our own
platform or it can be a retreat from this market.”  Lufthansa is reviewing its strategy with Asia-Pacific
passenger traffic poised to expand at a  6.7 percent  annual rate
through 2016, according to the  International Air Transport
Association  -- half as fast again as forecast growth in Europe.  Gulf Challenge  The German company won’t be able to exploit that market
unless it changes course, Menne said.  Gulf carriers are tapping Asia by utilizing the position of
their home bases to build intercontinental transfer hubs where
people can switch plane for flights to and from dozens of cities
across India, China and countries such as Thailand and Malaysia.  Lufthansa’s European peers are already moving closer to
Gulf carriers, with  British Airways (IAG)  recruiting Qatar Airways
Ltd. for the Oneworld alliance and Etihad -- an investor in its
chief domestic rival,  Air Berlin Plc (AB1)  -- in talks about an accord
with  Air France-KLM Group. (AF)  Emirates, the biggest Middle Eastern
airline, has said it isn’t interested in joining an alliance.  Lufthansa’s Germanwings division is already being used as a
vehicle to reduce the group’s costs in Europe, with unprofitable
short-haul flights that don’t serve the Frankfurt or Munich hubs
being transferred to the discount operation.  Norwegian Plan  Establishing a low-cost long-haul business would mirror
plans at no-frills operator  Norwegian Air Shuttle AS (NAS) , which is
poised to add flights to cities including Bangkok -- tapping the
lower operating costs of  Boeing Co. (BA)  787 jets it has on order.  Air Berlin, Germany’s second-biggest carrier, is also
buying the Dreamliner model, while AirAsia X Sdn., the long-haul
arm of Asia’s top discount player, has ordered  Airbus SAS (EAD)  A330
planes with which it could resume European flights.  Menne said that Lufthansa will place a further order for
aircraft to serve intercontinental routes in September. The
carrier said last month it was considering 787s and the new
Airbus A350 to replace the European manufacturer’s older A340s.  Shares of Lufthansa, which has been discussing closer ties
with  Turkish Airlines  since at least November, traded 0.2
percent higher at 15.77 euros as of 12:15 p.m. in Frankfurt,
extending gains this year to 11 percent and valuing the company
at 7.25 billion euros ($9.3 billion).  “I don’t know if I buy into the idea of a low-cost, long-
haul venture,” said Donal O’Neill, an analyst at  Goodbody
Stockbrokers  with a “buy” rating on the stock. “The model hasn’t
been proven. If they could do expanded code-sharing or a joint
venture with Turkish that would be the most viable way to go.”  Lufthansa and Turkish Airlines, as  Turk Hava Yollari (THYAO)  AO is
known, are both members of the  Star Alliance  and partners in the
Antalya-based low-cost operation SunExpress.  “We are cooperating already because we have a joint
venture together,” Menne said. “We are in regular talks and we
are regularly considering what cooperation could bring us in
other areas, but that’s it for the moment.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Catts in New York at 
 tcatts1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  