-- Mundell Says ECB Tolerating Euro Gains Worsened Debt Crisis
-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a   a n d   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2013-03-25T14:13:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-25/mundell-says-ecb-tolerating-euro-strength-worsened-debt-crisis.html
The European Central Bank worsened
the crisis in the region’s most indebted nations by tolerating
the euro’s appreciation against the dollar, according to Nobel-
prize winning economist Robert Mundell.  Europe’s policy makers “missed a big opportunity” to do a
deal with the Federal Reserve that would have enabled them to
stop the currency from strengthening as the U.S. central bank
bought debt to boost the economy, Mundell said in a Bloomberg
Television interview with Sara Eisen. The euro’s advance was a
“devastating thing to happen” for the region’s weaker
economies and Europe should consider its own form of asset
purchases, which tend to weaken the exchange rate, he said.  “When the dollar was already high and the euro was low, at
$1.20, it was a good time to step in,” Mundell said. The “next
time it happens, that the euro gets down low, they should keep
it there and not let it get above that. That’ll do wonders to
help revive the European economies.”  Europe’s common currency has climbed 9.5 percent since
slipping to $1.1877 in June 2010, the weakest level since March
2006. It fell to as low as $1.2043 last year, before surging as
high as $1.3711 in February. The currency was at $1.2928 at
10:10 a.m. New York time, compared with its lifetime average of
$1.2128.  Cyprus Agreement  “It’s just mind-boggling” they could allow the exchange
rate to appreciate, said Mundell, who is professor of economics
at Columbia University in New York.  Mundell, credited as the intellectual “father” of the
euro, has historically called for a weaker shared currency. He
called for the euro to “go back down substantially” after
completing its biggest three-month rally in seven years in June
2009. The shared currency continued to climb, rising another 5.2
percent over the following six months.  He also called in 2009 for the euro to be fixed against the
dollar, a measure which was never enacted.  The 17-nation currency extended losses as Nicholas
Papadopoulos, Cypriot lawmaker and chairman of the parliamentary
finance committee, said leaving the euro must be “explored.”
Cyprus avoided default and an unprecedented exit from the euro
by bowing to demands from creditors yesterday to shrink its
banking system in exchange for 10 billion euros ($12.9 billion)
of aid from the European Union, European Central Bank and the
International Monetary Fund.  The bailout accord will see Cyprus Popular Bank Pcl wound
down, wiping out bondholders, and will impose losses on some
depositors at Bank of Cyprus Plc.  -- Editors: Paul Dobson, Dave Liedtka  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net ;
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Dobson at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  