-- Hungary Central Bank Should Consider Bond Purchases, Varga Says
-- B y   E d i t h   B a l a z s
-- 2013-03-25T12:58:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-25/hungary-central-bank-should-consider-bond-purchases-varga-says.html
Hungary ’s central bank should
consider a more active role in the secondary  bond market  as the
country is still undergoing a period of economic crisis, Economy
Minister  Mihaly Varga  said.  “This tool is deployed by all central banks that want to
help economic growth,” Varga said in an interview with the news
website Portfolio today, adding that the final decision is the
Magyar Nemzeti Bank’s. Hungary isn’t interested in a forint that
is “too weak,” he said.  Central bank Governor Gyorgy Matolcsy, who took over the
monetary authority’s leadership this month, vowed to support the
Cabinet in fighting the country’s second  recession  in four years
without jeopardizing price or financial stability. Purchasing
state debt risks the forint weakening and the government missing
its goal of propping up lending, according to Concorde
Securities.  “The bond market is functioning smoothly, the central bank
buying bonds could be interpreted as state financing, which
would be the worst possible message to send and a hotbed for a
drastic forint weakening,”  Janos Samu , economist at Budapest-
based brokerage Concorde said by phone.  The forint strengthened 0.1 percent to 306.44 per euro by
1:06 p.m. in Budapest. It’s dropped 4.2 percent against the euro
in the past month, the most in the world, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Hungary has “limited” tools to influence the  exchange
rate  and should abstain from “continuously floating” the
option of market intervention,’’ Varga said.  ‘Policy Drive’  The central bank potentially buying state debt poses a risk
to the currency by boosting “forint liquidity, which might not
be fully sterilized,”  Koon Chow , an emerging-market strategist
at Barclays Plc in  London , said in an e-mail today. “Also, it
means yields reflect a policy drive rather than perceptions of
what is fair value on bonds and this risks triggering selling of
bonds by non-resident investors.”  Foreign investors held 4.8 trillion forint ($20 billion) of
domestic debt as of March 22, compared with a record 5.1
trillion forint at the end of last year, according to Debt
Management Agency data.  The central bank buying  government bonds  and thus boosting
commercial banks’ liquidity may lead to lenders depositing extra
funds in two-week notes at the central bank or investing them in
foreign assets, Zoltan Arokszallasi, an economist at Erste Group
Bank AG in Budapest, said by phone today.  ‘Could Backfire’  “If the aim were to cut financing costs this way, the
measure could backfire as the market would interpret it as an
unorthodox step,” Arokszallasi said.  Hungary will lower the benchmark  interest rate  to a record-
low 5 percent tomorrow, according to 25 economists in Bloomberg
survey. Three forecast a reduction to 4.75 percent and one
predicts borrowing costs will remain unchanged.  Central bankers will meet as investors focus on the
possibility of Matolcsy deploying unconventional measures to end
the recession and help foreign-currency borrowers.  The government will only use “existing tools” for now to
help foreign-currency mortgage holders as the government sees
“no final solution” for helping all 1.7 million affected
debtors, Varga said in the interview. Keeping the banking
industry “operational” and boosting lending are important for
the economy, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edith Balazs in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  