-- Turkish Pensions to Pour Money Into Equities, Erste Bank Says
-- B y   S i b e l   A k b a y
-- 2013-03-25T13:42:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-25/turkish-pensions-to-pour-money-into-equities-erste-bank-says.html
Turkish private pensions will shift
money into stocks this year as new government incentives and low
interest rates reduce the appeal of fixed-income securities,
according to  Austria ’s  Erste (EBS)  Group Bank AG.  Stock-picking will become more important than ever, meaning
equity research will gain in importance at Turkish brokerages,
Can Yurtcan, head of research at Erste Securities Istanbul, a
unit of Vienna-based Erste, said in an interview.  Turkey  said on Jan. 3 that it would match 25 percent of all
private pension contributions, aiming to reverse a drop in
national savings, while also reducing the fees fund-management
companies are allowed to charge, incentivizing them to invest in
riskier assets with higher returns. The government is also
aiming make pension plans more attractive to conservative
Muslims, who can’t invest in securities that pay interest.  “With the new pension law and the low-interest-rate
environment, the actively managed equity fund business will grow
very fast,” Yurtcan said.  Turkey’s benchmark ISE-100 stock index jumped 66 percent in
dollar terms last year, a period when yields on benchmark two-
year government notes dropped by almost 5 percentage points.
Policy makers have lowered key  interest rates  at each of the six
monetary policy meetings since Sept. 18.  Growing Assets  The Turkish private pension industry’s assets under
management have increased 7 percent to 21.7 billion liras ($12
billion) since the end of 2012, and they’re expected to grow
about 30 percent this year, according to Mehmet Bostan, chairman
of the Istanbul-based  Pension Monitoring Center .  The Turkish Capital Markets Board ruled earlier this month
that investment funds based on gold, Islamic-compliant sukuk and
other non-interest-bearing instruments can be set up and added
to portfolios of private pension funds.  “With funds based on gold and other interest-free
instruments also being added to pension fund portfolios, we’ve
started seeing and will see significant growth,” Yurtcan said.  Turkey’s gross national savings dropped to 12.3 percent of
gross domestic product last year, according to  International
Monetary Fund  data. That compares with 28.7 percent for  Russia ,
16.3 percent for  Poland  and 20.4 percent for  Hungary , IMF data
show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sibel Akbay in Istanbul at 
 sakbay@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  