-- Vanguard Health Declines After Losing Medicaid Contract
-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 2013-03-25T15:41:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-25/vanguard-health-declines-after-losing-medicaid-contract.html
Vanguard Health Systems Inc. (VHS) , the
hospital operator whose largest shareholder is  Blackstone Group
LP (BX) , fell the most in almost five months after losing a managed-
care contract with  Arizona ’s Medicaid system.  Vanguard  fell  8.2 percent to $15.26 at 11:38 a.m. in  New
York . The shares dropped as much as 15 percent for their biggest
intraday decline since Oct. 31.  Vanguard’s Phoenix Health Plan unit, which covers 186,000
low-income people in nine Arizona counties, said its acute care
program contract with the state’s Medicaid system won’t be
renewed for the next fiscal year, starting Oct. 1. Losing the
contract will cost the company “substantially all” of its
earnings from that unit, Nashville, Tennessee-based Vanguard
said in a statement yesterday without providing a dollar value.  “The contract loss for VHS is disappointing and will have
a material impact on earnings as approximately 13 percent of
revenue is derived from the” Arizona program, Chris Rigg, an
analyst at Susquehanna Financial in New York, said today in a
note to clients.  Vanguard was beat out by companies including units of
 UnitedHealth Group Inc. (UNH)  and  Health Net Inc. (HNT)  Medicaid is the
state-run health program for lower-income residents.  “After serving the residents of Arizona for nearly 30
years under the AHCCCS program, we were both surprised and
disappointed to receive this news,” Charles N. Martin,
Vanguard’s chairman, chief executive officer and president, said
in the statement.  Decision Protest  Vanguard said it has until April 1 to protest the decision,
and is “evaluating the scoring of its bid.” Vanguard also
asked to continue serving 116,000 patients currently enrolled in
Phoenix Health in Maricopa and Pima counties, the two largest in
the state. If approved, Vanguard couldn’t add new customers to
the plan.  UnitedHealth will expand its operations in the state to six
counties from four. The company also won a statewide contract
for children’s rehabilitative services, according to a  statement 
from Arizona’s Medicaid agency.  A spokesman for the Minnetonka, Minnesota-based company,
Tyler Mason, didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail seeking
comment.  Health Net also won a contract for patients in Maricopa
County, which includes Phoenix, the state’s largest city. The
contract may add 15 to 20 cents “over time” to the  Woodland
Hills , California-based company’s earnings per share, Rigg said
in his note.  UnitedHealth rose less than 1 percent to $54.80, while
Health Net increased less than 1 percent to $28.42.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Wayne in Washington at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  