-- Venezuela to Sell $200 Million in First Dollar Auction
-- B y   N a t h a n   C r o o k s   a n d   C o r i n a   P o n s
-- 2013-03-25T20:44:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-25/venezuela-to-sell-200-million-in-first-dollar-auction.html
Venezuela ’s government will sell
$200 million in its first dollar auction on a secondary foreign
exchange system created this month to halt the bolivar’s decline
on the black market.  Importers registered with the South American country’s
currency board need to submit bids by 2 p.m. Caracas time on
March 26, and results will be published the following day, the
Finance Ministry said today in a statement. Bids must start at
$30,000 and not exceed $2 million, it said.  The greenbacks will be auctioned with prices starting at
the official rate of 6.3 bolivars per dollar, and any additional
bolivar revenue the government receives from a higher price will
be channeled to a fund to increase economic activity, the
ministry said. The bolivar has depreciated 19 percent on the
black market since the government devalued the official rate and
shut down the central bank’s secondary currency exchange known
as Sitme on Feb. 8, according to Dolar Today, a website that
tracks the exchange rate on the Venezuelan border with Colombia.  Today’s auction is offering “a large amount,” Alejandro Arreaza, an analyst with Barclays Plc in New York, said today in
an e-mailed response to questions. “It’s five times what the
Sitme had sold on a daily basis. If they hold an auction like
this once a week, it will be equivalent to the Sitme.”  ‘Significant Additional Flexibility’  The Finance Ministry didn’t say today how often the dollar
auctions would be held or give the date of the next sale and has
the discretion to decide which companies can participate in the
auction, according to the statement. The new market will
prioritize the supply of dollars for the purchase of medicine,
health-care equipment, food and industrial equipment, Finance
Minister Jorge Giordani said on March 19.  The new foreign exchange system represents a “new
devaluation of the currency to improve the government balance
and reduce its need to issue debt,” Arreaza and fellow Barclays
Plc analyst  Alejandro Grisanti  wrote in a note sent today by e-
mail.  “The initial conditions give significant additional
flexibility to the exchange system, which is likely to lead to a
large devaluation of the currency,” the analysts said. “We
would expect that to have a positive effect in fiscal terms,
increasing the government’s revenues (in bolivar terms) from the
oil exports.”  Black Market  Importers turn to the black, or parallel, market when they
can’t get access to foreign currency at the official rate. The
rate reached 23.40 bolivars per dollar today, according to Dolar
Today.  Acting President Nicolas Maduro said on March 21 that the
South American country is investigating cases of foreign
exchange corruption and threatened “speculators” with jail
terms.  The annual inflation rate rose to 22.8 percent in February,
the highest in 10 months. The scarcity index, which measures the
amount of goods that are out of stock in the market, fell to
19.7 percent last month from a record high of 20.4 percent in
January, according to the central bank report.  The yield on Venezuela’s benchmark 9.25 percent dollar bond
due in 2027 fell five basis points, or 0.05 percentage point, to
9.40 percent at 4:35 p.m. in New York. The price rose 0.39 cent
to 98.84 cents on the dollar.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nathan Crooks in Caracas at 
 ncrooks@bloomberg.net ;
Corina Pons in Caracas at 
 crpons@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net . 