-- Vietnam Cuts Interest Rates to Aid Growth After Inflation Slowed
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-03-25T07:18:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-25/vietnam-cuts-interest-rates-to-aid-growth-after-inflation-slowed.html
Vietnam ’s central bank cut  interest
rates  as inflation slowed, seeking to spur lending and boost
consumption after a credit crunch slowed economic growth to a
13-year low.  The  State Bank  of Vietnam lowered the refinance rate to 8
percent from 9 percent and the discount rate to 6 percent from 7
percent, according to a statement on its  website . It also
reduced the cap on dong deposit interest rates to 7.5 percent
from 8 percent. The new rates are effective March 26.  Vietnam last reduced borrowing costs in December, even as
the World Bank said the nation faces the risk of premature
easing that may trigger a resurgence in inflation. The  economy 
grew 5.03 percent last year after rising levels of bad debt at
lenders curbed expansion, leading the government to pledge to
speed up the restructuring of its banking system.  “A lower deposit interest rate cap will enable banks to
reduce lending rates and give more loans, which can bolster
businesses,” Hoang Thach Lan, head of the brokerage unit at Ho
Chi Minh City-based MHB Securities Co., said before the decision.
“It may fuel inflation though, so we need to be mindful.”  The Ho Chi Minh City Stock Exchange’s VN Index gained 0.7
percent at the close today. The dong was little changed at
20,945 against the dollar.  Consumer prices  rose 6.64 percent in March from a year
earlier, after climbing 7.02 percent in February, according to
government data.  The central bank said in December it is targeting credit
growth of 12 percent this year, up from about 7 percent in 2012.
Bank loan growth fell 0.28 percent in the January-to-February
period from the end of last year, according to government data.  Master Plan  Prime Minister Nguyen Tan Dung in February approved a
master plan to revamp the economy and said a roadmap to clean up
state-owned enterprises that account for about 37 percent of
gross domestic product will be ready by June. In March, he
appointed Deputy Prime Minister Vu Van Ninh and central bank
Governor Nguyen Van Binh to oversee a panel to restructure the
banking system by 2015.  The health of Vietnam’s lenders is a growing concern, the
 World Bank  said in December, citing their deteriorating asset
quality and slow progress in restructuring. The lender forecasts
economic expansion will be 5.5 percent this year, a third
straight year of growth below 6 percent.  Slower economic growth curbed import demand and helped
Vietnam post an annual  trade surplus  last year for the first
time in two decades. At the same time, improving exports helped
build foreign-exchange reserves.  Vietnam’s central bank lowered interest rates six times
last year, with the last reductions taking effect Dec. 24.  -- Nguyen Dieu Tu Uyen. Editors: Rina Chandran, Oanh Ha  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nguyen Dieu Tu Uyen in Hanoi at 
 uyen1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  