-- Vodafone Narrows Market-Value Gap to Verizon on U.S. Venture
-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n   a n d   S c o t t   M o r i t z
-- 2013-03-25T20:27:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-25/vodafone-closes-gap-behind-verizon-on-u-s-wireless-stake-value.html
Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  narrowed its
market-value gap to  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ)  as investors
consider a merger or an agreement over their U.S. wireless
venture to be increasingly likely.  Vodafone has risen 11 percent since March 5, when Bloomberg
reported that Verizon is working to resolve their relationship
this year, and the companies have discussed a range of options
including the idea of the U.S. carrier acquiring 100 percent of
the Verizon Wireless venture.  Verizon is eager to take full ownership to win more control
over its most profitable division, people familiar with the
matter have said. Vodafone could get $115 billion for its 45
percent stake in the venture, which has become the largest U.S.
wireless service provider, according to analysts.  “All U.S. paths lead to value for Vodafone shareholders,”
Emmet Kelly, director of European telecommunications for Bank of
America Merrill Lynch, wrote in a note today. “The most likely
scenario would see Vodafone shareholders receive a premium into
a Vodafone-Verizon merger. Alternatively, Vodafone could sell
its Verizon Wireless stake.”  Value Divergence  Vodafone, the second-largest wireless service provider
behind  China Mobile Ltd. (941) , rose 2 percent to close at 187.20
pence in  London , giving the carrier a market value of 91.6
billion pounds ($139 billion). Verizon climbed 0.3 percent to
$49.16 at the close in  New York , valuing the company at $141
billion.  The Sunday Times reported yesterday that Newbury, England-
based Vodafone is leaning toward a clean break from the U.S.,
and a deal could be reached as early as summer, citing
“investors as well as industry and banking sources” it didn’t
identify. Vodafone may get as much as $135 billion by selling
its Verizon Wireless stake, the newspaper said.  A Vodafone spokesman declined to comment.  Verizon, which has benefited from steady growth of its U.S.
wireless business, has jumped 25 percent in the past 12 months,
about triple the increase in Vodafone’s stock, which was weighed
down by  Europe ’s sagging economy. In December, Verizon’s market
value exceeded Vodafone’s for the first time in a decade.  Vodafone has reported declining service  revenue  for the
past two quarters as European customers grapple with slowing
economies by cutting spending. The company is eliminating jobs,
including 1,700 positions in Italy and  Spain . Chief Executive
Vittorio Colao is increasingly relying on operations outside
Europe, such as Africa and the U.S.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Moritz in New York at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  