-- Wal-Mart Sues Union in Florida Over Demonstrations
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2013-03-26T17:44:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-25/wal-mart-sues-union-in-florida-over-demonstrations.html
Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) , the world’s
largest retailer, filed trespassing claims in a lawsuit against
the  United Food and Commercial Workers International Union  and
other groups holding demonstrations at its stores in Florida.  The  company , in a complaint filed March 22 in Orange
County, Florida, seeks a court order restraining the group and
several individuals from trespassing on Wal-Mart property to
picket, demonstrate, disrupt customers or confront managers.
Wal-Mart employees aren’t unionized.  The lawsuit is aimed at the UFCW, its subsidiary OURWalmart
and another group that allegedly trespassed 73 times in 13
states in the past year, Steven Wheeless, a Wal-Mart attorney,
said in a letter to the union’s general counsel filed with the
 lawsuit .  “Wal-Mart files this action after repeatedly warning the
union that it would act to protect its property interests and
its associates’ work environment if the union did not stop its
illegal conduct,” Wheeless said.  OURWalmart said store managers have reacted in an extreme
manner and harassed one  Florida  employee when she walked off the
job and peacefully protested with her family outside a store.  “This lawsuit looks to be another meritless attempt by
Wal-Mart to silence workers and the community rather than hear
our concerns,” the union said today in an e-mail. “Rather than
creating good jobs with steady hours and affordable health care,
Wal-Mart’s pattern is to focus its energies on infringing on our
freedom of speech.”  The case is Wal-Mart Stores Inc. v. United Food and
Commercial Workers International Union, Circuit Court, Orange
County, Florida.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  