-- Western Pipeline Capacity to Trai Oil Output, Report Says
-- B y   E d w a r d   W e l s c h
-- 2013-03-25T11:45:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-25/western-pipeline-capacity-to-trai-oil-output-report-says.html
More oil will need to be
transported by rail over the next 10 years as pipeline capacity
from Western  Canada , the U.S. Bakken shale deposit and the
Rockies lags rising production, according to a report by  ITG
Investment Research .  Even if all planned projects such as Keystone XL and
pipelines to Canada’s coast are built, about 600,000 more
barrels a day must move by rail in those areas by mid-2014,
according to the report by Calgary-based analysts for the firm,
a unit of the  New York  brokerage  Investment Technology Group
Inc. (ITG)   Oil by rail will have to increase even more rapidly from
its current level of about 1 million barrels if no new pipelines
to Canada’s coast are built, according to the report. If three
proposed pipelines aren’t completed, rail will have to carry
more than 2 million barrels a day by 2018 and more than
3.5 million barrels by 2023, it said.  “If we remove Northern Gateway, the Trans Mountain
Expansion, and Eastern Access from the pipeline stack, rail
capacity would need to grow through the forecast horizon,”
exceeding 2 million barrels a day by 2018, the ITG analysts
wrote. “We consider this an improbable scenario because it
assumes that major new pipeline construction is halted for the
next decade.”  The report, entitled “No More Guessing: Canada” estimates
that Canadian production will grow to 5.7 million barrels a day
by 2025, making Canada the world’s fourth-largest oil producer
after the U.S.,  Saudi Arabia  and Russia, from its  current spot 
as sixth largest. The estimate is derived from ITG’s analysis of
historical well data in Canada and announced projects.  Growth Forecasts  ITG’s Canadian growth estimate compares with 5.6 million
barrels a day in 2025 in the production  forecast  released last
year by the Canadian Association of Petroleum Producers, an
industry group.  TransCanada Corp. (TRP) ’s Keystone XL pipeline is awaiting a U.S.
government decision, to come later this year. If approved, it
will bring as much as 830,000 barrels a day from Canada and the
Bakken to refineries on the  Gulf Coast  after it’s built in 2015.  The company is also contemplating a so-called Eastern
Access conversion of a pipeline from gas to oil that would
transport as much as 1 million barrels a day to refineries in
eastern Canada, TransCanada’s President of Energy and Oil
Pipelines Alex Pourbaix said on the company’s fourth-quarter
conference call last month.  Enbridge Inc. (ENB) ’s  Northern Gateway  pipeline would bring as
much as 525,000 barrels a day to the British Columbia port of
Kitimat. The company expects it could complete the project in
2017.  Kinder Morgan Energy Partners LP (KMP)  plans almost to triple the
size of its  Trans Mountain  pipeline from near  Edmonton , Alberta,
to Vancouver to 890,000 barrels a day by 2017.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edward Welsch in Calgary
at   ewelsch1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net . 