-- Why Cyprus Is a Special Case
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-03-25T22:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-25/why-cyprus-is-a-special-case.html
The Cyprus bailout  deal  is a big
improvement over the first botched attempt. It doesn’t repeat
the error of breaching the guarantee on bank deposits up to
100,000 euros. Instead, it restructures the two biggest banks
and forces their creditors, including large depositors, to take
huge losses.  Yet the euro area’s leaders must do a lot more to convince
Europeans and the markets that they have drawn the right lessons
from this debacle. They need to say clearly why Cyprus is an
exception and commit to integrating the euro area further so
that it’s less vulnerable to such crises. They’re failing on
both points.  The head of the euro area group of finance ministers,
Jeroen Dijsselbloem, appeared to draw all the wrong conclusions
in a March 25  interview , after the new deal was struck. He
suggested that the Cyprus pact offered a new template for
resolving the debt crisis.  Under this new model, the burden of repairing banks would
shift from taxpayers to private creditors. Specifically,
Dijsselbloem said he hoped the new approach meant that the 500-
billion-euro European Stability Mechanism would never be used to
directly recapitalize banks.  Policy Whiplash  Leaders from the wealthier northern-tier countries,
including Germany,  Finland  and the Netherlands (Dijsselbloem is
Dutch) advocate such an approach because it would avoid further
transfers from north to south. This would be fine if it were
possible. It isn’t -- not if the euro area is to remain intact.  Upon hearing Dijsselbloem’s remarks, any bondholder or
depositor in a weak Spanish or Italian bank would be inclined to
run, leading banks in those countries to collapse. Thankfully,
he quickly recanted in a short  statement , which said Cyprus is
not a model.  Such fumbling is another example of the whiplash euro-area
leaders have been causing. Is there, or isn’t there, a guarantee
on deposits below 100,000 euros, for example? Just a week ago,
the so-called troika of euro area creditors -- the European
Commission, the European Central Bank and the International
Monetary Fund -- said there wasn’t: They agreed to a deal in
which the Cypriot government would take 6.75 percent from all
deposits below the threshold.  The latest Cyprus bailout is peppered with commitments to
the “principle” of a deposit guarantee. So which version of
euro-area intentions should depositors in Spain believe?  National leaders and the IMF should state clearly why
Cyprus is different. Unlike Spain, Portugal or Ireland, Cypriot
banks are in trouble because they’ve attracted waves of hot
money from abroad, in particular  Russia . Cypriot banks have
assets eight times bigger than the nation’s gross domestic
product. It’s wrong to ask taxpayers, whether in Cyprus or
Germany, to guarantee such investments. The banks’ owners should
have to take any losses, and the banks should be reduced to a
more sustainable size.  Luxembourg (a euro-area member with an even higher ratio of
bank assets to GDP than Cyprus) should face similar treatment if
it gets in trouble -- but not Spain or  Italy . This needs to be
spelled out clearly and consistently.  Deposit Insurance  Dijsselbloem and others need to be equally clear that
they’ve learned their lesson from the debacle over deposit
guarantees. It isn’t enough to state support for a “principle”
that governments can honor or not. The region needs a common
deposit insurance policy as part of the banking union that the
EU is contemplating.  The lesson of Cyprus isn’t that  Germany  and the northern
creditors have finally gotten their way and can leave it to the
private sector to pay for the next crisis, whether in  Greece ,
Slovenia or some other country. The lesson is that Cyprus really
is different, and that more than ever the euro area needs the
institutions that a single-currency system demands. The EU must
pool its risks and accept some level of fiscal transfers.  Action, realistically, will have to wait until after the
German elections in September. But in the meantime the EU should
at least avoid sowing confusion -- or, worse, committing itself
to ideas that will doom the euro.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 