-- Would-Be Terrorist Convicted of Lying About Pakistan Travel
-- B y   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e
-- 2013-03-25T23:47:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-25/would-be-terrorist-convicted-of-lying-about-pakistan-travel-1-.html
A  New York  man who flew to  Pakistan 
allegedly to join the Taliban or al-Qaeda was found guilty of
lying to U.S. agents about the reasons for his trip.  A federal jury in Brooklyn, New York, convicted Abdel
Hameed Shehadeh, 23, today of three counts of making false
statements. Jurors found terrorism was involved in two of the
instances.  Prosecutors alleged that Shehadeh’s objective for the
journey was to wage “violent jihad” while he later told agents
he had intended to attend a religious school, a wedding and an
engagement party.  Shehadeh was denied entry into Pakistan when he arrived in
June 2008 and immediately returned. Federal agents kept in
contact with Shehadeh for more than two years after the event,
at one time leading him to believe, falsely, that he was working
as a government informant.  A lawyer for Shehadeh, Frederick Cohn, argued during the
trial that his client was manipulated and that any statements he
made about his trip were immaterial.  ‘More Care’  The jury “took a great deal of time and more care than I
expected” in reaching its decision, Cohn said to reporters
after the verdict was read. The jury of five men and seven women
began deliberating March 22.  Shehadeh faces a maximum sentence of 21 years in prison.  During the trial, which lasted about a week, witnesses
testifying for the prosecution included law enforcement agents
and two of Shehadeh’s friends who described his interest in
violent jihad.  “As you heard, the defendant wanted to go and be a
martyr,” Assistant U.S. Attorney David Sarratt told jurors in
closing arguments on March 22.  A New York native from  Staten Island , Shehadeh attracted
the attention of U.S. authorities when he purchased a one-way
ticket to Islamabad, according to court documents. Agents first
confronted him at  John F. Kennedy International Airport  before
his plane left and then checked in with him regularly.  Failed Trip  After his failed trip to Pakistan, Shehadeh made other
attempts to fight on behalf of terrorist groups, a federal agent
told jurors during the trial. He tried flying to Amman, Jordan,
where he was denied entry, and bought tickets to Dubai, which he
couldn’t use because he had been placed on the “No Fly” list,
the government said.  Prosecutors alleged that Shehadeh also attempted to join
the U.S. Army so he could turn his gun on fellow soldiers in the
battlefield. He was rejected because he failed to disclose the
Pakistan trip in his travel history, according to court filings.  During the trial, jurors were shown violent messages and
images of al-Qaeda leaders from websites Shehadeh ran that the
government was also investigating. One of the sites,
www.civiljihad.com, displayed a logo that appeared to drip with
blood.  No witnesses were called on behalf of Shehadeh. For much of
the proceeding, he sat calmly next to his lawyers in khaki jail
attire, which he chose to wear even after U.S. District Judge
Eric N. Vitaliano said he could have other clothing given to him
for the trial.  His face showed no reaction when the verdict was read.  “He’s a realist,” Cohn said after the verdict, commenting
on his client’s demeanor. “He knew from the beginning that this
was going to be difficult.”  The case is U.S. v. Shehadeh, 10-cr-01020, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of New York ( Brooklyn ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christie Smythe in Brooklyn at 
 csmythe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  