-- WTI Crude Rises to One-Month High; Brent Spread Narrows
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2013-03-25T12:22:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-25/wti-oil-gains-on-cyprus-deal-brent-premium-narrowest-since-july.html
West Texas Intermediate crude rose
to the highest in a month as Cyprus agreed on an international
bailout, allaying concern that  Europe ’s debt crisis will worsen.
WTI narrowed its discount to Brent to the least since July.  Futures climbed as much as 1.1 percent in New York after
capping a third weekly gain on March 22. Cyprus agreed on the
outlines of an aid package with the European Union,  European
Central Bank  and  International Monetary Fund . Iraq will fail to
achieve output targets for next year, the chairman of the
country’s oil and energy committee said. Global markets are a
“little” oversupplied, Kuwaiti Oil Minister Hani Hussain told
reporters in the Gulf nation.  “The market has calmed down a bit around Cyprus,” said
Thina Saltvedt, an analyst at Nordea Bank AG, who predicts  Brent
crude  will average $110 a barrel in the next quarter. “We
expect momentum to pick up in the world economy and support
demand for oil.”  WTI for May delivery rose as much as 98 cents to $94.69 a
barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange , the highest since Feb. 21, and was at $94.48 as of
12:18 p.m. London time. The volume of all futures traded was 27
percent below the 100-day average for the time of day. The
contract advanced $1.26 to $93.71 a barrel on March 22, the
highest close since March 18.  Cyprus Bailout  Brent for May settlement was at $108.32 a barrel, up 66
cents, on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. The
volume of all futures traded was 31 percent below the 100-day
average. The European benchmark crude’s premium to WTI narrowed
to as little as $13.44, the least since July 10.  Euro-area finance ministers approved the agreement between
Cyprus and the so-called “troika” of international
institutions in overnight talks in Brussels. The deal paves the
way for 10 billion euros ($13 billion) of emergency loans and
makes Cyprus the fifth country to tap a rescue since the euro
debt crisis started in  Greece  in 2009. The European Union
accounted for 16 percent of the world’s oil demand in 2011,
according to  BP Plc (BP/) ’s Statistical Review of World Energy.  “If we see some recovery of the situation of the European
crisis, including Cyprus and others, we will see the commodity
markets be more positive,” said  Tetsu Emori , a commodity fund
manager at Astmax Investment Management Inc. in  Tokyo . “Selling
pressure has disappeared, and WTI has hit a bottom at around
$90. The market should be turning around, with upside to $94.”  Bullish Bets  Money managers raised bullish bets on WTI in the week ended
March 19, according to the Commodity Futures Trading Commission.  Net-long positions in WTI held by money managers, including
hedge funds, commodity pools and commodity-trading advisers,
rose by 5,324 futures and options combined, or 3.2 percent, to
172,268, the CFTC’s Commitments of Traders report showed last
week. They also increased bullish bets on gasoline for the first
time in four weeks.  WTI’s gain may stall as prices approach technical
resistance at the 50-day moving average, at $94.37 a barrel
today, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Sell orders are
typically clustered near resistance levels.  Brent-WTI Narrowing  In London,  hedge funds  and other money managers raised
 bullish bets  on Brent crude from their lowest level in three
months, according to data from ICE Futures Europe.  Speculative bets that prices will rise, in futures and
options combined, outnumbered short positions by 126,414 lots in
the week ended March 19, the London-based exchange said today in
its weekly Commitment of Traders report. The increase of 6,982
contracts, or 5.9 percent, is the first in six weeks. Last week
net-longs fell to their lowest since Dec. 18.  Morgan Stanley predicted a “marginal narrowing” of the
difference between Brent and WTI, with the spread averaging
$14.50 this year. The gap may contract faster than the bank
forecasts if BP’s refinery in Whiting,  Indiana , resumes
operations after maintenance earlier than scheduled, Adam Longson, an analyst in  New York , wrote in a report today.  The  Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries  isn’t
concerned by production of oil and natural gas from shale
formations in the U.S. as this will stabilize global markets in
the long term, Kuwaiti Oil Minister Hani Hussain said today.
Crude prices will probably remain near current levels, he said.  Iraq is unlikely to reach its output target of 4.5 million
barrels a day in 2014 because of bureaucratic obstacles and the
absence of a national energy law, Adnan al-Janabi, chairman of
the country’s oil and energy committee, said today at a
conference in Dubai.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Grant Smith in  London  at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Raj Rajendran at 
 rrajendran4@bloomberg.net  