-- WTI Oil Rises to Near Five-Week High on Economic Rebound
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2013-03-26T12:43:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-25/wti-oil-trades-near-five-week-high-u-s-stockpiles-seen-rising.html
West Texas Intermediate advanced to
trade near its highest level in five weeks amid signs of
economic recovery in the U.S., the world’s biggest oil consumer.  Futures climbed as much as 0.8 percent. Orders for U.S.
durable goods rose more than forecast in February, propelled by
automobiles and a rebound in commercial aircraft. Sales of new
homes posted the best back-to-back performance in four years,
economists said before data today. WTI slipped earlier on
estimates that U.S. crude stockpiles  increased  by 1.4 million
barrels to 384.1 million last week, the highest since June.  “The U.S. is showing signs of improving,” said Thina Saltvedt, an analyst at Nordea Bank AG in Oslo. “We will see
the momentum in the world economy reach a bottom in the second
quarter, and then increase, which should be positive for oil the
oil demand outlook.”  WTI for May delivery climbed as much as 80 cents, or 0.8
percent, to $95.61 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New
York  Mercantile Exchange, and was at $95.52 as of 12:36 p.m. in
 London . The volume of all futures traded was in line with the
100-day average for the time of day. The contract rose as high
as $95.65 yesterday, its strongest intraday level since Feb. 20.  Brent for May settlement rose 5 cents to $108.22 a barrel
on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. The volume of
all futures traded was 45 percent above the 100-day average.
Prices are down 2.6 percent in 2013. The European benchmark
crude’s premium to WTI was at $12.76. It closed at $13.36
yesterday, the lowest closing level since July.  U.S. Supplies  Bookings for goods meant to last at least three years rose
5.7 percent, the most since September, after a 3.8 percent drop
the prior month, a Commerce Department report showed today in
 Washington . The  median  forecast of 80 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg called for a 3.9 percent advance. Figures on capital
goods pointed to a pickup in business spending this quarter.  A separate release at 9 a.m. New York time will show that
 house prices  in 20 American cities advanced 7.9 percent on
average in the 12 months through January, another Bloomberg
survey showed. That would be the S&P/Case-Shiller index’s
largest increase since June 2006.  FACTS  Global Energy Inc. (GEYI)  forecast that crude will drop by
as much as $40 a barrel by 2015 or 2016 and sell at $80 to $90 a
barrel by the end of the decade, the consultant’s chairman,
Fereidun Fesharaki, said today at an industry conference in
Fujairah in the  United Arab Emirates . Prices will fall on
increased output, production of liquid fuels from shale in the
U.S., and greater use of natural gas, he said.  U.S. gasoline  stockpiles  probably slid by 1 million barrels
last week to 221.8 million, according to the Bloomberg survey
taken before the report by the Energy Information
Administration, the Energy Department’s statistical arm.  Crude Output  Inventories of  distillate fuel , a category that includes
heating oil and diesel, probably fell 1 million barrels to 118.8
million, the Bloomberg survey showed. A decline of that size
would leave supplies at the lowest level since December.  The industry-funded  American Petroleum Institute  is
scheduled to release separate inventory data today. The API
collects stockpile information on a voluntary basis from
operators of refineries, bulk terminals and pipelines. The
government requires that reports be filed with the EIA for its
weekly survey.  “Prices have come down to more realistic levels and we
expect them to remain here,” said Filip Petersson, a
commodities strategist at Stockholm-based SEB AB, who predicts
that Brent, the European benchmark, will average $107.50 a
barrel during the second quarter.  Saudi Arabian Oil Co., the world’s biggest crude exporter,
expects to become the top producer of refined products, Khalid al-Falih, its chief executive officer, said today in Beijing.  The company known as  Saudi Aramco  is expanding refining to
meet domestic demand and export products that fetch higher
prices than crude. It plans to double its global refining
capacity to 8 million barrels a day in 10 years, al-Falih, the
company’s CEO, said in January 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Raj Rajendran at 
 rrajendran4@bloomberg.net  