-- WTI Oil Rises to One-Month High on Cyprus
-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2013-03-25T19:41:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-25/wti-oil-rises-to-one-month-high-on-cyprus.html
West Texas Intermediate crude rose
to a one-month high as Cyprus agreed with creditors on a
bailout, reducing concern that Europe’s debt crisis will deepen.
WTI narrowed its discount to Brent oil to the least since July.  Futures climbed 1.2 percent after Cyprus accepted the
outlines of an aid package from the European Union,  European
Central Bank  and  International Monetary Fund . Prices retreated
from the day’s highs after a report that a European official
said the bank-restructuring plan should be viewed as a template
for the rest of the region. The difference between WTI and Brent
futures slipped over the past week as U.S. refinery demand and
North Sea output increased.  “The European outlook has improved a great deal with
adoption of this plan,” said Jason Schenker, president of
Prestige Economics LLC, an Austin, Texas-based energy
consultant. “Fears about a default by Cyprus weighed on the
market last week. This resolution is a huge relief.”  Crude oil for May delivery rose $1.10 to $94.81 a barrel on
the  New York Mercantile Exchange , the highest settlement since
Feb. 19. The volume of all futures traded was 30 percent above
the 100-day average at 3:40 p.m. Prices have advanced 3.3
percent this year.  Brent oil for May settlement increased 51 cents, or 0.5
percent, to end the session at $108.17 a barrel. The volume of
all futures traded was little changed from the 100-day average.
The European benchmark crude’s premium to WTI narrowed to
$13.36, the least since July 3.  Emergency Loans  Euro-area finance ministers approved the agreement between
Cyprus and the lenders in overnight talks in Brussels. The deal
paves the way for 10 billion euros ($13 billion) of emergency
loans and makes Cyprus the fifth country to tap a rescue since
the  European debt crisis  started in  Greece  in 2009.  “Worries about a potential default had been preventing us
from going higher,” said  Gene McGillian , an analyst and broker
at Tradition Energy in Stamford,  Connecticut .  The European sovereign-debt crisis has reduced economic
growth and fuel demand as it spread from Greece to Ireland,
Portugal, Italy, Spain and Cyprus.  Stocks fell as Reuters reported that Dutch Finance Minister
Jeroen Dijsselbloem said Cyprus’s bank-restructuring plan should
be viewed as a template for the rest of the  euro zone .  Markets regained strength after Federal Reserve Chairman
 Ben S. Bernanke  said low  interest rates  in advanced nations
benefit the global economy while not creating a disruptive
diversion of trade through weaker currencies. Low rates support
domestic demand, Bernanke said today in a speech at the  London
School  of Economics.  WTI-Brent Spread  “We’re not just up on the Cyprus news, there’s also a
massive unwinding of the WTI-Brent spread,” said  Stephen Schork , president of the Schork Group Inc. in Villanova,
 Pennsylvania . “Demand at refineries here is rising from its
seasonal nadir and there’s plenty of supply in the North Sea.”  U.S.  refineries operated  at 83.5 percent of capacity in the
seven days ended March 13, up 2.5 percentage points from the
prior week, an Energy Information Administration report on March
20 showed. Units are often idled for maintenance in late winter
as attention shifts away from heating oil and before gasoline
consumption rises.  Exports of the 12 main North Sea crude grades will rise by
8 percent in April to 2.04 million barrels a day, the most since
June, according to loading programs obtained by Bloomberg.
Supplies have been boosted by the resumption of the Buzzard and
Elgin-Franklin oilfields, and the restart of the Brent Pipeline
system following a leak.  Missing Targets  Iraq is unlikely to reach its output target of 4.5 million
barrels a day in 2014 because of bureaucratic obstacles and the
absence of a national energy law, Adnan al-Janabi, chairman of
the parliament’s oil and energy committee, said today at a
conference in Dubai.  The  Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries  isn’t
concerned about production of oil and natural gas from shale
formations in the U.S. as this will stabilize global markets in
the long term, Kuwaiti Oil Minister Hani Hussain said today.
Prices will probably remain near current levels, he said.  Money managers raised bullish bets on WTI in the week ended
March 19, according to the Commodity Futures Trading Commission.
Net-long positions held by money managers, including  hedge
funds , commodity pools and commodity-trading advisers, rose by
5,324 futures and options combined, or 3.2 percent, to 172,268,
the CFTC’s Commitments of Traders report showed last week.  Bullish Bets  In  London , hedge funds and other money managers raised
 bullish bets  on  Brent crude , according to data from ICE Futures
Europe. Speculative bets that prices will rise, in futures and
options combined, outnumbered short positions by 126,414 lots in
the week ended March 19, the exchange said today.  Implied volatility for at-the-money WTI crude options
expiring in May was at 17.2 percent, an decrease from 17.5
percent March 22. The figures have slipped from 24.7 percent on
Feb. 21.  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 596,502
contracts as of 3:39 p.m. It totaled 432,118 contracts March 22,
20 percent below the three-month average. Open interest was 1.65
million contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Shenk in  New York  at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Banker at 
 bbanker@bloomberg.net  