-- Yield-Rise Bet Spurs Most Floating Sales Since ’09: Muni Credit
-- B y   M a r t i n   Z .   B r a u n
-- 2013-03-25T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-25/yield-rise-bet-spurs-most-floating-sales-since-09-muni-credit.html
U.S. states and cities are on pace
to sell the most floating-rate bonds without bank credit support
in four years as they respond to demand from investors betting
interest rates will rise.  Connecticut, Massachusetts and South Carolina’s student-
loan finance agency are among borrowers that have offered $2.5
billion of such debt this year, compared with $817 million in
the first quarter of 2012, data compiled by Bloomberg show. New
York City sold $248 million last month, its first publicly
offered issue of the debt. Nationwide, sales reached about $7.9
billion in 2012, the most since at least 2009.  “More accounts now are buying them, because from their
perspective it’s a way to say that you’re effectively building
in an interest-rate hedge,” said Lyle Fitterer, a managing
director in Menomonee Falls,  Wisconsin , at Wells Capital
Management. The company owns about $3 billion of the debt across
its funds, he said.  With the U.S. jobless  rate  at a four-year low and the Dow
Jones Industrial Average setting a record high this month,
bondholders are using floating-rate securities to protect
against higher interest rates as the economy gains strength.
Two-year Treasury yields will probably be almost double the
current level of 0.25 percent in a year, according to the median
forecast of 53 analysts in a Bloomberg survey.  Crisis Trigger  Floating-rate notes were introduced in the $3.7 trillion
municipal market following the credit crisis that struck in
2007, when the market for adjustable-rate debt such as auction-
rate securities collapsed. Yields on auction-rates surged when
Wall Street banks stopped stepping in to buy the debt at
periodic auctions.  At the same time, local governments had to draw on bank
credit facilities to support other variable-rate debt.  To avoid the cost of such credit lines, municipalities have
turned to floating-rate notes. These securities don’t require a
bank backstop because investors don’t have the option of
periodically selling the notes at par plus accrued interest.  “The creation of publicly offered FRNs that enable clients
to access the short end of the curve is really a natural
evolution to those events of the last five years,” said Chris Hamel, head of muni finance in New York at RBC Capital Markets
LLC.  Financing Irises  States and localities have issued about $22 billion of tax-
exempt, floating-rate notes since 2009, or 1.4 percent of munis
sold, according to Bloomberg data.  The J. Paul Getty Trust in Los Angeles, whose museum
features Van Gogh’s “Irises,” plans to issue $163 million of
the notes this week. The securities will pay a variable rate
tied to the Securities Industry and Financial Markets
Association  seven-day swap index , which was 0.12 percent on
March 13, the highest this year. The index tracks floating-rate
bonds that are high-grade and tax-exempt.  In part, the deal will convert so-called variable-rate
demand bonds, or VRDBs, backstopped by a portion of the trust’s
investments and two external credit lines, Patricia Woodworth,
the trust’s chief financial officer, said in an interview.  One reason Getty wanted to sell floating- rather than
fixed-rate debt is because the trust had hedged the VRDBs with
 interest-rate swaps . The trust would have had to pay $150
million to cancel the swaps if it replaced the VRDBs with fixed-
rate debt, Woodworth said.  Cheaper Option  It’s also cheaper to issue floating-rate notes than pay for
the credit lines on the VRDBs, she said.  The floating-rate notes that top-rated Getty is selling
include a so-called soft put, which gives the trust a year to
refinance them if it’s unable to buy them back from investors on
the April 1, 2016, mandatory tender date. The trust will have to
pay interest rates as high as 9 percent on the debt if the put
is triggered.  “We don’t expect to take it beyond the soft-put date,”
Woodworth said. “We fully expect to roll them on that date.”  London-based  Barclays Plc (BARC)  and  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , based in
San Francisco, are managing the deal.  As investors clamor for such notes and more dealers trade
them, providing more liquidity, prices have risen, making them
less attractive, Fitterer said.  More than 20 percent of the assets in Wells’s ultra-short
and short-term muni funds are floating-rate, he said.  Jersey Gains  New Jersey Economic Development Authority floating-rate
notes maturing in February 2018, and rated A+ by Standard &
Poor’s, traded at about 104 cents on the dollar March 21,
Bloomberg data show. That’s up from par when they were issued in
January 2011.  Investors are better off buying fixed-rate bonds if they
yield more than floating-rate notes on a fixed-equivalent basis,
Fitterer said.  New York City last month sold floating-rate notes as part
of a $1.3 billion general-obligation issue.  The notes replaced variable-rate debt on which bank
facilities were expiring, said Carol Kostik, deputy comptroller
for public finance.  The city sold a $100 million block of floating-rate notes
maturing in 2025 at the SIFMA rate plus 0.55 percentage point,
which equals 0.66 percent. That compares with a 2.49 percent
yield on fixed-rate bonds maturing that year.  Rate Risk  If the city doesn’t redeem the floating-rate notes or
convert them to a different interest-rate mode on or before
April 2, 2018, it must pay a higher rate, Kostik said.  “We’re saving money today and then we’ve got room for
rates to rise before we start losing money on that trade,”
Kostik said.  The floating-rate securities also help the city, which sold
$11 billion of fixed-rate bonds last year, diversify its
investor base.  “It’s important to have other pockets of demand,” Kostik
said.  The municipal market starts this week facing an issuance
lull. Local governments and agencies led by Northeast Ohio
Regional Sewer District are set to offer about $4 billion of
debt this holiday-shortened week, the  slowest period  since the
start of the year. Sifma recommends that the U.S. bond market
shut March 29 to observe Good Friday.  Issuance Lull  The slowdown may bolster munis as benchmark yields have
been above those on Treasuries for eight straight days, the
longest span since October, Bloomberg data show.  Investors pulled about $261 million from muni mutual funds
last week, the biggest withdrawal this year, Lipper US Fund
Flows data show. Munis tend to lose value in March as investors
sell to raise cash for tax payments before the April 15 filing
deadline.  At 2.01 percent,  yields  on benchmark 10-year munis are
close to an 11-month high and compare with 1.93 percent on
federal securities, Bloomberg data show.  The  ratio  of the two interest rates is about 104 percent,
compared with an average of about 92 percent since 2001. As that
percentage rises, local bonds become cheaper relative to
Treasuries.  Even with the move higher in the percentage, “ratios could
continue to increase, due to tax-selling” and demand for
Treasuries, Citigroup Inc. analysts wrote in a March 22 report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Martin Z. Braun in New York at 
 mbraun6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  