-- YY Growth Fueled by Virtual Teddy Bears Lures Tiger Funds: Tech
-- B y   L u l u   Y i l u n   C h e n
-- 2013-03-25T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-25/yy-growth-fueled-by-virtual-teddy-bears-lures-tiger-funds-tech.html
Ni Linlin  has made a career out of
convincing men to send her virtual teddy bears, necklaces and
blue roses.  Using a laptop in her 10-square-meter (110-square-foot)
room in Qingdao,  China , the 25-year-old entertains as many as
2,000 fans a day as a DJ and singer on  YY Inc. (YY) , a Chinese
entertainment website with nearly half a billion users. She
earns five times more than two years ago when she quit her job
as an office secretary.  Part  American Idol , part online hostess club, the platform
allows freelance entertainers to charge fans a fee for playing
games with them or earn a revenue cut from virtual gifts sold
online. Racy jokes and low-slung tops are allowed, nudity is
not. Guangzhou-based YY has surged 50 percent since its November
listing on the  Nasdaq  and counts Temasek Holdings Pte. and Tiger
Global Management LLC as investors.  “Very often in second- and third-tier cities and rural
areas their only places for entertainment are Internet bars,”
said Jenny Lee, a partner at  Menlo Park , California-based GGV
Capital, which has invested $17 million in the startup.  China’s online-games market is expected to almost double to
84.6 billion yuan ($13.6 billion) in 2016 from 43.4 billion yuan
in 2011, according to the Shanghai-based  iResearch .  YY is “capturing peoples’ desires,” said Lee.  First Encounter  Ni joins about 70 million active users spending more than
an average of 52 hours a month on YY for its entertainment
functions, including karaoke and gaming. The company has 457
million registered user accounts.  What separates YY from rival services like  Tencent Holdings
Ltd (700) ’s QQ voice software, or the live broadcasting service
 9158.com , is better audio quality and more stringent monitoring
of content, said Eric Qiu, an analyst at Guosen Securities Co.  “YY’s product is more stable and there’s no lag in
voice,” said the Hong Kong-based Qiu. The company “usually
shuts down users who go over the line.”  Since YY Music began allowing users to purchase virtual
gifts such as roses and candies in March 2011, the music
business generated 339 million  yuan  in 21 months.  A basic YY membership is 20 yuan -- about $3.20 -- a month
and provides access to expression icons, ring tones and
eliminates the wait-time for chat rooms if they are at capacity.
A premium-level account costs more and allows users to own a
virtual  Rolls-Royce  and oust other members from chatrooms.  Nothing Quite Like It  “In terms of a business model, there really isn’t a
technology company overseas quite like YY,” said Qiu. “It’s
unique.”  In return for user-generated content, YY has set up
revenue-sharing arrangements with performers and generally takes
between 60 and 70 percent of the money entertainers generate,
according to the company’s Chief Financial Officer Eric He.  Ni takes home between 5,000 and 10,000 yuan a month and
spends about four hours a day, four days a week on the platform.
She hosts a radio show, a live video broadcast and plays online
games with her fans in return for fees.  “I’m the sexy mature type, that’s what they like about
me,” said Ni. “You feel like a star. Hundreds of people will
respond to whatever you say.”  About 41 percent of YY’s revenue is generated from online
gaming and 35 percent from its music unit that includes live
performances and karaoke. The company’s  revenue  more than
doubled to 820 million yuan in 2012. It also turned a profit of
89.2 million yuan in 2012, compared with a loss of 83.2 million
yuan in 2011.  English Courses  In the past,  YY  has been subject to fines for user material
deemed inappropriate, according the company’s prospectus. These
days users have the option to flag content and YY uses automatic
censors to scrape images, mine texts or detect unusual traffic
spikes, said CFO He.  Ni, who performs under the stage name Mu Xiaowen, says she
sometimes blows audience members a virtual kiss. “A lot of the
people on YY, to be honest, are just quite bored and use it to
kill time,” she said.  YY sees another opportunity for its revenue sharing model
in online education where it’s attracted  20,000 teachers  to use
its platform to teach everything from foreign languages to
government civil employee examination courses.  Li Shi’an, 44, a deputy principal in a middle school in the
eastern province of Liaoning began teaching English on YY in May
2010, using its free voice software YY Client. He now has about
100 students and earns about 10,000 yuan a month from his online
classes.  Online Reputation  Still, the company’s reputation for being an online gaming
and music platform means that a “big portion” of its future
education users would need to come from other sources, said YY’s
He.  While the company tries to expand from an entertainment
vehicle to a multiplatform service, Ni continues to perform the
role of a virtual girlfriend for many. Perhaps, not for long.  “I need to get married and have kids. I need to find a
boyfriend,” said Ni. “Right now I just stay at home all day.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lulu Yilun Chen in  Hong Kong  at 
 ychen447@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ben Richardson at 
 brichardson8@bloomberg.net  