-- Zambia Ex-President Banda Arrested on Abuse of Power
-- B y   M a t t h e w   H i l l   a n d   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z
-- 2013-03-25T16:20:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-25/zambia-ex-president-banda-arrested-on-abuse-of-power.html
Former Zambian President  Rupiah Banda  was arrested and charged with abuse of authority in
connection with the sale of Nigerian oil when he was in office.  Banda, 76, was released on 500,000 kwacha ($93,000) bail
after surrendering his passport and will appear in court
tomorrow, Namukolo Kasumpa, a spokeswoman for the Government
Joint Investigative Team, said today. Investigators will resume
questioning Banda on April 4.  “He totally denies any wrongdoing,” Sakwiba Sikota,
Banda’s lawyer, said today by mobile phone. “He will be
vindicated by the court.”  Justice Minister Wynter Kabimba read out a list of
allegations against Banda in Parliament on March 15, including
“abuse of authority of office, fraud and misappropriation of
public funds,” leading lawmakers in  Africa ’s largest copper
producer to remove his immunity. Banda became president in 2008
after Levy Mwanawasa died, and he was elected later that year.  Banda’s government diverted money from the sale of Nigerian
crude oil into a separate bank account instead of the National
Treasury, Kabimba said in his statement to parliament.  The Lusaka-based  High Court  will hear an application on
March 27 from Banda that seeks to declare the lifting of his
immunity illegal and unconstitutional, Sikota said. Banda’s
lawyers will ask the Magistrate’s court tomorrow to delay
hearing the criminal case until the superior court has ruled, he
said.  ‘Witch-Hunt’  “It’s not that he’s afraid of the criminal proceedings,
but it’s out of principle that it shouldn’t go ahead” until a
judge has ruled on the civil case, Sikota said.  Zambia’s kwacha fell 0.7 percent, the most in almost a
week, to 5.395 against the dollar by 6:06 p.m. in Lusaka. Yields
on Zambia’s Eurobond were little changed at 5.4031 percent.  Banda also faces allegations of using government money to
buy campaign material, as well as using offshore accounts to
fund “opaque transactions” that indicate  money laundering ,
according to Kabimba’s statement. Government investigators have
questioned Banda three times since Parliament removed his
immunity.  “They’ve rushed these charges which are completely
bogus,” Robert Amsterdam, a lawyer for the former head of
state, said by mobile-phone interview today from  Washington .
“It’s all completely political.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Hill in Lusaka at 
 mhill58@bloomberg.net ;
Andres R. Martinez in Johannesburg at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  