-- Abe’s Easing Push Fuels Speculation on Negative Yields for BOJ
-- B y   T o r u   F u j i o k a   a n d   M a s a h i r o   H i d a k a
-- 2013-02-07T05:08:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/abe-s-easing-push-fuels-speculation-on-negative-yields-for-boj.html
Prime Minister  Shinzo Abe ’s push for
more easing by the Bank of Japan is fueling speculation that it
may have to accept negative interest rates on the bonds it buys
from financial institutions.  “It’s possible that negative rates will become a usual
feature,” of the BOJ’s bond-buying operations, said  Makoto Yamashita , chief Japan rates strategist at Deutsche Securities
Inc. in Tokyo, adding that it could happen as soon as the
central bank’s next operation.  Yields on Japan’s two-year notes  fell to 0.03 percent
today, the lowest since 2002, as investors expect the early
resignation of BOJ Governor  Masaaki Shirakawa  to hasten more
aggressive easing measures. Cutting the 0.1 percent interest
that the BOJ pays on lenders’ excess deposits, a move that
policy makers have discussed, could lead to negative yields on
bonds bought by the central bank, said  Yasuhide Yajima , chief
economist at NLI Research Institute in Tokyo.  “Investors are seeing more aggressive easing, including a
potential cut of the rate on excess reserves,” said Yajima.  The rate provides a floor for interest rates and prevents
other rates from falling below 0.1 percent, said  Takeshi Minami ,
chief economist in Tokyo at Norinchukin Research Institute Co.  Not all analysts agree with the speculation.  “It’s unlikely the BOJ will have to accept negative rates
because it can still manage to fulfill its pledged bond
purchases,” said  Soichiro Monji , chief strategist at Tokyo-
based Daiwa SB Investments Ltd., which manages the equivalent of
about 6 trillion yen ($64 billion). “Cutting the rate on
reserves will probably have some impact on yields of long- and
super long-term bonds, but it won’t last.”  Pros, Cons  BOJ board member  Takehiro Sato  told reporters after a
speech yesterday that the central bank would have to weigh the
positive and negative aspects of scrapping the rate on banks’
excess reserves. Buying bonds with negative yields could create
imbalances in financial markets by being seen to add to banks’
profits, he said.  The central bank has pledged to buy about 20 trillion yen
more government bonds in its funding operations by the end of
this year. Shirakawa said this week he will step down on March
19 instead of of the scheduled end of his five-year term on
April 8.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Toru Fujioka in Tokyo at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net ;
Masahiro Hidaka in Tokyo at 
 mhidaka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  