-- Macau To Strengthen Casino Junket Licensing System
-- B y   V i n i c y   C h a n   a n d   B i l l y   C h a n
-- 2013-02-07T05:21:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/macau-to-strengthen-casino-junket-licensing-system.html
Macau’s government said it will
“strengthen” its licensing system for casino junket operators
and work with law enforcement to tackle gambling-related crimes.  The government “has continuously adjusted and improved the
system, particularly the regulations,”  Francis Tam ,  secretary
for economy and finance, said in a statement on a Macau
government’s website today, without providing details on any
plans.  Macau stocks slumped yesterday after the U.K.’s Times said
China plans to crack down on junket operators. Junkets are
middlemen who identify high-rollers in China, organize their
trips and offer credit, helping to drive the VIP business in the
world’s largest gambling hub.  Billionaire  Sheldon Adelson ’s  Sands China Ltd. , dropped 2.2
percent percent to HK$35.50 at 1:06 p.m. in Hong Kong trading
today, extending yesterday’s 5.2 percent drop.  Galaxy
Entertainment Group Ltd.  lost 2.3 percent today,  SJM Holdings
Ltd.  fell 4.2 percent,  MGM China Holdings Ltd . fell 1.5 percent.  Tam has repeatedly said the Macau government will
strengthen junket licensing and his latest comments may not
signal a tougher stance or added scrutiny,  Gabriel Chan , a Hong
Kong-based analyst at Credit Suisse said by phone.  “The sell-off is overdone,” said Chan. “I don’t see a
junket crackdown looming.”  Renewing Licenses  Casino junkets are required to renew their licenses with
the  Gaming Inspection and Coordination Bureau  every year and
they must fulfil the requirements set by the bureau.  The number of licensed VIP gaming promoters rose 7.3
percent to a record of 235 companies and individuals in 2013,
according to annual data released by the bureau last month.  The selloff in gaming stocks offers a buying opportunity,
 Grant Govertsen , a Macau-based analyst at Union Gaming Group
said in an interview with Bloomberg Television today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vinicy Chan in Hong Kong at 
 vchan91@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anjali Cordeiro at 
 acordeiro2@bloomberg.net  