-- Ackman Renews Herbalife Pyramid Claim in 40-Page Treatise
-- B y   D u a n e   D .   S t a n f o r d
-- 2013-02-07T21:32:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/ackman-renews-herbalife-pyramid-claims-in-40-page-web-treatise.html
Hedge fund manager  Bill Ackman 
renewed his claim that  Herbalife Ltd.  is a pyramid scheme in a
detailed 40-page treatise questioning everything from the
company’s sales accounting to claims that it makes millionaires.  Ackman, whose Pershing Square Capital Management LP has
sold short 20 million shares of the nutrition-products company,
planned to post the document today on his website,
factsaboutherbalife.com. Ackman also questioned new disclosures
by Herbalife yesterday that detail distributor compensation.  “Herbalife executives have repeatedly committed to having
a fact-based conversation and total transparency about
Herbalife’s business,” Ackman said in the document. “Pershing
Square would welcome responses to the following questions.”  Ackman has put  Herbalife  on the defensive since December,
when he said the company uses inflated pricing, misleading sales
information and a complicated incentive plan to hide a pyramid
scheme. He has urged U.S. regulators to investigate the company.
Herbalife has denied his claims, saying it’s retail-oriented and
sells products with unique ingredients.  “Herbalife is a financially strong and successful global
nutrition company, having created meaningful value for
shareholders, significant opportunities for distributors and
positively impacted the lives and health of consumers since our
founding in 1980,”  Barb Henderson , a spokeswoman, said in an e-
mail. “Pershing Square’s latest tome is motivated by a reckless
$1 billion short bet.”  Einhorn Questions  Prior to Ackman, Greenlight Capital LP’s  David Einhorn  sent
Herbalife shares plummeting after he raised questions on a
company conference call about its disclosures. Einhorn doesn’t
now hold a position in Herbalife, he said today in an interview
on Bloomberg Television.  “When you look at the range of outcomes, it’s so wide that
it’s not clear to me that I want to be long or that I want be
short,” Einhorn said.  Ackman’s sweeping document questions Herbalife’s adherence
to a 1986 court settlement in California over its business
practices, the validity of an Herbalife study evaluating
consumption of its products and the company’s financial
statements.  Herbalife rose 0.4 percent to $35.92 at the close in New
York. The stock closed at $42.50 on Dec. 18, the day before
Ackman revealed that he had shorted the shares.  U.S. regulators at the Federal Trade Commission and the
Securities and Exchange Commission have declined to say whether
they are investigating  Herbalife  or intend to do so.  ‘Becoming Immune’  “The market has voted with an excess of buy orders as to
the invalidity of Ackman’s inquiries,”  Robert Chapman , whose
Chapman Capital LLC is long Herbalife, said in response to
Ackman’s release. “Like with a virus, Herbalife stock is
becoming immune to Ackman’s bad medicine.”  At the heart of the dispute between Ackman and Herbalife is
whether most of Herbalife’s sales come from retail consumption
or recruiting efforts. Ackman said sales are mostly to other
distributors, which the FTC has said would be a red flag for a
pyramid scheme.  Herbalife posted a new disclosure on its website yesterday
that said 73 percent of its distributors join to get a wholesale
price on product consumed by them or their families. In
addition, more than 434,000 distributors, or 88 percent of the
total, received no incentive or commission payments from
Herbalife last year.  The top 17 percent of distributors earned an average of
$4,485 in Herbalife payments, not including expenses or money
earned from sales of product to others. The payments for those
distributors ranged from an average of $724,030 for the top 194
to nothing for the bottom 25,193 participants.  In his new document, Ackman said the new disclosure
“confirms the material inadequacy of previous” compensation
statements and asks if the company feels compelled to “refund
loses of those distributors who were misled.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Duane D. Stanford in Atlanta at 
 dstanford2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  