-- Activision Soars as ‘Skylanders’ Game Boosts Profit
-- B y   C l i f f   E d w a r d s
-- 2013-02-08T21:09:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/activision-net-soars-on-skylanders-call-of-duty-sales-1-.html
Activision Blizzard Inc. , the largest
U.S. video-game maker, rose the most since late 2008 after
fourth-quarter net income beat analysts’ estimates amid gains
from the latest “Skylanders” and “Call of Duty” titles.  The stock  soared  11 percent to $13.41 at the close in New
York time for the biggest jump since November 2008, after the
company yesterday reported earnings tripled last quarter. The
shares have  gained  6.9 percent in the past year, as the Russell
1000 Index added 13 percent.  Activision has weathered an industry decline by updating
existing top sellers and developing new ones and  said  yesterday
it may consider “substantial” stock repurchases in 2013. The
Santa Monica, California-based company recently announced a
third installment of its “Skylanders” franchise, which has
generated $1 billion in revenue from games and toys.  “‘Skylanders’ success can no longer be ignored and its
2013 iteration appears very strong,”  Ben Schachter , a Macquarie
Group analyst, wrote in an investor note today.  “The biggest surprise was new language in the announcement
on potential capital returns, acquisitions and debt,” said
Schachter, who upgraded the shares to outperform from neutral.  Activision, led by Chief Executive Officer  Bobby Kotick 
since 1992, is 61 percent owned by Paris-based  Vivendi SA , also
parent of Universal Music. The French company has been under
pressure from investors to boost its share price, and Chairman
 Jean-Rene Fourtou  last July said “it’s a possibility” his
company may sell Activision.  Stock, Debt  Activision “is considering or may consider during 2013,
substantial stock repurchases, dividends, acquisitions,
licensing or other non-ordinary course transactions” and
related debt financings, according to yesterday’s statement.  “We are contemplating all ways to return capital to
shareholders,” Kotick told analysts on a conference call.  Activision would need to borrow to purchase Vivendi’s
stake, said  Michael Olson , an analyst at  Piper Jaffray Cos. , in
a note on Feb. 5. The company may need to keep some of its cash
to invest in new titles and cushion against unpredictable
returns, said Olson, who is based in Minneapolis and has an
overweight rating on the stock.  At the end of the quarter, the company had $3.96 billion in
cash and $416 million in short-term investments.  Quarterly Profit  Net income for the period soared to $354 million, or 31
cents a share, from $99 million, or 8 cents, a year earlier, the
company said yesterday in a statement  after the markets closed.
Excluding some items, profit of 78 cents exceeded the 72-cent
average of 22 analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Sales, excluding changes in deferred revenue, rose 7.6
percent to $2.6 billion, beating the $2.44 billion average
estimate of analysts. Including those changes, revenue rose 26
percent to $1.77 billion.  In November, “Call of Duty: Black Ops 2” became the first
game ever to generate $1 billion in sales in 15 days, the
company said. “Skylanders Giants” was the No. 1 children’s
title in the fourth quarter in Europe and North America,
Activision said.  This quarter, the company forecasts profit of 10 cents a
share, excluding some items, on sales of $690 million before
taking into account changes in deferred revenue. Analysts also
project profit of 10 cents on that basis, and revenue of $693
million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cliff Edwards in San Francisco at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  