-- Aer Lingus Seeks More Deals Like Virgin Lease as Ireland Stalls
-- B y   K a r i   L u n d g r e n
-- 2013-02-07T10:04:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/aer-lingus-seeks-more-deals-like-virgin-lease-as-ireland-stalls.html
Aer Lingus Group Plc , fighting a
takeover bid from  Ryanair Holdings Plc , said it’s targeting more
deals like a contract-flying accord struck with Virgin Atlantic
Airways Ltd. as the sluggish Irish economy restricts expansion.  Other options for boosting revenue include seeking to
purchase further slots at London’s Heathrow airport, where the
Virgin flights are based, to help maximize aircraft utilization,
Chief Executive Officer  Christoph Mueller  said in an interview.  “We are limited in our organic growth due to the fact that
Ireland is so small and not yet firing on all cylinders,” the
CEO said yesterday in London, adding that while his company’s
home nation is recovering in terms of exports, “there is still a
long way to go with regard to cost of living.”  Aer Lingus will operate four fully crewed Airbus SAS A320
single-aisle planes for Virgin from next month, providing feeder
traffic from Manchester and Scotland to its client’s Heathrow
base via 24 daily flights. The Irish company expects to carry 1
million passengers a year under the deal, which came about after
Virgin was forced to commence its own short-haul services when
former partner BMI was taken over by competitor British Airways.  A surplus Airbus A330-200 wide-body will also operate from
Scandinavia to the Caribbean on behalf of a major tour operator
for the next three winters, Mueller said yesterday, with the
plane to be used on trans-Atlantic flights during the summer.
That’s after a lease deal with  United Continental Holdings Inc. 
for flights between Madrid and Washington expired in October.  Heathrow Ambitions  At capacity-restricted Heathrow, the 23 pairs of takeoff
and landing positions that Aer Lingus uses for its own Irish
flights mean it could make better use than other carriers of
single slots that might become available, bundling them with
existing holdings.  The scarcity of slots at Europe’s busiest airport compels
some other carriers to have jets standing idle for 3 hours
rather than the optimum 25 minutes, Mueller said.  “If you are based at Heathrow and you can just use another
aircraft for the return trip and keep the whole thing spinning,
that’s much better,” he said. “We’re looking in that direction.”  Demand for contract flying, known as wet-leasing when crews
are also provided, is likely to increase as airlines look at
ways to pare expenses while maintaining a presence in key
markets, the CEO said.  “We see opportunities because more and more carriers in
Europe are cutting to the chase and asking the question, ’on
which routes are we making a profit and which a loss?’” he
said. “To make life easy the guy with the better cost position
flies and the guy with the better revenue position sells.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kari Lundgren in London at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net  