-- AgustaWestland Sees U.K. Civil Helicopter Production Taking Off
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-02-07T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/agustawestland-sees-u-k-civil-helicopter-production-taking-off.html
AgustaWestland, the world’s second-
largest helicopter maker, will start civil rotorcraft production
in Britain if the company prevails in a competition to supply
search-and-rescue choppers in the country, its chairman said.  Bond Aviation Group and Bristow Helicopter Group Ltd, the
finalists in a 10-year, 3.1 billion-pound ($4.9 billion)
contract to provide operations for the Maritime and Coast Guard
Agency, will decide which helicopters are used. Both are
customers for AgustaWestland’s 8-ton AW189.  “If we win, there will be an immediate production order,”
with assembly to start this year, AgustaWestland Chairman  Graham Cole  said.  Business with the British military once represented more
than 75 percent of sales for the U.K. arm of AgustaWestland,
Rome-based  Finmeccanica SpA ’s helicopter manufacturer. Declining
defense spending has driven the need to broaden the company’s
product offering into the civil space.  “Five or six years ago it became clear that we could not
continue with the strategy that we had where we were largely
dependent on the U.K. Ministry of Defence,” Cole told reporters
in Yeovil, England. “We are aiming for a balanced portfolio.”  Production of about 10 helicopters for the rescue program
is a strong possibility, Cole said. Other helicopter types in
the running include the S-92, built by  United Technologies
Corp .’s Sikorsky.  ’Big Issue’  Starting commercial helicopter production would be a “big
breakthrough,” Unite union representative Joe Conway said in an
interview. Not winning would be “a bitter blow for everybody”
at AgustaWestland’s Yeovil facilities, which the union would
make into “a big issue,” he said.  The Department for Transport, which is running the
helicopter competition, suffered a public backlash two years ago
when it awarded a train contract to Germany’s  Siemens AG  rather
than  Bombardier Inc ., threatening jobs at the Derby, England
site where the Canadian firm builds rail cars.  Bond Aviation and Bristow, helicopter service providers to
the oil and gas sector, are competing for a U.K. government
contract to run search-and-rescue services across the U.K. and
within 250 nautical miles offshore.  Cole said failing to win in the program would not
necessarily torpedo plans to build commercial choppers in
Britain, although the plans may be reviewed. The company mainly
produces its civilian helicopters in Vergiate, near Milan,
Italy.  Streamlined Operations  The first AW189 would need to be ready for U.K. operations
in 2016. AgustaWestland sees export potential for U.K.-built
AW189s topping 2 billion pounds, he said.  AgustaWestland was forced to streamline operations at
Yeovil to compete in the commercial market, managing director
Ray Edwards said. “We are 30 percent to 40 percent more
competitive than we were three years ago,” he said, with 44
major initiatives in process to make further improvements.  The U.K. is spending more than 100 million pounds through a
regional investment program to help the U.K. business build up
industrial capacities for the AW189, as well as the smaller
AW169 and  AW609 tiltrotor , designed to take off like a
helicopter and then rotate engines to fly like an airplane.  “The industrial strategy is working,” Cole said. However,
he added, it needs to represent a lasting commitment. “The
industrial strategy cannot just be for a crisis, it has to be an
ongoing government policy. As the economy picks up it would be
wrong if that emphasis drops off.”  First Exports  Winning business abroad for its military products is also
part of the effort to offset limited prospects of U.K. defense
sales and compete with top helicopter maker Eurocopter, an arm
of  European Aeronautic, Defence & Space Co . AgustaWestland won
the first export order for the AW159 Wildcat last month with
South Korea saying it would buy eight aircraft. The deal could
grow to 40 units, Cole said, as the company also chases business
in markets such as Vietnam, Malaysia, and Thailand.  Production of AW159s will last until 2016 on the strength
of the U.K. order for 62 units, of which 12 have been handed
over, and the South Korean program. Extending production of
EH101 helicopters at Yeovil beyond 2014 also will require
additional orders. The U.K. site builds head-of-state versions
for countries such as India, Saudi Arabia and Turkmenistan.  While Cole wants to expand commercial output and export
activities, he said achieving an equal balance is not necessary.
“We are aiming for a stable company that is growing,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in Yeovil, England at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  