-- Ailing Banks May Escape EU Rules to Impose Outside Management
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n   a n d   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 2013-02-07T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/ailing-banks-may-escape-eu-rules-to-impose-outside-management.html
Banks  may win a  partial reprieve  from
European Union proposals to parachute outside managers into
lenders deemed at risk of failure.  Some EU nations are concerned that empowering regulators to
send in these so-called special managers could “hasten the
decline” of struggling banks, according to a document obtained
by Bloomberg News. They prefer to allow this step when a bank is
no longer viable, according to the document prepared by Ireland,
which holds the EU’s rotating presidency. The Irish document,
dated Jan. 11, didn’t identify the countries.  The “special manager” plans are part of a push by  Michel Barnier , the EU’s financial services chief, to take taxpayers
off the hook for bailing out banks. His proposals also would
empower regulators to impose losses on senior creditors, and
require nations to create so-called resolution funds that could
stabilize crisis-hit lenders.  Barnier’s proposals would give powers to an appointed
special manager, such as requiring the bank to boost capital,
reorganizing the bank’s ownership structure, and line up a
takeover of the business, according to a copy of the plans on
the EU’s  website . The new manager would replace the bank’s
existing bosses and would normally be in the post for a maximum
of one year.  The governments’ concerns are shared by  Gunnar Hoekmark,  a
Swedish legislator in charge of the European Parliament’s work
on the draft law. “Given the very intrusive character of the
special-management tool it should, to my mind, not be an early
intervention tool,” Hoekmark said in an e-mail.  Special Managers  France has indicated some support for empowering regulators
to appoint special managers before a bank has failed, saying it
could act as a  useful deterrent  to prevent lenders acting
irresponsibly.  EU governments have provided as much as 4.6 trillion euros
($6.2 trillion) of capital injections, guarantees and other
support to lenders since 2008, as nations scrambled to prevent a
meltdown of the financial system following the collapse of
 Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. .  “Appointing special managers can be an effective tool to
avoid a bank having to go into resolution,”  Stefaan De Rynck , a
spokesman for Barnier, said in an e-mail. “But our legislation
leaves it up to the national authorities to decide whether to
use this instrument and impose various measures on the bank
before it is too late,” he said.  Irish Presidency  Ireland is leading discussions between EU nations on
Barnier’s proposals, as part of its six-month presidency of the
bloc. The country is seeking to broker a deal by the end of
March so that talks can begin with lawmakers in the EU
parliament, said an Irish spokeswoman who can’t be named, in
line with official policy.  In parallel to the EU talks, some national governments in
the 27-nation bloc are also weighing their own steps to prevent
banks being too big to fail.  Bank of France Governor  Christian Noyer  last week defended
his country’s draft rules for handling failing banks, which
include the possibility to change management. Regulators should
have maximum flexibility to name outside managers, he said.  The French legislation “needs to allow us to take
emergency measures without accelerating ipso facto default.
Recently, we’ve found it useful to be able to brandish the
credible threat of a nomination,” Noyer told a committee in the
French parliament.  Death Spiral  Under the EU plans,  regulators  would only resort to a
special manager after trying other early intervention measures,
such as forcing the bank’s management to draw up an action plan
for recovery, and to replace some board members.  Banks have signaled concern that the EU proposals could
push lenders into a death spiral.  Markets could see use of a special manager as “a signal
that the bank was in trouble, which in turn could lead to a
liquidity and funding crisis,” Oliver Moullin, a director at
the  Association for Financial Markets in Europe,  said by phone.
There is also a “very high chance that depositors will withdraw
their money,” he said.  AFME represents international lenders including  Deutsche
Bank AG,  BNP Paribas SA, HSBC Holdings Plc and  Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc.   To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net ;
Rebecca Christie in Brussels at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  