-- Airbus A350 Engine Build Ramps-Up as Rolls Wins Safety Approval
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-02-07T13:34:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/airbus-a350-engine-build-ramps-up-as-rolls-wins-safety-approval.html
Rolls-Royce Holdings Plc  has won
safety approval to power Airbus SAS A350 airliners as the
British turbine maker shifts the program’s focus to an
unprecedented ramp-up in production.  The European Aviation Safety Agency today granted the Type
Certificate to the TrentXWB,  Dominique Fouda , spokesman for the
Cologne, Germany-based regulator said by phone. The engine is
the only one available to buyers of A350 twin jets with more
than 580 aircraft on order.  Rolls-Royce has bet heavily on powering large commercial
aircraft in recent years, with engine offerings also for the
Airbus A380 and  Boeing Co . 787. It won the monopoly position on
the A350 after rivals, such as  General Electric Co ., opted not
to develop an offering for Airbus’s newest airplane.  “Making sure Airbus can deliver A350s on time relies
heavily on us delivering our engine on time,” Chris Young,
TrentXWB program director at Rolls-Royce said in a telephone
interview. “We have to make sure we have completely derisked
our ability to do that.”  Rolls already has dispatched two TrentXWBs to Airbus to
support the first flight of the A350 mid-year. Those engines
were built on a pre-production assembly line Rolls is using for
the first time as it validates build processes to assure it can
quickly ramp-up output to keep pace with Airbus, Young said. The
full production will come on line next year, he said.  TrentXWB Engine  The TrentXWB is the largest and most powerful commercial
aircraft engine Rolls has built. It’s diameter is equivalent to
the fuselage size of an A320 airliner, said Tim Boddy, head of
marketing for the engine.  Rolls-Royce  built 11 test engines for the demonstration
phase which have accumulated more than 3,100 hours. That
includes around 180 hours of flight testing that began in
February on an A380 powered by one TrentXWB and three Trent
900s, Rolls’s offering on the superjumbo.  Among the last ground tests to be completed was
demonstrating that the engine can contain one of the 22 massive
fan-blades in the unlikely scenario one separates. The test, in
which a small explosive is used to detach the blade while the
engine is running beyond its specified output level, was
completed in late November, Young said.  “It is the world’s most efficient large engine,” Young
said. The design has  been continually refined and Rolls “is
expecting the engine will hit our targets at entry-into-
service,” Young said. The next year will also focus heavily on
assuring reliability before commercial use, he said.  Development activities will continue, particularly as Rolls
works on an even more powerful version, the 97,000 pound thrust
powerplant for use on the Airbus A350-1000, the largest version
of the Airbus product. A preliminary design review of that
TrentXWB was completed in January.  Rolls is now working on the detailed design of the turbine
and building components to begin trials in mid-2014, Young said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  