-- Taiwan Dollar Steady Before Holiday; Bond, Stock Markets Closed
-- B y   A n d r e a   W o n g
-- 2013-02-07T08:19:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/taiwan-dollar-forwards-steady-before-holiday-bonds-stocks-shut.html
Taiwan’s dollar was little changed
and the island’s stock and bond markets were closed ahead of
next week’s Lunar New Year holiday.  Global funds bought $709 million more Taiwanese stocks than
they sold in the last three days, taking net purchases this year
to $931 million, according to exchange data. The yuan dropped to
the weakest level since Dec. 27 today after the People’s Bank of
China cut the currency’s reference rate amid speculation Chinese
officials are concerned that a slide in the yen will hurt
exports. Taiwan’s currency has declined 1.7 percent in the spot
market this year.  “It’s the long holiday coming, volume has dropped
dramatically,” said  Tarsicio Tong , a Taipei-based foreign-
exchange trader at Union Bank of Taiwan. “The Taiwan dollar
could extend its fall after the holiday as we’re seeing declines
in the other major Asian currencies.”  The Taiwan dollar was little changed at NT$29.63 against
its U.S. counterpart, according to prices from Taipei Forex Inc.
It touched NT$29.70 on Jan. 29, the weakest since Sept. 14. The
central bank has sold the local currency near the close on most
days in the past 10 months, according to traders who asked not
to be identified.  Taiwan’s exports jumped 21.8 percent in January from a year
earlier, official data showed today. The median estimate of 15
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News was for a 23.2 percent
increase.  One-month implied volatility in the Taiwan dollar, a gauge
of expected moves in the exchange rate used to price options,
rose 15 basis points, or 0.15 percentage point, to 4.17 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The  overnight interbank lending rate  was little changed at
0.387 percent, a weighted average compiled by the Taiwan
Interbank Money Center shows.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Wong in Taipei at 
 awong268@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  