-- Alcatel-Lucent CEO’s Exit Leaves Board With Unwanted Job
-- B y   M a r i e   M a w a d
-- 2013-02-08T17:22:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/alcatel-ceo-exit-leaves-board-grasping-for-someone-to-finish-job.html
As  Alcatel-Lucent SA  Chief Executive
Officer  Ben Verwaayen  told board members this week he wouldn’t
seek an extension of his contract, he threw them no less
daunting a task than turning around the French
telecommunications equipment maker: finding a successor.  The position has gathered little interest in the past six
months as some  board members  informally sounded out potential
candidates to revive the unprofitable Paris-based company, a job
Verwaayen has failed at despite cost cuts, asset sales and
firings, people familiar with the matter said.  Chairman  Philippe Camus  and the board want a European or
American with a background in industry to help Alcatel catch up
to rivals as carriers face tighter budgets, a person with
knowledge of the matter said, declining to be named as the plans
are private. Alcatel-Lucent trails Ericsson AB and Nokia Siemens
Networks in profits and is up against Asian competitors,
sluggish spending in Europe and rigid job protection in France.  “The next chief executive needs to be an ace French
politician as much as a great CEO,” said  Mark Hawtin , head of
investments at GAM U.K. Ltd., which manages about $60 billion
and is shorting the stock. “Alcatel’s future is a big and
difficult problem because it’s the fusion of two national
assets, with national security interests involved as well as
French labor laws.”  Simon Poulter , an Alcatel-Lucent spokesman, declined to
comment on the board’s discussions and the company’s recruitment
plans.  Search Deadline?  The shares climbed 2.5 percent to close at 1.26 euros in
Paris, valuing Alcatel-Lucent at 2.9 billion euros ($3.9
billion).  Alcatel-Lucent announced yesterday that Verwaayen had
decided not to seek another term when his contract runs out in
May. The 60-year-old will continue to run the company as the
board looks at internal and external candidates to fill the
position. The company hasn’t communicated whether it has set a
deadline for the search.  Verwaayen arrived in 2008 to try to make sense of the
company formed by the 2006 merger of Alcatel SA and Lucent
Technologies Inc. The former  BT Group Plc  CEO followed  Patricia Russo  and  Serge Tchuruk , who oversaw the combination but
couldn’t translate billions of dollars of research to develop
equipment used in the newest generation of wireless networks
into profits.  Chief Financial Officer  Paul Tufano  has worked alongside
Verwaayen to fix Alcatel-Lucent’s finances since 2008. He took
on more responsibilities in the newly created role of chief
operating officer last September.  Theoretical Physics  The former industrial giant’s operations once ranged from
spaceflight to cutting-edge theoretical physics. It still has
units including a submarine-cable business that’s been in
operation for over 150 years and established the first undersea
telegraph link. It’s shopping that asset around for possible
buyers.  Since the merger, Alcatel-Lucent has accumulated about 10
billion euros in net losses, while its cash reserve has
diminished by 700 million euros on average annually. Verwaayen
has undertaken a patents-licensing agreement, sale of assets
such as the Genesys call-center software unit and a stake in
French aerospace manufacturer  Thales SA , and a plan to cut 5,500
positions -- yet still not enough to right things.  To gain time for the reorganization, Verwaayen in December
pledged more assets and patents and set targets to improve
 profit margins  by 2015 to convince Credit Suisse Group AG and
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. to agree on a 2 billion-euro financing
deal.  ‘Coherent Strategy’  Once Verwaayen leaves, the top job will revolve around
executing the three-year strategy he presented to the lenders, a
person with knowledge of the matter said.  “We’re not going to cut the company up into pieces and put
it up for sale,” Verwaayen said at a conference in Paris
yesterday. “We have a coherent strategy, a plan, and we’re
going to execute it whether I’m here or not.”  Ericsson, the world’s largest maker of wireless networks,
last week reported sales that beat analyst estimates amid rising
spending by North American wireless carriers. Alcatel’s revenue
in that region, which accounts for 40 percent of its sales, grew
10 percent last quarter and will stay “very strong” this year,
Verwaayen said yesterday.  Pulling a plan together and finalizing details of the loan
brought disagreements between Verwaayen and the board late last
year to a high point and spurred the directors to begin casting
about for options as some members found the conditions too harsh
for Alcatel-Lucent, according to people familiar with the
matter.  State Intervention  The terms also came under scrutiny by the French
government, which has a  minority stake  in the company. The state
has pledged vigilance on decisions at Alcatel-Lucent after
Socialist President  Francois Hollande  was elected in May after
vowing to block “a parade of firings.” Industry Minister
 Arnaud Montebourg  called Chairman Camus in for a meeting last
year to discuss job-cut announcements made in July, a plan that
has triggered strikes and calls for government intervention.  “What needs to really happen is harsh action -- Alcatel
has to accelerate layoffs and cost cuts, but they may also need
to rethink their portfolio,” said  Alexander Peterc , an analyst
at Exane BNP Paribas. “They’re closing down some operations,
but it’s not the surgical action that we’ve seen at NSN.”  Prolonged Agony  Nokia Siemens Networks, the venture between Finland’s  Nokia
Oyj  and Siemens AG of Germany, announced plans in 2011 to slash
17,000 positions, or 23 percent of its headcount. As the
shareholders intensified talks to end their six-year-old
venture, according to people familiar with the situation, the
most recent results topped the company’s forecasts with fourth-
quarter adjusted operating profit of 14.4 percent of sales.  Alcatel-Lucent, which had sales of 4.1 billion euros in the
fourth quarter for 72,500 employees, will have to eliminate more
than 13,000 positions to catch up with Ericsson’s job  efficiency 
figures, based on data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Changing management only prolongs the agony,” said GAM’s
Hawtin. “I don’t see a solution.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marie Mawad in Paris at 
 mmawad1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  