-- Half-Pound Furry-Tailed Bug-Eater Seen as Human Ancestor
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 2013-02-08T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/half-pound-furry-tailed-bug-eater-seen-as-human-ancestor.html
A half-pound, furry-tailed animal
that probably ate bugs may have been the earliest ancestor of
 mammals , a group of more than 5,100 species including humans,
according to the largest-ever study of the group’s ancestry.  Researchers mapped genetic data with fossil evidence,
creating a new family tree with the hypothetical ancestor,
according to a study in the journal  Science . They focused on
placental mammals, such as humans, dogs, and cats that develop a
placenta to nourish the young before a live birth.  Scientists have debated the time period when these mammals
came into existence. Fossil evidence suggested that after the
 Cretaceous-Paleogene extinction event  when the dinosaurs died,
mammals quickly evolved to fill now-empty ecological niches.
Genetic data suggested mammals may have evolved earlier. The two
were combined for the finding published yesterday, which uses a
dataset that’s more than 10 times larger than any previous study
of mammalian anatomical relationships.  “There are many more species to add, and I want to
continue to look for fossils that will fit on this tree and tell
us more about it, either on the dinosaur or mammal side,”
 Maureen O’Leary , a study author and paleontologist at the Stony
Brook University School of Medicine, said in a telephone
interview.  The bug-eating ancestor was extrapolated from traits
observed from 86 species, 40 of which were fossils. About 4,500
characteristics were mapped, including anatomy, such as types of
hair, brain structures, tooth formation and the presence of
wings. Behavioral traits were added as well. That was combined
with existing genetic data to provide scientists with a better
approximation of the hypothetical family tree trunk.  First Appearance  The new data, which will be  publicly available  online for
researchers and the public, suggests that placental mammals, a
group of furred animals that don’t lay eggs or carry their young
in pouches, came into existence about 200,000 years after the
dinosaurs were extinct.  Adding information on marsupials, animals such as kangaroos
that carry their young in pouches, could also be helpful,
O’Leary said. Marsupials are more closely related to placental
mammals, and mapping their tree may provide more information on
how the groups diverged.  Egg-laying mammals, such as the platypus, are called
monotremes, and are more distantly related to the other two
mammal groups, O’Leary said.  The database used to map the 86 species that were the basis
for the family tree will provide a “playground” for other
scientists, said  Mike Novacek,  the provost of the American
Museum of Natural History, and a study author.  “If you wanted to study the ear region in mammals, that
can be a platform,” Novacek said. He hopes future work will
expand the dataset to include more species, both living and
extinct. “Virtually everywhere on the tree, there are
interesting problems.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in San Francisco at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  