-- Ambienta to Sell Green Utility as Private Equity Exits Industry
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2013-02-07T18:01:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/ambienta-to-sell-green-utility-as-private-equity-exits-industry.html
Ambienta SGR SpA, a private-equity
investor in resource and energy efficiency, plans to sell its
stake in green utility ICQ Holding SpA in the latest sign the
industry is losing funding as governments withdraw support.  Ambienta plans to complete the sale of 23 percent of Rome-
based ICQ by the end of the year, Chief Executive Officer  Nino Tronchetti Provera  said in an interview. The investor bought the
stake in the biomass, hydro and solar-plant developer in 2008.  “We don’t get the growth that we would like, therefore we
don’t get the returns we would like,” said Tronchetti Provera,
who seeks 20 percent internal rates of return. “Renewable
energy was a scalable business” that could expand until the
financial crisis limited bank lending to operations, he said.  Private equity and venture-capital funding for solar, wind,
biofuel and smart-grid startups sank 34 percent to $5.8 billion
last year, according to Bloomberg New Energy Finance. Renewable
developments that require upfront investments are vulnerable to
withdrawals of support from governments seeking to cut deficits.  Ambienta is seeking to raise about 300 million euros ($400
million) with its second fund, investing in water recycling and
filtration, efficient gas and power equipment and electronics
used in electricity generation, Tronchetti Provera said.  “We decided not to invest in any capex intensive business
that was not scalable nor in any business that would rely so
strongly on incentives,” he said in London.  Amplio Filtration Group, a water treatment company, Tower
Light, a maker of lighting towers, and MBA Polymers Inc., a
recycled-plastics producer are among Ambienta’s investments to
date. They posted an average 26 percent gain in sales last year
and added 460 jobs over four years, Tronchetti Provera said.  The investor raised 217.5 million euros with its first
fund, Ambienta I, which was mostly spent on nine investments.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  