-- Manulife Tops Estimates Amid Wealth-Management Demand
-- B y   S e a n   B .   P a s t e r n a k
-- 2013-02-07T21:45:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/manulife-profit-tops-estimates-on-asian-wealth-management-sales.html
Manulife Financial Corp ., Canada’s
largest insurer, posted fourth-quarter profit of C$1.06 billion
($1.06 billion) as wealth-management sales in Asia reached a
record.  Net income was 56 cents a share, compared with a year-
earlier net loss of C$69 million, or 5 cents, Toronto-based
Manulife said today in a statement. Manulife was expected to
earn 32 cents a share, according to the average  estimate  of 12
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Profit more than doubled in Asia to C$682 million as
premiums and deposits increased. Chief Executive Officer  Donald Guloien , 55, has said Asian markets including China, Malaysia
and Singapore will become the fastest-growing segment of the
company’s earnings, due to demand for wealth-management and
pension products. He said the company will continue to add
agents in Asia cautiously and sell through partners.  “It’s very sexy when economies are growing as fast as they
are in Asia to add agents equal to or perhaps faster than the
growth of the economy,” Guloien said today in a telephone
interview. “If you end up with the wrong people selling the
wrong kind of products, it’s not a good outcome.”  Net income was boosted by C$368 million in investment
gains. So-called core earnings were C$537 million, or 28 cents a
share. Manulife reiterated today it expects to have earnings of
C$4 billion on that basis by 2016. Core earnings exclude the
direct impact of changes in equity markets and interest rates,
among other items, the insurer said.  Canada Profit  “We do not expect a strong reaction to Manulife’s results
as some of the positives” are offset by lower than expected
core income,  Andre-Philippe Hardy , an analyst with RBC Capital
Markets, wrote today in a note to clients.  Manulife rose 1 percent to C$14.55 at 4 p.m. in Toronto.
The shares have climbed 7.7 percent this year, compared with a
7.9 percent increase in the  S&P/TSX Life & Health Insurance
Index .  Profit from Canada climbed 2 percent to C$251 million with
U.S. profit increasing 43 percent to C$724 million, Manulife
said.  For the full year, Manulife’s profit was C$1.74 billion,
compared with C$129 million in 2011.  Manulife was the first of Canada’s four main life insurers
to report fourth-quarter results.  Great-West Lifeco Inc . said
today that fourth-quarter profit fell to C$353 million, or 37
cents a share, from C$624 million, or 66 cents a share, a year-
earlier on costs tied to litigation.  Sun Life Financial Inc . and Industrial Alliance Insurance
and Financial Services Inc. are scheduled to release results
next week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sean B. Pasternak in Toronto at 
 spasternak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  