-- Lanxess Jump Shows Enduring View It’s a Target: Frankfurt
-- B y   S h e e n a g h   M a t t h e w s
-- 2013-02-07T12:49:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/lanxess-jump-shows-enduring-view-it-s-a-target-frankfurt-mover.html
Lanxess AG  climbed the most in six
months in Frankfurt trading with speculation about a  Dow
Chemical Co . bid highlighting an enduring belief among some
investors that the synthetic-rubber maker is a takeover target.  Lanxess, the newest member of Germany’s benchmark DAX
index, rose as much as 5.3 percent to 64.60 euros, its biggest
jump since Aug. 3. Market talk that Dow is willing to pay 70
euros to 80 euros per share for Lanxess don’t make sense because
Dow has an extensive capital expenditure program already and
there is very little overlap in the companies’ businesses, said
Jaideep Pandya, an analyst at Berenberg Bank.  “Nevertheless, Lanxess is always an attractive takeover
target because they have such great technology,” Pandya, who
has a buy rating on the stock, said by telephone. “They will
remain an attractive asset for big petrochemical companies from
Asia and the Middle East.”  Dow, the largest U.S. chemical maker, last month reported
quarterly profit that missed analyst estimates as sales fell in
Europe. While the company is awaiting payment of $2.5 billion in
settlement for the canceled sale of a plastics business stake,
that cash won’t be allocated to mergers and acquisitions, Chief
Executive Officer  Andrew Liveris  said then.      Lanxess was
trading up 4.1 percent at 63.86 euros as of 11:58 a.m. local
time. The stock has lost 3.6 percent this year, cutting the
company’s market value to 5.3 billion euros ($7.2 billion).  Lanxess spokesman Daniel Smith and Dow Chemical spokeswoman
Rebecca Bentley both declined to comment on takeover
speculation.  Saudi Basic Industries Corp., also known as Sabic, LG Chem
Ltd. and Reliance Industries Ltd. may consider buying Lanxess,
Jaideep said. “They all want to enter the Lanxess playing field
in terms of high-end synthetic rubber and they all don’t have
technology.”  Dow had $4.32 billion in cash at the end of last year while
Sabic had $13.7 billion, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sheenagh Matthews in Frankfurt at 
 smatthews6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  