-- Arkansas Gets Running Back Even After Mom Refuses to Sign Letter
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-02-07T20:28:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/arkansas-gets-running-back-even-after-mom-refuses-to-sign-letter.html
Alex Collins, one of the top-rated
high school running backs in the nation, is headed to the
 University of Arkansas , a day after his mother refused to sign
his letter of intent to play at the school.  Collins, who is from Fort Lauderdale, Florida, faxed the
form -- which included his father’s signature as well as his own
-- to the university in Fayetteville, Arkansas, today. The
Arkansas football program confirmed receiving Collins’s letter
of intent on its official  Twitter page .  “It feels good to finally get it out of the way and get it
done,” Collins said in a  television interview  with CBS’s
affiliate in Miami. “Yesterday it was kind of crazy.”  The 5-foot-11, 207-pound Collins, who previously gave a
verbal commitment to attend the University of Miami, said on
Feb. 4 that he instead intended to sign with Arkansas. His
status became vague yesterday, when high school football players
had their first chance to make a written commitment to a school
under National Collegiate Athletic Association rules.  Collins’s signing ceremony at his high school was canceled
after his mother refused to sign his letter of intent. NCAA
rules state that prospects under the age of 21 must have a
parent or legal guardian sign the form in order for it to be
considered valid. The new Arkansas coach,  Bret Bielema , said at
the school’s signing-day news conference last night that he
couldn’t discuss Collins because he wasn’t among the recruits
who sent in their letters of intent.  “It’s not necessarily her not wanting me to go to
Arkansas,” Collins  told CBS4  in Miami today. “It was because
she cares about me so much that she doesn’t want me to make the
wrong decision. It was basically giving me enough time to sit
down and think, because this is where I’ll be spending the next
four years of my life.”  Mother’s Concern  Collins’s mother, Andrea McDonald, wasn’t in attendance at
his signing today. Alex Collins told CBS4 that his mother is
fine with his decision and disputed reports that she had run off
with his paperwork yesterday.  “I understand, she gives me that time to think about it,”
Collins said in the interview with CBS4. “I’m pretty sure this
is what I want to do and where I want to go. I respect her and
why she did it, to give me more time, to let me really think
about signing that paper. I still love my mom.”  Collins was the seventh-rated high school running back in
the U.S. and No. 57 prospect, according to  ESPN’s Recruiting
Nation . He rushed for 1,400 yards and 14 touchdowns as a senior
at South Plantation High School even though he missed three
games due to injury.  As a junior, he was named the Broward County Player of the
Year after rushing for 1,786 yards and 28 touchdowns.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  