-- Mary Jo White’s Past and the Future of the SEC
-- B y   S u s a n   A n t i l l a
-- 2013-02-07T23:30:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/mary-jo-white-s-past-and-the-future-of-the-sec.html
The sales pitch for President  Barack Obama ’s nominee to run the Securities and Exchange Commission
goes something like this:  Mary Jo White  was a tough U.S. attorney for the Southern
District of New York who prosecuted mobsters and terrorists. She
spent the past 10 years representing Wall Street, so she knows
something about the legerdemain of banksters. And -- insert
violin solo here -- she is a patriot, willing to give up
millions of dollars in income as chairman of the litigation
department at Debevoise & Plimpton LLP for a lousy government
salary. (Although, with a little luck, she will make up for that
once she adds “former SEC chairman” to her resume.)  The arguments in support of White are as old and tired as
the government-to-private-practice hustle that they endorse.  Her supporters say she has the integrity to shift from Wall
Street defender to champion of securities laws. But it’s hard to
take seriously the notion that White will help crack complicated
cases with her inside knowledge of how the bad guys work, an
argument that often gets thrown around when Wall Street lawyers
are tapped to be regulators. “People from the private sector
know where the bodies are buried,” former SEC Chairman  Mary Schapiro  told the  Washington Post  after White’s nomination last
month.  Top Spots  Maybe so, but the SEC and Justice Department have had
former defense lawyers checking in and out of top spots for
years, and it hasn’t led to any big-bank carnage among the
people who orchestrated flakey derivatives, self-destructing
collateralized-debt obligations or other outrages. When was the
last time you saw anyone from a well-known bank doing a  perp
walk  for his role in the financial crisis?  The Web pages of the best-known law firms give an idea of
who the real winners are in the revolving door. Debevoise says
it’s “the only law firm to have former U.S. and U.K. attorneys
general as well as a Queen’s Counsel.” Cleary Gottlieb Stein &
Hamilton LLP tallies 10 former federal prosecutors and three
former SEC general counsels. At Covington & Burling LLP, they
 boast  of having “convinced the SEC not to pursue an enforcement
action” against one client, and that partner  Bruce Baird , a
former assistant U.S. attorney, persuaded regulators “not to
proceed with cases on a significant number of occasions.”  It isn’t often we get an inside look at how onetime
regulators work their disappearing-case magic, but a celebrated
example that wound up under a microscope involved none other
than White. When Morgan Stanley was considering hiring  John Mack 
to be its chief executive officer in 2005, the securities firm’s
board was concerned about an SEC investigation into possible
insider trading involving Mack and  Arthur Samberg , the former
manager of the hedge fund Pequot Capital Management Inc.  The board retained White, who called SEC Enforcement
Director  Linda Thomsen  on June 27, 2005, to get intelligence on
Mack’s legal exposure. Three days later, White told Morgan
Stanley’s board that she had seen “no evidence of any
involvement by Mr. Mack in insider trading or other
wrongdoing.”  Thomsen had let on to White that there was “smoke but not
fire” in e-mails between Mack and Samberg, and privately
worried that it could be disruptive to markets if Mack became
CEO and then wound up as an SEC target. “It could have ripple
effects that makes the markets go haywire,” Thomsen told a
Senate committee -- an overblown fear if ever there was one.  Wrongful Firing  Mack was never accused of wrongdoing.  Gary Aguirre , an SEC
lawyer who had been pushing to question Mack, was fired a few
months after White’s call. He later won $775,000 from the SEC in
a wrongful dismissal suit.  White declined to comment, said Debevoise spokeswoman
Gabriella Schoff.  A revamp at the SEC that included improved policies for
handling complaints and tips was supposed to boost morale. Yet
the SEC’s ranking in an annual  employee survey  of “Best Places
to Work in the Federal Government” has dropped steadily since
2007, with the SEC placing 19th of 22 midsized federal agencies
last year. SEC workers’ view of the leadership of the most
senior staff was worst among the categories they were asked
about.  That makes sense considering some of the private
conversations that became public about their bosses. The SEC’s
own general counsel (now at Cleary Gottlieb),  David Becker , e-
mailed former SEC Commissioner  Annette Nazareth  in 2009 after
she had left for Davis Polk & Wardwell LLP and referred to “the
inanity” of the idea of having an investor advocate at the
agency, according to a Bloomberg News  article  last year.  It would be nice if White turned out to have what it takes
to pump up morale and turn the SEC into a place where inspired
investor advocates get the top jobs, but there are reasons to be
doubtful. White is worried about being too hard on corporate
criminals. She  told  the newsletter Corporate Crime Reporter in
2005 that prosecutors considering criminal charges should be
“very concerned about the impact on the innocent employees or
shareholders.”  White won’t play a direct role in prosecuting companies at
the SEC, of course. But given her views on indictments, it’s
hard to imagine she will encourage her staff to refer cases
against companies to criminal authorities.  It’s also a worry that she knows too much about the career
perils of being aggressive as a regulator. In talking about one
of Debevoise’s hires from the SEC, she testified in a 2007
deposition that she needed to check whether the candidate had
been so tough as a regulator that it would hurt his ability “to
function well in the private sector.” Commitment to the job and
mission is a good thing in government, she said, or at least it
is “to a point.”  If we’re lucky, White, 65, will decide that a do-gooder
legacy is more important than the next multimillion-dollar job.  ( Susan Antilla , who has written about Wall Street and
business for three decades and is the author of “Tales From the
Boom-Boom Room,” a book about sexual harassment at financial
companies, is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions expressed
are her own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Susan Antilla at   santilla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  