-- Assa Abloy Net Income Misses Analyst Estimates as Sales Stagnate
-- B y   J a n i n a   P f a l z e r
-- 2013-02-07T07:38:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/assa-abloy-net-income-misses-analyst-estimates-as-sales-stagnate.html
Assa Abloy AB , the world’s largest
lockmaker, reported fourth-quarter profit that fell short of
analyst expectations as the company had no like-for-like sales
growth because of weak demand in southern Europe.  Net income rose to 1.39 billion kronor ($219 million) from
114 million kronor a year earlier, the company said in a
statement. Analysts expected profit of 1.43 billion, according
to the average of 13 estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Assa Abloy
took a restructuring charge of 1.42 billion kronor in the fourth
quarter of 2011. Sales including acquisitions rose 4.2 percent
to 12.2 billion kronor.  Assa Abloy has countered weak development in Europe and
North America by expanding in emerging markets. The 17 members
of the euro area entered a recession in the third quarter, and
the U.S. economy shrank in the fourth. The Stockholm-based
company will continue to make acquisitions to reach a target of
50 percent of sales coming from emerging markets versus one-
quarter currently, it said Jan. 9.  “Many indicators suggest that the world economy will
remain weak for the foreseeable future, due primarily to the
budget cutbacks that many countries are making,” Chief
Executive Officer  Johan Molin  said in the statement. “It is
therefore of the utmost importance that Assa Abloy continues its
expansion on the new markets, which are expected to go on
growing well.”  Assa Abloy targets annual growth of 10 percent over a
business cycle through a combination of increasing existing
sales and adding new companies. It has added 100 new companies
since Molin took the helm in 2005 with annual sales increasing
84 percent in the same period, the company said Jan. 9.  The company has 10 percent to 15 percent of the global lock
market with the biggest competitors being U.S. company  Stanley
Black & Decker Inc.  and  Ingersoll-Rand Plc  of Ireland.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Janina Pfalzer  in Stockholm at 
 jpfalzer@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at   sthiel1@bloomberg.net  