-- Assuring Chinese Finish Their Live Lobster Sashimi
-- B y   A d a m   M i n t e r
-- 2013-02-07T23:09:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/assuring-chinese-finish-their-live-lobster-sashimi.html
The Chinese Communist Party wants you
to clean your plate, and it’s not afraid to barge into the
dining room and take matters into official hands if you don’t.  Take for example an anecdote  posted  to Sina Weibo, China’s
leading Twitter-like microblog, on Feb. 4 by Cao Lin, an editor
and columnist at the state-owned China Youth Daily. Cao recounts
a recent, large banquet ordered by several military officers in
Beijing -- presumably on the state’s dime.  For the officers, the timing couldn’t have been worse: They
convened just as the Clean Your Plate Campaign, a propaganda
effort to encourage frugality and discourage food waste,
especially by government officials, was taking off. Their
banquet, like most government banquets, was assumed to be
extravagant and include more than they could eat: “When the
food came, a military inspector showed up. Those who go against
the spirit of the times must be punished, so everyone at the
table was criticized. Though the party hadn’t even started to
eat, they were told to go Dutch and take home the leftovers and
the consequences.”  For Chinese frustrated and resentful of  the profligate ways 
of Chinese government officials and the military, anecdotes like
this one, whether or not it’s true, are very welcome, especially
when circulated on the nation’s populist-minded social networks.  The  Clean Your Plate Campaign  was started by Chinese
microbloggers in mid-January, and on Jan. 25, People’s Daily,
the official mouthpiece of the Chinese Communist Party, ran the
campaign on its front page, joining -- if not co-opting -- the
effort, which aligned well with a broader party crackdown on
official extravagance.  Yet the Clean Your Plate Campaign is about much more than
ruining state-sponsored nights out by junior military officers.
Rather, it is the latest effort to explain, confront and control
a food-waste problem that has plagued China since economic
reforms began to lift the country’s fortunes three decades ago.  The scale of the waste is almost beyond comprehension,
especially in a country where  128 million people  lived below the
official poverty line  in 2011 .  According to Xinhua , the state
news wire, China throws away enough food every year to feed 200
million people -- about one-sixth of the country’s population.
In 2008, China Agricultural University estimated that the
country  wastes 50 million  tons of food per year -- about 10
percent of its total annual grain output. The waste occurs at
every level of society. According to the university’s data,  a
third of the food  purchased in Beijing university cafeterias is
also wasted.  Anecdotal evidence makes these numbers easy to believe. A
stroll through almost any big-city Chinese restaurant will
reveal tables where guests have left plates of practically
untouched food. If you’re near a big city, visit a Chinese
landfill or trash dump, as I’ve done many times, and you’ll find
most of the refuse is food waste. I’ve attended dinners and
banquets at which hundreds of dollars of food remained untouched
on Lazy Susans. In one memorable case, I remember a large table
on which three  live lobsters , served as sashimi with their guts
open to the room, were left uneaten, their eye buds twitching as
guests (including me, with a glance back) left.  What explains such waste? A September 2001 article from
People’s Daily  opined  that “ face ,” a difficult-to-define
concept that refers to social prestige, is the culprit:
“Restaurant customers in China, especially those who want to
treat guests or those have the privilege to spend public money
in slap-up restaurants, generally have such notions in mind that
their face or prestige depends upon how much money they spend on
dishes.”  According to the article, in 2001 Beijing was already
throwing away 1,600 tons -- 17 percent of its total municipal
trash volume -- of leftover food per day, while Shanghai tossed
out a relatively modest 1,200 tons per day.  If the recent press reports are to be believed, things
haven’t improved. However, with the start of the clean-plate
campaign, the explanations have become more self-critical than
those offered 12 years ago. On Feb. 2, Raymond Zhou, a columnist
with China Daily,  offered  a similar explanation to the one given
in 2001, but in a tone that more explicitly condemns the
cultural values that he suggests inspire the problem:  “The No 1 culprit, as I see it, is the face issue - the
traditional Chinese notion that one should order more than
necessary simply to show one’s hospitality.  “Make that much more.  “Depending on the guests, it could be one third more to
three times more than necessary. The more distinguished the
guests, the more food the host will order.  “If every dish is finished by the end of a meal, the host
will not be complimented for being smart.  “Instead, the host may receive behind-the-back sneer that
he or she was being too stingy - an accusation that any
conformity-minded Chinese would take pains to avoid.”  One obvious solution to this problem is the doggie bag. But
as Zhou explains through an anecdote about an American who came
to dinner during Zhou’s graduate student days, this, too, is
fraught with social weight:  “He asked for a doggie bag, which blew us away.  “Americans are supposed to be so much richer than us, we
thought, and even we would not think of such a face-losing thing
as taking home what’s left on the table.”  Taking leftovers with you suggests that one needs the food
that others can’t be bothered to eat. An indicator of want, if
not outright poverty, it is precisely the sort of thing that a
status-conscious Chinese person wouldn’t dare be seen doing at a
formal banquet with co-workers or government officials (and it’s
just the sort of thing a military inspector would require of
soldiers who need to be humiliated for over-spending).  Yet it is precisely such contexts -- large banquets paid
for by government coffers -- at which so much food waste is
committed. For Chinese state media, this is a means to connect -
- politely -- the food waste issue to the anti-corruption drive
that new Communist Party chief  Xi Jinping   has started  since
assuming power.  China’s microbloggers are not so polite, and since the
beginning of the campaign they’ve been quick and brutal in
linking food waste to official waste and corruption. On Feb. 6,
for example, Northern Wind, the handle for a microblogger on
Sina Weibo,  vented : “In China, we still have more than one
hundred million people who are beneficiaries of poverty
reduction efforts in villages, and tens of millions of urban
poor and other people in need. Meanwhile, officials hold
extravagant banquets that end with the food being stuffed into
the trash can in order to obtain a bigger face.”  Can the Clean Your Plate Campaign really overcome the deep
cultural imperatives that seem to encourage food waste in
official settings? More pressing, can it really convince Chinese
in nonofficial settings -- such as the students who waste food
in Beijing’s university cafeterias -- to change their behavior?  For now, at least, the spirit of frugality has reportedly
caused many bureaucrats and businesspeople to rein in their
spending and  thereby hurt  restaurants favored by the expense-
account crowd. The same can’t be said for lower-end restaurants
and cafeterias and the clientele who frequent them.  Yuan Longping , a legendary agricultural scientist widely
known as “the father of hybrid rice,” has a different, more
 authoritarian approach  to changing the behavior of restaurant
guests who don’t clean their plates. In a Jan. 25 article in the
South China Morning Post, he was  quoted as saying , “The
authorities should fine them.”  (Adam Minter, the Shanghai correspondent for the World View
blog, is writing “Junkyard Planet,” a book on the global
recycling industry. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the author of this article: Adam Minter
at  ShanghaiScrap@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article: Zara Kessler
at  zkessler@bloomberg.net . 