-- Asteroid to Traverse Earth’s Satellite Zone, NASA Says
-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 2013-02-08T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/asteroid-s-earth-fly-by-will-traverse-satellite-zone-nasa-says.html
An asteroid half the size of a U.S.
football field will pass between Earth and orbiting satellites
next week, sparing the human race from the fate suffered by
dinosaurs, NASA said.  The 150-foot diameter asteroid, named 2012 DA14, will pass
about 17,000 miles above Earth on Feb. 15 -- lower than the
orbits of some satellites -- in the closest recorded approach of
an object of its size. It will travel at 7.8 kilometers a second
(17,400 miles an hour), or about eight times the speed of a
rifle shot, NASA scientists said yesterday.  “No Earth impact is possible,”  Donald Yeomans , who
manages the Near-Earth-Object office at Pasadena, California-
based Jet Propulsion Laboratory, said yesterday in a press
conference.  The NASA unit monitors relatively small space objects such
as DA14 to measure the risks they present to the Earth.
Researchers said that studying the asteroid’s close trajectory
will help NASA in preparing for a 2016 rocket launch and a
planned encounter with the near-Earth object 1999 RQ36 two years
later.  Lockheed Martin Corp. , based in Bethesda, Maryland, is
helping NASA in developing the rocket, which is scheduled to
monitor RQ36 and eventually return to Earth in 2023 with samples
from the asteroid.  While a strike by an asteroid DA14’s size would do “a lot
of regional destruction,” it wouldn’t be catastrophic to the
planet’s population, said Lindley Johnson, program executive for
NASA’s Near-Earth Object observations program in Washington.  Space Station Safe  Yeomans said the damage from DA14 if it were to hit would
rival an impact event in Russia in 1908 that leveled trees over
an 820-square-mile territory. The asteroid that is thought to
have wiped out the dinosaurs was about 10-kilometers in
diameter. DA14 was discovered in February last year.  The NASA scientists said the asteroid would still pass
above the orbits of most of the communications satellites
circling Earth, and doesn’t pose a threat to the International
Space Station, which orbits the planet at about 250 miles.  Amateur astronomers will need a small telescope to see the
asteroid, which would appear as a moving pinpoint in the night
sky, said Timothy Spahr, the director of the Minor Planet Center
in Cambridge, Massachusetts. The best viewing location for
DA14’s closest approach is Indonesia, with sky gazers in Eastern
Europe, Australia and Asia also getting good looks at the
asteroid.  Low Risk  The NEO program office said that an object of similar size
gets this close to Earth once every 40 years, and that an actual
collision can be expected only once in 1,200 years.  Some companies and entrepreneurs see asteroids as possible
sources for precious metals.  Planetary Resources Inc., based in Seattle and backed by
Google Inc. Chief Executive Officer  Larry Page  and Chairman  Eric Schmidt , is working to launch a telescopic space surveyor to
identify resource-rich space rocks in the next couple of years.  Other entrepreneurs are participating in a business-backed
space race. Robert Bigelow, a Las Vegas hotelier, won a $17.8
million contract for an inflatable room that will be attached
to the space station in 2015.  Boeing Co.,  Tesla Motors Inc.
Chief Executive  Elon Musk  and British entrepreneur  Richard Branson  have started rocket-building ventures.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Ellis at 
 dellis5@bloomberg.net  