-- Australia LNG Growth to Continue on Asia Demand, Bernstein Says
-- B y   C h o u   H u i   H o n g
-- 2013-02-07T10:14:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/australia-lng-growth-to-continue-on-asia-demand-bernstein-says.html
Asia’s developing economies will use
more liquefied natural gas than they produce by 2020,
encouraging Australia to bring new production projects on
stream, according to Bernstein Research.  Asian countries outside the Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development will have a gas deficit of 30
billion cubic feet a day by 2020, according to Bernstein. That’s
equivalent to about 10 LNG cargoes a day.  “While Australian LNG growth may be slower in the future,
it is certainly not the end of growth,”  Neil Beveridge , a Hong
Kong-based analyst at the company, said in a report e-mailed
today. “Australia will continue to play a key role in meeting
this demand.”  As demand grows in China, India, Southeast Asia, Japan and
Korea, exports from Indonesia and Malaysia will decline to the
point the countries become net importers of the fuel, the report
said. That will support demand for Australia’s new LNG projects
under construction including Chevron Corp.’s Gorgon and
Wheatstone developments.  Australia’s LNG developments have been hampered by labor
shortages and escalating infrastructure expenditure. Delays and
spending over-runs are “endemic,” according to Bernstein,
which estimates that projects in the country run from 15 percent
to 50 percent over their original cost estimates. Australia’s
three operational LNG liquefaction plants are Woodside
Petroleum’s North West Shelf and Pluto LNG, and the Darwin
project operated by ConocoPhillips.  Project Costs  The cost of Chevron’s Gorgon natural gas development, the
largest resources project in Australia’s history, jumped 21
percent to A$52 billion ($53.7 billion) on local currency gains
and higher labor expenses, the company said Dec. 6. Gorgon,
whose workforce has grown to about 6,000 people, also has faced
weather delays and “logistics challenges” that have
contributed to the increased bill, the company said.  BG Group Plc, operator of one of three facilities under
construction in the state of Queensland, said in May that the
cost of the Curtis Island development rose 36 percent to $20.4
billion because of increases in the local currency, rising labor
and material costs and higher regulatory expenses.  The cost of Exxon’s LNG development in Papua New Guinea
surged 21 percent to $19 billion, partly because of a stronger
Australian dollar, the company said in November. Royal Dutch
Shell Plc, the world’s biggest LNG supplier, may delay until
2014 a decision on its Arrow LNG venture that’s forecast to cost
$20 billion amid rising expenses for energy projects in
Australia, Chief Executive Officer Peter Voser said in Beijing
in November.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chou Hui Hong in Singapore at 
 chong43@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  