-- Tavenner Nominated by Obama to Run Medicare, Medicaid
-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 2013-02-07T22:49:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/tavenner-nominated-by-obama-to-run-medicare-medicaid.html
President Barack Obama re-nominated
 Marilyn Tavenner  to be the administrator in charge of the $820
billion U.S. Medicare and Medicaid programs.  Obama asked the Senate in a notice today to confirm the
appointment of Tavenner, 61, who has been acting administrator
of the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services since 2011.
The agency, which oversees taxpayer-funded health programs for
the poor, elderly and disabled, hasn’t had a Senate-confirmed
leader since 2006.  Tavenner will be responsible for implementing the bulk of
Obama’s health-care system overhaul, which is estimated to
expand medical coverage to about 27 million uninsured people
over the next decade. The agency, which has a budget larger than
the Defense Department, will likely grow in size as the health-
care expansion includes increased Medicaid enrollment.  “With Medicare and Medicaid on an unsustainable fiscal
path, the cost of health care continuing to rise, and with the
implementation of the health law moving forward, there are many
questions she’ll need to fully answer before I decide whether or
not to support her,” Senator  Orrin Hatch , a Utah Republican and
ranking member of the finance committee that will consider
Tavenner’s nomination, said in a statement.  The Federation of American Hospitals, which represents for-
profit hospitals, said it supports Tavenner.  “She is the best-qualified person in the country to serve
as CMS administrator based upon her outstanding leadership
skills, exceptional knowledge of health policy and the health-
care industry, experience as a caregiver, and the qualities she
already has demonstrated running CMS,”  Chip Kahn , president and
chief executive officer of the federation, said in a statement.  Previous Nomination  The previous administrator of the agency under Obama,
 Donald Berwick , stepped down in 2011 when his appointment
expired without the Senate acting to confirm him. Obama
nominated Tavenner after Berwick’s departure, and the Senate
didn’t act before the 112th Congress ended Jan. 3.  Tavenner, a former nurse and hospital administrator, was
secretary of Virginia’s Department of Health and Human Resources
under then-Governor  Tim Kaine , a Democrat who is now a U.S.
senator.  The Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services is part of
the Department of Health and Human Services.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Wayne in Washington at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  