-- Aviva’s Matthews to Depart as Wilson Shuffles Executives
-- B y   K e v i n   C r o w l e y
-- 2013-02-07T10:41:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/aviva-s-matthews-to-depart-as-wilson-shuffles-executives.html
Aviva Plc , the U.K.’s second-biggest
insurer by market value, said  Trevor Matthews , head of developed
markets, will step down as Chief Executive Officer  Mark Wilson 
made his first executive appointments.  Matthews, 60, who joined Aviva from Resolution Ltd. in
2011, will end his tenure on the board the day before its annual
general meeting this year, the London-based company said today
in a statement. Wilson, who took over in January, appointed
 David McMillan , the insurer’s transformation director, as the
fifth CEO for Aviva Europe in five years. Wilson’s former AIA
Group Ltd. colleague  Nick Amin  will replace McMillan.  Aviva is selling, winding down or turning around about two-
thirds of its 58 businesses spread across three continents as
the company seeks to build its capital reserves and improve
profitability following the European sovereign debt crisis.  “These changes are about ensuring we have the right people
in the right jobs and that we have the best possible leadership
team so Aviva can achieve its undoubted potential,” Wilson said
in the statement.  Matthews’s appointment from Resolution’s Friends Life unit
prompted investors to request a pay review at Aviva last year
after the Australian-born executive received 470,000 pounds
($736,000) in cash and 2 million pounds in shares for joining
the firm. Former CEO  Andrew Moss  stepped down last year after
investors protested a pay rise following a 59 percent share-
price decline over his five-year tenure.  Matthews, who was a contender to replace Moss, wasn’t
available for comment, a company spokesman said today.  Other Appointments  Amin was “instrumental” in preparing AIA for its initial
public offering in 2010 and previously worked for Cigna Asia
Pacific, Aviva said in the statement.  Wilson appointed  Jason Windsor , a former Morgan Stanley
banker, as chief strategy and development officer and will take
executive responsibility for fund-management unit Aviva
Investors, working with the division’s interim CEO  Paul Abberley . Windsor was previously the firm’s strategy director.  Khor Hock Seng  will become CEO of Aviva’s Asian division
and  David Angulo  will become head of the firm’s sales
partnerships with banks, reporting to Amin, Aviva said.  The stock  rose  1.6 percent to 358.8 pence a share in London
at 10:06 a.m., valuing the firm at about 10.5 billion pounds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Crowley in London at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  