-- Bain’s Sankaty Said to Seek $1 Billion for Lending Fund
-- B y   S a b r i n a   W i l l m e r
-- 2013-02-07T19:36:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/bain-s-sankaty-said-to-seek-1-billion-for-lending-fund.html
Sankaty Advisors LLC, the debt-
investment unit of Bain Capital LLC, is seeking $1 billion for
its second fund that will lend to middle-market companies,
according to two people familiar with the matter.  Sankaty Middle Market Opportunities Fund II LP will invest
in mezzanine and make equity co-investments and senior loans,
said one of the people, who declined to be identified because
the fund is private.  A pullback in lending by banks and other traditional
lenders has prompted at least half-a-dozen firms, including
Carlyle Group LP and KKR & Co., to raise first-time funds that
will make loans to mid-size businesses. Banks have been turning
away from those businesses as they face higher capital costs
under new financial regulations for loans made to riskier
borrowers.  Jeffrey Hawkins , chief operating officer at Boston-based
Sankaty, declined to comment.  Carlyle GMS Finance Inc. is seeking $1 billion for a
vehicle to lend money to midmarket companies, two people with
knowledge of the plan said in October. KKR is seeking as much as
$500 million for a fund that would make senior loans to mid-size
businesses, a person familiar with the matter said that month.  Senior loans are considered the safest form of debt because
they sit on the top of the capital structure and take priority
in the event of a default. Mezzanine sits in between senior debt
and equity, whose holders are last in line to be paid off.  Predecessor Fund  Sankaty is seeking more for its next fund than for the
prior fund, which gathered almost $900 million in 2010.  Sankaty
Middle Market Opportunities Fund LP , which is 65 percent
invested, is generating a net return of 15 percent, according to
one of the people.  The new fund will be managed by Sankaty’s middle-market
group, which mostly provides debt to companies. Michael Ewald,
who joined Sankaty in 1998, heads the middle-market group and is
portfolio manager for the fund. Ewald previously worked as an
associate at Boston-based consultancy Bain & Co.  The group has invested about $3 billion in more than 110
deals since its inception in 1998, according to the firm’s
website. It typically invests $20 million to $75 million in
companies with more than $10 million in earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, or Ebitda. The
group’s money can be used to finance leveraged buyouts, complete
recapitalizations or restructurings, provide liquidity or emerge
from bankruptcy.  Founded in 1998, Sankaty Advisors had about $18.9 billion
of assets under management as of Sept. 30.  Jonathan Lavine , who
joined Bain Capital in 1993, is managing partner and chief
investment officer of Sankaty.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sabrina Willmer in New York at 
 swillmer2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  