-- Bankia Said to Reach About 30% Free Float After Junior Debt Swap
-- B y   C h a r l e s   P e n t y   a n d   E s t e b a n   D u a r t e
-- 2013-02-07T08:55:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/bankia-said-to-reach-about-30-free-float-after-junior-debt-swap.html
Bankia SA , the lender ejected from
Spain’s benchmark share index last month, will be about 30
percent owned by minority shareholders after a planned debt-for-
equity swap, said a person familiar with the matter.  State-controlled Bankia, Spain’s fourth-largest lender,
will announce details of an exchange of subordinated debt for
new shares this quarter, said the person, who asked not to be
identified because the information is private. The transaction
will partially offset the reduction of the free float caused by
a 10.7 billion-euro ($14.5 billion) recapitalization of the bank
with European Union cash.  Concerns that mounting losses at lenders such as Bankia,
formed from an amalgamation of savings banks, could contaminate
Spain’s public finances helped push the government to seek a
European bailout for its banking system last year. Bankia shares
fell as much as 34  percent  on Dec. 28, the first day of trading
after the bourse announced it would eject the firm from the  IBEX
35  index from the start of this year.  A Madrid-based official at Bankia declined to comment
citing company policy.  The company plans to issue new shares in exchange for as
much as 6.5 billion euros of Bankia group’s junior debt after
applying discounts of 14 percent to 46 percent, according to a
Nov. 28 presentation by Bankia. Such burden-sharing is
controversial because the debt includes preferred shares, which
were marketed to ordinary depositors as safe yet high-yielding
investments as late as 2009.  Bankia rose 7 percent to 47 cents at 9:48 a.m. in Madrid.  Claiming Refunds  The so-called free float would constitute 30 percent to 40
percent of the lender’s equity while the remainder would be
controlled by the government, the person said. The level of
shares in the hands of minority shareholders could change as
retail clients turn to an arbitration mechanism announced by the
government in December to claim a refund in cases where bad
practice in the selling of the notes is shown.  Banco Financiero y de Ahorros, Bankia’s state-run parent
company, owns a 48 percent stake with the remainder in the hands
of minority shareholders, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The European Commission approved a recapitalization plan
for Bankia in December that included making junior debt holders
assume losses by swapping the securities for shares. The plan
issues 10.7 billion euros of so-called contingent convertible
bonds, or cocos, subscribed by the parent and converted into
stock early this year.  Bankia will consider returning to the bond markets after
completion of the recapitalization, said the person. It may be
ready to tap fixed income investors in the second quarter
subject to market conditions, the person said.  Bankia Chairman  Jose Ignacio Goirigolzarri  announced in
November plans to cut about a quarter of the workforce and
offload 50 billion euros of assets by 2015 as he seeks to set
the bank on the path to profit this year after a forecasted 19
billion-euro loss in 2012.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Charles Penty in Madrid at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net ;
Esteban Duarte in Madrid at 
 eduarterubia@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net 
Paul Armstrong at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net ; 