-- Bank of England MPC Comments After February Rate Decision (Text)
-- B y   M a r k   E v a n s
-- 2013-02-07T12:02:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/bank-of-england-mpc-comments-after-february-rate-decision-text-.html
The following is the text of the
 Bank of England  Monetary Policy Committee comments following
the February rate decision:  The Bank of England’s Monetary Policy Committee today voted to
maintain the official Bank Rate paid on commercial bank reserves
at 0.5%.  The Committee also voted to maintain the stock of
asset purchases financed by the issuance of central bank
reserves at Stg 375 billion.  Over the past year, there has been considerable volatility in
quarterly output growth. Looking through the influence of
temporary factors, overall output appears to have been broadly
flat. In large part that reflects sharp falls in particular
sectors of the economy that are unlikely to be repeated in 2013.
In contrast, the combined output of the manufacturing and
services sectors has grown modestly. Business surveys suggest
the pace of expansion is likely to remain muted in the near
term. The weakness in overall output sits in sharp contrast to
continued strong employment growth, suggesting that the
financial crisis may have had some impact on the effective
supply capacity of the economy.  The MPC continues to judge that the UK economy is set for a slow
but sustained recovery in both demand and effective supply,
aided by a further easing in credit conditions - supported by
the Bank’s programme of asset purchases and the Funding for
Lending Scheme - and some improvement in the global environment.
But the risks are weighted to the downside, not least because of
the challenges facing the euro area.  Inflation has remained stubbornly above the 2% target. Despite
subdued pay growth, weak productivity has meant no corresponding
fall in domestic cost pressures.  And increases in university
tuition fees and domestic energy bills, largely resulting from
administrative decisions rather than market forces, have added
to inflation more recently.  CPI inflation is likely to rise
further in the near term and may remain above the 2% target for
the next two years, in part reflecting a persistent inflationary
impact both from administered and regulated prices and the
recent decline in sterling. But inflation is expected to fall
back to around the target thereafter, as a gradual revival in
productivity growth dampens increases in domestic costs and
external price pressures fade.  The Committee discussed the appropriate policy response to the
combination of the weakness in the economy and the prospect of a
further prolonged period of above-target inflation.  It agreed
that, as long as domestic cost and price pressures remained
consistent with inflation returning to the target in the medium
term, it was appropriate to look through the temporary, albeit
protracted, period of above-target inflation.  Attempting to
bring inflation back to target sooner by removing the current
policy stimulus more quickly than currently anticipated by
financial markets would risk derailing the recovery and
undershooting the inflation target in the medium term.  The
MPC’s remit is to deliver price stability, but to do so in a way
that avoids undesirable volatility in output.  The Committee
judged that its policy stance was fully consistent with that
remit.  The Committee agreed that it stood ready to provide
additional monetary stimulus if warranted by the outlook for
growth and inflation.  Against that backdrop, the Committee decided that it was
appropriate to maintain Bank Rate at 0.5% and the size of the
asset purchase programme at Stg 375 billion in order to meet the
2% CPI inflation target over the medium term.  The Committee also noted that the Asset Purchase Facility’s
holdings of the March 2013 gilt would mature at the time of the
Committee’s next meeting.  The Committee voted that it would re-
invest the cash flows of Stg 6.6 billion associated with this
redemption.  The Committee’s latest inflation and output projections will
appear in the Inflation Report to be published at 10.30am on
Wednesday 13 February.  The minutes of the meeting will be published at 9.30am on
Wednesday 20 February.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Evans   in London at 
 mevans8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  