-- Barclays’s Absa Urged to Use Cash in $2 Billion Africa Deal
-- B y   R e n e e   B o n o r c h i s
-- 2013-02-07T12:58:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/barclays-s-absa-pressed-to-use-cash-in-2-billion-all-share-deal.html
Absa Group Ltd . investors, including
Africa’s largest pension fund, are questioning the bank’s $2.1
billion all-share offer for Barclays Plc’s Africa assets, saying
the lender should use its cash surplus to help finance the deal.  Absa agreed in December to issue 129.5 million shares to
parent company Barclays as part of a plan to fold most of the
London-based lender’s African operations into  Absa . Absa will
then be renamed Barclays Africa Group Ltd. and Barclays’s stake
in the bank will rise to 62.3 percent from  55.5 percent  now.
Shareholders are set to vote on the deal on Feb. 25.  “The funding of the transaction could have been done via
cash or a combination of cash and shares as the group is well
endowed with capital,”  Maqhawe Dlamini , general manager of
equities at pension fund Public Investment Corp., said in an e-
mailed response to questions. “This structuring involving cash
would have served to limit the minorities’ dilution.”  The Pretoria-based fund is Absa’s largest shareholder after
Barclays, with about 9.5 percent of the Johannesburg-based bank.
It has more than 1 trillion rand ($112 billion) of assets under
management  Absa, which had the highest total capital adequacy ratio of
South Africa’s largest banks at the end of June according to
Bloomberg calculations, may have as much as 10 billion rand of
excess capital, according to  Greg Saffy , a banking analyst at
RMB Morgan Stanley. Absa’s high capital levels contributed to a
drop in return on equity to 13.8 percent in June, from 16.6
percent in December 2011.  Shareholder Returns  “The deal would have been more enhancing for shareholder
returns if it had a cash component, especially given that Absa
has the surplus cash,”  Godwill Chahwahwa , a portfolio manager
who helps oversee stakes in companies including Absa at
Coronation Fund Managers in Cape Town, said in a phone interview
on Feb. 4. “We are assessing the deal holistically. We will
look to engage with management after results next week.”  Sanlam Ltd., an insurer with fund management units and also
based in Cape Town, is in talks with Absa about the offer and
wants it to consider using a mixture of cash and shares, a
person familiar with the matter said, asking not to be
identified as discussions are private.  A spokesman for Absa in Johannesburg, who asked not to be
named under company policy, said the bank was in talks with
shareholders on any points for clarification ahead of the vote
and that there was no plan to change the terms.  Beneficial Deal  The deal is beneficial for both sets of shareholders,
according to a Barclays’ spokeswoman, who asked not to be named
under corporate policy.  Absa  rose 0.3 percent to 171.51 rand as of 2:56 p.m. in
Johannesburg trading.  Absa and Barclays, seeking to boost profit by combining
products and customer bases across a continent with faster
growth rates than that of developed regions, need 50 percent
plus one vote from investors for the deal to go ahead.  “Some people are saying they could have structured it with
some cash,”  Adrian Cloete , an Absa shareholder and equity
analyst at Cadiz Asset Management, said. “Institutions are
talking to the bank. From a strategic point of view the deal
makes a lot of sense, but pricing is a different question.”  Special Dividend  Absa is scheduled to announce full-year earnings on Feb. 12
and may use surplus cash to pay a special dividend if it doesn’t
use the money in the Barclays transaction, according to five
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. The mean estimate for a special
dividend was 7 rand with the highest estimate at 8.35 rand a
share.  The bank is in a closed period and can’t comment on
financial information, an Absa spokesman said.  “Any dividend declared now means 62.3 percent will go to
Barclays for 2012,”  Johny Lambridis , a portfolio manager at
Cape Town-based Element Investment Managers said on Feb. 4.
“There’s no way they can justify that when Barclays owned 55.5
percent last year.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Renee Bonorchis in Johannesburg at 
 rbonorchis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  