-- BCE’s Earnings Climb as Smartphone Data Spending Surges
-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 2013-02-07T21:13:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/bce-quarterly-profit-climbs-as-smartphone-data-spending-surges.html
BCE Inc. , Canada’s second-largest
wireless carrier, reported higher quarterly profit as customers
spent more surfing the Web on premium devices like  Apple Inc. ’s
iPhone. The company also raised its dividend.  Excluding severance, acquisition and other costs,  earnings 
rose to 65 Canadian cents (65 cents) a share, the Montreal-based
company said today in a statement. Profit was 1 cent below the
 average  analyst estimate, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. BCE said it will increase its annual dividend to
C$2.33 from C$2.27 a share, representing a boost of 60 percent
since the fourth quarter of 2008.  Chief Executive Officer  George Cope  has made  recent
acquisitions  to add programming to sell to users of the iPhone
and of the BlackBerry Z10 mobile device, which went on sale in
Canada this week. Buoyed by that fresh content, average revenue
per wireless user at Bell Mobility, BCE’s mobile-devices
business, rose 4.1 percent to C$56.72. That beat the average
estimate of C$56.65 of six analysts in a Bloomberg survey.  The  dividend  increase was unexpected and shows “Bell is
performing well in the current competitive environment,” said
 Maher Yaghi , a Desjardins Securities analyst in Montreal. He
rates the stock a buy.  BCE fell 0.2 percent to C$44.43 at the close in Toronto.
The  stock  rose less than 1 percent last year, as the S&P/Toronto
Stock Exchange Composite Index gained 4 percent.  Astral Rebuff  Cope told investors at a meeting in Toronto today that he’s
“very confident” BCE will close its C$3.38 billion purchase of
 Astral Media Inc.  in the middle of this year. Canada’s media
regulator rejected the deal in October, saying it would
concentrate too much power in BCE’s hands and curb competition.
The company submitted an amended takeover plan in November.  BCE already owns broadcaster CTV and teamed up last year
with rival  Rogers Communications Inc.  to buy a controlling stake
in  Maple Leaf Sports & Entertainment Ltd. , which runs the
National Basketball Association’s Toronto Raptors and the
Toronto Maple Leafs hockey team.  Rogers, the largest Canadian wireless carrier, and No. 3
carrier  Telus Corp.  report fourth-quarter results on Feb. 15.  Bell Mobility added 143,834 customers on long-term
contracts last quarter helped by what it said were “strong”
sales of iPhones. The average analyst estimate was for a gain of
132,000. Mobile data revenue jumped 28 percent.  Revenue, Profit  Revenue  was little changed at C$5.16 billion in the
quarter, compared with the C$5.17 billion estimate by analysts.
BCE’s fourth-quarter  net income  rose 46 percent to C$708
million, or 91 cents a share, from C$486 million, or 62 cents, a
year earlier.  BCE gave a sales forecast for the year of little changed at
the low end to a gain of 2 percent at the high end. Earnings per
share excluding some costs are expected to be C$2.97 to C$3.03,
the company said.  Chief Financial Officer  Siim Vanaselja  told investors today
that he doesn’t expect the company to make any share buybacks
this year. The company’s increased dividend is payable April 15
to shareholders of record on March 15.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  