-- Beazley Rises as Profit, Special Dividend Beat Estimates
-- B y   K e v i n   C r o w l e y
-- 2013-02-07T18:33:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/beazley-rises-as-profit-beats-estimates-plans-special-dividend.html
Beazley Plc  rose in London trading
after 2012 profit beat analysts’ estimates and the Lloyd’s of
London insurer said it plans to pay investors a special dividend
that matches its usual payout for the year.  Beazley climbed 4.5 percent to 199 pence a share in London
trading, making it the third-best performing member of the  FTSE
250 Index . The insurer’s pretax profit rose after the firm
boosted premiums, introduced new products and doubled investment
returns. The shares are up 36 percent in the past year.  “Beazley reported 2012 results which were comfortably
ahead of our forecasts, complemented by powerful evidence of
capital management,”  Eamonn Flanagan , a Liverpool, England-
based analyst at Shore Capital Group Ltd. with a buy rating on
the stock, wrote in a note to clients today. “We believe that a
further re-rating of the stock is warranted.”  Beazley, which insures property against natural
catastrophes and companies against lawsuits, increased premium
rates 3 percent last year following the most costly disaster
year on record in 2011. The firm boosted investment returns by
taking more credit risk and sold new policies that protect
companies against cyber-crime.  The insurer’s pretax profit rose fourfold to $251.2 million
in 2012, beating the $201 million median  estimate  of nine
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. That allowed the firm to pay a
special dividend of 8.4 pence a share in addition to an annual
payout of 8.3 pence.  “We had a combination of smaller share buybacks and
special dividends in 2010, but this year with the share price
being more buoyant we decided to distribute capital through a
special dividend only,” Chief Executive Officer  Andrew Horton 
said in a telephone interview today.  The insurer is considering selling a 75 million-pound ($118
million) bond to retail investors that would help replace some
of its subordinated debt, he said. The firm raised the same
amount last year, paying 5.375 percent interest.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Crowley in London at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  