-- Beheaded Cat, Maimed Goat Spark Scrutiny of Research Labs
-- B y   P a t r i c k   C o l e
-- 2013-02-07T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/beheaded-cat-maimed-goat-spark-scrutiny-of-research-labs.html
When animal researchers at the
 University of Wisconsin-Madison  dodged federal penalties for
decapitating a cat named Double Trouble, their troubles weren’t
over.  People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals triggered
outrage in the animal-welfare community after publishing on its
website photos of the dead cat used in a hearing experiment,
which it obtained using the  Wisconsin Public Records Law .  Under pressure last autumn from PETA, the U.S. Department
of Agriculture investigated the incident and found no violation
of the federal Animal Welfare Act.  PETA then dug further and learned about nine other cats
that died or suffered wounds and bacterial infections in the
university’s labs. The nonprofit filed another complaint,
triggering another investigation in November.  Animal-welfare groups are mounting aggressive campaigns to
stop what they see as abusive behavior in research labs. PETA
spent three years working to obtain  photos  of Double Trouble’s
treatment under the Wisconsin law.  “These are curiosity experiments and aren’t applied
research and produce no findings,” said Justin Goodman,
director of PETA’s laboratory investigations department. “You
can hurt the cats, you can kill them, and all you have to do is
just explain why you’re doing it.”  Propelled in part by the nonprofits’ filing of complaints,
last year the USDA handed out more than 1,500 citations at about
900 U.S. labs for violations of the federal Animal Welfare Act,
according to a study by  Stop Animal Exploitation Now .  Feeling Pressure  “You can tell that things are changing,” said Michael
Budkie, SAEN’s executive director. “These labs are reacting to
complaints. They know that they’re being watched, and they’re
not happy about that.”  The USDA also has focused more attention on repeat
offenders, said Michael Markarian, chief program and policy
officer of the  Humane Society of the U.S.  The federal agency’s
 Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service , or Aphis, posts the
names of violators on the web. SAEN tracks the names and posts
some offenders on its website.  “From the secretary of agriculture down to the field
inspectors, there is an unprecedented commitment to the
enforcement of the AWA,” said Cathy Liss, president of the
Washington-based  Animal Welfare Institute , by phone.  SAEN ramped up a campaign to expose Santa Cruz
Biotechnology Inc.’s practices by filing a lawsuit on Jan. 17
under California’s animal-cruelty law. During a period of about
six years, investigators from Aphis found starving and
malnourished animals at Santa Cruz’s 200-acre facility, which
houses 10,000 goats. The company researches and develops
antibodies and animal health-care products.  “Many repeat violators haven’t been sanctioned by the
USDA,” said Stephen Wells, executive director of the Animal
League Defense Fund, which filed the lawsuit for SAEN. “Many
labs treat USDA fines as a very minor cost of doing business.”  Crippled Goat  One goat hobbled around with a broken leg for three days
because a local veterinarian didn’t have time to treat the
injury, according to the lawsuit. Another suffered from an
untreated coyote bite. Santa Cruz Biotech said in an e-mail
statement to Bloomberg News that it “disagrees” with the
suit’s allegations and that it is “in compliance with the
Animal Welfare Act.”  Aphis investigators made several trips to Harvard
University and its medical school last year, looking into the
death of five monkeys. USDA spokesman Dave Sacks said he
couldn’t comment on the status of the probe.  The Harvard investigations triggered a flurry of media
attention last year, which led to the resignation of Frederick
Wang, the interim director of the Harvard-affiliated New England
Primate Research Center.  Sparking Change  The complaint-filing strategy is sparking change at some
labs. Albert Einstein Medical Center in Philadelphia agreed to
stop using kittens for teaching its pediatric residents tracheal
intubation, following pressure from the Washington-based
 Physicians Committee for Responsible Medicine . The PCRM filed a
state public-records request last year and a complaint to the
USDA, said John Pippin, the committee’s director of academic
affairs.  Medical schools at the University of Vanderbilt, the
University of Texas at Houston and Oklahoma University also said
that they’ll stop using animals when training residents.  Eric Sandgren, director of Wisconsin University’s Research
Animal Resources Center, said Double Trouble’s decapitation is
standard procedure after an experiment. He said PETA’s claim
that it failed to minimize its animals’ distress and pain
required by the AWA is “unsubstantiated.”  “There are certain (medical) questions that only can be
answered by looking at the whole animal,” Sandgren said. “In
some of these studies, we can’t use people.”  Another Probe  Although the USDA announced yesterday that Wisconsin’s
treatment of the nine cats didn’t raise noncompliance issues,
PETA also awaits the outcome of a National Institutes of Health
probe at the school. NIH is looking into whether Wisconsin’s
treatment of animals violates its  guidelines  for grant
recipients.  “Filing a USDA complaint is only one component of our
broader campaign to end abusive experiments on animals,”
Goodman said. “Just because the USDA doesn’t cite a lab doesn’t
mean that a practice wasn’t cruel or unethical.”  Muse highlights include  Jason Harper  on cars,  Lance Esplund 
on art.  To contact the writer on this story:
 Patrick Cole  in New York at 
 pcole3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 