-- BHP Billiton Considering Sale of Australia Gregory Coal Mine
-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 2013-02-07T01:24:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/bhp-billiton-considering-sale-of-australia-gregory-coal-mine-1-.html
BHP Billiton Ltd. , the world’s
largest mining company, is looking to sell its Gregory
steelmaking coal mine in Australia’s Queensland state, after
last year closing one part of the operation due to low prices.  “In addition to divestment, the company is assessing
options for the Gregory Crinum complex to further extend the
operation’s life,” the Melbourne-based company said today in an
e-mailed statement. “BHP Billiton metallurgical  coal  will
continue to review its portfolio of assets to ensure alignment
with the company’s strategy.”  Gregory Crinum has a remaining mine life of four years, BHP
said in its fiscal 2012 annual report, with a measured coal
resource of 8.3 million metric tons. BHP’s share of output in
the joint-venture operation was 1.4 million tons in the year to
June 30. A sale is likely to fetch A$800 million ($824 million)
with UBS AG running the sales process, the Australian Financial
Review said today in its Street Talk column, without citing
anyone.  BHP in October last year closed the open-cut cut operation
at the mine after it became unprofitable because of falling coal
prices. The underground mine remains operational. BHP has
signaled it will sell  assets  that no longer deliver profits or
fit with the company’s strategy.  BHP has cut spending on operations that have become “non-
core,” including nickel and aluminum assets after the
profitability of those assets fell, Chief Executive Officer
 Marius Kloppers  said in August.  The review will take about six to nine months and will
depend on market interest and other commercial factors, BHP
said. Gregory first produced coal in 1979 and is operated in a
50-50 joint venture with Mitsubishi Corp.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  