-- Bite Cautions Funds as All 2013 Dollar Sales Drop
-- B y   R a c h e l   E v a n s
-- 2013-02-07T04:03:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/bite-cautions-funds-as-all-2013-dollar-sales-drop.html
Bonds without credit ratings or
maturities led the slump in all of this year’s new dollar-
denominated issues from Chinese companies as investors balked at
riskier debt and favored rallying equities.  All of the $12.9 billion sold by Chinese and Hong Kong
companies in 2013 lost money as of Feb. 5, according to prices
compiled by Bloomberg. Undated notes sold from Cheung Kong
Holdings Ltd., controlled by Asia’s richest man Li Ka-shing,
performed the worst. Chinese bonds lost 1.4 percent this year,
after gaining 24.6 percent last year, while Asian notes declined
1.1 percent, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s Asia Credit
Index. Global equities gained 5 percent.  Chinese and Hong Kong borrowers sold almost seven times
more undated or unrated debt in January than a month earlier
after the cost of debt globally fell to an all-time low of 2.54
percent at the end of last year, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch indexes. Agile Property Holdings Ltd. agreed to
pay 165 basis points less to sell bonds without a fixed maturity
on Jan. 11 than for five-year debt 10 months earlier.  “Having seen all these losses, the market should be more
rational,” said  Brayan Lai , an analyst in emerging-market
credit trading at Jefferies Group Inc. in Singapore. “As long
as investors remember the bite from January, things will be
structured better and pricing will be better as well.”  Economic Expansion  Almost 88 percent of the dollar bonds sold this year by
companies from Asia outside Japan lost money, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. That compares with 54 percent of new
European deals and 40 percent of those in the U.S.  Average  yields  on Chinese securities in dollars have risen
41 basis points this year to 5.51 percent, JPMorgan gauges show.
The average  yield premium  over Treasuries widened 23 basis
points this year to 399 basis points as of Feb. 5. Asian high-
yield spreads rose 16 basis points  an average  of 381.  The  MSCI World Index  of equities in 24 markets had the best
January in two decades after the U.S. economy expanded 2.2
percent in 2012, compared with the 2.1 percent that was forecast
at the start of the year in a Bloomberg survey.  China’s economy is expected to grow 8.1 percent in 2013,
accelerating from 7.8 percent last year, according to the median
estimate of 47 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News. The country
will stick to property controls and maintain “healthy
development” of the real-estate market, Xinhua reported Li
Keqiang, who’s set to become the next premier, as saying.  2012 Gains  “It is supply indigestion among the key drivers, but it’s
a technical move rather than a fundamental one and if you look
at the data either economy-wise or corporate-wise, it is
improving,” said  Steve Wang , Hong Kong-based head of fixed-
income research at BOCI Securities Ltd., a unit of China’s
fourth-largest bank. “I don’t think this will be a turning
point for the market. There is no need to panic.”  Asian high-yield notes outperformed investment-grade debt
last year, gaining 20.4 percent versus the 11.3 percent return
on higher-rated bonds, according to JPMorgan indexes. Wang said
that while high-yield bonds still present the best opportunities
some perpetuals hadn’t offered enough benefits to investors.  “If you’re an investor who’s not happy with fixed-income
rates being so low and at the same time are not ready to get
into equity because things are so uncertain, I’d rather be in
high-quality, high-yield debt for the income generated than in a
perpetual,” said  Sabita Prakash , head of Asian fixed income at
FIL Ltd., which is known as Fidelity Worldwide Investment and
manages more than $240.4 billion as of the end of last year.
Perpetuals are “a little bit of a no-man’s land,” she said.  Falling Prices  Hong Kong and Chinese companies have dominated dollar sales
this year, issuing 55 percent of the $23.4 billion offered in
the region, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Cheung Kong’s securities, which pay the same 5.375 percent
for the life of the bond despite having no fixed maturity, slid
to 90.2 cents on the dollar from par as of Feb. 5.  Perpetual bonds from Agile were the second-worst
performers, while unrated debt from CSI Properties Ltd. was
trading at 92.9 cents on the dollar from par as of Feb. 5.  “We believe that most of the subscribers or investors of
our bond at issue are long-term investors, and the quoted
current market price may be affected by the lack of trading
liquidity of our bonds and thus are not a fair representation of
their value,” Simon Kan, Hong Kong-based company secretary at
CSI Properties, wrote in an e-mailed reply to questions.  Agile declined to comment on its bond trading, according to
iPR Ogilvy, Agile’s public relations consultant. A spokesman for
Cheung Kong was not immediately available to comment when
contacted by phone and e-mail yesterday.  ‘Sharp Sell-Off’  “The spate of unrated issuance that we’ve seen in senior
unsecured format is just as susceptible to a sharp sell-off as
any of these hybrid structures,” said  Ronan McCullough , a
managing director in the global capital markets team at Morgan
Stanley in Hong Kong.  Perpetual bonds, which are often treated as part-equity by
rating companies, allow companies to borrow more without
proportionally increasing leverage or diluting shares. Citic
Pacific Ltd., the steelmaker and property developer, became the
first issuer of undated notes in China outside of Hong Kong with
a sale of $750 million of 7.875 percent notes in April 2011.  The structures are becoming increasingly bespoke, making it
hard to pinpoint how particular terms of the securities should
affect price, according to  Ankur Prakash , a director in the debt
capital markets team at Standard Chartered Plc, speaking at a
Bloomberg News roundtable in Hong Kong last week.  Agile, Petron  Agile, which sold its notes days after its chairman and
founder was formally charged with two counts of indecent assault
in Hong Kong, can opt to buy back the notes after 5 1/2 years,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. If it doesn’t, the
coupon is reset at the initial spread more than prevailing five-
year Treasuries and then reset again and increased by 25 basis
points after 10.5 years with a further reset and an additional
75 basis-point rise after 20.5 years, the data show.  That compares with notes sold by Petron Corp., the largest
refiner in the Philippines, which can also be called after 5 1/2
years and on which the coupon resets over prevailing five-year
Treasuries while increasing by 250 basis points at 5 1/2 years,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Lower Fair Value  Agile’s perpetual notes fell to 91.4 cents on the dollar as
of Feb. 5, when Petron’s bonds were quoted at 100.01 cents.  The cost of insuring China’s debt against non-payment with
 credit-default swaps  has increased one basis point this year to
67.4 basis points as of yesterday, according to data provider
CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles prices
quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market. The yuan
fell 0.04 percent to 6.2343 per dollar in Shanghai.  China’s benchmark 10-year government  bond  yielded 3.59
percent as of yesterday, climbing from as low as 3.24 percent on
July 11. Top-rated  corporate  debt with similar maturities paid
5.24 percent, according to Chinabond indexes.  The average yield on global corporate debt rose to 2.74
percent as of Feb. 5, from an all-time low of 2.54 percent on
Dec. 28, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes.  “The market is still very picky,” according to  Samson Lee , head of debt capital markets at BOCI Asia Ltd, a unit of
Bank of China Ltd. “If you look at the secondary performance,
some of the perpetuals are not doing that well, which means
people recognize or expect a lower fair value.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rachel Evans  in Hong Kong at 
 revans43@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shelley Smith at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  