-- BOE to Reinvest Maturing Gilts as Stimulus Policy Sustained
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2013-02-07T13:15:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/boe-to-reinvest-maturing-gilts-as-qe-held-at-375-billion-pounds.html
The Bank of England will reinvest the
first gilts to mature since it started its asset-purchase
program four years ago as it sustains stimulus for an economy in
a “slow” recovery.  The Monetary Policy Committee led by Governor  Mervyn King 
will buy more bonds with the 6.6 billion pounds ($10.4 billion)
associated with a gilt maturing March 7, the BOE said in a
statement today. The bank also held its  target for quantitative
easing  at 375 billion pounds and said inflation may remain above
its 2 percent target for the next two years.  The decision came as Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney ,
who will succeed King in July, told lawmakers that the BOE’s
current policy may be enough to help the economy achieve
“escape velocity.” The gilt reinvestment shows officials want
to avoid tightening policy as the U.K. confronts the risk of an
unprecedented  triple-dip recession . While inflation is likely to
remain above target longer than previously forecast, the MPC
said it would “look through” this temporary factor.  “This statement highlights the acute dilemma faced by the
MPC,” said Simon Hayes, an economist at Barclays Plc in London.
“The weak activity outlook begs for more stimulus, but the
inflation outlook is not sufficiently benign to make the
committee comfortable expanding policy further.”  The pound remained higher against the dollar after the
announcement. It was trading at $1.5712 as 12:47 p.m. London
time, up 0.3 percent from yesterday. Gilts fell, pushing the 10-
year yield up 3 basis points to 2.13 percent.  Inflation Target  On  inflation , the BOE said it may accelerate in the near-
term because of blamed increases in regulated prices such as
energy bills as well as the decline of the pound. The forecast
for price growth compares with King’s prediction last month that
it would exceed the goal “for much of this year.”  Explaining its decision today, the MPC said that
“attempting to bring inflation back to target sooner by
removing the current policy stimulus more quickly than currently
anticipated by financial markets would risk derailing the
recovery and undershooting the inflation target in the medium
term.”  The central bank also said today that it “stood ready to
provide additional monetary stimulus if warranted by the outlook
for growth and inflation.”  The U.K. “is set for a slow but sustained recovery,” it
said. “But the risks are weighted to the downside, not least
because of the challenges facing the euro area.”  In Frankfurt today, the European Central Bank kept its
benchmark rate at 0.75 percent, as forecast by all 60 economists
in a Bloomberg survey.  Future Redemptions  The purchases of gilts that began in 2009 marked a new
policy front for the BOE in its fight against the recession.  The bank halted purchases in November as officials shifted
focus to their Funding for Lending Scheme, which started Aug. 1
and is intended to stoke growth by unblocking credit strains.
The MPC said today that the FLS will be one factor that may help
bolster growth this year.  The BOE didn’t say what it will do with future gilt
redemptions. It said the 6.6 billion pounds comprises the
redemption payment on the gilt, as well as the cash flow
resulting from the indemnity provided by the Treasury to cover
any difference between the redemption payment and the original
amount invested. It bought the securities at an average price of
about 107.3 percent of face amount, its data show.  Carney Testimony  In his testimony today, Carney endorsed the BOE’s decisions
to look through above-target inflation, saying central banks
should be flexible. He has triggered a debate on the U.K.
central bank’s remit with comments on nominal gross domestic
product targets and how far policy makers can go to generate
recoveries.  “Flexible inflation targeting -- as practiced in both
Canada and the U.K. -- has proven itself to be the most
effective monetary policy framework implemented thus far,”
Carney said. “As a result, the bar for alteration is very
high.”  The BOE’s decision not to expand QE and to hold its key
interest rate at a record-low 0.5 percent were forecast by all
economists in two Bloomberg News surveys. Minutes of the
decision will be published on Feb. 20. The MPC had new forecasts
at the meeting that King will present at a press conference in
London on Wednesday.  The National Institute of Economic and Social Research cut
its 2013 U.K. growth forecast to 0.7 percent from 1.1 percent
this week and said the economy is at risk of a prolonged
stagnation.  Still, there are signs the economy may be strengthening
after shrinking 0.3 percent in the fourth quarter. Data today
showed manufacturing output rose 1.6 percent in December, twice
as much as the median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey. Total
industrial production increased 1.1 percent. A survey this week
showed services unexpectedly expanded in January.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  