-- Boeing Says in Talks With Indian Carriers to Sell 737 Max
-- B y   K a r t h i k e y a n   S u n d a r a m
-- 2013-02-07T09:13:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/boeing-says-in-talks-with-indian-carriers-to-sell-737-max.html
Boeing Co.  said it is in talks with
Indian carriers including  Jet Airways (India) Ltd. , SpiceJet
Ltd. and Air India to sell them 737 Max aircraft.  The planemaker sees some progress in discussions to get
orders for the aircraft from Jet Airways and SpiceJet,  Dinesh Keskar , Boeing’s senior vice-president for India and Asia
Pacific sales, said at a press conference in Bangalore today.
Boeing, which is working with regulators in the U.S. and Japan
to get its grounded 787 Dreamliner back in the air, has 1,064
firm  orders  globally for the 737 Max single-aisle planes.  The purchase discussions are taking place as Jet Airways is
getting closer to a deal with Etihad Airways PJSC that will make
the Gulf carrier the first foreign airline to buy into a local
operator after India eased ownership rules. Still, India today
forecast the weakest economic growth in a decade as subdued
investment and elevated inflation add pressure on Prime Minister
 Manmohan Singh  to extend policy changes.  Jet Airways this month reported a  net income  in the quarter
ended December, compared with a loss in the year-earlier period,
while  SpiceJet  posted profit that beat analyst estimates. The
airlines boosted profitability as the yields improved, said
Keskar.  “Can they sustain these yields, which I think they can
because of the balance of capacity in the market,” said Keskar.
“They will continue to do well and aviation will continue to
grow profitably.”  Kingfisher Airlines Ltd. , the Indian carrier that’s halted
flights for want of cash, reported net loss widened and didn’t
have any sales from operations in the quarter ended December. It
suspended operations from Oct. 1 and its flying permit lapsed at
the end of last year.  Passenger Numbers  Passenger numbers on Indian domestic routes declined 2.9
percent to 53.4 million in the 11 months ended November, the
Directorate General of Civil Aviation said in a report published
on its  website .  Boeing today reiterated carriers in the Asian nation will
need 1,450 new aircraft, a forecast it had made in September.  The Indian commercial aviation market is improving with
higher yields and stability in fuel charges, Keskar said.  Gross domestic product will rise 5 percent in the 12 months
through March 2013, below last year’s 6.2 percent and the
slowest pace since 4 percent in 2002-2003, a Central Statistical
Office statement showed today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karthikeyan Sundaram in New Delhi at 
 kmeenakshisu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  