-- BofA Said to Shift U.S. Trust Bonuses to Gain Clients
-- B y   H u g h   S o n
-- 2013-02-07T13:27:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/bofa-said-to-shift-u-s-trust-bonuses-to-gain-clients.html
Bank of America Corp.  shifted bonuses
at U.S. Trust to focus employees on adding clients and boosting
account balances, a change that could mean lower pay for some
members of the wealth-management unit.  Client managers at the  private bank  will have awards this
year pegged to new balances including deposits, investments and
loans, said two people with knowledge of the formula. Bonuses
had been tied to total client revenue, said the people, who
asked for anonymity because compensation plans are confidential.  “The individual who’s worked 20 years to build up a really
strong book of business and is used to getting paid in almost an
annuity stream is not going to be happy about this, because it
could reduce their income,” said Dick Risch, founder of New
York-based Risch Group, a search firm specializing in private
banking and wealth management.  Bank of America has worked to boost its  sagging income  by
catering to the wealthiest families with units such as U.S.
Trust, acquired in 2006 from Charles Schwab Corp. The business,
with roots reaching back before the Civil War, has
underperformed BofA’s much larger Merrill Lynch brokerage as
revenue fell 3.7 percent to $2.6 billion last year, while
Merrill’s rose 1 percent to $13.8 billion.  Some  managers  fear their income will drop because the
changes favor those with rapidly growing portfolios, said one of
the people. Workers will have greater control over their pay and
the chance to earn more than previously, said another person.
Lauren Sambrotto, a company spokeswoman, declined to comment.  New Business  The private-client manager position was overhauled late
last year by the Charlotte, North Carolina-based bank to
emphasize revenue growth and encourage them to support the
“private-client advisers,” whose main responsibility is to
bring in new customers with a minimum of $3 million in
investable assets.  A typical U.S. Trust team also has a portfolio manager to
oversee investments, a trust officer to ensure the firm adheres
to the legal rules of a specific trust and a sales and service
officer who handles administrative duties. The unit had 2,077
 employees  dealing with clients at the end of 2012, a 7.6 percent
drop from the year earlier.  Bank of America is the nation’s second-largest lender by
assets and U.S. Trust, run by Keith Banks, is the country’s
biggest company managing trusts, the firm has  said , citing
Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. data. Trusts are typically set
up by wealthy families or institutions to handle assets for
offspring or charities.  Merrill Lynch  The compensation changes mirror those at Merrill Lynch, the
so-called “Thundering Herd” of 15,000 financial advisers that
Bank of America acquired in 2009 during the financial crisis.
Merrill Lynch introduced new bonuses to reward brokers who
encourage clients to use more of the lender’s products.  Advisers who increase funds including deposits, investments
and loans by at least $5 million to $25 million will be eligible
for the awards this year, John Thiel, head of the brokerage,
said in December.  Bank of America Chief Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan 
has emphasized the importance of Merrill Lynch in helping the
company sell existing clients more products. U.S. Trust has been
the subject of  speculation  that it could be sold since at least
2009.  Last year, U.S. Trust eliminated some managers overseeing
trust officers and private-client advisers, said people with
knowledge of the dismissals. The company also banned non-
essential travel to save money, the people said.  Bank of America shares more than doubled in 2012 for the
best showing in the Dow Jones Industrial Average and added 2.8
percent so far this year, closing at $11.93 yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugh Son in New York at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
Rick Green at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net  