-- Brazil’s Real Surges as Central Bank Says Inflation Rate Is High
-- B y   B l a k e   S c h m i d t   a n d   M a r i s a   C a s t e l l a n i
-- 2013-02-07T20:33:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/brazil-swap-rates-rise-as-inflation-exceeds-forecast-real-gains.html
Brazil’s real rallied the most among
emerging-market currencies as the central bank said high
inflation requires attention, spurring speculation that policy
makers will let the currency strengthen to contain prices.  Swap rates climbed after the government reported that
consumer prices increased in January at the fastest pace in
almost eight years, adding to bets on a boost in borrowing
costs. The exchange rate and tax cuts will help slow inflation,
a central bank board member said in a phone interview, asking
not to be identified because of internal policy.  “Higher inflation shoots the real up,” Joao Paulo de
Gracia Correa, currency manager at Correparti Corretora, said in
a phone interview from Curitiba, Brazil.  The real appreciated 1.2 percent to 1.9667 per dollar at
the close in Sao Paulo, the strongest level since May. The rally
was the biggest among 25 emerging-market currencies tracked by
Bloomberg. Swap rates due in January 2015 increased 10 basis
points, or 0.10 percentage point, to 8.19 percent, the highest
level since Oct. 2.  The Treasury rejected all bids in its auction of LTN bonds
due in April 2014, April 2015 and July 2016 after the surge in
swap rates. It sold 5.5 billion reais of floating-rate LFT bonds
due in 2018.  Swap rates climbed as the national statistics agency
reported that the IPCA consumer price index increased 0.86
percent in January from a month earlier, the most since April
2005. The median forecast of 41 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
was for a 0.83 percent advance.  Annual inflation  accelerated to
6.15 percent, faster than the 4.5 percent midpoint of the
central bank’s target range for a 29th month.  Inflation Outlook  Inflation is getting worse in the “short term,” the
central bank said in the minutes of its meeting Jan. 15-16. The
board held the Selic  target lending rate  at a record low 7.25
percent for a second straight time after the slowest two years
of economic expansion in a decade.  Policy makers have cut benchmark borrowing costs by 5.25
percentage points since August 2011, the most aggressive cuts
among Group of 20 nations.  The government plans to scrap federal taxes on food staples
to control inflation, President Dilma Rousseff said Feb. 5. It
made deeper reductions in consumer and industry energy costs
last month than previously announced.  ‘More Tax Cuts’  “We expect the government to eventually announce more tax
cuts to face increasingly worrying inflation,”  Enestor Dos Santos , an economist at BBVA in Madrid, said in an e-mailed
report. “We expect tools other than the Selic to be used to try
to maintain inflation under control, which means an additional
appreciation of the exchange rate and/or a reduction in public
expenditure should not be ruled out.”  The real rallied to a level stronger than 2 per U.S. dollar
on Jan. 28 for the first time since July after the central bank
renewed $1.85 billion of currency swaps about to expire,
refraining from buying dollars to settle the contracts. On Jan.
31, the government exempted foreigners from a tax on real-estate
funds traded on the stock exchange, spurring speculation that
inflows will help sustain the real.  Policy makers swung in 2012 between selling currency swaps
to prevent the real from falling too quickly and offering
reverse currency swaps to protect exporters by keeping the real
from strengthening beyond 2 per dollar.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Blake Schmidt in Sao Paulo at 
 bschmidt16@bloomberg.net ;
Marisa Castellani in Sao Paulo at 
 mcastellani7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  