-- Brazil Central Bank Says Inflation High as Bond Bids Spurned
-- B y   M a t t h e w   M a l i n o w s k i   a n d   D a v i d   B i l l e r
-- 2013-02-07T19:25:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/brazil-central-bank-says-inflation-is-high-requires-attention.html
Brazil’s  inflation  is at a high level
that requires attention, the central bank said in response to a
report showing that consumer prices rose in January at the
fastest pace in almost eight years. The real posted the biggest
gain among major currencies.  The 12-month inflation rate, which reached 6.15 percent in
January, will hover around 6 percent until June before slowing,
the central bank said. The exchange rate, smaller wage
increases, a drop in rental prices and slower credit growth will
ease consumer price increases in 2013 from 2012, according to
the bank. Brazil targets inflation of 4.5 percent.  Central bank President  Alexandre Tombini  is trying to
convince investors that inflation, running above target for 29
months, will remain under control after he cut the benchmark
interest rate to a record. The real today gained as much as 1.5
percent against the U.S. dollar on speculation policymakers will 
allow the exchange rate to appreciate to help tame inflation 
instead of increasing interest rates.  “We are going to see the central bank continuing to use
the spot currency as its main monetary policy tool for the
moment,”  Nick Chamie , global head of currency strategy and
emerging markets research at RBC Capital Markets, said in a
telephone interview from Toronto. Today’s comment “reflects
their desire to anchor inflation expectations.”  Biggest Rally  The real today appreciated 1.2 percent, the most among 16
major currencies tracked by Bloomberg, to 1.9672 per U.S. dollar
at 5:19 p.m. local time. Swap rates on the contract expiring in
January 2014, the most traded in Sao Paulo today, gained nine
basis points, or 0.09 percentage point, to 7.44 percent.  Following the surge in swap rates earlier today, the
Treasury rejected all bids in its auction of LTN bonds due in
April 2014, April 2015 and July 2016. It sold 5.5 billion reais
($2.8 billion) of floating-rate LFT bonds due in 2018.  Consumer prices  as measured by the benchmark IPCA index
rose 0.86 percent in January, a government report showed today.
The median  estimate  from 41 economists surveyed by Bloomberg was
for a 0.83 percent rise. Annual inflation accelerated to 6.15
percent from 5.84 percent the previous month.  President  Dilma Rousseff ’s administration has cut taxes and
 borrowing  costs to jumpstart growth that in 2012 was slower than
any other major Latin American economy, and the stimulus has
helped keep inflation above the central bank’s target since
August 2010. After reducing the Selic rate by 525 basis points
to a record 7.25 percent, policy makers kept borrowing costs
unchanged at the last two meetings in a bid to prevent inflation
from further quickening.  Growth Forecast  Economists surveyed by the central bank forecast growth of
3.1 percent in 2013, with inflation of 5.68 percent. The bank
estimates the economy grew 1 percent last year, decelerating
from 2.7 percent in 2011 and 7.5 percent in 2010.  Today’s statement by the central bank followed an interview
Tombini gave O Globo newspaper, in which he said inflation was
at an uncomfortable level. The board’s statement was delivered
by telephone from Brasilia.  In the minutes of its January meeting, the central bank
reiterated a plan to keep borrowing costs at a record low for
prolonged period of time given the economy was recovering at a
slower-than-expected pace.  Tame Inflation  Policy makers will rely on a stronger currency, which
reduces the costs of imports, and tax cuts to tame inflation as
it seeks to delay a rate increase that could slow growth, said
 Neil Shearing , chief emerging markets economist at Capital
Economics Ltd.  Brazil plans to scrap federal taxes on food staples as it
seeks to slow price increases, Rousseff said earlier this week.
The move, together with cuts to energy rates, will slow
inflation, the central bank said.  “We need to see a further deterioration in the inflation
outlook” before the central bank decides to raise rates,
Shearing said in a phone interview from London.  Food and beverages represented 23.9 percent of family
budgets in 2012, and were the second-largest source of inflation
after personal expenses. Food prices rose 1.99 percent in
January.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Malinowski in Brasilia at 
 mmalinowski@bloomberg.net ;
David Biller in Rio de Janeiro at 
 dbiller1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  