-- Brazil’s Prices Rise at Fastest Pace in Almost Eight Years
-- B y   D a v i d   B i l l e r
-- 2013-02-07T14:37:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/brazil-s-prices-rise-at-fastest-pace-in-nearly-eight-years-1-.html
Brazilian  consumer prices  rose in
January at the fastest pace since April 2005, raising pressure
on the central bank, which has said it will keep interest rates
at a record low for a prolonged period. Swap rates rose.  Prices  as measured by the benchmark IPCA index climbed 0.86
percent in the month, marking the fifth-straight acceleration,
the national statistics agency said today in Rio de Janeiro. The
median  estimate  of 41 economists surveyed by Bloomberg was for a
0.83 percent increase. Annual inflation accelerated to 6.15
percent from 5.84 percent the previous month.  President  Dilma Rousseff ’s administration has cut taxes and
 borrowing  costs to jump-start growth that in 2012 was slower
than any other major Latin American economy, even as inflation
has remained above the central bank’s 4.5 percent target for 29
months. With the economy recovering at a slower than expected
pace, the government is seeking alternative measures to rein in
prices, instead of raising the benchmark interest rate that is
at a record low 7.25 percent. Still, the level of inflation is
uncomfortable, bank President  Alexandre Tombini  said.  Short Term  Tombini, in an interview with columnist Miriam Leitao
published on newspaper O Globo’s website, said price increases
are a concern in the short term and that policy makers are
assessing everything. Inflation will slow in the second half and
is not out of control, he told the Rio de Janeiro-based
newspaper. The price increase in January will be the largest all
year, he added. The central bank confirmed Tombini’s statements
published in O Globo, according to a spokesman who asked not to
be identified, citing internal policy.  The central bank is “going to be more uncomfortable with
this inflation figure,”  Enestor Dos Santos , senior Brazil
economist at  Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA , said by phone
from Madrid. “I expect their next communication to turn more
hawkish, but I still don’t expect them to adjust interest rates.
They’re going to use other tools to try to prevent inflation
from running out of control.”  Swap rates on the contract maturing in January 2015 rose 11
basis points, or 0.10 percentage point, to 8.19 percent as of
12:34 a.m. local time. The real strengthened 1.2 percent to
1.9672 per U.S. dollar.  Tax Cut  Food and beverage prices rose 1.99 percent in January, the
highest monthly increase since November 2010, accounting for
more than half the monthly increase. Brazil plans to scrap
federal taxes on food staples as it seeks to slow price
increases, Rousseff said this week. The tax cut could take 40
basis points off annual inflation, said  Roberto Padovani , chief
economist at Votorantim Ctvm Ltda.  Food and drinks represented 23.9 percent of family budgets
in 2012, and were the second-largest source of inflation after
personal expenses. Such expenses increased 1.55 percent in
January.  The government has also moved to stem inflation by keeping
a lid on fuel prices. State-controlled oil company Petroleo
Brasileiro SA on Jan. 29 raised gasoline prices 6.6 percent at
the refinery in order to reduce the difference between what the
company pays for the fuel abroad and the controlled price in
Brazil. The increase was less than analysts had forecast,
sending the company’s stock price to the lowest in six months
the next day.  Faster Growth  Economists surveyed by the central bank forecast economic
growth of 3.1 percent in 2013, with inflation of 5.68 percent.
The bank estimates the economy grew 1 percent last year,
decelerating from 2.7 percent in 2011 and 7.5 percent in 2010.  The central bank’s “reduction in rates is sustainable
because it’s done with inflation under control,” Finance
Minister  Guido Mantega  said at an event in Sao Paulo on Feb. 5.  “You have an upward trend in inflation and I think next
year the policy rate has to be normalized, because 7.25 percent
is not the neutral level,” Padovani said by phone from Sao
Paulo.  Inflation has also been bolstered by a currency that
weakened 9 percent against the U.S. dollar in 2012, more than
all 16 major currencies tracked by Bloomberg except the yen. A
weaker real boosts the cost of imports.  The real rallied to more than 2 per dollar on Jan. 28 for
the first time since July after the central bank auctioned
foreign-exchange swap contracts. Mantega said on Feb. 5 that
ideally there would be less volatility and intervention in the
currency market.  The bank in the coming weeks is likely to test the Finance
Ministry’s tolerance for currency appreciation,  Barclays Plc 
economists  Marcelo Salomon  and  Guilherme Loureiro  said in a note
on Jan. 30. A fall to 1.8 per dollar would shave 50 basis points
off 2013 inflation, they said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Biller in Rio de Janeiro at 
 dbiller1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  