-- Brazil Sugar Ship Line-Up Shows Vessels Bound to India
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2013-02-07T11:53:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/brazil-sugar-ship-line-up-shows-vessels-bound-to-india.html
Almost 24 percent of all the sugar
waiting to be loaded at the main ports in Brazil, the world’s
largest producer of the commodity, will be shipped to India and
Algeria, according to Williams Servicos Maritimos Ltda.  Vessels scheduled to go to India, the second-biggest
producer and largest consumer, are set to take 185,055 metric
tons of sugar, according to data e-mailed yesterday from the
Recife, Brazil-based shipping agency. Ships bound to Algeria
would carry 178,750 tons, the data showed.  Algeria imports raw sugar for its refining business as the
country doesn’t produce the sweetener, data from the London-
based  International Sugar Organization  showed. Algeria’s Cevital
plans to increase purchases of raw sugar for its refinery to 1.5
million tons this year from 1.4 million tons a year earlier as
it expands sales of the refined variety in Africa, Alaoa
Cheguettine, a trader at the company’s sugar division, said in
an interview at the Kingsman SA conference in Dubai on Feb. 3.  Indian refiners, seeking to profit from lower world sugar
prices, are importing the raw sweetener to process and re-
export, according to the New Delhi-based Indian Sugar Mills
Association. Some of the sugar also has been imported for
domestic consumption even though the country will have a surplus
this season, according to  Abinash Verma , ISMA’s director
general.  About 1.54 million tons of sugar was waiting to be loaded
onto ships at Recife, Maceio, Vitoria, Paranagua and Santos, the
country’s biggest port, Williams Brasil data showed. That’s
little changed from 1.56 million tons a week earlier.  Raw sugar for delivery in March rose 0.3 percent to 18.25
cents a pound by 6.38 a.m. on ICE Futures U.S. in New York.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 Ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 Ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 