-- Brazilian Batista Drops From World’s 100 Richest Ranking
-- B y   A l e x   C u a d r o s   a n d   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o
-- 2013-02-07T13:25:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/brazilian-batista-drops-from-world-s-100-richest-ranking.html
Brazilian billionaire Eike Batista is
no longer one of the world’s 100 richest people.  Batista, 56, lost $300 million yesterday after shares of
his shipbuilder, OSX Brasil SA, fell 11.6 percent to 7.00 reais
in Sao Paulo trading. He now commands a fortune of $10.7
billion, according to the Bloomberg Billionaires Index.  The billionaire’s fall from the ranking comes as OGX
Petroleo & Gas Participacoes SA, the centerpiece of Batista’s
empire of interlinking commodity startups, has lost more than
three quarters of its market value in the past 12 months after
delivering a series of production disappointments. So far this
year, the company has disclosed a drop in output at its main
field and reported a dry hole at one of its wells.  “There is a bit of a marriage between over-hype from his
side and unquestioning beliefs from the investors’ side,” said
 Ian McCall , who manages $107 million in emerging-market assets
at Quesnell Capital and holds OGX bonds at his First Geneva
Global High Yield Fund, in a telephone interview. “He has not
executed but, to my mind, that’s because he had too much on his
plate.”  Batista was Brazil’s wealthiest individual when his wealth
peaked at $34.5 billion in March last year. In an interview with
Bloomberg News that month, he called himself the exemplar of a
new “Brazilian dream” of entrepreneurial success, and said he
would overtake Carlos Slim as the world’s No. 1 by 2015. After
he repeatedly failed to meet goals and timetables for his six
publicly traded companies, a sell-off erupted in June when OGX
reported lower-than-expected production.  Environmental Damage  LLX Logistica SA , Batista’s port-development unit, and
shipbuilder  OSX Brasil SA  slumped further last month after a
Brazilian prosecutor sued to suspend the works of LLX’s Acu
project in Rio de Janeiro state, citing environmental damage.
Both companies refute the allegations.  The declines haven’t deterred Batista from adding to his
bets on the companies. After injecting about $250 million into
OSX last year, he plans to invest a similar amount in the coming
months. He’s also pouring as much as 1.4 billion reais ($705
million) into iron-ore miner  MMX Mineracao  & Metalicos SA, and
may inject $1 billion into OGX.  An EBX spokesman declined to comment on Batista’s net worth
in an e-mail.  The Bloomberg Billionaires Index takes measure of the
world’s wealthiest people based on market and economic changes
and Bloomberg News reporting. Each net worth figure is updated
every business day at 5:30 p.m. in New York. The valuations are
listed in U.S. dollars.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Cuadros in Sao Paulo at 
 acuadros@bloomberg.net ;
Juan Pablo Spinetto in Rio de Janeiro at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew G. Miller at 
 mmiller144@bloomberg.net  