-- Bunge Names Schroder CEO as Weisser Announces Retirement
-- B y   S h r u t i   D a t e   S i n g h
-- 2013-02-07T21:15:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/bunge-says-ceo-weisser-to-retire-to-be-replaced-by-schroder.html
Bunge Ltd. , the world’s second-
largest publicly traded sugar processor, said Chief Executive
Officer  Alberto Weisser  will retire and be replaced by  Soren Schroder , the head of its North American unit.  Weisser, 57, will step down June 1 and has been appointed
executive chairman through the year-end, the White Plains, New
York-based company said in a statement today.  Schroder, 51, joined Bunge in 2000 after working at
Continental Grain Co. and Cargill Inc. The announcement of his
appointment came the same day that Bunge posted its biggest
quarterly loss in at least a decade. Its sugar and bioenergy
unit, which processes sugarcane, had a loss before interest,
taxes and one-time items of $118 million in 2012, compared with
$20 million a year earlier, on negative ethanol margins and as
dry weather reduced yields. Bunge fell 9.1 percent in New York.  “The sugar business has been challenged,” Schroder said
in a telephone interview today. “We have to make that business
perform. I will be diving into that deeply, starting now.”  The unit, which made up 10 percent of Bunge’s 2011 sales,
is expected to have enough cane this year to operate at full
capacity for the first time, the company said. It may achieve a
goal of $8 to $10 per ton in earnings before interest and taxes
in 2014, Schroder said.  As well as sugar, Bunge trades and processes soybeans and
other agricultural commodities. Strengthening its agribusiness
and food activities and improving supply-chain and logistics
operations also will be priorities, Schroder said.  Sales Disappoint  Fourth-quarter profit excluding one-time items was $2.61
cents a share, Bunge said. The average of 10 analysts’ estimates
compiled by Bloomberg was for $2.35. Sales rose to $17 billion
from $15.7 billion, trailing the $18.8 billion average of eight
estimates.  “Nearly every division at Bunge underperformed our
expectations with agribusiness and sugar leading the pack,”
 David Driscoll , a New York-based analyst for Citigroup Inc. who
has a buy rating on the shares, said in a note today.  Bunge closed at $72.12, the biggest drop since July 2010.  Weisser’s retirement is “absolutely not” connected to the
fourth-quarter results and 2013 will be a “very good year,” he
said in an interview.  Weisser said he doesn’t regret buying the sugarcane mills
in Brazil and sees “opportunities that are extremely
interesting” in the country, such as co-generation.  “The biggest problem is we didn’t have the cane
available,” he said.  Sugarcane Planting  The last two years were the worst in almost two decades in
terms of growing the crop and to improve supplies Bunge planted
70,000 hectares of cane in 2012, he said.  Under Weisser, Bunge completed 41 acquisitions valued at
$3.7 billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. He said
Bunge has been “a very disciplined acquirer” and the recent
round of takeovers in the agricultural-processing industry have
been “very expensive.”  Schroder said that like his predecessor he plans to
continue to use acquisitions as a key part of Bunge’s strategy
to strengthen its main businesses and improve returns. He
declined to comment on specific regions or products the company
may be interested in.  The new CEO, who has a B.A. in Economics from Connecticut
College, will relocate from St. Louis, the company said in a
separate filing. He will be paid a $1 million base salary and an
annual performance-related bonus of as much as 140 percent of
his regular pay, according to the filing  A long-term stock
incentive plan of $3.8 million will be proposed to Bunge’s
compensation committee next month, the filing shows.  Germany’s  Suedzucker AG  is the world’s largest publicly
traded sugar producer, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Thomas Biesheuvel in London at 
 tbiesheuvel@bloomberg.net ;
Simon Casey in New York at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net ;
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  