-- Burberry Chief Finance Officer’s Departure Ruffles Investors
-- B y   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s
-- 2013-02-07T17:08:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/burberry-appoints-fairweather-cfo-smith-coo-in-board-shuffle.html
Burberry Group Plc  said Chief
Financial Officer  Stacey Cartwright  is leaving after nine years
in the job, ruffling investors at a time when the company has to
contend with slowing growth in luxury-goods sales.  Cartwright, 49, will be succeeded by  Carol Fairweather ,
senior vice president of group finance, the largest U.K. luxury
company said today.  John Smith , a former British Broadcasting
Corp. executive, will take up the new position of chief
operating officer, Burberry also said.  Burberry fell as much as 6.6 percent in London trading, the
 steepest intraday drop  since Sept. 11 last year. The stock had
gained almost fourfold under the executive’s tenure alongside
Chief Executive Officer Angela Ahrendts. Under the duo, the
company, whose plaid-lined trenchcoats have been modelled by
actress Emma Watson, opened stores across the globe and expanded
Burberry’s non-apparel business.  In September, however, the company warned of a profit
shortfall after eliminating some of its cheapest lines as it
sought to nudge its image upscale. Business patterns are uneven
and fewer people are visiting stores globally, Cartwright said
last month. The market for luxury goods as a whole faces the
slowest growth this year since the global financial crisis.  “We and the market overall will be sad to see her go
because she’s been a very good CFO,” said Bethany Hocking, an
analyst at Investec, by phone.  Fairweather’s Worth  Burberry was down 6.5 percent at 1,337 pence at the 4:30
p.m. close of trading in London, the  steepest drop  in the U.K.
FTSE 100 Index. The shares have advanced 9.1 percent this year.  Because Fairweather isn’t well known by the investment
community, “I don’t think anyone knows what she’s worth,”
 Peter Farren , an analyst at Bryan Garnier in Paris, said by
phone, explaining the stock’s reaction today.  Fairweather, 51, who previously worked at companies
including News International Ltd., has been with Burberry six
years. She will succeed Cartwright after July’s annual
shareholder meeting, the London-based company said today.
Cartwright plans to pursue “new interests,” Burberry said.  Smith, 55,  a Burberry non-executive director since 2009,
will take up his new role on March 4. At the BBC, which he
joined in 1989, Smith was CEO of BBC Worldwide between 2005 and
2012. He will work on Burberry’s branding strategy, especially
in digital media and mobile technology, Burberry said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Roberts in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  