-- Cameron Heads for EU Talks as Tories Grow More Restive
-- B y   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 2013-02-07T13:57:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/cameron-heads-for-eu-talks-as-tories-grow-more-restive.html
U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron ,
seeking to satisfy restive lawmakers in his Conservative Party,
called for spending cuts as European Union budget talks got
under way.  Fresh from a vote on legalizing gay marriage in the House
of Commons two days ago in which the majority of his party
opposed him -- many of them the same people who have put him
under pressure on Europe -- the prime minister will face further
anger from his party if he fails to build on his promise of a
new relationship between Britain and the EU.  “Many Tory MPs are going to face a grilling from their
local activists this weekend and, as a result, they’re unlikely
to be in the best of moods when Mr. Cameron stands up in the
Commons to report on how things went in Brussels,”  Tim Bale ,
professor of politics at Queen Mary University London, said in a
telephone interview. “He’s likely to come away from the summit
at best empty-handed and at worst facing allegations that he’s
actually given something away.”  Cameron, who left an EU summit in November saying he’d
vetoed a proposed budget package, said last month that, if he
wins the 2015 general election, he will begin a renegotiation of
Britain’s membership of the 27-nation bloc, seeking to
repatriate unspecified powers. He would then hold a referendum
on a potential EU exit by the end of 2017.  “The numbers that were put forward were much too high,”
Cameron told reporters as he arrived today in Brussels. “They
need to come down, and if they don’t come down, there won’t be a
deal.”  Plot Reports  At home, the U.K.’s  flatlining economy , a consistent lead
for the opposition Labour Party in opinion polls and the
hemorrhaging of Tory voters to the U.K. Independence Party over
issues such as gay marriage and immigration, have led to reports
in newspapers such as the Mail on Sunday of plots to unseat the
prime minister among rank-and-file lawmakers.  It was over Europe, a constant fissure in his party since
the 1990s, that Cameron suffered his first House of Commons
defeat at the hands of his own lawmakers on Oct. 31, as rebels
joined with the Labour opposition to demand he push for a real-
terms reduction in the EU budget, not just the freeze he’d been
seeking.  Of the 50 Conservatives who opposed him that day, 38 also
voted against him on gay marriage, indicating how entrenched the
split in his party has become.  The preliminary approval of Cameron’s gay-marriage plans in
the Commons came in a so-called free vote, in which lawmakers
were able to act according to their consciences, rather than on
the instructions of their party leaders. Even so, it led to
vitriolic attacks on Cameron by some Tory members of Parliament,
who accused him of betraying his party’s core supporters.  Unusual Venom  “What’s unusual is the venom that has accompanied the
split,”  Philip Cowley , who teaches politics at the University
of Nottingham and specializes in parliamentary revolts, said in
an interview. “Free votes usually take the poison out of
splits; that’s why they’re allowed.”  The prime minister told lawmakers yesterday that he expects
today’s talks on the bloc’s spending plans to be tough.  “These will be extremely difficult negotiations,” Cameron
said during his regular question-and-answer session in the House
of Commons. “Our aim is the significant cut that I have spoken
about” to the European Commission’s plan for spending 973
billion euros ($1.3 trillion) over seven years.  French President  Francois Hollande  told the European
Parliament on Feb. 5 that Britain should not be allowed to
dictate to the rest of Europe and signaled European unease with
Cameron’s boasting that he had won a victory for Britain by
blocking the budget in November.  “They say it’s difficult or impossible on the United
Kingdom’s side, but why should one country decide for 26
others?” Hollande said. “It was possible to strike an
agreement at the last European summit. In order to let others
say the failure was a victory, we let it happen and now that’s
made an agreement more difficult.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Penny in Brussels at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  