-- Canadian Currency Weakens as Risk Appetite Shrinks
-- B y   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r
-- 2013-02-07T22:21:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/canadian-dollar-falls-ahead-of-building-permit-report.html
Canada’s dollar fell from the
strongest in two weeks against its U.S. counterpart as investor
risk appetite shrank after the European Central Bank signaled
concern the euro’s strength may hurt its 17-nation region.  The currency almost reached parity with the U.S. dollar for
the first time in four days before a report tomorrow forecast to
show Canada’s jobs growth slowed. Oil, the nation’s biggest
export, fell after weaker U.S. economic data. The euro and the
Australian and New Zealand dollars sank versus the greenback as
ECB President Mario Draghi said the euro’s gains may hamper
efforts to pull the currency bloc’s economy out of recession.  “Initially the euro was just moving in isolation and
everything else looked very robust, and then more recently it’s
spilled into Aussie-dollar weakness, kiwi weakness and Canada-
dollar weakness,”  Adam Cole , head of global currency strategy
at Royal Bank of Canada, said by phone from London. “I don’t
think it’s Canada-dollar-specific, but it’s rather the rest of
the market being polluted by the move in euro.”  The loonie, as Canada’s currency is nicknamed for the image
of the aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, weakened 0.2 percent to
99.79 cents per U.S. dollar at 5 p.m. The currency gained
earlier to 99.33 cents, the strongest since Jan. 23. It last
traded at parity with the greenback on Feb. 1. One Canadian
dollar purchases $1.0021.  Lower Volatility  Implied volatility for three-month options on the U.S.
dollar versus the loonie touched 5.98 percent, the lowest level
since Jan. 24. Implied volatility signals the expected pace of
currency swings and is quoted by traders to set option prices.
It reached 6.85 percent on Jan. 28, the highest since Oct. 31.  Canada’s 10-year government bond ended the day little
changed. The benchmark security’s  yield  traded at 1.99 percent
after falling earlier to 1.98 percent as investors sought
safety. The price of the 2.75 percent security due in June 2022
rose as much as 18 cents to C$106.57 before ending the day at
C$106.40, up less than 1 cent.  The Canadian economy  added   5,000 jobs  in January, down from
a revised 31,200 the month before, economists in a Bloomberg
survey estimated before the government reports the figures
tomorrow. The unemployment rate will rise to 7.2 percent from
7.1 percent, according to a separate survey.  “The big thing will be tomorrow’s employment data, so I
think we’re going to stay in familiar ranges against the U.S.
dollar until we see that data,”  Matthew Perrier , director of
foreign exchange at the Bank of Montreal, said in a telephone
interview from Toronto. “If we see a little giveback of the
strong employment gains of the last two months, we’ll probably
see Canada weaken off.”  Currency Outlook  The loonie will trade between parity and 99.50 cents per
U.S. dollar before the jobs data tomorrow, Perrier said.  It will end the first quarter at 99 cents per U.S. dollar
and trade at 98 cents at year-end, according to the median
estimate in a Bloomberg survey of 48 economists.  The Canadian dollar reached its strongest point in two
weeks versus the euro after the ECB kept its benchmark interest
rate at a record-low 0.75 percent and Draghi spoke to reporters.  The ECB chief said policy makers want to see if the euro’s
rise “is sustained, and if it alters our assessment of the
risks to price stability.” The shared currency has gained
versus all of its 16 most-traded peers over the past six months.  The loonie climbed as much as 0.9 percent to C$1.3340 per
euro today, the highest since Jan. 24.  Canada’s dollar has declined less than 0.1 percent this
year against nine developed-nation peers monitored by the
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The greenback has gained
0.6 percent, and the euro has been the biggest winner, climbing
2.3 percent.  Stocks, Oil  U.S. stocks dropped after government reports showed
employee output per hour in America decreased in the fourth
quarter at a 2 percent annual rate, the worst performance in
almost two years. U.S. jobless claims declined to 366,000 last
week, versus a Bloomberg survey’s forecast of 360,000. The
 Standard & Poor’s 500  Index fell as much as 0.9 percent before
paring the loss to 0.2 percent.  Crude oil for March delivery lost 0.7 percent to $95.95 per
barrel in New York. It touched $95.04 yesterday, the lowest
level since Jan. 23.  Standard & Poor’s  GSCI Index  of 24 commodities declined 0.3
percent. Raw materials including oil account almost half of
Canada’s export revenue. Australia and New Zealand also export
commodities. The Aussie was down 0.4 percent against the
greenback today and New Zealand’s dollar, nicknamed the kiwi,
lost 0.8 percent.  The loonie fell earlier against the greenback as Canadian
 building permits  tumbled 11.2 percent in December, versus a
Bloomberg survey’s forecast for a 5 percent increase.  “Those building-permits numbers were extremely poor,”
 John Curran , senior vice president at Canadianforex Ltd., an
online foreign-exchange dealer, said by phone from Toronto.
“But the real occurrence is going to be tomorrow’s employment
data. That’s what everyone’s waiting on.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Altstedter in Toronto at 
 aaltstedter@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  