-- Canada Heavy Oil Gains for Fourth Day as Bottlenecks Ease
-- B y   E d w a r d   W e l s c h
-- 2013-02-07T20:59:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/canada-heavy-oil-gains-for-fourth-day-as-bottlenecks-ease.html
Canadian heavy oil strengthened for a
fourth day, reaching the narrowest discount to U.S. crude since
October, as a pipeline bottleneck eased this month.  Apportionment on Canada’s largest oil export pipelines to
the U.S., a measure of demand for space on the lines, declined
for a third month in February as less oil from the U.S. Bakken
fields competed with Canadian crude. Extra production from the
Kearl oil sands project was delayed to the end of the first
quarter, also freeing up space.  Western Canada Select , a blend of oil-sands bitumen,
strengthened $3 to a discount of $25.50 a barrel against U.S.
benchmark West Texas Intermediate at 1:55 p.m., according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The grade has strengthened by $6 a
barrel this month, reaching its lowest discount since Oct. 24.  Enbridge Inc. ’s Lines 4 and 67 transporting heavy oil from
Alberta to the U.S. were apportioned by 7 percent this month,
the lowest amount since September and down from 18 percent in
November, the company said in a Jan. 29 notice to shippers.
Apportionment is the amount of extra oil shippers ask to ship
beyond a pipeline’s capacity. The level of apportionment can
reflect oversupply in the market.  “If the Enbridge line out of North Dakota is running low,
it means space on the mainline is free, so it seems likely it’s
taking more volumes from the oil sands,” said Trisha Curtis, an
analyst with the  Energy Policy Research Foundation Inc.  in
Washington, D.C.  Bakken Shipments  Enbridge’s North Dakota system is “seeing reduced
volumes” as producers sought other transportation options, a
company spokesman in Calgary said in a Jan. 16  e-mail. The
North Dakota Pipeline Authority said that in  November  that
pipelines moved 38 percent of Bakken crude oil, down from 56
percent in April, with the remainder moving mostly by rail.  Exxon Mobil Corp.  said Feb. 1 that the 110,000-barrel-a-day
Kearl oil sands project in Alberta won’t begin production until
the end of the first quarter and won’t reach full rates until
the end of the year. The extra-heavy oil supply was expected to
start in January.  Western Canada Select reached a record-low discount to WTI
of $42.50 a barrel on Dec. 14 because of clogged pipelines and
the delay of a heavy-crude conversion of BP Plc.’s Whiting,
Indiana,  refinery  until the second half of this year. The plant
had been expected to increase demand for Western Canada Select
in March.  In the Gulf Coast, offshore oils strengthened.  Light
Louisiana Sweet ’s premium to WTI widened 65 cents to $21 a
barrel, and Heavy Louisiana Sweet gained 70 cents to trade at
$21.15 a barrel over the benchmark.  Mars Blend  gained 25 cents to $14.75 a barrel over WTI and
Thunder Horse, a sour crude with lower sulfur content than Mars,
gained 85 cents to a premium of $18.50. Southern Green Canyon’s
premium weakened by $1.10 to $14.40.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edward Welsch in Calgary at 
 ewelsch1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  