-- Canada December Building Permits Report (Text)
-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 2013-02-07T13:30:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/canada-december-building-permits-report-text-.html
Following is the text of the
December building permits report from Statistics Canada.  The total value of building permits issued by Canadian
municipalities declined 11.2% to $5.7 billion in December,
following a 14.5% decline in November. This decrease resulted
from lower construction intentions in both the residential and
non-residential sectors.  December’s decline in construction intentions came from
every province except Quebec, with Alberta, Manitoba and Ontario
posting the largest decreases.  Construction intentions in the residential sector fell
13.1% to $3.3 billion, following a 7.0% decrease the previous
month. Ontario, Alberta and Manitoba accounted for much of the
decline observed at the national level. Newfoundland and
Labrador was the lone province that registered an increase.  In the non-residential sector, the value of permits
declined 8.5% to $2.5 billion in December, the third decrease in
four months. Manitoba posted the largest decline, followed by
Alberta. Quebec had the largest increase with Ontario a distant
second.  Residential sector: Lower construction intentions for single-
family and multi-family dwellings  Municipalities issued $1.1 billion worth of building
permits for multi-family dwellings in December, down 24.6% from
November. This was the sixth consecutive monthly decrease and
the lowest level since February 2011. There were declines in all
the provinces, with Ontario posting the largest decrease,
followed by Alberta, Quebec and Manitoba.  Construction intentions for single-family units fell 5.3%
to $2.1 billion in December, the third straight monthly decrease.
The decline was mainly attributable to lower construction
intentions in eight provinces, with Ontario posting the largest
drop followed by Saskatchewan and British Columbia. By contrast,
Quebec and Newfoundland and Labrador posted gains.  At the national level, municipalities approved the
construction of 13,897 new dwellings in December, down 15.2%
from November. This decrease was led by a 22.1% decline in
multi-family units to 7,630. At the same time, the number of
single-family dwellings decreased 4.9% to 6,267 units.  Non-residential sector: Larger decline in the commercial
component  In the commercial component, the value of permits declined
10.6% to $1.6 billion in December, following a 26.1% increase in
November. The decline was a result of lower construction
intentions for various types of commercial buildings, including
office buildings, recreational facilities and warehouses. The
largest decreases were in Ontario and Alberta. Quebec, New
Brunswick and Prince Edward Island posted increases.  The value of permits in the institutional component fell
5.3% to $498 million, a second consecutive monthly decline. The
decrease was mainly the result of lower construction intentions
for medical buildings in Alberta and British Columbia as well as
educational institutions in British Columbia and Manitoba.
Advances were registered in four provinces, led by Ontario.  In the industrial component, the value of permits declined
3.3% to $377 million, the second consecutive monthly decrease.
The decline was largely attributable to lower construction
intentions for manufacturing plants in Manitoba, Quebec and, to
a lesser extent, Saskatchewan. Increases in four provinces, led
by Ontario, were not enough to offset the declines in the other
provinces.  Decreases in all provinces except Quebec  In December, the total value of permits was down in nine
provinces, led by Alberta and followed by Manitoba, Ontario and
British Columbia.  Alberta had the largest decline, primarily because of lower
construction intentions for commercial buildings, multi-family
dwellings and institutional buildings. In Manitoba, the decrease
came in the wake of a record high in November. The decrease was
a result of lower construction intentions for both residential
and non-residential buildings.  The decrease in Ontario resulted from lower construction
intentions for commercial and residential buildings. In British
Columbia, declines were posted in both the residential and non-
residential sectors.  Quebec was the lone province that reported higher
construction intentions in December. The increase was
attributable primarily to commercial buildings and, to a lesser
extent, to multi-family dwellings and institutional buildings.  Lower permit values in most census metropolitan areas  In December, the total value of permits was down in 20 of
the 34 census metropolitan areas.  The largest decreases were in Toronto, Winnipeg, Vancouver
and Ottawa. Toronto’s decline resulted from lower construction
intentions in both the residential and non-residential sectors,
with commercial buildings and multi-family dwellings accounting
for most of the decrease.  In Winnipeg, the decline was largely attributable to
industrial buildings, multi-family dwellings and commercial
buildings. All components contributed to the weakness in
construction intentions in Vancouver. Similarly, the total value
of permits issued in Ottawa was down because of decreases in all
components.  In contrast, Hamilton, Montréal and Kitchener-Cambridge-
Waterloo posted the largest gains. Hamilton’s increase was
mostly attributable to commercial and industrial buildings. The
advance observed in Montréal came from commercial buildings, as
the other components posted declines. In Kitchener-Cambridge-
Waterloo, the gain was mostly because of institutional buildings.  Annual 2012: Residential and non-residential construction
intentions higher than 2011  In 2012, municipalities issued building permits worth $80.5
billion, up 8.9% from 2011 and surpassing the peak of $74.4
billion reached in 2007 before the recession.  Similarly, contractors took out residential construction
permits worth $48.3 billion in 2012, up 8.6% over 2011.  Construction intentions for non-residential buildings were
also up, rising 9.2% from 2011 to $32.2 billion in 2012.  Note to readers  Unless otherwise stated, this release presents seasonally
adjusted data, which facilitates comparisons by removing the
effects of seasonal variations. For more information on seasonal
adjustment, see Seasonal adjustment and identifying economic
trends ( http://www5.statcan.gc.ca/bsolc/olc-cel/colc -
cel?catno=11-010-X201000311141&amp;lang=fra) .  The Building Permits Survey covers 2,400 municipalities
representing 95% of the population. It provides an early
indication of building activity.  The communities representing the other 5% of the population
are very small, and their levels of building activity have
little impact on the total for the entire population.  The value of planned construction activities shown in this
release excludes engineering projects (for example, waterworks,
sewers or culverts) and land.  For the purpose of this release, the census metropolitan
area of Ottawa-Gatineau (Ontario/Quebec) is divided into two
areas: Gatineau part and Ottawa part.  Revision  Data for the current reference month are subject to
revision based on late responses. Data have been revised for the
previous month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at   ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  