-- Carney Shows Substance Behind ‘Rock Star’ Image in U.K. Hearing
-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 2013-02-08T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/carney-shows-substance-behind-rock-star-image-in-u-k-hearing.html
British lawmakers praised  Bank of
Canada  Governor  Mark Carney  after four hours of testimony to
probe his suitability to be the next head of the U.K. central
bank.  Treasury Committee Chairman  Andrew Tyrie , from the ruling
Conservative Party, paid tribute to Carney for being “extremely
lucid and interesting” while the opposition Labour Party’s  Andy Love  said he had successfully shed his “rock-star image.”
Carney, 47, was yesterday questioned on his pay, monetary policy
and financial stability as he prepares to become the first
foreigner to run the Bank of England since its founding in 1694.  Carney is poised to succeed Governor  Mervyn King  on July 1
as the economy teeters on the verge of its first ever triple-dip
recession. As lawmakers probed what he plans to do about it,
Carney’s replies centered largely on maintaining the status quo
while adding more flexibility to the inflation target.  In a statement released later, the cross-party panel said
it endorsed Carney’s appointment. “He has begun as I hope he
continues, providing forthright and detailed evidence, orally
and in writing, in response to our requests,” Tyrie said in the
statement. “I welcome his agreement that the bank will comply
with reasonable requests from the Treasury Committee for
information and for retrospective reviews to be conducted. This
is a step forward.”  The questioning of Carney was “friendly, not hostile,”
said  Danny Gabay , director of Fathom Financial Consulting and a
former economist at the Bank of England. “He didn’t face any
hostile bowling, just a few volleys.”  Questions Over Pay  The toughest questions came at the beginning of the session
when Carney was asked to justify his salary of 480,000 pounds
($755,856), his allowance of 30 percent of salary in lieu of a
pension and a 250,000-pound annual housing allowance.  “Mortgages are hard to come by,” said Teresa Pearce, a
Labour lawmaker. “Would you say that is why you need an extra
quarter of a million housing allowance?” Carney said the
allowance was comparable with those awarded to other executives.  He was later asked a series of quick-fire questions, such
as “how would you describe unwinding QE?” or “what is a
liquidity requirement” by Conservative  David Ruffley , who
sought to see if Carney was able to communicate clearly. Ruffley
was referring to quantitative easing, the program of asset
purchases used by the Bank of England in an effort to spur the
economy.  “I think that’s all I have there,” Ruffley said after
Carney’s replies.  “I think you scored pretty well there,” added Tyrie, to
laughter in the room.  Levels of Failure  Jesse Norman , another Tory lawmaker, asked Carney what he
thought “a tolerable level of failure in a bank should be. Do
you like medium levels of failure or low levels of failure?”  Carney said he prefers “low levels of failure.”  Still, questions are likely to get tougher in the months
ahead and Tory Andrea Leadsom said Carney’s pay was justified
given the challenges he faces.  As the central bank prepares to get responsibility for
regulating banks, Carney will need to monitor risk in a
financial system that has still to fully recover from the credit
crisis that began in 2007. Household debt is equivalent to about
1 1/2 times disposable income, and two in every five mortgage
borrowers pay only the interest on their home loans. Consumers
can no longer rely on easy bank credit and will remain squeezed
for years.  While the U.S., Germany and Canada are back above their
pre-recession levels of gross domestic product, Britain remains
in its longest peacetime slump of any since the 1920, with
output more than 3 percent below its peak in early 2008. At the
same time, the economy is facing the prospect of a fourth year
of above-target inflation.  “The problem he faces is that too much is expected of
monetary policy,”  John Llewellyn , a partner at Llewellyn
Consulting, said before today’s hearing. “Monetary policy is
expected to cure all ills and that’s asking too much. I am sure
that, to that extent, his appointment has been oversold.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  