-- Cathay Pacific Seeks to Upgrade Cargo With Diamond Focus
-- B y   J a s m i n e   W a n g
-- 2013-02-07T09:08:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/cathay-pacific-seeks-to-upgrade-cargo-with-diamond-focus.html
Cathay Pacific Airways Ltd.  aims to
replicate its business-class strategy in a cargo trade upgrade.
It wants to fly more diamonds and medicines rather than T-shirts.  “Similar to the passenger service, we are not a low-cost
carrier,” said  Nick Rhodes , the airline’s cargo director. “We
try to be a full-service cargo carrier. That’s really our DNA.”  The world’s biggest international air-cargo  carrier  will
start operating its first independently owned goods terminal at
its home base in Hong Kong later this month, increasing that
airport’s capacity by half.  The airline  has spent HK$5.9 billion
($761 million) on a facility it says will help Cathay  target  an
increase of up to 20 percent in more profitable shipments of
high-value goods, perishables and vaccines.  Success with that strategy is critical to boosting profit
in a business that accounts for over a fifth of the airline’s
 revenue . Cathay has cut some cargo flights while Middle East
carriers like Emirates boost capacity and increase competition
with Asian rivals.  Singapore Airlines Ltd.  and Korean Air Lines
Co. also want to move to higher-value goods even as the global
air-freight market declined for a second straight year in 2012,
amid a slump in demand across Europe.  “Cathay chasing higher-end products will help broaden its
cargo sources and boost revenue,” said  Geoffrey Cheng , a Hong
Kong-based analyst at Bank of Communications Co., with a neutral
 rating  on the stock. “It will lose to rivals if it fails to
capitalize on the relatively faster-growing seafood and
pharmaceutical demand.”  Cathay Pacific  rose  1.1 percent, the most since Jan. 18, to
close at HK$15.12 in Hong Kong trading. The city’s benchmark
Hang Seng Index lost 0.3 percent.  1,000 CC-TVs  A chain of 1,000 closed-circuit television and biometric
fingerprint systems have been installed in the new terminal,
according to Portia Cheuk, a spokeswoman of the facilities’
operator Cathay Pacific Services Ltd. said in an interview.
Special measures are also in place to boost security when
dealing with high-value items such as diamonds and gold bullion,
she said.  At the terminal, the location that handles high-value items
such as diamonds is the most-restricted zone. Only a limited
number of staff have access and visitors are restricted.  Cathay, which moves cargoes with 22 dedicated aircraft and
bellies of passenger aircraft, carried 1.56 million tons of
cargo and mail last year, 5.3 percent less than a year earlier,
the company said in a  statement  last month. Revenue, measured by
weight multiplied by kilometers, also fell 7.3 percent to 8.94
million.  Globally, the air freight market shrank 1.5 percent in 2012,
according to the  International Air Transport Association .
Passenger demand increased 5.3 percent.  Emirates, Etihad  Asian airlines, the biggest players in the air-cargo market,
reported a 5.5 percent decline in demand, and 2.4 percent cut in
capacity last year, according to IATA. In comparison, Gulf
carriers including Emirates and Etihad Airways saw demand
growing 14.7 percent, and the biggest capacity expansion at 11.4
percent, it said.  “The industry suffered a one-two punch,” IATA Director
General  Tony Tyler  said in a Jan. 31 statement. “World trade
declined sharply. And the goods that were traded, shifted
towards bulk commodities more suited for sea shipping,” said
Tyler, a  former chief executive  officer of Cathay.  Cathay said in August that it posted a loss of HK$935
million in the six months ended June. Chief Executive Officer
 John Slosar  told staff in November that the carrier was facing a
“very challenging year,” referring to 2012. The airline is due
to report its full-year results on March 13.  Most Complicated  Profit in the year ended in December may be  HK$812 million ,
according to the average of 12 analyst estimates compiled by
Bloomberg. In 2011, the company had a profit of HK$5.5 billion.  “Our strategy is to chase the most complicated, difficult-
to-handle cargoes from shippers who are very demanding,” Cathay
cargo director Rhodes said. “We can look after their cargoes,
we can’t compete just on price.”  Cathay cut  freighter frequencies to Europe 63 percent to 11
flights per week earlier this year from about 30 flights a week
in 2008, as a decline in the Asia-Europe market hurt the carrier
the most, Rhodes said in an interview on Feb. 6. The airline got
24 percent of its sales from cargo in the first half of last
year.  The new terminal, together with 10 Boeing 747-8 freighters
Cathay  ordered  in 2007, are long-term investments as Hong Kong
has the advantage of being located in the center of Asia, Rhodes
said. The carrier has received eight of those freighters with
the remaining two set for delivery later this year.  Construction of the terminal had been delayed for one and a
half years during the financial crisis, according to Cheuk.  ‘Bad Timing’  It’s “bad timing” for  Cathay  to get the freighters and
open the new terminal, said Bank of Communications analyst Cheng.
“But it can’t do much about it. As a market leader, Cathay has
to look at long-term development and continue to invest if it
doesn’t want to lose market share.”  Rivals are pressing on.  Singapore Air’s  flights in the
Southwest Pacific region posted the biggest improvement in cargo
load factor in December after it moved seasonable perishables,
the carrier said in a  statement  earlier last month. The carrier
filled 66.1 percent of its planes on this service, an increase
from 59.6 percent a year earlier.  Korean Air  has also been focusing on moving high-margin
products, such as perishable goods and medicines, to ensure
profitability, the carrier said in a statement Feb. 1.  With air conditioning, Cathay’s new facility is designed to
help store the likes of flowers, medicines and perishable goods
for transport.  Fresh Goods  The terminal, which has a site area of 11 hectares, is
designed to have an annual capacity of 2.6 million tons,
increasing Hong Kong International Airport’s annual capacity 50
percent to 7.4 million tons. It will have full operation in the
second half of this year.  Cathay and its Hong Kong Dragon Airline Ltd. unit will be
the terminal’s initial customers. The major  terminal  in the city
Cathay uses is owned by a group of investors including Jardine,
Matheson & Co., Hutchison Port Holdings Ltd. and The Wharf
(Holdings) Ltd.  The facility aims to cut loading and unloading times to
keep the lobsters, fish and flowers fresh.  “Hong Kong people always like fresh goods,” Cheuk said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jasmine Wang  in Hong Kong at 
 Jwang513@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  