-- Cemex Declines as Loss Dismays Deutsche Bank: Mexico City Mover
-- B y   B r e n d a n   C a s e
-- 2013-02-07T21:35:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/cemex-fourth-quarter-loss-narrows-as-u-s-recovery-continues.html
Cemex SAB  dropped the most in eight
months after the largest cement maker in the Americas reported a
fourth-quarter loss that Deutsche Bank AG called a
disappointment.  The shares  fell  4.1 percent to 13.24 pesos at the close in
Mexico City, the biggest one-day drop since June 1.  Cemex has reported 13 straight  quarterly losses , battered
by a slump in the U.S. construction market after its $14.2
billion acquisition in 2007 of Rinker Group Ltd., which drew
more than 80 percent of its sales from the U.S. The fourth-
quarter net loss was $489 million, compared with $761 million a
year earlier, the Monterrey, Mexico-based company said today in
a  statement .  The loss and free cash flow “disappoint,”  Esteban Polidura , a Deutsche Bank analyst based in Mexico City, said
today in a note.  Revenue of $3.71 billion trailed the $3.74 billion average
of  analysts’ estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. Operating earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, a measure
of profit known as Ebitda, climbed 13 percent to $610.8 million.
Free cash flow slid 54 percent to $143 million.  “Ebitda was ok but net income and free cash flow were
below expectations, hit by impairments, losses on asset sales,
and high capital expenditures,” Polidura, who has a buy rating
on the shares, said in an e-mail.  U.S. Improvement  Polidura also said Cemex had “weak results” in Mexico,
hurt by housing. Net income was dragged down by “severance
payments, impairments, and losses in sales of fixed assets,” he
said.  Sales climbed 16 percent in Central America, South America
and the Caribbean, and 11 percent in the U.S., Cemex said.
Housing  starts  in the U.S. reached an annual rate of 954,000 in
December, the highest since June 2008 and double their April
2009 low.  The company’s U.S. unit reported a profit before interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortization for the third quarter in a
row.  “It’s very nice to see the U.S. with positive Ebitda even
though it’s a seasonally weak quarter,”  Carlos Hermosillo , an
analyst with Grupo Financiero Banorte SAB who has a buy rating
on the shares, said in a telephone interview from Mexico City.
“The reduction in debt looks good, even a little better than I
expected.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brendan Case in Mexico City at 
 bcase4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  