-- McGraw-Hill Defense Seen as Diversion Against U.S. Fraud Claims
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n   a n d   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g
-- 2013-02-07T01:37:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/mcgraw-hill-defense-seen-as-diversion-against-u-s-fraud-claims.html
Standard & Poor’s news release
responding to the government’s lawsuit over its mortgage-bond
grades complained that the ratings company is being sued for
“not predicting full magnitude of housing downturn despite
failure of virtually everyone to do so.”  That’s far from an accurate representation of the case
brought this week by the Justice Department, based on
allegations in the government complaint.  “S&P is basically throwing a red herring out there,”
 Janet Tavakoli , founder of Chicago-based consulting firm
Tavakoli Structured Finance Inc., said yesterday in a telephone
interview. “That’s not what they’re being held accountable for.
Nobody was asking them to predict the future. They were asking
them to look at the risks in front of them and apply prudent and
reasonable analysis.”  Federal prosecutors allege S&P failed to adjust its
analytical models or take other steps it knew were necessary to
accurately reflect the risks of the securities. The claims are
tied to whether the company, a unit of New York-based  McGraw-
Hill Cos. , accurately represented the care it took in providing
credit grades and avoiding conflicts, not how incorrect its
ratings later proved. E-mails and other internal documents
discussed how the issuers might react to tougher standards by
taking their business elsewhere.  58 Allegations  The complaint, filed in federal court in Los Angeles on
Feb. 4, includes at least 58 examples of S&P executives ignoring
internal warnings from analysts and others, dismissing relevant
data, taking steps to appease issuers or acknowledging how
pressure from banks could lessen the quality of its grades or
delay downgrades.  Allegations in the civil lawsuit against S&P and its parent
come after  reports  from the Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission
and a Senate panel said that inflated mortgage-bond grades from
the firm, Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch Ratings helped
fuel the lending practices that let the housing bubble get so
big before it burst.  Prices in 20 large metropolitan areas more than doubled
from the start of 2000 through mid-2006 before tumbling 35
percent to a bottom last year, S&P/Case-Shiller  index data  show.
As defaults soared and banks failed, the U.S. entered a credit
crisis and its longest recession since 1933, from which it has
yet to recover 3.23 million of the 8.74 million jobs lost.  642,000 Loans  At one point during the boom, S&P worked on an update to
its model used in assessing residential mortgage-backed
securities, or RMBS. Instead of the version, known as LEVELS
6.0, being introduced at the start of 2005 as planned, it was
never released, according to the complaint.  The update incorporated data from 642,000 loans made
between 1971 and 2001, including riskier loan types such as
subprime, taken out by borrowers with poor credit, and Alt-A,
often granted with reduced documentation, riskier terms or on
investment properties.  That differed from the rules S&P was using that contained
only 166,000 safer mortgages, according to the complaint. After
the new model was discovered to have led to larger portions of
deals receiving lower grades, S&P backtracked amid internal
debate.  “When we first reviewed Version 6.0 results **a year ago**
We saw the sub-prime and Alt-A numbers going up and that was a
major point of contention which led to all the model tweaking
we’ve done since,” an employee identified in the complaint as
Senior Analyst B wrote. “Version 6.0 could’ve been released
months ago and resources assigned elsewhere if we didn’t have to
massage the sub-prime and Alt-A numbers to preserve market
share.”  S&P Defense  S&P’s recognition that more-conservative standards could
 cost it business  dated at least as far back as 2004, after an
analyst sent an e-mail to managers saying  Moody’s  had been hired
for a deal instead because it is was being too tough.  “Losing one or even several deals due to criteria issues,
but this is so significant that it could have an impact on
future deals,” the analyst wrote, according to the complaint.
“There’s no way we can get back on this one but we need to
address this now in preparation for the future deals.”  Floyd Abrams , the Cahill Gordon & Reindel LLP lawyer
for S&P who represented the New York Times in the 1971 Pentagon
Papers case, has emphasized the housing market’s collapse in
discussing the case. Officials including Federal Reserve
Chairman Ben S. Bernanke and then-Treasury Secretary Henry
Paulson also failed to predict the severity of the crisis, the
attorney said Feb. 5 in a Bloomberg Television interview.  No ‘Fraud’  S&P, investors, government officials and “every member of
the Fed had views in 2007 about how bad the housing market
collapse would be, which did not pan out,” Abrams said. “It
was a lot worse than S&P predicted it would be, and a lot worse
than everyone else predicted it would be.”  He said that “there wasn’t any fraud” because S&P
employees “tried their best to come out with the right answers
about what would happen. All the folks at the Fed back in 2007
and Chairman Bernanke and Secretary Paulson, everyone, just
about all these entities, were pretty much in the same
ballpark.”  Bernanke said at an August 2007 meeting of Fed board
members that there “is an information fog” that “is very much
associated with the loss of confidence in the credit-rating
agencies,” according to transcripts released last month.  ‘Worked Diligently’  S&P has also said that the Justice Department is “wrong”
in saying its “ratings were motivated by commercial
considerations and not issued in good faith.” It issued
“extensive” downgrades in 2007 before rivals, had analysts who
“worked diligently to keep up with an unprecedented, rapidly
changing and increasingly volatile environment,” and
competitors matched its ratings on all of the so-called
collateralized debt obligations, which repackaged mortgage-
backed securities and other similar bundles of debt, cited in
the lawsuit.  Ed Sweeney, a spokesman for S&P in New York, declined to
elaborate on the ratings firm’s statements.  Even before most of the declines in home prices, many
pieces of CDOs such as Octonion I defaulted within months of
getting S&P’s top grades as they were issued in 2007, according
to the complaint and data compiled by Bloomberg. CDOs package
assets such as mortgage bonds into new securities with varying
risks.  2007 Warning  “It wasn’t just the character of the loans that was a
problem, it was also the characters of the structures brought to
market,” said Tavakoli, the Chicago consultant who has worked
at banks including Merrill Lynch & Co. and Goldman Sachs Group
Inc.  S&P’s CDO group enabled the boom to continue in 2007 by
ignoring months of warnings and data from its RMBS group that
their ratings, which it relied on in grading CDOs, were proving
flawed, according to the complaint.  The group’s senior executives including Patrice Jordan and
 David Tesher  often didn’t pass on that information to analysts
responsible for CDOs created from mortgage-backed securities,
the Justice Department said.  One example included an internal June 2007 report that
found that the average ratio between the amount of mortgage
delinquencies and investor protection on subprime RMBS slices
rated BBB or lower exceeded a level that signaled downgrades
were likely in the “near term,” according to the complaint.  Telephone messages left at numbers in New York state for
individuals named Patrice Jordan and David Tesher weren’t
returned.  Big Loophole  The CDO group had earlier tweaked its models to win
business, the Justice Department said. At a 2006 meeting, it
decided to take the step of beginning to assume no correlation
between the performance of RMBS and CDOs filled with asset-
backed securities such as RMBS, according to the complaint.  Correlation, or how likely it is for the debts to go bad at
the same time, was a key metric in determining the odds of
default for mortgage-tied CDOs, which were often filled with
both types of assets.  “Tesher and other business personnel were in favor of this
decision, which was made without the benefit of any data and
would lead to S&P’s rating models arriving at lower estimates of
credit risks for CDOs collateralized by such assets,” the
Justice Department said.  The next year, a CDO analyst told a former coworker that
the result was “a loophole in S&P’s rating model big enough to
drive a Mack truck through,” the Justice Department said.  No Secret  Also in 2005 and 2006, after an internal report discussed
how Bear Stearns Cos. pointed out “the potential business
opportunities we would miss” by introducing an update to its
CDO model the bank had tested, S&P delayed the new version,
known as E3. It then allowed some issuers to use a weakened
version during a three-month transition period, without telling
investors, and allowed other types of CDOs to use the old
version for months more, according to the complaint.  “We have toned down and slowed down our roll out of E3 to
the market, pending further measures to deal with such negative
results,” the report sent internally by Jordan had said,
referring its model known as CDO Evaluator 3.0. The easier
version was referred to as E3 Low.  Bear Stearns collapsed in 2008 and was bought by JPMorgan
Chase & Co. with assistance from the Fed. The costs of
government steps to revive the economy added to the national
debt, leading S&P to strip the U.S. of its top credit grade in
August 2011.  Concealed Danger  The dangers being cloaked by a housing boom and flawed AAA
grades on mortgage debt were far from secret at the time.  In both residential- and commercial-mortgage securities,
investors such as  Scott Simon , Pacific Investment Management
Co.’s mortgage head, said they were demanding AAA classes built
with even more investor protection than rating firms demanded.  Credit graders’ “models are all insanely screwed up”
because so many potential defaults were being averted through
re-financings or home sales, Scott said during a panel
discussion at a conference in New York in 2005.  That year, on a conference call for investors in which its
analysts discussed a series of special reports S&P had published
on the state of housing and related companies after its
explosive gains,  David Wyss , then the firm’s chief economist,
said prices could fall 20 percent nationwide and almost 30
percent on the East and West coasts.  A ’Fizzle’  Still, he said he thought the most likely outcome was
“that the bubble ends with a fizzle, not with a bang,”
American Banker magazine reported at the time.  S&P in 2007 turned into “enablers of the grand fraud” in
which banks created a final flurry of CDOs filled with credit-
default swaps, according to Manal Mehta, founder of San
Francisco-based hedge fund Sunesis Capital LLC. The swaps were
side bets on the performance of mortgages, rather than being
backed by actual loans.  In March of that year, S&P granted or confirmed initial
ratings on $51 billion of CDOs, according to the complaint.  “Those CDOs magnified the impact of fraud in the system,”
Mehta said. “Subprime on its own was a containable problem:
Synthetic products such as CDOs which repeatedly copied and
pasted the same faulty underlying collateral into multiple deals
exacerbated the problems and blew up the world.”  The case is U.S. v. McGraw-Hill, 13-00779, U.S. District
Court, Central District of California (Los Angeles).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jody Shenn  in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net ;
 Matthew Leising  in New York at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  