-- McGraw-Hill’s S&P Imperils $4.6 Billion Gain: Corporate Finance
-- B y   C h a r l e s   M e a d   a n d   M a t t   R o b i n s o n
-- 2013-02-07T16:12:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/mcgraw-hill-s-s-p-imperils-4-6-billion-gain-corporate-finance.html
Fifteen months after  Harold “Terry” McGraw III  sparked a $4.6 billion stock gain at  McGraw-Hill Cos. 
with a plan to focus the business on its Standard & Poor’s unit,
a lawsuit against the credit-ratings firm threatens to cost the
company even more.  McGraw-Hill’s  market capitalization , which reached a five-
year high of $16.2 billion last week, has plunged to $12.1
billion as U.S. prosecutors seek more than five years’ worth of
profit as punishment for inflated grades that contributed to the
worst financial crisis since the Great Depression. The company’s
bonds have declined and the cost to protect the debt against
default jumped to a five-month high.  Penalties for false representations, concealed facts and
manipulated criteria linked to ratings on portions of more than
$4 trillion of debt securities could reach $5 billion, more than
enough to exhaust New York-based McGraw-Hill’s $1.2 billion of
cash on hand and the $1.86 billion of  excess funds  that analysts
project the company will generate this year. Tapping the bond
market to fund any shortfall may cost the company $390 million
of interest for every $1 billion borrowed over 10 years.  “You will have at least some intermediate-term value
destruction,” said  Noel Hebert , chief investment officer at
Bethlehem, Pennsylvania-based Concannon Wealth Management LLC,
which oversees about $250 million. “It’s likely that they
ultimately settle in a way that hurts enterprise value and the
creditworthiness, but still keeps them well above water.”  “20/20 Hindsight”  S&P said in a Feb. 5 statement that the Department of
Justice’s claims are “meritless” and that “20/20 hindsight is
no basis to take legal action against the good-faith opinions of
professionals.”  “There was robust internal debate within S&P about how a
rapidly deteriorating housing market might affect” securities
rated by the company, “and we applied the collective judgment
of our committee-based system in good faith,” S&P said.  The lawsuit has left McGraw-Hill with an  enterprise value  -
- or the value of its stock and debt minus cash -- of $13.2
billion, the lowest level since June.  Shares of McGraw-Hill had  surged  51 percent through last
week since the company bent to pressure from  Jana Partners LLC 
and the Ontario Teachers’ Pension Plan with a proposal on
September 2011 to spin off its deteriorating education business.
The company agreed to sell the unit to Apollo Global Management
LLC for $2.5 billion in November.  Education Sale  The lawsuit has “no impact” on the asset sale, which
hasn’t closed, said  Jason Feuchtwanger , a spokesman at McGraw-
Hill. “We have a fortress balance sheet, limited debt, strong
cash position and an excellent cash outlook for the year,” he
said.  The company was founded in 1888 by the great-grandfather of
 Terry McGraw , the current chief executive officer. After McGraw-
Hill announced the breakup, he said he was putting aside
concerns about abandoning the business’s roots in publishing to
serve “shareholders, employees and customers.”  The potential legal penalties, which Acting U.S. Associate
Attorney General  Tony West  said represented a “fairly
conservative” estimate of losses suffered by federally insured
financial institutions, have reversed the gains in the company’s
stock.  McGraw-Hill fell to $43.64 a  share  at 11:02 a.m., down from
$58.34 last week. Its $400 million of 6.55 percent bonds due
2037 dropped almost 7 cents on the dollar to 110.5 cents on Feb.
4 and an equal portion of 5.9 percent debt due November 2017
declined 0.8 cent to 116, according to Trace, the bond-price
reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  Swaps Rise  Credit-default swaps linked to the company’s obligations,
which pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt, jumped 60
basis points, or 0.6 percentage point, to 150.5 yesterday.  The contracts were quoted as low as 90 basis points last
week, according to data provider CMA, which is owned by McGraw-
Hill and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately
negotiated market.  The bond and swap prices imply a credit-rating of Baa2 for
the company, according to Moody’s Corp.’s capital markets
research group,  two steps below  the McGraw-Hill’s A3 grade from
Moody’s Investors Service. That signals investors may demand a
yield of 3.86 percent for new 10-year bonds, according to Bank
of America Merrill Lynch index data.  ‘Foolish’ Approach  “If a company like McGraw-Hill were to have to pay a $5
billion fine tomorrow, they would potentially need to issue a
large amount of debt or issue new equity,” said  Alan Shepard ,
an analyst and money manager at Madison Investment Advisors
Inc., which oversees about $16 billion in Madison, Wisconsin.  Borrowing that amount would boost leverage and “imply a
downgrade by multiple notches, potentially out of investment
grade,” he said.  McGraw-Hill had been in “extensive discussions” with the
government over the accusations for at least four months,  Floyd Abrams , a lawyer representing the company, said Feb. 5.
Settlement talks broke down after the government sought a fine
of more than $1 billion and an admission of wrongdoing from S&P,
the New York Times reported.  False Representations  “McGraw-Hill was foolish not to have made a settlement,”
 Arthur Levitt , a former Securities and Exchange Commission
Chairman, said yesterday in a Bloomberg Radio interview with  Tom Keene . He estimated any settlement, while probably below the $5
billion the government is seeking, would be “substantial” and
that the U.S. would prevail in its lawsuit.  Levitt is a board member of Bloomberg LP and an adviser to
Goldman Sachs Group Inc., Carlyle Group LP and Promontory
Financial Group LLC.  According to the U.S. complaint, S&P falsely represented to
investors that its credit ratings for securities such as
residential mortgage-backed securities and collateralized-debt
obligations were objective, independent and uninfluenced by any
conflicts of interests. Banks create CDOs by bundling bonds or
loans into securities of varying risk and return and pay ratings
companies for the grades.  S&P rated about $2.8 trillion of RMBS and $1.2 trillion of
CDOs from September 2004 to October 2007, the government said.  The accusations are a setback for McGraw-Hill, which is
working to boost revenue growth of  2.1 percent  in the 12 months
through September and increase margins as a content and
analytics company in the global capital and commodities markets,
according to a November statement.  NRSRO Status  It also benefits from its status as a Nationally Recognized
Statistical Rating Organization because some investors are
required to buy only securities stamped with the
creditworthiness opinion of an NRSRO.  “In the mortgage area they were slapping AAA ratings on
crap,” said  Michael Mullaney , chief investment officer at
Boston-based Fiduciary Trust Co., which manages $9.5 billion.
Mullaney said he cut his reliance on rating companies such as
S&P in 2008 as the financial crisis unfolded.  Inflated grades during the credit boom contributed to more
than $2.1 trillion in losses at the world’s financial
institutions after home-loan defaults soared and residential
prices plummeted. The Justice Department complaint is the first
federal case against a ratings company for grades related to the
financial crisis.  “An admission of wrongdoing or finding of guilt could
encourage the government to act more forcefully to reform that
business model,”  Mark Palmer , an equity analyst for BTIG LLC, a
trading firm in New York, said in a telephone interview.  Potential Stain  S&P, Moody’s and Fitch Ratings together provided 96 percent
of all ratings for governments and companies in the $42 trillion
debt market in 2011. There are now 10 NRSROs.  McGraw-Hill’s  ratings business  accounted for 45 percent of
the company’s $1.5 billion in operating income for the 12 months
ended Sept. 30, the highest portion of any unit, Bloomberg data
show.  Net income  of $867 million in that period will rise to
$1.07 billion this year, according to analyst estimates compiled
by Bloomberg.  While McGraw-Hill would have the capacity to raise $5
billion through a combination of debt and equity and still
survive as a high-yield company, the potential stain to its
reputation is a bigger risk than any fine, according to  Joel Levington , managing director of corporate credit for Brookfield
Investment Management Inc. in New York.  “You can overcome debt leverage and pay it down, but if
your brand, which is based on integrity, is tainted, I don’t
know how you get around that,” Levington said in a telephone
interview.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Charles Mead  in New York at 
 cmead11@bloomberg.net 
 Matt Robinson  in New York at 
 Mrobinson55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  