-- Chavez Nearing Decree Powers as Opposition Lawmakers Jump Fence
-- B y   C h a r l i e   D e v e r e u x   a n d   C o r i n a   P o n s
-- 2013-02-07T18:02:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/chavez-nearing-decree-powers-as-opposition-lawmakers-jump-fence.html
Hugo Chavez ’s coalition in the
National Assembly is one vote short of the three-fifths majority
needed to grant the Venezuelan president sweeping powers to pass
laws without congressional approval.  The ruling alliance has 98 of 165 lawmakers in the assembly
after opposition deputy Hernan Nunez said Feb. 5 he was
switching sides. He joins lawmakers William Ojeda and David
Paraqueima, who switched allegiance last year.  Chavez, who named Vice President  Nicolas Maduro  as his
successor before undergoing cancer surgery in Cuba Dec. 11, was
granted decree powers to pass laws without congressional
authorization for 18 months in December 2010 for the fourth time
in his presidency. He said he needed the law to fast-track
legislation following heavy rains. In 2008, he used the same
powers to pass laws similar to ones that had been rejected in a
2007 referendum.  “An enabling law is important because not only does it
assign powers to the executive, it also allows them to
circumvent the National Assembly as a political forum,” Colette
Capriles, a political analyst at the Simon Bolivar University in
Caracas, said in a phone interview Feb. 6.  In 2008, Chavez signed 26 new laws in the last days of an
18-month period of decree powers, including changes to bank
regulation. The 58-year-old former paratrooper hasn’t been seen
or heard in public since state television broadcast images of
him stepping off a plane in Havana Dec. 10.  Fence Jumping  Nunez broke ranks with the opposition alliance on live
television during a parliamentary session Feb. 5 in which
National Assembly President  Diosdado Cabello  accused lawmakers
from the opposition of receiving financial contributions without
declaring them to the electoral board. Nunez called on Cabello
to continue investigating the alleged corruption, then left his
seat in the opposition bank to be welcomed with pats on the back
and handshakes from pro-government lawmakers.  Cabello showed photocopies of checks allegedly received by
lawmaker Richard Mardo, including one for 200,000 bolivars
($46,512).  Mardo in response said Cabello had tried to blackmail him
by promising not to expose him in Congress if he switched
allegiances. Cabello didn’t respond to a phone call and text
message seeking comment.  “The government thinks that through these fence jumpers it
can gain the votes it needs for that majority,” said Carlos
Romero, a political analyst at the Universidad Central de
Venezuela in Caracas.  Chavez has governed by decree for four and a half of his 14
years in power. He used those powers in 2008 to strip the
legislature’s oversight of government borrowing, give him
control of appointing regional officials, and allow a wide range
of interventions in the economy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Charlie Devereux  in Caracas at 
 cdevereux3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net . 