-- Chicago Midway Plan Draws Interest From Ferrovial, GIP
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-02-07T20:21:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/chicago-midway-plan-draws-interest-from-ferrovial-gip.html
The leasing of Chicago’s Midway
International Airport is drawing investor interest from Global
Infrastructure Partners LP to  Ferrovial SA , London Heathrow’s
biggest shareholder, as privatization efforts advance.  Responses to a request for qualification of interest in the
airport are due this month,  Amit Rikhy , vice president for
business development at  Vantage Airport Group , said at an event
in London today. Vantage, which was the preferred bidder in an
auction in 2008 before financing failed, is evaluating the
project, Rikhy said.  The  leasing plan  for Midway is part of a wider U.S. Federal
Aviation Administration pilot program to privatize airports and
spur infrastructure investment. Midway follows a leasing
agreement for Puerto Rico’s Luis Munoz Marin International
Airport last year and could precede a plan to privatize New York
LaGuardia airport.  Global Infrastructure will also look at the plan, Michael
McGhee, a partner at the New York-based private equity firm,
also said at the TFI-News European Transport Finance Forum in
London today. The firm also owns London City and Gatwick
airports in the U.K.  “I suspect the degree of competition for the asset will be
intense,” said McGhee. “We will certainly look at it.”  Investment Opportunities  Midway “is attractive to us,” Gonzalo Velasco, corporate
development officer at Ferrovial’s airport unit, said at the
forum. Ferrovial, which was forced to sell Edinburgh, Stansted
and Gatwick airports in the U.K. by antitrust regulators, is now
looking at investment opportunities, he said, with North America
an area of interest.  Raising funding to purchase the lease shouldn’t be an
obstacle, said Deepu Chintamaneni, vice president at Industry
Funds Management.  “There is enough liquidity in the market for high quality
infrastructure assets,” said Chintamaneni, at the event today.  The Melbourne-based fund became an investor in Manchester
Airports Group, which agreed to buy Stansted airport last month.  Chicago Mayor  Rahm Emanuel  said in December that a leasing
of Midway airport would be explored providing the transaction
would benefit taxpayers and travelers. Emanuel last month set up
a panel to ensure transparency of the process. The lease would
be for about 40 years.  ‘Southwest Model’  Southwest Airlines Co ., the biggest low-fare carrier,
dominates the volume of flights at Midway.  “One really has to buy the Southwest model” to bid, Rikhy
said. The large union representation of Chicago’s workforce also
could complicate the transition to private ownership, he added.  Midway was dedicated in 1927 and handled about 19.5 million
passengers in 2012, 3.4 percent over the year prior, according
to the Chicago Department of Aviation’s  website . In comparison,
66.8 million passengers traveled through O’Hare during the same
period.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  