-- Child Sexual Abuse Widespread in India Amid Neglect, Group Says
-- B y   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n
-- 2013-02-07T06:30:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/child-sexual-abuse-widespread-in-india-amid-neglect-group-says.html
India needs to tighten child-
protection laws and improve oversight of orphanages to curb
sexual abuse of minors amid soul-searching over the scale of
rape and assault in the country,  Human Rights Watch  said in a
report released today.  Sexual abuse is widespread in homes, schools and
residential care facilities in India, the investigation found,
and existing child protection programs fail the most vulnerable.
More than 7,200 children, including infants, are raped every
year, while many more cases go unreported, the New York-based
advocacy group said in its 82-page  report , citing previous
studies and its own research.  “India’s system to combat child sexual abuse is inadequate
because government mechanisms fail to ensure the protection of
children,” said Meenakshi Ganguly, South Asia director at Human
Rights Watch. “Children who bravely complain of sexual abuse
are often dismissed or ignored by the police, medical staff, and
other authorities.”  A brutal attack on a medical student aboard a moving bus in
the south of India’s capital, New Delhi, on Dec. 16 shocked the
nation and reverberated around the world. The gang rape of the
woman -- who died from her injuries a fortnight later in a
Singapore hospital -- triggered street protests and spurred
calls for swifter and harsher punishments for sexual assaults.  Responding to the public furor and recommendations drafted
by a panel of former judges, Prime Minister Manmohan Singh’s
administration pushed through changes to the criminal code
without waiting for parliament’s assent.  Trial Opens  The trial of five men charged with conspiracy to abduct the
23-year-old woman, sexually assault and murder her, started Feb.
5 in a fast-track court in New Delhi. A sixth accused has been
judged to be a juvenile and is facing a separate judicial
process. All have pleaded not guilty.  In a case that an official of the National Commission for
the Protection of Child Rights described as “insane,” the
Human Rights Watch report details systematic abuse of orphans
and other children at a residential care facility in Haryana
state, next to the capital.  Girls were made to have sex with strangers for money, while
the son-in-law of the home’s director had molested children,
according to the report. The commission’s investigation team
were told children were suspended from ceiling fans as
punishment.  Poor awareness, social stigma and negligence across society
increase the suffering of many of India’s children, the group
said in its report. India is home to 430 million children, about
one in five of all under-18s in the world.  The rights group said that greater efforts must be made to
make sure the guilty are punished. Government agencies charged
with protecting children need greater resources, and all
institutions housing juveniles must be routinely and thoroughly
inspected, the report concluded. Medical staff responding to
accusations of sexual abuse should be trained to minimize
invasive examinations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bibhudatta Pradhan in New Delhi at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hari Govind at 
 hgovind@bloomberg.net  