-- Chile Peso Set to Outperform Brazil Real, Societe Generale Says
-- B y   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d
-- 2013-02-07T18:23:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/chile-peso-set-to-outperform-brazil-real-societe-generale-says.html
Chile’s peso may beat the Brazilian
real as the Santiago central bank abstains from intervening in
the undervalued currency, according to Societe Generale SA.  The peso appreciated 0.1 percent to 472.38 per U.S. dollar
at the close in Santiago today. The real rose 1.1 percent, more
than any other major currency, after consumer prices in Brazil
rose the most in eight years.  The Chilean currency has traded between 471 per dollar and
474 per dollar for the last week because of concern the central
bank may start buying dollars with the peso stronger than 470
per dollar. The risk of intervention has been exaggerated,
according to  Eamon Aghdasi , a strategist at Societe Generale SA
in New York.  “A number of signs are pointing to a peso which is
undervalued, and is being held back only by the threat of
central bank intervention,” Aghdasi wrote today in a note to
clients. “We do not get the sense of a central bank itching to
step into the market.”  The real has gained since November after Brazilian central
bank President Alexandre Tombini started using a stronger
currency to slow inflation by curbing the price of imports.  Brazilian policy makers will probably end measures to force
real appreciation, Aghdasi said.  Aghdasi recommends investors bet that the peso strengthens
and the Brazilian real weakens. Taking a long position in the
Chilean peso versus the dollar will help defray the costs of
taking a long position against the dollar versus the real.  The higher interest rates in Brazil, where the benchmark
Selic rate is 7.25 percent, make it expensive to bet against the
currency.  International investors in the Chilean peso forwards market
had a $1.4 billion net short position in the peso on Feb. 5,
according to data published today by the central bank.  The net short position had narrowed to a 16-month low of
$671 million on Jan. 31. The $700 million increase since then is
the steepest for a comparable period since October.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sebastian Boyd in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  