-- China’s Stocks Drop for First Time in Nine Days; Developers Fall
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-02-07T07:36:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/china-stock-futures-drop-signaling-declines-for-benchmark-index.html
China’s stocks  fell for the first
time in nine days on concern the government may introduce
measures to curb gains in property prices and after a rally for
the benchmark index drove valuations to 17-month highs.  China Minsheng Banking Corp. slumped 6 percent, paring
gains since Dec. 3 to 78 percent and sending a gauge of banks
and other financial stocks to its biggest loss among industry
groups.  China Vanke Co.  and Poly Real Estate Group Co. led
declines for property developers after the China Securities
Journal said some cities may slow approvals of new home sales.  The  Shanghai Composite Index  fell 0.7 percent to 2,418.53
at the close, snapping an eight-day, 6.3 percent rally. Still,
the index has risen 23 percent from a three-year low on Dec. 3
on signs economic growth is accelerating and as regulators
approved more investment quotas for foreign investors.  “Profit-taking pressure is building up after the big
rally, particularly for banks,” said  Li Jun , a strategist at
Central China Securities Co. in Shanghai. “Going forward we
need to see earnings growth to keep the rally carrying on.”  The  CSI 300 Index  slid 0.6 percent to 2,759.87, while the
 Hang Seng China Enterprises Index  of Chinese companies traded in
Hong Kong lost 1.3 percent. The  Bloomberg China-US 55 Index , the
measure of the most-traded U.S.-listed Chinese companies, added
0.1 percent in New York yesterday. Mainland markets will be shut
next week for the Lunar New Year holidays.  Trading volumes in the Shanghai Composite were 9.2 percent
lower than the 30-day average today, according to Bloomberg
data. The 100-day  volatility  was 17.8, compared with 17.5 over
the past year.  Exhausted Buyers  “The current uptrend will likely take a breath before an
anticipated resumption of the rally,”  Tom DeMark , the creator
of indicators to show turning points in securities, said in an
e-mail yesterday. “It has been a rally of which many were
initially skeptical and was characterized by much fear and
trepidation at the low, and currently the sentiment has reversed
and become positive.”  The  Shanghai Composite  will retreat about 8 percent before
resuming gains as the surge in stocks has exhausted buyers, said
DeMark, who correctly called the market’s bottom last year.  The Shanghai gauge is valued at 13.3 times reported profit,
near the highest level since September 2011,  data  compiled by
Bloomberg show. The 14-day relative strength measure, measuring
how rapidly prices have advanced or dropped during a specified
time period, was at 76 yesterday. Readings above 70 indicate a
price may be poised to fall.  Inflation Concern  The statistics bureau is due to release January data on
consumer prices and producer prices tomorrow. Consumer prices
probably rose 2 percent from a year earlier, decelerating from a
2.5 percent gain a month earlier, according to the median
estimate of 35 analysts in a Bloomberg survey. Export and import
data are also scheduled tomorrow.  The People’s Bank of China signaled concern at inflation
risks and said that monetary easing by nations, including the
U.S. and Japan, may push up commodity prices and make global
capital flows more volatile. China must be alert to changes in
price-gain expectations and to imported inflation, the central
bank said yesterday in a quarterly monetary policy report.  Vanke, the biggest listed property developer, lost 2.3
percent to 11.88 yuan. Poly Real Estate, the second largest,
fell 0.9 percent to 13.02 yuan.  Some of China’s largest cities may slow sales approvals for
housing projects in in the first half to tame price-gain
“momentum,” the China Securities Journal reported today,
without citing anyone. First-tier cities including Beijing will
release new measures to curb demand because of overheating
property markets, the Shanghai Securities News reported
yesterday, citing an unidentified person close to the city’s
housing commission.  Financial Stocks  The timing of government measures to curb gains in Chinese
property prices may come earlier than expected because “upward
pricing pressure is still robust,” Maybank Kim Eng Holdings
Ltd. analyst  Karen Kwan  wrote in a report today. There has been
a “sharp pick-up” in China’s property prices, she wrote.  Chinese banks have been loose in their lending to
developers, which could change given concerns about rising real-
estate prices, she wrote. New home prices rose 1 percent in
January, the biggest gain in two years, SouFun Holdings Ltd.
said Feb. 1.  A gauge of financial companies in the CSI 300 including
banks tumbled 1.9 percent, the most among 10 industry groups.
The measure is still up 42 percent since Dec. 3. Minsheng
Banking slid 6 percent to 11 yuan. Its price-to-earnings ratio
was the highest since December 2010 yesterday.  Shanghai Pudong
Development Bank Co.  slumped 4.8 percent to 11.43 yuan. Huaxia
Bank Co., partly owned by Deutsche Bank AG, retreated 4 percent
to 11.71 yuan.  Consumer Staples  “While the fundamentals of Chinese banks are improving
indeed, their recent rally was just too fast and too much,”
said  Tang Yayun , a Shanghai-based analyst at Northeast
Securities Co. “That said, this is likely to be a short-term
correction as their first-quarter results may surprise the
market on the upside.”  A measure of consumer staples climbed 0.8 percent. The
measure trades at 13 times estimated earnings, compared with the
three-year average of 23.8. Tsingtao Brewery Co. advanced 1.3
percent to 34.02 yuan.  “We are quite confident on the long-term outlook” for
consumer staples,  Eddie Chow , who manages the Templeton China
World Fund, said in a phone interview on Feb. 4. “Look at PE,
brand value, they are still very attractive.”  There is “still upside” for A shares as valuations are
“reasonable,” said Chow, whose fund has beaten 94 percent of
peer funds over the past five years with a 4.7 percent gain
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  -- Zhang Shidong . Editors: Allen Wan, Richard Frost  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
 Zhang Shidong  in Shanghai at 
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  