-- China Passenger-Vehicle Sales Surge as SUV Sales Double
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-02-07T16:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/china-passenger-vehicle-sales-surge-as-japanese-brands-rebound.html
China’s passenger-vehicle sales
surged 49 percent to a monthly record, beating analysts’
estimates, as demand for SUVs almost doubled and  Ford Motor Co .
extended gains in market share.  Wholesale deliveries, including multipurpose and sport
utility vehicles, climbed to 1.73 million units in January, the
state-backed China Association of Automobile Manufacturers said
in an e-mail yesterday. That compares with the 1.5 million unit
average of six analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Toyota Motor Corp . saw sales gain for the first time in
seven months and  General Motors Co . delivered a record number of
vehicles, helped by this month’s week-long Lunar New Year
holidays, which occurred in January last year. Growth in China’s
total vehicle market, including trucks and buses, will probably
accelerate this year and surpass 20 million for the first time
on a rebound in economic growth and urbanization, according to
estimates by the association last month.  “This is a good start but it’s difficult to judge the
market performance just based on one month,” said  John Zeng ,
director of Asian forecasting at LMC Automotive in Shanghai.
“SUVs are not a surprise since there are many model activities
at the moment by both local and foreign automakers.”  Total sales of vehicles rose 46 percent to 2.03 million
units last month, according to the association.  Sales of SUVs, the fastest-growing segment last year,
continued continued their gains in January, surging 91 percent
to 240,700 units. Sedan deliveries gained 49 percent to 1.19
million vehicles.  Volkswagen AG ’s Lavida became the best-selling sedan last
month, overtaking  Ford .’s Focus, which had been the top seller
for five straight months.  The holiday distortion means that sales may decline in
February. Economists and analysts typically calculate January
and February figures together to explain the Chinese market.  China’s economy grew 7.9 percent from a year earlier in the
last three months of 2012, the first acceleration in two years.
The pace may quicken to 8.1 percent in the first quarter,
according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey last
month.  Japan Rebound  Japan’s three largest automakers reported their first gains
since rioters in China smashed Japanese-brand cars in September,
adding to evidence a consumer backlash sparked by a territorial
dispute is fading.  Nissan Motor Co ., the top-selling Japanese automaker in
China, and Honda Motor Co. both posted 22 percent gains in
January deliveries to 115,700 and 47,248 units, respectively.
Toyota, which this week raised its profit forecast on a weaker
yen, boosted sales 24 percent to 72,500.  Among U.S. carmakers, Ford reported deliveries in China
almost doubled last month to 61,475 units. The Dearborn,
Michigan-based automaker began selling the Kuga SUV last month
and plans to introduce the Ecosport compact SUV by March as part
of plans to bring 15 new models into China by 2015.  GM saw deliveries increase 26 percent to 310,765 units on
demand for its Wuling minivans and Buick and Chevrolet brands.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Alexandra Ho in Shanghai at 
 aho113@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  