-- China Car Industry ‘Scapegoat’ for Toxic Smog, Group Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-02-07T16:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/china-car-industry-unfair-scapegoat-for-toxic-smog-group-says.html
China’s auto association said the car
industry has become a “scapegoat” for the toxic smog that
engulfed Beijing in the past month and that coal-fired  power
plants  should bear the main responsibility for the pollution.  “The auto industry has already borne too much undeserved
responsibility in recent years with the purchase and usage
restrictions,” said Ye Shengji, deputy secretary general of the
China Association of Automobile Manufacturers. “With the toxic
smog, the auto industry is once again being blamed and
scapegoated as the main culprit, which is unreasonable.”  The comments signal increasing concern among automakers
that the central government may impose further measures to
restrict the growth of the vehicle population, which reached 240
million last year. China added more cars last year than the
total number plying its roads in 1999, according to data from
the public security ministry.  “The automobile industry is a part of the problem,
although how much they are to blame is hard to determine,” said
 Ole Hui , an auto analyst at Mizuho Financial Group Inc. in Hong
Kong “With increased fleet size on the road, there is increased
pollution and this problem is going to get bigger.”  China’s State Council issued a timetable on Feb. 6 for
stricter car fuel emissions standards to be adopted nationwide
by the end of 2017, and required domestic oil refiners to
upgrade their equipment to provide cleaner fuel to match the
strictest European Union standards. Since Feb. 1, Beijing has
required new cars to meet the higher standards, becoming one of
the first cities in China to do so.  Vehicle Exhaust  While vehicular exhaust is undeniably one of the main
sources of air pollution, to blame the recent toxic smog solely
on car emissions “lacks scientific proof,” Ye said, according
to a  transcript  of his comments in a group interview with local
media that was posted on the state-backed association’s website
yesterday.  Tailpipe emissions accounted for 22 percent of the PM2.5,
fine airborne particulates that pose the largest health risks,
he said, citing Beijing municipal government data. This means
the majority of the pollution can’t be blamed on vehicles,
according to Ye.  Other major sources of pollution include coal-generated
power plants and factory emissions, surface dust and
construction sites, Ye said. The short supply of fuel that meet
statutory standards on emission and lack of regulatory
enforcement also contributed to the pollution, he said.  Official measurements of PM2.5 in Beijing rose as high as
993 micrograms per cubic meter on Jan. 12, compared with WHO
guidelines of no more than 25.  The daily average for January was 196 micrograms per cubic
meter, compared with an average of 166.6 measured last year in
16 U.S. airport smoking lounges by the Centers for Disease
Control and Prevention in Atlanta.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chua Kong Ho in Shanghai at 
 kchua6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  