-- China Refiners Must Upgrade for Fuel Standards, Government Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-02-07T10:02:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/china-refiners-must-upgrade-for-fuel-standards-government-says.html
Oil refiners in China, the world’s
biggest emitter of greenhouse gases, should accelerate plans to
produce cleaner fuel, according to the State Council, the
nation’s cabinet.  The government will publish new standards for diesel in
June and gasoline in December, capping sulfur content at 10
parts per million, with the rules being implemented nationwide
by 2017, the State Council said in a statement yesterday. The
cost and quality of the fuel will be taken into account when
setting oil-product prices, it said, without elaborating.  “Domestic refiners should facilitate upgrades in order to
supply qualified fuel on schedule,” the State Council said in
the statement, naming  China National Petroleum Corp. , China
Petroleum & Chemical Corp. and China National Offshore Oil
Corp., the country’s biggest oil companies.  China’s government plans to mandate the use of cleaner fuel
after worsening pollution led to record-low air quality in
Beijing last month. The capital tightened emissions criteria for
new cars from Feb. 1, becoming the only city to adopt the China
V standard that caps sulfur content at 10 ppm.  Plans by China Petrochemical Corp., the nation’s biggest
refiner known as Sinopec Group, to sell fuel that meets higher
environmental standards is negative for the company’s credit
outlook because of the higher investment needed to upgrade its
plants, Moody’s Investors Service said today.  Desulfurization Units  Sinopec  will supply fuel that meets the China IV standard,
which caps sulfur content at 50 ppm, from next year, the state-
run China Central Television reported Feb. 1. The company will
spend about 30 billion yuan ($4.8 billion) a year to upgrade its
plants to produce the fuel, Chairman Fu Chengyu said in an
interview with CCTV. The company will install upgraded
desulfurization units at 12 refineries by the end of this year,
he said.  “The increased capital spending of around 30 billion to 40
billion yuan will most likely be funded with debt,” Moody’s
said in a report today. “We expect the company’s internally
generated operating cash flow will be insufficient to cover its
capex in 2013-14.”  Crude processors such as Sinopec, which accounts for half
of the nation’s refining capacity, will struggle to pass on the
cost to consumers, Tian Miao, an energy policy analyst at North
Square Blue Oak, a London-based researcher, said by phone today.
Sinopec’s refining cost may rise by 3 percent, she estimated.  China’s gasoline and diesel prices are set by the National
Development and Reform Commission, the nation’s economic
planner, under a system that tracks the 22-day moving average of
a basket of crudes comprising Brent, Dubai and Indonesia’s
Cinta. The government may adjust fuel rates when the measure
changes more than 4 percent from the last adjustment.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Sarah Chen in Beijing at 
 schen514@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  