-- Chinese-Japanese War Games Are Dismal Economic Policy
-- B y   W i l l i a m   P e s e k
-- 2013-02-07T22:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/china-japan-war-games-make-dismal-economic-policy.html
The Nobel Peace Prize committee
probably isn’t expecting great things from  Shinzo Abe  or  Xi Jinping , the new leaders of Japan and China.  Quite the opposite, most likely. Chinese warships pointing
missile radar at a Japanese naval vessel in disputed waters is
the latest reminder that officials in Beijing and Tokyo aren’t
giving peace a chance. Prime Minister Abe is increasing cash-
strapped Japan’s defense spending for the first time in 11
years, hardly a good sign as these things go. Neither is Xi’s
vow not to budge on China’s sovereignty claims once he assumes
the presidency next month.  The leaders of Japan and China need to put domestic
politics aside and take one for Team World Peace. Abe and Xi
could do this by announcing a summit to head off the growing
risk of military conflict in north Asia.  No one expects either government to cede claims on a group
of islands that Japan calls Senkaku and China calls Diaoyu. This
would be a deal to agree to disagree on the validity of who owns
what in the East China Sea. Some kind of face-saving pact is
needed to keep two of the world’s three biggest economies from
coming to blows and dragging the U.S. into the scuffle, too.  Economic Interests  Let’s dispense with the fantasy that economic interests
will save the day or that shots won’t soon be fired. Locking a
naval vessel in radar isn’t just a provocation, but often the
first step toward an attack. We also are seeing a steady
increase in the number of airspace intrusions that prompt the
scrambling of fighter jets. Anyone wondering what’s at stake can
find hints in the Hainan Island incident of 2001.  On April 1 of that year, a U.S. spy plane collided with a
Chinese fighter jet, handing then President  George W. Bush  his
first international crisis. While it was defused amid furious
diplomatic efforts, the accident showed the danger of huge
nations having military hardware in such close proximity. It
doesn’t take a great deal of imagination to see how this could
happen between China and Japan and how the fallout could quickly
end the calm that’s so essential for commerce.  Nor does it require great ingenuity to imagine the position
President  Barack Obama  will find himself in when north Asia’s
big powers deploy battleships. The U.S. would be compelled to
come to the aid of its stanch ally Japan against the most
populous nation, a fast-emerging economic and geopolitical
rival.  The White House wants to wind down its overseas wars, not
gear up for another. And who can tell, on any level, how open
confrontation between China and Japan would play out in North
Korea? There, leader  Kim Jong Un  is doing more than his fair
share to ratchet up tensions and pit China against the United
Nations as the world considers more sanctions.  Nationalism can be as irrational as it is unpredictable,
and it will color how Abe and Xi proceed. Japan is unhappy with
China’s growing dominance. China resents the high concentration
of U.S. military personnel and hardware on Japanese soil and
believes Japan hasn’t atoned for its World War II aggression.  Rancid patriotism helped drive the previous Japanese
government’s ill-advised move to nationalize the Senkaku
islands. Enter Abe, whose  Liberal Democratic Party  favors a more
assertive Japan. On top of strengthening defenses, it means
rewriting the postwar constitution to turn the military into
more than just a self-defense force. Some want Japan to acquire
nuclear weapons. Abe is likely to indulge in love-of-nation
tactics should efforts to revive the economy falter and his
approval wane.  Wild Card  Xi is a wild card here. His perceived pragmatism could give
way to confrontation if domestic events turn against him. As
soon as he takes office he must contend with pollution that’s
choking Beijing; an increasingly activist media and free
Internet; a scandal-prone and greedy Communist Party; and a
widening gap between rich and poor, leading workers at Foxconn
Technology Group and elsewhere to unionize.  As these and other challenges flare, the temptation to lash
out internationally may be too great for a new Chinese leader to
resist. Japan, China’s wartime colonizer, makes for an obvious
target. Ceding ground to officials in Tokyo would be devastating
for Xi’s standing in Beijing, and so tensions may escalate.  These risks make a summit meeting more vital than ever. Abe
raised the prospect of such a confab last month, but stepped
away from the plan after the recent radar-targeting incident.
Perhaps the Association of Southeast Asian Nations, the closest
thing Asia has to a regional organization, may be able to
midwife a meeting. Or perhaps Obama could offer the White House
as a venue.  There are, after all, options. One is to turn the islands
into a jointly developed park or tourist site. Another is to
cooperate on exploiting potential energy reserves. Perhaps the
UN could designate the islands a World Heritage site and
administer them.  What really matters is stability. Rather than take Asia to
the brink of war, Abe and Xi should give peace a chance.  ( William Pesek  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
 William Pesek  in Tokyo at 
 wpesek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  