-- China Injects Record 860 Billion Yuan via Reverse Repos in Week
-- B y   K y o u n g w h a   K i m   a n d   A n d r e a   W o n g
-- 2013-02-07T09:08:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/china-injects-record-860-billion-yuan-via-reverse-repos-in-week.html
China injected a record 860 billion
yuan ($138 billion) into the financial system using reverse-
repurchase agreements this week to meet rising demand for cash
before a weeklong holiday starts Feb. 11.  The People’s Bank of China injected 410 billion yuan using
14-day reverse repos today, after adding 450 billion yuan on
Feb. 5. The overnight money-market rate climbed for an eighth
day, the longest run of increases in almost a year. The Chinese
New Year holiday is a period in which families exchange gifts,
buy new clothes and get together for meals.  “The PBOC injection is in reaction to liquidity needs,”
said  Frances Cheung , a strategist at Credit Agricole CIB in Hong
Kong. “It is natural for cash demand to pick up before the
Chinese New Year.”  The one-day repurchase  rate , a gauge of interbank funding
availability, rose two basis points, or 0.02 percentage point,
to 3.65 percent in Shanghai, according to a weighted average
compiled by the National Interbank Funding Center. The rate
increased as much as 49 basis points earlier to 4.12 percent,
the highest since Oct. 29. The seven-day repo rate jumped 37
basis points to 4.10 percent today, the biggest gain this year.  The monetary authority offered the 14-day reverse repos at
a yield of 3.45 percent, according to a trader at a primary
dealer required to bid at the auctions.  China must be alert to changes in price-gain expectations
and to imported inflation, the central bank said yesterday in
its fourth-quarter monetary policy report. The costs of labor-
intensive products, services and agricultural goods may rise
persistently on slowing labor-supply growth, the PBOC said.  The one-year interest-rate swap contract, the fixed cost
needed to receive the floating seven-day repo rate, was steady
at 3.16 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kyoungwha Kim in Singapore at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  