-- Chorus Surges Most on Record on Price Reprieve: Wellington Mover
-- B y   C h r i s   B o u r k e
-- 2013-02-08T04:06:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/chorus-surges-most-on-record-on-price-reprieve-wellington-mover.html
Chorus Ltd ., New Zealand’s biggest
telephone network operator, rose the most on record after the
government delayed proposed cuts to its wholesale Internet
pricing pending a review of industry regulation.  The review, which was previously required to start by
September 2016, will commence immediately,  Amy Adams , Minister
for Communications and Information Technology, said in an e-
mailed statement. The regulator can’t enforce proposed cuts to
the price Chorus charges for broadband access until the review
is completed, by Nov. 30, 2015, at the latest, she said.  Chorus rose 10 percent in Wellington trading, the biggest
daily increase since the company split from  Telecom Corp of New
Zealand Ltd . and listed separately on Nov. 23, 2011.  “One common message I have continually heard from
consumers and industry is that they want certainty,” Adams said
in the statement. “The policy framework needs to be predictable
and stable for all concerned.”  Chorus fell the most on record in December when the
Commerce Commission said in a draft  recommendation  that monthly
prices for so-called unbundled bit-stream access on its existing
copper-based network should be cut by about 28 percent to
NZ$32.45 per line from Dec. 1, 2014. The regulator’s decision
was to be finalized in June this year.  Chorus shares rose 29 cents to NZ$3.15 at the 5 p.m. close
of trading in Wellington.  New Zealand’s government is building a high-speed broadband
network throughout the nation that will be fiber-based. Chorus,
which is a partner in the project, said last year it was
concerned that price cuts to copper-based services would deter
uptake of fiber services.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Bourke at 
 cbourke4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Bourke at 
 cbourke4@bloomberg.net  