-- Christie Would Allow Online Gambling Under 10-Year Trial
-- B y   E l i s e   Y o u n g   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2013-02-07T20:53:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/christie-would-allow-online-gambling-under-10-year-trial.html
New Jersey Governor  Chris Christie ,
who vetoed Internet gambling in 2011, said he would be willing
to allow a 10-year trial period of online betting to see if it
helps Atlantic City casinos stem six years of declining revenue.  The governor, a first-term Republican seeking re-election,
conditionally vetoed a bill today that would allow wagers to be
placed online for games conducted in Atlantic City casinos. He
sent the measure back to lawmakers with recommended changes,
including the time limit, an increase in the tax on Internet
bets and more money for compulsive-gambling programs.  Senator  Raymond Lesniak , an Elizabeth Democrat who
sponsored the bill, said he expects the changes to be approved
by the Assembly this month and by the Senate in March, and the
first online bets to be taken by September. Internet gambling is
New Jersey’s best chance of fending off competition from nearby
states that have opened new casinos, Lesniak said  “The conditions are minor changes,” Lesniak said in an
interview today. “This is going to be wildly successful, and
it’s going to bring in millions of dollars of additional
revenues for the casinos and the state.”  Shares of  Caesars Entertainment Corp , the largest operator
in Atlantic City with four casinos, rose 17.3 percent to $9.96
as of 3:36 p.m. in New York.  Boyd Gaming Corp ., which manages
the Borgata, the top grossing Atlantic City casino, rose 3.3
percent to $7.14.  Neighboring Casinos  New Jersey lost its spot to Pennsylvania last year as the
second-largest gambling market in the U.S. after Nevada. Revenue
for Atlantic City casinos slumped 8 percent in 2012 to $3.05
billion, as Pennsylvania casino revenue increased 4.4 percent to
$3.16 billion.  Only Nevada and Delaware allow Internet betting.
California, Hawaii and Mississippi lawmakers also are seeking to
authorize online gambling, according to the Denver-based
National Conference of State Legislatures.  Christie’s recommended changes include increasing the
proposed tax on Internet gambling to 15 percent, from 10 percent
in the original bill, and an annual analysis of the potential
harms of the new format.  “Our state cannot carelessly create a new generation of
addicted gamers, sitting in their homes, using laptops or iPads,
gambling their salaries and their futures,” Christie, 50, said
in a statement.  Placing Bets  The bill allows people within the state to place bets on
any game presently played in casinos, although poker is expected
to be two-thirds of the revenue, Lesniak said. Bets would be
taken by casino operators licensed in the state through hardware
located in Atlantic City.  “The opportunity is for us to become the Silicon Valley of
Internet gaming,” Lesniak said.  Online gambling could climb to $1.5 billion of revenue in
New Jersey annually over the next five years, according to a
Jan. 24 report by  Wells Fargo  Securities analyst  Dennis Farrell ,
who called it “one of the last chances the governor has to
provide a lifeline to Atlantic City casinos.”  The market could generate $171 million in earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization within three
years, including $34 million for the Borgata, which is co-owned
by  MGM Resorts International , Union Gaming Group analyst Bill
Lerner wrote in a research note today.  New Jersey approved casino gambling in 1976 and limited it
to Atlantic City to help revitalize the once-bustling beach
resort. The first casino, Resorts International, opened in 1978.
Gambling revenue rose every year until 2007, when the recession
began and casinos opened in nearby states, including
Pennsylvania and New York.  Christie’s administration created a state-run tourism
district in the city in February 2011 to oversee policing and
cleanup. He also extended $261 million in tax credits to jump-
start development of Revel Entertainment Group LLC’s project,
the first new casino in nine years. It opened in 2012.  New Jersey’s online-gaming market could be a model or a
partner for other states, said Assemblyman  John Burzichelli , a
Paulsboro Democrat. “We can create an environment that has
checks and balances,” he said in a telephone interview.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elise Young in Trenton at 
 eyoung30@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Palmeri in Los Angeles at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  