-- Christie Thwarted as Democrats Likely to Hold Legislature
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 2013-02-07T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/christie-thwarted-as-democrats-likely-to-hold-legislature.html
New Jersey  Governor  Chris Christie 
has advantages as he seeks re-election. The Republican leads his
Democratic challenger by more than 40 percentage points. He’s
out-raised her 10-fold. He’s even won over some members of the
opposition party.  Yet in a state where Democrats hold a voter advantage and
have led the Senate and Assembly for 12 years, that’s probably
not enough to gain a Republican edge in the Legislature.
Christie sits atop the ticket in a year when all 120 legislative
seats are also in contention, leading lawmakers in his party to
bank on his success filtering down to local races.  Democratic control of the Legislature has forced Christie
to compromise on a tax cap and benefits overhaul, and stymied
his efforts to reduce levies and ban public employee payouts for
unused sick time. He has urged voters to elect a Republican
majority to speed up passage of his agenda. The governor is now
battling with lawmakers over revenue shortfalls and oversight of
$36 billion in spending to rebuild from Hurricane Sandy.  “The governor has tremendous personal appeal; he’s a
hugely talented political leader,” said  Ben Dworkin , director
of the Rebovich Institute for New Jersey Politics at Rider
University in Lawrenceville. “That makes him an effective
politician, but those skills and that goodwill are not
necessarily transferable. People will split tickets.”  Sandy Bump  Democrats hold an edge of 48-32 in the Assembly and 24-16
in the Senate. The party has an advantage of 703,000 registered
voters over Republicans. Independents make up almost half the
electorate, outnumbering both major parties. New Jersey voters
backed Democrats in the last six presidential contests.  Christie, the first Republican elected New Jersey governor
since 1997, is enjoying a record 74 percent approval rating for
his response to Sandy, up from 56 percent before the Oct. 29
storm, according to a Quinnipiac University poll on Jan. 23.
Fifty-six percent of Democrats and 78 percent of independents
support Christie over his Democratic challenger, state Senator
 Barbara Buono , the poll found.  Assemblyman  John Wisniewski , chairman of the Democratic
State Committee, said Christie’s popularity will wane. Property
taxes, school aid and the state’s pension-funding gap will
become front-burner issues as the election nears, he said.  New Jersey tax collections were trailing Christie’s
projections by $426 million as of the end of December. He has
said midyear budget cuts may be needed. Democratic lawmakers
have refused to approve Christie’s proposal for a 10 percent
income-tax cut until revenue meets his targets.  Spending Woes  Democrats also are questioning the state’s award of a Sandy
debris-removal job to Ashbritt Inc., calling it a $100 million
“no-bid contract.” Christie has denied such claims and said he
would provide transparency in funding for recovery.  “Nobody holds those kinds of numbers for a year,”
Wisniewski said. “Those numbers are the result largely of
Hurricane Sandy and the opinions people had at that time. He’s
all coat and no tail. Coattails in New Jersey are very rare,
quite frankly. Legislative seats are decided on a district-by-
district basis, not a statewide basis.”  In 2011, the last time all 120 seats in the Legislature
were up for grabs, Christie campaigned for Republican candidates
and drew out-of-state donations, as he enjoyed a 58 percent
approval rating. Still, Republicans lost one seat in the
Legislature, after a panel redrawing New Jersey’s 40 legislative
districts approved an electoral map that favored Democrats.  Democratic Edge  The legislative boundaries are redrawn every 10 years,
after the census, to reflect population shifts. After the last
redrawing in 2001, Democrats nabbed both houses in New Jersey.
Two years later, under Democratic Governor  James McGreevey , the
party expanded that majority.  Brigid Harrison , a professor of law and politics at
 Montclair State University , said the political boundaries are
gerrymandered along party lines and to protect incumbents. While
Republicans may pick up a seat or two, a full takeover of either
house isn’t likely under the Democratic-friendly map approved in
April, she said.  “Legislative districts tend to be configured to be heavily
partisan, so we’re not talking about a neutral playing field
where the best party wins,” Harrison said in a telephone
interview. “That constraint means there’s really very little in
terms of competitive state legislative districts.”  Two Races  New Jersey and Virginia are the only states with races for
governor this year. Each legislative district in New Jersey
elects two Assembly members and one senator. Assembly members
serve two-year terms while senators serve for four years, except
for the first term of a new decade, which is two years.  Republican gains in New Jersey this year would reverse a
tide that saw Democrats across the U.S. gain about 150 seats
last year and recapture eight chambers they lost in 2010,
according to the nonpartisan National Conference of State
Legislatures. Since 1900, the party winning the White House has
gained legislative seats in 21 of 29 elections, the group said.  State Senate Minority Leader  Tom Kean , a Republican from
Westfield, said his party has a shot to gain at least five seats
in his chamber, with Christie’s help, which would give them a
majority. Vulnerable districts this year include the one for the
Cape May area, which has been represented by both Democrats and
Republicans in recent years, Kean said. The incumbent senator,
Democrat  Jeff Van Drew , said he hasn’t decided whether to seek
another term.  “There’s no force that’s insurmountable,” Van Drew said
of Christie’s popularity.  Christie Message  Christie told reporters in Sea Girt yesterday that if he
runs a strong campaign, communicates his message and raises
enough money, that can rub off on other races. The strength of
individual hopefuls is a bigger factor than district
demographics in deciding who will win, he said.  “I’m just going to work as hard as I can to get my message
out there and hope to get support from people to be re-
elected,” Christie said. “If I do my job well, I think that
will have a positive effect down-ballot for my party.”  The governor led Buono 63 percent to 22 percent in
Quinnipiac’s Jan. 23 poll. Buono formally entered the race Feb.
2. Christie raised $2.1 million for the election through
December, while Buono raised $212,927, according to campaign-
finance reports.  Whether Republicans can use Christie’s popularity to wrest
control of the Legislature will be determined by how big a
margin he can muster, Dworkin said. A 40 percentage-point
victory would mean he entices new people to polls who are there
to vote specifically for him and his agenda; a slimmer victory
would favor traditional voting patterns and Democrats, he said.  “My first job in November’s election is to get re-
elected,” Christie said. “So I’m not going to take my eye off
that ball. I, as I always have been as governor, will try to be
helpful to my party down-ticket.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  