-- Cielo Profit Rises 21% After Merchant E-Solutions Deal
-- B y   F r a n c i s c o   M a r c e l i n o
-- 2013-02-07T19:48:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/cielo-s-net-matches-estimates-after-buying-merchant-e-solutions.html
Cielo SA , Brazil’s biggest payments
processor, said fourth-quarter profit climbed 21 percent,
matching analysts’ estimates, on a gain in revenue after the
acquisition of Merchant e-Solutions.  Net income rose to 610.3 million reais ($310.4 million)
from 504.5 million reais a year earlier, before the purchase,
the Barueri, Brazil-based company said yesterday in a filing
after the market closed. The average  estimate  of nine analysts
in a Bloomberg survey was for profit of 606.8 million reais.  Cielo, led by Chief Executive Officer  Romulo de Mello Dias ,
51, said sales rose at a faster pace as it integrated Merchant
e-Solutions, which it agreed to buy in July for $670 million to
expand in the U.S. Net revenue rose 34 percent to 1.61 billion
reais in the fourth quarter from a year earlier, after expanding
27 percent in the third quarter, according to the filing.  “Despite pressure from regulators, banks and merchants, we
believe Cielo’s scale, distribution dominance and new services
to clients should allow it to sustain high single-digit
earnings-per-share growth and a 5 percent dividend yield,”
analysts at brokerage Brasil Plural CCTVM SA including  Eduardo Nishio  wrote in a report to clients today.  Cielo fell 2.4 percent to 55.14 reais in Sao Paulo,
compared with a 1 percent decline for the benchmark Bovespa
index.  Volume Growth  Transaction volume climbed to 106.9 billion reais from
about 95 billion reais a year earlier, according to the filing.
Operating expenses were 265 million reais, a 32 percent increase
from the fourth quarter of 2011.  Cielo expects net income to grow 7 percent to 10 percent in
2013, Dias told analysts on a conference call today. This year,
the company will expand slower than Brazil’s card industry
because of tougher competition, he said. Cielo forecasts
Brazil’s card industry will expand 15 percent to 18 percent, he
said.  Brazil’s booming payment-card industry lured companies
including Santander Brasil SA in 2010 and Elavon Inc. in July to
compete against Cielo and its main rival, Redecard SA, which was
bought by  Itau Unibanco Holding SA  in September. Sao Paulo-based
Itau paid 11.8 billion reais to acquire the 50 percent stake it
didn’t already own in Redecard and delist it from the Sao Paulo
exchange.  “Cielo’s challenge can’t be minimized,” Dias said, adding
that he estimates the new players in Brazil’s card industry will
have a market share of 15 percent to 20 percent in the next two
years. “This will dilute our market share.”  The company stopped disclosing some earnings items,
including the merchant discount rate, because none of its
competitors are required to release the figures. Dias said the
current disclosure level is “good” and “appropriate” for the
market.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Francisco Marcelino in Sao Paulo at 
 mdeoliveira@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  