-- Citgo to Settle New Hampshire Gas-Additive Lawsuit
-- B y   S a r a h   E a r l e   a n d   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 2013-02-07T23:15:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/citgo-to-settle-new-hampshire-gas-additive-lawsuit.html
ExxonMobil Corp.  and New Hampshire
battled before a judge over whether a jury in a trial alleging
the company contaminated state water with a gasoline additive
can hear how money in cleanup funds has been spent.  A reference in court yesterday about the state’s inability
to pay for the cleanup using two funds reopened a debate that
started before the trial began on Jan. 14. New Hampshire
Superior Court Judge Peter Fauver sent the jury home today so
that the two sides could argue the issue before him.  Gary Beckett, a state witness who is a hydrogeologist,
testified yesterday that cost is a factor in monitoring
groundwater contamination by the additive methyl tertiary butyl
ether, or MTBE. “There’s not enough money to find everything
out about a site,” he said.  ExxonMobil’s lawyers filed a motion today for a mistrial,
claiming that Beckett’s remark made it impossible for them to
comply with the judge’s order to not talk about the funds the
state has to clean up sites. Fauver ruled before the trial began
that no mention could be made of the funds because the jury
might believe the state already has the money it needs.  The state has received $213 million from the oil companies
since the funds began in 1989 through a 1.5 cent per gallon fee
on oil products imported into New Hampshire. The funds have
$4 million left, the state has said.  ‘Hands Tied’  “Now we’re in a situation, hands tied behind our back,
where we can’t say that the state does have resources for
remediation,” ExxonMobil lawyer  James Quinn  told the judge
today. Quinn asked Fauver to reconsider his ruling.  Jessica Grant , a lawyer for the state, said the ruling
doesn’t prohibit witnesses from talking about why the state
hasn’t been able to clean up all the groundwater.  “If they’re not allowed to say they don’t have the funds,
they look negligent or incompetent,” Grant said to the judge.
“Or it looks like they don’t need the money.”  Fauver said a mistrial was “unlikely.” He said he’d issue
a ruling on the funds by tomorrow morning.  New Hampshire might be seeking more than $200 million from
ExxonMobil, the last defendant on trial in the $816 million
lawsuit filed in 2003. This is one of scores of cases involving
MTBE filed since 2000 against oil refiners, fuel distributors
and chemical makers.  Determining Damages  The number of wells found to be contaminated with MTBE is
one factor in determining damages if ExxonMobil is found liable.
New Hampshire has said that as many as 5,590 wells may have more
than 13 parts of MTBE per billion parts of water, a level the
state has determined makes it unfit for drinking.  David Lender ,
a lawyer for ExxonMobil, told the jury that the number of New
Hampshire wells found contaminated with the gasoline additive
was only 349.  ExxonMobil, based in Irving, Texas, has argued in court
that it isn’t liable for damage because it added MTBE to
gasoline to comply with federal regulations, which pre-empt
state law. Oil companies added MTBE to make gasoline burn more
thoroughly in order to reduce air pollution, as required under
the 1990  Clean Air Act .  Ken Colburn, who formerly worked for New Hampshire’s
Department of Environmental Services, testified that the state
wouldn’t have participated in a federal clean-air program with
reformulated gasoline if ExxonMobil had warned of the additive’s
risks.  Additive Banned  ExxonMobil said in court that the state was aware of MTBE’s
risks when it opted into the program in 1991 because there had
been studies of the additive for several years before that.  New Hampshire banned the additive as of January 2007.  State witness Gary Lynn, a manager of the DES’s  petroleum
mediation section , testified that MTBE still shows up in wells
six years after it was banned. He said the chemical moves
through water quickly and unpredictably.  MTBE, which is highly soluble in water and thus can be
carried great distances from where it leaked, is a “toxic
chemical that does not belong in the state’s drinking water,”
Grant said in opening remarks to the jury. It leaked from gas
stations, vehicle junkyards, underground storage tanks and pipe
fittings, the state said.  Besides the number of contaminated wells, the state is
seeking monetary damages based on ExxonMobil’s market share of
gasoline sales in New Hampshire during the period covered by the
lawsuit.  Estimated Cost  ExxonMobil’s share was about 30 percent, the state said.
Based on an estimated cost of $816 million to test for, monitor
and clean up the groundwater, New Hampshire could be seeking
about $245 million from the company.  On Jan. 15, the judge agreed to dismiss  Citgo Petroleum
Corp. , the other defendant, from this trial while the company
and the state work to complete a settlement. Citgo is the
Houston-based unit of  Petroleos de Venezuela SA , the country’s
state-owned oil company. If an accord isn’t reached by Feb. 15
and no extension is approved, Citgo would be reinstated to the
trial.  Besides ExxonMobil and Citgo, New Hampshire also sued  Shell
Oil Co. ,  Sunoco Inc. , ConocoPhillips, Irving Oil Ltd., Vitol SA
and  Hess Corp.  All settled before the trial began except
ExxonMobil and Citgo.  New Hampshire has received more than $100 million in
settlements from defendants so far, according to court papers.  MTBE lawsuits have also been consolidated in federal court
in New York for pretrial evidence-gathering and motions. In
2009, a federal jury ordered ExxonMobil to pay New York City
$104.7 million after finding it liable for polluting wells in
the city. ExxonMobil has appealed.  New Hampshire’s lawyers said last week they hoped to
conclude their case by Feb. 21. ExxonMobil would then begin
presenting its case.  The case is New Hampshire v. Hess Corp., 03-C-0550, New
Hampshire Superior Court, Merrimack County (Concord).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sarah Earle in Concord, New Hampshire,
at   sarah__earle@comcast.net ;
Don Jeffrey in New York at 
 djeffrey1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  