-- Clegg Gambles Snap Vote Will Beat Cameron
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2013-02-07T14:00:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/clegg-gambles-snap-vote-will-beat-cameron.html
U.K. Deputy Prime Minister  Nick Clegg 
gambled that a snap vote is his best chance of beating Prime
Minister  David Cameron ’s Conservatives in a special election
caused by the resignation of a scandal-hit lawmaker.  Chris Huhne , a member of Clegg’s Liberal Democrat party who
was energy secretary in the coalition Cabinet until last year,
quit Parliament this week after pleading guilty to perverting
the course of justice by asking his wife to say she was driving
his car when it was caught speeding in 2003.  Clegg’s party said last night the election to replace Huhne
will be held on Feb. 28, the soonest possible date. The Liberal
Democrats will select a candidate on Feb. 9 and will aim to use
their knowledge of the seat, which they’ve held since 1994, and
where they dominate the local council, to defeat Cameron’s
Tories, who came second in 2010.  “It’s very, very quick,”  Rob Hayward , a political analyst
who advises the Conservatives, said in an interview. “It’s a
shrewd decision. They’re trying to ensure that Tory splits stay
in people’s minds.”  Cameron’s Conservatives were divided this week by the prime
minister’s plan to legalize same-sex marriage, with 136 of the
party’s 303 lawmakers opposing it in a House of Commons vote.  Exam Changes  Conservative Education Secretary  Michael Gove  today
announced his second policy reversal in six months on plans to
change the examinations taken by 16-year-olds. In September, he
watered down his original plan to have students of different
ability sit exams for different qualifications, while saying he
still intended to abolish the current General Certificate of
Secondary Education.  Following opposition from lawmakers and teaching groups,
including Liberal Democrat activists, he has now dropped that
proposal too. Instead the GCSE will remain, restructured to
focus more heavily on examinations and away from coursework.  Clegg denied suggestions today that his party had forced
the retreat, while telling reporters he’d “been working very
closely over the last two weeks to get these proposals right.”  The special election will see the prime minister and deputy
prime minister go head-to-head after months of increased tension
between the two parties in the coalition, with rebel
Conservative lawmakers killing changes to the upper House of
Lords favored by the Liberal Democrats and Clegg’s party
retaliating by blocking a redrawing of electoral boundaries that
would have helped the Tories.  Last Time  Eastleigh, the district up for grabs, is typical of those
the Conservatives need to win if they’re to get a parliamentary
majority in the 2015 general election. In 2010, Huhne won 47
percent of the vote for the Liberal Democrats, and the second-
placed Conservative took 39 percent.  “Of course there are differences between the Conservatives
and the Liberal Democrats; we shouldn’t hide them, we just need
to be relaxed and grown-up about it,” Clegg said on his weekly
phone-in program on  LBC radio  today. “I don’t think we need to
be aggressive about it,” he said. “I think we need to be
forceful but we don’t need to be insulting.”  With national polls now showing Liberal Democrat support at
less than half the level of 2010, Cameron is under pressure to
capitalize on his coalition partner’s weakness to deliver a
victory.  Tax Pitch  Clegg, who had a surge in personal popularity during the
2010 election campaign, has seen his ratings slump since going
into coalition with Cameron. A victory in Eastleigh would give
heart to lawmakers who fear their own seats are vulnerable in
2015. He pointed today to moves by the coalition to raise the
threshold for starting to pay income tax -- a key Liberal
Democrat policy -- as an example of what he’s achieved in
government.  “Fair taxation has been a thread running through the last
2 1/2 years,” Clegg said in a speech in London. “In recent
times, given the continued pressure on household incomes,
fairness in tax has been increasingly at the forefront of the
public consciousness too.”  Asked whether he was concerned the campaign would focus too
much on Huhne, Clegg said afterward he hoped it would not be
conducted “in a mood or spirit of retribution.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  