-- Clinton Boosts Web Access to Poor in Silicon Valley Parting Gift
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   D w o s k i n
-- 2013-02-07T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/clinton-boosts-web-access-to-poor-in-silicon-valley-parting-gift.html
Taking the podium in the U.S.
Department of State’s Ben Franklin Room one last time before
stepping down on Feb. 1, Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton 
thanked a lot of people, offered reminiscences, and announced a
flurry of last-minute programs.  “We’re all, like, one millisecond away from just
collapsing here, because of the emotion and the feelings that
are coursing through all of us,” she said.  One of those new programs, the Alliance for an Affordable
Internet, barely got a mention in Clinton’s speech yet it merits
attention, Bloomberg Businessweek reports in its Feb. 11 issue.  The public-private partnership among the State Department,
the World Wide Web Foundation, and tech companies including
 Google Inc. , Microsoft Corp., Yahoo! Inc.,  Intel Corp ., and
 Cisco Systems Inc ., aims to give more people in developing
countries access to the Web. It could also open new markets for
Silicon Valley.  “We’re going to help the next billion people come
online,” Clinton said, before moving on to talk about clean
cook stoves for women in poor nations.  Only a quarter of people in developing countries are
online, compared with three-quarters in developed nations. If
the U.S. helps change that imbalance, the credit will go in part
to Ann Mei Chang, a former senior engineering director at Google
who joined the State Department in November 2011 as an adviser
on technology and women’s issues. She now lives in Nairobi,
Kenya, a city Google Executive Chairman  Eric Schmidt  has called
Africa’s soon-to-be Silicon Valley.  Kenya’s Internet  Kenya has some of the fastest, cheapest Internet access in
Africa thanks to government investment in technology, low taxes
on hardware and software, and policies discouraging
communications monopolies. Chang spends her time teaming up
diplomats with U.S. technology companies and nonprofit groups to
figure out how other countries can follow Kenya’s example.  In many developing countries, Internet service is far more
expensive than most workers can afford, in part because
computers, phones, modems, and software are often taxed as
luxury goods.  “It’s one of the few things they can tax,” says Chang.
“That’s shortsighted.”  Poor countries also lack the physical infrastructure that
forms the Web’s backbone. In developed nations, Web traffic
moves between service providers through hubs called IXPs, or
Internet exchange points.  Scarce Hubs  In the U.S. there are dozens of these hubs; Kenya has at
least one. Ethiopia, Cameroon, the Central African Republic, and
101 other countries worldwide have none, according to  Packet
Clearing House , a technology research firm.  Web traffic from these nations must travel over
international fiber-optic cables to hubs hundreds or thousands
of miles away, slowing service and driving up costs. The
Alliance is seeking to use corporate and diplomatic power to
push governments to change laws getting in the way of Internet
access.  At this point it’s yet to be determined how this will be
accomplished. As U.S. diplomats press governments to invest in
IXPs and deregulate telecommunications, the companies will lend
the State Department and governments abroad technical expertise.  The firms have also pitched in seed capital, though the
State Department won’t say how much. Google,  Microsoft , Yahoo,
and Cisco all confirmed membership in the group; Intel didn’t
respond to a request for comment.  “We want to go in with a unified voice and say, ‘There are
things we think you can do so the Internet will flourish and
will cause your economy to thrive,’” says Chang, who used a
similar pitch to get big technology companies to sign on to the
project. A flourishing Internet in the developing world will
help them thrive, too.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Dwoskin in Washington at 
 edwoskin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wes Kosova at 
 wkosova@bloomberg.net  