-- Coal Phase-Out May Be Delayed Beyond 2025, Finnish Minister Says
-- B y   T o r s t e n   F a g e r h o l m
-- 2013-02-07T15:16:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/coal-phase-out-may-be-delayed-beyond-2025-finnish-minister-says.html
Finland may miss its target to phase
out coal-fired energy production by 2025 because of limited
production of biomass output to replace fossil fuels, Economy
Minister  Jan Vapaavuori  said.  The Nordic country, which lacks the oil and hydropower
resources of neighbors Norway, Sweden and Russia, must boost the
share of renewable energy in gross final energy consumption to
38 percent by 2020, an increase of 5.8 percentage points from
2010, according to binding European Union targets.  “Coal will be replaced mainly with biomass, although
shrinking production from paper and pulp industries result in
less spinoff products,” limiting the availability of
substitutes for coal, Vapaavuori said today at an interview in
Helsinki. The EU has yet to decide to what extent member states
can replace fossil fuels with wood.  Finland seeks to boost the use of renewable energy and cut
fossil fuel use by 2020, according to the national  climate and
energy strategy  drawn up by the former government in 2008. A
revised and updated policy document may gain final government
approval tomorrow, Vapaavuori said.  “It’s an open question what kind of biomass qualifies as
renewable, with the EU due to discuss sustainability criteria
this year,” Vapaavuori said. “We can’t take for granted that
the end result will benefit Finland.”  Finland imports all of its coal, mainly from Russia and
Poland. In the past 15 years, it has shipped in an average of 5
million metric tons of coal annually at costs ranging from 70
million euros ($93 million) to more than 300 million euros,
according to the Finnish Coal Info association’s  website .  “We try to be at the vanguard in the combat against
climate change, but there are limits to how far it makes sense
to go for a sparsely populated country with a cold climate and
energy-intensive industrial structure,” Vapaavuori said. “We
simply need more energy per capita than other EU countries.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Torsten Fagerholm in Helsinki at 
 tfagerholm@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  