-- Coinstar Skids as Forecast Misses on Weak DVD Schedule
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e
-- 2013-02-08T21:13:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/coinstar-profit-drops-on-acquired-dvd-kiosk-sales-shares-fall.html
Coinstar Inc.  fell the most in more
than six months after the owner of Redbox DVD kiosks said a weak
film lineup this quarter will cause results to miss analysts’
estimates.  Coinstar dropped 7 percent to $48.47 at the close in New
York, the biggest decline since July 27, after the Bellevue,
Washington-based company released fourth-quarter earnings and
its first-quarter forecast yesterday.  Fewer new releases on DVD will diminish sales and profit
this period, Chief Financial Officer  Scott Di Valerio  said in a
telephone interview. He said the company also needs to bring
back customers who stopped renting during the third quarter,
when content also was weak.  “It’s going to take a while with the third quarter
content, how bad it was, to get them back in,” said Di Valerio,
who will become chief executive officer on April 1.   “We saw
some good trends in the fourth quarter, which was good, but also
looking at the first quarter, some of the releases aren’t as
good as they were last year.”  The company stocked 12 new titles in January compared with
23 in January 2012, Di Valerio said. Profit excluding some items
this quarter will range from 77 cents a share to 92 cents, the
company said, on sales of $568 million to $593 million. That’s
below analysts’ projections for profit of $1.24 a share on
revenue of $623.2 million.  “It’s a content question and a question of continuing to
drive folks to our kiosks,” Di Valerio said. “We feel as we
hit the back half of the year, we’ll be hitting on all cylinders
and driving revenue per kiosk.”  More Titles  To lure customers back, Coinstar is refurbishing its kiosks
to create space for 80 more discs, in addition to the 600 that
machines now hold, giving customers more choices. Typically, the
600 disks include about 100 different titles, Di Valerio said.  Fourth-quarter net income declined 27 percent to $22.9
million, or 75 cents a share, from $31.5 million, or $1, a year
earlier, the company said in a statement. Profit excluding some
items was 93 cents.  Sales, while rising 8.4 percent to $564.1 million, were
below the $580.2 million average estimate of analysts polled by
Bloomberg, hurt by results from kiosks acquired from  NCR Corp.   Coinstar is expanding beyond DVD rentals to include the
Redbox Instant movie streaming service, a joint venture with
 Verizon Communications Inc. , event ticket sales and Rubi, a
coffee kiosk business. Redbox Instant, which will compete with
 Netflix Inc.  and Amazon.com Inc., is in public testing and is
scheduled to officially open by the end of this quarter.  The service combines Redbox kiosk discs with online rentals
and a streaming library of movies that come with a monthly
charge of $8 to $9 a month. Redbox Instant said this week that
it launched its app on Microsoft Corp.’s Xbox 360 console.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael White in Los Angeles at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  