-- Colombia Trims 2013 Foreign Debt Issuance Plan to Curb Peso
-- B y   O s c a r   M e d i n a   a n d   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w
-- 2013-02-07T13:28:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/colombia-trims-2013-foreign-debt-issuance-plan-to-weaken-peso.html
Colombia will scale back its 2013
overseas borrowing plan to reduce its foreign debt and help curb
a rally in the peso, Finance Minister  Mauricio Cardenas  said.  The Andean nation will trim external debt this year by
borrowing less in the international market than the amount the
country must repay, Cardenas told reporters in Bogota last
night. The country won’t prepay its overseas bonds or
multilateral loans, he said.  “Colombia plans to cut its overseas debt this year by
having less issuance, fewer external credits, while sticking to
planned amortizations,” Cardenas said. The government will
employ “internal resources” to cover the lost funding, he
added.  The expansion of the Andean nation’s oil industry, which
accounts for about half of exports, has contributed to a 26
percent rally in the peso against the dollar since the start of
2009, causing complaints from farmers and manufacturers who say
it is making it difficult for them to compete. President  Juan Manuel Santos  told coffee growers yesterday that his government
will use “all the weapons in its arsenal” to prevent the
currency’s appreciation from damaging the country’s producers.  In its 2013 financial plan, the government said it would
sell $2.6 billion of bonds overseas. It has sold $1 billion so
far this year.  The central bank increased daily dollar purchases by 50
percent between February and May to at least $30 million. The
government also asked state-controlled oil company  Ecopetrol SA 
to borrow mainly in local currency this year. The measures
should weaken the peso to its equilibrium level of 1,950 per
dollar, Cardenas said Jan. 29.  The peso depreciated 0.2 percent to 1795.44 per dollar at
8:26 a.m. in Bogota.  Counter-cyclical  Colombia’s annual inflation rate unexpectedly fell to a
near three-year low in January. This “magnificent” result
gives Colombia room to implement counter-cyclical monetary
policy if international conditions make this necessary, Cardenas
said.  “This was an excellent result and also gives us the
opportunity to use an instrument as fundamental as the interest
rate in a counter-cyclical manner,” Cardenas said.  Annual consumer price increases eased to 2.0 percent last
month, from 2.44 percent in December, the slowest pace since
April 2010. Colombia targets inflation of 3 percent, plus or
minus on percentage point.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Oscar Medina in Bogota at 
 omedinacruz@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Bristow in Bogota at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  