-- Colombia Central Bank’s Monetary Policy Rate Statement (Text)
-- B y   D o m i n i c   C a r e y
-- 2013-02-07T17:03:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/colombia-central-bank-s-monetary-policy-rate-statement-text-.html
Following is the text from
Colombia’s Central Bank statement on the benchmark interest
rate decision from Jan. 28. The translation to English was
published on the Central Bank’s website today.  28 January 2013  Banco de la República Lowers the Benchmark Interest Rate by 25
Basis Points and Expands its Daily Reserve Purchase Program  At its meeting today, the Board of Directors of Banco de la
República decided to reduce the benchmark interest rate by 25
basis points, thereby placing the base overnight rate for
expansion auctions at 4%. This decision was taken in view of
the following factors:  On the international front, average economic growth in 2012
with respect to Colombia’s trading partners was consistent
with expectations.  For 2013, the measures adopted by the
European authorities and the improvement in financial
conditions have reduced the likelihood of a sharp recession in
the Euro Zone. In the United States, the latest information
suggests its economy could grow at a somewhat slower pace than
was estimated for 2012.  China’s growth remains at around 8%.
This being the case, the expectation for the current year is
that external demand will remain weak and grow at a pace
similar to the rate in 2012.  The rising trend witnessed in terms of trade up to 2011 was
interrupted in 2012, the year when terms of trade remained
stable. Given the weakness of the global economy, terms of
trade in 2013 could be somewhat less than the average observed
in 2012.  As to the fourth quarter of 2012, the new figures on consumer
lending, retail trade and consumer confidence suggest
household spending would grow  at a rate slightly less than
the one observed in the third quarter. There is a great deal
of uncertainty about how investment will behave, especially
investment spent on civil works, construction and buildings.
The figures for exports in dollars show more of a slowdown
than for imports.  On the supply side, the industrial production indicator posted
an annual drop in November and expectations in the sector
deteriorated yet again. Retail sales, both with and without
vehicles, rose at a good pace.  The technical team forecasts between 2.5% and 4.5% economic
growth for 2013, with 4% being the most likely figure. The
major uncertainty with respect to this forecast is rooted in
the possible persistence of the negative shock witnesses in
investment in civil works and buildings. Some of the factors
that have slowed this type of spending are expected to be
reversed, thereby bolstering domestic demand. The conditions
that supported the momentum observed in consumption and in the
investment in machinery and equipment are expected to continue
during 2013. Among others, these include stable levels of
employment and consumer confidence, and the accumulated
reduction in policy interest rates. The latter is being passed
through to interest rates on loans, coupled with lending that
has slowed but continues to grow at a good pace. All of this
is accompanied by an international context of broad liquidity
and low interest rates.  Annual consumer inflation in December (2.4%) declined more
than anticipated by the market and by the Bank’s technical
team. As occurred throughout the year, the slowdown in
inflation was explained, yet again, by less of an increase in
the CPI for regulated items and food. Average core inflation
and inflation expectations declined again and are now below
the long-term target (3%).  In short, the Colombian economy is growing below its
potential, both observed and projected inflation are under the
3% target, and there are no signs of upward pressure on
inflation in the near future.  Given these conditions, an
assessment of the risk balance indicates the advisability of
lowering the intervention interest rate to 4%. The monetary
policy action that has been taken is designed to situate
output in 2013 close to the economy’s productive capacity,
without jeopardizing the inflation target or the country’s
macroeconomic stability.  The Board of Directors also decided to continue to accumulate
international reserves in an effort to maintain a proper
balance in proportion to the country’s financial depth and its
growing participation in the global economy. Accordingly, the
Board extended the program for daily auctions to purchase
foreign currency and Banco de la República will accumulate at
least USD 3 billion between February and May of this year,
through daily purchases of no less than US$ 30 million. This
represents an increase from USD 500 million in average monthly
purchases under the previous program to no less than USD 750
million under the current one.  The decision takes into
account the recent trend toward peso appreciation in an
environment characterized by an expansive monetary policy,
weak export growth compared to the increase in imports, and an
uncertain outlook for terms of trade.  The Board reiterated that Banco de la República has sufficient
tools and resources to satisfy the economy’s regular liquidity
needs with respect to both local and foreign currency, as well
as any needs that could arise in an environment of
international financial turmoil.  The Board will continue to carefully monitor performance and
projections with respect to economic activity and inflation in
Colombia, asset markets and the international situation.
Finally, it reiterated that monetary policy will depend on new
information as it becomes available.  Bogotá, January 28, 2013  SOURCE: Banco de la Republica
 http://www.banrep.gov.co/   To contact the reporter on this story:
Dominic Carey in Sao Paulo at 
 dcarey5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  