-- Compass Sales Rise as North America Offsets ‘Difficult’ Europe
-- B y   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 2013-02-07T08:03:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/compass-sales-rise-as-north-america-offsets-difficult-europe.html
Compass Group Plc , the world’s
largest catering group, reported faster first-quarter sales
growth than analysts estimated as “strong” gains in North
America offset tougher conditions in Europe and Japan.  So-called organic revenue rose almost 6 percent in the
period since Sept. 30, the Chertsey, England-based company said
today in a statement ahead of its annual general meeting,
compared with the 5 percent median  estimate  of nine analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg News. Company expectations for the year
remain “positive and unchanged,” Compass said.  “The language in the statement suggests a very similar
picture to that seen in the fourth quarter,”  Vicki Lee , an
analyst at Barclays Plc in London, said in a note. “We see this
as an encouraging start to the year.” Barclays has an
overweight  recommendation  on the stock.  Compass is offsetting tough conditions in Europe by cutting
costs and restructuring its business in southern Europe. First-
quarter growth was driven by “consistently strong new business
levels and high rates of retention,” the company said today.  The shares rose 0.7 percent to 771 pence in early London
trading, extending their gain this year to 6.4 percent.  Revenue “is positive overall, but continues to show
different trends across the world,” the company said. Business
is “positive” in North America, “negative” in Europe and
Japan and “strong” in fast growing and emerging markets, it
said. U.S. sales were aided by a contract with Ascension Health.  Compass also said today that Chairman  Roy Gardner  will step
down at next year’s annual meeting. A recruitment firm will be
appointed to seek a replacement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clementine Fletcher in London at 
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  