-- Consumer Credit in U.S. Rises on Surge in Non-Revolving Debt
-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 2013-02-07T20:21:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/consumer-credit-in-u-s-rises-on-surge-in-non-revolving-debt.html
Consumer borrowing  in the U.S. rose
in December for a fifth straight month as non-revolving credit
surged by the most in 11 years.  The $14.6 billion gain followed a revised $15.9 billion
advance in November, the Federal Reserve said today in
Washington. The median  forecast  of 30 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg called for a $14 billion increase in December.  Non-
revolving debt , such as financing for college tuition and auto
purchases, jumped $18.2 billion in December, while credit-card
borrowing fell.  Rising home values and job creation are boosting the
ability and willingness of households to borrow, laying the
foundation for an acceleration in the  consumer spending  that
makes up 70 percent of the U.S. economy. Cheaper financing is
supporting purchases of big-ticket items such as new cars.  “As consumers are willing to take on additional debt,
that’s a good sign that economic growth is beginning to turn
around,” said  Andrew Brodsky , an economist at Stone & McCarthy
Research Associates in Princeton, New Jersey, the second-most
accurate consumer credit forecaster over the past two years.
“The gains are definitely encouraging.”  Estimates in the Bloomberg survey for consumer credit
ranged from gains of $9 billion to $20 billion after a
previously reported $16 billion advance in November.  Stocks held losses after the figures, with the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index declining 0.3 percent to 1,507.06 at 3:12 p.m.
in New York.  The report doesn’t track debt secured by real estate, such
as home mortgages and home equity lines of credit.  Non-Revolving Credit  The December increase in non-revolving credit, which
followed a $15.3 billion advance in the prior month, was the
biggest since November 2001, when automakers lured buyers back
to showrooms with zero-percent financing after the Sept. 11
terrorist attacks.  Lending by the federal government, which is mainly for
educational loans, increased by $5.5 billion in December before
seasonal adjustment, today’s report showed.  Demand for vehicles is helping support economic growth.
General Motors Co., Ford Motor Co. and Chrysler Group LLC posted
December U.S. vehicle sales gains that exceeded analysts’
estimates, completing a year of growth that helped propel the
expansion. Cars and light trucks  sold  at a 15.3 million annual
rate in December after a 15.5 million pace the prior month,
according to data from Ward’s Automotive Group.  AutoNation Sales  At AutoNation Inc. fourth-quarter revenue climbed 13
percent from the prior year, boosted by new-vehicle sales.  “Replacement demand, attractive new products and strong
consumer credit will continue to support sales and the improving
housing market will also support sales,” Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer  Michael Jackson  said on a Jan. 31 earnings
call. “The auto retail recovery still has many years to run and
I remain as optimistic as ever.”  Revolving debt , which includes credit cards, fell by $3.6
billion, the most since July, after a $573.8 million increase in
November.  Labor market gains might be boosting Americans’ willingness
to borrow for big-ticket items. Payrolls increased by 157,000
workers in January following a revised 196,000 gain the prior
month and a 247,000 jump in November, the Labor Department
reported this month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lorraine Woellert  in Washington at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  