-- Credit Suisse May Pay Less in Asset-Linked Bonuses Than in 2011
-- B y   G i l e s   B r o o m   a n d   E l e n a   L o g u t e n k o v a
-- 2013-02-07T11:59:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/credit-suisse-may-pay-less-in-asset-linked-bonuses-than-in-2011.html
Credit Suisse Group AG , Switzerland’s
second-largest bank, may award less in asset-linked bonds to
employees for 2012 than it paid out under a similar compensation
plan the previous year as part of bonuses.  “In the last four years we have on several occasions
remunerated our employees partly in the form of risk positions
within some of the investment bank’s portfolio,” Chief
Financial Officer  David Mathers , 47, told reporters on a
conference call from Zurich today. “This year’s was smaller.
It’s called the Plus Bond.”  Credit Suisse, which in 2008 awarded employees bonuses
linked to a pool of toxic assets, last year granted about $800
million in structured notes linked to derivative counterparty
risks, named Partner Asset Facility 2, to more than 5,500 senior
employees throughout the bank. The bonds were designed to help
cut risks and improve the lender’s capital position.  Plus Bond awards are based on a trading portfolio of
structured product securities, have a maturity of 3 1/2 years,
and will pay an annual coupon, according to a Credit Suisse
internal memo last month. While the instrument will make up part
of bonuses for the top investment bankers, other employees can
elect to receive it as well instead of share awards.  “We think it’s appropriate, it’s aligned, it’s something
discussed and agreed with the regulators as well,” Mathers
said. “The third PAF is how I think about it,” he added,
referring to the Partner Asset Facility.  Credit Suisse Chief Executive Officer  Brady Dougan  declined
to comment on the developments of the bonus pool for 2012 before
the lender’s annual report is published. The bank cut its 2011
bonus pool by 41 percent to about 3 billion francs, including
pay that was deferred into future years.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Giles Broom in Geneva at 
 gbroom@bloomberg.net ;
Elena Logutenkova in Zurich at 
 elogutenkova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  