-- Danske Says Profit Surges More Than Fivefold as Bad Loans Drop
-- B y   F r a n c e s   S c h w a r t z k o p f f
-- 2013-02-07T07:16:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/danske-says-profit-surges-more-than-fivefold-as-bad-loans-drop.html
Danske Bank A/S  posted a more-than
fivefold surge in profit last quarter after Denmark’s biggest
bank said impairments dropped.  Net income rose to 1.15 billion kroner ($208 million) in
the three months through December from 200 million kroner a year
earlier, the Copenhagen-based lender said in a statement to the
stock exchange today. That beat the 1.1 billion-krone estimate
in a Bloomberg  survey  of analysts. Impairments sank to 2.6
billion kroner from 4.8 billion kroner, the bank said.  Danske said last year it needs to eliminate 3,000 jobs to
stay competitive after losing money on housing bubbles in
Denmark and Ireland. The lender’s efforts to cut costs and be
more selective with its customers have helped it improve profit
even after the Danish economy contracted last year.  “These are our best financial results since 2007 and it is
definitely a step in the right direction,” Danske Chief
Executive Officer,  Eivind Kolding , said in the statement. “The
earnings initiatives we have implemented are starting to produce
results.”  Danske announced last quarter it will adjust its prices to
reward customers with more business at the bank. The strategy
has left the lender less popular with private clients, and it
scored the lowest of any company in five years in a customer
satisfaction survey published yesterday by Jyllands-Posten.  Clients, Shareholders  The bank is also losing popularity among business clients,
and sank to third place, behind SEB AB and Nordea Bank AB, in a
similar survey by Prospera, Borsen reported today. Danske had
previously ranked second.  In contrast, shareholders have rewarded the bank for its
efforts to cut costs. Danske’s stock  has gained  9.3 percent this
year, beating a 5.7 percent increase in the 40-member  Bloomberg
index of European financial stocks .  “We are in full swing with the implementation of our
strategy that will ensure we achieve our targets in 2015,”
Kolding said.  Danske Bank said it will report a profit after tax of as
much as 10 billion kroner this year as impairments drop
“slightly.” Earnings before impairments will be unchanged from
2012, depressed by low interest rates and low economic growth,
the bank said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Frances Schwartzkopff  in Copenhagen at 
 fschwartzko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net  