-- Deadly China Pollution Breathes New Life Into Solar Debt
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-02-08T03:11:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/deadly-pollution-breathes-new-life-into-solar-debt-china-credit.html
China’s pledge to reduce pollution
after air-quality in Beijing hit hazardous levels on 20 days
last month has cut financing costs for the world’s biggest maker
of solar wafers to a four-month low.  The yield for February 2015 notes of  GCL-Poly Energy
Holdings Ltd.  has fallen 109 basis points from a six-month high
on Dec. 27 to 5.793 percent, the lowest since Sept. 12. That’s
more than the 17 basis point drop in yields for three-year AAA
corporate debt tracked by ChinaBond. China’s six biggest solar
companies, which have $2 billion of outstanding bonds, may post
losses of more than $2 billion in 2012 on a glut in supply of
panels, according to analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  China announced plans to raise its solar-power installation
target for 2015 by 67 percent at the end of January as smog
covering the city of 20 million people forced authorities to
shut factories, take government cars off the road and warn
children and the elderly to stay indoors. Five-year bonds sold
by  Solarworld AG , Germany’s biggest solar company, have plunged
to 22 cents on the euro as deficit curbs in the U.S. and Europe
slashed subsidies for the industry.  “All renewable equities and bonds are increasing in price
on anticipation of further support plans for the environment,”
said  Charles Yonts , an analyst at CLSA Ltd. in Hong Kong. He
added that there are “increasingly clear indications from
Beijing that they will keep these companies alive.”  Greenhouse Gases  China, which surpassed Japan in 2010 to become the world’s
second-biggest  economy , has also grown to be its biggest emitter
of greenhouse gases. The nation added 15.1 million new cars last
year, a number that exceeds the total number of vehicles on its
roads in 1999. It has 16 of the 20 most-polluted cities
globally, according to the World Bank.  Exposure to PM2.5 pollution, fine air particulates that
pose the greatest risk, contributed to 8,572 premature deaths in
Beijing, Shanghai, Guangzhou and Xi’an in 2012, according to
estimates by Greenpeace and Peking University’s School of Public
Health. Beijing’s daily average for January, based on the U.S.
Embassy readings, was 196 micrograms per cubic meter, compared
with an average of 167 measured last year in 16 U.S. airport
smoking lounges by the Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention in Atlanta.  Beautiful China  Hu Jintao, set to step down as president next month, called
for ensuring “ecological progress” and creating a “beautiful
China” when addressing the November congress where Xi Jinping
succeeded him as head of the party.  Li Keqiang , in line to
replace  Wen Jiabao  as premier next month, said on Jan. 15 that
environmental laws must be enforced.  Shi Dinghuan, an adviser to the cabinet and president of
the Chinese Renewable Energy Society, said the government plans
to increase its target for solar-power installations by 2015 to
35 gigawatts from the 21 gigawatts set last year. “We’ve got
more pressure to save energy and reduce emissions as smog
worsens due to pollution,” he said in a Jan. 30 interview.  Solar panel manufacturers including  Suntech Power Holdings
Co.  and  Yingli Green Energy Holding Co.  have faced weaker demand
and a supply glut that has driven panel prices down by 25
percent in the past year.  GCL-Poly  produces the polysilicon and
solar wafers that are used to produce the panels.  Distressed Debt  LDK Solar Co. , the second-biggest maker of wafers,      has
more than $375 million of outstanding bonds, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The price of its February 2014 yuan bonds
settled in U.S. dollars has rallied to 74.59 from as low as
26.25 on Sept. 17.  LDK said Jan. 31 that it received approval for a 440
million yuan ($71 million) loan from state-owned  China
Development Bank Corp.  to upgrade its Mahong polysilicon
facility. The company, which reported a loss of $137 million for
the third-quarter, sold a 19.9 percent stake in November to a
company part-owned by the government of Xinyu, the city where
it’s based, in exchange for receiving financial support.  Convertible notes of Suntech, based in the eastern city of
Wuxi, rose this year to 47 cents on the dollar after sinking to
a four-year low of 25.13 on Dec. 6. The company is working with
banks and bondholders to reorganize the debt before it comes due
on March 15. It hired UBS AG to evaluate alternatives.  Profit Outlook  “Profitability of solar-energy manufacturers will turn
better in 2013 as selling prices rebound,” said Jerry Weng, a
Shanghai-based analyst at KGI Securities Co. “We see their
utilization rates of production increasing to 70 percent from 50
percent a year earlier as market demand picks up.”  Weng expects global solar power demand to rise by at least
15 percent in 2013 from about 30 gigawatts last year. The
government will help the industry issue new debt and negotiate
with banks to protect jobs and investment, he said.  Changzhou, China-based  Trina Solar Ltd. , the world’s third-
biggest maker of solar panels, said yesterday hedge fund Citadel
LLC had acquired a 6.2 percent stake in the company.  The government allocated 13 billion yuan in subsidies for
domestic solar project developers in 2012, the official Xinhua
News Agency reported in December. This year, policy makers have
accelerated investment-project approvals to spur the economy.
Gross domestic product is expected to grow 8.1 percent in 2013,
accelerating from 7.8 percent last year, according to the median
estimate of 47 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News.  China’s benchmark 10-year  government bond  yield climbed to
3.60 percent yesterday from as low as 3.24 percent on July 11.
Top-rated  corporate debt  with similar maturities pays 5.24
percent, down five basis points this year.  The cost of insuring China’s debt against non-payment with
credit-default swaps has increased one basis point this year to
67.8 basis points as of yesterday, according to data provider
CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. The yuan gained 0.1
percent to 6.2277 per dollar in Shanghai today.  Trade War  The European Union is investigating anti-subsidy and anti-
dumping complaints against Chinese companies by a group of
European solar panel makers. China, in its turn, is
investigating European polysilicon makers for the same
practices, showing its backing of the industry.  “The solar industry is government-directed and Chinese
policies are signaling obvious support, stimulating speculation
that solar companies will benefit,” said Wang Xiaoting, a
Beijing-based solar analyst from Bloomberg New Energy Finance.
“Global demand for solar panels will have quite stable growth
this year especially because of China.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Feifei Shen in Beijing at 
 fshen11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  