-- Dell Directors Sued Over $24.44 Billion Management Buyout
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 2013-02-07T06:06:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/dell-directors-sued-over-24-44-billion-management-buyout.html
Dell Inc.  Chief Executive Officer
 Michael Dell  and other company directors were sued by an
investor over claims the computer maker’s board is shortchanging
shareholders in a $24.4 billion management-led buyout.  Dell, who owns more than 15 percent of the third-biggest
computer maker, abused his status as the company’s top executive
and board chairman by leading the buyout, lawyers for Dell
investor Catherine Christner said yesterday in a lawsuit filed
in  Delaware Chancery Court .  Directors are violating legal duties to shareholders by
allowing the company’s founder and a private-equity fund to
“obtain Dell on the cheap,” Christner’s attorneys said in the
complaint.  Dell and Silver Lake Management LLC will pay $13.65 a share
for the company, officials said. That’s 25 percent more than the
closing price of $10.88 on Jan. 11, the last trading day before
Bloomberg News reported discussions about taking the company
private. Michael Dell is taking back majority control of the
company he founded as part of the deal.  David Frink , a spokesman for Round Rock, Texas-based Dell,
declined to comment yesterday on Christner’s suit over the
management-led buyout.  Dell’s stock has lost more than half its value since
January 2007, when Dell resumed his role as CEO, amid investor
dismay with management’s failure to cope with upstart
competitors in mobile and cloud computing.  More Leeway  By going private after a quarter-century as a publicly
traded company, Dell is seeking more leeway to cut jobs and
adopt strategy shifts needed to court high-margin customers
spending billions of dollars on data centers.  Dell, which trails  Hewlett-Packard Co.  and  Lenovo Group
Ltd.  in the PC market, rose 10 cents to $13.52 yesterday in
Nasdaq trading. Its stock plummeted 31 percent last year as it
struggled to adapt to the industrywide shift to smartphones,
tablet computers and cloud computing services.  In a filing with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission, Dell and Silver Lake officials said they’ve set a
Nov. 5 deadline for completing the leveraged buyout.  Christner’s lawyers contend that the buyout offer is a 22
percent discount to the value of Dell’s stock in February 2012
and is timed to take advantage of the company’s challenges.  Dell is in the midst of a push to diversify its business
away from computer manufacturing to “one based upon end-to-end
IT solutions,” according to the complaint. That helped depress
the company’s shares and made it easier for Dell to initiate the
going-private offer, the investor’s attorneys said in the
complaint.  “The board failed to leverage Dell’s superlative long-term
prospects to extract a substantial premium for the company’s
shareholders,” Christner’s lawyers said.  The case is Catherine Christner v. Dell Inc., 8281,
Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  