-- Depression May Be Helped By Blocking Protein in the Brain
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 2013-02-07T17:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/depression-may-be-helped-by-blocking-protein-in-the-brain.html
Blocking a protein in the brain that
prevents  neural stem cells  from maturing may lead to a potential
new way to treat depression, one of the most common mental
disorders in the U.S.  After the gene that makes the protein, called sFRP3, was
deleted in mice their brains behaved as though they were on
antidepressants, researchers from Johns Hopkins University in
Baltimore found. When sFRP3 is overactive, neural stem cells
can’t mature into neurons, a process that’s been linked to the
success of antidepressant treatments, according to the study
published today in the journal  Cell Stem Cell .  Research has shown that drugs that regulate the brain
chemical serotonin, such as the  selective serotonin reuptake
inhibitors , a class that includes Eli Lilly & Co.’s Prozac, also
work by removing the inhibition on neuron growth. That’s part of
the reason it can take as long as a month of treatment for
patients to feel relief after they begin treatment, said  Hongjun
Song , a study author and director of the stem cell program at
Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine.  “We know that newborn neuron development is important for
antidepressant effects,” Song said. “This links those two
things together.”  The findings suggest the protein could be targeted by
either medications or electroconvulsive therapy. A previous
paper from the group published online in the journal  Molecular
Psychiatry  showed that mice that had been treated with ECT had
less of this blocker protein than those not treated. In a group
of people, certain variations on this gene predicted better
responses to antidepressants.  Good Target  “This may be a really good target for novel antidepressant
treatments,” Song said. And because the protein is expressed
only in specific areas of the brain, targeting it may lead to
medications with fewer side effects, he said.  His group also looked at a database of more than 500
depression patients, tracking their responses to drugs. Those
with three underactive gene variants that produced sFRP3
responded better to antidepressant treatments, the group found.
That may mean genetic testing could help predict a patient’s
response to antidepressant therapy.  Depression  is among the most common mental disorders in the
U.S., according to the National Institutes of Health. About 6.8
percent of the adult population, or 15.5 million people, had a
major depressive episode that year, according to a  2010 survey .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elizabeth Lopatto  in San Francisco at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  