-- Diniz Pays Premium in Quest for Brasil Foods: Corporate Brazil
-- B y   C r i s t i a n e   L u c c h e s i
-- 2013-02-07T23:39:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/diniz-paying-premium-in-quest-for-brasil-foods-corporate-brazil.html
Brazilian billionaire  Abilio Diniz ,
vying to become chairman of BRF-Brasil Foods SA, is paying the
highest premium in at least 2 1/2 years to gain influence with
shareholders.  Diniz, who ceded control of retailer Cia. Brasileira de
Distribuicao Grupo Pao de Acucar to Casino Guichard-Perrachon SA
last year, sold 1.5 billion reais ($753 million) worth of Pao de
Acucar non-voting shares on Jan. 11 and bought 1 billion reais
of Brasil Foods stock, according to a person with direct
knowledge of the matter, who asked not to be named because the
numbers aren’t public. Brasil Foods, the nation’s largest
processed-food maker, trades at 99 times its trailing 12-month
earnings, almost four times Pao de Acucar’s ratio of 25. The
spread between them reached a 2 1/2-year high on Jan. 23.  The investment in Brasil Foods coincides with talks for
Diniz to become  chairman , three people with knowledge of the
matter said. Diniz, 76, is seeking to increase his clout in
Brazil’s corporate community after last-minute attempts failed
to undo a deal to sell control of Pao de Acucar to Casino.  “Pao de Acucar is cheaper than BRF, has more growth
potential and is one of our top 10 picks for this month,” said
 Jose Francisco Cataldo Ferreira , an analyst at Agora CTVM S/A.
Pao de Acucar, as Brazil’s largest retailer, has a competitive
advantage in food sales and durable goods such as electronics,
he said.  “BRF is also a good company, but its shares are already
expensive and its financial situation is less comfortable,”
Ferreira said.  Shareholder Support  Diniz, who remains Pao de Acucar’s chairman, won support
from two of Brasil Foods’ three biggest  shareholders : Banco do
Brasil SA’s employee pension fund, Previ, which holds a 12.4
percent stake, and private-equity fund Tarpon Investimentos SA,
said the three people, who asked not to be identified because
the talks are private. Brasil Foods Chairman  Nildemar Secches 
said Feb. 1 he won’t seek another term.  Petros-Fundacao Petrobras de Seguridade is the second-
biggest shareholder with a 10.12 percent stake, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. Petros declined to comment on whether it
supports Diniz as chairman.  Diniz said in a statement he sold Pao de Acucar shares to
diversify his investments. Diniz declined to comment on how he
spent the money, according to his office. Pao de Acucar, Brasil
Foods, Previ and Tarpon also declined to comment.  Potential Conflict  To achieve his goal, Diniz will have to convince Pao de
Acucar’s controlling shareholder Saint-Etienne, France-based
Casino that he can hold both jobs. There’s a potential conflict
of interest because Pao de Acucar is a major Brasil Foods’
client, said  Henrique Kleine , an analyst at Magliano SA
Corretora de Cambio & Valores Mobiliarios.  After Diniz’s public fight with Casino to retain control of
Pao de Acucar last year, the French retailer may use the
opportunity to try to push the Brazilian billionaire out of Pao
de Acucar and cause both stocks to fall, Kleine said, adding
that the relations between Diniz and Casino Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer  Jean-Charles Naouri  aren’t good. Casino
declined to comment.  “You could have a conflict of interest and a competition
issue here,” Kleine said by telephone from Sao Paulo, adding
that Pao de Acucar also has a private label for dairy products,
margarine and pasta like Brasil Food does. “Minority
shareholders don’t like to be caught in the crossfire of
majority investors.”  Meeting Today  Pao de Acucar has  rallied  26 percent in the past year,
topping Brasil Foods’ 24 percent gain. That compares with a 9.6
percent drop for Brazil’s benchmark Bovespa index. Pao de Acucar
rose 0.7 percent to 93.91 reais at 10:31 a.m. as Brasil Foods
gained 1 percent to 42.84 reais.  Casino asked Diniz to explain his Brasil Foods’ plans in a
meeting today for shareholders of Wilkes Participacoes SA, Pao
de Acucar’s holding company, said a person with knowledge of the
matter. The French firm said it sees a conflict of interest and
asked Diniz to leave Pao de Acucar’s board if he becomes Brasil
Foods chairman, the person said, adding that Casino will go to
court if needed. Casino, Diniz and Naouri declined to comment.  Under Brazilian legislation, a person can’t simultaneously
serve on the board of companies that are competitors or that
have a conflict of interest, unless shareholders approve it in
an official meeting. CVM, the Brazilian capital markets
regulator, and Cade, Brazil’s antitrust regulator, said they
wouldn’t comment on any specific case.  Portuguese Immigrant  Casino took control of Pao de Acucar on June 22 following
the completion of an agreement signed between the French
retailer and Diniz in 1999 and amended in 2005.  Diniz, whose father, a Portuguese immigrant, founded Pao de
Acucar as a bakery in 1948, still has a 3 billion-real stake in
the company, one of the people said.  Analysts favor Pao de Acucar. The  stock  has 15 buy ratings
and zero sell recommendations, while eight analysts recommend
buying  Brasil Foods  and four say sell, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  “Pao de Acucar shares are very resilient and also
shareholder-conflict proof,”  Julia Monteiro , an analyst at
Caixa Geral de Depositos SA, said in a telephone interview from
Rio de Janeiro, adding that the stock continued to gain even
during the dispute last year between Diniz and Casino. The
company is also on her list of top picks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cristiane Lucchesi in Sao Paulo at 
 clucchesi5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jessica Brice at 
 jbrice1@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  