-- Draghi Continues to See ‘Broadly Balanced’ Inflation Risks
-- B y   S t e f a n   R i e c h e r ,   J e f f   B l a c k   a n d   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2013-02-07T15:00:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/draghi-says-inflation-risks-continue-to-be-broadly-balanced-.html
European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  comments comments on inflation, the economic outlook for
the euro-area, exchanges rates, Italy’s Banca Monte dei Paschi
di Siena SpA and the region’s sovereign debt crisis.  He made the remarks at a press conference in Frankfurt
today after policy makers kept interest rates unchanged at a
record low of 0.75 percent.  On rates:  “The decision not to change interest rates was unanimous.
Of course there were hints and discussions on how to improve
financial conditions but that’s it.”  On negative rates:  “The governing council has not changed the position.”  On inflation:  “HICP inflation rates have declined further, as
anticipated, and are expected to fall below 2 percent in the
coming months. Over the policy-relevant horizon, inflationary
pressures should remain contained. The underlying pace of
monetary expansion continues to be subdued. Medium to longer-
term inflation expectations for the euro area remain firmly
anchored in line with our aim of maintaining inflation rates
below, but close to, 2 percent. Overall, this allows our
monetary policy stance to remain accommodative.”  “Economic analysis indicates that price developments
should remain in line with price stability over the medium term.
A cross-check with the signals from the monetary analysis
confirms this picture.”  “Risks to the outlook for price developments continue to
be seen as broadly balanced over the medium term, with upside
risks relating to higher administered prices and indirect taxes,
as well as higher oil prices, and downside risks stemming from
weaker economic activity and, more recently, the appreciation of
the euro exchange rate.”  On Ireland:  “There wasn’t a decision to take. The governing council
unanimously took note of the Irish operation. I’m going to refer
you to the Irish government and the Irish central bank for the
details of this operation. I can only say today that we took
note of this.”  “ We took note from an action that has been undertaken by
the government.”  “We don’t want to enter into details of the swap.”  “There is no more ELA, that’s a positive fact. I can’t go
beyond that, it is in the hand of the Irish government. I am not
in a position to give you details.”  “On Ireland really I can repeat what I said before, the
council took note. One of the things I can add is there is no
more ELA, so that’s a positive step, but I can’t go beyond that
because this is entirely in the hands of the Irish government
and the Irish central bank.”  “You speak about an agreement and I said there isn’t any
decision today. The efforts of the Irish government in this
direction, but even more importantly in the economic policy
progress, on the financial policy front, that is what really
mattered in the end, to reestablish the reputation of Ireland on
the financial markets. All in all the outlook is really
positive.”  “These are really internal policy matters where, frankly,
a president of the ECB has no say.”  On Monte Paschi, Italian elections:  “The Banca d’Italia has done everything it should. Looking
ahead it will be important for Monte Paschi to follow through on
its restructuring plans. It was me who signed both inspections.
Don’t forget it was Banca d’Italia who gave most of the papers
to the judiciary. Normally if you have a fraud, the supervisors
don’t have police powers.”  “I don’t want to take sides in the Italian elections but
you should certainly discount what you read in blogs, etc., as
part of the election.”  “One of these powers is the power to either, first of all,
judge a manager, a top manager of a bank, proper and fit for the
task, and second to remove a manager if you have the sense that
he is not proper and fit any longer. That is an essential
component of the powers a supervisor must have.”  “Having more powers would have helped, though when you
have to deal with fraud, you never know.”  “Monte Paschi is not being resolved.”  On speaking to Spanish lawmakers:  “I’m going be there more to listen and certainly explain
the policy of the ECB. I will not dwell into domestic policies.
It’s a unique opportunity for me to hear from the legislators of
Spain. We are kind of following from a distance the domestic
developments.”  On exchange rates:  “On the exchange rate, well, first thing is that the
appreciation is in a sense a sign in return of confidence in the
euro. Exchange rates should reflect fundamentals. By and large,
both the nominal and real effective exchange rates are about
their long term average. Exchange rates is not a policy target,
but it is important for growth and price stability. We want to
see if the appreciation is sustained, and if it alters our
assessment of the risks to price stability. Next month we will
have the new projections in the meantime we will maintain our
accommodative monetary stance.”  “We should always remember that the ECB is independent. We
heard all over the world, talking up talking down currencies.
The ultimate judge of this strategy is to see what markets make
of these statements.”  “If these policies produce consequences on the exchange
rate that do not reflect the G-20 consensus, we will have to
discuss this. The three things go together. If you threaten one
you undermine the other one. Weidmann is absolutely right about
central independence.”  On euro-area economy:  “The economic weakness in the euro area is expected to
prevail in the early part of 2013. In particular, necessary
balance sheet adjustments in the public and private sectors will
continue to weigh on economic activity. Later in 2013 economic
activity should gradually recover, supported by our
accommodative monetary policy stance, the improvement in
financial market confidence and reduced fragmentation, as well
as a strengthening of global demand. In order to sustain
confidence, it is essential for governments to reduce further
both fiscal and structural imbalances and to proceed with
financial sector restructuring.”  “Euro area real GDP declined by 0.1 percent, quarter on
quarter, in the third quarter of 2012, following a contraction
of 0.2 percent in the second quarter. Available data continue to
signal further weakness in activity in the fourth quarter and at
the beginning of 2013. This weakness reflects the adverse impact
of low consumer and investor sentiment on domestic expenditure,
as well as subdued foreign demand. However, financial market
sentiment has improved and the latest survey indicators confirm
earlier evidence of a stabilization in business and consumer
confidence, albeit at low levels. Later in 2013 a gradual
recovery should start, with domestic demand being supported by
our accommodative monetary policy stance, the improvement in
financial market confidence and reduced fragmentation, and
export growth benefiting from a strengthening of global
demand.”  “The risks surrounding the economic outlook for the euro
area continue to be on the downside. They relate to the
possibility of weaker than expected domestic demand and exports,
slow implementation of structural reforms in the euro area, as
well as geopolitical issues and imbalances in major
industrialized countries which could both have an impact on
developments in global commodities and financial markets. These
factors have the potential to dampen the ongoing improvement in
confidence and thereby delay the recovery.”  “According to Eurostat’s flash estimate, euro area annual
HICP inflation was 2.0 percent in January 2013, down from 2.2
percent in November and December and from 2.5 percent in
October. On the basis of current futures prices for oil,
inflation rates are expected to decline further to below 2
percent in the coming months. Over the policy-relevant horizon,
in an environment of weak economic activity in the euro area and
well-anchored long-term inflation expectations, underlying price
pressures should remain contained.”  “Turning to the monetary analysis, the underlying pace of
monetary expansion continues to be subdued. The annual growth
rate of M3 decreased to 3.3 percent in December 2012, from 3.8
percent in November. Shifts from overnight deposits to short-
term time deposits led to a decrease in the annual rate of
growth of M1, which declined to 6.2 percent in December, from
6.7 percent in November, and outflows from marketable
instruments dampened overall M3 growth. A further strengthening
in the deposit base of MFIs in a number of stressed countries
took place in December, in combination with further capital
inflows into the euro area, both of which continued to reduce
fragmentation.”  “As regards other policy areas, structural reforms and
fiscal adjustment can complement each other, thereby improving
the outlook for job creation, economic growth and debt
sustainability. Past policy action is bearing fruit, in terms of
both the unwinding of existing fiscal imbalances and the
reduction of current account deficits. In particular, in several
countries with particular adjustment needs, contained growth in
unit labor costs signals greater price competitiveness and
exports are performing better. Governments should build on the
progress achieved in fiscal consolidation, strengthen
competition in product markets and continue with labor market
reforms. This would boost the euro area’s growth potential,
reduce high structural unemployment and improve the adjustment
capacities of the euro area countries.”  “The governing council is convinced that they’re already
taking these decisions that are compatible with price stability
and job creation. We are not doing the exactly same things that
are done at the Fed in America? Oh well, institutions are
different. But the ECB can hardly be blamed for providing a
policy that is not accommodative.”  On lending/LTRO:  “With regard to the liquidity situation of banks,
counterparties have so far repaid €140.6 billion of the €489.2
billion obtained in the first of the two three-year LTROs
settled in December 2011 and March 2012. This reflects the
improvement in financial market confidence. Repayments are
provided for in the modalities of the three-year LTROs and are
at the discretion of the counterparties, who must appropriately
assess their funding situation, their ability to provide new
loans to the economy and their resilience to shocks. We will
closely monitor conditions in the money market and their
potential impact on the stance of monetary policy, which will
remain accommodative with the full allotment mode of liquidity
provision.”  “The annual growth rate of loans to the private sector
(adjusted for loan sales and securitization) remained negative
in December. This mainly reflected ongoing negative annual
growth of loans to non-financial corporations, which was -1.3
percent in December after -1.5 percent in November. However,
annual growth in MFI loans to households remained broadly
unchanged at 0.7 percent in December. To a large extent, subdued
loan dynamics reflect the current stage of the business cycle,
heightened credit risk and the ongoing adjustment in the balance
sheets of the financial and non-financial sectors. In line with
these developments, the bank lending survey for the fourth
quarter of 2012 confirms the weakness in credit demand and the
continued effect of credit risk considerations on the tightening
of credit standards. At the same time, the survey confirms the
positive impact of Eurosystem measures on banks’ overall funding
and liquidity situation. In particular, banks reported
improvements across all funding categories in the fourth
quarter.”  “In order to ensure adequate transmission of monetary
policy to the financing conditions in euro area countries, it is
essential to continue strengthening the resilience of banks
where needed. Decisive steps for establishing an integrated
financial framework will help to accomplish this objective. The
future single supervisory mechanism is one of the main building
blocks. It is a crucial move towards re-integrating the banking
system.”  “If you look over the last 6 months we certainly had
significant improvement on the financial side of the economy.
The sovereigns are proceeding with their plans. 55 percent of
total sovereign issuance in this m month has come from no core
countries, while last year 93 percent of total sovereign
issuances was coming only from core countries.”  “Target 2 balances continue to improve. It’s confirmation
of the enormous progress these countries have achieved.”  “The repayment of the LTRO is a sign of confidence. It
says that many banks that had accessed the LTRO for
precautionary reasons, because they were a year ago uncertain
about the liquidity situation, the funding prospects, and now
they’re less uncertain certainly than they were a year ago, so
that is certainly a positive sign. One important detail when we
estimate and I can’t get in greater detail, repayment for the
second LTRO, we are left quite persuaded that the excess
liquidity will be well over 200 billion, confirming the monetary
policy stance as being accommodative.”  “We don’t recommit but as I said our policy stance is
accommodative, our overnight rate is zero, there are plenty
signs we are in a full allotment mode.”  “Overall this gives a picture of less tight financial
markets than a year ago. Non-banking corporate funding is also
having a good season, corporate issuance is being quite
significant.”  “Price stability is more likely than before. Unit labor
costs in most of the stressed countries continue to decrease.
The fragility is signaled by the credit flows which remained
weak. If you look at bond issuance, while large corporates can
finance themselves via capital markets, the SMEs that have to
finance themselves via the banks, they are constrained. For
them, credit remains tight.”  “I wouldn’t make too much of the increase in the EONIA
that we have seen recently, because it may be due to a variety
of factors. Depending of which banks have actually repaid. I
said 200 because... it is out of relation. You have to be very
careful to be stuck with the figures.”  “We are still left however, with credit flows that are
subdued. Policy is already accommodative and we stand ready to
provide more liquidity should it be needed. We cannot address a
shortage of capital and we cannot address the risk aversion that
has reached high levels in deed. We will continue trying
everything we can credit flows will resume within our mandate
which is providing price stability. All the actions we’ve taken
will in the end find their way through the economy, so much so
we see a gradual recovery in the second part of this year.”  On banks, banking union:  “We should say that we welcome the Liikanen report.
Especially when risky activities are being ring-fenced. We can’t
go on with separate legislations. We will have to converge on
one rule for the euro area and possibly for the union.”  “We are waiting for the commission and then we will have
to express a legal opinion on this.”  “The legal act of the SSM not approved yet. Once the
legislation is in force, the ECB will send a quarterly report to
the commission, on the progress. In the meantime we cannot take
any binding organizational decisions until the legal text is
approved. The number of staff will be part of the actual
structure and therefore cannot be defined properly yet. It’s a
study, it won’t be the last. Nevertheless, we have started
conducting preparatory work. This is done in close cooperation
with national central banks. You see a constructive attitude.”  “I agree with you that separation is essential. It’s very
important that the governance of the new institution be strongly
separated so as to be seen as separated. Not sure if the model
would be like in the U.S., with the New York Fed and the
Washington Fed. The creation of one supervisor will involve
profound legislative changes at national levels.”  “To have one resolution mechanism is very important. It’s
not a bailout mechanism, it’s a resolution mechanism. It means
that banks could be resolved in a unified way. It means members
of the union have the same resolution laws, it means the same
category of creditors would be bailed in everywhere in the
union. Nowadays, for many banks the cross border activities are
so extensive that we need to move from a national to a
supranational mechanism.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stefan Riecher in Frankfurt at 
 sriecher@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  