-- DuPont May Delay Mexico Pigment Plant by 12 Months
-- B y   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 2013-02-07T19:19:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/dupont-may-delay-mexico-pigment-plant-by-12-months.html
DuPont Co. , the world’s biggest maker
of titanium dioxide pigment, will delay the start of a plant to
make the whitening chemical by as much as a year because of weak
demand.  The new line in Altamira, Mexico, will be completed in
2015, Wilmington, Delaware-based DuPont said today in a
 regulatory filing . The company previously said the Mexican
facility could be operating by late 2014.  “The timing for the startup will be adjusted by up to 12
months based on market conditions and customer needs,”  Gregg Schmidt , a DuPont spokesman, said today by phone. “We have not
changed the investment decision.”  Titanium dioxide, which is used to add opacity to paints
and plastics and is known by its chemical formula TiO2.  DuPont is spending $500 million to boost TiO2 capacity at
the Altamira site by 200,000 metric tons a year. TiO2 pigment
prices have declined about 20 percent from their mid-2002 peak,
according to Bloomberg Industries. TiO2 margins will drop as
much as 9 percentage points this year, DuPont said Jan. 22,
compared with an earlier forecast of as much as 7 points.  Delaying the plant start “makes complete sense because
pricing is down and demand is weak,”  Hassan Ahmed , a New York-
based analyst at Alembic Global Advisors, who rates the shares
hold, said in an interview. “All we have seen is every quarter
earnings have gone down.”  Chairman and Chief Executive Officer  Ellen Kullman  is
forecasting per-share profit growth of 2 percent to 7 percent
this year as lower earnings from TiO2 offsets gains in other
units. The TiO2 market should stabilize by midyear as excess
inventories are used up and demand hits bottom, Kullman said
Jan. 22.  Kullman said on an Oct. 23 conference call that the
Altamira plant would start in “very late 2014, early 2015.”  The Altamira expansion would add about 3 percent to global
supplies, Vincent Andrews, a New York-based analyst at Morgan
Stanley, who rates the shares hold, said today in a note.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jack Kaskey in Houston at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  