-- Heavy Snow Set to Hit East, Central China Before Lunar New Year
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-02-07T05:49:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/heavy-snow-set-to-hit-east-central-china-before-lunar-new-year.html
Shanghai, along with provinces in
eastern and central China, is forecast to experience heavy snow
today that may pose a challenge to travelers heading home for
the Lunar New Year holiday.  Snow is forecast in the city and the provinces of Jiangsu,
Zhejiang, Anhui, Jiangxi, Hunan and Hubei starting 2 p.m. today
and may continue until 8 p.m. tomorrow, the China Meteorological
Administration said on its  website . The administration issued a
“blue” snowfall and blizzard warning, the lowest on its four-
level scale.  Cold weather this week has led to blocked highways and more
road accidents, as travel increases in the runup to the Lunar
New Year holidays starting Feb. 9. In today’s statement, the
weather agency called for transportation, rail, electricity and
communication industries to prepare for the bad weather, and
advised people to minimize outdoor activity.  The 2012 Chinese New Year period generated more than 3
billion passenger trips in China, Xinhua reported last year. The
holidays this year last from Feb. 9-15.  A cold spell this week “paralyzed” highway traffic in
Shandong as more than one hundred toll gates in the province was
shut due to snow, the official Xinhua News Agency reported on
Feb. 5. In Henan province, seven people died and 46 were injured
in three traffic accidents, Xinhua said separately.  Parts of Shanghai may see accumulated snowfall of as much
as 6 millimeters, accompanied by icing on some roads, the city’s
weather service center  said  on its website. It advised residents
to pay attention to safety while traveling and using electricity
and gas.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liza Lin in Shanghai at 
 llin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shiyin Chen at 
 schen37@bloomberg.net  