-- Teck Falls on Forecast for Weak Metallurgical Coal Market
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e
-- 2013-02-07T16:10:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/teck-falls-on-forecast-for-weak-metallurgical-coal-market.html
Teck Resources Ltd. , the second-
largest exporter of seaborne coal used in steelmaking, fell the
most in three months after forecasting weakness in coal markets
until at least the middle of the year.  Teck dropped 4.5 percent to C$34.99 at 10:41 a.m. in
Toronto, after earlier declining 5 percent, the most intraday
since Nov. 7.  Shares  of the Vancouver-based company have tumbled
16 percent in the past 12 months.  “The medium-to-longer-term fundamentals for steelmaking
coal are quite favorable, although the recent weakness in the
seaborne steelmaking coal market is expected to persist for at
least the first half of 2013,” the company said today in a
statement reporting its fourth-quarter results.  Net income  fell to C$145 million ($145.4 million), or 25
cents a share, from C$637 million, or C$1.08, a year earlier,
according to the statement. Excluding one-time items, profit was
61 cents a share, more than the 48-cent average of 22  analysts’
estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. Sales dropped to C$2.73 billion
from C$2.97 billion, more than the C$2.55 billion average of 13
estimates.  “Sales to China in the fourth quarter reached a record
high level,” Teck said. “However, the ratio of Chinese sales
to total sales in 2013 is expected to decline to be similar to
what was experienced in the first three quarters of 2012.”  Teck shares are down today because of the company’s outlook
for the metallurgical coal market,  John Hughes , an analyst at
Desjardins Securities Inc. in Toronto, said by e-mail.  China, the world’s biggest steelmaker, imported 2.64
million tons of metallurgical coal from Canada in October and
November, according to the latest  figures  from the Canadian
government, more than double the year-earlier total. Chinese
imports from Australia, the largest exporter by sea, also rose,
according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  Teck’s coal sales in the fourth quarter were 6.42 million
metric tons, 16 percent more than a year earlier, according to
the statement.  “The increase in sales volume predominantly reflects
strong demand for coal delivered to China, partially offset by
lower demand in our traditional markets,” Teck said in the
statement.  BHP Billiton-Mitsubishi Alliance, a joint venture between
Australia’s BHP Billiton Ltd. and Japan’s Mitsubishi Corp., is
the biggest exporter of seaborne metallurgical coal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Donville in Vancouver at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  