-- Teck May Consider Copper Acquisitions as Output Declines
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e
-- 2013-02-07T21:15:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/teck-may-consider-copper-acquisitions-to-offset-output-decline.html
Teck Resources Ltd. , Canada’s largest
diversified miner, may consider acquisitions in copper mining to
help offset an expected decline in the company’s output of the
metal, Chief Executive Officer  Don Lindsay  said.  “Copper is a priority for us with declining production for
the next couple of years,” Lindsay said today on a conference
call to discuss the Vancouver-based company’s fourth-quarter
results. “Something that might fill the gap would be of
interest to us.”  Teck, which is seeing a drop in output from its 77 percent
owned Quebrada Blanca mine in northern Chile, joins HudBay
Minerals Inc., Lundin Mining Corp. and other Canadian miners
evaluating an increasing number of potential acquisition targets
as the world’s largest mining companies, including London-based
 Rio Tinto Group , grapple with rising costs and writedowns. Rio
Chief Executive Officer  Tom Albanese  said last month he would
step down after acquisitions in aluminum and coal led to about
$14 billion in writedowns.  “With change in leadership at some of the large companies
-- the major ones in the industry -- there may be some reviews
of their portfolios and some assets may shake out,” Lindsay
said on the call. “We’re already aware of some things that will
now be for sale or where they are looking for partners.”  Copper Output  Fourth-quarter copper production at Teck’s Quebrada Blanca
mine declined by 19 percent from a year earlier to 14,300 metric
tons, Teck said today in a statement. Overall, the company had
record copper output of 103,000 tons in the fourth quarter,
operating at an annual run rate of about 400,000 tons, Lindsay
said on the call.  “We do face declining grade issues, as do most mining
companies these days, and production will tail off from this
level until our next significant growth project comes online,”
Lindsay said.  While Teck is actively evaluating potential deals, the
company doesn’t want to jeopardize its credit rating by taking
on too much debt for acquisitions, Teck Chief Financial Officer
 Ron Millos  said.  “We want to maintain the debt at a level that allows us to
maintain our mid-triple B investment-grade credit rating,”
Millos said on the conference call.  The latest acquisition opportunities come about four years
after Teck, the world’s second-largest exporter of seaborne
metallurgical coal, temporarily lost its investment-grade credit
ratings following its purchase of Fording Canadian Coal Trust.  Buyers’ Market  HudBay, based in Toronto, plans to capitalize on a
“buyers’ market” for mining assets as small companies struggle
to raise funds and larger competitors consider sales, Chief
Executive Officer  David Garofalo  said in an interview this week.  Lundin Mining Corp. , a Toronto-based copper and zinc
producer, is looking to make an acquisition valued at as much as
$500 million, according to CEO  Paul Conibear .  “I’d like to do something significant this year,” he said
in an interview on Jan. 25.  Teck fell the most in six months after forecasting weakness
in coal markets until at least the middle of the year.  Teck dropped 6 percent to C$34.45 at the close in Toronto,
the most since July 25.  The shares  have tumbled 17 percent in
the past 12 months.  Net income  fell to C$145 million, or 25 cents a share, from
C$637 million, or C$1.08, a year earlier, the company said
today. Excluding one-time items, profit was 61 cents a share,
more than the 48-cent average of 22  analysts’ estimates  compiled
by Bloomberg.  BHP Billiton-Mitsubishi Alliance, a joint venture between
Australia’s BHP Billiton Ltd. and Japan’s Mitsubishi Corp., is
the biggest exporter of seaborne metallurgical coal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Donville in Vancouver at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  