-- Medvedev Digs in Heels Over Winter Time Move Putin Panned
-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 2013-02-07T15:28:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/medvedev-digs-in-heels-over-winter-time-move-putin-panned.html
Russian Prime Minister  Dmitry Medvedev  refused to cede ground over his unpopular decision two
years ago to stop changing the time for winter, amid pressure to
cancel a move that President  Vladimir Putin  has criticized.  “There is no clear conclusion about this issue, and this
is proved by surveys,” Medvedev told a televised Cabinet
meeting today. “That’s why the government believes that
changing the system at the current time is not a good idea.”  Izvestia, a newspaper owned by Putin ally  Yury Kovalchuk ,
reported earlier that an announcement would be made soon to
switch permanently to winter time by turning the clocks back an
hour. Putin said in December that Medvedev’s time switch
bothered him and had been criticized by international sporting
bodies for increasing the time difference in winter with London
to four hours and with major European cities to three hours.
Russia will host the 2014 Winter Olympic Games in Sochi.  Medvedev, 46, is fighting to keep his job because of
Putin’s dissatisfaction at the slowing economy, according to
three former and current Kremlin advisers. Putin, 60, ceded the
presidency in 2008 after completing the constitutional maximum
of two straight terms. Medvedev, the prime minister at the time,
became president and appointed Putin as premier. The two swapped
jobs again last May after elections that sparked the biggest
protests of Putin’s political career.  ‘Psychologically Crucial’  “The time change issue is a psychologically crucial one
for Medvedev,”  Mikhail Vinogradov , head of the St. Petersburg
Politics Foundation research group, said by phone. “He is
worried that giving way on this will weaken him further.”  Russians left clocks unchanged in October for a second
year. The decision, which Medvedev said he took in part to
benefit farming, left the country permanently on summer time and
means darkness lasts until 10 a.m. in the depths of winter.  On Feb. 1, Deputy Prime Minister  Dmitry Kozak , who is
responsible for the Olympics preparations, said Russia would
decide shortly whether to reinstate daylight savings time.  Medvedev is the subject of a campaign by Putin’s entourage
to diminish his political standing, said Yevgeny Minchenko, head
of the International Institute of Political Expertise.  “The dismantling of the tandem is taking place,”
Minchenko said by phone, referring to the power-sharing
arrangement between Putin and Medvedev from 2008 to 2012.
“Medvedev is trying to keep hold of his image, and the
cancellation of one of his key measures would be a blow.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  