-- Einhorn Says CDO Investors Poised to Copy Justice’s S&P Lawsuit
-- B y   M a t t   R o b i n s o n
-- 2013-02-07T20:26:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/einhorn-says-cdo-investors-poised-to-copy-justice-s-s-p-lawsuit.html
David Einhorn , the investor known for
betting against Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. before its 2008
collapse, says credit raters are poised to face more lawsuits
after the U.S. filed its case against Standard & Poor’s.  “When you look at the government complaint, it’s like a
road map,” Einhorn, the co-founder of hedge fund Greenlight
Capital Inc., said today in an interview at Bloomberg LP
headquarters in New York. “It shouldn’t take too much effort
for the people who bought the CDOs who aren’t banks to
essentially copy the government and sue for further damages.”  The Justice Department filed a civil lawsuit against S&P
and its parent, McGraw-Hill Cos., on Feb. 4, claiming that the
world’s  largest  ratings firm deliberately understated the risk
of bonds backed by mortgages made to the riskiest borrowers to
win business from Wall Street banks. S&P rated more than $2.8
trillion of residential mortgage-backed securities and about
$1.2 trillion of collateralized-debt obligations from September
2004 through October 2007, according to the complaint.  CDOs package assets such as mortgage bonds into new
securities with varying risks.  Ed Sweeney , an S&P spokesman in New York, said in an e-
mailed statement that the company has had “great success
defending these types of cases, with 41 cases dismissed outright
or voluntarily withdrawn.”  Einhorn has been wagering against the  shares  of ratings
firms for more than five years.  “I would expect there to be a large amount of private
actions from people not named in this complaint who bought these
CDOs in 2007, who suffered the same fate as the bank victims,”
Einhorn said.  Private litigants often file similar lawsuits following a
case brought by the federal government.  McGraw-Hill fell 23.5 percent this week through yesterday
from a five-year high. The shares have dropped 1.6 percent to
$43.89 as of 3:25 p.m. in New York trading.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Robinson in New York at +1-212-617-5409 or
 mrobinson55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  