-- Emerging Stocks Drop to Month Low as China Builders Fall
-- B y   I a n   S a y s o n   a n d   M a r i a   L e v i t o v
-- 2013-02-07T22:09:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/emerging-stocks-drop-to-five-week-low-as-china-developers-slump.html
Emerging-market stocks fell for a
fourth day, dragging the benchmark index to its lowest level in
a month, as Chinese developers tumbled and India forecast the
weakest economic growth in a decade.  Sino-Ocean Land Holdings Ltd.  sank the most since July in
Hong Kong after Kim Eng Securities (HK) Ltd. recommended
shorting the stock on concern China may tighten property curbs
earlier than expected. NTPC Ltd., the Indian power producer,
slid to an eight-month low on a government plan to sell shares.
Turkey’s benchmark Index fell for a third day, while Brazil’s
real was the biggest gainer among emerging-market currencies.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index  lost 0.4 percent to
1,059.56 in New York, its lowest level since Jan. 1. Some of
China’s largest cities may slow new home sale approvals in the
first half to tame price “momentum,” the China Securities
Journal reported today. India’s economy will expand 5 percent
this fiscal year, data showed, the least since 2002-2003. The
koruna gained for a third day versus the euro as the Czech
central bank said further easing is “less urgent.”  “Policy tightening in China will put a break on growth,”
 Paul Joseph Garcia , who helps manage the equivalent of $3
billion at BPI Asset Management Inc., said by phone from Manila.  India’s economy is in a weaker position than before the
global financial crisis and the central bank should refrain from
cutting borrowing costs further until inflation is contained,
the International Monetary Fund said yesterday.  “India can’t pursue a policy of growth at all cost. It has
to grow while containing inflation,” Garcia said.  Inflation Risks  The  iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index  exchange-traded
fund, the ETF tracking developing-nation shares, fell 0.9
percent to 43.53, the lowest level this year. The  Chicago Board
Options Exchange Emerging Markets ETF Volatility Index , a
measure of options prices on the fund and expectations of price
swings, slipped 0.2 percent to 18.72.  The productivity of U.S. workers fell more than projected
in the fourth quarter as the economy shrank, while other data
showed claims for U.S. unemployment insurance payments fell last
week, returning to levels seen in the second half of 2012 and
signaling there is little change in the pace of firings from
last year. European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said an
economic recovery should begin later this year as an absence of
inflation risks allows the bank to maintain record-low interest
rates.  The Mexican  IPC index  slumped 1.2 percent in the biggest
decline in three months. Cemex SAB, the largest cement maker,
fell the most in eight months after reporting its 13th straight
quarterly loss. Petrochemical maker Mexichem SAB sank 5.9
percent to the lowest price since Nov. 29.  Cosan Gains  Brazil’s  Bovespa  fell 1 percent, while the real
strengthened 1.2 percent against the dollar. Preferred shares of
Brazilian pulpmaker Suzano Papel e Celulose SA led declines on
the index, losing 5.4 percent to the lowest level since Dec. 26.  All America Latina Logistica , the largest rail operator in
South America, gained 4.1 percent after preliminary figures
showed an adjusted measure of earnings rose 10 percent during
the fourth quarter.  Cosan SA Industria & Comercio  rose 3.2
percent to the highest level since August 2006 after the
Brazilian sugar producer’s expansion into energy helped push up
profit more than analyst forecast in the quarter ended Dec. 31.  The  BSE India Sensitive Index , or Sensex, fell 0.3 percent,
erasing an earlier gain, and the rupee weakened for a second
day. Russia’s Micex Index slid 0.3 percent to the lowest level
in two weeks. Turkey’s ISE National 100 Index lost 2.4 percent
in its third day of declines, the longest losing streak since
Sept. 20.  Poland’s WIG 20 Index climbed 0.5 percent while Hungary’s
BUX Index lost 0.7 percent.  Vehicle Sales  South Africa’s benchmark stock index gained 0.3 percent to
a record. The nation’s business confidence jumped to a five-
month high in January as vehicle sales rebounded and
manufacturing expanded, the South African Chamber of Commerce
and Industry said today.  The Bloomberg China-US Equity Index of the most-traded
Chinese shares in the U.S. retreated 1.8 percent to the lowest
price since Dec. 24 in New York. American depositary receipts of
chip foundry Semiconductor Manufacturing International Corp.
slid 12 percent after HSBC Holdings Plc cut it to neutral from
the equivalent of buy.  The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index  of companies fell 1.4
percent to the lowest level this year. The  Shanghai Composite 
slid 0.7 percent, the first drop in nine days. The Shanghai
Composite, which entered a bull market last month, will pull
back by about 8 percent before resuming gains as buyers are
exhausted after a surge in Chinese stocks, said  Tom DeMark ,
founder of Market Studies LLC.  The  gauge  of domestic Chinese equities will fall to within
a range of 2,230 to 2,250 after generating a sell signal on a
Combo chart that’s designed to identify market tops and lows,
said DeMark, who correctly called the market’s bottom last year.  Extra Yield  Measures  of material and financial stocks in the MSCI
Emerging Markets Index declined at least 0.7 percent, the most
among 10 industry groups. The broader gauge has added 0.4
percent this year, trailing a 4.7 percent gain by the MSCI World
Index. The developing-nations index trades at 10.3 times
estimated profit, compared with the MSCI World’s multiple of
13.7, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries slipped three basis points, or 0.03
percentage point, to 274 basis points, according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Index.  Arcelik AS , Turkey’s largest maker of fridges and washing
machines, sank 2.9 percent, the most since Jan. 30 before
reporting its 2012 results tomorrow.  Ipek Dogal Enerji Kaynaklari Ve Uretim AS  jumped 5.6
percent, the most since Dec. 25. The company applied for three
oil exploration licenses in Turkey, according to an announcement
published in the Official Gazette today.  OAO Aeroflot, Russia’s biggest airliner, climbed 3.1
percent for a third day of gains in Moscow. Passenger volumes
jumped 25 percent to 17.7 million in 2012 from a year earlier,
it said yesterday.  Property Prices  India’s electricity generator NTPC dropped 2.5 percent
after the government said yesterday it would sell a 9.5 percent
stake today at a minimum price of 145 rupees per share to raise
$2.1 billion, the biggest offering since March.  Sino-Ocean lost 4.1 percent, its sixth day of declines.
Measures to curb property prices may be introduced earlier than
expected because upward pricing pressure is robust,  Karen Kwan ,
an analyst at Kim Eng, wrote in a report today. Its reliance on
sales in Beijing and first-tier cities make Sino-Ocean a short
candidate, according to the report.  China Foods Ltd.  plunged 14 percent in Hong Kong, the
biggest decline in the MSCI Emerging Markets Index. The company
will record a “large decrease” in net income in 2012, it said
in a statement yesterday.  BYD Co. , the Chinese carmaker partly owned by Warren
Buffett’s Berkshire Hathaway Inc., rose 6.6 percent in Hong Kong
to the highest level since April 21, 2011. The company is in a
good position to achieve its 2013 sales target, said Leping
Huang, an analyst at Nomura Holdings Inc.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ian Sayson in Manila at 
 isayson@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Levitov in London at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  