-- Energy Efficiencies May Cut $169 Bln in Business Costs
-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 2013-02-07T12:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/energy-efficiencies-may-cut-169-bln-in-business-costs.html
The aggressive promotion of
efficiency programs could cut $169 billion a year from the
energy bills of U.S. business by 2030, according to a report
whose authors include Senator Mark Warner, a Virginia Democrat.  The analysis from the Alliance Commission on National
Energy Efficiency Policy says the U.S. could double its energy
productivity -- the level of economic output divided by the
energy used to achieve it. That would create thousands of jobs
and save homeowners and businesses billions of dollars in annual
energy costs, according to the report.  Policymakers should encourage more spending on efficiency
programs through more-favorable tax treatment and other
inducements, including a program, modeled after the Education
Department’s “Race to the Top,” that offers states financial
incentives for energy gains.  “Stopping energy waste will help all Americans get the
most out of their hard-earned income,” Kateri Callahan,
president of the Alliance to Save Energy, a Washington-based
group that created the efficiency commission, said in a
statement.  The report was prepared by a commission led by Warner and
Tom King, president of  National Grid  US, a unit of London-based
National Grid Plc. Officials from  Dow Chemical Co. , the Natural
Resources Defense Council,  Southern Co.  and  Citigroup Inc.  also
participated.  Efficiency gains could cut U.S. household energy bills by
as much as $1,000 a year, in addition to the business savings.
Economic growth might increase 2 percent and lower energy
imports by more than $100 billion a year, according to the
Alliance.  Other recommendations in the report include developing a
ratings system for buildings based on how well they retain
energy; encouraging companies to conserve; and providing more
efficiency workforce training.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  