-- England Beats Brazil 2-1 to Spoil Scolari’s Return as Coa
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2013-02-07T00:01:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/england-beats-brazil-2-1-to-spoil-scolari-s-return-as-coach.html
England defeated Brazil for the first
time in 23 years to spoil  Luiz Felipe Scolari ’s return as coach
of the record five-time World Cup soccer champions.  Wayne Rooney  and  Frank Lampard  scored and  Joe Hart  saved a
penalty kick last night at Wembley Stadium in London as England
won 2-1 to secure its fourth victory in 24 meetings with Brazil.  “It’s my first crack at Brazil as a manager and I’m
delighted to have been able to oversee a victory,” England
manager  Roy Hodgson  told the British Broadcasting Corp. “It was
an all-round performance from the team, there were some very,
very good moments.”  World champion Spain, Germany and Ireland were among other
winners in the final tuneup games for European teams before
qualifying resumes next month for the 2014 World Cup, which will
be hosted by Brazil.  Lampard got England’s winning goal after Fred scored for
Brazil, which was playing the first game of Scolari’s second
stint as coach. Scolari, who led the Brazilians to World Cup
victory in 2002, replaced the fired  Mano Menezes  in November.  Hart stopped both  Ronaldinho ’s penalty and his rebound shot
in the 19th minute. Rooney then put England in front seven
minutes later when he fired in the rebound after  Julio Cesar 
saved  Theo Walcott ’s shot.  Fred came on as a halftime substitute and tied the score in
the 48th minute after defender  Gary Cahill  gave the ball away.
Lampard, who replaced  Tom Cleverley  at halftime, scored in the
60th minute off a pass from Rooney to give England its first
victory against Brazil since a 1-0 win in March 1990.  Defender  Ashley Cole  played the first half to become the
seventh player to make 100 appearances for England.  Germany Fightback  Pedro Rodriguez  scored twice as world and European champion
Spain beat Uruguay 3-1.  Sami Khedira ’s 73rd-minute goal gave
Germany a 2-1 comeback win in France. Ciaran Clark and Wes
Hoolahan scored as Ireland beat Poland 2-0.  Elsewhere, Italy tied the Netherlands 1-1 on Marco
Verratti’s stoppage-time goal,  Sergio Aguero  was among the
scorers as Argentina beat Sweden 3-2,  Felipe Caicedo ’s goal gave
Ecuador a 3-2 win against Portugal and  Gareth Bale  and Sam Vokes
scored as Wales defeated Austria 2-1.  The Czech Republic beat Turkey 2-0, Belgium defeated
Slovakia 2-1, Scotland beat Estonia 1-0 and Greece drew 0-0 with
Switzerland.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bob Bensch  in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at   celser@bloomberg.net . 