-- EPA Readies Climate Adaptation Plan as Earth Warms
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2013-02-07T21:49:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/epa-readies-climate-adaptation-plan-as-earth-warms.html
The U.S. government is ramping up
efforts to combat global warming with the Environmental
Protection Agency preparing its proposal on how it will react to
a changing climate.  In a notice, the regulatory agency said it will issue a
plan tomorrow to respond to increased rainfall, rising seas and
other weather events likely to proliferate and intensify on a
warming planet.  “Adaptation will involve anticipating and planning for
changes in climate and incorporating considerations of climate
change into many of the agency’s programs, policies, rules and
operations,” the EPA said today in a notice  published  in the
day-ahead notification system of the Federal Register.  In a  draft of the report  dated last June, the agency
identified a number of ways in which heat and related weather
could affect health and the environment. For example, smog
levels in many cities would increase because of higher
temperatures, and so the EPA said it will work to curb ozone
levels. More wildfires will mean more particulate pollution, and
warmer waters could threaten aquatic habitats.  The  U.S. Global Change Research Program  concluded in a
report last month that carbon-dioxide emissions since the
Industrial Revolution have led to a warming of the Earth’s
temperature, which threatens to cause extreme weather, drought
and floods.  Already, average U.S. temperatures are up 1.5 degrees
Fahrenheit since 1895, with most of the increase occurring in
the past three decades, according to the research program. Last
year was the warmest on record for the 48 contiguous U.S. states
and the second-worst for weather extremes including arid
conditions, hurricanes and wildfires, according to the National
Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, which used records since
1895.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  