-- Merck Wins Ruling to Block Mylan’s Copy of Zetia, Vytorin
-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r   a n d   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2013-02-07T17:57:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/merck-wins-ruling-to-block-mylan-s-copy-of-zetia-vytorin-1-.html
Merck & Co.  won a U.S. appeals court
ruling that will prevent  Mylan Inc.  from selling a generic
version of the Zetia and Vytorin cholesterol medicines before
April 2017.  The U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit in
Washington denied an appeal by Mylan Inc. over the patent for
the active ingredient in the drug, ezetimibe. The court posted
 notice  of its decision to affirm a trial judge’s ruling on its
website today, two days after it heard arguments.  Together, the drugs had about $2 billion in U.S. sales last
year, with Zetia generating $1.33 billion and Vytorin bringing
in $764 million, said  Ron Rogers , a Merck spokesman. Sales of
Vytorin, which combines Zetia with Merck’s Zocor cholesterol
pill, have been falling because of questions about its
effectiveness.  “The appellate court appropriately upheld the lower
court’s ruling in April 2012 that found the patent for Zetia and
Vytorin is valid and enforceable,” Rogers said. “We invest
heavily in the research and development that is needed to
discover innovative medicines like Vytorin and Zetia, and we
will vigorously defend our intellectual property rights.”  According to Merck’s third-quarter report, the Whitehouse
Station, New Jersey-based company also had sued Impax
Laboratories Inc. and Actavis Inc. over their plans to sell
generic versions of Vytorin. Those cases were put on hold
pending the outcome of the Mylan case, Merck said in the filing.  Patent Concession  Vytorin sold $186 million in the fourth quarter of 2012,
compared with $296 million in the same period in 2010 and $319
million in 2009. UnitedHealth Group Inc., the insurer, doubled
patients’ co-payments for Vytorin in 2010 after an analysis of
30,000 patients found the drug didn’t work any better than a
generic.  Mylan, based in Canonsburg, Pennsylvania, conceded that it
infringed the patent, leaving only the issue of whether it was
valid and enforceable. Officials with the company didn’t respond
to e-mail queries seeking comment.  The case is Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp. v. Mylan
Pharmaceuticals Inc., 12-1434, U.S. Court of Appeals for the
Federal Circuit (Washington). The lower court case is Schering
v. Mylan, 09cv6383, U.S. District Court, District of New Jersey
(Newark).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net ;
Drew Armstrong in New York at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net ;
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  