-- Eric Cantor Hawks Medical Industrial Policy
-- B y   M i c h a e l   D .   T a n n e r
-- 2013-02-07T00:07:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/eric-cantor-hawks-medical-industrial-policy.html
Few government programs seem as
sacrosanct as funding for medical research. Despite continuing
U.S. budget constraints, both Democrats and Republicans
regularly pledge to increase funding for the National Institutes
of Health and other government medical research.  This week,  Eric Cantor , the second-ranking House
Republican, called for continued government funding for such
research.  “There is an appropriate and necessary role for the federal
government to ensure funding for basic medical research,” Cantor
declared, suggesting that federal funds used for social-science
research should be  shifted  to medical programs instead.  There is no doubt that funding medical research is popular.
Polls  show  that a strong majority of U.S. voters support such
programs. Yet there is no reason that government medical
research shouldn’t receive the same critical scrutiny as any
other program.  First, are the benefits of such programs worth the cost?
 Terence Kealey , vice chancellor of the University of Buckingham
and  author  of “The Economic Laws of Scientific Research,” says
that a review of historical evidence shows little correlation
between the amount of money governments spend on scientific
research and the returns from such investment. Kealey’s research
involved the full range of scientific research, including
medical research.  Research Value  At the same time, empirical studies  suggest  that the rate
of  return  on publicly financed research is much lower than that
of research financed by the private sector. While the private
sector may be more focused on applied research, and the
government is more effective at basic research, the distinction
between those categories is rapidly disappearing.  Second, we should ask whether government funding of medical
research is really necessary. There is no proof that the private
sector is incapable of financing medical research, either for
profit or as charity. While private companies undoubtedly have
an incentive to fund research that they believe will ultimately
prove profitable, even “orphan” drugs -- one of the least
profitable lines of research as they are designed for a small
number of people with rare disorders -- have found  funding 
through the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation and other
charities.  Currently 60 percent to 70 percent of medical research is
privately paid for, but  research  from the  Organization for
Economic Cooperation and Development  suggests that government-
funded research can displace or crowd out private financing that
might otherwise occur. That is, if private companies believe
governments will pay for research, they may simply withdraw
their own money. Thus, government funding in this area doesn’t
result in more research, just a different funding stream.  No evidence shows that government bureaucrats have either
the qualifications or the incentives to make better decisions
than private individuals and organizations about what research
should be funded. After all, government involvement in research
inevitably injects politics into scientific questions.  If a disease affects a favored political constituency or
can mobilize a telegenic celebrity spokesman, it is likely to
receive boatloads of money. If not, it is likely to be relegated
to the back of the scientific bus.  For years, government researchers neglected diseases that
primarily affected women, and few women were included in broader
studies. Research on AIDS, despite a growing death toll,
initially went unfunded until gay activists were able to bring
political pressure to bear on Congress.  Politicized Choices  Even former NIH Director  Elias Zerhouni  has  warned  that
congressional mandates to spend money on specific diseases have
undermined the agencies’ research.  Cantor’s statement itself suggested the politicization of
government research through his desire to transfer funds from
research that he doesn’t like (social science) to research that
he favors (medical).  Similarly, researchers are far more likely to receive
government grants if they belong to the scientific “club,” a
good-old-boys network of researchers. For example, an  analysis 
of NIH grants  found  that black research scientists were 10
percent less likely to receive research funding than a white
scientist from a similar institution and with the same research
credentials.  Some researchers worry they can have their grants cut for
challenging the scientific consensus or for reaching conclusions
that are politically controversial. This is dangerous, because a
willingness to rethink current theories is a key to scientific
advancement.  Moreover, government funding of medical research inevitably
entangles the government in difficult moral issues. Recall the
bitter and polarized debate over government funding for stem-
cell research. Other issues that have stirred up recent
political controversy include the use of animals for testing,
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention research into gun
violence, and NIH research on sexual practices. We even saw
President  Barack Obama ’s choice for NIH director,  Francis Collins , attacked for being an evangelical Christian.  Private funding, on the other hand, avoids such moral and
philosophical quandaries by allowing individual donors or
corporate shareholders to exercise their personal consciences.  An industrial policy for medical research is still an
industrial policy -- and likely to have the same inefficiencies
and unintended consequences. Or as Kealey  put it , “Scientists
may love government money, and politicians may love the power
its expenditure confers upon them, but society is impoverished
by the transaction.”  (Michael D. Tanner is a senior fellow at the Cato
Institute. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
 Michael D. Tanner  at  mtanner@cato.org .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at  kroberts29@bloomberg.net  