-- EU Lawmaker Optimistic on Carbon Deal After Compromise Proposal
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a   a n d   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 2013-02-07T15:14:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/eu-lawmaker-optimistic-on-carbon-deal-after-compromise-proposal.html
The European Union rescue plan for
the carbon market is increasingly likely to win majority support
from the European Parliament’s environment committee, the
lawmaker in charge of the measure in the assembly said.  Matthias Groote, chairman of the European Parliament’s
environment committee, proposed amendments late yesterday aimed
at securing a majority on the panel for the European
Commission’s plan to tackle a glut of permits, according to a
document obtained by Bloomberg News. The EU draft strategy,
which would temporarily help emission prices recover from a
record low, has divided national governments, industry
organizations and members of the Parliament.  “I’m more comfortable about a majority than a week ago,”
Groote said today in a telephone interview from Strasbourg,
France. “I’m positively optimistic.”  The Parliament’s approval is necessary for the first
element of the stop-gap: a change to the EU carbon-trading law
that also requires support from governments. At stake is the
fate of the 54 billion-euro ($72.5 billion) EU cap-and-trade
system after an excess of allowances caused by the economic
crisis drove prices down as much as 91 percent from an all-time
high in April 2006.  The commission may in “exceptional circumstances” adapt
the timetable for carbon-permit sales “where an impact
assessment shows that impact of such intervention on
installations exposed to a significant risk of carbon leakage is
limited,” under the new proposal by Groote. “The commission
shall make no more than one such adaptation.”  Emission Curbs  Carbon leakage refers to a situation in which tougher
emission curbs in one region lead industries there to transfer
production to parts of the world with looser climate rules.  EU Climate Commissioner  Connie Hedegaard , the architect of
the plan to bolster carbon prices, expressed confidence about
the outcome.  “I have been meeting with a lot of parliamentarians these
last days and I think that more and more in the European
Parliament realize what is at stake,” Hedegaard said in an
interview today in Strasbourg. “I also know that Mr. Groote is
working extremely hard to get the votes that he needs on board
and to make Parliament do the right thing. So I’m pretty
confident.”  The strategy designed by the Brussels-based commission, the
EU’s regulatory arm, is to delay the sale of 900 million carbon
allowances from 2013-2015 to 2019-2020. In the first step, a
carbon-law change would reassert the commission’s right to
decide about the timing of auctions to avoid legal uncertainty.
In the second stage, governments would consider a measure
setting out the details of the delay.  Compromise Solution  The compromise solution offered by Groote, a German
socialist, would replace some of the changes to the commission’s
one-sentence proposal sought by members of the assembly’s
environment committee last year. The 42 amendments they put
forward included denying the EU regulator the right to postpone
auctions, ensuring any intervention can take place only once and
accelerating the pace of greenhouse-gas reductions in the cap-
and-trade program.  Groote also proposed clarifying in a non-binding portion of
the emissions-trading law that the commission can intervene  only
once . That part, known as a recital, would also include a
reference to carbon leakage.  The Parliament’s industry committee, which has an advisory
role in this process, last month issued a non-binding
recommendation that lawmakers reject the commission’s proposal.
Carbon prices tumbled to an all-time low of 2.81 euros a metric
ton after the panel’s vote.  Pollution Limits  Carbon permits for delivery in December rose as much as 4.8
percent to 4.38 euros on the ICE Futures Europe exchange and
traded at 4.26 euros at 3:07 p.m. in London. The contract pared
its decline so far this year to 36 percent. The EU system, which
imposes pollution limits on about 12,000 companies, doesn’t
allow any price floors or ceilings.  The environment committee is scheduled to vote on the draft
measure on Feb. 19 between 9 a.m. and 12:30 p.m. in Brussels.
Its verdict will be a recommendation to the whole 754-seat
assembly. The plenary vote on the carbon-law fix is tentatively
scheduled for April 15 and Groote reiterated today he will try
to bring it forward by a month.  Before the plenary vote, member states represented by
Ireland, which holds the EU presidency in the first half of this
year, will start negotiations with the parliament members to
reconcile their positions on the proposal.  Green Light  Should the Parliament approve the carbon-law change, EU
governments would get the green light to vote in a separate
procedure on a so-called backloading measure that would set out
the details of emission-permit auction delays.  While the commission’s proposal has more prospective
supporters than opponents among the EU’s 27 governments, it
still needs support from at least some of the seven nations that
haven’t adopted official positions in order to win approval,
three EU officials with knowledge of the matter said last week.
Votes in the European qualified-majority system are weighted by
each country’s size.  Among the seven countries, Germany, Portugal, Hungary and
Malta are undecided, while Greece, Cyprus and the Czech Republic
have voiced concerns about the draft measure, said the
officials, who asked not to be named, citing policy.  Separately, the commission also set out on Nov. 14 six
options for a long-term overhaul of the EU emissions trading
system, also known as the ETS, ranging from adopting a stricter
pollution-reduction target to price-support mechanisms. The EU
regulator said it will consult companies, experts, non-
governmental organizations and member states on the so-called
structural measures on March 1 and April 19.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ewa Krukowska  in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net ;
 Jonathan Stearns  in Strasbourg, France, at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at   lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  