-- EU Spending Cuts Loom as Cameron Demands Savings at Summit
-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r
-- 2013-02-07T22:51:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/eu-spending-cuts-loom-as-cameron-demands-more-savings-at-summit.html
A promised European Union investment
budget to modernize the recession-hit economy is set to be
scaled back in a bonfire of competing national demands.  U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  demanded cuts in a
proposed seven-year subsidies package of 973 billion euros ($1.3
trillion). The blueprint was trimmed once, from 1.047 trillion
euros in November, and is below the 994 billion euros spent in
the budget period expiring this year.  “The numbers that were put forward were much too high,”
Cameron told reporters before an EU summit in Brussels today.
“They need to come down, and if they don’t come down, there
won’t be a deal.”  The euro-area debt crisis leaves less money for the EU-wide
budget, in talks haunted by echoes of the financial nationalism
of France’s  Charles De Gaulle  in the 1960s and Britain’s
 Margaret Thatcher  in the 1980s. A summit deadlock over the
2014-2020 budget would hobble subsidy programs, force the EU to
fall back to annual budget extensions and add to concerns about
Europe’s political cohesion that have been inflamed by the
financial turmoil.  A stalemate “wouldn’t send a good signal to the outside
world,” Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker  said.  EU President  Herman Van Rompuy  took the afternoon to fine-
tune a new proposal as leaders clustered in smaller groups,
delaying the start of the summit to 8:45 p.m. from 3 p.m.
Predictions abounded that the talks could drag into the weekend.  Merkel Pledge  Chancellor  Angela Merkel  of Germany, the biggest
contributor to the budget in absolute terms, said the most
important thing is to leave Brussels with a deal. She positioned
herself as a mediator between rich and poor countries, pledging
to “work hard” to bridge views that are “still far apart.”  Leaders of poorer countries in southern and eastern Europe
sought to stave off reductions. Wealthier countries that provide
the financing -- including the U.K., Germany, the Netherlands,
Denmark, Sweden and Finland -- insisted on EU-level austerity.  France, which also pays in more than it gets out, was
caught in the middle. President  Francois Hollande  bowed to the
further savings as long as they don’t come from the farming
budget, a mainly French perk since the early days of the EU.  Real-Terms Cut  “I realize the need to economize, but we don’t want to
weaken the economy,” Hollande said on the way into the summit.
“It’s possible to have an accord. If some aren’t being
reasonable, I’ll try to reason with them, but only up to a
certain point.”  Whatever the outcome, the U.K.’s Cameron is assured of
winning the first-ever real-terms cut in EU spending, a demand
he has made virtually non-negotiable as he bows to the anti-EU
faction in his Conservative party.  Prime Minister  Antonis Samaras  of Greece, suffering through
the sixth year of a  recession , pleaded for minimal cuts in the
“structural funds” budget for infrastructure and transport
projects.  “The big target now is recovery and growth,” Samaras
said. “Structural funds is a key, is a guarantee for this
success.”  Van Rompuy called for fresh money to combat youth
unemployment, without saying how much or where it would come
from. Southern countries battling the debt crisis such as Spain,
with a youth jobless rate of 55.6 percent, would be the main
beneficiaries.  Infrastructure Spending  Spending on cross-border transport, energy and research
projects was chopped in a first round of talks, when money was
shuffled back into farming to placate France and to regional
development to accommodate poorer economies, especially in
eastern Europe.  In the process, only 31 billion euros was left from the
European Commission’s call for spending of 40 billion euros on
international transport, energy and digital networks -- promoted
as a driver of future  growth .  Leaders as ideologically diverse as Hollande and Cameron
connived to wield that knife. Cameron has less room for
concessions after vowing to let U.K. voters decide whether to
stay in the EU, assuming they re-elect him in 2015.  Money-Back Guarantee  Cameron’s lodestar is Thatcher, who won a permanent annual
rebate in 1984 to offset the U.K.’s small share of farm aid.
Germany, the Netherlands and Sweden have since been granted
temporary rebates, and Denmark wants a money-back guarantee as
well, sowing divisions among the net payers. In turn, France
wants a cap on its contribution to the U.K.’s refund, and Italy
-- the biggest net payer in 2011, relative to economic size --
wants a better deal too.  At the November summit, the political contortions
culminated with Cameron bowing to the restoration of some farm
aid so he could take aim at another target: the salaries and
pensions of the EU bureaucracy’s 55,000 employees, which make up
6.4 percent of the total budget.  Any deal will require the assent of the European
Parliament, which gained greater powers over spending in a 2009
overhaul of EU treaties. The parliament’s president,  Martin Schulz , a German Social Democrat, said a veto is a distinct
possibility.  “The more you set priorities like today, the greater the
probability of a no in the European Parliament,” Schulz told
reporters. The parliament’s vote is likely to be by secret
ballot, making its members less likely to succumb to pressure
from national capitals, he said.  Schulz said an agreement is made trickier by quirks in EU
accounting that distill the budget into two sets of numbers, one
for spending commitments, the other for what is actually spent.
Commitments that aren’t backed up by transfers from national
capitals would throw the EU into deficit.  “I won’t sign a deficit budget,” Schulz said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  