-- Euroclear Arrival Comes Up Short at 5-Year Sale: Russia Credit
-- B y   V l a d i m i r   K u z n e t s o v
-- 2013-02-07T12:38:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/euroclear-arrival-comes-up-short-at-5-year-sale-russia-credit.html
Euroclear Bank SA’s announcement that
it’s starting settlement of Russian government bonds proved
insufficient to buoy investor interest in five-year notes as the
Finance Ministry’s premium at yesterday’s sale was erased.  The government sold 13.6 billion rubles ($452 million) of
new 2018 debt, or 68 percent of the offering, at an average
yield of 6.27 percent at the auction, the Finance Ministry  said .
Similarly rated Mexican debt maturing in December 2018 yielded
4.63 percent yesterday.  Euroclear said it will start direct settlement of Russian
ruble-denominated government debt today, opening the $100
billion market to foreign investors, who will no longer need to
use local brokers. While Russia sold all of a reduced 15-year
offering, the sale of shorter-dated notes was helped because the
ministry redeemed 100 billion rubles of two-year debt, according
to UralSib Financial Corp.  “The results cannot be called especially auspicious,”
 Olga Sterina , an analyst at UralSib in Moscow, said yesterday by
phone.  “There was a little premium at the upper range, but
then there was a sell-off and the premium was eliminated.”  The ministry had offered the new shorter-dated notes at a
yield of between 6.20 percent to 6.30 percent, whereas the rate
on notes due in March 2018 climbed to as high as 6.32 percent on
Feb. 5, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Plans Changed  The government had planned to offer 20 billion rubles of
15-year bonds at yesterday’s auction, according to the
ministry’s  preliminary schedule  for the first quarter. It sold
10 billion rubles of the debt at a rate of 7.1 percent, the
lower end of yield guidance.  “If not for Euroclear announcement, I doubt there would
have been any demand all for the 15-year bond,” UralSib’s
Sterina said.  Local banks dominate the OFZ market, which the Finance
Ministry valued at 3.2 trillion rubles at the end of last year.
Non-residents hold about 6.5 percent of the debt, compared with
the 17.6 percent foreign investors hold in Turkey and 29.7
percent in Mexico, according to Russian Finance Ministry and
International Monetary Fund data. The government had been in
discussion with Euroclear for “many years,” the ministry said
in December.  Settlement system Clearstream International SA is at an
“advanced stage” in establishing a direct link with Russia’s
Central Settlement Depositary, Jessica Sicre, a spokeswoman,
said by e-mail yesterday.  Longer Bonds  Over-the-counter transactions in OFZs will be followed by
exchange-traded operations in March, Euroclear said. Overseas
buyers generally prefer longer bonds, according to  Vladimir Kolychev , head of research at OAO Rosbank, a Moscow-based unit
of Societe Generale SA.  “Pension and insurance funds naturally prefer long bonds,
while speculative hedge funds also may now be targeting long
securities to maximize profits,” he said by e-mail yesterday.  Access to municipal and corporate debt markets is set to
follow “in the coming months,” Euroclear said in yesterday’s
statement.  The yield on the OFZ due in February 2027 dropped 134 basis
points since the end of September to a record 6.84 percent on
Jan. 1. The rate fell five basis points to 7.03 percent today.
The ruble gained 0.2 percent to 30.0220 against the dollar by
4:22 p.m. in Moscow. Ruble futures expiring in March showed the
currency at 30.2010 per dollar.  Global Investors  The opening up of the OFZ market will “prompt some
international allocations,”  Peter Wilson , a senior portfolio
manager at Wells Fargo Asset Management in London, said by e-
mail yesterday.  “Going forward I expect more of the portfolios we manage
to be able to consider this market,” he said. “The opportunity
set for global investors has been growing and the ease of
settlement that this offers will be further encouragement.”  Russia is ranked BBB at Fitch Ratings, the second-lowest
investment-grade category. The yield on Russia’s dollar bonds
due in April 2042 dropped two basis points, or 0.02 percentage
point, to 4.51 percent today. The extra yield investors demand
to hold Russian debt rather than U.S. Treasuries fell two basis
point to 173 basis points, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.
indexes. The difference compares with 164 for debt of similarly-
rated Mexico and 154 for Brazil.  Cost Protection  The cost of protecting Russian debt against non-payment for
five years using credit-default swaps fell one basis point to
141 basis points, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
swaps, whose prices fall when investor sentiment improves, cost
eight basis points more than Turkey, which is rated one step
lower by Fitch at BBB-. The contracts pay the buyer face value
in exchange for underlying securities or the cash equivalent if
a government or company fails to adhere to its debt agreements.  The Euroclear announcement means it’s time to buy sub-
federal and corporate bonds, because spreads are very wide as
the securities haven’t caught up with the OFZ rally, according
to  Evgeny Kochemazov , director of fixed income at Alfa Capital
in Moscow. Alfa increased allocations in BBB corporate
securities and sub-federal notes at the end of January, he said
yesterday by phone.  “I take this news as a signal to cut positions in OFZs,”
Kochemazov said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vladimir Kuznetsov in Moscow at 
 vkuznetsov2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  