-- Eurostat Concerned About Greek Statistics Developments
-- B y   M a r c u s   B e n s a s s o n
-- 2013-02-07T14:27:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/eurostat-concerned-about-greek-statistics-developments.html
The European Union’s statistics
office said it was watching with “deep concern” developments
in Greece, where the head of the statistics agency faces felony
charges over reporting of the country’s 2009 budget deficit.  Hellenic Statistical Authority data submitted under its
current chief,  Andreas Georgiou , “have repeatedly passed the
stringent quality checks applied by Eurostat to ensure full
compliance with European law,” the European Statistical System,
an association of national statistics agencies and Eurostat,
said in an e-mailed statement today.  Last month, Greece’s economic prosecutors charged Georgiou
and two other officials from the agency with inflating the 2009
deficit figure. The country sparked Europe’s debt crisis after
former Prime Minister  George Papandreou ’s government was elected
in October 2009 and revealed on taking office that the shortfall
was bigger than thought. It was eventually determined to be 15.6
percent of gross domestic product, more than five times the
limit allowed under EU rules.  “We are encouraged that in Greece, many important steps
have been taken in recent years to reinforce the credibility of
official data,” Luxembourg-based Eurostat said in today’s
statement. While it respects the independence of the judicial
system, it is concerned with political debate in Greece about
developments that “affect not only the integrity of official
statistics in that country, but also the functioning of the
European Statistical System as a whole.”  Georgiou said in a statement on Jan. 24 that Greece’s
decision to seek an international bailout, granted three months
before he assumed his post in August 2010, was based on data
compiled by his predecessors. He promised to continue to produce
all Greek statistics in line with EU law.  “It is striking that a criminal prosecution for ‘erroneous
production of the public finance statistics of the country’ did
not take place when ‘Greek statistics’ were a constant source of
concern,” Georgiou said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marcus Bensasson in Athens at 
 mbensasson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  