-- Euro Falls Most Since July as Draghi Warns of Slowing Inflation
-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n   a n d   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2013-02-07T22:17:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/euro-advances-before-ecb-policy-decision-spain-bond-auctions.html
The euro fell the most since July
against the dollar after European Central Bank President Mario
Draghi said the recent strength of the currency creates a
concern that inflation will slow.  The 17-nation euro declined versus all but two of 16 major
counterparts as Draghi said after a policy meeting in Frankfurt
that the risk to the region’s growth remains on the
“downside.” The pound strengthened for a second day after
future Bank of England Governor Mark Carney damped speculation
he would expand stimulus. New Zealand’s dollar weakened after a
government report showed employers cut jobs last quarter.
Brazil’s real rose the most of the greenback’s 16 major peers.  “The euro area can ill afford a stronger currency,”  Aroop Chatterjee , a currency strategist at Barclays Plc in New York,
said in a telephone interview. Draghi “explicitly mentioned
foreign-exchange as a risk. That in itself was a big deal and
wasn’t expected by most market participants.”  The  euro  dropped 0.9 percent to $1.3398 at 5 p.m. in New
York after declining as much as 1.1 percent, the most since July
5. The currency fell 0.9 percent to 125.44 yen. The Japanese
currency was little changed at 93.63 per dollar.  Europe’s shared currency has strengthened 7.2 percent over
the past six months, the best performer of 10 developed-nation
currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes.
The dollar depreciated 1.9 percent and the yen tumbled 20
percent.  Kiwi, Real  New Zealand’s dollar dropped for a second day against the
U.S. currency after the statistics bureau said payrolls fell 1
percent in the final three months of 2012. The workforce
participation rate declined to the lowest in eight years.  “The fall in the currency was to be expected given the
drop in employment and the participation rate, but we look at
these levels as a chance to buy the dips,” said  Mike Jones , a
currency strategist at Bank of New Zealand in Wellington.  The so-called kiwi currency fell 0.8 percent to 83.30 U.S.
cents after sliding 0.7 percent yesterday.  Brazil’s currency gained as much as 1.5 percent to the
dollar as its central bank said inflation at the highest in
almost eight years is high and requires attention. The real
appreciated to 1.9667 to the greenback and touched the strongest
level since May.  Euro Strength  There are downside risks to inflation “stemming from
weaker economic activity and, more recently, the appreciation of
the euro exchange rate,” according to a statement of opening
remarks from Draghi placed on the ECB’s website.  The central bank kept its  benchmark rate  at a record-low
0.75 percent today as forecast by all 60 economists in a
Bloomberg News survey.  “What we had not expected today was for the ECB to
actually tie directly the higher or stronger euro to the
inflation outlook in the euro zone,”  Sireen Harajli , a foreign-
exchange strategist in New York at Credit Agricole SA, said in a
telephone interview. “We think that it does increase the odds
of a rate cut. We don’t think it’s going to happen in March, but
we think that March will be key in terms of assessing the
situation.”  Draghi said the euro’s exchange rate is in line with its
long-term average, though officials will monitor it in case a
“sustained” appreciation alters the ECB’s assessment of risks
to price stability. Germany’s  two-year note yield  fell four
basis points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 0.18 percent.  Pound Gains  The pound rose for a second day versus the euro and the
dollar after Carney, the Bank of Canada governor who succeeds
Bank of England Governor  Mervyn King  in July, told lawmakers in
London that current monetary policy may be enough to help the
economy.  The central bank left its benchmark interest rate at a
record-low 0.5 percent and its asset-purchase target unchanged
at 375 billion pounds ($589 billion) at a policy meeting today.  “The market was going into the testimony expecting a much
more dovish outlook,” said  Ned Rumpeltin , head of Group of 10
currency strategy at Standard Chartered Plc in London, referring
to a perceived bias to loosen monetary policy. “Carney was much
more balanced and well-considered -- that may have caught some
people by surprise if they were looking for a much more
assertive stance.”  The pound jumped 1.3 percent to 85.26 pence per euro, after
depreciating to 87.17 pence on Feb. 1, the weakest since October
2011. Sterling rose 0.3 percent to $1.5716.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net ;
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  