-- European Stocks Little Changed on Debt Sales, Draghi
-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 2013-02-07T16:57:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/european-stock-index-futures-are-little-changed.html
European  stocks were little changed
as France and Spain sold debt, while European Central Bank
President Mario Draghi said that economic recovery should begin
later this year amid a continued accommodative policy.  Vodafone Group Plc contributed the most to gains by a gauge
of telecommunications shares after reiterating its forecast for
the year through March. Banca Monte dei Paschi di Siena SpA
advanced for a third day. DNB ASA climbed to its highest price
since June 2011 after increasing its dividend. Sanofi dropped to
its lowest price since November after saying that profit may
retreat this year.  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index  slipped 0.2 percent to 283.88 at
the close of trading, after earlier rallying as much as 0.6
percent. The  equity benchmark  has gained 1.5 percent this year
as U.S. lawmakers agreed on a compromise federal budget. The
gauge has fallen 1.5 percent this week amid signs of political
uncertainty returning to Italy and Spain.  “After the recent resurgence of the tensions in Europe,
Draghi had to reassure the markets, both on the macro-economic
side and on a personal level, answering questions about the
Monte Paschi case,” said  John Plassard , vice president at
Mirabaud Securities LLP in Geneva, which oversees about $28
billion. “He did this successfully. He hinted at continued
accommodative policy to support the economy and that’s a
positive element markets have been yearning for this week.”  The number of shares changing hands in companies listed on
the Stoxx 600 was 24 percent greater than the average of the
last 30 days, data compiled by Bloomberg showed.  Rate Decisions  The ECB left its benchmark rate at a record low of 0.75
percent following a meeting of policy makers in Frankfurt today.
That matched every forecast in a Bloomberg News  survey .  Draghi said the combined economy of the 17 nations that use
the euro will begin to recover later this year because the
absence of inflation risks will allow the ECB to leave interest
rates at their record low.  In the U.K., Bank of England officials refrained from
adding  further stimulus  to aid the economy and held its interest
rate unchanged at 0.5 percent. The BOE panel led by the current
governor, Mervyn King, left its target for bond purchases at 375
billion pounds ($588 billion). All  43 economists  in a Bloomberg
survey had forecast no change.  France sold 7.98 billion euros ($11 billion) of government
debt and Spain raised more than its maximum target at a bond
auction. Yields climbed, compared with the most recent sales.  National benchmark indexes declined in 12 of the 18
western-European markets today. Germany’s DAX advanced 0.1
percent, while the U.K.’s FTSE 100 fell 1.1 percent. France’s
CAC 40 lost 1.2 percent, erasing its gain for the year.  Vodafone, DNB  Vodafone  gained 0.9 percent to 171.9 pence after the
world’s second-biggest mobile-phone operator repeated its
forecast that adjusted operating profit for the year through
March will be in the upper half of a range of 11.1 billion
pounds to 11.9 billion pounds. Analysts had estimated 11.6
billion pounds.  Banca Monte dei Paschi rallied 4.1 percent to 24 euro
cents. The Italian bank engulfed by investigations into its
former managers will take a 730 million-euro hit to its assets
after accounting for structured deals that hid earlier losses.  DNB surged 7.3 percent to 81.30 kroner, posting the best
performance on the  Stoxx 600 . Norway’s largest lender reported
net income of 3.81 billion kroner ($689 million), exceeding the
3.32 billion-krone average of 15 analyst estimates compiled by
Bloomberg. The company also proposed a dividend for 2012 of 2.1
kroner a share, or 25 percent of its earnings a share and an
increase of 5 percent from 2011.  Sanofi Slips  Sanofi declined 4 percent to 66.60 euros after projecting
that earnings per share may drop as much as 5 percent this year
as generic competition to its Plavix blood thinner limits
revenue in the U.S. Analysts surveyed by Bloomberg had predicted
that earnings would slip 0.2 percent.  Alcatel-Lucent SA climbed 4.9 percent to 1.23 euros after
its chief executive officer announced he will leave. The stock
earlier rallied as much as 11 percent, as Chief Executive
Officer  Ben Verwaayen  stepped down after his 4 1/2-year-long
attempt to turn around the phone-equipment maker failed. The
company reported a fourth-quarter net loss of 1.37 billion euros
and as it booked a one-off impairment charge of 1.4 billion
euros. Verwaayen will remain in place until the board finds a
replacement.  Daimler AG  gained 2.8 percent to 44.21 euros after the
world’s third-biggest maker of luxury vehicles forecast that
group revenue and deliveries of Mercedes-Benz cars will increase
in 2013.  Burberry Group Plc slid 6.5 percent to 1,337 pence as the
U.K.’s largest luxury-goods maker replaced its chief financial
officer. Stacey Cartwright, who has held the post for more than
nine years, will step down in July. Carol Fairweather will take
over from Cartwright, while  John Smith  will take on the new
position of chief operating officer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  