-- European Commission to Discuss Soccer ‘Luxury Tax’ With FIFA
-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 2013-02-07T14:01:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/european-commission-to-discuss-soccer-luxury-tax-with-fifa.html
The European Commission will discuss
soccer’s transfer system with world ruling body FIFA after a
report said the richest teams such as Real Madrid and Manchester
United should pay a so-called luxury tax on fees.  The commission said in a news release today it will discuss
the report by Brussels-based consultancy KEA European Affairs
with FIFA and soccer groups in April. A share of the biggest
fees should be redistributed among smaller clubs to address
soccer’s “competitive imbalance” in which a few clubs
dominate, the report says. The U.S.’s National Basketball
Association has a “luxury tax” for teams above a certain
payroll, the report adds.  The European Union’s regulatory arm, which helped rewrite
transfer rules with  FIFA  in 2001, is seeking to encourage a
review of the 3 billion-euro ($4.1 billion) player-trading
market after a seven-fold boom in spending since 1995.  “The European Commission fully recognizes the right of
sports authorities to set rules for transfers but our study
shows that the rules as they are do not ensure a fair balance in
football or anything approaching a level playing field,”
Androulla Vassiliou, the European commissioner responsible for
sports, said in the news release. The transfer system should
help develop young players, Vassiliou added.  Under rules introduced under the supervision of then
European Competition Commissioner  Mario Monti  in 2001, teams who
developed a player between the ages of 12 and 23 now share 5
percent of a transfer fee when he is traded. That amount should
be raised to 8 percent, with a higher percentage for fees above
a certain threshold, the KEA report says.  Real Madrid, the world’s biggest soccer club by sales
according to Deloitte LP, broke the transfer spending record
when it paid Manchester United 80 million pounds ($126 million)
to sign forward  Cristiano Ronaldo  in 2009.  A few clubs such as Real and United dominate domestic
competition. In England, Spain, Portugal and Italy, 92 percent
or more of league titles were won by the three most successful
teams between 2001 and 2012, the report says.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Alex Duff  in Madrid  at
 aduff4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  