-- Teva Fourth-Quarter Earnings Slides as Generic Sales Drop
-- B y   D a v i d   W a i n e r
-- 2013-02-07T21:16:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/teva-fourth-quarter-profit-slides-as-generic-sales-drop.html
Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd.’s 
fourth-quarter earnings fell 19 percent as generic-drug sales
dropped and competition hurt the Provigil sleep-disorder pill.  Profit excluding some costs declined to $1.14 billion, or
$1.32 a share, from $1.4 billion, or $1.59, a year earlier, the
Petach Tikva, Israel-based company said in a statement today.
Analysts predicted $1.33, the average of 24 estimates  compiled 
by Bloomberg. Teva raised its quarterly dividend 15 percent.  “Some people might have hoped for a bigger dividend
increase,” though the payment shows the company is trying to
acknowledge investor concerns, said  Gary Nachman , an analyst at
Susquehanna Financial Group in New York who rates Teva neutral.  Profit is suffering as patents on key products begin to
expire. Provigil lost patent protection last year, and sales
plunged 93 percent in the quarter. Teva’s top-selling product,
the Copaxone treatment for multiple sclerosis, may lose sales to
copies this decade, along with the cancer medicine Treanda and
Nuvigil, a treatment for excessive sleep.  Sales of generic products declined from the “unusually
high” level in the 2011 fourth quarter, when Teva began
marketing a copy of  Eli Lilly & Co .’s Zyprexa and  Ranbaxy
Laboratories Ltd . began selling a generic of  Pfizer Inc .’s
Lipitor in partnership with Teva, the company said.  Ending Programs  Teva fell 1 percent to 138 shekels at the close in Tel
Aviv. The company’s more actively traded American depositary
receipts declined less than 1 percent to $37.96 at the close in
New York. The ADRs lost 13 percent in the past 12 months
including reinvested dividends,  compared with  a 19 percent
return for the Bloomberg Europe Pharmaceutical Index.  Teva Chief Executive Officer  Jeremy Levin  in December
pledged to revive growth by focusing research on treatments for
respiratory and central nervous system illnesses. Teva ended
some programs, such as a collaboration on an experimental cancer
drug with Israeli biotechnology company CureTech Ltd., and Levin
has said he will cut as much as $2 billion of costs in the next
five years.  Teva plans to build its business through “aggressive
business development,” Levin said on an analyst call today. He
said growth would come from expanding into new geographical
areas, licensing deals, and small to mid-size acquisitions.  ‘Progressed Well’  The New Therapeutic Entities business, an area Teva has
pledged to target, “has progressed well” and has “billions of
dollars” in potential sales, Levin said. Teva’s approach will
be to license branded products and then reformulate them to
provide newer treatments, he said.  Sales fell 7.5 percent to $5.25 billion, matching the
average analyst estimate. Revenue from generic drugs in North
America sank 17 percent to $1 billion. In Europe, generic sales
slipped 5 percent to $930 million.  Revenue from Copaxone increased 14 percent in the quarter
to $1.1 billion. The injected drug faces competition from a
newer oral treatment,  Novartis AG’s  Gilenya. Teva has been
trying to delay approval of an MS pill from  Biogen Idec Inc .
called Tecfidera. U.S. regulators are scheduled to decide
whether to approve Tecfidera by March 28.  Levin in November issued 2013 revenue and profit forecasts
that were below the average analyst estimates compiled by
Bloomberg. The company is confident in its forecasts, he said
today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Wainer in Tel Aviv at 
 dwainer3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  