-- Levin Says Committee Will Vote on Hagel as Soon as Possible
-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 2013-02-07T19:49:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/levin-says-committee-will-vote-on-hagel-as-soon-as-possible.html
Senate Armed Services Committee
Chairman  Carl Levin  said his panel will vote soon on  Chuck Hagel ’s nomination for defense secretary, while declining to
predict whether it will be next week.  “We hope to move as quickly as we possibly can,” Levin, a
Michigan Democrat, told reporters today. The Senate is taking a
week-long break during the week of Feb. 17.  President  Barack Obama ’s nomination of Hagel, a former
Republican senator from Nebraska, to succeed the retiring
Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta , has been criticized by
Republicans on matters such as his past opposition to unilateral
sanctions against Iran and his comments about the influence of
what he once called “the Jewish lobby.”  Republicans said yesterday that they weren’t ready for a
vote because they weren’t satisfied by information provided by
Hagel. They said he refused to answer their questions about
payments he received to give speeches and whether sources from
abroad provided funds to companies and organizations with which
he has been associated.  “This committee, and the American people, have a right to
know if a nominee for secretary of defense has received
compensation, directly or indirectly, from foreign sources,”
Senator  Ted Cruz  of Texas and 25 colleagues said in a letter to
Hagel yesterday.  Levin rejected that call for added information before a
vote is held.  “He has provided all of the financial information that the
rules of the committee require,” Levin said. Hagel “has been
asked for information no prior nominee has been asked for,”
Levin said.  Homestate Opponent  Today, first-term Senator  Deb Fischer , a Republican from
Hagel’s home state, said she will vote against him in the Armed
Services Committee and on the Senate floor.  While Republican opposition to Hagel continued to mount,
Levin has predicted he will win all 55 votes controlled by
Democrats. At least 60 senators of both parties, including
critics such as Republican Senator John McCain of Arizona, have
said they would oppose any efforts to block a vote on the
nomination -- enough to overcome the maneuver. By tradition,
senators don’t seek to use the threat of a filibuster in votes
on cabinet-level nominees.  “His confirmation looks very much on track to me,” Levin
said. “I’m confident he’ll be confirmed.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  