-- Ex-Amaranth Trader, CFTC Unite to Ask Court to Toss Fine
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g   a n d   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 2013-02-07T18:32:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/ex-amaranth-trader-cftc-unite-to-ask-court-to-toss-fine.html
A former natural-gas trader at
Amaranth Advisors LLC, backed by the U.S. Commodity Futures
Trading Commission, asked a federal appeals court to overturn a
$30 million fine imposed by another regulator over alleged
manipulation of the gas-futures market.  In a case that could determine the limits of the Federal
Energy Regulatory Commission’s power to punish market
manipulation, a lawyer for Brian Hunter told a three-judge panel
in Washington today that the CFTC has sole jurisdiction over
futures trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange. The CFTC,
which filed papers supporting Hunter, also argued today.  “There was no notice, much less fair notice, to Brian
Hunter that his conduct was being regulated by FERC,” Hunter’s
lawyer, Michael Kim of  Kobre & Kim LLP , said during the 40-
minute argument.  The dispute highlights FERC’s growing role as a regulatory
enforcer. Congress beefed up the agency’s powers in 2005 to
ensure order in the energy trading markets after  Enron Corp. 
traders triggered California blackouts earlier in the decade.
Since January 2011, the commission has  publicly  disclosed 13
investigations it has conducted of alleged market manipulation.  The Hunter case addresses at least two questions, Marc
Spitzer, a former FERC commissioner, said in an interview: What
determines market manipulation, and which agency has
jurisdiction over violations involving futures trading?  Test Case  “Hunter is the test case as far as the court is
concerned,” said  Susan Court , a former director of FERC’s
enforcement office.  FERC argues that the CFTC’s exclusive jurisdiction over
regulating futures contracts and futures markets doesn’t extend
to manipulation.  “Market manipulation transactions go beyond mere futures
trading and involves conduct in several markets,” Robert
Solomon, a FERC lawyer, told the judges. If the transactions
have “a direct and profound effect on physical natural gas
markets, then FERC does have a role.”  In those circumstances, as in the Hunter case, both
agencies would have enforcement authority, he said.  Two of the three judges on today’s panel said FERC’s
position on overlapping authority appeared to conflict with
Congress’s intent to have one agency regulate futures trading.  “Doesn’t that create the exact situation Congress sought
to avoid when it gave the CFTC commodity futures regulation
authority?” U.S. Circuit Judge  David Tatel  asked Solomon.  Hunter sued FERC in December 2011 after the agency ordered
him to pay $30 million in penalties, ruling he manipulated the
price of contracts on the New York Mercantile Exchange in 2006
while boosting the value of financial derivatives.  Dumped Contracts  Hunter, according to court documents, dumped large numbers
of contracts within the last 30 minutes of trading in an effort
to drive down the closing price of the futures. The move
benefited Amaranth’s larger opposing positions in off-exchange
derivatives, according to regulators.  Amaranth lost $6.6 billion betting on the price of natural
gas. The Greenwich, Connecticut-based hedge fund that once
controlled half of the gas market collapsed in 2006. In August
2009, the company agreed to pay $7.5 million to end U.S. cases
brought by FERC and the CFTC over price manipulation.  On April 11, a federal judge in Manhattan gave final
approval to a $77.1 million settlement by Amaranth to resolve a
class action brought by traders.  FERC filed an administrative case against Hunter the day
after the CFTC brought a civil enforcement action against him in
federal court in Manhattan over the same trading. FERC alleged
Hunter violated anti-manipulation provisions of the Natural Gas
Act, which the agency said it has the authority to enforce.  Market Manipulation  Hunter claims his actions didn’t amount to market
manipulation.  The CFTC’s civil case against Hunter was put on hold in
January 2012 due to the FERC court challenge in Washington,
according to court records.  The CFTC claims FERC’s assertion of jurisdiction clashes
with its own authority to oversee futures trading.  Congress gave the CFTC “exclusive jurisdiction among
federal regulatory agencies not only to set standards for on-
exchange futures trading, but also to determine the lawfulness
of such futures trading,” the commission said in court papers.  Mary Connelly, a lawyer for the CFTC, told the judges today
that Congress never repealed her agency’s exclusive jurisdiction
when it added regulatory authority to FERC.  Physical Markets  She said the law expanding FERC’s authority over the
physical markets it regulates makes no reference to the futures
markets or the CFTC.  “A transaction has not stopped being a transaction when it
is manipulation,” Connelly said.  Hunter argues that the Natural Gas Act’s anti-manipulation
provisions apply only to entities such as utilities, not
individuals.  FERC, with an enforcement staff of 200 people, hasn’t shown
much indication of backing down in its oversight. The agency’s
staff on Jan. 28 backed $488 million in penalties for  Barclays
Plc  and four former traders for alleged gaming. The London-based
bank has vowed to challenge the matter in court.  An energy-trading unit of  Deutsche Bank AG  on Jan. 22
agreed to pay FERC’s proposed penalty of $1.6 million for
alleged violations, rather than fight the matter in court. The
agency is also investigating a  JPMorgan Chase & Co.  unit for
alleged manipulation and has suspended its electricity-trading
authority for six months starting in April.  The case is Hunter v. Federal Energy Regulatory Commission,
11-1477, U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia
(Washington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  