-- Ex-Officer Charged Over Bribes From News Corp.’s Sun Title
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2013-02-07T17:52:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/ex-cop-to-be-charged-over-bribes-from-news-corp-s-sun-tabloid.html
News Corp .’s tabloid bribery scandal
triggered more criminal charges after U.K. prosecutors said a
former police officer near London sold details about two
incidents involving “high-profile” people.  Alan Tierney, who worked in Surrey, England, took 1,750
pounds ($2,750) from News Corp.’s Sun tabloid in 2009, in
exchange for information about a shoplifting arrest and the
personal details of a witness in a domestic-violence case, the
 Crown Prosecution Service  said today.  “Both of these incidents were linked to high-profile
people,” Alison Levitt, the CPS’s principal legal adviser, said
in an e-mailed statement. An unidentified member of the public
who was implicated in the case won’t be charged due to
“insufficient evidence,” she said.  The bribery probe, named Operation Elveden, has led to
nearly 60 arrests, including prison workers, members of the
military, Sun journalists and  Rebekah Brooks , the former chief
executive officer of News Corp.’s U.K. unit. A 33-year-old
officer in the Metropolitan Police Service in London’s
specialist crime unit was arrested in the investigation last
week.  The Sun is the main target of the bribery probe, while News
Corp.’s other U.K. tabloid, the now-defunct News of the World,
is at the center of a related phone-hacking scandal.  April Casburn, a senior London police detective, was
sentenced on Feb. 1 to 15 months in prison for trying to sell
information about the phone hacking probe to the News of the
World.  She was the first person to be sentenced in the cases.
Other criminal trials are scheduled for later this year.  The Met said in a separate statement today that a 25-year-
old man arrested in the bribery probe a year ago will face no
further action in the investigation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  