-- Ex-Tyco Chief Kozlowski Wins Rehearing of Parole Bid
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2013-02-07T20:14:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/ex-tyco-chief-kozlowski-wins-rehearing-of-parole-bid.html
L. Dennis Kozlowski , the former  Tyco
International Ltd.  chief executive officer convicted of looting
the company, won the reversal of a decision denying him parole
and got a chance to have the matter reconsidered.  Kozlowski was sentenced to 8 1/3 to 25 years in prison in
2005 after a jury trial in Manhattan. He began serving his
sentence in September of that year. The New York state Board of
Parole denied the 66-year-old Kozlowski’s request for parole in
April “due to concern for the public safety and welfare.”  State Supreme Court Justice Carole Huff, in a ruling dated
Feb. 5, annulled the decision and sent it back to the board for
a new hearing, saying it appeared that the panel “relied
exclusively on the seriousness of petitioner’s crime in reaching
its determination.”  “It may be that factors present in petitioner’s crimes do
exist to support the board’s finding, but those factors have not
been identified,” Huff said in her ruling. “Nor have any
‘factors and reasons’ been given ‘in detail’ as to why
petitioner’s release would undermine public safety and
welfare.”  Carole Weaver , a spokeswoman for the New York State
Department of Corrections and Community Supervision, declined to
comment on the ruling, saying in a telephone interview that the
department hasn’t yet received the decision.  ‘Enormously Gratified’  Alan Lewis, an attorney with Carter Ledyard & Milburn LLP
representing Kozlowski, said he is “enormously gratified” by
the ruling.  “It is unlikely that there is a more deserving candidate
for parole in New York than Dennis Kozlowski,” Lewis said in a
statement.  Kozlowski sued the board in October, asking Huff to annul
the decision and grant his application for parole or give him a
new hearing, saying that the board relied on erroneous
information in making its ruling.  Kozlowski was transferred in January 2012 to the minimum-
security Lincoln Correctional Facility on 110th Street near
Fifth Avenue in Manhattan from the medium-security Mid-State
Correctional Facility in Marcy, according to state records.  Kozlowski participates in a release program where he works
as a clerk at a software company, Lewis said. Since June, he has
spent five days a week on furlough in the community and two
nights inside the facility, said Linda Foglia, a spokeswoman for
the state corrections department.  March Interviews  The next parole board interviews for Lincoln inmates are
scheduled for the week of March 4, Foglia said.  Kozlowski became the face of corporate greed when the
government pointed to luxuries paid for with Tyco funds
including a $30 million Fifth Avenue apartment with a $6,000
shower curtain, a $15,000 umbrella stand and paintings by Monet
and Renoir.  A jury in New York State Supreme Court in Manhattan found
that Kozlowski and ex-Chief Financial Officer  Mark Swartz  stole
about $137 million from Tyco in unauthorized compensation and
made $410 million from the sale of inflated stock.  Jurors saw a recording of a $2 million birthday party
Kozlowski threw on the Italian island of Sardinia in June 2001,
financed in part by Tyco. The party featured an ice replica of
Michelangelo’s “David,” with vodka flowing from its penis, and
a concert by singer Jimmy Buffett.  ‘Little Left’  Kozlowski, a 1968 graduate of Seton Hall University in New
Jersey, who started with Tyco as an assistant comptroller in
1976, told the parole board he has paid $134 million in
restitution and a $70 million fine in full. He said he sold his
assets, including homes and a boat, “as quickly as possible”
and has “very, very little left.”  Kozlowski has “conducted himself as a model” inmate since
his incarceration, has never committed a disciplinary infraction
and has completed every program offered to him, including an
alcohol and substance abuse treatment program, he said in his
lawsuit.  He served as a teacher’s aide for inmates pursuing high-
school equivalency diplomas and was awarded “merit time” that
reduced his minimum term, making him eligible for parole after
serving seven years, according to the suit.  While the parole board said Kozlowski’s disciplinary record
“appears clean” and he has made “progress and achievement,”
it denied his request.  ‘Glaring Violation’  “Your instant offenses are the result of your theft of
over $100 million from Tyco, an international public
corporation, in glaring violation of the trust placed in you as
CEO by the board of directors and corporate shareholders,” the
board said in its decision.  Kozlowski in August settled a 10-year-old lawsuit with Tyco
in which the company sought the return of money, stock and
loans. Tyco, based in Schaffhausen, Switzerland, makes security
systems.  Swartz, 52, who is also serving an 8 1/3 to 25 year
sentence, sued Tyco in May to recover $60 million he says he is
owed under agreements he made with the company when he stepped
down in 2002.  Swartz is also serving his sentence at Lincoln and
participating in a work-release program, according to the
website of the Department of Corrections and Community
Supervision. He is eligible for parole in January and has a
hearing scheduled for September.  The case is Kozlowski v. New York State Board of Parole,
104097/2012, New York State Supreme Court, New York County
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York State Supreme Court at 
8969 or  cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  