-- Exelon Cuts Dividend as Quarterly Profit Falls
-- B y   J u l i e   J o h n s s o n
-- 2013-02-07T13:27:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/exelon-quarterly-profit-drops-on-falling-power-prices.html
Exelon Corp ., owner of the largest
group of U.S. nuclear plants, will cut its quarterly dividend
for the first time as falling electricity prices and expiring
long-term contracts reduce profit.  Cutting the payment to shareholders will “position us to
maintain our investment-grade rating, return a stable dividend
and provide capacity to invest in growth,”  Christopher Crane ,
chief executive officer of Chicago-based Exelon, said in a
statement today.  Exelon will reduce its dividend to 31 cents a share in the
second quarter from 52.5 cents. The company hasn’t cut its
dividend in the 12 years since it was formed by the merger of
Unicom Corp. and Peco Energy Inc. Exelon is  rated  BBB by
Standard & Poor’s, two levels above junk status.  The change in dividend was announced as Exelon reported
fourth-quarter profit declined 38 percent on lower power prices
and higher nuclear fuel costs. Net income fell to $378 million,
or 44 cents a share, from $606 million, or 91 cents, a year
earlier. Excluding one-time costs, per-share profit was a penny
less than the 65-cent average of 16  analysts’ estimates  compiled
by Bloomberg.  The 6.78 percent dividend yield offered by Exelon was the
highest among its U.S.  peer group  as of today, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Exelon will make a first-quarter dividend
payment on March 8 to shareholders of record on Feb. 19.  “The big issue is definitely power prices,”  Paul Patterson , a New York-based utilities analyst with Glenrock
Associates LLC, said in a phone interview before earnings were
released.  Wholesale Power  Exelon faces greater exposure to falling wholesale power
prices as long-term contracts that locked in higher rates
expire, Patterson said. Average electricity prices have dropped
45 percent since 2008, the market’s most recent peak, in the
portion of PJM Interconnection LLC where most of Exelon’s fleet
is based, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Exelon is the largest U.S. nuclear operator, with 35,000
megawatts of capacity. That’s enough electricity to light 28
million homes, according to U.S. Energy Department estimates.
Exelon’s utilities deliver electricity and natural gas to about
6.6 million customers.  The announcement was made before regular trading began on
U.S. markets. Exelon, which has five buy, 18 holds and one sale
recommendation from analysts, rose 0.4 percent to $30.98
yesterday in New York.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Johnsson in Chicago at 
 jjohnsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  