-- Fate of Abuser on Tribal Land Tangles Sexual Abuse Bill
-- B y   D e r e k   W a l l b a n k
-- 2013-02-07T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/fate-of-abuser-on-tribal-land-tangles-sexual-abuse-bill.html
The U.S. Senate will vote as soon as
today on letting tribal courts try people accused of sexual
assault who aren’t registered members of an American Indian
tribe.  The proposal is intended to give women seeking protection
from non-Indian abusers some place to go besides the offices of
U.S. attorneys who may be hundreds of miles away. It’s a system
that advocates say causes abused women to avoid filing reports
because they don’t believe anything will happen.  Many Republicans in the House and Senate see the proposal
as flatly unconstitutional, so the tribal provision may
complicate the passage of the Violence Against Women Act, a
measure focused on grants for domestic violence shelters and
anti-sexual assault programs.  “You cannot take away constitutional rights of non-tribal
citizens,” Oklahoma Republican Senator  Tom Coburn  said in an
interview. “It’s never going to hold up -- even if it passes.
It’s going to get thrown out by a court. It’s an easy
constitutional question.”  Behind the constitutional questions are women like Deborah
Parker. The vice-chairman of the Tulalip Tribes of Washington
state, Parker traveled to Washington, D.C., last year to
describe her own experiences with sexual assault -- once as a
child victim and once as a witness.  No Prosecution  She said she hid in a closet to protect young children as
her aunt was raped. They could hear her cries.  Neither Parker’s assailant nor her aunt’s attackers were
ever convicted,  she said  as she pressed for inclusion of a
tribal courts provision in the next update of the Violence
Against Women Act.  “My question for Congress was and has always been, why did
you not protect me or my family?” Parker asked at a Capitol
Hill press conference in April. “Why is my life, and the life
of so many other Native American women less important?”  In a  2012 report , the nonpartisan  Congressional Research
Service  wrote that although the federal government has
jurisdiction over those crimes, “frequently overburdened
federal prosecutors are not able to prosecute them.”  “Thus, it appears that American Indian women are left with
a higher risk of domestic violence and less protection than non-
Indian women,” said the report by CRS analysts Jane Smith and
Richard Thompson II.  Jurisdictional Maze  Two Supreme Court decisions roughly outline tribal criminal
jurisdiction, according to CRS. A 1920 decision in U.S. v.
Wheeler decided that tribes had an inherent right to try
members, though the court in Oliphant v. Suquamish Indian Tribe
in 1978 held that tribes don’t have the inherent sovereignty to
try non-tribal members.  As a result, the question of who has jurisdiction to
prosecute a sexual assault case on tribal land depends on
whether the victim belongs to a tribe and whether the person
accused of the crime is part of the tribe or has a strong
connection to the tribe. The federal government has jurisdiction
if the accused has no tribal connection.  “What ends up happening is that women just don’t report
the assaults because of the jurisdictional issues, because they
just don’t think anything’s going to happen,” said Suzanne
Koepplinger, executive director of the Minnesota Indian Women’s
Resource Center, which provides support programs and emergency
shelters for American Indian women and their families. “It’s
outrageous, and it ends up re-victimizing native women over and
over again.”  Sprawling Jurisdiction  In western states, where the bulk of tribal lands are
located, a  U.S. attorney’s district  often covers the entire
state, with offices in the most populous cities, far from
reservation lands.  “These rural tribal lands are often many hours away from
the nearest federal prosecutor and far too often perpetrators
see them as safe havens where they can and do get away with
horrific acts of violence,” Senator  Patty Murray , a Washington
state Democrat, said in an e-mail.  The Justice Department agrees, and officials there dispute
Republican claims the bill is unconstitutional.  “Federal resources, which are often the only ones that can
investigate and prosecute these crimes, are often far away and
stretched thin,” then-Associate Attorney General  Thomas Perrelli  testified in 2011 in support of similar legislation.  Tribal police often wrongly believe they don’t even have
the authority to make an arrest, he told the Senate Indian
Affairs Committee.  Unprosecuted, Unpunished  “The jurisdictional framework has left many serious acts
of domestic violence and dating violence unprosecuted and
unpunished,”  he said . Perrelli left the Justice Department in
2012 and is now a Washington D.C.-based partner at  Jenner &
Block LLP .  A  2006 Amnesty International report  based on Justice
Department statistics said native women were more than twice as
likely to be victims of sexual assault as their non-native
counterparts, and in more than 85 percent of reported cases the
alleged perpetrator wasn’t a tribe member.  “It’s outrageous,” Representative  Gwen Moore , a Wisconsin
Democrat, said in an interview. “We’ve even heard stories of
men dragging women onto tribal land to commit sexual assault or
battery because they know they can do it with impunity.” Moore,
a victim of sexual assault, is a leading sponsor of the Violence
Against Women Act reauthorization in the House.  ‘Problematic Issue’  President  Barack Obama  “strongly supports” keeping the
tribal court language in the bill, the Office of Management and
Budget wrote in a statement of administration policy. Senator
 Heidi Heitkamp , who cosponsored it, said she was “adamant” the
tribal courts language stay in the final VAWA bill.  “It is essential to give women who are native American
women the same protection that everybody else has, that every
other woman enjoys,” the North Dakota Democrat said in an
interview.  House Republicans didn’t include the tribal courts
provision in their Violence Against Women bill in 2012 and say
they’re still reluctant to use the Senate’s language.  “To me, it’s a problematic issue because, depending on the
tribe and reservation they have different laws, obviously
because they’re sovereign nations, than what the U.S. has,”
said  Doc Hastings , a Washington state Republican and chairman of
the House Natural Resources Committee, which has jurisdiction
over Indian affairs. “To put U.S. citizens under their law,
it’s just problematic.”  Cole’s Compromise  A possible compromise was outlined in the House late last
year. Sponsored by Republican Representatives  Tom Cole  of
Oklahoma, the only Native American in Congress, and  Darrell Issa 
of California, it would have allowed defendants to file for
removal of the case to federal court if their constitutional
rights were infringed.  Senate Judiciary Committee Chairman  Patrick Leahy , sponsor
of the legislation, said he preferred the Senate’s language,
though the Cole-Issa language was worth further consideration.  “This modification should ensure that only those tribes
that are following the requirements of the law and providing
full rights can exercise jurisdiction and that defendants can
raise challenges at the beginning of a case,” Leahy said.  Hastings said Republicans haven’t yet settled on an
alternative proposal.  Majority Leader  Eric Cantor  said Feb. 5 that he has been
working on the legislation in consultation with the staff of
Vice President  Joe Biden . “We want to protect the women who are
subject to abuse on tribal land,” Cantor said on the House
floor.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Derek Wallbank in Washington at 
 dwallbank@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katherine Rizzo at 
 krizzo5@bloomberg.net  