-- Fed’s Evans Says QE Could Stop Before Drop to 7% Jobless
-- B y   J e a n n a   S m i a l e k
-- 2013-02-07T16:28:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/fed-s-evans-says-qe-could-stop-before-drop-to-7-jobless.html
Charles Evans , president of the
Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago, said today the central bank may
stop its asset-purchase program before unemployment falls to 7
percent.  “I tend to think it might be possible to turn off the
quantitative easing,” Evans said in a CNBC interview. “We
might be able to stop before  7 percent ” assuming momentum
builds and keeps going.  Minutes from the Federal Open Market Committee’s December
meeting showed that policy makers debated when to end the
monthly purchases of $45 billion in Treasuries and $40 billion
in mortgage bonds. The central bank has pledged to continue the
buying until the labor market improves “substantially.”  Evans, who is a voting member of the FOMC this year,
reiterated that quantitative easing would continue until it’s
clear the labor market outlook has improved.  “Might be half a year, might be a whole year, could be
longer,” Evans said. “I’m optimistic that momentum’s going to
pick up this year.”  The FOMC said in December and repeated last month that it
will keep interest rates near zero as long as unemployment
remains above 6.5 percent and inflation remains no more than 2.5
percent.  “We’re going to keep policy low until the unemployment
rate is 6.5 percent,” he said, comparing Fed actions to a half-
marathon. “If we still feel good, you know with the run, we
might go a little bit longer.”  Evans was the first official to propose linking the central
bank’s benchmark rate to economic thresholds, which the
committee did for the first time when it set its 6.5 percent
goal.  The Chicago Fed chief said today he doesn’t foresee
unemployment dropping to 6.5 percent from January’s 7.9 percent
until about the middle of 2015.  Evans dissented twice in 2011 in favor of adding stimulus,
and was an early advocate for a third round of monetary easing.
He has been president of the Chicago Fed since 2007.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanna Smialek in Washington at 
 jsmialek1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kevin Costelloe at 
 kcostelloe@bloomberg.net  