-- Fed Bomb Plotter Pleads Guilty to Terror Charge in N.Y
-- B y   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e
-- 2013-02-07T20:20:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/federal-reserve-bomb-plotter-pleads-guilty-to-terror-charge.html
A Bangladeshi man arrested in October
after attempting to bomb the New York Federal Reserve pleaded
guilty to a terrorism charge.  Quazi Mohammad Rezwanul Ahsan Nafis, 21, entered his plea
today before U.S. District Judge  Carol Bagley Amon  in Brooklyn,
New York, to attempting to use a weapon of mass destruction.  Nafis, who had come to the U.S. on a student visa, tried to
detonate what he believed to be a 1,000-pound bomb at the Fed in
Lower Manhattan, according to prosecutors. The explosives were
fake and the plot was part of an undercover operation, according
to court papers.  “I am the person who chose to bomb the Federal Reserve
Bank,” Nafis said in court, making clear that it was his
intention, not federal agents’, to carry out the plot. “I no
longer support violent jihad.”  He faces a possible sentence of 30 years to life in prison
under his plea agreement, the judge said.  The federal government has expanded the use of sting
tactics in terrorism investigations in recent years, according
to a report by the Center on Law and Security at the New York
University School of Law.  Almost half of federal terrorism cases brought in the U.S.
from 2009 to September 2011 involved informants, and at least 15
percent of those cases can be considered stings, representatives
from the center said in its  Terrorism Trial Report Card .  Contacted Informant  Prosecutors alleged Nafis came to New York from Bangladesh
with a desire to wage what he called “jihad” through a suicide
bombing or other violent attack. In July, he made contact with
an informant for the Federal Bureau of Investigation who
referred him to federal agents posing as members of al-Qaeda,
according to court papers.  In a meeting in Central Park in July, Nafis told one of
the agents that he wanted to engage in an attack and that he,
the informant and another associate were “ready for action,”
according to court papers.  Nafis later told the informant that the attack was going
to be a “one-man job,” indicating that he didn’t want the
others to participate, prosecutors alleged. Nafis worked with an
agent from a warehouse in an undisclosed location to prepare for
the bombing, according to prosecutors.  Wrote Article  Before attempting the attack, Nafis gave the agent a thumb
drive containing an article he had written that he hoped would
appear in “Inspire” magazine, a publication affiliated with
al-Qaeda, prosecutors alleged.  “I came to this conclusion that targeting America’s
economy is most efficient way to draw the path of obliteration
of America,” Nafis wrote, explaining his motivations for
choosing the Fed as a target, according to court papers.  On the day of his arrest, Nafis and the agent took a
vehicle loaded with the fake explosives, parked it at the Fed
and then walked to a nearby hotel, according to the papers.
Prosecutors alleged that Nafis asked the agent to film a video
statement in which he said “we will not stop until we attain
victory or martyrdom.”  Nafis then attempted to trigger the bomb remotely multiple
times using a cellphone, according to the government.  “The defendant had no lawful authority with respect to
using a weapon of mass destruction,” Assistant U.S. Attorney
James P. Loonam said during today’s hearing.  ‘Take Responsibility’  Heidi Cesare, a lawyer for Nafis, told reporters at the
proceeding that her client “pled guilty because he is guilty,
and he wants to take responsibility for what he did.”  Nafis earlier was indicted on both a charge of attempting
to use a weapon of mass destruction and attempting to provide
material support to a foreign terrorist organization.  “With diligence and determination, Nafis attempted to
carry out his plan in the name of al-Qaeda,” Brooklyn U.S.
Attorney  Loretta E. Lynch  said in a statement. “We will not
wait for our enemies to attack us before using the tools at our
disposal to discourage, disrupt, and ultimately, detain them
with lengthy terms of incarceration.”  The case is U.S. v. Nafis, 1:12-cr-00720, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of New York (Brooklyn).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christie Smythe in Brooklyn, New York, federal court
at   csmythe1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 