-- First Buffett Backing Since ’09 Sells Riskiest Debt: Muni Credit
-- B y   D a r r e l l   P r e s t o n
-- 2013-02-07T01:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/first-buffett-backing-since-09-sells-riskiest-debt-muni-credit.html
Warren Buffett’s  first repayment
guarantee on a municipal bond since 2009 showed that the
billionaire’s imprimatur can help sell even the riskiest debt to
investors hungry for income with yields at a generational low.  A local development agency sold $106.9 million of taxable
securities yesterday for The Colony, a city north of Dallas.
Proceeds will finance construction of a Nebraska Furniture Mart
that the company says will be the nation’s largest home
furnishings store. The venue, anchoring a $1.5 billion retail
development, will be the third for the chain, owned by Buffett’s
 Berkshire Hathaway Inc.   “Everyone came to Warren’s party,” said  Patrick Morrissey , who helps oversee about $3 billion in fixed income at
Great Lakes Advisors in Chicago and said he placed an order for
some debt. “Here was a name that was new to the market, and a
chance to grab a little extra yield.”  The debt is backed by Berkshire Hathaway Assurance Corp.,
which last insured a new muni sale in 2009. The offer is called
“speculative” in bond documents because it depends on tax
revenue from the project, which isn’t slated to open until 2015.
Still, with Buffett’s company involved and muni yields close to
four-decade  lows , the securities drew enough bidders that
underwriters lowered yields 0.05 percentage point from initial
levels, Morrissey said.  Texas Wager  By buying these so-called dirt bonds, which are sold for
real estate developments, investors are wagering on Texas’s
improving finances and a strengthening national economy. An oil
and natural-gas boom in Texas is helping the largest U.S. energy
producer pile up a record $11.8 billion in reserves.  The development includes the 1.86 million-square-foot
Nebraska Furniture Mart of Texas and a distribution center,
encompassing the equivalent of 40 football fields. Plans call
for expanding the site, called Grandscape, with more stores,
restaurants, entertainment venues and a hotel.  The tendency for default among land-secured debt highlights
the risk in the segment. Defaults in such bonds made up about
half of all cases in the 12 months through January, according to
data from Municipal Market Advisors in Concord, Massachusetts.  Yield Cushion  Investors were compensated as a consequence. Bonds maturing
in 2047 were marketed yesterday at yields about 1.70 percentage
points over benchmark Treasuries, Morrissey said. That compares
with a yield spread of about 1.40 percentage points on average
for corporate debt with a AA rating and due in more than 15
years, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch data.  Omaha, Nebraska-based Berkshire sold $2.6 billion of
securities last month, including a 30-year segment that traded
yesterday at about 1.30 percentage points over Treasuries, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  “Investors expect significant yields,” said  Chris Mier ,
managing director with Loop Capital Markets in Chicago, in an
interview before the sale. “It’s got raw land development, so
it’s got to work or you’re not going to get paid.”  Another $87 million of bonds are being offered in four
issues by entities tied to The Colony, with about 38,000
residents 27 miles (43 kilometers) north of Dallas. The store is
expected to create 2,000 jobs. Over 40 years, the project will
also generate $9.5 billion of new state and local tax revenue,
according to a feasibility study included in bond documents.  Tax Payoff  The city isn’t directly issuing or backing the debt but
agreeing to let tax revenue from the development repay
bondholders. The debt is being sold through issuers affiliated
with the city.  Joe McCourry , mayor of The Colony, didn’t return phone
calls or an e-mail seeking comment.  The furnishings seller is investing about $250 million,
according to bond documents. That and Berkshire Hathaway’s
insurance should give investors confidence, said  Jeff Lind ,
chief strategy and development officer for Nebraska Furniture
Mart, in a phone interview. The store, expected to generate
annual revenue of about $600 million and lure 8 million
visitors, fit with the company’s effort to expand by controlling
the surrounding development, said Lind.  “It’s not something we’re going to invest in and walk away
from,” said Lind. “It’s not a real-estate play for us. We’re
going to be there for the long haul.”  Berkshire’s Back  Lind declined to comment on whether Berkshire will take on
any other new muni-bond insurance. Buffett didn’t respond to a
request for comment sent to an assistant.  Buffett’s insurer entered the muni market in 2007 as
companies such as Ambac Financial Group and MBIA Inc. were
cutting back amid rating cuts tied to sub-prime mortgage
business. His company then backed out as local finances
deteriorated.  The decision to re-enter the market with a dirt bond
surprised  Richard Larkin , a senior vice president with Herbert
J. Sims & Co. in Iselin, New Jersey.  The company could have “made money hand over fist” if it
hadn’t abandoned the industry in 2009, he said. Only one other
insurer,  Assured Guaranty Ltd ., remained in a market where half
of new bonds had once been insured.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Darrell Preston in Dallas at 
 dpreston@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  