-- First Lady to Attend Funeral for Murdered Chicago Teen
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 2013-02-07T19:59:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/first-lady-to-attend-funeral-for-murdered-chicago-teen.html
First Lady  Michelle Obama  will attend
the funeral for the 15-year-old Chicago girl who was killed last
month in a shooting a mile from the Obama family’s home,
according to a White House official.  The first lady’s decision to travel to the Feb. 9 service
for Hadiya Pendleton follows days of pressure by community
activists in Chicago for President  Barack Obama  to address
violence in his adopted hometown.  Michelle Obama will be accompanied by presidential adviser
 Valerie Jarrett  and Education Secretary  Arne Duncan , a Chicago
native who was head of the city’s public schools, according to
the official, who asked not to be identified discussing the
unannounced trip.  The first lady’s plans were reported earlier by the Chicago
Tribune.  The Jan. 29 shooting of the teenager occurred amid a debate
on ways to combat gun violence that was sparked by a mass
shooting at a Newtown, Connecticut, elementary school that left
20 students and six educators dead. Obama is calling on Congress
to pass restrictions on semiautomatic rifles and impose broader
background checks for gun buyers, among other measures.  While Chicago, the nation’s third-most-populous city, has
some of the nation’s strictest gun laws, the 506 homicides there
in 2012 were the most in four years.  Pendleton had attended the president’s inauguration in
Washington earlier this month. She was killed as she took
shelter from rain with other students near King College Prep
High School, where she was a band majorette and played
volleyball. She was shot in the back, and a 16-year-old boy was
wounded by a gunman who sped away in a car, police said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Talev in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  