-- Florida Homeowner Loses Bid to Keep BNY Mellon Suit in Court
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   J o r d a n   S e x t o n
-- 2013-02-08T03:23:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/florida-homeowner-loses-bid-to-keep-bny-mellon-suit-in-court.html
A Florida homeowner facing a
foreclosure lawsuit lost a bid at the state’s high court to stop
his lender from dropping the case while he tried to prove the
bank used fraudulent documents in suing him.  The Florida Supreme Court said today that under state court
rules judges lack authority to prevent a plaintiff from
withdrawing a lawsuit before a court has taken any action in the
plaintiff’s favor. Roman Pino, Palm Beach County resident, asked
for a hearing on  Bank of New York Mellon Corp. ’s allegedly
flawed documents after it dropped the action, seeking a
dismissal by a judge that would permanently bar foreclosure.  “This case is not about whether a trial court has the
authority in an ongoing civil proceeding to impose sanctions on
a party who has filed fraudulent documentation with the court,”
the judges said in the unanimous ruling. “Rather, the specific
and narrow question we are asked to resolve is whether an
allegation of fraud on the court empowers a trial court” to
refuse to let the plaintiff dismiss the complaint.  The court, upholding a lower level appeals court, asked the
Florida Bar’s Civil Procedure Rules Committee to suggest changes
that would allow courts to rule when possible sanctions were at
stake even after a court had agreed a case could be dropped.  Francine Walker, a spokeswoman for the Florida Bar, said
the committee will review the rule at its meeting in June.  “Blatant fraud is now a recognized legal strategy in civil
litigation,” Matt Weidner, a St. Petersburg, Florida,
foreclosure defense attorney, said in a phone interview. “And
if they’re caught there is no consequence. In fact the strategy
-- if it results in victory -- is rewarded.”  The Mortgage Bankers Association and the Florida Bankers
Association, in a brief supporting the bank, had predicted a
ruling against the lender would cause “widespread repercussions
in the lending industry.”  Bruce Rogow , a lawyer for BNY Mellon, said the Supreme
Court decision isn’t surprising.  “It’s consistent with Florida law,” said Rogow, a
professor of law at Nova Southeastern University who has been
involved in litigation for 47 years,  The case is Pino v. Bank of New York Mellon Corp.,
11-697, Florida Supreme Court (Tallahassee).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Sexton in Tallahassee at 
 christinesextonwork@hotmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  