-- Fujitsu Advances on Job Cuts, Chip Reorganization
-- B y   N a o k o   F u j i m u r a
-- 2013-02-08T09:12:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/fujitsu-to-cut-5-000-jobs-as-it-restructures-lsi-chip-business.html
Fujitsu Ltd. , a Japanese maker of
computers and telecommunications gear, rose to the highest in 10
months in Tokyo trading on plans to eliminate 5,000 jobs and
merge its LSI chip business with that of  Panasonic Corp .  Fujitsu  jumped  5.1 percent to 434 yen, the highest since
April 2. The venture will design large-scale integration, or LSI
chips, and contract out their manufacture, according to a joint
statement yesterday. The state-backed Development Bank of Japan
was asked to help finance the venture, the companies said.  Fujitsu joins the list of Japanese electronics makers that
have shed or pared lower-margin businesses as they struggle to
compete with South Korean and Chinese rivals. The Tokyo-based
company will take 112 billion yen ($1.2 billion) in charges for
restructuring its chip business by March 31 and will also move
4,500 workers to new ventures, it said yesterday.  “The company marked a step toward a full-scale
restructuring,”  Hitoshi Shin , a Tokyo-based analyst at
Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley, said in a report to clients.
“There’s a strong possibility that the company can maintain a
balance of earnings and expenses, even as there’s some risk
remaining” under the restructuring plan, he said.  Shin raised his  recommendation  on Fujitsu to outperform
from neutral, boosting the target price to 475 yen from 320 yen.  LSI Venture  Fujitsu may move a production line in Japan’s Mie
prefecture to a new chip foundry and is in talks with  Taiwan
Semiconductor Manufacturing Co . to set up a chipmaking venture,
Fujitsu President  Masami Yamamoto told reporters yesterday.  “Fujitsu will still have the burden of bringing the new
joint venture to profitability, and we do not expect profit
growth commensurate with the staff reductions,”  Ikuo Matsuhashi 
and  Sen Yao , Tokyo-based analysts at Goldman Sachs Group Inc.,
said in a report.  Fujitsu, which has about  170,000 employees , plans to cut
about 3,000 jobs in Japan, including contract workers, and 2,000
overseas, the company said yesterday.  The company forecast a net loss of 95 billion yen in the
year ending March, compared with a previous projection for net
income of 25 billion yen, it said in a statement.  Panasonic, which is scheduled to announce a mid-term plan
by the end of next month, is restructuring as it heads toward a
second straight annual loss. The Osaka-based company has cut
more than 38,000 jobs since April, halted smartphone sales in
Europe and closed plants making lithium-ion power cells.  Panasonic  fell  5.4 percent, its biggest drop since Nov. 5,
to 716 yen.  The company’s devices division, which includes system-LSI,
broke even in the three months ended December, compared with a
loss of 13.1 billion yen a year earlier.  Funding by the Development Bank of Japan for Fujitsu would
come after state-backed funds have invested in Renesas and a
liquid-crystal display venture formed by Sony Corp.,  Hitachi
Ltd . and Toshiba Corp.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naoko Fujimura in Tokyo at 
 nfujimura@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  