-- GameStop Members May Snub Next-Gen Console Restrictions
-- B y   C l i f f   E d w a r d s
-- 2013-02-07T05:07:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/gamestop-members-may-snub-next-gen-console-restrictions.html
GameStop Corp. , responding to a
report about features on  Microsoft Corp. ’s next Xbox video-game
console, said customers would snub any new machine that
restricts play of pre-owned titles.  The Grapevine, Texas-based specialty retailer, which gets
almost half its  profit  from sales of used discs, cited surveys
of its most active customers, the 21 million U.S. members of its
PowerUp Rewards loyalty program. Those buyers would be less
likely to purchase a next-generation console that limits trading
in pre-owned games,  Matt Hodges , a  GameStop  spokesman, said
without providing details of the surveys.  “We know the desire to purchase a next-generation console
would be significantly diminished if new consoles were to
prohibit playing pre-owned games, limit portability or not play
new physical games,” Hodges said in an e-mail. He said the
company won’t comment on speculation about the specifics of
third-party hardware.  The retailer’s statement follows a report by the video-game
website Edge.com that  Microsoft ’s next Xbox will include
technology that blocks game resales. The system would register
video games over the Internet and render resold titles useless,
Edge.com reported, without saying where it got the information.  The Edge.com story sent GameStop down 6 percent to $25.20
in New York yesterday, its biggest drop in almost a month. The
stock gained  4 percent in 2012.  Graphics, Movies  Microsoft, based in Redmond, Washington, is expected before
the end of the year to begin selling a new Xbox that includes
more processing power and more home-entertainment features,
people with knowledge of the situation said last year.  “We do not comment on rumors or speculation,”  David Dennis , a spokesman for Microsoft, said in response to the
Edge.com report. “We are always thinking about what is next for
our platform, but we don’t have anything further to share at
this time.”  GameStop’s PowerUp Rewards program offers gamers advance
notice of sales, promotions and collector’s items. A paid tier
gives an additional 10 percent off any used games and
accessories, and access to downloadable content from Microsoft
and other video-game publishers.  The retailer is working to share its loyalty program
information with console makers and video-game developers to
increase sales of next-generation products, Chief Executive
Officer  J. Paul Raines  told analysts in November.  Gamer Feedback  “We can tell console makers how many people want a
particular feature on their console and we can share with
software manufacturers what type of games do people want to
play,” Raines said.  About 75 percent of GameStop’s 2012 U.S. sales were
attached to PowerUp members, with those customers spending about
five times as much as non-members, according to the company.  Michael Olson , an analyst with Piper Jaffray Cos., disputed
the Edge.com report in a research note and said the share-price
drop is a buying opportunity.  “We are confident that both the new PlayStation and the
new Xbox will support used games,” Olson wrote.  GameStop got 27 percent of its revenue and about 46 percent
of gross profit from used video games in the fiscal year that
ended in January 2012, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
In its most recently reported quarter, used game sales were 28
percent of revenue and 43 percent of profit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cliff Edwards in San Francisco at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  