-- Gasoline Demand Said to Cut Unsold Nigerian Crude Lots to Nine
-- B y   R u p e r t   R o w l i n g
-- 2013-02-07T15:31:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/gasoline-demand-said-to-cut-unsold-nigerian-crude-lots-to-nine.html
Nine  Nigerian  crude cargoes for
loading in March, or 13 percent, remain unsold as increased
demand for gasoline in the U.S. boosted purchases of the West
African nation’s grades, according to four traders who
participate in the market.  That’s below the normal for this time of the month with all
the March consignments of Qua Iboe, the country’s benchmark and
biggest grade, now sold, the traders said, asking not to be
identified because the information is confidential. Three lots
of Forcados, two of Bonga and one each of Agbami, Brass River,
Erha and Usan remain available, they said. That compares with 21
cargoes for February loading that were unsold as of Jan. 10,
three traders said at the time.  Nigeria, Africa’s largest oil producer, plans to export 69
shipments in March, totaling 2.05 million barrels a day, the
lowest in four months, according to loading programs obtained by
Bloomberg News. That compares with 65 lots, or 2.13 million
barrels a day this month.  Increased demand from European refiners for the nation’s
crude were sparked by higher gasoline margins, according to the
people. Nigerian grades are typically light and sweet, or have
lower sulfur, and yield a higher proportion of transportation
fuels than heavy, sour blends.  Gasoline Crack  Gasoline’s crack in Europe, or premium to Dated Brent, has
more than doubled since Jan. 15 to $13.13 a barrel as of 1.44
p.m. local time today, according to PVM Oil Associates Ltd., a
London-based broker. It climbed to the highest in four months at
$13.92 on Jan. 30, the data show. The region is the biggest
exporter of the fuel to America.  The four-week average for gasoline consumption in the U.S.
for the week ended Feb. 1 was 0.1 percent higher than a year
earlier, according to data from MasterCard Inc.’s SpendingPulse
report. It’s been down from the previous year every week except
one since March 18, 2011.  Gasoline prices in the U.S. rose to the most in three
months on Jan. 28 after Hess Corp. said it will shut its Port
Reading, New Jersey, refinery at the end of February.  Qua Iboe  was today priced at a premium of $2.29 a barrel to
Dated Brent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That
compares with an average of $2.26 in January.  The size of the crude cargoes range from 475,000 barrels to
975,000 barrels. The export program for April is scheduled to be
released in two weeks.  Royal Dutch Shell Plc, Exxon Mobil Corp., Chevron Corp.,
Total SA and Eni SpA run joint ventures with state-owned
Nigerian National Petroleum Corp. that pump about 90 percent of
the country’s crude.  Loading programs are monthly schedules of crude shipments
compiled by field operators to allow buyers and sellers to plan
their supply and trading activities.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rupert Rowling in London at 
 rrowling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  