-- German Industrial Output Rose in December as Economy Improved
-- B y   S t e f a n   R i e c h e r
-- 2013-02-07T11:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/german-industrial-output-rose-in-december-as-economy-improved.html
German industrial production rose in
December, adding to signs that Europe’s largest economy is
gathering pace.  Production  increased 0.3 percent from November, when it
fell 0.2 percent, the Economy Ministry in Berlin said today.
Economists forecast a 0.2 percent gain, according to the median
of 37 estimates in a  Bloomberg News survey . November output was
revised down from an initially reported 0.2 percent increase.
From a year earlier, production fell 1.1 percent when adjusted
for working days.  The economy is rebounding from a contraction at the end of
last year. Business and investor sentiment improved more than
forecast in January and the unemployment rate fell to 6.8
percent, matching a two-decade low. Factory orders rose 0.8
percent in December as demand from the euro area, Germany’s
biggest export market, surged 7 percent, the Economy Ministry
said yesterday.  Recent indicators “lead us to expect that the German
economy expanded noticeably again in the first quarter after a
presumably large minus in the final quarter of 2012,” said
 Ralph Solveen , an economist at Commerzbank AG in Frankfurt.
“Uncertainty about the future of the monetary union and its
constraining effect on investment is obviously lifting more
quickly than we had previously assumed.”  Manufacturing output rose 1.2 percent in December, with
investment-goods production up 1.9 percent and consumer-goods
output jumping 3.9 percent, today’s report showed. Production of
basic goods declined 0.7 percent and energy output dropped 3.4
percent. Construction slumped 8.9 percent from November.  Weakness Ending  While industrial production was “weak” in the final
quarter of 2012, “the recovery in factory orders and the clear
improvement in important confidence indicators in recent months
suggest the weak phase is coming to an end,” the ministry said
in an e-mailed statement.  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG , the world’s biggest maker of
luxury cars, said last month it’s targeting higher sales and
profit in 2013, boosted by global growth.  Infineon Technologies AG , Europe’s second-biggest
chipmaker, said last week it expects first-quarter earnings to
improve as demand picks up from the car industry.  German plant and machinery orders rose in December from a
year earlier as euro-area demand recovered, the VDMA machine-
makers’ association said this week.  ECB Rates  The European Central Bank will hold its  benchmark rate  at a
record low of 0.75 percent when policy makers meet in Frankfurt
today, according to all 60 economists in a Bloomberg survey. The
decision is due at 1:45 p.m. and President  Mario Draghi  holds a
press conference 45 minutes later.  “We foresee a gradual recovery in the second part of the
year,” Draghi said on Jan. 25, adding that the ECB’s
announcement of an unlimited bond-purchase program has eased
market tensions. At the same time, “the jury is still out. We
haven’t seen an equal momentum on the real side of the
economy,” he said.  The euro-area economy, which slid into recession last year,
probably stagnated in the first quarter of 2013, according to
the median of 26 forecasts in another Bloomberg survey. The ECB
estimates a contraction of 0.3 percent for the currency bloc
this year while the Bundesbank predicts the German economy will
grow 0.4 percent.  “We think that it is a bit too early to raise the green
flag,” said  Andreas Rees , chief Germany economist at UniCredit
Research in Munich. “But the upswing is coming soon, in the
course of the first quarter, and may well surprise on the
upside.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Riecher in Frankfurt at 
 sriecher@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  