-- German Stocks Rise After ECB Decision; Daimler Advances
-- B y   A d r i a   C i m i n o
-- 2013-02-07T17:02:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/german-stocks-rise-after-ecb-decision-daimler-advances.html
German stocks  rose as European
Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said an economic recovery
should begin later this year, and companies including Daimler AG
and HeidelbergCement AG reported earnings.  Daimler climbed 2.8 percent after forecasting unchanged
profit for 2013. HeidelbergCement jumped to its highest price in
20 months after earnings and sales beat analysts’ estimates.
Deutsche Bank AG and Commerzbank AG paced declining shares.  The  DAX Index  rose 0.1 percent to 7,590.85 at the close of
trading in Frankfurt. The gauge erased its gain for the year
yesterday as Spanish and Italian bond yields climbed amid
political uncertainty arising from corruption allegations
against Premier  Mariano Rajoy  and the outcome of Italian
elections this month. The broader HDAX Index also added 0.1
percent today.  The volume of shares changing hands on the DAX was 11
percent higher than the average of the last 30 days, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Central banks have to walk a thin line between saying
things are going well, but not taking away stimulus,” said
 Philippe Gijsels , head of fixed-income research at BNP Paribas
Fortis in Brussels. “They managed very well. The comments were
more dovish than last time and that’s probably something the
market likes. The overall environment for equities remains
positive. Recovery in the euro zone is going to take hold.”  Draghi said an economic recovery should begin later this
year as an absence of inflation risks allows the bank to
maintain record-low interest rates.  Gradual Recovery  “Later in 2013, economic activity should gradually
recover, supported by our accommodative policy stance,” Draghi
said at a press conference in Frankfurt after policy makers kept
the  benchmark rate  at 0.75 percent. Inflation risks are
contained, allowing the ECB’s policy “to remain
accommodative,” and economic weakness will prevail only “in
the early part” of this year, he said.  Daimler  climbed 1.20 euros to 44.21 euros. The world’s
third-largest maker of luxury vehicles forecast unchanged 2013
profit as spending for new models and a revamp of its operations
eat into earnings. Earnings before interest and taxes in 2012
from ongoing business fell 10 percent to 8.1 billion euros ($11
billion), the automaker said.  HeidelbergCement  advanced 5.1 percent to 48.59 euros, its
highest price since May 19, 2011. The world’s third-largest
maker of cement reported fourth-quarter profit and sales that
beat analysts’ estimates as growth in North America, higher
prices and cost-cuts offset weakness in Europe.  Operating profit before depreciation rose 8.2 percent to
691 million euros, the company said. The average estimate of 11
analysts in a Bloomberg survey was 644 million euros. Sales
jumped 6.5 percent to 3.5 billion euros, versus an estimated
3.42 billion euros.  Lanxess Speculation  Lanxess AG  climbed 3.7 percent to 63.61 euros, its biggest
gain since Nov. 19, with speculation about a Dow Chemical Co.
bid highlighting a belief among some investors that the
synthetic-rubber maker is a takeover target. Lanxess spokesman
 Daniel Smith  and Dow Chemical spokeswoman  Rebecca Bentley  both
declined to comment on takeover talk.  Speculation that Dow is willing to pay 70 euros to 80 euros
per share for Lanxess doesn’t make sense because Dow has an
extensive capital expenditure program already and there is very
little overlap in the companies’ businesses, said  Jaideep Pandya , an analyst at Berenberg Bank AG.  Saudi Basic Industries Corp., also known as Sabic, LG Chem
Ltd. and Reliance Industries Ltd. may consider buying Lanxess,
Jaideep said.  Hamburger Hafen  Hamburger Hafen & Logistik AG  rallied 5.2 percent to 19.08
euros. The largest container handler at Hamburg’s port reported
2012 preliminary revenue and earnings before interest and taxes
that met its forecast as throughput rose more than expected.  Deutsche Bank , Germany’s largest lender, lost 1.9 percent
to 36.50 euros.  Commerzbank , the second-biggest, fell 1.7
percent to 1.46 euros. The banks were among the biggest
decliners in the DAX.  Hannover Re , the world’s fourth-biggest reinsurer, slipped
3 percent to 56.40 euros. Berenberg Bank cut its recommendation
on the world’s fourth-biggest reinsurer to hold, citing
“relatively downbeat” January renewals.  Wacker Chemie AG , the fourth-biggest maker of polysilicon,
slid 1.9 percent to 54.77 euros even after posting quarterly
profit that beat analyst estimates. Citigroup Inc. forecast a
challenging 2013 for the polysilicon business.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adria Cimino in Paris at 
 acimino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  