-- Glencore Said to Study South African Stock-Market Listing
-- B y   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l   a n d   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h
-- 2013-02-07T22:29:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/glencore-said-to-study-stock-market-listing-in-south-africa-1-.html
Glencore International Plc , the
largest publicly traded commodities supplier, is considering a
stock-market listing in South Africa to tap the country’s
investor base, according to a person familiar with the matter.  Glencore is weighing the move partly because of the
importance South African operations will have once it completes
a $36 billion takeover of  Xstrata Plc , said the person, who
asked not to be identified because the plans aren’t public.  Baar, Switzerland-based Glencore, run by South African-born
billionaire Chief Executive Officer  Ivan Glasenberg , may still
opt not to go ahead with the listing, the person said. An
official for Glencore declined to comment.  A listing on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange by  Glencore 
would be a vote of confidence in a country where Anglo American
Platinum Ltd. and Lonmin Plc are among companies whose mines
have been plagued by sometimes violent strikes. Another
resources billionaire,  Robert Friedland , said this week he’s
considering a secondary Johannesburg listing for  Ivanplats Ltd .
a mining company he founded that trades in Toronto.  Glencore shares have traded in London and Hong Kong since
it sold $10 billion of stock in an initial public offering in
May 2011. Glasenberg 56, is due to complete the combination with
Xstrata next month, with Chinese approval the final outstanding
requirement.  Global Trader  Glencore announced the all-stock Xstrata acquisition in
February 2012, raising its bid in September before winning
shareholder approval. The takeover will create the world’s
fourth-largest mining company, combining Glencore’s global
trading operations in metals, energy and agricultural products
with Xstrata’s coal, copper and zinc mines.  Glencore and Xstrata last month extended their deadline to
complete the tie-up to mid-March, to allow for the completion of
regulatory reviews in South Africa and China.  South Africa’s antitrust regulator subsequently announced
it had cleared the deal, while China is expected to approve the
transaction, according to two Beijing-based government officials
with knowledge of the matter.  Xstrata, based in Zug, Switzerland, owns coal, chrome and
platinum mines in South Africa. Its projects include the
Goedgevonden thermal-coal complex in the Mpumalanga province,
the Helena underground chrome mine on the Eastern Limb of the
Bushveld Complex, the Wonderkop ferrochrome plant in the North
West Province and the Eland platinum mine near Pretoria.  Platinum Mine  Ivanplats is studying a stock-exchange listing in
Johannesburg as it advances plans for a new platinum mine in
South Africa.  “We have come here as foreign investors and now we are
thinking of listing in Johannesburg,” Friedland, chairman of
the company, said at a conference in Cape Town. “Our old idea
was to rush straight to the London stock exchange but having
been here with our investors we think perhaps starting with a
listing here as a second listing, may be more appropriate.”  Friedland’s Ivanplats last year sold C$300.8 million ($301
million) of stock in Canada’s biggest mining initial public
offering since 2010.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Campbell in London at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net ;
Jesse Riseborough in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  