-- Gun Background Checks Work. Let’s Fund Them.
-- B y   F r a n k   A . S .   C a m p b e l l
-- 2013-02-07T23:30:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/gun-background-checks-work-let-s-fund-them-.html
(Corrects with updated figures in 10th paragraph.)  One of President  Barack Obama ’s most
popular proposals for regulating guns in the U.S. is a  plan  to
expand firearm background checks to cover most private gun sales
in addition to sales by licensed gun dealers. More than 80
percent of the public  supports  such universal background checks,
including a  majority  of National Rifle Association members.  Yet even if the proposal survives a gantlet on Capitol Hill,
its effectiveness will be compromised from day one: Too much of
the information needed to make the system work is missing.  Gun checks by the Federal Bureau of Investigation’s
National Instant Criminal Background Check  System  can’t keep
firearms out of the wrong hands when information on a prohibited
buyer is missing. This fact was underscored by the 2007 Virginia
Tech tragedy. The NICS check didn’t stop the sale of guns to
Seung-Hui Cho, the Virginia Tech shooter, because information
about his mental-health history wasn’t in the system.  Congress responded by passing the  NICS Improvement Act ,
authorizing $1.3 billion in grants to fund state agencies and
court systems to create the necessary information infrastructure.
Yet even after additional mass shootings, the authorized sums
were never requested by the president or appropriated by
Congress; indeed, the plan has received only token funding --
$50 million since 2009, or 4 percent of the authorized amount.
As a result, information collection remains uneven, the
databases full of gaps.  Obama supports increasing spending on the NICS Improvement
Act from $5 million in 2012 to $20 million in 2013 and $50
million in 2014. This is nowhere near enough.  Investment Approach  Rather than let the system fail due to insufficient funds,
we should emulate the investment approach taken by the
government’s  DNA Initiative , which for the past eight years has
helped state and local governments outfit their DNA laboratories
and dramatically decrease backlogs of unanalyzed DNA samples
from convicted offenders, arrestees and crime scenes.  With total funding to states ranging from $100 million to
$150 million annually, the DNA Initiative  transformed  the
Combined DNA Index System, the  FBI system  that links all states’
DNA databases, increasing total profiles in the system from 2
million in 2004 to more than 11.3 million today. The total
number of CODIS program hits that have aided investigations has
climbed from 19,000 in 2004 to more than 190,000 today.  Like DNA databases, NICS can only yield benefits if it
contains relevant information. Acquiring that information
requires significant investment in information technology at the
state level. States only provide this information voluntarily,
and their ability to do so hinges largely on resources being
made available.  Data on people with dangerous mental-health histories is in
especially short supply. According to a Government
Accountability Office  study , in 2004 states had provided only
126,000 mental health records to NICS. By 2011 that number had
increased to 1.2 million, and the additional records had a
drastic effect: NICS mental-health denials increased from 365 in
2004 to 2,124 in 2011.  Despite such progress, a recent  analysis  by Mayors Against
Illegal Guns, which was co-founded by Bloomberg LP’s principal
owner,  Michael Bloomberg , reports that 18 states have submitted
fewer than 100 mental health records to NICS; 13 states reported
fewer than 10; and Rhode Island reported none.  Even among states that have submitted thousands of records,
reporting is still far from complete. Connecticut, for example,
has made 14,000 NICS mental health submissions in recent years,
but more than 16,000 such disqualifying records have never been
input.  Inadequate Technology  A GAO report identified inadequate technology as a major
challenge to state reporting of mental-health information.
Updating aging computer systems and integrating existing systems
to accommodate information from numerous sources, such as courts,
private hospitals, and state mental health offices, is
cumbersome and expensive.  Mental-health information is generally not captured by a
single state agency. Involuntary commitments, for example,
typically generate manual records in non-law-enforcement
agencies.  Privacy concerns also present a challenge. But states may
never even grapple with such issues if a lack of resources
prevents them from compiling the information in the first place.  The U.S. spent plenty of money on justice grants over the
past five years -- more than $14 billion. We just chose not to
spend much on NICS. Given the technology challenges faced by
thousands of state courts and agencies, a few million dollars
per state simply doesn’t get the job done.  If the requisite funding for NICS improvement grants is not
forthcoming, then Congress should consider other approaches to
achieve the same end. One possibility is to mandate that a share
of law-enforcement-assistance funds provided to states be set
aside for information-system enhancements.  Unlike other proposals in the president’s plan, fully
funding NICS improvements requires no new laws. And if Congress
and the president do eventually adopt universal background
checks, but they don’t also fully fund NICS, the new policy is
bound to fail when information remains missing.  (Frank A.S. Campbell is the chief executive officer of
 Highland Strategies LLC , a Washington-based security-consulting
and background-screening resource company. Previously he served
as a deputy assistant attorney general for legal policy at the
Department of Justice, where he helped design and oversee the
NICS program and start the president’s DNA Initiative. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Frank A.S. Campbell at  frank.campbell@highlandstrategies.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Francis Wilkinson at 
 fwilkinson1@bloomberg.net . 