-- Gun Buyer Checks Backed by 9 in 10 Voters, Poll Shows
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 2013-02-07T11:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/gun-buyer-checks-backed-by-9-in-10-voters-poll-shows.html
More than 9 in 10 American voters,
including those who own firearms, favor background checks for
all gun buyers, according to a poll released today.  The survey by Hamden, Connecticut-based  Quinnipiac
University  shows respondents favoring checks, 92 percent to 7
percent, similar to the 91 percent to 8 percent support among
voters in gun-owning households. Even 89 percent of Republicans
supported the proposal.  “There is no significant voter opposition to requiring
background checks for gun buyers,” said  Peter Brown , assistant
director of the Quinnipiac polling institute.  The Quinnipiac survey also showed that Americans backed
allowing women in combat by 75 percent to 22 percent. Men and
women split over whether women in combat would enhance military
effectiveness; 36 percent of men said effectiveness would be
enhanced and 34 percent said it would be compromised. Among
women, 46 percent said effectiveness would be enhanced and 30
percent said it would be compromised.  On another national issue, 56 percent endorsed allowing
undocumented immigrants to remain in the U.S. and apply for
citizenship. Another 10 percent said undocumented immigrants
should be allowed to stay in the U.S. while ineligible for
citizenship, while 30 percent said they should be required to
leave.  In responding to the December mass shooting in Newtown,
Connecticut, President  Barack Obama  and Democratic members of
Congress have backed requiring all gun purchasers to undergo
background checks, now mandated only for transactions involving
federally licensed gun dealers.  Assault-Weapons Ban  Other proposals made following the killings of 20 students
and six adults at a Newtown elementary school also were
supported by a majority of respondents. The poll showed that a
ban on assault weapons was backed, 56 percent to 39 percent, and
a ban on the sale of high-capacity ammunition magazines was
supported, 56 percent to 40 percent.  Fifty-two percent of registered voters supported stricter
gun laws, while 43 percent didn’t. That’s little unchanged from
July 2008, when stricter laws were backed, 54 percent to 40
percent.  At the same time, 46 percent said the  National Rifle
Association , which has come out against any new laws, better
reflected their views on guns, while 43 percent said Obama did.
And the poll showed that 37 percent were more likely to support
a lawmaker who voted to ban assault weapons while 31 percent
said they were less likely.  The survey of 1,772 registered voters was conducted Jan.
30-Feb. 4 and had a margin of error of plus or minus 2.3
percentage points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan D. Salant  in Washington at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at   jcummings21@bloomberg.net . 