-- Gunmaker Profits Seen Trumping S&P Amid Ban Proposals
-- B y   B r o o k e   S u t h e r l a n d
-- 2013-02-07T21:44:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/gunmaker-profits-seen-trumping-s-p-amid-ban-proposals.html
The two biggest publicly traded gun
manufacturers in the U.S. are poised to outstrip average profit
growth by Standard & Poor’s 500 Index companies as the proposed
tightening of regulations after a deadly elementary school
shooting heightens demand for weapons.  Smith & Wesson Holding Corp. ’s earnings per share may have
almost tripled in the three months through Jan. 31, while  Sturm
Ruger & Co.’s  may have climbed more than 50 percent in its most
recent quarter, according to analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.
That compares with average growth of 9.6 percent among S&P 500
companies reporting fourth-quarter earnings through Feb. 7.  Shares of the two gunmakers have reflected the sales
growth, rebounding from declines after the Dec. 14 rampage in
Newtown, Connecticut, that left 28 dead. Consumers are
increasing firearms purchases as the government considers
outlawing some models in an effort to curb violent crime.  “The gun-buying public is not going away,” said Randy
Cloud, president of Tulsa, Oklahoma-based Cloud Capital LLC,
which oversees $300 million including Smith & Wesson and Sturm
Ruger shares. The gun control debate “has ignited enough
concern and enough fear in people that want to own guns that
they’re going to continue to buy up the foreseeable inventory
for a while and earnings will be significantly ahead of previous
expectations.”  Smith & Wesson, which is 160 years old, has “thrived and
been extremely successful in this highly regulated
environment,” Chief Executive Officer  James Debney  told
investors today at the Cowen & Co. aerospace and defense
conference in New York. His comments were among the first public
statements from a firearms manufacturer since the shooting.  Profit Estimates  “Whatever the outcome of any legislative change, that will
shape our future plans accordingly and we will respond,” Debney
said.  Smith & Wesson may post profit for its fiscal third quarter
of 22 cents a share, excluding certain items, up from 8 cents a
year earlier, according to the average of analysts’  estimates 
compiled by Bloomberg.  Analysts project Southport, Connecticut-based Sturm Ruger’s
fourth-quarter  profit  rose to 82 cents share, compared with 54
cents in the same period last year.  The companies are benefiting from a record surge in demand
for guns after the Newtown slayings spurred legislative
proposals including universal background checks and a sales ban
on assault weapons and high-capacity magazines.  Background Checks  Smith & Wesson has climbed about 18 percent after snapping
a three-day drop following the shooting, while Sturm Ruger has
jumped 35 percent. Smith & Wesson rose 1.2 percent to $9.15 at
the close in New York, while Sturm Ruger increased 0.2 percent
to $54.88.  While the Bushmaster AR-15 rifle used by the Newtown
shooter is made by Cerberus Capital Management LP’s Freedom
Group Inc., the largest U.S. maker of civilian arms, Smith &
Wesson and Sturm Ruger sell similar military-style weapons,
according to their websites.  Background checks performed before purchases hit an all-
time high in December, climbing almost 59 percent from a year
earlier to 2.2 million, according to federal data adjusted by
the Newtown, Connecticut-based industry group National Shooting
Sports Foundation to eliminate checks not related to sales.  Winchester Ammunition  Olin Corp ., the biggest U.S. retail supplier of small-
caliber ammunition, said last week that its Winchester bullet
and shotgun-shell unit had an ammunition backlog valued at $280
million in January, compared with $29 million at the end of
2011. The company projected the sale surge would boost earnings
through the third quarter.  “Basically, firearms are flying off the shelves,”  Randy Bateman , chief investment officer of Huntington Asset Advisors,
which oversees $15 billion including Sturm Ruger shares, said in
a telephone interview from Columbus, Ohio. “You’ve got at least
maybe a whole year’s worth of positive earnings momentum.”  Analysts’ estimates may fall short of capturing just how
lucrative the demand has been, said  Peter Zeuli , chief
investment officer at Voorhees, New Jersey-based Philadelphia
Investment Partners LLC.  Demand Surge  “They’ll blow them out,” Zeuli, whose firm oversees $125
million including Sturm Ruger shares, said of the company’s
earnings in a phone interview. The estimates don’t “have any
handle on” the sales surge.  While much of the growing demand is linked to weapons that
would be affected by proposed restrictions, earnings momentum
may be sustained at both Springfield, Massachusetts-based Smith
& Wesson and Sturm Ruger even if new rules pass, Cloud said in a
telephone interview.  Stocks of gunmakers are “a win in pretty much any
environment going forward,” he said. “Pick a number. Right now
you can have a 30-round magazine. Let’s say you can only have a
15 or whatever it is and some law gets passed enforcing that.
People are going to be concerned that there will be, at some
point, some other tragedy and some other knee-jerk legislation
and they’ll continue to buy whatever is available.”  Another boost to revenue might come from a purchase of
parts of Freedom Group, Cloud said. Cerberus is selling the
weapons maker after the California State Teachers’ Retirement
System said it would review its investment in the private-equity
fund in light of the Newtown tragedy.  Freedom Group  Smith & Wesson is “definitely a likely” bidder for parts
of Freedom Group,  Rommel Dionisio , a New York-based analyst at
Wedbush Inc., said in a phone interview. Freedom Group’s
Remington unit in particular would be a “very good fit” for
the company, he said, and with most of the brand’s long-gun
business focused on shot guns and bolt-action rifles, “its
exposure to potential regulatory changes is fairly minimal.”  And there is always the chance that legislation, if it
passes at all, won’t be as comprehensive as the proposals, said
Cloud and Zeuli. That would position Sturm Ruger and Smith &
Wesson to benefit from the gun-buying surge without needing to
modify their business.  “It’s going to be very tough to get laws onto the books
that are vastly different from what they are now,” Zeuli said.
“It’s a fear and whether the fear is reality or not, that’s up
to the future to determine. But at this point in time, Obama’s
been terrific for the gun industry.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Brooke Sutherland  in New York at 
 bsutherland7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  