-- Iamgold Weighing Buyback, Extra Dividend as Expansion Curbed
-- B y   S o r a y a   P e r m a t a s a r i
-- 2013-02-07T07:06:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/iamgold-weighing-buyback-special-dividend-as-expansion-curbed.html
Iamgold Corp. , a producer with mines
in Canada, West Africa and South America, is considering a share
buyback or extra dividend to boost shareholder returns after its
stock slumped and it curbed spending on expansion.  Iamgold shares have tumbled 49 percent in the past year to
close at C$8.65 on Feb. 6 in Toronto. The stock hit a four-year
low on Jan. 31 after the Toronto-based company reported higher
output costs and lower grades at its Westwood project in Quebec.  “The current share price is totally unacceptable,” Chief
Executive Officer  Steve Letwin  said today in an interview in
Melbourne. “The company is in great financial shape but we’ve
got a terrible sentiment out there and my job is to make sure we
maximize value for shareholders.”  Iamgold, which had $897 million in cash and cash
equivalents on its balance sheet at Sept. 30, is seeking to curb
spending on projects to control costs that are increasing at a
rate of about 15 percent a year, said Letwin. The company paid a
second-half dividend of 12.5 cents a share.  “We can pay extra dividend, we can buy shares back, we can
restructure the company,” said Letwin. “We’ll do it when the
time is right but I am completely focused at getting the share
prices up. When you do the math there should be ways to do
that.”  Spot Price  Gold producers are expanding output to cope with rising
costs and benefit from prices that have increased for 12
consecutive years. The spot price gained 7 percent last year as
Asian demand rose and central banks boosted purchases. It was
little changed at $1,679.45 an ounce at 4:09 p.m. in Melbourne.  Prices are likely to stay in the range of $1,600 an ounce
to $1,700 an ounce this year, Letwin said. Gold will gain over
the longer term as supply becomes tight on falling output, he
said.  The company, Canada’s sixth-largest producer, said last
month 2013 attributable production will be 875,000 ounces to
950,000 ounces, compared with 830,000 ounces last year. Gold
output will grow over the next five years to 1.4 million to 1.6
million ounces, the company said.  AngloGold Ashanti Ltd., Africa’s largest producer said
yesterday in a statement that it will hold back on expansion
spending for its Sadiola mine joint venture with Iamgold in Mali,
where the government is fighting insurgents. Iamgold, which owns
a 41 percent stake, is also unlikely to be spending more on the
mine, Letwin said  “When juniors can’t finance their projects and when the
majors are losing organic production, when people are cutting
capital back like crazy, eventually supply starts to get
affected and if demand stays constant inevitably you’re going to
have to start paying more for gold,” said Letwin.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Soraya Permatasari in Melbourne at 
 soraya@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  