-- Libya’s Zueitina Port Resumes Oil Exports With Cargo
-- B y   O l a   G a l a l   a n d   A l a r i c   N i g h t i n g a l e
-- 2013-02-07T14:25:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/libya-s-zueitina-port-resumes-oil-exports-with-cargo.html
Libya’s Zueitina port re-opened for
crude exports, with a ship scheduled to load 700,000 barrels of
the Abu Attifel grade, according to two people with direct
knowledge of the matter.  The loading period is from Feb. 5 to Feb. 7, according to
the people, who declined to be identified because the
information isn’t public. The shipment had been delayed by bad
weather and would mark the first  crude  export from the port
since it was closed at the end of last year, said one of the
people, who is based in Tripoli.  The Zueitina port and pipeline pumping complex halted
operations in late December because protesters prevented
employees from going to their offices, leading state-run
National Oil Corp. to suspend pumping crude into a pipeline.  The Oil Ministry will end the Zueitina siege and resume
pumping crude “very soon” to the terminal’s export tanks, NOC
said in a Jan. 20 statement on its website, citing Deputy Oil
Minister Omar Shakmak.  The terminal handled about 150,000 barrels of exports a day
in 2010, according to data from the U.S. Energy Department.
Shipments were disrupted by the civil conflict in 2011 that
ousted the government of Muammar Qaddafi and recovered again
last year as the oil industry started to get back to normal.  Libya’s oil production dipped last month to 1.1 million
barrels a day, from December’s level of 1.43 million, in part
because of the Zueitina protests, according to a Jan. 31
Bloomberg survey of producers and analysts.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ola Galal in Cairo at 
 ogalal@bloomberg.net ;
Alaric Nightingale in London at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net ;
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  