-- Iceland Top Court Hands Prison Term to Johannesson on Taxes
-- B y   O m a r   R .   V a l d i m a r s s o n
-- 2013-02-07T18:36:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/iceland-top-court-hands-prison-term-to-johannesson-on-taxes-1-.html
Jon Asgeir Johannesson , the former
Icelandic billionaire who controlled failed retail empire Baugur
Group hf, was found guilty of tax fraud by Iceland’s Supreme
Court.  Johannesson received one year in jail and a fine of 62
million kronur ($484,000) today for a total of nine violations,
including not declaring all his capital gains income, profit
from shares he sold and violating accounting laws while running
Baugur, according to the  ruling . Johannesson’s sentence was
suspended for two years.  A year before Iceland’s economic meltdown in 2008,
Johannesson was the country’s third richest man with a fortune
amounting to $1.6 billion. He faces lawsuits from failed lender
Glitnir Bank hf, in which he was the largest shareholder. The
former Baugur CEO said in a March 12 interview that Glitnir’s
lawsuit was based on “fiction” and likely to be dismissed.  Johannesson’s fate tracked the boom-to-bust trajectory of
Iceland’s economy. His retail empire in the U.K. and Iceland was
built with money borrowed from  Glitnir . He epitomized the
Icelandic entrepreneur of the 1990s and 2000s, as the island
moved away from its reliance on fishing and tourism and became
dominated by finance.  When his fortune was at its peak, Johannesson owned a pin-
striped private jet, luxury apartments in New York City and
London, and a 50-meter private yacht. Since the collapse of his
empire in 2008, his fortune has shrunk to about $2 million, he
estimates. He earns his living doing consulting work for
companies in the U.K., he said in March.  Career  Johannesson’s career started more than two decades ago.
Together with his father Johannes Jonsson, he opened a chain of
Bonus supermarkets in Iceland in 1989. His arrival in the U.K.
retail trade by borrowing to acquire several brands, including
the acquisition of toy store  Hamleys Plc  and department chain
House of Fraser Ltd. Both have since been sold.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Omar R. Valdimarsson  in Reykjavik 
 valdimarsson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net . 