-- Microsoft Disrupted Cybercrime Botnet That Hijacked PCs
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 2013-02-07T21:47:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/microsoft-disrupted-cybercrime-botnet-that-hijacked-pcs.html
Microsoft Corp. , the world’s biggest
software maker, said it disrupted a cybercrime operation known
as the Bamital botnet that took control of hundreds of thousands
of personal computers by infecting them with malicious software.  Microsoft worked with  Symantec Corp. , the world’s biggest
antivirus-software maker, to seize Bamital data and evidence
yesterday at Web-hosting facilities in Weehawken, New Jersey,
and Manassas, Virginia. Microsoft had filed a lawsuit in federal
court in Alexandria, Virginia, on Jan. 31.  The malware hijacked browsers and redirected them to search
websites of Bamital’s choosing, according to the complaint.
Microsoft and Symantec yesterday directed users to tools
designed to help clean affected computers. The number of
affected computers ranges between 250,000 and 1 million, Richard
Boscovich, assistant general counsel, said in an interview.  “The malware exposed computers to a huge range of security
vulnerabilities such as identity theft,” said Boscovich, of
Microsoft’s Digital Crimes Unit. “It also potentially took them
to other malware.”  Bamital’s actions also took millions of dollars away from
the search engines of advertisers, Boscovich said. Through the
litigation, filed against “John Does 1-18, Controlling a
Computer Botnet Thereby Injuring Microsoft and Its Customers,”
Microsoft seeks control over the Bamital botnet, disgorgement of
profits, and unspecified compensatory damages and legal costs.  ‘Eastern European’  “We definitely believe that it’s of Eastern European
origin, and the people behind the botnet are more likely either
Russian or Ukranian,” Boscovich said.  Microsoft said that in one instance, company investigators
“found that Bamital rerouted a search for ‘Nickelodeon’ to a
website that distributed malware, including spyware that is
designed to track the activities of the computer owner.”  Since 2010, Bamital has attacked 8.2 million to 8.3 million
computers, Boscovich said. Symantec has estimated that 1.2
million to 1.4 million computers were actively infected with the
malware since 2011. The current number of infected computers
won’t be known for at least 24 hours, Boscovich said.  The lawsuit was filed under several civil laws, including
the Lanham Act and the Computer Fraud & Abuse Act. Boscovich
said he doesn’t know of a criminal investigation.  The case is Microsoft v. John Does 1-18, 13-cv-00139, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of Virginia (Alexandria).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Voreacos  in Newark, New Jersey, at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 