-- Higher Oil Taxes Would Lift the Economy
-- B y   M i c h a e l   L e v i   a n d   D a n i e l   P .   A h n
-- 2013-02-07T23:30:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/higher-oil-taxes-would-lift-the-economy.html
President  Barack Obama  this week
reaffirmed his desire to  tackle  the U.S. budget deficit through
“a balanced mix of spending cuts and more tax reform.” As
lawmakers in Congress search for ways to do this, they should
take a new look at raising oil taxes. Even if they don’t believe
that the U.S. consumes too much oil, they will find that
incorporating higher oil taxes into a broader deficit package
can make strong economic sense.  The U.S. levies small taxes on gasoline, diesel and jet
fuel that add up to less than $10 on each barrel of oil
consumed. Yet increasing any of these taxes has long been
politically toxic. The result, once inflation is factored in,
has been a steady drop in the tax rate on oil use.  Economists have argued that higher oil taxes would, in
principle, be an efficient way to reduce deficits while curbing
oil consumption. Yet few hard numbers have been attached to
these claims. And the potential impact of higher oil taxes on
economic growth and job creation in a weak economy -- a critical
issue given today’s still-fragile conditions -- is largely
unexamined territory.  Economic Model  We’ve looked into these questions with an economic model
that uses quarterly data stretching back to 1952 to extract
relationships among several hundred economic and energy
indicators. (Our results were  published  this week by the Council
on Foreign Relations.) We considered oil taxes in the context of
the larger tax system, comparing a range of deficit-reduction
packages containing only income-tax hikes and government-
spending cuts with a dozen variations that incorporate oil-tax
increases. And we found that including oil taxes can bring,
through the end of this decade, stronger economic growth, lower
unemployment and reduced oil consumption -- even while raising
more money.  Consider, for instance, the budget plan recommended in 2011
by the Simpson-Bowles commission, designed to directly cut the
deficit by about 4 percent of gross domestic product by 2020. It
would do so through a mix of modest individual and corporate tax
increases and considerably larger government-spending cuts.  If lawmakers altered that package to avoid some of the
spending cuts, and added an appropriately sized oil tax, they
could keep the same deficit-reduction target. A notional oil tax
might rise to $50 per barrel by 2020, about $1.20 for a gallon
of gasoline, producing revenue equivalent to about 1.5 percent
of GDP.  Using an oil tax of this size to avoid spending cuts would
lead to stronger economic output and a lower unemployment rate
in every year through 2020 (the last year that we modeled). By
the end of this decade, the U.S. economy would be almost 1
percent larger, and the unemployment rate more than 0.2 percent
lower, than with the original deficit package. Oil consumption
would also fall by almost 500,000 barrels a day, helping shield
the U.S. economy from volatile world markets.  Why would this happen? Tax increases and spending cuts, by
reducing demand for U.S.-made goods and services, can harm near-
term economic performance. Raising oil taxes does far less to
blunt near-term demand than cutting spending does, our model
shows. This is because people change their behavior slowly in
response to higher oil prices, whether by buying more efficient
cars or moving closer to work; in contrast, cuts in government
spending hit the economy immediately. It also helps that a large
fraction of our oil is still imported.  We also find near-term (though smaller) economic benefits
if part of the revenue from a higher oil tax is dedicated to
avoiding any increase in individual taxes. This is largely
because most of the proceeds from our notional oil-tax increase
could still be used to avoid sharp spending cuts.  Suppressing Demand  On the other hand, when the oil tax is used mostly to avoid
tax increases on individual and corporate income, we find that
it usually worsens near-term economic performance. This is
because oil taxes do more to suppress near-term demand than
corporate taxes do. That said, higher corporate taxes, by
reducing business investment, may create longer-term risks
beyond the horizon of our model.  Any effort to increase taxes on oil would need to confront
other potential problems. For one, oil taxes are regressive,
because poorer people spend a greater share of their money on
oil and gasoline than wealthier people do (though government-
assistance programs that are indexed to inflation help blunt
this). Yet our results suggest that even if this was addressed
by using half of the revenue from an oil tax to provide rebates
to consumers, the net benefits of a modest oil tax in a deficit-
reduction package could still be positive, depending on how the
remaining revenue was used. Another way to address the
regressive nature of oil taxes would be to tailor any spending
cuts or income-tax increases to reduce their effects on lower-
income families.  Some people might wonder whether a rising oil tax would
harm the current oil-production boom. Our modeling suggests
that, because oil prices are set by global supply and demand, a
$50-a-barrel tax would probably push pretax oil prices down by
at most a few dollars. This wouldn’t make a big difference to
U.S. oil producers’ bottom lines or their decisions on how much
oil to produce.  To be sure, the results of any economic-forecasting model
should be handled cautiously. If the past dynamics that were
used to inform our model (developed by  Daniel Ahn ) turn out to
be poor indicators of how the economy will function in the
future, then the projections will be misleading. Similarly, to
the extent that future conditions end up well outside the realm
of experience, a model that draws heavily on economic history
will be flawed. That said, since the oil tax that we model is
well within the range of past oil-price volatility, the risk of
this problem is limited.  Congress may decide not to raise taxes or cut spending much
at all. Given that tax increases and spending cuts of any kind
risk harming near-term output and increasing unemployment, that
might be a wise choice, at least for now. But if lawmakers
decide to go ahead with further deficit reduction, they would be
remiss not to take a hard look at higher oil taxes as part of
the deal.  ( Michael Levi  is the David M. Rubenstein  Senior Fellow  for
Energy and the Environment at the Council on Foreign Relations
and author of the forthcoming book “ The Power Surge: Energy,
Opportunity, and the Battle for America’s Future .”  Daniel P. Ahn 
is an  adjunct fellow  for energy and national security at the
Council on Foreign Relations. The opinions expressed are their
own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Michael Levi at  mlevi@cfr.org 
Daniel P. Ahn at  danielpahn@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net  