-- Time Inc.’s Magazines Fall 11 Percent at the Newsstand
-- B y   E d m u n d   L e e
-- 2013-02-08T21:03:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/time-inc-s-magazines-fall-11-percent-at-the-newsstand.html
Time Inc. , the largest magazine
company in the U.S., lost 11 percent of its newsstand sales in
the second half of last year as readers lost interest in two of
the biggest U.S. publications.  People  and Time were among the Time Warner Inc. unit’s
titles with the biggest drops at the newsstand, based on an
analysis of data released yesterday by the  Alliance for Audited
Media . Subscription sales rose 3 percent, helping boost total
circulation 1 percent to 32.9 million.  Single-copy newsstand sales are an important measure of a
magazine’s health and provide a snapshot of reader interest.
Time Inc., which recently eliminated 6 percent of its workforce,
has suffered ad and circulation declines affecting most titles.
Chief Executive Officer  Laura Lang  has been working to merge
print and Web advertising operations, aiming to reinvigorate
what has become  Time Warner ’s worst-performing division.  While Time Inc.’s circulation growth was better than the
industry, its single-copy sales were worse.  U.S. magazines  lost
0.3 percent  in circulation in the second half of 2012, the AAM
said yesterday, with newsstand sales falling 8.2 percent
industrywide.  Time magazine fell 23.2 percent in single-copy sales, with
total circulation little changed at 3.28 million. People
magazine, the company’s most profitable title, dropped 12.2
percent at the newsstand while subscriptions gained 8.2 percent.
People’s total circulation notched up 1.9 percent to 3.64
million.  Revenue Drop  Time Inc. reported a 7 percent  drop  in revenue to $967
million in the fourth quarter of last year.  “With the significant and ongoing changes in our industry,
we must continue to transform our company into one that is
leaner, more nimble and more innately multiplatform,” Lang, a
former advertising executive who took charge of Time Inc. last
year, said in a Jan. 30 memo to employees about the job cuts.
“These reductions are part of this important transformation
process.”  A few bright spots at the company include a 5.1 percent
rise in total circulation at Essence and an 8.5 percent jump for
People StyleWatch magazine.  Time Warner  rose  less than 1 percent to $52.57 at the close
in New York. The shares are up 9.9 percent this year, compared
with a 6.4 percent gain for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edmund Lee in New York at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  