-- Immelt Calls on Obama, Congress to Negotiate Fiscal Deal
-- B y   T i m   C a t t s
-- 2013-02-07T22:50:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/immelt-calls-on-obama-congress-to-negotiate-fiscal-deal.html
General Electric Co.  Chief Executive
Officer  Jeffrey Immelt  called on President  Barack Obama  and his
political adversaries in Congress to hold face-to-face talks to
avert $1.2 billion of spending cuts set for next month.  “I would feel much better if they started meeting,”
Immelt said at a forum on U.S. manufacturing hosted by the
Atlantic magazine in Washington. “Let’s get negotiated
certainty so we can grow the economy and do the things we all
want to do.”  Immelt, who served two years as chairman of the President’s
Council on Jobs and Competitiveness, said uncertainty about
whether the cuts scheduled for March 1 will take effect is
hurting U.S. companies. Obama called on Congress earlier this
week to put off the so-called sequester and work instead on a
short-term package that would increase revenue while trimming
federal spending.  GE won’t reduce investment or research spending in
anticipation of the cuts taking effect, Immelt said in a meeting
with journalists on the forum’s sidelines. A group of small and
medium-size customers of GE Capital’s lending business that
Immelt met with yesterday in Philadelphia probably won’t have
that luxury, he said.  “Like all business people, I’m rooting for this to get
resolved, but I’m preparing the company for it not to get
resolved,” Immelt said. “We’re prepared for volatility.”  Deficit Cut  At House Democrats’ annual retreat in Virginia today, Obama
said he’s “prepared, eager and anxious to do a big deal.” He’s
called for curbing tax breaks for high-income individuals and
changing the treatment of profits in buyout deals, known as
carried interest.  House Speaker  John Boehner , an Ohio Republican, will oppose
delaying the automatic spending reductions unless Congress
replaces them with other “cuts and reforms,” he said
yesterday.  A bill passed in January with bipartisan support in both
the House and the Senate delayed the automatic spending
reductions by two months. It also made tax cuts enacted by
former President George W. Bush permanent for most workers,
allowed a payroll tax cut to expire and extended unemployment
benefits. Obama negotiated with congressional leaders in the
days before the votes.  The biggest decline in defense spending in 40 years helped
stall the U.S. economy last quarter, with gross domestic product
declining at a 0.1 percent annual rate.  Obama didn’t renew the 27-member job council’s charter,
ending its two-year term. Boeing Co. CEO  Jim McNerney , Xerox
Corp. CEO  Ursula Burns  and AOL Inc. co-founder  Steve Case  were
also members of the group.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Catts in Washington at 
 tcatts1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  