-- India Predicts Growth at Decade Low as Investment Slows
-- B y   U n n i   K r i s h n a n
-- 2013-02-07T05:58:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/india-predicts-growth-at-decade-low-as-investment-slows.html
India forecast the weakest economic
growth in a decade as subdued investment and elevated inflation
add pressure on Prime Minister Manmohan Singh to extend policy
changes and revive his development agenda.  Gross domestic product  will rise 5 percent in the 12 months
through March 2013, below last year’s 6.2 percent and the least
since 4 percent in 2002-2003, a Central Statistical Office
statement showed in New Delhi today. The median of 34 estimates
in a Bloomberg News survey was 5.5 percent.  India faces  inflation  of more than 7 percent, one of the
fastest levels in major emerging nations, limiting the extent
the central bank can cut interest rates to spur expansion. The
government has vowed spending curbs to damp price gains as it
prepares to unveil the annual budget, part of a wider policy
overhaul since September to lure capital inflows and ease
bottlenecks by speeding up infrastructure projects.  “The government will need to maintain momentum on more
measures to boost growth,”  Vishnu Varathan , an economist at
Mizuho Corporate Bank Ltd. in Singapore, said before the report.
India faces a “pretty measured and modest recovery,” he said.  The rupee is up about 4 percent against the dollar since
the policy changes began Sept. 13, while the  BSE India Sensitive
Index  has risen 9 percent. The currency weakened 0.1 percent to
53.195 per dollar as of 11:16 a.m. in Mumbai, while the stock
index declined 0.1 percent. The yield on the 10-year government
bond maturing June 2022 dropped to 7.89 percent from 7.91
percent yesterday.  Policy Changes  The government has opened industries including retail and
aviation to more foreign participation, and aims to loosen
limits on investment into the pensions and insurance industries.  It has also set up a panel to accelerate stalled road, port
and power projects, eased caps on capital inflows and allowed
higher diesel tariffs to curb fuel subsidies.  Finance Minister  Palaniappan Chidambaram , who is due to
present the budget on Feb. 28, has pledged to contain the fiscal
deficit at 5.3 percent of GDP in 2012-2013 and pare it to 4.8
percent the following year.  The Reserve Bank of India lowered  rates  to 7.75 percent
from 8 percent last month, the first reduction since April. At
the same time, Governor Duvvuri Subbarao signaled there’s
limited space for further easing because of lingering price
pressures and risks such as a record current-account deficit.  Inflation, based on wholesale prices, decelerated to a
three-year low of 7.18 percent in December.  Consumer prices  rose
10.56 percent in December from a year earlier, the fastest in
the BRIC group, which also includes Brazil, Russia and China.  Twin Deficits  Singh, facing a general election by May 2014, snapped two
years of policy paralysis with the changes beginning September.
Allegations of graft against officials contributed to the
earlier logjam and deterred spending on infrastructure.  The government is trying to narrow budget and trade
deficits to avert a credit-rating downgrade. The current-account
gap was an unprecedented $22.31 billion in the quarter ended
Sept. 30.  Companies such as motorcycle maker Hero MotoCorp Ltd. have
reported declining profits, while higher costs led mobile-phone
operator Bharti Airtel Ltd. to increase prices in January.  The International Monetary Fund yesterday predicted 6
percent Indian GDP growth in 2013-2014. It flagged declining
corporate and infrastructure investment and said borrowing costs
should be left unchanged until inflation is contained. The
lender also said that while India’s expansion remains one of the
highest in the world, risks are on the downside.  The IMF’s forecast compares with average expansion of about
8 percent in the past decade. More than two-thirds of India’s
population live on less than $2 per day, according to  World Bank 
data, adding pressure for faster development.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Unni Krishnan  in New Delhi at 
 ukrishnan2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  