-- Indonesia to Build Jakarta Monorail to Ease Rising Traffic Jams
-- B y   W i d y a   U t a m i   a n d   Y u d i t h   H o
-- 2013-02-07T09:03:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/indonesia-to-build-jakarta-monorail-to-ease-rising-traffic-jams.html
Indonesia’s state-owned companies
will build a monorail linking Jakarta and surrounding areas as
an expanding economy and rising vehicle sales threaten the
capital city of 9.6 million people with traffic gridlock.  The 9 trillion-rupiah ($927 million) project will involve
companies including  PT Adhi Karya ,  PT Jasa Marga  and  PT
Telekomunikasi Indonesia  and be completed in two years after the
license is approved next month, State-Owned Enterprises Minister
 Dahlan Iskan  said in Jakarta today. The line will stretch 54
kilometers (33.6 miles) and link Jakarta, Cibubur and Bekasi.  “This project will be very beneficial for all of us as it
will save on fuel,” Iskan said. “It will also reduce traffic
congestion problems such as the impact of flooding yesterday.”  Jakarta Governor  Joko Widodo , who was elected in September,
pledged to improve the mass transit system as traffic growth is
stretching the city’s road capacities, worsening congestion.
Commuters in Jakarta trying to reach home from work were delayed
for hours last night after heavy rains caused several areas to
be inundated, bringing traffic and trains to a standstill.  Southeast Asia’s biggest economy expanded 6.1 percent in
the three months through December, with Jakarta  contributing 
about 17 percent of that growth, government data show. Domestic
vehicle sales rose 23 percent to 1.1 million units last year,
according to data compiled by  PT Astra International , the
nation’s biggest car seller.  MRT Decision  Once completed, the monorail will carry as many as 191,600
passengers daily, saving about 573,000 liters of fuel each day
and amounting to 1.5 trillion rupiah saved each year, according
to a statement from Adhi Karya today. The project will be 70
percent financed with bank loans and the rest from internal cash,
Iskan said.  The Jakarta government also plans to decide this month on
whether to build a mass rapid transit system with Japanese
investors contributing 49 percent of funding, from 42 percent
previously, Sutanto Soehodho, Jakarta’s deputy governor for
trade and transportation, said yesterday. Tender offers will be
accepted one week after the decision is made, he said.  Construction of the MRT has been delayed since studies were
first conducted in the 1980s, illustrating Indonesia’s
difficulty to push forward with projects to build roads, bridges
and ports. The country missed its 2012 budget deficit target
amid lower-than-expected government spending as land clearances
for infrastructure projects had been slow.  The deficit shortfall underscores President  Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono ’s challenge to sustain one of Asia’s fastest growth
rates with spending on roads, ports and bridges. Infrastructure
investment has fallen to about 4 percent of gross domestic
product from more than 8 percent in 1995 and 1996, Theo Thomas,
senior public sector specialist at the World Bank in Indonesia,
said Dec. 6.  Jakarta ranked 181 out of 221 cities for personal safety in
a survey conducted in 2011 by advisory company Mercer that
ranked internal stability, crime levels and law enforcement
effectiveness. The city ranked 140 in overall quality of life,
below Singapore, Kuala Lumpur, Bangkok and Manila.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Widya Utami in Jakarta at 
 wutami@bloomberg.net ;
Yudith Ho in Jakarta at 
 yho35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Greg Ahlstrand at 
 gahlstrand@bloomberg.net  