-- Investors Seek New Highs for Stocks Tied to U.S. Gains
-- B y   A n n a - L o u i s e   J a c k s o n   a n d   A n t h o n y   F e l d
-- 2013-02-07T05:01:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/investors-seek-new-highs-for-stocks-tied-to-u-s-gains.html
Shares of companies with high
operating or financial leverage are outperforming the market, as
investor sentiment about the economy improves.  Two portfolio indexes of such stocks maintained by Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. have outpaced the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
since October, a sign that riskier investment strategies are
gaining favor. As the expansion strengthens, companies with
higher fixed cost structures or weaker balance sheets are “more
likely to benefit from that recovery,” said  Tim Ghriskey , who
oversees about $2 billion as chief investment officer of Solaris
Group LLC, based in Bedford Hills, New York.  Goldman Sachs’ Weak Balance Sheet Basket -- comprising 51
companies including hospital operator Tenet Healthcare Corp. and
truck lessor Ryder System Inc. -- has outpaced the S&P 500 by
8.8 percentage points since Oct. 1. The bank’s High Operating
Leverage Basket -- made up of subscription-video service Netflix
Inc., technology consultant Computer Sciences Corp. and 50 other
members -- is almost 14 percentage points ahead.  A rise to new relative highs would be a confirming signal
for investors looking to see if the recent jump in the S&P 500
is durable, Ghriskey said. The benchmark index closed at
1,466.47 on Jan. 4, the highest since Dec. 31, 2007, and has
climbed  3.1 percent  since then.  Slow, Steady  Gains in the Goldman Sachs baskets since the fourth quarter
of 2012 “match what we’re seeing in the economy, which has been
a resumption of slow, steady improvements,” he added.  While U.S. gross domestic product unexpectedly contracted
at a 0.1 percent annual rate in the three months ended Dec. 31,
rising auto sales led a 2.2 percent advance in consumer
spending, which accounts for about 70 percent of the economy. A
jump in pay may have helped. After-tax income rose 6.8 percent
from October through December, the most in four years.  Housing and employment also are strengthening. The
S&P/Case-Shiller index of property values in 20 U.S. cities
increased  5.5 percent  in the year through November, the largest
gain since August 2006. And U.S. employers added 157,000 workers
in January, following a revised 196,000 advance the prior month,
based on data from the Labor Department.  The relative outperformance of risky equities “shows that
the market’s rally has broadened recently,” according to  Jim Stellakis , founder and director of research at Greenwich,
Connecticut-based research company Technical Alpha Inc. and a
chartered market technician. “Investors are more comfortable
having their money parked in these types of stocks now.”  Pay Debts  Goldman Sachs’  weak balance-sheet basket  -- which excludes
financials and utilities -- measures financial strength among
S&P 500 companies using metrics such as levels of debt relative
to total capitalization, based on information from the New York
bank. These businesses benefit from economic growth because
increased revenue allows them to pay down their obligations more
easily, Ghriskey said.  The  basket with high operating leverage  also excludes
financials and utilities. A larger portion of the costs for
these S&P 500 companies is fixed compared with their sector
peers, so an improvement in sales causes a disproportionate
boost to profits, he said.  Companies in the latter group are “positioned to do well
in this environment” because they have greater earnings
sensitivity to an improving economy, said  Eric Teal , chief
investment officer at First Citizens BancShares Inc., which
manages $4.5 billion in Raleigh, North Carolina. Investors’
preference for these stocks reflects the “risk-on environment
we’ve seen in the past few months.”  Other Criteria  Teal’s fund includes companies with high operating
leverage, though it also considers other criteria, he said.
“You need to be a little cautious about keeping a balance”
between leveraged equities and more conservative strategies that
focus on higher returns on equity and dividend yields.  Investors also may question whether the momentum in these
groups will continue amid concerns about fiscal and political
strife in Washington, according to  Cliff Remily , executive vice
president and portfolio manager at Pacific Investment Management
Co. in Newport Beach, California, which oversees $1.8 trillion
in assets. “The risk to the downside is pretty dramatic, so
investors need to ensure they’re getting compensated for that.”  President  Barack Obama  urged Congress on Feb. 5 to postpone
automatic spending cuts scheduled to begin March 1 to avoid
“real and lasting impacts” on U.S. expansion. He signed a
compromise into law Jan. 2 that averted income-tax increases on
most Americans and delayed the cuts in what’s become a fiscal
showdown related to raising the U.S. debt ceiling.  Investment Hindsight  While Remily prefers a trifecta of improving operating
leverage, top-line growth and attractive multiples in his
portfolio picks, these baskets are “completely relevant” to
gauge investors’ appetite for risk and their expectations for
economic growth, he said. “In hindsight, it would’ve been great
to invest in these groups about six months ago.”  If the economy weakens, as it did in 2011 and 2012, the
rally in stocks with high operating or financial leverage could
stall, Teal said. Those slowdowns were marked by a “flight to
safety and quality” in the market, he said. Now sentiment is
changing as improvements -- particularly in housing and
employment -- appear to be “a bit more lasting than in the past
two years,” Ghriskey said.  “The market is indicating that economic improvement
appears to be accelerating somewhat,” which has made investors
comfortable with “more risky propositions.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna-Louise Jackson in New York at 
 ajackson36@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Feld in New York at 
 afeld2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Feld at 
 afeld2@bloomberg.net  