-- Iran May Lose $2.5 Billion Sales as India Seeks U.S. Waiver
-- B y   P r a t i s h   N a r a y a n a n
-- 2013-02-07T04:47:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/iran-may-lose-2-5-billion-oil-sales-as-india-seeks-u-s-waiver.html
Iran, which dropped two places to
become India’s fourth-largest crude supplier last year, may lose
$2.5 billion of revenue as global sanctions prompt the South
Asian nation to reduce purchases.  Indian refiners may cut oil imports from Iran by as much as
20 percent in the year starting April 1 as the government seeks
to keep its exemption from U.S. penalties on countries that
trade with the Persian Gulf state, according to a Bloomberg News
survey of five refinery officials.  Iran would lose sales of at least 60,000 barrels a day of
crude, worth about $2.5 billion a year, based on a reduction of
that size from current contracted volumes, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Iran Heavy  for sale to Asia, the grade
preferred by Indian refiners, traded at about $113 a barrel
yesterday.  “India has no choice but to show the U.S. it is cutting
down crude imports from Iran if it wants to keep the exemption
from sanctions,”  Praveen Kumar , an analyst at FACTS Global
Energy in Singapore, said. “It’s also in India’s interest to
look at other options from where they can source oil.”  The U.S. and the European Union imposed sanctions on Iran
to curb its nuclear program, which they say is designed to
develop an atomic weapon. The U.S. in December renewed a waiver
for India and eight other nations from a law that cuts
institutions off from its banking system if they process
payments for Iranian oil. Countries can be exempted if they
“significantly reduce” their Iranian crude purchases. The
waiver is reviewed every 180 days.  Supply Disruptions  R.C. Joshi, a New Delhi-based spokesman for India’s Oil
Ministry, said he couldn’t immediately comment on purchases of
Iranian crude.  Iran’s Indian customers such as Mangalore Refinery &
Petrochemicals Ltd.,  Essar Oil Ltd. , and Hindustan Petroleum
Corp. may receive less than their total contracted volumes in
the 12 months ending March 31 because of supply disruptions last
year.  Mangalore Refinery may import 3.8 million metric tons of
Iranian crude during the year, compared with its term contract
for 5 million, Managing Director P.P. Upadhya told reporters in
New Delhi on Jan. 31. Shipments of “even 3.8 million tons in
the next financial year may be difficult,” he said.  India will reduce Iranian crude purchases to about 15
million tons, or about 300,000 barrels a day, in the current
financial year, then Oil Minister S. Jaipal Reddy said in Dubai
on Oct. 22. The country bought 17.5 million tons in the prior 12
months, about 10 percent of its needs, according to data from
the Associated Chambers of Commerce and Industry of India.  New Sanctions  India has struggled to get tankers and insurance for
transporting supplies from the Persian Gulf state because of the
sanctions. It has also had to set up a system involving a
Turkish bank, barter trade and local-currency accounts to pay
Iran. The nation, Asia’s third-largest economy, imports about 80
percent of its crude requirements.  Another set of U.S. sanctions that started Feb. 6 requires
buyers of Iranian oil to pay in local currency to escrow
accounts and will bar Iran from repatriating the funds. Indian
government officials have previously said the country isn’t
bound by U.S. and EU measures and will only adhere to sanctions
imposed by the United Nations.  “Our main concern is full compliance with the sanctions
that have been imposed by the United Nations and I think India
cannot be faulted in the remotest extent as far as that’s
concerned,”  Salman Khurshid , India’s foreign minister, said on
Dec. 1. India’s oil imports from Iran have “gone down
substantially, despite the fact that India’s energy bills are
going up, India’s demand for energy is going up,” he said.  Indian Imports  India imported 171 million tons of crude in the year ended
March 31, according to data from the Associated Chambers. Iraq
overtook Iran as the second-biggest supplier, after Saudi
Arabia, during the period, the data show. Kuwait was third-
biggest.  Iran says its atomic program is for civilian purposes and
it isn’t developing nuclear weapons. The nation’s production of
medium-enriched uranium, which can be a step toward making a
bomb, rose 23 percent to 233 kilograms (513 pounds) as of Nov.
10 from the amount reported in August, the International Atomic
Energy Agency in Vienna said Nov. 16 in a report.  Iran’s crude shipments plunged 40 percent in the last nine
months of 2012, the state-run Iranian Students News Agency
reported on Jan. 7. China, India and South Africa buy 70 percent
of Iran’s oil exports, or about 910,000 barrels a day, the Fars
news agency reported Jan. 14.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pratish Narayanan in Mumbai at 
 pnarayanan9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  