-- Irish Plans Go Awry as ECB Wrangle Prompts Government Confusion
-- B y   D a r a   D o y l e   a n d   F i n b a r r   F l y n n
-- 2013-02-07T11:33:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/ireland-wakes-up-from-nightmare-over-debt-wrangling-with-ecb.html
Ireland’s government is waking up
from a nightmare that’s been dubbed ``#promnight.''  A day that began with hopes of a deal to ease the nation’s
bank-debt burden ended in the early morning hours today
following an emergency midnight session of parliament in Dublin.
Hanging in the balance is an accord with the European Central
Bank that could help pave the way for Ireland to exit the
international supervision that came with a 2010 rescue.  “If it weren’t so serious, you’d laugh,” said  Alan McQuaid , chief economist at Merrion Capital in Dublin. “It did
look a bit comical, but at the same time if we do get a deal, I
think the markets will say it is a positive for Ireland.”  The drama began when Irish central bank governor  Patrick Honohan  flew to Frankfurt for the twice-monthly meeting
yesterday of the ECB’s Governing Council. He was armed with a
proposal to stretch out the 30 billion euros ($41 billion) bill
of rescuing the former  Anglo  Irish Bank Corp., by replacing so-
called promissory notes with long-term bonds, Bloomberg News
reported. His aim: helping the nation regain the economic
sovereignty it lost with the 2010 bailout.  By mid-afternoon in Dublin, political correspondents at
parliament began posting messages on Twitter Inc. that the
government was planning emergency laws to wind down the bank as
part of the deal with the ECB. The hashtag #promnight trended on
Twitter in Ireland.  Just before 5 p.m., Finance Minister  Michael Noonan  was
planning to make a speech that night at 9 p.m., as optimism
about an accord with the ECB grew. Around then, national
broadcaster RTE and Reuters reported the proposal to liquidate
Anglo, which has been renamed the Irish Bank Resolution Corp.  ECB Doubts  At 7:09 p.m., Bloomberg News reported that some of the ECB
policy makers wanted more time to weigh the proposal, which was
given to them before they sat down for dinner. It was the first
indication the Irish plans might go awry.  The officials were concerned that an accord could set a
precedent for other countries, such as Spain, dealing with
banking crises, said a person familiar with the situation.  Twenty-seven minutes later, Noonan cancelled his scheduled
speech to await the deliberations in Frankfurt.  By 9 p.m., the government realized it needed to provide a
legal underpinning for Anglo’s liquidation and decided to press
ahead with an emergency session of parliament to pass the laws.  “When we as a government and I as a minister were not in a
position to deny that the government was planning to liquidate
IBRC, we had to act,” Noonan said later. “I would have
preferred to be introducing this bill in tandem with a finalized
agreement with the European Central Bank.”  Opposition Concerns  Opposition lawmakers pounced.  “We are being asked in isolation to vote for the
liquidation of a bank which we might approve of but we don’t
know what the other part of the package is,”  Shane Ross , an
independent lawmaker said.  Parliament was due to sit at 10:30 p.m. After the
opposition protested they had just 10 minutes to examine the
bill, proceedings were delayed to midnight.  “I want to register a protest and state our objection in
the strongest possible terms with the way this matter has been
handled,” said Michael McGrath, finance spokesman for Fianna
Fail, the largest opposition party. “This is no way to conduct
our business.”  At one point during a rowdy debate, Sinn Fein leader  Gerry Adams  suggested closing the parliament’s bar, as government
lawmakers heckled his contribution.  Bill’s Passage  Just before 3 a.m., the bill passed the lower house of
parliament, and subsequently the upper house.  The bill was sent by courier to the Irish President  Michael D. Higgins ’s residence in Dublin city after the Upper House of
parliament passed the bill about 5:50 a.m., the Irish Times said
today. Higgins jetted in from Italy to sign the bill.  Now, Irish eyes turn back to ECB. At 2:30 p.m. in
Frankfurt, ECB President  Mario Draghi  will hold a press
conference following the rate-setting meeting today.  The events of the past 24 hours “don’t do the country any
good in terms of reputation,” said McQuaid at Merrion. “But
people get over that.”  -With assistance from Joe Brennan in Dublin and Zoe Schneeweiss
in Zurich. Editors: James Hertling, Patrick Henry  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dara Doyle in Brussels at 
 ddoyle1@bloomberg.net ;
Finbarr Flynn in Dublin at 
 fflynn3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net ;
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  