-- Ireland’s Kenny Declares Victory as Bank Debt Accord Reached
-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n   a n d   F i n b a r r   F l y n n
-- 2013-02-07T15:56:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/ireland-s-kenny-declares-victory-as-bank-debt-accord-reached.html
Irish Prime Minister  Enda Kenny 
declared victory in his fight to ease the burden of the nation’s
rescue of the financial system, boosting his bid to regain the
country’s sovereignty.  Under the plan, dubbed ‘Project Red,’ Ireland will swap so-
called promissory notes used to rescue the failed lender Anglo
Irish Bank Corp., with long-term bonds with maturities of up to
40 years, Kenny said in parliament in Dublin today. The accord
will ease the nation’s borrowing needs over the next decade by
20 billion euros ($26.8 billion), he said.  “Today’s outcome is an historic step on the road to
economic recovery,” Kenny said, to applause from his lawmakers.
“A successful Irish exit from the bailout by the end of this
year would prove that a combination of intensive national reform
efforts and European solidarity can deliver results.”  Kenny and his government staked their political credibility
on winning agreement from European Central Bank, as the
government races to exit the international bailout the country
sought in 2010. Irish taxpayers faced a 63 billion euro-bill for
rescuing its debt-laden banks after a real estate bubble burst,
leaving the nation on the brink of bankruptcy.  This “looks like a good deal, as good as can be
expected,” said Cathal O’Leary, head of fixed income at NCB
Stockbrokers in Dublin. “We expect the rating agencies to give
Ireland credit for this move and an upgrade could be expected.”  Ireland’s two-year notes rose, pushing the yield down four
basis points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 1.34 percent. The
nation’s 5 percent bonds maturing in October 2020 were little
changed, leaving the rate at 4.10 percent.  Damage Done  Kenny will now turn his attention to persuading Europe’s
rescue funds to buy its stakes in the remainder of the financial
system, including Bank of Ireland Plc and Allied Irish Banks
Plc.  The Anglo accord is “no silver bullet to end all our
economic problems,” said Kenny. “The damage done by these
financial institutions will take many years to rectify.”  Speaking to reporters in Frankfurt, ECB President  Mario Draghi  said the Governing Council took “note of” the Irish
government’s plan, and said to comment on what the national
government or national central bank is doing wouldn’t “be
right.”  Draghi’s comments translate into “deal is done,”
Ryan McGrath, an analyst at Cantor Fitzgerald in Dublin, wrote
in a note.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Joe Brennan  in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net ;
 Finbarr Flynn  in Dublin at 
 fflynn3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net ; 