-- Irish Said to Reach Agreement in Principle With ECB on Anglo
-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n   a n d   F i n b a r r   F l y n n
-- 2013-02-07T14:15:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/irish-said-to-reach-agreement-in-principle-with-ecb-on-anglo-1-.html
Ireland has secured an agreement in
principle with the European Central Bank to restructure the cost
of the nation’s rescue of the former  Anglo Irish Bank , according
to two people familiar with the matter.  The agreement is contingent on Irish cabinet approval, said
the people, who asked not to be identified as the matter is
private. Officials from the Irish Finance Ministry, the central
bank in Dublin and the ECB in Frankfurt declined to comment.  Irish officials have been trying to reach a deal with the
ECB for the past 1 1/2 years over an issue that has dogged the
country’s attempts to work its way out of an international aid
package agreed in 2010.  Eamon Gilmore , Ireland’s deputy prime
minister, called Anglo Irish the worst lender in the world as
loan losses led to a 30 billion-euro ($41 billion) bailout.  “On Ireland, let me say this -- there wasn’t a decision to
take,” ECB President  Mario Draghi  said at a press conference in
Frankfurt today. “The Governing Council unanimously took note
of the Irish operation and I’m going to refer you to the Irish
government and the Irish central bank for the details of this
operation. I can only say that we took note of this.”  Promissory Notes  ECB policy makers sought more time yesterday to weigh a
proposal presented by Ireland to restructure the cost of bailing
out Anglo Irish, which was renamed Irish Bank Resolution Corp.
in 2011, according to people familiar, prolonging a saga that
began four years ago with the near-collapse of the lender.
Lawmakers passed laws in the early hours of this morning to
liquidate IBRC as a first step of the broader blueprint.  Ireland has been seeking to swap promissory notes used to
rescue Anglo Irish for long-term sovereign bonds of as much as
40 years in duration, according to people with knowledge of the
matter. Government ministers are set to consider the accord at a
meeting starting 2 p.m. in Dublin, after which Finance Minister
 Michael Noonan  may address parliament, one of the people said.  “We don’t want to enter into the details of the swap,”
Draghi said, adding that it’s “entirely up” to actions of the
Irish government and the Irish central bank.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joe Brennan in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net ;
Finbarr Flynn in Dublin at 
 fflynn3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  