-- Hispanic Rise in Republican Districts Shifts House Debate
-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2013-02-07T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/hispanic-rise-in-republican-districts-shifts-house-debate.html
The story of America’s changing
political demographics can be seen in a western Colorado
congressional district represented by Republican  Scott Tipton .  The district’s Hispanic population has grown from 18.9
percent in 2000 to 24.3 percent today. It’s among the 100 most
heavily Hispanic congressional districts, a third of those
represented by Republicans.  As Washington debates changes to the nation’s immigration
laws, the main hurdle will be the Republican-controlled U.S.
House. Yet in that chamber, Republicans such as Tipton are
increasingly representing more Hispanics, putting pressure on
them to vote for making citizenship easier.  “Republicans have now decided to pay serious attention to
the 2010 census,” said  William Frey , a senior demographer at
the Washington-based Brookings Institution. “The election
results have tended to focus their attention.”  In November’s election, President  Barack Obama  beat
Republican challenger  Mitt Romney  by 44 percentage points among
Hispanic voters, exit polls showed. Obama’s decisive advantage
with one of the nation’s fasting growing constituencies has
spurred Republican leaders to urge elected officials to engage
in the immigration debate or risk becoming a minority party.  Elected in the 2010 Republican wave that gave his party the
House majority, Tipton is one of the lawmakers who Hispanic
activists will be watching.  Tipton Race  In winning his seat by defeating three-term Democratic
Representative  John Salazar , Tipton campaigned with a stern
message on immigration.  “My opponent isn’t a bad guy, but when it comes to illegal
immigration, he’s just wrong,” Tipton said in one  ad . “We
cannot afford to be rewarding people whose first act in this
nation was an illegal one.”  In an interview, Tipton, 56, said he was referring to
granting amnesty to illegal immigrants. He still opposes that,
and is skeptical about proposals providing a path to citizenship
for the 11 million illegal immigrants in the U.S.  “When we talk about being citizens, we do have a
pathway,” he said. “You apply for citizenship.”  Olivia Mendoza, executive director of the Denver-based
Colorado Latino Forum, said Tipton is among the state’s members
of Congress who have “an opportunity to move the dial” on
immigration.  “We will be closely working with his office,” she said.
“We hope there is an effort to work together on this.”  On the issue of a pathway to citizenship, Mendoza said, “I
don’t think we are in the same place today” as Tipton.  Border Security  The congressman said his constituents typically tell him
they are more concerned about  jobs  and the economy, and that the
nation’s borders need to be better secured.  “That being said,” he added, “we’ve got to be able to be
compassionate as well, because I can point to some young people
that have known no other country.”  Tipton isn’t alone among Republicans who’ll be watched by
Hispanic activists and voters as the debate progresses. Two
high-profile California members, Majority Whip  Kevin McCarthy 
and House Oversight and Government Reform Committee Chairman
 Darrell Issa , also represent districts with Hispanic populations
exceeding 25 percent.  Newly released U.S. Census data compiled by Bloomberg News
show that Hispanics are changing the nation’s 435 congressional
districts -- and not just in states like California and Texas,
which are most often associated with their surging population.  Hispanics now represent at least a quarter of the
population in about 20 percent of House districts and they’re
the majority population in 33 of them, the data show.  Political Risks  The trend presents more political risk to Republicans than
Democrats because their districts tend to be less diverse and
harder-line policies are popular with their party’s base. Four
in five Republican House members represent districts with
Hispanic populations below the national average of 16.7 percent
for all districts.  Democrats, who often represent urban areas, remain much
more likely to have a larger proportion of Hispanics in their
districts. When all Republican districts are averaged together,
the data show Hispanics account for 11.4 percent of the
population, compared to 22.9 percent for Democrats.  In the 2012 presidential election, Latino voters
represented 10 percent of the electorate, up from 9 percent four
years earlier. Obama captured 71 percent of that vote, the exit
polling showed, while Romney won 27 percent -- down from the
Republican share of 31 percent in 2008, 44 percent in 2004 and
35 percent in 2000.  Hispanic Victories  Beyond the warning signs from the presidential race, the 
results included three Latino Democrats who defeated Republican
incumbents, creating the House’s largest-ever class of Hispanic
lawmakers, according to the National Association of Latino
Elected and Appointed Officials Educational Fund. There are 25
Hispanic Democrats and eight Hispanic Republicans, according to
the House  press gallery .  In the House, a bipartisan group of lawmakers are crafting
proposed immigration legislation. Their names haven’t been
formally disclosed, although the New York Times on Feb. 3
reported on eight of those believed to be working on the effort.
On the newspaper’s list were Democratic representatives  Luis Gutierrez ,  Xavier Becerra ,  Zoe Lofgren ,  John Yarmuth , as well as
Republican representatives  John Carter ,  Mario Diaz-Balart ,  Sam Johnson  and  Raul Labrador .  Five of those eight represent districts with Hispanic
populations larger than the national average of 16.7 percent.
Among the Republicans, only Carter and Diaz-Balart, who
represent parts of Texas and Florida, come from districts with
Hispanic populations larger than that average.  Colorado District  Tipton’s district - which includes part of the state’s
Western Slope region as well as communities on the eastern side
of the Rocky Mountains, including Pueblo -- covers roughly half
the state’s area. The district’s boundaries were only modestly
changed by redistricting, so demographic comparisons between
2000 and now are mostly precise.  In the Nov. 6 election, Tipton won re-election with 53
percent of the vote. Yet in the district’s counties near the
Pueblo area with the largest proportion of Hispanics, his
Democratic opponent,  Sal Pace , either won or was competitive.  Helping propel Tipton to victory were his margins in Mesa
County, which includes Grand Junction in the far western part of
his district. The county is just 13.6 percent Hispanic, and
Tipton won 67 percent of the vote there.  Romney, who made multiple campaign visits to Tipton’s
district, beat Obama in it, 52 percent to 46 percent.  Dwindling Support  That six-point margin was less than the one recorded in
2004 by President  George W. Bush , who enjoyed more popularity
among Hispanics than many Republicans. In his re-election win,
Bush beat Democratic nominee  John Kerry , now U.S. secretary of
state, by 11 percentage points in the Colorado district.  Colorado’s status as a presidential battleground is
relatively new. With the exception of 1964 and 1992, Republican
presidential candidates had carried the state in every election
since 1952, before Obama won it by 8.6 percentage points in 2008
after holding his party’s national nominating convention that
year in Denver.  While Obama won Colorado by a smaller margin of 5 points
last November, he carried the state’s Latino vote by an even
wider margin than he did nationally, 75 percent to 23 percent,
the exit polls show. That was a bigger margin than in 2008, when
Obama won  Colorado ’s Latino vote by 23 percentage points.
Hispanics made up 14 percent of Colorado voters in 2012.  Nationally, the proportion of Hispanics ranges from less
than one percent in a West Virginia congressional district to
nearly 87 percent in a California district, the data show.  Mendoza said her group wants Washington to deliver
“something really comprehensive” on immigration policy, and
not piece-mealed legislation.  “I think the community feels a lot of empowerment,” she
said of the 2012 election. “Our vote really did matter.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John McCormick  in Chicago, at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  