-- Italy Vote Seen Inconclusive as Risk of Second Ballot Grows
-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 2013-02-08T11:02:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/italy-to-need-new-vote-with-hung-parliament-bersani-s-aide-says.html
Italy’s election in three weeks may
yield a hung parliament, requiring a follow-up vote to establish
a governing majority, a member of poll leader  Pier Luigi Bersani ’s campaign said for the first time.  “Returning to polls is the answer in a situation of
ungovernability,” Stefano Fassina, Bersani’s head of economic
policy,  wrote  on Twitter yesterday.  Bersani’s lead in opinion polls is shrinking as former
Premier  Silvio Berlusconi  gains. The difference between their
two blocs nationally was within the 4 percentage-point margin of
error for a second day, according to a Tecne poll aired by
SkyTG24 yesterday. The gap fell to less than 5 percentage points
in six key regions that will determine the outcome in the
Senate, Tecne said.  Fassina is the first leading figure of Bersani’s Democratic
Party to suggest a second vote may be required should his party
-- even in coalition with Prime Minister  Mario Monti  -- fall
short of a majority in both houses of parliament.  Italian markets have slumped in the past week as surveys
showed Berlusconi gaining. The yield on 10-year bonds was 4.53
percent at 11:30 a.m. Rome time, up from 4.13 percent Jan. 25.  Offering Rebates  Berlusconi, who is appealing a conviction on tax fraud, has
offered rebates to Italian taxpayers and an amnesty to evaders,
campaign pledges that are resonating with voters and rattling
investors. Monti says Berlusconi is re-proposing the kinds of
policies that almost forced Italy to accept a bailout in late
2011.  Under Italy’s election law, Bersani would gain a majority
in the lower house Chamber of Deputies even if he wins by a
narrow margin because bonus seats are given to the winner. In
the Senate, the bonus premium works regionally, making a
majority more elusive.  Berlusconi’s gains signal that Bersani and his allies risk
falling short of a 158-seat majority in the Senate, Tecne’s
projections based on polls in 19 out of Italy’s 20 regions show.
The projections didn’t include the six Senate seats chosen by
Italians living abroad.  “Absolutely not,” Bersani said last night in an interview
on La7 television, when asked whether he would be open to a
coalition including Berlusconi. “We need a government up to a
real change, unnatural or complicated alliances are not possible
any longer.”  Striking a Deal  Bersani would be able to assemble an outright majority in
the Senate only by striking a deal with Monti’s centrists,
according to projections by the SWG institute based on its polls
aired on RAI3’s television program Agora today. Bersani’s
center-left bloc would get 146 seats in the upper house, while
teaming up with Monti may give it a 167-seat majority, SWG said.  Comedian-turned-politician  Beppe Grillo ’s Five Star
Movement would get 39 seats, while Berlusconi’s bloc would have
102 senators, according to the SWG projections, which don’t take
into account the senators elected abroad.  Support for Bersani’s bloc increased one percentage point
to 33.8 percent from the last SWG poll on Feb. 1, leaving the
gap with Berlusconi’s coalition at 6 percentage points. Monti’s
bloc is polling at 13.4 percent, while the Five Star Movement
gained almost a full percentage point in a week and is now at
18.8 percent, according to SWG.  Bersani reiterated yesterday that he’s open to working with
Monti after the vote, though the premier made it clear he won’t
join a government including Bersani’s ally  Nichi Vendola .  The idea of “a Vendola-Monti government is political
fiction,” Vendola said today, according to Ansa news agency.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lorenzo Totaro  in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling@bloomberg.net . 