-- J&J Engineer Studied Hip Redesign for 3 Years, Jury Told
-- B y   V a l e r i e   R e i t m a n ,   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s   a n d   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 2013-02-07T17:08:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/j-j-engineer-studied-hip-redesign-for-3-years-jury-told.html
A bioengineer at  Johnson & Johnson ’s
DePuy unit testified that he spent three years studying a
redesign of metal-on-metal hip devices that the company recalled
in 2010 because of their failure rate.  James Anderson, testifying by videotape in state court in
Los Angeles, recalled his disappointment that the work dubbed
Project Alpha ended in 2008 with no change to DePuy’s ASR hips.
Jurors saw Anderson late yesterday at the first of 10,000
lawsuits to go to trial over claims that J&J defectively
designed the 93,000 ASR hips that DePuy  recalled .  “Were you frustrated when you heard that the project was
being ended?” asked  Michael Kelly , an attorney who represents a
retired prison guard suing J&J over his failed hip.  “Yes, I was frustrated,” Anderson said.  Kelly asked Anderson what he told his superiors after he
“came up with some good suggestions and useful solutions.”  “I think I would have said that I was disappointed that
the last six months of my work had come to nothing,” said
Anderson, who works for DePuy in Leeds, England.  At the time of the recall, J&J said that 12 percent of
J&J’s hips failed in the U.K. within five years. That rate is
rising. An Australian national registry showed that the ASR
failure rate last year exceeded 40 percent. Analysts say it may
cost J&J billions of dollars to resolve the  lawsuits .  Health Problems  J&J, the world’s  largest seller  of health-care products,
denies that it defectively designed the device or that it
contributed to the health problems of Kelly’s client, Loren
Kransky, 65. J&J is based in New Brunswick, New Jersey.  Anderson testified he was 25 when he joined DePuy in 2005
after graduating from the University of Strathclyde in Glasgow,
Scotland. He joined a team that studied the “next generation
ASR,” he said. In the device, made of cobalt and chromium, a
metal ball placed atop the femur rotates in a cup placed in the
hip.  Patients claim in lawsuits that the ASR device left them in
pain or immobilized by joint dislocations, infections and bone
fractures. Many also claim the devices shed chromium and cobalt
into the bloodstream, raising those metals to harmful levels.
Thousands of people had follow-up surgery to replace the device.  Anderson studied the design of the ASR cup, which is
slightly less than a half-circle, and included a groove to help
a surgeon place the device in the hip. Kelly and his experts say
that design leads to metal ions entering the bloodstream.  ‘Large Improvement’  In an e-mail on April 7, 2008, Anderson wrote to superiors
that “a small improvement to geometry could represent a large
improvement for many patients.” In another document, he wrote
that by removing the groove, wear on the cup “is approximately
threefold less than the original design with the groove.”  He wrote that day: “I have a huge volume of information on
ASR bearings now but have absolutely no direction.”  “Is that expressing some frustration on your part?” Kelly
asked Anderson.  “I’m not sure at the time whether I was frustrated or
simply emphasizing a point,” Anderson said.  Kelly asked about Anderson’s reaction to the end of the
project in September 2008.  “You seem, I think to everyone who’s met you the last
couple of days, thoughtful, articulate, smart,” Kelly said.
“You didn’t close your door and scream?”  “I think I walked across the road to the coffee shop,”
Anderson said.  “Screamed there?,” Kelly asked.  “Contemplated what had happened,” Anderson said.  The Kransky case is Kransky v. DePuy, BC456086, California
Superior Court, Los Angeles County (Los Angeles). The
consolidated federal case is In re DePuy Orthopedics Inc., ASR
Hip Implant Products Liability Litigation, 10-MD-2197, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of Ohio (Toledo).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Valerie Reitman in Los Angeles Superior Court
At  valeriereitman@yahoo.com ;
David Voreacos in Newark, New Jersey, at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net 
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  