-- Japan Radar Target Protest Is War Signal, Global Times Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-02-07T09:51:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/japan-radar-targeting-protest-is-war-signal-global-times-says.html
Japan is exploiting an incident in
which a Chinese ship used weapons-targeting radar on a Japanese
naval vessel and helicopter to prepare the people of both
countries for war, China’s state-run Global Times said.  “We believe, in doing this, Japan is at the same time also
sounding a combat alarm among the Chinese and Japanese public,”
the Chinese-language  editorial  said today. The Japanese account
of the episode is one-sided and ordinary people who don’t
understand naval affairs will believe the two countries are very
close to war, it said.  Japan’s Prime Minister  Shinzo Abe  yesterday denounced
China’s use of fire-control radar last month twice at Japanese
targets in the East China Sea near islands claimed by both
countries. The incident has undermined efforts to ease tensions
between Asia’s two biggest economies and elicited calls from the
U.S. for a diplomatic solution.  China’s Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Hua Chunying today
said relevant departments are investigating reports of the
incident “in a serious and solemn manner.” Japanese naval
ships and planes constantly conduct illegal activities in the
area, she told reporters in Beijing.  The islands, called Diaoyu in China and Senkaku in Japan,
are in an area rich in oil, natural gas and fish. Japan’s
purchase of three of the islands in September prompted violent
protests in China that damaged Japanese businesses.  Keeping Communication  Abe today said the episode underscored the need to keep
lines of communication open between the two countries, adding
that summits are good forums for addressing conflicts.  “In high-level talks, we should protest what needs to be
protested and make sure that this kind of thing doesn’t happen
again,” Abe told a parliamentary committee in Tokyo. “The
Chinese method of diplomacy has been to bring everything to a
halt when one aspect of ties deteriorates. I think this is a
mistake.”  Defense Minister  Itsunori Onodera  told the same committee
that no weapons had been trained on the Japanese destroyer, and
that the Jan. 30 incident took place in what Japan regards as
part of its Exclusive Economic Zone. The Japanese Foreign
Ministry later released a statement calling the incident
“provocative” and criticizing China for what it called
“coercion and intimidation.”  Chinese people are used to tension in the East China Sea
and many are already prepared for the “first shot” of conflict,
the Global Times editorial said. Fewer people hold hopes for a
peaceful resolution to the crisis, it said.  Chinese Readiness  The Global Times is a tabloid-style newspaper under the
Communist Party’s flagship People’s Daily. While the paper is
supervised by the party’s propaganda department, officials
including Foreign Ministry spokesman Hong Lei say newspaper
reports don’t necessarily reflect the government’s position.  China’s Communist Party Secretary  Xi Jinping  called for
“expanding and deepening” the military’s combat preparedness
during a visit to a base in the western city of Lanzhou, the
official Xinhua News Agency said yesterday.  The “locking on” of a military radar on a ship is a
common and constant reconnaissance practice for regular missions,
Jiang Xinfeng, an expert on Japanese studies at the PLA Academy
of Military Sciences, told the English-language China Daily
newspaper today.  Using fire-control radar on another vessel can be an
indicator of hostile intent, depending on the circumstances,
according to a  manual  of rules of engagement written under the
direction of the U.S. Naval War College.  The China-Japan situation is one “that could ultimately
get out of hand,” U.S. Defense Secretary Leon Panetta said
yesterday in Washington. “We urged, obviously, both the
Japanese and Chinese to exercise good judgment here and to try
and work with each other to try to resolve these issues
peacefully.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Henry Sanderson in Beijing at 
 hsanderson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  