-- Japan Stock Futures Drop on Sony Loss, Europe Recovery Concern
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2013-02-07T23:17:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/japan-stock-futures-drop-on-sony-loss-europe-recovery-concern.html
Japanese stock futures fell after
Sony Corp. posted an unexpected loss and European Central Bank
President Mario Draghi said the euro’s strength could hamper an
economic recovery, damping the profit outlook for exporters.  American Depositary Receipts of Sony lost 7.4 percent as
Japan’s largest consumer-electronics maker posted an eighth
straight quarterly loss and cut sales targets for TVs, gaming
devices and compact cameras. ADRs of  Fujitsu Ltd. , a Japanese
maker of computers, network equipment and mobile phones, gained
5.1 percent after saying it will eliminate 5,000 jobs and merge
its LSI chip business with that of Panasonic Corp. to boost
global competitiveness.  Futures on Japan’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average  expiring in
March closed at 11,335 in Chicago yesterday, down from 11,390 at
the close in Osaka, Japan. They were bid in the pre-market at
11,320 in Osaka at 8:05 a.m. local time. Australia’s  S&P/ASX 200
Index  retreated 0.1 percent and New Zealand’s NZX 50 Index
advanced 0.5 percent.  “Europe looks like being the scapegoat once more for the
market’s pullback,” said  Evan Lucas , Melbourne-based market
strategist at IG Markets Ltd., a provider of trading services.
“The current rally has been going for over seven months and
investors are looking for any reason to justify a pullback.”  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index, the benchmark regional
equities gauge, rallied 13 percent in the past seven months
through yesterday. That left the gauge trading at 14.8 times
average estimated earnings compared with 13.6 for the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index and a multiple of 12.2 for the Stoxx Europe 600
Index, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Asian Earnings  Of the 275 firms on the MSCI Asia Pacific index that have
reported  earnings  so far this quarter and for which Bloomberg
has estimates, 52 percent have exceeded profit expectations.
Some 53 percent have missed sales projections, the data compiled
by Bloomberg show.  Hong Kong’s market will be shut three days next week for
the Chinese New Year holidays, while mainland markets will be
closed all week. The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index  of the
most-traded Chinese shares in the U.S. dropped 1.8 percent to
96.04 in New York yesterday.  January inflation data is due to be released by China’s
statistics bureau today. Consumer prices probably rose 2 percent
from a year earlier, decelerating from a 2.5 percent pace a
month earlier, according to the median estimate of 35 analysts
in a Bloomberg survey.  In Europe, Draghi told reporters growth risk continues to
be on the “downside,” accommodative ECB policy will support
the economy and the recent strength of the euro creates risks
that inflation will slow. An economic recovery should begin
later this year as an absence of inflation risks allows the ECB
to maintain record-low interest rates, he said yesterday.  Futures on the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  were little
changed. The gauge slid 0.2 percent yesterday. The S&P 500 has
rallied almost 6 percent in 2013 as U.S. lawmakers reached a
budget compromise and companies reported better-than-estimated
earnings. The benchmark U.S. equity gauge is about 3.7 percent
below its record high reached in October 2007 after more than
doubling since bottoming in March 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John McCluskey at 
 j.mccluskey@bloomberg.net  