-- Jefferson County Sued by Trustee for Its Sewage Bonds
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2013-02-07T04:26:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/jefferson-county-sued-by-trustee-for-its-sewage-bonds.html
Jefferson County, Alabama, was sued
for immediate payment by the trustee for its $3.2 billion debt
tied to the county’s sewage system after some bond holders
stopped consenting to a payment formula.  The  Bank of New York Mellon  Corp., the trustee, filed an
adversary complaint today in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in
Birmingham, seeking a judge’s ruling it’s entitled to seek the
accelerated payment on the county’s debt. The bank filed a
separate request to be exempted from bankruptcy court
restrictions on seeking payment.  The bank is responsible for collecting payments from the
bankrupt county and passing them on to investors. It informed
warrant holders on Feb. 1 that it would suspend payments on at
least part of the $3.2 billion in debt from the county’s
insolvent sewage system.  As of Feb. 1, certain warrant holders have refused to
consent to a payment formula that had allowed the trustee to
make certain payments, according to today’s filing. As a result,
the trustee didn’t have sufficient money in its debt-service
fund, according to the filing.  The trustee is battling the county in bankruptcy court over
control of sewer rates and in a U.S. appeals court over whether
the county, or a receiver, should run the sewage system.  Sewer Rates  In 2011, the county filed for bankruptcy, preventing a
court-appointed receiver, who represents the interest of the
warrant holders, from raising sewer rates by 25 percent. After
the filing, the bankruptcy court judge returned control of the
system to county officials.  Warrant holders have appealed that decision, asking the
U.S. Court of Appeals in Atlanta to put the receiver back in
charge of the system.  Warrant holders claim the county is intentionally keeping
rates low to boost its bargaining power over investors and force
a write down of its debt. A consultant hired by the trustee
testified Jan. 31 that the system could repay its debt by
increasing rates above 20 percent for multiple years, followed
by smaller increases.  The case is In re Jefferson County, 11-05736, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Northern District of Alabama (Birmingham).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in Los Angeles at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  