-- Jim Rogers Bullish on Water-Tech Investments, Russian Ruble
-- B y   A n i t a   S h a r p e
-- 2013-02-07T16:11:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/jim-rogers-bullish-on-water-tech-investments-russian-ruble.html
Jim Rogers , who co-founded the
Quantum Fund with  George Soros  in the 1970s, is exploring the
world for investments in water technology.  “There will be wars east of the Red Sea over oil and wars
west of the Red Sea over water,” Rogers, 70, said in an
interview yesterday before giving a speech to the  CFA Society  of
Atlanta.  Rogers, who is chairman of Rogers Holdings in Singapore
where he lives with his wife and two young daughters, said he
isn’t interested in owning lakes, reservoirs or other sources of
water that could be confiscated by governments in times of
turmoil. He said he’s looking for technologies that can help
free countries from dependency on outside water sources. One
stock he holds is Singapore-based  HyFlux  Ltd, which makes and
installs water purification, treatment and recycling systems.  “There are not enough companies where water is dominant,”
he said.  Rogers, who last year joined the Russian state-controlled
investment bank VTB Capital as an advisor after being negative
on Russia for 46 years, also said he is bullish on the ruble.
Russia and other countries including China have publicly
discussed creating a commodities-based reserve currency as an
alternative to the dollar.  “Everyone should be talking about that,”  Rogers  said in the
interview. “I know it’s going to happen.”  ‘Flawed Currency’  Speaking to about 350 investment professionals yesterday,
Rogers said, “I expect a lot more turmoil in currencies. That’s
not something most people have paid attention to. Those days are
over -- it’s going to change everything.” He said he owns U.S.
dollars because, “during periods of turmoil many people flee to
the dollar. But it’s a terribly flawed currency. It’s the most
flawed of all of them.”  Rogers also has been bearish on the stock market, missing
out on most of the equities rally that saw the Standard & Poor’s
500  Index  more than double since March of 2009. He said most of
his investments remain in commodities.  “The bull market in commodities still has a long way to
go,” said Rogers, who traveled around the world by motorcycle
and Mercedes Benz and wrote two books about his experiences.
“There will be a bubble, but the bubble is still a long way
away.”  Asking audience members who had MBAs to raise their hands,
Rogers said, “The world is moving away from us. The next 30
years will be the decade where the producers of real goods are
in charge.”  Rogers  this week released his sixth book, “Street Smarts:
Adventures on the Road and in the Markets.” Asked in the
interview what message he hoped readers would take away from the
book, Rogers said, “Be skeptical, think for yourselves, be
independent. The main thing is it’s not easy to make money and
the conventional wisdom is very rarely right.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Anita Sharpe  at   asharpe6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor on this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net  