-- JPMorgan Hid Reports of Defective Loans Before Sales
-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 2013-02-07T06:13:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/jpmorgan-hid-reports-of-defective-loans-before-sales.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co.  overrode an
independent analysis of home loan portfolios by buying and
selling defective loans to create a sanitized version of the
pool, which was then securitized and sold, a court was told.  FSA Asset Management LLC , which bought the residential
mortgage-backed securities that later collapsed in value, and
its parent Franco-Belgian bank  Dexia SA  filed hundreds of e-
mails and transcripts of employee interviews in federal court in
Manhattan on Feb. 4, urging a judge not to throw out their
lawsuit over the collateralized securities.  JPMorgan received reports from independent mortgage loan
underwriters showing that 20 percent to 80 percent of the loans
in samples used for testing didn’t meet the underwriting
guidelines, including fraudulent home appraisals or missing
documentation, FSA Asset Management, or FSAM, said in the
filing.  “Rather than disclose these known defects to FSAM,
defendants bought and sold massive quantities of defective
loans,” FSAM said. “Defendants secretly overrode the
independent loan underwriters’ determinations, creating a final,
sanitized version.”  FSAM failed to expressly assign fraud claims related to the
securities to Dexia, so the bank isn’t allowed to sue under New
York law, JPMorgan said in a Jan. 21 filing, urging the judge to
throw out the lawsuit without a trial.  FSAM also can’t sue because it had recovered the full
purchase price of the securities it bought so it suffered no
harm, JPMorgan said.  The plaintiffs purchased more than $1.6 billion of
residential mortgage-backed securities in 51 offerings between
2005 and 2007, according to an amended statement of claim filed
in New York State court in May. The purchases were made from
JPMorgan and two banks the New York-based lender acquired during
the 2007 credit crisis, Bear Stearns and Washington Mutual.  “Defendants rehash the well-worn ‘don’t blame us, blame
the financial crisis’ defense, which numerous courts have
rejected,” Dexia said.  The case is Dexia SA v. Bear Stearns & Co. 12-cv-04761.
U.S. District Court Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  