-- Jude Law, Matt Damon Bring Fracking, Drug Drama to Berlin
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   H i c k l e y
-- 2013-02-07T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/jude-law-matt-damon-bring-fracking-drug-drama-to-berlin.html
Jude Law ,  Matt Damon ,  Juliette Binoche  and  Anne Hathaway  are among the stars converging on the
German capital for this year’s  Berlin Film Festival ,
traditionally a showcase for gritty, political dramas.  Damon persuades American farmers to give up their land for
fracking -- drilling for gas -- in  Gus Van Sant ’s environmental
drama “Promised Land,” competing with 18 other movies for the
Golden Bear award at the festival opening today. Law plays a
psychiatrist investigating the dark side of the pharmaceutical
industry after a patient apparently commits murder and remembers
nothing about it in  Steven Soderbergh ’s “Side Effects.”  Festival director  Dieter Kosslick  makes no apologies for
the hard-hitting nature of the movies. Other competition
offerings include a drama about corruption in rural northern
Russia and a Bosnian film called “An Episode in the Life of an
Iron Picker” about a desperately poor Roma family facing a
medical crisis and unable to pay for treatment.  “It is a political festival because it was founded in the
Cold War, and it has always been political,” Kosslick told
reporters before the opening. Many of the 2013 films address the
“fallout of the economic crisis,” he said.  “Now we see the collateral damage on society,” he said.
“The capitalist crisis isn’t the end of the story. We see that
systems are breaking apart.”  The Berlin Film Festival boasts the highest audience
participation rate of any such event worldwide, with as many as
300,000 cinema-goers. This year a total of 404 movies will be
screened between today’s opening and Feb. 17.  Kung Fu  The festival opens with “The Grandmaster,” a kung fu tale
of betrayal and challenge set in 1936 by the Chinese director
Wong Kar Wai. The movie is showing out of competition because
Wong heads the festival’s seven-member international jury this
year. Other jury members include the actor  Tim Robbins  and
German director Andreas Dresen.  Binoche plays the title role in “ Camille Claudel ,” the
sculptor and lover of  Auguste Rodin , committed to a psychiatric
clinic by her family.  Isabelle Huppert  is the mother superior in
a drama about a young woman sent to a convent against her will
in “La Religieuse,” adapted from the novel by Denis Diderot.  “Dark Blood” stars River Phoenix, who died 10 days before
the end of the shoot in 1993. Director George Sluizer decided to
finish his western in 2012, reading the missing scenes aloud off
screen. In “On My Way,”  Catherine Deneuve  plays a woman who
goes out to get cigarettes and ends up taking a long break from
her mother and her restaurant.  The Iranian director Jafar Panahi is a regular fixture at
the Berlin Film Festival. His competition entry this year is
“Closed Curtain,” featuring a couple on the run from
authorities and a filmmaker who is no longer allowed to work.  The Berlin Film Festival runs from Feb. 7 through Feb. 17.
For more information, go to https://www.berlinale.de/en  Muse highlights include  Jason Harper  on cars,  Martin
Gayford  on European art,  Lance Esplund  on U.S. art and  Scott
Reyburn  on the art market.  To contact the reporter on the story:
 Catherine Hickley  in Berlin at 
 chickley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 