-- K1 Hedge Fund Founder Kiener Indicted in $311 Mln Fraud
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 2013-02-07T22:36:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/k1-hedge-fund-founder-kiener-indicted-in-311-mln-fraud.html
K1 Group founder  Helmut Kiener , who
was convicted in Germany of defrauding investors in a Ponzi
scheme, was indicted by the U.S. for his role in a $311 million
fraud, the U.S. attorney in Philadelphia said.  Kiener, a German national, was charged today with four
counts of wire fraud, two counts of bank fraud and three counts
of money laundering based on allegations that he devised a
scheme to defraud  Bear Stearns Cos.  using hedge funds in the
Bahamas and the Cayman Islands. Kiener’s partner John Tausche,
61, of Blowing Rock, North Carolina, was charged with one count
of bank fraud and one count of money laundering.  Kiener, 53, was convicted in 2011 and sentenced to 10 years
and eight months in prison after confessing to using new
investors’ money to make up for losses in the wake of the
financial crisis.  K1’s funds are being liquidated in the British Virgin
Islands. Kiener’s personal assets were placed in insolvency
proceedings in Germany, where he is incarcerated.  Tausche is “cooperating with authorities,” his attorney
Joseph Grimes said.  “He’s doing everything he can to make right the harm that
was done to investors,” Grimes said in a phone interview.  Funds Moved  Between March 2005 and December 2008, Kiener and Tausche
allegedly funneled investment funds from Bear Stearns through
Oceanus Funds, an entity controlled by Tausche to give the
impression that the investments were growing in size, according
to today’s indictment.  The men allegedly falsely represented to Bear Stearns
officials that the funds were diversified and independently
managed. Bear Stearns lost about $82 million, U.S. Attorney  Zane Memeger  said in a statement announcing the indictment.  Tausche is accused of a similar scheme against  Barclays Plc 
involving K1 funds that led to losses of $137 million, according
to the statement. Kiener also allegedly caused more than $100
million in investments from Barclays, Bear Stearns and  BNP
Paribas  to be directed to offshore funds used for his own
purposes, according to the statement.  If convicted, Kiener faces a maximum of 200 years in prison
and a maximum possible fine of $7.9 million. Tausche faces a
maximum of 40 years in prison and a fine of $1.9 million.  The case is U.S. v. Kiener, 13-00062, U.S. District Court,
Eastern District of Pennsylvania (Philadelphia).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  