-- Kenyan Shilling Gains for First Day in Five as Bank Damps Supply
-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 2013-02-07T15:11:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/kenyan-shilling-gains-for-first-day-in-five-as-bank-damps-supply.html
Kenya’s shilling snapped a four-day
losing streak against the dollar as the central bank drained
more cash from the market and short-term interest rates rose.  The currency of East Africa’s largest economy gained as
much as 0.5 percent and was unchanged at 87.56 per dollar by
5:24 p.m. in Nairobi, the capital.  The central bank accepted all 2.6 billion shillings ($30
million) of bids for seven-day repurchase agreements, fewer than
the 5 billion shillings for sale, said an official, who also
asked not to be identified in line with policy. The bank
regularly uses its open-market operations to reduce total money
supply in a bid to support the shilling.  “The central bank is steadily taking money out of
circulation,” Mwambu Malamba, a senior dealer with Commercial
Bank Africa Ltd., said by phone from Nairobi. “Like goods, when
the supply is limited the price goes up,” Malamba said.  Short-term interest rates are rising as the central bank
manages liquidity almost daily, Joel Mbuvi, head of treasury for
Nairobi-based ABC Bank Ltd., said by phone.  The rate banks charge each other for lending increased to
7.8 percent yesterday from 6.7 percent by Jan. 30, according to
the Central Bank of Kenya’s  website . The yield on 182-day
government debt jumped to 8.45 percent at an auction yesterday
compared with 8.07 percent at the previous sale, while the rate
on three-month debt increased to 8.23 percent at a sale today
from 8.16 percent, according to the bank.  “We’ve seen that the short-term interest rates are going
up a bit, helping strengthen the shilling,” Mbuvi said.  Uganda’s currency climbed 0.2 percent to 2,651 per dollar,
while the Tanzanian shilling gained 0.1 percent to 1,615.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  