-- Khamenei Tells Iranian Leaders to Behave Amid Sniping
-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i
-- 2013-02-07T16:17:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/khamenei-urges-officials-to-end-spats-support-iran-s-interests.html
Iran’s Supreme Leader  Ayatollah Ali Khamenei  instructed the ruling elite to end their public
bickering after a similar request three months ago was ignored.  “Officials must preserve the country’s interests and put
aside these shows of bad character,” Khamenei, the country’s
top cleric, said today during a meeting with air force
commanders, according to the official  Islamic Republic News
Agency . “I will speak with the Iranian people in the future
about these disputes.”  It’s the third time since October that Khamenei has had to
call his officials to heel as they squabble ahead of the June
presidential elections. The political infighting threatens to
further undermine public confidence at a time when the economy
is already reeling from international sanctions and ahead of
fresh talks scheduled this month with world powers over Iran’s
nuclear program.  The latest row began when lawmakers, including staunch
critics of President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad , tried to impeach one
of his ministers this week, spurring the president to retaliate
by airing a video that allegedly links a brother of the
parliamentary speaker to corruption. Lawmakers shouted and
speaker  Ali Larijani  said Ahmadinejad was acting like a mafia
boss. Another of Larijani’s brothers, Sadegh, who heads the
judiciary, later said he’ll respond at a time of his choosing.  ‘Interfere Again’  Khamenei has previously said that political bickering would
play in the hands of western powers, which have increased
sanctions against Iran over its nuclear program.  The confrontations are “rising sharply” in “Iran’s
Kabuki theater,” said  Theodore Karasik , director of research at
the Institute for Near East and Gulf Military Analysis in Dubai.
The continuing public exchanges are “significant because it
does show that the supreme leader only has a certain reach and
will have to interfere again.”  The president, who has been involved in disagreements with
Khamenei since his second term started in 2009, is
constitutionally unable to run again in the June 14 race and his
efforts to groom an ally have been hindered with several of his
close aides arrested or marginalized.  The Iranian leader may have difficulties keeping
Ahmadinejad under check until the election, said Mahjoob Zweiri,
a professor of contemporary Middle East politics at Qatar
University.  Line ‘Crossed’  “Ahmadinejad has already crossed the red line” by
challenging Khamenei’s authority and is unlikely to obey him
now, Zweiri said. Ahmadinejad “has nothing to lose. He wants to
complicate things as he knows he will have no political gains in
these elections.”  Iran, one of the main producers of the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries, is targeted by a series of U.S.
and European Union sanctions over its nuclear program, which it
maintains is civilian even as Western powers say it may be
military. The country is grappling with accelerating inflation
that reached 28.7 percent in January, a weakening national
currency and oil output that in 2012 fell to its lowest in more
than two decades.  Iran’s escalating conflict with the U.S. and its allies
have benefited the president, as Khamenei seeks to project the
image of a united front at home. The supreme leader intervened
in November to prevent lawmakers from summoning the president to
parliament for questioning on his economic policies.  “If there was no confrontation between Iran and the
international community around the nuclear issue, the supreme
leader would have dismissed Ahmadinejad long ago,” Zweiri said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ladane Nasseri  in Dubai at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  