-- Kilfrost Tests Resolve of Dow, Clariant in Niche De-Icing Market
-- B y   A n d r e w   N o e l
-- 2013-02-07T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/kilfrost-tests-resolve-of-dow-clariant-in-niche-de-icing-market.html
Kilfrost Ltd., the largest
independent supplier of de-icing chemicals, is in talks to sell
alternatives to oil-based products to  Finnair Oyj  as it seeks to
grab market share from Dow Chemical Co. and Clariant AG.  The U.K. company is incorporating a biodegradable glycol
manufactured by a venture of DuPont Co. and Tate & Lyle Plc into
more environmentally sound de-icers for planes, Chief Executive
Officer  Gary Lydiate  said yesterday in a phone interview. The
company may be poised for its best-ever year with fresh cold
snaps spreading across Europe and the U.S. northeast, he said.  Kilfrost’s niche focus means it has been able to stave off
competition from global chemical makers that have access to in-
house ingredients, though their research is spread across
diverse portfolios. The small number of de-icing materials
manufacturers and high barriers to entry due to aviation
regulations means the emphasis is on developing products rather
than on consolidation, the CEO said.  “The big corporations do put the time and effort in, but
not as precisely as we do,” said Lydiate, who became CEO six
years ago after reviewing the business for his wife, who owns 30
percent of Kilfrost. She is part of the Halbert family, which
founded the company in the 1930s to provide de-icing compounds
for soccer fields. Kilfrost now probably has the industry’s
biggest budget targeted to aircraft de-icers, he said.  Air New Zealand Ltd. is among airlines that have adopted
Kilfrost’s “green” de-icer, derived from a corn sugar-based
glycol, and Finnair is considering the product.  Clariant, BASF  Other companies are pushing the alternative de-icers, which
replace toxic monoethylene glycol, for less regulated non-aircraft
uses. BASF SE is expanding formic acid operations to help
boost production of a salt that it says is an “ecologically
compatible” de-icer for runways.  Clariant 's Safewing
aircraft de-icer brand is of the traditional type.   Kilfrost ended licensing agreements with third parties in
the U.S., bringing production in-house to boost profit. It spent
three years getting approval for its products in China, becoming
the only non-local de-icing supplier allowed to sell there.  The Chinese market has potential for growth as some
airports now simply close if there is significant snowfall,
Lydiate said.  “The volumes in China aren’t big enough yet, but probably
within two years we will be manufacturing there.” Kilfrost is
already manufacturing under license in Japan.  Suitors Knocking  Because the technology and safety approvals needed to make
aircraft de-icers are high barriers to entry, Newcastle Upon
Tyne-based Kilfrost has had substantial interest from potential
suitors seeking an instant inroad to the market, the CEO said.  Kilfrost had 55 million pounds ($86 million) in sales in
2011 and its revenue this year will likely exceed de-icing sales
at Dow and Clariant, the CEO said. He declined to reveal 2012
figures.  Kilfrost began reporting financial results in the manner of
public companies three years ago to maximize its options, from
attracting a buyer or partner to building the case for an
initial public offering.  “We get sufficient calls, but I don’t take many of them,”
said Lydiate.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Noel in London at 
 anoel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  