-- Korean Won Trades Near 3-Month Low on Yen Concern; Bonds Advance
-- B y   D a v i d   Y o n g
-- 2013-02-07T07:12:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/korean-won-trades-near-3-month-low-on-yen-concern-bonds-advance.html
The won traded near a three-month low
on concern Japan will let its currency weaken further with the
imminent departure of its central bank chief, making it harder
for South Korean exporters to compete. Government bonds rose.  Bank of Japan Governor Masaaki Shirawaka said yesterday he
will step down March 19, in a move seen aiding Japanese Prime
Minister Shinzo Abe’s campaign for more aggressive monetary
easing. The Kospi Index of stocks fell 3.3 percent in 2013 as
the won’s 6 percent gain against the yen hurt earnings outlooks
at Samsung Electronics Co. and Hyundai Motor Co., while
benefiting Toyota Motor Corp. North Korea’s next nuclear test
may happen at “any time,” a South Korean defense official said
today.  “It’s a choppy market as the change at BOJ seems to
indicate that the yen weakness, or competitive devaluation,
isn’t over yet,” said  Irene Cheung , a strategist at Australia &
New Zealand Banking Group. in Singapore. “There are definitely
stock outflows. The North Korea issue doesn’t help.”  The won was little changed to 1,087.90 after falling as
much as 0.3 percent in Seoul, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The currency touched 1,098.25 on Feb. 1, the weakest
level since October. One-month implied volatility, a gauge of
expected moves in the exchange rate used to price options, fell
10 basis points, or 0.1 percentage point, to 7.53 percent.  The won fell 0.2 percent to 11.63 per yen today, snapping a
four-day advance. The South Korean currency reached 11.59
yesterday, the strongest level since October 2008, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The government is “all ready” to
intervene and smooth currency-market volatility, Finance
Minister Bahk Jae Wan said Jan. 23.  Foreign Funds  Foreign funds sold about $40 million of South Korean stocks
yesterday, according to exchange data. They pulled 1.9 trillion
won ($1.7 billion) in January, the most since May, the Financial
Supervisory Service said Feb. 5.  North Korea’s next nuclear test may involve several
detonations to showcase its improved capability, General Jung
Seung Mo, chairman of South Korea’s Joint Chiefs of Staff, told
lawmakers in Seoul today. It may happen at “any time” based on
leader Kim Jong Un’s decision, he added.  Five-year bonds gained. The yield on South Korea’s 2.75
percent bonds due September 2017 dropped two basis points to a
two-week low of 2.84 percent, according to prices from Korea
Exchange. The treasury will auction 1.4 trillion won of five-
year notes on Feb. 12.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Yong in Singapore at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  