-- N.J. Rethinks Settlement Forcing MGM to Sell 50% Borgata Stake
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i   a n d   A n n i e   L i n s k e y
-- 2013-02-07T22:48:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/n-j-rethinks-settlement-forcing-mgm-to-sell-50-borgata-stake.html
New Jersey regulators are rethinking
a 2010 settlement that requires  MGM Resorts International  to
sell its half-interest in Atlantic City’s top-grossing Borgata
Hotel Casino & Spa.  MGM agreed to the sale three years ago after New Jersey’s
Division of Gaming Enforcement said  Pansy Ho , the Las Vegas-
based company’s partner in the Chinese enclave of Macau, should
be deemed unsuitable under state law based on her family’s
history of organized crime ties.  The settlement in New Jersey could complicate MGM’s efforts
to establish casinos in other states. Gaming officials have
discussed a change in their recommendation, according to  Lisa Spengler , a spokeswoman for the division, who said today MGM
hasn’t formally asked them to do so.  Alan Feldman , a spokesman
for MGM, declined to comment.  Borgata, which is co-owned and managed by Las Vegas-based
 Boyd Gaming Corp. , is the top-grossing casino in Atlantic City.
 David Strow , a Boyd spokesman, said the company would support an
application by MGM to amend the agreement.  “MGM has been a great partner to Boyd Gaming at Borgata
and is a leader in the gaming industry,” Strow said in an e-
mail.  MGM, the largest operator of casinos on the Las Vegas
Strip, has been looking to expand into other U.S. jurisdictions
including Massachusetts and Maryland.  At a legislative hearing in Maryland last year, a state
senator asked MGM officials about the company’s relationship
with Ho. Later, during the state’s referendum on gambling
expansion, a group opposed to the expansion ran an ad citing
MGM’s link to “organized crime.”  Massachusetts Commission  Gayle Cameron , who formerly conducted casino licensing
background checks for the New Jersey State Police, now sits on
the Massachusetts Gaming Commission, which will approve casino
licenses in that state.  Elaine Driscoll, a spokeswoman for the Massachusetts
commission, said she couldn’t comment on MGM.  “Every applicant and their identified qualifiers will be
subject to extraordinarily rigorous and thorough background
investigations,” she said in an e-mail.  The Wall Street Journal reported the story earlier today.  MGM fell 0.4 percent to $12.94 at the close in New York.
The stock has risen 11 percent this year. Boyd advanced 2.8
percent to $7.10.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in Los Angeles at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net ;
Annie Linskey in Boston at 
 alinskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  