-- Nazis Hated These Paintings of Nude Burlesque, Fat Cats
-- B y   L a n c e   E s p l u n d
-- 2013-02-07T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/nazis-hated-these-paintings-of-nude-burlesque-fat-cats.html
The air of perversion, with its
prostitutes, piggish industrialists, tortured souls and general
depravity, is why the German Expressionist show at Neue Galerie
is so appealing.  Reacting against the horrors of World War I in their work,
most of the artists were deemed degenerate by the Nazis.  Ablaze with raucous color, the first gallery addresses the
countryside, the city, the artist’s studio, the circus and
cabaret in the works of the founding German Expressionist groups
Die Brucke and Der Blaue Reiter.  It leads with two vibrant, early  Vasily Kandinsky 
streetscapes, a pair of electric-striped bathers by Erich Heckel
and Max Pechstein’s erotic “Young Woman with Red Fan.”  In the next room, focusing on Germany’s dark side, are
masturbating nude burlesque dancers by  Christian Schad , fat cats
by Georg Scholz and a commanding, bulging self-portrait by  Max Beckmann , who looks as if he might explode.  A magnificent gallery devoted to the Bauhaus includes
paintings, furniture, glassware, graphic and industrial design.
A sleek tubular-steel armchair and footstool here once belonged
to architect  Philip Johnson .  Amid the emotive exaggerations and deformities beloved of
the Expressionists are the understated abstract masterworks of
 Paul Klee .  His oil and tempera painting “Town Castle” resembles a
finely woven carpet or an inlaid grid of jewels. Its uneven
surface, undulating like sand dunes, evokes a twinkling
wonderland -- a desert mirage.  Klee’s tempera painting, “Portrait of an Expressionist,” of
a crazed, flying man-beast -- chased as if by his own fiery tail
-- adds knowing levity and strikes a balance between this show’s
debauchery and poise.  “German Expressionism 1900-1930: Masterpieces from the Neue
Galerie Collection” runs through Apr. 22 at the Neue Galerie,
1048 5th Ave. Information: +1-212-628-6200;
 http://www.neuegalerie.org .  Paper Skin  New York artist Zarina Hashmi, born in Aligarh, India in
1937, has a feel for paper, her signature material, which she
likens to human skin.  In her compact, tender retrospective at the Guggenheim, she
is primarily a graphic printmaker with a boldly political yet
minimalist touch.  She works with black lines, geometric shapes and rubbings
that are simultaneously tentative and intrepid, natural and
abstract. Her pictures resemble maps, aerial views of cities,
spider webs, script, crosses, charts and mandalas.  Some works deepen toward pure black. Others call to mind
the faint markings of a bird’s footprints in snow.  Occasionally she resorts to family photographs, weaving,
text and gold leaf. Sometimes, she incises the paper with a
knife or repeatedly pricks it with a pin.  Most of the works, as in “The Ten Thousand Things,” a
grouping of 100 small collages installed in a circular vitrine,
feel like visual diary entries plotting ideas and moods.  Sometimes these materialize as sculpture. Spare paper and
bronze forms conjure windows, petals, pods and cocoons.  Vaguely spiritual in nature, “Paper Like Skin” is varied
yet cohesive. But as an oeuvre -- an artistic vision -- it is
fragmentary and unsatisfying, as if constricted by paper itself.  In one curved gallery, 500 little silvery, bird-like forms
swoop across the wall. If there is a breathtaking moment here,
this is it.  “Zarina: Paper Like Skin” runs through Apr. 21 at the
Guggenheim Museum, 1071 5th Ave. Information: +1-212-423-3500;
 http://www.guggenheim.org .  (Lance Esplund is U.S. art critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Muse highlights include Jason Harper on  cars  and Patrick
Cole on  philanthropy .  To contact the writer on the story:
Lance Esplund, in New York, at  lesplund@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 