-- NCAA Seeks to Toss Pennsylvania Suit Over Sandusky Fine
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 2013-02-08T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/ncaa-seeks-to-toss-pennsylvania-suit-over-sandusky-fine.html
The National Collegiate Athletic
Association asked a federal judge to throw out a Pennsylvania
lawsuit challenging penalties imposed on Pennsylvania State
University over the  Jerry Sandusky  child-abuse case.  Pennsylvania Governor  Tom Corbett  has no standing to bring
the case and is seeking to undo an agreement “freely entered
into” by Penn State, the NCAA said in a filing yesterday in
federal court in Harrisburg, Pennsylvania.  “This lawsuit is an inappropriate attempt to drag the
federal courts into an intra-state political dispute,” the NCAA
said in the filing.  Corbett sued the NCAA last month challenging a $60 million
fine levied against the school for its failure to prevent the
sexual abuse by Sandusky, a former assistant football coach who
was convicted of molesting 10 boys. The complaint accused the
NCAA of using the Sandusky offenses as a “pretext” to impose
unprecedented sanctions, which violates antitrust laws.  Pennsylvania law gives Penn State the authority to manage
its own athletics program, voluntarily join the NCAA and agree
to contracts, the NCAA said in its filing. Corbett, a member of
the Penn State governing board that approved the NCAA agreement,
is seeking to “usurp the discretion that the legislature
delegated to PSU,” the NCAA said.  ‘Strong Feelings’  “The remedial measures that Penn State agreed to were
controversial, and have elicited strong feelings on all sides,”
the NCAA said. “Some think they are too harsh, and some think
they are too lenient. But none of those feelings have anything
to do with the antitrust laws.”  In addition to the fine, the Indianapolis-based NCAA, the
governing body for college sports, stripped Penn State of 112
football wins from 1998 through 2011 and barred the Nittany
Lions from bowl games for four years, matching the longest post-
season ban in NCAA history.  Pennsylvania will seek an injunction against all of the
sanctions,  James Schultz , Pennsylvania’s general counsel, said
last month.  The case is Corbett v. National Collegiate Athletic
Association, 13-cv-6, U.S. District Court, Middle District of
Pennsylvania (Harrisburg).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  