-- N.Y. Borrows $500 Million Privately to Fund New Tappan Zee
-- B y   F r e e m a n   K l o p o t t   a n d   M a r t i n   Z .   B r a u n
-- 2013-02-07T21:19:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/new-york-borrows-500-million-privately-to-fund-new-tappan-zee.html
The New York Thruway Authority
privately sold $500 million in notes to fund construction of a
new $3.1 billion Tappan Zee Bridge without a financial plan for
the project, state Comptroller  Thomas DiNapoli’s  office said.  The cash will go toward paying the first $125 million bill
due this month to the  Fluor Corp. -led group that was selected to
construct the span across the Hudson River, according to a
letter from Deputy Comptroller  Pete Grannis  to the authority.  Selling the notes privately without public disclosure of a
long-term financing plan isn’t transparent and is reminiscent of
the type of short-term borrowing without “realistic expectation
of a revenue stream” that has weakened the authority’s
finances, Grannis wrote in the letter, which the comptroller’s
office distributed via e-mail.  The authority sold the notes, which mature in July, to
Barclays Plc with an interest rate of 0.19 percent, said  Dan Weiller , a spokesman for the agency. That level is about the
same as the yield for top-rated bonds due in 12 months, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. The bonds were put out for a
competitive bid and the sale was approved by the comptroller’s
office, Grannis said.  Quick Pace  The authority issued the short-term debt through a private
placement to lower issuance costs and meet the “brisk
schedule” of the Tappan Zee project, Weiller said.  “We appreciate the approval of this bond issuance, which
was first approved by the Thruway Board of Directors based on
positive news about future Tifia support,” Weiller said in an
e-mailed statement.  Both Moody’s Investors Service and Standard & Poor’s placed
the authority on a negative outlook in June before it sold $1.1
billion in long-term notes to pay off short-term debt.  “The authority has a duty to provide full, timely and
public disclosure regarding its capital plan, including costs
associated with the project,” Grannis wrote. “Transparency
demands that the authority make public a full financing plan,
including the expected level of tolls, as soon as possible.”  Tolls on the new span may almost triple to $14 from the
current $5 for cash customers when the new bridge opens, which
is projected for 2016, state officials have said. The amount of
the toll increase depends on the authority receiving a federal
Transportation Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Act loan.  Loan Timing  The state applied for a $2.9 billion loan through the
program in September.  Thomas Madison , the authority’s executive
director, said in a Feb. 1 radio interview that the authority
plans to pay off the $500 million with cash from the Tifia loan.  “We’re borrowing in anticipation of what we believe will
be a long-term, low-interest loan from the federal government
that we’re still in the process of negotiating,” Madison said.  Grannis said in the letter that “there continues to be
uncertainty regarding the final outcome and timing” of the
loan.  “If a Tifia loan is approved, the authority has indicated
that it will take several months before the final loan terms can
be agreed upon and the loan proceeds issued,” Grannis wrote.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Freeman Klopott  in Albany, New York, at 
 fklopott@bloomberg.net ;
 Martin Z. Braun  in New York at 
 mbraun6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  