-- News Outlets Use Pancakes and Politicians to Boost Brand
-- B y   C l a i r e   S u d d a t h
-- 2013-02-07T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/news-outlets-use-pancakes-and-politicians-to-boost-brand.html
Dave Cook is proud of his logo. The
host of the Christian Science Monitor’s weekly Monitor Breakfast
considers the cheerful yellow sun, blazing prominently behind
the event’s speakers, a branding opportunity. “We’ve gotten
unabashed in our marketing fervor in our old age,” said Cook,
the publication’s Washington bureau chief.  What started in 1966 as an off-the-record question-and-
answer session between politicians and the journalist friends of
a Monitor correspondent, Godfrey Sperling Jr. -- “mostly old
white guys,” as Cook put it -- has grown into an on-the-record,
$47-a-plate session at Washington’s St. Regis Hotel that is
often aired on C-Span. “That is, when they don’t have something
else going on,” Cook said.  With more than 3,770 breakfasts under its belt, the Monitor
has the longest-running morning lecture series in the U.S.
capital. But as Bloomberg Businessweek reports in its Feb. 11
issue, that doesn’t give it much of an edge in the increasingly
competitive rush for guests as other news organizations have
come to see the most important meal of the day as great
marketing.  “In the last three or four years it seems like everyone
has gotten in on the action,” said Cook. Politico’s Mike Allen
hosts a Playbook Breakfast at the W Hotel every week, catered by
celebrity chef  Jean-Georges Vongerichten ’s J&G Steakhouse.
National Journal and the Wall Street Journal, among others,
sponsor regular breakfasts as well.  Journalists’ Visibility  Some of the news organizations use the meals to boost their
brands and give visibility to star journalists. Politico’s event
is sponsored by Bank of America. At the Wall Street Journal’s
Jan. 23 breakfast with Representative  Paul Ryan  of Wisconsin,
chairman of the House Budget Committee and the Republicans’ 2012
vice presidential candidate, the backdrop was festooned with the
newspaper’s logo and the names of editors  Gerald Seib  and  David Wessel , the hosts, in huge type.  “People try to turn them into must-attend events, to
develop a reputational awareness that these organizations are
worth your time,” said  Juleanna Glover , a lobbyist who was Vice
President Dick Cheney’s press secretary in 2001 and 2002 and has
been a breakfast regular for years.  The most successful -- and elusive -- gatherings are those
where the guest says something noteworthy. In the news stories
that follow, the event’s host gets a mention.  Scripted Subjects  That doesn’t happen often: Even before they have had their
coffee, politicians are usually on their guard, and any news
they do make tends to be scripted. Like movie stars who show up
on the CBS program “The Late Show with David Letterman” when
they have a film to plug, politicians use the breakfasts to
promote themselves in a venue far tamer than a town hall meeting
or a press conference.  Ryan, who has been chairman of the Budget Committee since
2011, became a regular on the pancakes-and-eggs circuit when he
was pushing his budget plan. In addition to the Journal’s
breakfast, he has headlined Playbook and Monitor events. Even
after being on the losing side in the 2012 election, he’s still
a big draw; Kevin Seifert, his press secretary, says Ryan
receives about 10 invitations a month.  With so many breakfasts each week, there aren’t enough
high-profile guests to go around. Over the years the Christian
Science Monitor has hosted four U.S. presidents, five vice
presidents and scores of senior senators -- Massachusetts
Democrat Ted Kennedy used to attend regularly, his Portuguese
water dogs Sunny and Splash in tow. Now the Monitor often
settles for policy wonks and economists.  Politicians, Consultants  Politico sometimes boasts big names such as Senator  John McCain , the Arizona Republican who was his party’s presidential
candidate in 2008, and Representative  Nancy Pelosi  of
California, the leader of the House Democrats. Its events have
also featured Henry Barbour, a Republican consultant and
lobbyist who is the nephew of former Mississippi Governor Haley
Barbour.  “I don’t remember how I got invited, to tell you the
truth,” said Mike Isabella, a Washington restaurateur and
former contestant on the “Top Chef” television show who in
2011 appeared on a Playbook Breakfast “celebrity panel” with
actors  Tim Daly  and  Rosario Dawson . “It was my first time at
one of those things, so it was pretty cool,” he said. “I’m a
big fan of Rosario Dawson, so I liked meeting her.”  Finding guests isn’t the problem, according to Cook: “The
good guests, the ones who will fill the room -- that’s not as
easy.”  In January he held a timely discussion with National Rifle
Association President  David Keene , who called background checks
for private gun sales “excessively burdensome.” This month,
Cook will host the head of the National Transportation Safety
Board -- not quite the sexiest job in Washington.  But even on days when the guest isn’t much of a draw,
“there’s always a cholesterol-laden breakfast” to lure
reporters, Cook said, adding: “I call it better journalism
through bacon.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Claire Suddath in New York at 
 csuddath@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wes Kosova at 
 wkosova@bloomberg.net  