-- Putin Critic Lebedev Faces Prison as Hooligan Trial Opens
-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 2013-02-07T11:45:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/newspaper-owner-lebedev-faces-5-years-as-hooliganism-trial-opens.html
Russian newspaper and airline owner
 Alexander Lebedev  went on trial today for alleged hooliganism on
charges that carry a maximum prison sentence of five years.  Lebedev, 53, is being prosecuted for punching  Sergei Polonsky , a property developer, on a televised talk show in
2011. Lebedev denies any wrongdoing. After a preliminary
hearing, the court sent the case back to prosecutors due to
“violations that would hamper conduct of the trial,” Genri
Reznik, a lawyer for Lebedev, told reporters in Moscow.  The former KGB agent, who served in the Soviet Embassy in
London during the Cold War, has said his fortune has fallen to
several hundred million dollars from $2 billion two years ago
after he came under official pressure. Lebedev has criticized
corruption and a lack of democracy under  Vladimir Putin ’s 13-
year rule, without publicly attacking the Russian president.  “We are counting on an acquittal,” Lebedev told reporters
today at the court in Moscow. When asked if a fair trial is
possible, the businessman said, “Why not?”  The trial should restart within a “few weeks,” Vadim
Samsonov, a lawyer for Polonsky, said by phone from Moscow. The
delay is strictly “technical,” he said.  Lebedev says he’s the subject of a three-year campaign in
retaliation for funding Novaya Gazeta, a newspaper critical of
Putin that investigates corruption. Lebedev also finances the
Evening Standard and Independent newspapers in the U.K.  Plane Crash  On Feb. 4, Russian aviation authorities grounded Lebedev’s
Red Wings Airlines because of safety violations found during a
check. The authorities said the decision wasn’t directly
connected to the crash of a Red Wings plane in December at
Moscow’s Vnukovo airport, which killed five of the eight people,
all crew, on board.  Polonsky, 40, is in detention in Cambodia after an incident
in which he and two other Russians allegedly threatened the crew
of a boat with a knife. Polonsky denies the accusations.  Polonsky “has insisted that wrongdoing be punished” and
is being informed about Lebedev’s trial, Samsonov said. The
lawyer said he has no information about when the businessman
will be released from detention in Cambodia.  The investigation into Lebedev’s televised attack on
Polonsky began in September 2011, days after then-Prime Minister
Putin branded the incident as “hooliganism” at a Sept. 21
meeting with his All-Russia People’s Front.  Lebedev has said crooked businessmen in collusion with
public officials with business interests have “embezzled and
siphoned off” at least $700 billion from Russia during the past
15 years, citing data from the Web-based Tax Justice Network.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  