-- Nigerian Biggest Opposition Parties Agree to Merge
-- B y   M a r a m   M a z e n
-- 2013-02-07T13:11:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/nigerian-biggest-opposition-parties-merging-against-ruling-party.html
(Corrects spelling of group’s name in fifth paragraph.)  Nigeria’s four biggest opposition
political parties are merging to contest the 2015 elections
against President  Goodluck Jonathan’s  People’s Democratic Party.  The parties “have resolved to merge forthwith and become
the All Progressives Congress and offer to our beleaguered
people a recipe for peace and prosperity,” according to a
statement handed to reporters today. “At no time in our
national life has radical change become more urgent.”  The two biggest parties in the merger are the  Action
Congress of Nigeria , whose governors control most of the
country’s southwestern states including Lagos, the commercial
capital, and the Congress for Progressive Change, led by the
north’s biggest opposition figure, former military ruler
 Muhammadu Buhari .  Nigeria, Africa’s most populous state and biggest oil
producer, is almost evenly divided between a mainly Muslim north
and a largely Christian south. Buhari lost to Jonathan in the
2011 presidential election, garnering the most northern votes.
Jonathan is the third PDP president since 1999, when more than
15 years of military rule started by Buhari ended.  The alliance also includes the northern All Nigeria
People’s Party and the All Progressive Grand Alliance, based in
the country’s southeast. At least 10 governors from four
opposition parties met on Feb. 5 to back the alliance.  “We are extremely concerned about the state of the nation
and we put our heads together in the interest of our people to
deliberate on what can be done to rescue our country,” the
governors said in a statement e-mailed by the office of Lagos
state Governor  Babatunde Fashola .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maram Mazen in Abuja at 
 mmazen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  