-- Nikon Tumbles Most Since 1985 After Forecast Cut: Tokyo Mover
-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u
-- 2013-02-07T07:06:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/nikon-plunges-most-since-1985-after-forecast-cut-tokyo-mover.html
Nikon Corp. , Japan’s third-biggest
camera-maker, plunged the most since 1985 in Tokyo trading after
cutting its profit forecast because of slowing demand in Europe
and falling prices.  The  company  dropped 19 percent to 2,139 yen at the close.
That was the biggest decline among the 225 members of the  Nikkei
225 Stock Average .  Net income will probably be 38 billion yen ($407 million)
in the year ending March, compared with a previous  forecast  of
60 billion yen, the Tokyo-based company said yesterday in a
statement. Prices of entry-level single-lens reflex cameras have
tumbled since mid-November because of slowing demand and rising
competition, it said.  “It was a large downward revision and a negative
surprise,”  Hisashi Moriyama , an analyst at JPMorgan Chase & Co.
in Tokyo, wrote in a report yesterday. “It would take a quarter
or two to confirm whether Nikon can improve its average selling
price and margin.”  Moriyama cuts his  rating  for the stock to neutral from
overweight, and lowered his price target by percent to 2,600 yen.  Nikon and rivals including Canon Inc., the world’s largest
camera maker, are relying more on high-end models with
interchangeable lenses for growth as more consumers use
smartphones for snapshots, undermining demand for compact models.  Sales Forecasts  Nikon trimmed its full-year unit sales target for SLR
cameras to 7 million units from 7.1 earlier. The estimate for
lenses was lowered to 9.8 million from 10 million. The company
kept unchanged its target for compact cameras at 17 million
units.  “Demand in Europe is starting to slow,” Chief Financial
Officer  Junichi Itoh  told reporters yesterday. Business in China
was also “worse than expected” in the past quarter, he said.  Global shipments of digital cameras fell 14 percent in
value in November from the previous month, according to the
Camera & Imaging Products Association in Tokyo. Shipments of
high-end models with interchangeable lenses recorded a 12
percent decline. That followed a 6.6 percent gain in October,
according to the industry group.  Chinese demand was dented as consumers boycotted Japanese
goods in the period because of protests sparked by a territorial
dispute.  Nikon also cut its second-half dividend estimate to 12 yen
from 22 yen. The camera-maker had been expected to make a full-
year profit of 61 billion yen, based on the  average  of 20
analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Canon last month forecast profit will rise 14 percent in
2013, helped by a weaker yen and rising sales of its more
expensive models.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  