-- Non-Financial Firms to Get 3-Year Delay on Swaps Rules, EU Says
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2013-02-07T13:30:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/non-financial-firms-to-get-3-year-delay-on-swaps-rules-eu-says.html
Energy and technology companies are
among non-financial firms granted a three-year reprieve from
parts of European Union rules on over-the-counter derivatives,
under a compromise deal backed by lawmakers today.  The European Parliament lifted a veto threat after
regulators promised to phase in a requirement to route trades
through clearinghouses that lawmakers deemed too burdensome for
businesses that use swaps for hedging rather than to bet on
financial markets.  The European Commission “has acknowledged that the
parliament’s concerns are valid,”  Kay Swinburne , a U.K. member
of the assembly, said in an e-mailed statement. “There will be
a long phase-in and flexibility for supervisors in how the rules
are applied.”  Global regulators are seeking to toughen rules for the $639
trillion market for OTC derivatives, which became a target for
oversight after the 2008 collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc. and the rescue of American International Group Inc., two of
the largest traders in credit default swaps.  The EU technical measures flesh out parts of a law to
regulate trading in OTC derivatives that the EU adopted in 2012.
The rules have already survived scrutiny by governments, meaning
the parliamentary process was the last legal hurdle before they
could enter into force.  Competitive Disadvantage  Parts of the technical standards that aren’t subject to the
three-year phase-in period are set to take effect “around mid-
March,”  Michel Barnier , the EU’s financial services chief, said
in an e-mailed statement.  Members of the EU parliament had raised concerns about the
“technical content, procedural cooperation and timing” of the
measures,  Sharon Bowles , chairwoman of the parliament’s Economic
and Monetary Affairs Committee, told the assembly in Strasbourg,
France, today.  Barnier warned last week that rejecting the technical
measures may leave banks and other financial firms at a
“competitive disadvantage” by forcing them to comply with
competing sets of national rules.  The U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission is under
pressure from regulators in the EU and Japan to overhaul its
planned national rules for OTC derivative trading on concerns
they may leave companies outside the U.S. facing overlapping
requirements and unnecessary costs if they seek to trade with
U.S.-based businesses.  Barnier said that he would discuss possible clashes between
swaps rules in meetings next week with U.S. regulators.  “With my visit I hope to make progress towards a system
whereby the EU and the U.S. recognize the application of their
respective rules on both sides of the Atlantic as equivalent,”
Barnier said.  “I will be able to reassure our American counterparts that
the EU is meeting its G20 commitment on derivatives, and that we
are now in a position to apply stringent rules,” he said.  Barnier said his visit to the U.S. would include meeting
with  Gary Gensler , chairman of the U.S. Commodity Futures
Trading Commission.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  