-- Notz Stucki Expects to Beat Hedge-Fund Investments Gains
-- B y   G i l e s   B r o o m
-- 2013-02-08T13:42:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/notz-stucki-expects-to-beat-hedge-fund-investments-gains.html
Notz Stucki & Cie, a Swiss money
manager trying to stem shrinking assets, expects to beat last
year’s gain in its hedge-fund investments even as it reduces
allocations to alternative funds.  Investments in hedge funds including  Stephen Mandel ’s Lone
Pine Capital LLC’s rose about 8 percent on average in 2012 and
the firm’s flagship Haussmann Holdings fund jumped 9.4 percent,
 Hilmi Unver , head of alternative investments at Notz Stucki,
said in an interview at the firm’s Geneva office.  “This is proof that the fund-of-funds industry is still
very much alive,” he said, adding that Notz Stucki is targeting
double-digit percentage growth for its hedge fund investments
this year. “We are very happy about the returns.”  Notz Stucki was founded by  Christian Stucki  and  Beat Notz 
in 1964 as a fund of hedge funds focusing on so-called long-only
strategies, which perform well when markets are rising. It
attracted net inflows in the second half of 2012, according to
 Herwig van Hove , a member of the executive committee. Assets
under management fell to $6 billion in 2012, a company official
said last month, from $7 billion a year ago.  The firm, which is seeking to grow through acquisitions and
by luring emerging-market clients, cut allocations to
alternative strategies, including hedge funds, to 40 percent of
assets under management from about 70 percent in 2008, it said
Jan. 9.  Funds Performance  Lone Pine Capital’s Lone Cedar, Lone Pinon and Lone
Monterey funds last year returned 24.5 percent, 27.7 percent and
29.7 percent, respectively, according to Unver.  Notz Stucki charges clients fees for funneling assets into
outside hedge funds, rather than making direct market
investments itself. Hedge funds are largely unregulated pools of
capital that can bet on falling as well as rising asset prices.  The hedge fund industry, which oversees $2.3 trillion,
returned an annual average of 13 percent from 1993 through 2007,
according to Hedge Fund Research Inc., compared with an 8.9
percent return for the Vanguard Balanced Index Fund, which
tracks a mix of stocks and bonds.  That performance encouraged wealthy individuals and pension
funds to pay fees to funds of hedge funds for help in choosing
managers who outperformed financial market benchmarks.  Since 2008, hedge funds have underperformed, returning an
annual average of 1.5 percent through 2012, according to Hedge
Fund Research Inc., compared with a 4.1 percent gain for the
Vanguard Balanced Index Fund.  The 39 managers with whom Haussmann invested either made
money or broke even last year, Unver said. That helped the fund
outperform the 4.7 percent gain in the Hedge Fund Research Inc.
 Funds of Funds Composite Index . The MSCI World Index, a
benchmark of developed-market equities, has gained 13 percent.  “From 2008 until last year, it was fair to question
whether it made sense to be invested in hedge funds,” Unver
said. “Now you might not allocate all your money to these
strategies but it’s still a good idea to have a proportion of
your wealth in hedge funds, leaving someone else to decide the
market timing for you.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Giles Broom in Geneva at 
 gbroom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  