-- Nudism Wasn’t Practical in Ice Age, London Show Proves
-- B y   M a r t i n   G a y f o r d
-- 2013-02-07T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/nudism-wasn-t-practical-in-ice-age-london-show-proves.html
The more history unfolds, the less
the description “Homo sapiens” -- man the wise -- seems to
fit. Perhaps we should speak instead of Homo pictor, man the
painter, or of human beings as the sculpting species.  That, at any rate, is part of the message of “Ice Age Art:
Arrival of the Modern Mind” at the British Museum in London.  Two points strike you as soon as you step into the
installation. One is that the objects that you are looking at
are amazingly old. Among the first you see is the “Lion Man,”
carved from a mammoth’s tusk approximately 40,000 years ago.
That’s long enough ago to make the ancient Egyptians seem like
newcomers, and the Venus de Milo a piece of contemporary art.  The other astonishing thing is the high artistic quality of
many pieces on display. A Paleolithic critic might have found
the “Lion Man” himself a little cartoony. Still, many of the
only slightly newer items in the exhibition are nothing short of
masterpieces.  The best-known prehistoric art is the cave painting in
southwestern France and northern Spain, all impossible to
transport. On show at the museum is a display of sculptures and
objects -- most small, some tiny -- carved from stone, bone and
(frequently) mammoth tusk.  Early on you come to an array of naked female figures quite
as portly as  Lucian Freud ’s celebrated sitter, the Benefit
Supervisor. Since nudism was not a practical lifestyle in Ice
Age Europe, these unclothed figures must be either religious,
artistic or probably both.  Real Bodies  As with all prehistoric art, their precise significance is
much debated and essentially unknown.’  What is clear, however, is that whoever made them had
looked hard at a real, overweight woman’s body. On the back of
an approximately 30,000-year-old nude found in Moravia, there
are folds and creases of flesh. As with the cave paintings of
Lascaux (estimated at 17,300 years old), the most startling
aspect of these almost unimaginably old works of art is their
naturalism.  A little mammoth ivory head from Brassempouy in south
western France has been claimed as the first surviving portrait,
and it does indeed have the look of a specific person.  The best subject for these early artists was animals,
rather than other people. The most beautiful exhibits are
carvings and drawings on bone of cave bears, bison, deer,
horses, mammoths, a wolverine and even fish.  In many cases these are observed acutely and represented
with a fresh directness it would be hard to beat. Here is proof
that art doesn’t progress.  On the contrary  Joan Miro , the great Catalan modernist
painter, once declared that it had been decadent since the time
of the cave man.  Modern Echo  There is an affinity between modernism and prehistoric art.
Even so, the exhibition isn’t helped much by including a
sprinkling of 20th-century work by  Picasso ,  Henry Moore  and Co.  The other slight flaw is a brave, not entirely successful
attempt to give a photographic impression of cave painting in a
dark space toward the end.  These aren’t important defects; the prehistoric artifacts
on display are so remarkable that you scarcely notice anything
else. Even more extraordinary is the thought that these aren’t
the first works of art, just the first to survive.  Quite recently a 100,000-year-old shell turned up in which
someone had mixed paint. People had probably been making art for
untold millennia before the “Lion Man.”  “Ice Age Art: Arrival of the Modern Mind” is at the British
Museum until May 26. Information:  http://www.britishmuseum.org 
or +44-20-7323-8299.  ( Martin Gayford  is chief art critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Muse highlights include  Jason Harper  on cars,  Lance Esplund 
on U.S. art,  Scott Reyburn  on the art market and  Catherine
Hickley  on German film.  To contact the writer on the story:
 Martin Gayford  in London at  martin.gayford@googlemail.com  or
 http://twitter.com/martingayford .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 