-- Obama Is Said Nearing Choice of Pritzker for Commerce
-- B y   H a n s   N i c h o l s   a n d   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2013-02-07T23:05:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/obama-is-said-nearing-choice-of-pritzker-for-commerce.html
President  Barack Obama  is close to
choosing Chicago businesswoman  Penny Pritzker , who led
fundraising for his 2008 campaign, as his next commerce
secretary, according to three people familiar with the matter.  Pritzker, whose family built the  Hyatt Hotels Corp.  chain,
would replace acting commerce secretary  Rebecca Blank , an
economist who took over for  John Bryson  after he resigned last
June for health reasons.  Selecting Pritzker, 53, would ensure that one of Obama’s
original Chicago supporters would have a voice in shaping his
second term, said two of the people, who requested anonymity to
discuss personnel decisions. The president hasn’t made a final
decision, said a third person, who also requested anonymity.  A White House spokesman, Eric Schultz, declined to comment
on Pritzker’s potential nomination. Pritzker’s spokeswoman
didn’t respond to an e-mail seeking comment.  After facing criticism for picking men to lead the State,
Treasury and Defense Departments, Obama has announced the
appointment of two women for key positions. Yesterday, he
selected  Sally Jewell , chief executive officer of Recreational
Equipment Inc., to be secretary of the Interior Department. Last
month, he named  Mary Jo White , a former U.S. attorney for
Manhattan, as his choice to lead the Securities and Exchange
Commission.  Cabinet Picks  “We are thrilled that the president has finally broken his
long streak of all-male appointments,” said Shaunna Thomas, co-
founder of the women’s rights advocacy group UltraViolet.
“Women deserve a presidential Cabinet that understands and can
act in their best interests, and we believe Sally Jewel is a
step in that direction.”  Obama also has settled on Wal-Mart Foundation President
 Sylvia Mathews Burwell  for budget director and  Ruth Porat , chief
financial officer at Morgan Stanley, for deputy Treasury
secretary.  Jeffrey Zients , the acting White House budget
director, is the leading candidate for U.S. trade representative
during Obama’s second term, according to one of the people.  Like Jewell, Pritzker would bring a business background to
the administration, helping Obama fulfill what he has said is a
goal to add private sector experience in his Cabinet.  The Chicago businesswoman has developed a skyscraper in her
hometown, worked as president of a commercial real estate and
luxury senior housing company, and served as chairwoman for a
credit-reporting company. Pritzker’s net worth as of September
was estimated at $1.8 billion, according to Forbes magazine’s
list of the 400 richest Americans.  2008 Consideration  Shortly after Obama’s election in 2008, Pritzker’s name
circulated as his first choice for commerce secretary. She
issued a statement in late November of that year that made clear
she didn’t want the job then.  Although she and members of her family are prominent
philanthropists in Chicago, they’re also publicity shy about
their business dealings, including the 2001 collapse of a
suburban Chicago bank that they co-owned.  White House officials had discussed the commerce job with
Xerox Corp. Chief Executive Officer  Ursula Burns , who told them
she wasn’t interested, according to people familiar with the
matter.  Pritzker has known Obama since long before he rose to
national prominence. She met him in the mid-1990s on a YMCA
basketball court in Chicago, where Obama’s brother-in-law,  Craig Robinson , coached one of her children’s teams. Marty Nesbitt, a
close Obama friend and Pritzker business partner, also had a
child on the team.  The Obama family would soon start making visits to the
Pritzker summer home in Michigan. It was there that Obama first
mentioned in 2002 that he was thinking of running for the U.S.
Senate in 2004 and wanted her support.  Pritzker, who has a law degree and MBA from Stanford, is a
prolific fundraiser for Democratic candidates in Illinois and
elsewhere.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hans Nichols in Washington at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net ;
John McCormick in Chicago at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  