-- Obama Cites Faith as Aid in Healing Political Divisions
-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 2013-02-07T15:04:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/obama-cites-faith-as-aid-in-healing-political-divisions.html
President  Barack Obama  told the
audience at the National Prayer Breakfast that the two men whose
Bibles he used at his recent inauguration are examples of the
use of faith and humility in healing political divisions.  Obama said that both President Abraham Lincoln and the
Reverend Martin Luther King -- who he said faced hate, anger,
and injustice in a divided nation -- turned to prayer and
humility.  “We come together because we’re people of faith. Faith is
not a possession, it is a process,” Obama said today at the
event in Washington. “He rewards those who diligently seek
Him.”  Amid the rancorous debates over guns, immigration, spending
and taxes, the lives of the 16th U.S. president and the civil
rights leader offer lessons to current-day leaders, Obama said.
The divisions in the U.S. today aren’t as “deep and
destructive” as the civil war faced by Lincoln, he said, “but
they are real.”  “In the midst of all these debates we must keep that
humility” nurtured by Lincoln and King, he said. “Those with
the most power and influence need to be the most humble.”  Obama, 51, said that today’s gathering was his fifth prayer
breakfast, and that while the theme of unity prevails at the
event, “as soon as we leave it seems to be forgotten,” he
said. “We’d like to think the shelf life isn’t so short.”  “My hope is that humility carries over every day,” he
said.  Obama was joined at the breakfast by First Lady  Michelle Obama  and Vice President  Joe Biden . The event brings together
the president, members of Congress, diplomats and hundreds of
religious, business and military figures each year on the first
Thursday of February.  It has been attended by every president since Dwight
Eisenhower in 1953, according the Fellowship Foundation, the
Arlington, Virginia-based group that sponsors the breakfast.
About 3,000 people were present today, organizers said.  “It’s a surprise for some people after they see us go back
and forth in debate” and then come together as one at a prayer
event, said U.S. Representative  Louie Gohmert , a Texas
Republican and a member of the House Prayer Group.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  