-- House Democrats Ask Obama to Replace Fannie Mae Regulator
-- B y   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s   a n d   C l e a   B e n s o n
-- 2013-02-07T19:02:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/obama-urged-by-house-democrats-to-replace-fannie-mae-s-regulator.html
A group of House Democrats is urging
President  Barack Obama  to nominate a permanent director for the
Federal Housing Finance Agency to replace an acting chief they
say is standing in the way of aid for struggling borrowers.  The 45 lawmakers led by Representative  Elijah Cummings  of
Maryland, the top Democrat on the House Oversight and Government
Reform Committee, said in a letter to Obama that FHFA Acting
Director  Edward J. DeMarco  should be removed because of his
refusal to use U.S.-owned mortgage firms  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie
Mac  to provide loan modifications including principal reduction.  “Ensuring that FHFA implements congressional directives to
support the most liquid, efficient, competitive and resilient
housing finance markets is a matter of national urgency,” the
lawmakers wrote in the letter dated today. “For these reasons,
we strongly urge you to nominate an FHFA director who is ready
to fulfill this mission and address the many challenges still
facing the nation’s housing finance markets.”  The letter reflects a renewed effort by Democratic
lawmakers and consumer advocates to get Obama to replace
DeMarco, a career civil servant who inherited the job of
overseeing Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac in 2009. Senate
Republicans in 2011 blocked Obama’s nominee for the post, former
North Carolina banking regulator  Joseph Smith .  Recess Appointment  The White House has been actively seeking potential
candidates for the job in recent months. Obama may be limited in
his ability to remove DeMarco without Republican support in the
wake of a Jan. 25 federal court ruling that his use of a
procedure known as a recess appointment to install officials at
the National Labor Relations Bureau was unconstitutional.  A recess appointment enables the president to install
nominees without approval when the Senate isn’t in session.
Republicans, who hold 45 seats in the 100-member Senate, have
the ability to block consideration of appointees under rules
that require 60 votes to prevent a filibuster attempt.  “With the inability to do a recess appointment, the
president has few options,”  Jaret Seiberg , senior policy
analyst at Washington Research Group, a unit of Guggenheim
Securities LLC, said in an interview. “Republicans can bottle
up a nominee for years which will keep DeMarco in charge.”  Potential nominees for the FHA post could include
administration officials such as  Michael Stegman , the Treasury
Department’s housing adviser, or academics such as Harvard
University professor  Nicolas Retsinas , former director of the
school’s Joint Center for Housing Studies.  “I think it will be very hard to even find someone to
accept a nomination,” Seiberg said. “Why subject yourself to
all the scrutiny when you are unlikely to get the job?”  Unresolved Debate  DeMarco took charge at FHFA when  James Lockhart  stepped
down in 2009 amid debate over the future of Fannie Mae and
Freddie Mac that remains unresolved. He could return to his
previous job as deputy director if a replacement is seated.  FHFA has been shrinking the footprint of Fannie Mae and
Freddie Mac, which own or guarantee about two-thirds of U.S.
home loans. DeMarco’s focus on preserving the finances of the
companies, which have been sustained by $190 billion Treasury
aid since they were seized amid soaring losses in in 2008, has
angered activists who want more help for struggling borrowers.  That ire peaked in July when DeMarco declined an offer of
incentive payments from Treasury for principal reductions,
citing an internal study showing that cutting loan balances
wouldn’t help the bottom line at Washington-based Fannie Mae and
Freddie Mac of McLean, Virginia.  “He can’t hold this power over homeowners and our economy
any more, so it’s time for him to go,” Tracy Van Slyke,
director of the New Bottom Line, a group that has been calling
for DeMarco’s ouster, said today in an interview.  Denise Dunckel, an FHFA spokeswoman, said she had no
comment on the letter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cheyenne Hopkins in Washington at 
 chopkins19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  