-- Obama Finds Limits to Government Transparency Amid Openness Vow
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   D w o s k i n
-- 2013-02-07T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/obama-finds-limits-to-government-transparency-amid-openness-vow.html
President  Barack Obama  likes to say
that his administration is the most open and transparent in
history. On the  White House website , he pledges to give citizens
an “unprecedented level” of access to information and says
agencies will “offer Americans increased opportunities to
participate in policy making and to provide their government
with the benefits of their collective expertise.”  The president’s efforts to make people feel they are as
important in helping him govern as they were in helping him get
elected are evident in a new video on the site, titled “Be a
Part of the Next Four Years.” It shows Obama learning to send
Twitter messages, hosting Google+ Hangouts with ordinary folks,
and cold-calling surprised citizens -- who happen to have film
crews in their homes when the phone rings -- to thank them for
their ideas. “One of my priorities as president is opening the
White House to the American people,” Obama says on the video.  Earnest as he may be about creating an open atmosphere,
there’s something missing: actual openness. As Bloomberg
Businessweek reports in its Feb. 11 issue, Obama hasn’t been any
more inclusive or transparent than his predecessors.  In 2009 the new president commanded all federal agencies to
hasten the release of official documents under the Freedom of
Information Act. Two-thirds of agencies have ignored that order,
according to a study by the National Security Archive, an
independent research center based at George Washington
University in Washington.  The administration announced with great fanfare that it
would release the names of White House visitors; it has done so
only sporadically. The president hasn’t disclosed the amounts
that corporate donors gave to fund the inaugural celebration.
And his national security team is taking heat from Congress over
its secretive policy of attacking suspected terrorists overseas,
including U.S. citizens, with drones.  Pledge Unfulfilled  Federal agencies aren’t “fulfilling the president’s
promise of an open and transparent government,” Senator  Patrick Leahy , a Vermont Democrat and chairman of the Senate Judiciary
Committee, said in a Dec. 4 statement. In the last session of
Congress, Leahy co-sponsored bipartisan legislation to speed up
the release of information under the Freedom of Information Act;
the bill, which the Senate passed, wasn’t taken up by the House
and expired.  No president wants the same type of engagement with his
supporters after the election as he did before: Campaigning
would be impossible without the direct participation of millions
of clamoring voters, but governing is impossible with it.  “Between power being concentrated with a few people and
direct democracy, there’s no perfect formula to move between
those two poles,” said John Wonderlich, policy director of the
Sunlight Foundation, a Washington-based watchdog group that
advocates for transparency in government. “We’re all trying to
figure out what that should look like.”  ‘A Disaster’  Obama has tried to have it both ways, keeping up the
inclusive language of the campaign without making government
much more accessible to the public. “They campaigned on
transparency. They’ve been a disaster for transparency,” said
 Clay Shirky , a New York University professor who writes about
social movements. “They were nowhere near as radical in their
thinking about the way they talked to citizens versus the way
they talked to voters.”  Take the section of the White House website called “ We the
People: Your Voice in Our Government .” An individual can create
a petition on the site demanding that the administration act on
an issue. If enough people sign the petition within 30 days, the
White House promises to post a response.  Macon Phillips , a former Obama campaign strategist whose
title is White House director of new media, runs the website and
created the petition. They “institutionalize a right to command
the government’s attention,” he said in an e-mail.  Higher Numbers  At first, the White House required 5,000 signatures to get
a response; within a week, Phillips was flooded with 7,800
petitions. On Oct. 3, 2011, less than two weeks after the
petition site went live, he raised the bar to 25,000 signatures.
Last month, he raised it again: It now takes 100,000 signers to
trigger an answer from the White House.  In all, people have started more than 145,000 petitions.
While some are jokes -- one that got a lot of attention last
year demanded the government begin construction of a Death Star
-- thousands of others have asked the White House to address
serious issues: the federal minimum wage, gun laws, immigration.  The White House assigns administration officials to answer
petitions that reach the signature threshold; there have been 98
so far. Typically, the answers are a page long, with lots of
policy details and links to government documents.  As an example, in response to a petition asking the U.S. to
digitize all public records,  David Ferriero , the archivist of
the United States, wrote that the government was already trying
to do so through its  Citizen Archivist  project.  Marijuana Petitions  At least 11 petitions asking the government to legalize or
loosen restrictions on marijuana have attracted more than
200,000 signatures.  Gil Kerlikowske , director of the Office of
National Drug Control Policy, wrote a seven-paragraph
explanation of the administration’s marijuana policy, with links
to National Institutes of Health research on pot’s addictive
properties.  Of course, the purpose of a petition isn’t just to get an
answer, but to effect change. The White House won’t say whether
it has changed any policy in response to a “We the People”
request.  “Sort of a subjective question,” White House spokesman
 Matt Lehrich  said in an e-mail. “I don’t have a figure on
that.”  Beer Recipe  The administration has made policy changes after petitions
were filed -- it strengthened oversight of puppy mills, proposed
a regulation to grant work permits for the spouses of people
approved for H1-B visas, and enacted student loan forgiveness --
but it hasn’t explicitly said that the petitions were the
reason. The closest it has come to doing so was the release of
the White House  beer recipe  in September, even before the
petition calling for the list of ingredients had reached the
threshold for a response.  “Without any further ado, America, this one’s for you,”
wrote Sam Kass, a White House assistant chef.  “It’s still the broadcast model -- officials talking and
people listening,” said Zeynep Tufekci, who studies the
interactions of technology and society as a fellow at Princeton
University’s Center for Information Technology Policy in
Princeton, New Jersey. “The president has all these legislative
agendas, on gun control, on immigration, that require broad
public deliberation. Instead of creating large-scale meaningful
interaction, it’s the press release in a new format.”  That misses the point, according to Phillips, who insisted
that even the Death Star petition was important because it
increased the public’s engagement with the government.  Deficit Reduction  The official response to that petition -- by  Paul Shawcross , chief of the Science and Space Branch at the Office
of Management and Budget -- was hilarious: “The construction of
the Death Star has been estimated to cost more than
$850,000,000,000,000,000. We’re working hard to reduce the
deficit, not expand it.” Also, Shawcross said, “The
administration does not support blowing up planets.”  His statement generated several hundred thousand clicks on
the White House website and was shared more than 60,000 times on
Twitter. Visitors were invited to sign up for e-mails from the
National Aeronautics and Space Administration alerting them when
the International Space Station was passing over their homes.  “Now there are more kids who, whenever a space station is
above, go outside and look up,” Phillips said. “This is a
chance to get this relevant information in front of people who
care.”  Ethan Zuckerman , director of the Center for Civic Media at
the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in Cambridge,
Massachusetts, said that while the administration’s efforts were
a step in the right direction, they also reveal the stark
“disparity between 21st-century citizens, who have all sorts of
ways to make their voices heard,” and Washington, which thinks
that it can still dictate the terms of debate.  “The government has to figure out how to take this very
closed process and open it to participation,” Zuckerman said,
“or we’re going to lose even more public confidence than we
already have.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Dwoskin in Washington at 
 edwoskin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wes Kosova at 
 wkosova@bloomberg.net  