-- Obama Channeling Reagan to Break Credo Government Is the Problem
-- B y   M i k e   D o r n i n g
-- 2013-02-07T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/obama-channeling-reagan-to-break-credo-government-is-the-problem.html
President  Barack Obama  has long
aspired to emulate  Ronald Reagan  in changing the trajectory of
American politics. Halfway through his presidency, the evidence
is that public opinion is bending Obama’s way.  While Reagan declared that “government is the problem”
and vowed to “lighten our punitive tax burden,” Obama won re-
election by almost 5 million votes with an opposing vision that
calls for federal action to promote equality, require greater
sacrifice for those at the top, and address everything from
climate change to health  insurance .  House Republicans were forced to break with party orthodoxy
and accept a tax increase on the wealthy, a plan pushed by Obama
and backed by the public. Voter attitudes during the Obama years
have shifted in favor of same-sex marriage and a path to
citizenship for undocumented immigrants. Even Obama’s health-
care law gets majority support among Americans in a recent poll.  As a result, Republican leaders are sounding alarmed as
they head into the next round of budget and debt negotiations
with Obama: House Speaker  John Boehner  said the president is out
to “annihilate” the Republican Party, while Republican
National Committee Chairman  Reince Priebus  is trying to change
the rules for electing the president in 2016.  “Obama has the potential to make the kind of political
changes Ronald Reagan did,” said  Julian Zelizer , co-author of
“Conservatives in Power: The Reagan Years” and a Princeton
University history professor. “The long-term effects of his
presidency could be very important.”  Weak Economy  One major obstacle to Obama’s reaching that goal is the
weakness of the economic rebound under the president, who, like
Reagan, was faced with a crippling recession.  Republicans for decades have cited  the boom  under Reagan as
proof of the effectiveness of his governing philosophy of low
taxes and light government regulation. The economy’s strength
was clear by 1985, making his legacy “a little bit” more
secure at the time than Obama’s is now, Zelizer said.  The gross domestic product expanded at an average 6.7
percent rate in 1983 and 1984. Under Obama, growth averaged just
1.8 percent for the past two years, including a 0.1 percent
contraction in the last three months of 2012.  Still, the conservative shift in U.S. politics linked to
Reagan only became fully apparent over time as the election of
his vice president,  George H.W. Bush , as successor ratified his
legacy and the Republican Party gained control of both chambers
of Congress in 1994. It was a Democrat, President  Bill Clinton ,
who  declared  “The era of big government is over” seven years
after Reagan left office and who further deregulated the
financial industry in 1999.  Takes Generation  Even within the White House at the beginning of Reagan’s
second term, few advisers appreciated the far-reaching impact
his presidency would have, in spite of the Republican’s 49-state
re-election victory, said  Ken Khachigian , an adviser and
speechwriter for the president.  “I don’t think any of us felt that that had been
achieved,” Khachigian said. “History has a way of playing out
over a generation, not just three or four years.”  While Reagan spent his presidency communicating a vision
for limiting the scope of government, Obama used his second
inauguration speech on Jan. 21 to present an unabashed case for
Washington’s role in promoting equality and protecting
Americans’ economic security.  “We do not believe that in this country freedom is
reserved for the lucky, or happiness for the few,” Obama said.
“We recognize that no matter how responsibly we live our lives,
any one of us, at any time, may face a job loss or a sudden
illness or a home swept away in a terrible storm.”  ‘Liberal’ Comeback  The New Republic magazine summed up the address by
declaring, “The Word Liberal Makes a Comeback.”  As far back as the 2008 Democratic presidential primary,
Obama expressed admiration for Reagan’s ability to capture the
spirit of his times and guide the nation in a new direction.  Reagan “changed the trajectory of America in a way that,
you know,  Richard Nixon  did not and in a way that Bill Clinton
did not,” he told the Reno (Nevada) Gazette-Journal in January
2008. “He put us on a fundamentally different path because the
country was ready for it.”  Reagan reversed an almost half-century-long movement toward
expanding government’s role in the economy and society that
 Franklin Roosevelt  began with the New Deal and  Lyndon Johnson 
continued with his Great Society programs. He passed the 1981
tax cuts, continued to deregulate business and set a new tone in
labor relations by breaking the national air traffic controllers
union, though he allowed federal spending to increase and later
had to roll back some of the tax reductions to curb the deficit.  Emerging Coalition  Obama is now turning back toward more government action in
addressing economic crises and social ills. His first two years
in office, when Democrats controlled both houses of Congress,
included an $833 billion economic-stimulus package, direct
intervention to support the automobile and clean-energy
industries, a financial-regulation package and a health-care law
that will expand insurance to tens of millions of Americans.  Just as disaffected white working class voters, those in
nonprofessional occupations who lack college degrees, and many
Southerners became “Reagan Democrats,” Obama is solidifying
Democratic support in an emerging coalition made up of the
rising generation of younger Americans and expanding populations
of blacks, Hispanics, Asians and college-educated voters.  While Obama’s 51 percent re-election vote is well behind
Reagan’s 59 percent in 1984, the Democrat’s 60 percent support
among those younger than 30 slightly exceeds Reagan’s edge among
the age group. The strongest support for Obama’s Republican
opponent,  Mitt Romney , came from those 65 and older.  Setting Pattern  The first few presidential election votes set a pattern for
younger voters that usually lasts, said  Ruy Teixeira , a senior
fellow at the Center for American Progress and co-author of a
2002 book, “The Emerging Democratic Majority,” which argued
that long-range demographics favor left-of-center candidates.  “If you start out conservative, you remain fairly
conservative; if you start out liberal, you remain fairly
liberal,” Teixeira said.  Obama’s mixed-race heritage and his young family also
deepen the connection to him among younger voters who have grown
up in an era of greater ethnic diversity, Teixeira said.  “He represents and embodies the changes in the country
that they see,” he said. “He seems like he’s one of them.”  Still, the loyalty of the emerging electoral coalition will
likely only be cemented if the economy grows enough to lift
Americans’ living standards, Teixeira said.  Investors Gain  The economy under Obama has been good for investors. The
benchmark Standard & Poor’s 500 U.S.  stock index rose  about 75
percent during his first term compared with a 27.5 percent
increase during Reagan’s first four years.  Wage-earners haven’t prospered. Real median household
income declined to $51,088 in December 2012 from $55,012 when he
took office in January 2009, according to an analysis of census
data by Sentier Research, an economic-consulting firm in
Annapolis, Maryland. Median household income in Reagan’s first
term by contrast climbed to $46,215 in 1984 from $45,260 in
1981, U.S. census data show.  “Demographics plus growth equals dominance,” Teixeira
said. “He’s got the demographics. If he gets the growth, he’ll
get the dominance.”  Poisoned Atmosphere  Another significant difference for the two presidents is
the political atmosphere in Washington. Obama has had to
overcome a cohesive Republican congressional opposition that has
been mostly united in blocking his priorities. Reagan benefited
from conservative Southern Democrats, who in some cases broke
with party leaders to back his agenda, even though he faced a
more hostile Congress in his second term.  The consensus on a number of contentious issues has been
changing as Obama has been in the White House.  Fifty-one percent of Americans support same-sex marriage
compared with 41 percent three years ago, according to NBC News
Wall Street Journal  polls  taken in December 2012 and October
2009. Sixty-two percent favor a path for illegal immigrants
already in the U.S. to become citizens, up from 47 percent in
September 2009, according to an Associated Press-GfK Roper
Public Affairs poll taken Jan. 10-14.  Sixty percent of voters backed a tax increase on the
wealthy, according to exit polls, a centerpiece of Obama’s re-
election campaign that congressional Republicans opposed.
Support has been growing for Obama’s health-care law, which
Romney had vowed to try to repeal. Fifty-one percent of U.S.
adults say they favor all or most of the law’s provisions, up
from 45 percent two years ago, according to a  CNN poll  conducted
Jan. 14-15.  Soviet Collapse  The longer-term impact of the political shifts in the Obama
years will also depend on how subsequent events alter public
assessments of his presidency.  The unraveling of the Soviet Empire in the late 1980s and
early 1990s burnished Reagan’s reputation, Zelizer said. The
overhaul of the tax code that he negotiated with Democratic
congressional leaders in 1986 and an immigration bill passed the
same year boosted his image as a president capable of working
across party lines, he said.  Potential agreements between Obama and congressional
Republicans on immigration law, revamping the tax code, or
revisions to entitlement programs to curb costs could have a
similar effect on Obama’s standing, Zelizer said.  On the other hand, “we still don’t know how Obamacare is
going to be implemented,” Khachigian added. “We don’t know how
the new tax laws are going to affect the economy. There are a
lot of imponderables on the international scene.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Dorning in Washington at 
 mdorning@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  