-- Obama Tells Democrats He Wants a ‘Big Deal’ to Trim Deficit
-- B y   H a n s   N i c h o l s
-- 2013-02-07T22:33:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/obama-tells-democrats-he-wants-a-big-deal-to-trim-deficit.html
President  Barack Obama  said he wants
to reach a “big deal” on the budget that will cut the nation’s
deficit without slashing spending on education and research that
is needed to ensure future growth.  Obama said negotiations with congressional Republicans over
avoiding the $1.2 trillion in automatic, across-the-board
spending reductions set to begin March 1 shouldn’t push aside
the effort for a broader plan to cut government debt.  “I am prepared, eager and anxious to do a big deal, a big
package that ends this governance by crisis,” Obama said at the
annual House Democratic retreat at Lansdowne Resort in Virginia,
about 35 miles (56 kilometers) northwest of Washington.  Earlier this week, Obama called on Congress to postpone the
automatic cuts and for now work on a short-term package that
would combine increased  revenue  as well as trimming federal
outlays. Obama has said he wants to curb tax breaks for top
earners and change the treatment of profits in buyout deals,
known as carried interest.  The U.S. budget  deficit  exceeded $1 trillion in each of
Obama’s first four years in office. While that must be reduced,
he said, “it shouldn’t be just on the backs of seniors, it
should not just be on the backs of young people who are trying
to get a college education, it should not just be on the backs
of parents who are trying to get their kids a better start in
life.”  Obama said he’s willing to work on “additional reforms”
to make health care programs more efficient and cut unneeded
programs.  Republican Stance  House Speaker  John Boehner , an Ohio Republican, said
yesterday he will oppose any delay of the so-called sequester,
unless Congress replaces them with other “cuts and reforms.”  Boehner said he is “more than willing” to work with
Senate Democrats and Obama on a plan, while reiterating his
opposition to tax-revenue increases in such a proposal.  “At some point, Washington has to deal with its spending
problem,” Boehner, an Ohio Republican, said at a Washington
news conference yesterday. “I’ve watched them kick this can
down the road for 22 years that I’ve been here. I’ve had enough
of it. It’s time to act.”  Majority Leader  Harry Reid  of Nevada has told fellow
Democratic leaders in his chamber that he would like to have a
plan to delay the spending cuts ready in the next week,
according to a Senate Democratic aide who sought anonymity to
discuss private talks.  Rallying Democrats  Obama’s appearance was his second in two days with
congressional Democrats as he tries to rally them behind his
second term agenda, which also includes passing a rewrite of
U.S. immigration law and new restrictions on the availability of
firearms. Both are issues that have been stalled by  opposition
in the past.  “It won’t be smooth; it won’t be simple,” Obama told the
House members today in Virginia. “There will be times when you
guys are mad at me.”  Obama spoke yesterday to Senate Democrats at their retreat
in Annapolis, Maryland.  The president also is looking ahead to the 2014 elections
in which Democrats will seek to hold or expand their Senate
majority and cut into the Republican majority in the House.  He
is planning to attend 14 fundraisers on behalf of Democratic
candidates for Congress this year, White House press secretary
Jay Carney said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hans Nichols in Lansdowne, Virginia, at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  