-- Ocado Loss Unexpectedly Narrows as Customer Numbers Advance
-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 2013-02-07T10:58:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/ocado-loss-for-2012-narrow-as-sales-customer-numbers-advance.html
Ocado Group Plc , the U.K.’s largest
Internet-only grocer, unexpectedly reported a narrower full-year
loss as customer numbers soared ahead of the opening of a new
distribution center that will double capacity.  The pretax loss was 0.6 million pounds ($0.9 million) in
the year ended Dec. 2, compared with 2.4 million pounds a year
earlier, the Hatfield, England-based company said today in a
statement. The average of nine analyst estimates compiled by
Bloomberg was for a deficit of 3.9 million pounds.  Ocado rose as much as 11 percent to 115.7 pence in London
trading, extending its  gain this year  to 34 percent. Last
month’s appointment of former Marks & Spencer Group Plc boss
 Stuart Rose  as chairman and an extension of its debt facility in
November have eased concern over the company’s viability
following doubts over the time it will take to realize a profit.  The opening of a second distribution center later this
month “will be key as proof of concept, reducing capacity
constraints, and for driving sales growth, profitability and
cash generation,”  Rudolf Dreyer , an analyst at Goldman Sachs
Group Inc., said in a note to clients.  The new warehouse, located at Dordon in central England,
started receiving its first inventory last week and remains on
budget, with total spending of 155 million pounds, Ocado said.  More Capacity  The company plans to start a marketing “uberpush” to
potential customers in the Midlands, the U.K. region in which
the distribution center is located, Chief Executive Officer  Tim Steiner  said in an interview.  The new center “will give us significant additional
capacity to grow into,” Steiner said. Ocado’s ability to grow
faster has been constrained by a shortage of space at the
customer fulfilment center in Hatfield, southern England.  While the opening will free up space at the existing
Hatfield site which could be used to increase Ocado’s business
in London, “the rest of the U.K. is of growing importance,”
Steiner said. Last year, 45 percent of new customers came from
outside its traditional London and South East of England base.  Sales gained 14 percent in the six weeks ended Jan. 6, the
online retailer said Jan. 15, trailing the 25 percent growth for
U.K. Internet food sales in December, according to data from the
Office for National Statistics. That was less than the 20
percent growth predicted by Steiner at the start of last year.  Full-year revenue at Ocado increased to 678.6 million
pounds from 598.3 million pounds a year earlier, it said today.
The number of active customers rose to 355,000 as of Dec. 2 from
298,000 at the beginning of the financial year.  Takeover Speculation  Ocado  shares were up 7.6 percent at 111.8 pence as of 10:53
a.m. Even after the recent share price gains, Ocado stock still
trades below the 180 pence at which it was sold in a 2010
initial public offering.  According to  Philip Dorgan , an analyst at Panmure Gordon in
London, the main question for investors is whether Ocado’s
assets are attractive to Marks & Spencer or William Morrison
Supermarkets Plc, both of which lack an online food offer.  Talk of a takeover is “speculation,” Steiner said. Rose
wasn’t appointed to sell the business, he said, referring to the
new chairman’s mergers & acquisition track record.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  