-- Oil Falls as Draghi Says Euro Strength May Hamper Growth
-- B y   M o m i n g   Z h o u
-- 2013-02-07T20:26:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/oil-rises-as-iran-rejects-talks.html
Oil fell to the lowest level in two
weeks in New York as European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said the euro’s strength could hamper an economic
recovery, curbing fuel demand.  West Texas Intermediate oil dropped 0.8 percent as the euro
slumped for a second day against the dollar. The European Union
accounted for 16 percent of global oil use in 2011, according to
BP Plc’s Statistical Review of World Energy. WTI’s discount to
Brent oil in London widened for a seventh day. U.S. crude
 supplies  rose 2.62 million barrels last week to 371.7 million,
the most since Dec. 7, the government said yesterday.  “Slower growth in Europe means slower exports and weak oil
demand,” said  Bill Baruch , a senior market strategist at
Iitrader.com in Chicago. “The euro is getting hammered and oil
is following suit.”  WTI oil for March delivery slid 79 cents to $95.83 a barrel
on the New York Mercantile Exchange, the lowest settlement since
Jan. 23. Volume was 52 percent above the 100-day average at 3:22
p.m. Prices have decreased 2 percent this week.  ECB policy makers are concerned that an advance in the
euro, which gained 2.5 percent this year through yesterday,
could stymie a recovery before it has begun by curbing exports
and damping inflation, Draghi said. They “want to see if the
appreciation is sustained,” he said.  The euro dropped as much as 1.1 percent today. A weaker
euro and stronger dollar reduce oil’s appeal as an investment
alternative.  WTI-Brent  Brent for March settlement climbed 51 cents, or 0.4
percent, to $117.24 a barrel on the ICE Futures Europe exchange.
Volume was 39 percent above the 100-day average. Europe’s
benchmark grade advanced as much as 0.9 percent after Iran said
it won’t be coerced into holding direct talks with the U.S.  Brent was at a $21.41-a-barrel premium to WTI based on
settlement prices, the widest spread since Dec. 14.  “It’s the spread at work,” said  John Kilduff , a partner
at Again Capital LLC, a New York-based hedge fund that focuses
on energy. “There is certainly a significant rally in the
dollar.”  The gap has grown since  Enterprise Products Partners LP 
said Jan. 31 that capacity on the Seaway pipeline to the Gulf
Coast from Cushing, Oklahoma, where the WTI contract is
delivered, will be limited until late 2013.  Stockpiles  at Cushing are the highest for this time of year
in Energy Information Administration records dating back to
2004. They fell 315,000 barrels last week to 51.4 million,
according to a report yesterday from the EIA, the Energy
Department’s statistical arm. Cushing inventories reached a
record 51.9 million barrels on Jan. 11.  Jobless Claims  Crude also fell as more Americans than expected applied for
 jobless benefits  last week. Jobless claims reached 366,000,
exceeding the 360,000 forecast by economists surveyed by
Bloomberg. Claims declined from the prior week, returning to
levels seen in the second half of 2012.  “The employment situation is still rather bleak,” said
 Tom Doremus , an analyst at Tradition Energy in Stamford,
Connecticut.  The U.S. accounted for 21 percent of world oil demand in
2011, according to BP.  Total petroleum demand in the U.S. dropped 3.4 percent last
week to 18.1 million barrels a day, the EIA reported yesterday.
Gasoline consumption decreased 1 percent to 8.42 million barrels
a day.  “We see the market as still quite well supplied,” said
 Tim Evans , an energy analyst at Citi Futures Perspective in New
York, in an e-mail.  Iran Talks  WTI climbed as much as 0.6 percent earlier as Iran’s
Supreme Leader Ayatollah  Ali Khamenei  said negotiations with the
U.S. “won’t solve a thing.”  “The U.S. holds a gun at Iran and says we need to
negotiate,” Khamenei, the highest authority in Iran and the
ultimate decision maker in the state’s affairs, said at a
meeting of air force commanders.  Foreign Minister  Ali Akbar Salehi  said earlier this week
that Iran considers an offer by U.S. Vice President  Joe Biden  to
negotiate directly over its nuclear program a “step forward.”  “The Iran news is significantly bullish to the market,”
Tradition Energy’s Doremus said. “The notion of easing tensions
in the Gulf is gone.”  Iran  pumped  2.6 million barrels of oil a day in January,
the lowest level since February 1990, a Bloomberg survey of oil
companies, producers and analysts showed. Iran, the Organization
of Petroleum Exporting Countries’ biggest producer after Saudi
Arabia a year ago, is now tied with the United Arab Emirates for
fifth place.  Oil Sanctions  Sanctions aimed at stopping the Islamic republic’s nuclear
program have hindered its ability to export crude oil. A
European Union ban on the purchase, transport, financing and
insurance of Iranian oil came into effect on July 1.  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 690,400
contracts as of 3:23 p.m. It totaled 791,245 contracts
yesterday, 53 percent above the three-month average. Open
interest was 1.6 million, the highest level since Nov. 8.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Moming Zhou in New York at 
 mzhou29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  