-- Brent Crude Rises to Four-Month High, Extends WTI Premium
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2013-02-07T13:25:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/oil-rises-after-cushing-crude-stockpiles-drop-to-one-month-low.html
Brent crude climbed to its highest
level in more than four months in London, extending its premium
over West Texas Intermediate for a seventh day.  Brent futures jumped 0.9 percent to the highest since Sept.
14. Saudi Arabia, the world’s largest crude exporter, produced
9.05 million barrels a day in January, close to the lowest level
since May 2011, according to a Gulf official who declined to be
identified.  U.S. refiners  supplied 1.2 percent more fuel over
the past four weeks than a year earlier, the Energy Department
said yesterday. Heating oil gained on forecast of a snow storm
in the Northeast.  “There’s generally quite positive market sentiment and
high risk appetite,” said  Filip Petersson , a commodities
strategist at SEB AB in Stockholm, who estimates that oil prices
have risen too high. “Prices are a bit overstretched. We have
an oversupply on a global basis.”  Brent for March settlement climbed as much as $1.10 to
$117.83 a barrel and was at $117.45 as of 1:21 p.m. London time
on the ICE Futures Europe exchange. The number of contracts
changing hands was 40 percent higher than the 100-day average.
The European benchmark was at a premium of $20.65 to WTI. It
settled at $20.11 yesterday, the widest since Dec. 24.  WTI for March delivery on the New York Mercantile Exchange
was at $96.78 a barrel, up 16 cents in electronic trading. The
volume of all contracts traded was 6.5 percent below the 100-day
average.  Saudi Supply  Saudi Arabia supplied 9.26 million barrels a day to the
market in January, compared with 9.151 million in December, said
a Gulf official with knowledge of the kingdom’s energy policy
who declined to be identified. The higher volume compared with
output was made up for by deliveries from inventories.  Deep-water oil exploration has been disrupted from the Gulf
of Mexico to Brazil by the discovery of faulty bolts used in
safety equipment less than three years after the worst-ever U.S.
maritime crude spill.  Energy explorers such as  Chevron Corp .,  Royal Dutch Shell
Plc  and  Transocean Ltd . said they have been directed by U.S.
regulators to suspend work aboard rigs that employ  General
Electric Co . devices connecting drilling tubes to safety gear
and the seafloor. The equipment must be retrieved so defective
bolts can be replaced, the U.S. Bureau of Safety and
Environmental Enforcement said in an  alert  issued on Jan. 29.  Moving Average  WTI may struggle to sustain gains as an indicator of
technical momentum continues to decline against the increase in
prices since the start of this week. The moving average
convergence-divergence indicator is extending a discount to its
signal line after a so-called bearish crossover on Feb. 4,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The amount of oil products supplied by U.S. refiners over
the past four weeks, a proxy for demand, averaged 18.3 million
barrels a day last week, the Energy Information Administration
reported. Gasoline  consumption  for the same period was 8.4
million, 4.7 percent higher than a year ago.  Total U.S. crude stockpiles climbed 2.62 million barrels,
the EIA report showed. They were forecast to gain  2.65 million
barrels , according to the median estimate of eight analysts in a
Bloomberg News survey. Crude stockpiles at the U.S. delivery hub
in Cushing, Oklahoma, declined  315,000 barrels  last week to 51.4
million, the lowest since the week ended Jan. 4.  New York City and the U.S. Northeast may get snow later
this week from a storm that will develop off the East Coast,
according to the National Weather Service.  Heating oil for March delivery gained as much as 0.7
percent to 320.66 cents a gallon on Nymex.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Grant Smith  in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  