-- Olam Reviews Business as Muddy Waters Retains Sell Rating
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   Y u n
-- 2013-02-08T09:16:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/olam-second-quarter-profit-jumps-20-on-grains-nut-volumes.html
Olam International Ltd. , the
commodity trader targeted by short-seller  Carson Block , reported
the highest quarterly profit since 2010 and said it’s reviewing
operations including spending plans.  Olam “appears to be trying to rein in its capital
expenditure and acquisition spending,” Block’s research firm
Muddy Waters LLC said today in a statement on its website,
restating its strong sell rating on the stock. It’s “one of the
bright spots for Olam investors,” it said.  Net income  jumped 20 percent to S$154.1 million ($124.3
million) in the three months ended Dec. 31, Singapore-based
Olam, the second-largest rice trader, said yesterday. Olam, in
its first profit result since Block said in November the company
will fail, said it will complete its business review in April.  “Strategy recalibration suggests the ship is not right,”
 James Koh , an analyst with Maybank Kim Eng Holdings in Singapore
who rates the stock sell, said in a note today. While the review
is welcome, it suggests the existing strategy “may be
inherently flawed,” he said.  Olam, which counts Singapore’s Temasek Holdings Pte as its
largest shareholder, rose 2.1 percent to S$1.67 at the close of
trade in Singapore. The stock lost 27 percent last year, making
it the  second-worst performer  on the benchmark Straits Times
index, and is down 4 percent since Block first questioned Olam’s
accounts on Nov. 19.  The second-quarter result included a net gain after tax of
S$18.1 million from the sale and leaseback of Almond Orchards in
California, Olam said, and is the highest since the second
quarter of fiscal 2010, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Situation Stabilized  “We have successfully stabilized the situation that
surrounded the company in the recent past,” Chief Executive
Officer  Sunny Verghese  said in a statement yesterday. Olam will
review its “business priorities, capital expenditure plans and
free cash flow generation targets,” it said.  Revenue, including other income, increased 9.9 percent to
S$4.94 billion, while sales volume in metric tons advanced 54
percent in the quarter, Olam said yesterday.  Temasek raised its stake yesterday to 21 percent from 20
percent on Jan. 16, according to an Olam filing today, making it
Olam’s top shareholder ahead of Kewalram Singapore Ltd. with
20.2 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Biological Assets  Olam, also one of the top six cotton traders, reported a
net gain from changes in fair value of biological assets of
S$22.1 million, compared with S$34 million in the quarter a year
earlier. The company’s biological assets include its almond
orchards, coffee plantations and dairy cattle.  Muddy Waters said in a  report  on Nov. 27 that Olam is
“likely to fail” and questioned the way the company bought
assets and booked non-cash accounting gains. Block, who said
he’s betting against the stock, said Olam is “aggressive’’ in
reporting gains on biological assets.  Olam said Dec. 21 it abandoned a bid for a Brazilian sugar-
mill operator because they couldn’t agree on terms. The company
said on the same day it agreed to pay $52 million in cash for
Seda Solubles S.L.’s coffee unit, which would give Olam
facilities in Spain and Russia.  The termination of the bid is positive for investors,
though Olam’s choice of acquisitions is still “questionable,”
Muddy Waters said today in the statement. Olam should also scrap
its fertilizer project in Gabon, which Verghese said will be
delayed by 9 months, because it’s too complex for Olam’s core
expertise, the research firm said.  “It is in the best interests of the company and its
shareholders not to respond to every opinion, claim or assertion
made by those who may be doing so for their own vested
interests,” Olam said today in an e-mail.  No Pressure  The assertions by Muddy Waters were made to panic
shareholders and to benefit Block’s short positions, Olam said
Nov. 28. It has filed a lawsuit against the short-seller and his
firm for defamation. Olam has been unsuccessful in serving Block
with a legal notice, though it’s served Muddy Waters, Verghese
said yesterday at a presentation in Singapore.  “There has been no pressure to increase our borrowing cost
so far” nor has there been demand to post additional collateral
or for early repayment, he said. Support from Olam’s lenders
ensured business “has not skipped a beat during this entire
period,” Verghese said.  Olam’s debt ratios are “dangerously high,” and its
interest burden is not sustainable, Muddy Waters said today.  Suppliers and customers continue to trust the company,
Shekhar Anantharaman, executive director of finance and business
development, said yesterday in Singapore.  The board  reviews its
strategy every year, CEO Verghese also said.  Spending Plans  Olam has announced $910 million of acquisitions since April
2011, according to data compiled by Bloomberg, adding assets
including a dehydrated vegetable business, milk producer NZ
Farming Systems Uruguay Ltd. and a Nigerian manufacturer of
biscuits and candy.  The commodity trader plans to spend as much as S$3.7
billion in the three years through fiscal 2015, compared with
S$3.3 billion from 2010 to 2012, the first part of a six-year
program to lift annual profit to $1 billion, Verghese said in
November. Free cash flow will remain negative until about 2015
as the company is in an “investment ramp-up phase,” he also
said that month.  “If we come to a determination with this strategy
recalibration exercise that we must slow down the pace of
capital expenditure and become cash flow positive a little
earlier than intended, these are some of the pathways we’ve
caught a glimpse of,” Verghese said yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Yun in Hong Kong at 
 myun11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  