-- Hollande Eschews Monarch-Style Monument in French Crisis
-- B y   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t
-- 2013-02-07T23:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/hollande-eschews-monarch-style-presidential-monument-in-crisis.html
French presidents, like the nation’s
kings before them, have a tradition of commissioning grandiose
monuments to be remembered by. That may end with the current
occupant of the presidential Elysee Palace.  Francois Mitterrand  ordered up the glass  pyramid  at the
Louvre museum,  Jacques Chirac  directed the construction of the
Quai Branly native arts gallery, while  Nicolas Sarkozy  pushed
“Le Grand Paris,” an expansion of the French capital to
fulfill a dream of King Henri IV.  President  Francois Hollande  is all set to halt that age-old
practice. The “Mr. Normal” image he has cultivated and, more
importantly, Europe’s fourth year of the debt crisis, which has
left the country with depleted coffers and the highest
joblessness in 15 years, make any such superfluous spending
obscene,  Olivier Pastre , an economics professor a  Paris
University , said in an interview.  “With high deficits and the need to shrink the budget,
such visible efforts to cut on spending can only give more
credit to France,” he said. “Hollande also secures his
‘President Normal’ persona so this choice is not completely
absurd. It’s a smart move.”  Hollande plans to back no new museum, industrial project,
bridge or castle since there’s no money for it and because
France has more than its fair share of such monuments, said a
government official with knowledge of his plans. The idea of
leaving behind a trace for history doesn’t appeal to Hollande,
the official said.  ‘Totally Bankrupt’  Hollande pledged during his campaign to make a break from
such royal habits of presidents that have defined France’s post-
World War II leaders.  Record-high debt , an economy that the International Monetary
Fund predicts will grow at less than half the government’s
estimate for 2013 of 0.8 percent and a commitment to shrink the
budget deficit to 3 percent of gross domestic product this year
are ensuring that his promise will be kept.  France is reducing its public spending by 10 billion euros
($13.4 billion). Hollande, who had promised to spare cultural
projects from cuts, trimmed that ministry’s budget by 2.3
percent this year.  Labor Minister  Michel Sapin  on Jan. 31 blamed Sarkozy’s
government for leaving behind a “totally bankrupt” state.  In the midst of the worst financial crisis to hit Europe
since World War II, Sarkozy decided on a series of cultural and
architectural projects aimed at defining his mandate.  Sarkozy’s Projects  In 2008, he started  the expansion of La Defense  business
district on the outskirts of Paris. He wanted to create a new
skyline -- what he called “Le Grand Paris,” which would
realize the vision of King Henri IV of connecting the  Louvre  --
a royal palace when he was crowned in 1589 -- to his favorite
hunting grounds 11 kilometers (7 miles) away at a bend in the
Seine River at what is now the  city of Nanterre .  France’s most ambitious property development since Napoleon
III built Paris’s boulevards in the 19th century, it had to be
halted amid the crisis. The Hollande administration killed
Sarkozy’s plan to build a History of France museum.  The government is, however, going ahead with Sarkozy’s
 Philharmonie de Paris  structure in the north of the city,
designed by architect  Jean Nouvel , after determining that work
on the 2,400-seat concert hall was too far advanced to halt.  The project’s price tag now stands at more than 387 million
euros, double the initial estimate. Running the hall, which may
be finished in 2015 with a two-year delay, may reach 40 million
euros, an extra cost for the state and the city of Paris.  Shaping Images  The Philharmonie, conceived by composer and conductor  Pierre Boulez , may be the last of the so-called “grands travaux” or
”grand projects” initiated by a French president.  “Costly cultural landmarks that have been built by earlier
French leaders do make sense today; they draw attention,
tourists and shape an image,” Pastre said. “An architectural
project today would not be a terrible investment. The future
usually shows these great museums, like the Pompidou Center, are
a  good investment .”  The most renowned of the royal landmarks is Louis XIV’s
 Versailles Palace  with its 700 rooms.  General  Charles de Gaulle ’s project was to build dozens of
nuclear reactors in the 1960s to make France energy self-
sufficient and as a military safeguard, capturing the concerns
of his time.  Since de Gaulle’s creation of the current Fifth Republic in
1958, “Grand Projects have existed to reinforce  the symbolic
and the strength of the institutions : the President and the
Constitution,” scholar Marie Alizard wrote in an essay. A
landmark is “the incontestable sign of the existence of a man
coming to power.”  Mitterrand Obsession  In the 1970s, President  Georges Pompidou  commissioned a
contemporary art museum in Paris, known today as the  Pompidou
Centre , stirring controversy before and after its 1977 opening
with its oil-refinery-like modern structure. President  Valery Giscard d’Estaing  backed the  Musee d’Orsay , a temple to
Impressionist art built inside a redesigned train station on
banks of the Seine.  The president most obsessed with leaving his mark was
Mitterrand, the first Socialist Party president of the Fifth
Republic, who held power for 14 years from 1981 to 1995.  He famously said, “We create for eternity, even if eternity
may deny it.”  His construction frenzy is everywhere in Paris: the
revamped  Louvre Museum , a gigantic library that bears his name
with four 79-meter towers, a second Opera house on the Bastille
Square, birthplace of the 1789 French Revolution.  Chirac, who led the country from 1995 to 2002 commissioned
the  Musee du Quai Branly , dedicated to primitive art from across
the globe and built at the cost of 232.5 million euros.  Hollande may limit his efforts to make culture and art more
accessible to everyone, with a focus on children in schools,
according to his presidential platform.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Helene Fouquet in Paris at 
 hfouquet1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net  