-- Honda’s $33,000 Accord Coupe Wails Like a Ferrari
-- B y   J a s o n   H .   H a r p e r
-- 2013-02-07T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/honda-s-33-000-accord-coupe-wails-like-a-ferrari.html
This car seems alive. The engine
crests 6,800 revolutions per minute and the entire frame of the
Honda Accord coupe thrums as if awaiting release. My left foot
drops onto the clutch and I shift to third.  The car takes a breath, then the process begins anew. The
tachometer needle sweeps right. The front wheels scrabble madly
on the asphalt, power overcoming grip. The dashboard’s traction
control alert blinks rapidly, the car’s electronic mind trying
to intervene.  If this Accord really was an animal, it would be a scrappy,
jaw-snapping Tasmanian Devil.  Yes, we’re talking about a Honda. An Accord even, that most
mild mannered of family cars.  It’s been a long while since I felt this good about a
Honda. The company once seemed bullet proof (the quality of the
cars certainly was), until a rash of recalls and the release of
a new generation of Civic which was rather substandard.  Then there were a bunch of new models that few consumers
seemed to want. The Crosstour crossover (and its Acura cousin,
the ZDX), the CR-Z sports hybrid and the Insight, which Honda
hoped would unseat the Toyota Prius as the go-to hybrid of
choice. All are still available and rather unloved.  Major Makeover  The Accord got a huge makeover for its 2013 model year. The
rejuvenated version helped push sales to more than 330,000 last
year, a 40 percent uptick, making it the company’s best-selling
car. The vast majority of those were the most proletarian
version: a four-door with a four-cylinder engine and an
automatic transmission.  Everyone knows that the Accord is for grown-ups. College
kids drive Civics, their parents own the Accord. But the secret
has always been that if one is mated to the right equipment, it
can be buzzingly fun.  So it is with the one I’m testing, a combination of options
which make it as rare as a Ferrari. At $33,140, my car has two-doors and a 3.5-liter V-6. And look, it’s a unicorn! A manual
transmission.  I’ve always loved a stick in a Honda, but these days they
are an utter rarity, with 99 percent of Accord sedans sold as
automatics. Only nine percent of the coupes are equipped with
three pedals.  Red Lining  Which is a shame, because a Honda i-VTEC engine under full
assault (and pushed into the redline by a manual) is as unique
and special as the rumble of a 5.0-liter V-8 mated to a Ford
Mustang or the wailing keen from a mid-engine Ferrari. A quality
and timbre all of its own.  The i-VTEC V-6 doesn’t produce crazy torque (252 pound-feet), and its horsepower, at 278, is modest. Yet there’s an
inherent rubber-band elasticity that keeps stretching into the
higher rpms until you’re not sure what will snap first, it or
you.  There’s that moment when I’ve got the coupe at redline and
I feel like the entire vehicle is just going to take off and
launch into the sky.  That is a feeling which isn’t mild mannered at all. It’s
exuberant and free-wheeling. One of my first cars was a manual-equipped Honda Civic and I lived for that feeling. The CR-Z
sports coupe, released several years ago, should have delivered
that same sensation. As a hybrid, it simply didn’t.  Good Mileage  That’s why I’m so thrilled to pilot this Accord. And it
still gets 28 miles per gallon on the highway.  The interior has leather and is determinedly better than
the previous generation. Still, some details are disappointing.
Open up the storage compartment between the driver and passenger
and you’ll find a patch of unattached coarse material -- I
wouldn’t call it carpet -- sitting at its bottom, covering up
raw plastic and several bolts.  If I bought this car for $32,000, that kind of stuff would
drive me to distraction. Hyundai and  Kia (000270)  are doing better than
that, and so too will Honda if it wants to continue to compete.  The most clever trick? Click the right blinker and a camera
mounted on the right side of the vehicle activates, broadcasting
potential blind spots onto the navigation screen.  Most consumers prefer the practicality of the sedan, and I
get that. The coupe looks cooler, but you lose easy access to
the rear seats and some legroom.  Luggage Room  So I also drove a $24,180 Accord Sport sedan around the
rural roads of  Michigan . It had a direct-injected, 2.4-liter
four-cylinder. It got good gas mileage (24 city, 34 highway) and
fit all of my luggage. Adult, right?  Right. At least until I put spurs to the thing. The Sport
model has 189 hp and the smaller engine is still game for a
healthy workout. It handles well, too. I spun the car around a
series of loops and it gamely followed ever more aggressive
cornering.  Honda has a ways to go before it’s back in top form. The
latest Accord proves that the blueprint is still there. The
company just needs to embrace it.  The 2013 Honda Accord EX-L Coupe At a Glance  Engine: 3.5-liter V-6 with 278 horsepower and 252 pound-     feet of torque.  Transmission: Six-speed manual.  Speed: 0 to 60 mph in about 5.8 seconds.  Gas mileage per gallon: 18 city, 28 highway.  Price as tested: $33,140.  Best feature: The buzz-worthy drive.  Worst feature: Some of the finer interior details still  need attention.  Target buyer: The secret speedster.  (Jason H. Harper writes about autos for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Muse highlights include Lili Rosboch on  Fashion Week  and
Lance Esplund on  art .  To contact the writer of this column:
Jason H. Harper at  Jason@JasonHharper.com  or follow on
Twitter @JasonHarperSpin.  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New York  at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 