-- Hong Kong Stocks Fall as Developers Drop; Chalco Slides
-- B y   K a n a   N i s h i z a w a
-- 2013-02-07T04:43:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/hong-kong-stocks-swing-ahead-of-china-cpi-chalco-slides.html
Hong Kong  stocks  fell, with the Hang
Seng Index erasing yesterday’s advance, as Chinese developers
slid on concern more property curbs will be introduced. Aluminum
Corp. of China Ltd. declined after an announcement it will be
removed from the city’s benchmark index.  China Resources Land Ltd. , a state-owned developer, fell
3.4 percent on a report some mainland cities may slow home-sale
approvals. Aluminum Corp. of China, the nation’s leading
supplier of the metal, slid 3.3 percent, while Lenovo Group
Ltd., the second-biggest maker of personal computers, increased
3.7 percent on its addition to the Hang Seng Index. Digital
China Holdings Ltd. surged 7.7 percent after a trading
suspension yesterday and as financial firms including HSBC
Holdings Plc recommended shares of the electronics distributor.  The  Hang Seng Index  fell 0.4 percent to 23,155.03 at the
midday-trading break in Hong Kong. About three stocks declined
for every two that advanced in the measure, with trading volume
about 16 percent above the 30-day average for the time of day.
The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index of mainland companies slid
1.4 percent to 11,680.97, headed for its lowest close this year.
The Shanghai Composite Index dropped 1.3 percent.  “Investors would like to see whether the new leadership
would add any policies to curb home prices,” said  Jackson Wong ,
vice president at Hong Kong-based brokerage Tanrich Securities
Co. The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index is following a sell-
off of shares listed on the mainland, which are  “still at a
high point of the recent rally, and investors would like to take
profit off the table prior to Chinese New Year,” he said.  New Year  Hong Kong’s market will be shut three days next week for
the Lunar New Year holidays, while mainland markets will be
closed the whole week. The Hang Seng Index surged 22 percent
from the end of August through January, when the gauge capped
its longest monthly winning streak since July 2009. Shares rose
amid signs of recovery in the U.S. and China, and as central
banks around the globe added stimulus.  The gauge  traded  at 11.3 times average estimated earnings
yesterday, compared with 13.7 for the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index and 12.2 for the Stoxx Europe 600 Index, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  January inflation data is due from China’s statistics
bureau tomorrow. Consumer prices probably rose 2 percent from a
year earlier, decelerating from a 2.5 percent gain a month
earlier, according to the median estimate of 35 analysts in a
Bloomberg survey.  Futures on the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  dropped 0.1
percent. The gauge rose 0.1 percent yesterday as better-than-
estimated earnings outweighed concern over Europe’s debt crisis
before a gathering of euro-area leaders.  Property Curbs?  Some of China’s largest cities may slow approvals for sales
of housing units in the first half to slow “momentum” in
gains, the China Securities Journal reported, without citing
anyone.  Measures to curb property prices may be introduced earlier
than expected because upward pricing pressure is robust, Kim Eng
Securities (HK) Ltd., said in a report today.  China Resources Land slid 3.4 percent to HK$21.10, while
 Guangzhou R&F Properties Ltd. , a builder in the southern Chinese
city, declined 5.7 percent to HK$12.92. China Resources Land was
the  biggest drag  on the Hang Seng Index, followed by Aluminum
Corp. of China.  Aluminum Corp retreated 3.3 percent to HK$3.51 after Hang
Seng Indexes Co. said the company will be removed from the
city’s benchmark index effective March 4.  Lenovo  rose 3.7
percent to HK$8.74 on inclusion to the index.  Digital China  China Foods Ltd. tumbled 14 percent to HK$5.73 after the
breadmaker said it expects 2012 profit to drop.  Among stocks that rose,  Digital China  jumped 7.7 percent to
HK$11.54. The company said it requested administrative review
Ministry of Finance penalty for bidding violations. The stock
was raised to ‘trading buy’ from neutral at CIMB-GK Pte, and
boosted to overweight from neutral at HSBC.  Futures on the Hang Seng Index dropped 0.3 percent to
23,170. The  HSI Volatility Index  rose 0.9 percent to 14.46,
indicating traders expect a swing of 4.1 percent for the equity
benchmark in the next 30 days.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kana Nishizawa in Hong Kong at 
 knishizawa5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  