-- Hong Kong Local Brokers Oppose After-Hours Futures Plan
-- B y   E l e n i   H i m a r a s
-- 2013-02-07T16:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/hong-kong-local-brokers-oppose-after-hours-futures-plan.html
Hong Kong Exchanges & Clearing Ltd. ’s
plan to begin after-hours futures trading in the city is fueling
concern it will force small brokerages to close and lead to 
further concentration of market share.  The world’s largest exchange company by market value plans
to introduce in March a trading session from 5 p.m. to 11 p.m.
for contracts on the Hang Seng Index, the Hang Seng China
Enterprises Index and gold. The plan will place too much of a
cost burden on the small brokers to stay open and manage risk
during that time, said  Francis Lun , Hong-Kong based managing
director at Lyncean Securities Ltd.  The extra session will allow investors to hedge and adjust
positions when news breaks in European hours, the exchange
operator that owns the London Metal Exchange said in a
 submission  to the city’s legislature. Local brokers are
concerned that changes to Hong Kong’s market structure, with
longer trading hours and the reinstatement of a closing auction,
will mean they can’t compete.  “If you don’t participate your business will go away,”
Lun, who also is president of the Hong Kong Institute of
Financial Analysts, said in a telephone interview. “It’s really
a no-win situation. You are forced to expand the trading hours
by the futures exchange, but your increased trade or revenue
will not be able to cover the increased cost.”  Concentrated Volume  After-hours futures trading on the world’s sixth largest
bourse by market capitalization is set to begin in March,
pending approval from the Securities & Futures Commission, said
 Lorraine Chan , a spokeswoman for Hong Kong Exchanges.  Of the 571 Hong Kong stock-exchange participants, the
biggest 14 accounted for 58 percent of the market in December
and the largest 65 were responsible for 89 percent, according 
to statistics from the bourse’s website.  Representatives from the Hong Kong Securities & Futures
Professionals Association, the Hong Kong Securities
Professionals Association and the Hong Kong Securities & Futures
Employees Union spoke in opposition to after-hours futures
trading at a Hong Kong Legislative Council financial affairs
meeting on Jan. 28. Eight people spoke against the proposal at
the hearing while 12 supported it.  Forty-six companies and professionals, including
Johannesburg Stock Exchange Ltd. and Bombay Stock Exchange Ltd.,
 wrote in  on the topic. All 32 of the English-language
submissions made public on the SFC website were in favor of the
proposal.  Bottom Line  “Just because some firms do not believe it will add to
their bottom line does not mean Hong Kong should put on blinders
and fail to compete on the global landscape,” David Friedland,
managing director in Asia Pacific of Interactive Brokers Group
Inc., a brokerage firm, said at the hearing. After-hours futures
trading “will address market demand, increase the visibility of
Hong Kong on the global stage and will be a net benefit to the
local economy.”  The city’s brokers protested after the exchange shortened 
its lunch break and promised to reinstate a closing auction for 
trading. Hong Kong Exchanges said shortening the midday break to 
one hour was necessary to align trading hours with China and is 
pressing for a closing auction to bring trading in line with 
international standards. The bourse previously had a two-hour 
break for lunch, the longest of any developed market.  After-hours futures trading also creates the infrastructure
to later offer Chinese yuan, interest-rate and commodity
futures, the exchange said. Global exchange operators including
CME Group Inc., ASX Ltd., NYSE Euronext, Deutsche Borse AG and
Japan Exchange Group Inc. offer after-hours futures trading on
their derivatives platforms, the Hong Kong exchange noted in its
initial  consultation paper  in May 2011.  Industry Associations  Representatives  from the three industry associations said
it could adversely impact financial stability and add to market
volatility. The exchange has proposed to limit price swings to 5
percent price during evening derivatives trading.  “We don’t want to stop globalization, however, our market
is regional not global,” David Wong, chairman of the Hong Kong
Securities & Futures Professionals Association, said at the Jan.
28 meeting. “This is different from commodities, gold and
forex, where there can be around-the-clock trading. It’s
difficult to control or manipulate such markets.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eleni Himaras in Hong Kong at 
 ehimaras@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  