-- Explorer Seeks $2.2 Billion Russian Redemption: Corporate India
-- B y   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y   a n d   S t e p h e n   B i e r m a n
-- 2013-02-08T11:51:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/ongc-banks-on-russian-shale-oil-to-redeem-bet-corporate-india.html
Oil & Natural Gas Corp. , stung by
criticism its biggest Russian acquisition has failed to pay off,
is banking on crude trapped in Siberian shale rocks to redeem
its $2.2 billion wager.  Imperial Energy Corp. , which India’s biggest oil explorer
bought in 2009, is seeking bids from surveyors to assess the
Bazhenov formation, ONGC Chairman  Sudhir Vasudeva  said in an
interview, without giving details. Bazhenov may hold as much as
360 billion barrels of recoverable reserves, Bloomberg
Industries said in a Dec. 19 report, citing estimates by Russian
subsoil agency Rosnedra. Venezuela holds 296.5 billion barrels,
the world’s biggest known oil reserves.  The U.S. shale boom, which reinvigorated industry and is
leading the world’s largest economy toward energy independence,
has spurred oil companies to blast open shale rocks in other
parts of the world. ONGC, seeking to raise overseas production
more than sixfold by 2030, is also betting Russian tax breaks on
oil extraction will help stem Imperial’s 35 percent decline in
output in the last three years.  “ONGC’s challenge will be to find a viable way to produce
the oil,” said  Gagan Dixit , a Mumbai-based analyst with Quant
Broking Pvt., who has a buy rating on the stock. “Tight oil
requires specialized technology and costs are high. The tax
benefits will be a first step.”  ONGC fell 2 percent to 313.60 rupees at the end of trading
in Mumbai. The  shares  have advanced 17 percent this year,
beating a 0.3 percent advance in the benchmark  Sensitive Index .  Tougher Block  Bazhenov, which has yet to yield oil, has proved to be a
tougher shale block to drill than areas in the U.S., prompting
Russian oil majors such as  OAO Rosneft  and OAO Gazprom Neft to
seek partnerships with Exxon Mobil Corp.,  Royal Dutch Shell Plc 
and Statoil ASA.  Tight oil is so called because it is trapped in non-porous
shale rock formations, also found in the Bakken area in North
Dakota that has helped the U.S. cut crude imports. The oil can
be extracted by cracking open the rocks using a mixture of water
and chemicals at high pressure, a process pioneered in the 1990s
in the U.S. Different technologies need to be used and modified
for different types of shale and tight reservoir structures,
Vasudeva said.  “It may turn out to be very important for us in Russia,”
said Vasudeva. “It’s still very early days and we have to see
how it turns out in the months to come.”  Falling Output  Current output at Imperial’s fields in western Siberia has
declined to 11,000 barrels a day from about 17,000 barrels in
April 2010. Production may drop 17 percent to 512,900 tons, or
about 10,000 barrels a day, this year from 621,100 tons in 2012,
according to a Jan. 17 statement on Imperial’s  website . The
decline is because the company is searching for an economically
feasible technology to recover oil from tight reservoirs,
according to the website.  “We’re hoping the shale and tight oil will help revive
that,” Vasudeva said. “We’re getting more confident.”  Imperial is also seeking an exemption from the Russian
government from paying taxes for oil production from tight
reservoirs, according to the website. The nation’s energy
ministry has proposed 15-year tax exemptions on oil extracted
from the Bazhenov deposits, according to a ministry document.
While export duties would remain, the tax cut would be worth an
additional $20 a barrel to producers, based on a price of $100 a
barrel, according to the document.  ‘Good Face’  “They are trying to put a good face on it,” said
 Alexander Nazarov , an oil and gas analyst at Russian lender OAO
Gazprombank. “If the company is not able to manage conventional
output to the degree of 15 to 20 percent year-on-year decrease,
it will not be able to deliver good enough economics for tight
oil production.”  The optimistic scenario is that tight oil formations will
help companies in Russia add 10 percent to their production by
2020, he said. That will help compensate annual declines of 2
percent to 3 percent, not the degree of Imperial’s drop, he said.  ONGC is planning to spend 11 trillion rupees ($207 billion)
by 2030 as it seeks to add assets and boost production at home
and abroad. ONGC Videsh Ltd., the company’s overseas unit and
owner of Imperial Energy, needs $20 billion as it targets
production of 20 million tons of oil equivalent by March 2018
and 60 million tons by March 2030 from 8.75 million tons in the
year ended March 31, according to the company’s annual report.  Azerbaijan, Kazakhstan  In September, the New Delhi-based explorer said it would
spend $1 billion to buy  Hess Corp. ’s stake in an Azerbaijan
field and a related pipeline. Two month later, it agreed to  buy 
 ConocoPhillips ’s 8.4 percent stake in Kazakhstan’s Kashagan
project for $5 billion, its biggest acquisition. ONGC has won
approval for Azerbaijan and is awaiting permission from
Kazakhstan’s government on the Kashagan purchase.  A plan to revive production from Imperial’s fields was
scrapped just months after ONGC completed the purchase because
the fields didn’t perform as expected. India’s federal auditor
in March 2011 said ONGC lost 11.8 billion rupees in the 15
months ended March 31, 2010, after Imperial produced at half of
the target rate.  The explorer last year backed away from buying a 25 percent
stake in a second Russian producer, OAO Bashneft, after failing
to agree on a price.  Exxon Mobil , the world’s biggest oil company by market
value, plans to spend as much as $300 million on a pilot project
with Rosneft to tap tight oil resources in Russia. The venture
will explore in areas including the Bazhenov formation, Rosneft
said in a Dec. 7  statement . Bazhenov may be holding billions of
barrels of oil, Exxon CEO  Rex Tillerson  said on Oct. 8.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rakteem Katakey in New Delhi at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Bierman in Moscow at 
 sbierman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  