-- Mongolia, Rio to Meet Again This Month on Oyu Tolgoi Concern
-- B y   M i c h a e l   K o h n
-- 2013-02-08T01:04:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/mongolia-oyu-tolgoi-talks-end-with-plan-to-meet-again-this-month.html
Rio Tinto Group  will resume talks
with Mongolia this month to resolve concerns that spending at
their jointly owned Oyu Tolgoi mining project is overshooting
and the country isn’t benefiting enough from the development.  Shareholders met in Ulan Bator yesterday to discuss
outstanding issues surrounding the gold and copper venture. For
the government, these include the cost, furthering Mongolian
participation in its management and increasing the number of
local companies that can benefit from the project, including the
use of a Mongolian bank, it said in a statement.  President  Tsakhia Elbegdorj  said last week Mongolia should
have more control of the mine that will be the biggest
contributor to its economy once it’s in full production. The
mine is 66 percent owned by Rio unit Turquoise Hill Resources
Ltd. and 34 percent by Mongolia’s government.  “A squabble is a natural tension that exists between any
joint venture, where the operator is more guarded about
releasing information and it’s normal for equity holders to want
more information,”  Prasad Patkar , who helps manage about A$1.1
billion ($1.3 billion) at Sydney-based Platypus Asset Management
Ltd., said by phone. “What is harder to resolve is what appears
to be a changing in goalposts. It’s a reflection of an immature
mining jurisdiction.”  Rio Tinto gained 0.8 percent to A$69.23 at 11:22 a.m. in
Sydney trading. The S&P/ASX 200 Index rose 0.2 percent.
 Turquoise Hill  was up 0.5 percent at the close of trading in
Toronto.  Heightened Tension  The president’s comments heightened tension with London-
based Rio over the ownership and development of the project,
which is currently the world’s biggest copper mine under
construction. Rio is considering a temporary halt to work to
protest government demands for a greater share of profit, two
people familiar with the plans said last week.  This is “the sort of pain that Rio would have to go
through being the first mega project in a very immature
economy,” said Patkar.  The cost of building the mine rose 16 percent to $6.6
billion, according to a statement this week from Oyu Tolgoi LLC,
the mine’s operator. The estimate compares with the initial 2010
projection of $5.7 billion.  Rio Tinto hasn’t explained the reasons why the project has
gone over budget, Mining Minister Davaajav Gankhuyag said at a
press conference in Ulan Bator yesterday.  Tax Issue  “Oyu Tolgoi has delivered construction ahead of schedule
and in line with the budget submitted to the Oyu Tolgoi board
and government shareholder representatives,” said Rio Tinto
Copper Chief Executive  Andrew Harding  in a statement yesterday.
“We produced our first copper concentrate last week, and remain
on schedule for commercial production in the first half of
2013.”  According to the statement, construction remains on budget.
Citing a figure that doesn’t include exploration and other pre-
project costs, the mine is “coming in at $6.2 billion, which is
in line with the project estimate submitted to the Oyu Tolgoi
board and government shareholders in December 2010,” it said.  A London-based spokesman for Rio Tinto declined to comment
further.  Finance Minister Chultem Ulaan said at the press conference
that Oyu Tolgoi paid no taxes in 2012. According to a media
release posted on its website Feb. 5, Oyu Tolgoi was Mongolia’s
sixth-biggest taxpayer in 2011, before the mine was operational,
and paid $280 million in 2012 in taxes and other government
fees. The company also spent more than $1.1 billion during
2010-2012 with Mongolian suppliers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Kohn in Ulan Bator at 
 mkohn5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Liu at 
 jliu42@bloomberg.net  