-- Monster Falls as Sale Process Continues Without Buyer
-- B y   L i s a   R a p a p o r t   a n d   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a
-- 2013-02-07T21:14:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/monster-falls-as-sale-process-continues-without-buyer.html
  Monster Worldwide Inc. , the
Internet-recruiting service exploring a sale, fell the most in
almost three months after saying that it wasn’t certain when --
or if -- it would find a buyer.  The shares dropped 7 percent to $5.44 at the in New York,
for the biggest decline since Nov. 15. The stock had lost 22
percent since March 5, when the company said it was exploring a
sale.  At the time, Chief Executive Officer  Sal Iannuzzi  said he
would consider selling the company as a whole or in parts and
hired Stone Key Partners LLC and  Bank of America Corp. ’s Merrill
Lynch to help. Since then, Iannuzzi has cut costs and sold the
company’s ChinaHR unit as a buyer failed to materialize.  “It’s slower than I would have anticipated,” Iannuzzi
said on a conference call with investors today. “I can’t
guarantee that there’s anything of interest or appropriate
interest to bring to our board for presentation.”  Iannuzzi said the company cast an “extremely wide net”
and spoke to both strategic and financial companies about a
potential sale.  Monster has been trimming its workforce and cutting costs
after European economic turmoil caused clients to pare use of
its products and companies such as  LinkedIn Corp.  offer
alternative recruitment tools. It has exited operations in
Brazil, Mexico and Turkey to concentrate more resources on more
profitable markets in North America, Europe, Korea and India,
the company said today.  “They turned out not to be important to potential
buyers,” Iannuzzi said of the developing markets Monster is
exiting.  ChinaHR Sale  The New York-based company said in a statement today that
it sold its ChinaHR unit to Saongroup Ltd., while retaining a 10
percent minority stake. No terms were disclosed. Monster
announced plans to seek a buyer for the unit in November as it
worked to shed less lucrative businesses.  The decision to exit China and other developing market
businesses will cut costs about $35 million, after a $50 million
reduction in revenue and an $85 million drop in expenses, the
company said. Previously announced restructuring will cut
another $50 million in expenses annually.  Developing Markets  Continuing to invest in developing countries while the U.S.
and Europe face sluggishness in growth would have eventually
forced Monster to cut back in its core markets, something the
company didn’t want to do, Iannuzzi said.  “Those were difficult decisions,” he said on the call.
“Long term, some of those markets may -- would provide
significant potential for us.”  Fourth-quarter sales fell 10 percent to $211.2 million,
Monster said in the statement, less than the average analyst
 estimate  of $211.9 million, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Profit excluding some items was 8 cents a share,
matching the average estimate.  Monster forecast first-quarter earnings from continuing
operations of 6 cents to 10 cents a share, compared with the
analysts’ average 8 cent projection.  In January 2012, Monster said it planned to trim its
workforce by about 400 jobs, or 7 percent, according to a
statement at the time.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lisa Rapaport in New York at 
 lrapaport1@bloomberg.net ;
Danielle Kucera in San Francisco at 
 dkucera6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  