-- Hostess Bakers’ Union Says It Held Talks With Bidders
-- B y   D a w n   M c C a r t y   a n d   P h i l   M i l f o r d
-- 2013-02-07T23:23:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/hostess-bakers-union-says-it-held-talks-with-bidders.html
The union representing  Hostess Brands
Inc .’s fired bakery workers held talks with companies bidding
for the Twinkie maker’s assets, the union’s leader said.  “We’ve engaged with potential future owners and we’re
willing to work with them,” David Durkee, president of the
Bakery, Confectionery, Tobacco Workers and Grain Millers
International Union, told reporters on a conference call today.
He didn’t specify which companies the union contacted or what
was discussed.  The union signed a confidentiality agreement allowing it to
pursue the talks and will fight to be part of Hostess’s future,
Durkee said. Hostess, founded in 1930, is liquidating its
brands, recipes, plants and other assets after failing to reach
an agreement with the striking union on concessions to help the
company emerge from its second bankruptcy.  Flowers Foods Inc. , McKee Foods Corp. and  United States
Bakery Inc. ,  Apollo Global Management LLC  and C. Dean
Metropoulos & Co. are the so-called stalking-horse, or lead,
bidders for most of Hostess’s cake and bread brands, setting the
thresholds other suitors will have to exceed.  “Our members want their middle-class jobs back,” Durkee
said. With the bidder talks, “we’re one step closer” to that
goal, he said.  ‘The Exception’  The bakers have worked successfully with dozens of
companies in the past, including  Grupo Bimbo  SAB, Sara Lee Foods
LLC,  General Mills Inc .,  Hershey Co . and  Kellogg Co ., Durkee
said. The union’s experience with Hostess was “the exception,
not the rule,” he said.  Lance Ignon , a spokesman for Hostess;  Keith Hancock , a
spokesman for Flowers; and  Charles Zehren , an Apollo spokesman,
declined to comment on Durkee’s remarks.  Mike Gloekler , a
spokesman for McKee; Danny Pettey, a spokesman for United States
Bakery; and  Mark Semer , a Metropoulos spokesman, didn’t
immediately respond to e-mails seeking comment.  The union seeks “a seamless restart” of the bakery
business and believes it can get a better deal than it had with
Hostess, where wages trailed those of rivals by $2.50 an hour,
Durkee said. Union members endured pay and benefit cuts of as
much as 32 percent, even as Hostess failed to live up to
promises to modernize and install new equipment, he said.  ‘No Winners’  “There have been no winners in this situation,” said
Durkee, a fourth-generation baker who has been with the union 14
years. The union “just gave up” on Hostess, which represented
“a prescription for failure,” he said.  Previously known as Interstate Bakeries Corp., Hostess left
an earlier bankruptcy in 2009 under the control of buyout firm
Ripplewood Holdings LLC and lenders. The company, based in
Irving, Texas, entered bankruptcy again in January 2012.  The case is In re Hostess Brands Inc., 12-22052, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York (White Plains).
The prior bankruptcy was In re Interstate Bakeries Corp.,
04-45814, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Western District of Missouri
(Kansas City).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dawn McCarty in Wilmington at 
 dmccarty@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  