-- Our Bodies, Our Spreadsheets: Fitness Quants on Rampage
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u   a n d   A a r o n   K u r i l o f f
-- 2013-02-07T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/our-bodies-our-spreadsheets-fitness-quants-on-rampage.html
Sami Inkinen ’s life is his data, and
vice versa.  “I have to have the numbers,” says Inkinen, co-founder of
the real estate website Trulia Inc. and a top-ranked amateur
triathlete, as he wheels his $8,000 Orbea road bike to the
starting line for a race in October.  Inkinen, who holds $52.6 million of Trulia shares after the
company’s initial public offering last year, soon charged up
Mount Diablo in California amid a pack of 600 on a brisk autumn
Sunday. A black band around the chest monitored his heart as it
sped to 156 beats a minute. Devices in a wheel hub measured his
power output at 377 watts and his average speed at 13.4 miles an
hour (21.6 kilometers). The data fed wirelessly into a computer
on the handlebars so he could later upload his results to the
website  Strava  and compare them against those of hundreds of
other riders.  The 37-year-old Inkinen has been recording more than two
dozen such variables for years, including sleep, mood and
caffeine intake, seeking patterns he can exploit to improve his
results in sports and business. Inkinen is part of an expanding
universe of self-quantifiers who collect megabytes of personal
data seeking an edge much like the devotees of quantitative
analysis who transformed Wall Street.  There is a dark side even at some levels of amateur
competition. Swimmers, runners, cyclists and triathletes have
been penalized for using illegal performance-enhancing
substances. In addition, one cyclist trying to post the fastest
time on Strava for a route -- laying claim to the virtual title
“King of the Mountain” -- crashed and died in California,
according to a lawsuit against Strava.  Armstrong’s KOMs  Lance Armstrong , the world’s most prominent confessed
doping cheat, competed on closely held Strava Inc.’s website
until yesterday, based on recent updates to his Strava profile.
He held more than 150 running-course records and King of the
Mountain cycling rankings (known as KOMs) before they
disappeared from his Strava page yesterday.  San Francisco-based Strava, which advertised on broadcasts
of last year’s Tour de France, treats Armstrong as “just
another member of the community,” says Chief Executive Officer
 Michael Horvath . Some Strava competitors urged banning Armstrong
because of his doping.  Strava and rival sites such as MapMyRide, TrainingPeaks,
Garmin Connect and dailymile tap into the psychological elements
that make sports rewarding, says  Ian Bogost , a game designer who
teaches at Georgia Institute of Technology in Atlanta. They
exploit people’s competitive instincts to get them to ride their
bikes faster, or work harder.  Game Mechanics  “What is the medium- to long-term consequence of a social
environment where everything is attached to direct feedback and
immediate reward?” Bogost says. “I don’t know what the answer
is, but I’m a bit afraid of it.”  He said he is particularly concerned that “the
applications we’re getting are being built by people that have
financial gain and leverage as their primary motivation.”  Game mechanics are appearing everywhere, a trend known as
gamification. In Zynga Inc.’s FarmVille game, players tend
virtual crops with their friends on Facebook.  RedBrick Health
Corp . encourages healthy behavior among client companies’
employees by setting up competitions and offering other
incentives for losing weight, quitting smoking and avoiding
health risks, according to the website.  Bogost created the hit computer game Cow Clicker in 2010 as
a satire of FarmVille and other so-called social games. Players
who click on an image of a cow once every six hours win more
clicks. They can spend “mooney” on things like custom
“premium” cows. He has since added a “Cowclickification”
interface, allowing any website to install clickable cows and
parody the phenomenon.  Fine Line  “These games are revealing the fact that we will do crazy
things,” Bogost says. “The fact that we will do them for so
little reward is just startling.” There is also a fine line
between systems that are actually fun and “exploitationware,”
which can manipulate people into playing boring games, behaving
badly, or spending money, he says.  Kris Duggan  founded and runs Badgeville, which calls itself
“The No. 1 Gamification Platform.” The closely held Redwood
City, California, company  offers  to help clients use game
mechanics and other strategies to engage customers or employees
more closely.  “If you use the right lever, it drives attention and
engagement,” Duggan says. “There are probably some morality
issues around how you apply these tools. I think people have to
answer for themselves. The tools are highly effective.”  Tracking Gadgets  Amateur self-quants provide a ready market for electronic
gadgets that make data-gathering easier. These include
wristbands such as Larklife, Jawbone UP, Nike FuelBand and
Fitbit Flex. For cyclists,  Garmin Ltd . just introduced the $500
 Edge 810  wireless, touch-screen, GPS-equipped bike computer, to
collect data and provide navigation and weather forecasts. The
devices enable anyone to gather, analyze and compare data in
ways that were once available only to elite athletes.  For Sami Inkinen (pronounced SAH-me INK-in-en), these tools
only complement a self-quantification effort that began more
than a decade ago as hand-drawn notes on three-hole paper. He
was earning a master’s degree at the Stanford Graduate School of
Business near Palo Alto, California. Raised on a farm in
Finland, Inkinen says he came to love data while studying for a
master’s in engineering physics at Helsinki University of
Technology.  “People like to talk about feelings and emotions, even
when it relates to performance,” Inkinen says. “More often
than not, there are biological fundamentals underneath it. If
you can understand and measure that, then you can make pretty
objective decisions about how to improve it.”  Mood Rating  Inkinen has a scatter-plot graph showing correlation
between mood and athletic performance. The day he rode up the
3,200-foot (975-meter) Mount Diablo, he rated his mood at 4 on a
scale of 1 to 5, where 5 means “I’m ready to change the
world,” he says. He generated the highest wattage at the lowest
peak heart rate in the race, according to Strava, and finished
eighth.  In his 27-column spreadsheet, Inkinen also notes meditation
time, happiness, productivity, caloric intake, number of push-
ups and other fitness activities. He says the data give him a
unique ability to control circumstances, have helped him finish
an Ironman triathlon in less than nine hours and contributed to
the success of  Trulia .  He has also annoyed his wife of two years, Meredith Loring,
she says. The couple met through an online dating service, where
Loring’s profile said she enjoyed running. She proved it on
their second date, challenging him to a trail run that lasted
more than three hours because neither would suggest stopping.  Mountain Queen  “As soon as we get home from a run, he is in his
spreadsheet writing down all of the numbers,” says Loring, 33,
a strategy consultant for health and wellness companies. She
agreed to be interviewed during a  nine-mile trail run  through
towering redwood trees in Muir Woods near San Francisco, where
the couple lives.  Loring does upload her bicycle rides to Strava. She holds
dozens of “Queen of the Mountain” titles, mostly on climbs
around San Francisco. She says she likes the virtual racing
because the pressures associated with organized events, such as
getting to the race start on time, cause her anxiety.  Online competition makes cyclists ride more and try harder,
says  Bryan Borgia , co-founder of Topwater Capital Partners LLC
in South Norwalk, Connecticut. Borgia, 36, became KOM last July
on a segment south of Portsmouth, New Hampshire, for example. He
covered a 0.6-mile stretch of Route 1A in 66 seconds, beating
hundreds of other riders.  “I can get myself to go pretty hard,” Borgia says. “But
if it’s for Strava and I’m going out to beat someone, I’m
probably going to go harder.”  Fatal Crash  William Flint was killed in June 2010 after his bike hit a
car while he was riding a Strava KOM challenge in Tilden Park in
Orinda, California, near San Francisco, according to a wrongful-
death lawsuit his family filed against Strava in state court in
San Francisco. Flint was trying “to regain his title” after
another cyclist posted a time on Strava breaking Flint’s
previous record for the ride, according to the lawsuit.  Strava failed to ensure that its challenges took place on
safe courses and encouraged “dangerous behavior,” the
plaintiffs said in the complaint. “Cyclists are encouraged to
‘tear it up’ on the road,” they said.  The company filed counterclaims alleging that when Flint
became a website member in 2009 he electronically signed the
site’s terms and conditions, indemnifying Strava and waiving any
claims arising from use of the site. Flint was riding
“recklessly” over the posted speed limit on the wrong side of
the road, Strava said in court papers, and the company isn’t
liable because the death resulted from Flint’s own negligence.  Hazard Flags  The company’s lawyers on Jan. 24 asked the court to dismiss
its counterclaims without prejudice, meaning it can reinstitute
them later. The court filings don’t give a reason why Strava
dropped the claims. A trial is scheduled for July 1.  After the Flint accident, Strava made it possible for users
to designate courses that may be hazardous, according to the
company’s CEO, Horvath. Flagged routes -- mostly descents -- no
longer feature leaderboards or KOMs. The ride Flint was taking
is now in that category, according to the Strava website.  “It gives the community a tool to help determine what’s
safe and what’s not,” Horvath says. “Too steep, too much
traffic or road construction. Some users have shut down segments
because there were ducks and squirrels along the path.” The
company hasn’t been named a defendant in any other suits,
Horvath says.  ‘Bad Behavior’  Breathing hard, Jeff Howell, a data project manager, crests
a popular 4.2-mile climb south of San Francisco and hits stop on
his bike computer. Wearing Strava cycling jersey and shorts, he
says he’s pleased to post his second-fastest time on the  route .
Another cyclist zips past without a helmet.  “I don’t see Strava inducing that kind of bad behavior,”
Howell says. “You have to take responsibility for yourself and
know your limits.”  At San Francisco-based Trulia, Inkinen’s fascination with
data permeates the corporate culture, says  Pete Flint , co-
founder and CEO. The company surveys its 534 employees, known as
“Trulians,” every three months using a  “happiness index” 
that Inkinen created, Flint says.  There is lots of Inkinen lore at the company. Flint relates
how in the early days the co-founders were Wednesday night
regulars at a sushi restaurant. The order never changed: seaweed
salad, sashimi, edamame and water.  “As soon as I started to mix things up, there was a revolt
from Sami,” Flint says. Inkinen didn’t want a change in diet to
affect the data he was monitoring on himself. For the same
reason, Inkinen went through a spell of eating “the same thing
for breakfast, lunch and dinner: a can of cold Progresso chicken
soup,” Flint says.  ‘Gun Show’  Inkinen’s competitive drive once spawned a push-up
competition with several Trulia colleagues known as “the Gun
Show” (in fitness circles, “guns” is slang for biceps). Over
22 days last June. Inkinen’s spreadsheet shows that he knocked
out 100 push-ups on 20 of those days. When he managed just 50
one day, he added pull-ups to make up the difference. And on the
single day when he did none, he rode his bike 105 miles. But
that isn’t the whole story, says his wife, Loring.  “One guy beat Sami one day, so he started doing push-ups
in every area,” she says. “Every hour, he would just drop and
do push-ups wherever we were.” That included a Safeway parking
lot. “This is my husband,” she says.  Inkinen is convinced his data holds important clues. As he
was learning English, according to  Ken Shuman , Trulia’s
communications chief, he would occasionally forget such simple
words as “banana.” Digging through his charts, he linked a
lack of sleep to the forgetfulness, Shuman says. Inkinen
confirms the story.  ‘Fitter, Faster’  The data let him down after the Mount Diablo ride in
California, however. Inkinen was using the race as a final warm-
up for his sixth appearance in the Ironman World Championship
six days later in Hawaii. Comparing his Mount Diablo data from
October with results a year earlier, he was confident he would
be able to complete the Ironman in less than 9 hours again.  “Going in, I was fitter and faster than ever,” he says.  He had plenty of reasons for confidence. Two months
earlier, he won the amateur title in an Ironman race in Sweden,
finishing in just over 8 hours, 24 minutes and winning a Strava
KOM for the bicycling portion. Then he and Loring took a seven-
day cycling trip through the Alps. In September, Inkinen
competed in a half-Ironman in Las Vegas, where the temperatures
exceed 100 degrees Fahrenheit (38 degrees Celsius) on the
course.  ‘Ridiculously Tired’  As the Hawaii Ironman began, Inkinen was the amateur
favorite, according to the event’s website. He was in first
place among amateurs after the 2.4-mile swim and 112-mile
bicycle stage, and he retained the lead through the first half
of the 26.2-mile running portion. That is when his brain told
him something that his data didn’t.  “I just started feeling ridiculously tired,” Inkinen
says. He did what Ironman competitors typically resist at all
costs. He stopped and dropped out of the race.  In endurance competition, the brain is the “central
governor,” according to Tim Noakes, a professor of exercise and
sports science at South Africa’s University of Cape Town. In his
book, “Lore of Running,” he writes that exhaustion reflects
changes in brain commands to the muscles rather than changes in
the muscles themselves.  Afterward, Inkinen reviewed his data in search of an
explanation. He says it may lie in a viral infection he had
between the events in Sweden and Las Vegas. While he was ill,
his resting heart rate rose 20 percent to 46 beats a minute from
38, according to the spreadsheet.  ‘Business Decision’  During the race in Hawaii, “my body or brain or both
refused to continue to work,” Inkinen says. “It doesn’t matter
if the device on your wrist says you can go; your brain stops
you. If you were able to override it, you would maybe do
permanent damage or maybe kill yourself.”  Inkinen’s central motivation “is improvement, not
winning,” he says. And he cites another reason for dropping
out. Eighteen days after the Ironman, Inkinen was set to compete
in the 161-mile  La Ruta de los Conquistadores  mountain-bike race
across Costa Rica.  “‘I didn’t want to end up in the hospital and miss that
trip,” he said. “I made a business decision.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael Buteau in Atlanta at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net ;
 Aaron Kuriloff  in New York at 
 akuriloff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  