-- House Democrats Seek Assault-Weapon Ban, Ammunition Limit
-- B y   J a m e s   R o w l e y   a n d   R o x a n a   T i r o n
-- 2013-02-07T22:55:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/house-democrats-said-ready-to-offer-gun-control-measures.html
U.S. House Democrats proposed a ban
on military-style assault weapons and a 10-round limit on
ammunition magazines to try to curb mass shootings.  Democrats today also called for background checks for
almost all gun buyers and for requiring states to include more
information in the national criminal background database.  “We need to pass background-check legislation that makes
sure that everybody who buys a firearm” is examined “to make
sure they are not a criminal, to make sure they are not
dangerously mentally ill,” said California Representative  Mike Thompson , who led a House Democratic task force on gun violence.  The lawmakers announced the proposals today at a private
Democratic policy retreat in Leesburg, Virginia.  The measures mirror what President  Barack Obama  proposed in
response to the Dec. 14 shooting at an elementary school in
Newtown, Connecticut, in which 20 children and six adults were
killed. Obama asked Congress to outlaw the sale of assault
weapons, ban high-capacity ammunition magazines and require
background checks for all gun buyers.  Assault weapons and high-capacity ammunition magazines
“don’t have any place in our streets and our communities,”
Thompson said.  Second Amendment  “As a hunter and gun owner I believe we should protect
law-abiding individuals’ Second Amendment right to own
firearms,” Thompson said. “As a father and grandfather, I also
believe that we have a responsibility to make our schools,
neighborhoods and communities safe.”  Some of the recommendations aren’t likely to advance in the
Republican-controlled House of Representatives. Some Republican
lawmakers have been skeptical about enacting new gun laws, and
Speaker  John Boehner , an Ohio Republican, has expressed no
urgency about moving forward with gun legislation.  “We can’t relive what just happened in Newtown,” Thompson
said today.  Polls show a majority of Americans support the president’s
proposals, especially expanded background checks for gun
purchasers. More than nine in 10 U.S. voters, including those
who own firearms, favor background checks for all gun buyers,
according to a  Quinnipiac University   poll  released today.  Other Proposals  Other proposals made since the  Connecticut  shootings were
approved by a majority of respondents in the poll. A ban on
assault weapons was supported by 56 percent of respondents
compared with 39 percent who oppose it, and a ban on the sale of
high-capacity ammunition magazines was backed by 56 percent of
respondents compared with 40 percent against.  The Democrats’ proposals face resistance from the National
Rifle Association, which opposes a ban on assault weapons and
high-capacity magazines, and doesn’t back universal background
checks. The Democratic plan would allow an exception in cases of
gifts between family members and temporary loans for sporting
purposes, according to Thompson.  Earlier this week, Obama said he would keep pressuring
Congress to revive a federal assault-weapon ban, which expired
in 2004, while saying that he saw a consensus emerging on
universal background checks. Through a mix of 23 executive
actions and additional legislative proposals, Obama is seeking
the most ambitious changes on gun control in decades.  ‘Commonly Owned’  In a statement, the NRA said the House Democratic proposal
would “ban millions of commonly owned semiautomatic firearms
and magazines” as well as “common hunting and sport-shooting
ammunition.”  Chris W. Cox, the NRA’s chief lobbyist, said Congress
should “focus its energies on the things that will actually
keep our families and communities safer -- prosecuting criminals
who misuse firearms; securing our schools; and fixing the broken
mental-health system that keeps dangerously ill people on the
street.”  In the Senate, a bipartisan measure to expand community
mental-health center access was introduced in response to the
shootings in Connecticut and Aurora, Colorado, where a gunman
killed 12 people in a crowded movie theater last year.  At a 10-year cost of $1 billion, the measure would allow
mental-health centers that provide 24-hour emergency service and
meet other care requirements to get Medicaid reimbursement for
treating uninsured patients.  Mentally ill people “have problems they don’t know how to
deal with” and sometimes “deal with them in a tragic way,”
Missouri Republican  Roy Blunt  told reporters.  To contact the reporters on this story:
James Rowley in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net ;
Roxana Tiron in Washington at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  