-- Palm Oil Seen Rising 16% by Year-End as China, India Recover
-- B y   Y o g a   R u s m a n a
-- 2013-02-08T10:15:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/palm-oil-seen-advancing-16-by-year-end-as-china-india-recover.html
Palm oil, the world’s most-used
cooking oil, may climb 16 percent this year as economies rebound
in China and India, the biggest importers, the Indonesian Palm
Oil Association said.  Palm may rise to $1,000 a metric ton by the year-end, the
highest price since September, after trading between $800 and
$900 in the first half,  Fadhil Hasan , executive director at the
growers’ group, said in an interview in Jakarta on Feb. 5,
referring to cargoes delivered in  Rotterdam . The rate was
$862.50 yesterday, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Prices of the commodity used in everything from candy to
instant noodles and fuel jumped 15 percent since reaching a
three-year low in December as production in Indonesia and
Malaysia, the largest suppliers, entered the low-output cycle.
Futures in Kuala Lumpur may rally 12 percent through the final
quarter, says  Abah Ofon , an analyst at Standard Chartered Plc.
 Dwight Anderson , founder of hedge fund Ospraie Management LLC,
said in December palm was one of his top commodity picks.  “Demand is still fairly strong this year,” supporting
prices, said  Hariyanto Wijaya , a Jakarta-based analyst at PT
Mandiri Sekuritas, part of the country’s biggest lender by
assets. “Buying will be sustained” even after India increased
import taxes and China tightened quality controls, he said.
India introduced a 2.5 percent tariff on foreign purchases last
month and China toughened inspections.  China’s Recovery  Expansion in China will accelerate to 8.3 percent through
the third quarter, while India’s growth may rise to 6.3 percent
in the final three months from 5.25 percent a year earlier,
according to economist estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Indonesia may increase palm production 5.7 percent this
year to 28 million tons from 2012, the growers’ group, known as
Gapki, said on Jan. 8. That’s in line with a forecast yesterday
from the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s Foreign Agricultural
Service, which said in a report that output will expand to 28
million tons in the year that started Oct. 1.  Shipments are set to climb to a record 20 million tons from
18.2 million tons, Gapki said. The country has about 8.7 million
hectares (21.5 million acres) of plantations, with 42 percent
owned by smallholders cultivating less than 25 hectares, said
Hasan. Sumatra supplies about 65 percent of production and
Kalimantan 30 percent.  Record Reserves  Producer inventories may curb price gains. Stockpiles in
Indonesia have increased to about 4 million tons, said Hasan,
while reserves in Malaysia probably stayed near a record in
January at 2.53 million tons, according to a Bloomberg survey.  The rally “will depend on the recovery of world economy,”
said Hasan. Consumption may also gain on increased use for
biodiesel if Europe can overcome the crisis, he said.  Indonesia, the biggest economy in Southeast Asia, needs to
build more roads and ports to support growth of its palm
industries including in Kalimantan on Borneo island, said Hasan.  “The infrastructure when we had output of 10 to 15 million
tons is the same when production was around 20 million tons,”
he said. “There’s not much improvement.” Some Kalimantan
producers must ship palm to Belawan and Dumai ports on Sumatra
because of lack of facilities, he said.  Indonesia will probably maintain its export tax policy even
after a proposal from Gapki to cut duties, Hasan said. “The
government policy is not only to encourage the downstream
industry but also to generate revenue,” he said.  Gapki proposed taxes of 5 percent to 10 percent for crude
palm and zero to 2.5 percent for refined products, he said. That
compares with a range of 7.5 percent to 22.5 percent now for
crude and 2 percent to 10 percent for refined. The crude tax
rate for February is 9 percent.  ‘Market Developments’  Indonesia will maintain its export tax policy for now,
Deputy Trade Minister  Bayu Krisnamurthi  said in a text message
yesterday. “Response to market developments is important, but
maintaining policy consistency is also important,” he said.  Malaysia announced export tax changes last year to reduce
inventories, resulting in a zero tariff for January. The rate
was extended to February and may remain the same in March if
prices stay below the threshold of 2,250 ringgit, according to
Plantation Industries & Commodities Minister  Bernard Dompok .  Futures on the Malaysia Derivatives Exchange, the global
benchmark in Kuala Lumpur, added 0.3 percent to 2,559 ringgit
($826) a ton today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yoga Rusmana in Jakarta at 
 yrusmana@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  