-- Panetta Exposes Rift With Obama Over Arming Syrian Rebels
-- B y   T e r r y   A t l a s
-- 2013-02-08T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/panetta-exposes-rift-with-obama-over-arming-syrian-rebels.html
The Obama administration’s two top
defense officials publicly acknowledged a policy rift with the
White House over whether to send U.S. arms to Syrian rebels.  Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta , who is retiring, and Army
General  Martin Dempsey , the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of
Staff, both said in congressional testimony yesterday that they
supported a plan last year to provide weapons to the rebels
fighting to overthrow President  Bashar al-Assad .  Their comments before the Senate Armed Services Committee
came in response to questions from Republican Senators  John McCain  of Arizona and  Lindsey Graham  of South Carolina. Both
senators have been leading critics of the Obama administration
for failing to do more to help the Syrian rebels, who are
heavily outgunned by Assad’s forces.  “We did,” said Dempsey, responding to McCain’s question
on whether they supported the plan to arm Assad’s opponents by
then-Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  and  David Petraeus , who
was director of the Central Intelligence Agency at the time.  “That was our position,” Panetta said to Graham. “I do
want to say, senator, that obviously there were a number of
factors that were involved here that ultimately led to the
president’s decision to make it non-lethal.”  The White House national security staff opposed providing
military aid to any Syrian rebel groups, partly on concern that
it would wind up in the hands of Islamic extremists, according
to two officials who were involved in the policy debate. Both
asked not to be identified because they weren’t authorized to
talk publicly about the issue.  ‘Overruled’ Advice  The outcome means the president “overruled the senior
leaders of his own national security team, who were in unanimous
agreement that America needs to take greater action to change
the military balance of power in Syria,” McCain said in a
statement after the session.  “I urge the president to heed the advice of his former and
current national-security leaders and immediately take the
necessary steps, along with our friends and allies, that could
hasten the end of the conflict in Syria,” McCain said.  Asked about disagreement on sending arms to the rebels,
 Victoria Nuland , a State Department spokeswoman, said at a news
briefing yesterday that she wouldn’t comment on “internal
policy discussions.”  Tommy Vietor , a White House spokesman,
said he had no comment.  Administration officials such as Nuland have said that U.S.
assistance to the Syrians is limited to humanitarian aid and
non-lethal equipment for the rebels, while some other nations
may be providing weapons.  Islamic Radicals  U.S. officials have said publicly that sending American
weapons risks increasing the bloodshed in Syria, where the
United Nations estimates more than 60,000 people have been
killed in the two-year uprising.  President  Barack Obama  has expressed concern that arms sent
to the rebels might fall into the hands of Islamic radicals.  “We have seen extremist elements insinuate themselves into
the opposition, and you know, one of the things that we have to
be on guard about -- particularly when we start talking about
arming opposition figures -- is that we are not indirectly
putting arms in the hands of folks that would do Americans harm,
or do Israelis harm or otherwise engage in, in actions that are
detrimental to our national security,” Obama said in a November
news conference.  The White House national security staff also balked at
sending arms to the rebels because they thought it would
undercut Obama’s election-year message that he was extricating
the U.S. from costly overseas military ventures, according to
the two officials involved in the debate.  Rebel Groups  U.S. intelligence agencies identified several rebel groups
that favored replacing the Assad regime with a broad coalition
of opposition factions until democratic elections could be held,
the officials said. Yet there was no guarantee that weapons
supplied by the U.S. or its allies wouldn’t end up with Sunni
extremists with ties to al-Qaeda’s Iraqi affiliate, they said.  Despite that risk, the officials said, the White House’s
refusal to consider bolstering moderate rebel groups opened the
door for Sunni extremist organizations such as the al-Nusra
Front to seize the leading role in the battle. They said that
also may mean an increased likelihood that a radical Islamist
regime in Damascus could threaten Israel, destabilize Jordan,
and strengthen Sunni radicals in Egypt, Libya, Tunisia and
elsewhere.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terry Atlas in Washington at 
 tatlas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  