-- Paschi Hidden Deals Bring 730 Million Euros of Losses
-- B y   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i
-- 2013-02-07T17:57:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/paschi-hidden-deals-bring-730-million-euros-of-losses.html
Banca Monte dei Paschi di Siena SpA ,
the Italian bank engulfed by probes of its former managers, will
take a 730 million-euro ($987 million) hit to its assets after
accounting for structured deals that hid earlier losses.  Italy’s third-biggest lender said that the impact of a
trade dubbed Santorini will be 305.2 million euros, while a deal
labeled Alexandria will bring losses of 272.5 million euros.
 Monte Paschi  rose in Milan trading, paring losses to 18 percent
since Bloomberg News first published details of Santorini on
Jan. 17.  “The amount isn’t bad -- no further capital will be
needed,” said  Ronny Rehn , an analyst at Keefe, Bruyette & Woods
in London. Still, “the restructuring of the bank is being done
in the wrong way. Monte Paschi needs equity, not more debt
carrying a coupon greater than the return-on-equity it will be
able to achieve for years to come.”  Chief Executive Officer  Fabrizio Viola  today ruled out the
existence of any more transactions that disguise previous losses
as his management sought to reassure depositors and investors it
will succeed with a turnaround plan that is central to a 3.9
billion-euro taxpayer bailout due this month. The subject of
investigations spanning from allegations of market manipulation
to false bookkeeping, Monte Paschi will use state funds to boost
capital after not meeting regulators’ minimum requirements in a
rescue some lawmakers and consumer groups oppose.  Shares Climb  “We have completed the analysis of the financial portfolio
and there are no more Santorinis,” Viola said on a call with
analysts. There’s been a “gradual return to normality” among
corporate depositors after initial “volatility” when news
first broke about the losses, he said.  Monte Paschi  climbed  4.1 percent to 23.99 cents, valuing
the world’s oldest bank at 2.8 billion euros.  The lender is restating the value of assets to reflect
accounting errors on existing transactions at the time of the
Santorini and Alexandria deals, the bank said. Santorini
absorbed a fair value loss of 429 million euros in 2008 from a
previous equity swap, while Alexandria incorporated a loss of
308 million euros, Monte Paschi said.  The bank is also taking a 151.7 million-euro hit from a
third transaction, Nota Italia, whose fair value wasn’t
reflected accurately during the life of the deal. Monte Paschi
said it paid 139 million euros to restructure Nota Italia on
Jan. 23, removing the risk related to Italian government bonds.  Draghi’s Role  The Bank of Italy, which oversees Monte Paschi, has drawn
criticism from lawmakers for failing to force the bank to reveal
the deals after spotting accounting anomalies in its
inspections.  “The Banca d’Italia has done everything it should,”
European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi , who ran the
Italian central bank at the time of the deals, said today. “It
was me who signed both inspections. Don’t forget it was Banca
d’Italia who gave most of the papers to the judiciary. Normally
if you have a fraud, the supervisors don’t have police powers,”
Draghi told reporters in Frankfurt.  The Bank of Italy loaned Monte Paschi 2 billion euros in
2011 to help protect its access to ECB financing, said an
Italian central bank official.  Santorini, which saw Monte Paschi borrow about 1.5 billion
euros from  Deutsche Bank AG , helped Monte Paschi obscure a loss
from an older derivative contract with the German lender,
according to documents outlining the deal and obtained by
Bloomberg News. As part of the arrangement, the Italian lender
made a losing bet on the value of the country’s bonds.  Assets Seized  The use of long-term repos is common among banks, Viola
said on the call today.  Monte Paschi said yesterday the restating will free up
about 25.4 million euros from lower charges this year.  The bank’s pro-forma core Tier 1 ratio, a measure of
financial strength, was 12.1 percent as of Sept. 30, Monte
Paschi said. Tax benefits may reduce the net impact of losses,
Chief Financial Officer  Bernardo Mingrone  said on the call.  Italy’s finance police yesterday said they executed five
warrants to seize about 40 million euros in cash and securities
as part of the criminal investigations. The assets were seized
from trustees and banks as a preemptive step amid allegations of
fraud against Monte Paschi, the police said in a statement,
without identifying suspects and where the money was seized.  Prosecutors are investigating the bank under laws governing
company responsibility to see whether crimes were committed by
former executives, according to people with knowledge of the
operation who declined to be identified. Former Monte Paschi
employees are due to be questioned in Siena this week and next,
one of the people said.  Government Bailout  The criminal probe is focused on Monte Paschi’s 2007
agreement to buy Banca Antonveneta SpA for 9 billion euros.
 Banco Santander SA  had valued the lender at 6.6 billion euros
when it purchased ABN Amro Holding NV’s Italian assets two
months previously.  Under the government’s rescue plan, Monte Paschi will sell
securities to the state paying a 9 percent coupon that may rise
to as much as 15 percent. Viola said on Jan. 28 the board will
complete the bailout request by early February, and the Italian
Treasury will conclude the transaction by the end of the month.  Terms of the bonds have been approved by the European Union
and shouldn’t change, Mingrone said today.  For Draghi, who is preparing the ECB for direct supervision
of some of the region’s lenders, there is at least one lesson to
be learned from Monte Paschi.  “If anything, one of the things the story shows, having
more powers would have helped,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisa Martinuzzi in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  