-- PennyMac, Run by Ex-Countrywide President, Files IPO Plans
-- B y   R i c k   G r e e n
-- 2013-02-07T14:54:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/pennymac-run-by-ex-countrywide-president-files-plans-for-ipo.html
PennyMac Financial Services Inc., the
residential mortgage company founded by former Countrywide
Financial Corp. President  Stanford L. Kurland , filed for a
public offering of as much as $287.5 million.  Plans to sell Class A shares in the Moorpark, California-
based company and list them on the New York Stock Exchange were
outlined in a  regulatory filing  today. The price per share and
ticker symbol weren’t cited.  PennyMac, founded in 2008 with help from  BlackRock Inc.  and
HC Partners LLC, makes and services U.S. residential mortgages
and manages related investments, the company said. Holdings have
included distressed home loans. The firm earned $60.4 million
through the first nine months of 2012 on revenue of $157.3
million.  “The shifting investment and operational priorities of
banks and other traditional mortgage lenders have created
additional opportunities,” PennyMac said. Among them are “the
purchase from mortgage lenders of newly originated mortgage
loans that are eligible for sale and/or securitization” through
a government agency.  Proceeds from the IPO will provide capital for mortgage
banking and general corporate purposes, the company said.  Kurland, PennyMac’s chairman and chief executive officer,
was president and chief operating officer of Countrywide until
September 2006, according to the filing. He was once a candidate
to succeed Angelo Mozilo as CEO of Countrywide, which the
executives built into the largest U.S. home lender in part by
offering  subprime mortgages  to people with the weakest credit.  Countrywide’s Fall  After Kurland left, losses on  faulty mortgages  drove
Countrywide to the brink of failure. It was bought in 2008 by
Bank of America Corp., which has since absorbed more than $40
billion in related costs. Regulators and lawmakers have blamed
Countrywide's lax standards for contributing to a credit bubble
and housing bust that followed, and Mozilo later agreed to a
record $67.5 million settlement with regulators.  PennyMac has developed processes “to address the stringent
requirements of residential mortgage lending and servicing in
the post-financial crisis market,” according to the filing.  Certain PennyMac officers besides Kurland worked at
Countrywide, and PennyMac “cannot assure you that any existing
or future investigations, litigation or negative publicity
involving Countrywide Financial Corporation will not generate
negative publicity or media attention for us or adversely impact
us,” according to the filing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rick Green in New York at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  