-- Peru Keeps 4.25% Rate as CPI Slows Amid Near-Potential Growth
-- B y   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 2013-02-08T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/peru-keeps-4-25-rate-after-bolstering-drive-to-stem-sol-rally.html
Peru’s central bank kept borrowing
costs unchanged for a 21st consecutive month as policy makers
expect inflation to converge to the mid-point of their target in
coming months amid near-potential economic growth.  The five-member board, led by bank President  Julio Velarde ,
yesterday maintained the  overnight rate  at 4.25 percent, the
lowest in Latin America after Colombia, matching the forecasts
of all 15 economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg.  The central bank sees “a convergence of inflation to 2
percent in the coming months because of the improvement in food
supply conditions, a pace of economic activity that’s close to
potential” amid signs of still weak global growth, policy
makers said in their  statement  posted on the central bank’s
website.  Policy makers have toughened their stance on the  sol ’s
appreciation after dollar inflows pushed the currency to a 16-
year high last month. The monetary authority has raised dollar
reserve requirements, let pension funds increase overseas
investments and boosted purchases of greenbacks in the currency
market.  While Peru’s economy is posting the fastest growth in South
America, inflation remains within policy makers’ 1 percent to 3
percent target range.  ‘No Significant Pressure’  “The central bank has no significant pressure to tighten
monetary policy because inflation shows no evidence of demand-
driven pressure on prices,”  Felipe Hernandez , an economist at
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc, said in a phone interview from
Stamford, Connecticut. “Inflation expectations are well
anchored within the target range.”  Peru is attracting capital inflows as local companies seek
cheaper financing overseas and investors boost purchases of the
country’s bonds. The sol rose to 2.5390 per dollar on Jan. 14,
the strongest level since October 1996.  Peruvian companies raised $1 billion in the international
capital markets last month, led by a $500 million bond sale by
state mortgage lender Fondo Mivivienda SA. Banco Continental SA,
Peru’s second-largest lender, sold $300 million and fishing
company Pesquera Exalmar SAA issued $200 million.  Currency Balance  The central bank increased the average reserve ratio for
dollars by one percentage point from Feb. 1, the biggest of six
increases since May, and for the first time cited taming the
sol’s appreciation as its main goal. Banco Central de Reserva
del Peru left requirements for soles unchanged.  The central bank bought $1.8 billion of U.S. currency last
month, the most since April, and the Finance Ministry pledged to
buy $4 billion this year. The bank bought $13.9 billion of U.S.
currency last year, boosting Peru’s international reserves to a
record $64 billion, equivalent to 32 percent of gross domestic
product.  Peru may need to at least match last year’s dollar
purchases in 2013 to slow the pace of the sol’s appreciation,
which policy makers see as a threat to an economy where 43
percent of all loans are in dollars, said  Hedmond Rios , an
economist at Celfin Capital SA.  Though the sol is down 1.1 percent this year, its 4.2
percent advance in the past year is the best performance among
the six most-traded currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  The yield on Peru’s benchmark 7.84 percent sol-denominated
bond due August 2020 has fallen 0.13 percentage point to 3.75
percent this year after dropping 1.87 percentage point in 2012.
The  Lima General Index  has risen 5.2 percent this year after a
5.9 percent gain in 2012.  Sources of Inflows  Lowering the central bank’s benchmark rate would ease
inflows “a little bit” by narrowing the differential between
borrowing costs in Peru and developed markets, Velarde said in a
Jan. 30 interview. Still, foreign direct investment and long-
term dollar loans are the main sources of inflows, he said.  Annual inflation, which slowed to 2.87 percent last month
from 4.74 percent at the end of 2011, remains near the top of
the central bank’s target range.  “Cutting the rate could ease inflows but at what cost to
inflation?” Rios said in a telephone interview from Santiago.  Construction activity, which has fueled growth in Peru’s
$200 billion economy, is showing signs of slowing, with cement
demand and capital goods imports both easing in December.  Growth in bank lending to companies and households also
eased to 15.6 percent in December, the slowest pace since May,
according to the central bank.  Inflation will slow to about 2 percent this year, the bank
said after its Jan. 10 meeting. It projects growth of 6.2
percent to 6.3 percent this year, which is below the economy’s
potential and isn’t producing price pressures, Velarde said.  “We don’t see a need for a dramatic change of rates now,”
he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Quigley in Lima at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net  