-- France Discusses Peugeot Stake Option After Writedowns
-- B y   M a t h i e u   R o s e m a i n ,   M a r k   D e e n   a n d   D o r o t h e e   T s c h a m p a
-- 2013-02-08T11:48:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/peugeot-takes-5-53-billion-in-writedowns-as-market-drops.html
France’s budget minister floated the
possibility of buying a stake in  PSA Peugeot Citroen  after the
ailing automaker announced second-half writedowns of 4.13
billion euros ($5.53 billion) amid Europe’s plunging auto sales.  “Let’s be clear: this company cannot, must not
disappear,”  Jerome Cahuzac  said on RMC radio today. “We’ll
have to do what we have to do to save this company.” A
representative for Prime Minister Jean-Marc Ayrault responded
that buying a holding is not currently on the agenda.  The government is debating aiding Peugeot, which employs
more than 100,000 workers in France. Europe’s second-largest
automaker, which a union leader said last week is losing 7
million euros per day, already plans to cut 17 percent of its
French workforce and close a factory near Paris in response to
the biggest slump in European Union auto sales in 19 years.  “If the French government takes a stake in Peugeot, they
will probably demand a more socially acceptable restructuring,”
said  Sascha Gommel , a Frankfurt-based analyst with Commerzbank
AG who has a reduce rating on the shares. “This could slow the
restructuring and it would take longer for Peugeot to return to
profitability.”  The shares  gained  as much as 30 cents, or 5.1 percent, to
6.17 euros and were up 1.2 percent, to 5.95 euros as of 12:45
p.m. in Paris. The stock has plunged 57 percent in the last
year, valuing the carmaker at 2.11 billion euros.  Studying Stake  France is studying taking a Peugeot stake as a “hypothesis
of last resort,” French daily Liberation reported today,
without citing anyone. The government could also support a
capital increase if necessary, the newspaper said.  Pierre- Olivier Salmon , a Peugeot spokesman, declined to comment.  “The only thing I can tell you, and I can’t say whether
it’s true or false, is that it’s possible because there’s the
Strategic Investment Fund,” Cahuzac told the radio station.
“If the FSI enters into the capital of this company, it’s in
fact the state one way or another that’s entering.”  France already is the largest owner in  Renault SA , France’s
second-biggest automaker. Renault has announced plans to slash
7,500 French jobs.  Peugeot is writing down the automotive division’s property,
plants and other assets, which were valued at 14.5 billion euros
at the end of June, by 3.89 billion euros. The automaker is also
taking a second-half charge of 243 million euros for what it
called “onerous contracts.”  Bond Guarantees  “This calculus results from cautious assumptions about the
European economic environment,” Chief Financial Officer  Jean- Baptiste de Chatillon  told reporters in Paris late yesterday.
“We think that this European car market will remain affected by
the crisis for a long time.”  France has already offered the automaker 7 billion euros in
bond guarantees. The European Union is currently reviewing the
offer to determine whether its anti-competitive.  By pointing to the FSI, Cahuzac may be indicating President
 Francois Hollande ’s reluctance to put government funds directly
into the carmaker at a time when the French state is struggling
to reduce its budget deficit to 3 percent of gross domestic
product this year from 4.5 percent in 2012.  The European Commission, the Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development and the International Monetary Fund,
all currently estimate that France is on track to miss the
target, unless further action is taken.  Raising Taxes  Hollande has already raised taxes by about 27 billion euros
since coming to power in May and has pledged to cut spending
over the coming years, further limiting his room for maneuver.  The FSI, the sovereign wealth fund set up by former
President  Nicolas Sarkozy , has about 19.7 billion euros under
management, according to its website.  The government wanted  Louis Gallois , who ran Airbus parent
European Aeronautic, Defence & Space Co. for almost six years
until May 2012, to take over as chief executive officer from
 Philippe Varin , Liberation said today. Gallois, 68, turned down
the job, the French daily said. The prime minister’s
representative declined to comment on whether Gallois was
offered the post.  The government in December appointed Gallois to Peugeot’s
board. The French state and Peugeot’s  labor unions  each won
board representation at the manufacturer as part of the
agreement in October for the government to guarantee the new
bonds sold by the carmaker’s Banque PSA Finance division.
Peugeot’s lending arm needs the cheaper financing to offer
competitive loan rates to customers.  Selling Assets  Peugeot has sold assets in the last year to raise cash, and
entered into a strategic alliance with  General Motors Co . that
is meant to generate $2 billion for the partners in annual cost
savings and sales improvements within 5 years.  Peugeot’s plan to eliminate 11,200 jobs and close a factory
in Aulnay are on hold after a Paris court said last month that
the automaker can’t cut the positions until Faurecia SA, 57
percent-owned by  Peugeot , fully informs its workers about the
impact of the carmaker’s restructuring. Automakers have
announced more than 30,000 job cuts in Europe since July.  Peugeot  said yesterday net debt rose in the second half to
3 billion euros from 2.45 billion euros at the end of June. The
automaker reports second-half earnings next week.  The writedowns, which are all non-cash, will directly
impact Peugeot’s net income for the half. The writedowns follow
guidelines issued by the French securities regulator and do not
impact the group’s liquidity, solvency or cash flow targets,
Peugeot said.  Capacity Reduction  “Peugeot isn’t in danger of collapsing in the short term,
but needs to get fixed, as well as variable costs, under control
to be able to compete with  Volkswagen  and Renault-Nissan in the
long run,” Gommel, the Commerzbank analyst, said. “There’s no
way around a capacity reduction.”  Europe’s car market is forecast to drop to 12.3 million
vehicles this year, 23 percent below the pre-crisis peak, IHS
Automotive estimates. GM is closing a German factory and  Ford
Motor Co . is shutting three plants across Europe in response.
Peugeot’s CFO said yesterday the market may fall as much as 5
percent this year.  “Peugeot’s current weakness is mainly due to the weak
southern European market, including France,” said  Juergen Pieper , a Frankfurt-based analyst with Bankhaus Metzler. “A lot
depends on market recovery, which could start at the end of
2013.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mathieu Rosemain in Paris at 
 mrosemain@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net ;
Dorothee Tschampa in Frankfurt at 
 dtschampa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  