-- Pfizer Breakup Talk Stoked by Discount to Drug Stocks
-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e
-- 2013-02-07T23:07:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/pfizer-breakup-talk-stoked-by-discount-to-drug-stocks-real-m-a.html
Pfizer Inc. ’s industry-leading profit
margins and disposal of non-drug businesses still haven’t closed
the valuation gap with rival drugmakers. No wonder its chief
executive officer is contemplating a full breakup.  CEO  Ian Read  said last week that he may consider separating
Pfizer’s branded medicines from its generic products  businesses 
as part of his strategy to slim down the world’s largest
drugmaker. Despite already divesting animal health and infant
nutrition units from one of the most profitable pharmaceutical
companies, Read still is faced with a stock that trades for a
lower price relative to earnings than almost 80 percent of
similar-sized peers, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Splitting New York-based Pfizer in half may help investors
better gauge the true value of its two businesses, which Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. estimates to be about $35 billion more than its
market capitalization of $201 billion. A breakup would follow
similar moves by companies such as  Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. ,
which fetches a valuation that’s two-thirds higher than Pfizer’s
as a pure-play drugmaker after having spun off baby formula
maker  Mead Johnson Nutrition Co.  four years ago.  “If you’re on Pfizer’s board of directors, you’re
scratching your head and thinking, ‘Why is this happening? We’re
a great operator,’”  Peter Sorrentino , a senior fund manager at
Huntington Asset Advisors Inc. in Cincinnati, said in a
telephone interview. “Investors play it cautious and put less
of a premium on businesses when there are too many things to
understand and analyze. Pulling them apart, you can probably do
the shareholders better.”  Huntington oversees $14.7 billion and owns Pfizer shares.  Evolving Business  Speculation of a full Pfizer breakup was renewed when  Geno Germano , president of the company’s specialty care and oncology
businesses, told Bloomberg News in a Jan. 8 interview that
Pfizer’s four drug units are “probably going to evolve to two,
where there’s the innovative business and the value business.”  Pfizer’s units cover oncology, primary care, specialty
drugs, and so-called established products, which are medicines
that have lost patent protection and face competition from
generic versions. The possible structure Germano described would
separate the branded drugs, considered the innovative business,
from the generic, or value, division.  Read echoed Germano’s comments last week on an earnings
conference call.  “We will look at it,” Read said, when asked about the
possibility of a bigger breakup of the company. “We will move
towards a separate management, and at that point we’ll be able
to evaluate whether shareholders would prefer to have the option
to invest in two distinct companies or not.”  For now, Read said, “there’s not really a lot of point”
in speculating on a split.  Already Separate  Read said Pfizer’s  operations  in developed markets such as
the U.S. and Europe already are structured into separate units
for brand-name drugs and generics. The company may move toward a
similar structure in emerging markets, which in most places
organize operations by country or region instead of by type of
drug.  Joan Campion , a spokeswoman for Pfizer, declined this week
to comment further.  Pfizer agreed in April to sell its baby-food unit to Nestle
SA, the world’s biggest food maker, for $11.9 billion in the
first of two major divestitures that Read oversaw to shrink
Pfizer and concentrate on producing new drugs. It was the
company’s largest divestiture since the $16.6 billion sale of
consumer-health brands including Sudafed cold medicine and
Bengay pain cream to Johnson & Johnson in 2006, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Testing Waters  Pfizer then filed in August to take its animal health unit
public. Shares of the new company, called Zoetis Inc., have
 risen  19 percent since they began trading Feb. 1.  “Pfizer is really steering the course to enhance
shareholder value,”  Herman Saftlas , a New York-based equity
analyst for Standard & Poor’s, said in a phone interview. Read’s
remarks about a potential split are “a very simple way of
testing the waters. Once there’s clarity in terms of actually
achieving enhanced value, then at that point you go ahead,” he
said.  Since Pfizer announced it was exploring alternatives for
its baby-food and animal-health units in July 2011, the shares
have risen 31 percent. While the gain is more than double the
advance of the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index during that time,
Pfizer still hasn’t been able to fetch a valuation as high as
its peers.  Today, Pfizer shares fell 1.3 percent to $26.96.  Lower Multiple  Pfizer earned more than 31 cents in operating profit for
every dollar of sales in the last 12 months -- more than all of
its rivals except AstraZeneca Plc and Novo Nordisk A/S,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Still, the stock trades for about 12 times analysts’
earnings  estimates  for this year, lagging behind 79 percent of
pharmaceutical companies larger than $10 billion, data compiled
by Bloomberg show. The median multiple for the group, which
includes Merck & Co. and Novartis AG, is 14, the data show.  Even similar-sized generic drugmakers, including Mylan Inc.
and Actavis Inc., fetch 13 times this year’s estimated earnings
on average, the data show.  Goldman Sachs analyst  Jami Rubin  estimates that by valuing
Pfizer’s innovation and generic businesses separately and
applying trading multiples based on peers to her 2013 earnings
forecast for each unit, the company is worth $32 a share. That
implies an equity value of about $236 billion, a 17 percent
premium to its market capitalization yesterday.  Dragged Down  Pfizer’s “value business is dragging down the value of its
drug business, which would be better recognized if the
businesses were fully separated,” New York-based Rubin wrote in
a note to clients last week.  Bristol-Myers Squibb’s decision to become a pure-play
drugmaker has paid off for its investors. The stock has risen 64
percent since it took Mead Johnson public in February 2009, and
Mead Johnson’s shares have more than tripled.  While Pfizer climbed 94 percent over that span, Bristol-
Myers still trades for 20 times this year’s estimated earnings,
topping Pfizer’s valuation by 67 percent, the data show.  Breakups create “a much cleaner business model and you
don’t have these sort of cross-overs and areas of gray,”
Huntington’s Sorrentino said. “You basically let those
businesses that are no longer core focuses go, and they obtain a
better valuation than what’s given to them while they’re buried
inside a conglomerate.”  Strategy Reversal  A Pfizer breakup would stray from its past strategy of
growing and diversifying through large acquisitions, said  Les Funtleyder , a health-industry analyst at New York-based Poliwogg
LLC, an investment fund. Since 2002, Pfizer has made two $64
billion takeovers -- Pharmacia Corp. and Wyeth.  “This is actually a reversal for them,” Funtleyder said
in a phone interview. “In general, Pfizer has been bulking
up.”  John Eade , a New York-based analyst for Argus Research Co.,
said that should Pfizer pursue a full breakup, he doesn’t see it
happening “in the next couple of years.”  “I don’t see any real rush for management right now to
take a lot more steps than they’ve already taken,” he said in a
phone interview. “I think they’ll focus on bringing new drugs
to market, keeping costs under control and maybe look to some
kind of acquisition.”  Splitting Pfizer’s businesses -- including the  management ,
operations and manufacturing -- may prove too difficult,
according to  Marshall Gordon , a New York-based health-care
analyst at ClearBridge Investments LLC, which oversees about $57
billion, including Pfizer shares.  Tricky Split  “I don’t think you can really separate the two assets,”
Gordon said in a phone interview. “The most important part is
the manufacturing. I think that’s really hard to separate out.”  Still, Pfizer wouldn’t be the first large pharmaceutical
company to break apart and narrow its focus. In addition to the
Bristol-Myers breakup, Abbott Laboratories split off AbbVie Inc.
at the start of the year to get its other businesses out from
under the shadow of its best-selling arthritis drug Humira.
Abbott kept the medical devices, diagnostic tools and infant
nutrition.  While demand is growing for generics, it’s a lower-margin
business than brand-name medicines, so spinning off or selling
that piece may boost  Pfizer ’s valuation, said S&P’s Saftlas.  “It’s definitely a likely outcome, to shed off the
generics and focus on the growth areas,” Saftlas said. “This
would allow them to attain a higher multiple, which would
certainly be great for the stock.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Lachapelle in New York at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net  