-- Pound Rises as Carney Damps Bets on Greater Stimulus; Gilts Drop
-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n   a n d   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 2013-02-07T16:28:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/pound-rises-as-carney-damps-bets-on-greater-stimulus-gilts-drop.html
The pound advanced versus the dollar
after the future Bank of England Governor  Mark Carney  said the
U.K.’s monetary policy may be enough to help the economy,
damping speculation that he would expand stimulus.  Gilts fell as Carney, who takes over from Mervyn King in
July, spoke. He was questioned by Members of Parliament before
the Bank of England left its asset-purchase target and its
benchmark interest rate unchanged. The London-based central bank
also said it will reinvest proceeds from the first gilts to
mature in its portfolio of debt bought under its quantitative-
easing stimulus plan. The pound gained versus the euro after the
European Central Bank left its key interest rate unchanged.  “The market was going into the testimony expecting a much
more dovish outlook,” said  Ned Rumpeltin , head of Group of 10
currency strategy at Standard Chartered Plc in London, referring
to a perceived bias to loosen monetary policy. “With short
positioning on the pound, and Carney was much more balanced and
well-considered, that may have caught some people by surprise if
they were looking for a much more assertive stance.” A short
position refers to a bet that an asset’s price will fall.  The pound rose 0.2 percent to $1.5690 at 4:18 p.m. London
time after dropping to $1.5631 two days ago, the lowest since
Aug. 10. It gained 1.1 percent to 85.38 pence per euro after
reaching 85.18 pence, the strongest level since Jan. 28.  Bank of England policy makers left the benchmark interest
rate at a record-low 0.5 percent and held the asset-purchase
target at 375 billion pounds, as predicted by all economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News.  BOE Policy  Carney, 47, didn’t signal any plans to change current Bank
of England policy.  “It is entirely possible -- I hedge because I’m not expert
enough on the current situation in the U.K. -- in fact probable,
that the current stance of policy is consistent with the economy
achieving escape velocity,” Carney said today.  His comments and his first public appearance in the U.K.
related to his new role, come less than two weeks after he said
central banks aren’t “maxed out” on what they can do to drive
their economies.  “I think the market will conclude that Carney will be
ready to step up monetary policy if needed,” said  Arne Rasmussen , the head of currency research at Danske Bank A/S in
Copenhagen. “We stick to our view that sterling will suffer
even more over the next couple of months. However, that said, he
is certainly not saying that he will rock the boat the first day
he becomes captain.”  Weighted Index  Sterling has dropped 3.3 percent this year, the second-
worst performer after the yen among 10 developed-market
currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes, as
speculation the euro-area debt crisis is stabilizing damped
demand for the pound as a haven. The euro rose 2.4 percent and
the dollar gained 0.6 percent.  The 17-nation euro declined versus all but two of its 16
major counterparts as Draghi said after a policy meeting in
Frankfurt that the risk to the region’s growth remains on the
“downside.” The pound strengthened to 77.55 pence per euro in
July last year as Europe’s turmoil intensified and investors
sought alternatives to the region’s currency.  The 10-year  gilt yield  climbed one basis point, or 0.01
percentage point, to 2.11 percent after rising to 2.17 percent
on Feb. 4, the highest since April 20. The 1.75 percent bond due
September 2022 fell 0.1, or 1 pound per 1,000-pound face amount,
to 96.92.  Reinvested Proceeds  The Bank of England will reinvest 6.6 billion pounds
related to its holdings of 4.5 percent gilts that are due to be
repaid on March 7. The securities are the first to mature since
the central bank started its asset-purchase plan in March 2009.  The central bank didn’t say what it will do with future
gilt redemptions. It said the 6.6 billion pounds comprises the
redemption payment on the gilt, as well as the cashflow
resulting from the indemnity provided by the Treasury to cover
any difference between the redemption payment and the original
amount invested.  In September, 1.6 billion pounds of 8 percent gilts held by
the central bank will mature, before 21 billion pounds next
year, according to  data  on the Bank of England’s website.  The 10-year  break-even rate , derived from the yield
difference between gilts and inflation-linked securities, rose
five basis points to 3.22 percentage points. The rate reached
3.27 percentage points on Feb. 5, the most since April 14, 2011.  “We generally favor the linkers over the conventionals
because you can argue the inflation risk premium in sterling
bonds is likely to continue to rise,”  Robin Marshall , a fixed-
income director at Smith & Williamson Investment Management in
London, which oversees the equivalent of $19 billion, said in an
interview on Bloomberg Television’s “The Pulse” with Francine
Lacqua. “It’s hard for Carney to be hawkish. The linkers will
come out of this a little better.”  Gilts handed investors a loss of 1.9 percent this year
through yesterday, according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg
and the European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies.
German bunds dropped 1.5 percent and Treasuries fell 0.8
percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net ;
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Dobson at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  