-- Pound Weakens Against Euro Before Carney Testimony, BOE
-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n
-- 2013-02-07T09:27:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/pound-little-changed-before-carney-testimony-boe-meeting.html
The pound depreciated against the
euro, approaching its weakest level in 15 months, as  Mark Carney 
prepared to testify to U.K. lawmakers before he becomes Bank of
England governor in July.  Britain’s currency rose from near a six-month low against
the dollar. Carney, who is Governor of the Bank of Canada, said
last month that central banks aren’t “maxed out” on what they
can do to boost their economies. He speaks before the Bank of
England announces its latest policy decision. Policy makers will
leave the benchmark  interest rate  at a record-low 0.5 percent
and hold its asset-purchase  target  at 375 billion pounds ($587
billion), according to Bloomberg surveys of economists.  “The focus is very much on how Carney will articulate his
views,” said  Paul Robson , a senior currency strategist at Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc in London. “We do think that he’s
going to be a bit more balanced than the market has priced in.
We think the market is expecting something rather dovish, so
there is an opportunity for some short pound positions to be
squeezed going into it.” A short position is a bet that an
asset will decline.  The pound slid 0.2 percent to 86.58 pence per euro at 9:21
a.m. London time, after depreciating to 87.17 pence on Feb. 1,
the weakest since October 2011. Sterling was little changed at
$1.5665. It fell to $1.5631 on Feb. 5, the lowest since Aug. 10.  Investors should buy the pound against the dollar before
Carney’s testimony, betting it will rise, Robson recommended.  Currency Returns  Sterling has dropped 4 percent this year, the second-worst
performer after the yen among 10 developed-market currencies
tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The euro rose
3.2 percent and the dollar was little changed.  “Carney has more recently identified how monetary policy
still has room for expansion,” London-based Citigroup foreign-
exchange strategists  Valentin Marinov  and  Josh O’Byrne  wrote in
a note to investors yesterday. “It could encourage the markets
to price in easier policy at the BOE, with the view that
tolerance of higher inflation will see the bank adding stimulus
for longer. This could add to the cyclical headwinds for
sterling.”  The Bank of England may also provide details about what it
will do with its 6.1 billion-pound holding of 4.5 percent gilts
that are due to be repaid on March 7. The securities are the
first to mature since the central bank started its asset-
purchase plan in March 2009.  Gilts Redemption  In September, 1.6 billion pounds of 8 percent gilts held by
the central bank will mature, before 21 billion pounds next
year, according to  data  on the Bank of England’s website.  “I think they will say that they will reinvest it in the
interest of maintaining monetary conditions,” said  Philip Rush ,
an economist at Nomura International Plc in London.  The 10-year gilt yield fell one basis point, or 0.01
percentage point, to 2.09 percent after rising to 2.17 percent
on Feb. 4, the highest since April 20. The 1.75 percent bond due
September 2022 rose 0.09, or 90 pence per 1,000-pound face
amount, to 97.1.  Gilts handed investors a loss of 1.9 percent this year
through yesterday, according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg
and the European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies.
German bunds dropped 1.5 percent and Treasuries fell 0.8
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Dobson at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  