-- Premier League Curbs Soccer Club Spending, Sets Sanctions
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2013-02-08T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/premier-league-curbs-club-spending-sets-sanctions.html
England’s top soccer clubs agreed to
a plan requiring them to restrict player costs or face point
deductions and other sanctions.  The proposals for the 20-team Premier League were
provisionally approved yesterday by a vote of members. The new
rules, designed to improve the financial sustainability of
clubs, would require them to curb spending from next season,
limiting the loss each can make to as much as 105 million pounds
($165 million) aggregated over three years.  Officials also agreed on a cap on player costs proposed by
Sunderland owner  Ellis Short . It limits clubs with a wage bill
of more than 52 million pounds this season to an increase of 4
million pounds. That will go up to 8 million pounds for teams
with player costs of more than 56 million pounds in 2014-15, and
to 12 million pounds for 2015-16 for those spending more than 60
million pounds. Teams can surpass that amount provided they pay
for it with gains from commercial and match-day income.  Clubs that breach the new rules “will be subject to a
disciplinary commission,” Premier League Chief Executive
Officer  Richard Scudamore  told reporters in London. “There is
an absolute prohibition of losing more than 105 million pounds
over three years.”  Should clubs breach that amount, “we’ll be looking for the
top-end ultimate sanction range,” including point deductions,
Scudamore added.  TV Money  The rules come ahead of the start of a record television
agreement worth about 5 billion pounds over the next three
seasons, cementing the Premier League’s position as the richest
in soccer. Broadcast income has allowed teams such as 19-time
champion Manchester United, Manchester City and Chelsea to
attract foreign owners and some of the top players in the world,
including United’s  Robin van Persie  and City’s  Carlos Tevez .  City, Chelsea and Liverpool would have exceeded the
permitted losses if the last three years were to be taken into
account, according to the most recent published accounts.  Most teams will be trying to meet so-called financial fair
play regulations put in place by European governing body UEFA.
Those more stringent rules aim to reduce debt and prevent teams
from spending above their means. Those that fail to meet targets
face sanctions including suspension from the region’s Champions
League and Europa League competitions.  Although Scudamore didn’t want to comment on the actual
voting, he said the Premier League proposals “got the
regulatory constitutional majority, but it wasn’t unanimous.”  Thirteen of the 20 clubs voted in favor of the financial
controls, with six against and Reading abstaining, the British
Broadcasting Corp. reported.  Wages Curbed  The newly agreed spending limits, which will have to be
ratified by the clubs in April, “won’t cut spending, but will
reduce the amount of increases in spending,” he said.  When asked if the new rules would curb spiraling player
wages, Scudamore said “in some ways, it will, yes.”  U.K. Minister for Sport  Hugh Robertson  said he was pleased
that clubs came to an agreement.  “The government has been clear that we want clubs to be on
a secure financial footing for the longterm health of the
game,” the minister said yesterday in a statement. “This is a
welcome and positive move.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Danielle Rossingh  in London at 
   drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  