-- Pussy Riot Claims Russia Violated Expression, Fair Trial Rights
-- B y   H e a t h e r   S m i t h
-- 2013-02-07T11:22:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/pussy-riot-claims-russia-violated-expression-fair-trial-rights.html
Members of the punk group Pussy Riot
sued Russia at the European Court of Human Rights, saying their
conviction on charges related to a protest against President
 Vladimir Putin  violated their rights to freedom of expression.  The complaint, the women’s second at the Strasbourg,
France-based court, was filed yesterday and concerns violations
since they were found guilty in August of hooliganism and
inciting religious hatred, their lawyer, Yonko Grozev, said
today in a telephone interview.  Three members of the all-female band were arrested after
performing a “punk prayer,” clad in skimpy dresses and masks,
in Russia’s main Christian Orthodox place of worship in February
2012 urging President  Vladimir Putin ’s removal. The crackdown
spurred protests in Russia and abroad against policies
discouraging political dissent. In October, a Moscow court freed
one member on a suspended sentence, deeming her participation
“minimal,” while upholding two-year jail terms for the others.  While Grozev “hopes” for an expedited hearing by the
human rights court, given how long it takes typically to reach a
final decision, he said, “we have approximately zero chance to
get a ruling before they have served their sentence.”  The complaint cites “violations of a number of rights
since the guilty verdict and the appeal decision,” Grozev said.
In addition to allegations related to freedom of expression and
fair trial, they complained that the “security regime” imposed
on them amounts to inhuman and degrading treatment, he said.  The women also submitted a complaint in June to the court.
Grozev, who said he took up the women’s case in the fall and
wasn’t involved in the earlier filing, said he expects the two
to be combined.  The complaint was reported earlier by Kommersant.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heather Smith in Paris at 
 hsmith26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  