-- Putin Fires Russian Olympics Official as 1-Year Countdown Starts
-- B y   I l y a   A r k h i p o v
-- 2013-02-07T15:58:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/putin-fires-russian-olympics-official-as-1-year-countdown-starts.html
President  Vladimir Putin  decided to
fire a senior official on Russia’s Olympic Committee because of
delays in construction work for the 2014 Winter Games, which
start in a year.  Akhmed Bilalov will be dismissed as an Olympic committee
vice president and head of North Caucasus Resorts, which is
developing ski areas in the region, after Putin criticized him
for rising costs and failing to build a ski jump complex on
time, Deputy Prime Minister  Dmitry Kozak  said in the Black Sea
city of Sochi, where the Games will be held. Putin is visiting
the region this week.  “When obligations aren’t met, it’s not just Mr. Bilalov, a
citizen of Russia, who fails to fulfill them, it’s the entire
Russian Federation,” Kozak told reporters today.  Putin has fought for Russia to host global events,
including the Olympics, the 2018 soccer World Cup and last
year’s Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation summit. The president,
who has been in power for 13 years, is seeking to raise Russia’s
international profile and boost regional growth through state
and privately funded infrastructure projects. Russia is the
world’s most corrupt major economy, according to a 2012 index by
Transparency International. The games begin Feb. 7, 2014.  “People who can’t meet their responsibilities on such a
scale can’t head the Olympic movement in our country,” Kozak
said.  Jean-Claude Killy , a former Olympic skiing champion and
head of the IOC’s coordination commission for Sochi, highlighted
the need to focus on finishing the ski-jump facility during
talks yesterday with Putin.  Cost Overruns  Putin criticized an almost sevenfold increase in costs to 8
billion rubles ($266 million) and a more than two-year delay on
the project by Bilalov’s Krasnaya Polyana. In May, state-run
lender OAO Sberbank took over the building company, Kozak said
during the tour, according to comments broadcast on national
television.  Total costs for building Olympic sites and infrastructure
in the Sochi region have reached $50 billion, Kozak said Feb. 5.  The Olympic sites are 80 percent ready, Kozak said. The
media village is 25 percent prepared, according to a Sberbank
information stand.  “The construction is far from completed, but there’s no
panic,” Putin said today. “Even where there are some delays,”
everything will be finished and on time, he said.  The skiing area, Roza Khutor, is owned by billionaire
 Vladimir Potanin . It is 66 percent after suffering from a lack
of financing since November, he said.  ‘Commercially Useless?’  Potanin, the CEO of OAO Norilsk Nickel, the world’s biggest
producer of the metal, asked Putin yesterday to ensure state
development bank VEB will continue its financing. With
construction costs of about 69 billion rubles, the deficit is
about 3 billion rubles, he said. Loans from VEB, while holds the
resort as collateral, account for about 70 percent of funding,
according to the billionaire.  Potanin told reporters he hopes VEB will close the funding
gap by Feb. 15. Roza Khutor may be unprofitable, risking the
money he’s invested, Potanin said.  “A lot has been built for the Olympics that is
commercially useless before the games and afterward,” he said.
“The money has been spent and interest is accumulating.”  Bureaucratic stumbling blocks can be cleared, while “the
main issue is to be sure nobody steals anything,” Putin said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilya Arkhipov in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  