-- QBE Hires Citigroup’s Harnett After Growing in U.S. Deals
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   B u n n
-- 2013-02-07T21:32:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/qbe-hires-citigroup-s-harnett-as-north-america-operating-chief.html
QBE Insurance Group Ltd.  hired
Citigroup Inc.’s  Sue Harnett  as chief operating officer for
North America operations after Australia’s largest insurer
expanded in the U.S. through acquisitions.  Harnett will oversee claims, information technology and
corporate legal teams, Sydney-based QBE said yesterday in a
statement. She’ll be based in New York and will report to  John Rumpler , chief executive officer of operations in North America,
in the newly created role, said Paula Symons, a spokeswoman for
the insurer.  QBE increased its presence in the U.S. with the 2011
purchase of Balboa Insurance to provide coverage for homes with
distressed borrowers. A year earlier, the company struck a deal
to buy NAU Country Insurance Co., which protects farmers against
losses on crops. New York-based Citigroup is slashing more than
11,000  jobs  to cut costs under CEO  Michael Corbat , who took the
post last year.  “Sue’s diverse business background, strong record of
accomplishment and collaborative leadership experience make her
ideal” for the insurer, Rumpler said in the statement.  Harnett ran Citigroup’s local consumer lending, which
included mortgages, auto loans and credit cards. She also
directed global business performance management and had roles in
the Netherlands and Belgium before being named CEO of Citibank
Germany, according to the statement.  Harnett received a bachelor’s degree from Marquette
University and an executive MBA from Northwestern University’s
Kellogg School of Management.  QBE established a North America presence in 1991, according
to the company’s  website . Other deals include the purchases in
2008 of Atlanta-based home insurer ZC Sterling and Michigan-
based North Pointe Holdings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elizabeth Bunn  in New York at 
 ebunn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  