-- RadioShack’s New CEO Faces Challenge as Profit Slides
-- B y   C h r i s   B u r r i t t
-- 2013-02-08T21:10:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/radioshack-names-walgreen-s-magnacca-as-ceo-after-falling-sales.html
RadioShack Corp.  hired Joseph C.
Magnacca as its fourth chief executive officer in three years,
tapping a drugstore marketing expert to help revive the
unprofitable electronics chain.  Magnacca, 50, takes charge on Feb. 11, Fort Worth, Texas-
based RadioShack said in a statement yesterday. He joins the
retailer from  Walgreen Co. , where he served as executive vice
president in charge of marketing and merchandising efforts for
more than 8,000 stores.  Finding ways to boost sales without losing money will be
the main challenge for Magnacca. Analysts estimate RadioShack
lost money in 2012 for the first annual loss in at least 11
years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The chain faces
growing competition from  Best Buy Co.  and Amazon.com Inc. as
more consumers compare prices online.  “The price transparency within the consumer electronics
sector makes it much harder for the company,” said  Scott Tilghman , an analyst at B. Riley & Co. in Boston. He recommends
selling RadioShack shares. “Merchandising remains a big
challenge, handicapped by the company’s small stores. I think
it’s a tough go for any executive,” Tilghman said by e-mail.  RadioShack climbed 10 percent to $3.42 at the close in New
York.  The company’s shares  have declined for three years,
including a drop of 78 percent in 2012.  Magnacca succeeds  Dorvin Lively , named interim CEO in
September following the departure of  James Gooch  after 16 months
on the job.  Julian Day  departed as CEO in 2011.  Analysts on average project RadioShack may post a net loss
of $72.7 million in 2012, compared with a profit of $72.2
million a year earlier.  Suspended Dividend  RadioShack suspended its dividend in July after the
retailer’s increasing dependence on lower-profit mobile phones
such as Apple Inc.’s iPhone eroded profitability.  RadioShack plans to end a money-losing venture selling
smartphones in  Target Corp.  stores in April. In the first nine
months of the year, selling phones through the second-largest
U.S. discount retailer generated losses of $38.2 million, the
company said in a filing on Oct. 23. More losses from the
venture are likely in the fourth quarter, said  Anthony Chukumba ,
an analyst at BB&T Capital Markets in New York. The company is
expected to report results on Feb. 21.  ‘Closing Stores’  A turnaround entails “probably closing stores and figuring
out a way to increase the profitability of their wireless
business,” Chukumba said by telephone. He  recommends  holding
RadioShack shares.  The retailer has more than 4,600 company-run stores in the
U.S. and Mexico, as well as 1,500 wireless phone centers in
Target stores in the U.S. It also has about 1,100 dealer and
other outlets worldwide.  Best Buy, the biggest consumer-electronics retailer, cut
holiday prices and matched online rivals’ prices to compete with
Amazon and  Wal-Mart Stores Inc.  Best Buy, based in Richfield,
Minnesota, is also accelerating the opening of smaller stores
dedicated to selling mobile phones, e-readers and tablets, with
some opening in strip shopping centers competing with
RadioShack.  Magnacca was president of the Duane Reade drugstore chain
when it was acquired by Walgreen in 2010 and was responsible for
the integration of the business after the acquisition. He
previously worked for the Canadian drugstore chain, Shoppers
Drug Mart Corp., and for Canadian grocer  Loblaw Cos.   Magnacca boosted private-label brands and took other steps
to boost traffic at Duane Reade. Those improvements under
Magnacca and other Duane Reade executives led Walgreen to buy
the retailer, Walgreen Chief Financial Officer  Wade Miquelon 
told analysts in 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Burritt in Greensboro at 
 cburritt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  