-- Transgene Won’t Sign TG4040 Partnership Soon, CEO Says
-- B y   A l b e r t i n a   T o r s o l i
-- 2013-02-07T17:09:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/transgene-won-t-sign-tg4040-partnership-soon-ceo-says-1-.html
Transgene SA  is reviewing the
strategy for its experimental hepatitis C treatment and is
unlikely to find a partner for the therapeutic vaccine soon,
Chief Executive Officer  Philippe Archinard  said.  The French drug researcher, controlled by the Merieux
family, is developing the TG4040 compound for use with the
injection drug interferon, a standard treatment that will
probably soon be replaced by newer medicines taken in the form
of pills, Archinard said in a telephone interview.  “We’ll have to find an intelligent path” for TG4040, he
said. “In this new context of oral treatments, it’s true that
the place for a therapeutic vaccine isn’t obvious.”  Pharmaceutical companies have been rushing to get new
medicines for  hepatitis C , a liver disease which the Geneva-
based  World Health Organization  says afflicts as many as 150
million people. Treatment with injection drugs including
interferon, which is accompanied by flu-like symptoms, may last
as long as a year. New drugs in testing, developed by companies
such as  Gilead Sciences Inc.  and AbbVie Inc., are taken as
pills, with shorter treatment durations and fewer side effects.  Transgene  shares  lost 3.5 percent to close at 8.58 euros in
Paris trading today, the steepest single-day decline since Oct.
10. They had climbed as much as 0.9 percent earlier in the
session. This gives the Illkirch, France-based company a market
value of 272.6 million euros ($365 million).  In an April interview, Archinard said the company was
aiming for a TG4040 partnership by the end of 2012.  Repositioning TG4040  Transgene may reposition the product for hard-to-treat
patients, and is also considering use of TG4040 in China, where
interferon therapy is likely to remain standard treatment for
longer, Archinard said.  The company may eventually seek a partnership for a mid-
stage trial using TG4040 together with a newer treatment,
instead of interferon therapy, he added.  “It would be more a proof-of-concept partnership, rather
than a sort of licensing deal,” Archinard said. “One cannot
expect a partnership today because the paradigm has changed.”  Additional data on TG4040 will be presented in April,
Archinard said.  While “the path in hepatitis C isn’t simple,” Transgene
has a “very beautiful card to play” with its experimental
hepatitis B therapeutic vaccine, which is still in a pre-
clinical phases of testing, but is already attracting the
interest of pharmaceutical companies, Archinard said.  Transgene is “very confident” it will reach a partnership
for the compound, called TG1050, “for sure before the summer,”
Archinard said.  Hepatitis B  “Given that the game is pretty much over for hepatitis C,
there are a lot of actors that want to position themselves on
hepatitis B, where there is a huge medical need,” he said.  Therapeutic vaccines help the body fight a disease once it
occurs, instead of immunizing it in advance to prevent disease
from taking hold.  Transgene expects to publish mid-stage trial results on its
TG4010 experimental lung cancer vaccine in the third quarter
this year, Archinard also said.  Novartis AG , which acquired an
option on the rights to the product in 2010, will then have 90
days to exercise that option, he said.  “If the data are in line with our expectations, and in
line with previous data, I am confident about the capacity of
Novartis to exercise its option,” Archinard said.  Transgene ended 2012 with about 90 million euros in cash
and cash equivalents, covering the company roughly for the next
two years, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Albertina Torsoli  in Paris at 
 atorsoli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  