-- TransCanada Looks East Amid Keystone Pipeline Delay
-- B y   R e b e c c a   P e n t y
-- 2013-02-07T21:24:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/transcanada-looks-east-amid-keystone-pipeline-delay.html
Crude from Alberta’s oil sands sells
at a  30 percent discount  to its U.S. counterpart. TransCanada
Corp. Chief Executive Officer  Russ Girling  plans to narrow that
gap whether or not his Keystone XL pipeline to the Gulf of
Mexico wins approval from the Obama administration.  Canada’s  second-largest  pipeline company proposes to ship
oil 3,000 miles (4,825 kilometers) to the Atlantic Coast,
allowing producers to send it by tanker to the Gulf, Girling
said yesterday in an interview at Bloomberg’s New York
headquarters. While he expects U.S. passage of Keystone “very
soon,” the East Coast route makes sense in any event because of
rising production from Alberta, Girling said.  “It’s not a Plan B, it’s a Plan A, and it will go if the
market supports it, along with Keystone,” Girling said in the
interview. “Once you get on tidewater, you can get anywhere,
and you don’t need a presidential permit to bring oil into the
Gulf Coast.”  The eastern line is among $22 billion in projects the
company has proposed or has under construction.  TransCanada
shares  are trading near a record high in advance of an expected
U.S. decision this year on the $5.3 billion cross-border segment
of Keystone, which would link crude from the oil sands and North
Dakota with Gulf Coast refineries.  U.S. Review  “I suspect we’re looking at anything from a few weeks to a
couple of months” for approval, Girling said. The U.S., which
rejected the pipeline last year, is reviewing the project again
after the route through Nebraska was changed to avoid the most
environmentally sensitive parts of an aquifer. TransCanada first
proposed the Keystone XL line in 2008.  Pipeline bottlenecks due to U.S. refinery downtime and
increasing output are depressing prices of  Canadian crude , which
sold for 30 percent less than the U.S. benchmark in the fourth
quarter, versus a 13 percent gap a year earlier. The gap
narrowed to $28.50 a barrel yesterday, from $42.50 on Dec. 14,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The discount makes
Canadian crude the cheapest in the world, and will cost Alberta
about C$6 billion ($6.01 billion) this year in foregone revenue,
the provincial government has said.  West Texas Intermediate crude oil for March delivery
settled at $96.62 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange
yesterday, while Western Canada Select, the benchmark for heavy
oil-sands bitumen, closed at $68.12.  ‘Economic’ Line  Girling, 50, expects to decide near the end of March on a
project to convert part of the Calgary-based company’s cross-
Canada gas mainline to oil and lay new pipe to the east coast by
mid-2017. The eastern line, which would move as many as 900,000
barrels a day of western Canadian and U.S. crude to eastern
refineries, “is economic,” Girling said.  “Production from the oil sands and U.S. production sources
is expected to grow a couple million barrels a day, which means
that we need, as an industry, probably three Keystones to get
that oil to market,” Girling said in the interview, ahead of a
trip to Washington this week for discussions on Keystone. “If
Keystone doesn’t get approved, the oil will still get to the
Gulf Coast.”  TransCanada, which is scheduled to report fourth-quarter
earnings next week, is projected to post per-share profit
excluding one-time items of 50 Canadian cents, compared with 52
cents  a year earlier , according to the average of 12 analysts’ 
estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. The company has missed
estimates in five of the past six  quarters .  Record Highs  TransCanada, which  fell  0.5 percent to close at C$48.25
today in Toronto, has advanced 16 percent in the past 12 months.
 The shares  climbed to a record of C$49.32 at the close on Jan.
28 as investors warmed to the company’s growth projects and the
yields of pipeline and utility companies in general, said  Juan Plessis , an analyst at Canaccord Financial Inc. in Vancouver.  The stock price should rise further if Keystone XL is
approved and fall on a decision to delay, Plessis said in an
interview.  TransCanada’s eastern conduit would help displace 600,000
barrels a day of oil imports in Canada, in part via the 300,000
barrel per day Irving Oil Corp. refinery in Saint John, New
Brunswick, Girling said. Imports of crude are priced off the
Brent contract, a U.K. benchmark that currently costs almost
double the western Canadian price.  The company has offered producers and refiners delivery
points in New Brunswick and Quebec, where there are two
refineries, Girling said. The conversion and additions to the
mainline, which may be built in stages to Montreal and then
Saint John, will cost more than the company’s initial estimate
of $5 billion due to projected rising costs by the time
construction begins in 2015, he said.  Irving Refinery  “I’m very optimistic we will get the contractual support
we will need and what I would hope is the pipeline goes all the
way to Saint John,” Girling said.  The mainline project promises to lift prices of crude
produced from Canada’s oil sands, the third-largest source of
recoverable oil reserves in the world. Canadian oil production
will rise by 300,000 barrels a day this year, according to
 Andrew Potter , a research analyst at Canadian Imperial Bank of
Commerce in Calgary, who estimated Canadian producers are
foregoing as much as C$33 billion a year in profits at current
discounts, according to a Jan. 30 report. Oil sands output will
rise to 3.2 million barrels a day by 2020, double 2011 figures,
 according to  the Canadian Association of Petroleum Producers.  ‘High Differentials’  “We are in the depths of high differentials right now,”
said  Todd Kepler , an analyst at Cormark Securities Inc. in
Calgary. “If Keystone does not go ahead, we need to have other
egress points beyond 2014-2015 because of the ongoing big
bitumen projects.”  U.S. President  Barack Obama  denied TransCanada a permit
needed to build the cross-border line last year, after Congress
forced a quick decision amid a review of the line’s
environmental effect in Nebraska. Landowners and political
leaders in Nebraska raised concerns a spill would pollute an
aquifer that spans much of the state.  TransCanada split up the project to begin building the
southern leg to Texas first and re-applied for approval of the
northern portion after re-routing the line in Nebraska.  TransCanada’s eastern line will become more important
should environmental and aboriginal opposition derail other oil
pipeline plans across British Columbia to Canada’s Pacific
coast, said Michael Formuziewich, who helps manage C$2.2 billion
at Leon Frazer and Associates Inc. in Toronto, including
TransCanada shares.  Northern Gateway  The Northern Gateway pipeline proposed to Kitimat, British
Columbia, by  Enbridge Inc. , Canada’s largest pipeline company by
market value, has been delayed until 2017 as opponents appear
before Canadian regulatory hearings. Houston-based Kinder Morgan
Energy Partners Inc. is proposing to expand its existing Trans
Mountain pipeline to Vancouver and faces similar opposition over
potential spills from the pipeline and oil tankers.  “If you look at the volume projection going out to 2020,
you start saying Northern Gateway’s not going to happen, Kinder
Morgan’s Trans Mountain will be delayed,” Formuziewich said.
“Then the TransCanada mainline conversion is necessary, it’s a
Plan B to the others.”  The eastern link would also boost revenue for TransCanada
on the mainline, the nation’s largest pipeline system at 10,563
miles, from Alberta to Quebec. The new route would also reduce
tolls for gas customers on a 35-year-old pipeline that has been
operating at less than half its capacity.  Quebec Opposition  TransCanada’s eastern plans may run into opposition in
Quebec, where environmentalists such as the advocacy group
Equiterre are girding for a fight against the development of the
oil sands, Canada’s fastest-growing source of greenhouse-gas
emissions. The Parti Quebecois government of Premier Pauline
Marois is studying the effects of a competing plan from Enbridge
to move Alberta oil to Montreal.  The mainline project across Canada is an example of “panic
and urgency” within the energy industry, said Steven
Guilbeault, Equiterre’s executive director.  “On some level they’re probably trying to hedge their
bets,” Guilbeault said. “If Quebec isn’t the highest rate of
opposition to the tar sands in Canada, it’s certainly up there
with B.C.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rebecca Penty in Calgary at 
 rpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  