-- RBC Capital Hires Macquarie’s Maggio for Loan Trading Group
-- B y   K r i s t e n   H a u n s s
-- 2013-02-07T18:49:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/rbc-capital-hires-macquarie-s-matt-maggio-for-loan-trading-group.html
RBC Capital Markets hired  Matt Maggio 
to trade loans as the bank builds its credit business in the
U.S.  Maggio, who is based in New York, joins from Macquarie
Capital and reports to Jeff Resnick, head of high-yield loan and
distressed trading for the investment-banking arm of Royal Bank
of Canada, said Sanam Heidary, an RBC spokeswoman.  RBC has been building its credit business as the amount of
loans made to speculative-grade U.S. borrowers grew last year by
8.3 percent to $640.6 billion, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The bank is one of the four firms arranging the loans
backing the $24.4 billion leveraged buyout of Dell Inc.  The firm hired  Kevin Coleman  and  Chris Sym  last year for
high-yield sales, and Greg Steele for high-yield trading. RBC
brought on  Sean Peters  in 2011 after combining its new-issue and
secondary loan sales teams.  The bank was the 11th largest arranger of high-yield bonds
in the U.S. last year with $11.7 billion, after ranking 13th in
2011 with $5.8 billion, Bloomberg data show. It was the 10th
biggest underwriter of leveraged loans in 2012, compared with
12th in 2011.  There has been $32.8 billion of leveraged loans arranged in
the U.S. this year and $50 billion of high-yield bonds,
according to Bloomberg data. After reaching a one-year high of
97.8 cents on the dollar Jan. 25, loan prices  dropped to 97.3
cents yesterday, according to the  S&P/LSTA U.S. Leveraged Loan
100 Index .  Leveraged loans and high-yield bonds are those rated below
BBB- by Standard & Poor’s and less than Baa3 at Moody’s
Investors Service.  CLO Business  In October the bank hired  Allen Fu  from Citigroup Inc. to
run collateralized debt obligation trading, a new business for
RBC. It hired Ming Tang from StormHarbour Securities LP to trade
CDOs and collateralized loan obligations.  There were $52.6 billion of CLOs backed by widely
syndicated loans arranged in the U.S. last year, according to
Bloomberg data. Bank of America Corp. expects as much as $75
billion of CLOs, which pool high-yield, high-risk loans and
slice them into securities of varying risk and return, to be
created this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristen Haunss in New York at 
 khaunss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  