-- RBS Trader Helped UBS’s Hayes With Libor Bribes, Regulators Say
-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o ,   G a v i n   F i n c h   a n d   L i a m   V a u g h a n
-- 2013-02-07T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/rbs-trader-helped-ubs-s-hayes-with-libor-bribes-regulators-say.html
A  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc 
trader colluded with a counterpart at  UBS AG  to pay almost
211,000 pounds ($330,000) in bribes to brokers willing to help
them manipulate global interest rates, regulators said.  Neil Danziger, a London-based derivatives specialist at
RBS, helped Tom Hayes, the former UBS employee at the center of
the global investigation into rate-rigging, to bribe at least
two brokers into persuading other banks to submit rates in line
with their own, according to transcripts released by regulators
that didn’t identify the traders by name. Two people with direct
knowledge of the talks confirmed the traders’ identities. The
regulators didn’t identify the brokers involved.  RBS was fined $612 million yesterday for manipulating
global interest rates over a period of four years. The bank has
also fired two of the most senior managers on its London trading
floor following its own internal probe. The settlement
highlights the role interdealer brokers are alleged to have
played in helping traders rig the rate for profit. It also shows
how intermediaries were rewarded with so-called wash trades that
RBS managers never identified.  As interbank lending dried up at the start the financial
crisis in late 2007, employees at the banks responsible for
inputting rates increasingly relied on information from
interdealer brokers in determining what figures to submit,
giving the intermediaries greater power to influence the
benchmark. The brokers, who act as a go-between for banks that
trade bonds, stocks, currencies, energy and derivatives, were
rewarded with wash trades, where clients place two or more
matching trades through a broker that cancel each other out
while triggering a payment of fees to the middle man, regulators
said.  ‘A Favor’  “Can you do me a favor,” an unidentified broker asked
Danziger on Sept. 19, 2008, according to a transcript of the
conversation released yesterday by the  U.S. Commodity Futures
Trading Commission . “You’re not going to get paid any bro for
this and we’ll send you lunch around for the whole desk.” As
the broker outlined the trade, he said “Take it from UBS, give
it back to UBS. He wants to pay some bro,” referring to fees.  “Yeah, yeah,” Danziger replied.  Later that day, the broker asked Danziger if he could “do
another 100 yards” or 100 billion, increasing the size of the
transaction. “Flat switch,” the broker said. “I know I’m
pushing my luck.”  RBS then entered into a wash trade with UBS that enabled
the Zurich-based lender to pay about $31,000 in fees to the
broker for its help in rigging Libor, the CFTC said.  Danziger enabled the corrupt payments “to increase his
influence over the broker firms,” Britain’s Financial Services
Authority said.  Wash Trades  Hayes, who worked at RBS between 2001 and 2003, was
arrested in December by the Serious Fraud Office along with two
brokers from London-based broker RP Martin Holdings Ltd., which
isn’t being investigated by the FSA.  Officials at RBS, UBS and RP Martin declined to comment.
Hayes’s lawyer, David Williams, didn’t immediately respond to a
request for comment. Danziger didn’t respond to an e-mail as
well as a request for comment through his lawyer.  Over the 12 months through August 2009, Danziger entered
into at least 30 wash trades with Hayes in order to pay the
brokers 211,000 pounds, according to the FSA, which didn’t
identify the traders. In five of those trades, the brokerage
payment was made by UBS instead of Danziger.  UBS was fined a record 1.4 billion Swiss francs ($1.5
billion) in December for manipulating rates. According to the
bank’s settlement, Hayes and another colleague entered into at
least nine wash-trades to pay an unidentified broker more than
170,000 pounds for helping rig the benchmark. UBS also paid
15,000 pounds a quarter to a second unidentified interdealer
broker over an 18-month period for the provision of a “fixing
service” for yen Libor, the U.K. regulator said in December.  Management Failings  After a wash trade in December 2008, Danziger expressed
concern that his superiors would spot the deals and query their
purpose.  “This will be a f---ing disaster now,” the derivatives
trader responded, according to the FSA.  RBS managers failed to identify the wash trades, according
to British regulators. The bank also failed to implement
controls or guidance on the rate-setting process or on what
communications between rate-setters and derivatives traders were
acceptable, the CFTC said.  More than a dozen employees made “hundreds” of attempts
to manipulate Libor over a period of at least four years to
profit from derivatives bets, regulators said yesterday. After
finding that 21 out of its 137,000 employees were involved in
wrongdoing, RBS began a probe into who should be held
responsible for the failure to oversee the traders adequately.  Executives Dismissed  The lender dismissed  Jezri Mohideen , head of rates trading
for Europe and Asia Pacific, and  Paul Walker , head of money-
markets trading, in the months before the settlement, said a
person with knowledge of the decision who asked not to be
identified because the names haven’t been made public.  Two more managers have also left, RBS said in a statement
today, without identifying them. They are  Scott Nygaard , global
head of treasury markets, and  Kevin Liddy , global head of short-
term interest-rate trading, the person said.  Mohideen and Nygaard didn’t return messages left on their
mobile phones. Liddy didn’t reply to e-mails or a message left
on his LinkedIn account. Walker didn’t reply to e-mails and
wasn’t reachable through directory assistance.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lindsay Fortado in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Finch in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net ;
Liam Vaughan in London at 
 lvaughan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  