-- RBS Says Sell Italy Bonds Before Vote as Berlusconi Gains
-- B y   A n d r e w   D a v i s
-- 2013-02-07T10:13:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/rbs-says-sell-italy-bonds-before-vote-as-berlusconi-gains.html
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc
recommends investors sell Italian bonds before the Feb. 24-25
election, saying that further gains in polls by former premier
 Silvio Berlusconi  may push the 10-year yield to 5 percent.  “The market is just another tight poll reading away from a
more material sell-off,” senior rates strategist  Harvinder Sian 
and strategist  Michael Michaelides  wrote in a note to investors
yesterday. “Given the supply dynamics and positioning, we
target 5 percent in the 10-year” yield.  Berlusconi, 76, whose political career was seen as over
when he resigned in November 2011 with yields topping 7 percent,
has narrowed the gap with front-runner Democratic Party leader
 Pier Luigi Bersani  in recent weeks with promises to eliminate an
unpopular property tax and refund last year’s payments. A poll
yesterday by Tecne showed Bersani’s lead at 3.7 percentage
points, within the margin of error of 4 points. Bersani led by
14 percentage points in a Tecne poll on Jan. 2.  “Our view has been that the market is rather complacent
about the upcoming volatility in Italian politics no matter the
outcome of February’s election,” the strategists wrote.  The most probable scenario remains that Bersani will win
outright in the lower house of parliament and enter into an
alliance with outgoing Prime Minister  Mario Monti  to build a
majority in the Senate, they said. Italy’s 10-year yield, now
about 4.6 percent, implies a 19 percent chance of a Berlusconi
upset, and that probability may increase with further gains in
the polls, they wrote.  “Given the trend in the polls, the market will assign a
greater probability, and if the risk of a Berlusconi upset is
one-third, then 10-year bond valuations should be 5 percent,
while a 50-50 risk in the election puts the valuation at 5.5
percent,” according to the two strategists.  A Bersani-Monti government would push the yields down to
about 4 percent after the vote, the said. A Berlusconi upset
could push yields back toward the 7 percent level on
expectations that Italy would carry out needed reforms only by
being forced into the European Central Bank’s bond-buying
program, they wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Davis in Rome at 
 abdavis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at 
 tquinson@bloomberg.net  