-- ResCap Examiner Says Ally Report Delayed for Second Time
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2013-02-07T16:27:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/rescap-examiner-says-ally-report-delayed-for-second-time.html
A report on Residential Capital LLC’s
pre-bankruptcy deals with parent company  Ally Financial Inc. 
will be finished in early May, about one month later than
planned, a lawyer for the retired judge conducting the probe
said.  Lawyers for former U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  Arthur J. Gonzalez , ResCap’s bankruptcy examiner, received about 2 million
documents to review at the end of January and early this month,
later than expected,  Howard Seife , an attorney for Gonzalez,
said in court today. The examiner’s report will affect ResCap’s
ability to develop a consensual reorganization plan, U.S.
Bankruptcy Judge  Martin Glenn  said in federal court in Manhattan
today.  “It is very important for progress in this case that the
report be done in early May,” Glenn said.  In July, Glenn ordered a probe of the mortgage company’s
proposal to settle legal claims against Detroit-based Ally that
may be worth billions of dollars.  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. , the holding company run by
billionaire Warren Buffett, requested the investigation into
ResCap’s proposal to accept $750 million from Ally to settle
potential legal liability tied to mortgage-related securities.  At the time, Berkshire owned about $900 million of ResCap’s
junior secured bonds and was trying to buy some of the company’s
assets. Berkshire, based in Omaha, Nebraska, later sold the
bonds and then won an auction for a portfolio of ResCap loans
with a bid of about $1.5 billion.  Creditor Objections  Creditors have objected to the settlement and a related
deal that would give investors an $8.7 billion claim in ResCap’s
bankruptcy in return for them dropping potential lawsuits over
mortgages that went bad.  The claim would give the investors the chance to try to
collect as much as $8.7 billion, depending on how much money
ResCap raises through asset sales. In October, the company
auctioned the loan portfolio and its loan-servicing business for
about $4.5 billion.  The case is In re Residential Capital LLC, 12-12020, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  