-- Rights Groups Demand Release of Azerbaijan Opposition Leaders
-- B y   Z u l f u g a r   A g a y e v
-- 2013-02-07T10:16:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/rights-groups-demand-release-of-azerbaijan-opposition-leaders.html
Amnesty International and Human
Rights Watch demanded the release of two leading opposition
politicians in Azerbaijan, saying their arrests were politically
motivated.  Ilgar Mammadov, leader of the Republican Alternative
movement who plans to run for president in elections slated for
October, and Tofiq Yaqubli, deputy head of the main opposition
party Musavat, were arrested Feb. 4 on charges of inciting riots
in the northwestern town of Ismayilli last month. Both will
remain in police custody for two months awaiting trial.  “The case has all the hallmarks of a politically motivated
prosecution,” David Diaz-Jogeix, Amnesty International’s deputy
director, said in a statement on the London-based group’s
 website . Mammadov and Yaqublu “have been jailed on charges of
starting a riot that had begun spontaneously, before they even
set foot in town. The prosecution so far has not presented any
evidence supporting these charges.”  Dozens of people were detained after residents of
Ismayilli, 200 kilometers (124 miles) northwest of the capital,
Baku, torched a hotel and luxury cars and damaged the local
governor’s house in two days of riots. Authorities accused
“destructive forces,” including Mammadov and Yaqubli, of
provoking the unrest, charges both men dismissed as politically
motivated.  New York-based Human Rights Watch is concerned that the
riots will be used as a pretext to silence “two outspoken
government critics,”  Giorgi Gogia , senior South Caucasus
researcher, said in an e-mailed statement. The authorities
should release Mammadov and Yaqublu from pre-trial detention and
produce “credible evidence that the charges are justified,” he
said.  The U.S. embassy in Azerbaijan yesterday expressed concern
about the arrests, urging the government of President  Ilham Aliyev  to ensure a fair and transparent investigation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zulfugar Agayev in Baku at 
 zagayev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  