-- Malone Emboldened to Buy Virgin After Years Circling Firm
-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d ,   J a c q u e l i n e   S i m m o n s   a n d   K r i s t e n   S c h w e i z e r
-- 2013-02-07T18:38:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/rising-stocks-and-cheap-debt-said-to-push-malone-to-buy-virgin.html
After years circling each other,
 Liberty Global Inc . and  Virgin Media Inc . began serious
discussions about a deal last summer, motivated by climbing
equity prices and cheap and plentiful debt financing, according
to people familiar with the matter.  By around Christmas, the contours of the purchase were
resolved, according to the people, leading to the Feb. 6
announcement that  John Malone ’s Liberty Global was paying $16
billion in cash and stock to buy Virgin Media. The transaction
allows Liberty Global to vie with Comcast Corp. to be the
world’s biggest cable company, and heightens its battle with
Rupert Murdoch’s British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc for Europe’s
biggest pay-TV market.  “We’re going to put our heads down and grow these assets
the way we know how to grow them,” said  Mike Fries , chief
executive officer of Englewood, Colorado-based Liberty Global.  About a decade ago, Malone tried to buy the predecessor of
Virgin Media. While that went nowhere, the two companies and
their bankers continued over the years to entertain the idea of
a deal, according to people familiar with the matter who asked
not to be identified because the talks were private.  In 2008, the courtship picked up again when  Neil Berkett 
was named CEO of Virgin Media.  “We’ve been watching Virgin since Neil took over,” Fries
said.  Stock Tripled  There was plenty to watch. By focusing on high-speed
Internet and avoiding bids for the most expensive content, such
as sports rights, Virgin Media reported its first annual profit
in 2011. Its stock has tripled since Berkett took over.  Virgin Media was a “seriously debt-distressed and
structurally weak company” before Berkett turned it around,
Sanford C. Bernstein analyst Robin Bienenstock said in an
interview.  By last summer, and throughout the fall, Fries and Berkett
engaged in more serious discussions about a deal, according to
the people.  Aryeh Bourkoff , the CEO of New York boutique LionTree
Advisors LLC, which has carved out a niche in U.S. cable deals
since it was founded in July, represented Liberty Global, along
with Managing Partner  Ehren Stenzler . Goldman Sachs Group Inc.’s
Peter Gross and Michael Smith, both managing directors, were key
advisers to Virgin Media. The co-advisers was JPMorgan Chase &
Co.’s David Lomer, co-head of technology, media and telecoms for
Europe, and his colleagues.  While the purchase could have been done a year before, with
favorable stock and bond markets, the stars were aligned,
according to a person familiar with the matter.  Active Buyer  The overall stock market was climbing, with the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index finishing 2012 up 14 percent. Meanwhile,
Liberty’s stock has increased 38 percent in the last 12 months,
giving it greater purchasing power for acquisitions. During that
period, the company has been among the most active buyer of
television companies, racking up eight deals for about $1.1
billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Virgin Media’s stock was also on the rise, advancing about
60 percent in the 12 months to a near record high before the
deal was first reported. That didn’t deter Liberty, because the
company has plenty of strengths including programming synergies,
Matthew Harrigan, an analyst with Wunderlich Securities said in
an interview this week.  “Virgin’s a good asset, and I think the deal makes it even
better,” Harrigan said.  At the same time, financing the $5.9 billion cash portion
of the deal was made easier by booming bond markets, allowing
companies to raise money cheaply. Credit Suisse Group AG is
arranging the debt financing.  High-Yield  Investors seeking better returns sent sales of high-yield
bonds soaring 45 percent last year to a record $354.2 billion,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Junk bonds returned
15.583 percent last year -- up from 4.383 percent in 2011 --
according to the Bank of America Merrill Lynch U.S. High Yield
Index.  After negotiating through the fall, Fries and Berkett had
sketched the outline of a deal around Christmas, agreeing to a
price of $47.87 a share in cash and stock, representing about a
24 percent premium to Virgin Media’s closing price on Feb. 4.
Resolving the split between cash and stock got over a critical
hurdle, said a person familiar with the matter.  Berkett said yesterday he will step down when the deal
closes because he’s “not a very good number two.” Liberty
Global said it hasn’t found a successor.  If either company causes the transaction to fail, it will
pay the other a termination fee of as much as $470 million,
according to a filing by Virgin Media.  Neither Malone nor  Richard Branson , who owns 6.6 million
shares of Virgin Media, attended the negotiations though Malone
was likely consulted, said a person. Virgin Media was created in
2006 when Branson merged his Virgin Mobile U.K. into NTL:
Telewest to offer pay-TV, broadband, fixed-line and mobile-phone
services.  The timing of the deal was good for another reason -- it
was announced on Fries’s 50th birthday. “I couldn’t think of a
better present on this day,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Kirchfeld in London at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons in Paris at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net ;
Kristen Schweizer in London at 
 kschweizer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  