-- Romania Keeps 2013 Inflation Forecast Unchanged at 3.5%
-- B y   I r i n a   S a v u   a n d   A n d r a   T i m u
-- 2013-02-07T10:10:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/romania-keeps-2013-inflation-forecast-unchanged-at-3-5-1-.html
Romania’s central bank kept its
inflation forecast unchanged for this year, as price-growth will
probably slow in the second half and will compensate for an
increase caused by higher energy prices in the first half.  Inflation will probably end this year at 3.5 percent,
unchanged from a Nov. 7 forecast, and at 3.2 percent in 2014,
Banca Nationala a Romaniei Governor  Mugur Isarescu  told
reporters as he presented the bank’s quarterly inflation report
in Bucharest today. That meets the bank’s 2013 target of between
1.5 percent and 3.5 percent.  “The bulk of administered price increases will take place
in the first half of this year and that’s why inflation will
remain above the central bank target throughout the first six
months,” Isarescu said. “We expect the inflation rate to re-
enter the targeted band in the last part of this year and remain
inside it in 2014.”  The Romanian central bank halted a rate-cutting cycle in
May last year, bucking an easing trend in the region needed to
spur economic growth as a government plan to free regulated
energy prices and drought-driven food prices quickened
inflation.  “The contribution of the demand deficit remains
significant because it pulls the inflation rate down and the
inflationary expectations, fortunately, have eased,” Isarescu
said.  Inflation accelerated more than forecast in December to
4.95 percent, exceeding the central bank’s 2012 target, on
rising food and electricity  prices . The bank had targeted
inflation of between 2 percent to 4 percent at the end of 2012.  The leu declined 0.4 percent to 4.4042 per euro by 12:10
p.m. in Bucharest today, the lowest since Jan. 9, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  “We believe the leu is now trading in an area which poses
no major problems,’’ Isarescu said. ‘‘The foreign capital
inflows can deviate the leu from its fair value and that’s why
the central bank is trying to alleviate these moves through its
managed floating policy.’’  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Irina Savu  in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net ;
 Andra Timu  in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  