-- Ruble Gains Against Basket as Euro Falls, Oil Trades Above $117
-- B y   V l a d i m i r   K u z n e t s o v
-- 2013-02-07T17:00:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/russia-local-debt-ruble-fall-on-1st-day-of-euroclear-settlement.html
The ruble strengthened against the
central bank’s bi-currency basket as the euro weakened and oil
advanced. Ruble bonds gained on the first day of direct foreign
access to the local government debt market.  The Russian currency advanced 0.2 percent against Bank
Rossii’s euro-dollar basket to 34.7826 by 7 p.m. in Moscow. The
ruble weakened 0.1 percent against the dollar to 30.1330.  The euro dropped 0.7 percent against the dollar after
European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said after policy
makers met in Frankfurt that the risk to the region’s growth
remains on the “downside.” Brent crude rose for a third day in
London, exceeding $117 a barrel, helping the ruble gain against
the basket.  “With the oil price like that the basket definitely should
trade lower,”  Alexander Myulberger , head of foreign exchange
trading at BCS Financial Group in Moscow, said by e-mail.  A second day of gains in the government’s OFZ bonds
maturing in February 2027 pushed down the yield three basis
points to 7.05 percent, within 21 basis points of a record low
on Jan. 10.  Euroclear Bank SA, which operates the world’s biggest bond
settlement system, started direct settlement of ruble-
denominated government debt, opening the $100 billion market to
foreign investors. Over-the-counter transactions in OFZs will be
followed by exchange-traded operations in March, it said in a
statement yesterday.  While flows of “new money” into Russia’s domestic debt
may reach as much as $20 billion this year, some investors were
waiting for the Euroclear announcement to sell ruble bonds,
Sberbank Investment Research analysts led by  Alexander Kudrin 
said in an e-mailed note today.  “We expect this disposition to remain in the coming days
and recommend buying OFZs only on strong sell-offs,” the
analysts said today. It will take weeks or months for foreign
inflows to OFZs to arrive, they said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vladimir Kuznetsov in Moscow at 
 vkuznetsov2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  