-- S&P May Be Sued by Additional States, Connecticut Says
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2013-02-08T17:10:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/s-p-may-be-sued-by-additional-states-connecticut-says.html
Standard & Poor’s may be sued by more
states over credit ratings on mortgage products, adding to state
and federal lawsuits filed against the company, Connecticut’s
attorney general said.  Connecticut Attorney General  George Jepsen , who is leading
a multistate coalition, said some states are considering
lawsuits against the  McGraw-Hill Cos.  unit in addition to at
least 16 that have already sued.  “We know some states are actively considering it,” Jepsen
said yesterday in a phone interview.  The U.S. Justice Department sued Standard & Poor’s on Feb.
4, accusing the company of defrauding investors by assigning
inflated credit ratings to mortgage-backed securities and
collateralized debt obligations.  Connecticut, Mississippi and Illinois sued Standard &
Poor’s previously. Thirteen states and the District of Columbia
sued this week with the Justice Department, according to a
statement from Jepsen’s office. Connecticut also has a lawsuit
pending against Moody’s Investors Service.  Jepsen declined to comment on how many states are
considering lawsuits and whether officials are investigating
Moody’s and Fitch Ratings.  New York  New York Attorney General  Eric Schneiderman  is
investigating whether S&P, Moody’s and Fitch violated a 2008
settlement that was reached with his predecessor  Andrew Cuomo  as
well as conduct by the companies since that agreement expired at
the end of 2011, according to a person familiar with the matter.  Massachusetts Attorney General  Martha Coakley  is also
investigating S&P, spokesman Brad Puffer said in an e-mail.  “Our office is engaged in our own related investigation
into this matter and we are closely monitoring this lawsuit
filed by other attorneys general,” he said.  The U.S. case is U.S. v. McGraw-Hill, 13-00779, U.S.
District Court, Central District of California (Los Angeles).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David McLaughlin  in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   Jpickering@bloomberg.net  