-- S&P Lawsuit Goes Before Ex-Prosecutor, Vietnam Veteran
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2013-02-08T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/s-p-lawsuit-goes-before-former-prosecutor-vietnam-veteran-1-.html
The judge who will preside over the
U.S. government’s lawsuit against Standard & Poor’s is a former
prosecutor and Vietnam War veteran who travels to Afghanistan to
help reform the judiciary in that war-torn country.  U.S. District Judge  David O. Carter  in Santa Ana,
California, is assigned to the case the Justice Department filed
Feb. 4. The government accuses  McGraw-Hill Cos . and its S&P unit
of knowingly understating the credit risks of residential
mortgage-backed securities and collateralized-debt obligations
in order to gain more business.  Carter, 68, was nominated by President  Bill Clinton  in
1998. Before becoming a federal judge, he was an Orange County
homicide prosecutor and a California state court judge. He
earned a Bronze Star and a Purple Heart during his service with
the U.S. Marine Corps in Vietnam.  “He’s not afraid of anything or anyone,” said Wayne
Gross, formerly a federal prosecutor in charge of the U.S.
Attorney’s office in Santa Ana. “Both sides could not have
gotten a better judge. He gives every fiber of his being to the
case before him.”  In the S&P case, Carter will face another decorated Marine
Corps veteran, San Francisco lawyer  John Keker , who represents
the rating firm. Keker, whose clients have included  Lance Armstrong  during his criminal investigation and class-action
lawyer Bill Lerach, retired from the military in 1967 after
being wounded in Vietnam.  Justice Partnership  Carter is part of a public-private partnership for justice
reform in Afghanistan, a program that, among other projects,
sends U.S. judges to that nation to work with local legal
professionals to help create a better judicial system.  “That’s how much he cares about justice,” Gross, now a
lawyer with Greenberg Traurig LLP in Irvine, California, said in
a telephone interview. “He’s going around the globe despite his
heavy court load.”  In 2009, Carter threw out a so-called birther lawsuit that
challenged the legitimacy of President  Barack Obama ’s presidency
on the assumption that the Democrat, now in his second term,
wasn’t a natural-born U.S. citizen.  In his ruling dismissing the case, Carter responded to the
plaintiffs’ arguments that courts that rejected their lawsuit
weren’t patriotic.  ‘Ultimate Reflection’  “Plaintiffs have attacked the judiciary, including every
prior court that has dismissed their claim, as unpatriotic and
even treasonous for refusing to grant their requests and for
adhering to the terms of the Constitution which set forth its
jurisdiction,” Carter said. “This court considers commitment
to that constitutional role to be the ultimate reflection of
patriotism.”  The judge also presided over trials involving numerous
members of prison gangs, including the Mexican Mafia and the
Aryan Brotherhood.  “He’s the hardest-working judge I’ve ever encountered and
I’ve been doing this for 47 years,” said Mark Overland, a
lawyer who represented a Mexican Mafia member in a six-month
trial before Carter.  Overland, of Santa Monica, California, said Carter would
have lawyers come to court at 6:30 or 7 a.m. to deal with
outstanding issues before the jury came in. After the trial
ended for the day, Carter would handle his civil case agenda in
the evening, he said.  ‘Till Midnight’  “There’d be lawyers there till midnight,” Overland said
in a telephone interview.  Carter handled the second jury trial between toymakers
 Mattel Inc . and MGA Entertainment Inc. over the rights to Bratz
dolls.  In 2011, Carter awarded MGA $225 million in punitive
damages, attorney fees and costs after it prevailed on most of
the claims Mattel had brought.  “Mattel asserted a copyright claim that was stunning in
scope and unreasonable in relief it requested,” the judge said
in his ruling. “The claim imperiled free expression,
competition and the only serious competitor Mattel had faced in
the fashion doll market in nearly 50 years.”  A U.S. Court of Appeals last month vacated part of Carter’s
ruling and left intact his decision that Mattel had to pay its
rival $137.2 million for having to defend against the copyright-
infringement claims.  The case is U.S. v. McGraw-Hill, 13-00779, U.S. District
Court, Central District of California (Los Angeles).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in Los Angeles at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  