-- S&P Data-Fudging Began in 2004, U.S. Suit Says: Timeline
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2013-02-07T22:00:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/s-p-data-fudging-began-in-2004-u-s-suit-says-timeline.html
A Standard & Poor’s analyst in 2004
sent an e-mail to executives at the rating company’s structured-
finance group. It had lost a job to Moody’s rating a mortgage-
backed security because S&P criteria were more demanding, and
something had to be done, the analyst allegedly wrote.  “This is so significant that it could have an impact on
future deals,” the analyst said, according to this week’s U.S.
Justice Department’s Feb. 4 complaint. “There’s no way we can
get back on this one, but we need to address this now in
preparation for future deals.”  The May 2004 message is one of the earliest cited in the
government lawsuit in which  McGraw-Hill Cos. ’s S&P is accused of
letting competition for business take over its credit ratings
calculations for securities backed by residential mortgages.  In this week’s complaint, the government sets out meetings,
messages and memos that it says show S&P analysts assigning
investment-grade ratings to securities based more on a desire to
win business than to be accurate.  The Justice Department is seeking as much as $5 billion in
damages from New York-based S&P. Its ratings allegedly helped
create the U.S. housing bubble, whose bursting led to the worst
financial crisis since the Great Depression.  “Put simply, this alleged conduct is egregious, and it
goes to the very heart of the recent financial crisis,” U.S.
Attorney General  Eric Holder  said at a Feb. 5 press conference.  The company from September 2004 to October 2007 issued
ratings on more than $2.8 trillion worth of residential
mortgage-backed securities and about $1.2 trillion worth of
collateralized-debt obligations, according to the complaint.  S&P Fees  S&P is paid by issuers that pick the rating company to rate
their securities. Fees reached $150,000 for rating a residential
mortgage-backed security and $750,000 for a so-called synthetic
collateralized-debt obligation, in which the underlying
collateral is credit derivatives, including credit-default
swaps, according to the complaint.  S&P’s understating of risks allowed the banks to issue the
securities with less credit protection, making them more
profitable, according to the Justice Department.  S&P said in a Feb. 5 statement that the Justice
Department’s lawsuit is without merit.  “There was robust internal debate within S&P about how a
rapidly deteriorating housing market might affect the CDOs, and
we applied the collective judgment of our committee-based system
in good faith,” S&P said in the statement, referring to
collateralized debt obligations. “The e-mail excerpts cherry-
picked by DOJ have been taken out of context, are contradicted
by other evidence, and do not reflect our culture, integrity or
how we do business.”  Others’ Ratings  Every CDO cited by the Justice Department in the complaint
received the same rating from another company, S&P said.  The Justice Department’s allegations, which include both
identified and unidentified executives, point to an April 2004
meeting as the earliest evidence that business considerations
were influencing S&P’s decisions on rating criteria.  A draft document was circulated that described a process to
change rating criteria. Included would be “market insight,”
“rating implications,” and the polling of investors and
investment bankers for a “full 360-market perspective,”
according to the complaint.  An unidentified executive objected, asking in an e-mail to
colleagues and analysts, “Are you implying that we might
actually reject or stifle ‘superior analytics’ for market
considerations?” the government said. The objection was
ignored, and he never got a response to his e-mail, it said.  ‘Market Perspective’  In July 2004, the government said,  Joanne Rose , S&P’s
executive managing director of structured finance, and Thomas
Gillis, the head of structured finance research and criteria,
circulated a memo saying managers who work with clients should
be consulted to get “market perspective” on rating criteria.  S&P that year delayed updating a software program, called
the Loan Evaluation & Estimate of Loss System, used to analyze
the risks of proposed mortgage-backed securities, by not
including data of 642,000 loans that included riskier mortgages,
according to the complaint.  The more accurate updated program would have required
issuers of the securities with relatively risky Alt-A or
subprime loans to provide more loss-coverage protection to win
investment-grade ratings, the U.S. said.  That would have made the securities less profitable for the
issuers, according to the complaint.  Instead of the proposed update, S&P “slightly” modified
the existing version in a way that didn’t significantly increase
loss coverage, the U.S. said.  Saving Money  The same executive who objected to using “market
considerations” in ratings was told by colleagues in structured
finance that the proposed update wouldn’t increase market share
or revenue and there was “no reason to spend money” putting it
in place, according to the complaint.  At the same time, S&P continued to use an “inaccurate
default matrix” in evaluating the credit risks of
collateralized debt obligations, because the changes needed for
accuracy didn’t meet market-share goals, the U.S. said.  In 2005, when S&P released an updated CDO evaluation
program called E3, it also created a less-stringent version
called E3 Low to rate certain synthetic CDOs because of the
potential negative business impact, the government said.
Analysts were told to use E3 Low if E3 didn’t produce the
desired rating, it said.  New Criteria  In 2006, when delinquencies started to rise in nonprime
mortgages, S&P analysts decided to develop new criteria for
watching mortgage-backed securities S&P had already rated, the
Justice Department said. At a meeting in late summer or early
fall that year, the analyst group decided to select criteria
that gave them the desired result: fewer and less-severe
downgrades, it said.  An analyst objected to the idea that the “ends justify the
means,” the government said. The analyst was no longer invited
to meetings of the group, the U.S. said.  By the fall of 2006, mortgages underlying securities issued
that year were preforming so poorly that analysts thought the
data contained typographical errors, according to the complaint.
To see realized losses in the first six to 10 months of a 30-
year loan was unprecedented, according to the complaint.  One unidentified executive regularly complained to
colleagues from the fall of 2006 to the spring 2007 that she was
prevented by other executives from cutting S&P ratings “because
of concern that S&P’s ratings business would be affected if
there were severe downgrades,” according to the complaint.  ‘Spinning Top’  “This market is a wildly spinning top which is going to
end badly,”  David Tesher , managing director of S&P’s cash CDO
group, is quoted as saying in a confidential working note on
Dec. 11, 2006.  S&P analysts recommended in February 2007 that 50 so-called
tranches of mortgage-based securities be placed on negative
credit watch, or internal watch, the government said. The CDOs
that were exposed to those tranches would generally receive a
lower credit rating as well, according to the complaint.  S&P personnel agreed to place only 18 tranches on negative
credit watch, according to the complaint.  The company continued to issue credit ratings for CDOs that
it knew didn’t accurately reflect the risk because they failed
to account for the risk of the underlying nonprime-mortgage-
backed securities tranches, the U.S. said.  On June 28, 2007, S&P gave a AAA rating to $2.8 billion of
Ridgeway Court Funding II Ltd., a CDO linked to subprime
mortgages.  Default Losses  The CDO defaulted in January the following year, resulting
in almost total losses for the investors, according to the
complaint.  “There was a lot of internal pressure in S&P to downgrade
lots of deals earlier on before this thing started blowing up,”
an S&P analyst said in a July 5, 2007, e-mail to an investment
banker client. “But the leadership was concerned of p*ssing off
too many clients and jumping the gun ahead of Fitch and
Moody’s.”  The case is U.S. v. McGraw-Hill, 13-00779, U.S. District
Court, Central District of California (Los Angeles).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Edvard Pettersson  in Los Angeles
at   epettersson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 