-- S&P Lawsuit Fails to Take On a Defective Business Model
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-02-07T00:45:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/s-p-lawsuit-fails-to-take-on-a-defective-business-model.html
The temptation to cheer the federal
government’s lawsuit against Standard & Poor’s for the AAA-
ratings it slapped on securities that promptly blew up is
understandable. S&P and other debt raters played a central role
in the financial crisis of 2008 and for too long no one has
managed to hold them accountable.  But it’s also too bad the U.S. Justice Department didn’t
find a way to take on the legal defense that’s at the heart of
the ratings business: S&P, Moody’s and Fitch rely on the  First
Amendment  to assert that their evaluations of debt securities
are the equivalent of opinions, and thus constitutionally
protected.  The government’s lawsuit accuses S&P of falsely telling
investors its ratings were accurate, independent and free of
bias. Rather than deal with the First Amendment issue, the
 Justice Department  invoked a law, adopted at the height of the
savings and loan crisis in 1989, that targets fraud in cases
involving federally insured financial institutions backed by
taxpayers.  There are some bizarre chinks in the government’s case,
starting with the claim that the biggest victims of S&P’s
depredations were the same banks that misled investors about the
toxic securities they were peddling. To believe this line of
argument, S&P fooled Citigroup Inc. and Bank of America Corp.
about the quality of the very mortgage-backed securities they
were creating and peddling to investors.  Doing Little  As Bloomberg View columnist  Jonathan Weil  has written, pity
the government lawyer who appears in court and tries to convince
a jury that the biggest, most-sophisticated banks in the country
were led astray by S&P. The government might be on sounder
ground if it could show that smaller banks bought slices of the
securities and did so based on ratings that S&P misstated on
purpose.  Even if the government wins, its case will do little to
alter two fundamental flaws in the raters’ business model. The
first of these is the “ issuer pays ” principle, under which the
raters collect their fee not from bond investors but from the
issuer of the security they are rating. This creates a conflict
of interest. Bond issuers can threaten to take their business
elsewhere unless they get the ratings they deem appropriate.  This defect is compounded by a second flaw: the legal
standing that regulators have conferred on the companies’
ratings. For instance, the amount of capital banks must show on
their balance sheets depends in part on the ratings attached to
their bond holdings. If it weren’t for this  requirement , the
demand for ratings would diminish. The regulatory system has
delegated a crucial function -- attesting to the safety of bonds
-- to a third party whose motives, to put it generously, are
mixed.  Chipping away at the First Amendment defense is one way to
begin putting matters right. Courts have found that the raters
are, in essence, journalists who issue independent analysis.
This gives the companies some of the strongest protection in
U.S. law. Never mind that, unlike journalists, the raters aren’t
objective by virtue of the fact that they are paid by the very
companies -- their sources -- they write about. Direct payment
from a source to  buy editorial content  is barred at credible
news organizations.  The First Amendment, the raters and their lawyers have
argued, ensures that they can operate independently, deliver
reliable opinions and not be cowed by lawsuits over honest
mistakes. The First Amendment shield, however, combined with a
compensation system that poses an inherent conflict of interest
and the obligation on investors to use the ratings in question,
creates perverse incentives. The prelude to the financial crisis
was replete with examples of raters dishing out grades on
securities that turned out to be wrong, often with an eye to
winning business from competitors.  More Promise  The  Dodd-Frank Act  was supposed to resolve some of these
issues, and the Securities and Exchange Commission was charged
with drafting rules saying investors no longer had to rely on
the raters’ opinions. If the aim is to make finance safer in the
future, this is a more promising approach than attempting to
demonstrate outright fraud after the fact. Yet 2 1/2 years have
passed since the law’s adoption, and no rules are forthcoming.
The delay is dispiriting.  U.S. law recognizes different categories of speech, from
news articles published by media outlets to advertisements by
companies that want you to buy their products. Raters should
fall somewhere in between, perhaps akin to newsletters that are
paid by companies to write favorable research reports on their
shares, or to auditors retained by companies to express opinions
on the accuracy of their financial statements. Federal law
requires that newsletters reveal how they are financed. Auditors
have to meet stringent standards in their work, and can be
liable for third-parties’ losses when they fall short. Either
raters should be held to similar standards, or investors should
no longer be required by the government to use their ratings, or
both. The Justice Department’s lawsuit advances neither
solution.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 