-- Sanofi Shares Slump on Forecast for 5% Profit Drop This Year
-- B y   A l b e r t i n a   T o r s o l i
-- 2013-02-07T17:30:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/sanofi-says-2013-profit-may-drop-as-much-as-5-on-plavix-copies.html
Sanofi  said profit may drop as much
as 5 percent this year as generic competition to the Plavix
blood thinner crimps sales and it spends to introduce new
medicines. The stock fell the most in nine months.  Earnings per share excluding some costs will probably be
unchanged at best or down 5 percent at worst from last year, at
constant exchange rates, the Paris-based drugmaker said in a
statement today. Analysts surveyed by Bloomberg expect earnings
to slip 0.2 percent this year.  The guidance “is disappointing compared to consensus
expectations,”  Amit Roy , an analyst with Nomura in London, who
has a neutral recommendation on the stock, said in a phone
interview. “2012 was meant to be their trough year.”  Chief Executive Officer  Chris Viehbacher  has sought
partnerships and acquisitions to replenish Sanofi’s drug
pipeline and make up for the revenue losses caused by generic
competition to the company’s top-selling products. He is
introducing new products such as Aubagio, a pill for multiple
sclerosis, and Lyxumia, a diabetes drug that won regulatory
approval in Europe this week.  Sanofi fell 4 percent, the  biggest intraday drop  since May
10, to 66.60 euros in Paris. Partner Zealand Pharma A/S, which
developed Lyxumia, slid 20 percent, the most since its initial
public offering in 2010, after saying advanced clinical trials
to test the medicine in combination with Sanofi’s bestseller
Lantus wouldn’t start this year as planned.  Generic Pain  The combination tests will be pushed back because of a
technical issue with the Fix-Flex pen, the device needed to
inject the double medicine, the companies said. It’s unclear
whether the trial can take place in 2014, Elias Zerhouni, who
heads research and development, said at a press conference.  “Significant delays to the insulin combination do not bode
well for this franchise” because Lyxumia isn’t competitive on
its own,  Alistair Campbell  and  Louise Hinds , analysts at
Berenberg Bank, wrote in a note to clients.  Cheaper copies of Plavix and Avapro, a drug for
hypertension, in the U.S. may wipe out about 800 million euros
($1.08 billion) from earnings in the first half, Sanofi said.
The company said it expects growth to resume in the second half.  Sanofi reported a 24 percent decline in fourth-quarter
profit because of generic competition to products including
Plavix, Avapro and the Eloxatin cancer medicine in the U.S.  Business net income, meaning earnings excluding some costs,
was 1.57 billion euros, or 1.19 euros a share, in the quarter,
down from 2.08 billion euros, or 1.56 euros a share, a year
earlier, the company said. That exceeded the 1.17 euro-a-share
average estimate of 14 analysts compiled by Bloomberg.  Dividend Increase  Plavix lost market exclusivity in the U.S. on May 17.
Sanofi also suffered from U.S. generic competition to Eloxatin
and its Lovenox blood-thinner.  The fourth quarter “has taken the full brunt of the major
patent expiries,”  Mark Purcell , an analyst at Barclays Plc in
London, wrote in a note before Sanofi published results.  Net sales advanced 0.2 percent to 8.53 billion euros in the
quarter, exceeding analysts’ estimates.  Shareholders will receive a dividend of 2.77 euros a share,
representing a pay-out ratio of 45 percent, the French drugmaker
said. That’s up from 2.65 euros a year earlier.  Sanofi shares have  returned  29 percent over the year
through yesterday including reinvested dividends, beating the 21
percent increase of the  Bloomberg Europe Pharmaceutical Index .
The French drugmaker hasn’t bought back shares since September.  ‘Robust Pipeline’  Sanofi reaffirmed its 2015 targets and said it’s “on
track” to meet its 2 billion-euro cost savings goal by then.  “We have a robust pipeline that we are starting to roll
out, that’s really starting a new chapter” for Sanofi,
Viehbacher told reporters on a conference call.  The drugmaker is targeting “bolt-on” acquisitions in the
price range of 1 billion euros to 2 billion euros this year,
Viehbacher reiterated today. The company won’t rule out larger,
“opportunistic” deals, “but so far we haven’t really seen
anything that allows us to drive value creation,” he said.  Viehbacher declined to comment on a possible interest in
the U.S. ophthalmology company  Bausch & Lomb Inc.   To contact the reporter on this story:
 Albertina Torsoli  in Paris at 
 atorsoli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  