-- Saudi Arabia Stabilizes Oil Output as OPEC Maintain Cap
-- B y   W a e l   M a h d i
-- 2013-02-07T11:17:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/saudi-arabia-stabilizes-oil-output-as-opec-maintain-cap.html
Saudi Arabia  kept production near 9
million barrels for a second month, according to a Gulf official
with knowledge of the country’s oil policy, helping to maintain
OPEC output at close to the group’s official ceiling.  The world’s largest crude exporter produced 9.05 million
barrels a day in January, little changed from last month when
output reached the lowest in 20 months, the Persian Gulf
official said on condition of anonymity. Brent futures rose
today to $117.72 a barrel, the highest level in four months.  The kingdom, while keeping its production stable, supplied
9.26 million barrels a day to the market compared to 9.15
million a month ago, he said. The difference of 210,000 barrels
between supply to market in January and production figures is
made up for by deliveries from inventories, he said.  The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries trimmed
output by 465,000 barrels a day in December to 30.4 million as
budget wrangles in the U.S., speculation about stimulus measures
in Japan and Europe’s struggle to boost growth clouded the
outlook for fuel demand. Cuts were led by a reduction in Saudi
Arabia, the group said last month in its monthly report, citing
secondary sources. That’s 800,000 a day more than the 29.6
million the  group estimates  it will need to provide this year.  Saudi Arabia started producing at about 9 million barrels a
day in December after pumping at 9.9 million for most of the
second half of 2012, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Output reached 10.1 million barrels in April and again in June,
the highest in three decades, according to data the government
submitted to Joint Organization Data Initiatives.  Weaker Demand  The desert kingdom denied last month what it said were
suggestions that it cut oil production in December to push crude
prices higher and attributed the reduction to weaker demand,
according to  Ibrahim Al-Muhanna , an adviser to Oil Minister  Ali al-Naimi .  Consumption dropped in Saudi Arabia in the fourth quarter
of last year after peaking in the summer, Muhanna said. Overseas
demand for Saudi crude also fell, because of slower growth in
the euro area and concerns about budgetary challenges in the
U.S., he said.  OPEC’s 12 members agreed to a collective output target of
30 million barrels a day in December 2011. The group will next
meet in May.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Wael Mahdi  in Manama at 
 wmahdi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  