-- HSBC Says It Will Stop Serving Some Syrian, Iranian Citizens
-- B y   S t e f a n i a   B i a n c h i
-- 2013-02-07T13:11:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/hsbc-to-close-some-client-accounts-in-sanctioned-mideast-nations.html
HSBC Holdings Plc’s  Dubai-based
Middle East unit will stop personal-banking services to some
customers with links to countries subject to European Union and
U.S. sanctions, such as Syria and Iran.  HSBC Bank Middle East Ltd.  will only serve citizens of the
affected nations that qualify for Advance and Premier accounts,
which require a minimum balance of 100,000 U.A.E. dirhams
($27,225) and 350,000 dirhams respectively, if they “completely
satisfy” due-diligence requirements, according to a statement
e-mailed by a Dubai-based spokeswoman for the bank.  Customers started receiving letters at the beginning of
February, and have been given 30 days’ notice of the changed
policies. London-based HSBC, Europe’s largest bank by market
value, agreed in December to pay $1.92 billion to settle U.S.
probes of money laundering after Senate testimony indicated it
handled so-called U-turn transactions through U.S. financial
institutions that involved funds from Iran to non-U.S. banks.  HSBC’s reputation was “crushed” after it agreed to settle
the U.S. probes, Chief Executive Officer  Stuart Gulliver  told
U.K. lawmakers on Feb. 6.  HSBC Middle East says it operates in 14 countries in the
Middle East and North Africa. It doesn’t operate in Iran, which
is under sanctions as the U.S. and EU try to dissuade the nation
from pursuing a nuclear program, or Syria, where there is a
violent uprising against the ruling regime.  EU states will consider stiffening sanctions on Syria to
clamp down on the “illegitimate” regime of President Bashar
al-Assad, according to a draft statement for a two-day summit of
the group starting today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefania Bianchi in Dubai at 
 sbianchi10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  