-- Schwab Partners With State Street on No-Cost ETF Trades
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n
-- 2013-02-07T16:30:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/schwab-partners-with-state-street-on-no-cost-etf-trades.html
Charles Schwab Corp ., the largest
independent U.S. brokerage, plans to expand commission-free
trading in exchange-traded funds by partnering with State Street
Corp. and Invesco Ltd., two of the top four U.S. ETF providers.  Unlimited no-cost trades will apply to 105 ETFs, including
products offered by Schwab, Guggenheim Investment Management
LLC, ETF Securities Ltd. and United States Commodity Funds LLC,
San Francisco-based Schwab said today in a statement. Schwab
will seek to add other ETF brands to the program, Beth Flynn,
the firm’s vice president of ETF platform management, said today
in an interview in New York.  “This is about responding to investors, and investors tell
us that commissions are a barrier to trading,” Flynn said.  ETF providers have been battling to lower costs as they
compete for customers amid record deposits. BlackRock Inc., the
world’s largest ETF manager, cut fees on six products and
created four new lower-cost offerings in October. Vanguard, the
third-biggest in the U.S., dumped index provider MSCI Inc. to
lower costs, also in October.  State Street, based in Boston, is the second-biggest ETF
manager and Atlanta-based Invesco’s PowerShares unit is the
fourth-biggest U.S. ETF provider, according to Morningstar.  Investors poured a record $191 billion into U.S. ETFs in
2012, according to data compiled by research firm Morningstar
Inc. They put another $28.6 billion into ETFs in January,
Morningstar said today.  The ETFs offered for no-commission trading hold a total of
about $15 billion, according to Flynn. State Street and other
providers will pay Schwab an annual fee and asset-based fees to
make their ETFs available in the commission-free program, Flynn
said. The platform doesn’t include State Street’s $126 billion
SPDR S&P 500 ETF Trust and $71 billion SPDR Gold Shares, the two
biggest ETFs.  Schwab, which pioneered low-cost trading and led a boom in
online trading in the late 1990s, has 8.8 million brokerage
accounts, according to the company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Condon in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  