-- Second-Generation Immigrants Overtaking U.S. Population Success
-- B y   F r a n k   B a s s
-- 2013-02-07T19:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/second-generation-immigrants-overtaking-u-s-population-success.html
The U.S.’s second-generation Asian
and Hispanic immigrants almost match or even exceed the rest of
the population in household income, college graduation rates and
home-ownership levels, a study released today said.  Those immigrants also are more likely than their parents to
speak English, have friends outside their racial or ethnic
group, and view themselves as a “typical American,” the  Pew
Research Center’s Social and Demographic Trends Project  found.  The report comes as the White House prepares an
immigration-policy package opposed by many Republicans who view
the new arrivals as a costly population dependent on
entitlements and likely to support Democrats. Immigrants and
their children are expected to make up as much as 93 percent of
the U.S. working-age population growth between now and 2050,
according to a 2008 report by Pew cited in the latest study.  “The great American immigration experiment appears to be
working in the 21st century as it has in the past,” said Paul
Taylor, executive director of the Pew project. “It’s early yet.
But so far, so good.”  The 131-page report described the latest tide of newcomers
as part of the “Third Wave” of immigrants, including 44.5
million who have arrived in the U.S. since 1965. The second
wave, consisting of 18.2 million newcomers, primarily from
eastern and southern Europe, occurred from 1890 to 1919, when
the U.S. population was  104.5 million . The first wave of 14.3
million immigrants, mostly northern Europeans, took place
between 1840 and 1889, when there were  62 million Americans .  Backing Obama  About 77 percent of the newest wave of adult immigrants is
Hispanic or Asian, the study found. Hispanics gave President
 Barack Obama  71 percent of their votes in his November re-
election, exit polls show; Asians went for Obama by a 73-26
percent margin. The two groups make up half of second-generation
immigrants, according to the Washington-based research
organization.  The White House is pushing a path to citizenship for more
immigrants, including the  11.1 million people , mostly Hispanics,
that Pew estimates were living illegally in the U.S. in 2011.  Republicans have argued that any large-scale amnesty plan
for illegal immigrants could encourage more people to move to
the U.S. without documentation, causing increased demands on
strained social services such as Medicaid, the $491 billion
federal-state health program that provides care for 54 million
poor and disabled Americans.  18% in Poverty  The Pew study found that 18 percent of three-person first-
generation households live in poverty, higher than the U.S. rate
of 13 percent. For the nation’s 20 million second-generation
American households, only 11 percent have incomes below the
poverty line.  Second-generation immigrants are more educated than the
average American. Thirty-six percent of second-generation
immigrants are college graduates, compared with 31 percent of
all American adults and 29 percent of new immigrants.  The typical three-person U.S. household reported median
income of $58,200, Pew said. Second-generation immigrants had
median incomes of $58,100, and the median for first-generation
households was $45,800.  One-third of Hispanic newcomers and 30 percent of first-
generation Asian immigrants consider themselves to be “typical
Americans.” That figure soared to 61 percent of both groups in
the second generation, according to a pair of Pew surveys taken
early last year.  Shared Optimism  The two groups also shared optimism about the benefits of
working hard to succeed. Seventy-eight percent of second-
generation Hispanics and 72 percent of Asian-Americans said it’s
possible to succeed by working hard. Only 58 percent of the
total U.S. population agreed, the Pew researchers said.  The study found some divergence between second-generation
Hispanic and Asian immigrants. The children of Hispanic
newcomers tend to work in lower-paying jobs and have less
education. Fifty-five percent of second-generation Asians have a
bachelor’s degree, compared with 21 percent of Hispanics. The
median household income for second-generation Hispanics was
$48,400, versus $67,500 for children of Asian immigrants.  “While large gaps remain between groups,” the Pew report
said, “it is also the case that within each group, the second
generation is doing better than the first on most key measures
of economic success.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frank Bass in Washington at 
 fbass1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Mark McQuillan at 
 mmcquillan@bloomberg.net ;
Flynn McRoberts at 
 fmcroberts1@bloomberg.net  