-- Shearman, Cravath, Bracewell, King: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2013-02-07T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/shearman-cravath-bracewell-king-business-of-law.html
Four firms advised on the acquisition
by  John Malone ’s Liberty Global Inc. of U.K. cable-television
provider  Virgin Media Inc.  for $16 billion in cash and stock to
challenge  Rupert Murdoch  in Europe’s biggest pay-TV market.  Shearman & Sterling LLP and Ropes & Gray LLP are legal
counsel for Liberty Global. Milbank, Tweed, Hadley & McCloy LLP
and Fried, Frank, Harris, Shriver & Jacobson LLP are legal
counsel to Virgin Media.  Shearman & Sterling’s team included mergers and
acquisitions partners  George Casey , Eliza Swann and Jeremy
Kutner. Additional partners included  Alan Goudiss , litigation;
 Laurence Bambino , tax; and  Doreen Lilienfeld , executive
compensation and employee benefits.  The Ropes team included lead finance partner Jane Rogers,
who advised alongside finance partners  Maurice Allen ,  Mike Goetz 
and Matthew Cox, corporate partner Kiran Sharma and tax partner
John Baldry.  Milbank’s deal team is led by U.K. securities partner Tim
Peterson, along with London partners  Russell Jacobs , Mark Stamp
and Suhrud Mehta and litigation partner Alan Stone in New York.  Fried Frank’s team included corporate partners  Richard May ,
 Robert Mollen  and  John Sorkin . Tax partners Robert Gaut and
 Richard Wolfe  also assisted.  Latham & Watkins LLP represented the initial purchasers in
connection with the financing of the transaction with a team led
by London corporate partners Scott Colwell, Tracy Edmonson and
Rich Trobman. London partner Sean Finn and New York partner
Jiyeon Lee-Lim advised on tax matters. The firm also advised
Credit Suisse as financial adviser to Liberty Global in the
transaction, led by New York/Chicago corporate partner Mark
Gerstein and Chicago corporate partner Bradley Faris. Washington
partner Nicholas DeNovio advised on tax matters, the firm said.  The deal values Britain’s second-biggest pay-TV company at
$47.87 a share, the companies said in a statement. That
represents a 24 percent premium to Virgin Media’s closing price
on Feb. 4, before the company said it was considering a deal.
Including debt, Virgin Media is valued at $23.3 billion.  The acquisition, the largest media transaction since 2007,
puts  Liberty Global  in a dead heat with Comcast Corp. as the
world’s biggest cable company, and opens a new battleground with
billionaire Murdoch, whose  News Corp.  controls  British Sky
Broadcasting Group Plc . Malone is using Liberty Global to grow
in markets outside the U.S. and already runs pay-TV providers in
Germany, Belgium and Switzerland.  The deal is the biggest purchase of a media company since
the $17.4 billion merger that created  Thomson Reuters Corp. ,
announced in May 2007, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  After the deal, about 80 percent of Liberty Global’s
revenue will come from five countries -- the U.K., Germany,
Belgium, Switzerland and the Netherlands,  Mike Fries , the
company’s chief executive officer, said in the statement.
Liberty Global said it may seek a European listing.  For more, click here.  Moves  U.S. Patent and Trademark Director Kappos Joins Cravath  Cravath, Swaine & Moore LLP hired  David J. Kappos , former
undersecretary of Commerce and director of the U.S. Patent and
Trademark Office, as a partner in New York.  “Dave will be an outstanding addition to our firm,
supporting our clients when they are addressing their most
complex intellectual property issues, including those involving
their deal activity as well as their litigation and antitrust
matters,”  Allen Parker , Cravath’s presiding partner, said in a
statement.  Kappos was appointed undersecretary of Commerce and
director of the USPTO by President Barack Obama in 2009. He
oversaw legislative reform of the U.S. patent system as well as
its implementation, the firm said.  “When Dave Kappos left Commerce the country lost one of
the best USPTO directors in history,” said  Don Rosenberg ,
executive vice president and general counsel at Qualcomm.
“Fortunately for Qualcomm and other Cravath clients, we have
gained a true champion of intellectual property rights who
understands their critical role in creating incentives to
innovate and in protecting our inventions.”  Kappos said in a Jan. 28 interview that he decided to leave
his government post because he had accomplished what he had set
out to do -- help shepherd sweeping legislation that overhauled
the patent system, make progress in reducing the backlog of
applications awaiting review and “restore the dignity of the
agency.”  Before joining the USPTO in 2009, Kappos spent 25 years at
International Business Machines Corp., where he rose to company
vice president and assistant general counsel for intellectual
property.  “I was fortunate to work closely with Cravath on many
intellectual property matters over the years as a client at IBM,
and I developed an extremely high regard for the firm’s unique
ability to achieve the best possible results handling the most
complex and important corporate and contested IP issues,”
Kappos said in a statement.  Kay Bailey Hutchison Joins Bracewell & Giuliani in Dallas  Senator  Kay Bailey Hutchison  joined Bracewell & Giuliani
LLP’s Dallas office as senior counsel. Hutchison will consult
with clients, particularly those in the banking, energy,
transportation, and telecommunications sectors.  Hutchison, a Republican, was the first woman to represent
Texas in the U.S. Senate. She served from 1993 to 2013. She also
sat in the Texas House of Representatives from 1973 to 1977 and
was the Texas State Treasurer from 1991 to 1993.  Bracewell has 470 lawyers in Texas, New York, Washington,
Connecticut, Seattle, Dubai and London.  Washington Moves: Government Lawyers Move to Private Practice  Gary G. Grindler , the former acting deputy attorney general
of the U.S. Justice Department, the agency’s second highest-
ranking official, and chief of staff to Attorney General  Eric Holder , has rejoined King & Spalding LLP as a partner in the
special matters and government investigations practice in the
firm’s Washington office.  Grindler was a partner at King & Spalding from 2000 to
2009, when he left to join the Justice Department. He will focus
on financial fraud, health care, international and congressional
investigations and False Claims Act cases, the firm said.  As acting deputy attorney general, he supervised 94 U.S.
Attorneys’ offices, all department law-enforcement agencies and
the civil, criminal, tax, antitrust and environmental divisions
of the Justice Department, the firm said.  King & Spalding has 800 lawyers in 17 offices in the U.S.,
Europe, the Middle East and Asia.  Also leaving a government post is Edward Kang, who joins
Alston & Bird LLP’s government and internal investigations
practice in the firm’s Washington office. Kang served for eight
years in the U.S. Justice Department’s criminal division and the
U.S. Attorney’s office. He recently worked on the Deepwater
Horizon Task Force, where he conducted criminal investigations
stemming from the 2010 Gulf of Mexico oil spill, the firm said.
From 2008 to 2009, Kang served as a special attorney to
investigate the circumstances surrounding the Central
Intelligence Agency’s destruction of videotapes depicting
interrogations of certain terrorist suspects, the firm said.  Latham & Watkins LLP rehired  J. Thomas Rosch , who recently
completed his term as a commissioner of the U.S. Federal Trade
Commission. Rosch, a partner at the firm from 1994 to 2005, has
returned to the firm as of counsel in the firm’s antitrust and
competition practice group within the litigation department.
Rosch, who was managing partner of the firm’s San Francisco
office, will work in the firm’s Washington and San Francisco
offices. Latham has approximately 2,000 attorneys in 31 offices,  At Reed Smith LLP, Tisha Schestopol joins the firm as FDA
and health-care counsel in its life sciences health industry
group in the firm’s Washington office. Schestopol was formerly a
senior regulatory attorney at Human Genome Sciences Inc., which
was acquired by GlaxoSmithKline in August.  Reed Smith has more than 1,700 lawyers in 25 offices
throughout the U.S., Europe, Asia and the Middle East.  Hires in Atlanta: Holland & Knight, JAMS, Morris, Manning  Holland & Knight LLP hired  J. Allen Maines  in the firm’s
Atlanta office as a partner in its litigation practice group. He
joins the firm from Paul Hastings LLP, where had co-headed the
firm’s global litigation department.  Maines concentrates on major commercial litigation and
provides advice with respect to mergers and acquisitions,
including both friendly and hostile acquisitions, the firm said.  Holland & Knight’s litigation section has more than 420
lawyers. The firm has 1,000 lawyers in 17 U.S. offices as well
as Abu Dhabi, Beijing, Bogota and Mexico City.  Mediation and arbitration organization JAMS announced that
former judge Brenda Hill Cole has been hired to its panel in the
JAMS Atlanta Resolution Center. She will be an arbitrator,
mediator and special master handling business/commercial, class
action/mass torts, employment, environmental, personal
injury/torts and professional liability disputes.  Cole was a judge of the State Court of Fulton County from
1998 until 2012. She presided over civil cases in areas such as
contracts, products liability, professional malpractice and
other matters.  Prior to serving on the State Court, she was a deputy
attorney general at the Georgia State Law Department where she
worked for 15 years in several divisions, including tax,
environmental, and professional regulations.  Also in Atlanta, Gerald V. Thomas II has joined the tax
practice at  Morris, Manning & Martin, LLP  as a partner, where he
works in the tax, corporate, funds and alternative investments,
mergers and acquisitions and real estate capital markets
practices. He focuses on the structuring and effecting of
complex business transactions. He was formerly a partner at
Alston & Bird LLP.  News  Obama-Appointed Judge Faces Test Over Ruling Against Terror Law  Katherine Forrest , a federal judge appointed by President
 Barack Obama  who less than a year later blocked a controversial
military-detention law, will have that ruling tested when an
appeals court hears the government’s claim that her decision
would irreparably damage national security, Bloomberg News’s Bob
Van Voris reports.  Forrest, 48, a former Cravath, Swaine & Moore LLP partner,
went from living on food stamps as a teenager to advising  Time
Warner Inc.  and  United Airlines Inc.  as a corporate litigator.
She then took a seven-figure pay cut on the path to her dream
job as a judge, and was appointed to U.S. District Court in
Manhattan in 2011.  Within months, Forrest blocked Obama and Defense Secretary
 Leon Panetta  from enforcing part of the National Defense
Authorization Act for 2012, rejecting arguments that she should
defer to congressional and executive authority in national-
security matters. The plaintiffs in the case said the law
permits the military to arrest U.S. citizens for exercising
their freedom of speech and of the press.  Forrest’s move earned praise from both ends of the
political spectrum, from Tea Party to Occupy Wall Street
activists. The Obama administration, meanwhile, warned that the
first-year jurist was threatening the ability of the U.S.
military to fight terrorism on the battlefield.  The government said the law merely reaffirms the
president’s existing military-detention authority. Justice
Department lawyers, who said Forrest’s decision “threatens
irreparable harm to national security and the public interest,”
won an order suspending it during the appeal.  Forrest, in an interview in her chambers in the federal
courthouse in downtown Manhattan, declined to discuss the
detention case or any of the others she’s presiding over. She
did discuss the path that brought her to the bench.  She earned degrees from Wesleyan University in 1986 and New
York University School of Law in 1990. She pursued a joint
program at NYU that would have led to a law degree and a
doctorate in history, with an eye toward an academic career. Her
focus shifted when she took a summer job at Cravath after her
second year of law school.  “I realized that commercial litigation was far more
interesting than I thought it would be,” Forrest said.  Cravath, founded in 1819, is one of the most profitable law
firms in the U.S., with a client list that includes  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. ,  Credit Suisse Group AG  and  Johnson & Johnson .  At Cravath, Forrest worked for  Evan Chesler , now the firm’s
chairman. Chesler said Forrest -- confident, hard-working and
organized -- stood out from her peers.  “In a place where everyone works hard, she was at the high
end,” Chesler said in a phone interview. “She just devoured
the work and was totally committed.”  The case is Hedges v. Obama, 12-03644, Second U.S. Circuit
Court of Appeals (Manhattan). The lower-court case is Hedges v.
Obama, 12-cv-00331, U.S. District Court, Southern District of
New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Firm News  Debevoise & Plimpton Trusts and Estates Practice to Close  Debevoise & Plimpton LLP  will discontinue its trusts and
estates practice group, which is looking for a new home, the
firm said in an e-mail statement.  The elimination of the group of eight lawyers, headed by
partner Jonathan J. Rikoon, was earlier reported by the New York
Times.  As the group explores alternatives for relocation,
presiding partner  Michael W. Blair  said in an e-mail that
“Debevoise supports the group in this process and will work to
ensure that in this transition, the needs of the firm’s clients
continue to be served.”  Florida Firm Gunster Opens Orlando Office with Acquisition  Florida law firm  Gunster, Yoakley & Stewart PA  opened an
11th office in Orlando by hiring four attorneys and government
consultants. Tico Perez, Derek Bruce, Jeff Jonasen and Don
Madden join from Orlando law and consulting firm Perez, Bruce &
Jonasen LLP, which represents clients in manufacturing, tourism,
agriculture, health care and waste management.  The Orlando office will focus initially on government
affairs, as well as corporate and land use law.  Perez is a shareholder who focuses his practice on
government affairs and corporate law. Bruce is a shareholder
concentrating his practice in government affairs and land use
law. Jonasen is a shareholder focusing his practice on corporate
law and government affairs. Madden is a government affairs
consultant.  Gunster has 160 attorneys at 11 Florida offices.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elizabeth Amon  in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 