-- Shortening 13F Period, RBS-Libor, S&P Suit: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2013-02-07T13:48:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/shortening-13f-period-rbs-libor-s-p-suit-compliance.html
Institutional investors should be
required to publicly disclose equity holdings within two days
after the quarter ends, instead of 45 days, NYSE Euronext said
in a petition to U.S. regulators.  A shortened time frame will help investors and public
companies receive timely information and technological advances
make it possible, NYSE and corporate governance and investor
relations groups  wrote in a letter  dated Feb. 1 to the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission. The rule applies to pension
funds, investment advisers and other investors with at least
$100 million that currently must file a 13-F form.  Investors would benefit from seeing holdings sooner and
companies would be better able to identify shareholders and
communicate with them, according to the letter.  The petition was written by NYSE, the  Society of Corporate
Secretaries and Governance Professionals  and the  National
Investor Relations Institute .  While institutions owned the majority of the U.S. shares
outstanding in 2009, the delay means that individuals and public
companies will get “little meaningful information” from the
13F filings, the letter said. The 45-day period has been in
existence for more than three decades, the groups said.  John Nester, an SEC spokesman, said the commission would
seek public comment on the petition. The agency isn’t required
to respond to petitions for rulemaking or take action on them,
although they are studied by the SEC staff.  Special Section: S&P Ratings Suit  Bernanke Revealed Market Sham in Lost Ratings Confidence Warning  Senior Federal Reserve officials including Chairman Ben S.
Bernanke warned in August 2007 that investor confidence in
credit rating companies was fading, risking greater instability
in financial markets.  The 2007 transcripts of the Federal Open Market Committee,
released last month, open a window onto how Fed officials viewed
ratings companies during the end of the period that is the focus
of a U.S. Justice Department lawsuit against  McGraw-Hill Cos. 
and its Standard & Poor’s unit.  The Justice Department filed a civil complaint Feb. 4 in
Los Angeles accusing McGraw-Hill and S&P of three types of
fraud, the first federal case against a ratings company for
grades related to the credit crisis.  Bernanke and his FOMC colleagues met on Aug. 7, 2007, after
a steady deterioration in  financial market stability . The Bear
Stearns Cos. liquidation and other market disruptions took place
the prior month.  In June 2007, William C. Dudley, then the head of the
markets desk of the  Federal Reserve Bank of New York , warned of
the risk to broader financial markets from flawed credit
ratings. His remarks sparked an FOMC discussion on the risk to
the economy from declining confidence in ratings companies.  S&P issued credit ratings on more than $2.8 trillion of
residential mortgage-backed securities and about $1.2 trillion
of collateralized-debt obligations from September 2004 through
October 2007, according to the Justice Department complaint.  For more, click here.  Levitt Says McGraw-Hill ‘Foolish’ to Not Settle S&P Lawsuit  The U.S. government will prevail in its lawsuit accusing
 McGraw-Hill Cos . and its Standard & Poor’s unit of fraud, former
Securities and Exchange Commission Chairman Arthur Levitt said.  “The government is going to win,” Levitt said in an
interview yesterday with Tom Keene on Bloomberg Radio. “McGraw-
Hill was foolish not to have made a settlement.”  Levitt said any settlement, while “substantial,” will
“come south” of the $5 billion that the U.S. is seeking. The
penalties are based on losses suffered by federally insured
financial institutions, according to acting U.S. Associate
Attorney General Tony West. The department considered that
number “fairly conservative,” West said.  McGraw-Hill had been in “extensive discussions” with the
government over the accusations for at least four months, Floyd
Abrams, a lawyer representing the company, said yesterday.
Settlement talks broke down after the government sought a fine
of more than $1 billion and an admission of wrongdoing from S&P,
the New York Times reported.  Edward Sweeney, a spokesman for New York-based McGraw-Hill,
declined to comment on Levitt’s predictions.  Levitt is a board member of Bloomberg LP.  For related audio, click here.  Burns Says Government Needs ‘Smoking Gun’ in S&P Suit  Douglas Burns, a former federal prosecutor, talked about
the U.S. lawsuit accusing  McGraw-Hill Cos.  and its Standard &
Poor’s unit of fraud.  He spoke with Stephanie Ruhle on Bloomberg Television’s
“Market Makers.” They were joined by William Cohan, author of
“Money and Power: How Goldman Sachs Came to Rule the World.”
(Cohan is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  For the Burns video, click here.  Separately, Dennis Kelleher, chief executive officer of
 Better Markets , a nonpartisan reform group, talked about the
suit and nature of the allegations, including whether S&P made
the ratings in a manner that was “overstated,” according to
the allegations in the complaint, to gain market share.  Kelleher talked with Tom Keene, Sara Eisen and Michael
McKee on Bloomberg Television’s “Surveillance.”  For the Kelleher video, click here.  Compliance Policy  Ailing Banks May Escape EU Rules to Impose Outside Managers  Banks  may win a partial reprieve from European Union
proposals to parachute outside managers into lenders deemed at
risk of failure.  Some EU nations are concerned that empowering regulators to
send in these so-called special managers could “hasten the
decline” of struggling banks, according to a document obtained
by Bloomberg News. They prefer to allow this step when a bank is
no longer viable, according to the document prepared by Ireland,
which holds the EU’s rotating presidency. The Irish document,
dated Jan. 11, didn’t identify the countries.  The “special manager” plans are part of a push by Michel
Barnier, the EU’s financial services chief, to take taxpayers
off the hook for bailing out banks. The new manager would
replace the bank’s existing bosses and would normally be in the
post for a maximum of one year, according to a copy of the plans
on the EU’s  website .  EU governments have provided as much as 4.6 trillion euros
($6.2 trillion) of capital injections, guarantees and other
support to lenders since 2008.  Compliance Action  RBS Fined $612 Million on Libor, Will Seek Clawbacks For Payment  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc , fined $612 million for
manipulating benchmark interest rates, plans to claw back three-
quarters of the money from bonuses and awards already paid to
the firm’s employees.  Britain’s biggest publicly owned lender will pay $325
million to the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission, $150
million to the Department of Justice and 87.5 million pounds
($137 million) to the U.K.’s Financial Services Authority, the
CFTC said in a statement yesterday. RBS said it will recoup
about 300 million pounds from employees.  The bank is seeking to recoup 300 million pounds because it
equals the amount that the lender is paying to overseas
regulators, Hampton told reporters at a press conference
yesterday. “Thousands” of employees, mostly at the investment
bank, face having their bonuses cut, while the firm is
considering clawing back payments to former directors, Hampton
said.  The settlement talks, which were close to completion last
month, were prolonged as the Justice Department pressed RBS to
plead guilty to criminal charges, two people with knowledge of
the discussions said on Jan. 29. RBS also agreed to enter into a
deferred prosecution agreement with the Justice Department
yesterday, the agency said. In such a deal, the government
allows a target to avoid charges by meeting certain conditions -
- including the payment of fines or penalties -- and by
committing to specific reforms, either under the guidance of a
monitor or the creation of an internal compliance panel. If the
terms of the agreement are not met, the government can prosecute
the case.  More than a dozen RBS traders made hundreds of attempts to
manipulate yen and Swiss franc Libor between mid-2006 and 2010
to benefit their trading positions, sometimes colluding with
counterparts at other firms, the CFTC said. That continued even
after the CFTC commenced its investigation into the wrongdoing.  For more, click here.  Japan to Take Appropriate Action Against RBS, Official Says  Japan’s Financial Services Agency and Securities and
Exchange Surveillance Commission are still investigating RBS, an
FSA official said.  A few RBS Japan employees are involved in the Libor case,
the official said, declining to provide specifics. The official
spoke at a news briefing in Tokyo, asking not to be named in
accordance with agency policy.  An RBS Japan unit agreed to plead guilty to a criminal
charge of wire fraud in the bank’s settlement over allegations
it manipulated global interest rates, the U.S. Commodity Futures
Trading Commission said yesterday in a statement.  Japan regulators have been reviewing compliance at RBS,
including relating to benchmark interest rates. The regulator
said in December that it joined a probe into possible rigging of
interest rates at RBS, two regulatory officials with knowledge
of the matter said at that time.  RBS Trader Helped UBS’s Hayes With Libor Bribes, Regulators Say  A  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  trader colluded with a
counterpart at  UBS AG  to pay almost 211,000 pounds ($330,000) in
bribes to brokers willing to help them manipulate global
interest rates, regulators said.  Neil Danziger, a London-based derivatives specialist at
RBS, helped Tom Hayes, the former UBS employee at the center of
the global investigation into rate-rigging, to bribe at least
two brokers into persuading other banks to submit rates in line
with their own, according to transcripts released by regulators
that didn’t identify the traders by name. Two people with direct
knowledge of the talks confirmed the traders’ identities. The
regulators didn’t identify the brokers involved.  Over the 12 months through August 2009, Danziger entered
into at least 30 wash trades with Hayes in order to pay the
brokers 211,000 pounds, according to the FSA, which didn’t
identify the traders. In five of those trades, the brokerage
payment was made by UBS instead of Danziger.  Hayes, who worked at RBS between 2001 and 2003, was
arrested in December by the Serious Fraud Office along with two
brokers from London-based broker RP Martin Holdings Ltd., which
isn’t being investigated by the FSA.  Officials at RBS, RP Martin Holdings, and UBS declined to
comment. Hayes’s lawyer, David Williams, didn’t immediately
respond to a request for comment. Danziger didn’t respond to an
e-mail as well as a request for comment through his lawyer.  For more, click here.  Libor Accords Leave Banks Facing States With ‘Massive’ Claims  A multistate probe of alleged manipulation of interest
rates threatens to leave banks liable for billions of dollars in
estimated state and local losses from the scandal, even as they
settle with national regulators.  New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman is helping lead
a probe into claims that banks rigged global benchmarks for
borrowing, adding to investigations by other authorities,
including the U.S. Justice Department.  Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc  agreed yesterday to pay about $612 million to U.S. and
U.K. regulators to resolve their claims.  More than 12 states are participating in the probe,
according to a person familiar with the matter who requested
anonymity because he isn’t authorized to speak publicly.  States have joined forces as banks reach settlements to
resolve liability tied to Libor, or the London interbank offered
rate. Barclays Plc in June agreed to pay 290 million pounds
($454 million), and in December,  UBS AG  agreed to pay 1.4
billion Swiss francs ($1.5 billion).  By acting together, state attorneys general can amass
potentially large claims against banks and gain leverage in any
settlement negotiations, said Stephen Houck, an attorney at
Menaker & Herrmann LLP and a former chief of the New York
attorney general’s antitrust bureau. Antitrust law allows states
to seek triple damages.  Global authorities have been investigating claims that more
than a dozen banks altered submissions used to set benchmarks
such as Libor to profit from bets on interest-rate derivatives
or make the lenders’ finances appear healthier.  For more, click here.  Interviews/Hearings  HSBC Reputation ‘Crushed’ by Mexican Money Laundering, CEO Says  HSBC Holdings Plc ’s reputation was “crushed” after it
agreed to pay $1.92 billion to settle U.S. probes of money
laundering in places such as Mexico, Chief Executive Officer
Stuart Gulliver said.  “I’ve been in the firm 33 years and this gives me
absolutely no pleasure whatsoever,” he told U.K. lawmakers in
London yesterday. “You shouldn’t be under any illusion as to
how seriously we take this and how upsetting this whole thing
has been. We’ve crushed our reputation with the Mexican
events.”  The settlement included a deferred prosecution agreement
with the U.S. Department of Justice. The U.K.’s Financial
Services Authority said the London-based bank will have to
employ an independent monitor to oversee compliance with anti-
money laundering requirements.  HSBC’s Mexican branches had become so well-known to drug
traffickers as the place to launder proceeds from illicit sales
that cartels began using special boxes to speed transactions,
U.S. prosecutors have said.  “We bought a bank in Mexico, we bought cheaply because it
was in distress,” Gulliver, 53, told the Parliamentary
Commission on Banking Standards. “We ourselves were too slow to
put in place anti-money-laundering systems that were up to the
standards required today.”  FDIC’s Norton Wants to Revise Basel III Leverage for U.S. Banks  U.S. banks should have to meet a stricter leverage ratio
than that outlined in the Basel III international agreement,
said Jeremiah Norton, a board member of the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corp.  The regulatory agencies considering capital rules,
including the FDIC, Office of the Comptroller of the Currency
and Federal Reserve, should consider minimum leverage ratios
based on tangible common equity against bank assets not weighted
for risk, Norton said in a  speech  yesterday in Orlando, Florida.
The ratio should be higher than the earlier Basel III proposal
for the Tier 1 capital ratio, he said.  “There is growing empirical evidence that a leverage ratio
based on total assets is a better predictor of bank distress
than a risk-based capital ratio,” as outlined in the Basel
proposal, Norton said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Carla Main  in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 