-- Siemens, Nokia Talks Said to Intensify to End Venture
-- B y   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l ,   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d   a n d   A d a m   E w i n g
-- 2013-02-07T17:00:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/siemens-nokia-talks-said-to-intensify-to-end-equipment-venture.html
Siemens AG  and  Nokia Oyj  have
intensified talks to end their six-year-old phone-equipment
venture as the German partner pushes for an exit, according to
three people familiar with the situation.  One scenario under discussion for Nokia Siemens Networks is
a joint buyout of Siemens’s 50 percent stake by Nokia and a
strategic partner such as Alcatel-Lucent SA, which has held
exploratory talks over a deal, said the people, who asked not to
be identified because the matter is private. Discussions have
accelerated as a shareholder agreement comes up for  renewal  in
April and as Alcatel-Lucent prepares for the departure of its
chief executive officer, they said.  Siemens has repeatedly said it wants to get out of the
venture, which has an enterprise value of as much as 10 billion
euros ($13.4 billion), according to estimates by Aalandsbanken
analyst  Lars Soederfjell .  Nokia Siemens and competitors such as Alcatel-Lucent have
struggled with sputtering demand and losses as competition from
Chinese rivals has intensified and Europe’s mobile operators,
pressured by slowing growth, have curbed spending on equipment.
Meanwhile, the German company, which manufactures products from
power turbines to high-speed trains, is looking to focus on more
profitable businesses.  Verwaayen’s Exit  “It’s hard to say what will happen to NSN, but in the end
it won’t be in the hands of either Nokia or Siemens,” said
Robert Jakobsen, an analyst at Jyske Bank A/S in Denmark.  Nokia shares  jumped  as much as 3.9 percent and closed 1.9
percent higher at 3.02 euros in Helsinki. Siemens closed little
changed at 77 euros in Frankfurt.  Alcatel-Lucent gained 4.9 percent to 1.23 euros on the
Paris exchange. The company said today CEO  Ben Verwaayen  will
step down once a succession plan is in place after 2012 losses
reached 1.37 billion euros.  The discussions between Espoo, Finland-based Nokia and
Munich-based Siemens have been on and off and may not lead to an
agreement anytime soon, the people said. An initial public
offering of Nokia Siemens is also an option, though considered
unlikely, said two of the people.  Wolfram Trost , a Siemens spokesman, declined to comment, as
did  Susan Sheehan , a spokeswoman for Nokia, and Alcatel-Lucent
spokesman  Simon Poulter .  Earlier Talks  Nokia and Siemens abandoned talks with private-equity
buyers in 2011 over a sale of the business as the buyout firms
failed to come up with a compelling offer. Nokia Siemens has
since returned to profit, helped by a plan to cut 17,000 jobs,
even as Paris-based Alcatel-Lucent suffers from declining sales
in Europe.  To be sure, Nokia may avoid buying more of Nokia Siemens
because the mobile-phone manufacturer is focused on bolstering
its cash reserves, Jakobsen said. Nokia reported its  seventh
consecutive decline  in quarterly sales last month and omitted
its dividend for the first time in 143 years, a decision it said
will “ensure strategic flexibility.”  The handset maker, led by ex-Microsoft Corp. executive
Stephen Elop, is trying to re-orient itself toward higher-end
handsets like the Lumia smartphone, pitched as an alternative to
Apple Inc.’s iPhone and devices running Google Inc.’s Android
software.  All three major ratings companies rank Nokia’s debt three
steps below investment grade, after Moody’s Investors Service
lowered Nokia by two levels to Ba3 in July. The smartphone maker
had net cash of 4.4 billion euros at the end of last year.  Performance at the venture with Siemens is now a relative
bright spot for Nokia. Nokia Siemens’s most recent results
topped Nokia’s earlier estimates with fourth-quarter operating
profit of 14.4 percent of sales, excluding some items.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Campbell in London at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Kirchfeld in London at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net ;
Adam Ewing in Stockholm at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net ;
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  