-- Condoms Restocked at Singapore Campus Drugstore as Ban Is Lifted
-- B y   S h a r o n   C h e n
-- 2013-02-08T10:30:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/singapore-university-lifts-ban-on-condom-sales-at-campus-store.html
Condoms were restocked at a National
University of Singapore drugstore after the city’s oldest
college lifted a ban this week.  “The university does not restrict the sale of condoms on
campus, and vendors can decide if they would like to carry these
items,” the  school  said in an e-mail response to queries
yesterday. An earlier request was “a misunderstanding and this
matter has since been clarified and resolved,” it said.  The university, ranked  second  in Asia by Quacquarelli
Symonds, has faced sex scandals involving students and staff. A
law student’s scholarship was revoked last year after he posted
his sexually explicit videos on a blog, the Straits Times
reported. A law professor is on trial for allegedly giving a
female student better grades in exchange for sex.  “The Guardian Health & Beauty store at NUS has restocked
the family planning products on the shelves today,” Dairy Farm
International Holdings Ltd., which runs the drugstore, said in
an e-mailed statement today.  The company said yesterday that family planning products
were “prohibited” at the university. Condoms were removed from
its shelves on Feb. 4 after communicating with the school, it
said.  Dairy Farm  shares climbed 2.7 percent to $13.65 at the
close in Singapore, rising for a 10th day, the longest winning
streak in more than two decades. The stock closed at the highest
since at least October 1990.  NUS  is facing increasing competition. Prime Minister Lee
Hsien Loong said in a speech last year the city will have two
more universities.  Condom Use  Singaporean students are 30 times less likely to use
condoms when having sex for the first time compared with their
counterparts in other countries, the Straits Times reported Oct.
23, citing an annual survey by  Reckitt Benckiser Group Plc ’s
condom unit Durex. The survey, carried out in 37 countries,
found that the average age when Singaporeans had their first
sexual experience was 22, the paper reported.  “NUS is afraid of the implications that selling condoms
might have on students living in dorms,” said Darryl Tan, a
life sciences major in his fourth year. “If you want to have
sex, you’ll get it somewhere else. Taking condoms on and off
shelves isn’t the right way to deal with such issues.”  Singapore is trying to boost its fertility rate to cope
with an aging population and labor shortage, allocating S$2
billion ($1.6 billion) on matchmaking, housing grants,
subsidized childcare and cash bonuses for parents. Economic
growth eased to a three-year low in 2012.  “Anyone who is not ready to get pregnant will have
protected sex, not just students,” said Athena Foo, a 22-year-
old theater studies major. “Students are smart enough to know
the risks and consequences. Even if they don’t sell it in NUS,
it’s not as if the students can’t get it elsewhere.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sharon Chen in Singapore at 
 schen462@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  