-- Singapore Aiding Italy in Soccer Match-Fixing Probe
-- B y   A n d r e a   T a n   a n d   K y u n g h e e   P a r k
-- 2013-02-07T02:51:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/singapore-police-concerned-about-match-fixing-probe-seriousness.html
Singapore is assisting Italian
authorities through Interpol in their investigation of an
international soccer match-fixing syndicate, allegedly involving
a Singapore citizen, police said.  Europol said earlier this week an Asian-based operation
tried to fix as many as 680 games, including World Cup and
European Championship qualifiers, to make a profit of more than
8 million euros ($10.8 million). An 18-month investigation
identified 425 match officials, club executives, players and
criminals in 15 countries who sought to fix the matches.  “We adopt a zero-tolerance approach toward corruption,”
the Corrupt Practices Investigation Bureau in Singapore said in
an e-mailed statement today. “Stern action has been taken
against the parties involved if they had given or received
bribes to fix a match.”  Singapore police received requests for assistance in the
investigation from some European countries, police said in an e-
mailed statement yesterday. Today, in a separate e-mailed
statement, police said the National Central Bureau in Rome
sought their help.  “We will be liaising with the Europol to get more details
of their findings,” police said. “Singapore authorities remain
highly committed in the fight against transnational crime,
regardless of whether Singaporeans are involved.”  Singapore, ranked the least corrupt Asian nation by
Transparency International, has investigated eight match-fixing
cases involving bribery in the city-state since 2005, the
Corrupt Practices Investigation Bureau said.  Eleven people were charged and convicted including two
South Koreans and several footballers from a Singapore-based
football club since 2005, the anti-corruption agency said.  World Cup and European Championship qualifiers, two
Champions League matches and several top-flight games in
European national leagues were among the suspicious matches
identified, Europol said. Another 300 outside Europe, mainly in
Africa, Asia, and South and Central America, may also have been
targeted.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrea Tan in Singapore at 
 atan17@bloomberg.net ;
Kyunghee Park in Singapore at 
 kpark3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Linus Chua at 
 lchua@bloomberg.net  