-- Billionaire Slim Parlaying IPad Demand Into IPO of Sanborns
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   J .   L e v i n
-- 2013-02-07T17:08:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/slim-parlaying-ipad-demand-into-ipo-of-mexican-retailer-sanborns.html
Billionaire  Carlos Slim  is taking
Mexican retailer Grupo Sanborns SAB public as revenue surges
from sales to consumers looking to shop at its Saks Fifth Avenue
stores and buy Apple Inc. iPads.  Slim’s  Grupo Carso SAB  is selling an 18 percent stake in
Sanborns after the Mexico City-based retailer’s sales rose 8.2
percent in 2012 to 39.4 billion pesos ($3.1 billion). The
initial public offering, scheduled to price today, aims to raise
about 12.5 billion pesos including an overallotment option for
underwriters, according to a filing.  The IPO will test investor willingness to pay a premium
over the benchmark for a company with 414 stores across Latin
America’s second-biggest economy, including Sanborns and Sears
department stores and iShops that sell  Apple  computers, phones
and tablets. The midpoint of the offering price range represents
24 times Sanborns’s trailing 12 months of earnings, compared
with 27 times for competitor El Puerto de Liverpool SAB and 19
times for Mexico’s  IPC index .  “We’re going to see stronger participation because of
Slim’s reputation,”  Jorge Lagunas , who oversees $200 million in
stocks at Grupo Financiero Interacciones SA, said in a telephone
interview today from Mexico City. “I like the story, and I’d
like to participate, above all because of the long-term
outlook.”  Sanborns said it will offer the shares at a projected price
of between 27 pesos to 32 pesos each in a deal led by Credit
Suisse Group AG and Slim’s Grupo Financiero Inbursa SAB. Trading
is scheduled to start tomorrow.  Immigrant’s Son  The IPO is Mexico’s first this year and the first new
equity listing for the world’s richest man since January 2011,
when Grupo Carso spun off silver and gold miner Minera Frisco
SAB and real-estate company Inmuebles Carso SAB.  The 73-year-old Lebanese immigrant’s son has an estimated
fortune of $78 billion, based on the Bloomberg Billionaires
Index.  Grupo Carso is his third-biggest company, with a market
value of 141.4 billion pesos, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Grupo Carso fell 0.1 percent today to 61.67 pesos and
has dropped 1.4 percent this year.  Sanborns holds licenses to operate stores under the brand
names Sears, Pier 1 and Saks Fifth Avenue, according to the
filing. It operates the iShops under a non-exclusive license
with Apple and has stores under the name Mixup that sell music,
movies and concert tickets. The iShop-Mixup group of businesses
is the country’s top distributor of Apple products and
accessories, according to an investor presentation.  Growth Potential  Sanborns, while already in 65 cities, says it has growth
potential because Mexico has 250 cities with populations of more
than 50,000, according to the investor presentation, which was
filed with the  Mexican exchange . The company plans to use some
of the IPO proceeds to open and remodel stores, according to the
filing.  The retail company got its start as a soda fountain and
pharmacy in 1903, when California immigrant Frank Sanborn opened
the Sanborns American Pharmacy in downtown Mexico City,
according to a history published on the website of Slim’s art
museum.  Profit last year rose 12 percent last year to 3.3 billion
pesos, according to the company.  Investing behind Slim has its risks,  Ed Kuczma , an
emerging-markets analyst at Van Eck Associates Corp., said in a
phone interview from New York.  Dutch Losses  Shares in his America Movil SAB, Latin America’s biggest
mobile-phone company, fell 2 percent on Feb. 5, the most in two
months, amid concern it faces growing losses on an investment in
Dutch phone company Royal KPN NV.  “Recent history suggests Slim may not exactly be a person
you want to be co-investing with,” Kuczma said. “America
Movil’s been very good operationally, but some of the
extracurricular activities in terms of investing in Europe are
not the best use of proceeds.”  Slim’s group bought a majority stake in Sears Mexico in
1997 and has expanded it to 78 stores from the 40 in operation
at the time. Sears Mexico, which “constantly” generated losses
before Slim took over, is profitable now, according to the
filing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan J. Levin in Mexico City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  