-- Smith & Nephew Fourth-Quarter Profit Falls as Europe Lags
-- B y   A l l i s o n   C o n n o l l y
-- 2013-02-07T07:28:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/smith-nephew-fourth-quarter-profit-falls-as-europe-lags.html
Smith & Nephew Plc , Europe’s biggest
maker of artificial hips and knees, reported fourth-quarter
earnings declined on a sluggish European market, and it forecast
lower profitability this year.  Trading profit, which excludes reorganization and
acquisition costs, fell to $272 million from $279 million a year
earlier, the U.K.’s biggest medical-device maker said today in a
statement. Earnings excluding some items were 21.6 cents a
share, topping the 21-cent average estimate of 12  analysts 
surveyed by Bloomberg.  Smith & Nephew is scouting for acquisitions and cutting
costs as the London-based company seeks to reduce its exposure
to orthopedics and Europe. Smith & Nephew has said it would
borrow money to buy wound care and minimally invasive surgery
assets and expand in emerging markets.  “Our choices to invest in products and geographic areas of
higher growth are enabling us to drive greater value from
existing resources,” Olivier Bohuon, chief executive officer,
said in the statement.  Full-year trading profit was 23.3 percent of sales, beating
the company’s forecast of a “modest increase” over the
previous year’s 22.5 percent. The company forecast the margin to
decline this year due to restructuring and a U.S. medical-device
tax, though it aims to later reach a 24 percent margin.  Dividend Payout  The company proposed a final dividend of 16.2 cents a
share, bringing the total payout from 2012 profit to 26.1 cents
a share.  Fourth-quarter sales fell to $1.08 billion from $1.11
billion, beating the $1.07 billion average estimate of 11
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Revenue was reduced by the
absence of the Biologics and Clinical Therapies business, which
was spun out as Bioventus LLC in May. Smith & Nephew reports
earnings in dollars, and the currency’s gains reduced revenue
from business outside the U.S.  Last year the company said it would reduce its 11,000-
person workforce by 7 percent over three years to save $150
million a year.  In November, Smith & Nephew said would buy Healthpoint
Biotherapeutics for $782 million in cash to gain treatments for
wounds that are difficult to heal.  Smith & Nephew fell 0.3 percent to close at 705.50 pence in
London yesterday, giving the company a market value of 6.38
billion pounds ($10 billion). The stock has returned 3.8 percent
this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Connolly in Frankfurt at 
 aconnolly4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  