-- Sony Slumps by Most in Four Years as Losses Stun Traders
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s   a n d   M a s a a k i   I w a m o t o
-- 2013-02-08T07:25:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/sony-margin-buys-hit-13-year-high-before-surprise-loss-announced.html
Sony Corp.  shares dropped the most in
four years after reporting an eighth consecutive quarter of
losses, an unpleasant surprise for investors who borrowed money
to buy the stock on bets the weaker yen would help turn around
Japan’s biggest exporter of consumer electronics.  A 59 percent jump this year by the maker of PlayStation
game consoles helped drive the number of the shares being held
in margin accounts to a 13-year high, according to  data  compiled
by Bloomberg. The accounts held 5.48 million shares as of
yesterday, the most since March 2000, the data show.  Sony shares  slumped  10 percent to close at 1,365 yen, the
biggest decline since November 2008. The company’s 150 billion
yen ($1.6 billion) of convertible bonds due in 2017 fell the
most since November, sliding 8.8 percent to 147 yen per 100 yen
in face value, according to Nomura Holdings Inc.  “Speculators who have been rushing to buy Sony on
expectation that the weakening yen will turn the earnings around
must be disappointed,” said  Mitsushige Akino , Tokyo-based chief
fund officer at Ichiyoshi Asset Management Co., which oversees
about $356 million. “They will close their positions to take
profits or minimize losses.”  Sony rebounded 92 percent through yesterday from a 32-year
low on Nov. 15. Japan’s exporters have rallied on speculation
earnings will improve on the weaker yen, said  Amir Anvarzadeh , a
Singapore-based manager for Asia equity sales at BGC Partners
Inc.  Declining Yen  The Japanese yen slid in the last four months, the longest
streak of monthly losses since August 2008. The currency has
retreated about 14 percent against the dollar since elections
were announced Nov. 14 amid speculation new Prime Minister
Shinzo Abe would take aggressive steps to fight deflation.  “Some of the hedge funds have been accumulating long
positions on the back of speculation that Sony will be turning
things around,” BGC’s Anvarzadeh said. “That quick, hot money
is going to sell out. I don’t believe Sony is going to turn
around soon.”  Unlike its rivals, the currency’s weakness hasn’t been
enough to reverse Sony’s losses. The maker of Bravia televisions
posted a loss of 10.8 billion yen, missing the average estimate
for a 21 billion-yen profit from three analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. Panasonic Corp. posted surprise net income of 61
billion yen in the three months ended December, while Sharp made
its first operating profit in five quarters.  Sony Line-Up  Sony is counting on new products to lure consumers away
Samsung Electronics Co.’s Galaxy devices and Apple Inc.’s iPads
and iPhones. At last month’s Consumer Electronics Show in Las
Vegas, the company introduced higher-definition TVs, water-
resistant Experia smartphones and a more-powerful digital
camera. Sony has announced a PlayStation event for Feb. 20,
stoking speculation the company will unveil the fourth
generation of the gaming console.  “We need to see how these products perform before
investing money back in Sony,” said  Yuuki Sakurai , president of
Fukoku Capital Management Inc., which oversees $19 billion.
“Sony still has not shown us how it will fight with Samsung or
Apple.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net ;
Masaaki Iwamoto in Tokyo at 
 miwamoto4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  