-- South Africa Charges 19 Alleged Congo Coup Plotters
-- B y   B r i a n   L a t h a m   a n d   M i c h a e l   J .   K a v a n a g h
-- 2013-02-07T15:30:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/south-africa-charges-19-alleged-congo-coup-plotters.html
South African prosecutors said 19
suspects accused of plotting to overthrow the government of
Democratic Republic of Congo were seeking to buy weapons and set
up a training camp when they were arrested.  The group was charged with engaging in mercenary activity
and rendering foreign military assistance, Shaun Abrahams, a
prosecutor, told the Pretoria Magistrate Court today. The
suspects don’t have lawyers yet and will appear in court in
seven days for a bail and immigration hearing.  South African police arrested the suspects on Feb. 5 in the
northern Limpopo province after an undercover investigation,
Abrahams said. The group, belonging to a rebel movement known as
the Union of Nationalists for Renewal, had planned to use income
from mining concessions in Congo to purchase as many as 5,000
rifles, 1,000 grenades and 40 missiles, he said. They were
planning to train in Limpopo under the cover of a camp for game
rangers combating rhino poaching, Abrahams said.  Congo, which is almost the size of Western Europe, has
struggled to control its border regions since the official end
of almost a decade of war in 2003. More than a dozen rebel
groups are based in eastern Congo, some of which have threatened
to overthrow the president. Most of the groups have fewer than
1,000 members and often support themselves through illegal
taxation or mineral smuggling from the gold, tin and coltan-rich
region.  City Occupied  One of the largest groups, known as M23, occupied the
eastern city of Goma in November for 11 days and threatened to
continue to Kinshasa, Congo’s capital, before pulling back its
troops. Uganda is hosting talks between the rebels and the
Congolese government in Kampala, the capital.  Two suspects, Etienne Kabila and a person identified as
General Yakutumba, who is suspected of being the group’s
military leader, are still at large, said Abrahams, who last
month secured a terrorism conviction against Nigerian militant
leader  Henry Okah .  A U.S. consular officer has met with James Kazongo, a U.S.
citizen who is among the 19 arrested, John Hillmeyer, a
spokesman for the U.S. Embassy in Pretoria, said by phone today.  Congo’s government has been told by South African officials
that Etienne Kabila is the same person that Congolese
authorities accuse of being involved in previous rebel plots,
said Congolese Communications Minister  Lambert Mende .  Half Brother  According to a 2011 United Nations report by the
independent Group of Experts on Congo, Etienne Kabila returned
to Congo in 2011 to start an armed rebellion after nearly a
decade in exile in South Africa. Kabila says his father was
former Congolese leader  Laurent Desire Kabila , according to the
report, making him the half brother of President  Joseph Kabila .  “He’s been named in all these plots for 15 years,” Mende
said by phone from Kinshasa. “He spends his time going from
conspiracy to conspiracy.” Etienne Kabila isn’t related to the
president, he said.  While in Congo in 2011, Etienne Kabila met with members of
the Democratic Forces for the Liberation of Rwanda, a Rwandan
rebel group with leaders who may have links to the 1994 genocide
in that country, according to the experts report. He also met
with a militia group known as Mai Mai Yakutumba to discuss the
rebellion, according to the report.  Mai Mai Yakutumba, led by the self-appointed General
William Amuri Yakutumba, is based in South Kivu province and was
behind a series of pirate attacks on Lake Tanganyika in 2011,
according to the UN. Yakutumba’s group says it’s protecting the
indigenous population against foreigners, mainly from
neighboring Rwanda, according to letters the group sent to boat
owners in 2011.  Yakutumba’s phone didn’t connect when Bloomberg called him
today seeking comment.  Rwanda has long supported rebel groups in eastern Congo,
and has provided weapons and training to M23 rebels, according
to the Congolese government and UN experts. Rwanda denies the
allegations.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Latham in Johannesburg at 
 blatham@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael J. Kavanagh  in Kinshasa at 
 mkavanagh9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  