-- South Africa Business Confidence Climbs to 5-Month High
-- B y   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z
-- 2013-02-07T09:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/south-africa-business-confidence-climbs-to-5-month-high.html
 South African business confidence
increased to a five-month high in January as vehicle sales
rebounded and manufacturing expanded, the South African Chamber
of Commerce and Industry said.  The  index  rose to 94 from 93 in December, the Johannesburg-
based chamber said in an e-mailed statement today. The measure
is compiled from 13 economic indicators, including retail sales,
 inflation  and financial gauges, such as a stock-market index and
currency.  Manufacturing, vehicle sales and credit growth had
“positive contributions to business confidence,” the chamber
said. The index “might recover more strongly during 2013.”  The central bank is forecasting economic growth of 2.6
percent this year, compared with 2.5 percent in 2012, the
slowest pace since a 2009 recession. The Reserve Bank kept the
 benchmark  interest rate unchanged at 5 percent since July to
help stimulate the economy as mining strikes and a slump in
demand from Europe curbed exports.  Manufacturing  expanded 3.4 percent in November, the fastest
pace since July and more than the 1.1 median estimate in a
Bloomberg survey of eight analysts. Factory output accounts for
about 15 percent of the economy. Vehicle  sales  growth
accelerated to a six-month high of 14 percent in January, the
National Association of Automobile Manufacturers of South Africa
said on Feb. 4.  While a weaker rand has hurt confidence, the impact on
inflation was neutral for the business confidence index, the
chamber said. The rand has dropped 4.8 percent against the
dollar this year, the second-worst performer after the yen among
the 16 major currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Inflation 
accelerated to 5.7 percent in December, near the top of the
central bank’s 3 percent to 6 percent target.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andres R. Martinez in Johannesburg at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  