-- Spain Anti-Doping Agency Looks at Real Sociedad Soccer Team
-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 2013-02-07T11:31:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/spain-anti-doping-agency-looks-at-real-sociedad-soccer-team.html
A  Spanish anti-doping  official said
his agency plans to question players on the Real Sociedad soccer
team between 2001 and 2007 after a former president said club
doctors administered banned drugs.  The official, who declined to be identified in line with
agency procedures, said it hasn’t opened a formal investigation
because there isn’t enough evidence so far.  Former  Real Sociedad  president Inaki Badiola told the As
newspaper on Feb. 4 that the club, runner-up to Real Madrid in
the 2003 Liga, had a fund to buy the drugs on the black market
before his one-year term in 2008.  The World Anti-Doping Agency is trying to find whether
sports other than cycling were part of a doping ring that was
uncovered in a 2006 police investigation called “Operacion
Puerto,” or “Operation Mountain Pass.” Police found 200 blood
bags and hospital-use drugs.  A trial of three doctors and two cycling team officials
accused of a “crime against public health” is under way in
Madrid. A lawyer representing  Montreal-based WADA  is allowed to
question the defendants and witnesses in the trial, which is
scheduled to run through March 22.  El Pais newspaper on Feb. 5 published what it said was a
2008 e-mail to Badiola from a Real Sociedad doctor saying money
from the fund would be used to acquire “growth factor” drugs
to assist recovery from injuries.  Jose Luis Astiazaran , the Real Sociedad president from 2001
to 2005, said in a Feb. 4 statement he wasn’t aware of illegal
practices by the team’s medical staff during that period.  Astiazaran, who is now the president of the Spanish league,
said “numerous” anti-doping tests didn’t find any wrongdoing
while he was in charge.  Real Sociedad captain Xabi Prieto, who has played for the
team for a decade, told El Mundo newspaper that he hadn’t
witnessed any unusual practices. “Our sport has nothing to do
with cycling,” Prieto was quoted as saying.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Alex Duff  in Madrid  at
 aduff4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  