-- Spies Bring Harris Tweed, Mohair to Fashion Week Debut
-- B y   L i l i   R o s b o c h
-- 2013-02-07T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/spies-bring-harris-tweed-mohair-to-fashion-week-debut.html
The cats Momo and Rugby were
nonchalant, but Gatsby, a rescued Brussels Griffon, barked
incessantly, sensing something was afoot.  The pets’ owner, 30-year-old American designer  David Hart ,
was enjoying a moment of relative calm a fortnight before the
frenzy of his debut show for  Mercedes-Benz Fashion Week  this
afternoon. We spoke in the Brooklyn loft he shares with his
wife, Daniela, and the four-legged trio.  More than 90 designers will present their collections in
the extravaganza that runs through Feb. 14. Hart’s moment will
come on the roof of the New Museum, where he’s featuring
menswear inspired by the actual and media-made spies of the late
1950s and early ’60s. Think Cold War, the space race and “The
Man from U.N.C.L.E.”  “It’s so fascinating to me how the media were able to take
such a tense period in history and turn global paranoia into
stylish social commentary,” Hart said.  After working for  Anna Sui ,  Tommy Hilfiger  and designing
sweaters for  Ralph Lauren , Hart started his own label,  David
Hart & Co. , in 2007 with neckties and later adding socks. His
first account was  Bergdorf Goodman , followed by Saks Fifth
Avenue, Bloomingdale’s and Nordstrom. Five years later, he
reckoned he was ready for a spot in Fashion Week.  “It’s a big expense, so my hope is that the show will
generate interest in our brand and drive sales,” said the
designer, who had to invest more than $30,000 in his
presentation of tailored garments, sweaters and accessories.  Selling Socks  Half of the money, which came from Hart’s fashion jobs as
well as the successful sale of his ties and socks, was spent on
the clothing and half on Fashion Week production costs.  From the initial sourcing of fabrics to the finished
product, it took him three months to get the collection ready.
He found manufacturers and milliners by word of mouth and set up
collaborations with other brands for shoes ( Walk-Over ), gloves
( Sermoneta ), glasses ( Moscot ) and hats ( Rod Keenan ). Most of his
pieces were made in the U.S. to support the garment industry.  The look of the collection is both traditional and
progressive, with great attention to detail and material.  Shirts have French cuffs with pockets and button-down
collars. Tuxedos come with cummerbunds modernized with a pocket
for keys or theater tickets; some cuffs have been embellished
with humorous monograms such as “LOL” and “OMG.” During the
show, driving gloves will be tucked into chest pockets.  Not Fussy  “I imagine my customer as a young professional in his late
20s, looking back at his grandfather and older generations who
were really dressing up,” Hart said. “He wants to look great
but doesn’t want to feel too fussy about his clothing.”  So, customers have the option of buying the unchallenging
dart-free jackets separately from the somewhat outre high-rise,
slim-leg trousers.  “I don’t want to say: These are the rules. For me, it’s
always been about what you feel the most comfortable in,” Hart
said.  For some of his suits, he developed patterns with  Harris
Tweed , coming up with unexpected, bright colors for the Scottish
mill’s classic designs, and with Molloy & Sons, in Donegal
County, Ireland.  “There are only two mills left there, so when they talk
about the authentic Donegal tweed, this is it,” Hart said.  Mohair’s Sheen  He also used mohair, which was popular in the spy era and
then fell out of fashion. “It has a great sheen to it, tailors
up beautifully and doesn’t wrinkle.”  Looking ahead, Hart’s next collection will stay in the
1950s but move to the South Seas. It will be about early
Hawaiian prints, tailored shirts and full linen trousers.  Prices for David Hart & Co.’s menswear collection are:
$1,650-$1,895 for suits ($350-$550 for trousers and $1,200-
$1,450 for jackets); $350-$375 for sweaters; $195-$225 for dress
shirts; $950-$1,250 for sport coats; $1,500-$1,800 for
outerwear; and $125 for ties.  ( Lili Rosboch  writes for Muse, the arts and leisure section
of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include  Jason Harper  on cars,  Lance Esplund 
on art.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lili Rosboch in New York 
 erosboch2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 