-- Sprint Tops Estimates as More Customers Embrace Smartphones
-- B y   S c o t t   M o r i t z
-- 2013-02-07T21:42:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/sprint-top-estimates-after-more-customers-embrace-smartphones.html
Sprint Nextel Corp. , the third-
largest U.S. wireless carrier, reported higher revenue and a
slightly narrower loss than analysts had estimated, bolstered by
increased use of smartphones.  The fourth-quarter net loss was 44 cents a share, Overland
Park, Kansas-based Sprint said today in a statement. Analysts
had predicted 45 cents on average, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Sales rose to $9.01 billion, compared with an average
 estimate  of $8.93 billion.  Sprint has been improving its network and offering more
smartphones in an effort to catch up with Verizon Wireless and
AT&T Inc. Its sales of Apple Inc.’s iPhone, which Sprint added
last year, reached 2.2 million last quarter, with 38 percent
coming from new customers. While smartphone sales hurt profit in
the short term because carriers subsidize them, the devices
encourage subscribers to use more data, helping increase revenue
in the long run.  Sprint shares fell less than 1 percent today, closing at
$5.74 in New York. The stock, which more than doubled last year,
has traded between $5.40 and $6 since October, when Tokyo-based
Softbank Corp. agreed to pay $20 billion for a 70 percent stake.
That deal, which Sprint expects to complete by midyear, gives it
financial backing to expand in the U.S. and mount a bigger
challenge to Verizon and AT&T.  ‘Muted’ Response  Investors are more focused on the outcome of that agreement
than today’s earnings, said  Kevin Roe , president of Roe Equity
Research LLC.  “The reaction is going to be muted since the Softbank deal
dampens any big swing in the stock,” Roe said before the
earnings report. Softbank will put Sprint on “a completely
different operational trajectory,” he said.  Until then, Sprint continues to lose ground. The company
has now had six straight years of losses and its lucrative
contract customers are leaving the carrier.  The number of monthly contract subscribers fell by 243,000
last quarter. Analysts expected a subscriber loss of almost
206,000, according to an average of eight estimates compiled by
Bloomberg. During the same period, AT&T gained 780,000 contract
customers, and Verizon Wireless added a record 2.1 million.  To compete for lucrative smartphone customers, Sprint has
to match its rivals’ discounts by subsidizing most of the cost
of the phones. In exchange for selling the device at a loss, the
carriers lure customers into two-year contracts.  Raising Prices  Sprint may soon consider raising service plan prices to
recoup those costs more quickly, Chief Executive Officer  Dan Hesse  said. The company isn’t in a position to increase prices
yet, he said.  “We wouldn’t consider raising prices right now because we
don’t have a network leadership position,” Hesse said.  With Softbank’s urging, Sprint has made Clearwire Corp. a
bigger part of its U.S. network expansion plan. In December,
Sprint agreed to buy all of Clearwire for $2.97 a share.
Clearwire, a high-speed network operator, also has attracted a
$3.30-a-share counteroffer by Dish Network Corp.  Sprint also is trying to catch up with its larger
competitors in infrastructure upgrades through a plan called
Network Vision. The company is providing long-term evolution, or
LTE, a high-speed data network to serve the growing number of
smartphone and tablet users.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Moritz in New York at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  