-- Sprouts Farmers Market Said to Consider Initial Public Offering
-- B y   L e s l i e   P a t t o n ,   L e e   S p e a r s   a n d   D a v i d   W e l c h
-- 2013-02-07T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/sprouts-farmers-market-said-to-consider-initial-public-offering.html
Sprouts Farmers Market LLC, the
grocery-store operator that’s owned by  Apollo Global Management
LLC , is considering an initial public offering, three people
familiar with the matter said.  The Phoenix-based company may begin interviewing
underwriters for an IPO soon, said one of the people, who asked
not to be named because the discussions are private.  Sprouts, originally a family-owned chain, has expanded
after Apollo combined the company with another business owned by
the same family in a February 2011 buyout. Sprouts completed an
acquisition of 35 Sunflower Farmers Market locations in May.  Apollo is exploring a Sprouts offering after the largest
U.S. IPOs by private equity-backed companies have made money for
investors. Apollo- and Texas Pacific Group Ltd.-backed Norwegian
Cruise Line Holdings Ltd. surged 47 percent through yesterday
since raising $514.1 million in an IPO last month; Starwood
Capital Group LLC’s Tri Pointe Homes Inc. has gained almost 7
percent since a $267.6 million IPO, and Bain Capital Partners
LLC-backed Bright Horizons Family Solutions Inc. has risen 25
percent since a $222.2 million initial offer.  Charles Zehren , a spokesman for New York-based Apollo at
Rubenstein Associates, declined to comment.  Sprouts, which has about 150 locations in the U.S.
Southwest, is planning to open as many as 20 stores this year.
While the grocery chain traces its roots to a San Diego fruit
stand in 1943, the first Sprouts Farmers Market opened in
Chandler, Arizona, in 2002, under the leadership of Stan and
 Shon Boney , according to the company’s  website .  Grocery Sales  Sprouts brings in about $2 billion in revenue annually and
$150 million a year in earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization, said a person familiar with the
company’s financial performance. A stock offering could value
the company at about $2 billion, the person said.  U.S. grocery-store sales are projected to be relatively
stagnant for the next four years, according to a June 2012
report from researcher IBISWorld Inc. Revenue in the industry is
forecast to increase 0.4 percent a year, on average, and reach
about $501 billion in 2017, the report shows.  Kroger Co ., based
in Cincinnati, is the largest U.S. grocery chain, followed by
Safeway Inc.  Kroger  shares  gained 7.4 percent last year, while the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 13 percent. Pleasanton,
California-based Safeway fell 14 percent.  Whole Foods Market Inc ., the largest natural-foods chain in
the U.S., jumped 31 percent in 2012 as it added locations and
lured customers with organic produce and naturally raised meats.
Austin, Texas-based Whole Foods has about 340 locations.  IPOs are getting a boost from a rally in stocks, after the
Dow Jones Industrial Average capped its best January since 1994,
advancing 5.8 percent. Of the 13 U.S. IPOs so far this year, 10
are trading above their offer price, data compiled by Bloomberg
show.  Sprouts stores, which are mostly in Arizona, California,
Colorado and Texas, sell food including all-natural cage-free
chicken, Australian-style yogurt and dried grains and beans in
its bulk department.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Leslie Patton in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net ;
Lee Spears in New York at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net ;
David Welch in New York at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  