-- Stanford Victims Get $1.7 Million in Political Donations
-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 2013-02-07T19:13:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/stanford-victims-get-1-7-million-in-political-donations.html
Republican and Democratic campaign
committees have returned $1.7 million in contributions convicted
Texas financier  R. Allen Stanford  made from proceeds of his $7
billion investment fraud, his receiver said.  Two Democratic committees and three Republican ones were
ordered by a U.S. appellate court in October to return
contributions Stanford made from 2000 to 2008 to his court-
appointed receiver, who is marshaling assets to repay investors.  “They all finally paid as of two weeks ago,”  Kevin Sadler , lead attorney for court-appointed receiver  Ralph Janvey ,
said in an e-mail. “The Democratic Senatorial Campaign
Committee’s share was about $1.2 million.”  The committees had argued they were legally entitled to
keep the donations, which were spent long ago on a variety of
campaigns.  Stanford, 62, is serving a 110-year prison sentence after
he was convicted in March of swindling investors of $7 billion
through bogus certificates of deposit at Antigua-based Stanford
International Bank Ltd. He is appealing his conviction.  Interest Added  Stanford and his companies donated $950,000 to the DSCC;
$238,500 to the National Republican Congressional Committee;
$202,000 to the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee;
$128,500 to the Republican National Committee; and $83,345 to
the National Republican Senatorial Committee, according to the
receiver’s website.  The appeals court upheld a lower-court award of interest on
the donations, bringing the total funds the five committees had
to repay to more than $1.7 million, according to court papers.  Matthew Acosta, an attorney for the Democratic committees,
declined to comment on the return of the funds in a phone
interview today. Mark Shank, who represented the Republican
committees, didn’t immediately respond to voice or e-mail
messages seeking comment.  Previously, Janvey had recovered $169,535 in Stanford
donations to individual politicians, who returned the money
after learning of the fraud. He continues to seek repayment of
roughly $100,000 in additional contributions to other
politicians, according to the most recent tally on his website.  Investors swindled by Stanford may receive an interim
distribution payment worth a penny on the dollar of their
losses, Janvey said in a court filing in January.  Janvey asked a judge’s permission to pay more than 17,000
investors an initial distribution of $55 million, according to
the filing in federal court in Dallas.  The case is Janvey v. Democratic Senatorial Campaign
Committee Inc. et al, 11-10704, U.S. Court of Appeals for the
Fifth Circuit (New Orleans).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Laurel Brubaker Calkins  in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha in San Francisco at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net . 