-- Starwood Hotels Quarterly Profit Falls as Europe Slows
-- B y   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e   a n d   N a d j a   B r a n d t
-- 2013-02-07T21:34:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/starwood-hotels-fourth-quarter-profit-falls-as-recovery-slows.html
Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide
Inc. , owner of the luxury St. Regis and W brands, said fourth-
quarter earnings declined as revenue growth slowed in Europe and
costs rose.  Net income dropped to $142 million, or 72 cents a share,
from $167 million, or 85 cents, a year earlier, the Stamford,
Connecticut-based company said today in a statement. Analysts
expected a profit of 65 cents a share, the average of 15
estimates in a Bloomberg survey.  “The year looks to be somewhat stronger than 2012, as the
uncertainty we saw in major world economies is showing signs of
giving way to strong demand growth,” Starwood Chief Executive
Officer  Frits van Paasschen  said in the statement. “We are
bullish about the long-term outlook on the global high-end
lodging industry.”  Starwood had predicted earnings for the period of 64 cents
to 66 cents a share. Analysts gave an estimate of 68 cents at
the time.  Fourth-quarter revenue was little changed at $1.53 billion,
the company said in the statement. Worldwide revenue per
available room, a measure of occupancy and rates, rose 4.1
percent from a year earlier, excluding currency fluctuations and
acquisitions. Revpar rose 5.2 percent in North America, 1
percent in Europe and 3.9 percent in Asia.  Continued ‘Softness’  “Muted international revpar growth in local currency”
weighed on Starwood’s earnings,  Nikhil Bhalla , a senior lodging
analyst at FBR & Co. in Arlington, Virginia, said in an e-mail
before the report was released. “I expect little improvement
given continued economic softness in Europe and oversupply of
hotel rooms in China and India.”  Shares of Starwood fell 1.4 percent to $61.72 at the close
in New York.  Marriott International Inc. , the largest publicly traded
U.S. hotel chain, is scheduled to report fourth-quarter earnings
on Feb. 19. Hyatt Hotels Corp., the chain controlled by the
Pritzker family, will release results on Feb. 13.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Chris Spillane  in London at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net ;
Nadja Brandt in Los Angeles at 
 nbrandt@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  