-- Statoil Sees Share of Spot Price-Indexed Gas Contracts Growing
-- B y   M i k a e l   H o l t e r
-- 2013-02-07T14:47:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/statoil-sees-share-of-spot-price-indexed-gas-contracts-growing.html
Statoil ASA , Norway’s largest energy
producer, expects the share of natural-gas sales contracts
linked to spot prices to exceed 75 percent of the total by 2015
from 55 percent.  “Europe has decided to develop the liquidity of its gas
market,”  Eldar Saetre , Statoil’s executive vice president of
marketing, processing and renewable energy, said today in an
interview in London. “It’s important for us to adjust to this
in an opportunistic way and create possibilities and not be
pushed into it.”  Exporters came under pressure from consumers to revise
contracts that link gas and oil after the gap between the two
fuels widened. Suppliers to Europe including OAO Gazprom,
Russia’s natural gas export monopoly, and Statoil have increased
the amount of spot pricing in their deals after customers
renegotiated contracts.  In November, Statoil agreed with BASF SE’s Wintershall to
supply an amount equal to about 6 percent of Germany’s annual
natural gas demand over the next 10 years in the Norwegian
producer’s biggest contract based on spot prices.  “New sales in markets that are fully liberalized are
overwhelmingly gas-based contracts,” Saetre said. The
Wintershall contract “represents that type of contract and also
a new type of customer that we haven’t had before.”  The increase in gas traded on exchanges and over the
counter underlines attempts by Europe’s biggest utilities to end
a pricing system that has led to losses as oil has climbed.  Statoil will have “more than 10 percent of continued oil
indexation, but I don’t think that we’ll have more than 25
percent,” according to Saetre.  The executive predicted that gas prices in Europe would
“stay strong” in the medium and long term.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mikael Holter  in Oslo at 
 mholter2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at   jbergman@bloomberg.net  