-- Stein Sees Signs of Excessive Risk Taking in Some Markets
-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 2013-02-07T20:23:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/stein-says-fed-should-consider-using-rates-to-further-stability.html
Federal Reserve Governor  Jeremy Stein 
said some credit markets, such as corporate debt, are showing
signs of potentially excessive risk-taking, while not posing a
threat to financial stability.  “We are seeing a fairly significant pattern of reaching-
for-yield behavior emerging in corporate credit,” Stein said
today in a speech in St. Louis.  Central bank officials, including Kansas City Fed President
 Esther George , are voicing increased concern that record-low
interest rates are overheating markets for assets from farmland
to junk bonds. Stein today cited leveraged loans and the junk
bonds as areas that have been “very robust of late.”  The Fed should be open to using  policy tools  such as
interest rates to safeguard stability, Stein said, while not
suggesting the central bank take any such action now.  “I can imagine situations where it might make sense to
enlist monetary policy tools in the pursuit of financial
stability,” he said. “It will be important to keep an open
mind” on using such tools, said Stein, a former Harvard
University economist who specializes in banking and finance.  Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  has argued for a clear separation
between oversight and interest rate policy, saying regulation
should be used to deal with asset-price bubbles. Last month he
said he considers supervisory tools “the first line of
defense” against such bubbles.  ‘Not Enough’  “Supervision by itself is not enough because it is within
the regulatory perimeter” in which the Fed focuses primarily on
banks, said  Viral Acharya , a finance professor at New York
University’s Stern School of Business who has served as an
adviser to several Fed district banks.  “People say interest rates are a blunt tool,” he said.
“But the flip side is that it is very pervasive,” reaching
across markets where the Fed may have no regulatory authority.  Stein’s speech reflects the Fed’s post-crisis focus on
financial-stability research, including monitoring markets
outside its regulatory reach, subjecting banks to stress tests
and considering the use of policy tools in new ways to curb
risk. For example,  the Fed  should consider using shifts in the
composition of its balance sheet to reduce risks if necessary,
he said.  Stein, 52, said a decline in the quality of debt through
greater subordination or less use of protective covenants may
also signal investors are reaching for yield. He indicated that
Fed officials are distinguishing between risks in a particular
market and broader systemic risks that could harm banks or
disrupt the flow of credit in the economy.  Losses Confined  “Even if it does not bode well for the expected returns to
junk-bond and leveraged-loan investors, it need not follow that
this risk-taking has ominous systemic implications,” he said.
“Even if at some point junk-bond investors suffer losses,
without spillovers to other parts of the system, these losses
may be confined and therefore less of a policy concern.”  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, which last week reached a
five-year high, fell 0.3 percent to 1,507.44 at 3:18 p.m. in New
York. The benchmark 10-year Treasury yield was little changed at
1.95 percent, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices.  Stein, who joined the Fed in May 2012 for a term lasting
through January of 2018, said in an audience question period
that it’s not clear low interest rates caused the house-price
bubble from 2002 to 2006. “It is hard to find a smoking gun”
that proves the case, he said.  Systemic Risk  Regulation may work in some instances in addressing
systemic-risk issues. Still,  monetary policy  shouldn’t be ruled
out, Stein said to a St. Louis Fed conference on household
finances.  “While monetary policy may not be quite the right tool for
the job, it has one important advantage relative to supervision
and regulation -- namely that it gets in all of the cracks,” he
said. “Changes in rates may reach into corners of the market
that supervision and regulation cannot.”  Stein backed the Federal Open Market Committee decision
last week to continue purchasing securities at the rate of $85
billion a month to try to bolster growth and reduce
unemployment. The Fed said economic growth “paused in recent
months, in large part because of weather-related disruptions and
other transitory factors,” while “the housing sector has shown
further improvement.”  Stein didn’t comment on the U.S. economy or current
monetary policy.  Inflation Expectations  George dissented last week from her first FOMC vote on
policy, citing concern that “continued high level of monetary
accommodation increased the risks of future economic and
financial imbalances and, over time, could cause an increase in
long-term inflation expectations,” according to a Jan. 30 FOMC
statement.  Prices “of assets such as bonds, agricultural land, and
high-yield and leveraged loans are at historically high levels”
and may signal market imbalances, George said in a speech Jan.
10.  “It is well documented that holding rates low for a long
period tends to increase the search for yield,” said  Douglas Elliott , a Brookings Institution fellow who was a managing
director at JPMorgan Chase & Co. from 2006 to 2009.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Steve Matthews  in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  