-- Structured Note Rules May Fail to Resolve Confusion Over Pricing
-- B y   K e v i n   D u g a n
-- 2013-02-07T16:44:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/structured-note-rules-may-fail-to-resolve-confusion-over-pricing.html
A move to improve pricing
transparency for U.S. structured notes may be undercut by the
tendency for issuers to use their own models and assumptions to
value the complex products.  The Securities and Exchange Commission plans to require
banks to disclose an estimated initial value of their securities
in offering documents and describe how they arrived at prices
for the bond and derivatives components, according to a  report 
from securities law firm  Morrison & Foerster LLP  last month.  Issuers can use internal funding rates or prevailing market
spreads over risk-free rates for “calculating” a bond’s price
and should “discuss” how the derivatives are valued, which
would include the use of models or assumptions, according to the
report. Differing approaches to valuation may complicate efforts
for investors to compare similar products to get the best deal.  “Depending on what the rule is, there might be so much
wiggle room in the valuation that it won’t be as useful,” said
 Frank Partnoy , a professor of law and finance at the University
of San Diego who previously structured derivatives at Morgan
Stanley, in a telephone interview.  In April, the regulator  asked  issuers how they value their
notes and how they create secondary markets for the illiquid
securities. It isn’t clear if the SEC has given the banks a
deadline, as documents and discussions aren’t public. In a Jan.
15 letter, the agency denied a Freedom of Information Act
request by Bloomberg News for records related to the matter,
saying “the filing reviews are still pending.”  ‘Actively Discussing’  The  Structured Products Association  is “actively
discussing the scope of disclosures with its members,”  Keith Styrcula , chairman of the New York-based trade group, said in an
e-mail.  Structured notes are bonds packaged with derivatives, often
options, that are customized for individual investors.
Derivatives base their value on other assets, such as stocks or
commodities, as well as the expected volatility of those assets.
Banks often use proprietary models to value their own
derivatives.  “If you changed your volatility assumptions for one of
these options that are embedded in one of these structured
products, you could get a vastly different valuation,” Tim
Dulaney, senior financial economist at the  Securities Litigation
& Consulting Group Inc. , a Virginia consulting firm, said in a
telephone interview. “And whether or not their volatility
assumption is appropriate is up for grabs.”  Dulaney also said that how banks estimate volatility could
be “too esoteric” for note buyers to understand. “Even the
simplest models you can use to value these things would fly over
the head of most retail investors,” he said.  Banks Disclose  The two largest structured note issuers in the U.S. by
sales last year,  Bank of America Corp.  and  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. , have begun disclosing the initial fair value of their
securities. The estimates appear on the first or second page of
prospectuses for the products.  Most of the notes issued by the banks had an estimated
value between 96 and 98 cents on the dollar, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The lowest price was 89.6 cents on the
dollar for 10-year  range accrual  securities tied to the Russell
2000 Index that Goldman Sachs issued on Oct. 26. The highest
value among equity-tied notes was 99.7 cents on the dollar for a
three-month  security  linked to the Tokyo Stock Price Index,
known as the Topix, sold on Sept. 28.  Tiffany Galvin , a spokeswoman for the bank, declined to
comment.  ‘Proprietary’ Models  The offering  documents  say the estimated value is lower
than the issue price partly because of underwriting fees and
expenses to create and market the notes. Models used to
determine the initial value “are proprietary and rely in part
on certain assumptions about future events, which may prove to
be incorrect,” according to the prospectus. The notes’ value on
the secondary market may differ “perhaps materially” from
Goldman’s appraisal because another party may use a different
pricing model, the bank wrote.  The notes pay annualized interest of 10 percent for days
that the benchmark is at least 80 percent of its initial value.
Goldman has the option to redeem the securities monthly after
the first year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Dugan in New York at 
 kdugan4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  