-- SunPower Loss Widens on Cheaper Panels, Sees 2013 Rebound
-- B y   E h r e n   G o o s s e n s
-- 2013-02-08T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/sunpower-loss-widens-as-prices-for-solar-panels-decline.html
SunPower Corp. , the second-largest
U.S. solar manufacturer, said slumping prices for photovoltaic
panels contributed to a wider loss in the fourth-quarter and
will pull down sales this quarter. That’s also helping the
company sell projects that will generate at least $3.5 billion
in revenue in the years to come.  The fourth-quarter net loss widened to $144.8 million, or
$1.22 a share, from $93 million, or 94 cents a share, a year
earlier, San Jose, California-based SunPower said yesterday in a
statement. The company was expected to lose 78 cents a share,
the average of four analysts’  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.
Sales increased 8.5 percent to $678.5 million.  SunPower and its competitors are contending with a global
oversupply that pulled down panel prices industrywide by  31
percent  last year to 64 cents a watt. The price point is
boosting demand for solar power, and the company has a pipeline
of about 1 gigawatt of projects, according to Chief Executive
Officer  Tom Werner .  “Our pipeline of booked projects is quite strong,” Werner
said in an interview. “Three to four years out can we compete
with conventional energy sources with no or minimal incentives?
The answer is yes.”  North America accounted for 80 percent of sales in the
quarter, up from 63 percent a year earlier, and is the company’s
most important market, Werner said. That includes Antelope
Valley, a pair of solar farms that will have 579 megawatts of
capacity, that Warren Buffett’s MidAmerican Energy Holdings Co.
agreed to buy last month.  Future Revenue  MidAmerican expects to spend as much as $2.5 billion on the
two solar farms, which may be complete by the end of 2015.
SunPower expect at least $3.5 billion in revenue from fulfilling
its current orders over the next several years. Long-term
visibility “gives us confidence that 2013 will be a much
stronger year,” Werner said in the statement.  The company produced 153 megawatts of panels in the quarter
and 936 megawatts in all of 2012.  It expects to produce 150 megawatts to 170 megawatts in the
current quarter. Revenue will be $450 million to $525 million
and the per-share loss will be 60 cents to 85 cents.  Total 2013 revenue will be comparable to the $2.4 billion
reported for last year, Werner said on a conference call with
analysts.  The company will continue to cut costs to counter panel
prices that will continue to decline, according to Chief
Financial Officer Charles Boynton.  “For the year, we saw costs per watt fall faster than our
average selling prices,” Boynton said on the call, without
providing SunPower’s panel prices. “We still see significant
opportunity to reduce both panel and balance of systems costs
into 2013 and beyond.”  Thin Margins  The company has “markedly high fixed cost structure and,
therefore, razor-thin operating margins and profitability,”
 Pavel Molchanov , a Raymond James & Associates Inc. analyst in
Houston, said in a Jan. 8 research note. Molchanov has the
equivalent of a sell rating on the company.  SunPower, which is majority-owned by French oil company
Total SA, had a charge of $39.6 million in the quarter mostly
for a restructuring plan announced in October. Boynton doesn’t
anticipate further restructuring.  First Solar, the largest U.S. solar panel manufacturer,
produced 1.36 gigawatts of panels through the third quarter and
 said  Nov. 1 that it expected to ship 1.2 gigawatts of panels for
the year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ehren Goossens in New York at 
 egoossens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  