-- Supergroup Sees Profit on Target on Faster Sales Growth
-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 2013-02-07T08:27:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/supergroup-sees-profit-on-target-on-faster-sales-growth.html
Supergroup Plc , the U.K. owner of the
Superdry fashion chain, said it expects to meet analyst profit
expectations after reporting accelerated revenue growth over
Christmas as it sold more jackets, knitwear and gifts.  The stock rose as much as 7 percent after the company
reported sales at stores open at least a year rose 11 percent in
the 13 weeks ended Jan. 27, the Cheltenham, England-based
retailer said in a statement today. That’s faster than the
average 2.4 percent increase from five analyst estimates
compiled by Bloomberg, and exceeds the prior quarter’s 5.8
percent gain.  Gross margin , a measure of profitability, will be as much
as 0.75 percentage point higher than last year as Supergroup
reduced the cost of producing its clothing ranges and it sold
more items online and in stores, rather than at its discount
outlets. Supergroup is seeking growth by opening stores across
Europe, such as its first owned store in Germany, and 15
franchise outlets.  “This update should represent a turning point in the
company’s fortunes,” said Freddie George, an  analyst  at Seymour
Pierce, in an e-mailed note. “After a year of consolidation,
the company has now established a platform in terms of
infrastructure and management to push ahead in developing the
brand” online and overseas.  Total sales climbed 12 percent to 115.1 million pounds
($180 million), Supergroup said. That compared to the prior
quarter’s 20 percent increase. Analysts are estimating pretax
profit for the year ending April 28 at 49.3 million pounds, on
average, the company said.  Supergroup rose as high as 678 pence and traded at 670
pence as of 8:20 a.m. in London trading. The stock has advanced
19 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Shannon in London at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  