-- Swiss Stocks Retreat as Swatch, Richemont Decline
-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 2013-02-07T17:09:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/swiss-stocks-drop-as-swatch-richemont-fall.html
Swiss stocks  fell the most in 12
weeks, led by a selloff in Swatch Group AG and Cie. Financiere
Richemont SA, amid a report that China is curbing luxury-goods
advertisements.  Swatch Group AG, the largest maker of Swiss watches and
Cie. Financiere Richemont SA, the owner of the Cartier brand,
declined at least 2.5 percent. Credit Suisse Group AG dropped
3.1 percent after reporting earnings. Zurich Insurance Group AG
lost 1.7 percent as Citigroup Inc. downgraded the shares.  The  SMI  retreated 1.3 percent to 7,337.05 at the close in
Zurich, the biggest drop since Nov. 15. The gauge has slipped
1.1 percent so far this week amid signs of political uncertainty
in Spain and Italy, trimming the 2013 advance to 7.5 percent.
The broader Swiss Performance Index slid 1.2 percent today.  “This year we have had an early rally on the hopes of a
new dawn and recovery in the second half can help the economies
rebound globally,”  Nick Xanders , an equity strategist at BTIG
Ltd. in London. wrote in a report to clients. “But there are
plenty of mines ahead, including the Italian elections.”  Former Italian Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi, who has
pledged to roll back the nation’s austerity measures, has gained
in popularity as the Feb. 24-25 elections approach. Berlusconi
narrowed the lead of Pier Luigi Bersani, the front-runner, to
within the margin of error of an opinion poll published
yesterday.  Luxury Goods  Swatch Group slipped 2.9 percent to 518 Swiss francs and
Richemont lost 2.8 percent to 73.75 francs.  Luxury stocks declined in Hong Kong after China’s Xinhua
news service reported that the country’s media regulator had
ordered radio and television channels to cut advertisements
suggesting “gift giving.”  Some ads have encouraged people to give gifts including
luxury watches and gold coins, the State Administration of
Radio, Film and Television said in a circular, Xinhua reported.
The move is a response to authorities’ call for people to avoid
extravagance and waste, a spokesman for the administration said.  Credit Suisse slid 84 centimes to 26.16 francs. The shares
rallied as much as 3.2 percent earlier after Switzerland’s
second-biggest swung to a profit in the fourth quarter and
raised its cost reductions for a third-time in seven months.  Chief Executive Officer  Brady Dougan  said cost-cutting
measures had placed the lender in a position to “thrive”
regardless of market conditions. The lender, which combined its
wealth management, corporate and institutional clients and asset
management units, reported a 71 percent increase in pretax
earnings for the new division.  Zurich Insurance  Zurich Insurance slid 4.40 francs to 254.50 francs after
Citigroup downgraded the stock to neutral from buy, saying
Zurich is now trading at a premium to its peers.  “We see limited sum-of-the-parts upside,” analysts
including Farooq Hanif wrote in a report to clients dated
yesterday. “Zurich has already done a lot of the heavy lifting
on restructuring and we see less surprise potential from its
initiatives than its peers.”  Basilea Pharmaceutica AG rose 0.9 percent to 50.85 francs
as the drugmaker narrowed its 2012 operating loss to 50.8
million francs and announced that Chief Financial Officer of
 Joachim Blatter  is leaving the company. Chief Executive Officer
Ronald Scott declined to comment on a conference call that
Basilea maybe the subject of a takeover.  Givaudan SA  rallied 3.5 percent to 1,094 francs after
analysts at both UBS AG and Liberum Capital Ltd. raised their
recommendation for the world’s largest maker of flavorings and
fragrances to “buy.” Earlier this week, the company reported a
63 percent jump in full year net income and announced plans to
pay a dividend of 36 francs, topping analyst forecasts.  The volume of shares changing hands in SMI-listed companies
was 6.8 percent more than the average of the last 30 days, data
compiled by Bloomberg showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  