-- Swiss Weighs Geneva-Beijing Route as Rolex Draws Tourists
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   M .   F r e e d m a n   a n d   R i c h a r d   W e i s s
-- 2013-02-07T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/swiss-ponders-geneva-beijing-route-as-rolex-lures-china-tourists.html
Swiss International Air Lines Ltd. is
exploring services on the Geneva-Beijing route as the entry of
 Air China Ltd.  opens up potential for a code-share partnership.  Demand is being driven by a surge in the number of Chinese
citizens vacationing in Europe, Chief Executive Officer  Harry Hohmeister  said. Geneva offers visitors a combination of Alpine
scenery and luxury shopping, with the city home to watchmakers
including  Rolex Group  and Patek Philippe SA.  “The Chinese market is growing fast, faster than any other
country,” Hohmeister said in a Geneva interview. “The Chinese
also spend a lot as tourists.”  Swiss is initially looking at a cooperation deal with Air
China, to which it’s linked via membership of the Star Alliance,
he said. A code-share accord would allow it to sell tickets on
the Asian carrier’s flights as if they were its own.  Swiss, a unit of Germany’s  Deutsche Lufthansa AG , already
serves Beijing, Shanghai and Hong Kong from Zurich, while Air
China begins flights from Beijing in May.  Europe will be among the top destinations for the 94
million people from mainland China expected to travel abroad by
2015, according to McKinsey & Co. The Chinese account for 25
percent of luxury spending, up from 10 percent three years ago,
HSBC Global Research said in a September report, and buy about
half of all watches, according to Kepler Capital Markets.  At Swiss, intercontinental routes are operating with about
90 percent of seats occupied, Hohmeister said, helping to
maintain its standing as Lufthansa’s most-profitable unit.  While the headcount may not continue to grow as fast as it
once did, Swiss will add workers through 2015, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jennifer M. Freedman in Geneva at 
 jfreedman@bloomberg.net ;
Richard Weiss in Frankfurt at 
 rweiss5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net ;
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  