-- U.K. Stocks Drop as ECB, BOE Keep Policy on Hold
-- B y   N a m i t h a   J a g a d e e s h
-- 2013-02-07T16:54:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/u-k-stocks-are-little-changed-before-ecb-decision.html
U.K. stocks  fell for the first time
in three days as the Bank of England refrained from adding more
stimulus for economic recovery and the European Central Bank
left its benchmark interest rate unchanged.  Burberry Group Plc, the U.K.’s largest luxury-goods
company, dropped the most in almost five months after replacing
its chief financial officer. Vodafone Group Plc, which accounts
for 5.4 percent of the benchmark  FTSE 100 Index , advanced after
confirming its previous forecast for full-year profit.  The  FTSE 100  fell 66.92 points, or 1.1 percent, to 6,228.42
at the close in London. The equity benchmark has dropped 1.9
percent so far this week, heading for the first weekly loss in
2013. The gauge has still gained 5.6 percent this year. The
broader FTSE All-Share Index declined 0.9 percent today, while
Ireland’s ISEQ Index added 1.2 percent.  “With monetary policies more or less exhausted, it doesn’t
seem likely that the U.K. economy will get any boost,” said
 Espen Furnes , who helps oversee $75 billion as fund manager at
Storebrand Asset Management in Oslo. “So the growth outlook in
the U.K. is still very meager, and today’s announcement doesn’t
change anything.”  The Bank of England kept its  interest rate  unchanged at 0.5
percent, as forecast by economists in a Bloomberg survey.  The Monetary Policy Committee led by Governor Mervyn King
said the target for its bond purchases will remain at 375
billion pounds ($589 billion). All 43 economists in a Bloomberg
News survey forecast no change.  Carney’s Comments  The central bank’s governor-Designate  Mark Carney  didn’t
indicate any plans to change the current policy in his first
testimony to lawmakers since his appointment was announced.  The Bank of England “will need to design, implement and
ultimately exit from unconventional monetary policy measures,”
Carney said in written testimony to U.K. lawmakers at a hearing
of Parliament’s Treasury Committee in London. Carney, who will
replace King in July, said central banks need to be flexible on
inflation targets.  The ECB left interest rates unchanged at a record low of
0.75 percent even as a stronger currency threatens the euro
area’s recovery from recession.  ECB President  Mario Draghi  said the central bank will
monitor the euro’s level for inflation risks. The currency has
strengthened 6.9 percent over the past six months, the best
performer among 10 developed-nation currencies tracked by
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes.  “Later in 2013, economic activity should gradually
recover, supported by our accommodative policy stance,” Draghi
said at a press conference in Frankfurt.  U.K. Manufacturing  U.K. manufacturing production had its biggest monthly
increase since July last year, a report showed.  Factory output  rose 1.6 percent in December from November,
when it fell 0.3 percent, the Office for National Statistics
said. The median forecast of 28 economists in a Bloomberg News
survey was for a 0.8 percent increase. Total industrial
production rose 1.1 percent, helped by a 3.2 percent increase in
oil and gas production.  Burberry tumbled 6.5 percent to 1,337 pence, the most since
Sept. 11, after saying its chief financial officer will step
down. Stacey Cartwright, who has been in the post for more than
nine years, will be succeeded by Carol Fairweather, senior vice-
president of group finance, the company said.  Ophir Stake  Ophir Energy Plc plunged 8.6 percent to 475 pence, the
biggest drop in six months. Institutional investors sold 36
million shares, or a 9 percent stake, of the oil and gas
explorer. Credit Suisse Group AG, the bookrunner for sellers
Och-Ziff Capital Management Group LLC and Mittal Investments
Sarl, said the stock was priced at 475 pence, the lower end of
guidance.  Vodafone  advanced 0.9 percent to 171.85 pence after
reiterating its forecast that adjusted operating profit for the
year through March will be in the upper half of the range of
11.1 billion pounds to 11.9 billion pounds. Analysts estimated
11.6 billion pounds.  Compass Group Plc climbed 1.8 percent to 779.5 pence after
the world’s largest catering group said revenue rose almost 6
percent in the fiscal first quarter, beating the average analyst
estimate of 5 percent.  The volume of shares changing hands on FTSE 100-listed
companies was 21 percent greater than the average of the last 30
days, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Namitha Jagadeesh in London at 
 njagadeesh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  