-- U.K. Manufacturing Rises Most Since July on Machinery Output
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2013-02-07T12:26:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/u-k-manufacturing-rises-most-since-july-on-machinery-chemicals.html
U.K.  manufacturing production  had its
biggest monthly increase in December for five months, boosted by
output of machinery and equipment and chemical products.  Factory output rose 1.6 percent from November, when it fell
0.3 percent, the Office for National Statistics said today in
London. The increase was double the  median forecast  in a
Bloomberg News survey. Total industrial production rose 1.1
percent, helped by a 3.2 percent increase in oil and gas
production.  The figures suggest manufacturing gained momentum heading
into the new year, easing concerns that Britain may slip back
into a recession. With a survey of purchasing managers showing
manufacturing activity expanded for a second month in January,
the Bank of England today refrained from increasing stimulus as
officials monitor inflation pressures in the economy.  “With more North Sea oil and gas production set to come on
stream over the next couple of months, we anticipate another
decent figure next month,” said  James Knightley , an economist
at ING Bank NV in London. “Furthermore, with the PMI for
January also showing growth, this offers further indication that
the U.K. will probably avoid the fate of dipping into recession
three times in the space of five years.”  ‘Slow’ Recovery  The Bank of England kept its quantitative-easing target at
375 billion pounds ($588 billion) today, as forecast by all 43
economists in a Bloomberg News survey. In a statement
accompanying the announcement, the central bank said the economy
was set for a “slow but sustained recovery” and that officials
stood steady to provide extra stimulus if needed.  The pound stayed higher against the dollar and was trading
at $1.5703 as of 12:15 p.m. in London, up 0.3 percent on the
day.  In the fourth quarter, industrial production fell 1.9
percent instead of the 1.8 percent fall estimated in gross
domestic product figures published on Jan. 25. Manufacturing
fell 1.3 percent rather than 1.5 percent. Both were the biggest
declines since the first quarter of 2009. Oil and gas production
plunged 14.1 percent, the most since records began in 1997, due
to extended maintenance at the Buzzard oil field, the largest in
the North Sea, and an unplanned shutdown at the Theddlethorpe
gas terminal.  The ONS said the industrial production figures will
subtract 0.01 percentage point from GDP in the fourth quarter.
An initial estimate showed the economy contracted 0.3 percent
during the period.  Return to Normal  In December, output of machinery and equipment rose 8
percent and production of chemical products gained 5.6 percent,
the statistics office said. There was also a 1.5 percent gain in
output of food, beverage and tobacco products. With the Buzzard
oil field back up and running, oil and gas production returned
to more normal levels in December, the statistics office said.
Buzzard produces 200,000 barrels of oil a day, or half of the
total Forties blend stream.  In a separate report, the ONS said the trade deficit
narrowed to 8.9 billion pounds in December from 9.3 billion
pounds the previous month, in line with the median forecast in a
Bloomberg News survey. Exports rose 3 percent and imports
increased 1.1 percent, boosted by a record jump in oil imports.  The figures were helped by demand from countries outside of
the European Union, with exports surging 11.7 percent. Exports
to other EU countries fell 4.8 percent.  Euro-area gross domestic product probably fell 0.4 percent
last year and will contract 0.1 percent in 2013 as the
sovereign-debt crisis persists, according to Bloomberg’s monthly
survey of economists published in January.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jennifer Ryan  in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  