-- U.S. Soy Supply at 48-Year Low as Brazil Ships Held: Commodities
-- B y   J e f f   W i l s o n
-- 2013-02-07T22:14:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/u-s-soy-supply-at-48-year-low-as-brazil-ships-held-commodities.html
Dry weather and shipping delays in
South America are boosting demand for soybeans from the U.S.,
the world’s largest grower and exporter, and producing the
tightest inventories in almost five decades.  Stockpiles will shrink to a nine-year low of 130 million
bushels on Aug. 31, before the next U.S. harvest, according to
the average of 31 analyst estimates in a Bloomberg survey.
Reserves will total 4.2 percent of demand, the lowest since
1965, U.S. Department of Agriculture data show. The USDA will
update its estimates tomorrow.  The drop in supplies will help send Chicago futures up 8.7
percent to an average $16.16 a bushel through August, Morgan
Stanley said in a Feb. 4 report. Prices have climbed 10 percent
from a six-month low on Jan. 11 as drought dimmed prospects for
the crop in Argentina and rain left delivery backlogs at
Brazilian ports. The countries are the largest shippers after
the U.S., where export sales are up 27 percent from a year
earlier, driven by demand from China, the biggest buyer.  “The U.S. does not have the supply to sell more soybeans
overseas,” said  Dan Cekander , the director of grain-market
analysis at Newedge in Chicago, who predicted a rally to $16.50.
“Price rationing will have to occur. It may take six months
before world supplies are more balanced with demand.”  Soybeans are up 5.5 percent this year to $14.8675 at 2 p.m.
on the Chicago Board of Trade, while the Standard & Poor’s GSCI
gauge of 24 commodities and the MSCI All-Country World Index of
equities each climbed 4.2 percent. A Bank of America Corp. index
shows Treasuries lost 0.9 percent.  Argentina Cut  For a second straight month, the USDA probably will cut its
forecast of production in  Argentina  to 52.9 million metric tons,
compared with 54 million estimated in January, a Bloomberg
survey of 23 analysts and traders showed. The country accounts
for more than 44 percent of global exports of soybean meal fed
to livestock and soy oil used for cooking and biofuel.  Most fields in Argentina got less than half of the normal
moisture since Jan. 1, which makes conditions drier than a
drought in 2012 that cut production to a three-year low of 40.1
million tons, according to  T-Storm Weather LLC  in Chicago.  In Brazil, excess rain in Mato Grosso, the biggest soy-
growing state, disrupted inland crop deliveries and may extend
the wait time to 50 days for ships to load exports, Hamburg-
based researcher Oil World said Feb. 5. There were 135 ships
loading or waiting to load soybeans, animal feed or corn on Feb.
5 at the five major Brazilian ports, according to SA Commodities
in Santos, Brazil. A year earlier, 67 were waiting.  Record Crop  Harvests in March and April from Argentina and Brazil still
are forecast to be the highest ever, with combined output
jumping 28 percent from a year earlier, according to the USDA’s
January estimate. Brazilian farmers probably will collect 82.7
million tons, the most ever, up from 66.5 million a year
earlier, according to the average estimate in a Bloomberg survey
of 23 analysts.  Since Jan. 28, the premium that exporters paid for U.S.
soybeans delivered to New Orleans terminals is down 30 percent,
a sign that overseas demand for U.S. supplies may be slowing,
said  Christopher Narayanan , the head of agricultural commodity
research in New York at Societe Generale SA. Yesterday, the CBOT
contract for March delivery was $1.515 more expensive than
November futures, the highest premium since Dec. 17, which may
slow demand for supplies left from last year’s crop, he said.  “Until we see an improvement in the export premiums, the
market may move sideways,” Narayanan said. Chinese buyers
waiting for North American harvests to arrive in September and
October “raises the risks for subdued U.S. exports once South
American crops begin hitting the market,” he said.  Rising Exports  U.S. exporters sold 34.22 million tons of soybeans as of
Jan. 31, up from 26.86 million in the same period a year
earlier, including a 13 percent jump in purchases by China to
20.86 million, government data show. Sales already are equal to
93 percent of the USDA’s forecast for the marketing year, with
almost seven months left in the season that ends Aug. 31.  Sales of soybean meal reached 6.73 million tons in the
first 18 weeks of the marketing year, up 43 percent from the
same period in 2012, according to the USDA. The Philippines, the
biggest buyer this year, increased purchases by 38 percent to
744,900 tons. Soybean-oil sales jumped to 759,000 tons from
222,000 a year earlier, with China buying 169,000, compared with
none in the previous period.  China Pork  China has expanded imports of soybeans almost six-fold
since 2000 as rising incomes and population boosted meat
consumption, fueling more demand for crops to feed livestock.
The country is the world’s largest pork consumer and will raise
690 million  pigs  this year, or 61 percent of the world total,
according to USDA forecasts.  Demand has yet to slow for U.S. soybeans because of the
supply risks in South America. Shipping and harvest delays in
Brazil may force importers to buy more from the U.S., and an
extension of Argentina’s drought may limit output to 47 million
tons, or 13 percent less than the USDA’s forecast,  Christina McGlone-Hahn , a Deutsche Bank AG analyst in New York, said in a
Feb. 1 report.  “Either South America has to ship 12 percent more soybeans
from March to August than they have ever done before, or prices
have to rise to choke off Chinese demand for U.S. soybeans,”
said  Doug Jackson , a vice president at INTL FCStone Inc. in West
Des Moines, Iowa, who has been a grain-industry analyst since
1974. “South America can have an infinite supply of soybeans,
but if they can’t get them to the world market, it doesn’t
matter.”  Pod Growth  February and March are the key months for Argentine crops
as plants develop pods and fill them with beans, said  Steve Nicholson , the chief economist for International Food Products
Corp., a distributor and adviser on food ingredients in Fenton,
Missouri. A crop of less than 50 million tons will increase
demand for U.S. soybean meal and vegetable oil, he said.  Argentine farmers also have been slow to sell crops to
processors or exporters as inflation accelerates and the peso
loses value against the dollar, Nicholson said. Argentine
supermarkets, including local units of  Wal-Mart  Stores Inc.,
Carrefour SA and Cencosud SA, agreed to freeze prices for 60
days amid an inflation rate that economists say jumped 26
percent last year, twice the official government estimate.  While the official rate for the peso fell 13 percent in the
past 12 months to 4.986 per dollar yesterday, the currency in
the blue chip-swap, an operation used to buy and swap assets
traded in Argentine pesos and U.S. dollars, has weakened 39
percent to 7.6948 per dollar, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Hindering Sales  “The Argentina inflation and currency problems may be a
bigger hindrance to exports than just the dry weather,”
Nicholson said. “The only way to convince China and other
buyers that the U.S. is out of soybeans is with higher prices.”  In Brazil, most crop deliveries travel as far as 2,000
kilometers (1,243 miles) by truck to reach ports, making them
more prone to weather delays than those in the U.S., where barge
and rail networks handle most bulk shipments to export hubs,
said  Michael Cordonnier , president of Soybean & Corn Advisor, a
crop forecaster and researcher in Hinsdale, Illinois.  Shipping soybeans to China takes about 56 days from Mato
Grosso, the biggest growing state, compared with 32 days from
the U.S. Midwest via the Mississippi River, Cordonnier said. The
transport cost to southern ports from Mato Grosso can reach $150
a ton, compared with $35 from Iowa to New Orleans, he said.  Processing Profit  Demand in the U.S. for soy-based meal and oil also is
improving, compounding the erosion of inventories after the
worst drought since the 1930s reduced domestic production for a
third straight year. The Washington-based National Oilseed
Processors Association said Jan. 14 that companies used 9.7
percent more  soybeans  in the four months ending Dec. 31,
compared with a year earlier.  Archer-Daniels-Midland Co. , the largest grain processor,
said on Feb. 5 that operating profit in its oilseed unit more
than doubled to $411 million in the fiscal second quarter that
ended Dec. 31, as plants ran at record capacity. The company,
based in Decatur, Illinois, will continue to benefit from
improved soy margins,  Kenneth Zaslow , an analyst at BMO Capital
Markets in New York, said in a Feb. 6 report. He has an
outperform rating on ADM.  The estimated  profit  to process soybeans in Illinois is
$1.47 a bushel, up 77 percent from a year earlier, USDA data
show. Based on futures prices, crush margins will double from
year-earlier levels in the second quarter and triple in the
third quarter, Zaslow said.  ‘Behind Curve’  “Inventory levels are really tight right now,” and there
remains a risk that U.S. harvests in September and October may
not be sufficient to revive supplies, said  Kelly Wiesbrock , a
portfolio manager helping to manage $1.3 billion of assets for
Harvest Capital Strategies, a San Francisco-based hedge fund.  As of Feb. 5, the U.S. Drought Monitor classified 48
percent of nine Midwest states with soil-moisture levels below
20 percent of normal, including some at zero, with water
shortages and crop damage likely. The region produces most of
the nation’s soybeans. A year earlier, 20 percent was in
drought.  “We’re still behind the curve on moisture levels and a lot
of guys are saying we’re setting up for another drought,” said
Wiesbrock, who grew up on a farm in Illinois, where his
brothers, father and grandfather still grow corn and soybeans on
3,000 acres. “We may get off to a good start and have trend-
line yields and they’d be less tight, but you don’t rebuild
inventories in one year and we don’t harvest until the end of
the year.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Wilson in Chicago at 
 jwilson29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at   sstroth@bloomberg.net  