-- U.S. Northeast Cap-and-Trade Group Plans Permit Reduction
-- B y   E h r e n   G o o s s e n s
-- 2013-02-07T19:37:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/u-s-northeast-cap-and-trade-program-reduces-emissions-limit-45-.html
Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative
Inc. , the nonprofit that administers the U.S. Northeast’s
carbon-dioxide emissions program, proposed reducing the number
of available permits by 45 percent to drive up prices.  Power plants in the nine states that participate in the
program will be allowed to emit 91 million tons annually
starting in 2014, down from 165 million tons this year,
according to rules proposed in a  statement  today on RGGI’s
website. The limit would fall another 2.5 percent a year from
2015 to 2020.  Reducing the number of permits may drive up prices more
than sixfold to $10 by 2020 and while cutting emissions from
power plants by 45 percent from 2005 levels, the organization
said. Each permit gives a company the right to release a ton of
carbon dioxide and making them scarcer would provide financial
incentive to produce less greenhouse gases.  “These program changes will lower emissions and provide
funds to ensure our energy needs are met in the cleanest, safest
way possible -- with energy efficiency and renewables,” Valerie
Strauss, interim executive director of the Alliance for Clean
Energy New York, said today in an e-mail.  The six New England states, along with New York, Delaware
and Maryland, will use the RGGI proposal to revise state
emission policies.  “The changes in the program put forward today will allow
us to continue moving toward a cleaner energy future in a manner
that is consistent with the need to keep power cheap, strengthen
our economy, and grow jobs,”  Daniel C. Esty , commissioner of
the Connecticut Department of Energy and Environmental
Protection, said in the statement.  Cheap Permits  New York Governor  Andrew Cuomo  in his State of the State
address last month proposed lowering the emissions cap to curb
climate change. New Jersey exited the group in 2011 after
Governor  Chris Christie  called it a failure because the permits
never sold near their projected costs of $20 to $30.  Permits at the quarterly RGGI  auction  in December sold for
$1.93, the minimum bid, and 48 percent went unsold, the most
since  September 2011 .  Higher prices for emission permits will increase average
power bills by less than 1 percent, RGGI said.  The current cap of 165 million tons exceeds 2012 emissions
of 91 million tons. That disparity has held down demand for
permits, according to  Dale Bryk , an attorney for New York-based
Natural Resources Defense Council.  By reducing the number of permits, “they’ve fixed the
problem,” Bryk said today in an interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ehren Goossens in New York at 
 egoossens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  