-- U.S. Northeast Cap-and-Trade Plan Said to Cut Carbon Cap
-- B y   J u s t i n   D o o m
-- 2013-02-07T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/u-s-northeast-cap-and-trade-plan-said-to-cut-carbon-cap.html
The U.S. Northeast’s cap-and-trade
program, which has been hindered by pollution caps that surpass
carbon emissions, is expected to lower its limit by as much as
45 percent today, according to the Natural Resources Defense
Council.  Companies in the nine states that participate in the
Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative will be allowed to emit a
total of about 91 million tons of carbon dioxide annually under
the new rules,  Dale Bryk , a director and attorney at the New
York-based environmental group, said yesterday in an interview.  That’s comparable to the amount of carbon released last
year by companies in the six New England states, New York,
Delaware and Maryland, and significantly less than the current
cap of 165 million tons. The disparity creates little financial
incentive to reduce emissions and a lower cap may curb
pollution, Bryk said.  “They had an inflated cap -- it’s no secret,” Bryk said.
“Everybody knows that the limit for the pollution is above what
the actual pollution is.”  NRDC advised the states that created RGGI, which held its
first auction in 2008. Cap-and-trade programs require companies
to buy permits to emit greenhouse gases. The permits are traded
and prices rise when demand approaches or exceeds supply.  RGGI Inc. , the New York-based non-profit that administers
the program, said in January that it had started a review
process that was included in its original bylaws.  RGGI will make an announcement today and Jason Brown, a
RGGI spokesman, declined to provide additional details.  Reduced Demand  The original cap was set based on estimated 2009 emissions
levels that assumed that carbon output would increase, Bryk
said. Wider use of natural gas and more energy-efficient systems
have helped drive down emissions in the nine-state region by 30
percent from 2005, reducing demand for RGGI permits.  New York Governor  Andrew Cuomo  in his State of the State
address last month proposed lowering the emissions cap to curb
climate change.  New Jersey exited the program in 2011 after the state’s
Republican Governor  Chris Christie  called it a failure because
the permits never sold near their projected costs of $20 to $30.  Permits at the quarterly RGGI  auction  in December sold for
$1.93, the minimum bid. About half of the allowances offered -
-19.8 million of 37.6 million -- were purchased, the fewest
since  September 2011 . Each permit gives a company the right to
emit one ton of carbon dioxide.  The auction raised $38.1 million. The proceeds fund state
renewable-energy efforts and programs that help low-income
people pay utility bills, or go into their general funds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Justin Doom in New York at 
 jdoom1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  