-- U.S. Meat Exporters Call Russia Ban ‘Significant’ Sales Loss
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   C a m p b e l l
-- 2013-02-07T21:56:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/u-s-meat-exporters-call-russia-ban-significant-sales-loss-1-.html
Russia’s proposed ban on U.S. meat
exports next week will mean a “significant” loss of business
in a market that was the sixth largest for beef sales, an
industry group said.  The sales halt set to start Feb. 11 will be “a hard kick
in the you-know-what,”  Philip Seng , the U.S. Meat Export
Federation’s chief executive officer, told reporters today at an
industry conference in Tampa, Florida. Russia imposed the ban on
U.S. pork and beef after saying last month that the meats may
contain a feed additive known as ractopamine, which is used to
add lean muscle in livestock.  “The loss in Russia is significant,” Seng said. “This is
a regrettable situation because everybody was hopeful that we
could have improved relations with Russia, especially in
agricultural trade.”  The Russian market probably won’t be closed for long, he
said. The USMEF, which will have representatives in Russia next
week, is working to find a compromise, he said. The U.S.
government has insisted the meat is safe, adding that the ban
was not consistent with international trade standards.  The U.S. exported about $280 million of pork and about $305
million of beef to Russia in 11 months through Nov. 30,
according to  Joe Schuele , a federation spokesman. Russia was the
sixth-biggest buyer of U.S. pork and beef in the period, U.S.
Department of Agriculture data show.  Effective Feb. 1, Japan is allowing beef from U.S. cattle
less than 30 months of age, easing restrictions. That may
counter the loss from Russia, Seng said.  U.S. beef shipments to Japan may reach 225,000 metric tons
(496 million pounds) valued at $1.5 billion, the U.S. Meat
Export Federation has estimated.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Campbell in Chicago at 
 ecampbell14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at   sstroth@bloomberg.net  