-- UBS Owes Nothing to ‘Tax Cheats’ Who Sued, Court Rules
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s   a n d   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2013-02-07T20:39:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/ubs-owes-nothing-to-tax-cheats-who-sued-court-rules.html
UBS AG owes nothing to former U.S.
clients who filed a “travesty” of a lawsuit against the Swiss
bank over penalties and interest they paid to the Internal
Revenue Service for offshore accounts, an appellate court ruled.  The lawsuit claimed that UBS, the largest Swiss bank, had a
duty to inform three former clients that they had to declare
their accounts to the IRS and pay any taxes owed. All three
avoided prosecution by voluntarily disclosing their accounts to
the IRS and paying back taxes, interest and a 20 percent
penalty.  Last June, U.S. District Judge  John Darrah  dismissed the
case filed in federal court in Chicago by Matthew Thomas,
Himanshu Patel and Mathilde Guetta. A U.S. Court of Appeals
panel in Chicago upheld that ruling today, saying the bank
didn’t defraud the taxpayers or breach a contract or engage in
malpractice, as their 2011 lawsuit claims.  “The plaintiffs are tax cheats, and it is very odd, to say
the least, for tax cheats to seek to recover their penalties”
and interest “from the source, in this case UBS, of the income
concealed from the IRS,” U.S. Circuit Judge  Richard A. Posner 
wrote in today’s ruling.  Craig Mielke, an attorney for the former UBS clients,
declined to comment on the decision.  Avoided Prosecution  Since 2009, more than 38,000 Americans have avoided
prosecution by voluntarily disclosing their offshore accounts to
the IRS, paying taxes and penalties, and identifying the banks,
bankers and advisers who helped them hide their assets overseas.  Zurich-based UBS was charged with conspiracy in February
2009 and avoided prosecution by admitting it aided tax evasion,
paying $780 million and handing over account data on 250
clients. It later disclosed information on about 4,450 more
accounts.  In defending the lawsuit, UBS argued that Schedule B of IRS
Form 1040 requires taxpayers to answer yes or no to whether they
“have a financial interest in or signature authority over a
financial account (such as a bank account, securities account,
or brokerage account) located in a foreign country?”  Each plaintiff falsely answered no, even though it was
“inconceivable” that they could have misinterpreted the
question, “regardless of what UBS representatives told or
failed to tell plaintiffs,” UBS argued. Posner agreed, saying
the bank had no duty to clients over their tax obligations.  ‘Like Children’  “It has no duty to treat them like children or
illiterates, and thus remind them that they have to pay taxes on
the income on their deposits,” Posner wrote. “It has no duty
to read aloud to them line 7a on Schedule B of Form 1040.”  Posner dismissed the argument that the bank should have
prevented its clients from violating the law.  “This is like suing one’s parents to recover tax penalties
one has paid, on the ground that the parents had failed to bring
one up to be an honest person who would not evade taxes and so
would not subject himself to penalties,” Posner wrote.  The ruling is similar to one in a lawsuit filed by
billionaire  Igor Olenicoff , chief executive officer of Newport
Beach, California-based Olen Properties Corp. Olenicoff, a
former UBS client, pleaded guilty in 2007 to filing a false tax
return and admitted he hid $200 million in offshore accounts
from the IRS. He was sentenced to two years’ probation and
ordered to pay $52 million in back taxes, fines and penalties.  Olenicoff Claims  Olenicoff claimed UBS committed fraud by not telling him he
owed U.S. taxes. He also said UBS traded excessively in his
accounts. U.S. District Judge  Andrew Guilford  in Santa Ana,
California, threw out Olenicoff’s lawsuit last year.  “Olenicoff has already sworn that he was not an innocent
dupe,” Guilford wrote. “It is directly inconsistent for him to
now claim that he unwittingly relied on UBS’ counsel. If
Olenicoff wanted to claim he was misled by UBS, he had the
option of pleading not guilty in the criminal proceedings.”  UBS sued Olenicoff last August for malicious prosecution.
That case is pending.  In today’s ruling, Posner suggested a similar route.  “This lawsuit, including the appeal, is a travesty,”
Posner wrote. “We are surprised that UBS hasn’t asked for the
imposition of sanctions on the plaintiffs and class counsel.”  The case is Thomas v. UBS, 11-cv-4798, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of Illinois (Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Voreacos in Newark, New Jersey, at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Harris in the Chicago federal courthouse at
   aharris16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 