-- Tudor Said to Lose Traders Chu, Ranganathan in Singapore
-- B y   S a i j e l   K i s h a n
-- 2013-02-07T17:43:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/tudor-said-to-lose-traders-chu-ranganathan-in-singapore.html
Allen Chu  and  Ashwin Ranganathan ,
equity traders at Tudor Investment Corp., left after more than
seven years, bringing to at least nine the number of departures
since December from the $11.6 billion hedge fund run by  Paul Tudor Jones , according to people familiar with the matter.  Chu and Ranganathan, who were partners working out of
Tudor’s Singapore office, left last month as the fund moves away
from equity trading in Asia to focus more on macro strategies,
said the people, who asked not to be identified because the fund
is private. Macro funds seek to profit from economic trends by
trading everything from currencies to bonds.  Tudor is trying to recruit traders across strategies in the
U.S. and U.K., where the fund also experienced departures, one
of the people said. U.K.-based macro traders  Mary Davis  and
 Christiana Toutet , who worked as a team, left in mid-January
after more than four years at Tudor, as did  Susan Arnott , an
equities trader who joined in 2011, the people said.  Michael Georgiou , one of 14 portfolio managers of the Tudor
Discretionary Macro Portfolios, a hedge fund the firm started
last year, also left last month, the people said.  “It’s rare to see turnover at this level at Tudor, even
though this is the time of the year when you see turnover on
Wall Street,” said  Jeanne Branthover , head of the financial-
services practice at Boyden Global Executive Search Ltd., a New
York-based recruiting firm. “The firm is probably doing some
restructuring, while some employees see better opportunities
outside.”  Tudor’s Returns  Tudor, which produced an average annual gain of 19.9
percent from its main fund since it was started in 1986, has
failed to match those returns in recent years as macro funds
struggled to predict the direction of markets. The Tudor BVI
Fund returned 6.3 percent last year and 2.2 percent in 2011, one
of the people said. The fund gained 4.3 percent last month, the
person said.  Shawn Pattison, a spokesman for Greenwich, Connecticut-
based Tudor, declined to comment.  Macro funds lost 0.1 percent last month, 0.7 percent last
year and 7.43 percent in 2011, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index gained 5.2 percent in
January, 16 percent in 2012 and 2.1 percent in the previous
year, including dividends.  Larry Petrella , a director of U.S. equities who previously
worked at Diamondback Capital Management LLC, quit Tudor in
January after two years, Hedge Fund Alert reported last week.
Tudor plans to replace Petrella with a portfolio manager focused
on media and telecom stocks, one of the people said.  Ubide Departs  Angel Ubide , who was a director of economics working out of
the fund’s Washington offices, left in December after 11.5
years, two of the people said. Ubide joined New York hedge fund
D.E. Shaw & Co. LP last month, Darcy Bradbury, a spokeswoman for
D.E. Shaw, said in a telephone interview.  Andrew McMillan , who oversaw a commodity team in Singapore,
left Tudor to start his own business, a person familiar with his
departure said last month. Tudor is expected to invest some of
its own capital in McMillan’s venture, the person said.  Tudor hired  Ai Ning Wee , a senior portfolio manager with
the Government of Singapore Investment Corp., for its Singapore
office.  The former Tudor employees either declined to comment on
their departure or didn’t return telephone or e-mail messages
seeking comment.  Tudor had 185 employees involved in investment-advisory
roles, including research, according to a regulatory filing in
November. The firm had 370 workers, excluding clerical staff,
according to the filing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Saijel Kishan in New York at 
 skishan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  