-- Umicore Declines After Forecasting Profit Drop: Brussels Mover
-- B y   J o h n   M a r t e n s
-- 2013-02-07T10:08:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/umicore-declines-after-forecasting-profit-drop-brussels-mover.html
Umicore SA, the world’s largest
precious-metals recycler, fell the most in nine months in
Brussels after forecasting a profit drop because of lower prices
for some metals, reduced demand from the photovoltaic and
display industries and a weak European car market.  “Clearly this is a nasty surprise,”  Wouter Vanderhaeghen ,
an analyst at KBC Securities NV in Brussels, wrote today in an
investor note. He cut his price estimate for the shares to 36
euros from 41 euros, adding that results were “close to our and
consensus expectations.”  Earnings before, interest, tax and special items will
probably decline from 372.1 million euros ($504.8 million) last
year, the Brussels-based company said today in a statement.
Analysts projected an increase to 393.3 million euros, according
to the average of 15 estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Umicore tumbled as much as 6.4 percent on Euronext
Brussels, the biggest intraday drop since April 24, and traded
1.78 euros lower at 36.91 euros by 11 a.m. local time.  Two planned shutdowns of the recycling facility in the
Belgian town of Hoboken, rising costs for expansion projects and
lower prices for specialty metals such as  tellurium  and indium,
which can’t be hedged, will reduce profit from the recycling
division, Umicore’s most profitable business, this year.  Umicore also joined  Johnson Matthey Ltd.  in saying that a
narrowing share of diesel engines in a European car market
that’s expected to remain “weak” is affecting margins in
catalysts. Demand for germanium substrates and rotary sputtering
targets won’t recover after last year’s collapse, triggering job
cuts, Umicore said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Martens  in Brussels at 
 jmartens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  