-- Hungary December Industry Production Shrinks as Car-Making Drops
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2013-02-07T08:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/hungary-december-industry-production-shrinks-as-car-making-drops.html
Hungary’s industrial output declined
in December as an expansion in car production reversed,
signaling the nation’s recession probably extended into the
fourth quarter.  Production fell a workday-adjusted 3.4 percent from a year
earlier after a revised 7.1 percent plunge in the previous
month. That compared with a median  estimate  for a 4.5 percent
drop in a Bloomberg survey of 15 economists. Output fell 2.5
percent from November, the statistics office in Budapest said
today.  Hungary is battling its second recession in four years as
trade and banking links with the slumping euro area smother
growth. The economy shrank for a third consecutive quarter in
the July-September period as measures to cut the budget deficit
to avoid a freeze of European Union funding damped consumption
and hurt confidence.  “All sectors are declining, as before, but now vehicle
production too, which up to now kept industry alive,”
statistician  Miklos Schindele  told reporters. The drop in car-
making also hurt exports, which had also been the main engine of
growth, Schindele said.  Industry output fell 4 percent in the last quarter of 2012
compared with July-September, the worst quarterly performance
since the start of 2009, Schindele said.  Turning Point  Hungary’s expected increase in investments and consumption
will create a “turning point” for the economy in 2013, which
may expand after a recession last year, Economy Minister Gyorgy
Matolcsy wrote in his weekly column in Heti Valasz today.  Rising car production, EU funding for investments,
increasing household consumption after a cut in utility prices
as well as lending from commercial banks may contribute to the
expansion, Matolcsy said.  The economy shrank 0.2 percent in July-September from the
previous three months and fell 1.5 percent from a year earlier.  Hungary plans this year to “fix growth,” which lags
behind the expansion rate of its central European peers, Prime
Minister Viktor Orban told business leaders in Budapest on Feb.
5. The economy is showing “hopeful signs,” including on public
debt and trade, Orban said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  