-- Tunisian Prepare for Funeral as Strike Call Widens Rift
-- B y   J i h e n   L a g h m a r i
-- 2013-02-07T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/tunisian-prepare-for-funeral-as-strike-call-widens-rift.html
Strikes called to mark the funeral of
a murdered senior opposition leader are set to begin in Tunisia
as continuing unrest and a rift in the ruling Ennahda party
threatened to create a political vacuum.  The General Union of Tunisian Workers called on its members
to strike today. Protests by lawyers, judges and some teachers
began yesterday. The funeral of Democratic Patriots leader
Chukri Beleid is set to start in Tunis at noon local time, when
a military vehicle will carry his body from his home to the
Jalaz cemetery.  Accusations from Beleid’s widow and other secularists that
the moderate Islamist Ennahda played a role in the killing came
amid the greatest unrest in Tunisia since rallies sparked the
Arab Spring two years ago. Clashes between security forces and
protesters left one policeman dead, while opposition secular
parties withdrew from the government and Prime Minister  Hamadi Jbeli  vowed to form a Cabinet of technocrats, a plan rejected by
his own party.  “In the likely event there is no agreement, civil unrest
will increase, reaching a level that cannot be contained by the
police,” Abi Ali, an analyst at London-based Exclusive Analysis
said in an e-mailed note.  Jebli acted unilaterally in deciding to create a
technocratic government, Ennahda spokesman Abdelhamid Jlasi said
yesterday.  ‘Constitutional Void’  The rift within Ennahda over the proposal “may lead to a
constitutional void, especially considering the demand of some
parties to dissolve the Constituent Assembly,” Salem Labyad, a
professor at the University of Tunis said in an interview.  Beleid’s widow, Besma Khalfaoui said yesterday that she
held Ennahda, “with its fascist and democratic branches”
responsible for his death, a charge the party denied. She said
her husband had asked police for protection. Beleid, a lawyer,
had repeatedly criticized the Islamist government and radical
religious groups.  Jbeli and secular president,  Moncef Marzouki , condemned the
assassination, urging Tunisians not to be dragged into violence.  Beleid’s murder came after a Salafi cleric said in a video
posted on the internet that his head, and that of  Ahmed Najib Chebbi , another top opposition party figure, were “wanted.”  Tunisia, which has yet to adopt a new charter, is in talks
for a $1.78 billion International Monetary Fund stand-by
arrangement to help buttress its economy.  Hussein Abbasi, secretary general of the Tunisian labor
union organizing today’s strike, received a death threat
yesterday on his mobile phone, union spokesman Sami Tahiri said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jihen Laghmari in Tunis at 
 jlaghmari@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  