-- Tunisia Unrest Persists as Islamists Reject Premier Offer
-- B y   J i h e n   L a g h m a r i
-- 2013-02-08T01:26:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/tunisian-unrest-persists-as-islamists-reject-premier-s-vow-1-.html
Tunisia’s ruling Islamist Ennahda
party spurned efforts by Prime Minister  Hamadi Jbeli  to appoint
a new government, as unrest sparked by the murder of a senior
opposition leader persisted for a second day.  Police closed down central Tunis yesterday and fired tear
gas at protesters. Shops were shut on Avenue  Habib Bourguiba ,
where crowds outside the Interior Ministry shouted “down with
the Brotherhood Party, executioner of the people” and “Martyr
rest in peace, we will continue to struggle.”  “Tunisia cannot withstand a major change” in the Cabinet,
Abdelhamid Jlasi, an Ennahda spokesman, said yesterday by
telephone from the capital. Jbeli, an Ennahda member, decided
“unilaterally” to set up a technocratic government, Jlasi
said.  The Feb. 6 killing of Democratic Patriots party leader
Chukri Beleid and suspicions that it was carried out on Ennahda
orders led to the most unrest in Tunisia since protests two
years ago began the so-called Arab Spring. Feb. 6 clashes
between protesters and security forces left a police officer
dead and forced Jbeli to say he would overhaul his Cabinet, a
move he had resisted. A general strike is planned today.  The assassination sent Tunisia’s benchmark stock index
 tumbling  3.7 percent on Feb. 6, the biggest drop since Jan. 13,
2011, the eve of President  Zine El Abidine Ben Ali ’s departure.
The killing also reverberated in Egypt, where secularists have
expressed alarm over the power of Islamists under President
 Mohamed Mursi . The Tunis index gained 0.3 percent yesterday, the
first rise in four days.  Murder Accusations  Ennahda, “with its fascist and democratic branches, is
responsible for this,” Beleid’s widow, Besma Khalfaoui, told
the Tunisian news agency TAP, a charge the party denied. She
said her husband had asked police for protection.  Beleid’s murder came after a Salafi cleric said in a video
posted on the Internet that his head, and that of  Ahmed Najib Chebbi , another top opposition party figure, were “wanted.”  Jbeli and secular president,  Moncef Marzouki , condemned the
assassination, urging Tunisians not to be dragged into violence.
Jbeli’s announcement that he was setting up a technocratic
government before elections marked a concession to an opposition
that has accused Islamists of seeking to monopolize power.  In Washington,  Victoria Nuland , a U.S. State Department
spokeswoman, said demonstrators and the Tunisian government
should exercise restraint and called for a full investigation of
Beleid’s death.  Inappropriate Response  “There’s no place for violence in Tunisia’s democracy,”
Nuland said yesterday at a news briefing. “It wouldn’t resolve
the issues that Tunisians face and it’s not an appropriate
response to murder. It’s only going to bring more violence.”  Tunisia, which has yet to adopt a new charter, is in talks
for a $1.78 billion International Monetary Fund stand-by
arrangement to help support the nation’s economy.  Hussein Abbasi, secretary general of the Tunisian trade
union that called for the strike along with opposition groups,
received a death threat yesterday on his mobile telephone, said
Sami Tahiri, a union spokesman.  In Egypt, where  Hosni Mubarak ’s 2011 ouster unleashed
unrest and sent the economy into a tailspin, the killing of
Beleid drew a quick rebuke from secularists who say Mursi has
put the interests of the Muslim Brotherhood organization that
fielded him for office ahead of the nation’s.  Dark Forces  “Confronting violence, extremism and forces of darkness is
a key priority for our societies if they want freedom and
democracy,”  Amr Hamzawy , an Egyptian secular politician and
former member of the now-dissolved parliament, said on the
Twitter Inc. website. “The assassination of Chukri Beleid is an
alarm for Tunisia, as well as Egypt.”  The attack, and its fallout, came against a backdrop of an
Islamic summit in Cairo where government leaders stressed the
need to combat Islamophobia.  Fueling secularist and opposition concern in Egypt were
comments by cleric Mahmoud Shaaban, who was shown on Feb. 2 on
the al-Hafez religious satellite-television channel saying
“God’s verdict is death” for members of the National Salvation
Front opposition bloc “who want to burn Egypt.”  Egypt’s Cabinet said yesterday it’s considering taking
legal measures against anyone who issues fatwas inciting
violence. The statement came a day after Nobel Laureate  Mohamed ElBaradei , an opposition leader, criticized the government for
its silence.  “Religion yet again used and abused,” he said on Twitter.
The government said it was increasing security around the homes
of several top opposition leaders, state media said yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jihen Laghmari in Tunis at 
 jlaghmari@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  