-- Tunisia’s Ennahda Party Rejects Premier’s New Cabinet Bid
-- B y   J i h e n   L a g h m a r i   a n d   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y
-- 2013-02-07T11:41:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/tunisia-s-ennahda-rejects-premier-s-cabinet-bid-to-ease-tensions.html
Tunisia’s moderate Islamist Ennahda
Party rejected a pledge by Prime Minister  Hamadi Jbeli  to set up
a technocratic government after the assassination of an
opposition leader sparked violent protests.  “Tunisia cannot withstand a major change” in the Cabinet,
Ennahda spokesman Abdelhamid Jlasi said today by phone from the
capital. Premier Jbeli, a member of Ennahda, took the decision
“unilaterally,” he said.  Jbeli’s announcement came after the murder yesterday of
Chukri Beleid, head of the Democratic Patriots party. The
killing, which his wife blamed on Ennahda, sparked clashes
between thousands of protesters and the security forces that
left at least one policeman dead. A general strike is planned to
start tomorrow.  The murder, the most-high ranking assassination since the
uprising against President  Zine El Abidine Ben Ali  two years
ago, ignited tensions that have been building in the North
African nation where a fruit vendor’s self-immolation helped
launch the so-called Arab Spring uprisings. It is also drew
criticism from secularists in Egypt who oppose the Islamist
goverment of President Mohamed Mursi.  The attack sent Tunisia’s benchmark stock index tumbling
3.7 percent yesterday, the biggest drop since Jan. 13, 2011, the
eve of Ben Ali’s departure, and reverberated in Egypt where
secularists have expressed alarm over the power of Islamists
under President  Mohamed Mursi . The index gained 1.3 percent as
of 12:37 p.m. today in Tunis.  Message to All  Beleid’s murder is part of a “conspiracy” aimed at
threatening Tunisia’s “security and stability,” the secular
president,  Moncef Marzouki , said, according to the state-run TAP
news agency. It was a “threat and a message sent to all of
us,” the president, who has repeatedly clashed with the
Islamist prime minister, said.  Jbeli announced late yesterday that a technocratic
government would be established. The move marked a concession to
an opposition that has accused the Islamists of seeking to
monopolize power, echoing accusations also leveled by
secularists in Egypt.  “Those who killed Beleid wanted to silence his voice and
kill the hopes of Tunisians,” Jbeli told Mosaique FM radio. He
said those responsible for the assassination would be found and
held responsible.  In later televised comments, Jbeli said he was forming a
“technocratic” government before elections.  Police Protection  Ennahda, “with its fascist and democratic branches, is
responsible for this,” Beleid’s widow, Besma Khalfaoui, told
TAP, adding that her husband had asked police for protection
before.  Tunisia’s road to democracy has been paved with rifts and
accusations that the influence of a small yet vocal and at times
violent movement of ultraconservative Muslims known as Salafis
may undercut a secular tradition. The nation, which has yet to
adopt a new charter, is in talks for a $1.78 billion
International Monetary Fund stand-by arrangement to help
buttress its economy.  Beleid’s killing came after a video appeared showing a
Salafi cleric in a southeastern town saying his head, and that
of Ahmed Najib Chebbi, another top opposition party figure “are
wanted.”  “The call of that Salafi via video to kill Chukri Beleid
was an unforgivable mistake,” Mohammed Khoja, chairman of the
Reform Party, said today by phone. “Such calls do not represent
Islam and are not legitimate.”  Arson Attack  Beleid’s death followed a Feb. 3 arson attack on the
secular Nidaa Tounes opposition party headquarters in Kebili
province, and clashes between opposition groups and government
supporters in the cities of El Kef and Kairouan on Feb. 1 and
Feb. 2.  In Egypt, where  Hosni Mubarak ’s 2011 ouster unleashed
unrest and sent the economy into a tailspin, the killing drew a
quick rebuke from secularists who contend Mursi has put the
interests of the Muslim Brotherhood organization that fielded
him for office ahead of the nation’s.  “Confronting violence, extremism and forces of darkness is
a key priority for our societies if they want freedom and
democracy,” Amr Hamzawy, an Egyptian secular politician under
the now-dissolved parliament, said on his Twitter account. “The
assassination of Chukri Beleid is an alarm for Tunisia, as well
as Egypt.”  The attack, and fallout, came against a backdrop of an
Islamic summit in Cairo where leaders stressed the need to
combat Islamophobia.  Egypt Reaction  Fueling secularist and opposition concern in Egypt were
comments by cleric Mahmoud Shaaban, who was shown on Feb. 2 on
the al-Hafez religious satellite channel saying “God’s verdict
is death” for members of the National Salvation Front
opposition bloc “who want to burn Egypt.”  Egypt’s Cabinet said today it’s considering taking legal
measures against anyone who issues fatwas inciting violence. The
announcement in an e-mailed statement came a day after Nobel
Laureate  Mohamed ElBaradei , who’s part of the NSF, criticized
the government for its silence.  “Religion yet again used and abused,” he said on its
Twitter account.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jihen Laghmari in Cairo at 
 jlaghmari@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  