-- Tunisia Readies Cabinet to Restore Calm After Killing
-- B y   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y   a n d   J i h e n   L a g h m a r i
-- 2013-02-07T09:56:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/tunisia-readies-cabinet-to-restore-calm-after-killing.html
Tunisia’s Prime Minister  Hamadi Jbeli 
vowed to form a new cabinet and appealed for calm, as the
assassination of an opposition figure sparked violence in a
nation yet to stabilize after its autocratic president was
ousted.  At least one police officer was killed in clashes in the
capital with thousands of protesters yesterday after Chukri
Beleid’s killing. A general strike is planned starting for
tomorrow, and the slain politician’s widow laid the blame on the
moderate Islamist Ennahda party that leads the interim
government.  The murder, the most-high ranking assassination since the
uprising against President  Zine El Abidine Ben Ali  two years
ago, laid bare the tensions that have been building in the north
African nation where a fruit vendor’s self-immolation helped
launch the so-called Arab Spring uprisings.  The attack sent Tunisia’s benchmark stock index tumbling
3.7 percent yesterday, the biggest drop since Jan. 13, 2011, the
eve of Ben Ali’s departure, and reverberated in Egypt where
secularists have expressed alarm over the power of Islamists
under President  Mohamed Mursi .  Message to All  The killing of Beleid, the head of the Democratic Patriots
party, is part of a “conspiracy” against Tunisia aimed at
threatening “security and stability,” the secular president,
 Moncef Marzouki , said, according to the state-run TAP news
agency. It was a “threat and a message sent to all of us,” the
president, who has repeatedly clashed with the Islamist prime
minister, said.  Jbeli, a member of Ennahda, announced late yesterday that a
unity government would be established. His words marked a
concession to an opposition that has accused the Islamists of
seeking to monopolize power, echoing accusation also leveled by
secularists in Egypt.  “Those who killed Beleid wanted to silence his voice and
kill the hopes of Tunisians,” Jbeli told Mosaique FM radio. He
said those responsible for the assassination would be found and
held responsible.  In later televised comments, Jbeli said he was forming a
“technocratic” government ahead of elections.  Ennahda, “with its fascist and democratic branches, is
responsible for this,” Beleid’s widow, Besma Khalfaoui, told
TAP, adding her husband had asked police for protection before.  Wanted Men  Tunisia’s road to democracy has been paved with squabbles
and accusations that the influence of a small yet vocal and at
times violent Salafi movement could undercut a secular
tradition. The nation, which has yet to adopt a new charter, is
in talks for a $1.78 billion International Monetary Fund stand-
by arrangement to help buttress its economy.  Beleid’s killing came after a video appeared showing a
Salafi cleric in a southeastern town saying Beleid’s head, and
that of Ahmed Najib Chebbi, another top opposition party figure
“are wanted.”  His death follows a Feb. 3 arson attack on the secular
Nidaa Tounes opposition party headquarters in Kebili province,
and clashes between opposition groups and government supporters
in the cities of El Kef and Kairouan on Feb. 1 and Feb. 2.  In Egypt, where  Hosni Mubarak ’s 2011 ouster unleashed
unrest and sent the economy into a tailspin, the killing drew a
quick rebuke from secularists who contend Mursi has put the
interests of the Muslim Brotherhood organization that fielded
him for office ahead of the nation’s.  Tunisian Alarm  “Confronting violence, extremism and forces of darkness is
a key priority for our societies if they want freedom and
democracy,” Amr Hamzawy, an Egyptian secular politician under
the now-dissolved parliament, said on his Twitter account. “The
assassination of Chukri Beleid is an alarm for Tunisia, as well
as Egypt.”  The attack, and fallout, came against a backdrop of an
Islamic summit in Cairo where leaders stressed the need to
combat Islamophobia.  Fueling secularist and opposition worries in Egypt were
comments by cleric Mahmoud Shaaban, who was shown on Feb. 2 on
the al-Hafez religious satellite channel saying “God’s verdict
is death” for members of the National Salvation Front
opposition bloc “who want to burn Egypt.”  “Regime silent as another fatwa gives license to kill
opposition in the name of Islam,” Nobel Laureate  Mohamed ElBaradei , who’s part of the NSF, said on his Twitter account
yesterday. “Religion yet again used and abused.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tarek El-Tablawy in Cairo at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net ;
Jihen Laghmari in Cairo at 
 jlaghmari@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  