-- Tunisia Killing Stirs New Fears in Egypt After Death Edict
-- B y   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y   a n d   S a l m a   E l   W a r d a n y
-- 2013-02-07T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/tunisia-killing-stirs-new-fears-in-egypt-after-death-edict.html
Egypt’s opposition sounded a warning
ahead of expected protests today following the assassination of
a leading Tunisian opposition figure, which heightened unrest in
the Arab Spring’s birthplace.  The concerns built on weeks of tension in Egypt, where
critics of Islamist President  Mohamed Mursi  say he has failed to
deliver on his campaign pledges. The unrest and violence,
inspired by secularist suspicions over the Islamist’s motives,
has left dozens dead over the past week and further stunted the
government’s efforts to revive the economy.  Democratic Patriots party chief Chukri Beleid’s murder in
Tunisia two days ago reinforced fears in Egypt that had been
building for days. A religious edict by Egyptian cleric Mohamed
Shaaban was read by secularists as giving the go-ahead to kill
Mursi’s opponents. Egypt’s Cabinet said today it was looking at
measures to criminalize such fatwas, while the Prosecutor
General’s office ordered an investigation into the incident.  Beleid’s death “is a very serious warning,” the Popular
Current party, headed by former presidential hopeful Hamdeen
Sabahi, said on its Facebook page. “It could mean the Arab
Spring countries might go through a series of assassinations of
the opposition.”  “This kind of fatwa is the outcome of the polarization
that has dominated the Egyptian political atmosphere” over the
past few months,  Khalil al-Anani , a political analyst at Durham
University in the U.K., said by phone. The edict, and the
assassination, are “very dangerous indicators that the
political conflict can turn violent” if the Islamists fail to
take a firm stance against incitements to violence.  Rising Tensions  The Front, which has called for mass rallies today, said
Egypt was confronting the same conditions seen in Tunisia --
including an overflow of rival parties and the polarization of
society.  Tensions in Egypt were rife well before Beleid’s death or
the edict. The Jan. 25 second anniversary of the start of the
uprising that ousted  Hosni Mubarak , along with death sentences
handed down over a soccer stadium riot last year, led to more
than a week of unrest which left more than 50 dead. Mursi
enacted emergency measures in three Suez Canal provinces and his
defense minister warned the nation could face “collapse” if
the unrest continued.  The clashes started a day after Islamists, the opposition
National Salvation Front bloc and others signed an agreement to
renounce violence. Even with the deal, the NSF, which includes
opposition leaders including Sabahi, Nobel Laureate Mohamed
ElBaradei and former presidential candidate  Amre Moussa , refused
to back down on preconditions for talks including that Mursi set
up a unity government. Mursi is pushing ahead with new talks
next week.  Opposition Demands  The opposition, taking its cues from the demands of street
activists, has widened its demands to include calls for the
ouster of the regime -- echoing the chants that helped drive
Mubarak from power.  Shaaban, in comments aired live on the al-Hafez religious
satellite channel on Feb. 2, named NSF leaders such as Sabahi
and said “God’s verdict is death” for those “who want to burn
Egypt.”  Calls and texts to his mobile phone seeking comment went
unanswered yesterday.  The Muslim Brotherhood condemned what it described as
“odd” calls by some extremists to kill opposition figures, the
state-run Ahram Gate website reported. The Interior Ministry,
meanwhile, ramped up security outside Sabahi’s home, as well as
at the house of Nobel Laureate Mohamed ElBaradei, the state-run
Middle East News Agency said.  “Terrorising and killing the opposition, and issuing
fatwas calling for their leadership’s blood, in Egypt and
Tunisia, won’t stop the revolution from achieving its goals,”
the NSF said in an e-mailed statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tarek El-Tablawy in Cairo at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net ;
Salma El Wardany in Cairo at 
 selwardany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  