-- Turner Winner Wallinger Makes London Tube Stations Art
-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 2013-02-07T12:12:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/turner-winner-wallinger-makes-london-tube-stations-art.html
Mark Wallinger , who in 2007 won the
U.K.’s Turner Prize, is making art for all 270 of London
Underground’s stations to mark the network’s 150th anniversary.  Using the labyrinth as his theme, Wallinger is creating a
unique, picture-frame-sized enamel panel with a black-and-white
design for display in each station. The “Labyrinth” series
makes its debut today in 10 stations, including Baker Street,
King’s Cross St. Pancras, and Victoria. Remaining stops will be
furnished by June.  Other contemporary artists are being commissioned to
produce work for the 150th anniversary, including a poster
series. Details will be announced later this year.  “I’m a child of the Tube,” said Wallinger, who grew up in
Chigwell outside London. “The train track was behind my
childhood home: My mum still lives there.”  “It was the last thing at night dropping off to sleep --
ta-toom, ta-toom -- and getting up in the morning. So it was a
very soothing presence,” he told journalists gathered around
him on the Underground platform at St. James’s Park, where one
of his first pieces was made public by Transport for London.  Wallinger said he wanted to see more projects in that vein.
“There’s probably not enough public artworks out there,” he
said. “I think they’ve become rather timid.”  Boris Johnson , the Mayor of London, hailed the commission.  “A formidable legacy of art” has been inspired by the
Underground, he said. He mentioned the Tube map designed by
Harry Beck and inventive posters providing traveler information.  Hirst, Emin  Wallinger belongs to the same generation as the so-called
Young British Artists --  Damien Hirst ,  Tracey Emin , Jake &  Dinos Chapman . Yet he has never been categorized as one of them.  He was the first artist commissioned to design a work for
the empty sculpture platform in Trafalgar Square. His “Ecce
Homo,” depicting the ailing Christ, occupied the Fourth Plinth
in 1999.  In 2004, he dressed as a bear and roamed around a Berlin
museum for 10 nights, using an animal that symbolizes Germany to
reflect on the country’s past and present. Two years later, in
“State Britain,” he replicated some 600 banners and placards
put up by Iraq War protester Brian Haw outside the U.K.
parliament.  In 2009, he staged a well-reviewed exhibition at the
Hayward Gallery (“Mark Wallinger Curates: The Russian
Linesman”) pulling together pieces he considered significant,
including a double-headed Roman marble bust and a woodcut by
 Albrecht Durer .  Ebbsfleet Horse  The same year, he won a 2 million pound ($3.13 million)
commission to put up a monumental horse sculpture in former
cement quarries at Ebbsfleet in Kent, near London. The project
has since been stalled for funding reasons.  “There are some promising leads, we’re still hopeful,”
Wallinger said of the horse.  Other artists who have made art for the Underground over
the last 13 years include Emin,  Cindy Sherman , and  Peter Blake .  For more information on art on the Underground, go to
 http://art.tfl.gov.uk/   To contact the writer on the story:
 Farah Nayeri  in London  at
 farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 