-- USPS Folly Was Foreshadowed by Confederate Post Office
-- B y   J o s e p h   M .   A d e l m a n
-- 2013-02-07T16:52:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/usps-folly-was-foreshadowed-by-confederate-post-office.html
The announcement yesterday that the
U.S. Postal Service will cease Saturday delivery starting in
August highlights the core paradox of the system: that it should
both serve a universal civic function and generate enough
revenue to sustain its enormously expensive operation.  Since 1971, the postal service has been run as a business-
like independent government agency. As e-mail and other forms of
digital communication have proliferated and health-care costs
have soared, the system’s finances  have deteriorated .  This isn’t the first time the country has discovered that
running a profit while maintaining a vastly complicated service
that no other entity will provide is almost impossible. The
earliest precedent for treating the postal system first as a
business and second as a public institution -- the Confederate
Post Office -- suggests some important lessons for today.  For much of its early history in the U.S., the postal
service was clearly an institution designed with a “civic
mandate,” as Richard John, a professor at the Columbia School of
Journalism, has said. It was created during the American
Revolution, and was supported in the decades that followed, as a
way to maintain free and open channels of communication for news
and public information as well as the private correspondence of
a geographically dispersed nation.  Antebellum Politics  But as the post office became embroiled in the vitriolic
politics of the antebellum era, it grew increasingly
controversial. Southerners, in particular, recoiled at
Northerners’ use of the postal service to spread anti-slavery
literature. To them, the system was becoming another intrusion
of the federal government into their affairs.  The South had a long history of trying to control
information to maintain social order and prevent slave
rebellions, and Southern leaders saw little value in subsidizing
the spread of news and public debate. When they had the
opportunity to design their own post office, therefore, they
structured it not as a civic system of information but as a
revenue-generating business.  Meeting in February 1861, Confederate delegates revised the
U.S. Constitution into something that would meet their vision of
government, in particular the argument that the document was a
compact of the states rather than a reflection of the people’s
will. Most famously, the  Constitution of the Confederate States
of America  enshrined slavery by offering protections to slave
owners and to the South’s plantation economy.  When it came to the post office, the Confederacy abandoned
the principle of free and open communication. The Confederate
Constitution, like its U.S. predecessor, granted the power “to
establish post offices and post routes,” but it stipulated that
“the expenses of the Post Office Department, after the 1st day
of March in the year of our Lord eighteen hundred and sixty-
three, shall be paid out of its own revenues.”  The Confederate states thus offered a dramatically
different answer to the question of the government’s role in
facilitating communication. Unlike the Union, which had a long-
established policy of encouraging the circulation of news and,
more recently, personal correspondence through cheap postage,
the Confederacy was more concerned with ensuring that the post
office could pay for itself.  Based on Southern patterns of postal use in the decades
before the war, however, keeping the service thriving without
subsidies would prove a tall order. The Confederate Congress
organized a committee to examine expenses and revenue in the
states that had seceded. It found that expenses were about $1.6
million in 1859 -- on revenue of $578,000.  Closing Routes  When the Confederate Congress finally wrote legislation for
the new post office, the provisions on postage mirrored those of
the U.S. Post Office. However, the Congress also moved to close
down a number of routes “the cost of which is greatly
disproportioned to their convenience,” and a number of “minor
post offices, which occasion great expense without corresponding
profit or convenience.” They estimated this would save several
hundred thousand dollars.  Of course, such cuts made it difficult to maintain enough
service to encourage people to use the post office -- which
initiated a self-fulfilling cycle of further service cuts.  And these reforms weren’t universally welcomed in the
South. Newspaper editors, for instance, depended on the post
office to circulate their publications. “The idea for making the
post office a self-supporting system, has no good reason to
support it,” the editor of the Savannah Republican wrote,
comparing it to other government departments, such as the
courts. “All past experience shows that to make the post office
self-supporting must cut off a very large portion of the people,
in the more sparsely settled sections of the country, from this
important advantage of government.”  In other words, the post office couldn’t long survive
without government support.  The Confederate postmaster general, a former congressman
from Texas named John H. Reagan, actually succeeded in bringing the
Confederate Post Office’s ledgers into balance, but it ended up
serving the Confederacy poorly. With a shrunken and limited
network for circulating news and information, the Confederacy
was hamstrung in its efforts to marshal public opinion to the
war effort.  In constructing a postal system, the Confederacy made an
explicit decision to force the service to generate enough
revenue to support itself. The U.S. Congress has managed to
avoid addressing that issue directly for four decades. Given the
events of this week, it may not be able to wait much longer.  ( Joseph M. Adelman  is a visiting assistant professor of
history at Framingham State University. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  Read more from Echoes  online .  To contact the writer of this post:
Joseph Adelman at  jadelman@framingham.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this post:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net  