-- Viehbacher Sees New Sanofi Growing in Diagnostics, Nutrition
-- B y   A l b e r t i n a   T o r s o l i
-- 2013-02-07T19:03:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/viehbacher-says-new-sanofi-seeks-partners-to-grow-beyond-drugs.html
Sanofi ’s Chief Executive Officer
 Chris Viehbacher , who’s completed 32 acquisitions and 91
licensing deals in four years, says more collaborations may be a
way to grow in diagnostics and nutrition.  “I believe in this health-care approach,” which means
Sanofi is becoming a company focused on health, not just drugs,
Viehbacher said in an interview at Sanofi’s Paris headquarters.  France’s largest drugmaker spent about 24 billion euros
($33 billion) on acquisitions and partnerships since Viehbacher
took over at the end of 2008, including the $20.1 billion
purchase of  Genzyme Corp.  The 52-year-old executive has sought
to replenish Sanofi’s product pipeline and reduce its reliance
on a handful of blockbusters susceptible to generic competition.  Viehbacher, who keeps a collection of antique pharmacy jars
behind his desk, is also widening the company’s approach to
patient needs, for example by investing in some medical devices.
Sanofi introduced a product known as Auvi-Q last month in the
U.S., a talking device shaped like a mobile phone and designed
to guide users through an emergency allergy injection. In
diabetes, where sales are driven by the Lantus insulin, the
company introduced blood-metering devices in 2011, including one
that connects to Apple Inc.’s iPhone.  “The marriage of digital technologies with therapeutics is
a phenomenon that is only going to grow,” Viehbacher said, and
Sanofi could do with “partnerships to help us understand the
digital side of the business.”  No Lucozade  Nutrition is another area that could be of interest as it
hasn’t “really developed in the true sense,” Viehbacher said.
“You have products that claim to be nutritious but aren’t
necessarily, you have products that are very medical but aren’t
really for every-day use. There’s potential.”  Sanofi said last year it had set up a joint venture with
Coca-Cola Co. to sell health drinks at French pharmacies, a
pilot project to test demand for beverages with beauty claims.  The company also needs “to be active in diagnostics, in
bio-markers, but I think we will do that through partnerships,
not acquisitions,” Viehbacher said.  Over four years, he reorganized Sanofi’s business in seven
so-called growth platforms, which include businesses that range
from diabetes and vaccines to animal and consumer health care.
He said he isn’t thinking about adding a new platform.  “I don’t particularly want to enlarge the perimeter of the
company today,” he said. He also ruled out major divestments.  Other Companies  The French drugmaker isn’t following the path of other
pharmaceutical companies that are spinning off businesses or
selling assets. Pfizer Inc. took its animal health unit public
this month. Shares of the new company, called Zoetis Inc., have
risen 22 percent since they were first sold at $26 Jan. 31.
London-based GlaxoSmithKline Plc said yesterday it will review
options, including a possible sale, for its Lucozade and Ribena
drinks.  A spinoff of Sanofi’s Merial animal health business “isn’t
on the agenda,” at least for now, Viehbacher said today. Sanofi
also isn’t interested in buying Lucozade and Ribena, he said
during the interview.  “That would be getting out of our scope,” Viehbacher said
in reference to the Glaxo drinks.  In ophthalmology, drugs that treat diseases of the eye are
a business that is “very much in line with what we do,” while
contact lenses is a “different” business from Sanofi’s, he
said. Viehbacher earlier today declined to comment on specific
interest for the U.S. ophthalmology company  Bausch & Lomb Inc.   To contact the reporter on this story:
Albertina Torsoli in Paris at 
 atorsoli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  