-- Visa Profit Climbs 26% as Credit-Card Spending Picks Up
-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 2013-02-07T19:05:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/visa-profit-climbs-26-as-credit-card-spending-picks-up.html
Visa Inc. , the world’s biggest
payments network, posted a fiscal first-quarter profit that beat
analysts’  estimates  as consumer card spending accelerated.  Net income for the three months ended Dec. 31 advanced 26
percent to $1.29 billion, or $1.93 a share, from $1.03 billion,
or $1.49, a year earlier, the Foster City, California-based
company said yesterday in a statement. That beat the $1.79
average estimate of 32 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  “Results include significant continued investments in our
core business, accelerating international expansion and the
deployment of next-generation payment solutions,” Chief
Executive Officer  Charlie Scharf , who succeeded  Joseph W. Saunders  in November, said in the statement.  Scharf, 47, inherited a goal of deriving more than half of
Visa’s  revenue  from outside the U.S. by 2015. A global consumer
shift to electronic payments, particularly in the Asia-Pacific
region, may help. Purchases there are projected to generate 42
percent, or $9.03 trillion, of worldwide card spending at
merchants in 2016, up from 36 percent at the end of 2011, the
Nilson Report, an industry newsletter, said in its latest issue.  Visa slipped 1.9 percent to $157.82 at 1:53 p.m. in New
York after  Timothy Willi , an analyst at Wells Fargo & Co.,
downgraded the shares to market perform from outperform. The
stock, which climbed almost 50 percent in the past year, doesn’t
provide enough “upside potential,” he wrote.  Price Targets  Still, Willi joined at least 10 other analysts, including
JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s  Tien-tsin Huang  and  Craig Maurer  at CLSA
Ltd., in raising their price targets for Visa this week. The
stock is now projected to reach $172.26 within the next 12
months, up from $165.91 at the end of last week, according to
the average of 32 analysts’ predictions in a Bloomberg survey.  Spending on Visa debit and credit cards in the Asia-Pacific
region, the firm’s second-biggest market after the U.S., climbed
about 13 percent, the company said. Purchases surged almost 37
percent in Central Europe, the Middle East and Africa, while
spending in Central and South America and the Caribbean rose
about 22 percent.  China is an “interesting” opportunity for Visa, Scharf
said in a conference call with analysts after results were
announced. Payments in the country are dominated by Shanghai-
based China UnionPay, which surpassed  MasterCard Inc.  in the
first half of last year to become the world’s second-biggest
payments network by customer spending.  ‘Good Partner’  “We’re there, we make money there, and we’ve got some
great partners there,” Scharf said of China. “It’s important
for us to be a good partner to people within the country to
bring the benefits of Visa to China. And in my conversations
with people from China, they want us there. They think we can
add value not just because of the brand but because of what our
network is versus maybe what China UnionPay is today.”  Visa said it would generate about $6 billion in free cash
flow in fiscal 2013, fueled by tax benefits related to a
settlement of a lawsuit over credit-card “swipe” fees, or
interchange. Guidance on taxes from California officials led
Visa’s tax rate to fall to 28 percent in the quarter and boosted
results by 11 cents a share, the company said.  Processed Transactions  Operating revenue rose 12 percent to $2.85 billion from a
year earlier, beating the $2.82 billion estimate of analysts in
the Bloomberg survey. Worldwide spending on Visa payment cards
climbed to $1.08 trillion, an 8.7 percent increase when adjusted
for currency fluctuations. Total processed transactions
increased 4 percent to 14.2 billion.  Purchases on debit cards climbed 3.6 percent in the last
three months of 2012 after a 0.2 percent decline in the
preceding quarter. Credit-card spending surged 12 percent in the
most recent period, up from 9.7 percent growth in the fiscal
fourth quarter, the company said.  Visa’s lead in the U.S. debit-card market continued to
erode as Dodd-Frank Act rules helped competitors gain share.
Spending on Visa debit cards in the U.S. slid 3.6 percent in the
fiscal first quarter even as volume in the rest of the world
surged 29 percent, adjusted for currency changes.  MasterCard, led by CEO  Ajay Banga , 53, said last week that
fourth-quarter profit increased 18 percent, excluding litigation
charges. On Feb. 5, the Purchase, New York-based company doubled
its quarterly  dividend  to 60 cents a share and approved a stock
repurchase program of as much as $2 billion. In October, Visa
announced it was boosting its quarterly  payout  by 50 percent to
33 cents a share, and yesterday the company said it may buy back
as much as $2.9 billion in stock.  Saunders, 67, who led Visa through a  2008  initial public
offering that raised $19.7 billion, the most in U.S. history, is
retiring and will step down as non-executive chairman at the end
of March, Visa said in a statement last week. He will be
succeeded by  Robert W. Matschullat , a former chairman of Clorox
Co., where he’s currently lead director. He also has been a
director at Visa since 2007 and Walt Disney Co. since 2002.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dakin Campbell  in San Francisco at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  