-- Vodafone Service Revenue Drops on Southern Europe Slump
-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2013-02-07T09:44:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/vodafone-service-revenue-misses-estimates-on-southern-europe.html
Vodafone Group Plc , the second-
largest mobile-phone company, reported declining revenue for a
second consecutive quarter as customers in Europe reduced
spending amid slowing economies.  Service  sales  fell 2.6 percent in the third quarter ended
Dec. 31, excluding the impact of acquisitions and currency
fluctuations, the Newbury, England-based company said today in a
statement. Analysts had predicted a 2.4 percent decline in
service revenue, which includes voice, data and messaging,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Vodafone is  eliminating jobs  in Europe, including as many
as 1,000 in Spain, to lower costs as consumers and companies cut
spending in response to soaring unemployment and contracting
economies. Service revenue plunged 14 percent in Italy, 11
percent in Spain and 5.2 percent in the U.K., while rising in
markets such as India and Turkey.  “These results are modest to weak,” said  Andrea Devita ,
an analyst at Banca Akros SpA in Milan who recommends holding
Vodafone shares. “But this earnings season has been horrible,
so investors have had time to adjust their expectations.”  Forecast Reiterated  The company repeated its forecast that adjusted operating
profit for the year through March will be in the upper half of a
range of 11.1 billion pounds ($17.4 billion) to 11.9 billion
pounds. Analysts  estimated  11.6 billion pounds. Vodafone’s cash
flow will be adequate to cover its future dividend payments,
Chief Financial Officer  Andy Halford  said on a conference call.  Vodafone, whose revenue trails China Mobile Ltd., rose 2.1
percent to 173.95 pence as of 9:42 a.m. in London. That pared
the stock’s decline in the past 12 months to 0.6 percent.  The stock is gaining because “a lot of people were
expecting a massive miss” against estimates, while the figures
released today are only slightly lower than analysts’
predictions, said  Robin Bienenstock , an analyst at Sanford C.
Bernstein Ltd.  “If you look at Vodafone’s European results, they’ve taken
a pretty significant step down,” even in light of recessions in
the region, Bienenstock said. “They’ve been increasingly
squeezed by really aggressive discounters at the bottom and some
more compelling bundled packages from  companies  at the top.”  Discounted Packages  The company’s Vodafone Red products, which offer discounted
packages of mobile Internet and unlimited calling service in
parts of Europe, are contributing to declining revenue, Chief
Executive Officer  Vittorio Colao  said on the call. Even so, the
plans are proving popular and increasing customer loyalty, he
said.  To persuade people to spend more in saturated markets,
Vodafone and  competitors  are investing in so-called fourth-
generation networks, which provide faster data speeds for
customers browsing the Web and watching video.  Colao is also increasingly relying on operations outside of
Vodafone’s markets in Europe. Service revenue at Verizon
Wireless, the company’s U.S. joint venture with Verizon
Communications Inc., rose 8.7 percent last quarter. Sales jumped
9 percent in India and 18 percent in Turkey, Vodafone said.  In the previous quarter, Vodafone took a 5.9 billion-pound
writedown on its businesses in Spain and Italy as the economies
sputter and competition intensifies because almost all Europeans
already have mobile phones.  “We continue to face difficult market conditions in Europe
and we expect those to continue in the coming year,” Colao said
today. “My answer on where is the money for investment going
clearly indicates we do believe in high speed.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  