-- VTB Sees 4% Sberbank Premium as Limit Reached: Russia Overnight
-- B y   H a l i a   P a v l i v a
-- 2013-02-08T13:35:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/vtb-sees-4-sberbank-premium-as-limit-reached-russia-overnight.html
OAO Sberbank’s  depositary receipts
will rise to a premium of as much as 4 percent over the lender’s
Russian shares as foreigners seek the securities after a limit
on converting stock was reached, according to VTB Capital.  American depositary receipts  of Sberbank fell 1.7 percent
to $14.03 in New York yesterday, trading at a 0.3 percent
premium to its Micex Index-listed  shares . The  Bloomberg Russia-
US Equity Index  of the most-traded Russian stocks in the U.S.
slumped to a two-week low as oil, the nation’s biggest export
earner, fell a second day.  Futures  on the RTS Index fell 1.1
percent to 157,690 by 5:34 p.m. in Moscow today.  Sberbank said Feb. 6 that its DR program, where local
shares are converted into securities traded in London and New
York, had been halted. DRs can only account for 25 percent of a
company’s shares and 50 percent of its listed shares, according
to Russia’s market regulator. Investors need to set up trading
accounts through local custodians to trade domestic Russian
stocks, which can deter foreigners from the Micex, according to
 Mikhail Shlemov , chief banking analyst at VTB Capital.  “Many people expect a premium,”  Ronny Rehn , an analyst at
Keefe, Bruyette & Woods Inc. who rates Sberbank a buy, said by
phone from London yesterday. “It should trade one-to-one, but
some investors can’t trade it locally and if they really want to
jump on it, they would buy depositary receipts.”  Sberbank ADRs in New York have settled at a premium versus
the lender’s Moscow-traded shares every day since Bank of New
York Mellon Corp. issued a Jan. 30 warning on Sberbank’s DR
program approaching its limit.  ETF Declines  The lender’s London-listed DRs rallied 1.3 percent to
$14.08 today, trading at a 0.46 percent premium to Sberbank’s
Moscow-listed shares.  The  Market Vectors Russia ETF , the biggest U.S.-traded
exchange-traded fund that holds Russian shares, dropped 1.1
percent to $30.30 yesterday, falling for a second day. The  RTS
Volatility Index , which measures expected swings in the index
futures, gained 4.7 percent to 20.83 in Moscow today.  OAO Mobile TeleSystems , Russia’s biggest mobile-phone
company, has already reached its DR conversion limit, according
to VTB’s Shlemov.  The ADRs, which fell 0.7 percent to $19.80 yesterday, trade
at a 16 percent  premium  in New York to the Moscow shares, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. Shares of Krasnodar-based food
retailer  OAO Magnit  also can no longer be converted into DRs and
its global depositary receipts in London trade 18 percent above
the Moscow stock.  ‘Limited Access’  “Foreign investors have limited access to Russia’s
domestic stock market,” VTB’s Shlemov, an analyst at the
investment arm of Russia’s second-largest bank, VTB Group, said
by phone from Moscow yesterday. “And yet they have a huge
appetite for Sberbank shares, which leaves them with no other
choice but depositary receipts.”  Shlemov rates Sberbank’s Micex stock a buy.  The average value of Russia’s biggest companies is about 45
percent higher in London than in Moscow, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. Russian authorities are trying to modernize the
Moscow Exchange’s trading system, which runs the 50-stock Micex
Index, and open up access to the domestic market. The country
merged its two competing depositories Nov. 6 to bring settlement
procedures into line with international norms.  Russia’s Federal Financial Markets Service may lift
restrictions on converting local shares into depositary
receipts, the Interfax newswire reported Oct. 19, citing  Dmitry Pankin , the service’s chief.  ‘Too Risky’  Sberbank’s DR premium won’t reach the levels of MTS and
Magnit, according to  Vladimir Savov , a banking analyst at
Otkritie Financial Corp. in Moscow.  “It’s too risky to play the premium on Sberbank, where
liquidity is lower and the environment is such that the limit on
local shares’ conversion to depositary receipts could be
eliminated already next year,” he said by phone yesterday.  Savov rates Sberbank’s Moscow-listed stock a buy and
expects the DR premium to swell to as much as 3 percent.  Oil rose 0.2 percent in New York today to $95.97 a barrel,
after slumping 0.8 percent yesterday. Brent crude climbed 0.9
percent to $118.24 a barrel in London.  Urals crude , Russia’s
chief export blend, rose 0.5 percent to $115.73.  Futures expiring in March on the ruble show the currency
weakening 0.2 percent to 30.366 per dollar, with the ruble down
less than 0.1 percent today to 30.1990. The currency was little
changed at 34.7693 against Bank Rossii’s dollar-euro basket.  OAO Mechel , Russia’s biggest producer of steelmaking coal,
fell 2.9 percent to $6.39 in New York yesterday, the lowest
level for its ADRs since Dec. 7, settling at a 2.3 percent
discount to the company’s Moscow-listed shares. Mechel’s ruble-
denominated Moscow-listed stock slipped 1.9 percent to 194
rubles, or $6.43.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Halia Pavliva in New York at 
 hpavliva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  