-- Wacker Earnings Exceed Estimates on Photovoltaic Market
-- B y   S h e e n a g h   M a t t h e w s
-- 2013-02-07T06:52:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/wacker-earnings-exceed-estimates-on-photovoltaic-market.html
Wacker Chemie AG , the fourth-biggest
maker of polysilicon, posted quarterly profit that beat analyst
estimates and said that there are “encouraging signals” from
the photovoltaic market.  Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and
amortization in the fourth quarter rose 17 percent from a year
earlier to 130 million euros ($176 million), the Munich-based
company said today in a statement. Analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg had estimated Ebitda of 109.5 million euros.  The manufacturer, whose shares fell in November to the
lowest price since its 2006 IPO, has struggled with increased
competition from Chinese makers of solar products. While price
pressure and high inventory levels hurt the polysilicon business
in 2012, the worst may be over, the company said today.  “Recent weeks have provided encouraging signals indicating
additional photovoltaic expansion, especially in China and the
U.S.,” Chief Executive Officer  Rudolf Staudigl  said in the
statement. “That could result not only in improved volumes, but
also in better prices for solar silicon in the future.”  Quarterly sales rose 1 percent to 1.02 billion euros,
beating a 987.3 million-euro estimate.  Shortened Hours  Wacker Chemie, which generates one-quarter of sales from
polysilicon, introduced shorter working hours in October for 650
of the 1,000 employees at its Burghausen, Germany, site and
delayed production by 18 months at a new polysilicon factory in
Tennessee to counter overcapacity.  Wacker stock has gained 13 percent this year in Frankfurt
trading, for a market value of 2.9 billion euros. The
manufacturer is majority-owned by the founding family’s holding
company, Dr. Alexander Wacker Familiengesellschaft mbH.  The company named Tobias Ohler to the executive board as of
Jan. 1, replacing  Wilhelm Sittenthaler , who left for personal
reasons. Ohler joined Wacker in 2005 and until his new
appointment was personnel director and a board member of the
company’s Siltronic unit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sheenagh Matthews in Frankfurt at 
 smatthews6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  