-- Wealthy Client Wins $4.3 Million From GenSpring Over Fund
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C o l l i n s
-- 2013-02-07T23:02:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/wealthy-client-wins-4-3-million-from-genspring-over-fund.html
A  SunTrust Banks Inc. (STI)  unit that
manages money for wealthy families paid $4.3 million to a client
over a hedge-fund investment that declined in the 2008 financial
crisis, under an arbitration award disclosed today.  GenSpring Family Offices LLC, based in Jupiter,  Florida ,
advised an entrepreneur with a $30 million portfolio to invest
almost one-third of his account in hedge funds instead of bonds,
according to a statement from the claimant’s lawyers at Dovin
Malkin & Ficken LLC and Vernon Healy.  The money was invested in funds of funds that suffered
similar losses to the equity markets in 2008, the law firms
said. The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  plunged 37 percent that
year, including reinvested dividends, while funds of funds
declined an average of 21 percent, according to data compiled by
Chicago-based Hedge Fund Research Inc.  “The strategies employed by the multistrategy hedge funds
that GenSpring was funneling its clients’ money into were
cloaked in secrecy,” co-counsel Chris Vernon, of Naples,
Florida-based Vernon Healy, said in the statement. “GenSpring’s
clients were forced to rely on GenSpring because they had no
access to any other information regarding these funds.”  Hugh Suhr, a SunTrust spokesman, declined to comment on the
arbitration in an e-mail. GenSpring had $17.5 billion in assets
under advisement as of Dec. 31, 2011, and ranked 14th in a list
of the top 50 family offices, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The law firms didn’t disclose the client’s name. The
claimant was the Richard S. Golden Revocable Trust and Golden
Optical Corp., according to an arbitration resolution document
posted on the  website  of Securities Litigation & Consulting
Group, whose Craig McCann testified in the proceeding.  The $2.25 trillion hedge-fund industry trailed global
stocks in five of the past seven years, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Hedge funds gained about 4.4 percent in
2012, versus returns of 17 percent for the  MSCI All-Country
World (MXWO)  Index and 16 percent for the S&P 500 Index, a benchmark
for large U.S. stocks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Collins in  New York  at 
 mcollins45@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  