-- Two Former Mercury Interactive Executives Settle SEC Suit
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t   a n d   P a m   M a c L e a n
-- 2013-02-07T20:58:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/two-former-mercury-interactive-executives-settle-sec-suit-1-.html
Two former executives of  Hewlett-
Packard Co .’s Mercury Interactive unit settled a lawsuit with
the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission over allegations of
backdating company stock options.  The SEC reached agreements with former Chief Executive
Officer  Amnon Landan  and former Chief Financial Officer  Douglas Smith  after the two men and a third former official, ex-general
counsel  Susan Skaer , appeared today for a hearing on the case
before U.S. District Judge  William Alsup  in San Francisco.  The settlement was confirmed by Michael Torpey, a lawyer
for Skaer, whose case isn’t settled, he said. An electronic
court docket entry also listed the settlements, without
providing any details on the terms.  The former executives argued that the SEC allegations are
too old and their actions weren’t improper. The SEC had
requested that the judge decide the case in its favor without a
trial.  The agency has pursued the five-year-old lawsuit against
Landan, Smith and Skaer over changing dates on stock options to
make them more valuable, a practice among many technology
companies that led to a federal investigation, the ousters of 90
executives and directors, billions of dollars in restatements
and criminal charges against executives at 10 companies.  ‘Do It Quickly’  Alsup said in court today that settlement talks were set
for immediately after the hearing and told attorneys that “I am
going to issue an order in the next few days. If you are going
to preempt that with a settlement, do it quickly.”  Stephan Schlegelmilch, an SEC lawyer, said the staff’s
recommendation for settlements must still be approved by the
commission.  “We cannot comment on any settlement, but any settlements
will be made public if approved by the commission,” he said in
an e-mail.  K.C. Maxwell, a lawyer for Landan, also declined to
comment.  SEC attorneys say more than 40 stock option grants at
Mercury Interactive were backdated from 1997 to 2002, and $258
million in compensation expenses weren’t reported to investors
as a result, according to court documents. Landan, Skaer and
Smith were all involved in the practice, the SEC said.  Backdating grants to days when share prices were low
inflates their value and may hide costs from investors if left
undisclosed. Mercury Interactive paid $28 million in 2007 to
settle a related SEC lawsuit and three former company directors
and a former chief financial officer settled SEC lawsuits over
the practice.  The executives said the company was open about backdating,
the SEC waited too long to sue and the agency lacks evidence
that they violated securities or accounting rules.  The case is SEC v. Landan, 07-2822, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of California (San Francisco).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in San Francisco at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  