-- Won Falls as BOJ Change Stokes Devaluation Risk; Bonds Advance
-- B y   D a v i d   Y o n g
-- 2013-02-07T02:02:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/won-falls-as-boj-change-stokes-devaluation-risk-bonds-advance.html
The won fell for a third day on
concern Japan will let its currency weaken further with the
imminent departure of its central bank chief, making it harder
for South Korean exporters to compete. Government bonds rose.  Bank of Japan Governor Masaaki Shirawaka said yesterday he
will step down March 19, almost three weeks before his term
ends, in a move seen aiding Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s campaign
for more aggressive monetary easing. The Kospi Index of stocks
has declined 2.5 percent this year as the won’s 6 percent gain
against the yen hurt the earnings outlooks at Samsung
Electronics Co. and Hyundai Motor Co., while benefiting Toyota
Motor Corp. North Korea’s next nuclear test may happen at “any
time,”  a South Korean defense official said today.  “It’s a choppy market as the change at BOJ seems to
indicate that the yen weakness, or competitive devaluation,
isn’t over yet,” said Irene Cheung, a strategist at Australia &
New Zealand Banking Group. in Singapore. “There are definitely
stock outflows. The North Korea issue doesn’t help.”  The won dropped 0.2 percent to 1,089.66 per dollar as of
10:13 a.m. in Seoul, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The currency touched 1,098.25 on Feb. 1, the weakest level since
October. One-month implied volatility, a gauge of expected moves
in the exchange rate used to price options, fell 13 basis
points, or 0.13 percentage point, to 7.50 percent.  The won fell 0.4 percent to 11.66 per yen today, snapping a
four-day advance. The South Korean currency reached 11.59
yesterday, the strongest level since October 2008, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The government is “all ready” to
intervene and smooth currency-market volatility, Finance
Minister Bahk Jae Wan said Jan. 23.  Foreign Funds  Foreign funds sold about $40 million of South Korean stocks
yesterday, according to exchange data. They pulled 1.9 trillion
won ($1.7 billion) in January, the most since May, the Financial
Supervisory Service said Feb. 5.  North Korea’s next nuclear test may involve several
detonations to showcase its improved capability, General Jung
Seung Mo, chairman of South Korea’s Joint Chiefs of Staff, told
lawmakers in Seoul today. It may happen at “any time” based on
leader Kim Jong Un’s decision, he added.  Five-year bonds gained for a fourth day. The yield on South
Korea’s 2.75 percent bonds due September 2017 dropped two basis
points to a two-week low of 2.84 percent, according to prices
from Korea Exchange. The treasury will auction 1.4 trillion won
of five-year notes on Feb. 12.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Yong in Singapore at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  