-- Worker Productivity in U.S. Declines, Pushing Up Labor Costs
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2013-02-07T13:49:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/worker-productivity-in-u-s-declines-pushing-up-labor-costs-1-.html
The productivity of U.S. workers fell
more than projected in the fourth quarter as the economy shrank,
pushing labor expenses up and showing companies are approaching
the limit of how much efficiency they can wring from employees.  The measure of employee output per hour decreased at a 2
percent annual rate, the worst performance in almost two years,
after a 3.2 percent gain in the prior three months, a Labor
Department report showed today in Washington. The median
forecast in a Bloomberg survey of 63 economists called for a 1.4
percent drop. Expenses per worker increased at a 4.5 percent
rate, more than estimated.  Companies ramped up hiring toward the end of 2012, a sign
they’re finding it difficult to make do with the existing staff
as sales improve. A pickup in consumer and business spending
last quarter -- even as the economy shrank due to a plunge in
defense outlays and slower stockpiling -- also will help to
improve the job market this year.  “Companies have been getting as much as they can out of
the existing workforce, and they’re strapped now,” said  Ryan Sweet , a senior economist at Moody’s Analytics Inc. in West
Chester, Pennsylvania. “They recognize that they can’t grow
their business without adding to their workforce.”  Economists’ estimates in the Bloomberg survey ranged from a
decline of 3.5 percent to a gain of 0.3 percent. Productivity in
the third quarter was revised up from a previously reported 2.9
percent gain.  First-time claims for unemployment insurance payments fell
last week, returning to levels seen in the second half of 2012,
another report from the Labor Department showed today.  Jobless Claims  Applications for  jobless benefits  dropped 5,000 to 366,000
in the week ended Feb. 2. Economists forecast 360,000 claims,
according to the median of 53 estimates in a Bloomberg survey.  Stock-index futures rose after the reports. The contract on
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index maturing in March climbed 0.1
percent to 1,508.3 at 8:46 a.m. in New York.  For all of 2012, productivity climbed 1 percent after a 0.7
percent gain the prior year. The advance was less than half the
2.3 percent average from 2000 through 2011.  The increase in fourth-quarter labor expenses followed a
2.3 percent drop in the prior three months. Unit labor costs,
which are adjusted for efficiency gains, were forecast to rise 3
percent, according to the Bloomberg survey median.  Annual Advance  For all of 2012, labor costs increased 0.7 percent
following a 2 percent gain a year earlier. They climbed an
average of 1 percent from 2000 through 2011.  Output rose at a 0.1 percent rate in the fourth quarter
after jumping 4.7 percent the prior quarter.  Hours worked climbed at a 2.2 percent pace after a 1.5
percent gain.  Manufacturers fared better than other businesses last
quarter as they eked out a gain in efficiency. Productivity
increased at a 0.5 percent rate after it fell 0.9 percent from
July through September.  The drop in total U.S. productivity was largely a result of
special or one-time events that led to a contraction in the
economy last quarter, and a jump in labor costs, economists
said. Gross domestic product fell at a 0.1 percent annual rate
from October to December, after rising at a 3.1 percent pace in
the third quarter, according to Commerce Department data last
week.  Consumer spending and business investment accelerated, the
GDP report also showed, even as defense outlays posted the
biggest drop in 40 years and stockpiles were built at a slower
pace, in part reflecting the damage from superstorm Sandy.  Fed’s View  “Growth in economic activity paused in recent months, in
large part because of weather-related disruptions and other
transitory factors,” Federal Reserve policy makers said in a
Jan. 30 statement after meeting in Washington. They expect
“economic growth will proceed at a moderate pace and the
unemployment rate will gradually decline.”  Hiring accelerated in the fourth quarter, when job gains
averaged 201,000 a month compared with 152,000 from July through
September, according to Labor Department data on Feb. 1. The
report also showed payrolls rose by 157,000 workers in January
and the unemployment rate climbed to 7.9 percent.  Home Depot Inc., the largest U.S. home-improvement
retailer, is among businesses taking on more employees to meet
higher demand. The Atlanta-based company plans to add more than
80,000 temporary workers ahead of its busiest season, about 14
percent more than a year ago, as a housing rebound spurs
spending on remodeling and landscaping. Rival  Lowe’e Cos.  is
boosting seasonal hiring by 13 percent.  More Productive  Some are continuing efforts to be efficient.  Minerals
Technologies Inc. , a New York-based supplier of raw materials
for plastics, paper and pharmaceuticals, said productivity
climbed by 6 percent last year as employees offered 9,800
suggestions at company events designed to eliminate waste,
control expenses or improve quality. Workers generated 3,700
more ideas than in 2011, of which about 65 percent were
implemented.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Shobhana Chandra  in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  