-- Yandex Rises on Stock Upgrade as Search Beating Microsoft
-- B y   H a l i a   P a v l i v a
-- 2013-02-07T22:08:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/yandex-rises-on-stock-upgrade-as-search-beating-microsoft.html
Yandex NV  rallied a second day in New
York as HSBC Holdings Plc upgraded the shares after the Russian
Internet company overtook Microsoft Corp. on global searches and
data showed web advertising grew last year.  Shares of Yandex rose 0.7 percent to $24.50, after jumping
1.7 percent yesterday. Russia’s most-used search engine trades
at 29 times estimated earnings, almost seven times the average
valuation of companies listed on  Bloomberg Russia-US Equity
Index . The gauge of the most-traded Russian stocks in the U.S.
fell 0.9 percent to 103.91 today.  Yandex unseated Microsoft’s Bing to become the world’s
fourth-biggest engine by number of searches in November for the
first time on record, data researcher ComScore Inc. said
yesterday. HSBC boosted its  recommendation  on Yandex shares,
which have climbed 14 percent in 2013, to the equivalent of buy
from neutral, according to a client note dated today. Yandex got
90 percent of third-quarter revenue from text-based ads.  “Yandex remains well positioned as the Russian search
leader,”  Jean Kaplan  and Herve Drouet, London-based analysts at
HSBC, wrote in the report. “We see contextual advertising as
the fastest growing, most scalable, and resilient segment within
Russian media, and we expect Yandex to remain dominant.”  Web  advertising  in Russia, home to at least 16 million
Internet users, rose 35 percent in 2012, outpacing 13 percent
growth in total advertising, according to an Association of
Communication Agencies of Russia report this week.  While Yandex surpassed Bing by number of searches, it
trailed Google Inc., Beijing-based Baidu Inc. and Yahoo! Inc.,
Reston, Virginia-based ComScore said yesterday.  ‘Nowhere Near’  Searches on Yandex rose to 4.6 billion in November and 4.8
billion in December, while the tally for Bing held at 4.5
billion in both months. The Russian Internet company had the
lowest number of so-called unique searchers among the world’s
five biggest providers, the data showed. Yandex had 74.4 million
users in December, compared with 268.6 million for Microsoft,
according to ComScore.  “Russian speakers prefer Internet searches in Russian, and
Yandex firmly holds the biggest share, competitors are nowhere
near it,”  Konstantin Chernyshev , the head of research at
UralSib Capital Corp., which rates Yandex a buy, said by phone
from Moscow yesterday. “The Russian Internet advertising market
expands and Yandex wins. You don’t advertise your shoe repair
kiosk on national television, you advertise it on Yandex.”  Online advertising in Russia will rise by an average 22
percent a year between 2013 and 2016, Chernyshev said.  ‘Russian Audience’  “It’s thanks to the Russian audience that the number of
Yandex searches grew,”  Tatiana Komarova , a Moscow-based
spokeswoman for the company, said by e-mail yesterday.
“Internet penetration is still low in Russia and it continues
to grow by adding older people and residents of small towns.”  Russia had 16.1 million IPv4 addresses in the third quarter
of last year, compared with 99 million in China, 145 million in
the U.S. and 683 million worldwide, according to Akamai
Technology’s State of the Internet report released last month.
Internet penetration in the world’s largest energy exporting
nation grew 23 percent year-on-year, the data showed.  Tara Gremillion, spokeswoman for Waggener Edstrom
Worldwide, a media relations company for Microsoft, didn’t
respond to an e-mailed request for comment on the ComScore
rankings when contacted yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Halia Pavliva in New York at 
 hpavliva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  