-- Myanmar Central Bank Revamp to End Army Legacy: Southeast Asia
-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e   a n d   K y a w   T h u
-- 2013-02-07T17:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/myanmar-central-bank-overhaul-to-end-army-legacy-southeast-asia.html
The  Central Bank of Myanmar  will
undergo its biggest revamp since the military junta set it up
in 1990 as lawmakers prepare to vote on a bill that would allow
it to conduct an independent monetary policy.  The proposed legislation, drafted with the help of Japan,
Thailand, the International Monetary Fund, World Bank and Asian
Development Bank, will pass with only “superficial changes” in
parliament, according to Win Myint, a lawmaker who sits on the
bank’s monetary affairs development committee. President  Thein Sein  may sign the bill next month, he said.  Previously “only military officers were appointed to the
central bank,” Win Myint said in an interview in Naypyidaw on
Feb. 5. “Since they came from the military, they only received
military management training. Now we are looking for experts in
monetary policy, the banking sector and economic development.”  Finding the right talent poses one of the central bank’s
biggest challenges as it shifts from serving as the finance
ministry’s money-printing arm into an autonomous authority
responsible for macroeconomic stability. Thein Sein dismantled a
fixed exchange rate last year and moved to clear $11 billion in
bad debts as the country reconnects with the global financial
system following about five decades of military rule.  “We are looking at a new law, a new institution,”  Anoop Singh , who heads the IMF’s Asia and Pacific Department, said on
Feb. 5 in Naypyidaw, where he met with government leaders. “We
expect more autonomy and new staff. This is big for any country
-- it’s particularly big for a country that is emerging from
years and years of being a closed economy.”  Student Protest  The IMF plans to open a representative office in Myanmar
with as many as four technical experts based in the country to
assist the central bank in its transition, Singh said. The World
Bank and ADB opened offices in Yangon last year.  Myanmar’s central bank is now governed by a law signed by
Senior-General Saw Maung in 1990, two years after troops quashed
student-led protests for greater democracy, a crackdown that
 Human Rights Watch  said killed an estimated 3,000 people over
seven months. Thein Sein, a former general who took power after
2010 elections that ended direct military rule, has sought to
reconcile with political opponents, ease media restrictions and
eliminate economic distortions.  The shift prompted the U.S. and European Union to ease
sanctions on Myanmar and allow development banks to re-engage in
the country of 64 million people, which is among Asia’s poorest.
The central bank will soon allow foreign banks to set up joint
ventures in the country, attracting lenders such as  Standard
Chartered Plc  and Japan’s Mizuho Corporate Bank Ltd.  ‘Not Bankers’  The central bank needs more experts to effectively
implement monetary policy as foreign investors consider pouring
money into the country, according to Than Lwin, a former deputy
central bank governor and deputy chairman of  Kanbawza Bank  Ltd.,
one of Myanmar’s largest private lenders.  “Many officials at the central bank are not bankers,” he
said in an interview. “We have to substitute. People who are
not bankers should not come and work as a banker. It is not good
to change careers because it’s difficult for training.”  When the new law takes effect, the central bank plans to
double its staff and set up new departments, according to Khin
Saw Oo, head of the Financial Institutions Regulation and Anti-
Money Laundering Department. She acknowledged that many central
bank officials have a military background.  Economists Needed  The law will include a requirement for all board members to
have expertise in areas relevant to central banking, she said.
The bank is looking to recruit lawyers, accountants, auditors
and economists who have master’s degrees, said Khin Saw Oo, who
has worked at the central bank since receiving a master’s degree
from Columbia University in New York.  “In the near future our people can take this
responsibility effectively,” she said Feb. 5 at the bank’s
headquarters in Naypyidaw, where a gold-plated sign saying
“Ministry of Finance and Revenue” hangs in the lobby.  “We will be separated from the finance ministry, and the
central bank will be an independent body to exercise its own
powers,” Khin Saw Oo said. “We will stop the direct deficit
financing, but we will conduct open market operations.”  The central bank is now monetizing about 40 percent of the
government’s fiscal deficits, she said. The deficit may fall to
5.25 percent in the fiscal year ending March 31, from 6 percent
a year earlier, as higher revenue from state enterprises using
the market-based exchange rate offsets increased spending on
health, education and infrastructure, according to the IMF.  Energy, Infrastructure  Myanmar’s economy may grow 6.3 percent in the fiscal year
ending March 31, up from 5.5 percent a year earlier, and growth
may reach about 7 percent over the next five years if reforms
continue, the IMF said in a report last month. It called on
Myanmar to limit non-concessional external borrowing to
financing energy and infrastructure projects, and cap it at $2
billion for 2013.  The kyat traded at 856 per dollar on Feb. 5, down 4.8
percent from April, when the managed float took effect. Capital
inflows will intensify over the coming year as investors seek
ways to capitalize on Myanmar’s economic opening, making it more
crucial for the central bank to strengthen its ability to
conduct currency and exchange operations, according to Matt
Davies, the IMF’s mission chief for Myanmar.  “There’s an acknowledgment among the authorities that they
need expertise, and they will make use of what’s available
within the country and outside,” Davies said on Feb. 5. “They
are very eager for advice.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Naypyidaw at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net ;
Kyaw Thu in Naypyidaw at 
 kthu1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  