-- U.S. Stocks Retreat While Euro Weakens on Draghi Comments
-- B y   S t e p h e n   K i r k l a n d ,   E m m a   C h a r l t o n   a n d   L e s l i e   P i c k e r
-- 2013-02-07T21:44:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/yen-rebounds-as-oil-gas-advance-demark-sees-china-pause.html
U.S.  stocks  fell following a two-day
gain amid disappointing earnings and economic data while the
euro sank after European Central Bank President Mario Draghi
said the currency’s strength could hamper the economic recovery.
European shares erased early gains. Treasuries rose.  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index , which last week reached a
five-year high, slipped 0.2 percent to close at 1,509.39 at 4
p.m. in New York. The Stoxx Europe 600 Index closed down 0.2
percent after earlier rising 0.6 percent. The euro weakened 0.9
percent to $1.3398 after touching a 14-month high last week.
Ten-year Treasury yields lost one basis point to 1.96 percent.
The pound strengthened as the future central bank chief
discussed exiting unconventional policies. Natural gas led
commodities lower.  U.S. worker productivity fell more than projected in the
fourth quarter as the economy shrank, pushing labor expenses up
and showing companies are approaching the limit of how much
efficiency they can wring from employees. Jobless claims
decreased less than economists estimated last week. Draghi told
reporters growth risk continues to be on the “downside,”
accommodative ECB policy will support the economy and the recent
strength of the euro creates risks that inflation will slow.  “This is a week that’s more overseas-focused,”  John Canally , investment strategist at Boston-based LPL Financial
Corp., which has $373 billion in advisory and brokerage assets,
said in a telephone interview. “Markets are pinned up at the
top of this range, close to all-time highs. We’re not so
overbought anymore, so they’re waiting for the next catalyst to
push it. There isn’t enough of one today.”  Approaching Record  The S&P 500 has rallied almost 6 percent in 2013 as U.S.
lawmakers reached a budget compromise and companies reported
better-than-estimated  earnings . The benchmark equity gauge is
about 3.7 percent below its record high reached in October 2007
after more than doubling since bottoming in March 2009.  Draghi said an economic recovery should begin later this
year as an absence of inflation risks allows the ECB to maintain
 record-low interest rates . The euro weakened against 15 of 16
major peers.  “The exchange rate is not a policy target, but it is
important for growth and price stability,” Draghi said at a
press conference in Frankfurt today after the ECB kept its
benchmark rate at a record low of 0.75 percent. “We want to see
if the appreciation is sustained, and if it alters our
assessment of the risks to price stability.”  Market Movers  Indexes of commodity, financial and and telephone companies
lost at least 0.4 percent to lead declines in eight of the 10
main  industry groups  in the S&P 500.  Akamai Technologies Inc. tumbled 15 percent after its
quarterly revenue and forecast missed estimates amid signs of
softening demand for the company’s services, which help
customers such as news sites and Web retailers speed up their
online offerings. Scripps Networks Interactive, owner of
television stations and Web sites, slid 3.7 percent after
earnings and revenue trailed analysts’ estimates.  Apple Inc. advanced 3 percent after saying it is in
“active discussions” about returning more cash to
shareholders. Greenlight Capital Inc. sued to try to block Apple
Inc. from adopting a measure at its Feb. 27 shareholder meeting
that would amend the company’s charter to eliminate preferred
stock. The company said it will evaluate Greenlight’s proposal.  In economic reports, worker productivity, the measure of
employee output per hour, decreased at a 2 percent annual rate,
the worst performance in almost two years, after a 3.2 percent
gain in the prior three months, a Labor Department report
showed. The median forecast in a Bloomberg survey of 63
economists called for a 1.4 percent drop. Expenses per worker
increased at a 4.5 percent rate, more than estimated.  Economic Data  Claims for U.S. unemployment insurance payments fell 5,000
to 366,000 in the week ended Feb. 2, Labor Department figures
showed today. Economists forecast 360,000 claims, according to
the median of 53 estimates in a Bloomberg survey.  About two stocks fell for each that rose in the Stoxx 600.
Sanofi slid 4 percent as the French drugmaker forecast that
profit may drop as much as 5 percent this year because of
competition to a blood-thinning drug from generic medicines.
later this year amid a continued accommodative policy.  Vodafone Group Plc  contributed the most to gains by a gauge
of telecommunications shares after reiterating its forecast for
the year through March. Banca Monte dei Paschi di Siena SpA
advanced for a third day. DNB ASA climbed to its highest price
since June 2011 after increasing its dividend.  Pound Strengthens  The British pound strengthened against 15 of 16 major
peers, reaching $1.5712 and 1.1728 euros. Bank of England
Governor-designate Mark Carney said in written evidence to a
parliamentary committee that “the bank will need to design,
implement and ultimately exit from unconventional monetary
policy measure in a manner that reinforces public confidence.”
The Bank of England kept its benchmark rate unchanged at 0.5
percent today.  Natural gas futures fell for the first time this week,
losing 3.9 percent to $3.285 per million British thermal units,
after a government report showed that U.S stockpiles declined by
less than forecast last week. Silver, gasoline, corn and coffee
also dropped at least 0.8 percent to lead declines in 18 of 24
commodities tracked by the S&P GSCI Index, sending the gauge
down 0.3 percent.  Oil fell to the lowest level in two weeks, dropping 0.8
percent to $95.83 a barrel.  Emerging Markets  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index of stocks lost 0.4 percent,
declining for a fourth day. India’s Sensex gauge slipped 0.3
percent after the government forecast the weakest economic
growth in a decade. Brazil’s Bovespa index tumbled 1 percent and
Russia’s Micex Index fell 0.3 percent.  The Shanghai Composite Index slid 0.7 percent. The gauge,
which entered a bull market last month, will retreat about 8
percent before resuming gains as the surge in Chinese stocks has
exhausted buyers, according to Tom DeMark, the creator of
indicators to show turning points in securities.  Brazil’s real rallied 1 percent to an eight-month high
against the dollar as a central bank board member said inflation
requires attention, spurring speculation that policy makers will
let the currency strengthen to contain prices.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Kirkland in London at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net ;
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net ;
Leslie Picker in New York at 
 lpicker2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  