-- Yuan Touches Six-Week Low as PBOC Cuts Fixing Amid Yen Concern
-- B y   F i o n   L i
-- 2013-02-07T08:55:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/yuan-declines-to-six-week-low-as-pboc-cuts-fixing-amid-weak-yen.html
China’s yuan touched the lowest level
in six weeks after the central bank cut the reference rate for a
second day, raising speculation it wants to slow appreciation to
protect exporters amid a slide in the yen.  The People’s Bank of China reduced the  fixing  by 0.03
percent to 6.2898 per dollar, the weakest level since Dec. 27.
The yen has declined 7 percent in 2013 and approached a three-
year low yesterday, threatening to make Japanese goods more
competitive in international markets. At the same time, policy
makers flagged the risk of inflation, saying China must be alert
to changes in expectations for imported price gains, according
to a quarterly report issued yesterday.  “China is unwilling to have a strong yuan as Japan is
likely to further loosen monetary policy,” said Daniel Chan,
executive vice-president at Glory Sky Global Markets Ltd. in
Hong Kong. “Export growth is recovering but the momentum isn’t
that strong.”  The yuan closed at 6.2322 per dollar in Shanghai, little
changed from yesterday’s 6.2317, prices from the China Foreign
Exchange Trade System show. The currency touched 6.2360 earlier,
the lowest level since Dec. 27. The yuan is allowed to diverge a
maximum 1 percent from the daily reference rate.  One-month implied volatility in the yuan, a measure of
expected moves in the exchange rate used to price options, held
at 1.25 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Stay Long’  The PBOC reiterated in its quarterly report that it will
improve the yuan’s exchange-rate mechanism and strengthen the
flexibility of two-way movements. The statistics bureau may
report 2 percent  inflation  for January tomorrow, a number that
may have been distorted by the timing of the Lunar New Year
holiday, according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg News
survey of analysts. In December, the figure was 2.5 percent.  Chinese markets will be closed all next week for the annual
festivities. The holiday fell in the last full week of January
in 2012.  In Hong Kong’s offshore market, the yuan slipped 0.08
percent to 6.2223 per dollar, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Twelve-month non-deliverable forwards were little
changed at 6.3205 per dollar, trading at a 1.4 percent discount
to the onshore spot rate.  Investors should “stay long” the offshore yuan against
the greenback on positive rate differentials, Credit Agricole
CIB analysts  Frances Cheung  and  Dariusz Kowalczyk  wrote in a
research report dated Feb. 6, referring to a position that
favors buying the currency.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fion Li in Hong Kong at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  