-- Zinc Leads Metals Slump as Europe Crisis Fuels Demand Concerns
-- B y   J o e   R i c h t e r   a n d   M a r i a   K o l e s n i k o v a
-- 2013-02-07T19:10:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/zinc-drops-for-third-day-on-speculation-oversupply-increasing.html
Zinc  fell to the lowest price this
week, leading a slump for industrial metals, on renewed concern
that Europe’s debt crisis is worsening and will curb demand.  Industrial output in Spain dropped for a 16th month in
December, a report showed today. European Central Bank President
Mario Draghi said risks to the region’s economy remain on the
“downside.” The dollar rose against a basket of six currencies
including the euro, reducing the appeal of metals as alternative
assets. Financial markets in China, the world’s biggest metals
user, will be shut next week for Lunar New Year celebrations.  “There’s light being brought to the fact that there are
still concerns over Europe, and weakness in the euro is keeping
metals under pressure,”  David Meger , the director of metal
trading at Vision Financial Markets in Chicago, said in a
telephone interview. “The Chinese New Year will also keep
markets quiet.”  Zinc for delivery in three months slid 0.2 percent to
settle at $2,163 a metric ton on the London Metal Exchange at
5:51 p.m. local time, after reaching $2,144, the lowest since
Feb. 1. Nickel, copper, lead and tin also fell in London.
Aluminum was unchanged, after touching a one-week low.  Most Chinese manufacturing and construction is slowing down
for next week’s holiday and will only return to normal in about
another month,  Fang Junfeng , an analyst at Shanghai Cifco
Futures Co., said by telephone from Shanghai. China accounts for
43 percent of world zinc usage and western Europe makes up 17
percent, RBC Capital Markets estimates.  Amply Supply  Stockpiles  of zinc tracked by the LME are within about 3
percent of the peak in December, which was the highest since
1994.  Zinc and lead also dropped signs of rising mine production,
said  Robert Montefusco , a trader at Sucden Financial Ltd. in
London. Glencore International Plc resumed its lead operation on
the Italian island of Sardinia, a person familiar with the
matter said yesterday. Vedanta Resources Plc said it plans to
ramp up output at its Gamsberg zinc operation in South Africa.  In New York, copper futures for delivery in March lost 0.4
percent to close at $3.727 a pound on the Comex, the third
decline this week.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joe Richter in New York at 
 jrichter1@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Kolesnikova in London at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  