-- Zoomlion’s Dollar Bonds Drop After Company Denies False Sales
-- B y   T a n y a   A n g e r e r
-- 2013-02-07T05:43:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-07/zoomlion-s-dollar-bonds-drop-after-company-denies-false-sales.html
Zoomlion Heavy Industry Science &
Technology Co .’s dollar-denominated bonds sold in December
dropped to a record low after the company denied allegations
that it had reported fictitious sales and falsified accounts.  Zoomlion said a Feb. 4 article published by the National
Business Daily was “false, groundless and misleading”, in a
filing to the Hong Kong exchange. China’s second-biggest
construction equipment maker’s response was its second in a
month to allegations of falsified sales. Zoomlion’s $600 million
of bonds due December 2022 sunk to 93.5 cents on the dollar as
of 1:23 p.m. in Hong Kong, from 102.5 on Jan. 7, the day before
the first article, BNP Paribas SA prices show. The notes were
sold at 99.08 on Dec. 13, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “The sustained attacks in the press with increasingly
detailed allegations of fraud and inflated sales are shaking
investor confidence in management’s reassurances,” said  Owen Gallimore , a Singapore-based credit analyst at Australia & New
Zealand Banking Group Ltd. “Their core argument remains that
better-than-peers performance is due to improved sales on higher
margin products, higher domestic component sourcing, and market
share gains.”  The National Business Daily, based in Shanghai, said in its
report that it received documents showing the company made
inaccurate revenue statements. Last month, after the first round
of allegations, Zoomlion Chairman  Zhan Chunxin  told reporters
that the Changsha, China-based company achieved growth last year
by gaining market share. Zhan spoke after Ming Pao Daily said on
Jan. 8 that it had received an unsigned letter alleging
Zoomlion’s sales are exaggerated.  No Fraud  Zoomlion  shares slid by 9.8 percent this year to HK$10.30
as of 1:24 p.m. in Hong Kong today. “No accounting fraud has
ever been committed,” the company said in its Feb. 4 statement.  Zoomlion said it books sales strictly in accordance with
both its own revenue recognition policy and accounting rules,
with auditing by Baker Tilly and KPMG. It said it sometimes
exchanges or replaces products for reasons including defects and
technological change.  Three calls to the office of Shen Ke, Zoomlion’s company
secretary, went unanswered today. An e-mailed request for
comment to Shen, Liu Xiaoping, head of brand management, and  Sun Changjun , vice president, also went unanswered.  Zoomlion’s $400 million of April 2017 securities were
trading at 102.5 cents on the dollar today, from 107.25 at the
end of last year, the BNP Paribas prices show.  Bond Risk  Companies in the Asia-Pacific region held back from
marketing U.S. currency debt today as Lunar New Year holidays
approach. The cost of insuring corporate bonds in Japan against
non-payment rose, according to traders of credit-default swaps.  The Markit iTraxx Japan index climbed one basis point to
126 basis points as of 9:09 a.m. in Tokyo, according to
Citigroup Inc. prices. The measure is on track to fall by nine
basis points since Jan. 31, according to data provider CMA.  The Markit iTraxx Asia index of 40 investment-grade
borrowers outside Japan was little changed at 115 basis points
as of 8:21 a.m. in Hong Kong, Standard Chartered Plc prices
show. The gauge is headed for its lowest close this week,
according to CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and
compiles prices quoted by dealers in the private market.  The Markit iTraxx Australia index was also little changed
at 120 basis points as of 11:09 a.m. in Sydney, Westpac Banking
Corp. prices show. The benchmark, which started the year at
127.5, has fallen for five straight months to January, according
to CMA.  Credit-default swap indexes are benchmarks for insuring
bonds against default and traders use them to speculate on
credit quality. A drop signals improving perceptions of
creditworthiness, while an increase suggests the opposite.  The swap contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities if a borrower fails to meet its debt
agreements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tanya Angerer in Singapore at 
 tangerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shelley Smith at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  