-- 
N.Z. Second-Quarter Wages Rise at Faster Pace, Adding to Inflation Signs

-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 
2011-08-01T23:17:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-01-31/new-zealand-wages-increase-more-than-forecast-signaling-recession-averted.html
Wage gains in  New Zealand  accelerated
in the second quarter, adding to signs of inflation pressure
that may require the central bank to raise  interest rates  this
year from a record low.  Pay for non-governmental workers excluding overtime
increased 0.5 percent from the first quarter, when they gained
0.4 percent, Statistics New Zealand’s labor cost index released
in Wellington today showed. The result matched the median
forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of 10 analysts.  Income is growing as New Zealand’s economy recovers from a
lull in consumer and company spending last year and a series of
earthquakes that devastated the southern city of Christchurch.
Central bank Governor Alan Bollard last week signaled he is
preparing to raise the official cash rate from 2.5 percent to
counter inflation pressure.  “Given reports that firms are beginning to find it more
difficult to find skilled staff, we do expect wage growth will
gradually increase,”  Philip Borkin , economist at Goldman Sachs
& Partners New Zealand Ltd. in Auckland said in a July 29 note.  New Zealand’s dollar was little changed after the report.
It bought 87.59 U.S. cents at 11:07 a.m. in Wellington from
87.61 cents immediately before the release.  Annual wage growth in the second quarter accelerated to 2.1
percent from 2 percent in the prior quarter, today’s report
showed.  Quake Damage  New Zealand’s economic growth slowed in the second half of
2010 as consumers paid back debt rather than spend, while
business investment was subdued. A magnitude 7 earthquake near
Christchurch on Sept. 4 disrupted spending before a Feb. 22
earthquake close to the city killed more than 180 people and
shut the central business district.  Gross domestic product rose 0.8 percent in the first
quarter, more than twice the central bank’s expectations, as
spending and investment picked up elsewhere in the country.  Bollard responded to the February temblor by cutting the
official cash rate by half a percentage point in March to revive
confidence. Eight of 12 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News on
July 28 predicted Bollard will return the cash rate to 3 percent
at his next review on Sept. 15. Two predicted a quarter-point
rise and two forecast no change.  Buoying wage growth, the jobless rate probably fell to 6.5
percent in the second quarter from 6.6 percent in the first
three months of the year, according to a Bloomberg survey of 10
economists ahead of an Aug. 4 government report.  Average ordinary-time hourly earnings for non-governmental
workers rose 1.2 percent in the quarter, the statistics agency
said in its quarterly employment survey, also published today.  Demand for labor was stronger in the second quarter, the
survey also showed. The number of full-time equivalent employees
rose 0.7 percent from the first quarter as part-time work in
education, health care and social assistance increased, while
full-time jobs were little changed.  Filled jobs rose 1.3 percent from the first quarter, led by
education, the statistics agency said. Filled jobs declined 0.3
percent from the year-earlier quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  