-- 
Macklowe Wins Case Icahn Filed Over Aborted 2006 Reckson Buildings Bid

-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 
2011-10-23T04:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-22/macklowe-wins-case-icahn-filed-over-aborted-2006-reckson-buildings-bid.html
New York developer  Harry Macklowe 
won a jury verdict that his company doesn’t owe Carl Icahn’s
Meadow Star LLC $60 million for backing away from a 2006 bid to
buy six New York skyscrapers from Reckson Associates Realty Corp.  Macklowe’s attorney, Roger Netzer, said a unanimous jury
voted in favor of his client after two hours of deliberations in
a lawsuit filed in 2008 by Meadow Star, an affiliate of Icahn
Enterprises LP, in New York state court in  Manhattan . A verdict
was entered Oct. 19 for Macklowe, according to court records.  Meadow Star alleged Macklowe company WH Rome Partners LLC
failed to put up its half of $1.2 billion to outbid  SL Green
Realty Corp. (SLG)  for the Reckson buildings, according to court
filings. SL Green paid $4.5 billion in cash and stock to buy all
of Reckson’s holdings.  “A deal is a deal and Mr. Macklowe honored his obligations
under the language of the contract that these very sophisticated
parties had agreed to,” Netzer said yesterday in a telephone
interview. Herbert Beigel, an attorney who represented Icahn’s
company at trial, declined to comment about the verdict.  The aborted offer cost Icahn $60 million, according to his
complaint. Netzer said Macklowe’s half of the bid wasn’t
required unless certain conditions were met, including a signed
acquisition agreement with Reckson and a guarantee that the bid
wouldn’t exceed $1.2 billion.  The building purchase, which would ultimately cost
$7 billion, fell through because lenders agreed to provide a
minimum of $1.6 billion for the competing bid, which would have
increased Macklowe’s share of the deal, said Netzer.  The case is Meadow Star LLC v. Harry Macklowe and WH Rome
Partners LLC, 08-603165, New York State Supreme Court
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in  San Francisco  at   kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  