-- 
Ahmadinejad Urges No ‘Interference’ in Syria, ‘No Pressure’ From Europeans

-- B y   S a r a h   M c D o n a l d
-- 
2011-10-22T05:02:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-22/ahmadinejad-urges-no-interference-in-syria-no-pressure-from-europeans.html
Parties in Syria should be allowed
to reach an understanding without outside “interference,”
including pressure from  Europe , Iranian President  Mahmoud
Ahmadinejad  said in an interview with  CNN .  “We should respect independence and sovereignty of all
nations,” Ahmadinejad said in the live broadcast, when asked
whether he would join international condemnation of the
crackdown on anti-government demonstrators. “Countries in the
region should not send arms and there should be no pressure on
the part of the European countries.”  Protests against President Bashar al-Assad’s rule have
swept Syria since mid-March, inspired by uprisings earlier this
year that ousted Egypt’s and Tunisia’s longtime rulers. Assad
and the government have blamed the unrest on Islamic militants
and foreign provocateurs. He has used tanks, armored vehicles
and artillery to crush the most serious threat to his family’s
40-year rule, rejecting U.S. and European demands for him to
resign.  Turkish leaders said they lost faith in Assad after the
Syrian president failed to follow a road map they drafted
jointly to expand freedoms and rights for Syrians. The European
Union expanded sanctions against  Syria  Oct. 13, freezing the
assets of the state-owned Commercial Bank of Syria. The Obama
administration also targeted the bank and a subsidiary, banned
the import of Syrian petroleum products, and cut Syria’s access
to the U.S. financial system.  European Pressure  European nations should stop putting pressure on the Syrian
government and the position of the U.S. will not help to resolve
the conflict, Ahmadinejad told CNN’s Fareed Zakaria.
Ahmadinejad, whose comments were translated into English by CNN,
was also asked about  Iran ’s relationship with  Iraq  and the
alleged involvement of Qods forces in a plot to assassinate
 Saudi Arabia ’s ambassador to the U.S.  U.S. prosecutors said two Iranian men, including an Iran-
based member of the Qods force, attempted to use a weapon of
mass destruction to kill the Saudi ambassador, according to a
five-count indictment filed Oct. 20 in U.S. District Court in
 Manhattan .  Ahmadinejad said has no reason to speak with the general of
the Qods force, the foreign operations unit of the Islamic
Revolutionary Guard Corps, about the allegations, adding Iran
has no intention of hurting Saudi Arabia.  Iran has a “very friendly and amicable relationship” with
neighboring Iraq, he said, when asked whether the withdrawal of
U.S. forces from the nation would affect relations.  “I don’t think there is going to be any change,” he said.
“We have a special relationship with Iraq. It is a historical
relationship between the two governments and the two nations.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McDonald in Sydney at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jim McDonald at 
 jmcdonald8@bloomberg.net  