-- 
Allot, Ceragon Slump on Network Spending Plans: Israel Overnight

-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r   a n d   T a l   B a r a k   H a r i f
-- 
2011-10-23T14:53:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-22/allot-ceragon-slump-on-network-spending-plans-israel-overnight.html
Ceragon Networks Ltd. (CRNT)  and  Allot
Communications Ltd. (ALLT) , two Israeli technology companies traded in
New York, fell last week on concern telephone companies will cut
spending on network equipment.  Ceragon, the Tel Aviv-based maker of wireless-networking
systems, dropped 6.1 percent last week while Allot, Israel’s
biggest maker of high-speed networking equipment, declined 8.7
percent after  AT&T Inc. (T)  of  Dallas  and New York-based  Verizon
Communications Inc. (VZ)  said they’ll invest less than analysts had
expected. The Israeli shares of Ceragon retreated 2.9 percent
and Allot’s lost 5 percent at the 4:30 close in Tel Aviv today.
The country’s TA-25 Index gained 1.8 percent to 1,143.14, the
highest level since Aug. 4, after jumping 3.5 percent last week.
The Bloomberg Israel-US 25 Index gained 0.5 percent in the
period.  The U.S. telephone companies moved forward investment plans
this year, which will reduce spending by the companies in the
fourth quarter, when outlays usually peak, Miller Tabak & Co.
analyst Alex Henderson wrote in an e-mail.  Juniper Networks
Inc. (JNPR) , the Sunnyvale, California-based second-largest maker of
networking equipment, said last week that sales to service
providers will slow.  “People look at what Juniper said and what AT&T came out
with and think if it’s happening in the U.S., it’s likely
happening in  Europe  as well,” said Jay Srivatsa, an analyst at
Chardan Capital Markets. “People are widely expecting that the
weak macro conditions could impact service provider spending,
which in turn could have some impact on Allot.”  Weekly Drop  Ceragon declined to 36.65 shekels, or the equivalent of
$10.09, today. The shares slid 6.1 percent in New York last week
to $9.90, the biggest drop since the period ended Aug. 5. Allot
retreated to 43.86 shekels, or $12.07. The U.S. shares closed at
$11.80 last week, while the Tel Aviv shares ended the week at
about $12.68.  The 88-cent gap between Allot shares traded in Israel and
the U.S. was the third-widest among members of the Bloomberg
index. EZchip Semiconductor Ltd. shares in  New York  command a
$2.03 premium, while shares of Mellanox Technologies Ltd. cost
$1.57 more in Tel Aviv.  Israeli shares traded in New York trailed global stocks
last week, with the MSCI World Index advancing 0.7 percent on
optimism European policy makers will be able to contain the
region’s debt crisis.  A slump in technology stocks weighed on both the Israel-US
25 Index and the S&P 500 Index. Mellanox, the Yokneam, Israel-
based adapter maker that’s part owned by Oracle Corp., declined
5.5 percent in New York on the week, while Orbotech Ltd., the
Israeli maker of quality-control equipment used for  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s
iPhones and iPads, dropped 6.2 percent.  Mellanox declined 4.2 percent to 118.6 shekels, or $32.64
in Tel Aviv today.  Ericsson AB, the world’s largest maker of wireless
networks, expects less investment in networks in  North America 
in the second half of this year, Chief Executive Officer Hans Vestberg said in an interview on Bloomberg TV on Oct. 20.  High-Speed Networking  Allot gets most of its sales from Europe where spending on
its products may be limited by the sovereign debt problems,
Srivatsa said. Warnings from U.S. companies about decreased
investment in  network equipment  may be concerning investors as
well, even as the company gets few sales there, Srivatsa said.  Allot’s “product line is really dependent on service
provider spending,” Srivatsa said.  Lawrence Harris, an analyst at CL King & Associates, said
European carriers haven’t been as quick to upgrade their
networks to support faster wireless data transfers.  “People are watching what’s happening in the wireless
infrastructure space,” he said. “We’re seeing some signs of
moderation of spending in the U.S. Europe, of course, people
have been concerned for some time.”  Allot Earnings  Allot may report third-quarter net income that more than
doubled to $1.9 million on sales of $18.6 million when it
releases results on Nov. 1, according to the average of
analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Ceragon’s biggest customers are service providers in  India 
and other developing markets where its wireless products are
used in lieu of cables to connect telecommunications
infrastructure, Henderson said. That means it isn’t affected by
spending at AT&T and Verizon.  “They’re getting painted by that same brush but they’re
really not exposed to that paint,” he said.  Ceragon declined to comment because the company is in a
quiet period ahead of earnings, Karen Quatromoni, a company
spokeswoman, said in a telephone interview. Ceragon reports
results for the third quarter on Nov. 7.  Analysts estimate the company will report a net loss of
$9.3 million in the third quarter as sales almost double to $114
million, according to the average of estimates compiled by
Bloomberg.  Technology Companies  Israeli technology companies raised $569 million in capital
during the second quarter of 2011, the most in two years and up
from $343 million in the same period a year earlier, according
to the  Israel  Venture Capital-KPMG Quarterly Survey released
July 13.  Israel, whose population of 7.7 million is similar to
 Switzerland ’s, has about 60 companies listed on  Nasdaq , the most
of any country outside North America after  China . It is also
home to the largest number of start-up companies per capita in
the world.  Shekel Gains  The shekel strengthened 0.6 percent against the dollar to
3.6339 last week, extending the currency’s winning streak to
three weeks, the longest since the period ended June 3. The
shekel was the top performer last week among 10 emerging markets
in Europe, the  Middle East  and  Africa  tracked by Bloomberg.  SodaStream International Ltd., the Israeli producer of
homemade soda machines, declined for the first week this month.
The shares fell 4.4 percent to $33.67 in New York trading last
week.  SodaStream’s drop followed  Green Mountain Coffee Roasters
Inc. (GMCR) ’s retreat to the lowest level in five months. Green
Mountain plunged after hedge fund manager  David Einhorn  said
Oct. 17 the largest U.S. seller of single-serve coffee makers
has a “limited” market for its products.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net ;
Tal Barak Harif in New York at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  