-- 
Banks in Georgia, Florida, Colorado Shut Down by Regulators

-- B y   D a n   R e i c h l
-- 
2011-10-22T04:00:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-22/banks-in-georgia-florida-colorado-shut-down-by-regulators.html
Banks in  Georgia ,  Florida  and
Colorado were shuttered by regulators and sold as  U.S. lenders
collapse  under the weight of bad loans tied to real estate.  The four closed banks held deposits totaling about $1.89
billion, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. said yesterday in
 statements  on its website. The seizures drained $358.8 million
from the deposit insurance fund, the FDIC said.  Regulators have shuttered 84 lenders this year and more
than 400 since the start of 2007, FDIC data show. Banks are
closing under stress from commercial real estate loans, tied to
property values that through April fell about 49 percent from
the October 2007 peak, Moody’s Investors Service has said.  State
Bank  & Trust Co., owned by Atlanta-based  State Bank Financial
Corp. (STBZ) , picked up two branches with its acquisition of Community
Capital Bank of Jonesboro, Georgia.  “Our first order of business is to assure clients that
their deposits are safe, sound and readily accessible,” said
Michael S. Sims, Atlanta regional president of State Bank, which
has acquired failed lenders two weeks in a row. “State Bank is
one of the healthiest financial institutions in Georgia,” Sims
said in a statement.  State Bank gained about $166 million in deposits and
approximately $180 million in assets, with the FDIC sharing in
losses on $141 million.  State Bank Financial has purchased failed lenders to grow
to more than $2.9 billion in assets after yesterday’s deal,
Bloomberg data show. Last week, it acquired Piedmont Community
Bank of Gray, Georgia. The firm said it used FDIC-assisted
transactions to purchase two lenders in 2010 and six banking
units in 2009.  State Bank Shares  State Bank Financial rose 15 cents, or 1.1 percent, to
$13.47 yesterday in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. It has declined
7 percent this year, compared with the 9 percent decline of the
Russell 2000 Index.  Community Banks of  Colorado , the largest of the four shut
banks by deposits, was closed by the  Federal Reserve  and the
FDIC was named receiver. Bank Midwest of  Kansas City  acquired
the Greenwood Village-based lender, picking up 40 branches,
$1.33 billion in deposits and about $1.38 billion in assets. The
FDIC agreed to share losses on $714.2 million.  The Georgia Department of Banking and Finance seized
Decatur First Bank, and the FDIC brokered a sale to Fidelity
Bank, based in Atlanta. Fidelity obtained more than $179 million
in deposits, about $190 million in assets and five bank
branches,  the agency said . A loss-share agreement with the FDIC
covers more than $111 million of the assets.  Old Harbor Bank (OHBK) , based in Clearwater, Florida, was closed
by the state’s regulator and sold to 1st United Bancorp, the
FDIC said. The lender based in  Boca Raton , Florida, acquired
seven branches, about $218 million in deposits and more than
$200 million in assets. The FDIC said it will share losses on
about $155 million.  U.S. bank failures through 2015 will drain $19 billion from
the FDIC’s deposit insurance fund, the agency said this month in
an update of its reserve ratio projections.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Reichl in  San Francisco  at 
 dreichl@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  