-- 
Canadian Dollar Gains for Third Straight Week on Europe Debt Plan Optimism

-- B y   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o
-- 
2011-10-22T04:00:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-22/canada-dollar-gains-for-third-week-on-europe-debt-plan-optimism.html
Canada ’s dollar reached its
strongest level this month amid growing optimism that European
Union leaders will make headway in containing the region’s debt
crisis, bolstering demand for riskier assets.  The loonie, as the currency is nicknamed, rose for the
third straight week in the longest streak since April, as
European finance ministers met in Brussels to start a six-day
effort aimed at staving off a Greek default and shielding banks
from the fallout. Irish Finance Minister  Michael Noonan  said
“progress was made” at the meeting. Bank of Canada policy
makers will keep the benchmark rate unchanged at 1 percent,
where it’s been since September 2010, when they meet Oct. 25,
according to a Bloomberg News survey of 25 economists.  “The loonie is very much tethered to that EU story, and
people are holding onto an optimistic scenario,”  Stewart Hall ,
a currency strategist at Royal Bank of Canada’s RBC Dominion
Securities unit, said yesterday in a telephone interview from
Toronto. “It’s an agonizing process that involves kicking the
proverbial can down the road. It’s created quite a difficult
environment for market participants who are tasked with the job
of pricing money.”  Canada’s currency rose 0.3 percent to C$1.0066 per U.S.
dollar in Toronto from C$1.0098 Oct. 14. It touched C$1.0044 on
Oct. 17, the strongest level since Sept. 21. One Canadian dollar
buys 99.34 U.S. cents.  Tight Trade  The currency fluctuated this week in a two-cent range,
dropping as low as C$1.0264 per U.S. dollar and rising as high
as C$1.0044. It rose versus 10 of its 16 most-traded
counterparts, including gains against the  New Zealand dollar  and
the Brazilian real.  German officials said yesterday there are several possible
ways of involving the  International Monetary Fund  to boost the
firepower of the European Financial Stability Facility, the
region’s rescue fund, to fight the debt crisis.  “The market thinks there will be some sort of sweeping
solution, a 1 to 2 trillion euro expansion of the EFSF and a
recapitalization of the banks in jeopardy,” Firas Askari, head
of  currency trading  at Bank of  Montreal ’s BMO Capital Markets
unit, said from Toronto. “Anything short of that now is going
to really disappoint.”  Government of Canada bonds rose last week, pushing 10-year
yields down four basis points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 2.36
percent. The price of the 3.25 percent securities maturing in
June 2021 gained 34 cents to C$107.60.  Bond Sale  Canada sold C$3.5 billion ($3.5 billion) of two-year bonds
Oct. 19, drawing an average yield of 1.097 percent for the 1
percent securities and a bid-to-cover ratio of 2.38 times,
according to the central bank’s website.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 1.1 percent, while
Canada’s benchmark S&P/TSX Composite Index also advanced 1.1
percent. Futures on crude oil added 0.3 percent to $87.53 a
barrel in New York trading.  Bank of Canada policy makers will make their next rate
decision Oct. 25 at 9 a.m. New York time. The central bank will
release its monetary policy report on Oct. 26, updating its
forecasts for the country’s economy that were last revised July
20.  “We expect that the subtly hawkish bias introduced last
month will remain in place, suggesting that holding the
overnight rate lower for longer is the preferred policy option
to contemplating an outright cut,”  David Tulk , chief Canada
macro strategist at Toronto-Dominion Bank’s TD Securities unit,
said yesterday in a note to clients.  Price Path  Canada’s consumer price index increased 3.2 percent in
September from a year earlier,  Statistics Canada  said yesterday.
Economists surveyed by Bloomberg News predicted a 3.1 percent
reading according to the median of 25 estimates.  “Yes, CPI is running to the high side, but at this point
in time we know that central banks in the developed world are
showing a greater tolerance for upsides on inflation, given the
dire global macro backdrop,” said Hall at RBC. “When you have
to choose between a little inflation and a full-on cascading
financial crisis, inflation gets trumped.”  Canada’s dollar strengthened against the greenback on eased
concern its largest trading partner may be heading into
recession after a report showed U.S. wholesale prices rose in
September more than forecast.  The U.S. producer price index climbed 0.8 percent, the most
in five months, after no change in August, Labor Department
figures showed Oct. 18 in  Washington . Economists projected a 0.2
percent gain, according to the median of 71 estimates in a
Bloomberg News survey.  The loonie has weakened 4.1 percent this year, according to
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes, a gauge of 10
developed-nation currencies. The greenback has declined 3.2
percent, while the yen has gained 3.6 percent.  The Canadian currency will trade at C$1.02 per  U.S. dollar 
by year-end, before appreciating to 98 cents by the end of next
year, according to the median of 32 economist and analyst
forecasts compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Frederic Tomesco in Montreal at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net  