-- 
Clinton Promotes Afghan Border Security, ’New Silk Road,’ in Central Asia

-- B y   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n
-- 
2011-10-23T07:15:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-22/clinton-pushes-afghan-border-security-trade-in-central-asia-1-.html
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton 
pressed  Afghanistan ’s neighbors to halt the flow of militants
and drugs across their borders and to support regional trade and
a  peace process  to end a conflict tying up 100,000 U.S. forces.  “Instead of Afghanistan being the crossroads for terrorism
and insurgency,” Clinton said yesterday in the Tajik capital of
Dushanbe, “we want Afghanistan to be at the crossroads of
economic opportunities going north and south and east and west,
which is why it’s so critical to more fully integrate the
economies of the countries in this region in South and Central
Asia.”  Clinton urged Tajik President Emomali Rahmon and Uzbek
President Islam Karimov yesterday to ensure that insurgents from
Afghanistan and  Pakistan  don’t establish sanctuaries in their
countries, according to a State Department official who spoke on
condition of anonymity since the talks were private.  Clinton’s visit to Uzbekistan and Tajikistan this weekend
also is a chance to bolster relations with two nations along a
northern supply route used for about half of all non-lethal
provisions for American troops in Afghanistan.  Strained Relations  While the overland supply route from Pakistan to
Afghanistan is cheaper, the Pentagon is boosting traffic through
the rail, air and truck routes of what is referred to as the
Northern Distribution Network as an alternative at a time of
strained relations between the Obama administration and the
government in Islamabad.  On an earlier stop in Islamabad on Oct. 20 and 21, Clinton,
along with Central Intelligence Agency Director David Petraeus
and General Martin Dempsey, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of
Staff, urged Pakistan to move against extremists who are
attacking U.S. forces in Afghanistan.  In Kabul on Oct. 20, Clinton stood alongside President
 Hamid Karzai  and warned that Pakistan will pay “a very big
price” if it fails to crack down on militants staging cross-
border attacks against U.S. forces in Afghanistan.  The U.S. has sought closer ties with Uzbekistan over the
past decade to win support for the war in Afghanistan and to
press for a crackdown on Uzbek militants linked to al-Qaeda.
Uzbekistan hosted a U.S. airbase that was a supply route to
Afghanistan when the war began, then shut down the base in 2005
after the  Bush administration  condemned Karimov’s attacks on
protesters that year that rights groups said claimed hundreds of
lives.  Supply Route  Clinton met with Karimov yesterday and expressed
appreciation for Uzbekistan’s support for the supply route for
U.S. troops and for building a rail line to connect northern
Afghanistan to its Central Asian neighbors.  Last month, President  Barack Obama  spoke with Karimov about
possibly expanding the northern supply route for U.S. forces in
Afghanistan. Congress is reviewing a law that restricts military
aid to Uzbekistan because of its poor human rights record.  Tajikistan allows overflights for U.S. aircraft supplying
the NATO-led coalition in Afghanistan. The Tajik government has
also granted permission for ground transit routes.  Clinton said she was visiting Uzbek leader Karimov, who has
wielded autocratic power for 22 years, because “if you have no
contact, you will have no influence, and other countries will
fill that vacuum who do not care about human rights.”  ‘Balancing Act’  Clinton called it “a balancing act” to engage with
authoritarian governments while pressing them to respect human
rights.  In Clinton’s talks with Karimov, she urged him to respect
political and religious freedom and end forced labor in the
cotton industry. He assured her he wanted to make progress on
liberalization and democracy to leave a legacy for his children
and grandchildren, a State Department official who participated
in the meeting told reporters traveling with Clinton.  Clinton also raised U.S. concerns about religious and media
freedom in Tajikistan.  “We encouraged the Tajik government to take concrete
steps” toward greater civil and religious freedom, she said at
a press conference after meeting with Rahmon and Foreign
Minister Hamrokhon Zarifi.  Religious Expression  Restrictions on religious expression, such as Tajik rules
against Muslims wearing veils or beards, “could build up
discontent,” she said.  “We don’t want to do anything to breed extremism,” she
said, adding that she urged the Tajik leaders to rethink “any
restrictions going forward, because we think they could increase
sympathy for extremist views.”  Speaking at a gathering of Tajik civic leaders, women and
youth, Clinton said Afghanistan’s neighbors have suffered
economically from regional instability caused by the war. She
promoted the concept of a “New Silk Road” linking Central
Asian nations as a way to boost economies and living standards
throughout the region.  Clinton urged both the Tajik and Uzbek leaders to support
transit connections to promote regional trade in raw materials,
energy and agricultural products as part of the vision for
economic integration of South and Central  Asia . The Tajik and
Uzbek leaders have poor relations and few links between their
countries.  GM Visit  Today in Tashkent, Clinton visited a new General Motors Co.
plant that next month will begin commercial production of more
than 200,000 engines annually, officials said. GM has a 97
percent market share of cars sold in Uzbekistan, the highest of
any GM market, the company said.  Clinton highlighted the joint venture with state-owned
UzAvtosanoat as the kind of collaboration that creates jobs in
both countries. GM Uzbekistan employs 6,600 people and imported
$34 million of American parts and supplies in the past two years,
officials said.  “GM’s presence in Uzbekistan also adds to our efforts to
build closer economic connections between the countries of South
and Central Asia,” Clinton told workers at the plant. “We are
seeking to build a New Silk Road that integrates markets from
Mumbai to Karachi to Kabul, and on to Tashkent and Astana and
beyond.”  The original Silk Road was more than  4,000 miles  (6,400
kilometers) of trade routes crossing Asia and into southern
 Europe  and northern  Africa . Based on  China ’s silk industry, the
commerce it enabled also helped the growth of civilizations from
 Egypt  to  Rome .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Indira Lakshmanan in Tashkent, Uzbekistan at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  