-- 
Saudi Crown Prince Sultan Has Died

-- B y   G l e n   C a r e y   a n d   V i v i a n   S a l a m a
-- 
2011-10-23T11:55:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-22/crown-prince-sultan-death-sets-in-motion-saudi-succession-plans.html
Saudi Arabia ’s Crown Prince Sultan bin Abdulaziz Al Saud has died, setting in motion succession
plans for the world’s largest oil exporter.  Prince Nayef, born in 1934, is the most likely candidate
for the crown prince position. King Abdullah, who is 87,
underwent surgery earlier this month to relieve back pain after
traveling to the U.S. in November for three months of medical
care.  The Saudis will want to convey a “message of continuity in
terms of their economic policies, and reiterate their commitment
to oil market stability at a time of global uncertainty and OPEC
divisions,”  Jarmo Kotilaine , chief economist at Jeddah-based
 National Commercial Bank , said in a telephone interview. “There
are certain policies that they have agreed on over the last few
years and months, and they won’t change this.”  Saudi Arabia increased oil supply to help meet rising
demand after exports from  Libya  collapsed during the uprising
against  Muammar Qaddafi . The kingdom failed in June to reach an
agreement with other members of the Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries to boost production quotas. It also
announced $130 billion in social and housing spending after
popular movements toppled leaders in Tunisia, Egypt and Libya
this year.  Saudi Arabia’s benchmark stock index, the Tadawul All Share
Index, rose 0.3 percent at 13:09 p.m.  Koran Verses  Saudi state television announced the death of Sultan, who
is also minister of defense and aviation, then began playing
verses from the Koran, as is the custom. The prince was born in
Riyadh in 1928, according to the  Saudi Embassy in Washington ,
and was heir apparent to the throne. He will be buried in an
unmarked grave, as stipulated by the Sunni Wahabbi version of
Islam.  Sultan died “outside the kingdom after suffering an
illness,” the  Royal Court  said in a statement posted on the
official  Saudi Press Agency  website. “Prayer will be held at
Imam Turki Bin Abdullah Mosque in Riyadh after Asr prayer on
Tuesday.”  During Sultan’s five decades as defense minister, Saudi
Arabia relied on the U.S. for military protection in return for
stable oil supplies. The kingdom spent $11.2 billion on U.S.
weapons between 2005 and 2008, making it the biggest foreign
buyer of U.S. arms during the period, according to the
 Congressional Research Service  in  Washington .  Six Kings  Six kings have ruled Saudi Arabia since it was established
in 1932. When King Fahd died in 2005 after ruling the kingdom
for 23 years, the Royal Court announced the same day that
Abdullah would become the monarch. The 1992 basic law stipulates
that the king must be a son or grandson of the kingdom’s
founder.  “The succession scenario has been set in motion,”
 Theodore Karasik , director of research at the Dubai-based
Institute for Near East and Gulf Military Analysis, said
yesterday in a phone interview from Dubai. “It’s pretty
obvious, based on what we know, that the next crown prince will
be Nayef because of his credentials. I expect the transition to
be smooth.”  Nayef is the next-most senior member of the royal family
after Sultan, according to Hani Sabra,  Middle East  and Africa
analyst at the New York-based Eurasia Group. Nayef has
controlled the Interior Ministry since 1975.  Succession Rules  King Abdullah , who was born in 1924, changed the kingdom’s
succession rules in 2007 to give an appointed commission of
princes, called the Allegiance Council, more power to select a
new ruler. The council would be responsible for naming a crown
prince, who will then be in line as the new king.  “There is a possibility, and I don’t know how possible,
that the king may decide to enact the Allegiance Council,” said
Khalid al-Dakhil, a political science professor at  King Saud
University . “The process will be delayed if the king goes with
this. With oil markets and the turmoil in the Middle East, they
don’t want to give an impression of uncertainty.”  The council consists of appointed male descendants of the
kingdom’s founder, Abdulaziz bin Saud, the  SPA  said. In March
2009, Abdullah appointed Nayef as second deputy prime minister,
a role that makes him the most senior Saudi royal in the absence
of the king and the crown prince.  Greater Transparency  The decree aims to give greater transparency to the royal
family’s decision-making process, which in the past was done
through consensus-building among princes. Abdullah’s son, Prince
Abdul Aziz bin Abdullah, is the kingdom’s deputy foreign
minister, while Sultan’s son, Prince Khaled, is the deputy
defense minister. Nayef’s son, Prince Mohammad, is the assistant
interior minister.  Sultan spent much of the period between 2008 and 2011 out
of the country to receive medical care for an undisclosed
illness. He traveled to  New York  in June for a “private
holiday” that included medical tests, although the Saudi
government didn’t release details about his health, according to
the SPA. Time magazine  reported  in 2005 that he had  colon
cancer .  Sultan was named crown prince that year following the death
of his brother, King Fahd. Sultan was appointed minister of
defense and aviation in 1963, oversaw the expansion and
modernization of the Saudi military into a force that
participated in the U.S.-led war to oust Iraqi forces from
 Kuwait  in 1991. Saudi troops also fought Houthi rebels along the
nation’s southern border with Yemen in a three-month battle that
ended in February 2010.  Arms Sales  The U.S. Defense Department told Congress in October 2010
that it wants to sell as much as $60 billion in weapons to Saudi
Arabia. U.S. policy makers want the proposed sale to include F-
15 fighter jets, attack helicopters, and satellite-guided smart
bombs to counter Iranian military ambitions in the Persia Gulf
and regional extremists.  “King Abdullah will use the crown prince’s passing as an
opportunity to reform the Ministry of Defense and Aviation,”
 Danny Sebright , vice president of the New York-based Cohen
Group, said in an interview in  Jordan . “What we will see is a
process over the next number of weeks, months where there will
be some leadership changes at the ministry.” The group was
formed by former U.S. Secretary of Defense, William S. Cohen.  Sultan was educated in religion, culture and statecraft at
the royal court of his father, King Abdulaziz Al Saud. His
career in public service began in 1947, when he was appointed
governor of  Riyadh , whose main task is resolving disputes among
the 7,000 members of the royal family. Five years later, he
became the kingdom’s first minister of agriculture.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Vivian Salama on the  Dead Sea , Jordan, at 
 vsalama@bloomberg.net ;
Glen Carey on the Dead Sea, Jordan at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  