-- 
Economic Slowdown Seen as Short-Term Phenomenon, Prime Minister Singh Says

-- B y   T u s h a r   D h a r a   a n d   A n d r e w   M a c A s k i l l
-- 
2011-10-22T07:35:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-22/economic-slowdown-seen-as-short-term-phenomenon-prime-minister-singh-says.html
Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  said
the economic slowdown in India should be seen as a short-term
phenomenon caused by the turmoil in the global economy, and the
nation’s long-term prospects are “very good.”  “The current slowdown is a matter of concern but it should
be seen as a short-term phenomenon, reflecting highly unsettled
conditions in the global economy,” Singh  told  a gathering of
policy makers in New Delhi today. “We must guard against the
mood of negativism that seems to have gripped the country.”  India’s economic growth may slip to 8 percent this year
from 8.5 percent last fiscal year, according to the  Reserve Bank
of India . The central bank has boosted the benchmark rate by 350
basis points in 12 moves since mid-March 2010 to curb inflation
that has exceeded 9 percent since the start of December.  “It is our collective responsibility to reverse the mood
of negativism today,” Singh said. “Nothing is ordained or pre-
determined.  India  can rise, but can also falter. We live in a
world of rising and faltering economies.”  The world economy will expand 4 percent this year and next,
the  International Monetary Fund  said Sept. 20, compared with
June forecasts of 4.3 percent in 2011 and of 4.5 percent in 2012.
Concerns that the global economy may fall back into a recession
have increased as  Europe  wrangles over a solution to the
sovereign debt crisis and the recovery of the  U.S. economy 
falters.  India is likely to emerge from the current economic crisis
stronger than other nations, Singh said.  The South Asian nation aims to accelerate the pace of
economic growth to 9 percent in the five years starting April
2012 to help cut poverty, Singh said on Aug. 20.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Macaskill in  New Delhi  at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  