-- 
Theo Epstein to Head Cubs’ Baseball Operations, Leaving Red Sox

-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 
2011-10-22T02:20:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-22/theo-epstein-to-head-chicago-cubs-baseball-operations-leaving-red-sox.html
Theo Epstein will join the  Chicago 
Cubs as president of baseball operations, leaving the  Boston  Red
Sox to try to turn around another team with a decades-long
championship drought.  Epstein, 37, helped build two World Series-winning teams as
Boston’s general manager since 2002. Financial terms weren’t
disclosed in a news release from the Major League Baseball team.
WEEI Radio in Boston, citing unidentified people, reported it
was worth $15 million.  Epstein had a year left on his contract with the Red Sox,
who will receive compensation which will be determined shortly,
according to the release. The Red Sox initially asked the Cubs
for starting pitcher Matt Garza and at one point proposed that
Chicago take on the remaining three seasons of pitcher  John
Lackey ’s five-year, $82.5 million contract as part of the
compensation,  ESPN reported .  The Cubs will hold a news conference to introduce Epstein
and the Red Sox will name his successor on Oct. 25, which is an
off-day during the World Series between  St. Louis  and  Texas . MLB
usually prohibits teams from making major announcements during
its championship round.  While Epstein will head baseball operations, the Cubs also
plan to hire San Diego Padres general manager Jed Hoyer to the
same position in their organization, ESPN reports, citing two
unidentified people familiar with the situation. Hoyer, 37, was
an assistant GM in Boston before joining the Padres in 2009.  No Title Since 1908  The Red Sox made Epstein the youngest general manager in
major-league history in 2002, and two years later won the  World
Series  for the first time since 1918. The Cubs haven’t won a
championship since 1908, the longest stretch without a title for
any major-league team.  “I would tell you if he spends the same amount of time in
Chicago, you’ll have a World Series,” said former Red Sox
pitcher Curt Schilling, who’s now a baseball analyst for ESPN.
“I don’t question that for a second.”  Boston also won the World Series in 2007 and reached the
postseason in six of Epstein’s nine years with the club.  This year, the Red Sox held a nine-game lead over  Tampa Bay 
on Sept. 4 in the race for the American League wild-card spot
before finishing 7-20 and missing a chance to make the playoffs
on the final day of the regular season. Their collapse over the
last month of the season was the biggest in baseball history,
according to the Elias Sports Bureau.  “We’ll be dissecting that forever,” Epstein said at the
time.  Francona’s Departure  Two days later, Terry Francona left as manager, saying the
club he led to two World Series’ titles needed someone new in
charge. The  Red Sox  are searching for Francona’s replacement,
and now must fill the general manager’s job, too.  The Cubs fired Jim Hendry as general manager on Aug. 19,
and finished the season with a 71-91 record, in fifth place out
of six teams in the National League Central division.  Chicago has reached the playoffs three times in the last
nine years, losing in the first round in 2007 and 2008, and
finishing a win shy of a World Series spot in 2003. Manager  Mike Quade  has a year remaining on his contract, with a club option
for 2013.  The Cubs were purchased two years ago for $845 million by
the family of  TD Ameritrade Holding Corp. (AMTD)  founder Joe Ricketts
from the Tribune Co. Tom Ricketts, the team’s chairman, said on
CNBC in April 2010 that he wanted to mimic the success of the
Red Sox.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  