-- 
Merkel Calls Greek Debt Losses ‘Troubling Message’ to Investors

-- B y   B r i a n   P a r k i n
-- 
2011-10-22T16:37:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-22/merkel-calls-greek-debt-losses-troubling-message-to-investors.html
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  said
asking holders of Greek bonds to accept a cut in their value
sends a “troubling message” to investors in European debt,
which must be corrected to protect other states from suffering
the same fate.  Moves at a summit in Brussels this weekend to persuade
banks to accept cuts in the value of Greek debt must be
accompanied by steps to protect other euro-region bonds, Merkel
told Young  Christian Democrats  today in the German city of
Braunschweig. “That’s why we must make it very clear that what
we’re doing in  Greece  is because Greece has very particular
problems,” she said.  Investors assumed the euro region is “a secure terrain,
only to find out that you can lose money here -- that’s for all
of us in  Europe  a troubling message,” Merkel said. “We need to
protect the other countries in the region -- that’s why we’re
erecting this big protection umbrella.”  European officials at the summit may try to persuade
holders of Greek bonds to accept a 50 percent cut in their value
to help restore Greece to fiscal health. Merkel may be
apprehensive of crushing confidence in euro-region bonds before
a comprehensive set of tools is agreed to bolster the region’s
bailout fund.  Voluntary Agreement  Germany  wants a voluntary agreement with banks by an Oct.
26 summit, the second of two leaders’ meetings in four days, a
Merkel aide told reporters in Berlin yesterday. Banks agreed on
a 21 percent writedown on their Greek holdings in the summer but
now face a deeper loss amid signs Greece’s economic and fiscal
health has deteriorated.  Merkel and French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  spoke by phone
today to discuss the euro crisis, according to a spokesman for
Sarkozy. They are scheduled to meet tonight with other European
leaders in Brussels, then at a summit tomorrow and at an Oct. 26
meeting to complete a plan to address the debt contagion.  Germany’s accumulated debt has risen to 83 percent of gross
domestic product this year from about 68 percent at the start of
the international banking crisis in 2008, Merkel said,
underlining an endemic problem in the euro region. “We must all
consolidate spending to cut debt,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Parkin in Braunschweig, Germany at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  