-- 
Merkel Takes Aim at Italy With Demand That Euro Members Live Within Means

-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 
2011-10-22T12:56:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-22/merkel-says-euro-crisis-to-be-solved-by-reducing-debt.html
Chancellor  Angela Merkel  took aim at
Italy as typifying profligate government, saying the resolution
of  Europe ’s crisis will only emerge if countries slash their
debt and live within their means.  Italy’s outstanding debt at 120 percent of gross domestic
product can’t be blamed on speculators, Merkel told a group of
women in her Christian Democratic Union today. Markets demand
higher  interest rates  on Italian bonds because the level of such
debt is “seen very critically,” she said.  “We want to and we must defend the euro -- and we will --
but not to the extent that we forget what the source of the
crisis is,” Merkel said in a speech in the western German city
of Wiesbaden before heading to Brussels to tackle the crisis.  European leaders are converging on the Belgian capital in
an attempt to narrow differences on how to address the crisis
that threatens to spiral out of control. Merkel’s swipe at Prime
Minister  Silvio Berlusconi ’s government also comes a month after
the Italian leader was caught on a wiretap making denigrating
comments about the chancellor.  Merkel and Berlusconi may meet in Brussels at a gathering
of leaders aligned with the European  People’s Party  before heads
of state and government gather tomorrow.  Even as President  Barack Obama  calls on European leaders to
lay aside their differences, Merkel took the U.S. government to
task for failing to manage its own debt.  “It doesn’t look much better in America, even if the
markets aren’t quite concentrating on that,” Merkel said today.  Merkel also reiterated her objection to jointly issued euro
bonds, saying that while such an arrangement could act initially
as a salve to markets, common borrowing would lead to
“solidarity in mediocrity.”  “This will be the message for the coming years,” Merkel
said. “It will be very, very hard -- our task is no longer to
live beyond our means. That goes for  Germany  and for every other
European country.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Wiesbaden, Germany at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  