-- 
European Leaders Consider Fund to Attract Outside Cash to Tame Debt Crisis

-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a   a n d   F r e d   P a l s
-- 
2011-10-22T13:48:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-22/eu-weighs-new-fund-to-attract-outside-money-to-fight-crisis.html
European finance ministers are
considering setting up a fund to entice outside investors to buy
troubled euro-area  government bonds , as they struggled over how
to tame the Greece-fueled debt crisis, said a person familiar
with the matter.  The insured investment vehicle was one of two options
being weighed, along with using the European Financial Stability
Facility to boost the rescue firepower from 440 billion euros
($611 billion) currently, the person said.  “The principle that we leverage the EFSF with private
money is being subscribed by everyone, but the level of success
is uncertain,” Dutch Finance Minister  Jan Kees de Jager  told
reporters on the second day of crisis talks in Brussels. “How
much can we raise, that is being looked at.”  Europe’s room for maneuver narrowed yesterday with a report
that  Greece ’s economy is deteriorating, piling on pressure to
build a stronger anti-crisis firewall by a self-imposed Oct. 26
deadline. Measures being considered include a boost in bailout
funds to 940 billion euros, deeper writedowns on Greek debt, and
a demand that banks increase  Tier 1 capital  to 9 percent by
mid-2012.  Stocks and the euro rallied yesterday on signs that
warnings from global leaders including President  Barack Obama 
have jolted European policy makers into action.  European Union office buildings, luxury hotels and a
suburban Brussels flower park were the scenes today for a
crisis-management convention involving national and EU-level
leaders, finance ministers, central and commercial bankers and
their aides.  Bank Recapitalization  All 27 EU finance ministers discussed bank
recapitalizations in the morning, followed by the second session
in two days of the 17 ministers from euro countries. Neither
session yielded a formal announcement.  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French President
Nicolas Sarkozy meet privately in early evening before a later
sitdown with European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet , EU President  Herman Van Rompuy , European Commission
President  Jose Barroso  and EU Economic and Monetary Affairs
Commissioner Olli Rehn. International Monetary Fund Managing
Director  Christine Lagarde  will also be there.  The special purpose investment vehicle, the newest option
on the table, would buy bonds in the primary and secondary
markets, the person said. The purpose would be to attract
outside investors and sovereign wealth funds, tapping reserves
built up by countries like China.  EFSF Guarantees  A special-purpose vehicle was also discussed at this
month’s meeting of the Group of 20 finance ministers and central
bankers to be run by the IMF as a way to channel loans from
countries such as  China  and  Brazil .  “To be able to do this we’d have to create a special
purpose vehicle, which we have done in the past in other
circumstances,” Antonio Borges, the IMF’s European department
head, said Oct. 5. “It could be done, it’s not to be excluded.”  The other option also involves EFSF first-loss guarantees,
yet without creating the special fund. It was backed by  Germany 
and was the front-running option until this week, when  France 
complained that it wouldn’t be enough and sought to turn the
fund into a bank that could borrow from the ECB.  Aid of 256 billion euros for Greece, Ireland and Portugal
has failed to stabilize markets or prevent the turmoil from
spreading to France, co-anchor with Germany of the European
economy. French bank shares have tumbled on concern they are
vulnerable to losses around  Europe ’s periphery.  France’s climbdown was signaled late yesterday by Finance
Minister  Francois Baroin . Tapping the central bank “is not a
definitive point of discussion for us,” he said. “What matters
is what works.”  ECB Opposition  Yesterday’s start of the six-day summit marathon was
overshadowed by the report by the EU Commission, ECB and IMF on
Greece that highlighted the dilemmas of righting Greece’s
finances without sending shockwaves through the banking system.  Divisions over the handling of Greece were thrown into
relief by the report, which was obtained by Bloomberg News. It
contained a footnote that the ECB, which has lobbied against
writedowns, “does not agree” with the inclusion of the bond-
loss scenarios.  Officials are considering five scenarios to update a July
agreement that foresaw 21 percent losses on Greek debt for
private bondholders, people familiar with the deliberations
said. They range from sticking with a voluntary swap to a so-
called hard restructuring that forces investors to exchange
Greek bonds for new ones at 50 percent of their value, the
people said.  A deepening recession and delays in enacting budget cuts
have raised Greece’s financing needs by at least 20 billion
euros since July, when euro leaders hammered out a 159 billion-
euro package, the people said.  “We have to discuss with the private sector and see what
is suitable,” Spanish Economy Minister  Elena Salgado  told
reporters. Ministers discussed investor losses of “more than 21
percent,” she said.  The ministers yesterday signed off on the payout of its 5.8
billion-euro share of an 8 billion-euro loan to Greece. It’s the
sixth installment of a 110 billion-euro package awarded in May
2010.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tony Czuczka in Brussels at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net ;
Fred Pals in Brussels at 
 fpals@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  