-- 
Euro Sinks Before Debt Crisis Summits; Dollar Falls to Record

-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t   a n d   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 
2011-10-22T04:00:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-22/euro-sinks-before-debt-crisis-summits-dollar-falls-to-record-against-yen.html
The euro dropped the most against
the Swiss franc in almost two months and fell versus the yen as
European leaders prepared for two summits over the next four
days to battle the sovereign debt crisis.  The dollar declined yesterday to a post-World War II low
against the yen on speculation the  Federal Reserve  may seek
further monetary easing and bets the Japanese government will
struggle to stem its currency’s gains. The Swiss franc rose this
week against most of its major counterparts on demand for a
refuge from  Europe ’s fiscal turmoil.  “I wouldn’t be holding my breath about the summit this
weekend because the second summit coming next Wednesday means we
probably won’t get anything concrete,” Eric Viloria, senior
currency strategist at Gain Capital Group LLC in New York, said
yesterday. “I would not be long on the euro, but I would not be
surprised to see it rally with positive development from this
meeting. I would use a rally to get short on the euro for the
longer term.” A short is a bet an asset will drop.  The euro depreciated 1 percent to 1.2262 Swiss francs this
week. It decreased 1.2 percent to 105.97 yen and traded at
$1.3896. The dollar fell 1.2 percent to 76.29 yen after dropping
yesterday to the post World War II low of 75.82 yen. It was the
biggest weekly slide in the U.S. currency since Aug. 12.  Implied volatility for the currencies of the Group of Seven
nations touched 13.3 percent this week, the highest level since
Oct. 7, according to a JPMorgan Chase & Co. index.  Stronger Pound  Sterling rallied to a six-week high against the dollar
after Britain’s budget deficit narrowed in September more than
economists forecast as Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne ’s spending cuts took hold. The pound advanced 0.8
percent to $1.5953 after rising yesterday to $1.5974, the
highest level since Sept. 9.  Canada ’s dollar ended the week at C$1.0066 versus the U.S.
currency, up 0.3 percent, before an Oct. 25 meeting of the
central bank. The Bank of Canada will keep its target rate for
overnight lending at 1 percent, according to all 25 economists
in a Bloomberg News survey.  The 17-nation euro had its biggest five-day drop against
the franc since it fell 4.2 percent during the week ended Sept.
2, four days before the  Swiss National Bank  established a
minimum rate of 1.20 to stem its currency to help exporters.  European finance ministers met yesterday, followed by a
planned gathering of ministers from all 27 European Union
countries today. EU and euro-area leaders convene tomorrow, to
be capped by another euro summit Oct. 26.  France  Retreats  France retreated in a clash with  Germany  over how to expand
the power of Europe’s bailout fund. France’s view that the fund
should get a banking license enabling it to borrow from the
 European Central Bank  “is not a definitive point of discussion
for us,” French Finance Minister  Francois Baroin  told
reporters.  “Everybody’s making the assumption that the Europeans will
come up with something that will be good enough to muddle
through,” said Boris Schlossberg, director of research at
online currency trader GFT Forex in New York.  Greece ’s Prime Minister  George Papandreou  won the backing
of a majority of lawmakers this week in a second test of support
for a new austerity package. Police used tear gas to disperse
protesters.  IntercontinentalExchange Inc.’s Dollar Index, used to track
the greenback against six major U.S. trading partners, dropped
for a third week, falling 0.4 percent to 76.276 as investors
speculated that further monetary easing by the Fed may debase
the world’s main reserve currency.  Yellen’s View  Fed Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen  said yesterday in a Denver
speech that a third round of large-scale securities purchases
might become warranted if necessary to boost a  U.S. economy 
challenged by unemployment and financial turmoil. The comments
followed Fed Governor Daniel Tarullo’s call for a resumption of
large-scale purchases of mortgage bonds.  Hedge funds  and other large speculators pared their net
long dollar positions to 126,628 in the week ended Oct. 18 after
reaching 132,835 in the prior week, the most since June 2010,
according to Commodity Futures Trading Commission data released
yesterday. The figures measure futures contracts on dollar bets
against the euro, yen, Australian, Canadian and New Zealand
dollars, pound, Swiss franc and Mexican peso.  The yen was the best performer over the past week among the
10 developed-nation currencies that are tracked by Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes, rising 0.9 percent. The
euro dropped 0.3 percent, and the Swiss franc rose 0.7 percent.  Japan  Proposal  Japan’s government will add 2 trillion yen ($26 billion) to
the 8 trillion yen in foreign-exchange reserves being shifted to
the state-run Japan Bank for International Cooperation to aid
exporters and spur acquisitions overseas, a document obtained by
Bloomberg News shows.  A further 2 trillion yen will be allocated to encourage
investment in domestic plants and to hire workers, according to
another document obtained from two government officials who
declined to be identified because the plan isn’t public.  The dollar fell this week to a post-World War II low
against the yen following a 4.51 trillion-yen intervention in
August by Japan.  “Folks have decided that the measures proposed by the
government to weaken the yen were far too weak,” said  Sebastien Galy , a senior foreign-exchange strategist at Societe Generale
SA in  London .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Allison Bennett in  New York  at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net ;
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  