-- 
European Leaders Push to End Debt Crisis

-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a   a n d   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 
2011-10-22T22:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-22/european-leaders-open-last-ditch-push-to-end-debt-crisis-safeguard-banks.html
European leaders descended on
Brussels in a last-ditch effort to stamp out a two-year-old
financial crisis that threatens to tip the world into a
recession.  Government chiefs took over, following two days of meetings
by finance ministers, at a 10 a.m. summit, with another set  
for Oct. 26. That’s their self-imposed deadline to complete a
plan to beef up the euro bailout fund, cut  Greece ’s debt without
triggering a default, shield banks from the fallout and ensure
Italy and  Spain  don’t succumb to the contagion.  With President  Barack Obama  and Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao 
urging a fix,  Europe ’s room for maneuver narrowed after a report
showed Greek finances worsening. Measures being considered
include a boost in rescue funds to 940 billion euros ($1.3
trillion), deeper writedowns on Greek debt, and a demand that
banks increase Tier 1 capital to 9 percent by mid-2012.  Investors believed the euro region was “a secure terrain,
only to find out that you can lose money here -- that, for all
of us in Europe, is a troubling message,” German  Chancellor
Angela Merkel  said yesterday. “We need to protect the other
countries in the region -- that’s why we’re erecting this big
protection umbrella.”  The crisis has prompted warnings from the Group of 20 that
failure by policy makers risks triggering a global slump. The
contagion began in Greece in October 2009 with the revelation
that its finances were worse than previously reported. Since
then, 256 billion euros of bailouts have failed to stem the
tide, which rattled France this month, prompting  Standard &
Poor’s  to warn it may lose its top  credit rating .  Crisis Convention  European Union office buildings, luxury hotels and a
suburban flower park became scenes of a crisis-management
convention involving national and EU-level leaders, finance
ministers, central and commercial bankers and their aides.  Merkel and French President Nicolas Sarkozy spoke on the
phone yesterday before meeting with European Central Bank
President  Jean-Claude Trichet , EU President Herman Van Rompuy,
European Commission President Jose Barroso, EU Economic and
Monetary Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn  and International
Monetary Fund Managing Director  Christine Lagarde .  Lagarde also joined 10 hours of talks as ministers haggled
over what they called a “credible firewall” against fallout
from deeper writedowns.  Bank Capital  The finance ministers, who failed to produce a blueprint
for the role of investors in a Greek rescue, agreed that
European banks may need about 100 billion euros in capital after
marking sovereign-debt holdings to market values, said a person
familiar with the discussions. This amount is needed to reach a
core  tier 1 capital  level of 9 percent based on a European
Banking Authority test, said the person, who declined to be
identified because the talks are private.  “We have made real progress and we have come to important
decisions on strengthening European banks,” U.K. Chancellor of
the Exchequer  George Osborne  told reporters after the meeting.
“That is just one part of the package and obviously there’s
more work to do.”  Narrowing the options for expanding the reach of the 440
billion-euro rescue fund, ministers discussed setting up a pool
to entice investors to buy troubled euro-area  government bonds ,
said a person familiar with the matter. The fund was weighed
alongside the option of using the European Financial Stability
Facility to insure countries’ bond sales as well as those
purchased through the investment vehicle.  EFSF Guarantees  A special-purpose vehicle was also discussed at this
month’s meeting of the Group of 20 finance ministers and central
bankers. It would be run by the IMF as a way to channel loans
from countries such as China and  Brazil .  “To be able to do this we’d have to create a special
purpose vehicle, which we have done in the past in other
circumstances,” Antonio Borges, the IMF’s European department
head, said Oct. 5. “It could be done, it’s not to be
excluded.”  Expansion of the EFSF was the focus of a Franco-German
dispute in which  France  backed down. France had complained that
the insurance option wouldn’t be enough and sought to turn the
fund into a bank that could borrow from the ECB, a step opposed
by  Germany  and the central bank.  The start of the six-day summit marathon on Oct. 21 was
overshadowed by the report by the European Commission, ECB and
IMF on Greece that highlighted the dilemma of righting Greece’s
finances without sending shockwaves through the banking system.  Greek Finances  A deepening recession and delays in enacting budget cuts
have raised Greece’s financing needs by at least 20 billion
euros since July, when euro leaders hammered out a 159 billion-
euro package, the people said.  “We have to discuss with the private sector and see what
is suitable,” Spanish Economy Minister  Elena Salgado  told
reporters. Ministers discussed investor losses of “more than 21
percent,” she said.  Officials are considering five scenarios to update a July
agreement that foresaw 21 percent losses on Greek debt for
private bondholders, people familiar with the deliberations
said. They range from sticking with a voluntary swap to a so-
called hard restructuring that forces investors to exchange
Greek bonds for new ones at 50 percent of their value, the
people said.  The ministers on Oct. 21 signed off on the payout of the
EU’s 5.8 billion-euro share of an 8 billion-euro loan to Greece.
It’s the sixth installment of a 110 billion-euro package awarded
in May 2010.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tony Czuczka in Brussels at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net ;
Thomas Penny in Brussels at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  