-- 
Fed Officials Weigh Further Easing Options Even as Economy Gains Strength

-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n   a n d   S c o t t   L a n m a n
-- 
2011-10-22T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-22/fed-officials-weigh-further-easing-options-even-as-economy-gains-strength.html
Federal Reserve policy makers are
developing options for further monetary easing even as better-
than-forecast economic reports have allayed concerns that the
U.S. is on the verge of a renewed recession.  Fed Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen  said yesterday that a third
round of large-scale asset purchases “might become appropriate
if evolving economic conditions called for significantly greater
monetary accommodation.” A day before, Governor  Daniel Tarullo 
said buying mortgage-backed securities “should move back up
toward the top of the list of options.”  They join  Charles Evans , president of the Chicago Fed, and
Boston’s  Eric Rosengren  in calling for consideration of further
stimulus to boost growth and bring down a jobless rate stuck
around 9 percent or higher for 30 months. A stock-market rally
and gains in manufacturing and retail sales may convince the
Federal Open Market Committee, which meets Nov. 1-2, to decide
that it’s too soon for a third round of bond purchases.  “We’re seeing somewhat of a pickup of growth, but nothing
spectacular,” said Roberto Perli, managing director in charge
of policy research at International Strategy and Investment
Group in  Washington  and a former economist in the Fed’s monetary
affairs division. “Since that’s the case they probably don’t
want to expand the balance sheet yet, but you have to start
thinking about what you would do if things go back south.”  Stocks extended gains after Yellen’s speech, with the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rising 1.9 percent to 1,238.25 in
New York yesterday. Yields on 10-year Treasuries rose 3 basis
points, or 0.03 percent, to 2.22 percent.  Interest Rates  The Fed could also use communications to signal the likely
future path of interest rates, a tool that may allow it to ease
policy without embarking on the securities purchases that have
prompted criticism from Republican presidential candidates and
House Speaker  John Boehner  of  Ohio .  Evans has proposed tying the Fed’s pledge to keep its
benchmark  interest rate  near zero to specific levels of
unemployment and inflation. That’s an approach that merits
“careful consideration,” Yellen said in her speech in Denver.  The Commerce Department next week may report that the
economy grew at an annual pace of 2.5 percent in the third
quarter, according to the median forecast of a Bloomberg survey
of 69 economists. That would mark an improvement from 0.4
percent in the first quarter and 1.3 percent in the second.  Employers added 103,000 jobs in September, up from a gain
of 57,000 the month before. Retail sales last month rose by the
most in seven months, and factory production climbed. The data,
along with better-than-forecast corporate earnings, helped drive
a 13 percent gain the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index this month.  Economic Growth  “It looks likely that economic growth in the second half
of this year will be noticeably stronger, and inflation more
moderate, than in the first half,” Yellen said.  Even so, she said, the  U.S. economy  is vulnerable to
spillover effects from  Europe ’s fiscal crisis. “The potential
for such adverse financial developments to derail the recovery
creates, in my view, significant downside risks to the
outlook,” she said.  European finance ministers yesterday began a round of talks
that would last through Oct. 26. Aid of $354 billion (256
billion euros) for  Greece , Ireland and Portugal has failed to
stabilize markets or prevent the turmoil spreading to  France ,
co-anchor with  Germany  of the European economy.  “Risks from Europe could happen at almost any time, so
they have to have Plan B ready should that be needed,” said
Michael Gapen, a former Fed researcher who is now a senior U.S.
economist for Barclays Capital Inc. in  New York . “There are
still longer-term impediments to growth, and therefore the U.S.
economy remains perpetually exposed to adverse shocks.”  Household Debt  Among the impediments cited by Tarullo in a speech in New
York two days ago: a high level of household debt accumulated
before the financial crisis and a housing market that
“continues to hang like an albatross around the necks of
homeowners and the economy as a whole.”  While some economists have said the economy has hit
occasional “soft patches,” Tarullo said, a more apt
description is an “economy slogging through the mud and
occasionally hitting stretches of dry pavement.”  “In the absence of favorable developments in the coming
months, there will be a strong case for additional measures,”
said Tarullo, who has backed all of Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke’s policy decisions for almost three years.  Officials Divided  Fed officials are divided over whether and how to ease
policy further after two decisions to lower borrowing costs with
unconventional tools, first by pledging to hold the Fed’s target
rate near zero through at least mid-2013 and in September by
announcing it would replace $400 billion of short-term
Treasuries with the same amount of longer-term bonds in a bid to
push down borrowing costs.  Those moves drew dissent from Philadelphia Fed Chief
 Charles Plosser ,  Narayana Kocherlakota  of  Minneapolis  and
 Richard Fisher  of Dallas. Fisher and Kocherlakota signaled in
speeches yesterday that they remain opposed to the Fed’s
actions.  “The FOMC’s decision-making in 2011 has introduced a lack
of clarity about its monetary policy mission,” Kocherlakota
said in remarks at the Harvard Club of  Minnesota .  The $400 billion bond-swap program, known as Operation
Twist, has “so far been of greater benefit to traders and large
monied interests than to job-creating businesses,” Fisher said
in a speech in Dallas.  Evans, Rosengren  Evans and Rosengren have also urged the policy-setting
 Federal Open Market Committee  to increase its record stimulus.
Evans is calling for the Fed to keep the target for the
benchmark U.S. interest rate near zero until either unemployment
falls below 7 percent or the medium-term inflation outlook rises
above 3 percent.  Evans’s plan “could be helpful in facilitating public
understanding of how various possible shifts in the economic
outlook would be likely to affect the anticipated timing of
policy firming,” Yellen said yesterday.  At the same time, the approach has “potential pitfalls,”
including the chance that “such thresholds could potentially be
misunderstood as conveying the committee’s longer-run objectives
rather than the conditions surrounding the likely onset of
policy firming,” Yellen said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net ;  Scott Lanman in Washington at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  