-- 
Bunds Gain as Wrangling Over Europe Rescue Fund Boosts Demand for Safety

-- B y   G a r t h   T h e u n i s s e n
-- 
2011-10-22T06:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-22/german-bunds-gain-as-rescue-fund-wrangling-boosts-refuge-demand.html
German bunds posted their first
weekly gain in a month as concern European leaders are
struggling to agree on a permanent solution to the euro-area’s
debt crisis boosted demand for the region’s safest assets.  Benchmark French debt fell for a fourth week, expanding the
yield spread over bunds to the widest since 1992, after Moody’s
Investors Service and  Standard & Poor’s  said the nation’s top
credit rating is under pressure due to the regional crisis.
European leaders are scheduled to meet at summits in Brussels
tomorrow and on Oct. 26 to devise a plan to resolve the
sovereign-debt turmoil. Spanish and Italian bonds also declined.  “Fixed-income markets clearly remain in a state of
caution, with traditional spread relationships under strain,”
Mark Schofield, head of interest-rate strategy at Citigroup Inc.
in London, wrote in a note to clients Oct. 21. “The risks are
still skewed to higher European Monetary Union yields and
further spread widening.”  German 10-year yields dropped nine basis points this week
to 2.11 percent at 4:31 p.m. London time yesterday, after rising
45 basis points over the previous three weeks. The 2.25 percent
bond due September 2021 gained 0.75, or 7.50 euros per 1,000-
euro face amount, to 101.195. The two-year rate was little
changed this week at 0.66 percent.  Group of 20 officials concluded a meeting in Paris last
weekend by setting the Oct. 23 summit as the deadline for
completing a plan to avoid a Greek default, bolster euro-area
banks and curb contagion to larger economies in the 17-nation
region. Interim talks faltered after Germany and  France 
disagreed on how to structure an expanded European bailout fund.  French Bonds  French bonds slid in the week, pushing yields to a three-
month high, on concern the expanded bailout fund will put extra
pressure on the nation’s finances.  The 10-year rate climbed 12 basis points to 3.25 percent,
after rising to 3.28 percent on Oct. 19, the most since Aug. 8.
The spread over similar-maturity bunds expanded to as much as
121 basis points, the widest since 1992 based on Bloomberg
generic prices.  “France is the least able to afford the cost of an
expanded bailout package among AAA nations,” said Lyn Graham- Taylor, a fixed-income strategist at Rabobank International in
 London . “They’ll probably eventually lose their AAA rating.”  Standard & Poor’s said yesterday that France is among euro-
region sovereigns likely to be downgraded in a stressed economic
scenario.  Spain ,  Italy , Ireland and  Portugal  may also be reduced
by one or two levels in either of New York-based S&P’s two
stress scenarios, the company said in an report. Moody’s
Investors Service warned on Oct. 17 that France risked losing
its Aaa credit rating.  Recession Concern  Spanish 10-year bonds fell for a second week, with yields
climbing 23 basis points to 5.48 percent. Italy’s 10-year yields
rose 10 basis points to 5.90 percent in the week, even as people
with knowledge of the transactions said the  European Central
Bank  bought the securities.  Yields on benchmark Greek bonds due June 2020 rose 11 basis
points in the week to 24.04 percent. Two-year yields surged 313
basis points to 77.27 percent.  Greek debt declined even as Prime Minister  George
Papandreou  won a parliamentary vote on a new round of austerity
designed to secure more financial aid, risking further unrest
after strikes across the nation this week.  German  government bonds  have returned 7.2 percent this
year, according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the
European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. French debt
gained 2.9 percent, Italian bonds lost 4.7 percent and Greek
securities dropped 41 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Garth Theunissen in London 
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  