-- 
Gilts Rise as Investors Seek Safest Assets on Debt-Plan Turmoil

-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 
2011-10-22T06:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-22/gilts-rise-as-investors-seek-safest-assets-on-debt-plan-turmoil.html
U.K. government bonds rose for the
first time in four weeks as investors sought a haven from
uncertainty over whether European officials will be able to
reach agreement on a solution to the European debt crisis.  The pound rose to a six-week high against the dollar and
posted its first weekly gain in three versus the euro as a split
emerged between  Europe ’s two largest economies over boosting the
firepower of a bailout fund. A weekend deadline for a solution
to the euro-region’s debt woes was pushed back to Oct. 26 after
Germany and  France  said the European Union needs more time to
seal a “global and ambitious” accord.  “There are some obvious problems over there which are
slowly being resolved but not to the market’s taste and what
we’ve seen in higher-grade debt markets this week reflects that
uncertainty,” said Eric Wand, a fixed-income strategist at
Lloyds Bank Corporate Markets in London.  The 10-year gilt yield dropped seven basis points, or 0.07
percentage point, in the week to 2.54 percent at 4:20 p.m.
London time yesterday. The two-year yield was little changed at
0.58 percent.  Benchmark gilt yields have dropped around 102 basis points
since the start of the second half as global policy makers have
struggled to find a solution to the euro-area’s debt woes and
stem contagion to the region’s larger economies.  Bank of England 
Governor  Mervyn King  called for a “bold response” to the
crisis in an Oct. 18 speech.  Bond Sale  U.K. government debt has returned 12 percent this year,
according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European
Federation of Financial Analysts Societies, surpassing the 7.2
percent return for German bunds and 7.9 percent gain for  U.S.
Treasuries .  The U.K. plans to sell an inflation-linked bond maturing in
the 50-year area through banks before the end of October, the
Debt Management Office said.  “The syndication will go pretty well,” said Wand.
“There’s plenty of pent-up demand for it on various metrics.”  Sterling gained 0.8 percent in the week to trade at 87.02
pence per euro. It advanced 0.9 percent against the U.S.
currency to buy $1.5957, after touching $1.5962 yesterday, the
highest since Sept. 9. The pound fell 0.5 percent to 121.55 yen.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucy Meakin in  London  at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net . 