-- 
Google Said to Consider Financing an Offer to Acquire Yahoo

-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 
2011-10-22T18:45:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-22/google-said-to-consider-helping-finance-a-third-party-offer-to-buy-yahoo.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  is considering providing
financing for an acquisition of Yahoo! Inc. by another company
or a group of bidders, according to a person who has been
briefed on the matter.  The company may opt not to take part in any offer and
hasn’t engaged in serious discussions with would-be partners,
said the person, who asked not to be identified because the
deliberations are private.  Yahoo is weighing strategic options after firing former
Chief Executive Officer  Carol Bartz , in part for her failure to
keep pace with Google in the online advertising market. Google,
which is under regulatory scrutiny from governments around the
world, may lend its financial support to preserve Yahoo as a
rival and bolster competition in the Internet industry, said
 Greg Sterling , an analyst at Opus Research in  San Francisco .  “If competition dissipates or diminishes, then the hand of
regulators is strengthened,” Sterling said. “If competition is
diminished or marginalized, then all the arguments about Google
being a monopoly ring more true.”  Google, which has $42.6 billion in cash and short-term
investments, is considering helping finance other bidders,
rather than trying to acquire Yahoo outright, the person said.  FTC Review  The U.S. Federal Trade Commission began a review of
Google’s business practices, including search and advertising,
the company said in a regulatory filing in June. The European
Union and the state of  Texas  also have begun investigations of
the company’s leadership in search and advertising markets.  Potential financing by Google for a bid for rival Yahoo has
parallels with the $150 million investment that  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) 
made in competitor Apple Inc. in 1997 to help preserve 
competition in the computer market, Sterling said.  Still, regulators might scrutinize any Yahoo acquisition
effort that involves Google. The U.S. government threatened to
challenge an earlier proposal by Google to place ads on Yahoo’s
site, causing Google to abandon the effort in 2008.  Representatives of Sunnyvale, California-based Yahoo and
 Mountain View , California-based Google declined to comment. The
Wall Street Journal  reported  earlier today that Google is
considering financing a bid by private equity firms for Yahoo.  A growing roster of private equity firms is considering
whether to pursue Yahoo, which has a market value of $20.35
billion. Microsoft is weighing providing financing, a person
familiar with the matter has said.  A potential investment by Microsoft, a longtime Google
rival, also may have prompted Google’s interest in a financing
deal involving Yahoo, Sterling said.  Alibaba Interest  Alibaba Group Holding Ltd., whose largest shareholder is
Yahoo, has said it’s “very interested” in the Web portal, an
arrangement that would help the Chinese company buy back its 43
percent stake.  KKR & Co. and  Blackstone Group LP (BX)  are among firms weighing
an offer for Yahoo, people familiar with the matter said earlier
this month. Alibaba has discussed a plan with  Silver Lake  and
 Russia ’s Digital Sky Technologies to make a joint bid, people
familiar with the matter have said. Another group interested in
an offer includes Providence Equity Partners Inc. and former
News Corp. executive  Peter Chernin , people have said.  Google advertising customers are able to buy space on Yahoo
sites through Google’s Invite Media service, according to the
person familiar with Google’s deliberations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in San Francisco at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  