-- 
Libyan Council Declares End of Qaddafi Rule

-- B y   M a r i a m   F a m   a n d   O l a   G a l a l
-- 
2011-10-23T22:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-22/libya-s-independence-day-dawns-with-qaddafi-viewings-jibril-s-resignation.html
Libya’s interim leaders officially
declared the country’s “liberation” following the death of
 Muammar Qaddafi  and called for reconciliation following more
than four decades under the autocratic leader.  “We enter with steady steps and with faith in God a new
period, the post-liberation period,” Abdel Hafiz Ghoga, the
vice chairman of the National Transitional Council, said at a
televised ceremony in Benghazi marked by cheering crowds,
celebratory gunfire and fireworks. “It’s a phase that requires
from all of us more responsibility and more effort,” he said.  NTC chairman Mustafa Abdel Jalil yesterday declared an end
to Qaddafi’s rule and knelt to the ground to thank God. “Raise
your head up high, you’re a free Libyan,” chanted the crowds.
“The blood of the martyrs has not been shed in vain.”  “I am very happy, I feel I am being born again,” said 45-
year-old Hasnaa Bouhabib, a teacher and mother of three, said
yesterday. “I never imagined such a day would come. This is
unimaginable.”  A new government will need to restore order and forge unity
among the rebels who ended Qaddafi’s reign as well as revive the
economy.  Libya ’s unemployment tops 30 percent, according to
acting Prime Minister Mahmoud Jibril, and foreign companies have
fled due to security concerns.  Qaddafi’s death on Oct. 20 followed eight months of
fighting between loyalists and the one-time rebels who now run
the country after seizing the capital, Tripoli, in August.  Qaddafi’s Body  Libyans had been lining up to see Qaddafi’s body on public
display in the western city of Misrata. Qaddafi was to be
interred at an undisclosed location “to protect the burial site
from being desecrated,” according to Hassan Essghayr, a member
of the interim National Transitional Council.  A United Nations probe may investigate the manner of
Qaddafi’s death after videos of his last moments were released
on the Internet. One shows Qaddafi with a gunshot wound to his
head after a struggle with fighters.  Qaddafi’s son and heir-apparent Saif al-Islam, whose
location isn’t known, vowed to continue fighting and told the
revolutionaries to “go to hell” in a one-minute audio message
aired over the weekend by a Syrian-based television station,  Al
Arabiya  reported.  Qaddafi is the third autocrat to be deposed and the first
to die in this year’s Arab Spring uprisings. Tunisia’s Zine El Abidine Ben Ali fled to  Saudi Arabia  in January.  Egypt ’s  Hosni Mubarak  was toppled a month later and is currently on trial,
accused of conspiring to kill protesters who opposed his rule.
more than four decades.  Tunisian Elections  As Libyan officials declared the country’s liberation
yesterday, Tunisians streamed into polling stations for their
first election after Ben Ali’s ouster, a vote seen by many as a
litmus test for the country’s transformation and a possible
bellwether for change elsewhere in the region.  Jalil said yesterday he hopes the Syrian and Yemeni people,
who have also risen up against their leaders, are victorious.  Jibril said he would resign after the declaration, keeping
a commitment he made to leave once the Qaddafi regime fell. He
said he had asked the acting minister of oil and finance, Ali Tarhouni, to manage affairs until a new government is formed.  A new interim government is to be announced within about a
month after the official declaration of liberation and elections
will be held within eight months, NTC leaders have said.
Parliamentary and presidential elections will be held within a
year of the balloting for the constitutional assembly, the
 Associated Press  reported.  Obama’s Congratulations  President  Barack Obama  congratulated Libyans on their
“historic declaration of liberation,” and said in a statement
the U.S. looks forward to working with authorities “as they
prepare for the country’s first free and fair elections.”  In his address to Libyans raising the tricolor flags that
have emerged as a symbol of their revolt, Abdel Jalil urged
“forgiveness and reconciliation” and struck an Islamic tone
when speaking of the post-Qaddafi Libya. ‘  ‘We, as an Islamic state, have adopted the Islamic Shariah
as the main source of legislation,” he said. “As such, any law
that runs contrary to the Islamic principles of the Islamic
Shariah is legally void.”  He said the country’s new leadership is seeking to
establish Islamic banks that ban the payment of interest.
Charging interest “brings about diseases and creates hatred,”
he said.  The NTC has been attempting to persuade as many as 50
foreign companies to return to Libya and many had refused due to
security concerns, Jibril said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net ;
Ola Galal in Benghazi at 
 ogalal@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  