-- 
Indian Court Charges Ex-Minister, Executives in Phone Case

-- B y   P r a t a p   P a t n a i k   a n d   A n d r e w   M a c A s k i l l
-- 
2011-10-22T12:42:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-22/indian-court-charges-ex-minister-executives-in-phone-case-1-.html
An Indian court today charged former
federal minister  Andimuthu Raja  and two other officials with
bribery, forgery and conspiring to cause financial loss to the
government in a case related to sale of phone licenses in 2008.  Raja, a former telecommunications minister, his personal
secretary R.K. Chandolia and former telecom secretary Siddhartha
Behura will be tried under Indian criminal law for allocating
mobile-phone permits to companies in return for bribes, Judge
O.P. Saini said in an order in New Delhi today.  The court accepted the  Central Bureau of Investigation’s 
plea to apply stringent charges of causing losses to the
exchequer on all the 17 accused, including top executives from
private telecom companies, a crime that is punishable by up to
 life imprisonment . The framing of charges paves the way for a
trial of those accused that will start on Nov. 11.  India ’s chief auditor said the cut-price, first-come,
first-served permit sale three years ago at “unbelievably low”
prices may have reduced government revenue by $31 billion. The
sale of airwaves is one of a several scandals that damaged the
popularity of Prime Minister Manmohan Singh’s government and
triggered nationwide street protests in August.  “We were expecting that the judge was going to frame the
charges in this way, so this is not a surprise” said Ramesh
Gupta, a lawyer for Raja. “This is the beginning of the trial,
not the end.”  Criminal Conspiracy  Unitech Ltd. (UT)  Managing Director Sanjay Chandra,  DB Realty
Ltd. (DBRL)  Managing Director Vinod Goenka, Reliance ADA Group Managing
Director Gautam Doshi and Senior Vice Presidents Hari Nair and
Surendra Pipara were charged with cheating and criminal
conspiracy, and causing loss to the exchequer, according to the
court order.  The court also charged Kanimozhi, a lawmaker of Singh’s
second-biggest ally, former DB Realty Managing Director Shahid
Balwa and three companies -- Reliance Telecom Ltd., a unit of
billionaire  Anil Ambani ’s flagship-company  Reliance
Communications Ltd. (RCOM) , Swan Telecom Pvt. and Unitech Wireless Ltd.  All those charged deny any wrongdoing.  Reliance Communications executives and Reliance Telecom
will move the Delhi High Court seeking to quash the charges,
according to an e-mailed statement from Reliance Telecom today.
The framing of charges against the company executives won’t have
any impact on licenses, operations and business of Reliance
Telecom or any other group company, it said.  Reliance Communications closed 0.8 percent lower at 74.3
rupees at the close of trading in  Mumbai  yesterday, DB Realty
fell 0.3 percent to 56.1 rupees, while Unitech declined 0.9
percent to 26.7 rupees.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Pratap Patnaik in  New Delhi  at 
 ppatnaik2@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Macaskill in New Delhi at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jim McDonald at 
 jmcdonald8@bloomberg.net  