-- 
Newcastle Defeats Wigan 1-0 to Maintain Its Unbeaten Run in Premier League

-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 
2011-10-22T18:45:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-22/newcastle-beats-wigan-1-0-to-maintain-premiership-unbeaten-run.html
Newcastle defeated Wigan 1-0 to
maintain its unbeaten start to the season in English soccer’s
Premier League.  Yohan Cabaye scored in the 81st minute to give Newcastle
the home win. West Brom beat 10-man  Aston Villa  2-1, Sunderland
defeated Bolton 2-0, Wolverhampton tied Swansea 2-2 and Norwich
drew 1-1 at Liverpool.  Cabaye’s first goal since signing from Lille in the summer
stretched Newcastle’s unbeaten start to nine matches. The
Magpies have five wins and four draws for 18 points to move
within a point of third-place Chelsea.  Cabaye scored after taking a pass from Sylvain Marveaux and
curling a right-footed shot past Ali Al Habsi from the edge of
the area. Wigan, which has lost six straight, had a final chance
but Mohamed Diame sent his header just wide in the 88th minute.  Grant Holt’s goal in the 60th minute gave Norwich the tie at
Liverpool, which got a score from  Craig Bellamy  in first-half
stoppage time. Norwich goalkeeper John Ruddy preserved the draw
by tipping  Luis Suarez ’s shot over the crossbar in the final
seconds.  Goals from Jonas Olsson and Paul Scharner gave West Brom
its first win at Aston Villa in 32 years and extended its
unbeaten run to four matches.  Darren Bent  scored with a 23rd-
minute penalty kick for Villa, which lost its second straight.  Villa’s Chris Herd received a red card in the 36th minute
after battling with Olsson in the area. It resulted in a penalty
kick, which West Brom’s Chris Brunt sent wide.  Late Goals  Sunderland scored twice in the final eight minutes to beat
Bolton for a fifth consecutive time.  Stephane Sessegnon gave Sunderland the lead in the 82nd
minute and  Nicklas Bendtner  clinched the victory in stoppage
time. Bolton lost for the seventh time in nine games this
season.  Kevin Doyle  and Jamie O’Hara scored in the final six
minutes as Wolves rallied for the home draw to end a five-match
losing streak in the league. Wolves are still winless in seven
league matches, while Swansea earned its first point in five
away games.  First-place Manchester City hosts second-place Manchester
United tomorrow, while Stoke visits Arsenal, Fulham is home for
Everton, Tottenham is at Blackburn and QPR hosts Chelsea.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  