-- 
Obama Says Iraq Withdrawal, Qaddafi Death Pave Way for Domestic Priorities

-- B y   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r
-- 
2011-10-22T10:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-22/obama-says-iraq-withdrawal-qaddafi-death-pave-way-for-domestic-priorities.html
President  Barack Obama  called the
death of  Muammar Qaddafi  and the removal of all U.S. troops out
of  Iraq  by the end of the year “two powerful reminders” of
U.S. leadership on the global stage.  “In Libya, the death of Muammar Qaddafi showed that our
role in protecting the Libyan people, and helping them break
free from a tyrant, was the right thing to do,” Obama said
today in his weekly  radio and Internet address . “In Iraq, we’ve
succeeded in our strategy to end the war.”  While the U.S. has spent a trillion dollars on war over the
last decade, Obama said, it “invested too little in the
greatest source of our national strength -- our own
people.” There must be renewed focus on the economy, he said,
urging Congress to channel the strength of U.S. troops and pass
his $447 billion jobs proposal.  “Now, the nation we need to build is our own” and helping
the  U.S. economy  should be met “with the same urgency and unity
that our troops brought to their fight,” he said.  Obama announced his decision yesterday to bring back all
remaining U.S. troops from Iraq after conducting a video
conference with Iraqi Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki. Obama said
both governments agreed on the next stage in the relationship as
the U.S. withdraws its remaining 41,000 troops.  He said in the radio address that more than 100,000 troops
have already been removed from the country, and “now the rest
of our troops will be home for the holidays.” When Obama became
president, there were about 180,000 troops in Iraq and
 Afghanistan .  Opposition to War  Obama’s opposition to the  Iraq war  was a central element in
his rise to national prominence, and his vow to bring U.S.
troops home was a building block of his 2008 campaign for
president.  “After a decade of war, we’re turning the page and moving
forward, with strength and confidence,” he said. The drawdown
in Iraq helped his administration refocus on Afghanistan and
find al-Qaeda leader Osama bin Laden, he said.  In Libya, Obama said, the NATO-led mission -- criticized by
some lawmakers because the administration failed to seek
congressional approval under the War Powers Act -- “helped
prevent a massacre” and gave the “Libyan people the chance to
prevail.”  “Without putting a single U.S. service member on the
ground, we achieved our objectives,” Obama said.  Qaddafi was killed on Oct. 20, the third autocrat to be
deposed and the first to die in this year’s Arab Spring
uprisings.  NATO-Led Campaign  Obama committed the U.S. to a NATO-led campaign in  Libya  in
March, drawing criticism from some members of Congress. The
president said on Oct. 20 that Qaddafi’s downfall vindicates his
strategy of bringing together allies to meet the objective of
supporting the Libyan rebels without putting U.S. troops in
ground combat. It also follows other U.S. successes overseas, he
said.  Senator  Richard Burr  of  North Carolina , in the  weekly
Republican address , said that “getting government out of the
way” will help lower the jobless rate.  “The government of the future has to be smaller and less
expensive if we want the prosperity of the American people to
win out,” he said.  Burr said the president has ignored the suggestions of the
Simpson-Bowles commission, which Obama created in 2010 and was
led by former Senator  Alan Simpson , a Wyoming Republican, and
former Clinton Administration White House Chief of Staff Erskine Bowles.  Economic Growth  Burr listed parts of the Republican jobs plan that he said
would lead to economic growth, including simplifying the  tax
code , limiting government regulations and spending and
increasing exports.  He said replacing the president’s health-care overhaul with
“common-sense reforms that actually lower the cost of health
care for all Americans” and increasing energy exploration
within the U.S. will also lead to a stronger economy.  Obama has said his jobs plan will spur growth and lower the
9.1 percent unemployment rate. On Oct. 24 he will bring that
message with him on a three-day trip to Nevada, California and
 Colorado .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kate Andersen Brower in Washington at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  