-- 
Obama Says U.S. Troop Withdrawal From Iraq Is a Promise Kept

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v   a n d   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 
2011-10-22T04:00:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-22/obama-says-withdrawal-of-u-s-troops-from-iraq-by-holidays-is-promise-kept.html
President  Barack Obama  said the
withdrawal of all U.S. troops from  Iraq  by year’s end fulfills a
promise he made to voters, while Republican presidential
challengers called it a sign of U.S. weakness and a strategic
mistake.  “Today, I can report that, as promised, the rest of our
troops in Iraq will come home by the end of the year,” Obama
said at the White House yesterday.  Obama made the announcement after the Iraqi government
didn’t agree to provide immunity from prosecution for U.S.
troops staying into next year. About 39,000 troops were in Iraq
as of yesterday, following a drawdown of about 2,000 this week,
according to the Defense Department.  “Across America, our servicemen and women will be reunited
with their families,” Obama said. “Today, I can say that our
troops in Iraq will definitely be home for the holidays.”  More broadly, Obama said during his presidency the U.S. has
killed  Osama bin Laden , helped end Muammar Qaddafi’s regime in
 Libya  and is beginning to bring troops home from Afghanistan.
“The tide of war is receding,” the president said.  The troop withdrawal announcement came under fire from
critics of Obama’s policies in the region, including
presidential rivals.  Republican presidential candidate  Mitt Romney  said in a
statement that the Iraq withdrawal represents an “astonishing
failure to secure an orderly transition in Iraq.”  Romney also said it could put U.S. gains in the war at
risk.  Unavoidable Question  “The unavoidable question is whether this decision is the
result of a naked political calculation or simply sheer
ineptitude in negotiations with the Iraqi government,” Romney
said.  Republican presidential candidate  Rick Perry  said Obama is
“putting political expediency ahead of sound military and
security judgment.”  Jon Huntsman Jr. and  Michele Bachmann , two other Republican
presidential contenders, also released statements criticizing
the withdrawal as premature and the result of a failure to work
out a deal with Iraqis to protect U.S. troops.  Arizona Senator  John McCain , Obama’s Republican opponent in
the 2008 election, said the withdrawal “marks a harmful and sad
setback for the  United States  in the world.”  McCain, a prominent voice in his party on defense matters,
said military commanders have told him the Iraqi military still
needs assistance from U.S. forces.  Democratic Base  Obama’s opposition to the war was a central element in his
rise to national prominence, and his vow to bring U.S. troops
home was a building block of his successful presidential
campaign.  Among members of the  Democratic Party ’s base, who have been
disappointed by compromises Obama has made that include the
absence of a government-run “public option” from his health-
care overhaul and budget deals with congressional Republicans,
the departure from Iraq is an achievement the president’s
campaign can herald in seeking to spur enthusiasm for his re-
election bid.  “It’s a significant moment because it delivers on a core
promise of the campaign,” said  Chris Lehane , who was press
secretary to former Vice President Al Gore’s 2000 presidential
campaign.  ‘Dumb War’  Obama, as a state senator in  Illinois , opposed the 2002
congressional resolution authorizing the U.S. invasion, calling
it a “dumb war” in a speech to a rally in  Chicago . That later
became a highlight of the political biography that fueled
enthusiasm for him as public sentiment turned against the war.  Still, the impact on Obama’s re-election campaign is likely
to be minimal, Lehane said. “At the end of the day, there’s one
omnipresent, overhanging issue: the economy,” he said.  Obama said that, after almost nine years of war, American
soldiers “will cross the border out of Iraq with their heads
held high, proud of their success and knowing that the American
people stand united in our support for our troops.”  The president spoke after conducting a video conference
with Iraqi Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki.  Obama said both governments agreed on the next stage in the
relationship as the U.S. withdraws its remaining troops in Iraq.  The U.S. had been negotiating on the terms of an accord
with the government of Iraq on whether to keep some U.S. forces
there past the end of 2012. The current U.S. agreement with Iraq
for keeping troops in the country, negotiated in 2008 under
President  George W. Bush , expires at the end of this year.  External Security  Both governments have said that Iraq needs help with
external security and with the continued training and
development of its security forces. A sticking point was the
U.S. insistence that its troops have immunity from prosecution
in Iraqi courts.  The U.S. rejected a proposal from Maliki several months ago
to reach an administrative agreement that wouldn’t require
approval from the Iraqi Parliament. Pentagon officials said they
needed broad political support to minimize the risk to troops.
Iraq’s insistence two weeks ago that U.S. forces wouldn’t have
legal immunity from Iraqi prosecution was a deal breaker.  The U.S. commander’s initial request to keep 30,000 forces
in place four months ago fell to discussion of 9,000 to 10,000
two months later and as few as 3,000 four weeks ago, said
 Anthony Cordesman , a military analyst at the Center for
Strategic and International Studies in  Washington .  Training and Equipment  Obama said discussions will continue on how the U.S. might
help train and equip Iraqi forces.  Brian Katulis, a senior fellow at the Center for American
Progress, a policy research organization in Washington, said “a
large U.S. footprint” in Iraq will remain, given the staffing
level at the U.S. embassy and the number of private security
contractors.  “I would be surprised if they’re doing anything that would
diminish their plans for ongoing security assistance and police
training, which will be run under the State Department,”
Katulis said.  Denis McDonough , deputy White House national security
adviser, said the U.S. got “exactly what we needed to protect
our security interests” in negotiating with Iraq.  McDonough said the withdrawal by the U.S. won’t embolden
 Iran , which borders Iraq, to seek to expand its influence in the
region. The U.S. sees “an Iran that is weaker and is more
isolated,” he said.  Final Stage  Obama said the final stage of withdrawals marks a larger
transition as the U.S. also draws down troop levels in
 Afghanistan .  “After a decade of war, the nation that we need to build
and the nation that we will build is our own, an America that
sees its economic strength restored just as we’ve restored our
leadership around the globe,” Obama said.  There have been 3,525 U.S. personnel killed in action in
Iraq; an additional 957 died of other causes. More than 32,000
have been wounded. The war has cost at least $752 billion,
including training for Iraqis and related diplomatic missions,
the nonpartisan  Congressional Budget Office  said in January.  U.S. military units have been steadily pulling out of Iraq
since reaching a peak of almost 170,000 in 2007.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Talev in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net ;
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  