-- 
EU Talks Yield ‘Limited’ Progress on Banks’ Role in Greek Crisis

-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d   a n d   M a r k   D e e n
-- 
2011-10-22T18:40:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-22/hours-of-eu-talks-yield-limited-progress-on-banks-role-in-greek-crisis.html
A 10-hour meeting in Brussels failed
to yield a blueprint for banks’ role in a revamped Greek rescue
as European finance ministers haggled over what they called a
“credible firewall” against fallout from deeper writedowns.  The ministers’ meeting broke up at about 7 p.m. after
reaching agreement that European banks may need about 100
billion euros ($139 billion) in capital after marking their
sovereign-debt holdings to market values, according to a person
familiar with the discussions. This amount is needed to reach a
core tier 1 capital level of 9 percent based on a European
Banking Authority test, said the person, who declined to be
identified because discussions are private.  The struggle to get an accord on bank capital was just one
piece of solving the two-year-old financial crisis. Governments
also are pushing for deeper writedowns on banks’ holdings of
Greek debt, a step the investors are resisting.  “Discussions are making progress, albeit limited,”
 Charles Dallara , managing director of the  Institute of
International Finance , the umbrella group for 450 of the world’s
biggest financial companies, said in a statement late today.  The negotiations were part of a six-day stretch of talks
aimed at stopping contagion spreading to Spain and  Italy  as the
turmoil pushes  Greece  closer to default, roils global markets
and dents confidence in the survival of the 17-nation currency.
Finance ministers now yield the conference tables after two days
of talks to leaders, who meet tomorrow and on Oct. 26.  Pace of Talks  Negotiations among finance ministers from  the 27-member
European Union, including U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer
 George Osborne , were repeatedly extended and the plenary
discussion eventually broke off into small groups focused on
particular issues after 4 p.m. Brussels time.  “We’ve had a 10-hour meeting, but we have made real
progress and we have come to important decisions on
strengthening European banks,” Osborne said. “That is just one
part of the package and obviously there’s more work to do.”  Vittorio Grilli , the top bureaucrat in Italy’s  Finance
Ministry , was given the mission by euro-area finance ministers
to negotiate deeper writedowns for Greek bondholders,  Austria ’s
Maria Fekter said. She declined to give details of the mandate
for Grilli, head of the EU’s Economic and Finance Committee and
director general of the Italian Treasury.  Under the terms of a July 21 accord, the banks would take
losses of 21 percent on their holdings of the nation’s debt.  Plans now being considered involve an exchange with a 50
percent reduction in net present value, or upfront bond
exchanges into either AAA rated bonds from the European
Financial Stability Facility or new 30-year Greek government
debt, according to people familiar with the matter. Upfront
exchanges could involve a 50 percent discount off face value.  “We remain open to explore options on a voluntary approach
built on a realistic outlook for the  Greek economy  and
restoration of Greece’s market access,” Dallara said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Deen in Brussels at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Kirchfeld in Frankfurt at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  