-- 
PMI Group Mortgage Insurance Unit Is Seized by Arizona; Payouts Cut to 50%

-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r   a n d   M i k e   M i l l a r d
-- 
2011-10-23T04:00:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-22/pmi-group-mortgage-insurance-unit-seized-by-arizona-payouts-cut-to-50-.html
PMI Group Inc. (PMI) , the mortgage insurer
that was ordered in August to stop writing policies, said a unit
that sells such coverage was seized by Arizona authorities and
will pay out claims at 50 percent starting tomorrow.  The Arizona insurance regulator has full possession,
management and control of the unit, PMI Group said in a
 statement  on its website. Bill Horning, a spokesman for PMI,
didn’t respond to a message seeking comment.  In August, the Arizona Department of Insurance told PMI
that the unit, PMI Mortgage Insurance Co., was to halt sales of
new policies and stop making interest payments on $285 million
in surplus notes. PMI, which is based in Walnut Creek,
 California , said it needed to provide the regulator with a plan
to improve its ability to meet policyholder obligations.  “The department may take appropriate action, including
commencing conservatorship proceedings” if PMI fails to satisfy
regulators’ demands, the company said on Aug. 19.  That same month, PMI Group posted its 16th straight
quarterly loss.  The worst U.S. housing crash in seven decades has pressured
mortgage insurers, which pay lenders when homeowners default and
foreclosures fail to recoup costs.  Home prices  fell 3.3 percent
in the 12 months through July as a U.S. unemployment rate of
more than 9 percent sapped the confidence of potential home
buyers.  Most Profitable  Until 2007, private mortgage policies had been among the
most profitable types of coverage sold by insurers. From 2000 to
2006, members of the Mortgage Insurance Companies of America
reported a profit margin of at least 35 cents for every dollar
they collected in premiums.  MGIC Investment Corp., the largest U.S. guarantor of home
loans, reported a wider third-quarter loss on Oct. 21 as the
cost of claims from mortgage delinquencies rose.  PMI shares have fallen 91 percent year to date, and traded
at 31 cents on Oct. 21 in  New York  before the stock was halted.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mike Millard in Seattle at 
 Mmillard2@bloomberg.net ;
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sylvia Wier at   swier@bloomberg.net  