-- 
Protesters Stand Their Ground at St. Paul’s After Cathedral Shut

-- B y   B e n   M a r t i n   a n d   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 
2011-10-22T14:34:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-22/protesters-stand-their-ground-at-st-paul-s-after-cathedral-shut.html
Global equality campaigners are
staying at  St. Paul’s Cathedral  in  London  after their camp site
prompted the closure of Christopher Wren’s 17th century
masterpiece because of safety fears.  Demonstrators, inspired by anti-Wall Street protests in  New
York  and other major cities, showed no sign of leaving today,
even after the cathedral’s Dean, Graeme Knowles, appealed to
them to move. The protesters have set up a prayer and meditation
tent and portable toilets as they campaign against the banks
that have offices in London’s financial district.  “I’m a little bit more concerned about the stance the
church is taking,” said Ronan McNern, 36, a spokesman for the
group that’s calling itself Occupy London Stock Exchange, when
asked about the protest’s impact on the cathedral. “They seem
more concerned about health and safety here, not the health and
safety of the world.”  Protesters began gathering in London on Oct. 15, pitching
about 200 tents in the area around the cathedral and calling for
an end to bank bailouts, cuts in public expenditure, arms
dealing, corporate profits, global oppression and war. The
group, which echoes similar protests in the U.S. and  Japan , was
blocked by police from approaching the LSE, which is about 100
yards from the camp site.  The campaigners plan to attract support by organizing
activities including a so-called “tour of corporate greed”
around the area and have established an occupation library
called StarBooks directly opposite a Starbucks Corp. coffee
shop. McNern didn’t have an accurate figure for the number of
people at the campsite today.  ‘Very Heavy Heart’  The decision to close St. Paul’s applies until further
notice and was made “with a very heavy heart,” Knowles said
yesterday as he asked the protesters to leave. The building was
last forced to shut its doors during World War II when London
was being bombed.  “With so many stoves and fires and lots of different types
of fuel around, there is a clear fire hazard,” he said. “Then
there’s the public health aspect, which speaks for itself.”  While the Church of England stood “alongside those seeking
equality and financial probity,” the camp was affecting the
cathedral’s daily life, Knowles said.  “In order that we might reopen as speedily as possible, we
ask you to withdraw peacefully,” he wrote in an open letter to
the demonstrators.  The cathedral was not motivated by financial concerns,
according to Knowles. Even so, it cost 20,000 pounds ($32,000) a
day to run the building and 80 percent of that was covered by
revenue from tourists. The number of visitors has fallen since
the camp was established, he said.  Fire Access Blocked  The camp site blocked access to fire trucks for both the
cathedral and the chapter house, where many of the cathedral’s
200 staff and 100 volunteers work, Knowles said in an interview.  The decision didn’t involve either the Bishop of London,
 Richard Chartres , or the Archbishop of Canterbury,  Rowan Williams , leader of the Anglican Church, Knowles said. Williams
said in a 2009 interview with the British Broadcasting Corp.
that bankers have failed to repent for their roles in the global
financial collapse.  Chartres said that year that bankers “have a duty to be
extravagantly generous, because to those to whom much has been
given, much will be required.”  Communication with the protesters will continue, Knowles
said. “We’re not pulling up a drawbridge,” he said. “We
issued the letter and we hope there’ll be a response from the
protesters.”  The church hasn’t yet decided what it will do should the
protesters decline to leave, according to Knowles. To his
knowledge, the church has no other suitable land in London it
could offer, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Martin in London at 
 bmartin38@bloomberg.net ;
Howard Mustoe in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  