-- 
Treasury 10-Year Notes Advance for First Time in Month Before Debt Summits

-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 
2011-10-22T04:00:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-22/treasury-10-year-notes-advance-for-first-time-in-month-before-debt-summits.html
Treasury 10-year notes gained for
the first time in a month as concern European leaders may not
reach agreement on containing the region’s sovereign debt crisis
spurred demand for the safety of U.S. government securities.  Yields on 30-year bonds climbed for a fourth consecutive
week, the longest losing streak this year, as reports showing
inflation increased last month eased optimism about the  Federal
Reserve ’s purchase of longer-maturity debt. European finance
ministers began a six-day negotiation yesterday aimed at
preventing a Greek default and shielding banks.  “We’ve gone from headline to headline in  Europe ,”  Thomas Roth , senior Treasury trader in New York at Mitsubishi UFJ
Securities USA Inc., said yesterday. “It’s not a situation
where people want to commit a lot of capital. It’s been utterly
ridiculous the irresponsible speculation coming out of Europe.
We’ll see what happens this weekend and on Wednesday.”  Benchmark 10-year note yields fell three basis points, or
0.03 percentage point to 2.22 percent yesterday, from 2.25
percent on Oct. 14, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices.
It was their first weekly decrease since Sept. 23, the day they
dropped to a record low 1.6714 percent. The price of the 2.125
percent securities due in August 2021 gained 1/4, or $2.50 per
$1,000 face amount, to 99 5/32.  Thirty-year yields fell three basis points to 3.26 percent.  Ten-year yields traded between 2.08 percent and 2.29
percent this week, increasing on three days and falling on two,
as European leaders prepared for meetings on the two-year-old
debt crisis amid a split between France and  Germany .  Two Summits  Euro region finance ministers met yesterday, and ministers
from all 27 European Union countries meet today. EU and euro-
area leaders gather for a summit tomorrow, with another
scheduled for Oct. 26. Aid packages of 256 billion euros ($354
billion) for  Greece , Ireland and  Portugal  have failed to
stabilize markets or keep the turmoil from spreading.  European governments may deploy as much as 940 billion
euros to fight the debt crisis.  Talks on combining the EU’s temporary and planned permanent
rescue funds as of mid-2012, while scrapping a ceiling on
bailout spending, accelerated this week after efforts to
leverage the temporary fund ran into European Central Bank
opposition and provoked the French-German clash, two people
familiar with the discussions said. They declined to be
identified because political leaders will have to decide.  Lower Volume  U.S. debt  fluctuated this week amid lower-than-average
volume. About $222 billion of Treasuries on average was traded
each day, compared with a $300 billion daily average in 2011,
according to Icap Plc, the world’s largest interdealer broker.
About $171 billion changed hands on Oct. 17, the least since
Aug. 29, Icap data showed.  “It’s been trading on headlines coming out of Europe, and
there’s been lots of confusion as to what any given headline
means,” Thomas Simons, a government debt economist in New York
at Jefferies Group Inc., said Oct. 20. “It’s a bizarre
situation.” Jefferies is one of 22 primary dealers that trade
with the Federal Reserve.  The Treasury will sell $99 billion of notes next week in
three daily sales starting Oct. 25: $35 billion of two-year
securities, an equal amount in five-year debt and $29 billion in
seven-year notes. It sold the same amounts of the maturities
last month.  An auction on Oct. 20 of 30-year inflation-indexed bonds
drew a record low yield of 0.999 percent. The average forecast
in a Bloomberg News survey of eight primary dealers was for a
yield of 1.038 percent.  Stronger Data  Treasuries also fluctuated this week amid stronger-than-
forecast economic data. Wholesale prices rose 0.8 percent last
month, four times the forecast in a Bloomberg survey, Labor
Department data showed on Oct. 18. Housing starts climbed 15
percent to 658,000 houses at an annual rate, the most since
April 2010, the Commerce Department reported Oct. 19. The median
forecast called for a 590,000 pace. The  consumer price index 
gained 0.3 percent in September from August, data showed.  The  U.S. economy  accelerated at an annualized pace of 2.5
percent in the third quarter, the fastest since the three months
ended Sept. 30, 2010, economists in a Bloomberg News survey
forecast before government data due Oct. 27.  The Fed purchased $11.98 billion of Treasuries this week as
part of its program to swap shorter-maturity holdings for
longer-term ones in a bid keep borrowing costs down. It sold
$10.24 billion of debt and inflation-linked securities. The Fed
announced the program, known as Operation Twist, last month.  Previously it bought $2.3 trillion of assets under two
rounds of a monetary-stimulus tactic called quantitative easing.  Third Round  Fed Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen  said yesterday a third round
of large-scale securities purchases might become warranted if
needed to boost an economy challenged by unemployment over 9.1
percent and financial turmoil. She spoke at an event in Denver.  Dallas  Fed President  Richard Fisher  said earlier yesterday
in a speech in Dallas the program is benefiting financiers and
not aiding  job creation .  Treasuries have lost 1.1 percent in October in what would
be their biggest monthly drop this year, Bank of America Merrill
Lynch index data show. Their return of 6.4 percent in the third
quarter was the biggest since the fourth quarter of 2008.  “If Europe gets its act together, you would assume that
there would be an exodus out of dollar products and back into
Europe because it’s been so beaten,” said  Michael Franzese ,
managing director and head of Treasury trading at Wunderlich
Securities Inc. in  New York .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  