-- 
Rubio’s Prospects May Survive Questions About Family History

-- B y   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s
-- 
2011-10-22T04:01:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-22/rubio-s-prospects-may-survive-questions-about-family-history.html
Amid the uncertainty marking the
2012 race for the White House, Republican strategists and
campaign aides agree on this: Marco Rubio is on every short list
as a running mate for the party’s main presidential contenders.  So revelations this week that Rubio, the fresh-faced first-
term senator from  Florida , botched details of his own biography
raised questions about whether his political future might be
short-circuited by accusations of having dramatized his life
story for political gain.  Party operatives say the flap over Rubio’s erroneous claims
that his parents left Cuba following Fidel Castro’s 1959
takeover -- when, as he now acknowledges, they left before the
dictator took power -- hasn’t dimmed his prospects at all.  “The logic is still the same among most Republican leaders
and people who are vying for the nomination,” said Cory Tilley,
a Tallahassee, Florida-based Republican strategist. “If they’re
serious about winning the White House, they have to be serious
about looking at Marco Rubio as a running mate. It’s a no-
brainer for multiple reasons that he should be on everybody’s
short, short list.”  Rubio, 40, admitted Oct. 20 getting the details of his
parents’ departure from Cuba wrong, telling the St. Petersburg
Times and the  Washington  Post, which both published lengthy
stories about the inconsistency, that the mangled dates resulted
from his mistaken understanding of decades-old family lore.  He rejected suggestions that he intentionally misstated the
dates to ingratiate himself with Florida’s politically powerful
Cuban-exile community, a force in Republican circles.  Denies He Embellished  “To suggest my family’s story is embellished for political
gain is outrageous,” Rubio said in a statement provided by his
office yesterday. “The dates I have given regarding my family’s
history have always been based on my parents’ recollections of
events that occurred over 55 years ago and which were relayed to
me by them more than two decades after they happened.”  Democrats pounced on the story, saying it was evidence that
Rubio has a credibility problem.  “The latest bombshell confirms that Rubio seriously
struggles to tell the truth and can’t be trusted,” Matt Canter,
a spokesman for the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee
said in a statement yesterday.  Rubio is a former Miami-area state legislator who won a
three-way Senate race last year by 19 percentage points. He had
a job-approval rating of 49 percent among all Florida voters and
52 percent among independents in a survey by the Quinnipiac
University Polling Institute released Sept. 21, according to
 Peter Brown , the organization’s assistant director.  ‘Decent Chance’  “The question is, is this the kind of story that would
make a prospective Republican presidential nominee think twice
or three times about picking him as a running mate,” Brown said
yesterday. “Rubio has a decent chance of being the vice
presidential nominee in 2012 because he is young, articulate,
conservative and Hispanic, but in the current political
environment, this kind of story will give his opponents
something to talk about.”  Florida has figured prominently in recent presidential
elections, and its 29 electoral votes could prove crucial to
determining next year’s winner. Republican  George W. Bush  won
the presidency in 2000 after a recount determined he carried
Florida by 537 votes -- out of more than 6 million cast.
Democrat  Barack Obama  won Florida by 3 percentage points in
2008, making it one of several swing states that propelled him
to the White House.  Rubio’s Appeal  Republican strategists say Rubio, as a running mate, could
help the party’s presidential nominee carry Florida while also
aiding the ticket in southwestern states with large Hispanic
populations that Obama won in his last race:  Colorado ,  New
Mexico  and  Nevada , which have a total of 20 electoral votes.  Rubio has insisted he has no interest in being on the 2012
ticket. At a forum in Washington on Oct. 5 he said, “I am not
going to be the vice presidential nominee,” and repeated the
phrase for emphasis. He added that if a Republican presidential
candidate were to ask, “the answer is gonna be no.”  For now, said Al Cardenas, a former chairman of Florida’s
 Republican Party , Cuban Americans have rallied around Rubio over
the flap. Cardenas rejected the notion that there had been any
political advantage for Rubio in claiming to be the son of post-
revolution exiles rather than parents who left Cuba before
Castro’s rise.  ‘Very Proud’  “The reaction so far has been overwhelmingly in defense of
Marco,” Cardenas said. “All of us have been very proud of him
for talking about our exile community and its travails and
challenges and successes. Regardless of who you’re a refugee of,
the fact of the matter is Cuba had a lot of uncertainty in the
’50s and the ‘60s.”  Rubio was born in Miami in 1971. His Senate website says
his parents “came to American following  Fidel Castro ’s
takeover,” and he has frequently described himself as the “son
of exiles” who fled after the dictator assumed power.  This week’s newspaper stories reported that documents show
Rubio’s parents first came to the U.S. in 1956, when dictator
Fulgencio Batista was ruling the island nation.  While Rubio acknowledged the error, he argued in his
statement that his parents were “exiled” nonetheless because,
when family members returned to Cuba intending to stay after
Batista had been overthrown, they quickly realized “the
direction Castro was taking Cuba” and left for good.  “They were exiled from the home country they tried to
return to because they did not want to live under communism,”
Rubio said.  Alex Castellanos , a Republican strategist whose family fled
Castro’s Cuba in 1961, said he considers Rubio’s story as much a
part of the exile experience as his own.  “When Castro took over, you became part of something
larger, part of a lost tribe, part of a community that couldn’t
go back,” Castellanos said.  Of Rubio’s running-mate prospects, Castellanos said: “He
certainly is, I think, a strong contender, and remains so.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in Washington at   or
 Jdavis159@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva@bloomberg.net  