-- 
Saudi Arabian Heir Apparent Prince Sultan Dies; Was Deputy Prime Minister

-- B y   V i v i a n   S a l a m a   a n d   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 
2011-10-22T05:52:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-22/saudi-arabia-s-sultan-heir-to-throne-of-main-world-oil-supplier-has-died.html
Crown Prince Sultan bin Abdulaziz Al
Saud,  Saudi Arabia ’s deputy prime minister and minister of
defense and aviation, has died. He was born in  Riyadh  in 1928,
according to the Saudi  embassy  in Washington, and was heir
apparent to the throne.  State television in Saudi Arabia, which holds the world’s
largest oil reserves, announced the death and then began playing
verses from the Koran, as is the custom.  The prince died “outside the kingdom after suffering an
illness,” the  Royal Court  said in a statement posted on the
state-run Saudi Press Agency website. “Prayer will be held at
Imam Turki Bin Abdullah Mosque in Riyadh after Asr prayer on
Tuesday.”  Prince Sultan spent much of the period between 2008 and
2011 out of the country to receive medical care for an
undisclosed illness. He traveled to  New York City  in June 2011
for a “private holiday” that included medical tests although
the Saudi government didn’t release details about his health,
according to the SPA. Time magazine  reported  in 2005 that he had
 colon cancer .  Sultan was named crown prince in 2005 following the death
of his brother, King Fahd. He is the half brother of the
kingdom’s current ruler, King Abdullah.  During his five decades as defense minister, Saudi Arabia’s
policy involved relying on the U.S. for military protection in
return for stable oil supplies. The kingdom spent $11.2 billion
on U.S. weapons between 2005 and 2008, making it the biggest
foreign buyer of U.S. arms during the period, according to the
 Congressional Research Service  in  Washington .  Arms Sales  The U.S. Defense Department told Congress in October 2010
that it wants to sell as much as $60 billion in weapons to Saudi
Arabia. U.S. policy makers want the proposed sale to include
F-15 fighter jets, attack helicopters, and satellite-guided
smart bombs to counter Iranian military ambitions in the Persian
Gulf and regional extremists. The weapon sales, if approved,
could occur during a 10-year period.  He was educated in religion, culture and statecraft at the
royal court of his father, King Abdulaziz Al Saud. His career in
public service began in 1947, when he was appointed governor of
Riyadh, whose main task is resolving disputes among the 7,000
members of the royal family. Five years later, he became the
kingdom’s first minister of agriculture.  In 1955, Sultan was named the transportation minister, and
oversaw the construction of a railway system linking Dammam on
the Persian Gulf coast to the capital, Riyadh. He was the
chairman of Saudi Arabian Railways Organization.  Military Modernization  Sultan, who was appointed minister of defense and aviation
in 1963, oversaw the expansion and modernization of the Saudi
military into a force that participated in the U.S.-led war to
oust Iraqi forces from  Kuwait  in 1991. Saudi troops also fought
Houthi rebels along the nation’s southern border with Yemen in a
three-month battle that ended in February 2010.  He is also known for more peaceful endeavors. In 1986
Sultan established the  National Commission for Wildlife
Conservation and Development . He also founded the  Prince Sultan
Bin Abdulaziz International Prize for Water , a group that
recognizes advancements toward sustainable water conservation.  In 2003, Prince Sultan invited Christians to practice their
faith in the kingdom, although he added that building churches
would contradict Saudi Arabia’s role as the center of the
Islamic faith. “We are not against religions,” the SPA
 reported , citing a speech he delivered. “This country is the
cradle of prophecy and the true message and we will not
contradict this.”  Kings Rule  Saudi Arabia is an absolute monarchy that has been ruled by
six kings from the Al Saud family since the modern kingdom was
formed in 1932.  King Abdullah , who was born in 1924, changed the kingdom’s
succession rules in 2007 to give an appointed commission of
princes, called the Allegiance Council, more power to select a
new ruler. The council will be responsible for naming a crown
prince, who will then be in line as the new king.  The new king must reveal his choice for crown prince to the
commission within 10 days of taking the throne. The commission
consists of appointed male descendants of the kingdom’s founder,
Abdulaziz bin Saud, the  SPA  said.  The decree provided greater transparency of the royal
family’s decision-making process, which in the past was done
through consensus building among princes.  Interior Minister Prince Nayef bin Abdulaziz Al Saud is the
next most senior member of the royal family after Sultan and the
likely successor as crown prince, according to Hani Sabra,
 Middle East  and Africa analyst at the New York-based Eurasia
Group.  Sultan had four wives. One of his sons is Prince Bandar bin
Sultan, Saudi Arabia’s ambassador to the U.S. from 1983 to 2005.
Another son, Prince Khalid bin Sultan, is assistant minister of
defense and aviation for military affairs.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Vivian Salama in  Abu Dhabi  at 
 vsalama@bloomberg.net ;
Glen Carey in Dubai at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  