-- 
Saudi Shares End Little Changed as Crown Prince Sultan Dies

-- B y   M o u r a d   H a r o u t u n i a n
-- 
2011-10-22T13:27:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-22/saudi-shares-fall-to-two-week-low-as-crown-prince-sultan-dies.html
Saudi Arabian shares closed little
changed as the death of Saudi Crown Prince Sultan bin Abdulaziz
Al Saud set in motion royal succession plans for the world’s
largest oil exporter.  Saudi Telecom Co. (STC) , Saudi Arabia’s largest phone operator by
market value, dropped the most in six months while  Saudi Basic
Industries Corp. (SABIC) , the world’s largest petrochemicals maker, rose
to its highest price in a month.  The 148-company  Tadawul All Share Index (SASEIDX)  climbed less than
0.1 percent to 6,108.94 at the 3:30 p.m. close in Riyadh, as one
stock rose for every stock that dropped. The gauge reversed
losses of as much as 0.9 percent in intraday trading.  “The market is slightly dropping due to the death of the
Saudi crown prince,” Turki Fadaak, head of research at Riyadh-
based Albilad Investment Co., said by e-mail. “The market’s
gauge will reverse by the end of the day as we are at the start
of the first week after earnings have been announced.”  Saudi state television today announced the death of Sultan
and then began playing verses from the Koran as is the custom.
The prince died “outside the kingdom after suffering an
illness,” the  Royal Court  said in a statement posted on the
state-run Saudi Press Agency website.  Saudi Arabia holds the world’s largest oil reserves. Crude
for December delivery rose 1.6 percent to settle at $87.40 a
barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  yesterday.  Saudi Telecom slumped 4.4 percent to 34.50 riyals, the
biggest loss since April 20, after posting a 53 percent drop in
third-quarter profit to 1.56 billion riyals ($416 million) as it
booked foreign-exchange losses and set aside provisions.  Etihad Etisalat Co. (EEC) , the kingdom’s second-biggest operator
known as Mobily, fell to its lowest price in a month, losing 1.9
percent to 52 riyals. The Riyadh-based company last week posted
an 8 percent increase in third-quarter profit, missing analyst
estimates.  Sabic gained 0.8 percent to 93 riyals, its highest price
since Sept. 20, and  Jarir Marketing Co. (JARIR) , the largest Saudi
retailer of stationery and smartphones by market value, surged
6.1 percent to a record 209 riyals.  Saudi Arabia’s stock exchange is the only Gulf Arab bourse
open on Saturdays.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mourad Haroutunian in Riyadh at 
 mharoutunian@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at   shajimathew@bloomberg.net  