-- 
Scene Wrap: Pandit, Brokaw, Franzen, Eugenides, De Laurentiis

-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 
2011-10-22T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-22/scene-wrap-pandit-brokaw-franzen-eugenides-de-laurentiis.html
This was a week of St. Tropez,
man-caves, hot novelists, tough bankers and famous producer
granddaughters. Here are some highlights you might have
missed or still remember.  Tuesday night: Julian Niccolini shimmied with Vermont
songstress Grace Potter, then hopped on the bar of The Four
Seasons restaurant, which he co-owns with Alex von Bidder.
It was almost midnight at the American Hospital of Paris
Foundation gala. Blackstone’s Steve Schwarzman had left.
Among the lingerers were Stuyvie and Helene Comfort, who
met in St. Tropez, and Katie Boudria and Julien Zuccolin,
who met in  Monaco .  Perched on a balcony overlooking the Grill Room, DJ
Alexandra Richards spun “Come on Eileen” by Dexys
Midnight Runners. Before dinner, Potter sat at a grand
piano in the Pool room to perform her “Colors,” “Goodbye
Kiss” and “Apologies.”  Wednesday night: Novelist Jeffrey Eugenides was
nursing his second  Manhattan  -- “It’s my book-tour drink
of choice” --while author Jonathan Franzen enjoyed the
city’s silhouette. The pair were at the Top of the Standard
for the party celebrating Eugenides’ “The Marriage Plot.”
Elsewhere on the soiree’s contents page were novelists
Jhumpa Lahiri and Zadie Smith; T Magazine editor Sally Singer; the New Yorker’s editorial director, Henry Finder;
and Paris Review editor Lorin Stein.  Also on Wednesday: Esquire magazine’s bachelor pad in
 Brooklyn ’s Dumbo was a big part of the entertainment at the
party for the  Natural Resources Defense Council . The gym’s
rubber floor cost about $8,000; the bicycle $10,000.  “The idea was to blow the budget,” the room’s
designer, Denise Kuriger, said.  The magazine recruits brands as marketing partners to
decorate the apartment -- Asics paid for the gym. The
bedroom closet is stocked with Ermenegildo Zegna suits.
There’s a Bloomberg terminal in the living room.  Thursday night: Citigroup CEO Vikram Pandit received a
leadership award from  Accion , a microfinance organization.
Tom Brokaw introduced him at the Cipriani 42nd Street event
celebrating Accion’s 50th anniversary, and Pandit seemed a
bit star-struck.  “One of my first memories of coming to the U.S. as a
young student is watching Tom Brokaw,” Pandit said. (He
came from  India  at the age of 16 to study at  Columbia
University .) As for business, the banker said, “Citigroup
is doing everything it can to rebuild” the trust between
Main Street and  Wall Street .  Also on Thursday: The dance floor and the booths were
full for the Dance Into Fashion Party at  Kiss & Fly 
nightclub in the Meatpacking District. Hosted by the Junior
Society of Ballet Hispanico, the event drew First Eagle
Investment chairman John Arnhold’s children, Paul and
Julia, along with designer Wes Gordon and Carolyna De
Laurentiis, granddaughter of film producer Dino de Laurentiis.  Jamie Dimon ’s daughter Julia is on the committee of
the Junior Society but didn’t attend the party. She is a
student at  Harvard Business School . Paul Arnhold, who works
at Digitas and serves as a Junior Society co-chairman,
said the event raised a record $30,000.  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse,
the arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any
opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon in  New York  at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter at @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 