-- 
Suzlon Says German Unit Is Shielded From European Debt Crisis

-- B y   N a t a l i e   O b i k o   P e a r s o n
-- 
2011-10-24T01:24:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-22/suzlon-says-german-unit-shielded-from-european-debt-crisis.html
Suzlon Energy Ltd. (SUEL) ,  India ’s biggest
wind-turbine maker, said it can pay bondholders if necessary
next year when $389 million in convertible debt matures and that
its orders are shielded from the European debt crisis.  There is no cause for concern about the company’s
liquidity, Chief Financial Officer  Robin Banerjee  said in a
phone interview on Oct. 22 after the company reported group net
profit of 480 million rupees ($9.6 million) in the three months
ended Sept. 30, compared with a 3.7 billion-rupee loss last
year.  “We believe we can handle the situation as and when it
arises,” Banerjee said. The premium Suzlon would have to pay
bondholders if they redeem was 6.4 billion rupees as of June 30,
it said in its quarterly results filing.  Suzlon has been raising cash and boosting orders ahead of
next year, when its foreign currency bonds mature and principal
repayments resume on 100 billion rupees of loans. Those
obligations come due amid concern that  Europe ’s debt crisis
could slow orders and tighten financing on the continent, which
accounted for 44 percent of global wind installations in 2010.  Euro-region leaders are intensifying efforts to contain the
sovereign debt crisis that broke out in  Greece  almost two years
ago, which has driven up borrowing costs from Ireland to  Italy .
Since August, the yield on Suzlon’s zero percent convertible
notes due June 2012 has risen by 385 basis points to 19.35
percent on Oct. 21, according to Nomura Holdings Inc. pricing
data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Should we have to pay bondholders, it won’t hit our
results,” Banerjee said. “It will get paid from the share
premium account,” which holds 52 billion rupees, he said.  European Orders  Ahmedabad-based Suzlon, which drew 48 percent of its sales
from Europe last year, had a group order book of $6.5 billion at
the end of the latest quarter. That included 920 megawatts of
new orders totaling $1.1 billion in the period, Banerjee said.  Suzlon’s German unit Repower Systems SE accounts for $4
billion of its order book. Eighty percent of those come from
 Canada , Belgium,  France  and  Germany  and there’s “no evidence
yet” that bank financing for wind projects is tightening in
those countries, he said.  Repower’s orders are mostly from large utilities and other
customers whose “financial soundness is not in question,” he
said.  India’s rupee, the worst-performing currency in  Asia  this
year, slumped 2.3 percent last week, falling past the 50 per
dollar level for the first time in more than two years on
speculation slowing economic growth and faster inflation will
deter foreign investment.  The currency’s weakening won’t affect Suzlon’s day-to-day
business much as its exports and imports are naturally hedged,
though it would “add a marginal challenge” to debt repayment
next year if the trend continues, Banerjee said.  The stock fell 0.3 percent at 36.2 rupees on Oct. 21.
Suzlon has four foreign currency convertible bonds maturing next
year. The floor price for their conversion ranges between 76.68
and 97.26 rupees, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  