-- 
Tunisians Vote in First Election Since Their Uprising Sparked Arab Spring

-- B y   J i h e n   L a g h m a r i   a n d   M a r i a m   F a m
-- 
2011-10-23T18:38:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-22/tunisians-vote-in-first-election-since-their-uprising-sparked-arab-spring.html
Tunisians voted today in the first
election since the ouster of Zine El Abidine Ben Ali ushered in
the so-called Arab Spring, with long-repressed Islamists
probably headed for a strong showing.  Voters are choosing a constituent assembly that will write
a new constitution. Ennahdha, an Islamic party led by Rashid Ghannouchi that was legalized only six months ago, is the front-
runner, according to an OpinionWay study released just before a
pre-election polling ban took effect on Oct. 1. The vote is seen
by many as a litmus test for democratization efforts in Tunisia
and beyond. Balloting started at 7 a.m. and ended at 7 p.m.  The results will probably be announced on Oct. 25, Kamel
Jendoubi, chairman of the Independent Higher Authority for
Elections, told Bloomberg News.  “This is a right that the people have earned through their
struggles and sacrifices,” Prime Minister Beji Caid Essebsi
said after voting, the state-run Agence Tunis Afrique Presse
reported. “The Tunisian people are writing today a new page
that separates two eras, a page that they can be proud of.”  Ben Ali’s flight to  Saudi Arabia  in January after weeks of
mass protests triggered the start of demonstrations in Egypt. By
March, unrest had spread to Bahrain,  Libya ,  Syria  and other Arab
countries. Egypt’s  Hosni Mubarak  ceded power in February after
three decades, and Libya’s Muammar Qaddafi was driven by
opposition forces from his capital, Tripoli, in August and
captured and killed last week.  ‘Strong Message’  “If these elections succeed, they will send a strong
message to the world: Tunisia is able to build democracy,” said
Noureddine Ben Ticha, an independent political analyst, in a
telephone interview. “To the other Arab countries, this will
show that the Arab revolts took place to dismantle tyranny and
not enshrine it or exclude anyone.”  Lines snaked outside polling stations as Tunisians waited
to cast ballots. ‘I am so happy for this will be the first time
that I will vote, but it will not be the last,” said Wissam Ben
Moussa, 35, at a school-turned-polling station in the capital.
“I will vote for Ennahdha because it is the only party that is
capable of realizing the ambitions of Tunisians and of providing
safety and security.”  A smooth transition to democracy may help Tunisia revive an
economy that’s not expected to grow this year, according to the
government. Gross domestic product will expand 4 percent in 2012
and 5.2 percent in 2013, more than other Arab countries that
experienced uprisings such as  Egypt , Syria and Bahrain,
according to International Monetary Fund forecasts.  Security Situation  “People are worried about the security situation and
everyone is waiting to see what will happen in the week after
the elections,” Bilel Ben Dhifallah, who teaches economics at
Tunis University, said in a telephone interview. “There’s a
relative state of fear but if things go smoothly, the Tunisian
economy can take off.”  The poll by Paris-based OpinionWay, carried out Sept. 22-
24, showed 25 percent of respondents would vote for Ennahdha. It
said 16 percent favored the Progressive Democrat Party and 14
percent for Ettakatol, secular parties with similar positions.
The researchers interviewed 1,034 people and cited a margin of
error of 3 percentage points.  “It doesn’t matter who wins,” Ghannouchi said at a
polling station. “What counts is for the electoral process to
be transparent and fair.”  In an incident that highlighted tensions between
secularists and Islamists, as Ghannouchi exited the polling
station, some voters chanted: “Ghannouchi, get out,” according
to Ahmed Snoussi, an English teacher who witnessed the incident.  “The scene today reflects the polarization between the so-
called modern and democratic forces on one side and Islamic and
religious ones on another,” Kais Saied, who teaches
constitutional law at Tunis University, said in a telephone
interview. “This and the proportional representation system
will likely mean that no one group will dominate the assembly,
opening the door for forging coalitions.”  Mohsen Marzouk, a political analyst and Secretary General
of the Arab Organization for Democracy, said that “No one knows
the real situation of the balance of power.”  “Normally, Ennahdha would not get more than 20 percent of
the vote but the weakness of the electoral campaigns of some
parties may make it reap the majority,” he said in a telephone
interview.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net ;
Jihen Laghmari in Cairo at 
 jlaghmari@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net .
#NI AFRICA
NI AME
NI BON
NI CEN
NI ECO
NI EM
NI FRX
NI MENA
NI MIDEAST
NI ORIGINAL
NI POL
NI TUNIS 