-- 
Retailers Target Dubai on Bet Mideast Shopping Oasis Won’t Fade

-- B y   T a m a r a   W a l i d   a n d   S t e f a n i a   B i a n c h i
-- 
2011-08-28T05:26:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-28/american-eagle-victoria-s-secret-bet-dubai-shopping-oasis-won-t-fade.html
Limited Brands Inc., operator of the
Victoria’s Secret chain, and American Eagle Outfitters Inc. are
among retailers seeking a foothold in Dubai as  consumer
confidence  in the emirate reaches a seven-year high.  Sales in Dubai are up about 10 percent this year, according
to store companies such as  Rivoli Group , which sells watches
from brands including Tissot, Burberry, Gucci and Cartier. U.S.
retailers, traditionally reluctant to enter the region, are
coming to Dubai as sales in their domestic markets and other
fashion capitals remain subdued.  “There are more people in the malls here in Dubai than
anywhere else in the world,” said Sheeraz Hasan, founder
 ‘Millions of Milkshakes,’  which will open its first branch
outside the U.S. this year. “We wanted to show the West that
Dubai is the place to be.”  Consumer confidence in the  United Arab Emirates , the
second-biggest Arab economy, is the highest since 2004,
according to MasterCard Worldwide Index of Consumer Confidence
released Aug. 18. Confidence was 95.6, compared with 73.6 six
months ago, exceeding markets such as China and  India . The score
is calculated with zero as the most pessimistic and 100 as most
optimistic.  Dubai is the second-most attractive emerging market for
retailers after China, in part because high disposable income,
according to management consulting firm  A.T. Kearney .  Retail accounts for 30 percent of gross domestic product in
the emirate, home to about 40 shopping malls, Standard Chartered
Bank Plc estimates. Dubai’s malls feature an indoor ski slope,
an aquarium, ice rink, and a ‘dancing’ fountain, similar to the
Fountains of Bellagio in  Las Vegas .  U.S. Brands  Williams-Sonoma Inc. (WSM) , the 55-year-old housewares chain that
owns Pottery Barn and Pottery Barn Kids, opened the first stores
outside of  North America  and  Puerto Rico  in the emirate last
year. Bloomingdales, owned by  Macy’s Inc. (M) , also opened its first
store outside the U.S. in Dubai in 2010, while Victoria’s Secret
and American Eagle Outfitters opened stores in the emirate
earlier this year.  “With limited opportunities for growth in their own
markets, more retailers have taken the plunge and made inroads
into the region, typically using Dubai as a springboard into the
region’s other markets,” research company British Monitor
International said in a July report.  Regional Unrest  Visitors from Gulf Arab nations and  China  are coming to the
U.A.E. as political unrest in other Middle Eastern countries
diverts tourism. Uprisings in the region this year have toppled
governments in Egypt and  Tunisia  and sparked conflict in Libya,
Syria and Yemen. In 2009, the U.A.E. and China signed an
agreement to facilitate travel between the two countries which
has helped boost Chinese tourist number to the Gulf nation.  The possibility of a “second dip” globally could hurt
sales, said Daniel Starta, managing director of A.T. Kearney in
the  Middle East . However, “only catastrophic drops in oil price
or truly fundamental stability issues that challenge both
emerging and mature markets would likely have an impact on the
regional retail sector,” he said.  Dubai’s retail industry is recovering after the global
financial crisis caused sales to plunge 45 percent in 2009,
according to BMI. Retail sales in the emirate will likely
increase 7.2 percent this year, up from last year’s 3.6 percent
growth, the  Dubai Chamber of Commerce and Industry  estimates.
Across the U.A.E., BMI expects retail sales to grow to $41
billion by 2015 from $31 billion this year.  ‘Robust Year’  David Macadam, head of retail for the Middle East and North
Africa at consulting firm Jones Lang LaSalle, said retailers are
reporting annual sales growth of 5 percent to 8 percent, with
some as high as 12 percent. That’s returned revenue to 2006
levels, he said.  Sales at  Marks & Spencer Group Plc (MKS) ’s Dubai Mall store
increased 20 percent in the first half of the year, according to
Ikram Farah, assistant store manager.  Dubai-based Chalhoub Group, which sells 280 luxury brands
in the Middle East, increased U.A.E. sales by 19 percent in the
first half, helped by Chinese buyers, Joint Chief Executive
Officer Patrick Chalhoub said in an e-mail. The group has joint
ventures with brands such as  Louis Vuitton , Fendi,  Christian
Dior , and operates franchises for others including Swarovski and
L’Occitane.  Sales at Rivoli’s 35 U.A.E. outlets rose more than 15
percent in the first half and the company plans to open 25 shops
in Dubai and  Abu Dhabi  this year.  “We’ve had a very robust year so far,” said Ramesh
Prabhakar, managing partner at Dubai-based  Rivoli Group .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefania Bianchi in Dubai 
 sbianchi10@bloomberg.net .
Tamara Walid in Dubai at 
 twalid@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  