-- 
Manchester Clubs Hit 13 Goals Past London Teams to Lead Premier League

-- B y   J a m e s   C o n e
-- 
2011-08-29T16:24:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-28/manchester-united-routs-arsenal-8-2-manchester-city-wins-5-1-at-spurs.html
Manchester United  put eight goals
past Arsenal, while  Manchester City  scored five at Tottenham as
both clubs yesterday maintained their winning starts to the
season to sit atop soccer’s Premier League after three games.  Wayne Rooney  led United to an 8-2 win against the Gunners
with a hat-trick at Old Trafford which takes him past 150 goals
for the Red Devils. Edin Dzeko scored four times in City’s 5-1
victory at the Spurs.  “The performance was incredible and we deserved the
result,” Rooney told Sky Sports. “They had some players out
but that should take nothing away from us.”  United and City both have a maximum nine points, with the
champion topping the standings on goal difference. Liverpool,
Chelsea,  Wolverhampton Wanderers  and Newcastle have seven
points. Last-place Tottenham has no points from its two games,
with fellow north London team Arsenal 17th in the 20-team
division on one point.  Newcastle beat Fulham 2-1, while Stoke City won 1-0 at West
Bromwich Albion in yesterday’s other games.  United manager  Alex Ferguson  defended his Arsenal
counterpart Arsene Wenger after the match at Old Trafford.  “It’s a cynical world now and when you lose a few games
the judges come out,” Ferguson told Sky Sports.  It took 22 minutes for the first goal,  Danny Welbeck 
scoring for a second straight game as he headed into the net
past goalkeeper Wojciech Szczesny under pressure from Johan Djourou.  Chance to Tie  Arsenal had a chance to tie the game four minutes later as
the visitors were awarded a penalty kick. Goalkeeper David de
Gea dived to his right to turn  Robin van Persie ’s low kick wide
of the post.  United then extended its lead on 28 minutes,  Ashley Young 
cutting inside onto his right foot and curling the ball into the
far corner of the net from about 25 yards.  De Gea was forced to make a couple more saves before Rooney
netted his first goal of the game, from a free kick 20 yards
out. It was his 150th for the club. Theo Walcott reduced the
arrears with an injury-time goal for the Gunners.  “A lot of my milestone goals have come against Arsenal,”
Rooney said. “My first goal when I was at Everton was against
them and my first United goal in the Premier League came against
them too.”  Rooney scored again at 64 minutes, with Nani chipping
Szczesny three minutes later, before Ji-Sung Park added the
sixth goal.  Van Persie  replied soon after, but Arsenal was to
give up two more goals and lose defender Carl Jenkinson after he
received a second yellow card in the 76th minute.  Rooney Hat-Trick  Rooney completed his hat-trick with an 82nd-minute penalty
and Young curled another long-range effort into the net in the
final moments.  It was Arsenal’s biggest defeat under manager  Arsene Wenger , surpassing a 6-1 loss at United in February 2001. The
London club said it will pay for a ticket for a future away game
for its fans who attended the match to thank them for their
“fantastic” support.  “Of course it hurts, it’s humiliating,” Wenger told Sky
Sports.  In recent weeks, Arsenal has lost Cesc Fabregas to
Barcelona, Samir Nasri to Manchester City and Emmanuel Eboue to
Galatasaray. The Gunners haven’t won a trophy since the F.A. Cup
in 2005.  Earlier yesterday, Dzeko helped City to a win at White Hart
Lane.  The striker, signed from Wolfsburg in January for 27
million pounds ($44 million), was set up by new signing Nasri to
score from close range after 34 minutes.  Dzeko Gets Four  Dzeko then headed his second goal four minutes before
halftime and completed his hat-trick at 55 minutes as he
converted a Yaya Toure cross.  Sergio Aguero  clipped the ball over Brad Friedel after 60
minutes to put City in total control, before Younes Kaboul got
the only Tottenham goal by heading in from a corner.  Tottenham played more than 15 minutes with 10 men as  Rafael van der Vaart  left the field with a leg injury and Dzeko rounded
off City’s win in injury time.  “We played today like a fantastic team and I hope this
will be a fantastic year for us,” Dzeko told  Sky Sports .  Elsewhere, Leon Best got both Newcastle goals against
Fulham at St. James’ Park.  Clint Dempsey  got a goal late on for
the visitors.  Stoke substitute Ryan Shotton scored a late winner at West
Brom, which along with Blackburn and Tottenham has yet to earn a
point this season.  Two days ago, Chelsea defeated Norwich 3-1, Liverpool beat
Bolton 3-1, Wigan won 2-0 against Queens Park Rangers, and
Everton won 1-0 at Blackburn. There were no goals in the matches
between  Aston Villa  and Wolves, and Swansea and Sunderland.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Cone  in London at 
 jcone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  