-- 
Asian Stocks May Rebound as Bernanke Sounds More Confident Note on Economy

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s
-- 
2011-08-28T03:42:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-28/asian-stocks-may-rebound-as-bernanke-sounds-more-confident-note-on-economy.html
Asian stocks, trading near the
lowest valuations since December 2008, may rebound after  Federal
Reserve  Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said the  U.S. economy  is
recovering, albeit at a slower pace, and the central bank has
additional means to shore up growth if appropriate.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index last week snapped a four-week,
14 percent slump on speculation Bernanke would foreshadow extra
stimulus policies during his Jackson Hole, Wyoming speech. The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index climbed 1.5 percent on Aug. 26,
erasing losses of as much as 2 percent, as the Fed Chairman said
growth will resume and decided to extend next month’s policy
meeting to two days instead of one. Futures on  Japan ’s Nikkei
225 Stock Average rose 0.6 percent in  Chicago .  “We should see a decent rebound.” said Nader Naeimi, a
Sydney-based strategist for AMP Capital Investors Ltd., which
manages almost $100 billion. “Bernanke sounded a lot more
confident. The probability of some sort monetary easing coming
out of that two-day meeting is high.” Naeimi said on Aug. 23
that there was a “real risk of disappointment” if Bernanke
didn’t commit to supporting economic growth.  American depositary receipts of Kyocera Corp., a maker of
solar panels that gets 17 percent of sales in the U.S., gained
0.5 percent from its closing price in  Tokyo  on Aug. 26. ADRs of
BHP Billiton Ltd., the world’s largest mining company and
 Australia ’s No. 1 oil producer, climbed 0.3 percent after copper
and oil futures increased. Gains in U.S. trading were limited as
the dollar fell against most major currencies.  ‘More Optimistic’  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index tumbled 11 percent from June 30
through Aug 26 after the Federal Reserve ended its $600 billion
bond-purchase program, known as quantitative easing or QE2, to
boost the economy. Stocks have also fallen amid signs the U.S.
economic recovery is stalling and Europe’s debt crisis is
worsening.  “People aren’t prepared to pay too much today for
tomorrow’s earnings given uncertainties at the moment,”  Tim Schroeders , who helps manage $1 billion in equities at Pengana
Capital Ltd. in Melbourne. “Against the backdraft of high
 unemployment rate  and disappointing economic growth, Bernanke
made the right move.”  While the slumping housing market and financial-market
volatility still pose challenges for the economy, Bernanke said
that his view of the long-term outlook is “more optimistic.”
The central bank will hold a two-day policy meeting starting
Sept. 20 to “allow a fuller discussion” of the slowing economy
and the central bank’s possible policy response, he said.  Global Stocks Rout  Extending next month’s policy meeting to two days stoked
speculation the extra time may allow Bernanke to forge a
stronger consensus on monetary policy amid growing dissent in
the  Federal Open Market Committee . St. Louis Fed President  James
Bullard  said adding a second day to the September meeting allows
more time to review easing options, though rising inflation may
prevent action in the near term.  A global stocks rout wiped out more than $8 trillion in
market value in the four weeks through Aug. 19 amid signs
 Europe ’s debt crisis will spread and as concern grew that two
rounds of government asset purchases and record-low  interest
rates  fail to entrench an economic recovery in the U.S.  The world’s biggest economy expanded less than previously
estimated in the second quarter and consumer sentiment this
month fell to the lowest level since November, government
reports on Aug. 26 showed. That contrasted with a separate
report two days earlier that showed durable-goods orders and
 home prices  that beat economists’ estimates.  ‘Depressed Valuations’  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index declined 13 percent this year
through Aug. 26. Valuations on the gauge fell to an average 11.8
times estimated earnings on Aug. 22. That’s the lowest since
December 2008 when equity markets tumbled as the global
recession deepened amid a credit crunch that followed the
collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Ltd. in September 2008.  “The data has been mixed,” said Ng Soo Nam, the
Singapore-based chief investment officer at Nikko Asset
Management Co., which oversees about $154 billion. “Bernanke
hasn’t announced QE3 because there is no need for it at the
moment. The situation isn’t as bad as the stock market has
factored in. There is scope for a rebound given such depressed
valuations.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  