-- 
Aspirin, Cheap Drugs Not Used Enough to Treat Heart Disease

-- B y   A l b e r t i n a   T o r s o l i
-- 
2011-08-28T08:21:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-28/aspirin-cheap-drugs-not-used-enough-to-treat-heart-study-finds.html
Encouraging more people to use
aspirin and other low-cost medicines would reduce the toll from
 heart disease  and stroke, the leading cause of death worldwide,
researchers said.  A seven-year study of more than 150,000 people found that
about 60 percent of those with heart disease may not be taking
any of the four effective drug types, according to results
presented today at the  European Society of Cardiology’s
 conference in Paris. Use of the treatments was low even in
countries with well-developed health systems, said the lead
researcher,  Salim Yusuf  of the  Population Health Research
Institute  in Hamilton, Ontario.  “This is a global tragedy,” Yusuf said at a news
conference. “There’s no other way to say this. These are
inexpensive, widely available drugs.”  Nurses and other health-care workers should be trained to
encourage patients to take the drugs, since doctors have failed
to do so, he said. Cardiovascular disease may cause 23.6 million
deaths annually by 2030, up from 17.1 million in 2004, according
to the  World Health Organization .  More than 80 percent of deaths occur in lower- and middle-
income countries, where people have less access to  health
services  and are more exposed to risks such as poor diets,
according to the Geneva-based WHO.  ‘Alarming Message’  Researchers looked at anti-platelet drugs such as aspirin,
which reduce blood clots, cholesterol-lowering  statins , and two
types of treatments that lower blood pressure, so-called  beta
blockers  and angiotensin receptor blockers and angiotensin
converting enzyme inhibitors. Participants in 628 rural and
urban communities completed standardized questionnaires by phone
interview, visits to their homes or when they went to a clinic,
according to the study, dubbed PURE and published in the medical
journal The Lancet.  The study “provides a stark and alarming message,”
Anthony Heagerty, a cardiologist from the  University of
Manchester  in  England , wrote in an accompanying editorial. “The
implication is that a fresh approach to secondary prevention is
needed, especially in high-income countries.”  Canada , Sweden and the  United Arab Emirates  were the three
high-income countries considered. Middle-income nations included
 Brazil , Poland,  Turkey ,  China  and  South Africa . The poorer
countries were  India , Pakistan, Bangladesh and Zimbabwe.  Generic Drugs  The study, the largest of its kind to date, according to
The Lancet, showed that only a quarter of people suffering from
cardiovascular disease used aspirin and other anti-platelet
drugs. Use of the other three drug types was even lower,
according to the researchers. In low-income countries, fewer
than 10 percent of patients used the drugs.  Beta blockers, angiotensin treatments and aspirin are
generic medications. As a result, they’re not marketed by
pharmaceutical companies as heavily as more profitable patented
drugs are.  “That’s not surprising because nobody is making any money
of it,” Yusuf said. “We can’t blame the pharma companies. They
discovered these drugs, they did the trials. If you have to
blame anyone, it is our collective failure as a society to put
systems in place.”  Lipitor, a statin sold by  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) , is the world’s
biggest-selling drug, with $10.7 billion of sales last year. The
drug loses patent exclusivity in the U.S. in November.  Governments need to educate doctors and patients about the
drugs and work with industry to make sure they’re available,
Heagerty wrote.  “Strong action is needed,” he said. “An epidemic of
cardiovascular disease is just beginning in many countries that
are ill prepared for what is to come.”  Funders for the study included the Population Health
Research Institute and the Canadian Institutes of Health
Research. Drug companies that contributed included  AstraZeneca
Plc (AZN) , Sanofi, Boehringer Ingelheim GmbH, Les Laboratories Servier
and GlaxoSmithKline Plc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Albertina Torsoli in Paris at 
 atorsoli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  