-- 
Australia’s Swan Says No ‘Silver Bullet’ to Ease Pressure on Manufacturers

-- B y   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s
-- 
2011-08-28T14:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-28/australia-s-swan-says-no-silver-bullet-to-ease-pressure-on-manufacturers.html
Australian Treasurer Wayne Swan said
there is no ‘silver bullet’ for trade-exposed industries such as
manufacturing hurt by a strong local currency.  “Although manufacturers are experiencing tough times,
there’s no doubt in my mind that  Australia  will remain a nation
that makes things,” Swan said in a weekly economic note
yesterday. “Like all sectors, however, it will change.”  Treasury forecasts manufacturing output will increase by
about 5 percent until 2020 compared with a 77 percent expansion
for resources and 50 percent growth in construction, Swan wrote.
Services will grow 38 percent over the next nine years, buoyed
by demand from the Asian middle class for Australian tourist
destinations and education providers, he wrote.  Since 2005, which the central bank marks as the start of
the current mining boom, employment in manufacturing has slid by
about 6 percent, according to Gary Banks, chairman of
Australia’s Productivity Commission. BlueScope Steel Ltd. said
Aug. 22 it will stop exports, shut a mill and a furnace as well
as shed about 1,000 jobs after reporting a loss in the second
half. The nation’s largest steelmaker attributed the performance
to a record-high Australian dollar and high raw-material costs.  “We shouldn’t pretend that there’s some silver bullet and
that somehow the massive structural changes occurring can be
stopped,” the Treasurer wrote yesterday.  Demand for Australian commodities including  iron ore  and
coal is driving a boom in mining investment with projects worth
A$430 billion in the pipeline, Swan said. That, along with low
government debt and a strong banking industry, helped boost the
local currency to as high as $1.1081 on July 27, the strongest
since it was freely floated in 1983.  Currency Pressure  “The high Australian dollar is putting pressure on certain
sections of the Australian economy, particularly on
manufacturing,” Transport Minister Anthony Albanese said in an
interview on Channel Ten yesterday.  Reserve Bank Governor  Glenn Stevens  has said the stronger
currency, a decline in consumption and higher savings may be
Australia’s new economic reality, and the only way for
industries to cope is to reverse a decline in productivity.  Australia’s unemployment rate unexpectedly jumped to an
eight-month high in July as hiring stalled, making the 41,400
net gain in jobs from January through July the worst first seven
months of the year since 2003. The jobless rate rose to 5.1
percent, a government report showed Aug. 11.  Consumer Confidence   Consumer confidence deteriorated in August for a fourth
straight month to the lowest level in more than two years, a
private-sector report showed this month.  Swan pointed to a A$3 billion skills and training program
as well as infrastructure investments as ways in which the
government is hoping the address the varied pace of growth in
different parts of the economy. The government also plans a 30
percent tax on profit from coal and iron ore at companies
including BHP Billiton Ltd. and Rio Tinto Group.  The tax is “about spreading the benefits of the boom so
that we have lower company tax across the board, increased
superannuation for all workers and importantly, from my
perspective, increased infrastructure investment into the
region,” Albanese told Channel Ten.  In an interview with  Sky News  yesterday, Swan committed to
passing the government’s plan to charge companies for  carbon
emissions  to cut pollution. Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  plans
to charge companies an initial A$23 a ton of carbon dioxide from
July 2012 before moving to an emissions trading system by 2015.  “We’ve got out there now one of the biggest structural
reforms in our history -- the pricing of carbon,” Swan told Sky
News. “It will go to Parliament, it will be debated and it will
pass.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Candice Zachariahs in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at   ptighe@bloomberg.net  