-- 
Aussie Advances to Highest in Almost Four Weeks on Buoyed Demand for Risk

-- B y   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s   a n d   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a
-- 
2011-08-29T17:36:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-28/australian-dollar-holds-near-week-high-after-bernanke-boosts-risk-appetite.html
The Australian dollar climbed to its
strongest level in almost four weeks as stocks gained on
speculation the global economy will recover, buoying demand for
higher-yielding assets.  The Aussie appreciated against most of its major
counterparts before a report tomorrow forecast to show
Australian building approvals increased in July for the first
time in four months. The Aussie gained on Aug. 26, when
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  signaled that the  U.S.
economy  isn’t weak enough to warrant additional stimulus.  “Expectations of rate cuts in Australia have been wound
down, and improved risk appetite following Bernanke’s comments
last week is supporting the Aussie,” said Janu Chan, an
economist at St. George Bank Ltd. in Sydney.  Australia’s dollar rose 0.4 percent to $1.0615 at 1:28 p.m.
in  New York , from $1.0573 on Aug. 26. The currency earlier today
appreciated to $1.0644, the highest level since Aug. 4. New
Zealand’s currency climbed 0.4 percent to 84.39 U.S. cents, from
84.07 cents last week.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rallied 2.3 percent today
after last week’s gains. The Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB index
of raw materials climbed 0.7 percent.  The  New Zealand  dollar has risen 2 percent in the past
week in the best performance among the 10 developed-nation
currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency
Indexes, followed by the Aussie, with a 1.6 percent increase.  Interest Rates  Benchmark interest rates are 4.75 percent in Australia and
2.5 percent in New Zealand, compared with as low as zero in the
U.S. and  Japan , attracting investors to the South Pacific
nations’ higher-yielding assets.  Reserve Bank  of Australia Governor  Glenn Stevens  said on
Aug. 26 that inflation “bears careful watching,” easing
speculation that the central bank will cut borrowing costs.  “The market needs to continue to push a little bit closer
to a more realistic profile for the RBA cash rate, so that’s a
potential support for the Aussie,” said  Sean Callow , a senior
currency strategist at Westpac Banking Corp. in Sydney.  Australian home-building approvals rose 2 percent in July
after a drop of 3.5 percent in the prior month, according to the
median forecast of 20 economists in a Bloomberg News survey
before tomorrow’s report from the bureau of statistics.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Candice Zachariahs in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net ;
Mariko Ishikawa in Tokyo at 
 mishikawa9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  