-- 
India’s ’Feel-Good’ Win to Spur Reform Calls

-- B y   A n d r e w   M a c A s k i l l   a n d   R a j h k u m a r   K .   S h a a w
-- 
2011-08-28T18:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-28/hazare-s-feel-good-win-to-spur-reform-calls-before-india-polls.html
A septuagenarian activist’s success
in channeling Indian public anger against corruption may spur
calls to speed up poll reforms before general elections in 2014,
analysts said.  Anna Hazare, 74, who broke his 13-day fast yesterday after
extracting a pledge from lawmakers that they’d help pass tougher
anti-graft laws, told his supporters on Aug. 27 that it was only
a “half victory” for his movement. He advocated the right to
reject candidates and recall elected representatives in  India ,
which is ranked 87 out of 178 countries in Transparency
International’s  Corruption Perceptions Index  of 2010.  “I expect from now on the government will be more sober,
they can’t take the people or the opposition for granted,” said
S. Chandrasekharan, director of the South Asia Analysis Group, a
policy research organization in New Delhi. “This is the
beginning rather than the end of a movement in India.”  Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s administration is under
pressure to tackle the issue after a cabinet minister belonging
to a regional ally landed in jail on allegations he may have
cost the nation $31 billion in lost revenue by selling phone
permits in 2008 at below-market prices. Singh’s Congress party,
which heads a coalition government, has less than three years
before seeking the endorsement of voters for a third consecutive
five-year term.  Parliament Resolution  Both houses of  Parliament  passed a resolution on Aug. 27
agreeing “in principle” to three conditions set by Hazare:
Discussions on establishing ombudsmen in all the states, to make
anti-graft laws cover lower rungs of the bureaucracy, and to
prepare a “citizens’ charter” to oversee ministries.  Hazare’s aides and cabinet members have sparred over a bill
that activists say is crucial to prevent corruption. Protesters,
who said the government’s version of the bill lacked teeth,
wanted to push through their own, while Singh’s party and others
said parliamentary rules must be obeyed.  While draft proposals for an ombudsman have been presented
to parliament on eight separate occasions, the first being in
1968, they were never approved. Issues have been sorted out
“for the time being” as the government couldn’t allow the
situation to deteriorate, Finance Minister Pranab Mukherjee told
the Times Now television channel after the parliament resolution.  “This is a very good beginning and a feel-good factor in
the fight against corruption,” said D.K. Aggarwal, who manages
about $100 million of Indian assets as chairman of SMC Wealth
Management Ltd. in  New Delhi . “There’s some relief that the
fast ended, and let’s hope India’s ranking improves.”  Out of Touch  The stonewalling by government negotiators and 12 days of
political intrigue, including the brief arrest of Hazare before
his fast, have undermined the public’s confidence in Singh’s
administration, said Laveesh Bhandari, a director of Indicus
Analytics, an economics research firm based in New Delhi.  “The government has shown itself to be completely out of
touch and to have a level of arrogance that is rarely seen in
public,” Bhandari said. “Across rural and urban India the
government has lost whatever was remaining of its credibility.”  Hazare, who has modeled his protest methods on those of
Indian independence and non-violence icon  Mahatma Gandhi ,
accepted coconut water mixed with honey from two girls yesterday
to break his fast. The people gathered at the site vowed that
they will neither give nor take a bribe.  Hazare called for a change in the way elections are held to
tackle corruption. “If there are 10 candidates and the voters
don’t like any of them, they should have the right to reject all
of them and call for a fresh list,” he told his supporters
yesterday. “Corruption will come down only when we change the
election system.”  Criminal Cases  About 30 percent of the 545 lawmakers in India’s lower
house of Parliament have criminal cases pending against them,
ranging from theft to rape and murder, according to the
 Association of Democratic Reforms  and National Election Watch,
New Delhi-based advocacy groups. Under current rules,
politicians on trial or who have appealed their convictions are
free to stand in elections in India, where the average criminal
case lasts 15 years.  India must ban politicians accused of serious crimes from
contesting elections if it wants to eradicate the “root cause”
of official corruption, the country’s chief election
commissioner S.Y. Quraishi said in an interview in May. The
 Ministry of Law and Justice  and the Election Commission are
considering proposals to bar candidates facing  charges  with a
sentence of five years or more, the country’s most senior
polling official said.  Indicus Analytics’ Bhandari was skeptical of a weak
government’s resolve to push through such reforms.  “Some people now think that the government will be quite
proactive and will be able to get things done,” he said. “I
don’t really see that happening. I don’t think it has the
ability or the people to generate consensus.”  Stock Slide  Government indecision this year has partly fueled a 23
percent slide in the benchmark Bombay Stock Exchange Sensitive
Index. The cabinet has taken fewer decisions in the first half
of 2011 than in at least the last six years, according to data
provided by the government.  The  Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam , Singh’s second-biggest ally
in his ruling coalition, was routed in May in its home state of
 Tamil Nadu  as its member and former federal telecommunications
minister  Andimuthu Raja  stands trial over the phone-license
allegations. He has denied any wrongdoing.  Apart from corruption, Singh is also facing heat over his
inability to slow inflation that has stayed above 9 percent for
eight consecutive months through June, eroding incomes in a
country where the  World Bank  says more than 75 percent of the
population lives on less than $2 a day.  The prime minister’s “ability to lead has been put into
question,” said Shankar Char, vice president at ICICI
Securities Ltd., a unit of India’s second-biggest bank. “The
next two years will be crucial to boost weakened sentiments.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew MacAskill in New Delhi at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net ;
Rajhkumar K Shaaw in Mumbai at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at   phirschberg@bloomberg.net ;
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  