-- 
India’s Hazare Ends Hunger Strike

-- B y   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n   a n d   R a j h k u m a r   K   S h a a w
-- 
2011-08-28T06:17:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-28/hazare-ends-hunger-strike-as-indian-lawmakers-support-anti-graft-demands.html
Anna Hazare, leader of an anti-
corruption campaign in  India , ended a hunger strike today after
lawmakers pledged a tougher law to combat graft.  Hazare, 74, who has fashioned his protest methods on those
of Indian independence icon  Mahatma Gandhi , accepted coconut
water mixed with honey from two girl children, one a Muslim and
another a Dalit, the lowest rung of the Indian caste system, to
break his 13-day fast. The deadlock between civil society
activists and Hazare’s supporters sparked protests nationwide,
underscoring public anger against corruption.  “All your efforts of the past 13 days have paid off,” he
told cheering supporters at the Ramlila fair ground in the
capital, New Delhi. “We’ve shown the whole world how to
organize a movement in a non-violent way.” The people gathered
at the site vowed that they will neither give nor take a bribe.  Both houses of  Parliament  yesterday passed a resolution
agreeing “in principle” to three conditions set by Hazare. His
aides and cabinet members have sparred over a bill that
activists say is crucial to deter corruption in the South Asian
country. Protesters, who said the government’s version of the
bill lacked teeth, wanted to push through their own, while the
ruling  Congress party  and others said parliamentary rules must
be obeyed.  Phone Permits  Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s administration, which is
embroiled in a series of corruption allegations, is under
pressure to tackle the issue three years before he seeks the
endorsement of voters for a third consecutive five-year term.
The sale of phone permits in 2008, which the nation’s auditor
says was at below-market prices and “arbitrary,” fueled
resentment nationwide and led to the imprisonment of a minister,
a lawmaker and many company officials.  The public’s confidence in the democratic process is
“rejuvenated,” said N. Bhaskara Rao, chairman of the New
Delhi-based Centre for Media Studies. “Hopefully, we will see a
stronger anti-corruption bill.”  Hazare on Aug. 25 called on parliament to start discussions
on establishing ombudsmen in all the states, to make anti-graft
laws more wide-ranging, and to prepare a “citizens’ charter”
to oversee ministries.  The demands, termed “sticky issues” by Hazare’s
supporters, had prevented a resolution to the impasse.  “These issues have been sorted for the time being,”
Finance Minister Pranab Mukherjee, Singh’s main negotiator, told
Times Now television channel. “We couldn’t allow the situation
to deteriorate. The concern about corruption is genuine as it
affects all.”  ‘Half Victory’  In  New Delhi  yesterday, people cheered, shouted slogans
when Hazare announced an end to his fast that evoked nationwide
support. The biggest demonstration in the capital on Aug. 21
drew as many as 50,000 people.  Supported by cushions and surrounded by children beneath a
giant black and white portrait of Gandhi, Hazare, who has lost
almost 16 pounds since beginning his fast, said that public
support has given him energy.  “It’s only half a victory,” Hazare said yesterday.
“Total victory is yet to come.”  While draft proposals for a corruption ombudsman have been
presented to parliament on eight separate occasions, the first
being in 1968, they were never approved.  The Comptroller and Auditor General said last year that
opaque rules allowed the government to sell airwaves in an
“unfair and inequitable manner,” potentially costing the
exchequer as much as $31 billion.  Turning Point   The government’s version of the ombudsman bill excludes
oversight of a serving prime minister, judges, most bureaucrats
and the actions of lawmakers in parliament. The activists want
the country’s highest executive, judiciary and all bureaucrats
covered, with sweeping powers to probe and prosecute.  “I respect his idealism; he has become the embodiment of
the disgust and concern about tackling corruption,” Singh told
parliament Aug. 25. He earlier condemned Hazare’s campaign as
“totally misconceived” and posing a danger to India’s
parliamentary democracy.  A hunger strike by Hazare in April grabbed the attention of
some media that had exposed graft cases, including alleged
irregularities in completing contracts for the 2010 Commonwealth
Games in New Delhi. The government invited social activists for
talks on framing the Lokpal Bill. Hazare says their suggestions
were ignored.  “A new model in Indian democracy has been set up with
legislators and civil society working together,” said Rao at
the Centre for Media Studies. “It’s a turning point and will
deepen democracy.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bibhudatta Pradhan in New Delhi at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net ;
Rajhkumar K Shaaw in Mumbai at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Hari Govind at 
 hgovind@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  