-- 
Japan Candidates Disagree on Quake Rebuilding

-- B y   S a c h i k o   S a k a m a k i
-- 
2011-08-28T22:58:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-28/candidates-vying-to-succeed-kan-call-for-party-unity-differ-on-tax-stance.html
Japan’s ruling party today chooses
Naoto Kan’s successor as prime minister following weekend
debates that revealed differences over how to cover the costs of
rebuilding from the March 11 earthquake and a nuclear meltdown.  The  Democratic Party of Japan  will elect its third leader
since taking power two years ago after Kan announced his
resignation last week, undone by public discontent with his
handling of the disaster. Ex-Foreign Minister  Seiji Maehara , who
polls show is the public’s favorite, is vying with Trade
Minister  Banri Kaieda , Finance Minister  Yoshihiko Noda , and two
others to become the country’s sixth premier in five years.  The winner will inherit an economy already facing three
straight quarters of contraction, and threatened by a surging
currency and power supply challenges from the aftermath of the
earthquake and tsunami that killed almost 16,000 people. He will
also have to restore public faith, with the DPJ having failed to
live up to its campaign pledges to address the problems of an
aging society and the world’s largest debt.  “The biggest issues are a tax hike for fiscal health and an
economic policy that deals with the rising yen,” said Kazuhisa Kawakami, a political science professor at  Tokyo ’s Meiji Gakuin
University. “The real question in the race is whether the DPJ
can show the public a better alternative to rebuild Japan.”  Vote Run-Off Possible  DPJ lawmakers will meet today at 11 a.m. to cast their
ballots, with 398 legislators eligible to vote. If none of the
candidates gets a majority in the first round, then the top two
vote-getters move into a second round. The lower house of
parliament, where the DPJ holds a majority, will vote on the new
prime minister as early as tomorrow.  Kaieda, 62, is backed by DPJ powerbroker Ichiro Ozawa,
while Noda, 54, is supported by party Secretary-General Katsuya Okada and policy chief  Koichiro Gemba . Agriculture Minister
Michihiko Kano, 69, and ex-Transport Minister  Sumio Mabuchi , 51,
are also running. Ozawa, who tried to oust Kan in June, leads an
intraparty group of more than 100 lawmakers.  Maehara is four times more popular with the public than
Kaieda, according to a Yomiuri newspaper poll published today,
getting 48 percent support compared with the trade minister’s 12
percent. Noda received 9 percent, Mabuchi 5 percent and Kano 2
percent in the survey. The paper polled 1,055 voters on Aug. 27
and 28 and provided no margin of error.  Tax Debate  Noda said at a debate of the candidates yesterday in Tokyo
that the DPJ has let the country down, and called for honoring
Kan’s proposal to raise taxes to pay for reconstruction and
shore up the welfare system. Maehara said the economy can’t
support higher taxes right now.  “We should implement reconstruction without raising taxes
for a year or two and respond flexibly,” said Maehara.  The DPJ’s support in the Yomiuri poll was at 21 percent.
The opposition  Liberal Democratic Party , which governed for half
a century before being ousted by the Democrats in 2009, got 23
percent, while 46 percent of the public supported no party.  “As to whether the public feels the government change two
years ago was good or bad, we’re standing at a cliff,” Noda
said. “That’s why we must work for party unity.”  Maehara, who at 49 would be the youngest premier since
World War II, called in an Aug. 27 debate for a “large-scale”
third extra budget to stimulate the economy, while adding that
financing for reconstruction efforts shouldn’t come from tax
increases. Kaieda reiterated his preference for the issuance of
construction bonds or no-interest bonds rather than tax
increases to fund rebuilding.  Credit Rating  The government plans to spend 19 trillion yen ($248 billion)
over the next five years to rebuild, including 6 trillion yen
from Kan’s two economic stimulus packages. Moody’s Investors
Service cut  Japan ’s credit rating last week, citing political
instability and “weak” prospects for economic growth that will
make it difficult for the government to contain its debt burden.  “None of the candidates appear to have outlined decisive
policies to fix the country’s tattered financing position and
improve the economic situation after the nuclear crisis,” Betty
Rui Wang, a Standard Chartered Plc economist in  Hong Kong , wrote
in a note today. “We expect limited progress in terms of fiscal
and political policies with a new prime minister.”  Kaieda and Maehara both said Aug. 27 that Japan should
reduce its dependence on nuclear energy over time, after the
power plant in Fukushima crippled by 15-meter (49 foot) tsunami
waves spewed radiation into the water, air and food. Maehara
said the country should stop building reactors and improve the
safety of existing ones. Kaieda, who heads the trade ministry
overseeing nuclear policy, said Japan should increase the use of
renewable energy.  Deflation Concerns  Maehara pledged to defeat deflation and stimulate economic
growth through fiscal policy and monetary easing. Kaieda said
the government should work closely with the central bank, while
adding that the  Bank of Japan  must remain unable to underwrite
 government bonds .  Noda reiterated that Japan will take “decisive” action if
necessary to counter speculative trades that drive the yen
higher. As finance minister, he authorized three currency
interventions in the past year to weaken the yen.  Japan’s currency has gained 19 percent against the dollar
since Kan took office on June 8, 2010. It closed at 76.64 per
dollar last week, close to a postwar record of 75.95 reached on
Aug. 19.  “What was required was inspiring people and Kan was just
awful at that,” said Ellis Krauss, a professor of Japanese
politics at the University of  California ,  San Diego . “It’s not
impossible but it’s unlikely the DPJ will be able to unite
behind someone the public will have some confidence in.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sachiko Sakamaki in Tokyo at 
 ssakamaki1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  