-- 
Cathay Pacific Plans Premium Economy by Second Quarter 2012

-- B y   S u s a n   L i   a n d   J a s m i n e   W a n g
-- 
2011-08-29T09:02:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-28/cathay-pacific-plans-premium-economy-in-2012.html
Cathay Pacific Airways Ltd. (293) ,  Asia ’s
largest international carrier, plans to add premium-economy
seats by the second quarter of 2012 to tempt coach travelers
into paying higher fares for more legroom and better meals.  The airline will have the product on flights to  Europe ,
 North America ,  Australia , the  Middle East  and  India , Chief
Executive Officer John Slosar said in an interview aired on
Bloomberg TV today. The seats will be “a lot better” than
regular coach and more like a regional business class, he said.  Hong Kong-based Cathay will join carriers including British
Airways, Virgin Atlantic Airways Ltd. and  Qantas Airways Ltd.  in
offering premium-class seating as Asia’s economic growth spurs
demand for more luxurious travel. The carrier has also begun
rolling out new business-class cabins as Emirates Airline and
Singapore Airlines Ltd. seek to lure Hong Kong flyers by
offering Airbus SAS A380 services.  “Premium-economy class tends to be attracting people
upwards as opposed to business travelers buying downwards,”
said  Peter Harbison , executive chairman of the Sydney-based
Centre for Asia Pacific Aviation. Still, corporations with
tighter travel budgets as well as small businesses are also
interested it, he said.  Cathay gained 0.9 percent to close at HK$15.32 in Hong Kong.
The stock has tumbled 29 percent his year, compared with a 14
percent decline in the benchmark Hang Seng Index.  Cabin Rollout  The new premium-economy cabins will be installed alongside
the new business-class seats, Cathay said in a  statement . It
will be late next year before most of the fleet is done, it said.  “Premium economy is really becoming the standard
everywhere,” Slosar said. “If it is, Cathay wants to do it.”  Slosar didn’t comment on how much the new premium-economy
seats would cost the carrier. The airline has said introducing
the new business class will cost about HK$1 billion ($128
million). That was first introduced in March and will eventually
be fitted in 50 planes.  Premium economy allows airlines to charge passengers higher
fares than in coach. For instance, a return London- Hong Kong 
flight on International Consolidated Airlines Group SA’s British
Airways is about twice as expensive in premium economy as on
regular economy, based on prices on the airline’s website.  Still, the size of the seats and the extra legroom mean
that cabins generally hold fewer passengers after being
converted to a premium-economy setup.  Separately, Slosar said that Cathay had no plans to delay
new aircraft as Asia avoids the worst of the global economic
slowdown. The carrier is due to receive eight new aircraft,
including five freighters, in the second half, followed by 16
new planes next year, according to its interim results statement.  Cathay is “still pretty confident,” Slosar said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susan Li in Hong Kong at 
 sli31@bloomberg.net ;
Jasmine Wang in Hong Kong at 
 jwang513@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  