-- 
Central Bankers Urge Governments to Keep Global Economic Expansion Intact

-- B y   J e a n n i n e   A v e r s a   a n d   S i m o n   K e n n e d y
-- 
2011-08-29T07:51:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-28/central-bankers-urge-governments-to-keep-global-economic-expansion-intact.html
Central bankers gathered at an
annual retreat in Jackson Hole, Wyoming, this weekend had a
message for political leaders: monetary policy alone can’t keep
the global expansion going.  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  urged adoption of
“good, proactive housing policies” to reverse the depressed
U.S. real estate market and warned lawmakers to avoid steps that
may hurt short-term growth. Ewald Nowotny of the European
Central Bank Governing Council said euro-area governments should
expand the powers of their regional bailout fund.  “Most of the economic policies that support robust
economic growth in the long run are outside the province of the
central bank,” Bernanke said at the annual conference of policy
makers and economists, sponsored by the Kansas City Fed.  The call to arms ended a month in which the Fed and the ECB
raced to shield their economies from fiscal tightening and
strengthen a world economy that is losing momentum. Reports this
week may underscore the challenges faced by policy makers: U.S.
payroll growth probably slowed in August, and confidence in
 Europe ’s economy fell to its lowest since April 2010, economists
forecast. Fed policy makers will meet for two days in September
instead of one so they can discuss options for spurring growth.  Warning of a “dangerous new phase” for the world economy,
International Monetary Fund Managing Director  Christine Lagarde 
told the forum that risks have been aggravated by “a growing
sense that policy makers do not have the conviction, or simply
are not willing, to take the decisions that are needed.”  ‘Twin Perils’  “Fiscal policy must navigate between the twin perils of
losing credibility and undercutting recovery,” said Lagarde,
who took the helm of the IMF in July.  Bernanke told the conference that the U.S. central bank
still has a “range of tools” it could use to help the economy
if needed, although he stopped short of signaling that the Fed
would embark on a third round of government bond buying.  European stocks rose as investors awaited a report that may
show U.S. consumer spending gained. The Stoxx Europe 600 Index,
which last week dropped to near the cheapest valuation in more
than two years, advanced 0.7 percent to 227.12 at 8:40 a.m. in
 London . Asian shares and U.S. index futures climbed. The U.K
market is closed for a holiday today.  The Fed pledged on Aug. 9 to keep its main  interest rate  at
a record low near zero through at least mid-2013. The ECB is
taking the lead in combating a sovereign debt crisis approaching
its third year by buying Spanish and Italian bonds.  ‘Only Game in Town’  “It’s a difficult burden central banks are carrying
because of the constraints of fiscal policy,”  Diane Swonk ,
chief economist at Mesirow Financial Holdings Inc., said in an
interview in Jackson Hole. “The Fed and other central banks
realize they are the only game in town.”  The policy makers met for three days to discuss ways to
bolster long-term economic performance. They gathered as banks
from UBS AG to Citigroup Inc. cut their forecasts for global
expansion and predicted the Fed, ECB and Bank of  Japan  will keep
benchmark interest rates at or near record lows through 2012.  Recession Odds  Harvard University Professor Martin Feldstein, who attended
the conference, told Bloomberg Television there are “better
than even” odds of another U.S. recession, while  Stanford
University ’s  John Taylor  called it a “recovery in name only.”
 Allen Sinai , president of Decision Economics, said the chance of
a global slump is 30 percent.  The dilemma for policy makers is that four years to the
month since the start of the global credit crisis they have
fewer remedies to aid the faltering expansion. Government budget
deficits are high and interest rates are already at or near
record lows.  A paper presented at the conference by economists from the
Bank for International Settlements concluded that governments
start to impair economic growth when their debts reach about 80
percent to 100 percent of gross domestic product, levels now
witnessed in all of the Group of Seven countries.  Kansas City Fed President  Thomas Hoenig  told Bloomberg
Television that there is a limit to how much more the Fed can
help the economy, saying, “we can’t do it all.”  Recovery ‘Fragility’  Standard & Poor’s  downgraded the U.S. credit rating this
month, even as U.S. politicians agreed Aug. 2 to slice the
nation’s deficit by $2.4 trillion over 10 years. While urging
politicians to control the nation’s long-term deficits, Bernanke
said they should not “disregard the fragility of the current
economic recovery.”  Congress must adopt a “credible plan for reducing future
deficits over the longer term,” yet avoid policies which harm
near-term growth, Bernanke said. President  Barack Obama  is preparing a post-Labor Day speech with plans for stimulating the
economy.  The U.S. also needs new ways to turn around the depressed
housing market and help ease foreclosures, Bernanke said. He
called on Congress to develop a “better process for making
fiscal decisions” after the drawn-out debate over raising the
nation’s debt limit created turmoil in financial markets
worldwide.  The Fed chief’s points were echoed by Lagarde, who said
governments could free up cash for short-term spending by
tackling long-term fiscal challenges such as expensive
entitlements and health-care programs.  Housing Market  The U.S. could stop the slide in  house prices  perhaps by
reducing the principal paid by homeowners or by making it easier
for them to refinance mortgages at lower interest rates, Lagarde
said. European banks should be forced to raise more capital, she
said, with the goal of preventing the continent’s debt crisis
from infecting more countries.  “While fiscal consolidation remains an imperative,
macroeconomic policies must support growth,” Lagarde said.  Conference participants including Nowotny urged governments
to accelerate their response to the spreading debt woes and
relieve pressure on the ECB. The central bank needs to shore up
markets as lawmakers take time ratifying a plan to increase the
size of their rescue fund and allow it to buy bonds in markets
and aid banks. The latest obstacle is  Finland ’s demand for
collateral in return for aiding  Greece .  “I am concerned by the delays we’ve seen in the political
field,” Nowotny said in an interview. “Monetary policy cannot
substitute for fiscal policy.”  Biggest Threat  Europe’s plight was a major talking point at the meeting,
with former Mexican central bank Governor Guillermo Ortiz
calling it the biggest threat to international growth. Harvard
University Professor Dani Rodrik said on Twitter that “the fear
about the euro zone was palpable” among delegates and that “no
one has confidence in the current strategy.” Bernanke
nevertheless expressed confidence officials would succeed “over
time.”  Attending his final  Jackson Hole  conference before retiring
Oct. 31 as the ECB’s president,  Jean-Claude Trichet  avoided any
in-depth commentary on his economy’s current woes other than to
say it wouldn’t suffer a “liquidity crisis” and that all
advanced nations faced “formidable” challenges.  “There is still an enormous potential to tap to reform our
economies and boost their growth potential and job creation,”
Trichet said. He is scheduled to meet European lawmakers today
in Brussels to discuss management of the crisis.  Speaking after Lagarde urged central banks to keep their
policies accommodative, Trichet also reiterated that the ECB’s
focus remains on delivering  price stability , and he praised its
control of inflation expectations. The ECB raised its key rate
twice this year to 1.5 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeannine Aversa in Jackson Hole,  Wyoming  at 
 javersa@bloomberg.net ;
Simon Kennedy in Jackson Hole at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  