-- 
Changing Vietnam Yearns for Closer U.S. Embrace: Albert R. Hunt

-- B y   A l b e r t   R .   H u n t
-- 
2011-08-28T15:01:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-28/changing-vietnam-yearns-for-closer-u-s-embrace-albert-r-hunt.html
Pham Binh Minh , whose father fought
to force the U.S. out of  Vietnam , is working fervently to
elevate the interest and involvement of his country’s former
enemy.  Vietnam wants a U.S. presence for economic reasons and as a
balance to China, the regional superpower. Minh is the new
foreign minister; his father was part of Ho Chi Minh’s Communist
regime during the bitter conflict of the 1960s and 1970s; later,
he was foreign minister when Vietnam clashed with China.  “One cannot imagine how fast the relationship between the
 United States  and Vietnam has developed,” Minh, 52, says in an
interview in Hanoi. “After 16 years of normalization, we’ve
come to the stage where we’ve developed the relationship in
nearly all aspects.”  While the U.S. hasn’t fully erased the pain of that war,
the Vietnamese, who suffered far more, embrace their old
adversary.  Economic ties between the nations are growing; the U.S. is
the largest importer of Vietnamese goods. There are regular
military contacts, and this month the two countries signed the
first defense pact regarding military medicine. Last year,
Vietnamese officers observed a U.S. military operation aboard a
Navy destroyer, the USS John S. McCain, named after two admirals,
the father and grandfather of Republican Senator  John McCain  of
 Arizona , who was a prisoner of war in Hanoi for six years.  Strategic Relationship  Now, the foreign minister says, the two countries are
discussing upgrading their strategic relationship to “a new
level.” That, he declares, would be “good for the stability of
the region,” in accord with Vietnam’s “multilateral” approach.  None of this, the top Vietnamese diplomat insists, is
intended to counter China. Still, talk of multilateralism and
encouraging the U.S. role in the stability of the region isn’t
appreciated by the Beijing regime.  Vietnam has a long history of conflict with China; the most
recent outbreak was in 1979, when it turned back a cross-border
incursion. The Vietnamese know China is a superpower that isn’t
going away and prefer to have good relations with the big guy
next door.  Nevertheless, there are tensions, particularly over
territory in the  South China Sea . Recently, there have been
public protests in Vietnam against China, though the Hanoi
government wants these to stop, fearing that nationalistic
fervor could spiral out of control.  Washington ’s Commitment  Common interests aside, the relationship with the U.S. is
complicated. Vietnam isn’t sure America is committed to Asia for
the long run, and officials privately complain that the region
is a low priority for Washington. In a one-hour interview with
 Charlie Rose  that was broadcast July 21, President  Barack Obama ’s national security adviser, Tom Donilon, spoke at length
about China, but never mentioned Vietnam.  Minh says he’d like “more consistency” in U.S. policy,
which should “pay more attention” to Southeast  Asia . More
troubling is the continuing friction over Vietnam’s human and
political rights policies. Progress has been made, especially in
the area of religious freedom:  Jim Webb , a U.S. senator from
 Virginia  and a Vietnam veteran, noted during a visit to Hanoi
the other day that when he first attended a Catholic service in
Vietnam 20 years ago there were a handful of worshipers; a few
years ago, there were 2,000 people at a Christmas Mass he
attended. Still, a few dozen dissidents have been jailed over
the past several years, and crackdowns on the press are routine.  Chinese Colossus  The record is better than China’s. The realpolitik, however,
is that with about 90 million people, the world’s 14th-largest
population, and a gross domestic product of $102 billion,
Vietnam is treated differently than the colossus  China .  Yet U.S. policy makers, who worry about the aggressiveness
of an increasingly confident China, want deeper alliances with
Vietnam. They look to a younger generation epitomized by Foreign
Minister Minh, who remembers that as a teenager he would dash
“to the shelters when the bombs were dropped.” As an adult, he
received a graduate degree at Tufts University’s Fletcher School
of Law and Diplomacy and spent several years at the  United
Nations  in  New York  and at the Vietnamese Embassy in Washington.  The depth of the association in the years ahead depends on
the evolution of Vietnam’s economic, legal and political system.
There have been striking gains since the Communists opened the
system to private enterprise more than two decades ago. Per
capita income is about $1,200, almost 10 times more than a
quarter century ago; the country has fully joined the global
economic community. American foreign investment is $10 billion,
small but growing rapidly. Companies such as  Intel Corp. (INTC)  and
Chevron Corp. are making major investments.  Cheap Labor  The economy, however, is still driven largely by cheap
labor. The Communist Party bureaucracy stifles the
entrepreneurial spirit. Corruption is rampant. Though he claims
that it’s a “top priority,” of the regime, Minh admits that
reducing corruption “is hard.”  Paradoxes persist: Internet use per capita is among the
highest in the region and the illiteracy rate is relatively low;
yet the educational system is inferior.  One of the few jewels is the small Ho Chi Minh City-based
public-policy center affiliated with Harvard University’s John F.
Kennedy School of Government. This is part of Harvard’s Vietnam
program, directed by  Tom Vallely , a veteran who has spent much
of his life since the war trying to improve U.S.-Vietnam
relations.  Asian Tigers  A few years ago, the center published a study on the
challenges facing Vietnam. It concluded that the hallmarks of
the successful East Asian economies of  South Korea ,  Singapore 
and  Taiwan  -- transparency, little corruption, first-class
health and education systems and a viable legal structure -- all
are lacking in Vietnam.  “Countries that compete on the basis of cheap labor cannot,
by definition, move beyond lower-income status,” it said.  Younger leaders such as the foreign minister face daunting
challenges. Among the biggest: walking the delicate line between
maintaining decent relations with the superpower next door and
strengthening ties with Washington; and dramatically curbing
corruption and reforming an educational system the Harvard study
described as abysmal.  That raises an interesting possibility, one the foreign
minister says he would welcome: Harvard, the institution that
produced many of the architects of the ill-fated  Vietnam War ,
could take the lead in creating a first-class Vietnamese
university.  ( Albert R. Hunt  is the executive editor for Washington at
Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Albert Hunt in Washington at 
 ahunt1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 