-- 
China Widens Reserve Ratio to Limit Inflation, Analysts Say

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-08-29T00:25:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-28/china-may-limit-inflation-with-reserve-ratio-move-locking-up-140-billion.html
China  broadened the base of reserves
it requires commercial lenders to deposit with the central bank
to control liquidity and limit inflation, economists said.  Reserve requirements are being extended to customers’
margin deposits, a move that may drain 900 billion yuan ($140
billion) from the banking system over six months, Bank of
America Merrill Lynch economist Lu Ting said in an e-mailed note
on Aug. 26. Mizuho Securities  Asia  Ltd. cited similar
information. A central bank press official declined to comment.  China has already raised reserve ratios to a record 21.5
percent for the biggest banks to counter the fastest inflation
since 2008. London-based Capital Economics Ltd. said that the
reported move may mean no further increases this year, after
previously anticipating another 1 percentage point gain by the
end of December.  “It’s not surprising to see such a move from the Chinese
government, as it is facing a big  trade surplus  and inflation
pressure,” said Liu Li-Gang, a Hong Kong-based economist at
Australia & New Zealand Banking group Ltd. “The move will
further tighten liquidity,’” he said.  Industrial Profits  Premier  Wen Jiabao  aims to sustain the nation’s expansion
while containing the risks from record credit growth. A 28
percent increase in industrial companies’ profits in the first
seven months of the year, reported Aug. 27, suggests that
businesses are weathering monetary tightening.  The central bank is clarifying the need to set aside
reserves on margin deposits, Shen Jianguang, a Hong Kong-based
economist at Mizuho Securities Asia, said on Aug. 27. While some
banks already do so, the requirement hadn’t been clearly stated,
he said.  The six largest Chinese banks need to start setting aside
cash equal to as much as 21.5 percent of their margin deposits
from Sept. 5, and complete reserves within three months, said
Shen, citing information obtained from his investor contacts.
Smaller banks will be given a requirement of 19.5 percent
starting Sept. 15, with a five-month grace period, he said.  Spokesmen for China Construction Bank,  Agricultural Bank of
China , and Industrial and Commercial  Bank of China , who declined
to be named because of company rules, said they weren’t aware of
the matter. Calls to a spokesman at Bank of China during the
weekend weren’t answered.  Top Priority  Reserve requirements force commercial banks to park a
proportion of their deposits with the central bank, reducing the
amount of money available for lending.  Fighting inflation will remain the top priority in the
second half of this year and monetary policy will remain
“prudent,” the central bank said in its quarterly monetary
policy report on Aug. 12. July’s 6.5 percent increase in
consumer prices was the biggest since 2008.  Forcing lenders to set aside more cash may put “some
upward pressure on interbank rates,” Bank of America’s Lu said.
At the same time, the central bank can “neutralize” that
effect by altering its program of bill sales, another tool for
locking up cash, he said.  Lu calculated that the latest move may have an effect
equivalent to a 130 basis-point increase in reserve requirements.
 Capital Economics ’ estimate was “roughly 125 basis points.”
One basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  The central bank has increased its reserve requirement
ratio nine times since the second half of 2010, and raised
 interest rates  five times during the period. The PBOC has held
off for two months in boosting the ratio, the longest pause
since the latest series of increases began in November.  Margin Deposits  Reuters reported Aug. 26 that reserve requirements will now
cover margin deposits paid by banks’ clients to secure issuance
of bankers’ acceptance, letters of guarantee and letters of
credit. Such deposits were 4.4 trillion yuan ($689 billion) at
the end of July, according to the report.  The net effect of the reported rule change “if everything
else was unchanged,” would be to tighten monetary policy,
Capital Economics said. “But in fact, we think any such move
would be designed as an alternative to further reserve-
requirement increases over the rest of the year.”  Policy makers are also monitoring the risks from the surge
in lending that fueled the nation’s rebound from the global
financial crisis. One focus is the credit that has been extended
to local-government financing vehicles.  China’s five biggest banks posted first-half profits that
surpassed the total of their 14 largest U.S. and European rivals,
with  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China (601398)  Ltd. reporting last
week that net income rose 29 percent to a record $17 billion.  -- Helen Sun  and Helen Yuan, with assistance from Tian Ying in
Beijing and Winnie Zhu in  Shanghai . Editors:  Jim McDonald , Paul
Tighe  To contact the reporter on this story:
Helen Sun in Shanghai at 
 hsun30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  