-- 
Goldman Sachs, Exchanges to Shed Sandbags as Irene Passes

-- B y   D o n a l   G r i f f i n ,   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k   a n d   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 
2011-08-29T01:52:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-28/citigroup-s-downtown-new-york-offices-fully-functional-as-irene-passes.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and
 Citigroup Inc. (C) , whose offices in  New York ’s evacuation zone for
Hurricane Irene escaped major damage, are among Wall Street
banks that will resume business today as exchanges open.
Employees still face a gauntlet getting there.  Sandbags remained piled around the entrance to Goldman
Sachs’s headquarters at 200 West St. yesterday, with security
guards standing by. The firm’s buildings are “functioning
normally” and will be open, Stephen Cohen, a Goldman Sachs
spokesman, said in a phone interview.  Across the street,  American Express Co. (AXP) ’s headquarters will
remain closed today. AmEx, the biggest credit-card issuer by
purchases, advised its New York-based employees to work from
home. While U.S. stock, bond and commodities markets plan to do
business, the  Metropolitan Transportation Authority  is still
working to fully restore rail and bus service.  “Given ongoing repairs to mass-transit systems, street
flooding and cleanup work currently underway in the surrounding
areas, the American Express Tower will be closed for business,”
 Joanna Lambert , a company spokeswoman, said in an e-mail.
“Business and customer service will continue as usual.”  Almost a quarter of financial companies in the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index are based in New York, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. Financial firms including banks, brokerages and
insurers employ 437,600 people in the city, according to July
data from the state Department of Labor.  ‘Fully Functional’  The buildings that house Citigroup’s main trading floors at
388-390 Greenwich St. “are fully functional,” Danielle Romero- Apsilos, a spokeswoman for the firm, said yesterday in an e-
mail.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  said it was contacting workers after
its Midtown headquarters avoided serious damage.  “All branch managers are calling employees one-by-one to
see if they’re OK,”  Kristin Lemkau , a spokeswoman for JPMorgan,
said in an e-mail. “As soon as mass transit is up and running
and we know they can get to work safely, we’ll update the
message that it’s business-as-usual.”  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , the biggest U.S. lender, sustained
minimal impact to its facilities in downtown New York and
expects its headquarters in Charlotte,  North Carolina  to be open
for business, said Kelli Cishek, a spokeswoman for the firm. The
company’s main New York office is adjacent to Bryant Park in
Midtown Manhattan, away from evacuation zones.  “We encourage our employees to use their best judgment and
to proceed with caution if they are in impacted areas and to
check with their managers regarding contingency plans,” Cishek
said in an e-mail.  Morgan Stanley (MS)   The Times Square headquarters of Morgan Stanley, operator
of the world’s biggest retail brokerage, wasn’t damaged and the
company is prepared for “business as usual,” Mark Lake, a
spokesman for the firm, said in an e-mail.  The MTA, which operates rail and bus lines serving the
largest U.S. city, will begin restoring subway service starting
at 6 a.m., according to a release from New York Governor Andrew
Cuomo and MTA Chairman  Jay Walder .  New Jersey Governor  Chris Christie  discouraged people from
attempting this morning’s commute, and said New Jersey Transit
trains into New York will be suspended today, while buses will
operate on a modified schedule and PATH trains will reopen.  Irene had been downgraded to a tropical storm with winds of
65 (105 kilometers) miles per hour when it struck the city about
9 a.m. The storm killed at least 18 people from Puerto Rico to
Connecticut, caused an estimated $2.6 billion in damage and cut
electric power to more than 4 million homes and businesses.  Equity Exchanges  JPMorgan, the second-biggest U.S. bank by assets, and
Citigroup, the third-biggest, both have their headquarters on
Park Avenue in Midtown Manhattan. Goldman Sachs and AmEx are
located along the Hudson River, adjacent to the World Trade
Center site.  NYSE Euronext (NYX) , Nasdaq OMX Group, Bats Global Markets and
Direct Edge Holdings LLC -- the four biggest operators of equity
exchanges in the world’s largest capital market -- said in
statements that they plan normal trading sessions today. The
Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association
recommended no change to bond-market schedules, and  CME Group
Inc. (CME)  said the  New York Mercantile Exchange  will open.  Citigroup was determining yesterday how employees will
commute and checking bank branches for damage. The lender had
263,000 employees on June 30, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  ‘Transportation Options’  “Pending the lift of the evacuation and pending updates on
mass transit, we are investigating transportation options for
employees.” Romero-Apsilos said. The company is reviewing
damage to retail branches,  Sean Kevelighan , a spokesman for
Citigroup’s consumer bank, said in a separate e-mail.  Security guards were posted at the entrances and exits of
Goldman Sachs and American Express headquarters buildings
yesterday afternoon, as well as in front of the Federal Reserve
Bank of New York. There was little visible evidence of flooding,
downed trees or other damage in the area.  Most local businesses and restaurants around  Wall Street ,
including a McDonald’s Corp. franchise and Sprint Nextel Corp.
store, were closed, with taped-up windows or boarded-up
storefronts around noon local time.  As the skies began to clear, New Yorkers returned to the
streets of lower Manhattan to enjoy the waterfront by biking,
jogging, walking, taking photographs and using inline skates.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Donal Griffin in New York at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net ;
Laura Marcinek in New York at 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Kearns in New York at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  