-- 
Oil Trades Near Three-Day High; Gasoline Drops as Irene Hurricane Passes

-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 
2011-08-29T06:21:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-28/crude-oil-little-changed-in-new-york-brent-declines-in-london-trading.html
Oil traded near a three-day high in
 New York  as investors speculated that growth will recover in the
U.S., spurring demand in the biggest crude consumer. Gasoline
slid as Irene was downgraded to a post-tropical cyclone.  Futures fluctuated after climbing as much as 0.5 percent.
Growth is safe in the long run and the central bank can still
aid recovery, Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said Aug.
26. Refineries along the East Coast were operating plants at or
near normal levels after Irene weakened.  London ’s Brent dropped
as Libyan rebels claimed full control of  oil fields .  “Bernanke is suggesting that there are some good, some
negative economic indicators and there is a chance of a double-
dip, but overall he feels that the base has been laid for long-
term growth,” said  Jonathan Barratt , a managing director of
Commodity Broking Services Pty in Sydney, who predicts crude in
New York will average $100 a barrel this year. “You’ll find
over the next three to six months there’ll be a marked
improvement in terms of Libyan production.”  Crude for October delivery was at $85.66 a barrel, up 29
cents, in electronic trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange
at 2:18 p.m. Singapore time. The contract gained 7 cents on Aug.
26 to $85.37, the highest since Aug. 23. Prices are 15 percent
higher the past year.  Brent oil for October settlement slid 21 cents to $111.15 a
barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. The
European benchmark traded at a premium of $25.45 to U.S.
futures, compared with a record $26.21 on Aug. 19.  Irene Weakens  Irene was 105 miles (170 kilometers) south of  Quebec City 
with winds of 50 miles per hour and moving north-northeast at 26
mph, according to an advisory issued by the National Hurricane
Center before 11 p.m. East Coast time. The storm killed at least
18 people from  Puerto Rico  to  Connecticut , sent rivers to near-
record heights and knocked out power to more than 4 million
customers.  Hess Corp. said its Port Reading refinery in  New Jersey 
returned to normal rates while NuStar Energy LP aimed to start
its Paulsboro, New Jersey, plant today, the company said. PBF
Energy Co. said it ran its New Jersey and Delaware plants “all
through the storm.” ConocoPhillips’s 238,000 barrel-a-day
Bayway plant in New Jersey remained shut and Sunoco Inc. ran its
Philadelphia and Marcus Hook facilities at reduced rates.  Gasoline Prices  Gasoline for September delivery dropped as much as 2
percent today to $2.8765 a gallon in electronic trading on the
 New York Mercantile Exchange , extending a 1.1 percent drop on
Aug. 26. Motor fuel prices climbed 4.7 percent from Aug. 22 to
Aug. 25 on concern the cyclone would damage refineries in the
U.S.’s biggest consuming area, home to about 65 million people.  Gasoline crack spreads, or the measure of the product’s
premium to West Texas crude oil, dropped 5.2 percent to $29.98 a
barrel after climbing 8.1 percent in the lead up to the storm.  Brent crude’s premium to New York’s West Texas Intermediate
crude shrank the most in five weeks on Aug. 22 after rebels in
 Libya  entered Tripoli, paving the way for the country’s oil
production to resume.  Nouri Balroin, the head of the National Transitional
Council’s production unit, said some lost output will start
within three weeks,  Al Jazeera  reported Aug. 27. A three-stage
plan will restore the flow of oil to 1.6 million barrels a day
within 15 months, he said, according to the Qatar-based network.  The Libyan revolt, which began in February, has reduced the
availability of light, sweet crude, or oil with low density and
sulfur content. The country’s output fell to 100,000 barrels a
day last month, a Bloomberg News survey showed. That’s less than
10 percent of the 1.6 million barrels the nation pumped in
January, before the uprising.  Net-long positions in crude oil traded in New York gained
0.3 percent to 143,195, the first increase after four weeks of
declines, according to data from the Commodity Futures Trading
Commission’s Aug. 26 Commitments of Traders report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  