-- 
Dollar Cheap in Purchasing Power as Investors See Shelter

-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t   a n d   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 
2011-08-29T12:01:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-28/dollar-undervalued-in-purchasing-parity-as-investors-seek-shelter-from-s-p.html
The dollar is poised for its biggest
monthly gain since May, reclaiming its status as a haven while
Switzerland and Japan boost efforts to weaken their currencies.  The greenback has appreciated 1.2 percent in August against
a basket of the developed world’s nine most-traded exchange
rates, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That compares
with a decline of 14 percent in the world’s reserve currency
from this time last year through July.  Demand for U.S. assets is rising even though the Federal
Reserve has pledged to keep its benchmark interest rate near
zero through mid-2013 and  Standard & Poor’s  cut the nation’s
credit rating from AAA. The two other currencies considered
havens in times of financial and political strife -- the Swiss
franc and yen -- are under siege by their governments and
central banks after strengthening to records.  “The dollar is a buy through the end of the third
quarter,”  Nick Bennenbroek , head of currency strategy in New
York at  Wells Fargo & Co ., the third-most accurate forecaster in
the last six quarters as measured by Bloomberg, said in an Aug.
23 telephone interview. “The yen and the Swiss franc are very
expensive and the dollar is very cheap and it’s the only major
central bank that is not standing in the way of a currency
advance.”  The dollar was little changed at 76.66 yen at 7:38 a.m. in
 New York  after strengthening 0.1 percent to 76.64 last week. It
gained 1.2 percent versus the franc to 81.58 centimes after
rallying 2.7 percent last week. The Bloomberg Correlation-
Weighted Currency Index for the dollar dropped 0.1 percent to
89.3884, up from 88.3486 at the end of July.  Purchasing Power Parity  Even with the gains, America’s currency is 47 percent too
weak against the franc and 31 percent undervalued compared with
the yen, based on an index developed by the Organization for
Economic Cooperation and Development in Paris that measures
currencies using prices for similar goods and services in two
countries.  The dollar may continue to appreciate as the Swiss National
Bank and  Bank of Japan  intervene to stem gains and currencies of
commodity-producing nations such as  Australia ,  New Zealand  and
 Canada  lose some of their luster amid a global economic
slowdown.  ‘Dollar Is Cheap’  “The dollar is cheap against the G-10 small currencies
like Australia, Canada, New Zealand, Sweden,  Norway , Swiss and
also against the yen,” Greg Anderson, a senior currency
strategist at New York-based Citigroup Inc., said in a telephone
interview Aug. 14. “If we have continued turbulence with
commodities and equities selling off, the dollar is a short-term
buy.”  America’s currency is 37 percent below fair value against
the Australian dollar and 20 percent versus the Canadian dollar,
according to the OECD index.  The dollar has mainly weakened since Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke signaled last year at an annual conference sponsored by
the  Federal Reserve  Bank of Kansas City that the central bank
may boost the economy by printing money and buying bonds. It
purchased $600 billion of Treasuries between November and June,
contributing to a 6.25 percent drop in the U.S. currency as
measured by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes.  Fed’s Toolbox  Bernanke said at an annual forum in Jackson Hole,  Wyoming ,
on Aug. 26 that the central bank still has tools to stimulate
the economy without providing details or signaling when or
whether policy makers might deploy them.  Slowing growth in the U.S. and the Fed’s pledge to keep its
target rate for overnight loans between banks at a record low of
zero to 0.25 percent until mid-2013 may constrain the greenback.
Citigroup lowered its 2011 U.S. growth estimate to 1.6 percent
from 1.7 percent, and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said it saw a
one-in-three chance of a recession as it cut its gross domestic
product forecast to 1.7 percent from 1.8 percent.  “Until we can get to a point where the dollar can
demonstrate some independent strength, like the economic data
justifies the Fed to provide some  interest rate  support, we
don’t think the dollar can shine,” Robert Sinche, the global
head of foreign exchange strategy at Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc, said Aug. 24 in a telephone interview from  Stamford ,
 Connecticut .  RBS predicts the dollar will trade at $1.45 versus the euro
by the end of the third quarter, from $1.4499 last week, and at
$1.06 against the Australian currency, from $1.0573.  Increased Dollar Demand  Demand for the U.S. currency has increased as S&P’s Aug. 5
downgrade of the nation’s credit rating to AA+ caused stock
markets to gyrate and sent investors to the safety of
Treasuries. Investors repudiated the ratings company’s assertion
that the U.S. was less creditworthy, driving 10-year note yields
to record low 1.9735 percent on Aug. 18. The dollar appreciated
the last month against all but one of the 16 most-traded
currencies as tracked by Bloomberg, falling versus the yen.  “The downgrade obviously caused a big risk-aversion theme
that is still en vogue,” Blake Jespersen, the director of
foreign-exchange at Bank of Montreal in Toronto said Aug. 24 by
telephone.  Strategists don’t expect the dollar to falter in the
slowing economy. It will remain unchanged on average by the
fourth quarter against currencies of the Group of 10 Nations,
according to estimates of strategists compiled by Bloomberg.  Main Reserve Currency  The dollar represents 60.7 percent of the world’s currency
reserves, compared with 26.6 percent for the euro, which has the
next biggest portion, according to the  International Monetary
Fund  in  Washington . That leaves investors with few alternatives
as the Swiss National Bank and Bank of  Japan  step up their
efforts to curb gains in their currencies, according to
Jespersen.  “The SNB and the BOJ have been very aggressive, not only
in talk but in action, and therefore safe-haven flows are being
allocated more toward the  U.S. dollar ,” Jespersen said.  Gains of 10 percent in the Swiss franc and 4.5 percent for
the yen in the past three months have weighed on the export-
reliant economies and prompted the central banks to take action
to curb further appreciation.  The SNB lowered its target for three-month franc  London 
interbank offered rate, or the rate banks charge to lend to each
other in Swiss francs for three months, to “as close to zero as
possible” on Aug. 3. It said it may take further steps.  The yen has erased all its losses since the Bank of Japan
intervened Aug. 4 and expanded monetary stimulus by 10 trillion
yen ($130.5 billion). Finance Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  introduced
a $100 billion funding program last week for Japanese businesses
intended to encourage the exchange of “yen-denominated funds to
foreign currencies.”  “There are few currencies left to buy that don’t mind
going up,” Kit Juckes, head of foreign-exchange research in
London for Societe Generale SA and the second-most accurate
currency forecaster as measured by Bloomberg said in an
interview last week. “How much weaker can the dollar get?”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net ;
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  