-- 
Texas Dust Bowl Drives Cotton Rally as Perry Prays for Rain

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   C a m p b e l l   a n d   J o s e p h   R i c h t e r
-- 
2011-08-29T11:19:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-28/dust-bowl-in-texas-means-cotton-bottoming-with-rick-perry-praying-for-rain.html
The worst U.S. crop conditions since
the dust bowl era of the 1930s are tightening domestic supplies
of cotton and boosting prospects for a rebound in prices that
fell more than any other commodity this year.  Withering fields in  Texas , the largest U.S. grower, led
Governor Rick Perry, a Republican presidential candidate and the
son of a cotton farmer, to ask supporters to pray for rain to
end a “monster drought” shrinking cattle herds and killing
crops. Cotton futures in New York may rise as much as 15 percent
by the end of December to $1.20 a pound, the median of 17
estimates in a Bloomberg survey of analysts showed.  “It’s by far the worst drought I’ve ever been through,”
said Dahlen Hancock, 52, who has farmed cotton for three decades
near Lubbock, Texas, and lost more than half of the 5,850 acres
he planted this year. “We thought we’d kind of seen it all, to
some degree. This rewrote the books.”  Shortages in everything from corn to coffee are spurring
speculators to buy crops, anticipating that slower economic
growth will still mean supply deficits. At a time when bets on
higher  oil prices  dropped 13 percent in seven weeks and those on
copper disappeared, wagers on 11 agricultural commodities rose
38 percent, U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission data show.  Cotton slumped 52 percent since reaching the all-time high
of $2.197 in March and encouraged U.S. farmers to allocate 25
percent more acres to the crop. This year’s 28 percent plunge in
prices is the worst among the Standard & Poor’s GSCI gauge of 24
commodities, which rose 4.2 percent.  Gap, American Eagle  The MSCI All-Country World Index of equities fell 9.1
percent, and Treasuries returned 7.2 percent, a Bank of America
Merrill Lynch index shows. Costlier fiber may raise costs for
clothing companies from  Gap Inc. (GPS)  to American Eagle Outfitters
Inc.  The  drought  in Texas and parts of five neighboring states
may exacerbate gains in United Nations-tracked world food
prices, which held near a record in June. Global corn stockpiles
will slide for a third year through August 2012, as a record
harvest fails to meet demand, U.S. Department of Agriculture
data show. Wheat inventories will shrink for a second year, and
soybean supplies will drop, the USDA estimates. Damage to
grazing pastures means the U.S. cattle herd on July 1 was the
smallest for that date since at least 1973.  The USDA expects 30 percent of the domestic cotton crop
will be lost, topping the previous record of 27 percent in 1933,
when dust storms wiped out fields in Texas and  Oklahoma  amid the
Great Depression.  Crop Insurance  Insurance and programs to conserve soil and water are
helping today’s farmers avoid the same economic devastation,
according to Jon Devine, a lead economist at Cotton Inc., a
trade group based in Cary,  North Carolina .  Claims will be higher than in recent years because of
damage to non-irrigated, dry-land cotton and crops on farms with
access to stored water supplies, according to Ted Etheredge.
He’s the president of Lubbock, Texas-based Armtech Insurance,
the fifth-largest U.S. writer of federally sponsored crop
policies.  U.S. farmers are expected to make record profit this year,
the USDA estimates. Farm income may reach $94.7 billion in 2011
and cotton farmers’ average net-cash profit, or earnings used to
pay expenses and debt, may rise 21 percent to $294,200 this
year, for a second consecutive gain, the USDA  estimated  in
February.  Monitored Warehouses  The U.S. may harvest about 16.55 million bales of cotton in
the year that began Aug. 1, down 8.6 percent from an estimated
18.1 million bales in the previous season, according to the
USDA. A bale weighs 480 pounds, or 218 kilograms.  Cotton may rally because the U.S. has “basically run out
of stocks this year” until the harvest begins in October, said
Peter Egli, a Chicago-based director of risk management at
merchant Plexus Cotton Ltd. The government estimates American
stockpiles at the end of July were the lowest in 15 years.
Inventories in warehouses monitored by the ICE Futures U.S.
exchange plunged 86 percent this year.  “This bottleneck situation could temporarily spike
prices,” Egli said. Manufacturers “don’t have to panic,”
because supplies from  Australia  and  Brazil  will compensate for
U.S. losses when they are available for shipment in May and
June, he said.  Global production is forecast at a record 122.7 million
bales, up 7.1 percent from a year ago, according to the USDA.
Worldwide consumption will rise 1.1 percent to 115.2 million
bales, the estimates show.  Chinese Production  In March, cotton surged to the highest in 140 years of
trading in  New York  as flooding in  Pakistan  and freezes in  China 
ruined crops.  Output in  India , the largest exporter after the U.S., may
jump to a record in the season ending Sept. 30, according to the
country’s Cotton Advisory Board. Australia, the third-biggest
exporter, may plant a record crop in 2011-2012, industry group
 Cotton Australia  said Aug. 10. Production in China, the world’s
top grower, may rise for the first time in four years, according
to Beijing Orient Agribusiness Consultant Ltd.  Concern about economic growth may curb demand, limiting the
rally anticipated in the Bloomberg survey. The U.S. will expand
at an average 2.3 percent annual rate in the second half of the
year, about a percentage point less than projected in July, the
median estimate of 53 economists surveyed by Bloomberg showed.  Economic Growth  Gross domestic product climbed at a 1 percent annual rate
from April through June, less than previously estimated, capping
the weakest six months of the recovery that began in mid 2009,
revised Commerce Department figures showed on Aug. 26.  Slowing job growth and plunging confidence, exacerbated by
political gridlock and financial-market turmoil this month,
threaten to weigh on consumer and business spending for the rest
of the year. The  Federal Reserve ’s policy-setting committee said
Aug. 9 that growth is “considerably slower” than anticipated.  Global consumption slid 11 percent to a four-year low in
the 2008-2009 marketing year, amid the worst global recession
since World War II. U.S. use fell to the lowest in at least four
decades. U.S. apparel imports dropped 12 percent to $64.3
billion in 2009, according to the  National Council of Textile
Organizations .  World use also declined during the U.S. recessions in
1990-1991 and 1981-1982, USDA data show. Futures fell by at
least 10 percent during four of the past six  recessions . The
biggest decline in that time was 44 percent, from 1973 to 1975.  Buying Underwear  “The consumer gets the final vote,” said  Mike Stevens , an
independent trader in Mandeville, Louisiana. “The mill could
buy the cotton, the mill could spin it, and make it into a t-
shirt or underwear, but somebody’s got to take that off the
shelf. If you’re a guy out of work, he’s not running here buying
new underwear tomorrow.”  The 7.6 percent rebound in global demand after the end of
the U.S. recession helped push futures up 54 percent in 2009 and
92 percent in 2010. In the year ended July 31, U.S. exporters
booked a record number of cotton shipments for the marketing
year that began this month, according to Devine of Cotton Inc.  Texas farmers produced $1.15 billion of cotton in 2008,
boosting the state’s $1 trillion economy, data from the National
Cotton Council and the Department of Commerce show. The state’s
cotton  industry  employs more than 38,000 people, generating
about $5.5 billion of revenue.  Abandoning Crops  Farmers have abandoned 54 percent of cotton fields in the
High Plains region of Texas, the biggest growing area, according
to Plains Cotton Growers Inc., a Lubbock, Texas-based industry
group. This year’s drought caused a record $5.2 billion in farm
losses across the state, according to Texas A&M University.  “My dad was a dry-land cotton farmer,” Governor Perry
said in a speech while standing on bales of hay at the Iowa
State Fair in Des Moines on Aug. 15. “You want to know how I
learned my faith? Be a dry-land cotton farmer, and you
understand that you’re going to spend a lot of time asking the
good Lord to do something on the weather side of things.”  Conditions today in the south central U.S., particularly in
Texas and Oklahoma, are the worst since at least the dust bowl
era, said Gary Raines, an economist at industry consultant
FCStone Fibers & Textiles in Nashville,  Tennessee .  Worsening Conditions  The conditions that caused the drought will probably
persist or intensify, according to  Chris Hyde , a meteorologist
at MDA EarthSat Weather Inc. in Gaithersburg,  Maryland . The one-
year drought, the  most severe  on records going back to 1895,
goes beyond Texas cotton.  More than 50 percent of the area in a six-state region in
the southern U.S., which consists of Texas, Oklahoma, Arkansas,
Louisiana, Mississippi and Tennessee, is experiencing
“exceptional” drought, according to the University of Nebraska
Lincoln’s U.S. Drought Monitor.  Oklahoma  had the hottest July
ever, according to the Oklahoma Climatological Survey.  In Texas, the second-biggest winter-wheat grower and the
biggest cattle producer, 99.9 percent of the state is suffering
from drought, and 96 percent of  pasture  and range conditions
were rated “poor” or “very poor” in the week ended Aug. 21.  Clothing retailers are still contending with the surge in
prices over the past two years. San Francisco-based Gap, the
largest U.S. apparel chain, reported Aug. 18 that second-quarter
profit fell 19 percent as higher retail prices failed to cover
the gain in manufacturing costs.  Squeezing Profit Margins  “Companies have seen 10 to 20 percent year-on-year cost
increases” in cotton and other raw material costs, said
Adrienne Tennant, an analyst at Janney Montgomery Scott LLC in
Vienna, Virginia. “The price increases that we saw six to nine
months ago are showing up in products now.”  Cotton will squeeze margins in the second half of the year
for  American Eagle Outfitters Inc. (AEO) , the Pittsburgh-based teen-
apparel chain, Chief Executive Officer James O’Donnell said Aug.
24 on a conference call with analysts. The company lowered its
full-year profit forecast to 85 cents to 95 cents a share, from
a May projection of $1.02.  The slump in prices since March won’t reduce costs until
later this year, Susan McGalla, chief executive officer of  Wet
Seal Inc. (WTSLA) , the Foothill Ranch, California-based apparel chain,
said in a conference call with analysts Aug. 18.  “When we think about buy, hold or short, cotton’s
definitely something that we would lean toward buying,” said
James Dailey, who manages $200 million at TEAM Financial
Management LLC in Harrisburg,  Pennsylvania . “You just look
across the supply and demand situation for a lot of agricultural
commodities, they’re very tenuous.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elizabeth Campbell in Chicago at 
 ecampbell14@bloomberg.net ;
Joseph Richter in Washington at 
 jrichter1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  