-- 
Eurobank, Alpha Said to Merge Forming Biggest Greek Bank

-- B y   C h r i s t o s   Z i o t i s   a n d   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s
-- 
2011-08-28T15:17:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-28/efg-eurobank-alpha-said-to-plan-merger-creating-biggest-lender-in-greece.html
EFG Eurobank Ergasias SA (EUROB)  and Alpha
Bank SA, Greece’s second and third-biggest banks, plan to merge
in a bid to bolster their assets and ride out a deepening
recession and the country’s sovereign debt crisis.  Both boards will meet tomorrow to approve the terms of the
friendly deal, one person with knowledge of the matter said
yesterday, declining to be named because talks are confidential.
The meetings were confirmed by another person, who also declined
to be named. A joint press conference will be held at 2 p.m.
tomorrow in  Athens , the two banks said, without disclosing any
details of the subject.  The alliance between the two lenders would create Greece’s
biggest bank with assets of 150 billion euros ($217 billion),
more than 2,000 branches and about 80 billion euros in deposits.
Qatar investors, who already have a stake in Alpha, will
participate in the new entity, according to one of the people.  “A merger between any of the major Greek banks and a
concurrent capital injection would be welcomed by the market,
regulators and policymakers,” said Alexander Kyrtsis, a senior
banking analyst at UBS AG in  London . “Capital is scarce and a
deal could enable the banks to access the market and private
investors.”  European Union and Greek officials, including central bank
chief  George Provopoulos , have pressed the country’s lenders to
form stronger groups that can survive a crisis that has depleted
capital as bond prices slump, loan-losses mount and banks lose
deposits. Lenders have been left reliant on funding from the
 European Central Bank . Combining banks may lead to stronger
balance sheets, cost savings and better access to capital.  Bank Shares  Eurobank Deputy Chief Executive Nikolaos Karamouzis and
George Aronis, a general manager at Alpha and member of the
board, declined to comment on the merger report.  Share prices in  Greece ’s lenders plummeted last week as the
country grappled with a third year of recession and the
government was negotiating a second bailout package that will
entail losses for bondholders. Alpha’s shares fell 26 percent to
1.9 euros and Eurobank declined 22 percent to 1.73 euros.  Alpha Bank and Eurobank ended the week with a combined
market value of barely 2 billion euros, according to Bloomberg
data, down from about 23 billion euros at the end of 2007 as the
global financial crisis and Greece’s debt woes eroded value.  Earnings Due  The country’s recession and struggle to avert default led
deposits by businesses and households to fall for a sixth
straight month in June, the Athens-based  Bank of Greece (TELL)  said on
Aug. 9. Deposits have declined 21.4 billion euros since December
2010, or 10 percent, with the withdrawals forcing Greek banks to
borrow more from the central bank as money markets remain shut.  They owed the ECB 103.3 billion euros in June, up from 97.5
billion euros in May, according to Greek central bank figures
released on July 25.  The two banks, and  National Bank of Greece SA (ETE) , the nation’s
largest, are due to report earnings for the second quarter this
week, with Eurobank set to announce results tomorrow.  The effect of a government bond swap, part of a 159
billion-euro EU financing package agreed on July 21, may mean
losses of about 4 billion euros in the second quarter for Greek
banks, UBS’s Kyrtsis said in an Aug. 26 report. That, combined
with bond buybacks and a review commissioned by the central bank
of loan portfolios “may lead to recapitalisations of up to 6
billion euros, further asset disposals and mergers and
acquisitions in following months,” he wrote.  Qatari Stake  Eurobank, with 8.7 billion euros of Greek bonds, was one of
two Greek lenders which failed European stress tests last month,
with a Tier 1 capital ratio, a measure of financial strength, of
4.9 percent under an adverse scenario, missing the 5 percent
minimum.  No details were available on financial terms of the deal.
Chairman of the new entity will be Yannis Costopoulos, the
present chairman of Alpha Bank, one person said.  The founding Costopoulos family is the largest shareholder
in Alpha, with Paramount Services Holding Ltd., which represents
one of the most prominent families in Qatar, the next-biggest,
with a 3.1 percent stake, Bloomberg data shows. Alpha sold a 4
percent stake to Paramount in June 2008 for 296 million euros.  The transaction will be the second attempt this year
involving Alpha. Alpha spurned an unsolicited offer by National
in February, citing the “uncertainties of the current
environment,” according to a statement at the time. National
holds 18.8 billion euros of Greek bonds, the largest among the
four biggest banks, while Alpha holds 5.5 billion euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maria Petrakis at   mpetrakis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at    tquinson@bloomberg.net  