-- 
Alpha to Acquire EFG Eurobank to Create Biggest Greek Lender

-- B y   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s   a n d   N a t a l i e   W e e k s
-- 
2011-08-29T16:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-28/eurobank-alpha-said-to-plan-merger-amid-sovereign-debt-crisis.html
Alpha Bank SA, Greece’s third-
largest lender, will buy  EFG Eurobank Ergasias SA (EUROB)  and increase
capital by as much as 3.9 billion euros ($5.7 billion) to ride
out a deepening recession and the country’s sovereign debt
crisis.  Alpha will offer Eurobank investors five new shares for
each seven they hold, or 0.714 Alpha shares for each Eurobank
share, according to a statement from the banks in Athens today.
That values the deal at about 750 million euros, according to
Bloomberg calculations based on Aug. 26 closing prices.  Following the merger, the bank plans to strengthen its
finances with a 1.25 billion-euro rights offer, a 500 million-
euro convertible note to be taken up by Qatari-backed Paramount
Services Holding Ltd., and more than 2.1 billion euros of
internal measures, the statement said. That will help give the
lender a core Tier 1 capital ratio of 14 percent, even after
accounting for writedowns of Greek government bonds, the
companies said.  “This merger is a decisive step in the strengthening of
the private sector economy at a crucial juncture in  Greece ’s
history, demonstrating the ongoing support of leading
international investors,” said Yannis Costopoulos, the chairman
of Alpha Bank. “I am delighted to welcome Paramount’s increased
participation in the enlarged bank.”  Shares Rebound  The combined bank will have 146 billion euros of assets and
1,300 branches across eight countries, including a top-three
position in  Romania ,  Serbia ,  Bulgaria  and Cyprus. The Qatar
investors, who already hold a stake in Alpha Bank, will have the
biggest single shareholding in the merged company, according to
the statement.  Alpha Bank rose 30 percent, the daily limit, to close at
2.47 euros and EFG Eurobank leapt 29 percent on the Athens
exchange to 2.24 euros. Competitors also surged.  National Bank
of Greece SA (ETE) , the country’s biggest bank, added 29 percent to
3.59 euros, the same gains as Piraeus Bank SA. Greek stocks
rallied, with the ASE General Index climbing the most in more
than 21 years.  “Capital is scarce and a deal could enable the banks to
access the market and private investors,” said Alexander Kyrtsis, a senior banking analyst at UBS AG in  London , before
the announcement.  Bond Writedowns  The announcement came after  Christine Lagarde , the new
International Monetary Fund chief, said European banks should be
forced to build up their capital to prevent the continent’s debt
crisis from infecting more countries.  Bolstering banks’ balance sheets “is key to cutting the
chains of contagion,” Lagarde said on Aug. 27 in remarks at the
U.S. Federal Reserve’s annual forum in  Jackson Hole ,  Wyoming .
Without an “urgent” recapitalization, “we could easily see
the further spread of economic weakness to core countries, or
even a debilitating liquidity crisis.”  Alpha Bank reported today a second-quarter net loss of
535.3 million euros, compared with a year-earlier profit of 48.7
million euros, after a writedown of its Greek  government bonds .
The portfolio was impaired by 600 million euros after a 21
percent haircut on the bonds that are held to maturity,
according to a statement today. Eurobank reported a second-
quarter net loss of 661 million euros after a writedown of its
Greek bond holdings, the Athens-based lender said today.  ECB Funding  European Union and Greek officials, including central bank
chief  George Provopoulos , have pressed the country’s lenders to
form stronger groups that can survive a crisis that has depleted
capital as bond prices slump, loan-losses mount and banks lose
deposits. Lenders have been left reliant on funding from the
 European Central Bank . Combining banks may lead to stronger
balance sheets, cost savings and better access to capital.  Share prices in Greece’s lenders plummeted last week as the
country grappled with a third year of recession and the
government pursued negotiations on a second bailout package,
which will entail losses for bondholders. Alpha’s shares fell 26
percent to 1.9 euros and Eurobank declined 22 percent to 1.73
euros.  Alpha Bank and Eurobank ended the week with a combined
market value of barely 2 billion euros, according to Bloomberg
data, down from about 23 billion euros at the end of 2007.  The chairman of the new entity will be Costopoulos with two
co-chief executive officers, Demetrios Mantzounis and Nicholas Nanopoulos.  Lower Deposits  The country’s recession and struggle to avert default led
deposits by businesses and households to fall for a sixth
straight month in June, the Athens-based  Bank of Greece (TELL)  said on
Aug. 9. Deposits have declined by 21.4 billion euros since
December 2010, or 10 percent, with the withdrawals forcing Greek
banks to borrow more from the central bank as money markets
remain shut.  They owed the ECB 103.3 billion euros in June, up from 97.5
billion euros in May, according to Greek central bank figures
released on July 25.  The Paris-based Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development said in a report on Aug. 2 that Greek banks should
look at mergers with foreign lenders to help them gain market
funding and shouldn’t rush to reduce reliance on the ECB.  Shrinking Economy  The OECD sees Greece’s economy contracting 3.5 percent this
year and growing 0.6 percent in 2012. The European Commission
estimates Greece’s debt will peak at 161 percent of gross
domestic product in 2012.  The effect of a government bond swap, part of a 159
billion-euro EU financing package agreed to on July 21, may mean
writedowns of about 4 billion euros in the second quarter for
Greek banks, UBS’s Kyrtsis said in an Aug. 26 report. That,
combined with bond buybacks and a review commissioned by the
central bank of loan portfolios, “may lead to recapitalizations
of up to 6 billion euros, further asset disposals and mergers
and acquisitions in following months,” he wrote.  Eurobank, with 8.7 billion euros of Greek bonds, was one of
two Greek lenders which failed European stress tests last month,
with a Tier 1 capital ratio, a measure of financial strength, of
4.9 percent under adverse conditions, below a 5 percent minimum.  Qatari Stake  The founding Costopoulos family is the largest shareholder
in Alpha, with Paramount, which represents one of the most
prominent families in Qatar, the next biggest, with a 3.1
percent stake, Bloomberg data show. Alpha sold a 4 percent stake
to Paramount in June 2008 for 296 million euros.  The three core shareholders, including the Latsis shipping
family, “support the proposed merger and capital plan,” the
statement said. The new bank will be called Alpha Eurobank,
according to Costopoulos.  On completion of the deal, Paramount will own 17 percent of
Alpha Eurobank, with the Latsis family -- the biggest
shareholder of Eurobank -- holding 13 percent. The Costopoulos
family will own 4 percent.  The transaction is the second merger attempt this year
involving Alpha. The lender spurned an unsolicited offer by
National Bank in February, citing the “uncertainties of the
current environment,” according to a statement at the time.
National Bank holds 18.8 billion euros of Greek bonds, the
largest among the four biggest banks, while Alpha holds 5.5
billion euros.  National Bank is planning to increase its core Tier 1
capital ratio to more than 13 percent from its current 12
percent by selling a stake in its Turkish unit Finansbank AS,
Chief Executive Officer Apostolos Tamvakakis told shareholders
at its annual meeting June 23.  The sale of a 20 percent stake in the unit will proceed
when conditions are “appropriate,” he said.  A National Bank official who declined to be identified said
the bank was supportive of consolidation and had “taken active
steps to demonstrate this.” In that context the Alpha and
Eurobank initiative was in the right direction, he said.  Alpha was advised on the transaction by Citigroup Inc. and
JPMorgan Chase & Co., while Eurobank received advice from
Goldman Sachs Group Inc., Rothschild and Barclays Plc.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Petrakis in  Athens  at   mpetrakis@bloomberg.net ;
Natalie Weeks in Athens at 
 nweeks2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at   tquinson@bloomberg.net  