-- 
Even a ‘Leave Now’ Command Can’t Force Long Beach Residents to Flee Irene

-- B y   P e t e r   S .   G r e e n
-- 
2011-08-28T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-28/even-a-leave-now-order-can-t-force-long-beach-residents-to-flee-irene.html
Rick Barry strolled down the wooden
boardwalk in Long Beach,  New York , with his wife, Midge, even as
Hurricane Irene, a Category 1 storm, approached the surfing
mecca along the Atlantic Ocean.  Waves higher than 10 feet (3 meters) crashed down on the
wide beach of the 131-year-old  Long Island  city, about 25
miles from midtown  Manhattan . Police and firefighters passed
through hours earlier yesterday, warning residents to evacuate
by 5 p.m. local time. At noon, Nassau County Executive Edward Mangano said, “Leave now.”  “If it was a Category 3 storm, we’d be out of here,” said
Barry, 65. “But we grew up here. The locals know if their house
is pretty substantial to resist 60-mile-an-hour winds and we
know which parts of town are going to flood.”  Barry said he’s well-stocked with flashlights, candles,
plywood and a screw gun, in case windows break in the storm.  From  Virginia  to  Massachusetts , an “extremely dangerous”
 storm surge  may raise water levels 4 feet to 8 feet, the
 National Weather Service  said in an advisory. In Long Beach, a
city of about 35,000 on a nine-mile barrier island, the surge
may be 6 to 10 feet above normal, said Kara Guy, a spokeswoman
for Nassau County.  Long Beach may also face wind gusts of up to 90 mph.
Together, the wind and water might submerge most of the city’s
streets and flood basements and ground floors of the low-lying
island on which it sits.  Barry has company among residents who said they will stick
it out, citing what they called media hype and politicians who
fear an event similar to the bungled response to  Hurricane
Katrina  along the U.S. Gulf Coast in 2005.  ‘Long While’  “Our house has been here a long while,” said Doreen
Candon, as she stopped along the boardwalk to chat with friends.
She said she stocked up and has pumps and a generator in her
home, two blocks from the beach.  “In Katrina, they had dams and levees around them,” she
said, referring to the storm that devastated  New Orleans .” Here
we just have the sea. The water rolls in and rolls back out.”  Long Beach residents who refuse to evacuate are also
ignoring the advice New York Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  had for
residents of flood-prone parts of his city.  “This is a storm where if you’re in the wrong place at the
wrong time, it can be fatal,” Bloomberg said in a televised
briefing as he asked residents of low-lying areas to leave their
homes.  “If you haven’t left yet, you should leave now,” said the
mayor, the founder and majority owner of Bloomberg news parent
Bloomberg LP. “Not later this evening. Not later this
afternoon. But immediately.”  Occupied Homes  In  Long Beach , most of the 6- to 10-story apartment
buildings lining the beach were shuttered. A few blocks from the
beach, most homes remained occupied. Parked cars lined streets
and driveways on the way to the village of Island Park a mile
inland.  “What can I tell you, people don’t want to go,” said Ed
Madden, third deputy chief of Island Park’s volunteer fire
department. “We warned them. We can’t force them.”  Not everyone was planning to stay. Giovanni Condon, 15 and
his schoolmate, Pat Vita, 16, from nearby Sayville, stood in
glistening wetsuits on the boardwalk, holding their surfboards
after 5 hours in the water.  Condon left the water because his grandmother told him he’d
been in long enough. He’d already packed his evacuation bag. “I
just want to surf the biggest wave until I got to go back to
school,” he said.  Roommates Stella Taylor, 28, and Stephanie Kaminski, 26,
both managers at  Abercrombie & Fitch Co. (ANF)  stores on Long Island,
said they planned to leave for a friend’s home in Glen Cove, on
Long Island’s North Shore.  Roofless House  Taylor, of  Florida , said she was home when Hurricane
Charley blew the roof off her house in 2004.  “I don’t think Long Island is ready for a hurricane like
this,” she said. “In Florida, this would be nothing.”  At the glass-fronted Allegria Hotel, an eight-story
building with bleached wood floors and windows overlooking the
boardwalk, manager Kevin Cottet said his 143 rooms were almost
all taken by television crews covering the storm.  As NBC weatherman Al Roker passed through the lobby, Cottet
said he’d made guests sign a waiver acknowledging they were
ignoring the evacuation order. A skeleton staff was staying
behind and sandbagging.  Earlier, town bulldozers sculpted 15-foot sand berms from
the beach to protect the hotel and other beachfront buildings.  “Bar business is awesome tonight,” Cottet said. With
businesses on Long Beach’s main commercial strip shuttered, he
said “they’ve got nowhere else to go.”  Firefighter Response  Madden, the fire official, said he worried about residents
who refused to evacuate. State rules bar his crews from
venturing out when winds exceed 55 mph, but if longtime
neighbors in his community call for help, his firefighters will
respond, he said.  Downed  power lines , ruptured gas pipes or extinguished
pilot lights could all spark fires during the storm.  “We know everyone in this town,” Madden said. “So it’s
hard to say we’re not going to come,”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Peter S. Green in Long Beach, N.Y., at
   psgreen@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  