-- 
FEMA’s Fugate Urges East Coast Residents to ‘Stay Inside’ Following Irene

-- B y   D a n i e l l e   I v o r y   a n d   M i c h a e l   A .   R i l e y
-- 
2011-08-28T15:09:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-28/fema-s-fugate-urges-east-coast-residents-to-stay-inside-following-irene.html
The head of the  Federal Emergency
Management Agency  urged residents of the U.S. East Coast to
“stay inside, stay safe,” speaking on CNN’s “State of the
Union.”  “We still will have trees coming down, heavy rain, strong
winds,” FEMA’s  Craig Fugate  said on CNN. “It’s critical to
stay off the roads” because of downed power lines, Fugate, who
made the rounds of the Sunday talk shows, said on NBC’s “Meet
the Press” program.  The storm, which made landfall in North Carolina yesterday
and in the New York City area today, has killed at least nine
people and flooded the  Outer Banks . It left more than 4 million
homes and businesses without power as it churned up the East
Coast, according to the  Associated Press .  The damage from the hurricane has “not been as great as we
had feared,” though flooding along the East Coast remains a
danger, Fugate said on “Fox News Sunday.''  “We’ve got flooding everywhere and flash floods in all
different parts of the state,” New Jersey Governor  Chris Christie  said on CNN’s “State of the Union” program. “Do not
leave your homes.”  “It’s still not safe,” Christie said on CNN.  Speaking from the New Jersey emergency command center,
Christie said that there are 15,000 people in emergency shelters
in the state and that 500,000 are without power.  Jersey Shore Evacuations  He said that 1 million people were evacuated from the New
Jersey shore in less than 24 hours, significantly reducing the
impact of the storm. Newark Mayor  Cory Booker , appearing on
“Meet the Press,” said there were about 10 water rescues.  Fugate said on NBC he wouldn’t yet “hazard a guess” on
how much damages from Hurricane Irene will cost the government
and taxpayers.  The agency is “starting assessments” in North Carolina,
Fugate said on “Meet the Press.” He said the U.S. government
plans to work with the private sector in the rebuilding effort.  FEMA has mobilized six search and rescue squads
specializing in urban areas and they are standing by in staging
areas, according to Fugate on ABC’s “This Week.” None of the
squads had yet been deployed, he said. State search and rescue
teams performed 67 swift-water rescues in  North Carolina , Fugate
said on ABC.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Danielle Ivory in Washington at 
 divory@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Riley in Washington at   michaelriley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 