-- 
Ferrari Prices Accelerate at Record Auction as Others Stall

-- B y   S c o t t   R e y b u r n
-- 
2011-08-29T12:31:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-28/ferraris-accelerate-at-record-167-million-auctions-as-other-prices-stall.html
The classic-car market is dividing
between the best models, whose prices are racing to records, and
others that are faltering on the sales’ start line, dealers say.  Auction totals are beating forecasts and some sellers made
bigger returns from their Ferraris this month than from volatile
financial markets. Still, investors are aware that an average
classic auto can offer less lucrative returns.  “The market has polarized,” Geneva-based auto adviser
Simon Kidston said in an interview. “Big-ticket cars are making
more and more money. The rest is becoming much more difficult to
sell.”  Kidston attended this month’s Monterey Car Week,  North
America ’s bellwether for the market, where the three biggest
auctions increased by 11 percent over last year.  “The results were better than anyone could have
expected,” said Kidston, the founder of Kidston SA. “The
auction houses are having to work harder, though. Certain cars
are being guaranteed and bidding isn’t as deep or as frenetic as
it was three years ago. The top lots went to known collectors.
There aren’t enough younger new buyers entering the market.”  There will be another test of demand on Sept. 16 at
Goodwood in  England , with a Bonhams sale of 90 cars with a total
value of as much as 11 million pounds ($18 million).  Racing Jaguar  A 1963 “Semi-Lightweight” hardtop Jaguar E-Type, one of
two road models built as variants of the 12 competition cars
that the factory created to take on Ferrari at  Le Mans , may
fetch as much as 2 million pounds. The coupe has a claimed top
speed of 165 mph and was made for the shipping magnate Robert
Ropner. It has its original gray paintwork and hasn’t been
offered at auction before.  The Historic Automobile Group International (HAGI) Top 50
benchmark Index of exceptional classic cars has gained 10.05
percent this year, the London research company said. The  price
index  had annual growth of more than 12 percent from 2003 to
2008, HAGI said.  Gooding & Co., RM Auctions and Bonhams raised $166.7
million from the Monterey sales, up from $150.2 million in 2010.
Gooding and RM both had official totals of $78.2 million, with
selling rates of more than 80 percent for respective offerings
of 127 and 144 cars. More sales came after the auctions.  Ferrari’s $16.6 Million  A 1957 Ferrari was sold by Gooding for $16.4 million, a
record for any car at auction. In May 2009, a similar Ferrari
250 Testa Rossa of the same date -- though in black and without
a Le Mans history -- was sold by RM Auctions in  Italy  for a
record 9 million euros ($12.2 million).  Gooding raised $10.3 million, a record for an American car
at auction, for a bespoke 1931 Duesenberg Model J Coupe. It had
changed hands for $2.5 million in a private transaction three 
years ago, according to dealers. A further $3 million was given
for a 1956 Ferrari 410 Superamerica Pininfarina Series II.  “That was a strong price,” said Dietrich Hatlapa, founder
of HAGI and the author of “Better than Gold: Investing in
Historic Cars.” “Quality material changed hands and people
were prepared to pay for it. A lot of money has been pulled out
of the stock markets and some of it has found its way into
tangible assets like classic cars.”  A silver 1937 Mercedes-Benz 540 K Spezial Roadster was RM’s
top lot, at $9.7 million. The auction featured 14 prices of more
than $1 million, with another 15 at Gooding.  Bonhams’s auction of less stellar autos at Quail Lodge
found buyers for 53 percent of 401 lots, raising $10.3 million,
with no cars managing a hammer price of more than $1 million.
Last year’s sale raised $18.6 million.  Investment Cost  Tim Schofield, Bonhams’s U.K. head of cars, remains
skeptical about some classic autos as an alternative investment.  “We’re not seeing much of that kind of buying,” Schofield
said. “Cars have to be insured and garaged, and from the first
day they’re made, the condition deteriorates. We sell to
passionate collectors.”  In addition to maintenance and restoration costs, if cars
are bought and sold at auction, sellers and buyers are liable to
transaction fees of as much as 20-30 percent.  (Scott Reyburn writes about the art market for Muse, the
arts and culture section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Scott Reyburn in London at  sreyburn@hotmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 