-- 
GM Retains No. 1 China Sales Rank

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-08-28T23:41:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-28/gm-keeps-top-china-overseas-sales-rank.html
General Motors Co. (GM)  is sacrificing
profit margins to maintain market share in China, cutting prices
of low-cost minivans by as much as 15 percent to offset slowing
sales in the world’s largest vehicle market.  Propping up minivan sales through sticker-price reductions
is crucial for helping Detroit-based GM remain the top overseas
automaker in China, ahead of Volkswagen AG, after the government
ended stimulus programs and local authorities restricted
purchases to curb highway congestion.  “GM does not rely on the minibus for profit,” said Jenny Gu, a Shanghai-based analyst with industry researcher J.D. Power
& Associates. “They only contribute volume.”  Industry sales of the vehicles -- nicknamed “bread
trucks” for their boxy shape -- fell more than 10 percent in
the first seven months of this year, according to the  China 
Association of Automobile Manufacturers. Sales at GM minivan
venture SAIC-GM-Wuling Automobile Co. declined 3 percent in the
same period, according to the company.  The venture dropped the price of its Wuling  Sunshine 
minivan, China’s most-popular vehicle last year, to 28,000 yuan
($4,384) from 33,000 yuan earlier this year, according to GM.  Slowing China Sales  “We made some short-term focused promotions to help the
overall market situation,” Matthew Tsien, the Liuzhou-based
vice president at SAIC-GM-Wuling, said in an interview. “We
don’t expect it to be a long-term issue. China is looking at
very robust growth in the  auto industry .”  SAIC-GM-Wuling makes about 2,000 yuan ($313) in profit on
average for every minivan, according to  J.D. Power . Based on
GM’s 44 percent stake in the venture, its share would be $138.  “The margin is quite low,” Gu said. “It’s not like the
middle segment or luxury cars, where margins are very high.”  Vehicle sales in China may rise about 5 percent this year,
the manufacturers association said July 8, slashing its previous
estimate of 10 percent to 15 percent growth. Last year, sales
gained 32 percent as the government offered sales-tax breaks and
rebates for buyers in rural areas.  China is GM’s largest market, and SAIC-GM-Wuling accounted
for about half of the 2.35 million vehicles the automaker sold
there last year.  “The next 12 months look tough,”  Ashvin Chotai , London-
based managing director for Intelligence Automotive  Asia , said
of minivan sales.  “Incentives brought forward buying in a very dramatic
fashion in 2009, 2010, and now we are seeing a lack of pent-up
demand.”  Volkswagen, SAIC Motor  The drop in minivan sales may help Volkswagen narrow its
gap behind GM, Gu said. GM sold 1.27 million vehicles in the
country in the first six months, compared with Wolfsburg,
Germany-based Volkswagen’s 1.1 million, according to figures
from the companies.  About one in eight vehicles sold last year in China were
minivans. They are popular with small-business owners,
especially in rural areas, because of their versatility in
transporting goods and people.  GM has a 49 percent share of the minivan market, according
to  Westlake Village , California-based J.D. Power. Changan
Automobile Group Co.’s Chana Minibus is No. 2 in sales with
about half the total of Wuling Sunshine in the first seven
months. Volkswagen does not sell a minivan in China.  GM’s New York-listed shares have plunged 38 percent this
year. Partner SAIC Motor Corp., China’s biggest domestic
automaker, has risen 8.8 percent in Shanghai.  China Specifications  GM started producing minivans in China in 2003 with
Shanghai-based SAIC Motor and the government of Liuzhou city in
the southern Guangxi region. Overseas carmakers can operate
plants in the country only through ventures with local companies.  Chinese minivans are typically smaller and cheaper than
those in the U.S., where they are used predominantly as
passenger vehicles. The Sunshine has a 2.5-meter (98-inch)
wheelbase compared with the 3-meter Toyota Motor Corp. Sienna,
the top-selling minivan in the U.S.  The Sienna costs almost six times more than the Sunshine,
according to  Kelley Blue Book , a vehicle-pricing guide.  Deliveries of the Sunshine dropped 17 percent to 415,046 in
the first seven months after rising 9 percent last year and more
than 60 percent in 2009. GM has been the largest overseas
automaker in China since 2006.  50 Percent Increase  GM said it first offered rebates on minivans at the end of
May and introduced further price cuts in July. Buyers get
discounts of up to 5,000 yuan on all Wuling minivans, on top of
dealership promotions such as free auto insurance and fuel.  Minivan sales at Zhu Yi’s GM dealerships in southwest China
increased 50 percent after the July price cuts, he said. Many of
his customers run small businesses or work in construction.  “The promotions GM put in place really helped us out,”
Zhu, 34, said. “It helped to improve the price competitiveness
of our product, and our competition has no answer to this.”  Zhu runs 76 dealerships in Sichuan province, one of the top
10 markets for Wuling in China. He sold about 2,000 cars a month
before GM cut prices, and about 3,000 after.  “In my seven years as a Wuling dealer, this is the first
time Wuling has put in place a promotion of this magnitude,” he
said.  The promotions attracted buyers like Zhang Chunyu, 28, who
helps run a renovation business in  Shanghai .  “Its cheap, functional, and efficient,” Zhang said of the
champagne-colored Wuling  Rongguang  minivan he bought this month.
“Before this, I had to lug my work tools around with me on a
motorcycle. The van has made it so much more convenient.”  GM Chief Executive Officer Dan Akerson said during an Aug.
4 conference call that the company is “well-positioned” to
increase its market share in China. The automaker will introduce
60 new and upgraded models in the country during the next five
years.  SAIC-GM-Wuling  also started building passenger cars under
the Baojun brand.  “We believe the minibus will remain as its main business
for the long term,” J.D. Power’s Gu said.  --Liza Lin. Editors: Chua Kong Ho, Michael Tighe  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liza Lin in Shanghai at 
 llin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kae Inoue at 
 kinoue@bloomberg.net  