-- 
Gold’s ‘Absurd’ Price Makes Stocks Look Cheap: Chart of the Day

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-08-28T18:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-28/gold-s-absurd-price-makes-stocks-look-cheap-chart-of-the-day.html
U.S. stocks are cheap and will
outperform gold as bullion prices are poised to fall from
“absurd” levels, according to  Mirae Asset  Securities Co.  The CHART OF THE DAY shows the price spread between the
SPDR Gold Trust, an exchange-traded fund that tracks bullion,
and the SPDR Dow Jones Industrial Average ETF, a fund which
mimics the performance of the 30 stocks in the index. The
premium widened by the most since the fund for the precious
metal was started in November 2004.  Gold surged to an all-time high above $1,900 an ounce last
week, pushing the value of bullion to $9.1 trillion based on
cumulative supply, or about 2.75 times the market capitalization
of companies in the Dow index, said John Wadle, head of regional
banks research at the Hong Kong unit of Mirae Asset. Companies
in the U.S. equities gauge have an average dividend yield of 2.7
percent and trade at 11.3 times estimated earnings as of Aug. 25,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Gold is now a bubble compared with U.S. blue-chip
stocks,” Wadle said in an e-mail in response to questions from
Bloomberg. U.S. equities are “massively undervalued” based on
future dividend yields of more than 3 percent, compared with no
investment yields and storage costs associated with gold, he
said in a report. Billionaire  George Soros  cut his holdings in
the  SPDR Gold Trust  this year as prices rallied, while Paulson &
Co., the hedge fund run by  John Paulson , remained the largest
holder, according to regulatory filings this month.  Investors can get a 130 percent return by investing in Dow
stocks over the next two decades even if earnings rise by 2
percent under a deflationary scenario, Wadle said. To match this
performance, gold prices would need to rise to $4,400 an ounce
and the total value of bullion must surge to $27.6 trillion
based on current and future supply, he said.  “This is absurd because it would represent two times the
U.S.’s current gross domestic product and more than twice the
current value of all U.S. equities,” he said. “The gold price
is an absurdity waiting to correct.”  --Irene Shen, Zhang Shidong. With assistance from  Richard Dobson .
Editors: Allen Wan, Shiyin Chen  To contact the reporter on this story:
Irene Shen in Shanghai at 
 ishen4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  