-- 
Libyan Rebels Say Qaddafi Using Human Shields

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   S t e p h e n   a n d   R o x a n a   T i r o n
-- 
2011-08-28T22:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-28/libyan-rebels-say-qaddafi-using-human-shields-to-defend-sirte-stronghold.html
Libyan rebels advanced toward Sirte,
Muammar Qaddafi’s hometown, where they said forces loyal to the
leader used civilians as human shields to block opposition
fighters from entering.  Rebels have been waiting for the  North Atlantic Treaty
Organization  to bomb Scud missile sites so they can move ahead
even as they negotiate with Sirte tribal leaders to enter the
city peacefully.  The rebels will need about 10 days to capture Sirte “if
negotiations fail to enter the town without fight,” Colonel
Salim Miftah, one of the rebel commanders, told  Al-Jazeera .
“Our main goal is liberation not blood.”  Sirte is a haven for Qaddafi loyalists, according to the
rebel command and NATO. Qaddafi’s whereabouts are unknown. His
chief spokesman, Moussa Ibrahim, told the Associated Press Aug.
27 that Qaddafi remains in Libya and wants to negotiate with the
rebels to form a transitional government.  At least four Scud missiles have been launched from Sirte
at the rebel stronghold of Misrata over the past two weeks,
Abdullah Maiteeg, a rebel fighter, said in an interview.  Rebel units pushed toward the town from east and west along
the coastal highway yesterday, Commander Ali Ahmed of the rebel
Sidra Brigade said in an interview.  The rebels have been trying to find Qaddafi, consolidate
their gains and bring stability to the country since entering
the capital, Tripoli, last week. The rebel National Transitional
Council officially transferred its headquarters to Tripoli from
Benghazi, in the east, on Aug. 24.  Lockerbie Bomber  The Libyan rebel government won’t deport the man convicted
of the 1988 Lockerbie bombing, its justice minister said,
according to the  Associated Press . U.S. Senator  Charles Schumer ,
Democrat of New York, had encouraged the rebel council to hold
Abdel-Baset al-Megrahi fully accountable for the bombing of Pan
Am flight 103, which killed 270 people.  Justice Minister Mohammed al-Alagi told reporters in
Tripoli that the request had “no meaning” because al-Megrahi
had already been tried and convicted.  “We will not hand over any Libyan citizen. It was Qaddafi
who handed over Libyan citizens,” the AP quoted him as saying,
as he referred to the government’s decision to turn al-Megrahi
over to the jurisdiction of the Scottish court for trial in the
Netherlands in 1999. Al-Megrahi spent almost nine years in
Scottish prison until he was released in 2009 for health
reasons. Al-Megrahi’s current whereabouts are unknown.  Water Shortage  With Tripoli under their control, the rebel leaders were
turning to domestic concerns including a water shortage and
spread of disease.  Unicef, the  United Nations Children’s Fund , said it
expected to deliver more than 110,000 bottles of water to
Tripoli by yesterday.  “Around 5 million liters of water is being procured by
Unicef from neighboring countries to be trucked and shipped with
the assistance of a UN vessel and regional shipping companies to
Tripoli in the coming days,” the organization said in an e-
mailed statement.  “We remain extremely concerned about the situation,”
Christian Balslev-Olesen, head of the Unicef office in Libya,
said. “This could turn into an unprecedented health epidemic.”  The U.K. announced plans for “urgent humanitarian
support,” including medical care and food, for people affected
by the conflict. The U.K. will supply surgical teams and
medicines for the treatment of up to 5,000 war-wounded patients,
and food for nearly 690,000 people, International Development
Secretary  Andrew Mitchell  said in an e-mail Aug. 27.  Oil Fields  The opposition council claimed full control of Libya’s oil
fields. Nouri Balroin, the head of the NTC’s oil production
unit, said output will resume within three weeks, Al Jazeera
reported yesterday. Oil experts will follow a three-stage plan
to restore the flow of oil to 1.6 million barrels a day within
15 months, he said, according to the Qatar-based network. Ras
Lanuf refinery is able to restart operations at any time,  Al
Arabiya  reported, citing the director of the facility.  The conflict has all but halted oil exports from Libya,
which has the largest proven reserves of any African country.
Output dropped to 100,000 barrels a day in July, down from the
1.6 million barrels pumped before the uprising started.  Crude oil for October delivery rose 7 cents to settle at
$85.37 a barrel on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange Aug. 26.
Futures increased 3.8 percent this week, the first weekly gain
since July, and are up 16 percent in the past year.  Civilian Deaths  Evidence of atrocities emerged at a former regime military
base, where the handcuffed bodies of 130 Libyan rebels and the
remains of 20 civilians were found, a Libyan activist and
journalist in Tripoli, Numedia al-Trabulsi, told Al Jazeera in a
telephone interview Aug. 27.  The bodies were found in the Khamis Camp in Tripoli, now
under rebel control. The Khamis Brigade is a special forces
military unit led by Qaddafi’s youngest son, Khamis.  Amnesty International  said it has uncovered evidence that
loyalist forces killed detainees at two military camps in
Tripoli on Aug. 23 and 24.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Stephen in  Libya  at 
 cstephen9@bloomberg.net ;
Roxana Tiron in Washington at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  