-- 
Iceland Revives Carry Trade as Default Risk Is Below EU

-- B y   O m a r   R .   V a l d i m a r s s o n
-- 
2011-08-29T08:38:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-28/iceland-revives-carry-trade-as-swaps-show-default-risk-is-below-eu-average.html
Iceland’s decision to break with
global crisis-fighting efforts and raise interest rates this
month may presage the return of the very same carry trade that
channeled fast money into the country before its banking crisis.  Iceland raised its main  interest rate  on Aug. 17 by a
quarter point to 4.5 percent, the first increase since its banks
collapsed almost three years ago. The central bank, which also
raised its economic forecast for 2011, is increasing rates as it
eases capital controls that have locked in $4.3 billion in krona
assets since 2008. The move may revive a trade popular before
the crisis: borrowing in low-yielding currencies and carrying
the funds into higher-yielding markets such as the krona.  “The central bank has stated that it wants to open the
door to the carry trade,” said Asgeir Jonsson, an economist at
Reykjavik-based asset manager Gamma. “As greed knows no
boundaries, carry traders will always return as long as the
yield is favorable.”  Iceland , where a 2008 banking implosion left bond investors
trying to recoup $85 billion, can now boast a lower risk of
default than the average for the European Union. The central
bank signaled this month it may continue to raise rates to
support the currency as the U.S. and the euro area resort to
emergency easing to keep their economies afloat. Iceland’s rate
rise comes as investors are turning to emerging markets to tap
into faster growth rates and lower debt levels.  The Icelandic krona strengthened for a second day, rising
0.3 percent to 113.14 per dollar as of 9:33 a.m. London time.  ‘Redefining Risk’  Credit default swaps on Iceland’s five-year debt were at
278 basis points on Aug. 26, compared with a 345 basis point
average for the 27-member European Union, CMA prices show.  “Investors are redefining risk,” Jonsson said. “Now
bonds issued by sovereigns in the emerging markets are more
desirable than those of countries such as  Italy .”  Iceland’s economy will next year outgrow the euro area and
maintain a smaller  budget deficit  in the process, the
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development said May
25. The island’s gross domestic product will expand 2.9 percent
in 2012, compared with 2 percent in the 17-member euro area.
Iceland’s government deficit will narrow to 1.4 percent of GDP,
versus a 3 percent shortfall in the euro bloc in 2012, the OECD
estimates.  ‘Road to Recovery’  The island completed a 33-month International Monetary Fund
program this month after the Washington-based lender established
that all economic “objectives have been met and the country is
on the road to recovery,” according to an Aug. 26 statement
marking the island’s final review. The IMF praised the central
bank’s decision to raise rates as an appropriate measure to tame
inflation as import prices rise. Consumer price growth held at 5
percent in August, the highest level since June 2010. The krona
has lost 6.5 percent versus the euro this year.  By raising rates “we’re making the Icelandic krona more
attractive than it otherwise would be,” said Thorarinn
Petursson, chief economist at the central bank.  While higher rates may boost the krona, such tightening
won’t “reduce inflationary expectations, on the contrary they
could worsen,” saidAsdis Kristjansdottir, an economist at
Arion Bank hf. Raising rates will instead hurt “the fragile
recovery ahead,” she said.  Though Iceland has signaled it needs to keep some form of
 capital controls  in place until as late as 2015, the central
bank is already easing the restrictions in phases.  Krona Flows  “The moment the market opens up in Iceland, carry traders
will return,” Jonsson said. “Investors’ risk appetite has
increased and is increasing and investors are increasingly
putting their money into emerging markets.”  Monthly krona flows peaked at 1.2 trillion kronur ($10.6
billion) in March 2008, seven months before Iceland’s biggest
banks failed. Iceland’s gross domestic product was 1.5 trillion
kronur for that whole year. Flows surged as the central bank
pursued a tightening cycle that brought the benchmark rate to 15
percent in March 2008. The rate reached 18 percent that year
before the bank finally imposed capital controls to protect the
currency from a sell-off after the banks failed. Monthly krona
turnover in July 2011 was 5.6 billion kronur.  While the central bank’s Petursson says Iceland is still
“quite far away from having to worry about the carry trade,”
Jonsson warns the transaction “will begin immediately” once
the country opens its capital markets. He’s not alone in voicing
concerns.  ‘Iceland’s Demise’  “Iceland should be careful when it comes to opening up the
doors for the carry trade, as those kinds of transactions played
a role in Iceland’s demise,” said Jon Bjarki Bentsson, an
economist at Islandsbanki hf. “It would be better if foreigners
were drawn to Iceland because of an underlying profitability,
not just because short-term interest rates are high.”  Not all analysts agree that the carry trade is a bad thing.
Lars Christensen, chief analyst at Copenhagen-based Danske Bank
A/S, said speculative krona purchases shouldn’t hurt the economy
provided the extra yield the central bank offers exceeds the
risks associated with holding the currency.  “Fundamentally it could be a good idea for Iceland to
attract the carry trade, if the carry trade reflects that
interest rates are higher than the perceived risk by
investors,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Omar R. Valdimarsson in Reykjavik 
 valdimarsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  