-- 
IPhones Help Brokerages Lure Young Indonesians to Internet Stock Trading

-- B y   B e r n i   M o e s t a f a
-- 
2011-08-28T23:52:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-28/iphones-help-brokerages-lure-young-indonesians-to-online-trading.html
Indonesia’s biggest online brokerage
is using  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhones to attract young people to buy
stocks in  Asia ’s best-performing market as fewer investors
convert to Internet trading and the number of web users more
than doubles in the next four years.  PT eTrading Securities , 40 percent-owned by Daewoo
Securities Co., is courting students and 25- to 30-year-olds to
fuel a targeted 15 percent growth in mobile trading this year
because investors who haven’t moved online are less willing to
try new technologies, President Director Jason Shin said.  “More and more young people with social networks are
getting into online trading,” Shin said in an Aug. 23 phone
interview from Jakarta. “Market growth is very slow, so we are
now educating newcomers such as those from universities.”  The growth of mobile Internet, fueled by social networks
run by Facebook Inc. and Twitter Inc., is likely to quicken as
the number of Indonesians with online access jumps to 100
million by 2015 from 45 million currently, according to
estimates from the national association of Internet services.  The  Jakarta Composite index (JCI)  has gained 3.7 percent this
year, compared with a 13 percent drop in the MSCI Asia Pacific
Index. That’s made Indonesia the best performer in Asia, amid
near-zero  interest rates  in  Europe  and the U.S. and as rising
inflation threatens growth in  China ,  India  and  Brazil .  Most Expensive  The gains have pushed the Jakarta index’s valuation to 15
times estimated earnings, making it the region’s most expensive
market. Still, overseas investors have bought a net $1.66
billion of shares in  Southeast Asia ’s biggest economy this year
to Aug. 26, up 27 percent from the same period in 2010,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The index will rise 12
percent to end the year to 4,300 points, Shin forecast.  “If online trading is already helping brokerages boost
share transactions, mobile trading will benefit them even
further,” Lily Widjaja, chairwoman of the Indonesian brokerage
association, said on Aug. 25. “They can reach out to new
customers in remote areas.”  eTrading was the country’s most-active brokerage last year,
accounting for 6.1 percent of total transaction volume, data
from the  Indonesia Stock Exchange  show. The company, whose
clients make up 15 percent of the nation’s retail investors,
introduced the country’s first mobile-trading applications for
iPhones and other devices in December.  Using online platforms, investors can trade stocks without
a broker, reducing costs. eTrading charges a transaction fee of
0.15 percent compared with the average rate of 0.2 percent at
conventional brokerages, Shin said.  Lower Deposits  The company runs seminars on the stock market and trading
for students, who can pay a deposit of 2 million rupiah ($233)
to 3 million rupiah to open an account, he said.  PT Panin Sekuritas,  Indonesia ’s biggest listed brokerage by
revenue, sets a  minimum deposit  of 25 million rupiah for its
online trading service and PT MNC Securities, the second-
largest, requires 5 million rupiah.  eTrading faces competition from rivals such as Panin
Sekuritas and PT UOB Kay Hian Securities, a unit of Singapore-
based UOB Kay Hian Holdings Ltd., which have branched into
online trading to expand their client base amid the growth in
Indonesia’s stock market.  Panin introduced its mobile-online trading service six
months ago, Vice President Director Winston Sual said. UOB plans
to offer the service in one or two months, said  David Chang , a
director at the Jakarta-based unit.  Internet Growth  Indonesia has 38 million Facebook users, the  most in Asia ,
according to data from Internet World Stat. Still, only about 2
percent of the nation’s 237.6 million people have Internet
connections at home, Marc Einstein, a Tokyo-based analyst at
Frost & Sullivan Inc., who has advised carriers including NTT
DoCoMo Inc. and Telstra Corp., said on March 7. Sixty percent of
Indonesians get online through Internet cafes and other
alternatives, he said.  Government plans for a 36,000-kilometer (22,369-mile)
fiber-optic cable may more than double the number of web users
by 2015 by increasing Internet penetration in the less-developed
eastern parts of the country, Roy Rahajasa Yamin, chairman of
the Indonesian association of Internet services provider, said
on Aug. 25.  Phone operators such as  PT Telekomunikasi Selular ,
Indonesia’s biggest, are driving the nation’s mobile Internet
growth by breaking web services into more affordable, bite-sized
pieces and offering them through smartphones. Devices such as
iPhones and Research in Motion Ltd.’s Blackberries represented
12 percent of mobile-phone shipments in Indonesia last year,
from 4.4 percent in 2008, according to market researcher IDC.  Indonesian Economy  The Indonesian economy will likely expand 6.5 percent this
year, the fastest pace since the 1998 Asian financial crisis,
President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono said Aug. 16. The central
bank kept its benchmark interest rate unchanged since February
at 6.75 percent, 25 basis points above a record low, after July
inflation slowed for a sixth month.  “When economies go up, people must invest somewhere,”
Shin said. “We are educating the young. They start out very
small but in three or five years when they get richer they will
invest more and more and our market will grow.”  eTrading started in 2003 as Indonesia’s first online
brokerage and the company has since grown its client base to
52,000 accounts, Shin said. That’s 15 percent of the total
346,864 accounts registered in Indonesia as of July, according
to data from the nation’s central securities depository agency.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Berni Moestafa in Jakarta at 
 bmoestafa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shiyin Chen at 
 schen37@bloomberg.net  