-- 
Irene Cuts Power to Almost 6 Million Homes, Businesses on U.S. East Coast

-- B y   J u l i e   J o h n s s o n   a n d   E d w a r d   K l u m p
-- 
2011-08-28T21:59:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-28/irene-cuts-power-to-more-than-4-million-homes-businesses-along-east-coast.html
Almost 6 million U.S. homes and
businesses were without power as a weakening Tropical Storm
Irene moved into New England and utilities began assessing
damage in the wake of the storm.  Power disruptions affected 13 states and the  District of
Columbia , the U.S. Energy Department  said in a report  today.
Irene first hit the coast of North Carolina as a Category 1
hurricane yesterday. More than 800,000 customers were without
power in  Virginia  and  Maryland .  Maine  was the latest state added
to the department’s list, with about 116,000 customers lacking
power.  Falling trees and debris dragged down power lines and winds
blew over electrical poles, cutting electricity supplies to
471,000 customers on  Long Island , east of where the storm made
its second landfall today, the Long Island Power Authority said.
More than 900,000 lost power in the state, according to a 1 p.m.
report from  New York  Governor Andrew Cuomo’s office.  Consolidated Edison Inc. (ED)  had about 115,000 customers
without power at 3 p.m., said Chris Olert, a company spokesman.
Almost 50,000 customers in Westchester County lack power, he
said. The other areas without electricity are in Queens,  Staten
Island ,  Brooklyn  and the Bronx. The company’s goal is to have
the majority of power restored by late on Aug. 30, Olert said.  “This was a two-part event for Con Edison -- water and
wind,” John Miksad, the company’s senior vice president of
electric operations, said on a conference call with reporters
today.  Manhattan  Networks  The company won’t need to shut down any power networks in
Manhattan and isn’t dealing with major flooding of its steam
system, said Miksad, who called those two things among his
biggest worries. Shutting down power in lower Manhattan may have
affected the financial district and taken days to restore, he
said.  Two nuclear reactors, one in  New Jersey  and one in
Maryland, shut as Irene roared up the eastern seaboard. None of
the reactors in the storm’s path lost power from the grid as of
noon, the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission said.  Constellation Energy Group Inc. (CEG)  called off an “unusual
event” at its Calvert Cliffs nuclear station in Lusby,
Maryland, where wind-driven debris triggered Unit 1 to
automatically shut. An unusual event is the lowest of four
emergency classifications. The plant’s second reactor is
operating at full capacity.  New England Push  Exelon Corp. (EXC) ’s Oyster Creek plant in Toms River, New
Jersey, shut yesterday in anticipation of hurricane-force winds,
said David McIntyre, a commission spokesman. The plant owner is
waiting to resume output after it and the commission’s on-site
inspectors do a safety assessment, Suzanne D’Ambrosio, an Oyster
Creek spokeswoman, said in a phone interview today.  Irene, which once had winds of up to 120 miles (194
kilometers) an hour, was downgraded to a tropical storm as it
pushed its way into  New England .  There were 327,360  Massachusetts  homes and businesses
without power as of 1 p.m. local time, according to Scott
McLeod, a spokesman for the state’s emergency management agency.  High tide coupled with a storm surge tonight may cause
flooding in the Buzzard’s Bay region of southeastern
Massachusetts, McLeod said. Flooding inland posed serious
problems for Berkshire County in western Massachusetts, he said.  As winds and rain began to lighten behind the storm in New
York, North Carolina and Virginia, utilities began moving work
crews into neighborhoods to assess damage and restore power.  Second-Worst Storm  Dominion Resources Inc. said in a statement about half its
2.4 million customers in Virginia and  North Carolina  lost power,
making Irene the second-worst storm in the company’s history
after Hurricane Isabel in 2003.  Dominion deployed more than 6,000 workers to repair storm
damage. Early efforts were focusing on restoring power to
hospitals and other public health and safety facilities, the
Richmond, Virginia-based company said in an e-mailed statement.  The company will have a damage report and assessment of how
long it will take to restore power by noon tomorrow, it said.  Pennsylvania and  Connecticut  each had more than 600,000
customers with no electricity, and there were more than 810,000
in New Jersey with no power as of 3 p.m. local time, according
to the Energy Department report.  New Jersey Clean-Up  In New Jersey, about 330,000 customers of Public Service
Electric and Gas Co. were without power, Deann Muzikar,
spokeswoman for the Newark, New Jersey-based utility, said in a
telephone interview.  Public Service, which provides power to nearly three-
quarters of New Jersey’s homes and businesses, also has about
6,000 workers poised to begin clean-up efforts as soon as winds
recede, Muzikar said. The effort should take five to seven days
as workers repair downed power lines as well as underground
natural-gas distribution equipment damaged by flooding, she
said.  Progress Energy Inc. (PGN)  had about 137,500 customers in North
and South Carolina without power as of 5 p.m. today local time,
Scott Sutton, a company spokesman said in an interview. That
marked a roughly 50 percent reduction from the peak yesterday of
280,000, he said.  “It was the real deal -- a hurricane making landfall in
North Carolina,” Sutton said, with high winds extending inland.
He said there are pockets of “substantial damage,” such as on
islands.  The company will release estimated restoration times after
it completes a damage assessment, Mike Hughes, another Progress
spokesman, said.  “We know it’s going to be a multi-day outage for the
hardest-hit areas,” Hughes said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julie Johnsson in Chicago at 
 jjohnsson@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Klump in Houston at 
 eklump@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  