-- 
Irene Moves Into New England; Millions in Dark

-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 
2011-08-28T21:12:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-28/irene-pushes-into-new-england-after-killing-11-cutting-power-to-millions.html
Tropical Storm Irene pushed through
 New England  after killing 18 people, sending rivers to near-
record heights and knocking out power to more than 4 million
customers in 12 states and the District of Columbia.  Irene was 65 miles south of Rutland, Vermont, with winds of
50 miles (80 kilometers) per hour and moving north-northeast at
26 mph as of a 5 p.m. National Hurricane Center  update . Irene is
expected to be in  Canada  later today or early tomorrow, the
center said.  “It is still a formidable storm,” said David Stark, a
National Weather Service meteorologist in Upton,  New York ,
outside of New York City. “Classifying it now is a little bit
difficult. The storm surge in the city was pretty significant.
We had the sixth-highest level ever recorded in the Battery” in
lower  Manhattan .  Irene was a shadow of the storm that roared across the
Caribbean with Category 3-strength winds of up to 120 mph and
crashed into North Carolina’s Outer Banks as a Category 1
hurricane. It dropped to tropical storm status before making
landfall in New York City at about 9 a.m.  At least 18 people died from Puerto Rico to  Connecticut , 10
of them in North Carolina and  Virginia . People from South
Carolina to  New Hampshire  lost power because of Irene, according
to a report by the  U.S. Department of Energy Office of
Electricity Delivery & Energy Reliability .  Evacuees Return  New York Mayor Michael Bloomberg said residents evacuated
from low-lying areas including Coney Island and Battery Park
City would be allowed to return home at 3 p.m. His mandatory
evacuation order Aug. 26 was the first in the city’s history.
The mayor is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News parent
Bloomberg LP.  Irene dropped 6.71 inches of rain on Central Park, Stark
said. Water levels at Battery Park rose to 9.7 feet and there
was coastal flooding all along southern Long Island, he said. A
60 mph wind gust was also recorded in the park, Stark said.  Irene may cost insurers as much as $3 billion to cover U.S.
damage, with overall economic losses of $7 billion, according to
Kinetic Analysis Corp., which predicts the impact of disasters.  Irene’s Cost  Insured losses in  North Carolina  and South Carolina are
expected to range from $200 million to $400 Million, according
to risk-modeling company Eqecat Inc. in Oakland,  California .
Irene may have caused between $500 million and $1.1 billion in
damage to the Bahamas, according to estimates from AIR Worldwide
in Boston.  The U.S. has suffered $35 billion in losses in nine
separate events so far in 2011, according to the  National
Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration . That tied a record for
disasters causing more than $1 billion damage in a single year.  Irene struck the Bahamas last week before making landfall
in North Carolina yesterday. It made a second U.S. landfall
early today along the New Jersey shore and then passed directly
over New York about three hours later, according to the
hurricane center in Miami.  Tornadoes were reported in  Delaware  and Virginia, where
they damaged homes, according to the  U.S. Storm Prediction
Center  in Norman,  Oklahoma .  High Water  Rivers and creeks throughout the Northeast are rising,
according to weather service river gauges.  The Hoosic River near Williamstown,  Massachusetts , rose 7.7
feet in 9 hours, reaching almost 4.6 feet above flood stage by
midday. The Williams River near Rockingham,  Vermont , was at
16.34 feet at 3:45 p.m., or 6.36 feet above its previous high
crest in March 1993, according to the weather service. The
Connecticut River in Montague, Massachusetts, rose 16.3 feet in
eight hours today to reach flood stage there.  Esopus Creek in Cold Brook, New York, rose 17.74 in feet 12
hours to set a record crest of 23.34 feet, breaking the mark set
in March 1980, according to the weather service. The creek
receded and was at 19.41 feet at 4 p.m.  Tropical storm warnings are in effect from Cape Henlopen,
Delaware, northward to Eastport, Maine, and into Canada.  “Continued gradual weakening will occur as the system
moves over land today,” according to the hurricane center.
“Significantly stronger winds are still possible over high-rise
structures and areas of elevated terrain.”  In the Atlantic, Tropical Storm Jose was 80 miles northwest
of Bermuda with top winds of 45 mph, the center said. Jose is
forecast to start to deteriorate tomorrow. A cluster of
thunderstorms south of the Cape Verde islands has a 70 percent
chance of becoming a tropical system in the next two days.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in  Boston  at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net . 