-- 
Irene: Deaths, Flooding, Power Losses State-by-State

-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 
2011-08-29T12:39:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-28/irene-s-damage-a-state-by-state-look-at-deaths-flooding-power-outages.html
Hurricane Irene killed at least 18
people from  Puerto Rico  to Connecticut, caused an estimated $3
billion in damage and cut electric power to more than 4 million
homes and businesses across the eastern U.S.  The deaths were concentrated in  Virginia  and North
Carolina, where at least 10 people were killed. Virginia also
sustained the second-largest power outage in state history.
State Farm Mutual Automobile Insurance Co., the largest U.S.
home and auto insurer, reported about 1,600 homeowners claims
and almost 500 auto insurance claims in North Carolina and
Virginia as of 3:00 p.m. local time.  The Bloomington, Illinois insurer is hearing reports of
downed trees, siding and roofing materials blown off houses,
power outages and “a lot of claims for loss of refrigerated
food,” said Jon Hannah, a State Farm spokesman.  The storm’s cost to insurers may have fallen to $3 billion
in the U.S. as the storm weakened on its path toward  New
England , according to  Kinetic Analysis Corp ., a firm that
predicts the effects of disasters. An earlier estimate was for
insured losses of as much as $14 billion. Federal officials are
still assessing damage and haven’t released a value on the
damage yet, said  Craig Fugate , head of the Federal Emergency
Management Agency.  State Farm reported 360 homeowners’ claims and about 60
auto-related claims in the New York metropolitan area as of 3:00
p.m. local time. The insurer reported 700 homeowners’ claims and
60 auto claims in New Jersey and 400 homeowners’ claims and 50
auto claims in  Pennsylvania . Hannah didn’t have data for
Maryland as of 3:00 p.m., but said that the state is expected to
be one of the hardest hit.  “The Maryland numbers, from what I know, are going up
exponentially,” he said.  President  Barack Obama  declared a state of emergency for 11
states, the  District of Columbia  and Puerto Rico. A federal
declaration of emergency allows states to get federal money and
support responding to damage, according to the  Federal Emergency
Management Agency ’s website. Puerto Rico was the only area
declared a “major disaster” by the agency, a level above an
emergency declaration.  The following is a state-by-state assessment of the storm’s
impact:  Connecticut  One fatality has been reported, after an unidentified
senior citizen died in a house fire caused by a falling tree
limb in the town of Prospect, according to Lieutenant P.J.
Conway, a fire department spokesman.  Connecticut Light & Power, the electrical utility serving
most of the state, reported that 486,000 customers had lost
power, surpassing the outage record set during Hurricane Gloria
in 1985.  Delaware  A tornado touched down Aug. 27 near Lewes, at the mouth of
the Delaware Bay, Cathy Rossi, a spokeswoman for Governor Jack Markell, said in an interview today. The twister tore the roof
off a house, but no one was injured, Rossi said.  Other damage came from wind gusts of up to 70 miles per
hour, which sent trees crashing onto cars and homes in the
Wilmington suburb of Arden.  Across the state, 39,000 people lost electricity, with the
majority concentrated in New Castle County, Bridget Shelton, a
spokeswoman for Delmarva Power, a unit of  Pepco Holdings Inc .,
said in a telephone interview. “It could have been a lot
worse,” Shelton said. “We’re not completely out of the woods
yet, but things are looking better.”  District of Columbia  In  Washington , the damage was limited to downed trees,
strewn debris and power outages that affected about 28,000
district residents, said Doxie McCoy, a spokeswoman for Mayor
Vincent Gray.  “There were not many injuries, a few fires. We had a
shelter open that eight people used,” McCoy said. “We came out
of it pretty good.”  A total of 183,000 customers were without power in northern
Virginia, southern  Maryland  and the District of Columbia at mid-
day today, according to the website of Pepco, the utility
servicing the area.  Florida   Two men were killed in rough surf related to the storm,
which didn’t strike the state directly, said Florida Division of
Emergency Management spokesman William Booher. The agency hadn’t
concluded whether the deaths were directly caused by the
hurricane. Booher said in a phone call Sunday afternoon that the
decision on how to attribute the deaths would likely be made
Monday.  Maine  The bulk of the storm had yet to hit the northern-most
state on the U.S. East Coast as of 12:30 p.m. local time,
Lynette Miller, a spokeswoman for the Maine Emergency Management
Agency, said in a telephone interview. She said about 15,000
residents were without power.  Maryland  A woman was killed in Queen Anne’s County after a tree fell
on a house, collapsing the chimney, said Quentin Banks, a
spokesman for the state emergency management agency. At least
822,000 people were without power, Banks said in a phone
interview.  Governor Martin O’Malley said St. Mary’s County on the
Chesapeake Bay was hard hit by downed trees and power lines, and
about 200 roads were closed. There was little damage in Ocean
City, a vacation spot where tens of thousands were evacuated
before the storm. “The beach looks good in Ocean City,”
O’Malley said in a video earlier today. “There has not been
much damage to the boardwalk to speak of.”  Massachusetts   In Massachusetts, at least 327,360 of the utility NSTAR’s
1.1 million customers had lost power as of 1 p.m. today, and
power on the island of Martha’s Vineyard was completely cut at
one point, said Scott McLeod, a spokesman for the Massachusetts
Emergency Management Agency. A high tide, coupled with the storm
surge, was poised to flood the Buzzard’s Bay region in
southeastern Massachusetts.  New Jersey   The body of 20-year-old Celena Sylvestri, of Quinton, was
recovered from a gray Honda Accord in floodwaters in Pilesgrove,
35 miles (56 kilometers) southeast of Philadelphia, said
Sergeant Brian Polite, a spokesman for the state police. A diver
found the woman in the submerged car about 150 feet off of Route
40 at 9:30 a.m. local time, eight hours after she had phoned her
boyfriend and police to report she was “up to her neck” in
water, Polite said at a news conference.  While looking for Sylvestri, emergency crews rescued
another stranded motorist, James Troy, 68, of Cape May, Polite
said.  A half-million people were without power and 15,000 were in
45 shelters, Rick Fuentes, superintendent of the state police,
said at a news conference in West Trenton. Governor  Chris Christie , appearing on morning news programs, said widespread
flooding along the Atlantic coast and inland was expected to
worsen. Christie was scheduled to speak to media again at 6:30
p.m.  New York  New York City  was spared severe damage, and the worst of
the storm had passed as of about 10 a.m. local time Sunday.
Across the state, 370,000 people were without power as of 10:30
a.m., Governor  Andrew Cuomo ’s office said.  Long Island  saw at least 471,000 people lose power, and the
outages caused “several” hospitals to lose power, Michael
Hervey, chief operating officer of Long Island Power Authority,
said on a conference call with reporters.  A man was killed in Spring Valley after being electrocuted
by power wires that had gone down in a flooded street, the
Washington Post reported. The man went into the street to try
and save a child, who was also injured, the Post said, citing
the Rockland County Emergency Operations Center.  In  Manhattan , there was flooding in Battery Park and
elsewhere. “We have dozens of crews that are out dealing with
flooding conditions,” said Cas Holloway, New York City’s deputy
mayor for operations in a WCBS television interview.  North Carolina   At least six people were killed in the state, including one
man who suffered a heart attack putting up plywood before the
storm, Ernie Seneca, a spokesman for the state’s Department of
Crime Control and Public Safety, said in a telephone interview
from Raleigh.  Interstate 95, the main north-south highway along the East
Coast, was closed in at least one location. North Carolina
Highway 12 was washed out in several places. The road is the
main artery to the Outer Banks, the thin barrier islands that
are home to vacation communities like Duck and Nags Head.  Pennsylvania  Three deaths have been attributed to the storm. A 58-year-
old man was killed in East Hanover Township by a falling tree
that crushed him in his tent, the  Associated Press  reported,
citing state police. Two other men were killed in the storm, one
by a falling tree and another whose car went off the road and
struck a tree, the AP reported.  In Philadelphia, seven buildings collapsed overnight and a
roof was torn off a six-story apartment building in the Center
City neighborhood, Mark McDonald, a spokesman for Mayor Michael Nutter, said in a phone interview. Trees were down across the
city, and the Schuylkill River was overflowing its banks and was
expected to crest at 15 feet above normal level at 2 p.m. local
time. The highest recorded level for the river was 17.5 feet in
1869, McDonald said in a phone interview.  “Between flooding and trees down, there is what you might
call a mess,” McDonald said.  Power losses were widespread across the southeastern part
of the state, with 400,000 people without electricity as of 9
a.m. PECO Energy, the electric utility for the region, has
brought in 4,000 workers from as far as Florida to handle
repairs from downed trees, Karen Muldoon Geus, a spokeswoman for
PECO Energy, said in a telephone interview.  Puerto Rico  A 62-year-old woman was killed as she tried to cross a
river in her car and was swept away, Melina Simeonides, a
spokeswoman for the commonwealth’s emergency management agency,
said in a phone interview. As of 9:45 a.m. local time, 21,800
people had lost power, about 2 percent of the total households,
she said.  Virginia  The storm caused the second-largest power outage in state
history as 2.5 million people were without electricity at one
point, said Laura Southard, a spokeswoman for the Virginia
Department of Emergency Management.  Along with the outages,
four people were killed by falling trees, said Virginia Governor
Robert McDonnell.  Dominion Resources Inc., which provides electricity to
residents of Virginia and North Carolina, said in a statement
today that it won’t be able to offer repair-time estimates until
noon local time tomorrow for the 1.2 million customers who lost
power in that region.  It will take up to several days to restore power, McDonnell
told reporters on a conference call. While the damage is still
being tallied, he said the impact was less than feared. “We
prepared for the worst, but we fared better than expected,” he
said.  Bahamas  Cat Island, a narrow strip about 300 miles southeast of
Miami, took the brunt of the storm, the Associated Press said in
a report. With communications down across the islands, officials
were still compiling information about the damage there,
according to the AP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Drew Armstrong in Washington at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  