-- 
Irene Forecasters Missed Storm’s Intensity While Correctly Predicting Path

-- B y   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y   a n d   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 
2011-08-29T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-28/irene-s-forecasters-got-storm-s-path-timing-right-while-missing-intensity.html
Forecasters overestimated the
strength of Hurricane Irene even as they accurately predicted
the direction and timing of the storm’s destructive path along
the U.S. East Coast.  “This was one of their better forecasts,” Hans Graber, a
professor of marine physics at the  University of Miami , said in
a telephone interview. “Definitely, it helped to save lives.”  Irene was responsible for at least 18 deaths in the U.S.
Still, it was a shadow of what roared across the Caribbean last
week with winds of up to 120 miles (194 kilometers) an hour and
hit  North Carolina ’s Outer Banks as a Category 1 hurricane. It
was dropped to its current status before making landfall in  New
York  City at about 9 a.m. yesterday.  “We’re still not where we want to be on intensity,” Ken
Clark, a senior meteorologist with AccuWeather Inc., said in a
telephone interview.  Irene may cost insurers as much as $3 billion to cover U.S.
damage, with overall economic losses of $7 billion, according to
Kinetic Analysis Corp., which predicts disaster impact. The U.S.
suffered $35 billion in losses in nine separate events so far in
2011, according to the  National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration , tying a record for disasters causing more than
$1 billion damage in a single year.  Steering Currents  While forecasters have gotten better at estimating the
trajectories of storms because the winds propelling them, known
as steering currents, have gotten easier to predict with
computer models, projecting intensity is driven by dozens of
variables that make modeling more difficult, Clark said.  Government officials relied on forecasts from the National
Hurricane Center in making preparations, including ordering
mandatory evacuations in New York and  New Jersey .  Dennis Feltgen , a spokesman for the Miami-based agency, said it
accurately predicted Irene’s path when it said the storm would
come aground in North Carolina before travelling north through
 New England .  “That’s exactly what it did,” Feltgen said.  The hurricane center also forecast Irene would reach
Category 4 level, with maximum sustained winds of 131 mph. It
only reached Category 3, with winds of 120 mph. Hours before the
storm made landfall in New York, the center was forecasting it
would arrive as a Category 1 hurricane. By the time it reached
the city, it had weakened to a tropical storm with winds of 65
mph.  Feltgen said an overall analysis of the forecasting will
have to wait until after  hurricane season  ends on Nov. 30.  Post Mortem  “We’re focused on operations right now,” he said. “Then
we get to the post mortem.”  The National Hurricane Center “did an excellent job in
nailing down the forecast,” Virginia Governor Robert McDonnell,
a Republican, said yesterday in a news conference.  There were at least three storm-related deaths in the
state, where more than 900,000 customers lost power.  Graber said the accuracy of the trajectory forecast hinged
on the correct outlook for the ridge between two weather systems
that served as a kind of valley through which the hurricane
moved. Forecasters deploy multiple models and have gotten more
accurate in recent years as they use past mistakes, such as the
twists and turns of  Hurricane Katrina  in 2005, to hone them.  “Their skill is improving from season to season,” Graber
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
William Selway in Washington at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net ;
Timothy R. Homan in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at   mtannen@bloomberg.net  