-- 
Italy Tests Appetite for Debt When ECB Is Absent: Euro Credit

-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n   a n d   K e i t h   J e n k i n s
-- 
2011-08-29T11:40:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-28/italy-tests-appetite-for-debt-when-ecb-is-absent-euro-credit.html
Italy will attempt to raise money in
the  bond market  this week without the safety net of buying by
the  European Central Bank , which has restrained the nation’s
borrowing costs for three weeks by buying its debt.  The euro’s founding treaty bars the central bank from
buying bonds directly from governments, meaning it can only
provide secondary market support. As well as 3.75 billion euros
($5.4 billion) of 10-year securities to create a new benchmark,
Italy is marketing 4.25 billion euros of bonds maturing in 2014
and 2018, with Spain and  France  also planning sales.  “This is where the litmus test comes, the test to see
whether the ECB’s buying power can hold yields where they are,”
said Shahid Ikram, head of sovereigns at London-based Aviva
Investors, which has some of its $440 billion of assets invested
in Italian bonds. “From a risk-return perspective, there’s a
great deal of uncertainty. You are going to see more volatility
in the Italian yield, some concession will be required and then
it’s just a case of what real demand there is.”  The ECB began buying Spanish and Italian  government bonds 
on Aug. 8 to stop the debt crisis from spreading to the euro-
region’s third- and fourth-biggest economies. The purchases
brought the nations’ 10-year bond yields down to about 5 percent
from euro-era records, even as Europe’s leaders disagreed over
how to contain the turmoil.  ‘Huge Volatility’  Italian 10-year bonds yielded 5.09 percent, after reaching
a euro-era record 6.40 percent on Aug. 5 and sliding more than
one percentage point to 5.02 percent in the five trading days
after the ECB began buying. Both Aviva’s Ikram and Werner Fey, a
 fund manager  at  Frankfurt  Trust Investment GmbH in Frankfurt,
which oversees about 6.5 billion euros of fixed-income assets,
said they won’t be buying at this Italian auction.  “The problem for fund managers is that there is huge
volatility and big event risk,” Fey said. “The politicians are
not coming up with a solution. There’s a risk the ECB may end
its program and there will be a massive hit on Italian paper.
You cannot exclude that the market will test the Italian bond
yield highs again.”  At the most recent auction on July 28, the 10-year yield
demanded by investors climbed to 5.77 percent from 4.94 percent
a month earlier. That compares with 4.73 percent at a May 30
sale, while the average yield at three auctions prior to May was
4.83 percent, according to Bloomberg data.  Auction Demand  Demand at tomorrow’s auctions should be good, said  Luca Cazzulani , a senior fixed-income strategist at UniCredit Global
Research in Milan, because the amount on offer is low compared
with other initial sales and domestic buyers have continued to
buy at previous auctions, even in times of market stress.  Italy had 1.6 trillion euros of debt at the end of last
year, according to its  debt management office , making it
Europe’s biggest national bond market. The ECB may have to buy
as much as 5 percent of outstanding debt over about 30 weeks to
keep borrowing costs at 5 percent, according Kornelius Purps, a
strategist at UniCredit SpA in Munich.  When the central bank began its bond program on May 10,
2010 -- buying 16.5 billion euros of  government securities  in a
bid to support the Greek market --  Greece ’s 10-year bond yields
fell more than 4.5 percentage points to 7.77 percent. Ten weeks
later, as the ECB’s spending dwindled to 176 million euros,
Greek bond yields climbed to 10.43 percent. They reached as much
as 18.18 percent today.  ECB Support  The bond-buying program didn’t provide enough support to
prevent Ireland and  Portugal  following Greece in requesting
financial aid. Ireland’s 10-year yields fell to 4.72 percent on
May 10, 2010, the day the ECB began buying, from 5.86 percent
the previous trading day. They had climbed to 8.9 percent by
Nov. 11, the week before the nation requested aid.  Portugal requested a bailout on April 6 this year as its
10-year yields surpassed 8 percent even after the ECB had spent
77 billion euros on government debt. Its yields climbed to a
record 13.44 percent on July 11 as the central bank took a five-
month pause from bond buying.  “The risk is that the ECB stays out of the market, yield
spreads widen significantly and then trading out of  Italy  is a
challenge,” said  David Schnautz , a fixed-income strategist at
Commerzbank AG in  London . “There’s a decent risk that investors
will have to buckle up for a yield increase above 6 percent.”  Deficit Measures  ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  wrote to Italian Prime
Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  demanding more deficit measures in
return for buying the country’s bonds. To win ECB support,
Italian politicians approved the second austerity package in a
month on Aug. 12, aiming to balance the budget in 2013.  That’s a tall order, said Eric Wand, a bond strategist at
Lloyds Bank Corporate Markets in London, because the global
economic outlook is deteriorating. Italy’s debt stands at about
120 percent of its gross domestic product, the biggest ratio in
 Europe  after Greece, whose fiscal woes sparked the sovereign
crisis.  Buying bonds is “the last thing the ECB wants to be
doing,” Wand said. “Politicians don’t seem to be able to get
ahead of the market so the ECB is the last plug in the hole.
Italy needs further structural reform as well as austerity
measures to bring down borrowing costs.”  Investors willing to bet Italy can tame its  budget deficit 
and win back market confidence while the central bank props up
its bond market may be able to profit in the short-term,
Frankfurt-Trust’s Fey said, because they have the chance to earn
a premium over German bunds, the euro-region benchmark.  The yield difference, or spread, between Italian 10-year
securities and similar-maturity German bunds is about 2.9
percentage points, compared with a five-year average of about
0.9 points.  “If you believe that the ECB will be able and willing to
keep up the support then this is a fantastic bond to buy,” said
 Luca Jellinek , London-based head of European rate strategy at
Credit Agricole Corporate & Investment Bank. “There’s no reason
to believe that the ECB lacks resolve, but it’s risky. It’s a
guess.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net ;
Keith Jenkins in London at 
 kjenkins3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Gilbert  at 
 magilbert@bloomberg.net  