-- 
Japan, California Battle for Little League World Series Championship Title

-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 
2011-08-28T16:33:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-28/japan-california-battle-for-little-league-world-series-championship-title.html
Little League  teams from  Japan  and
 California  will play for the World Series Championship title
today if Hurricane Irene doesn’t disrupt the game in north-
central Pennsylvania.  Hamamatsu Minami Little League of Hamamatsu City, Japan,
defeated Seguro Social Little League of Mexicali,  Baja
California , Mexico, 5-2 yesterday to win the international
championship at Lamade Stadium in Williamsport, Pennsylvania.  In the United States Championship game, the West,
represented by Ocean View Little League of Huntington Beach,
California, beat the Billings (Montana) Big Sky League from the
Northwest, 11-2.  Today’s championship final was moved to 3 p.m. from noon to
avoid interruption by Hurricane Irene, which began battering the
East Coast yesterday, the tournament announced on its website.
The consolation game between  Mexico  and Montana, scheduled at 11
a.m., was canceled.  “In order to have the best chance to complete the game on
Sunday, this is the best course,” said Stephen D. Keener,
president and chief executive officer of Little League Baseball
and Softball. “This will allow us to take advantage of
potentially better weather earlier in the day.”  The championship game’s field in north-central Pennsylvania
was not expected to get violent weather, however, heavy rain may
interfere with the start of the game, said  Patrick Wilson ,
Little League vice president of Operations and International
Tournament director.  “As always, the conditions leading up to and at game-time
will be evaluated,” Wilson said. “If conditions are suitable
for World Series play, we will play the game. If not, we will
postpone the start until the conditions are suitable.”  If the game cannot be played today, it likely will be
postponed until tomorrow, Wilson said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  