-- 
New York’s Morning Commute to Be ‘Tough’ After Irene, Mayor Bloomberg Says

-- B y   S a p n a   M a h e s h w a r i   a n d   D a n   H a r t
-- 
2011-08-28T18:50:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-28/new-york-s-morning-commute-to-be-tough-after-irene-mayor-bloomberg-says.html
“It’s fair to say you’re going to
have a tough commute in the morning,'' Mayor  Michael Bloomberg 
warned  New York City  commuters today at a news conference
describing the aftermath of Tropical Storm Irene.  “There’s taxis, and some people can walk,” Bloomberg
suggested.  Irene struck New York City with winds of 65 miles (105
kilometers) an hour, the U.S. National Hurricane Center said in
a special advisory. A storm surge of 3.8 feet was reported at
New York Harbor and total water levels of 8.6 feet, or moderate-
state flooding, were reported at Battery Park City in lower
 Manhattan  before receding, the center said.  The Metropolitan Transportation Authority, which operates
bus and commuter lines in and around New York suspended all
service yesterday as Irene approached. MTA doesn’t yet have a
schedule when transportation services will resume.  “All we have to do is run down the preliminary assessment
of what’s happening with our services,” MTA Chairman  Jay Walder 
said at the news conference he shared with Bloomberg, the
founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News parent Bloomberg
LP. The timing on “restoration of services will be made after
these assessments are completed,” Walder said.  “I expect the first service we will be able to restore is
our bus system,” Walder said. “The decision to get the buses
out of harm’s way means the equipment is fine.”  The Metro North territory may have sustained the most
damage, Walder said.  Metro-North Hardest Hit  Metro-North, the train line fanning out across the lower
portion of New York state and into  Connecticut  has had
widespread flooding, mudslides, and fallen trees hampering the
 New Haven , New Canaan, Hudson, and Harlem lines, said Marjorie Anders, a Metro-North spokeswoman.  Water covered the rails and was touching the electrified
third rail at the Valhalla, Cortland and Ossining stations, she
said. The track was washed out on the Port Jervis line between
the Otisville and Middletown stations, she said.  The Port Authority of New York and  New Jersey  hasn’t yet
made a decision on resuming service on the PATH commuter rail
system, spokesman Ron Marsico said in an e-mail.  New Jersey Transit Corp. isn’t operating any buses, rail or
light rail trains today, and hasn’t made a decision about
services for tomorrow. Inspections of the rail system began at
10 a.m. local time, spokeswoman Courtney Carroll. She said the
inspections would take six hours.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sapna Maheshwari in  New York  at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net ;
Dan Hart in Washington at 
 dahart@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Theo Mullen at 
 tmullen11@bloomberg.net  