-- 
North Carolina Hurricane Damage ‘More Extensive’ Than Thought, Perdue Says

-- B y   M a r k   N i q u e t t e ,   C h r i s   B u r r i t t   a n d   T i m o t h y   J o n e s
-- 
2011-08-28T17:00:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-28/north-carolina-hurricane-damage-more-extensive-than-thought-perdue-says.html
North Carolina  Governor Bev Perdue
said the state suffered “millions and millions of dollars” in
wind and flood damage from Hurricane Irene, which is also blamed
for the deaths of six people.  “It’s a much more extensive hit than anyone thought,”
Perdue told reporters in Trenton, a tobacco- and cotton-growing
community that was her first visit today to areas hit hard by
the storm. “People were distracted by the fact that the media
began to say, ‘Well, it’s not much. It’s just a Category 1.’”  The sun was shining today in North Carolina, and state
teams have begun assessing the damage, Perdue said. The governor
said more than 500,000 homes and businesses are still without
power, and she urged residents to be patient as tree-cutting and
electrical crews start working.  “They are going to spend a lot of this day cutting trees
to get down the roads where the power is out,” she said. “Hot
lines, that’s the big scare right now.”  Perdue, 63, a first-term Democrat, and her staff arrived
by two helicopters, which landed in the lawn of the Jones County
Civic Center, which was littered by yellow insulation. Winds
ripped off a section of the roof yesterday, forcing about 50
evacuees to relocate to an elementary school.  Insurer Losses  Hurricane Irene may cost insurers $200 million to $400
million in losses in North Carolina and  South Carolina , with
about 90 percent of the total from North Carolina, according to
catastrophe risk-modeler Eqecat. The firm provided the
information today in an e-mailed statement.  Hurricane Floyd is the most expensive storm in state
history, with estimated losses of $1.4 billion in 1999 dollars,
according to the North Carolina Department of Insurance.  Irene slammed into North Carolina, making landfall near
Cape Lookout about 7:30 a.m. eastern time yesterday with maximum
sustained winds of 85 miles per hour (140 kph), according to the
U.S. National Hurricane Center. The storm dumped as much as 14
inches (36 centimeters) of rain on eastern North Carolina and
extreme southeastern Virginia, with the largest amount reported
at Bunyan, North Carolina, according to an  advisory  from the
center.  There was flooding in Pamlico, Craven, Hyde and Beaufort
counties, said Ernie Seneca, a spokesman for the state’s
Division of Emergency Management. Responders performed 76 water
rescues in Beaufort County yesterday and overnight, Seneca said
in a telephone interview today from Raleigh.  Roads and Bridges  More than 200 roads and 21 bridges were closed, including a
section of Interstate 95 in Halifax County because of downed
trees and Highway 12, the main artery in the  Outer Banks , Seneca
said. There is a major breach on Highway 12 about five miles
north of Rodanthe in Dare County, and several other breaches
have been reported on that highway, Perdue’s office said in an
e-mail.  There were at least six storm-related fatalities in North
Carolina, with four more in Virginia and one in  Maryland , mostly
from falling trees from the wind. A woman in Pitt County was
found dead this morning inside her home that had been hit by a
tree, said Sergeant Jorge Brewer of the North Carolina State
Highway Patrol in a telephone interview.  Dolphin Rescue  One storm victim who survived Irene was a dolphin who
washed up on the beach at Avon in the Outer Banks.  Valerie Real of Buxton said she was walking on the beach
with a friend when she saw the dolphin and used a plastic bag
from the top of a dune to get the attention of three men. They
helped her drag the mammal back to the ocean, where it swam
away.  “At first, I thought it was going to be way too heavy, but
I was always hopeful,” Real said in an interview.  Brad Doerr, 41, an Avon resident driving past to check on
the status of his home and Dairy Queen business, said it was an
emotional experience.  “It kind of made me choke up,” Doerr said in an
interview.  Another bit of good news came from Swan Quarter, where the
seaside village of 850 tried to defend itself from storms with a
6.2-mile, six-foot-high earthen and plastic dike that encircles
the town. It was completed this year, and not all residents were
convinced it would stop the  storm surge .  ‘The Dike Held’  “The dike held,” longtime resident Jimmy Williams said in
a telephone interview. “Without it, it would have been the
equivalent of Floyd.”  Some water breached the top of the wall, leaving up to a
foot of water on some streets, “but it did work,” Williams
said.  In Maryland, Governor  Martin O’Malley  said St. Mary’s
County on the Chesapeake Bay was hard hit by downed trees and
power lines, and about 200 roads were closed around the state.
He said there was little damage in Ocean City, a vacation spot
where tens of thousands were evacuated before the storm.  “The beach looks good in Ocean City,” the governor said
in a video this morning. “There has not been much damage to the
boardwalk to speak of.”  Virginia  Governor Robert McDonnell estimated that about 2.5
million people are without power and said the Colonial gasoline
pipeline is still partly closed, though he said he expects it to
be restored soon enough to avoid shortages.  Still, while the damage is still being tallied, he said the
impact was less than feared.  “We prepared for the worst, but we fared better than
expected,” he told reporters on a conference call today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Niquette in Columbus at 
 mniquette@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Burritt in Atlantic Beach at 
 cburritt@bloomberg.net 
Timothy Jones in Chocowinity at 
 tjones58@bloomberg.net ;
Ted Richardson in Buxton at 
 trichardson0@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  