-- 
Obama Says Irene ‘Remains a Dangerous Storm’ as It Moves North

-- B y   H a n s   N i c h o l s
-- 
2011-08-28T21:40:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-28/obama-says-irene-remains-a-dangerous-storm-as-it-moves-north.html
President  Barack Obama  said Tropical
Storm Irene is dangerous and flooding may get worse as the
former hurricane moved into New England.  “While the storm has weakened as it moves north, it
remains a dangerous storm that continues to produce heavy
rain,” Obama said at the White House. “Many Americans are
still at serious risk of power outages and flooding, which could
get worse in the coming days as rivers swell past their banks.”  Obama said that he continues to meet regularly with
Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano and  Craig Fugate ,
the head of the Federal Emergency Management Agency, both of
whom also spoke briefly at the White House.  “This is not over,” the president said. “The impacts of
this storm will be felt for some time and recovery efforts will
last for weeks or longer.”  Almost 6 million U.S. homes and businesses were without
electricity and power disruptions affected 12 states and the
 District of Columbia , the U.S. Energy Department  said in a
report  today. Irene first hit the coast of North Carolina as a
Category 1 hurricane. More than 800,000 customers were without
power in Virginia and Maryland.  “Power may out for days in some areas,” Obama said in his
remarks at the White House.  Obama declared emergencies for North Carolina, Virginia,
Connecticut, Maryland,  New York ,  New Jersey , New Hampshire,
 Rhode Island  and Massachusetts, while New York Mayor Michael Bloomberg ordered the first mandatory evacuation in the city’s
history. Bloomberg is the founder and majority owner of
Bloomberg News parent Bloomberg LP.  “We’re not going home because it won’t be on the news,”
said FEMA head Fugate at the White House. “We know we’ve got a
lot of work ahead of us and we’re going to be there to support
local communities and states as they begin to recover.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hans Nichols in Washington at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  