-- 
Mount Fuji Moves to Berlin From Japan for Hokusai Show: Review

-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   H i c k l e y
-- 
2011-08-28T15:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-28/mount-fuji-travels-to-berlin-as-hokusai-s-work-is-celebrated-in-exhibition.html
Mount Fuji is just a faint line in
the background in some of Hokusai’s woodblock views; in others,
it is wreathed in clouds, towers above the ocean, or appears as
a tiny white triangle on the horizon.  In the most famous of his “36 Views of Mount Fuji,”
series, it is dwarfed by a wave and showered with its spray,
highlighted against a forbidding gray sky. “The Great Wave off
the Coast of Kanagawa” shows the mountain, like the waves,
capped with white. Below, it is a deep blue -- a color borrowed
from Prussia, and known as Berlin blue in Hokusai’s  Japan .  The woodcut is among 450 exhibits in a vast retrospective
of Hokusai’s art -- the first in  Germany  and billed as the
biggest ever in  Europe  -- at Berlin’s  Martin Gropius Bau . Many
of the works have never before left Japan.  Hokusai borrowed colors from Europe and, in return, he
exerted a huge influence on 19th-century European artists,
inspiring Gustav Klimt and  Claude Monet  among others. He is the
most important exponent of the Japanese “ukiyo-e” art
tradition, or the “pictures of a transient world.”  His oeuvre is vast, in part because of his longevity. He
was born in 1760 in Honjo, a district of Edo (now  Tokyo ), on the
eastern bank of the Sumida river. He lived, in an era of
Japanese prosperity, to be almost 90, and produced some of his
best-known work -- including the views of Mount Fuji -- in his
70s. He said that it was only at 73 that he mastered the anatomy
of animals and the life of plants.  “If I make the effort I should have made further progress
by the time I am 80, and at 90 I shall be able to uncover the
final secrets,” he said.  Metropolitan Life  Though the views of Mount Fuji are among Hokusai’s most
famous works, the Berlin exhibition reveals the extent of his
range. His early woodblocks offer fascinating insights into the
cultural life. Even in Hokusai’s lifetime, flourishing Edo had a
population of 1.3 million, probably the world’s largest city.  There are images of Kabuki theater, lavish firework
displays, children’s games, temple crowds, jostling markets and
teahouse celebrations as well as elegant ladies in richly
decorated kimonos with an arsenal of hairsticks in their
elaborate coiffures.  Hokusai shows attention to human detail as well as humor:
In the theater, a man is climbing between the rows of the
audience to deliver bags of food during a lengthy performance.
Not everyone is focused on the stage; some audience members are
turning to chat to their neighbors.  New Year Bustle  “Preparations for New Year in a Yoshiwara Teahouse”
(1811) is abuzz with activity as presents are packed, guests
entertained and stoves loaded with fuel. The swish of a tail-end
of kimono disappearing up a staircase is a wonderful detail to
suggest bustle and movement.  Traders would sell millions of copies of Hokusai’s
woodblock prints across Japan. Hokusai also illustrated novels,
handbooks for art students and produced roll paintings of
astonishing beauty and economy.  One such ink print on silk has just a blush of red for the
sun and a flash of white sails on three boats setting off at
dawn. Birds, boats and a dramatic cliff and mountain backdrop
are instantly identifiable, yet hardly there.  The Hokusai retrospective is at the Martin Gropius Bau in
Berlin through Oct. 24. Information:  http://www.gropiusbau.de .  (Catherine Hickley writes for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the reporter on the story:
Catherine Hickley at 
 chickley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 