-- 
U.S. Payroll Gains Probably Slowed in August: U.S. Economy Preview

-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 
2011-08-28T04:01:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-28/payroll-gains-probably-slowed-in-august-u-s-economy-preview.html
Hiring probably slowed in August and
U.S. manufacturing contracted for the first time in two years as
Americans lost confidence that the recovery will be sustained,
economists said before reports this week.  Payrolls climbed by 75,000 workers after a 117,000 increase
in July, according to the median forecast of 65 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News before Labor Department data Sept. 2.
Factories pulled back last month for the first time since July
2009, a report the previous day may show.  The first U.S. credit downgrade in history, political
squabbling over the budget and mounting concern over a default
in  Europe  caused the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index to plunge 17
percent from July 22 to Aug. 8, probably prompting American
companies and consumers to cut back. Federal Reserve Chairman
 Ben S. Bernanke  last week said the recovery had been “less
robust” than hoped and reiterated that the central bank still
has tools to stimulate growth.  “The underlying trend is weakness moving into the second
half of the year, where we expect much more of a pullback,”
said Bricklin Dwyer, an economist at BNP Paribas in New York.  The unemployment rate held at 9.1 percent last month,
according to the survey median. A labor dispute at  Verizon
Communications Inc. (VZ)  affecting about 45,000 workers may have
contributed to the slowdown in payroll gains, according to
economists like  Stephen Stanley  at Pierpont Securities LLC in
 Stamford ,  Connecticut .  Smaller Gain  Private payrolls, which exclude government jobs, rose
105,000 after a gain of 154,000 in the prior month, economists
forecast the employment report will also show.  The economy expanded at a 1 percent pace in the second
quarter following a 0.4 percent gain in the first three months
of the year, the Commerce Department reported last week.
 Consumer spending  grew 0.4 percent, the smallest increase since
the last three months of 2009.  “Obviously, the economy is pretty weak,” said Mike Englund, chief economist at Action Economics LLC in Boulder,
 Colorado . “Getting the  unemployment rate  lower is going to be
difficult.”  Manufacturing, a stalwart of the expansion, shrank last
month, a report may show Sept. 1. The  Institute for Supply
Management ’s factory index fell to 48.5 from 50.9 in July,
according to a Bloomberg survey of economists. A reading below
50 signals contraction.  The projected gain in total payrolls would bring the
average from May through August to 73,000, down from 179,000 in
the first four months of the year.  Falling Short  Sustained increases of around 150,000 a month are needed to
bring unemployment down about half a percentage point over a
year, according to  Chris Rupkey , chief financial economist at
Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. in  New York . “200,000 is the
speed the economy needs to really cut into the jobless rate,”
he said.  Through July, the economy had recovered about 1.94 million
of the 8.75 million jobs lost as a result of the 18-month
recession that ended in June 2009.  “Economic growth has, for the most part, been at rates
insufficient to achieve sustained reductions in unemployment,”
Bernanke said Aug. 26 at the  Jackson Hole ,  Wyoming , central bank
symposium. “It is clear that the recovery from the crisis has
been much less robust than we had hoped.”  Investors have also turned less confident. The Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index has slumped, exacerbated by S&P’s downgrade of
 U.S. debt  on Aug. 6 after weeks of political wrangling over
deficit-cutting measures and amid rising concern of a euro zone
default.  Job Cuts  Banks have been among companies announcing the biggest
dismissals.  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , the biggest U.S. lender, will
eliminate about 3,500 jobs this quarter to focus “on what we
can control” amid market turmoil, said Chief Executive Officer
 Brian T. Moynihan  on Aug. 19. “It is tough to have to manage
through reductions, but we owe it to our customers and our
shareholders to remain competitive, efficient and manage our
expenses carefully.”  A report from the Commerce Department tomorrow may show
consumer spending increased in July as auto sales rebounded.
Purchases rose 0.5 percent after a 0.2 percent decline the prior
month, according to economists surveyed.  In a reminder that housing remains a weak link in the
economy, signed contracts to buy existing homes fell 0.9 percent
in July, economists forecast the National Association of
Realtors will report on Aug. 29.  Another report may show  home prices  in 20 U.S. cities
dropped in the year ended June by the most in 19 months. The
S&P/Case-Shiller index of property values in 20 cities fell 4.6
percent from June 2010, economists forecast the group will say
on Aug. 30.  Finally, factory orders rose 1.8 percent in July after a
0.8 percent decline the prior month, economists forecast the
Commerce Department will report the following day.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Willis in Washington at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  