-- 
Pfizer, Bristol-Myers Pill May Lead $9 Billion Stroke Market

-- B y   N a o m i   K r e s g e   a n d   A l b e r t i n a   T o r s o l i
-- 
2011-08-29T20:12:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-28/pfizer-bristol-myers-blood-thinner-eliquis-cut-deaths-in-study.html
Pfizer Inc. (PFE) ’s and  Bristol-Myers
Squibb Co. (BMY) ’s Eliquis will lead the market for stroke-preventing
blood thinners after “best-in-class” clinical trial results
that marry safety with effectiveness, analysts said.  The twice-daily pill had a 31 percent lower risk of major
bleeding, a feared side effect of blood thinners, than the
current standard treatment, warfarin, researchers said yesterday
at the  European Society of Cardiology ’s conference in Paris.
Patients on Eliquis had an 11 percent reduced risk of dying, the
first time a warfarin replacement has saved lives in a study.  Pfizer and Bristol-Myers may now take 60 percent of the
market for blood thinners to ward off strokes in people with an
irregular heartbeat, according to analysts for ISI Group and
Leerink Swann & Co. Leerink estimates sales of warfarin
replacements will reach $7 billion to $9 billion a year.  “The bleeding profile is phenomenal and trumps everything
else,”  Mark Schoenebaum , a New York-based analyst for ISI, said
in a telephone interview. “Clearly, this drug will be the
leader in the market.”  Yesterday’s results may mean an additional $1.1 billion in
peak sales for Eliquis, also known as apixaban, Leerink’s  Seamus Fernandez  said in a report to investors today. The Boston-based
analyst now forecasts the drug will garner revenue of $4.2
billion by 2017, writing that it’s “best-in-class” for safety
and reducing deaths.  Two Competitors  Pfizer rose 67 cents, or 3.7 percent, to $18.88 at 4 p.m.
in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. Bristol-Myers
climbed 57 cents, or 2 percent, to $29.29.  Pfizer and Bristol-Myers trailed two competitors in the
race to bring a warfarin replacement to market. Boehringer
Ingelheim GmbH’s Pradaxa was the first, approved last year in
the U.S.  Bayer AG (BAYN)  and  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  also have a candidate,
Xarelto, due for regulatory review in the U.S. next month.  Until the Paris conference, the two U.S. drugmakers had
only compared Eliquis with aspirin. Now cardiologists have
results of two large trials showing the drug is safe, a
potentially compelling argument, said Lars Wallentin, a
cardiologist at  Uppsala Clinical Research Center  in  Sweden  who
worked on both Eliquis and Pradaxa.  “There is an edge to apixaban, I would admit,” Wallentin
said in an interview at the conference.  Fewer Strokes  Irregular heartbeat, or atrial fibrillation, is the biggest
part of the market for Eliquis and its competitors. Other
smaller groups of patients, such as people who’ve had hip and
knee surgery, could generate an additional $3 billion to $6
billion in sales a year, Fernandez said.  Eliquis also prevented 21 percent more strokes than
warfarin in the Aristotle study presented yesterday. For every
1,000 patients treated during the trial, it prevented a stroke
in six people, major bleeding in 15 people and death in eight
people, investigators wrote in a  New England Journal of Medicine 
article published to coincide with the presentation in Paris.
Pfizer and Bristol-Myers funded the research, which followed
18,200 patients.  “The answer is crystal clear: patients will do better on
this drug,” lead investigator Christopher Granger, of the Duke
Clinical Research Institute in Durham,  North Carolina , said in
an interview at the conference. Lower cost is the only reason
for patients to continue taking warfarin, he said.  Blood Tests  Doctors had been eager for a replacement for warfarin
because patients need regular blood tests to ensure they’re
getting a safe, effective dose of the older drug.  Eliquis was especially impressive because there was
evidence it beat warfarin even in patients who were getting the
optimal dose, Harvard University cardiologist Elliott Antman
said in an interview. Antman is leading studies of another
potential competitor, Daiichi Sankyo Co.’s edoxaban.  If a patient is stable on warfarin and doesn’t mind a
monthly doctor’s visit for a blood test, there may be no reason
to switch to a new, more expensive medicine, Ralph Brindis,
senior adviser for cardiovascular disease at  Northern California
Kaiser Permanente , said in an interview. Warfarin, a generic
drug, costs $4 a month, plus about $20 for blood tests,
according to a January presentation by the University of Utah
Health Care Thrombosis Service.  Atrial fibrillation occurs when the upper chambers of the
heart quiver rather than contract, allowing blood to pool and
form clots. More than 2.5 million Americans suffer from it, and
11,000 die every year.  Pradaxa, Xarelto  Pradaxa and Xarelto didn’t significantly extend patients’
lives in studies, though both showed a trend toward being able
to do so, Jessica Mega, a cardiologist at Brigham and Women’s
Hospital in  Boston , wrote in an editorial published alongside
the results in the journal. Yet all three appear to be better on
some measure than warfarin, Mega wrote.  Boehringer’s Pradaxa has the most to lose from good Eliquis
results,  Larry Biegelsen , a New York-based analyst for Wells
Fargo Securities, wrote in a note to clients before the study
was published. Bayer’s Xarelto was studied in a more high-risk
group of patients than Eliquis or Pradaxa and could maintain a
market niche because it’s a once-daily pill, Biegelsen said.  Warfarin is also once-daily. Both Eliquis and Pradaxa must
be taken twice each day.  Pfizer and Bristol-Myers plan to submit Eliquis for U.S.
and European regulatory approval by year-end.  Bristol-Myers and Pfizer “are two of the best
cardiovascular marketers out there,” Leerink’s Fernandez said.
“Put this together with the data, and you have a clear
winner.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Naomi Kresge in Paris at 
 nkresge@bloomberg.net ;
Albertina Torsoli in Paris at 
 atorsoli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  