-- 
Polish Economic Growth Probably Slowed in Second Quarter on Export Demand

-- B y   M o n i k a   R o z l a l
-- 
2011-08-29T09:51:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-28/polish-economic-growth-probably-slowed-in-second-quarter-on-export-demand.html
Poland ’s economic expansion probably
slowed in the second quarter, mirroring weaker European growth,
as waning foreign demand hurt exports.  Gross domestic product grew 4.2 percent from a year
earlier, compared with a 4.4 percent rise in the previous
quarter, according to the median estimate of 27 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg. The data will be published tomorrow at 10
a.m. in Warsaw.  Growth in the euro area, which buys 55 percent of Polish
exports, slowed to 0.2 percent from the previous quarter in the
April-June period, the worst performance since the bloc’s 2009
recession. Export-led growth in  Hungary ,  Romania  and the  Czech
Republic  has decelerated as Europe’s debt crisis and a weaker
 U.S. economy  put the brakes on global expansion.  “The Polish economy is unlikely to defy the slowdown in
the  euro zone , which is one of its key trading partners,”
Jaroslaw Janecki, chief economist at Societe Generale SA in
Warsaw, said Aug. 26 by e-mail. “While investment and
consumption remain strong, shrinking exports are affecting the
pace of growth.”  Forecasts  Poland’s economy may have expanded between 3.5 percent and
4 percent from a year earlier in the second quarter, Prime
Minister Donald Tusk said Aug. 26, telling reporters in Warsaw
that “over-optimistic forecasts” aren’t justified. The  Economy
Ministry  said today it expects second-quarter GDP grew to 4.1
percent to 4.2 percent, the PAP newswire reported.  The zloty traded at 4.1588 per euro at 11:48 a.m. in
Warsaw, up from 4.1604 late on Friday.  Fixed investment grew 8 percent from a year earlier, down
from 6 percent in the first quarter, while private consumption
rose 4.1 percent, up from 3.9 percent, separate Bloomberg
surveys show.  Having surged 15.5 percent in the first three months of the
year, demand for exports has fallen. Industry expanded at the
slowest annual pace in 21 months in July as western European
nations trimmed orders for manufactured goods, prompting
investors to bet on a reduction in borrowing costs.  Six-month forward rate agreements fell to the lowest since
May 2010 following the release of the industrial output data
Aug. 18, trading at 25 basis points below the three-month Warsaw
Interbank Offered Rate. Investors have since pared bets on lower
rates, with the spread narrowing to 18 basis points on Aug 26.  Central Bank  The  Narodowy Bank Polski  raised borrowing costs by 1
percentage point in four stages between January and June,
lifting its benchmark rate to 4.5 percent, the highest since the
start of 2009, to tame inflation.  The bank left  interest rates  unchanged in July, saying rate
increases in the year to date, as well as the slowing economy,
should push inflation toward its 2.5 percent target within 12
months. Consumer prices grew 4.1 percent from a year earlier in
July, the Warsaw-based  Central Statistical Office  said Aug. 12.  While expectations of interest-rate cut are “premature,”
there are “no reasons at all to raise interest rates further,”
 Zyta Gilowska , a member of the central bank-led Monetary Policy
Council, said in an Aug. 25 interview with the PAP newswire. The
next rate meeting is scheduled for Sept. 6-7.  In July, the bank lowered its outlook for this year’s
economic growth to 3.3 percent to 5.1 percent from a previous
estimate of 3.3 percent to 5.5 percent. As a result, it cut its
2012 inflation forecast to 2.1 percent to 3.4 percent from 2.2
percent to 3.4 percent.  With Poland, like much of eastern  Europe , reliant on
exports to the euro area, there may be little policy makers can
do to support growth as larger economies such as  Germany  slow,
according to Peter Attard Montalto, a London-based economist at
Nomura International Plc.  “Its ability to react is constrained,” he wrote in an e-
mailed comment Aug. 17.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Monika Rozlal in Warsaw at 
 mrozlal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  