-- 
Revellers Joined by Police at London’s Notting Hill Carnival

-- B y   C h a r l e s   M e a d
-- 
2011-08-28T11:09:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-28/revellers-joined-by-police-at-london-s-notting-hill-carnival.html
As many as 4,000 extra police
officers will be on the streets of  London  for the start of the
annual two-day  Notting Hill Carnival  amid concern that gangs are
planning a repeat of this month’s riots and disorder.  The carnival, which starts today and is estimated to
attract 1 million people, was given the go-ahead after
organizers changed the event times to finish in the early
evening each day. The gathering normally requires a heavy police
presence and previous events have been marred by violence.  Police have made more than 30 arrests as part of Operation
Razorback, a special intelligence operation targeting “the
small minority who we know want to ruin the event,” Commander
Steve Rodhouse said in a statement on the Metropolitan Police
Service  website  last week.  “We have intelligence to suggest that some gangs want to
come to Carnival and create trouble for us,” Rodhouse said.
“To those who think the rest of London is vulnerable, we are
not just focusing on policing Notting Hill. Additional officers
will be out on our streets across the city.”  The riots were the worst seen in Britain since the 1980s,
with more than 3,000 crimes committed in London alone, including
two murders.  Police spokesman  Richard Jones  said a total of 5,500
officers will be at the carnival today, an 11 percent increase
from the year earlier and more than those on hand for the royal
wedding. All staff leave has been canceled. Tomorrow, a national
holiday, 6,500 will be on duty at the event, up 16 percent from
last year. About 4,000 additional officers will be spread across
London each day, as well as the regular numbers on duty.  ‘Causing Trouble’  “The police have been targeting potential troublemakers
and anyone thinking of causing trouble should stay away,”
London Mayor  Boris Johnson  said in a statement. “Let’s show the
world we know how to throw a party and have a good time.”  The carnival was first held in 1964, spurred in part by
racial tensions that immigrants from the Caribbean faced during
the 1950s after arriving in the U.K., according to a history
posted on the website of Notting Hill Carnival Ltd., the event’s
organizer.  Some underground stations will be exit-only during the
carnival or close temporarily, and bus routes may be diverted,
Transport for London said on its  website .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Charles Mead in London at 
 cmead11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at 
 ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  