-- 
Roche’s Dalcetrapib Didn’t Raise Blood Pressure in Study

-- B y   N a o m i   K r e s g e
-- 
2011-08-28T08:53:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-28/roche-s-dalcetrapib-didn-t-raise-blood-pressure-in-safety-study.html
Roche Holding AG (ROG) ’s experimental drug
dalcetrapib increased so-called good cholesterol without having
an effect on blood pressure in a study doctors said may set some
safety concerns to rest.  The medicine raised good cholesterol, or HDL cholesterol,
by 31 percent, researchers said at the  European Society of
Cardiology  meeting today in Paris. Whether the drug actually
helps fight  heart disease  won’t be clear until full data from a
much bigger study is available in 2013, said principal
investigator Thomas Luescher, of University Hospital Zurich.  Safety has been a primary question for the Roche drug since
a similar medicine from  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) , torcetrapib, was scrapped
in 2006 after patients who took it in a study died.  “We can say it’s safe,” Luescher said of dalcetrapib,
because it doesn’t increase  blood pressure  in the same way as
the Pfizer medicine.  Called dal-Vessel, the 476-patient study recorded 11
cardiovascular events in patients taking dalcetrapib, compared
with 12 events among patients who took a placebo. Patients took
dalcetrapib or the placebo for 36 weeks.  A smaller companion study presented today, dal-Plaque, also
indicated the drug is safe.  “Given the background of torcetrapib, we really wanted to
focus on harm,” said  Ahmed Tawakol  of  Massachusetts General
Hospital  in Boston, one of the authors of the dal-Plaque study,
in an interview. Showing safety in both studies “gives us hope
that we might have something that has a chance of being
effective.”  The HDL pill may generate $6.8 billion in sales by 2020 if
it works in patients who have had heart attacks, according to an
estimate from Gbola Amusa, a UBS AG analyst in  London . Amusa
gave dalcetrapib a one-in-four chance of succeeding, odds he
said would improve if dal-Vessel and dal-Plaque were successful.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naomi Kresge in Berlin at 
 nkresge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  