-- 
Roche Sees Diagnostics Growing as Health-Care Cost Reductions Spurs Demand

-- B y   N a o m i   K r e s g e
-- 
2011-08-28T22:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-28/roche-sees-diagnostics-growing-as-health-care-cost-reductions-spurs-demand.html
Roche Holding AG (ROG)  expects government
austerity measures to boost its medical-diagnostics unit in the
next three to five years thanks to broader use of tests to see
which patients should use expensive treatments.  The number of tests to help single out the patients who
will benefit most from Basel, Switzerland-based Roche’s
medicines should double within two to three years, Roche
Diagnostics Chief Operating Officer Daniel O’Day said in an Aug.
23 interview.  “No country is going to be able to afford to increase the
percentage of GDP spent on health care,” O’Day said. “What
they’re all looking for is how we can take this certain pie we
have for health care and better leverage it for society.”  Products such as a test to detect  human papillomavirus , a
cause of cervical cancer, and a gene test approved this month
alongside Roche’s new melanoma drug Zelboraf will be “solutions
for how the countries divide the pies more efficiently,” O’Day
said. Roche expects growth at the diagnostics unit to exceed the
market this year, outpacing the drugmaker’s larger
pharmaceuticals unit as sales decline for its best-selling
cancer drug Avastin.  Roche is developing a companion diagnostic test for MetMab,
being studied together with the company’s lung tumor medicine
Tarceva for patients whose tumors have high concentrations of
the Met protein. Roche also made a test to be sold together with
pertuzumab, a breast cancer drug being submitted to regulators
for approval this year.  Acquisition Plans  “We’ll see a greater percentage of the business of Roche
being tied up and connected between pharma and diagnostics in
the next three to five years,” O’Day said. He met last week
with journalists in Frankfurt and Zurich.  Roche continues to plan small- to mid-sized acquisitions to
complement its diagnostics business, he said.  Roche got 22 percent of its revenue last year from
diagnostics. The unit was largely spared a wave of job cuts
announced in November to offset drug-development setbacks and
price pressure from changes in U.S. and European health-care
systems, O’Day said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naomi Kresge in Berlin at 
 nkresge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at   pserafino@bloomberg.net  