-- 
SAIC Motor Profit Beats Estimates After GM, Volkswagen China Sales Climb

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-08-28T12:11:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-28/saic-motor-profit-beats-estimates-after-gm-volkswagen-china-sales-climb.html
SAIC Motor Corp. posted second-
quarter profit that beat analysts’ estimates after selling more
vehicles with partners  General Motors Co. (GM)  and  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  in
the world’s biggest car market.  Net income at  China ’s largest domestic automaker climbed to
4.08 billion yuan ($639 million) in the three months ended June,
according to figures derived from first-half earnings reported
by the company today. That exceeded the 3.93 billion yuan
average of three analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  SAIC, which makes Buick Excelle compacts and VW Passat
sedans, boosted sales volume 13 percent in the first half,
almost four times the 3.4 percent pace for China’s total
automobile-shipment growth in the period. Profit in the first
six months rose 46 percent to 8.58 billion yuan, the Shanghai-
based company said in a stock-exchange filing.  SAIC closed little changed at 15.97 yuan in  Shanghai  on
Aug. 26. The shares have risen 8.8 percent this year, compared
with a 7 percent fall in the benchmark Shanghai Composite Index.  Vehicle sales have slowed in China this year after the
government reinstated a 10 percent sales tax on small cars and
phased out subsidies for trade-ins in rural areas.  Auto deliveries may rise about 5 percent this year, the
China Association of Automobile Manufacturers said July 8,
lowering its previous estimate for 10 to 15 percent growth and
compared with a 32 percent gain in 2010.  SAIC Motor, which makes cars and minivans in partnership
with Detroit-based GM and cars in a joint venture with
Volkswagen, also owns the Roewe and MG sports-car brands. Profit
in the first quarter jumped 57 percent to 4.5 billion yuan.
First-half sales rose 42 percent to 18 billion yuan, SAIC said
in today’s statement.  SAIC-GM-Wuling Automobile Co., the company’s minivan joint
venture with GM, introduced its first sedan under a new China-
only brand to cater to entry-level buyers on Aug. 9.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kae Inoue at 
 kinoue@bloomberg.net  