-- 
Sebastian Vettel Has a ‘Fun Race’ as He Extends Lead in F-1 Standings

-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 
2011-08-28T22:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-28/sebastian-vettel-webber-clinch-1-2-for-red-bull-in-belgian-grand-prix.html
Sebastian Vettel stretched his lead
in the Formula One drivers’ standings as he and teammate  Mark Webber  clinched a one-two finish for Red Bull in yesterday’s
Belgian Grand Prix at Spa-Francorchamps.  McLaren’s Jenson Button was third after the 44 laps as
defending series champion Vettel increased his advantage to 92
points, with a win worth 25.  Fernando Alonso  of Ferrari was
fourth and Mercedes’s  Michael Schumacher  fifth.  Vettel finished 3.7 seconds ahead of his teammate. It was
his seventh win of the season, the 17th of his career, and his
first in the past four races as the Red Bulls’ superior power
was too much for their rivals. It was the second one-two finish
for Red Bull this season.  “All in all, it was a really fun race with plenty of
overtaking,” Vettel, a 24-year-old German, told reporters at a
press conference for the top three drivers. “The car was
fantastic, the pace was there and that’s why I think we are
sitting up here now.”  The performance by Button, the 2009 series champion, was a
highlight of the race as he carved his way through the field
from 13th on the grid to finish third. Schumacher, a six-time
winner at Spa, battled from last place on the grid.  Vettel started on pole for the ninth time this season,
followed by McLaren’s  Lewis Hamilton , Webber,  Felipe Massa  of
Ferrari and  Nico Rosberg  of Mercedes.  Webber had a bad start as the anti-stall on his car kicked
in and he dropped down the field, with Rosberg briefly taking
the lead as several cars were involved in early collisions. Both
Vettel and teammate Webber had tires that were damaged from
qualifying so they made early pit stops for replacements.  Hamilton Out  Hamilton, the 2008 series champion and winner at Spa last
year, crashed out on the 13th lap after his car touched the
Sauber of Kamui Kobayashi.  “I’m not really quite sure what happened,” Hamilton told
the British Broadcasting Corp. “I hit the wall pretty hard. As
far as I was concerned I was ahead of whoever I was racing and
then I was hit by them. We were massively slow on the straights,
I guess that’s why we were in that position. But we might at
least have got a podium.”  After an intervention by the safety car that followed
Hamilton’s accident, Alonso was at the head of the race,
followed by the  Red Bull  duo and Rosberg.  Alonso, Vettel and Webber exchanged the lead between them
before, on lap 32, Webber made another pit stop, allowing Button
to take the lead. Vettel almost immediately re-took the top spot
thanks to his new tires.  Alonso Overtaken  After more pit stops, Alonso moved into second behind
Vettel but his harder tires were not producing pace and he
couldn’t hold off the challenge of Webber and Button, who
overtook the Spaniard to clinch podium positions as Vettel
cruised to victory.  “It was a case of what might have been, but all in all,
from starting 13th it’s good to have finished on the podium,”
Button said.  Vettel said he and Webber had concerns about their tires
before the race.  “Surprisingly the pace was good, I was able to reclaim the
lead, and after the safety car it was more about management than
usual,” he said. “The car worked brilliantly, so I’m very
happy with the result, in particular with how we managed the
tires.”  Vettel has 259 points in the drivers’ standings, followed
by Webber (167), Alonso (157), Button (149) and Hamilton (146).  Red Bull leads the constructors’ competition with 426
points, while McLaren has 295 and Ferrari 231.  The next event, the 13th on the 19-race calendar, is the
Italian Grand Prix at Monza on Sept. 11.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter-Joseph Hegarty in London at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  