-- 
Serena Williams Overcomes Foot-Fault Tantrum in U.S. Open Return

-- B y   R o b   G l o s t e r
-- 
2011-08-29T04:20:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-28/serena-williams-overcomes-foot-fault-tantrum-in-u-s-open-return.html
Serena Williams is back at the  U.S.
Open  for the first time since a match-ending foot fault two
years ago, with changes in her public image and her competition
at the season’s final Grand Slam tennis tournament.  Williams’s appeal, as measured by the Davie Brown Index
marketing survey, fell to a career low after she threatened a
lineswoman for calling that foot fault in 2009, leading to a
$175,000 fine.  It’s up again as she comes back from two foot operations
and a blood clot in her lungs that she said put her “literally
on my deathbed.” The world’s former top player dropped to No.
175 on the WTA tour and needed a special injury ranking to
qualify for the tournament, which begins today in  New York .  “At times in her career, she’s been almost unbeatable,”
Darin David, an account director at Omnicom Group’s The
Marketing Arm, said in a telephone interview. “Seeing her fight
through some adversity has made her more endearing to people.”  Williams, 29, will be seeking her 14th Grand Slam title at
the U.S. Open, which runs through Sept. 11 at the National
Tennis Center. Only one other current women’s player -- her
sister Venus, with seven -- has more than four major titles.
Venus plays her first-round match today, while Serena will
likely begin play tomorrow.  Williams was seeded second in 2009. Two injury-marred years
have left her 28th this time.  One thing hasn’t changed -- she is the betting favorite
heading into the tournament. Las Vegas Sports Consultants, which
advises  Nevada ’s sports books on betting lines, gives Williams
9-to-5 odds of winning her fourth U.S. Open title.  Djokovic Tops  Serbia’s Novak Djokovic is the top men’s seed and the 3-2
favorite to win his first title in New York.  Rafael Nadal, the defending champion from  Spain , is seeded
second and Switzerland’s  Roger Federer  is third. Federer, a
five-time U.S. Open champion, is trying to extend his streak of
winning at least one Grand Slam title every year since 2003.  Play will begin as scheduled at 11 a.m. local time tomorrow
after the National Tennis Center sustained “minimal damage”
from Hurricane Irene, organizers said. Among the nine early
matches, Ryan Harrison of the U.S. plays 27th-seeded Marin Cilic
of  Croatia  in Louis Armstrong Stadium.  Mardy Fish, at No. 8 the top American seed, will play
Tobias Kamke of Germany in the first match on Arthur Ashe Court,
where  Venus Williams  and Federer will headline in the evening
session.  Ranking Slump  Williams was sidelined from July 2010 till June, and her
ranking fell to the lowest since 1997 after she lost in the
fourth round of Wimbledon. She was No. 172 when U.S. Open
officials announced on July 21 that she would use a special
ranking to join the 128-player field.  A late July title at the Bank of the West Classic in
Stanford, California, pushed Williams to 79th; another two weeks
later at the Rogers Cup in Toronto boosted the American to No.
31.  She is ranked 29th now after withdrawing in the second
round of the Western & Southern Open in Cincinnati last week
with a toe injury.  “I’ve been in the hospital before, but this is a whole
different level of comeback from the bottom to hopefully the
top,” she told reporters after her first-round victory at
Stanford. “I’m a better player this month than I was last month
and than I was the month prior.”  Williams, who won the U.S. Open in 1999, 2002 and 2008,
returns to a women’s field far different than two years ago.  Clijsters Out  Two-time defending champion Kim Clijsters of Belgium is out
with a strained stomach muscle. The winners of the last two
Grand Slam tournaments,  China ’s  Li Na  at the  French Open  and the
Czech Republic’s Petra Kvitova at Wimbledon, were first-time
major winners.  None of the top five seeds for this year’s U.S. Open --
 Caroline Wozniacki  of Denmark, Vera Zvonareva and  Maria Sharapova  of Russia,  Victoria Azarenka  of Belarus and Kvitova --
was in that group two years ago. The top five women’s seeds in
2009 were Dinara Safina,  Serena Williams , Venus Williams,  Elena Dementieva  and Jelena Jankovic.  Neither of the top two seeds this year, Wozniacki and
Zvonareva, has won a Grand Slam title.  Serena Williams remains one of America’s most popular and
recognizable athletes. She is second only to her sister among
all tennis players on the Davie Brown Index, which is compiled
by Dallas-based The Marketing Arm to measure the marketability
of athletes and other celebrities.  Top 15  Venus ranks 100th and Serena 153th of about 2,900 people on
the list. Federer, the top tennis man, is No. 626. Wozniacki is
No. 2,129.  Serena Williams’s DBI rank is based in large part on her 92
percent public awareness, which puts her among the top 15 of all
American athletes and roughly equal to basketball’s Kobe Bryant
and singer  Taylor Swift .  Forbes magazine estimated in May that Serena Williams made
$12 million in annual earnings from endorsements and winnings.  Williams had a DBI rank of 134 before the 2009 U.S. Open,
where she was two points from losing a semifinal match to
Clijsters when she was called for a foot fault on a second serve.
She then was penalized a point for verbally abusing the
lineswoman, ending the match.  Her score for consumer likability, one of the components of
the DBI, was at a career-high 75.34 on July 13, 2009. By Sept.
22, 2009, her score was down to a career-low 67.05.  ‘Heritage Counts’  Williams rebounded to a score of 71.48 in the latest DBI
survey this April. Robert Passikoff, founder and president of
New York-based marketing firm Brand Keys Inc., said in a
telephone interview that Williams’s long time in the public
spotlight allowed her to overcome the 2009 dip.  “Heritage counts,” said Passikoff, whose research focuses
on brand loyalty. “What you’re looking for is the emotional
bond between the person and the group, and it actually has less
to do with being No. 1.”  Williams, who has won a women’s record $33.4 million on
tennis courts, has less than $600,000 in winnings this year
because of her injury-shortened season.  David, of The Marketing Arm, said Williams’s athleticism,
smile and attitude allowed the 2009 episode to make only a
short-term dent in her market appeal because fans saw it as an
aberration.  Williams’s DBI score for endorsement potential was at a
career-best 68.5 in April. Her  website  lists  Nike Inc. (NKE) ,  Amer
Sports Oyj (AMEAS) ’s Wilson Sporting Goods and  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  among
her corporate sponsors.  “She has that confidence, bordering on cocky or arrogant
at times, but she does stay just on the side of confident that
people like,” David said. “I think people have latched onto
that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Gloster in  San Francisco  at 
 rgloster@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  