-- 
Singapore Elects Tony Tan President With 0.3% Margin in Narrow Win for Lee

-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m   a n d   C h r i s t i a n   S c h m o l l i n g e r
-- 
2011-08-28T16:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-28/singapore-elects-tony-tan-president-with-0-3-margin-in-narrow-win-for-lee.html
Former Deputy Prime Minister Tony Tan was elected as  Singapore ’s next president with a margin of
about 0.3 percent over his nearest rival, a result that signals 
the ruling party still has more to do to appease voters.  Tan, who was backed by Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong as
well as several ministers and trade unions even though he ran 
as an independent, was declared the victor early yesterday
following a recount. He beat Tan Cheng Bock, a former Singapore
lawmaker who was also with the ruling PAP, by 7,269 votes, 
according to the Elections Department.  An unprecedented four candidates -- all surnamed Tan -- 
vied for the largely ceremonial post of president, illustrating 
the increased challenge to the grip on power held by the party 
since Lee's father,  Lee Kuan Yew , led the state to independence 
in 1965. The PAP won the general election in May with the lowest 
support since the nation was founded.  “Nobody expected the race to come down to fractions of a
percent given that Tony Tan was endorsed by several PAP
ministers and trade unions,” said  Vishnu Varathan , an economist
at  Capital Economics  ( Asia ) Pte in Singapore. “The results are
another wake-up call for the government.”  The president-elect, who served in the cabinet of all three
Singapore prime ministers and was a member of the ruling party
until June, won 744,397 votes of 2,115,188 valid ballots cast,
Returning Officer Yam Ah Mee said in a nationally televised
announcement yesterday. He garnered 35.19 percent of the votes
cast, compared with 34.85 percent for the second-place
candidate.  Independent  The close race suggests that Singaporeans wanted a
president who was above the political fray, Varathan said.  “It is important for the president to act independently,”
Tony Tan said at a press conference yesterday. “The president
cannot be partisan to any one political party.” The 71-year-old
takes up the six-year post Sept. 1.  Tan Cheng Bock told supporters after the results were
announced that he hoped Singaporeans would start thinking about
voting for candidates they liked rather than those who were
endorsed, according to the  Straits Times .  The election campaign stoked debate on the role of the
president, with some contenders pledging to consult the public
and act as a check on the government, which said such moves
would be unconstitutional. Law Minister K. Shanmugam warned on
 Aug. 5  that electing a candidate “who commands little or no
respect” in the government would limit his influence.  Stability  The 70 percent share of the votes captured by the two
“establishment candidates” suggests that Singaporeans wanted
“stability,” said Eugene Tan, a political commentator and
assistant professor of law at the  Singapore Management
University .  “There were concerns that the government wouldn’t be able
to function at the highest level if there was constant
confrontation,” he said. The views of the two leading
candidates were “aligned with the government’s interpretation
of the constitution.”  Former opposition politician Tan Jee Say won 25 percent of
the vote. Tan Kin Lian, former head of insurer NTUC Income and a
PAP member, came fourth.  Citizens voted for a replacement for President S.R. Nathan
from the biggest field of contenders since polls for the office
were allowed in 1991. Because Nathan was uncontested for his two
terms, no votes were held.  The president-elect resigned as deputy chairman of
Government of Singapore Investment Corp. last month to run. The
sovereign wealth fund manages more than $100 billion of
reserves. He stepped down from politics in 2006 after serving as
a minister and member of parliament for 27 years.  PAP Majority  Singapore’s president can veto government budgets and key
public appointments. Those decisions may be overturned by a
majority on the eight-member  Council of Presidential Advisers 
and a two-thirds vote in Parliament -- where the PAP still holds
81 of 87 seats, even after its support fell to a record low of
60 percent in the May vote.  Prime Minister Lee vowed to be more responsive to public
criticism following those polls.  Citizens have expressed discontent over rising costs and
competition with foreigners for jobs and housing, prompting the
government to tighten curbs on workers from overseas and allow
more Singaporeans to buy apartments at subsidized prices.  “The pressure on the PAP to relook at how it governs the
country remains,” said Song Seng-Wun, an economist at CIMB
Research Pte in Singapore. “The question is whether the change
will be accelerated or gradual.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Schmollinger in Singapore at 
 christian.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  