-- 
Sino-Forest CEO Chan Said to Consider Temporarily Stepping Down From Post

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e
-- 
2011-08-28T04:50:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-28/sino-forest-ceo-chan-said-to-consider-temporarily-stepping-down-from-post.html
Sino-Forest Corp. (TRE)  Chief Executive
Officer  Allen Chan  is considering temporarily stepping down
after the Ontario Securities Commission halted trading in the
company’s shares, a person familiar with the situation said.  An announcement may come as soon as today, said the person,
who declined to be identified because the deliberations haven’t
been made public.  Louisa Wong, Sino-Forest’s senior manager of  investor
relations , didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail from
Bloomberg seeking comment outside normal business hours. A call
to her Hong Kong office wasn’t answered. A telephone message
left for Chan at the same office wasn’t returned.  The OSC, Canada’s main securities regulator, said in a
statement on Aug. 26 that Hong Kong- and Mississauga, Ontario-
based Sino-Forest may have misrepresented revenue and
exaggerated its timber holdings.  The possibility of Chan’s withdrawal from the company was
first reported by the Globe and Mail newspaper.  Sino-Forest shares have plunged 67 percent in Toronto
trading since short-seller Carson Block’s  Muddy Waters  LLC
published a report June 2 alleging that the company was a
“fraud” that duped investors by overstating its timber
holdings.  Sino-Forest has denied Muddy Waters’ allegations and
established an independent committee of directors to respond to
the accusations.  Ontario’s securities watchdog on Aug. 26 initially ordered
Chan and four other Sino-Forest group executives to resign and
later rescinded the order.  Wendy Dey, an OSC spokeswoman, said the same day that the
Toronto-based agency was ”persuaded” to reverse its position.
She didn’t specify who persuaded it to alter course.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Donville in  Vancouver  at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at   scasey4@bloomberg.net . 