-- 
Sinopec’s Profit Beats Estimates as Refining Losses Are Half of PetroChina

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-08-29T02:57:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-28/sinopec-s-record-profit-beats-estimates-after-china-raises-gasoline-prices.html
China Petroleum & Chemical Corp. (386) ,
 Asia ’s biggest refiner, posted record half-year profit that beat
analysts’ estimates after it kept the cost of crude-oil
purchases in check while increasing fuel production.  Net income rose 12 percent to 41.17 billion yuan ($6.5
billion), the company known as Sinopec said yesterday. That
surpassed the 36.02 billion-yuan median estimate in a survey of
six analysts and PetroChina Co.’s 1 percent gain. Shares rose.  State-controlled Sinopec’s losses from turning crude into
gasoline and diesel were about half of PetroChina’s even as it
processed 62 percent more oil than its rival. Earnings from
refining may improve in the second half after crude fell 12
percent from its peak in April. Analysts expect inflation to
ease, allowing the government room to increase fuel prices.  “They did a really nice job in controlling refining
losses,” said Lawrence Lau, an analyst with Bank of  China  Ltd.
in Hong Kong. “With relatively lower crude  oil prices , Sinopec
should do better in the second half.”  Sinopec posted a loss of 12.2 billion yuan from processing
108.5 million metric tons, or about 800 million barrels, in the
first half. PetroChina said on Aug. 25 it incurred a 23.4
billion-yuan loss from refining 491 million barrels.  Brent crude  in  London , a benchmark grade for China, rose
above $120 a barrel in April as political turmoil in the  Middle
East  and North Africa disrupted supplies, from about $95 at the
end of December. Prices have since fallen to about $111 on
concerns that a global recession will cut demand.  Price Controls  Sinopec rose 4.8 percent to HK$7.36 as of 10:47 a.m. in
Hong Kong, while PetroChina gained 3.1 percent and the benchmark
 Hang Seng Index (HSI)  advanced 1.4 percent. The stock has climbed 19
percent this year, compared with the 4.2 percent drop in the
benchmark. PetroChina has risen 10 percent in the same period.  China, which controls fuel prices to curb inflation, raised
tariffs by about 10 percent in the first half as Brent crude
surged to the highest in more than two years.  The country’s inflation accelerated to the fastest pace in
three years in July. Economists forecast the rate to ease to 5
percent in the third quarter from 5.7 percent in the second.  Margins from processing each barrel of crude into fuels
slumped 67 percent from a year to $1.54 in the first half,
according to  presentation slides  on Sinopec’s website. Refining
and marketing accounted for 62 percent of its operating income
last year, compared with 19 percent for PetroChina.  Cnooc, Exxon, Shell  Profit growth at Sinopec and PetroChina lagged behind the
51 percent gain at Cnooc, which relies on oil and gas production
for 99 percent of its revenue. Earnings gains at China’s three
biggest oil companies trailed global rivals Exxon Mobil Corp.
and  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) , which aren’t restrained by government
controls on fuel prices.  Exxon’s first-half profit grew 54 percent, while Shell
posted a 77-percent increase, the companies said last month.  “By optimizing the procurement and transportation of crude
oil, we reduced the costs and improved our profitability,”
Sinopec said in yesterday’s earnings statement. The refiner said
it would “take measures to reduce costs” in the second half
even as it expects “that international crude oil prices will
fluctuate within a wider range.”  Sinopec plans to issue as much as 50 billion yuan in
corporate and convertible bonds to supplement working capital,
cut financing costs and repay maturing debt, the refiner said in
a separate statement yesterday.  Crude-Oil Costs  Sinopec increased oil processing by 5 percent in the first
half to help meet demand in the world’s fastest-growing major
economy, while the cost of purchasing crude rose 38 percent to
406 billion yuan, according to the statement.  “Lower-than-expected crude purchase costs were the
ultimate driver of earnings,” said Laban Yu, the head of oil
and gas research at Jefferies  Hong Kong  Ltd. “We had estimated
crude costs of $106 a barrel. Turns out they were able to buy
crude for $99 a barrel.”  Net income for the period surpassed the previous record of
36.38 billion yuan in the first half of 2007. Sinopec restated
its profit for the first six months of 2010 to 36.80 billion
yuan. The Beijing-based company didn’t provide quarterly figures.  Revenue rose 32 percent to 1.22 trillion yuan because of
higher fuel prices and sales volume, the company said.  Domestic oil-product sales jumped 10 percent to 75.1
million tons, and Sinopec plans to process 114 million tons of
crude in the second half. The company’s chemicals segment posted
a profit of 16.3 billion yuan, up 96 percent.  Energy Exploration  Earnings were also boosted by a 26 percent increase in
operating profit from exploration and production. The realized
price for the crude it sold to customers surged 34 percent while
that for natural gas jumped 24 percent.  Gas output increased 27 percent to 254 billion cubic feet,
while oil production fell 5.4 percent to 156 million barrels
after overseas output dropped “sharply” because of maintenance
at its Angolan field, the company said in the statement.  “The better-than-expected results blew away market
consensus estimates because of the exceptional petrochemical
profit growth and the lower-than-expected refining losses,”
said  Gordon Kwan , the Hong Kong-based head of regional energy
research at Mirae Asset Securities Ltd. “Sinopec also enjoys
lower cost for refining due to its larger processing volume,”
which give it “superior economies of scale.”  --Chua Baizhen and Guo Aibing in Hong Kong. Editors: Ryan Woo,
Amit Prakash.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Baizhen Chua in Beijing at 
 bchua14@bloomberg.net ;
Guo Aibing in Hong Kong at 
 aguo10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 