-- 
Sino-Forest CEO Allen Chan Resigns Amid Regulator Probe, Share Suspension

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e   a n d   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 
2011-08-29T22:07:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-28/sino-forest-says-ceo-chan-steps-down-during-regulator-s-probe.html
Sino-Forest Corp. (TRE) ’s Chief Executive
Officer and Chairman  Allen Chan  resigned two days after a
Canadian securities regulator said the company may have
exaggerated timber holdings, the same charge made by short
seller Carson Block in June.  Chan “voluntarily resigned” both positions, the Hong
Kong- and Mississauga, Ontario-based company said in a statement
yesterday. Chan was replaced by Executive Director Judson Martin
as CEO and William Ardell as chairman. Ardell is leading Sino-
Forest’s internal investigation of Block’s allegations.  The Ontario Securities Commission halted trading in Sino-
Forest’s shares on Aug. 26 and said the company may have
misrepresented revenue. Sino-Forest has plunged 67 percent in
Toronto since Block’s  Muddy Waters  LLC published a report June 2
alleging that the company was a “fraud.”  “The allegations made in the OSC’s temporary order, while
unproven, are of a serious nature,” Sino-Forest said in the
statement. “The company’s business is complex, the scope of the
review is significant and there are enormous amounts of data
that have been marshaled and are under review.”  Sino-Forest’s U.S.-traded shares tumbled 72 percent to
$1.38 on Aug. 26 in over-the-counter trading. They closed on the
Toronto Stock Exchange at C$4.81 on Aug. 25.  Billionaire Shareholder  Sino-Forest’s U.S. shares were halted after the close on
Aug. 26, George Smaragdis, a spokesman for the Financial
Industry Regulatory Authority, said in an e-mailed response to
questions. Trading wasn’t stopped until the authority confirmed
that the Canadian halt wasn’t routine, he said.  Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services said today it cut Sino-
Forest to CCC- from B and then withdrew its ratings. Moody’s
Investors Service downgraded it to Caa1 from B1.  Billionaire Richard Chandler, the biggest single investor
in Sino-Forest, didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail seeking
comment. Richard Barton, a Hong Kong-based external spokesman
for Chandler, declined to comment. Chandler said Aug. 4 he
increased his stake to 18 percent.  “Why we put these reports out is we want to see these
frauds erased,” Block said today in an interview with  Matt Miller  on Bloomberg Television’s  “Inside Track.”  Chan also resigned as chairman of Sino-Forest’s Hong Kong
unit Greenheart Group Ltd., according to a regulatory filing.
Greenheart, halted from trading ahead of the announcement,
remained suspended at the close.  Independent Committee  Shares in Greenheart have plunged 69 percent since Block
made his allegations even as the company has said it operates
independently of Sino-Forest. Greenheart dropped 3.4 percent to
86 Hong Kong cents on Aug. 26.  Sino-Forest has denied Muddy Waters’ allegations and
established an independent committee of directors to respond to
the accusations. The company said Aug. 16 the probe would take
until the end of the year, later than the two to three months it
estimated on June 14.  The company said yesterday three other employees had taken
leave after “certain information” was uncovered by the
committee.  Sino-Forest officers and directors “appear to have
misrepresented some of its revenue and/or exaggerated some of
its timber holdings,” the OSC said Aug. 26. The company did
this by providing information that “may have been false or
misleading in a material respect,” the regulator said.  SEC Warning  The OSC sanctions follow a warning from the U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission in June about buying stakes in companies
that gain listings on its exchanges through so-called reverse
takeovers. Sino-Forest listed in  Canada  in 1994 through the
reverse takeover of a dormant company on the Alberta Stock
Exchange. Sino-Forest eventually shifted to the Toronto
exchange.  Between March 1994 and the end of last year, Sino-Forest
soared 30-fold to C$23.29, as the company stepped up its
strategy of putting foreign capital to work by acquiring,
trading, harvesting and replanting  China ’s timberlands.  Chan’s business model appealed to investors and to the
Chinese government, keen to improve the productivity of its
forests and to increase employment in the countryside, Jimmy Huang, president of Toronto-based T.I.P. Wealth Manager Inc. in
Toronto, said last month in an interview.  Tree Replanting  “His story was rather than just cutting virgin forest and
leaving it for moose pasture, he would replant with fast-growing
tree species” such as eucalyptus, using the latest advances in
tree genetics and cultivation techniques, said Huang.  Since 2003, Sino-Forest has raised almost C$3 billion from
public capital markets, the OSC said in its Aug. 26 statement.  Ontario’s securities watchdog on Aug. 26 initially ordered
Chan and four other Sino-Forest group executives to resign and
later rescinded the order.  The suspension of trading in Sino-Forest’s shares didn’t
cause a default under the company’s guaranteed senior notes or
its convertible senior notes, according to the statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Donville in Vancouver at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net ;
Erik Larson in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  