-- 
South Korea Current-Account Surplus Widens to 9-Month High 0f $4.9 Billion

-- B y   W i l l i a m   S i m
-- 
2011-08-28T23:26:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-28/south-korea-current-account-surplus-widens-to-9-month-high-0f-4-9-billion.html
South  Korea ’s current-account
surplus widened to a 9-month high in July even as a stronger won
eroded the competitiveness of exports.  The excess was $4.94 billion, compared with a revised $2.03
billion in June, the  Bank of Korea  said in a statement in Seoul
today. The current account is the broadest measure of trade,
tracking goods, services and investment income.  The  Bank of Korea  raised its forecast for this year’s
current-account surplus to $15.5 billion from $11 billion last
month, citing strong export growth and stabilizing raw-material
costs. Still, the global slowdown threatens to crimp demand for
Asian exports, posing a bigger dilemma for South Korean policy
makers already struggling with quickening inflation.  “We would continue to see a surplus though it may widen or
narrow in coming months,” Kwon Young Sun, a Hong Kong-based
economist at Nomura Holdings Inc, said before the announcement.
“The won is expected to stay relatively strong mainly due to a
weaker dollar.”  The central bank and the  finance ministry  said last week
they will act to guard against global economic and financial
market uncertainties. The monetary authority left  interest rates 
unchanged for a second straight month on Aug. 11 after three
increases this year failed to quell inflation above its 4
percent limit each month this year.  Currency Gains  South Korea ’s currency rose 0.5 percent to close at
1,081.85 per dollar on Aug. 26 in Seoul, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The won has gained about 4 percent so far
this year, the third best performer among major Asian
currencies.  The surplus on traded goods rose to $5.89 billion from a
revised $2.7 billion in June, today’s report showed. The
services-account deficit widened to 690.9 million from 632.7
million in June.  Total exports on a customs-cleared basis rose 25 percent
last month from a year earlier, compared with a revised 11
percent in June, according to today’s statement. Imports climbed
25 percent after expanding a revised 27 percent.  Overseas shipments probably gained 23 percent this month
from a year ago after expanding 25 percent in July, according to
the median forecast of eight economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News. The latest monthly trade data will be released on Sept. 1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
William Sim in  Seoul  at 
 wsim2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  