-- 
Standard Bank’s African Push Won’t Pay Off Quickly After Global Pullback

-- B y   R e n e e   B o n o r c h i s
-- 
2011-08-28T22:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-28/standard-bank-s-african-push-won-t-pay-off-quickly-after-global-pullback.html
Standard Bank  Group Ltd. said its
African strategy may take five years to pay off as the
continent’s biggest lender hunts for acquisitions and ditches
its ambitions in other emerging markets.  “We think there is a three- to five-year period to run
before returns in the rest of Africa will be satisfactory,”
Ross Linstrom, a spokesman for the Johannesburg-based bank, said
in an e-mailed response to questions.  While Standard Bank’s return on equity, a measure of
profitability, rose to 14.5 percent in the first half, from 13.5
percent a year earlier, its operations in 16 African nations
outside its home market posted a return of 7 percent.  Chief Executive Officer Jacko Maree is reversing his 10-
year-old strategy of expanding in emerging markets outside
Africa to focus on building the bank’s network on the continent.
While acquisitions in countries such as Nigeria may eventually
compensate for an economic slowdown in  South Africa , the
expansion may devour Standard Bank’s surplus capital of $1
billion and disappoint investors hoping for a bigger dividend.  “Africa has not delivered good returns for Standard and we
remain unconvinced of delivery on this strategy,” said David Danilowitz, an analyst at Nedbank Capital in Johannesburg, who
has a “sell” recommendation on the stock.  First-half profit before items from African operations
outside of South Africa fell 17 percent to 423 million rand ($59
million) as Standard Bank boosted capital, invested in computer
systems and opened branches.  ‘Value Destructive’  Standard Bank has said it may use proceeds from the sale
of operations in Argentina and  Russia  to buy a retail bank in
 Nigeria , Africa’s most populous nation. There is a risk an
acquisition in Nigeria,  Kenya  or  Angola  may be “value
destructive,” said Lisa Haakman, an analyst with London-based
Religare Capital Markets.  “Africa is its competitive edge, but it can’t afford to
overpay and dilute return on equity,” she said. “It needs to
go green-fields or pick the right opportunity.”  Standard Bank is convinced that Africa, where 221 million
consumers will advance from poverty to earn annual incomes of
$1,000 to $5,000 by 2015, according McKinsey & Co., should be at
the core of its future strategy.  “We have a natural competitive advantage in Africa, in
connecting Africa to other emerging markets, especially in
natural resources,” Linstrom said on Aug. 24. “By narrowing
our focus, we will be better placed to capitalize on these
advantages.”  Long Game  Retail banking in Africa is a long-term strategy, said
Linstrom. “We’re hoping that the business will break even in
2012. We’re optimistic about the future. ”  In the first half, Standard Bank had negative returns in
local currency terms of 28 percent in Angola, where it invested
for the first time and plans five branches by year end. In
Kenya, its local return was 7 percent and 8 percent in Nigeria,
where it’s aiming for 180 branches by year end.  Some analysts prefer rival,  Barclays Plc (BARC) ’s  Absa Group Ltd. (ASA) ,
which boosted its first-half dividend payout 30 percent while
Standard Bank kept its unchanged.  “Absa remains our top pick among the big four South
African banks,” Colin Hundermark, an analyst at Credit Suisse
Group AG, said, citing its dividend and 20 percent ROE target.  Standard Bank has dropped 12 percent this year through Aug.
26, making it the worst performer on the six-company FTSE/JSE
Africa Banks Index, which has declined 6 percent. The 46-member
Bloomberg Europe Banks and Financial Services Index has slumped
31 percent over this period.  Investors Undeterred  That performance doesn’t deter some investors.  “At this price level, we would be buyers of Standard
Bank,” said Neville Chester, who helps oversee the equivalent
of $36 billion at  Coronation Fund Managers Ltd. (CML)  in  Cape Town .
“Banking penetration and debt to GDP in Africa is miniscule
showing it to be the last untapped market.”  Coronation, Old Mutual Investment Group South Africa and
Sanlam Investment Management’s financial funds are all weighted
towards Standard Bank, with each of them investing 18 percent or
more of their portfolios in the lender, according to Bloomberg
data. The FTSE/JSE Africa Financial Index has dropped 5.1
percent this year while Coronation’s financial fund has slid 6.1
percent. The financial funds of Old Mutual and Sanlam have lost
2 percent and 3.1 percent respectively this year.  Standard Bank’s Africa focus is the right strategy, said
Kokkie Kooyman, a  fund manager  at Sanlam Investment Management
Global in Cape Town, whose team increased its Standard Bank
holdings this month.  ‘School Fees’  “They are paying school fees in  Africa , but our banks have
to increase their exposure,” said Kooyman. “In 10 years time
we’ll stand back and say Standard did well investing there.”  The jury is still out on Standard Bank’s Africa push, said
Christopher Steward, head of equity research at Cape Town-based
 Investec Asset Management , which manages $94 billion.  “Banks are not yet cheap enough to be massively excited
about,” said Steward. “Standard Bank still needs to convince
investors that its African business can become a key
differentiator from its rivals, both in terms of growth and
returns.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Renee Bonorchis in Johannesburg at 
 rbonorchis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net 
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  