-- 
Financial Markets Will Be Open Monday After Dodging Worst of Irene’s Wrath

-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 
2011-08-28T23:22:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-28/u-s-stock-exchanges-will-open-as-usual-skirting-hurricane-irene-damage.html
U.S. stock, bond and commodity
markets will open as usual tomorrow after Manhattan was spared
the worst of Hurricane Irene, avoiding the first shutdown due to
weather since 1985.  NYSE Euronext (NYX) , Nasdaq OMX Group, Bats Global Markets and
Direct Edge Holdings LLC -- the largest operators of equity
exchanges in the world’s biggest capital market -- sent
statements saying they plan normal trading sessions tomorrow.
The Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association
recommended no change to bond-market schedules, and  CME Group
Inc. (CME)  said the  New York Mercantile Exchange  will open.  “Exchanges had prepared for the worst, and thankfully the
worst didn’t materialize,” Chris Isaacson, the chief operating
officer at Bats, said in a phone interview. “The U.S.
securities industry is very resilient,” he said. “Because of
the electronification of markets, most systems are not dependent
on humans being there.”  While the public face of U.S. equity trading is the New
York Stock Exchange in  Manhattan , about 13 percent of the
nation’s volume took place on that venue in the past year.
Almost all of the rest is handled electronically, with orders
matched in data centers in New Jersey and elsewhere.  Storm Surge  Irene struck New York City with winds of 65 miles (105
kilometers) an hour, the National Hurricane Center said in a
special advisory at 9 a.m. local time. A storm surge of 3.8 feet
was reported at New York Harbor and total water levels of almost
8.6 feet, or moderate-stage flooding, were reported at Battery
Park City in lower Manhattan before receding, the hurricane
center said.  “It wasn’t as bad as expected,” said Brian Pfeffer, chief
operating officer at Direct Access Partners LLC, a New York-
based brokerage with about 20 employees that work on the NYSE
trading floor, in a phone interview today. “I don’t see a
problem with trading tomorrow at all.”  Direct Access tested systems last night and was told by the
management company that its office building where 60 more
employees work, 40  Wall Street , would be open, Pfeffer said. He
expects to drive to work tomorrow from Manalapan,  New Jersey , or
take a ferry if the Holland Tunnel isn’t operating normally.  “As for Monday, my plans are to leave around 3 a.m. to be
sure to get in early and check with NYSE and our systems
people,” Doreen Mogavero, chief executive officer of Mogavero
Lee & Co., who trades on the NYSE floor, said in an e-mail
today. “As long as systems are good and phone lines are up it
should be business as usual.”  Subways Shut  The storm forced New York Governor  Andrew Cuomo  to shut New
York City’s transportation system and prompted Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  to evacuate low-lying areas.  With trading poised to resume as normal, the focus of
securities professionals turned to travel as  New York City ’s
subways remained closed and flooding and debris affected train
routes. The Metropolitan Transit Association, which operates
lines serving the largest U.S. city, resumed limited bus service
in the afternoon. It hadn’t disclosed as of 7:12 p.m. when
subways will begin. Parts of the MTA’s  Connecticut  and New York
rail lines may have “substantial damage,” the agency said.  New Jersey Transit  will operate on a modified schedule
tomorrow, it said in an e-mailed statement. Crews are assessing
storm damage and will make necessary repairs, and commuters
should not expect a normal day, it said.  “It’s safe to say it’s going to be a tough commute”
tomorrow, the mayor said during a press conference today. He is
the majority owner of Bloomberg News parent Bloomberg LP.  Hurricane Gloria  Hurricane Gloria, on Sept. 27, 1985, was the last time
weather shut U.S. equities markets for an entire day. On Jan. 8,
1996, the New York Stock Exchange opened late and closed early
after a snowstorm dumped 22 inches (55.9 centimeters) of snow on
the city by dawn.  Stock trading  stopped for four days after the Sept. 11,
2001, terrorist attacks on the World Trade Center in Manhattan.
The most recent shutdown was on Jan. 2, 2007, to observe a
national day of mourning for former President Gerald R. Ford,
who died on Dec. 26, 2006.  “Post 9/11, we and other markets spent a great deal of
time getting ready and building emergency disaster recovery-type
functionality,”  Eric Noll , an executive vice president for
transaction services at New York-based Nasdaq OMX, said during
an interview yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nina Mehta in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  