-- 
U.S. Nuclear Reactors Weather Irene Without Losing Power; One Goes Offline

-- B y   J u l i e   J o h n s s o n
-- 
2011-08-28T22:23:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-28/u-s-nuclear-reactors-weather-hurricane-irene-safely-without-losing-power.html
More than a dozen nuclear plants in
the path of Hurricane Irene along the U.S. East Coast safely
weathered the storm’s passage without losing power to their
reactors, according to the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission.  Two reactors were taken offline because of the storm; one
in  New Jersey  as a precaution and one in  Maryland  after damage
from storm-blown debris triggered an automatic shutdown.  Constellation Energy Group Inc. (CEG) ’s Calvert Cliffs plant,
near Lusby, Maryland, was the only station to suffer damage from
Irene, the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission said in an e-
mailed statement. Constellation declared an “unusual event, the
lowest of four emergency classifications, after Irene’s winds
sent a piece of aluminum siding crashing into the main
transformer at the site.  Constellation called off the emergency earlier today, and
the reactor remained offline.  ‘‘There was never a threat to the public; the site remains
stable and secure,’’ Constellation said in an e-mailed
statement.  Another nuclear reactor at Calvert Cliffs continued to
operate at 100 percent capacity through the storm, the company
said.  Oyster Creek Offline  Exelon Corp. (EXC) ’s Oyster Creek plant near Toms River, New
Jersey, shut yesterday about 5 p.m. in anticipation of
hurricane-force winds, Exelon said in a statement.  The plant owner is waiting to resume output after on-site
inspectors complete a safety assessment, Suzanne D’Ambrosio, an
Oyster Creek spokeswoman, said in a phone interview today.  Irene, which once had winds of up to 120 miles (194
kilometers) an hour, was downgraded to a tropical storm as it
pushed its way into  New England .  Dominion Resources Inc.’s Millstone nuclear plant, which
sits on a peninsula in the Long Island Sound, was spared the
storm’s fury as Irene took a westerly track, said Ken Holt, a
spokesman for the plant.  Dominion hasn’t needed to shut down the two reactors at the
plant in Waterford,  Connecticut , which are operating at about 50
percent, Holt said in a telephone interview. The plant didn’t
get winds as high as had been predicted, Holt said.  ‘‘It doesn’t seem as bad as we’d expected,” he said.  Progress Energy Inc. (PGN) ’ Brunswick nuclear plant in  North
Carolina  also reduced its power output as Irene approached
yesterday.  All other U.S. nuclear plants were operating normally and
at full capacity, the nuclear commission said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Johnsson in Chicago at 
 jjohnsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  