-- 
United Technologies, GE to Open Tomorrow Following Irene

-- B y   R a c h e l   L a y n e
-- 
2011-08-29T00:10:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-28/united-technologies-general-electric-plan-to-open-monday-following-irene.html
United Technologies Corp. (UTX) ,  General
Electric Co. (GE)  and other large industrial employers in the
Northeast U.S. said they intend to open for business tomorrow in
the wake of Hurricane Irene.  United Technologies’ Pratt & Whitney jet-engine facilities
in Connecticut sustained minor damage from wind and rain, Bryan
Kidder, a spokesman for  East Hartford , Connecticut-based Pratt,
said in an e-mail message today. “Cleanup and repairs are under
way and all P&W facilities remain open,” Kidder said.  Irene struck North Carolina as a hurricane yesterday and
made landfall again about 9 a.m. today in New York City as a
tropical storm. The storm pushed into New England after killing
18 people, sending rivers to near-record heights and knocking
out power to almost 6 million homes and businesses in 13 states
and the District of Columbia. U.S. stock, bond and commodity
markets will be open as usual tomorrow.  United Technologies plans to operate its corporate offices
in Hartford,  Connecticut , spokesman John Moran said. “We expect
to be open, but as always ask employees to use their own best
judgment in ensuring their personal safety,” he said.  General Electric, based in Fairfield, Connecticut, plans to
be open tomorrow and operate with normal business hours,
spokeswoman Deirdre Latour said.  Deliveries to Resume  FedEx Corp. (FDX)  told its 10,000-plus employees in the Irene
storm zone to report for duty tomorrow if possible, said Scott
Fiedler, a spokesman for the Memphis, Tennessee-based company.
Customers may experience delays in pickups and deliveries
because of downed trees and power failures, he said.  United Parcel Service Inc. (UPS) , with about 70,000 employees in
the affected Irene regions, plans to resume deliveries tomorrow
to the extent possible, spokesman  Norman Black  said.  “Our intent is to dispatch Monday everywhere we’re
allowed,” Black said in an e-mail.  Honeywell International Inc. (HON) , the Morris Township, New
Jersey-based maker of products from home thermostats to aircraft
cockpit equipment, has plans in place to make sure its plants
operate, spokesman Rob Ferris said.  Stores for Basking Ridge, New Jersey-based Verizon Wireless
were open from Virginia south today, with some in the
Philadelphia area doing business as well, spokesman Howard
Waterman wrote in an e-mail. The company expects the “vast
majority” of East Coast stores to be open tomorrow, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rachel Layne in Boston at 
 rlayne@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  