-- 
Irene’s Estimated Cost for Insurers Falls; Hartford Rallies

-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 
2011-08-29T20:30:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-28/hurricane-irene-s-estimated-u-s-cost-for-insurers-declines-to-3-billion.html
Hurricane Irene’s estimated cost to
insurers fell to about $2.6 billion in the U.S. as the storm
lost strength en route to  New York , according to Kinetic
Analysis Corp., a firm that predicts the effects of disasters.  That compares with a projection last week from the Silver
Spring, Maryland-based company of as much as $14 billion when
Irene was forecast to make landfall in New York as a Category 2
hurricane. Total economic losses, including those that aren’t
insured, may be about $7 billion.  “Insurers may get off pretty easy,” Charles Watson,
Kinetic’s research and development director, said in a phone
interview from Savannah,  Georgia . “This one’s not the straw
that broke the camel’s back.”  Property insurers led by Hartford Financial Services Group
Inc. rallied in New York as loss estimates moderated. The
industry may face claims of $200 million to $400 million in
 North Carolina  and  South Carolina , according to risk-modeling
firm Eqecat. That’s less than the  $1.4 billion  in insured losses
North Carolina sustained from Hurricane Floyd in 1999, one of
the costliest storms to hit that state, according to the
Insurance Information Institute.  “The first initial estimates were that the storm was going
to be a lot more severe,” Tom Larsen, senior vice president at
Oakland, California-based Eqecat, said in a phone interview.
“Sometimes they look big and they’re not, and sometimes they
blow up really quickly and become a major loss.”  Volatility in Projections  Eqecat and other modeling firms needed more time before
releasing estimates for mid-Atlantic states, New York and  New
England . Losses in those regions could create volatility in the
projections, Larsen said.  Irene struck New York City yesterday at around 9 a.m. local
time as a tropical storm with winds of 65 miles (105 kilometers)
per hour, before pushing into New England. The storm caused
rivers to surge and knocked out power to more than 6 million
customers in 12 states and the  District of Columbia . At least 18
people died from  Puerto Rico  to Connecticut.  Hartford, based in the Connecticut city of the same name,
rose $2.23, or 13 percent, to $19.42 at 4:15 p.m. in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading. Travelers Cos. climbed 5.1
percent to $50.75.  Allstate Corp. (ALL) , the largest publicly traded
U.S. home and auto insurer, advanced 8.5 percent and Chubb Corp.
increased 4.6 percent.  Much of the insured flood damage to homes along the coast
will be shouldered by a government-run program, said Kinetic’s
Watson. Standard homeowners’ policies sold by private carriers
don’t include that protection. The government also will face
costs tied to clearing debris and fallen trees.  “Cleanup is going to be about half of the real cost of the
storm, and that’s a government expense,” Watson said.  Forced to Evacuate  Insured losses may include hotel and living expenses for
policyholders who were forced to evacuate, according to AIR
Worldwide, a Boston-based risk-modeler. More than 2 million
people were ordered to leave low-lying areas before the storm.
The majority of them were in New York and  New Jersey , where
hotel rates and living expenses are among the highest in the
U.S., AIR said.  Business-interruption claims also can add to insurers’
costs. More than 10,000 flights were canceled as officials
shuttered airports in the New York metropolitan area, the
busiest U.S. travel market. The  National Association of
Insurance Commissioners  called off its Summer National Meeting
in Philadelphia, scheduled to begin today, after members
scrapped travel plans.  State Farm  State Farm Mutual Automobile Insurance Co., the largest
U.S. house and car insurer, said more than 3,000 homeowners’
claims and about 670 auto claims had been filed in North
Carolina,  Virginia ,  Pennsylvania , New Jersey, New York and
 Connecticut  as of 3 p.m. yesterday. Data from Delaware and
 Maryland  weren’t immediately available.  The insurer was receiving reports of downed trees, siding
and roofing materials blown off houses, power failures and “a
lot of claims for loss of refrigerated food,” said Jon Hannah,
a spokesman for Bloomington, Illinois-based State Farm.  Allstate, the second-largest U.S. home and auto insurer,
said that claims adjusters near Greenville, North Carolina saw
snapped trees, according to April Eaton, a spokeswoman.  Damage in the U.S. from Irene will add to losses already
sustained in the Caribbean. The storm whipped through the
Bahamas before heading to North Carolina. AIR estimated insured
losses of $500 million to $1.1 billion in the Caribbean, while
Eqecat said losses may be $300 million to $600 million.  Reinsurance  Lower losses may mean that reinsurers won’t bear much of
the costs related to Irene, said  Randy Binner , an analyst at FBR
Capital Markets, in a note to clients today. Primary carriers
such as Allstate, Hartford and Travelers, buy coverage from
reinsurers to cover the costliest disasters. Those protections
may not be triggered in this disaster, he wrote.  Insurers have faced costs tied to other catastrophes this
year, including an earthquake in  Japan , tropical cyclone in
 Australia  and tornadoes in the U.S. Natural disasters caused
more than $2 billion in claims at Allstate in the three months
ended June 30 and erased second-quarter profit. Travelers was
also unprofitable in the period. Disasters outside the U.S. led
to a first-quarter underwriting loss at Warren Buffett’s
 Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)   “The industry as a whole is having a catastrophe-prone
year,” said Eqecat’s Larsen. “This is just one more to pile on
top.”  Rate Increases  Losses from catastrophes may lead some insurers to seek
rate increases or stop writing new policies in some areas.
Allstate has said it is scaling back in coastal areas of eastern
and southern states where it doesn’t think it can charge
adequate premiums. Carriers have faced a rise in U.S. natural
disasters, said  Robert Hartwig , president of the Insurance
Information Institute.  “Insurers incorporate these long-term trends into their
rates,” he told  Matt Miller  and Deirdre Bolton on Bloomberg
Television’s “Inside Track.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  