-- 
Wall Street Haunted by '08 Loses Risk Appetite: Credit Markets

-- B y   S h a n n o n   D .   H a r r i n g t o n
-- 
2011-08-29T02:09:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-28/wall-street-haunted-by-loss-cuts-risk-trading-costs-soar-credit-markets.html
Wall Street traders are demanding
the biggest premiums to buy and sell credit in almost two years
as they seek protections from market swings driven by Europe’s
debt crisis and a slowing global economy.  A measure of the cost of trading credit-default swaps has
tripled this month as prices gyrate the most in 13 months,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg and CMA in London. Amid
the volatility, the biggest bond dealers cut their holdings of
corporate securities to $73.1 billion as of Aug. 17, the least
since July 2009, Federal Reserve data show.  The surge underscores the fragility of credit markets three
years after the collapse of  Lehman Brothers  Holdings Inc.
triggered the biggest corporate bond losses in at least 35
years. With junk-rated securities poised to lose the most this
month since November 2008, banks and investors are bracing for
broader declines on concern Europe’s fiscal imbalances will
infect the banking system at a time when the economy may not be
strong enough to withstand such headwinds.  “The specter of 2008 still looms large,” said Tom Farina,
a managing director at Deutsche Insurance Asset Management,
which oversees $200 billion. “People understand that tail risk
is still quite large in comparison to the way we used to think
about it,” he said, referring to extreme market moves that fall
outside probable outcomes forecast by  Wall Street .  Bid-Ask Spread  The difference between where dealers will buy and sell the
15 most-traded credit-default swaps on U.S. investment-grade
companies has widened to 14 basis points from 4.6 basis points
at the start of August, according to market prices compiled by
CMA. That’s equivalent to $14,000 on a $10 million contract and
up from $4,600. The so-called bid-ask spread has increased to
5.4 percent of the annual cost of the contracts, the most since
December 2009 and up from 3 percent on Aug. 1.  “The dealer community is not putting risk on,” said Jason
Rosiak, the head of  portfolio management  at Newport Beach,
California-based Pacific Asset Management, an affiliate of
Pacific Life Insurance Co. “They’re not cushioning the blow as
they once upon a time were, and this leads to more volatility.”  Elsewhere in credit markets, the extra yield investors
demand to hold corporate bonds globally rather than government
debentures rose to the highest level in two years last week. The
cost of protecting U.S. company debt from default increased for
the fifth week as global bond sales plummeted. Leveraged loan
prices plunged to the lowest since 2009.  Buffett Investment  Bonds of  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  were the most actively
traded U.S. corporate securities by dealers last week, with 738
trades of $1 million or more, according to Trace, the bond-price
reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  Credit-default swaps on the  Charlotte , North Carolina-based
lender rose as high as 445 basis points on Aug. 23 as investor
concern mounted that it wouldn’t have enough capital to
withstand losses from soured mortgages. The contracts fell to
333 basis points after  Warren Buffett ’s Berkshire Hathaway Inc.
agreed to invest $5 billion in the nation’s largest bank,
according to CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles
prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market.  Relative yields on company bonds from the U.S. to  Europe 
and  Asia  expanded 11 basis points last week to 231 basis points,
or 2.31 percentage points, according to Bank of America Merrill
Lynch’s Global Broad Market Corporate Index. The spread has
expanded from 170 at the end of July and is at the widest since
Aug. 21, 2009.  Rising Yields  Absolute yields increased to 3.82 percent from 3.67 percent
on Aug. 19. The Barclays Capital Global Aggregate Corporate
Index has lost 0.98 percent this month, paring the gain for the
year to 6.3 percent.  PepsiCo Inc., the world’s biggest snack-food maker led
$21.5 billion of global corporate bond sales, a 54 percent
decline from $46.4 billion in the period ended Aug. 19,
Bloomberg data show. The Purchase, New York-based company issued
$750 million of 3 percent notes due in August 2021 that priced
to yield 97 basis points more than similar-maturity Treasuries.
The debt fell 0.1 cent to 99.2 cents on the dollar from its Aug.
22 sale, Trace data show.  There were no offerings of high-yield, high-risk bonds last
week in the U.S., leaving August sales at $1 billion, compared
with the monthly average this year of $28.5 billion, Bloomberg
data show.  Default Swaps  The cost to protect corporate debentures from losses in the
U.S. rose for a fifth week. The Markit CDX North America
Investment Grade Index, which investors use to hedge against
losses on company debt or to speculate on creditworthiness,
added 3.7 basis points to a mid-price of 126.4 basis points,
according to Markit Group Ltd. The benchmark has risen this
month from 96.3.  In  London , the Markit iTraxx Europe Index of 125 companies
with investment-grade ratings rose 13.2 to 168, and has soared
from 116.6 since July. The Markit iTraxx Asia index of 50
investment-grade borrowers outside  Japan  increased 12.3 basis
points last week to 163.7 and has risen from 116.7 at the end of
July, CMA prices show. The benchmark was trading at 158 as of
8:31 a.m. in Beijing, Credit Agricole CIB prices show.  The indexes typically increase as investor confidence
deteriorates and fall as it improves. The contracts pay the
buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations,
less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals
$1,000 annually on a swap protecting $10 million of debt.  The Standard & Poor’s/LSTA U.S. Leveraged Loan 100 index
fell 1.12 cents last week to 87.47 cents on the dollar. The
measure, which tracks the 100 largest dollar-denominated first-
lien leveraged loans, is down from this year’s high of 96.48 on
Feb. 14. The index has lost 6.6 percent this month, the most
since November 2008. Loans have declined 4.7 percent in 2011.  Emerging Markets  Leveraged loans and high-yield bonds are graded below Baa3
by Moody’s Investors Service and less than BBB- by S&P.  In emerging markets, relative yields were unchanged at 368
basis points, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global
index. The index has ranged this year from 259 on Jan. 5 to 331
on June 27.  August can typically be volatile because many traders and
investors are away from the office, New York-based Farina said.
“You have a lot of senior investors not engaged in the
markets,” he said.  That’s been exacerbated by investors pulling back from the
riskiest debt after S&P stripped the U.S. government of its AAA
rating, yields on Spanish and Italian debt climbed to euro-era
records and the Fed said Aug. 9 that the recovery in the U.S.
has been “considerably slower” than anticipated.  Fed’s Pledge  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said last week the central
bank has tools to stimulate a recovery, though he didn’t give
details on the measures the Fed might take or signal when or
whether policy makers might deploy them. Earlier this month the
Fed pledged for the first time to keep its benchmark  interest
rate  at a record low at least through mid-2013.  A measure of price swings over a 30-day period for the
Markit CDX investment-grade index jumped to 56.6 from 31.1 on
Aug 1., data compiled by Bloomberg and Markit Group Ltd. show.
That’s the widest since July 2010.  The gap between how much bond dealers are willing to pay
for distressed debt and how much they’ll sell it for widened to
levels that made investors reluctant to trade, said Stefan Lingmerth, an analyst for Phoenix Investment Adviser LLC in  New
York . The bid-ask spread on the riskiest bonds expanded to 5 or
10 percentage points from 2 percentage points, he said.  “Liquidity just dried up,” Lingmerth said in a telephone
interview. “There’s no market.”  Bond Losses  Junk bonds have lost 5.1 percent this month, the worst
performance since a decline of 8.4 percent in November 2008,
Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data show. Distressed bonds
have declined 12.5 percent since July.  Some banks pulled back from risk-taking in capital markets
during the second quarter as U.S. corporate bond spreads reached
their tightest levels since October 2007.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  cut its value-at-risk, or VaR, the
maximum amount the company estimates it could lose from trading
on 95 percent of days, to $101 million. The figure was the
lowest since the third quarter of 2006.  David Wells , a spokesman
for Goldman Sachs in New York, declined to comment.  “I’m sure that the big banks are under increasing pressure
to keep the VaR figure at a very manageable level,”  Adrian Miller , fixed-income strategist at Miller Tabak Roberts
Securities LLC in New York, said in an interview.  Dealer Holdings  Corporate debt held by the 18 primary U.S. government debt
dealers that trade directly with the Fed has dropped 23 percent
from $94.9 billion on May 25, Fed data show.  Even as credit markets rallied over the past two years and
investors snapped up $3.2 trillion of U.S. investment-grade and
high-yield, high-risk bonds since 2008, banks never regained
risk appetites close to the levels of the years before the
crisis, the dealer holdings data show.  Primary dealer holdings of corporate securities peaked at
$235 billion in October 2007. They dropped to as low as $59.8
billion in April 2009, though the highest they reached since is
$101.6 billion in January 2010.  The average bid-ask spread on the most-traded credit swaps
reached a record wide of 52 basis points in October 2008, the
month after Lehman Brothers filed for  bankruptcy protection .
They fell to as low as 3.9 basis points in May. From 2005 to
July 2007, the average was 2.9 basis points.  The average annual cost to protect debt using the contracts
soared to a two-year high of 264.6 basis points on Aug. 24, from
152.9 on Aug. 1. The average was 259 basis points on Aug. 26.  ‘Providing Liquidity’  “Banks over the last few years have contributed a smaller
portion of their balance sheet towards providing liquidity to
buy-side firms, folks like myself,” said  David Brown , a  money
manager  in  Chicago  at Neuberger Berman Management LLC, which
oversees $85 billion of fixed-income assets. “Wall Street could
act somewhat as a shock absorber to some of these spread
movements when they were able to use their own balance sheet to
provide liquidity, and they do that much less now.”  The extra yield investors demand to own U.S. investment-
grade corporate bonds instead of Treasuries climbed to 227 basis
points on Aug. 26, the highest since October 2009, according to
Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s U.S. Corporate Master index.
Spreads have widened from 145 basis points on April 11.  Even as investors return from summer holidays in the U.S.
next month, market conditions may not improve soon, said Bill
Bemis, a senior fixed-income money manager who helps oversee
about $57 billion of such assets at Aviva Investors in Des
Moines, Iowa.  It’s “likely here to stay until we get some resolution on
these longer-term issues, some resolution on what’s going to
happen in Europe, and ultimately, are we from an economic
standpoint in the U.S. heading into another recession or
continuing at this very slow growth rate we’ve seen this year,”
Bemis said. “You’re not going to get a resolution overseas
near-term so our expectation would be you would see this
volatility and uncertainty around for the next three to six
months.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shannon D. Harrington in New York at 
 sharrington6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net ; 