-- 
Woolworths CEO Luscombe Says Sentiment, Prices Pressure Growth

-- B y   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s
-- 
2011-08-28T01:29:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-28/woolworths-ceo-luscombe-says-sentiment-prices-pressure-growth.html
Woolworths Ltd. (WOW)  expects subdued
 consumer confidence  and falling prices to challenge its growth
prospects, said Michael Luscombe, chief executive officer of
Australia’s biggest retailer.  Shares of the supermarket chain dropped last week after it
forecast full-year earnings below analyst estimates. Consumer
sentiment deteriorated for a fourth straight month to the lowest
level in more than two years, a report showed Aug. 10. Stalling
domestic demand and a revamp at rival  Wesfarmers Ltd. (WES)  are
curbing market share gains in Australia, where Woolworths gets
90 percent of sales.  “We looked forward and we said what we notice is that
consumer confidence has fallen, and in the absence of good news,
we don’t see that changing in the near future,” Luscombe said
in an interview with the Australian Broadcasting Corp. “We also
note that we’ve had significant deflation in our business and
that’s always a challenge.”  Weaker consumer confidence driven by a rout in global
financial markets will help ease price pressures,  Reserve Bank 
of Australia Governor  Glenn Stevens  said Aug. 26 before a
parliamentary committee in  Melbourne .  A consumer sentiment index dropped from a month earlier to
89.6, the lowest since May 2009, according to a Westpac Banking
Corp. and Melbourne Institute survey of 1,200 consumers taken
Aug. 1-6. Australia’s unemployment rate jumped last month to 5.1
percent, the first increase since October 2010, a government
report showed Aug. 11.  ‘Heightened Uncertainty’  “There is a heightened degree of uncertainty at present,”
Stevens told lawmakers. “There are major challenges in the
global economy and significant forces at work in the Australian
economy.”  Household savings as a share of disposable income climbed
to 11.5 percent in the first quarter in  Australia , close to the
highest since 1986, according to Bureau of Statistics data.  Lower confidence has “translated to higher savings rates,
less expenditure and 40-odd percent of that is in fact retail,”
Luscombe told the ABC’s ‘Inside Business’. “We see no evidence
of big price increases coming through from the grocery sector,
so my gut feel is that we’ll continue to see suppression of
prices.”  Net income will rise between 2 percent and 6 percent in the
12 months ending June, 2012, Sydney-based Woolworths said in a
statement Aug. 25. A result at the top of the forecast implies
profit of A$2.25 billion ($2.4 billion), compared with a A$2.29
billion average of 15 analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.
The company posted a 5.1 percent rise in 2011 profit to A$2.12
billion, compared with analyst expectations for A$2.13 billion.  Shares of the supermarket chain fell 4.7 percent to A$25.23
last week. Woolworths has declined 6.5 percent this year,
compared with the 11.5 percent slide by Australia’s benchmark
S&P/ASX 200 Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Candice Zachariahs in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at   ptighe@bloomberg.net  