-- 
TMX-Maple Deal Seen Unraveling as Biggest Exchange Gains Vanish: Real M&A

-- B y   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 
2011-08-29T21:31:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-28/tmx-maple-deal-seen-unraveling-as-exchange-gains-fade-real-m-a.html
TMX Group Inc. (X) , which has gained the
most of any exchange involved in the industry’s biggest wave of
acquisitions, is now in danger of being left without a buyer.  Since reaching a three-year high in June as the  London
Stock Exchange Group Plc (LSE)  and a group of Canadian banks waged a
bidding contest, the owner of the Toronto bourse has fallen more
than 11 percent with the LSE scrapping its agreement. TMX is now
trading more than C$10 below the C$50-a-share unsolicited bid
from Maple Group Acquisition Corp., the widest gap since it was
announced in May and indicating traders are growing increasingly
concerned the takeover will also fail.  While more than $30 billion in acquisitions for exchanges
have been announced in the past year, only one deal --  Deutsche
Boerse AG (DB1) ’s takeover of  NYSE Euronext (NYX)  -- has been approved by
shareholders. Macquarie Group Ltd. says Maple’s attempt to buy
TMX may not overcome antitrust scrutiny because it would combine
Canada’s largest bourse with its biggest rival, Alpha Group, and
create an entity controlling 85 percent of the nation’s trading.
That may make TMX, one of the least valuable market venues
versus earnings, fall further, said WallachBeth Capital LLC.  “The market doesn’t seem to be pricing in a very high
likelihood of a deal being consummated,” Edward Ditmire, an
analyst with Macquarie in New York, said in a telephone
interview. “Certainly there are competitive implications. The
market is mostly saying there’s an antitrust problem.”  Bidding Contest  Carolyn Quick, a spokeswoman at Toronto-based TMX, declined
to comment on whether the deal will fall apart.  “We have nothing new to report on the discussions with TMX
management,” Jennifer Lee, a spokeswoman for Maple, said in a
telephone interview. “Maple Group is continuing to work on its
regulatory approval process.”  TMX’s shares slipped 1 percent to C$39.94 today in Toronto.  LSE scrapped its bid for TMX on June 29 after failing to
get enough shareholder support for the $3.1 billion deal,
leaving Maple as the sole suitor for the Toronto exchange. TMX
five days earlier had called LSE’s offer “superior.”  The London-based bourse, which announced its all-stock
offer in February, raised its bid on June 22 by agreeing to pay
TMX owners a special cash dividend of C$4 a share. Within hours,
it was topped by a C$50 counteroffer from the group of Canadian
banks and pension funds vying to keep TMX in local hands, a two
dollar boost from its original proposal.  Maple, made up of firms from  Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD)  to
Manulife Financial Corp., said the increased offer amounted to
C$3.8 billion ($3.9 billion). TMX’s board on July 21 authorized
management and advisers to hold discussions with Maple.  Exchange Consolidation  The collapse of LSE’s bid marked the third time in two
months one of the world’s biggest exchanges failed to close a
deal as they look to mergers to help cut costs and generate more
revenue from trading in stocks, options and futures.  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ)  of New York and Atlanta-based
 IntercontinentalExchange Inc. (ICE)  dropped their hostile offer for
NYSE Euronext in New York on May 16 after regulators signaled
they would block it.  Singapore Exchange Ltd. (SGX) ’s A$8.35 billion
($8.3 billion) bid to buy Sydney-based  ASX Ltd. (ASX)  was scuttled by
 Australia ’s government in April.  While TMX gained 43 percent in the past year through last
week, the most of any exchange involved in a billion-dollar
takeover, the shares have dropped since LSE pulled its offer in
June. TMX’s stock has now slid C$10.06 below the deal offer, the
widest gap since the Maple bid was announced, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. In the past two weeks, the difference has
widened by more than C$4.  Antitrust Concern  Investors are concerned Canadian regulators will object to
giving 13 Canadian financial firms control over the nation’s
largest venues for equity trading, according to WallachBeth
Capital’s Yemi Oshodi.  “I’m just really beginning to doubt that this thing is
going to get regulatory clearance,” Oshodi, a managing director
of M&A and special situations trading at New York-based
WallachBeth Capital, said in a telephone interview.  Maple plans to buy Alpha Group, an alternative trading
platform that competes with TMX, and Canadian securities
clearing house CDS Inc., to integrate into TMX if its takeover
succeeds. The plan requires approvals from provincial
regulators, including those in Quebec and Ontario, as well as
 Canada ’s Competition Bureau.  TMX had 65 percent of the Canadian market for  stock trading 
in July, measured by number of shares traded, according to
monthly  statistics  from the Investment Industry Regulatory
Organization of Canada. Alpha Group, whose owners include
Canada’s six largest banks, had a 19.7 percent share.  Deal Rationale  With TMX losing its gains since its agreement with LSE was
announced, betting Maple’s bid, backed by some of Canada’s
biggest financial institutions, will succeed may outweigh the
risks of failure, according to First New York Securities LLC’s
 Andrew Ross .  Merger arbitragers can now make a 25 percent profit, based
on the C$50-a-share cash portion of the offer, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “It’s a reasonable bet,” Ross, a partner and global
equity trader at First  New York , a New York-based proprietary
trading firm that bets on stocks, commodities and derivatives,
said in a telephone interview. “They’re large banks in most
cases. Financing will be available to them.”  Still, Maple would be buying an exchange whose earnings are
26 percent less valuable than the industry median, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Maple also has less incentive to
clear the regulatory hurdles needed to acquire TMX and keep it
in local hands without the threat of a takeover by a foreign
buyer, according to Aite Group LLC’s Sang Lee.  “When LSE walked away, the first thing that popped into my
head was, ‘What is the point of Maple now?’” Lee, managing
partner at Boston-based research firm Aite, said in telephone
interview. “Having got rid of the potential competitor, what’s
the upside of going through with the deal?”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Danielle Kucera in New York at 
 dkucera6@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 