-- 
Abbas Must Push Nonviolence to Advance Palestinian Cause: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-09-24T00:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-24/abbas-must-push-nonviolence-to-advance-palestinian-cause-view.html
Frustrated by the lack of progress
in negotiations with  Israel , Palestinian President  Mahmoud Abbas 
is determined to push for United Nations recognition of a
Palestinian state to break the logjam.  We believe there is a better way -- and it requires a
Palestinian commitment to peaceful protest.  In his speech yesterday to the UN General Assembly, Abbas
said that Palestinians should “enjoy a normal life like the
rest of humanity,” and that the time has come for them to have
a “sovereign and independent homeland.”  We agree. But while Abbas has succeeded in one of his
objectives -- getting the world to focus on the Palestinians’
demand for a state -- his approach is not going to improve the
lives of his people.  Palestinian Prime Minister Salaam Fayyad, among others, has
pointed out that UN resolutions will not change the Israeli
occupation one bit. When that becomes clear, Palestinian
frustration will grow, perhaps leading to violence against
Israelis and Abbas’ government. If terrorist groups exploit the
moment to launch new attacks on Israeli settlements or military
posts in the  West Bank , Israel will retaliate. As happened in
2000 during the last outbreak of Palestinian violence, Abbas’s
security forces might split, with some joining the terrorists.  That’s why Abbas needs to develop a strategy to divert
Palestinian anger into constructive channels, rather than savor
a public relations victory at the UN.  The lesson of the popular demonstrations that brought down
 Egypt ’s president  Hosni Mubarak  and  Tunisia ’s Zine El Abidine
Ben Ali, and which are shaking the foundations of Bashar al- Assad’s dictatorship in  Syria , is the power of peaceful protest.  Mubarak and Ben Ali were brought down by mass nonviolent
demonstrations, not by armed resistance or “martyrdom
operations.” Abbas can do his people a great service by leading
them away from Che Guevara’s resistance strategy and toward
 Martin Luther King ’s.  Peaceful protest doesn’t mean giving up on goals. After
all, during his discussions with British colonial authorities,
Mohandas Gandhi insisted that he would accept nothing less than
full Indian independence. King insisted unequivocally on
achieving full civil rights for blacks. Both men recognized the
enormous power of peaceful resistance to accomplish these goals.
Abbas should throw his government’s support behind the popular
committees that are led by Palestinian peace activists, often
working with sympathetic Israelis. The committees are already
organizing nonviolent protests. At the same time, he should
continue to crack down against Hamas and other terrorist
organizations in cooperation with the Israelis.  Even those supportive of Israel would find it difficult to
reject the legitimate demands of multitudes of Palestinians
demonstrating peacefully. A nonviolent Palestinian movement
might well inspire a new attitude from the majority of Israelis
who are prepared to accept a Palestinian state but now fear it
would be a base for anti-Israeli violence.  The Palestinian people deserve a state. Most people around
the world have a great deal of sympathy for their plight. But
the Palestinian leadership’s strategy of violent resistance,
reluctance to compromise and political theater has utterly
failed. Once this UN drama is over, we can only hope Abbas
decides to lead his people in a different direction.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 