-- 
Afrisam Share Conversion by PIC Is an Attempt to Reduce Debt

-- B y   S i k o n a t h i   M a n t s h a n t s h a
-- 
2011-09-24T14:28:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-24/afrisam-share-conversion-by-pic-is-an-attempt-to-reduce-debt.html
The  Public Investment Corp. ’s plans
to convert its preference shares into equity in  Afrisam Ltd. ,
 Holcim Ltd. (HOLN) ’s South African partner, is an attempt to reduce
debt in the cement producer while protecting value for the state
employees whose assets the PIC manages.  “The goal of any restructuring is to ensure the company’s
capital structure is appropriate for the business going
forward,” Dan Matjila, acting chief executive officer of the
PIC, said in an e-mailed response to questions.  Matjila said that the Pretoria-based manager of South
African government employees’ pension funds filed a notice to
convert to equity 4.7 billion rand ($579 million) in preference
shares it holds in Afrisam, which it helped a group of black
investors to buy from the Swiss building materials group in
April 2007.  “The PIC believes that the conversion is a fundamental
first step in successfully dealing with the overleveraged
capital structure of the group and would go a long way in
protecting value for government employees,” said Matjila.
Afrisam “needs to be deleveraged to optimize and promote
operational flexibility and enhance” fundamental value.  A group of investors, led by Bunker Hills Investments Ltd.,
bought 85 percent of the South African operations of Holcim for
16.4 billion rand and renamed it Afrisam. Jona, Switzerland-
based Holcim retained the rest. The PIC, which manages more than
1 trillion rand of state pensions, announced two months later
that it owns 20 percent of Afrisam after providing 6 billion
rand of debt and preference shares to the investors.  The PIC loan was part of the funding structure.  “The conversion was informed by the need to achieve more
rationality, commitment and urgency amongst stakeholders,” said
Matjila.  An independent institution has been appointed to evaluate
Afrisam’s equity value and decide the amount of shares resulting
from the conversion, Matjila said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sikonathi Mantshantsha in Johannesburg at 
 smantshantsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  