-- 
Thai Central Bank Chief Signals Less Pressure for Rate Rise on Growth Risk

-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m   a n d   S u t t i n e e   Y u v e j w a t t a n a
-- 
2011-09-26T09:50:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-24/thailand-may-lower-growth-projections-on-weak-global-economy-prasarn-says.html
Thailand ’s central bank may cut its
economic growth projections as the global recovery falters,
Governor Prasarn Trairatvorakul said, signaling there may be
less scope for interest rates to rise further. Stocks fell the
most in almost three years.  Inflation expectations aren’t likely to increase and the
Bank of Thailand has “closed the gap somewhat” on normalizing
borrowing costs, Prasarn said in an interview in  Washington  on
Sept. 24. The bank is due to unveil forecasts next month.  Europe ’s debt crisis and a weakening U.S. recovery are
threatening growth in Asia, prompting central banks from  South
Korea  to the  Philippines  to refrain from rate increases in
recent months. The Bank of Thailand bucked that trend by raising
its key rate for a seventh straight meeting last month, citing
inflation risks posed by the government’s plan to raise wages
and support rice prices.  “Looking at the current developments in the world market,
you may probably get somewhat lower inflation expectations,”
said Prasarn, 59. “If that were so, we would probably have
closed the gap somewhat, although there still remains domestic
momentum. I would say there is some possibility for downward
adjustments” in growth forecasts, he said.  Thailand’s benchmark SET Index slid 5.7 percent to 904.06,
the biggest decline since October 2008. The baht fell to its
weakest level in eight months, dropping 0.8 percent to 31.14 per
dollar as of 4:47 p.m. Bangkok time.  ‘May Pause’  The central bank expects gross domestic product to increase
4.1 percent in 2011 and 4.2 percent next year.  “There is a higher possibility the central bank may pause
its rate increases because the global economy is worsening,”
Somprawin Manprasert, an economist at Tisco Securities in
Bangkok, said yesterday by phone. The Bank of Thailand will
raise its key rate once more to 3.75 percent before holding
borrowing costs steady through 2012, Somprawin said.  Philippine central bank Governor Amando Tetangco is facing
a similar challenge, saying in a Sept. 24 interview that Bangko
Sentral ng Pilipinas will probably leave  interest rates 
unchanged for the rest of 2011.  Thailand’s central bank lifted the benchmark rate to 3.5
percent on Aug. 24, the ninth increase since the start of July
2010, and said the rate is now close to “normal levels.”  “In the past year, we have made good progress in the
normalization of the policy rate,” Prasarn said. Still, “we
have to watch out for the new fiscal policy indicating an
expansionary direction.”  Food Prices  Thai inflation accelerated to 4.29 percent in August, the
fastest pace since 2008, as rising food prices countered a
decline in oil costs. Core inflation, which excludes fresh food
and fuel, was 2.85 percent. The central bank uses  core inflation 
to guide monetary policy and aims to keep the gauge at less than
3 percent.  Thai Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra has pledged to
boost the daily  minimum wage  to 300 baht ($10), almost double
the current level in some parts of the country, and buy rice
from farmers at as much as 42 percent above market rates,
spurring concern inflation will quicken. The Cabinet this month
approved wage and salary increases for government officials as
well as tax incentives for first-time buyers of homes and cars
to help bolster consumption.  “The strong domestic demand, boosted by the government’s
policies, will help cushion the impact from the global markets
and make 3.75 percent the appropriate level” for the benchmark
rate, Tisco’s Somprawin said.  ‘Ammunition’  Asian currencies had their biggest weekly drop since 1998
last week as concern the global economy is headed for a
recession dimmed the outlook for exports and prompted investors
to favor safer bets than emerging-market assets.  Thailand has the capacity to intervene to ease volatility
in the baht, Prasarn said. The currency has dropped more than 3
percent in the past month against the  U.S. dollar , according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  “If there were abrupt movements in the markets, we
certainly have ammunition to do some market intervention but the
aim is not to change the direction but to lower the sharp
volatility at times,” the governor said.  Thailand’s benchmark SET Index slid 7.3 percent last week,
its biggest weekly decline since November 2008. Overseas
investors have sold a net $520.8 million of Thai stocks so far
this month, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Stock Slump  Capital inflows may make a “vigorous” return after the
selloff in the nation’s stocks, and the government is prepared
to help control such investments if needed, Finance Minister
Thirachai Phuvanatnaranubala said in an interview on Sept. 23.  “Once investors get over this short-term pessimism, the
long-term fundamentals would come in and this could translate
into a more vigorous capital inflow,” he said, adding it would
be “jumping the gun” to disclose measures the government can
undertake.  Policies unveiled by Yingluck’s government “aim to
rebalance the economy by boosting local demand as we rely too
much on exports,” which account for about 70 percent of GDP,
Commerce Minister Kittiratt Na-Ranong said Sept. 22. Kittiratt
has asked the central bank to refrain from further increases in
interest rates to support the economy.  Higher wage bills and borrowing costs may hamper exports of
manufacturers such as Hana Microelectronics Pcl, Thailand’s
largest packager of semiconductors. Toyota Motor Corp., General
Motors Co. and Ford Motor Co. are among automakers that have
used Thailand as a global production hub due to tax incentives
and trade arrangements that grant access to Southeast  Asia ’s 592
million consumers.  Exports Threatened  Thai exports increased 31.1 percent from a year earlier in
August to a record $21.6 billion as shipments of rice, rubber
and food products climbed. Shipments are expected to expand
about 20 percent this year, surpassing an earlier target of 15
percent, the Commerce Ministry said Sept. 22.  “We see a threat to growth,” Prasarn said. “There will
be some impact on exports and we cannot avoid it because of
trade links, although lately Thai exports are diversified very
well.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net ;
Suttinee Yuvejwattana in Bangkok at 
 suttinee1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  