-- 
Albaraka Group, Turkish Unit to Sell $500 Million Sukuk in 2011, CEO Says

-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e
-- 
2011-09-25T07:00:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-24/albaraka-group-turkish-unit-to-sell-500-million-sukuk-in-2011-ceo-says.html
Albaraka Banking Group BSC,
Bahrain’s biggest publicly traded Islamic lender, and its unit
in Turkey may raise a total $500 million in sukuk this year,
Chief Executive Officer Adnan Ahmed Yousif said.  Albaraka Turk Katilim Bankasi AS (ALBRK)  is in the process of
hiring banks to manage the sale of about $200 million in Islamic
bonds by November, Yousif said in an interview in  Washington 
yesterday. The parent bank may sell about $300 million by the
end of the year, he said.  “There are many institutions that like to diversify their
portfolio to include sukuk,” he said, predicting strong demand
for both transactions after Albaraka Turk raised $350 million in
a syndicated loan this month. “We asked for $150 million and we
got $350 million.”  Global sales of sukuk, which pay asset returns to comply
with Islam’s ban on interest, climbed to $17.4 billion in 2011,
compared with $10.7 billion in the same period last year, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. Albaraka will use the bond-sale
proceeds for medium- and long-term financing as it seeks to
expand its presence in countries such as  Egypt , Tunisia,
Algeria, Pakistan as well as Indonesia, where Yousif said it’s
planning an acquisition.  Egypt Profit Gain  “We have now about three institutions that we are
targeting,” he said. “Most banks available for sale are very
small and they are traditional banks that we are going to
acquire and convert into Islamic banking,” he said.  The shares of  Albaraka Banking Group (BARKA)  rose 1.8 percent to
$1.14 on Sept. 22, trimming their decline this year to 16
percent amid political unrest in Bahrain. Shares of its Egyptian
unit, Al Baraka Bank Egypt, are little changed since trading
resumed in March after a revolt that toppled President  Hosni Mubarak  a month earlier.  “Egypt is excellent,” Yousif said, forecasting profit to
increase about 15 percent compared with 2010. The bank has
avoided lending to the  tourism industry , hit hard as the revolt
prompted travelers to shun the Arab country, he said.  Albaraka plans to open a representative office in  Libya ,
where rebels stormed the capital Tripoli and announced the end
of Muammar Qaddafi’s four-decade rule, Yousif said.  In  Syria , where a popular uprising seeks to end President
Bashar al-Assad’s rule, the revolt led to an increase in
deposits for Albaraka’s unit, Yousif said. “People have
confidence to place money with banks with presence outside
Syria.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  