-- 
Manchester United Ties Stoke to End Perfect Premier League Soccer Start

-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 
2011-09-24T19:31:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-24/manchester-city-newcastle-remain-unbeaten-in-premier-league.html
Manchester United  tied 1-1 at
Stoke, ending its perfect start to the season in English
soccer’s Premier League.  Peter Crouch’s second-half goal earned Stoke the home draw
at the Britannia Stadium. Defending league champion United had
won its first five games by a combined 21-4 score.  Manchester City beat Everton 2-0 to remain unbeaten and
match rival United with 16 points at the top of the standings.
Newcastle also stayed undefeated by beating Blackburn 3-1 as
Demba Ba scored a hat trick.  “Today was difficult,” Manchester City manager  Roberto Mancini  told Sky Sports. “We had to push them for 90 minutes.
In the end, we deserved to win the game.”  Robin van Persie  scored his 100th goal for Arsenal in a 3-0
win over Bolton, 10-man Chelsea beat Swansea 4-1, Liverpool
defeated Wolverhampton 2-1 and Tottenham won 2-1 at Wigan.
Fulham remained the league’s only winless team following a 0-0
tie at West Brom.  Manchester United went on top in the 27th minute as Nani
took a pass from Darren Fletcher and put a shot past goalkeeper
Asmir Begovic.  Crouch tied the game seven minutes after halftime when he
headed in Matthew Etherington’s corner kick. It was his first
goal since joining Stoke from Tottenham last month and ended the
Potters’ seven-game losing run against United.  Crouch on His Goal  “It’s always nice to get your first goal for you new club
in front of your home supporters,” Crouch said in an interview
with ESPN. “Against Manchester United, it’s really pleasing for
me.”  The Manchester rivals both have five wins and one tie, with
United topping the standings on a superior goal difference. City
got second-half goals from substitutes  Mario Balotelli  and James Milner in beating Everton at home.  Balotelli put City in front in the 68th minute when he
scored off a pass from  Sergio Aguero . Milner scored in the final
minute when he ran onto a ball from David Silva and put a shot
by Tim Howard.  Ba gave Newcastle a 2-0 lead at St. James’s Park before
Junior Hoilett drew Blackburn a goal back in the 37th minute. Ba
completed his hat trick in the 54th minute as the Magpies
remained in fourth place with 12 points from three wins and
three draws.  Blackburn finished with 10 men after Martin Olsson was sent
off in the 69th minute for a second yellow card.  Van Persie  Goal  Van Persie scored 38 seconds into the second half to give
Arsenal the lead at home. Bolton’s David Wheater was red-carded
in the 55th minute for a foul on Theo Walcott, who later set up
van Persie for his 100th goal.  Alex Song  then closed the scoring
in the final minute.  Ramires had two goals as Chelsea beat Swansea at home to
remain in third place with 13 points. Fernando Torres scored
before being sent off in the first half for a two-footed
challenge on Mark Gower and Didier Drogba added a goal.  Liverpool got a score from  Luis Suarez  and an own-goal from
Roger Johnson to beat Wolves. First-half goals from  Rafael van der Vaart  and Gareth Bale helped Tottenham win at Wigan, which
saw Steve Ghouri sent off for a second yellow card in the second
half.  Fulham is still seeking its first win after drawing at West
Brom. The result left both teams with four points, one more than
Bolton which drops into last place.  Queens Park Rangers host  Aston Villa  and Sunderland is at
Norwich in tomorrow’s games.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in  London  at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 