-- 
Apple Opens First Hong Kong Store as Retail Spending Surges

-- B y   M a r k   L e e   a n d   J a s m i n e   W a n g
-- 
2011-09-24T07:18:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-24/apple-opens-first-store-in-hong-kong-as-retail-spending-surges.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  opened its first store
in Hong Kong today, paring reliance on sales agents to market
its iPhones and iPads as Chinese tourists drive a retail boom in
the city. Some customers queued two nights for the event.  Charanis Chiu, a 58-year-old photographic-equipment
business owner was among hundreds waiting outside the store with
its white Apple logo in the International Finance Centre mall in
the city’s Central district. The shop, which opened its doors at
9 a.m., has a spiral staircase joining two floors and offers
views of Victoria Harbour with a floor-to-ceiling glass facade.  “I started using Apple Mac products in the 1970s,” said
Chiu, who secured fourth place in the line by joining the queue
at 7:30 p.m. on Sept. 22. “As a fan, I must come and witness
such a big thing in  Hong Kong .”  The Hong Kong store is opening more than three years after
Apple started its first self-operated shop in mainland  China  as
the Cupertino, California-based company expands in a region
where revenue surged sixfold last quarter. Retail-sales growth
in Hong Kong exceeded 20 percent for a fifth straight month in
July, bolstered by spending from Chinese visitors.  “You can’t ignore Hong Kong, it’s a great retail market,”
said Paul French, founder of Shanghai-based market research
company Access Asia. “There is a lot of money in Hong Kong,”
he added.  Chinese Visitors  Visitors from China staying one night or more spent an
average of HK$7,453 ($955) each per trip last year, the highest
amount of any group, according to the Hong Kong Tourism Board.
The nation also provided the top spenders in the same-day
category at HK$2,356 each.  Apple opened its third store in  Shanghai  yesterday, the
biggest in China. With the Hong Kong outlet, the company’s total
in the China region reached six, compared with the 25 stores
that  Ron Johnson , then Apple’s head of retail, said last year it
targeted by February 2012.  Delays in store openings may give makers of smartphones and
tablets equipped with  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android software room to
gain market share in the world’s biggest mobile-phone market,
said  Shaun Rein , managing director of China Market Research
Group.  Yuan’s Advance  A gain in the past two years of about 7.5 percent in the
yuan against Hong Kong’s dollar, which is pegged to the U.S.
currency, has boosted the spending power of Chinese shoppers.  “I have never used Apple products before,” said Ms Yu, a
42-year-old executive from Changsha City in Hunan Province, who
gave only her surname. “I want to try and see if Apple is
really as fantastic as I heard,” said Yu, who had budgeted
about HK$9,000 to buy a Macbook.  The local operations of investment banks including UBS AG
and BNP Paribas SA are based at the offices of the International
Finance Centre. The IFC commercial complex, developed by Sun
Hung Kai Properties Ltd. and Henderson Land Development Co.,
includes the 88-story IFC 2 office tower.  “Hong Kong is an international financial center and has
many users, Apple should have a store here,” said Sammy Wong,
31, a telecommunications supervisor who turned up at 6:30 a.m.
today for the opening. “I’m very excited.”  Apple has more than 100 resellers in Hong Kong, and its
iPhone is distributed by mobile carriers including billionaire
 Li Ka-shing ’s  Hutchison Telecommunications Hong Kong Holdings
Ltd. (215) , according to the U.S. company’s website.  Revenue in China,  Taiwan  and Hong Kong increased six times
to $3.8 billion last quarter, Apple Chief Executive Officer  Tim Cook  said in July.  In Negotiations  Apple is in negotiations with Hysan Development Co. to open
a store in Hysan Place in Hong Kong’s Causeway Bay shopping
district, a person with knowledge of the matter said in May.  A group of labor activists protested outside the Hong Kong
store after its opening today, footage from Cable TV showed. The
TV reported that the protesters, mainly university students,
urged Apple to protect workers’ rights.  Labor groups including China Labor Watch called Foxconn
Technology Group, which makes iPads and  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ) 
computers, a sweatshop that tramples workers’ rights last year,
allegations denied by Foxconn.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Mark Lee  in Hong Kong at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net ;
Jasmine Wang in Hong Kong at 
 jwang513@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  