-- 
Bahrainis Vote to Fill Parliament Seats Vacated by Shiites After Protests

-- B y   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r
-- 
2011-09-24T18:25:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-24/bahrainis-vote-to-fill-parliament-seats-vacated-by-shiites-after-protests.html
Bahrain today held special
parliamentary elections boycotted by the country’s largest
Shiite Muslim bloc a day after stepped-up protests in Shiite
villages and riots in Manama’s biggest shopping mall.  The vote was called to fill 18 seats in the 40-member
parliament vacated by the  al-Wefaq  group, the biggest Shiite
party. Its lawmakers quit in objection to a crackdown on mostly
Shiite demonstrators who held rallies in February and March
during which at least 35 people died.  “With the start of polls for the special elections, we
offer our condolences to every person aspiring for freedom and
justice on this day of mourning democracy,” al-Wefaq said on
Twitter today.  Four candidates have already been declared winners after
their competition withdrew, according to state-run Bahrain News
Agency. The news service said 84 candidates had registered to
compete for the 18 seats. Voter turnout was “no less than 51
percent,” Justice Minister Sheikh Khalid Al Khalifa said in a
news conference an hour after polls closed. The number of
eligible voters was 187,080.  Three of the winners are Shiites, including Sawsan al-
Taqawi, who said in a Sept. 19 interview she came under pressure
not to run, including attacks on social-networking websites and
the defacing of her campaign posters.  “You can make change when you’re inside,” al-Taqawi said.
“We’re a legislative body. But when you’re outside, in a
protest, you will not trigger change.”  Voting Smooth  The justice minister said in an interview today the voting
was “going smoothly” and no incidents were reported more than
five hours after polls opened.  As polls closed in the evening, the Interior Ministry said
22 “vandals” were detained today after attempting to
“obstruct the electoral process,” BNA said. The ministry’s
Brig. Gen. Abdullah al-Nuaimi said groups of “saboteurs”
closed roads leading to some of the polling stations, others
poured oil on the street in front of a voting center and some
threw stones at cars in the parking lot of another, BNA said.  In postings on Twitter, the opposition reported
confrontations between security forces and protesters in several
Shiite villages starting in the afternoon. A government
helicopter could be heard circling the capital Manama and its
suburbs.  “There’s an atmosphere of intimidation, of scaring people
who want to vote and run,” the minister said. “It’s not right
to respond to a constitutional duty with intimidation.”  Riots  The elections come a day after riots at City Center and
Shiite protesters tried to reach the former Pearl Roundabout,
the center of the February-March demonstrations. Dozens of
armored vehicles were deployed in the past few days in the
vicinity of the former roundabout, which the government has
destroyed and replaced with an intersection.  The government set up polling stations at a mall, the
airport and the Bahrain Race circuit, where voters, fearing
intimidation in their village polling stations, can cast their
votes with relative anonymity.  Abdul-Jalil Khalil, who headed al-Wefaq’s parliamentary
bloc, denied his group pressured Shiites not to vote, saying
people were free to participate. He said if voter turnout was
low, it’s because the 18 vacant seats represented areas that
were an “opposition bastion.”  “It’s normal that the supporters of the opposition will
not go to vote,” Khalil said in a telephone interview. “People
are not convinced that these elections will solve Bahrain’s
problems.”  ‘Ordinary People’  Shiites running for election “were ordinary people who
know nothing about politics,” Khalil said. “They won’t be
effective representatives.”  In the Shiite village of Sanabis, voter turnout at the
polling station of Sanabis Intermediate School for Girls was
low, according to Judge Mohammed Mijbil. Voting cards filled up
less than a quarter of each of three clear boxes halfway through
the polling day.  The streets of the village were empty, strewn with garbage
bags, rocks and old furniture used by the residents yesterday to
block the street in protest over the elections.  The February-March demonstrations were held to demand full
democratic representation and equal economic opportunities for
the majority Shiite population. The country’s hereditary Sunni
rulers invited troops from neighboring  Saudi Arabia  and other
Gulf monarchies to help restore order, and accused  Iran  of
fomenting the unrest.  Full-scale protests have stopped, though tensions persist,
with almost daily, low-level rallies in Shiite villages to which
government troops respond with tear gas and rubber bullets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donna Abu Nasr in Dubai at 
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  