-- 
Bahrain’s GDP to Grow 3% Next Year, Chamber Chairman Fakhro Says

-- B y   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r
-- 
2011-09-24T10:53:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-24/bahrain-s-gdp-to-grow-3-next-year-chamber-chairman-fakhro-says.html
Bahrain’s economy will grow 3
percent next year as the country recovers from protests that
cost about $2 billion of output, said Essam Fakhro, chairman of
Bahrain’s Chamber of Commerce and Industry.  “If we do it, considering the situation we underwent, it
will be good as an interim,” he said in an interview today. “It
takes time to go back to normal. But we are on the way.”  Rallies in February and March by the mainly Shiite majority
left 35 people dead, hurt tourism and spurred the central bank
to cut its forecasts for economic growth this year by two
percentage points to 3 percent. The country is holding special
elections today to fill seats vacated by 18 lawmakers who
belong to al-Wefaq, the country’s largest Shiite party.  Declines in tourism, real estate and the retail industry
contributed to the estimated $2 billion loss to the economy,
Fakhro said. That figure also includes $200 million of damage to
small and medium-size industries, which were “tremendously
affected,” he said.  Fakhro said he will be part of a delegation of executives,
government officials and others from the chamber that will
travel to the U.S. and  Asia  to promote Bahrain as an attractive
investment hub.  “All attempts will be made to ensure that law and order
will be enforced here,” he said. “I’m very confident that
Bahrain’s reputation will be restored.”  Shiites represent about 70 percent of the country’s
population of 1.2 million, according to the U.S. State
Department, and have long demanded rights equal to those of
Sunnis, including appointments to senior government and military
posts. In the 1990s, Bahrain was shaken by violence stemming
from Shiite disaffection.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donna Abu Nasr in Dubai at 
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  