-- 
Belgian Coalition Discussions Clear Hurdle, Set for Deficit Cuts

-- B y   J o h n   M a r t e n s
-- 
2011-09-24T13:00:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-24/belgian-coalition-discussions-clear-hurdle-set-for-deficit-cuts.html
Belgian coalition negotiators
agreed to overhaul the rules governing the distribution of  tax
revenue  and give regions more fiscal autonomy, a condition set
by Flemish parties to start budget talks and form a government.  The country’s three regional governments will gain the
power to collect about 30 percent of personal income taxes and
apply limited discounts to national tax rates. A solidarity
mechanism compensating the southern French-speaking region of
Wallonia for its smaller tax receipts will be phased out over 20
years and the Brussels capital region will receive additional
funds of as much as 0.1 percent of gross domestic product.  “Without making any changes to the mechanisms or the
modalities, the agreement will be completed following deficit-
cutting talks that should lead to a balanced budget in 2015,”
the eight party leaders involved in the talks said today in a
joint e-mailed statement. Negotiations will resume next week.  The accord aims to end the dispute between Dutch- and
French-speaking parties that led to the collapse of the previous
coalition and has prevented Belgian leaders from forming a
government 468 days since an early election. The deadlock led
both Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings to assign a negative
outlook to  Belgium ’s debt, now ranked the second-highest
investment grade, and has inflated Belgian borrowing costs
relative to the six higher-rated euro-area nations.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Belgian 10-year
bonds instead of German government securities of similar
maturity has more than doubled to 202 basis points since the
June 2010 election. Belgian bonds rose, reducing the so-called
spread with German bunds, in the two days after the coalition
talks produced a first agreement on Sept. 15 to split a disputed
voting district encompassing the bilingual capital.  Fiscal Competition  Additional spending powers for a total 17 billion euros
($23 billion) will be transferred from the federal level and the
new financing mechanism will hold regional governments
accountable for the success of their own labor policies, Flemish
party leaders said in remarks on public broadcaster VRT after
they emerged from a final round of talks in Brussels that took
20 hours.  French-speaking party leaders said they obtained guarantees
that there won’t be fiscal competition between the regions and
safeguarded educational funds for the French Community, which
will be mainly based on the number of students.  The Belgian talks have so far involved eight parties as
changes to the constitution require a two-thirds majority in
parliament as well as a majority among each linguistic group.
Elio Di Rupo, 60, president of the French-speaking Socialist
Party leading the talks, still needs to make clear whether he
wants to continue government negotiations with eight parties.  Slowing Growth  With institutional aspects all but completed, the coalition
talks will now focus on drawing up a budget, complicated by
slowing economic growth. Economic expansion in Belgium, the euro
area’s sixth-largest economy, will slow to 1.6 percent in 2012
from 2.4 percent this year, according to the planning bureau’s
latest forecast, which the government uses to draw up its
budget.  Belgium must trim its deficit to less than 3 percent of
gross domestic product, the European Union’s limit, next year
from an estimated 3.5 percent this year, according to central
bank forecasts in June, and agreed to balance its books by 2015.  The country will have the fifth-largest debt load relative
to the size of its economy in the euro region this year behind
bailed-out  Greece , Ireland and  Portugal , as well as  Italy , whose
bond market is being supported by European Central Bank
purchases, according to the latest European Commission
forecasts.  Sovereign Risk  The cost of protecting Belgian debt against non-payment
with credit-default swaps for five years rose to a record 304
basis points this week, according to CMA prices. At that level,
traders see a 24 percent chance of default in the next five
years, based on a standard pricing model that assumes investors
would recover 40 percent of the bonds’ face value if Belgium
fails to meet its obligations.  A basis point on a credit-default swap protecting 10
million euros of debt from default for five years is equivalent
to 1,000 euros a year. Swaps pay the buyer face value in
exchange for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent
should a borrower fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Martens in Brussels at 
 jmartens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net  