-- 
Brewers, Diamondbacks, Rangers Win Major League Baseball Division Titles

-- B y   R o b   G l o s t e r
-- 
2011-09-24T05:19:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-24/brewers-diamondbacks-rangers-win-major-league-baseball-division-titles.html
The  Milwaukee  Brewers clinched the
National League Central title for their first division
championship since 1982, and the Arizona Diamondbacks and  Texas
Rangers  also wrapped up division crowns.  Ryan Braun hit a three-run homer, his 32nd of the season,
to break a 1-1 tie in the eighth inning as the Brewers won 4-1
at home last night against the Florida Marlins. Milwaukee
clinched 26 minutes later when second-place St. Louis lost.  “I live for that moment,” Braun told reporters. “You
play the game to have the opportunity to play meaningful games
down the stretch in September.”  Alfonso Soriano hit a tie-breaking three-run homer for the
 Chicago Cubs  in the eighth inning of their 5-1 win at  St. Louis ,
who in addition to losing any chance at a division crown also
fell further behind Atlanta in the NL wild-card chase.  Paul Goldschmidt had a two-run triple in the eighth inning
for the Diamondbacks, who captured the NL West title with a 3-1
home win against the second-place San Francisco Giants.  The  Philadelphia Phillies , who already have clinched the NL
East title and have lost six straight games, were rained out
last night at the  New York Mets .  The Braves won 7-4 at Washington, defeating Nationals
starting pitcher Stephen Strasburg, to extend their wild-card
lead to three games over the Cardinals and five games over the
Giants. Atlanta, St. Louis and San Francisco all have five games
remaining.  Texas  clinched its second straight American League West
title, winning 5-3 at home against Seattle and then wrapping up
the crown when the Los Angeles Angels lost 3-1 at home to
Oakland about two hours later.  Players on Field  Several thousand fans stayed in the stands after the game
at Rangers Ballpark in Arlington, Texas, to watch the Athletics-
Angels game on the stadium’s giant video screen, and some Texas
players sat on the field with their families.  “It feels good,” first baseman Michael Young told
reporters after the Rangers had won. “It feels good, been a
total team effort, everyone has done their part.”  The Tampa Bay Rays lost 5-1 to visiting Toronto and fell 2
1/2 games behind  Boston  in the AL wild-card race. The Angels are
3 1/2 games in back of the Red Sox.  Last night’s scheduled game between the Yankees and the Red
Sox in  New York  was washed out by rain and rescheduled as part
of a doubleheader tomorrow.  The Red Sox (88-68) have six games left -- three at New
York, followed by three at Baltimore. The Rays (86-71) have five
remaining, all at home -- two more against Toronto this weekend,
followed by a three-game visit from the Yankees.  The Yankees clinched the AL East title earlier in the week.
The Detroit Tigers, who have wrapped up the AL Central title,
won 4-3 in 11 innings last night against the Baltimore Orioles.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Gloster in  San Francisco  at 
 rgloster@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  