-- 
Capital Flows Into Thailand May Have ‘Vigorous’ Returns, Thirachai Says

-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m   a n d   S u t t i n e e   Y u v e j w a t t a n a
-- 
2011-09-24T01:31:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-24/capital-flows-into-thailand-may-have-vigorous-returns-thirachai-says.html
Capital inflows into Thailand may
have a “vigorous” return after a selloff in the nation’s
stocks, and the government is prepared to help control such
investments if needed, Finance Minister Thirachai Phuvanatnaranubala said.  The Bank of Thailand should “keep a close watch” on the
return of capital flows and can approach the government to
impose specific measures if inflows are too strong, Thirachai
said in a Bloomberg interview in  Washington  yesterday. It would
be “jumping the gun” to say such steps would be necessary and
unveil policies the government can undertake, he said.  “Once investors get over this short-term pessimism, the
long-term fundamentals would come in and this could translate
into a more vigorous capital inflow than of late,” he said.
“If the central bank finds the inflows too strong and if they
think it would adversely affect our competitive ability, then
the central bank is welcome to come to talk to us and ask for
whatever help they may need.”  The worsening European debt crisis and threat of a U.S.
recession erased more than $10 trillion from global equities
since May.  Thailand ’s benchmark SET Index slid 7.3 percent last
week, its biggest weekly decline since November 2008. Overseas
investors have sold a net $520.8 million of Thai stocks so far
this month, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Recession Threat  The threat of a global recession is rising and European
nations need to gather political will to resolve the crisis,
Thirachai said. Europe’s crisis is likely to have a greater
impact on Thailand’s financial markets compared to its economy,
he said. Thirachai is attending the annual meetings of the
 International Monetary Fund  and  World Bank .  “The concern is less about export demand but more about
financial market disruption” for Thailand, Thirachai said.
Without a resolution to  Europe ’s debt woes, “whenever the bonds
come due and they need to be refinanced, the markets will react
again and again like a bullet that ricochets, hitting and
bouncing around and it will hurt the emerging markets.”  The Bank of Thailand, which last month raised its key
 interest rate  for the seventh straight meeting, needs to find
“the right balance” between inflation risks and threats to
growth amid the worsening global environment, Governor Prasarn Trairatvorakul said Sept. 15.  The central bank lifted the benchmark interest rate to 3.5
percent on Aug. 24, the ninth increase since the start of July
2010, and said current rates are close to “normal levels.” The
next meeting is on Oct. 19.  ‘More Adverse’  “It seems like they are now looking at the external
environment as being more adverse than it appeared originally so
they will take that into account,” Thirachai said.  Thai Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra has pledged to
increase the daily  minimum wage  to 300 baht ($10), almost double
the current level in some parts of the country, and buy rice
from farmers at as much as 42 percent above market rates,
spurring concern inflation will quicken.  The Thai government’s measures to boost domestic demand
will have “one-time” effects, Thirachai said.  “There might still be price pressures but with the outlook
of the major economies being weak, this might be a good
insurance,” he said. The government’s measures “should not put
too much worry on the shoulders of the central bank.”  Thai inflation accelerated 4.29 percent in August, the
fastest pace since 2008, as rising food prices countered a
decline in oil costs.  Core inflation , which excludes fresh food
and fuel, accelerated 2.85 percent. The central bank uses core
inflation to guide monetary policy and aims to keep it at less
than 3 percent.  Salary Increases  Thailand’s Cabinet this month approved wage and salary
increases for government officials as well as tax incentives for
first-time buyers of homes and cars to help spur consumption.  The government is targeting a budget deficit of 350 billion
baht in the fiscal year starting Oct. 1, and estimates expenses
of 2.33 trillion baht. The government earlier this month
approved a plan to spend 15.2 trillion baht over the next four
years, including 11.3 trillion baht to fund state policies aimed
at boosting the economy.  While the previous Thai government had aimed to balance the
budget by 2016, Thirachai said that is less of a concern for him.  “With the adverse environment in the international arena,
the issue of when the budget would come back into balance is
less important than how the spending and the budget are geared
toward improving competitiveness of the country,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net ;
Suttinee Yuvejwattana in Bangkok at 
 Suttinee1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  