-- 
Carney Says Europe Making Progress on Crisis as Canadian Growth to Resume

-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 
2011-09-24T22:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-24/carney-says-europe-making-progress-on-crisis-as-canadian-growth-to-resume.html
Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney 
said there has been some progress this weekend by European
policy makers to stem their debt crisis, and that his own
economy should avoid falling back into recession as growth
rebounds from a second-quarter contraction.  Speaking to reporters in Washington after the meeting of
the  International Monetary Fund , Carney said he was
“encouraged” by euro-area policy makers’ “diagnosis of the
seriousness of the situation.”  As  Greece ’s prospects darken and the 18-month debt crisis
threatens to tip  Europe  and the global economy back into
recession, the euro area’s managers are stepping up efforts to
identify measures that can stop it from spreading. Their
strategy to date has been criticized at the IMF annual meetings.  “We’re encouraged by the discussions this weekend, but in
the end this will require action, not just discussion,” Carney
said.  Policy makers have “considerable resources” at their
disposal to stem the crisis, Carney said. “The political
question is how European authorities want to deploy the
resources,” he said. “The capacity is there, many times
over.”  The “thrust of the conversations” over the weekend
related to “broader issues within the  euro zone , not with
respect to Greece, specifically,” Carney said.  While there’s “no question” the world economy has slowed
and the risks are “skewed to the downside” globally, Carney
said the world’s 10th-largest economy will return to expansion
in the July-September period.  Growth to Resume  “I would not expect that we would not show growth in the
third quarter, particularly given data that has already come
in,” Carney said.  The central bank still has room to react if slowing growth
threatens to push Canadian inflation below its 2 percent target,
Carney said.  “We still have an interest rate tool,” he said, referring
to the bank’s policy rate, which has been at 1 percent for a
year. “We have monetary policy, which will be used
appropriately to achieve the inflation target.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in  Washington  at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net  