-- 
Colombia Halts $240 Million Overseas Bond Sale on ‘Wild’ Market Conditions

-- B y   F a b i o l a   M o u r a   a n d   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w
-- 
2011-09-26T05:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-24/colombia-scraps-plan-to-sell-240-million-in-global-bonds-echeverry-says.html
Colombia  has scrapped plans to sell
$240 million in international bonds this year as “wild” market
conditions raise the risk of borrowing abroad, Finance Minister
Juan Carlos Echeverry said.  Colombia planned to raise the additional amount after
selling $2 billion of 10-year dollar bonds in July and has said
that it could issue Samurai bonds in  Asia  in the second half of
the year. Under its 2011 financing plan, Colombia planned to
raise $2.24 billion in debt sales abroad.  “We don’t like wild waters,” Echeverry said in a Sept. 24
interview in Washington, where he was attending the meetings of
the  International Monetary Fund . “We were lucky and very
successful when we placed $2 billion in a 10-year bond and we
don’t need more financing, so why tackle the markets now?”  The worsening European debt crisis and threat of a U.S.
recession led  Russia  and companies including state oil producer
 Petroleos Mexicanos  to scrap plans for debt sales this month.
Average borrowing costs for companies in emerging markets have
risen 70 basis points in September, poised for their biggest
monthly advance since October 2008, a month after the collapse
of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. ignited the global credit
crisis. Average yields on government debt in developing nations
have climbed 109 basis points, also the most in any month since
October 2008, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. data.  Spreads Rising  Colombia’s sale of the dollar bonds July 5 was the nation’s
first international debt issue since winning an investment-grade
rating in March. The country sold the 4.375 percent bonds due
2021 to yield 130 basis points, or 1.3 percentage points, more
than similar-maturity U.S. Treasuries.  Since the sale, the spread has risen 120 basis points, or
1.2 percentage points, to 252 basis points over U.S. Treasuries,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Index for
Colombia. Since Aug. 31, the yield on the dollar bonds has risen
43 basis points to 4.127 percent.  Echeverry also echoed comments in Washington by Colombian
central bank Governor Jose Dario Uribe in welcoming the
depreciation of the peso against the  U.S. dollar  since the end
of July. Echeverry said the recent fall in the currency had
taken it to around its equilibrium level and said he hopes it
won’t keep falling.  The peso weakened 4 percent to 1903.94 per dollar this week
as investors dumped emerging market assets on signs the world
recovery was faltering. Even after the recent decline, the peso
remains the only major currency in  Latin America  except  Peru ’s
sol to have gained ground on the greenback this year.  “Let’s hope it doesn’t go any further,” Echeverry said.
“Right now, the current level, I am happy with that. Something
around 1900 is ok.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Fabiola Moura in  Washington  at 
 fdemoura@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Bristow in Washington at 
 Mbristow5@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at   jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  