-- 
Colombian Peso’s Decline Is ‘Healthy’ Shock Absorber, Uribe Says

-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w   a n d   F a b i o l a   M o u r a
-- 
2011-09-24T19:23:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-24/colombian-peso-s-decline-is-healthy-shock-absorber-uribe-says.html
Colombia ’s central bank Governor
Jose Dario Uribe said the recent fall in the peso is “healthy”
and won’t boost inflation in  South America ’s fourth-largest
economy.  The effect of a weaker currency on consumer prices is
“very, very low,” and will be more than offset by lower
commodities prices, Uribe said in an interview in Washington DC,
where he’s attending the semi-annual meetings of the
 International Monetary Fund .  “The behavior of the peso recently shows the advantages of
having a flexible  exchange rate ,” Uribe said. “It has had a
movement that’s healthy, that shows how the exchange rate can
serve as a shock absorber.”  The peso has fallen 7 percent against the  U.S. dollar  since
the end of July, as investors dumped emerging market assets on
signs the world recovery was faltering. Even after the decline
the peso is one of only two Latin American currencies that have
risen against the dollar this year, alongside Peru’s sol. The
Brazilian real and the Mexican and Chilean pesos have all
weakened more than 9 percent since the start of January.  The peso weakened 4 percent to 1903.94 per dollar this
week.  Uribe said domestic demand remains “dynamic,” and the
economy is “not very far” from the non-accelerating inflation
rate of unemployment, or NAIRU, a term used by economists to
mean the lowest level joblessness can reach before inflation
starts to accelerate. The labor market is particularly tight for
skilled workers, he added.  Policy makers surprised analysts by keeping its benchmark
 interest rate  unchanged for the first time in seven months in
August, after world stock markets slumped. The central bank kept
the benchmark rate at 4.5 percent while it waits for more
information about the likely effect of global financial
turbulence on Colombia, Uribe said.  Uribe raised the borrowing costs from from 3 percent in
January as the economy grew 5.2 percent in the second quarter
from a year earlier, led by mining and oil. Chile, Mexico and
Peru also held rates last month, while  Brazil ’s central bank
surprised investors with a half point rate cut.  Annual inflation slowed to 3.27 percent in August, from
3.42 percent the previous month, as prices unexpectedly fell
0.03 percent from a month earlier. The central bank targets
inflation of 2 percent to 4 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Bristow in Washington at 
 Mbristow5@bloomberg.net   Fabiola Moura in Washington at 
 fdemoura@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net ; 