-- 
Deutsche Bank’s Ackermann Urges Private Financing for Greece

-- B y   D a w n   K o p e c k i
-- 
2011-09-24T20:31:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-24/deutsche-bank-s-ackermann-urges-private-financing-to-ease-crisis-in-greece.html
Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  Chief Executive
Officer  Josef Ackermann  said that Greece needs private-sector
financing and European officials must act swiftly to stabilize
the region’s economy.  “Policy makers need to move beyond ad hoc financial
responses to address fundamental issues about the nature of
European monetary and economic integration,” Ackermann said
today, addressing the  Institute of International Finance ’s
annual meeting in  Washington .  As Greece’s prospects darken and the 18-month debt crisis
threatens to tip  Europe  and the global economy back into
recession, euro-area managers are stepping up efforts to
identify measures that can contain the contagion. Commodities
fell to a nine-month low yesterday and emerging-market stocks
dropped the most in three years on concern the global economy is
losing momentum and policy makers will fail to spur growth.  Ackermann, 63, said he welcomed pronouncements by European
leaders who said they will more closely coordinate their
economic policies.  “The challenge lies in implementing these decisions in a
timely fashion that convinces financial markets,” he said.  Private-sector involvement in securing financing for  Greece 
will also be “key,” said Ackermann, who has been chairman of
the  Institute of International Finance  since 2003. The IIF
announced today that Ackermann will step down in June 2012 and
be replaced by HSBC Holdings Plc Chairman  Douglas Flint .  Pensions, Deficit  Greece has already made substantial progress in reforming
its pension system and reducing its  budget deficit , Ackermann
said. While private banks will provide a critical role in
supporting economic recovery, he said, “policy makers must
reduce the barriers that inhibit our ability to do so when we
are faced with the dual challenges of meeting new regulatory
requirements on the one hand and managing growing funding
challenges on the other.”  Weak market conditions, especially those driven by
sovereign debt risk, are pressuring bank-funding costs, he said.
The industry is also grappling with tighter capital standards
from the  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision .  Ackermann joined JPMorgan Chase & Co. CEO Jamie Dimon, 55,
in criticizing a proposal requiring the largest global banks to
hold an additional buffer of about 2.5 percent of risk-weighted
assets. He questioned the need for additional liquidity
requirements, calling them excessively conservative and complex.  “Liquidity standards are vital, but the uncertainties
created by the unfinished proposals that we are confronting are
increasingly disruptive,” he said. “We need simple, clear,
appropriate liquidity standards -- not standards that are
unrealistically conservative or unmanageably complex.”  The IIF voted today to create a new committee on governance
and industry practices, devoted to corporate governance, risk
management and compensation issues.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dawn Kopecki in New York at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net  