-- 
Dollar, Yen Gain After Fed Sees Economic Downside, Euro Slides on Crisis

-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 
2011-09-24T04:00:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-24/dollar-yen-gain-after-fed-sees-economic-downside-euro-slides-on-crisis.html
The dollar and yen rallied after
 Federal Reserve  policy makers said they saw “significant
downside risks” to the U.S. economy and Greece struggled to
avoid default, spurring demand for refuge.  The 17-nation euro weakened as Group of 20 finance
ministers met in Washington amid growing pressure to contain
 Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis. Central banks of emerging market
economies intervened to stem the decline of their currencies
amid growing concern of a global slowdown and before a final
report next week on Chinese manufacturing that may confirm
preliminary data that showed slowing in September.  “It’s the triple blow of Greece teetering at the brink of
default, the Federal Reserve talking about how the worst is yet
to come and slower Chinese growth,” said  Kathy Lien , director
of currency research at the online currency trader GFT Forex, in
 New York . “Performance of the dollar and yen is really a
reflection of how much desired safety investors need right
now.”  The dollar rose 2.2 percent to $1.35 per euro, from 1.3796
on Sept. 16. Japan’s currency gained 0.2 percent to 76.61 yen
per dollar, from 76.79. It advanced 2.4 percent against the
shared currency to 103.40, from 105.95.  The Dollar Index, which IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback against the currencies of six U.S.
trading partners, touched 78.798 on Sept. 22, the highest level
since Feb. 14.  Futures Bets  Aggregate bets the dollar will strengthen against the euro,
the yen, the Australian, Canadian and New Zealand dollars, the
pound, the Swiss franc and the Mexican peso surged to 75,065
contracts in the week ended Sept. 20, according to Commodity
Futures Trading Commission Data as compiled by Bloomberg.
Foreign-exchange traders are net long the dollar for the first
time since July 2010.  Price swings surged to a 16-month high with implied
volatility for currencies of the Group of Seven nations reaching
15.5 yesterday, the highest since May 2010, a JPMorgan Chase &
Co. index showed.  The yen has appreciated 11.2 percent during the past three
months, the best performer among the 10 developed-nation
currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency
indexes. The dollar, the second-best performer, gained 5.3
percent while the euro has lost 0.9 percent.  Japan ’s currency reached a decade-high of 102.22 versus the
euro on Sept. 22. It traded as little as 0.3 percent from its
post World War II record of 75.95 against the dollar, reached
Aug. 19, as investors sought a haven.  Yen Steps  Japan may outline measures to counter the strong yen as
early as tomorrow, Economic Policy Minister Motohisa Furukawa
signaled in remarks, Kyodo News reported. The package will be
aimed at reducing the impact of the currency’s gains on local
businesses, according to the report.  The franc fell against the euro by the most since the Swiss
National Bank put a ceiling on its currency’s strength amid
speculation on Sept. 20 the central bank may move the maximum
level to 1.25 from 1.20 per euro.  Swiss central bank spokesman Walter Meier in Zurich
declined to comment when asked about speculation that policy
makers may adjust the franc ceiling against the euro.  The franc fell 1.1 percent to 1.22199 per euro, from
1.20861. The currency lost 7.7 percent the week ended Sept. 9,
after the central bank instituted the 1.20 ceiling Sept. 6. It
declined 3.4 percent to 90.57 centimes per dollar from 87.56.  Economic Update  The  International Monetary Fund  said the  European Central
Bank  should lower  interest rates  if risks to growth persist. The
ECB’s current benchmark rate is 1.5 percent.  The IMF also said the  U.S. economy  will expand 1.5 percent
this year, down from the 2.5 percent projected in June, citing
unresolved debt-reduction concerns and waning confidence among
consumers and businesses.  The ECB may cut borrowing costs to 1 percent at the Oct. 6
meeting, Greg Fuzesi, an economist at JPMorgan in  London , said
in an e-mailed note on Sept. 23.  After a two-day meeting the Fed announced Sept. 21 it would
extend the average maturities of the Treasuries in its portfolio
by purchasing $400 billion of long-term debt, while selling an
equal amount of shorter-term securities, a move known as
Operation Twist. The Fed will also reinvest maturing home-loan
debt into mortgage-backed securities instead of Treasuries.  “The Fed believes the economy really needs some help, even
though inflation is not zero,” said  Andy Richman , who oversees
$10 billion as a strategist in Palm Beach,  Florida  for SunTrust
Bank’s private wealth management division. “The message is the
Fed really things the economy needs help, and that is not
comforting.”  Yen Strength  The Greek  finance ministry  said a conference call this week
with the European Union and the IMF was productive. The country
is struggling to convince critics that it will be able to win a
sixth tranche of loans to prevent default.  Greek two-year yields surged above 70 percent Sept. 23 and
credit insurance prices on  Greece  indicated the chance of
default at more than 90 percent.  “We are reacting, headline by headline, to the European
situation,” said  Alan Ruskin , global head of Group-of-10
foreign-exchange strategy in New York at Deutsche Bank AG.  Officials in emerging markets from  India  to  Korea  have
signaled a readiness to prop up their currencies as mounting
concern about the global economy spurs losses.  Real Moves  Brazil ’s real touched the weakest level since July 2009,
reaching 1.9549 per dollar on Sept. 22. The real fell 5.8
percent to 1.8339 per dollar yesterday, from 1.7331 Sept. 16.  The real gained against the dollar after the central bank
sold currency swap contracts in auctions Sept. 16, which is
equivalent to selling dollars in the futures market. The move,
meant to stem the decline of Brazil’s currency.  The Korean finance ministry said it would “take action”
to stabilize the currency market, after holding an emergency
meeting with the central bank before markets opened Sept. 23.  The won fell 5 percent to 1,167.31 per dollar.  “Every central bank in the world has to take a position
right now where they have to protect their own economy and
intervene in markets and manipulate interest rates,” said  Greg Salvaggio , senior vice president of capital markets at currency-
trading firm Tempus Consulting Inc in  Washington .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  