-- 
ECB’s Stark Says Loose Monetary Policy Cannot Solve Region’s Debt Crisis

-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 
2011-09-24T17:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-24/ecb-s-stark-says-loose-monetary-policy-cannot-solve-region-s-debt-crisis.html
European Central Bank Executive
Board member Juergen Stark warned that central bank emergency
measures are the wrong tool to rely on to solve the current
crisis.  “It is a fallacy to think that loose monetary policy can
solve the large structural problems we are facing,” Stark said,
according to the text of a speech delivered in  Washington  today.
“The crisis has demonstrated that a monetary policy aimed at
fine-tuning short-term objectives carries serious risk.”  Policy makers are under pressure to prevent Europe’s debt
crisis from pushing the global economy into recession and avert
a bank credit squeeze. More than $3.4 trillion has been erased
from equity values this week, driving global stocks into a  bear
market  and the lowest valuations since March 2009. Central banks
around the world have slashed  interest rates  to record lows and
embarked on bond purchase programs, trying to kick-start the
economy.  “Monetary policies aimed at fine-tuning short-term
objectives also run a serious risk of inducing too much policy
forbearance for too long,” said Stark, who resigned from the
board of the ECB this month in protest at the central bank’s
government purchase program. “Exiting an extraordinary
accommodative mode too late can sow the seeds of future
imbalances.”  He will remain the ECB’s chief economist until a
replacement is found. Stark reiterated that central bank
independence is paramount for its policies to be effective.  “If a central bank comes under pressure in times of
crisis, and succumbs to that pressure, it is very unlikely to
exit from such extraordinary measures in a timely manner,” he
said. “This may unanchor inflation expectations and thus
undermine the effectiveness of the measures implemented during
the crisis.”  Stark also called on  Europe ’s leaders to strengthen
economic governance in the region and said that current plans
“do not go far enough.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gabi Thesing in Washington at  gthesing@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  