-- 
All Blacks Defeat France 37-17 to Top Rugby World Cup Group; England Wins

-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 
2011-09-24T13:37:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-24/england-beats-romania-67-3-goes-clear-atop-its-rugby-world-cup-pool-group.html
New Zealand  beat France 37-17 in
captain  Richie McCaw ’s record 100th Test to clinch first place
in their Rugby  World Cup  pool. England moved on top of its group
by routing Romania 67-3.  Israel Dagg touched down twice at Auckland’s Eden Park as
the All Blacks weathered early French pressure last night before
outscoring their opponents by five tries to two in a matchup of
the teams  ranked first and fifth  by the International Rugby
Board.  New Zealand’s 24th straight victory at Eden Park took the
tournament host and bookmakers’ favorite five points clear of
France atop Pool A. The All Blacks can’t be overtaken and will
face the Pool B runner-up in the quarterfinals on Oct. 9 at  Eden
Park , where they last lost in 1994. The venue will also host the
semifinals and Oct. 23 final.  “We have a fair way to go yet,” McCaw, who was presented
with a special cap after becoming the first New Zealander to
play 100 elite Test matches, said in a televised interview.
“I’m looking forward to the next four or five weeks. Hopefully
we can do something special.”  The All Blacks also finished top of their pool in the six
previous editions of rugby’s four-yearly championship, going on
to win their only title at the inaugural tournament in 1987.  Argentina  and Scotland meet today in a Pool B match, while
Ireland can regain the Group C lead from  Australia  by beating
tournament debutant  Russia . Samoa plays Fiji in Pool C.  Tries from  Adam Thomson  and Cory Jane put New Zealand ahead
last night before Dagg struck either side of half time. France,
which upset New Zealand at the World Cup in the 1999 semifinals
and quarterfinals four years ago, hit back with tries from
Maxime Mermoz and Francois Trinh-Duc before Sonny Bill Williams
went over in the corner to complete the scoring.  ‘Intensity’  “It was good to have a game of this intensity at this
stage of the competition,” All Blacks coach  Graham Henry  said
in a news conference. “We were pleased with it. The guys scored
some great tries.”  France , which was the last visiting team to beat the All
Blacks at Eden Park 17 years ago, had nearly two thirds of the
possession in the first 10 minutes though failed to score.  “We started the game well but made too many big
mistakes,” France assistant coach Emile Ntamack said in a
televised interview. “The tournament for us is not over. We
have another important game next week against Tonga.”  No. 8 Thomson went over in the corner for the All Blacks
first try after Ma’a Nonu’s run stretched the French defense.
Jane and Dagg then burst over for tries that fly-half  Dan Carter 
converted to put the All Blacks 19-0 up. Dimitri Yachvili’s
penalty made it 19-3 at the break.  Intercept Try  Dagg finished off the All Blacks’ first attack of the
second half to score his second try. Carter added the conversion
and then kicked a penalty before his pass to Sam Whitelock was
intercepted by Mermoz, who raced clear for a try that Yachvili
converted.  Carter booted a drop goal to make it 32-10 before French
replacement Trinh-Duc scored a converted try with five minutes
left. Williams went over in the corner after the restart to take
the All Blacks’ winning margin out to 20 points.  “It’s about being clinical when you get the
opportunities,” McCaw added. “The boys held their cool and
when we had a chance we took it. I was very happy with the way
things went.”  Wingers Mark Cueto and Chris Ashton each scored three tries
in yesterday’s other match to help  England  move five points
clear of Scotland atop Pool B.  Cueto got a hat trick in 12 first-half minutes on his
comeback from a back injury as England scored 10 tries in
Dunedin to secure the bonus-point victory. Ben Youngs,  Ben
Foden , Manu Tuilagi and  Tom Croft  also touched down to give
England its biggest try haul in a World Cup game since scoring
17 against Uruguay in 2003.  Point to Prove  England’s performance came a week after team manager  Martin Johnson  had criticized his players for being “sloppy” in their
41-10 victory over  Georgia .  “We looked at our performance last week and we had a lot
to improve on,” England captain Lewis Moody said in a televised
interview. “We’ve still got areas to work on but the
performance across the board was much better. We had a point to
prove to ourselves and we’ve gone some way to doing that.”  If  Scotland  beats Argentina today, the Scots and England
will be guaranteed spots in the quarterfinals. Their Oct. 1
meeting in Auckland would then decide who finishes atop the
five-team group and faces the Pool A runner-up in the last
eight.  “It was job done,” Johnson said. “We go into a massive
week for us.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net 
NI ARGENT
NI AUD
NI CANADA
NI FIJI
NI FRA
NI GEORGIA
NI IRELAND
NI IRUAUS
NI IRUCUP
NI IRUENG
NI IRUFRANCE
NI IRUIRE
NI IRUITALY
NI IRUMISC
NI IRUNZ
NI IRUSAFRI
NI IRUSCOT
NI IRUWALES
NI ITALY
NI JAPAN
NI NAMIBIA
NI NZ
NI ORIGINAL
NI ROM
NI RUGBYU
NI RUSSIA
NI SAFRI
NI SAMOA
NI SCOTS
NI TONGA
NI US
NI WALES 