-- 
Ermotti Inherits Task of Shrinking UBS While Keeping Clients After Gruebel

-- B y   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i   a n d   G i l e s   B r o o m
-- 
2011-09-26T07:27:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-24/ermotti-named-interim-ceo-at-ubs-as-gruebel-quits-following-loss.html
Sergio Ermotti , installed as  UBS
AG (UBSN) ’s interim Chief Executive Officer after  Oswald Gruebel ’s
exit, inherits the twin tasks of boosting client confidence and
shrinking the investment bank after a $2.3 billion trading loss.  Ermotti, the bank’s European head and a former derivatives
banker, succeeded Gruebel two days ago, after the Zurich-based
firm’s risk controls missed “unauthorized trading” that will
probably trigger a loss in the third quarter. Chairman Kaspar Villiger announced Gruebel’s departure after two-and-a-half-
years following a board meeting in  Singapore .  Ermotti will take over in “difficult times,” Villiger
told reporters. The 51-year-old will have to rebuild investor
confidence shaken by the failure of the bank’s risk controls. He
will have to shrink an investment bank to conserve capital as
well as bolster the bank’s wealth management operations, which
generate about 41 percent of the bank’s revenue. There, he will
have to prevent wealthy clients from pulling funds from the
country’s largest wealth manager.  “They have to accept the reality that the business model
is gone,” said Enrico Racioppi, an analyst at Hammer Partners
in Lugano, Switzerland. “They have to reduce leverage and close
proprietary trading.”  Ermotti, who worked at Merrill Lynch & Co. for 18 years,
joined UBS from  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  in April. A Swiss national, he
remained based in Lugano when he worked at both Milan-based
UniCredit and UBS.  ‘Knows Investment Banking’  “His background in markets will be fundamental to his
success in the role,”  Alessandro Profumo , UniCredit’s former
CEO, said in a telephone interview. “On the whole he knows
investment banking very well.”  Reducing risk at the investment bank won’t necessarily hurt
earnings, Ermotti told reporters, adding that it’s too early to
evaluate whether the trading loss will have an impact on jobs or
pay. The bank declined to make him available for an interview.  “They’ve got to change the aspirations of the investment
bank and they’ve got to shrink it,” said  Peter Thorne , a
London-based analyst at Helvea SA.  UBS fell as 2.9 percent in Swiss trading today and was up
0.7 percent at 10.19 francs as of 9:24 a.m. The stock has
dropped 8.4 percent since the trading loss was announced, and 35
percent this year. That compares with a 38 percent tumble in the
Bloomberg Europe Banks and Financial Services Index, which
tracks 46 companies.  Kweku Adoboli, 31, the UBS trader charged with fraud and
false accounting that may have resulted in the loss, remains in
custody after a hearing in  London  on Sept. 22. He has yet to
enter a plea.  Booms and Busts  Ermotti inherits a legacy of booms and busts that have
jarred the firm for more than a decade. UBS had hired Gruebel,
67, out of retirement to stabilize the lender, the flagship for
 Switzerland ’s wealth-management industry, after bets on U.S.
mortgage-backed securities backfired. The bank posted the
biggest loss in Swiss corporate history and took a capital
injection of 6 billion Swiss francs from the government in 2008.  Gruebel, during his 37-year career at  Credit Suisse Group
AG (CSGN) , had earned the moniker “Saint Ossie” for helping restore
that bank’s profit. At UBS, he returned the bank to profit about
six months after arriving, resolved a dispute with the U.S. over
banking secrecy that threatened the firm’s existence and stemmed
nine straight quarters of client defections at the private bank.  Kengeter Stays Put  He also began by cutting jobs and curbing risk-taking,
missing the 2009 boom in fixed-income trading that allowed
competitors such as New York-based  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and
JPMorgan Chase & Co. to profit. Then in 2009, he set a target of
reaching 15 billion francs in pretax profit by 2014. To get
there, he expanded the fixed-income unit under Carsten Kengeter,
added staff at the investment bank and took on more risk. By
November 2010, Kengeter, 44, was in sole charge of the
investment bank.  Kengeter did an “excellent job” in covering positions and
there is “no doubt” about his future, Villiger, 70, said on
the conference call yesterday.  The bank’s bigger bets haven’t translated into more profit.
UBS increased so-called value at risk, a measure of how much the
firm could lose in securities markets on a single day, to 75
million francs from 48 million francs in the year-earlier
period. Meantime, pretax profit at UBS’s investment bank slumped
to 376 million francs in the second quarter from 1.31 billion
francs in the year-earlier period. The unit’s cost-to-income
ratio, the highest among the nine biggest investment banks last
year, rose to 86 percent in the quarter.  “This is a bank now in disarray,” said Chris Wheeler, an
analyst at Mediobanca Securities SpA in London. “They’ve let
the CEO walk away. They’ve left themselves in a vacuum.”
Mediobanca today cut its rating on UBS to “underperform” from
“outperform.”  ‘Task Ahead’  Market turmoil and rising capital requirements had led UBS
to begin reversing the buildup of the investment bank even
before the trading loss. About 45 percent of 3,500 job cuts
announced last month were slated for the division.  “I’m fully aware of the magnitude and the complexity of
the task ahead,” Ermotti said on the call with reporters on
Sept. 24. “I’m counting on my colleagues on the executive board
to support me in this challenge.”  The bank will announce further changes to the unit in a
presentation to investors scheduled for Nov. 17, Ermotti said.  “My impression is that they haven’t fully decided what
they want to do,” said Matthew Czepliewicz, an analyst at
Collins Stewart Hawkpoint Plc in London. “If they had decided,
they wouldn’t need to wait until the investor day before saying
whether they would scale back  investment banking  and how they
would scale it back.”  UniCredit Retreat  For Ermotti, scaling back an investment bank isn’t entirely
new. After joining UniCredit as investment banking chief in
2005, the former head of derivatives and equities at Merrill
Lynch first attempted to expand the business to compete with the
world’s top securities firms. It was the first quarter of 2007,
mergers were soaring and UniCredit helped finance Kohlberg
Kravis Roberts & Co.’s 10.1 billion-pound ($15.6 billion) bid
for Alliance Boots Plc.  The collapse of the subprime market and the credit crunch
that followed left Ermotti little choice but to retrench and
refocus the investment banking business on the firm’s historic
markets of  Germany ,  Italy ,  Poland  and  Austria .  Under Ermotti’s leadership, UniCredit established its lead
in corporate lending, while the firm struggled to turn the
relationships into advising on mergers and dealmaking. UniCredit
last year wasn’t among the top 20 merger advisers in its home
markets, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Power Struggle  Ermotti left Milan-based UniCredit after a power struggle
that led to the ouster of Profumo, 54, and the promotion of
Federico Ghizzoni, 55, to the CEO post.  Roberto Nicastro , 46,
was named general manager, the No. 2 position at the company, in
the shakeup.  Ermotti sits on the board of Hotel Residence Principe
Leopoldo SA, owner of a luxury hotel near Lugano, the Swiss
companies register online shows.  The Oxford University graduate, also faces the challenge of
steering a fresh management team in a time of crisis. Tom Naratil, 49, replaced John Cryan, 50, as the chief financial
officer in June and Maureen Miskovic, 54, took over as chief
risk officer in January.  Ermotti, who became deputy CEO at UniCredit in July 2007,
will be a candidate for the permanent top job at UBS, Helvea’s
Thorne said. The position isn’t assured, as some investors say
the board should look outside.  “UBS needs a leader with long experience, but also needs
to signal a break with the past management,” said Angelo Drusiani, who manages about 3 billion euros ($4 billion) at
Banca Albertini Syz & C. in Milan. “Ermotti could be the right
person in the short term to move toward a new step and to an
external candidate.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Giles Broom in Geneva at 
 gbroom@bloomberg.net ;
Elisa Martinuzzi in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly in Paris at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  