-- 
Europe Faces Pressure From Geithner, Soros to Defuse Sovereign Debt Crisis

-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n   a n d   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 
2011-09-25T18:45:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-24/europe-faces-geithner-soros-pressure-to-defuse-debt-turmoil.html
European policy makers faced
mounting pressure from foreign counterparts and investors to
step up efforts to prevent their sovereign debt crisis from
further roiling the world’s financial markets and economy.  U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  set the tone at
the annual meeting of the  International Monetary Fund  in
Washington by warning that failure to combat the Greek-led
turmoil threatened “cascading default, bank runs and
catastrophic risk.” Billionaire investor  George Soros  said
“something needs to be done” to safeguard Europe’s banks
because Greece may be unable to avoid default.  Such calls leave European policy makers under pressure to
further boost the ammunition of their regional rescue fund even
as parliaments focus on ratifying a July plan to broaden its
powers. Trading resumes tomorrow after global stocks
entered their first  bear market  in two years last week on
concern Greek insolvency is inevitable and Europe can’t contain
the damage.  “The sovereign debt crisis in the euro area needs to be
resolved promptly to stabilize market confidence,” People’s
Bank of China Governor Zhou Xiaochuan said at the IMF talks,
which conclude today.  ‘Firewall Against Contagion’  In his strongest public push yet for action, Geithner
pressed governments to unite with the  European Central Bank  to
“create a firewall against further contagion” and defuse the
“most serious risk now confronting the world economy.” Antonio Borges, the head of the IMF’s European department, said today
the ECB is the only agent that can “scare” the markets.  Geithner wants authorities to use leverage to increase the
spending strength of the 440 billion-euro ($594 billion)
European Financial Stability Facility. Bank of Canada Governor
 Mark Carney  said 1 trillion euros should be deployed.  There are indications European governments are heeding the
advice although they signaled a preference to first pass into
law a revamp of the EFSF that will allow it to buy bonds and aid
banks. European members of the Group of 20 agreed Sept. 22 to
“maximize” the fund’s impact, while there are also discussions
under way on speeding the start of a permanent rescue program.  They may be working against the clock.  Greece  has yet to
secure a second bailout amid questions about whether it can
satisfy the aid terms. Economists at Citigroup Inc. say they
expect the country to begin restructuring its debt as soon as
December. Analysts at JPMorgan Chase & Co. predict the euro area
will start contracting in the fourth quarter and that the ECB
will cut  interest rates  next month.  ‘Fundamental Issues’  “Policy makers need to move beyond ad hoc financial
responses to address fundamental issues about the nature of
European monetary and economic integration,” Deutsche Bank AG
Chief Executive Officer Josef Ackermann told a banking
conference in Washington.  Germany ’s government has already begun debating how to
shore up its banks if Greece defaults. One official from a G-20
country said yesterday that an eventual insolvency in the
Mediterranean nation is likely.  Speaking to a banking conference in  Washington  today, Greek
Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos said his country “wants to
make it and will make it,” and will never leave the euro.  Proposals to beef up the facility’s spending power include
using the bonds it buys from stressed states as collateral for
fresh loans from the ECB or offering the central bank credit
protection for helping investors buy debt.  Increasing Heft  German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said the ECB
wasn’t necessarily needed to increase the facility’s heft, while
Bundesbank President Jens Weidmann said involving the central
bank would violate EU treaties. Schaeuble again rejected euro-
area countries issuing joint bonds. Klaus Regling, the head of
the EFSF, said today he doubts accessing the ECB “will fly”
and that other ways of bolstering the fund may be detailed soon.  European finance officials will also examine this week the
cost advantages of setting up the permanent fund, known as the
European Stability Mechanism, a year earlier than its currently
planned July 2013 start, according to a document prepared for
the meetings and obtained by Bloomberg News. Spanish Economy
Minister  Elena Salgado  said yesterday she would back early
adoption of the fund and Schaeuble said that may be possible.  In a sign some in  Europe  resent Geithner’s campaign,
outgoing ECB Executive Board member Juergen Stark said
governments should do their “own homework before they give
advice.” ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  noted Sept. 23 that
the U.S. budget gap dwarfs that of the euro-area.  While the IMF vowed to “strongly support” Europe,
Managing Director  Christine Lagarde  said its $384 billion
lending chest may not be enough to meet all aid requests if the
world economy worsens. The current lending capacity “looks
comfortable today but pales in comparison with the potential
financing needs of vulnerable countries and crisis bystanders,”
she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Simon Kennedy  in Washington at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  