-- 
Bill Clinton Joins Obama for Golf, Talk About U.S. Economy

-- B y   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n
-- 
2011-09-25T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-24/former-president-clinton-joins-obama-foursome-for-golf-outing.html
President  Barack Obama  brought
former President Bill Clinton into his Saturday routine for a
round of golf and talk about the economy.  The current and former presidents teed off for the first
time yesterday and played 18 holes in just under four hours at
Andrews Air Force Base. They were joined by White House chief of
staff  William Daley , who served as commerce secretary under
Clinton, and Doug Band, a top adviser to Clinton.  White House officials declined to say when the invitation
was extended, though Obama spoke earlier in the week at the
Clinton Global Initiative in  New York , a gathering of current
and former world leaders led by the former president.  A joint statement released yesterday by White House
spokesman Josh Earnest and Clinton spokesman Matt McKenna said
the two “enjoyed” hitting the links.  “Periodically, over the last two and a half years, they’ve
gotten together to discuss the unique honor and extraordinary
opportunity to lead this country,” Earnest and McKenna said.
“They were pleased to have the chance to visit once again
today.”  Speaking at the Clinton Global Initiative earlier in the
week, Obama thanked Clinton for supporting his $447 billion jobs
plan, saying “he knows a good jobs plan when he sees it.”  Obama also said Clinton’s two terms in office saw growth in
jobs and wealth that was spread across all economic groups. Now,
he said, the U.S. is facing a ‘once-in-a-generation crisis.’’  Create Jobs  “We can create jobs now and invest in our future, and
still tackle our long-term debt problems,” Obama said. “Don’t
tell Bill Clinton it can’t be done. He did it. When he was
president, he did not cut our way out of prosperity; he grew our
way to prosperity.”  During Clinton’s two terms in office, the  U.S. economy 
added 22 million jobs and the budget balance swung to a surplus
of $236 billion in 2000, his last full year in office, from a
deficit of $290 billion in 1992 during the final year of the
George H.W. Bush presidency.  With the U.S. jobless rate now at 9.1 percent, Obama has
proposed a jobs plan that is a mix of tax cuts and spending that
would include tens of billions of dollars to rebuild roads,
bridges and schools, an extension of benefits for the long-term
unemployed and aid for states and local governments to avert
layoffs of teachers, police and firefighters.  It also would reduce payroll taxes on workers, cut them in
half for most businesses and offer incentives for employers to
hire. Republican leaders including House Speaker  John Boehner  of
 Ohio  have criticized the spending proposals, saying the
administration’s 2009 stimulus failed to live up to
expectations.  Lobbying for Support  Saturday evening, Obama continued his campaign to put
pressure on Congress to enact his proposal during an address to
the Congressional Black Caucus Foundation Inc. in  Washington .  “Pass this jobs bill and every small business owner in
America, including 100,000 black-owned businesses will get a tax
cut,” Obama said in remarks last night to the group’s Phoenix
Awards Dinner. “You say you’re the party of tax cuts, pass this
jobs bill and every worker in America, including nearly 20
million African American workers, will get a tax cut.”  Members of the group have criticized the president’s record
on jobs, saying he hasn’t paid enough attention to the plight of
black Americans, whose unemployment rate stands at 16.7 percent.
Obama, who is up for re-election next year, urged them to unify
behind his plan.  ‘March With Me’  “I expect all of you to march with me and press on,”
Obama told the group. “Take off your bedroom slippers, put on
your marching shoes, shake it off, stop complaining, stop
grumbling, stop crying. We are going to press on, we’ve got work
to do.”  The president used the dinner to divulge some details from
his earlier golf excursion.  Obama said he and the former president discussed allowing
current tax rates for top earners to expire so they would return
to where they were under Clinton.  “I played golf with  Bill Clinton  today, I was asking him,
how did that go?” Obama said. “Well it turns out we had a lot
of jobs. The well-to-do, they did even better. So did the middle
class. We lifted millions out of poverty.”  Obama also has proposed that Americans earning more than $1
million a year pay at least the same rate as middle-class
households, calling it the “Buffett Rule,” named after
billionaire investor  Warren Buffett , the chairman and chief
executive officer of Berkshire Hathaway Inc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julianna Goldman in Washington at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 