-- 
Forty Dead in Yemeni Violence as Saleh Returns

-- B y   M o h a m m e d   H a t e m
-- 
2011-09-24T11:06:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-24/forty-dead-in-yemeni-violence-as-saleh-returns.html
More than 40 Yemenis died and
dozens were wounded in two days of fighting in Sana’a between
Yemeni forces and opposition members following the return to the
country of President Ali Abdullah Saleh.  The casualty toll from an attack by Saleh loyalists on the
Change Square protest camp in the center of the capital has
risen to 18 dead and 54 wounded, said Mohammed al-Abahi, head of
the field clinic at the camp. The attack began yesterday.  Shelling of the nearby headquarters of the First Armored
Division, which backs protesters calling for the regime’s
ouster, killed 11 soldiers and wounded 112 others, Abdul Ghali
al-Shameri, a spokesman for the division’s commander, General
Ali Mohsen al-Ahmar, said today by telephone.  Fighting in the northern Hasaba neighborhood has left 18
dead and 35 wounded, Sheikh Sadeq al-Ahmar, chief of the Hashid
tribal confederation, said in a statement today.  Demonstrations began in February in the Arab world’s
poorest country, inspired by revolts that ousted the leaders of
Tunisia and  Egypt , and deepened as military and tribal leaders
joined the opposition. Efforts by Gulf Arab countries to broker
a power-transfer agreement have failed.  Saleh returned to Yemen yesterday after three months in
neighboring  Saudi Arabia , where he was receiving medical
treatment for injuries sustained in an attack on his compound in
June. He called for a truce and a ceasefire so that a solution
to the eight months of unrest can be reached through dialogue.  Yemen’s authorities “appeared to have lost effective
control of parts of the country and within the major cities,”
the United Nations Office of the High Commissioner for Human
Rights said in a report last week. It warned that Yemen was
confronted by the prospect of civil war.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mohammed Hatem in Dubai at 
 mhatem1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  