-- 
Geithner Says New Democracies Need ‘Inclusive’ Economies

-- B y   I a n   K a t z
-- 
2011-09-24T15:02:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-24/geithner-says-emerging-democracies-need-inclusive-economies.html
U.S. Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner said the fate of democracy in North Africa and the
 Middle East  depends on building economies that help the youth of
those nations.  “The success of these emerging democracies will hinge on
building strong and inclusive economies that improve people’s
lives, especially the lives of young people,” Geithner said in
a statement during the annual meetings of the  International
Monetary Fund  and  World Bank  in  Washington  today. International
financial institutions “will be central” to that effort, he
said.  Economies in North Africa and the Middle East may expand
more than initially forecast this year because of increased
public spending and oil output, the World Bank said Sept. 21.
Gross domestic product for the region may grow 4.1 percent, half
a percentage point faster than the bank’s earlier forecast in
May, the lender said in a report.  Famine in  Africa  requires “concerted global action to
strengthen food security and agriculture,” Geithner said. “Our
investments in agriculture must spur long-term transformations
by increasing agricultural productivity and incomes of
smallholder farmers.”  The drought in the Horn of Africa “demonstrates the
severity and intensity of risks associated with changing climate
conditions that will only intensify over time,” Geithner said.  The Treasury secretary also urged greater “effectiveness”
of the World Bank and regional development banks.  “We will also continue to monitor implementation of each
bank’s reform agenda and seek improvements in the definition,
measurement, and delivery of results to maximize our
investments,” Geithner said.  The Obama administration is working with Congress to meet
capital commitments to the  International Development
Association , he said, the World Bank’s arm which lends to the
poorest nations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  