-- 
Geithner Urges End to European ‘Cascading Default’ Threat

-- B y   I a n   K a t z   a n d   S i m o n   K e n n e d y
-- 
2011-09-24T20:13:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-24/geithner-urges-end-to-cascading-default-threat-from-europe.html
U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  pressed European policy makers to intensify their
efforts to end the 18-month sovereign debt crisis and avoid the
“threat of cascading default, bank runs and catastrophic
risk.”  In his strongest public push yet for  Europe  to step up its
crisis-fighting, Geithner said strains in the euro-area’s
budgets and banks are the “most serious risk now confronting
the world economy.” He urged governments to unite with the
 European Central Bank  to immediately “create a firewall against
further contagion.”  Geithner’s call -- made today at the annual meeting of the
 International Monetary Fund  in Washington and echoed by other
finance chiefs -- came at the end of a week in which stocks
entered their first  bear market  in two years. The slide partly
reflected worries among investors that  Greece  is nearing default
and Europe’s repeated failure to stop its woes from spreading
may cause another global recession.  Bank of Canada Governor Mark Carney said Europe should make
available about 1 trillion euros ($1.35 trillion) to
“overwhelm” the crisis, more than double the current rescue
package. U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne called
for “credible” action to support European banks, some of which
the IMF says need recapitalizing. The Washington-based lender
said today it’s ready to “strongly support” Europe.  ‘Resolved Promptly’  “The sovereign debt crisis in the euro area needs to be
resolved promptly to stabilize market confidence,” People’s
Bank of China Governor Zhou Xiaochuan told the IMF.  There are indications European governments are heeding the
lobbying as they study working with the ECB to boost the
firepower of their bailout fund through leverage. They may also
accelerate the start of a permanent rescue program and the ECB
could soon increase lending to banks.  The pressure is on them as billionaire investor  George
Soros  said today that Greece may be unable to avoid default and
its neighbors should prepare for that. Pacific Investment
Management Co. Chief Executive Officer Mohamed El-Erian and
former U.S. Treasury Secretary Lawrence Summers drew parallels
this week between Europe’s troubles and the 2008 financial
crisis.  Economists at Citigroup Inc. said yesterday they now expect
Greece to begin restructuring its debt as soon as December,
while those at JPMorgan Chase & Co. said the euro area will
start contracting in the fourth quarter and that the ECB will
cut  interest rates  next month.  Greek Default  Germany ’s government has already begun debating how to
shore up German banks in the event Greece defaults, while ECB
Governing Council member Klaas Knot said this week he no longer
excludes a Greek bankruptcy. One official from a G-20 country
said an eventual Greek default is likely.  European finance officials will examine next week the cost
advantages of setting up the fund, known as the European
Stability Mechanism, a year earlier than its currently planned
July 2013 start, according to a document prepared for the
meetings and obtained by Bloomberg News.  Drawing on paid-in capital, the ESM will have a 500
billion-euro ($677 billion) war chest that could help shield
countries like  Italy . It also includes provisions for sharing
costs with bondholders for countries with “unsustainable”
debt.  Temporary Fund  Asked by Bloomberg Television about bringing forward the
ESM’s start date, European Union Economic and Monetary Affairs
Commissioner  Olli Rehn  said the focus for now is on upgrading
the temporary fund, the 440 billion-euro European Financial
Stability Facility. Spanish Economy Minister  Elena Salgado  said
she would back early adoption of the fund.  Debate increased among EU officials this week over how to
ratchet up the spending power of the EFSF through leverage once
a revamp in about mid-October leaves it able to buy bonds in
markets and aid banks.  One way of achieving that, proposed by economists  Daniel Gros  and  Thomas Mayer , is for the EFSF to operate like a bank
and borrow from the ECB, using the bonds it purchases as
collateral. Other suggestions are for the EFSF to guarantee ECB
bond purchases or help the central bank make loans to investors
who buy stressed-country debt, with the facility absorbing
initial losses.  Using leverage mimics the U.S. response to the 2008 crisis.
While Geithner pitched the idea at a Sept. 16 meeting with euro-
area finance chiefs in  Poland , it met initial resistance from
Germany, Europe’s dominant economy.  ‘Cannot Wait’  “Decisions as to how to conclusively address the region’s
problems cannot wait until the crisis gets more severe,”
Geithner said today.  The ECB may also step up its own initiatives to support
markets and growth, Governing Council members  Luc Coene  and
Ewald Nowotny said in  Washington . Potential measures include the
revival of 12-month loans to banks and Coene didn’t rule out
cutting the 1.5 percent benchmark interest rate.  ECB President Jean-Claude Trichet, attending his final IMF
meetings before retiring Oct. 31, yesterday said European policy
makers “are not blind and we are not hiding.”  Greek Prime Minister George Papandreou said yesterday his
government was determined to proceed with the implementation of
the July 21 decision for a second financing package. Osborne
said no G-20 plan had been formed for a Greek default and
Spain’s Salgado said there had been no discussion over such an
event.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net ;
 Simon Kennedy  in Washington at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  