-- 
Geithner Says Governments Need to Work ‘Alongside’ Central Banks

-- B y   I a n   K a t z
-- 
2011-09-24T06:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-24/geithner-says-governments-need-to-work-alongside-central-banks.html
U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said it is essential for European governments to work
“alongside” the  European Central Bank  to resolve the region’s
debt crisis.  “What we need is governments stepping in and making sure
they are underwriting, protecting the role, the risk that the
ECB has had to take on,” Geithner said in an interview airing
on BBC Radio 4 today. Geithner and European officials are
discussing the crisis during annual meetings of the
 International Monetary Fund  and  World Bank , which continue in
Washington today.  European nations need to “escalate” their actions so that
they don’t “leave the central banking carrying too much of the
burden of responding to a crisis” Geithner said.  Governments in the region are exploring speeding the start
of a permanent rescue fund for their cash-strapped economies
amid fresh signs they may bolster efforts to halt the worsening
sovereign debt crisis.  Senior finance officials will examine next week the cost
advantages of setting up the fund, known as the European
Stability Mechanism, a year earlier than its currently planned
July 2013 start, according to a document prepared for the
meetings and obtained by Bloomberg News.  Geithner said he is “tremendously impressed with the force
and creativity of the actions” taken by the ECB. “They’ve been
substituting for the actions of government.”  Geithner, referring to the  Federal Reserve , said that after
the 2008 financial crisis the U.S. “got a framework in place
where we worked very carefully alongside the central bank and
made sure that the fiscal authorities were absorbing the risk in
the central bank actions.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  