-- 
UBS Chief Executive Gruebel Resigns After $2.3 Billion Loss

-- B y   G i l e s   B r o o m
-- 
2011-09-24T22:00:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-24/gruebel-quits-as-ubs-chief-ermotti-interim-successor-bank-to-reduce-risk.html
UBS AG (UBSN) ,  Switzerland ’s largest bank,
named an interim chief executive officer after  Oswald Gruebel 
resigned the post in the wake of a $2.3 billion loss from
unauthorized trading.  Gruebel, who held the top job since February 2009, will be
replaced on an interim basis by Sergio P. Ermotti, the bank’s
CEO for Europe, the  Middle East  and  Africa , UBS said yesterday
in a statement. Gruebel, 67, handed in his resignation as the
Zurich-based bank’s board of directors met in  Singapore .  “That it was possible for one of our traders in London to
inflict a multibillion loss on our bank through unauthorized
trading shocked me,” Gruebel said in a memo to staff yesterday.
“This incident has worldwide repercussions, including political
ones. I did not take the step of resigning lightly. I am
convinced that it is in the best interests of UBS to approach
the future with a new leader at the top.”  Gruebel, who joined UBS after about 37 years at rival
Credit Suisse Group AG, is the only person to have served as CEO
of both of the biggest Swiss banks. Brought out of retirement to
rebuild UBS after record losses, he returned the bank to profit
about six months after arriving, resolved a dispute with the
U.S. over banking secrecy that threatened the firm’s existence
and stemmed nine straight quarters of client defections at the
private bank. He also led an expansion of the investment bank.  ‘Excellent Job’  Chairman Kaspar Villiger, on a conference call with
reporters, said the board tried unsuccessfully to persuade
Gruebel to remain until the annual shareholders meeting next
year. He will be paid for a six-month notice period and have no
further role at the bank. Carsten Kengeter, the head of UBS’s
investment bank, did an “excellent job” in covering positions
after the crisis and there is no doubt about his future,
Villiger said.  UBS plans to shrink the division following the loss.
Gruebel and Kengeter, 44, tried for the last two years to
rebuild the unit into a top-tier investment bank, hiring more
than 1,700 people and bringing in new business heads to replace
those that left or were fired. They also increased risk-taking.
Still, market turmoil and rising  capital requirements  had led
them to begin reversing the buildup even before the trading
loss. About 45 percent of 3,500 job cuts announced last month
were slated for the investment bank.  ‘Less Complex’  “In the future, the investment bank will be less complex,
carry less risk and use less capital to produce reliable returns
and contribute more optimally to UBS’s overall objectives,”
Villiger said yesterday. “The investment bank will continue to
strengthen its alignment with UBS’s wealth management
businesses.”  UBS will probably scale back credit businesses that haven’t
been very profitable and that will be affected most by the
higher capital requirements under Basel III, said Cormac Leech,
an analyst at Canaccord Genuity Ltd. in  London  who has a
“hold” rating on UBS stock. The equities business, by
contrast, “has a relatively high return so you’d expect them
not to close that down,” Leech said.  UBS will announce further changes to the investment back in
a presentation to investors scheduled for Nov. 17, Ermotti said
on the call with reporters.  Gruebel an ‘Obstruction’  “They’ve got to change the aspirations of the investment
bank and they’ve got to shrink it,” said  Peter Thorne , a
London-based analyst at Helvea SA. “I presume Gruebel was a bit
of an obstruction to that because he felt the world was going
back to the good old days and UBS was going to be a powerful
investment bank.”  UBS said it may be unprofitable in the third quarter after
the unauthorized trading. The loss, less than two months after
Gruebel said the firm had “one of the best” risk-management
units in the industry, raised questions about the bank’s
controls.  It resulted from trading in Standard & Poor’s 500, DAX and
EuroStoxx index futures over the past three months, UBS said on
Sept. 18. While the positions were taken within the “normal
business flow of a large global equity trading house,” the size
of the risk was hidden by phony trades, UBS said at the time.  Kweku Adoboli, 31, the UBS trader charged with fraud and
false accounting that may have resulted in the loss, remained in
custody after a hearing in London on Sept. 22. He has yet to
enter a plea.  The bank’s shares have declined by 7.4 percent in Swiss
trading since the trading loss was announced, and 34 percent
this year. That compares with a 37 percent tumble in the
Bloomberg  Europe  Banks and Financial Services Index, which
tracks 46 companies.  ‘Terrible Blunder’  Gruebel’s decision to leave throws into relief the lack of
a  succession plan  at UBS, analysts said. Chairman Villiger, 70,
is scheduled to step down in 2013 and be replaced by former
Bundesbank President  Axel Weber , 54, who lacks hands-on
experience running a commercial bank. The trading loss also
reduces the chance Kengeter will ascend to the top job.  The departure of Gruebel may prove a blow to UBS and
suggests a worrying level of disorder, especially as Chief
Financial Officer Tom Naratil took up his post only three months
ago, said Chris Wheeler, an analyst at Mediobanca Securities SpA
in London.  “The board has made a terrible blunder” in not persuading
him to stay, said Wheeler, who has an “outperform” rating on
the stock. “That would have allowed some continuity with Axel
Weber coming in. This is a bank now in disarray. It’s got a
brand new CFO and now they’ve let the CEO walk away.”  Ermotti  Ermotti, a 51-year-old Swiss national who joined UBS in
April after working at Merrill Lynch & Co. and  UniCredit SpA (UCG) ,
will be interim CEO while the board seeks a permanent successor
to Gruebel, the bank said. In his 18 years at Merrill Lynch,
Ermotti oversaw businesses including the global equities
division before leaving in 2003 to join UniCredit,  Italy ’s
biggest bank.  As UniCredit’s investment banking chief, Ermotti also
supervised global transaction and private banking. Ermotti had
aimed to compete with the world’s top securities firms as
mergers soared and business flourished before the subprime
crisis spread and credit became scarce. He later scaled back the
plan to focus on corporate and investment banking business in
UniCredit’s home markets.  Ermotti, who became deputy CEO at UniCredit in July 2007,
will be a candidate for the permanent top job at UBS, Helvea’s
Thorne said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Giles Broom in Geneva at   gbroom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly in Paris at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  