-- 
Libyan Opposition Makes Attack on Sirte

-- B y   C h r i s   S t e p h e n
-- 
2011-09-24T14:54:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-24/libyan-opposition-makes-attack-on-sirte.html
Libyan forces opposed to  Muammar Qaddafi  began a new offensive to drive loyalists from his
hometown of Sirte, as rebel units announced the creation of
their first joint military union.  Fighting continued today in Sirte, with local Misrata
Television showing anti-Qaddafi forces using howitzers against
targets inside the city. Forces from Hun and Waddan in the south
have moved north to join the offensive and the city “is now
under full siege from the south,” the Misrata Military Council,
which is leading the operation, said in a statement.  The joint military group, the Libyan Thwarr Union, was
formed after a two-day meeting in Tripoli and includes
representatives from the country’s disparate armed groups, the
military council said, without providing additional details.  National Transitional Council Prime Minister Mahmoud Jibril
called on anti-Qaddafi forces two weeks ago to submit to NTC
control in a televised address. The NTC has been attempting to
consolidate its control after taking Tripoli in August and to
form an interim cabinet to see  Libya  through to elections for a
new government. It is also continuing efforts to oust Qaddafi
supporters from Sirte and the town of Bani Walid.  It is unclear how the Libyan Thwarr Union will operate or
whether it is superior to the NTC Supreme Military Council,
whose chairman, Major General Suleiman Mahmoud, is the commander
of NTC forces. Libya’s anti-Qaddafi fighting groups have
previously expressed different allegiances.  Lack of Representation  The Misrata Military Council said in August that it doesn’t
take orders from the NTC, although it does cooperate with its
forces. Misratans and units from the western Nafusa mountains
have complained that they aren’t represented in the Supreme
Military Council.  Commander Ahmed Zlitni said yesterday that his fighters
were holding positions near the eastern gate of Sirte, according
to Al Jazeera television. Residents were being encouraged to
flee ahead of the offensive, it said.  Attempts to negotiate the peaceful surrender of Sirte and
Bani Walid collapsed earlier this month. Since then, NTC forces
have laid siege to both places. North Atlantic Treaty
Organization jets backed up the rebels’ push by striking in a
bombing campaign that started in March, a month after the unrest
began.  Ahmed Bani, NTC military spokesman, said earlier this week
it was just a matter of days before Qaddafi forces were driven
from their last holdouts. He said the assault on Bani Walid has
been made more challenging by high hills and desert valleys in
and around the city, which lies 90 miles (140 kilometers)
southeast of Tripoli.  Fighters from the western city of Misrata failed to capture
key loyalist strong points in Sirte after entering it last
weekend. The North Atlantic Treaty Organization said in a
statement today that it had bombed sites in Sirte in the past 24
hours.  ‘Crisis Situation’  “Muammar Qaddafi still has capabilities that might allow
him to shake Libyans,” the chairman of the NTC, Mustafa Abdul
Jalil, said today in a press conference broadcast live from
Benghazi. “Everyone must realise that the NTC and the executive
board are currently managing a crisis situation. This crisis
compels us all to come together so we can overcome it.”  The NTC has been without a cabinet since the previous one
was dismissed on August 8, though former cabinet ministers have
stayed in their posts pending the formation of a new executive
body, which Jalil said may be announced as early as “next week,
probably on Friday.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Stephen in Misrata, Libya, at 
 cstephen9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 