-- 
Hildebrand Says SNB Will Defend Cap on Franc ‘With Utmost Determination’

-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g   a n d   K l a u s   W i l l e
-- 
2011-09-24T21:41:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-24/hildebrand-says-snb-will-defend-cap-on-franc-with-utmost-determination-.html
Switzerland ’s central bank is
determined to maintain the cap on the Swiss franc introduced
earlier this month to help exporters, the bank’s president,
Philipp Hildebrand said.  “We will defend the cap with the utmost determination,”
Hildebrand said at a briefing on the sidelines of the annual
meetings of the International Monetary Fund and  World Bank  in
Washington today. “We have done what was necessary and our
colleagues here recognized that we are in an exceptional
situation that required exceptional measures.”  The  Swiss National Bank  on Sept. 6 introduced a cap of 1.20
francs versus the euro to fight deflation threats and help the
country’s exporters. The franc has gained 17 percent against the
single currency during the previous twelve months, threatening
foreign sales, as investors sought a refuge from the euro area
fiscal crisis.  Hildebrand declined to say whether the SNB would raise the
ceiling on the franc. Today’s remarks are the first made in
public by a SNB official after the central bank imposed the cap.  The Swiss currency’s strength may curb economic growth just
as demand from abroad is weakening. The  International Monetary
Fund  this week lowered its projections for next year’s economic
expansion in Switzerland to 1.4 percent from 1.8 percent.  Franc, Euro  The Swiss currency reached a record of 1.0075 against the
euro on Aug. 9 on investor concern that European governments may
be unable to contain the region’s debt crisis. The franc has
remained above 1.20 versus the single currency since the SNB
imposed the cap, and was at 1.22 late yesterday.  Switzerland’s government as well as lawmakers have rallied
behind the central bank after it drew criticism for its last
round of currency interventions ended in June 2010. The
purchases led to a record loss of $21 billion last year as the
value of the central bank’s foreign currency holdings plummeted.  The IMF’s projections remain more optimistic than those of
the Swiss government, which sees growth at 1.9 percent this year
and 0.9 percent in 2012. That would be the weakest performance
since the economy shrank in 2009. SNB lowered its 2011 growth
forecast for the nation on Sept. 15.  Holcim, the world’s second-largest cement maker, said Aug.
18 that the currency’s strength shaved 916 million francs off
sales in the second quarter and reduced operating profit by 203
million francs.  SNB policy makers unexpectedly cut borrowing costs last
month and boosted liquidity to money markets to help weaken the
franc. Hildebrand said on Sept. 6 that while costs of the
currency ceiling may be “very high,” doing nothing “would
almost certainly inflict tremendous long-term damage” to the
economy.  The central bank last introduced a currency cap in 1978 to
stem gains versus the Deutsche mark.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Deen in  Washington  at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net ;
Klaus Wille in Zurich at 
 kwille@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  