-- 
IMF Stands Ready to ‘Strongly Support’ Euro Area Recovery From Debt Crisis

-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m
-- 
2011-09-24T20:19:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-24/imf-stands-ready-to-strongly-support-euro-area-recovery-from-debt-crisis.html
The  International Monetary Fund 
said it is ready to “strongly support” European nations in
their efforts to resolve the region’s sovereign debt crisis.  Euro-area countries will do whatever is necessary to end
the crisis and ensure the financial stability of the entire euro
area and its members, the fund said in a  statement  after its
meetings in Washington today. Advanced nations are at the
“core” of a resolution to the current global uncertainty and
should adopt policies to improve their finances, it said.  As  Greece ’s prospects darken and the 18-month debt crisis
threatens to tip  Europe  and the global economy back into
recession, the euro area’s managers are stepping up efforts to
identify measures that can stop it from spreading. Commodities
fell to a nine-month low and emerging market stocks dropped the
most in three years on concern the global economy is losing
momentum and policy makers will fail to spur growth.  “The global economy has entered a dangerous phase, calling
for exceptional vigilance, coordination and readiness to take
bold action from members and the IMF alike,” the fund said.
“We are encouraged by the determination of our euro-area
colleagues to do what is needed to resolve the euro-area crisis.
We welcome that the IMF stands ready to strongly support this
effort as part of its global role.”  European efforts will include implementing the decision to
increase the flexibility of the European Financial Stability
Facility, maximizing its impact, and improving euro-area crisis
management and governance, the fund said.  ‘Strong Capital Positions’  “Advanced economies will ensure that banks have strong
capital positions and access to adequate funding,” the
statement said. They will also “maintain accommodative monetary
policies as long as this is consistent with  price stability ,
bearing in mind international spillovers; revive weak housing
markets and repair household balance sheets; and undertake
structural reforms to boost jobs and the medium-term growth
potential of their economies.”  The IMF cut its forecast for global economic growth this
month and predicted “severe” repercussions if Europe fails to
contain its debt crisis or if U.S. policy makers reach an
impasse over a fiscal plan. The world economy will expand 4
percent this year and next, the IMF said Sept. 20, compared with
June forecasts of 4.3 percent in 2011 and of 4.5 percent in
2012.  The worsening European debt crisis and threat of a U.S.
recession have erased about $12 trillion from global equities
since the beginning of May. Central banks around the world have
slashed  interest rates  to record lows and embarked on bond
purchase programs, trying to kick-start the economy.  Europe ‘Epicenter’  Europe is at the “epicenter” of the sovereign debt crisis
and problems in the region will affect “all of us,” Tharman Shanmugaratnam, chairman of the IMF’s steering committee, told
reporters today.  U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  demanded
European policy makers intensify efforts to neuter the 18-month
sovereign debt crisis or trigger the “threat of cascading
default, bank runs and catastrophic risk.” Bank of Canada
Governor  Mark Carney  said Europe should make available about 1
trillion euros ($1.35 trillion) to “overwhelm” the crisis,
more than double the current rescue package.  European governments are exploring speeding the start of a
permanent rescue fund for their cash-strapped economies and
senior finance officials will examine next week the cost
advantages of setting up the fund, known as the European
Stability Mechanism, a year earlier than its currently planned
July 2013 start, according to a document prepared for the
meetings and obtained by Bloomberg News.  Capital Flows  Emerging-market and developing nations should rebuild
“policy buffers”, contain overheating in their economies and
be ready to face volatile capital flows, the IMF said.  “Surplus economies will continue to implement structural
reforms to strengthen domestic demand, supported by continued
efforts that achieve greater exchange rate flexibility, thereby
contributing to global demand and the rebalancing of growth,”
the fund in the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shamim Adam in  Washington  at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  