-- 
European Stocks Decline as Fed Sees ‘Significant’ Global Economic Risks

-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 
2011-09-24T22:18:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-24/imf-s-resources-may-not-be-enough-if-global-economy-worsens-lagarde-says.html
The International Monetary Fund’s
$384 billion  lending  chest may not be enough to meet all loan
requests if the global economy worsens, Managing Director
 Christine Lagarde  said.  “The fund’s credibility, and hence effectiveness, rests on
its perceived capacity to cope with worst-case scenarios,”
Lagarde said in an “action plan” distributed to the IMF
steering committee today. The current lending capacity “looks
comfortable today but pales in comparison with the potential
financing needs of vulnerable countries and crisis bystanders.”  Tripling IMF resources was part of the Group of 20 leaders’
response to the global recession in 2009. As the European debt
crisis threatens to spread and further damp the global recovery,
the IMF was asked by its steering committee today to review
whether its resources are sufficient.  “The IMF has a limited financial ability to staunch an
escalation of the crisis that envelops major European economies
like Spain and Italy,” said  Eswar Prasad , a senior fellow at
the Brookings Institution in Washington and a professor at
Cornell University in Ithaca, New York.  At the same time, “the current economic and political
climate in advanced economies makes it highly unlikely that they
are in a position to provide additional resources to the IMF,”
he said.  BRICS Support  Finance officials from  Brazil , Russia,  India ,  China  and
 South Africa  -- the so-called BRICS -- said in a Sept. 22
statement they are “open” to contributing to global financial
stability through the IMF or other international financial
institutions.  It is too early to say what the BRICS can do to help
 Europe , where nations need to put into place the measures they
agreed to in July to enhance their bailout fund, Chinese Central
Bank Governor Zhou Xiaochuan said in  Washington  today.  He earlier said in a speech that IMF available resources
“may not be adequate to meet the potential needs of the crisis-
hit countries.”  U.S. Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner today did not
mention IMF resources as an issue, saying member countries have
“acted decisively to give the Fund the resources and facilities
to respond to crises.”  The Washington-based IMF, which is contributing to bailout
packages for  Greece , Ireland and Portugal along with the
European Union, said today it “stands ready to strongly
support” efforts of the euro region to solve the debt crisis.  Emergency Lending  The IMF board this week already extended the activation of
its emergency lending pool for six months.  “The fund will be here,” Lagarde told reporters at a
press conference in Washington today.  She also said the fund will review the types of loans and
credit lines members can request.  IMF staff have been working on a potential new credit line
to respond to short-term liquidity needs as part of its efforts
to support countries before crises develop.  German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  told the IMF
steering committee today said he is open to discussing the idea
of a short-term credit line within the IMF precautionary
toolkit.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in  New York  at  srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  