-- 
Indonesia’s Growth Is Solid as Lending Exceeds Target, Central Bank Says

-- B y   N o v r i d a   M a n u r u n g
-- 
2011-09-24T05:51:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-24/indonesia-s-growth-is-solid-as-lending-exceeds-target-central-bank-says.html
Indonesia ’s central bank expects
economic growth to remain solid even amid a global slowdown as
lending this year may exceed commercial bank expectations,
Deputy Governor Muliaman Hadad said in Bandung today.  Loan growth at Indonesian banks will probably rise as much
as 25 percent, beating the industry’s 24 percent target, as
demand for working capital and investment credit increases,
Hadad said. Credit in  Southeast Asia ’s biggest economy swelled
24.2 percent from a year earlier in August, Bank Indonesia said
in a statement on Sept. 8.  Governor Darmin Nasution and his board held benchmark
 interest rates  unchanged for a seventh month in September, as
concern the global recovery is faltering prompted policy makers
to protect growth. The authority also cut the lower limit for
interbank lending rates to 150 basis points less than the
central bank’s benchmark rate, from 100 basis points.  “We don’t see an impact from the U.S. and Europe debt
crisis making things worse for our commercial banks, though we
aren’t closing our eyes to the global turmoil,” Hadad said in a
speech. “The problem in global markets need an immediate
solution so banks can focus on their intermediary function and
support economic growth.”  The  central bank  has room to cut its benchmark rate if
inflation “behaves,” Deputy Governor Hartadi Sarwono said in
Jakarta last week. Policy makers are ready to “adjust the rate
and mix monetary policy toward loosening” if price gains slow
and the economy expands less than expected due to a global
slowdown, Perry Warjiyo, the bank’s director of economic
research, said last week.  Bank Indonesia  forecasts gross domestic product expansion
of as much as 6.8 percent this year and possibly 6.7 percent in
2012, after a 6.1 percent pace in 2010. Economic growth in the
third quarter may be 6.6 percent, supported by exports,
consumption and investment, the central bank said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Novrida Manurung in Jakarta at 
 nmanurung@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
. at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  