-- 
Ivory Coast Aims to Boost World Cocoa Market Share to 50%, President Says

-- B y   M a r v i n   G .   P e r e z
-- 
2011-09-24T22:57:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-24/ivory-coast-aims-to-boost-world-cocoa-market-share-to-50-president-says.html
Ivory Coast , the world’s largest-
producer of cocoa, aims to increase its share of the world
market to 50 percent as the West African country recovers from a
civil war.  Reform of the cocoa industry “will be implemented in the
next month or two,” President  Alassane Ouattara  said in an
interview today in New York. “We will liberalize the whole
chain” and attract investment so that cocoa is processed in the
country, he said.  The country produces about one-third of global cocoa
output. World prices for the commodity shot up to a 32-year high
during the four months of violence between Ouattara and those
loyal to his predecessor,  Laurent Gbagbo . Gbagbo ruled Ivory
Coast for a decade and refused to cede power after losing the
presidency in a November election.  Damage to the economy caused by the impasse forced Ivory
Coast to ask for a reassessment of $2.3 billion of Eurobonds
after it missed two coupon payments on the debt in January and
June. The  International Monetary Fund  is considering a $614
million loan for Ivory Coast under the lender’s extended-credit
facility program, the Fund said on Sept. 15.  To restore investor confidence, Ouattara, an economist and
a former deputy managing director at the IMF, hopes that the
country will resume making payments on debt obligations next
year as the economy improves, he said.  Restructuring Debt  The country’s economy is expected to expand 8 percent to 9
percent next year, after contracting 5 percent this year, the
IMF said on Sept. 15. The government has restructured short-term
bills into longer-term bonds after the previous government
issued up to $1.2 billion in short-term Treasury bills maturing
in three and six months, Ouattara said.  The government wants to increase the share growers get from
cocoa prices. Currently, producers receive about 35 percent to
40 percent and the goal is to take that to “50 percent to 60
percent,” as part of the reconstruction efforts, he said.  “Farmers should get the fair share of what they produce,”
Ouattara said.  Reforms in the cocoa industry would aim to eliminate some
of the current layers of intermediaries between growers and
exporters, he said, without elaborating.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marvin G. Perez in  New York  at 
 mperez71@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  