-- 
Kudrin Says High Oil Prices Cause Russia’s Capital Flight

-- B y   S c o t t   R o s e   a n d   J a c k   J o r d a n
-- 
2011-09-24T16:15:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-24/kudrin-says-high-oil-prices-top-cause-of-russia-s-capital-flight.html
Capital flight from  Russia , the
world’s largest energy exporter, is caused in part by high oil
prices, Finance Minister Alexei Kudrin said.  “The first reason for our outflows is the high price of
oil,” Kudrin told reporters late yesterday in  Washington .
Companies can’t “reliably invest” all their earnings on the
domestic market.  Russia’s economy slowed in the first half of the year even
as Urals crude, the country’s main export blend, advanced 19
percent. Net private capital outflows over the period reached
$31.2 billion, according to preliminary central bank data. Most
of the cash leaving Russia is “hot money” from speculators,
Deputy Finance Minister Sergei Storchak said Sept. 22.  Total net private capital outflows this year may top $35
billion “if there’s even more of a crisis situation,” Kudrin
said. After oil, the next leading cause is the shrinking current
account balance, which leads to expectations that the ruble will
weaken, Kudrin said. That, in turn, pushes investors to dump
assets priced in the Russian currency, he said.  “I’d only put in third place the overall risks, including
political risks, that exist until the elections pass and new
policy is determined,” he said.  Putin Candidacy  Prime Minister Vladimir Putin today told the ruling  United
Russia  he’ll run for president again in March, ending
speculation over whether his protégé, President  Dmitry Medvedev ,
would seek a second term. The news may be taken “negatively”
by international investors when the markets open again on
Monday,  Ivan Tchakarov , the Moscow-based chief economist at
 Renaissance Capital , said by phone today.  “The market will be initially disappointed -- there’s a
very simplified view that Medvedev represents reform and Putin
conservatism,”  Roland Nash , chief investment strategist at
Moscow-based hedge fund Verno Capital, said by phone. “After
the initial disappointment, though, the market will focus on the
fact that we’re going to see at least six years, if not 12, of
political stability, and a more liberal prime minister.”  Oil Prices  Kudrin said he stood by his forecast last year that oil may
fall to $60 a barrel within the next three years. Crude may
still drop to that level for a period within the next one-and-a-
half to two years, he said.  “It was exactly the risks that we have now that I had in
mind,” Kudrin said. “The economic model that created these
imbalances haven’t changed. Fundamentally, they weren’t resolved
by the crisis.”  The government is standing by its plan to sell off state
assets and is waiting for better market conditions, Kudrin said.  “We don’t have any fundamental changes,” he said. “We’re
waiting for better markets, so apparently some assets will be
sold later.”  Bank Rossii, which holds a controlling stake in OAO
Sberbank, Russia’s largest lender, must decide for itself
whether to delay a stake sale planned for 2011, Kudrin said.  “As far as I know, we’re waiting on the market,” he said.
The sales will be “a bit less than we planned for this year.
Next year is still all in place.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net ;
Jack Jordan in Moscow at 
 jjordan22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  