-- 
Kudrin Says Global Economy Faces a ‘Lost Decade’ of Slow Growth

-- B y   S c o t t   R o s e
-- 
2011-09-24T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-24/kudrin-says-global-economy-faces-a-lost-decade-of-slow-growth.html
The global economy is facing a
decade of slow growth that will make it harder for countries to
service debts, Russian Finance Minister Alexei Kudrin said.  “The expectation now is that growth will be weak for three
to 10 years,” Kudrin told reporters late yesterday in
 Washington . “We’re in for a lost decade. It’s already clearer
that growth rates will be low and that the fight to keep growth
from dying out will take many years. Most likely, about five to
10 years.”  Finance ministers and central bankers from the
International Monetary Fund’s 187 member countries are meeting
this week in Washington to discuss  Europe ’s sovereign debt
crisis and a slowing world economy. This week, the IMF lowered
its global growth forecast to 4 percent for this year and 2012
from a June forecast of 4.3 percent in 2011 and 4.5 percent for
next year.  Policy makers may still prevent recession in key economies
such as the U.S. and Europe, Kudrin said.  Russia  only faces
risks of a recession if those regions contract, he said.  Russia’s government would act “decisively” to mitigate
the consequences of a global recession, Kudrin said.  Russia, the world’s largest energy exporter, saw its
economy contract 7.8 percent in 2009 as  oil prices  plunged from
a record high. Kudrin, also a deputy to Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin , predicted in January 2008 that Russia would be an
“island of stability” amid global economic turmoil.  Can’t Shield Itself  The country’s leadership now recognizes that Russia would
be unable to shield itself from such external shocks, he said.  “The past few days have shown that all of the risks being
discussed are very real,” he said. “Some market indicators
have already reached levels seen in the last crisis.”  The ruble fell yesterday to its lowest against the central
bank’s target dollar-euro basket since September 2009 as Urals
crude, Russia’s main export oil blend, had its biggest weekly
drop since May. The Micex Index of 30 stocks dropped 12 percent
in two days, the largest two-day fall since November 2008.  Concern about economic threats may be higher now even
though the risks from the crisis may be less than in 2008, when
the collapse of  Lehman Brothers  triggered a liquidity crunch
that sent global markets plummeting, Kudrin said.  “In 2008, we didn’t understand the scope,” he said. “We
didn’t understand the extent of our dependency on global
markets. Today we’re seriously looking at all the zones of risk,
so I’d say there’s probably more concern even though the crisis
may be lesser than in 2008.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Rose in Washington at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  