-- 
Obama Says Public School System Improvements Key to U.S. Economic Recovery

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 
2011-09-24T10:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-24/obama-says-better-public-school-system-key-to-economic-recovery.html
President  Barack Obama  said
improving the nation’s public schools is crucial to the U.S.’s
economic recovery as he highlighted his decision to let states
sidestep the No Child Left Behind law by raising education
standards.  “Education is an essential part of this economic agenda,”
the president said today in a weekly  radio and Internet address 
that urged Congress to pass his $447 billion jobs plan that
includes money for teachers and schools. “It is an undeniable
fact that countries who out-educate us today will out-compete us
tomorrow. Businesses will hire wherever the highly skilled,
highly trained workers are located.”  If the U.S. is “serious about building an economy that
lasts” and strengthening the middle class, “we had better be
serious about education,” Obama said. “We have to pick up our
game and raise our standards.”  Yesterday, he announced in a speech at the White House that
states that commit to higher standards will get waivers from the
No Child Left Behind law. The measure was signed in 2002 by
Obama’s Republican predecessor, President  George W. Bush .  Obama said the law’s goals “were admirable” in emphasizing
proficiency testing and requiring annual progress. But in
practice, “teachers are being forced to teach to a test, while
subjects like history and science are being squeezed out,” Obama
said. “And in order to avoid having their schools labeled as
failures, some states lowered their standards in a race to the
bottom.”  Prompting Criticism  The waiver plan was criticized by Congressman  John Kline , a
Minnesota Republican and chairman of the House Education and the
Workforce Committee who has his own plan for changing the law.
It gives the administration “sweeping authority to handpick
winners and losers,” Kline said in a statement. “This sets a
dangerous precedent, and every single American should be
extremely wary.”  In repeating his call for Congress to pass his jobs bill,
Obama said it would modernize 35,000 schools and “put tens of
thousands of teachers back to work across the country.”  Senator  Susan Collins  of Maine, in the weekly Republican
 address , called for a “time out from excessive and costly
regulations.”  She criticized an Environmental Protection Agency proposal
aimed at controlling pollution from industrial boilers. It is an
example of “over-regulation” that is causing employers to
“dread what is coming next out of  Washington ,” Collins said.
“We Republicans say, enough is enough.”  Economic Impact  The Republican-led House of Representatives is seeking to
have a committee consider economic impacts of EPA rules and to
delay rules reducing emissions from  power plants .  “Last month, our nation produced no net new jobs,”
Collins said. “More than 14 million Americans could not find
work.”  Collins said the EPA’s boiler proposal could threaten 36
pulp and paper mills and 20,000 jobs and also hurt suppliers.  “People and businesses would still need paper,” she said.
“Where do you think we would get it? We’d be strengthening the
economies of other countries like  China ,  India  and  Brazil , while
America’s economy grows weaker.”  The EPA said in a  release  earlier this year that there are
about 200,000 boilers at sites of toxic air emissions
nationwide, including 13,800 boilers at refineries and other
industrial sites that are large sources of air pollutants. The
EPA said cutting emissions from boilers and incinerators could
reduce instances of developmental disabilities, cancer, asthma
and early death and save money in health costs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Margaret Talev  in Washington at 
1923 or  mtalev@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 