-- 
HP Board Mulled Apotheker Ouster Weeks Before Strategy U-Turn

-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n ,   C a r o l   H y m o w i t z   a n d   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 
2011-09-24T03:15:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-24/hp-board-mulled-apotheker-ouster-weeks-before-strategy-u-turn.html
Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  Chairman  Ray Lane  told  Leo Apotheker  on Sept. 21 that he’d be ousted as chief
executive officer after eight weeks of board wrangling that
included the departure of a director close to the CEO.  Apotheker, whose dismissal was announced the following day,
became the third CEO to be fired by a Hewlett-Packard board of
directors in seven years. His successor, former EBay Inc. CEO
 Meg Whitman , inherits a company wracked by slowing growth and a
share price that has plunged 47 percent in past six months.  Hewlett-Packard’s directors deliberated the possible
dismissal even as they approved the very strategy overhaul that
accelerated his ouster. Pressure on Apotheker mounted after Aug.
18, when Hewlett-Packard announced the $10.3 billion purchase of
Autonomy Corp. and a possible spinoff of the personal-computer
unit, sending the shares into a tailspin.  In the ensuing weeks, directors became more concerned about
Apotheker’s inability to communicate company strategy, get
senior executives to work in tandem or assuage investors’
concerns, according to people close to the company. Fellow board
member Whitman, meantime, became an increasingly attractive
contender to succeed him, they said.  “She’s a strong leader and that’s what this company
needs,” Lane said of Whitman in an interview. “This is 90
percent about leadership, communications and operating
execution.” The board considered the executive change for six
to eight weeks, he said in the interview.  Didn’t Volunteer  Whitman didn’t volunteer for the job, though she agreed to
the idea this week after about 10 days of deliberation, on the
condition that Lane become executive chairman, according to a
person close to the company.  Hewlett-Packard, based in  Palo Alto ,  California , sank to a
six-year low on the  New York  Stock Exchange yesterday, a day
after announcing the change. While Lane lauded Whitman for her
communication skills and role in building EBay into a consumer-
friendly e-commerce pioneer, investors questioned whether she
was qualified to run a company whose customers include the
world’s largest corporations, said Frank Gillett, an analyst at
 Forrester Research Inc. (FORR)   “It’s not like she’s going to bring some insight that HP
doesn’t already have,” Gillett said. “She doesn’t have the
experience of turning around a large tech-industry conglomerate
where she has to understand a complicated portfolio of services
and a large base of customers.”  Search Intensifies  As the stock price tumbled in the wake of the Autonomy deal
and spinoff proposal, though, directors fretted they had little
choice other than to make a change at the top, the people said.
The board stepped up a review of possible replacements,
including candidates considered following  Mark Hurd ’s departure
last year, one of the people said.  Adding to the urgency was dissention in executive ranks,
Lane said on a conference call with analysts this week.  “This is a big, big company that requires the executive
team to be on the same page,” he said. “We didn’t see an
executive team that was working on the same page or working
together.”  Members of Hewlett-Packard’s executive council tussled with
Apotheker over strategy and didn’t support managers recruited
from his former employer,  SAP AG (SAP) , people close to the company
said.  Todd Bradley , who runs the PC division, was among the most
vocal opponents, the people said.  Autonomy Acquisition  Directors also took cues from investors who said they felt
blindsided by the Autonomy deal, one person said. In private
meetings earlier this year, Apotheker had told several large
shareholders that the company wasn’t planning to make big
acquisitions, the person said. The CEO didn’t alert the board to
the remarks, even as they weighed the takeover, this person
said.  Before deciding on Whitman, board members mulled internal
candidates and deemed them “not ready,” Lane said on the call.  “When she told me that she wanted to do this and knew how
to do this and laid out what she thinks she would do in the next
six months to a year, we became convinced that this was our best
choice, and there was not a better choice on the outside,” Lane
said of Whitman.  Apotheker’s eventual fate was becoming clearer to the board
by early September. Dominique Senequier, CEO of AXA Private
Equity, the investment buyout arm of French insurer  AXA SA (CS) ,
announced plans to leave the board on Sept. 8.  Senequier Quits  Senequier, who had joined on Jan. 20 at the same time as
Whitman and three other new directors, is a long-time associate
of Apotheker. The two sit on the supervisory board of  Schneider
Electric SA (SU) , the largest maker of circuit breakers, and
Apotheker formerly sat on AXA’s supervisory board.  While the January shakeup added some directors who had
worked with Apotheker, it also meant that the board included
several people who hadn’t chosen him as CEO.  “This board did not select Leo,” Lane told analysts in the
conference call this week.  Apotheker was preparing until the day he was informed of
the board’s decision to defend his strategy to Hewlett-Packard’s
board, according to a person familiar with his thinking. Still,
he may have had an inkling he wasn’t long for Hewlett-Packard as
early as Sept. 9, when he unexpectedly withdrew from the
InformationWeek 500 Conference in  Southern California   scheduled 
for the following week.  “He told me he couldn’t divulge the reason but that if I
knew the reason, I would understand,” Fritz Nelson, the
editorial director at InformationWeek, wrote in a Sept. 21  blog .  Lane attended the conference in Apotheker’s stead. The
former chief operating officer of  Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  was elevated to
executive chairman 10 days later.  Lane, who provided coaching to Apotheker during regular
breakfast meetings this year, warned the CEO of the board’s
growing concerns in recent months, one person said. The brief
mentorship ended with their meeting on Sept. 21 in Palo Alto.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Douglas MacMillan in New York at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net ;
Carol Hymowitz in New York at 
 chymowitz@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Ricadela in  San Francisco  at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  