-- 
China Central Bank Chief Zhou Says ‘Too Early’ to Decide How to Aid Europe

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-09-26T03:18:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-24/pboc-s-zhou-says-it-s-too-early-to-say-how-emerging-nations-can-aid-europe.html
It’s “too early” to determine how
emerging economies can further help the euro area overcome its
sovereign debt crisis because reforms are still under way,
 China ’s central bank Governor  Zhou Xiaochuan  said.  “We need to first see if euro-zone countries can implement
their July 21 decision,” Zhou told reporters at the
 International Monetary Fund  in  Washington  on Sept. 24, referring
to a pledge by European leaders to expand the powers of a
regional rescue fund. He doesn’t expect  Greece  will default on
its debt and anticipates Europe will be able to overcome its
crisis through reform, he told reporters.  Group of 20 finance chiefs last week pledged coordinated
efforts to tackle rising risks as Greece teeters on the brink of
default and stocks around the world plunged. Attention has
focused on the potential for emerging economies to aid  Europe  as
 Japan  and the U.S. grapple with their own expanding debt burdens
and struggling growth.  “Some are studying and proposing to increase the size of
the EFSF,” Zhou said, referring to the European Financial
Stability Facility. “That needs to be done by the European
countries.”  Chinese central bank Deputy Governor Yi Gang said last week
that the “real solution” to Europe’s woes must come from
within the region, while noting that the world’s second largest
economy can help Europe “at the margin.” Addressing whether
China Investment Corp. will buy euro-area bonds, Vice Chairman
Gao Xiqing said in a panel the company can’t be a “savior” of
others because it must keep a certain level of profitability.  Global Outlook  The comments by Zhou and Yi are in line with remarks by
Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  on Sept. 14 calling on developed
nations to “first put their own houses in order.” China can
best contribute to a global economic recovery by ensuring steady
growth at home, Wen said at the  World Economic Forum  in China’s
Dalian city, adding the European Union and U.S. should allow
more Chinese investment in return.  Zhou noted uncertainties in the outlooks for global
economies, saying “the momentum of world economic recovery has
weakened markedly, with downward risks for economic operations
on the rise, which urgently calls for global nations to step up
coordination,” according to a statement posted on the central
bank’s  website  yesterday. He said developed nations should set
up “medium-term adjustment strategies” to boost market
confidence, while emerging and developing countries should
continue restructuring their economies.  Chinese Inflation  On the domestic economy, Zhou said the People’s Bank of
China has no “immediate” way to control inflation because it
takes time for monetary policy to affect prices.  “High inflation remains the top concern in China,” Zhou
said in a statement to the IMF meeting. “We need to consider
the time-lag effect. There’s no immediate way to bring inflation
down,” he said when asked about further measures to slow price
gains. China’s consumer prices rose 6.2 percent from a year
earlier in August following a 6.5 percent advance in July that
was the biggest since June 2008.  Zhou said China’s economic growth momentum “remains
relatively strong, but faces challenges such as relatively fast
rises in consumer prices and relatively large amount of capital
inflows in the short term”, according to a statement posted on
the central bank’s website yesterday.  China won’t change the “overall policy tone,” and will
take steps that ensure a “soft-landing” of the economy, Zhou
was quoted as saying by the  China Business News  in an interview
today. Policy makers will stay alert for any unexpected or
severe problems in the world economy, he said.  Local Government Finances  On Chinese local governments’ finances, Zhou told the
Shanghai-based newspaper the nation’s overall debt ratio isn’t
high and that while some projects backed by local authorities
may have “micro risks,” there won’t be “systemic” problems.  China will continue to increase the flexibility of the
yuan, Zhou said in the PBOC’s statement yesterday. Markets will
determine whether the Chinese currency will be included in the
IMF’s Special Drawing Rights system, Zhou said.  As the flexibility of the yuan increases in the coming five
years, China will have more market-determined  interest rates  and
will further open up its capital account,  Li Daokui , a PBOC
academic adviser, said at a forum in Washington yesterday. If
reforms go on smoothly, “the renminbi will be fully convertible
in five years,” he said, referring to the Chinese currency.  By comparison, Zhou said in  London  earlier this month that
there’s no “defined timetable” for making the yuan convertible
and that it will be a gradual process.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  