-- 
Putin Will Run for Russian Presidency, Seeking Longest Tenure Since Stalin

-- B y   I l y a   A r k h i p o v   a n d   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 
2011-09-25T08:36:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-24/putin-to-run-again-for-russian-presidency-in-2012-medvedev-may-be-premier.html
Russian Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  announced he will run again for the presidency next year,
setting up the possibility of becoming the country’s longest-
serving leader since  Josef Stalin .  President  Dmitry Medvedev , 46, ended years of speculation
yesterday over whether he would seek a second term by backing
Putin’s presidential bid and said he may take over as prime
minister. This would swap their roles almost four years after
the then-president picked the younger man, a former corporate
lawyer from his hometown of  St. Petersburg , as his successor
upon completing the maximum two consecutive terms allowed by the
constitution.  “I want to express my gratitude for your positive response
to the proposal that I run for president of  Russia , this is a
great honor,” Putin, 58, told a congress of his ruling United
Russia party in Moscow, receiving a standing ovation as
supporters waved white-blue-and-red Russian flags.  Uncertainty over which of Russia’s top two politicians
would be a candidate has spurred $31.2 billion in capital flight
in the first half of the year. Investors had said they would
prefer another Medvedev term to allow him to pursue his policies
to reduce the state’s role in the economy and attract foreign
investment to ease Russia’s reliance on energy exports.  Public Criticism  In an unprecedented public criticism of Medvedev, Russian
Finance Minister Alexei Kudrin, who steered the world’s biggest
energy exporter to amass a $200 billion rainy-day fund over
political opposition, said late yesterday in  Washington  that he
won’t serve in a Cabinet led by Medvedev because of
disagreements over military spending.  Kudrin, 50, presided over budget surpluses between 2000 and
2008 and helped cut state debt to less than 10 percent of gross
domestic product after the country’s 1998 default. Medvedev’s
push for a 2.1 trillion-ruble ($65 billion) increase in defense
spending through 2014 creates “additional risks for both the
budget and the economy as a whole,” Kudrin, who was viewed by
analysts as a potential prime minister, said.  The announcement of Putin’s return comes as concern over a
possible slowdown in the global economy and  Europe ’s sovereign-
debt crisis roils Russia’s markets, sending the Micex stock
index to the lowest closing level since July 2010 and driving
the ruble into its longest losing streak against the central
bank’s target dollar-euro basket since January 2009.  ‘Dominant Rider’  “This affirms what everyone knew, that Putin was always
the dominant rider in the ‘tandem,’ and perhaps Medvedev was
only keeping Putin’s seat warm all along,” Tim Ash, the London-
based head of emerging-market strategy at Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc. said by e-mail, referring to a power-sharing
arrangement between the two men.  Russia’s 30-stock Micex index lost 6.7 percent last week,
the worst weekly drop since February 2009, as the price of
Russia’s main export, Urals crude oil, dropped 10 percent to
$105.56 a barrel. The ruble lost 3.8 percent against the basket
to its weakest closing position since September 2009.  The Russian premier’s decision to return to the top job
reflects his concern about the declining popularity of  United
Russia  and the risks to Russia’s economy from the difficult
global-market environment, Ash said.  ‘Clarity for Investors’  The only positive aspect of the news of Putin’s return was
“that it brings more clarity for investors,” said Sergey Dergachev, who helps manage $8.5 billion in emerging-market debt
at Union Investment in  Frankfurt .  “But the negatives outweigh in my view, as even though
everybody knew that Putin de facto led the country during
Medvedev’s presidential term, Medvedev was associated with more
liberalism and more investor-friendly rhetoric,” he said.
“Whether Putin will follow these issues is to be seen.”  Medvedev, who was asked by Putin to lead United Russia into
December parliamentary elections, said he was prepared to carry
out “practical work” as head of the Russian government should
the party perform well in the Dec. 4 legislative vote.  Thousands of people crowded into a sports arena at the
Luzhniki complex, where Putin earlier this year showed off his
ice-skating skills, for the congress. Putin and Medvedev made
their entrance together and then stood to attention for the
singing of the Russian national anthem.  Effective Team  Putin was president from 2000 to 2008 and could potentially
rule for another two six-year terms, meaning he would have held
the country’s top job for longer than  Leonid Brezhnev , who led
the former  Soviet Union  for 18 years.  Putin said he was confident of United Russia’s success and
that Medvedev would, with popular support, “form a new,
effective, young team, and head the government of the Russian
Federation to continue work on modernizing all aspects of our
life.”  The government won’t walk away from the course it has taken
while being “more efficient, more honest, more open and
sometimes tougher” to achieve its goals, Medvedev said.  A former Soviet-era intelligence officer, Putin remained at
the center of power even after relinquishing the presidency in
2008 and leads Medvedev in opinion polls.  In May, Putin formed the All-Russia People’s  Front , a
nationwide coalition of supporters, as backing for United Russia
dwindled. The party’s popularity has slipped to about 40 percent
after it won almost two-thirds of the vote in 2007.  Record Recession  The world’s largest energy exporter saw its economy
contract 7.8 percent in 2009, its worst recession on record, as
 oil prices  plunged from a record high following the global
credit crunch. The Economy Ministry has revised down its growth
forecast for this year, saying gross domestic product will
expand 4.1 percent, compared with a previous estimate of 4.2
percent.  Putin has been accused by Western governments of curtailing
post-Soviet democratic freedoms by consolidating power and
making it impossible for smaller opposition parties to enter
parliament during his tenure as president.  Mikhail Khodorkovsky , Russia’s richest man when he was
arrested on the tarmac of a Siberian airport in October 2003,
says he’s been persecuted by Putin because he financed
opposition parties. The former chief executive officer of Yukos
Oil Co. was convicted of fraud and  tax evasion  in 2005 and oil
embezzlement in December 2010, pushing his sentence to 13 years.
Putin denies any involvement in the case.  ‘Usurping’ Power  “This is a complete usurping of power,”  Mikhail Kasyanov ,
a prime minister under Putin until he was fired in 2004 and now
an opposition figure, said by phone. “It leaves no hope for
change.”  Putin’s return to the presidency is also a sign that he
doesn’t trust Medvedev to respect their power-sharing
arrangement should he get another six years in the Kremlin, said
 Dmitry Oreshkin , an independent Moscow-based political analyst.
The presidential term in Russia has been extended from four to
six years starting from 2012.  The current president will have a completely
“subordinate” role as prime minister, said Oreshkin.  Medvedev made fighting graft, improving the rule of law and
reversing Putin’s policy of increased state ownership of assets
the cornerstones of his presidency.  He clashed with the prime minister this year over foreign
policy after he declined to use Russia’s veto to block a United
Nations resolution that authorized strikes by the U.S. and its
allies in  Libya  that led to Muammar Qaddafi’s ouster. Medvedev
supporters had urged him to run regardless of Putin’s wishes.  “This is a signal that Putin expects economic and social
problems in the country and he can’t rely on relations of trust
within the tandem,” Oreshkin said. “Putin has decided that
with six years to get through, I’ll have to deal with it
myself.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ilya Arkhipov in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net ;
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  