-- 
Radiation in Sync With Chemotherapy Cuts Breast-Cancer Return

-- B y   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t
-- 
2011-09-24T22:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-24/radiation-in-sync-with-chemotherapy-cuts-breast-cancer-return-study-shows.html
Giving  breast-cancer  patients
chemotherapy and radiation at the same time reduced the risk of
tumors recurring by 35 percent, according to a U.K. study that
may change the way doctors treat patients.  The trial, which involved almost 2,300 women with early-
stage breast cancer, was the largest to investigate the
approach, in which radiation is administered between or during
cycles of drug treatment, the researchers said today at a  cancer
meeting  in Stockholm. Of the women who received the two
treatments in this way, 41 saw their cancer return, compared
with 63 of those who completed chemotherapy and then underwent
radiation treatment, the researchers said.  The findings conflict with previous trials that failed to
find a benefit and may change the way the tumor-fighting
techniques are used, said Indrajit Fernando, the lead researcher
and an oncologist who teaches at the  University of Birmingham  in
 England . Giving chemotherapy and radiation alternately or at the
same time may allow women to return to work sooner, yielding
economic benefits, Fernando said.  “Patients liked the fact that when they finished their
latest chemotherapy, they’d finished all their treatment,”
Fernando said at a press conference in Stockholm. “They didn’t
have to wait another four weeks to start radiotherapy.”  Women participating in the study had had surgery to remove
breast tumors. They then received either chemotherapy followed
by radiation, or the experimental approach, known as synchronous
chemoradiation. After five years, 5.1 percent of the women who
had sequential courses of treatment had breast cancer return,
compared with 2.8 percent of those who received synchronous
chemoradiation, the study found.  Drop in Deaths  Because breast cancer is common, even a small reduction in
recurrences can result in a drop in deaths from the disease,
Fernando said. One death from breast cancer can be avoided for
every four recurrences prevented, he said.  “These are treatments that are not going to increase the
cost, so in terms of health benefit, it’s phenomenal,” Fernando
said.  More than 500 women in the study contributed to a quality-
of-life analysis, which found no differences between the two
approaches to treatment, the researchers said. Patients
receiving synchronous therapy had worse skin reactions, though
only 4 percent of them had side effects that would curb their
quality of life, the study found.  Researchers will need to follow up with patients to gauge
potential side effects that may occur years after treatment,
said Michael Baumann, president of the Brussels-based  European
Cancer Organization , which along with other oncology groups is
holding its annual meeting in  Stockholm .  The findings will be shared with the  U.K. National
Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence , which advises the
country’s state-run medical system on which treatments represent
value for money, Fernando said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simeon Bennett in Geneva at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  