-- 
Roche Study Shows Shelved Drug’s ‘Magic’ in Breast Cancer

-- B y   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t
-- 
2011-09-25T08:11:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-24/roche-study-shows-shelved-drug-s-magic-against-breast-cancer.html
A chemotherapy drug shelved in the
1980s because it was too toxic helped  breast-cancer  patients
without causing severe side effects when combined with  Roche
Holding AG (ROG) ’s Herceptin, a trial showed.  In the study of 137 women with breast cancer that had
spread, those who received the combination, called T-DM1, had a
41 percent reduction in the risk of their cancer worsening
compared with those who got the standard treatment of Herceptin
plus Sanofi’s Taxotere. The patients also had about half as many
severe side effects, according to data presented today at a
conference in  Stockholm .  The trial is the first to successfully test the marriage of
Herceptin, which curbs the growth of certain cancers, with a
cell-killing drug in a single molecule. Patient recruitment for
a late-stage study of T-DM1 was completed this month and results
are expected in the first half of next year, said Sara Hurvitz,
director of the breast oncology program at the University of
 California ,  Los Angeles .  “I find this data incredibly promising and exciting, but
we’ll have to wait” for the findings of the larger, ongoing
trial, said Hurvitz, one of the researchers conducting the study
presented today, said at a briefing with reporters in Stockholm.  Roche, based in  Basel ,  Switzerland , expects to apply for
regulatory approval next year, said Daniel Grotzky, a company
spokesman. The drug may generate more than 1 billion Swiss
francs ($1.1 billion) a year in sales, according to a company
presentation.  Roche, which gained Herceptin with its $46.8 billion
purchase of Genentech Inc. in 2009, is developing T-DM1 with
technology it licensed from Waltham, Massachusetts-based
 ImmunoGen Inc. (IMGN)  Approval of T-DM1 was set back last year after
the U.S.  Food and Drug Administration  rejected a request to
accelerate approval.  Biggest Killer  About 1.4 million women are newly diagnosed with breast
cancer every year and almost 460,000 die, making it the biggest
cancer killer among women, according to the  International Agency
for Research on Cancer  in Lyon,  France .  About 25 percent of cases are distinguished by a protein
called HER2 on the surface of the cancer cells that causes them
to multiply more quickly. Herceptin, which generated 5.4 billion
Swiss francs in sales last year, latches on to HER2, interfering
with it without killing the cell.  “Herceptin is like a bullet without a gun,” Hurvitz said.
“Unfortunately we have to give it with chemotherapy, and this
really is the ideal way to do it.”  The DM1 drug added to Herceptin is derived from an old
chemotherapy medicine called maytansine, which was found to be
too toxic for patients in clinical trials two decades ago.
 ImmunoGen’s technology  enabled chemists to fuse DM1 to Herceptin
in such a way that DM1 isn’t activated until Herceptin shepherds
it directly to the cancer cell. Once inside, the link breaks,
“setting the bomb off,” Hurvitz said.  Magic Molecule  “The magic of this molecule is the linker,” she said.  In the trial, the women were treated until their disease
worsened, they died, or the side effects became too severe to
continue. Compared with those receiving separate doses of
Herceptin and Taxotere, T-DM1 delayed the progression of cancer
by a median of five months.  There were severe side effects in 46 percent of women
receiving T-DM1, compared with 89 percent of those in the other
group. Only 4.3 percent of those getting T-DM1 lost their hair,
compared with 67 percent of those taking Herceptin and Taxotere.
T-DM1 caused greater loss of platelets, cells that play a key
role in blood clotting, though the effect was mild in most
patients, causing symptoms like nosebleed that stopped on their
own, Hurvitz said.  Patients stayed on T-DM1 almost twice as long as the other
therapy, probably because the side effects weren’t as serious,
she said.  “These promising data do not yet allow us to consider T-
DM1 as a new standard of care,” said Angelo Di Leo, an
oncologist at the Hospital of Prato, Istituto Toscano Tumori, in
Florence,  Italy , said in a statement. Results from late-stage
trials “are eagerly awaited,” he said.  Roche said in April that the trial showed T-DM1 kept tumors
at bay for “significantly longer” than Herceptin and Taxotere,
without being more specific.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simeon Bennett in Geneva at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  