-- 
Schaeuble Says Economies Must Deleverage to Return to Growth

-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 
2011-09-24T19:26:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-24/schaeuble-says-economies-must-deleverage-to-return-to-growth.html
Economies around the world have to
de-leverage to get back on a path of sustainable growth, and
that deleveraging won’t succeed if countries and central banks
“throw more money” at the problem, German Finance Minister
 Wolfgang Schaeuble  said.  Persistently high U.S. unemployment figures show that
traditional methods of boosting growth through expansionary
monetary and fiscal policies no longer work as planned,
Schaeuble said in a speech at the IIF in  Washington . “You can’t
fight fire with fire,” he said.  Euro area governments must show a convincing commitment to
fiscal consolidation and increasing competitiveness to restore
confidence in markets and among their citizens, he said.
Adequate involvement of the private sector in efforts to
overhaul indebted countries’ economic policies must become an
“integral part” of the EU efforts, Schaeuble added.  The german policy maker also said the time has come to
accelerate the process of moving toward political and fiscal
union in the EU. Otherwise, it will be hard to convince markets
of the euro regions’ long-term sustainability, Schaeuble said.  In terms of policies needed immediately, Schaeuble said the
most important countries must move ahead to tackle “virulent
problems.” Introducing a financial transaction tax may be
possible, he said, adding that if necessary, it can be
introduced “only in  Europe .”  Policy makers should encourage financial markets to focus
on their role of supporting the “real economy,” Schaeuble
said, adding that not all products offered by banks fulfill that
role. All systemically-important institutions, markets and
instruments should be subjected to appropriate oversight,
including  hedge funds , he said.   To contact the reporter on this story:
Rainer Buergin in Washington at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Badertscher at 
 pbadertscher@bloomberg.net  