-- 
Schaeuble Says Major Economies Must Reduce Debt to Help Restore Confidence

-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 
2011-09-24T17:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-24/schaeuble-says-major-economies-must-reduce-debt-to-help-restore-confidence.html
The world’s major economies must
reverse an “unsustainable” build-up of public and private debt
to restore confidence and bolster global growth, German Finance
Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said today in Washington.  “Reducing the debt overhang is a fundamental prerequisite
for growth,” Schaeuble said in a speech prepared for delivery
at the International Monetary and Financial Committee. “We must
concentrate on firmly implementing agreed policy strategies, in
particular the implementation of medium-term fiscal
consolidation,” strengthening financial sectors and enhancing
growth potentials.  Group of 20 countries must stick to their commitment to cut
their public deficits in half by 2013 and stabilize their debts
by 2016, as agreed at a meeting of their leaders in Toronto last
year, Schaeuble said.  Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s coalition has thrown its weight
behind lowering deficits as essential to tackling the root
causes of dwindling confidence in financial markets, saying
slowing growth in industrialized countries and doubts that the
U.S. and  Europe  can restore fiscal soundness pose risks to
stability.  While the upswing in the German economy is still intact,
unemployment is falling at a slower pace, Schaeuble said. Risks
of a further easing in industrial activity have increased as
cooling world trade is putting a strain on the economy, he said.  Germany  is still on course to balance its budget by 2014,
cut its debt to 72 percent of gross domestic product by 2015 and
comply with European Union deficit-reduction targets two years
earlier than required, Schaeuble said.  “Global financial stability risks have increased severely
over the past months,” Schaeuble said. “Regaining confidence
will require resolute and reliable endeavors to fiscal
consolidation thus ensuring fiscal sustainability as well as
further strengthening of bank balance sheets.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rainer Buergin in  Washington  via 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  