-- 
India to Monitor Rupee Before Acting as Central Bank Warns of Growth Risks

-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a   a n d   A n u r a g   J o s h i
-- 
2011-09-24T08:07:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-24/mukherjee-says-india-will-monitor-exchange-rate-before-acting.html
India  will monitor movements in its
currency “for some time,” to assess whether and when it needs
to introduce steps to curb swings, according to Finance Minister
 Pranab Mukherjee .  “We will watch the situation for some time,” Mukherjee
told reporters yesterday in Washington, where he’s attending the
annual meetings of the  International Monetary Fund  and the  World
Bank . “As and when intervention will be required, that will be
considered at that stage.”  India’s rupee ended its worst week in 18 years as investors
sold emerging-market assets in favor of the dollar amid concern
that the global economy is slowing. The European debt crisis and
risk of another U.S. recession will harm growth in emerging
economies, India’s  central bank  Governor Duvvuri Subbarao said.  “We are rapidly running out of time, and may therefore be
running out of solutions,” Subbarao said yesterday, according
to a copy of remarks he made at the IMF meeting that was posted
on the bank’s website. “Growth momentum will be interrupted if
the current global problems are not resolved quickly.”  The Indian currency lost 4.6 percent in the biggest weekly
plunge since March 1993, ending 49.43 per dollar at the 5 p.m.
close in Mumbai yesterday. This month, the rupee has fallen 6.8
percent even as the Group of 20 Nations sought to quell the
turmoil in financial markets.  Talks With Subbarao  Mukherjee said that he had a discussion about the rupee
with  Reserve Bank  of India Governor Subbarao while both are in
Washington. Still, “what I feel or what I value is not
important” in the context of steps to be taken, Mukherjee said.  Mukherjee told reporters three days ago in  New York  the
 Reserve Bank of India  is currently not intervening to curb
excessive swings in the rupee. The RBI will sell dollars to
control movements in the  exchange rate , though “right now there
is no such situation,” Mukherjee said on Sept. 21.  The RBI may intervene if the rupee falls to levels seen
during the financial crisis of 2008 and 2009, a finance ministry
official said yesterday in New Delhi, asking not to be
identified because he’s not authorized to speak on the matter.  “In 2008, the world responded to the crisis in
coordination,” Subbarao said. “Differences were resolved, and
governments and central banks acted firmly, decisively and where
required creatively. A similar perception of coordination is
lacking today.”  The G-20 is “committed to a strong and coordinated
international response to address the renewed challenges facing
the global economy,” the group said in a statement yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in  Washington  at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net ;
Anurag Joshi in Mumbai at 
 ajoshi53@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net 
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  