-- 
Vietnamese Inflation Slows for the First Time Since August 2010

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-09-24T03:13:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-24/vietnamese-inflation-slows-for-the-first-time-since-august-2010.html
Vietnamese inflation slowed for the
first time in more than a year, bolstering the government’s
scope to support economic growth by lowering borrowing costs.  Consumer prices climbed 22.42 percent in September from a
year earlier, easing from a 23.02 percent pace in August,
according to figures released by the General Statistics Office
in Hanoi today. That’s the first deceleration since August 2010.
Prices rose 0.82 percent in September from August.  Vietnam ’s government said Aug. 25 the nation’s central bank
will leave so-called policy  interest rates  unchanged for now and
consider cutting them if inflation slows. Asian officials from
the  Philippines  to  South Korea  and  China  have avoided monetary
tightening in recent weeks as concern grows the world economy
may be on the brink of another recession.  “Inflation is going to slow as base effects kick in,”
Matt Hildebrandt, a Singapore-based economist at  JPMorgan Chase
& Co. (JPM) , said before the release. “But with inflation
expectations still not well-anchored and a potential power-price
increase soon, the downward trajectory could be choppy.”  The benchmark VN Index of stocks fell 2 percent yesterday,
while the dong weakened 0.1 percent to 20,832 per dollar,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The currency was
devalued for the fourth time in 15 months on Feb. 11.  State Bank  of Vietnam Governor Nguyen Van Binh said last
month that the central bank aims to lower dong lending rates at
commercial institutions to a range of 17 percent to 19 percent
starting from mid-September through to the end of 2011.  Policy Struggle  The government has struggled this year to contain price
gains and support growth. Vietnam’s inflation rate remains the
fastest in a basket of 17 Asian economies tracked by Bloomberg.  The State Bank of Vietnam has raised the repurchase,
refinancing and discount rates to stem credit growth and slow
price gains. It raised the repurchase rate in nine steps from 7
percent at the start of November last year to 15 percent in May
2011, before cutting it on July 4 to 14 percent.  While August may be the peak for Vietnamese inflation,
“the real test has just begun” Santitarn Sathirathai, a
Singapore-based analyst at  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) , wrote in a
note this month that said the dong may weaken if the government
eases monetary policy too much.  Vietnamese inflation is a structural problem, driven by
inefficient economic growth that lacks sufficient productivity,
Asia Commercial Bank Chief Executive Ly Xuan Hai said Sept. 16.  “Inflation will come back again if we do not solve the
main issues of our economy,” Hai said in an interview in his Ho
Chi Minh City office. “In fighting with inflation over six
months, twelve months -- we can fight, we can bring it down. But
when growth comes back, if you will go by the old way, inflation
will come back.”  The Vietnamese government should avoid reducing interest
rates too soon because that may raise questions about the
government’s commitment to fighting inflation, the  International
Monetary Fund  told a Hanoi meeting this month attended by
officials including Prime Minister Nguyen Tan Dung.  --Jason Folkmanis in  Ho Chi Minh City . Editors: Sunil Jagtiani,
Jake Lloyd-Smith  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Jason Folkmanis in Ho Chi Minh City at +84-91-205-3237 or
 folkmanis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  