-- 
Vietnam’s Economic Growth Slows to 5.76% in First 9 Months

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-09-24T03:38:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-24/vietnam-s-economic-growth-slows-to-5-76-in-first-9-months-1-.html
Vietnam ’s economic growth slowed in
the first three quarters of 2011 after the government pushed up
borrowing costs earlier this year in a bid to slow inflation.  For the nine months through September, the economy expanded
5.76 percent, down from 6.54 percent in the first three quarters
of 2010, according to figures from the General Statistics Office
today. Quarterly figures were not issued.  The State Bank of Vietnam has increased the repurchase,
refinancing and discount rates to stem credit growth and slow
price gains as the government tried to stabilize the economy.
The central bank raised the repurchase rate in nine steps from 7
percent at the start of November last year to 15 percent in May
2011, before cutting it in July to 14 percent.  “It has been a real struggle this year for companies
because of  interest rates ,” said Marc Djandji, director of
research at Viet Capital Securities Joint-Stock Co. in Ho Chi
Minh City. “It’s very expensive for companies to borrow.”  The State Bank of Vietnam is now aiming to cut commercial
lending rates to aid growth while facing inflation of 22.42
percent, the fastest in  Asia . Officials from  South Korea  to the
 Philippines  are also under pressure to support growth as
 Europe ’s debt crisis fuels concern of another global recession.  The benchmark VN Index of stocks fell 2 percent yesterday,
while the dong weakened 0.1 percent to 20,832 per dollar,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The currency was
devalued for the fourth time in 15 months on Feb. 11.  Monetary Policy   Monetary policy has been moving “gradually in support of
economic growth since late August,” according to Viet Capital
Securities. Vietnam has experienced “buoyant” tourism this
year, and  government spending  usually picks up toward the
yearend, the  Asian Development Bank   said this month .  “A lot of companies are complaining about lack of access
to capital, but I don’t see any of them going out of business,”
said Adam McCarty, chief economist at Mekong Economics in  Hanoi .
“The economy is plodding along.”  The government has struggled to contain price pressures
while supporting growth this year. The inflation rate remains
the fastest in a basket of 17 Asian economies tracked by
Bloomberg News.  Central Bank  As threats to expansion increased, the  State Bank  of
Vietnam last month began pushing commercial lenders to cut their
interest rates even as it left policy rates unchanged. Still the
government said on Aug. 25 that the monetary authority will
consider reducing policy rates if inflation slows.  “If the government overextends its monetary-policy easing
by cutting policy rates, there is a risk of destabilizing the
dong,” Santitarn Sathirathai, a Singapore-based analyst at
Credit Suisse Group AG, wrote in a note this month.  The government should not cut interest rates too soon as
that may raise questions about its commitment to fighting
inflation, the  International Monetary Fund  told a meeting in
Hanoi this month attended by Prime Minister Nguyen Tan Dung.  In the second half, “GDP growth is expected to be modestly
ahead of that in the first,” the ADB said. “The government has
decided to bring forward increases in minimum wages to Oct. 1,
which will support growth in private consumption.”  Industry and Construction  Industry and construction, which accounted for 40.7 percent
of the economy, expanded 6.62 percent in the first nine months
of the year from a year earlier. The sub-category that measures
construction alone grew at 4.91 percent.  Vietnam’s cooling property market has caused an increase in
steel inventories, according to U.K.-listed  Vietnam Property
Fund Ltd. (VPF)   A number of property projects are “in genuine distress,”
Vietnam Property Fund said. “Lack of residential sales, slow
letting markets in the office and industrial sectors and high
interest rates are bringing further desperation to the market.”  Services, which made up 37.8 percent of gross domestic
product, grew 6.24 percent in the nine-month period, with
financial services expanding at a 6.78 percent clip, while
hotels and restaurants grew 6.38 percent.  Vietnam has “a rapidly growing upper middle-class consumer
base, and a strong demand for international retail brands,”
said San Francisco-based  Gap Inc. (GPS) , the largest American apparel
chain, which plans to begin opening stores in the Asian country
this year.  Agriculture, forestry and fisheries, which accounted for
21.5 percent of Vietnam’s GDP, grew 2.39 percent in the first
nine months.  --Jason Folkmanis in  Ho Chi Minh City . Editors: Sunil Jagtiani,
Jake Lloyd-Smith, Richard Frost  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Jason Folkmanis in Ho Chi Minh City at +84-91-205-3237 or
 folkmanis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  