-- 
XCMG Construction Said to Cancel Plans to Raise $1.1 Billion in Stock Sale

-- B y   F o x   H u ,   K e l v i n   W o n g   a n d   C a t h y   C h a n
-- 
2011-09-25T16:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-24/xcmg-construction-said-to-cancel-plans-to-raise-1-1-billion-in-stock-sale.html
XCMG Construction Machinery Co.,
 China ’s biggest crane maker, scrapped plans to raise about $1.1
billion in a share sale in Hong Kong after some underwriters
backed out of commitments to buy any unsold stock, three people
with knowledge of the matter said.  Bankers on the deal may meet today to try to restructure
the offering, said one of the people, who declined to be
identified as discussions are private. XCMG pulled the sale
after some underwriters backed out of an agreement to purchase
any stock the company failed to sell, a commitment known as hard
underwriting, the people said.  Sany Heavy Industry Co., the construction-equipment maker
run by China’s richest man, is also delaying the sale pricing of
its $3.3 billion Hong Kong stock sale as the city’s benchmark
 Hang Seng Index  posted its biggest weekly loss since 2008. The
sell-off has caused investors to lose money on 44 out of 51
initial public offerings this year, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg, with shoemaker Hongguo International Holdings Ltd.
tumbling 15 percent on its Sept. 23 debut.  Shenzhen-traded XCMG had planned to sell stock amounting to
about 15 percent of the enlarged share capital at HK$21.35
($2.74) to HK$26.39 apiece, people with knowledge of the
transaction said Sept. 23.  Two phone calls made outside of regular business hours to
XCMG’s headquarters in Xuzhou City, Jiangsu province, went
unanswered yesterday. Reuters reported earlier that XCMG had
delayed the offering, citing people it didn’t identify.  Market Value  XCMG said in a Jan. 5 statement to the Shenzhen stock
exchange that it planned to sell as much as a 20 percent stake
in  Hong Kong . XCMG fell 3.3 percent in Shenzhen trading last
week, reducing the company’s market value to 41 billion yuan
($6.4 billion).  The Hang Seng Index slumped 9.2 percent last week to close
at a more than two-year low. The Bloomberg Hong Kong IPO Index,
which measures the first-year performance of new stocks, has
fallen 28 percent this year.  Xiao Nan Guo Restaurants Holding Ltd. scrapped a HK$581
million ($75 million) IPO, according to a Sept. 21 filing. China
Everbright Bank Co. pulled a $6 billion offering in August,
having considered cutting the size of the sale in half as stocks
dropped.  Sany, headed by Chairman Liang Wengen, is pushing ahead
with an investor roadshow after delaying the sale pricing,
previously set for today, Tang Xiuguo, president of its parent
company, said Sept. 23.  Enough Cashflow  The share-sale delay won’t affect Sany’s expansion plans,
including construction of a U.S. plant that’s due to open this
year, as the company has enough cashflow to finance operations
he said.  Companies have raised $40 billion in Hong Kong share sales
this year, led by China Construction Bank Corp.’s $8.3 billion
offering last month. The tally is about the same as in the year-
earlier period.  BOC International Ltd., Goldman Sachs Group Inc.,  Morgan
Stanley (MS) , China International Capital Corp.,  Credit Suisse Group
AG (CSGN) , ABCI Securities Co. and  BNP Paribas (BNP)  SA were among banks
arranging the sale for XCMG, according to the people.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fox Hu in Hong Kong at 
 fhu7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  