-- 
Yemenis Demonstrate Over Deaths of 50 by Saleh Forces Following His Return

-- B y   M o h a m m e d   H a t e m
-- 
2011-09-25T10:17:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-24/yemen-violence-picks-up-as-saleh-returns-new-fighting-breaks-out-in-libya.html
Tens of thousands of Yemenis took
to the streets of Sana’a and Taiz to denounce the death of
almost 50 people in two days of clashes with government forces.  Eighteen people were killed and 54 wounded in an attack
that began yesterday by forces loyal to President Ali Abdullah Saleh on a protest camp in the center of the capital, said
Mohammed al-Abahi, head of the field clinic at the camp. At
least seven people were injured today in clashes in Sana’a, as
protesters voiced anger over Saleh’s return to the country.  Saleh returned to Yemen on Sept. 23 after spending more
than three months in  Saudi Arabia  recovering from injuries from
an attack on his compound in June. He called for a truce and a
cease-fire and proposed dialogue to end eight months of protests
inspired by revolts that ousted the leaders of Tunisia and
 Egypt .  Shelling of the headquarters of the First Armored Division,
which backs the protesters, left 11 soldiers dead and 112
wounded, a spokesman for General Ali Mohsen al-Ahmar said
yesterday. Fighting elsewhere in the city left another 18 dead
and 35 wounded, Sheikh Sadeq al-Ahmar, chief of the Hashid
tribal confederation, said in a statement today.  Yemeni authorities “appeared to have lost effective
control of parts of the country and within the major cities,”
the United Nations Office of the High Commissioner for Human
Rights said in a report last week. It warned that  Yemen  faced
civil war.  Saleh ordered the removal of all blockades, checkpoints and
barricades in Yemen and called for all army and security forces
to return to their barracks, state-run Saba news agency
reported. Military tanks and security forces remained on the
streets of Sana’a and Taiz today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mohammed Hatem in Dubai at 
 mhatem1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  