-- 
Zambia Tells Foreign Miners Not to ‘Lose Sleep’ Over Investments

-- B y   A n t h o n y   M u k w i t a   a n d   B r i a n   L a t h a m
-- 
2011-09-24T12:46:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-24/zambia-tells-foreign-miners-not-to-lose-sleep-over-investments.html
Foreign miners in Zambia shouldn’t
“lose sleep” about their investments because newly elected
President  Michael Sata  won’t change mining and tax laws without
consulting them, his party said today.  The Patriotic Front party is considering introducing a tax
on copper exports, “but only when prices are higher than
normal,” Sata spokesman Miles Sampa said today by phone.  Sata, known to his supporters as “King Cobra” because of
his aggressive campaigning style, was sworn in yesterday,
promising Zambia’s poor a greater share of the country’s wealth.
While the 73-year-old leader has backed down on threats to
nationalize foreign companies, he pledged to extract more money
from miners in Africa’s biggest copper producer.  Favorable taxes and regulations have helped lure companies
including Glencore International Plc and  Vedanta Resources Plc (VED) ,
boosting copper output to more than 700,000 metric tons last
year. Zambia aims to increase output to 2 million tons a year by
2015, the government said April 29.  “There will be attempts to extract taxes from mining
companies,” said Gus Selassie, a senior analyst for  Africa  at
IHS Global Insight in  London . “They will probably be paying
more. There may be some alarm.”  Mining earns 80 percent of Zambia’s foreign currency and is
crucial to poverty reduction in the country, Sampa said in an
interview from the capital, Lusaka. “There is no way our
government under President Sata will frustrate the mining
sector. We have already said we won’t kill the goose that lays
the golden egg and that pledge won’t change.”  Dollar a Day  While growth averaged more than 6 percent a year in the
last three years, the country was among the 20 lowest-ranked
nations on the United Nations Development Program’s 2010 Human
Development Index. About 65 percent of Zambians live on less
than a dollar a day, according to the UN.  Vancouver-based  First Quantum Minerals Ltd. (FM)  plans to spend
$1.9 billion on the Trident mine, a smelter and to expand output
at Kansanshi. Glencore International Plc proposed investing $323
million on its Mopani mine and another $145 million on a
smelter, according to its website.  London-based Vedanta, which runs Konkola, the country’s
biggest mine, plans to spend $1 billion over the next three
years.  Barrick Gold Corp. (ABX)  the world’s largest gold producer,
owns Lumwana Mining Co.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anthony Mukwita in johannesburg at 
 amukwita1@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Latham in Johannesburg at 
 blatham@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  