-- African Leaders Want Prosecution Immunity for Heads of State
-- B y   W i l l i a m   D a v i s o n
-- 2013-10-12T16:33:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-12/african-leaders-want-prosecution-immunity-for-heads-of-state.html
African leaders want sitting heads
of state to be immune from prosecution at international courts,
said Hailemariam Desalegn, Ethiopian prime minister and the
current chairman of the  African Union .  “We have agreed that no charges shall be commenced or
continued before any international court or tribunal against any
serving heads of state or government or anybody acting or
entitled to enact in such capacity during his or her term of
office,” he said in a speech after leaders met in  Addis Ababa 
today.  Kenyan President Uhuru Kenyatta won’t appear at the
 International Criminal Court  until the  United Nations Security
Council  responds to requests to delay his trial by a year,
Ethiopian Foreign Minister Tedros Adhanom told reporters. All of
the active cases before the ICC are against Africans, including
Kenyatta and his deputy  William Ruto , prompting complaints from
the continent’s leaders that the tribunal is unfairly targeting
the continent.  Ruto is on trial on charges of crimes against humanity in
connection with ethnic violence following a disputed 2007
election. Kenyatta’s trial on similar charges will begin next
month. More than 1,100 people died in the clashes. Both men deny
the accusations.  If the  security council  doesn’t defer Kenyatta’s case, the
AU will request a postponement of the trials, Tedros said,
without giving further details. The AU will discuss the issue at
a summit next month if the response is negative, Tedros said.  Security Council  “We don’t want to pre-empt it without seeing what the
progress will be,” Tedros said about the possible decisions at
the summit.  Fadi El Abdallah, a spokesman for the ICC, didn’t
immediately return a voice-mail message left outside normal
office hours today.  African foreign ministers created a five-member committee
to discuss with the security council deferring the Kenyan trials
and the case of Sudanese leader Umar al-Bashir for a year, which
the New York-based body has the authority to do, said
Hailemariam.  Kenyatta, 51, is the second sitting president to be
indicted by the ICC after Bashir, who is wanted for suspected
 war crimes  and genocide in  Sudan ’s western Darfur region. He
says he is innocent of the charges.  Rome Statute  “African sovereignty means nothing to the ICC and its
patrons,” Kenyatta told leaders today, according to an e-mailed
copy of his speech.  Thirty-four of the 122 state parties to the Rome Statute
that  created  the ICC are African, according to the court. The
African members have been asked to raise the “issue of
indictment” of sitting leaders at a meeting of other
signatories to the court, Hailemariam said.  In May, the African Union called for the ICC cases against
Kenyatta and Ruto to be referred back to domestic courts after
 Kenya  enacted a new constitution in 2010 aimed at strengthening
the accountability of the country’s judiciary. While lawmakers
in Nairobi last month passed a motion to withdraw from the Rome
Statue, the state isn’t bound by the decision.  South African Nobel Peace Prize laureate  Desmond Tutu  has
criticized Kenya and Sudan for urging African nations to shun
the ICC, saying such a move would make the “world a more
dangerous place.” He spearheaded an online petition to gather
at least 1 million signatures in support of the court before
today’s summit.  Kenyan Foreign Secretary Amina Mohamed said on Oct. 9 that
the East African country hasn’t lobbied other African nations to
withdraw from the ICC and reiterated that Kenyatta and Ruto are
fully cooperating with the tribunal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
William Davison in Addis Ababa at 
 wdavison3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  