-- Malema Seeks Support for New Party at Mine Shooting Site
-- B y   A m o g e l a n g   M b a t h a
-- 2013-10-13T14:02:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-12/malema-seeks-support-for-new-party-at-mine-shooting-site.html
Julius Malema , the expelled youth
leader of  South Africa ’s ruling  African National Congress , is
seeking support for his new party from disillusioned workers at
the site of last year’s deadly mining violence.  Malema, 32, introduced his Economic Freedom Fighters today
at a rally in Marikana, the mining town located about 130
kilometers (80 miles) northwest of Johannesburg where 34 people
were killed after police opened fire on a crowd of striking
mineworkers on Aug. 16, 2012.  “The EFF is trying to capitalize on a high profile
government error, maybe even a government crime, that allows
them to identify with the poor people and those most affected by
the shooting in that region,” Daryl Glaser, a political analyst
at the University of the Witwatersrand, said in a telephone
interview from Johannesburg.  The leader of the EFF addressed hundreds gathered for the
event, saying that white  South Africans  are refusing to hand
over land their forefathers stole from blacks, the South African
Press Association reported.  “Till today, they are not ashamed of the killing of our
people,” Malema said, according to the SAPA. “We are not going
to beg for the land. Bring back the land.”  Malema and the Economic Freedom Fighters have attracted
publicity by calling for the state seizure of mines, banks and
land, using communist jargon and praising the government
appropriation of assets in countries such as Zimbabwe and
 Venezuela .  ANC Challenges  The ANC, which has won every election since the first
multiracial vote in 1994, is facing challenges from new
political parties in next year’s vote, including Agang SA, led
by former Gold Fields Ltd. Chairwoman Mamphela Ramphele. Malema
is targeting unemployed young people, who make up about a third
of South Africa’s 53 million population, by reviving a call for
the state to seize control of mines, banks and farms.  Malema was expelled from the ANC in March last year for
insulting senior leaders and calling for the overthrow of the
government in neighboring Botswana. A one-time ally of President
 Jacob Zuma , Malema helped him oust  Thabo Mbeki  as head of the
ANC in 2007. Since his expulsion, Malema has become one of
Zuma’s biggest critics as the government struggles to cut a 25.6
percent jobless rate.  Union Rivalry  The ANC’s support in Marikana has been eroded as workers
ditched the  National Union of Mineworkers , an ally of the ruling
party, for the Association of Mineworkers and Construction
Union. Rivalry between the two labor groups at  Lonmin Plc (LMI) ’s
platinum mine in Marikana helped spark the violence that led to
the police shooting last year.  While the EFF may win about 4 percent support in the
elections, Malema’s popularity is growing in Marikana as his
message resonates with workers faced with mine closures, job
losses and high indebtedness, said Glaser.  “If they get something like 4 percent, that’s considerable
and may even throw off the ANC and may lead to it re-evaluating
its strategy because it needs to maintain the patronage that it
has had in past elections,” he said.  The ANC won 65.9 percent of the national vote and about 73
percent in the North West province, where Marikana is situated,
in 2009. Its main opponent, the  Democratic Alliance , secured
16.7 percent nationally, while the Congress of the People, a
breakaway faction of the ANC, received 7.4 percent, according to
official results.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amogelang Mbatha in Johannesburg at 
 ambatha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Gordon Bell  at 
 gbell16@bloomberg.net  