-- Asian Stocks Rise This Week on U.S. Debt Talk Progress
-- B y   K a n a   N i s h i z a w a
-- 2013-10-12T00:24:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-12/asian-stocks-rise-this-week-on-u-s-debt-talk-progress.html
Asian  stocks  rose this week, sending
the benchmark index to its biggest advance in three weeks, amid
optimism U.S. lawmakers would make a deal to raise the nation’s
borrowing cap and avert a default. Japanese shares advanced as
the yen weakened.  Honda Motor Co. (7267) , a carmaker that gets half its sales in
 North America , gained 5.5 percent this week in  Tokyo . MGM China
Holdings Ltd., a casino operator controlled by MGM Resorts
International, jumped 5.4 percent this week in Hong Kong after
table revenue rose during the National Day holidays.  Hiwin
Technologies Corp. (2049)  surged 9.1 percent in Taipei after the ball-bearing manufacturer reported higher sales.  Rakuten (4755)  Inc., an
online mall operator, slumped 19 percent in Tokyo after Yahoo
Japan Corp. said it would scrap vendor fees for its shopping and
auction sites.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index rose 1.3 percent to 140.91 this
week, after dropping last week as the U.S. government entered a
partial shutdown and concern mounted that the political impasse
could lead to default. The benchmark rebounded after Republican
House Majority Leader  Eric Cantor  said Republicans and Democrats
will seek a “path forward” on the $16.7 trillion debt ceiling.  “Shares climbed on the impression U.S. talks have
progressed, but there’s a chance we may see another mess before
things are resolved,” said  Kenichi Hirano , a Tokyo-based market
analyst at Tachibana Securities Co. “Investors are cautious
about selling too aggressively.”  Stocks also climbed after Federal Reserve Vice Chairman
 Janet Yellen , an architect of its stimulus program, was
nominated to lead the central bank. Yellen isn’t among the Fed
policy makers who have pressed this year to pare asset
purchases.  Relative Value  Asia’s benchmark index was valued at 13.55 times estimated
earnings yesterday, compared with multiples of about 15.35 for
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and 14.26 for the Stoxx Europe
600 Index, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The  International Monetary Fund  this week trimmed China’s
forecast for economic growth to 7.6 percent this year from a 7.8
percent estimate in July. Global growth will be 2.9 percent this
year, down from a projection of 3.1 percent, with the outlook
factoring in a short U.S. government shutdown and agreement on
the debt limit before the Oct. 17 deadline.  Japan’s  Topix index  climbed 2.9 percent this week amid
optimism the dollar will strengthen after Federal Reserve
minutes from last month’s meeting indicated tapering of stimulus
was likely this year. The Nikkei 225 Stock Average climbed 2.7
percent.  Hong Kong’s  Hang Seng Index (HSI)  rose 0.3 percent this week.
Hang Seng China Enterprises Index, the gauge of mainland stocks
also known as the H-share index, added 0.6 percent.  China Reopens  China’s Shanghai Composite Index climbed 2.5 percent this
week after reopening from a week-long holiday on Oct. 8. HSBC
Holdings Plc’s and  Markit Economics ’ purchasing managers’ index
showed growth in the nation’s service industries slowed to 52.4
in September from 52.8 in August, with 50 the dividing line
between expansion and contraction.  Taiwan’s Taiex index slid 0.2 percent. Hiwin jumped 9.1
percent to NT$223, leading gains on MSCI Asia Pacific
Industrials Index, which had the biggest advance among the
regional gauge’s 10 subgroups. Shares climbed after sales last
month advanced 19 percent from a year earlier.  Singapore’s Straits Times Index 1.3 percent.  Australia’s  S&P/ASX 200 Index (AS51)  gained 0.4 percent this week.
Data showed the nation’s unemployment rate expectedly dropped in
September, while business confidence surged last month to the
highest in 3 1/2 years.  Republican Proposal  The  S&P 500 (SPX)  rallied the most since January on Oct. 10 after
House Speaker  John Boehner  and other party leaders met with
President  Barack Obama . Republicans proposed a short-term
increase in the cap that would reduce prospects for a default by
pushing the lapse of U.S. borrowing authority to Nov. 22 from
Oct. 17. The plan wouldn’t end the partial shutdown of the
government, which is going into its 12th day.  A stoppage lasting through the end of this week could cost
the economy 0.2 percentage point in growth, according to the
median estimate in a Bloomberg survey of economists. The damage
escalates to a 0.5 point loss if it carries through Oct. 25. The
closure has also pushed out expectations for when Fed will start
to taper monetary stimulus.  The yen yesterday headed for a four-day decline against the
dollar. Honda climbed 5.5 percent to 3,915 yen this week in
Tokyo.  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) , a carmaker that gets about a third of
its sales in North America, climbed 3.7 percent to 6,410 yen.  MGM China  Macau’s table revenue from gaming rose 38 percent to about
HK$1.68 billion a day from Oct. 1-6, according to Barclays
Capital Asia. MGM China jumped 5.4 percent to HK$27.35 in  Hong
Kong .  Developers led gains this week in Hong Kong. China
Resources Land Ltd. surged 6.1 percent to HK$23.35.  Country
Garden Holdings Co. (2007) , controlled by China’s richest woman Yang
Huiyan, jumped 9.7 percent to HK$5.55 after exceeding its 2013
property sales target by the end of September.  Investors should prepare for a fourth-quarter rally by
Chinese developers as sales over the holiday week indicate the
 property market  turned “very hot” since September, Citigroup
Inc. wrote in a note dated Oct. 8.  Rakuten had the biggest drop this week on the Asian equity
benchmark, tumbling 19 percent to 1,138 yen in Tokyo. Its equity
rating was cut to neutral from buy at Goldman Sachs Group Inc.,
which said the e-commerce company’s monthly tenant fees may come
under pressure after Yahoo  Japan  cut fees for online stores.
Yahoo Japan slid 10 percent to 502 yen this week.  Hong Kong Exchanges & Clearing Ltd. on Oct. 10 said it
raised the discount for using some U.S. Treasury bills as
collateral to take into account a possible U.S. default. The
change only affects the clearing house for index futures and
options, bourse spokeswoman Lorraine Chan said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kana Nishizawa in Hong Kong at 
 knishizawa5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah McDonald at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net  