-- Beltran Leads Cardinals Past Dodgers in 13-Inning NLCS Opener
-- B y   R o b   G l o s t e r
-- 2013-10-12T05:50:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-12/beltran-leads-cardinals-past-dodgers-in-13-inning-nlcs-opener.html
Carlos Beltran  knocked in the
winning run in the 13th inning to give the  St. Louis  Cardinals a
3-2 victory against the Los Angeles Dodgers in the opening game
of the National League Championship Series.  Beltran, who drove in all the Cardinals’ runs and saved a
run by throwing out a man at the plate in the 10th inning, ended
the four-hour, 47-minute game with his single into the right-field corner off reliever Kenley Jansen.  The game ended almost a half-hour past midnight at Busch
Stadium in St. Louis, where Game 2 in the best-of-seven NLCS is
set for this afternoon.  “Today was a good game and that’s what it’s all about,”
Beltran, 36, said in a televised on-field interview. “They
didn’t want to lose, we didn’t want to lose.”  The American League Championship Series begins tonight with
the  Detroit Tigers  visiting the  Boston Red Sox .  Justin Verlander struck out 10 and allowed two hits in
eight innings two nights ago as the Tigers won a decisive Game 5
in their division series at the Oakland Athletics. The Red Sox
defeated the Tampa Bay Rays three games to one.  In St. Louis, pinch-hitter Daniel Descalso singled with one
out in the Cardinals’ 13th off Chris Withrow, the fifth Dodgers
pitcher. Descalso moved to second on a walk to Matt Carpenter
and scored on Beltran’s single.  The Dodgers had threatened in the 10th inning when Mark
Ellis tripled with one out. After an intentional walk to Hanley Ramirez,  Michael Young  hit a fly ball to right field and Beltran
threw Ellis out at the plate to keep the score tied.  Juan Uribe  gave Los Angeles a 2-0 lead in the third inning
with a two-run single. Uribe’s two-run homer in the eighth
inning gave the Dodgers a 4-3 victory in the final game of their
division series against the Atlanta Braves.  After Dodgers starter Zack Greinke retired the first eight
St. Louis hitters, pitcher Joe Kelly got the first hit of the
game for the Cardinals and Matt Carpenter walked. Beltran
followed with a two-run double to tie the game.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Gloster in  San Francisco  at 
 rgloster@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  