-- Canadian Dollar Falls Most in 7 Weeks as U.S. Shutdown Persists
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 2013-10-12T04:00:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-12/canadian-dollar-falls-most-in-7-weeks-as-u-s-shutdown-persists.html
Canada ’s dollar fell the most in
seven weeks as politicians in the U.S., its largest trading
partner, struggled to end a stalemate on agreements to fund the
government and raise the nation’s debt limit.  The currency, nicknamed the loonie, touched a one-month low
as crude oil, the nation’s largest export, declined and a report
showed Canada’s trade deficit widened in August as imports rose
to a record. A report on Oct. 18 is forecast to show consumer
prices rose 1 percent in September from a year earlier, the low
end of the  Bank of Canada ’s target band.  “The weakness in the loonie reflects the uncertainty
regarding the U.S. shutdown, and the possible economic
implications it may have for the Canadian economy,” said  David Watt , chief economist at the Canadian unit of HSBC Holdings
Plc., by phone from Toronto. “The market has been optimistic
about resolution, but until the uncertainty is cleared up the
Canadian currency will show stress.”  The loonie fell 0.5 percent this week to C$1.0349 in
Toronto, the biggest decline since the five days ended Aug. 23.
The currency reached C$1.0420 on Oct. 10, the weakest level
since Sept. 9. One Canadian dollar buys 96.62 U.S. cents.  Moving Averages  The currency traded weaker than its 50-, 100- and 200-day
moving averages for a third day yesterday, a signal to some
traders that there’s momentum for further losses. It was
stronger than all three as recently as Sept. 19.  Implied volatility for three-month options on the Canadian
dollar versus its U.S. counterpart fell to 6.07 percent, the
least since May 9. Implied volatility is used to set option
prices and gauge the expected pace of currency swings.  The nation’s benchmark 10-year government bond yields were
little changed at 2.59 percent. The 1.5 percent securities
maturing in June 2023 traded at C$90.76.  Canada plans to auction C$3.3 billion ($3.2 billion) of
two-year notes on Oct. 16, according to the Bank of Canada
website.  The loonie strengthened yesterday as a report showed Canada
added 11,900 jobs in September and the  unemployment rate  fell to
6.9 percent. Economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News  projected a
10,000 job increase and an unchanged  jobless  rate at 7.1
percent, according to the median forecasts.  Report Moves  “The data was much better than expected, which has caused
a knee-jerk reaction,”  Jack Spitz , managing director of foreign
exchange in Toronto at  National Bank of Canada , said in a
telephone interview. “While the number was strong, the market
is still more impacted by what’s going on in  Washington  than
what’s going on in Ottawa, and is still seeking clarity.”  House Republicans  offered a plan yesterday to raise the
U.S. debt limit and end a partial government shutdown that would
require the president to accept policy conditions attached to a
spending measure, said two congressional aides.  Canada’s trade deficit unexpectedly widened for a second
month in August, outweighing exports to the U.S. that reached
the highest since the end of 2011.  The August deficit increased to C$1.31 billion and July’s
shortfall was raised to C$1.19 billion from an initial C$931
million,  Statistics Canada  said Oct. 8 in Ottawa. The deficit
exceeded all 20 economist forecasts in a Bloomberg survey that
had a median estimate of C$700 million.  Central Bank  The Bank of Canada will raise rates next year, according to
a survey of economists that diverges from market gauges.  The central bank policy rate will climb to 1.25 percent
from 1 percent in the fourth quarter of 2014, according to the
median estimate in a Bloomberg October Canada Economic survey,
which had 19 responses. The forecast contrasts with trading in
overnight index swaps yesterday that put the odds of a rate
increase in 2014 at less than half.  Bank of Canada Governor Stephen Poloz said yesterday his
country’s economic growth has been disappointing and is showing
gradual signs of regaining momentum. Gross domestic product must
expand faster than 2.5 percent to reduce the slack in the
economy, Poloz said at a news conference following Group of 20
meetings in Washington.  Canada’s jobless rate fell to the lowest in almost five
years in September as 21,400 workers aged 15 to 24 left the
 labor force . Jobs creation slowed to 11,900 in September from
59,200 in August.  “The overall theme of the Canadian labor market is one of
a slow march higher where the lackluster pace is symbolic of the
economy’s slow-go trajectory,” said  Adrian Miller , director of
fixed income strategies at GMP Securities LLC in New York.
”We look for the BOC to remain on the sidelines at least
through fourth quarter of 2014 and perhaps even first quarter
2015 before we see a hike in rates.”  Crude-oil futures slid 2 percent this week to $101.74 a
barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . The price spread
between Western Canada Select oil and West Texas Intermediate
was $29.50 yesterday, compared with this year’s average discount
of $22.57.  The Canadian dollar has lost 1.9 percent this year against
nine other developed-nation currencies tracked by the Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Index. The  U.S. dollar  gained 2.8 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cordell Eddings in  New York  at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  