-- Tigers Top Red Sox 1-0 to Open ALCS; Cardinals Beat Dodgers 1-0
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2013-10-13T05:16:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-12/cardinals-top-dodgers-1-0-to-hold-lead-in-nl-championship-series.html
Anibal Sanchez struck out 12 Boston
batters and combined with three Detroit pitchers to take a no-hitter through the eighth inning as the Tigers beat the  Red Sox 
1-0 in the opener of Major League Baseball’s American League
Championship Series.  In the National League’s playoff game yesterday, St. Louis
Cardinals rookie pitcher Michael Wacha allowed five hits and
struck out eight to lead the team to a 1-0 victory against the
Los Angeles Dodgers and a two games-to-none advantage in the
best-of-seven series.  The Tigers meet the Red Sox in Game 2 of the AL series
today at Fenway Park in Boston, while the National League series
moves to Los Angeles for Game 3.  Sanchez (1-0) was relieved after striking out 12 and
walking six in six innings. He managed to escape a bases-loaded
threat by striking out Stephen Drew after walking Daniel Nava,
 Dustin Pedroia  and  Mike Napoli  in the sixth inning. With two
outs, Stephen Drew struck out swinging.  “Today I tried to put the ball in the corners,” Sanchez
said in a televised interview. “That’s why I threw so many
walks.”  Sanchez, Al Alburquerque and Jose Veras struck out a total
of 16 Boston players. The trio plus Drew Smyly carried the no-hitter into the ninth inning.  No-Hitter Ends  Nava broke up the no-hitter in the ninth inning on a pitch
by Joaquin Benoit who got the save.  “Right now we have to continue to play hard,” Sanchez
said.  The Tigers got their only run in the sixth inning as
 Miguel Cabrera  scored on a single by Jhonny Peralta off  Jon Lester  (0-1), who gave up one run on six hits and struck out
four.  “The pitchers were really good tonight -- unbelievable
tonight with the pitchers,” Peralta said.  At Busch Stadium in St. Louis, Wacha struck out Yasiel Puig
and  Juan Uribe  with one out after loading the bases in the sixth
inning. The 22-year-old pitcher allowed five hits and struck out
eight in 6 2/3 innings.  “I was lucky enough to get some strikeouts to hold the
lead,” Wacha said in a televised interview.  Dodgers pitcher  Clayton Kershaw  reached first on a single
to left in the sixth inning and then went to second on  Carl Crawford ’s infield single. Both runners advanced on a throwing
error by second baseman Matt Carpenter. After Mark Ellis popped
out to second, Wacha intentionally walked  Adrian Gonzalez  to
load the bases before striking out Puig and Uribe to end the
inning.  “It was pretty intense in there,” Wacha said. “Our
bullpen is clutch. I knew I was in good hands.”  David Freese scored on Jon Jay’s sacrifice fly in the fifth
inning for the Cardinals.  Kershaw (0-1) went six innings, surrendering one run on two
hits and striking out five.  “You have to give those guys credit,” Dodgers manager  Don Mattingly  said. “Their guy threw the ball good. We had a couple
of chances -- bases loaded -- and couldn’t capitalize on them.”  The Cardinals were coming off a 13-inning 3-2 victory that
ended half past midnight in  St. Louis .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  