-- China Exports Unexpectedly Drop
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-10-12T16:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-12/china-sept-exports-unexpectedly-drop-0-3-as-imports-gain.html
China ’s  exports  unexpectedly fell in
September, signaling constraints from global demand and
highlighting distortions from fake invoices that have yet to be
eliminated from trade data.  Overseas shipments dropped 0.3 percent from a year earlier,
the General Administration of Customs said yesterday in Beijing,
trailing all 46 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey that had a
median projection for a 5.5 percent gain. The trade slowdown
resulted from a high basis of comparison with last year, the
agency said in a statement.  The report may add to Premier Li Keqiang’s challenges in
defending the government’s 7.5 percent expansion goal for this
year. The International Monetary Fund cut its global growth
outlook last week as capital outflows further weaken  emerging
markets  and warned that a U.S. government default could
“seriously damage” the world economy.  “It’s all quite murky,” said Shen Jianguang, Hong Kong-based chief Asia economist at Mizuho Securities Asia Ltd.,
citing the impact of inflated export data that started late last
year, fewer working days due to the timing of the Mid-Autumn
Festival holiday and currency volatility in Southeast Asia.  “There has been an export recovery since July to the U.S.
and Europe but it’s been pretty weak,” Shen said. “The driving
force for China’s recovery at this stage is still housing and
infrastructure investment.”  Yuan Gains  Exports to the U.S. rose 4.2 percent in September from a
year earlier, slowing from 6.1 percent in August, while sales to
South Korea,  Taiwan  and the European Union dropped, customs data
show. Growth in shipments to the Association of Southeast Asian
Nations slid to 9.8 percent from 30.8 percent the previous month.  The benchmark Shanghai Composite  Index (SHCOMP)  of stocks advanced
2.5 percent last week, the biggest weekly gain in a month, and
the  yuan  rose 0.02 percent against the U.S. dollar in Shanghai.  Estimates for September export growth ranged from 1 percent
to 8.2 percent, after August’s 7.2 percent increase and a 9.8
percent gain a year earlier. On a seasonally adjusted basis,
exports rose 5.3 percent from a year earlier and 8.3 percent
from August, the agency said.  Comparing September’s exports with a year earlier may
understate the true picture because of distortions from inflated
data in 2012, analysts at Credit Agricole CIB and Citigroup Inc.
said before the report. Regulators in May cracked down on over-invoicing of exports used to disguise capital inflows.  ‘Artificially Depressed’  “Sometimes a single month’s data can’t tell the true story,
and there are other factors as well,” Zheng Yuesheng, a customs
spokesman, told reporters at a briefing yesterday when asked
about the export drop. “I see this as a seasonal thing.”  Dariusz Kowalczyk, senior economist and strategist at
Credit Agricole in Hong Kong, said before the report that the
“trade numbers in the next couple of months, especially on the
export side, will not be a good reflection of demand for Chinese
products abroad or overall economic activity, because they will
be artificially depressed from what happened a year earlier.”  Kowalczyk had the lowest estimate for September exports in
the Bloomberg survey, projecting a 1 percent increase.  Imports (CNFRIMPY)  rose 7.4 percent last month from a year earlier,
customs data showed, topping the median 7 percent forecast in a
Bloomberg survey. The $15.2 billion trade  surplus  compared with
a median projection of $26.25 billion and $28.5 billion in
August.  Healthy Picture  While imports used for processing and re-export “are still
not doing very well, those that feed into China’s own economy
continue to grow quite robustly, reflecting a still pretty
healthy picture in terms of demand,” said  Louis Kuijs , chief
China economist at Royal Bank of Scotland Plc in Hong Kong.  China’s daily oil imports climbed to a record last month.
Purchases have risen “as a result of expansion in the economy
and its growing demand for resources,” Zheng said.  In addition to the month’s fewer working days, the strong
yuan has also “eroded China’s export competitiveness,” Liu Li-Gang, chief Greater China economist at Australia & New Zealand
Banking Group Ltd. in Hong Kong, said in a note yesterday.  The yuan rose about 2.7 percent against the U.S. dollar in
the 12 months through September, while Asian currencies
including the yen, Singapore and Taiwan dollars and  Indonesia ’s
rupiah fell.  Port Throughput  There are still “downside risks to China’s economy,” Liu
and economist Hao Zhou wrote. While there was speculation
September’s trade slowdown resulted from last year’s over-invoicing, “our preliminary comparison showed that the port
throughput indeed slowed in major wharfs last month,” they said.  The IMF said Oct. 8 that growth worldwide will be 2.9
percent this year and 3.6 percent next year, compared with July
projections of 3.1 percent for 2013 and 3.8 percent for 2014.  While Zheng warned at the briefing of continued “downward
pressure” on trade, he said a customs administration survey of
about 2,000 exporters showed overseas shipments “will maintain
stable development in the coming two or three months,” based on
comments on orders and costs.  Premier Li said last week that gross domestic product grew
more than 7.5 percent in the first nine months of 2013, putting
China on track to achieve its full-year target of the same pace.  The statistics bureau will publish  third-quarter GDP 
figures Oct. 18. The economy probably expanded 7.8 percent from
a year earlier, according to a Bloomberg News survey, up from
the second quarter’s 7.5 percent pace.  “The government still wants to maintain growth momentum
and based on current data it can reach its goal, but with a very
small safety margin,” said Oliver Rui, a professor of finance
and accounting at the China Europe International Business School
in  Shanghai .  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Xin Zhou in Beijing at 
 xzhou68@bloomberg.net ;
Nerys Avery in Beijing at 
 navery2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  