-- Christie Faults Pols Who ‘Played Chicken’ on Shutdown
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 2013-10-12T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-12/christie-faults-pols-who-played-chicken-on-shutdown.html
Governor  Chris Christie , a  New
Jersey  Republican cruising toward re-election in a Democrat-dominated state, said politicians in  Washington  “played
chicken” as a partial U.S. government shutdown neared.  Christie, 51, has been critical of lawmakers from both
parties and President  Barack Obama  throughout the shutdown.
Speaking at an event in the nation’s capital last night, he said
employee furloughs and reduced federal funding haven’t
dramatically affected New Jersey, though that may change.  If the shutdown persists, the Garden State will be hurt,
Christie said. He faulted Obama for waiting until Oct. 10 to
host a discussion with Republican congressional leaders and he
criticized the lawmakers for “wasting time” with political
disputes. The governor sat out the 2012 presidential campaign
and has so far declined to say whether he’ll run in 2016.  “Everybody is at fault here,” Christie said after
receiving an award from Points of Light, a civic group. “They
all saw this coming, and they all played chicken with each other
and now the country is fed up and rightfully so.”  Christie, who has honed an image as a straight shooter, was
lauded by the Atlanta-based group for spurring volunteer efforts
after  Hurricane Sandy , which devastated New Jersey Oct. 29,
2012. At one point during the storm’s aftermath, the governor
took on congressmen from his own party because of delays in
passing a $50 billion supplemental spending bill to aid the
recovery of his state and others along the Atlantic seaboard.  Suicide Comment  The governor said he would “kill himself if he was in the
 U.S. Senate ,” in an interview published yesterday by the
Philadelphia Inquirer newspaper. Christie said last night that
he was using “dramatic” effects to highlight that most
Washington politics is a “waste of time.”  “Beyond the human impact, it’s an awful example in
governance,” Christie said of the impasse in the capital over
spending and the federal debt. “You can’t expect people to have
faith in our democracy when people don’t resolve these issues.”  “It’s just ridiculous,” the governor said. “We got hired
to do the job. Just do the job.”  During a campaign debate Oct. 9, Christie deflected
questions about whether he is running for president, saying he
wasn’t prepared to make that declaration. Yet he didn’t say that
he wouldn’t run in 2016, either.  His ‘Mission’  Christie, who announced his re-election campaign on storm-ravaged Long Beach Island, has said helping the state recover
from Sandy is his “mission.” The storm laid waste to much of
New Jersey’s 127-mile (200 kilometer) coastline, leaving 365,000
homes damaged or destroyed.  The governor has maintained a comfortable lead over
Democratic state Senator Barbara Buono, who trailed him by about
30 percentage points in recent voter surveys. Christie has
raised $6 for every $1 she has been able to collect.  In 2009, Christie became the first in his party to win a
statewide election in New Jersey since 1997 when he ousted
incumbent  Jon Corzine , the former Wall Street executive and U.S.
senator. Polls have shown that most independents and even a
third of Democrats support him for another term.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net . 