-- Deutsche Bank’s Jain Sees FX Rigging Probes Eroding Trust
-- B y   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n
-- 2013-10-12T17:51:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-12/deutsche-bank-s-jain-sees-fx-rigging-probes-eroding-trust.html
Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  Co-Chief Executive
Anshu Jain, whose company is the world’s biggest trader of
currencies, said allegations that those markets are rigged have
further eroded trust in the financial industry.  The  Federal Bureau of Investigation , which was already
looking into alleged manipulation of the London interbank
offered rate, or Libor, is in the early stages of a probe into
the $5.3 trillion-a-day currency market, a person familiar with
the matter, who asked not to be identified because the inquiry
is confidential, said yesterday.  “Issues like Libor manipulation, allegations of foreign-exchange manipulation, this is sapping at the very core of what
we are trying to do. What are we going to do about it? It’s
long-term reform,” Jain, 50, said during a panel discussion at
the annual meeting of the  Institute of International Finance  in
 Washington  today.  Frankfurt-based Deutsche Bank, New York-based Citigroup
Inc. and Edinburgh-based Royal Bank of Scotland Plc are among
firms reviewing e-mails, instant messages and phone records of
their foreign-exchange employees for evidence of manipulation,
according to three people with knowledge of those probes.
Spokesmen at all of the firms have declined to comment.  “The fundamental contract between banks -- I would say
financial services perhaps, even -- and society stands bruised,
perhaps broken,” Jain said today. “That broken trust is a
vital asset which is missing from our balance sheets.”  Switzerland , U.K.  Authorities in the U.K., Switzerland and the European Union
have also been investigating whether traders manipulated
foreign-exchange prices. In the U.S., the Commodity Futures
Trading Commission has been reviewing possible  currency market 
rigging, according to a separate person with knowledge of the
matter. The Office of the Comptroller of the Currency said in
June it’s looking into the allegations with domestic and
international regulators.  Deutsche Bank’s home regulator, the Bonn-based Bafin, said
this week it has no plans for a special probe into possible
currency manipulation by banks because it has found no sign of
such practices.  RBS, Britain’s biggest publicly owned lender, has handed
over records of instant messages to U.K. regulators after
concluding a former currency trader’s communications with
counterparts at other firms may have been inappropriate, two
people with knowledge of the matter said this week. The company
opened an internal probe after a Bloomberg News report in June
that said traders at some of the world’s biggest banks may have
sought to manipulate currency benchmarks.  In the  Libor probe , Deutsche Bank has fired at least seven
employees over suspected misconduct. The bank, continental
Europe’s largest by assets, said in February that while it would
fire or suspend workers that acted inappropriately, it wouldn’t
identify individuals.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Hamilton in Washington at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Christine Harper  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  