-- Dollar Gains for First Time in Six Weeks on Debt-Talk Optimism
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2013-10-12T04:00:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-12/dollar-gains-for-first-time-in-six-weeks-on-debt-talk-optimism.html
The dollar rose for the first time
in six weeks amid growing speculation that U.S. lawmakers may
end a partial government shutdown and reach a compromise to
avert an unprecedented default.  The yen fell the most since August versus the greenback as
demand for  Japan ’s currency as a refuge ebbed amid optimism the
political deadlock in the world’s biggest economy would be
broken. The dollar gained as President Barack Obama nominated
 Janet Yellen  to run the  Federal Reserve , fueling bets it will
maintain policies to spur economic growth. The Fed is scheduled
to issue its Beige Book regional economic survey on Oct. 16.  “ Washington  treaded easier on the dollar this week,”  Joe Manimbo , a market analyst in Washington at Western Union
Business Solutions, a unit of Western Union Co., said yesterday
in a phone interview. “We see a deal taking shape to hopefully
skirt a default, at least for now. The announcement of the next
Fed chief also took away a layer of uncertainty.”  The Bloomberg U.S. Dollar Index, which tracks the greenback
against 10 other major currencies, gained 0.2 percent to
1,012.38 this week in  New York . It touched 1,015.74, a three-week high, on Oct. 10.  The dollar climbed 1.1 percent, the most since the five
days ended Aug. 23, to 98.58 yen. It appreciated 0.1 percent to
$1.3544 per euro after weakening on Oct. 3 to an eight-month low
of $1.3646.  Europe ’s 17-nation shared currency gained 1 percent
to 133.51 yen.  A gauge of price swings dropped to the lowest closing level
since January. JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s Global FX Volatility Index
reached 8.42 percent yesterday, versus an average this year of
9.36 percent.  Winners, Losers  Brazil ’s real was the biggest winner this week among the
greenback’s 16 most-traded counterparts, with a 1.6 percent
gain. The South African rand was the second-best performer, with
a 0.9 percent increase. The Swedish krona fell 0.8 percent in
the worst performance after that of the yen.  The real climbed as Brazil’s central bank raised its key
 interest rate  on Oct. 9 for a fifth time, the longest stretch of
increases in the world. The rate is now 9.5 percent. The
currency appreciated to 2.1764 per dollar this week and touched
2.1693, the strongest since June 19.  The rand gained as overseas investors increased their
 holdings  of the  South Africa ’s bonds. Foreign funds have bought
2.1 billion rand ($212 million) of South African debt since the
partial shutdown of the U.S. government began.  The currency climbed to 9.8941 per dollar.  Washington Standoff  The White House yesterday weighed an offer from  House
Republicans  for a short debt-limit extension, and President
 Barack Obama  met with Senate Republicans to discuss the limit
and the government shutdown.  “The last 24 hours have given markets more confidence that
the two sides can come up with an acceptable package,” Brian Daingerfield, a  Stamford , Connecticut-based currency strategist
at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc’s RBS Securities unit, said
yesterday in a phone interview of the U.S. political deadlock.  Without an increase in the debt ceiling, the government
will exhaust its borrowing authority on Oct. 17, according to
the Treasury Department.  The House proposal for a debt-limit increase through Nov.
22 would require Obama to accept policy conditions attached to a
separate spending measure, said two congressional aides. Obama
has insisted that he won’t accept conditions for ending the
shutdown, which began Oct. 1. House Republicans are scheduled to
meet today to discuss their plans.  Senate Plan  Senate Republicans are considering a plan that would pair
provisions to raise the debt ceiling and end the shutdown with a
repeal of a medical-device tax. It would change pension rules to
offset the lost revenue from the tax.  Obama nominated Fed Vice Chairman Yellen on Oct. 9 to
succeed Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , whose term ends Jan. 31.
She must be confirmed by the Senate.  Central-bank policy makers unexpectedly refrained last
month from slowing $85 billion in monthly bond purchases under
the quantitative-easing stimulus strategy, saying they wanted
more evidence of an economic recovery.  The closing of government services deemed nonessential,
which has stopped data releases including reports on employment,
retail sales and factory orders, fueled speculation the start of
bond-purchase tapering may be delayed longer.  The Beige Book release next week precedes policy makers’
next meeting, scheduled Oct. 29-30.  Disappointing Data  Sterling declined for a second week versus the dollar and
euro after British  industrial production  unexpectedly shrank by
1.1 percent in August. It gained 0.1 percent in the previous
month. Economists in a Bloomberg News survey forecast an
increase of 0.4 percent.  There was a “sense of disappointment” in the data, which
“weighed on the pound,”  Lee Hardman , a currency strategist at
Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. in  London , said in an Oct. 9
phone interview. “The pace of economic recovery in the U.K. may
prove slightly less robust than anticipated.”  Sterling also weakened after a report yesterday showed U.K.
construction slipped 0.1 percent in August. Economists in a
Bloomberg survey estimated a 0.8 percent increase.  The pound depreciated 0.3 percent to $1.5957, falling to as
low as $1.5914, its weakest level since Sept. 18. Sterling
declined 0.3 percent to 84.10 pence per euro.  Sweden’s krona slid versus most major peers as a report
showed headline inflation in the country unexpectedly held at
0.1 percent last month, after a Bloomberg survey of economists
forecast faster price growth.  The report was “surely dovish and supports recent comments
from both politicians and Norges Bank that rate hikes are
unwanted,” analysts at Skandinaviska Enskilda Banken AB wrote
in an Oct. 11 client note.  The Swedish currency lost 0.6 percent to 8.7702 per euro
after sliding on Oct. 10 to 8.8256, its weakest level since June
25. The krona slid 0.8 percent to 6.4761 per dollar.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  