-- Draghi Says ECB Takes ’Dim View’ of Pressure on Cyprus Governor
-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 2013-10-12T19:31:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-12/draghi-says-ecb-takes-dim-view-of-pressure-on-cyprus-governor.html
European Central Bank President
 Mario Draghi  said he disapproves of any attempt to put pressure
on the governor of the Central Bank of Cyprus.  “We would have a dim view of any attempt to constrain or
threaten or to undermine the independence of the central bank,”
Draghi said at a press conference today in Washington.  Since Cyprus became the fifth euro-area country to receive
an international rescue in March this year, a war of words
between Cypriot President Nicos Anastasiades and central bank
governor Panicos Demetriades has escalated. The president said
last month he may ask the country’s supreme court to remove the
governor from his post for not doing a good enough job.  “I have to say that I’m examining and documenting all the
things that make up his shortcomings or lack of adequacy in the
execution of his responsibilities,” Anastasiades said in an
interview on Mega TV on Sept. 18.  On Sept. 24, European Union Economic and Monetary Affairs
Commissioner  Olli Rehn  wrote to Cypriot Finance Minister Haris Georgiades, saying statements against Demetriades may breach EU
law.  “Public announcements of this nature risk being seen as an
attempt to influence the central bank and the governor in
relation to the performance of their tasks,” the letter,
provided to  Bloomberg News , said. “This practice could be seen
to breach the prohibition on seeking to influence the members of
decision-making bodies as laid down in Article 130 of the
Treaty.”  Central Banks  The EU’s primary legal document outlaws government
interference in central bank affairs. On Oct. 9 the ECB
criticized the repeal of legislation previously adopted by
Hungary’s financial supervisor on the grounds that it affects
central bank independence.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Black in  Washington  at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  