-- Germany Sees Global Risk Shift to Emerging Economies
-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n   a n d   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 2013-10-12T22:41:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-12/germany-sees-global-risk-shift-to-emerging-economies.html
Germany ’s top finance officials said
risks to global growth are shifting away from  Europe  and toward
emerging economies, while they expressed confidence that U.S.
policy makers will overcome their divide over the budget.  The euro region has left its recession behind and is no
longer at the center of attention of crisis-fixing efforts,
Bundesbank President Jens Weidmann told reporters in  Washington 
yesterday. Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble , after holding
talks with his U.S. counterpart Jacob J. Lew, said he hopes that
the budget standoff in the U.S. will be solved in coming days.  “We’re no longer the main worry for the world economy, at
least not in the short run,” Schaeuble said after the annual
meetings of the  International Monetary Fund  and the  World Bank .
“Risks have shifted somewhat in the direction of emerging
countries, where growth has slowed.”  Emerging market bonds and currencies fell earlier this year
as U.S. Federal Reserve officials signaled they may soon start
to taper their $85 billion asset-purchase program. The IMF’s
steering committee yesterday said volatility in capital flows
and financial markets has created “new challenges” for some
emerging market economies.  “There’s been a broad consensus here in deliberations that
we have to look more closely at the interests and problems of
the emerging countries because at the moment they represent a
bigger potential risk,” Schaeuble said.  The IMF cut its global growth forecast for this year and
next last week and predicted developing economies will grow 4.5
percent in 2013, compared with a July prediction of 5 percent.
Emerging-market stocks fell the most in a week Oct. 11.  Banking Union  Weidmann said the interest in Europe during the meetings
centered mostly on institutional changes, especially progress on
building the region’s banking union, the conduct of asset
quality checks and stress tests for lenders, as well as the
removal of “legacy burdens” in the banking sector that has to
be completed before supervision by the  European Central Bank  can
start.  Schaeuble on Oct. 11 repeated the German government’s
stance that the European Commission’s bank resolution proposal
is on shaky legal ground and could endanger national control of
budgets. European Union finance ministers will have another
chance to discuss the plan next week in Luxembourg.  “We will continue work on the Single Resolution
Mechanism,” Schaeuble told reporters Oct. 11, noting that IMF
proposals for institutional changes in Europe sometimes lack
knowledge of the union’s treaty foundations. “We need an agency
solution on the basis of Article 114, with cooperation between
national institutions. There won’t be a European backstop, but
national backstops.”  Next Government  Schaeuble has said the next German government, probably led
by  Chancellor Angela Merkel  for a third time, won’t stray from
the path of reforms in the EU, suggesting there’ll be continuity
in Germany’s Europe policies irrespective of whether Merkel will
rule with the  Social Democrats  or the Greens.  Merkel’s bloc will meet SPD negotiators on Oct. 14 and will
convene again with the Greens on Oct. 15, CDU Secretary General
Hermann Groehe said. Schaeuble said yesterday the new government
could be ready by mid-November, which contrasts with concerns
among some negotiators that talks could drag on until the start
of 2014.  In the U.S., Senate Republicans yesterday blocked
Democrats’ plan to suspend the debt ceiling through 2014. Talks
between  House Republicans  and President  Barack Obama  faltered.
 Senate Democrats  rejected a proposal from Republican Senator
 Susan Collins  of Maine that had gained momentum in the past day.  “Everybody is aware of the dimension of this problem and
we’re confident that both political sides will be able as in the
past to agree on a solution,” Weidmann said of the risks of U.S.
default. Schaeuble said “there must” be an agreement because
there’s no alternative.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rainer Buergin in Washington at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Black in Washington at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  