-- IMF Says It’s Ready to Help Nations Handle Capital Flows
-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 2013-10-12T20:08:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-12/imf-says-it-s-ready-to-help-nations-handle-capital-flows.html
The  International Monetary Fund  said
it’s ready to provide aid to  emerging markets  facing capital
flow volatility, touting precautionary funding that helped
Mexico weather the global financial crisis of 2008-2009.  The IMF “is prepared to deploy its resources when
requested to support its members, including in conjunction with
regional financing arrangements,” the fund said in a twice-yearly  report  listing the main challenges for its member
countries.  “Experience has shown -- for instance in the case of
Mexico -- the benefits of timely mobilization of precautionary
resources in times of heightened market volatility and
uncertainty,” the fund said in the report.  The IMF and the  World Bank  this week urged nations from
Turkey to Indonesia to strengthen their economies in preparation
for the tapering of the  Federal Reserve ’s $85 billion-a-month
asset-purchase program.  Bond prices slumped internationally and emerging-market
stocks plunged after May 22, when Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke 
said for the first time the Fed could withdraw stimulus. While
those market movements were partly reversed after the Fed
maintained its policy last month, developing countries only have
two to three months to prepare themselves, World Bank President
Jim Yong Kim said on Oct. 10.  Mexico first sought IMF support in 2009 to bolster market
confidence in its economy as the country sank into its deepest
recession since the 1930s. Two other nations, Colombia and
Poland, also established precautionary arrangements with the IMF
under its new flexible-credit line, which is reserved for
countries pursuing what the Washington-based lender considers
strong economic policies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  