-- IMF Relaxes Jordan Program Targets Amid Syrian Refugees
-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e
-- 2013-10-12T23:04:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-12/imf-relaxes-jordan-program-targets-amid-syrian-refugees.html
The flood of Syrian refugees into
Jordan has prompted the  International Monetary Fund  to relax
some of the targets linked to a $2 billion loan program to the
Arab kingdom, a fund official said.  The IMF agreed to cut one percentage point from next year’s
target for the central government’s deficit combined with losses
of the national electricity company, originally set at 7.2
percent of economic output, said Kristina Kostial, the fund’s
Jordan mission chief yesterday. She spoke after Jordan and the
IMF reached a staff-level agreement that would pave the way for
the third tranche of the loan program, or about $258 million.  While the government will continue to raise electricity
tariffs next year, the increases “are less ambitious than we
had envisaged in the program, so we are relaxing that,” Kostial
told reporters in a briefing in  Washington .  Jordan’s economy, the smallest in the  Middle East  after
Bahrain, has been hurt by the burden of hosting hundreds of
thousands of refugees fleeing the civil war in neighboring
 Syria . The government sought IMF assistance after repeated
disruptions of natural gas supplies from  Egypt  and a slowdown in
economic growth hurt public finances. Jordan depends on imports
to meet almost all of its energy needs.  As part of the program, the government started to lift
energy subsidies. Aid from the six-nation Gulf Cooperation
Council, which includes  Saudi Arabia  and Kuwait, has helped
boost foreign-currency reserves to $10.7 billion.  U.S. Guarantees  Jordan’s gross domestic product expanded 2.8 percent in the
first half of this year and is set to accelerate between 3
percent and 3.5 percent through the end of 2014, the IMF  said .  The yield on Jordan’s $750 million bonds due in 2015 has
plunged about 1 percentage point this year to 3.97 percent on
Oct. 11, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The kingdom hired  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , Citigroup Inc. and
 HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  to manage the sale of $1.25 billion in U.S.-
guaranteed Eurobonds. The sale has been delayed because of the
U.S. budget impasse, Kostial said.  “This is the only thing which is holding this off,
otherwise this could have happened already,” she said.
Jordanian and American officials have discussed the possibility
of a second U.S. guarantee next year. “We think it’s a great
idea,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  