-- Jerry Brown Vetoes Tighter California Controls on Assault Rifles
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 2013-10-12T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-12/jerry-brown-vetoes-tighter-california-controls-on-assault-rifles.html
California’s gun-control laws won’t
be expanded to prohibit the types of rifles used in two of last
year’s mass shootings, Governor  Jerry Brown  said.  Brown, a 75-year-old Democrat and a gun owner himself,
vetoed a bill to ban the sale of semiautomatic rifles with
detachable magazines, saying it encroached on citizens’ rights.
At the same time, he signed a bill blocking the sale of adapters
giving the weapons greater ammunition capacity, and approved the
nation’s first ban on lead bullets.  The rifle bill “rifles that are commonly used for hunting,
firearms training and marksmanship practice, as well as some
historical and collectible firearms,” Brown said yesterday in a
 statement  explaining his veto. “I don’t believe this bill’s
blanket ban on semiautomatic rifles would reduce criminal
activity or enhance public safety enough to warrant this
infringement of gun owners’ rights.”  California lawmakers passed the measures in the wake of
mass shootings in a Newtown,  Connecticut , school that killed 20
children and six educators, and in an Aurora,  Colorado , movie
theater where 12 died. The massacres prompted lawmakers in
Colorado,  New York , Connecticut and  Maryland  to pass stricter
gun laws, even as a push for federal measures stalled in
Congress.  The  National Rifle Association , the nation’s biggest gun
lobby, said it would challenge the constitutionality of a
California rifle limit, according to a posting Oct. 1 on the
 website  of the Fairfax, Virginia-based NRA Institute for
Legislative Action.  The bill’s author, Senate President Pro Tem Darrell Steinberg, a Sacramento Democrat, chided Brown for blocking the
measure.  ‘Too Far’  “The governor said he believes this measure to ban semi-automatic rifles with detachable magazines goes too far,”
Steinberg said in a statement. “Aggressive action is precisely
what’s needed to reduce the carnage in our communities, and to
counter the equally aggressive action by the gun industry.”  Brown also vetoed a bill to allow the city of Oakland,
where he was mayor for two terms, to establish gun registration
and licensing programs more restrictive than the state’s.
Oakland officials sought the law to help combat a growing number
of gun-related crimes in the city of 400,000.  The governor signed a bill making  California  the first
state in the U.S. to prohibit the use of lead ammunition for
hunting, to curb the threat of poisoning to people and wildlife.
Brown signed the ban only after it was amended to make it less
restrictive to hunters. Critics say he ban will hurt hunting.  Conservation Standing  “I am concerned, however, the impression left from this
bill is that hunters and sportsmen and women in California are
not conservationist,” he said in a statement. “Since 1930,
hunters have done more than any other community to conserve
species and their habitats and this is a lasting conservation
legacy.”  The National Shooting Sports Foundation, a trade
association based in Newtown, said it was dismayed that Brown
banned lead bullets, though it was pleased with his veto of the
semiautomatic rifle bill.  “Many types of rifles with detachable magazines were at
risk of being banned,” Lawrence Keane, senior vice president of
the foundation, said in a statement. “We appreciate the
governor’s action to prevent thousands of lawful gun owners from
being labeled as criminals,”  The lead-bullet law “amounts to a virtual ban on hunting
because the federal government considers most types of non-lead
ammunition to be ‘armor piercing’” and limits its manufacture
and sale, Keene said. “Many types of standard hunting long
rifles are not compatible with alternative metal ammunition or
will require significant modification.”  The law authorizes California’s Fish and Wildlife director
to suspend the ban if the federal government prohibits non-lead
ammunition because of its armor-piercing aspect.  California passed the nation’s first ban on some
semiautomatic rifles in 1989 after a gunman with an AK-47
sprayed an elementary school in Stockton, killing five children
and wounding 29.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael B. Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  