-- JPMorgan’s Dimon Joins Jain Warning U.S. Against Default
-- B y   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n
-- 2013-10-12T19:14:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-12/jpmorgan-s-dimon-joins-jain-warning-u-s-against-default.html
Lawmakers shouldn’t risk a default
on  U.S. debt  because the impact would be devastating and the
full extent of the damage isn’t knowable in advance, said the
heads of  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and Deutsche Bank AG.  “The United States cannot default and, in my opinion, will
not default,” JPMorgan Chief Executive Officer Jamie Dimon said
today during a panel discussion at a financial industry
conference in  Washington . “It would ripple through the global
economy in a way you couldn’t possibly understand.”  The economy has been gaining strength and a default now
could reverse that progress, Dimon said. “Please, let’s not
shoot ourselves in the foot,” he said. Deutsche Bank co-CEO
Anshu Jain called the prospect of even a small default “utterly
catastrophic.”  The CEOs spoke while U.S. lawmakers struggled without
success to reach an agreement that would avert default and end
the 12-day government shutdown. The Senate rejected a Democratic
plan to push the debt-limit fight into 2015. The U.S. might not
be able to pay all its bills as early as Oct. 17.  “There isn’t life beyond default,” Jain said during the
panel discussion with Dimon. “This would be a very rapidly
spreading, fatal disease.” The potential consequences are so
unfathomable that Jain said he couldn’t offer the audience any
meaningful recommendations on how to react.  Financial Foundations  “Europe was paralyzed at the possibility of an Italian
default, which was a 2 trillion Euro economy,” Jain said,
referring to the continent’s debt crisis. A U.S. default would
be far worse with incurable legal problems, he said. “You’re
now talking about the underpinnings of finance,” Jain said.  JPMorgan is the largest U.S. bank by assets and based in
 New York . Deutsche Bank, based in Frankfurt, is the biggest in
 Germany .  “The consequences of it would be absolutely disastrous,
considering the role of the  U.S. dollar ,” said  Baudouin Prot ,
chairman of Paris-based BNP Paribas SA, at today’s event. “I
don’t believe for one second that this scenario will occur.”  Even as default looms, Jain said the dollar’s status as the
world’s reserve currency is here to stay.  “There’s no alternative,” and there won’t be one for at
least decade, he said. Jain said he would have liked to have
seen the euro occupy more of that role. “The European crisis
over the last two or three years has set that back,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Hamilton in Washington at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
 Christine Harper  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net  