-- Kerry Extends Afghan Trip in Bid to Reach Security Accord
-- B y   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n   a n d   E l t a f   A s e f y   N a j a f i z a d a
-- 2013-10-12T14:42:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-12/kerry-extends-afghan-trip-in-bid-to-reach-security-accord.html
U.S. Secretary of State  John Kerry 
extended his trip to Afghanistan to hold a late-night round of
talks with President  Hamid Karzai  as they neared an agreement to
keep some American troops in the war-torn country after 2014.  The two leaders have held two rounds of talks since Kerry
arrived in Kabul yesterday on a visit that wasn’t announced in
advance for security reasons. President  Barack Obama  had set an
Oct. 31 deadline to reach an agreement that would keep a limited
U.S. military force in Afghanistan for training and
counterterrorism operations after next year, when combat troops
are set to be withdrawn.  “We’re going to see if we can make a little more progress,
which is what we’ve been trying to do all day long,” Kerry told
staff at the U.S. Embassy in Kabul during a break in the
meetings before dinner. “If this thing can come together, this
will put the Taliban on their heels.”  The pact would help ensure stability as  Afghanistan  moves
toward providing its own security more than a decade after the
U.S. invaded to oust the Taliban regime that had provided a
haven for al-Qaeda leader Osama bin Laden as he helped plan the
Sept. 11, 2001 attacks on the U.S.  A secure environment is key for Afghan leaders to attract
aid from donors after the U.S. and North Atlantic Treaty
Organization withdraw combat forces. Aid accounts for more than
95 percent of the country’s gross domestic product, according to
the  Congressional Research Service .  Karzai Hopeful  Karzai hopes to reach a conclusion after the third round of
talks in Kabul tonight, Aimal Faizi, his chief spokesman, told
reporters at the Afghan Presidential Palace. Outstanding issues
include measures to prevent civilian casualties by any NATO
forces that may remain, U.S. protection for Afghanistan if
another country attacks and jurisdiction over American troops
who may commit crimes in Afghanistan, he said.  “I cannot go into details because the negotiations are
still going on some very critical and important details,” Faizi
said. “Therefore, we had better wait.”  Kerry sees an opening for further progress on issues such
as security and sovereignty, and wants to leave Kabul with as
many issues resolved as possible, according to a State
Department official, who asked not to be identified because the
talks were private. Kerry and Karzai met one-on-one for the last
30 minutes of talks that went on for more than three hours so
far today, the official said. It’s unclear how long Kerry will
stay in Afghanistan.  Loya Jirga  Karzai said this week that any agreement must be approved
by a Loya Jirga, a traditional gathering that brings together
provincial and ethnic representatives. The meeting, which some
Afghan lawmakers oppose because they say it undermines elected
representatives, will take place next month in Kabul, he said.  “If our national sovereignty is not respected, and the
people of Afghanistan do not feel safe, then the agreement is
meaningless,” Karzai said in a statement on Oct. 8.  Obama is willing to have U.S. troops conduct
counterterrorism operations against al-Qaeda and provide
training and assistance for Afghan security forces after 2014 if
a deal legally safeguards American forces. The failure of
similar talks with  Iraq , which broke down on the issue of legal
immunity for U.S. troops, led to a total withdrawal of American
forces in 2011 that has been followed by growing al-Qaeda
attacks and sectarian violence.  The U.S. now has about 52,000 troops in Afghanistan, down
14,000 in the past six months under a plan to reach 34,000 by
February and to have forces out by the end of 2014. Obama, whose
priority has been to end major U.S. military commitments in Iraq
and Afghanistan after more than a decade, hasn’t set a force
level under a post-2014 accord.  Leader Captured  The agreement is particularly important for Afghanistan to
assure continued international financial support and signal to
neighbors that it’s wise to back the government instead of
hedging their bets by supporting insurgents, according to
Shahmahmood Miakhel, Afghan country director for the Washington-based United States Institute for Peace.  Sticking points in the negotiations have included U.S.
counterterrorism operations in Afghanistan and a security
guarantee for the nation against  Pakistan , its nuclear-armed
neighbor from which militants conduct cross-border attacks.  The U.S.’s seizure of Latif Mehsud, a top leader of the
Pakistani Taliban, dealt a blow to Karzai’s efforts to hold
talks with the insurgent group, Mohammad Ismail Qasimyar, a
senior official of the council formed by Karzai in 2011 to
facilitate talks with militants, said by phone today.  Taliban Talks  U.S. forces last week captured Mehsud in Afghanistan’s
eastern Logar province while he drove on a main highway that
connects with Kabul, Arsala Jamal, the province’s governor, said
by phone today.  Marie Harf, a State Department spokeswoman, confirmed to
reporters in Washington D.C. yesterday that U.S. military forces
had captured Mehsud, a senior commander of the Tehrik-e Taliban
Pakistan, which she said claimed responsibility for an attempted
bombing of Times Square in 2010 and attacks on U.S. diplomats in
Pakistan.  Karzai has attempted to hold peace talks with the Taliban
in a bid to convince the group to join the political process
before elections next year. The group has vowed to disrupt the
vote to pick the successor to Karzai, who can’t stand again due
to term limits.  Civilian casualties from Afghanistan’s conflict with
Taliban guerrillas jumped by almost a quarter in the first half
of this year, according to the  United Nations .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in Kabul, Afghanistan at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net ;
Eltaf Asefy Najafizada in Mazar at 
 enajafizada1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Ten Kate at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net  