-- Kim Gets Nod From Countries for World Bank Cost Cutting
-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 2013-10-12T23:09:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-12/kim-gets-nod-from-countries-for-world-bank-cost-cutting.html
The  World Bank ’s 188 member
countries endorsed a strategy that President Jim Yong Kim says
should enable the lender to better respond to clients’ needs and
reduce poverty while cutting costs.  “For the first time in the history of our organization, we
have a strategy that leverages the strengths of our entire
organization,” Kim told reporters in Washington today. “We
will make decisions that allow us to be more selective and to
choose more transformative projects that help countries and
regions reach their priorities.”  The strategy calls for more investment in countries deemed
“fragile” because they are emerging from conflicts or are
still mired in one, Kim said. The bank will also focus on
mitigating  climate change  and improving health and education,
especially for women.  Kim, who took over the bank’s helm in July 2012, has
pledged to transform an institution he said has grown too
fragmented, cautious and self-absorbed to accomplish its
mission. The backing of his shareholders now gives him leeway to
change the lender’s financial model and to cut costs, after he
shook up management and overhauled the bank’s structure.  Kim said in an interview earlier this week that he will
reduce the lender’s annual budget by $400 million over three
years, including through job cuts.  Tough Choices  “For too long, the World Bank itself has not followed its
own advice,” Kim told finance officials in  Washington 
yesterday. “We have often postponed tough choices. That’s
changing. We are taking our own medicine.”  The World Bank was established after World War II to
rebuild  Europe  and is now focused on assisting  developing
countries . Under Kim, it is now pursuing two goals: lowering the
share of people living on less than $1.25 a day to 3 percent in
2030 -- from 21 percent in 2010 -- and boosting the income of
the poorest 40 percent of the world’s population.  “While we believe the strategy is an important milestone
and we welcome Jim Kim’s vision and commitment, we remain
dismayed that the members of the World Bank did not push for
more meaningful action on inequality,” Nicolas Mombrial, who
heads the Washington office of charity group Oxfam, said in an
e-mail.  Kim, a doctor by training who previously was president of
 Dartmouth College , said today the bank will aim to cut by a
third over two years the average time between the conception and
the delivery of a loan.  That’s welcome, Ivory Coast Prime Minister Daniel Kablan Duncan said earlier today.  “It’s brave on their part to look things in the eye,” he
said, adding that borrowing from the lender can be a “weighty”
process at times.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  