-- Mobius Says Rosneft’s Minority Buyout Offer Needs to Be Higher
-- B y   J a s o n   C o r c o r a n
-- 2013-10-12T12:46:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-12/mobius-says-rosneft-s-minority-buyout-offer-needs-to-be-higher.html
Mark Mobius , chairman of Templeton
 Emerging Markets  Group, said OAO Rosneft’s offer to buyout
minority shareholders in OAO RN Holding needs to be higher than
67 rubles ($2.07) a share.  Investors including Templeton, Allianz Investments and
Prosperity Capital want a higher price from state oil company
Rosneft for shares in RN Holding, previously known as TNK-BP
Holding. Rosneft acquired RN, which had been TNK-BP’s publicly
traded unit, when it paid $55 billion for Russia’s third-largest
oil producer earlier this year.  “It certainly needs to be more than 67 rubles,” Mobius,
whose group manages $53 billion, said in an e-mail from  Greece .
“Of course a compromise is eminently possible since no specific
price has been put forward other than that.”  Sberbank CIB analysts said Rosneft’s 67-ruble offer, made
on Sept. 30, was “disappointing” for investors as they
estimated Rosneft paid $3.70 a share, to London-based  BP Plc (BP/)  and
a group of Russian billionaires as part of the TNK-BP deal.  Shares in RN Holding jumped as much as 18 percent on Sept.
27 after Rosneft Chief Executive Officer  Igor Sechin  said his
company may buy out minority shareholders at a premium. Until
then, Sechin had resisted minority investors’ demands, saying at
Rosneft’s annual general meeting in April that Rosneft was “not
a charity fund.”  Templeton may increase its Russian exposure, which
represents 2 percent of emerging-market assets, if corporate
governance improves, Mobius said  “A satisfactory outcome of the TNK-BP case would give a
very big boost to our confidence and thus encourage us to
increase our weighting in Russia,” he said. “With more
confidence and better corporate governance it could double,
triple or go higher since currently in terms of numbers Russia
is one of the cheapest markets in the emerging markets world.”  China  represents about 20 percent of Templeton’s emerging
market assets, while Brazil and India are “much more” than
Russia, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Corcoran in Moscow at 
 jcorcoran13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  