-- Peugeot May Sell 3 Billion Euros of New Stock, Reuters Reports
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-10-12T07:08:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-12/peugeot-may-sell-3-billion-euros-of-new-stock-reuters-reports.html
PSA Peugeot Citroen (UG)  is preparing to
sell 3 billion euros ($4.1 billion) of new stock, with  China ’s
 Dongfeng (489)  Motor Co. and the French government buying matching
stakes in the carmaker,  Reuters  reported today, citing three
unidentified people.  A delegation of French company executives, government
officials and bankers is traveling to China for talks with
Dongfeng and may sign an outline for the deal within weeks,
Reuters said. Dongfeng and the French government would each
invest 1.5 billion euros and acquire 20 to 30 percent of the
automaker, Reuters said.  Peugeot, Europe’s second-biggest carmaker, already has a
joint venture with Dongfeng and is considering selling a stake
to the Chinese manufacturer to raise cash for expansion outside
its home continent, people familiar with the matter said last
month. The sale could cost the Peugeot family, which currently
owns a stake of 25.5 percent, control of the automaker, the
people said.  Peugeot “is examining new industrial and commercial
development projects with different partners, including the
financial implications that would accompany them,” Jean-Baptiste Thomas, a Peugeot spokesman, said Oct. 9. “None of
these projects has reached maturity at this stage,” he said.
The two automakers said last month that they are talking about
deepening their partnership.  A spokesman for Dongfeng declined to comment today when
reached by phone. Jean-Baptiste Mounier, a Paris-based spokesman
for Peugeot, didn’t immediately reply to an e-mailed request for
comment.  The French carmaker, which is expecting to burn through
about 1.5 billion euros in cash this year amid losses in  Europe ,
has four factories in China. The first three, under the venture
with Dongfeng, are in Wuhan, capital of the central province of
Hubei. The French car company last month inaugurated its fourth
Chinese plant, part of a joint venture with Chang’An Automobile
Group, in the southern city of Shenzhen.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Tian Ying in Beijing at 
 ytian@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stanley James at 
 sjames8@bloomberg.net  