-- HSBC, BEA Win Approval for Outlet in Shanghai Trade Zone
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-10-12T11:11:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-12/hsbc-bea-win-approval-for-outlet-in-shanghai-trade-zone.html
HSBC Holdings Plc (5)  and  Bank of East
Asia Ltd.  won approval to set up a sub-branch in Shanghai’s
free-trade zone as China seeks to create a more efficient and
open economic system through the 11-square-mile experiment.  HSBC’s outlet in the Shanghai zone will start operations by
early next year, Europe’s largest lender said in an e-mailed
statement today. Regulators approved Bank of East Asia’s
application to open a sub-branch in the zone, Hong Kong’s
largest family-run lender said in an e-mailed statement today.  The two banks joined competitors including Citigroup Inc.,
Bank of China Ltd. and DBS Bank Ltd. in having a presence in the
zone where Chinese authorities have pledged to test out
important financial policies such as trial convertibility of the
 yuan  under the capital account.  Policy makers will allow “interest-rate liberalization,
and cross-border use of the currency, as long as the risk is
controlled,” according to a government  statement  last month.  China inaugurated the free-trade zone in Shanghai last
month, echoing moves by paramount leader  Deng Xiaoping  in the
late 1970s, when he set in motion the Shenzhen Special Economic
Zone. That allowed foreign investors to set up factories that
employed workers to make shoes, toys and electronics for export.
Policies tested there were later spread nationwide, sparking a
more than 97-fold expansion of  China’s economy .  HSBC’s sub-branch will focus on offering international
services for corporate clients in the zone at the initial state,
according to today’s statement. Bank of  East Asia  didn’t say
when it expects the sub-branch will be opened.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Aipeng Soo in Beijing at 
 asoo4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stanley James at 
 sjames8@bloomberg.net  