-- State Funding to Reopen Statue of Liberty, Grand Canyon
-- B y   A l i s o n   V e k s h i n
-- 2013-10-12T04:00:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-12/state-funding-to-reopen-statue-of-liberty-grand-canyon.html
New York ’s Statue of Liberty and the
Grand Canyon in  Arizona  will reopen using state and local funds
to resume operations shuttered by a federal shutdown that has
included the closing of national parks.  Liberty Island National Park off  Manhattan  will rely on
$61,600 a day in state funds to reopen, Governor  Andrew Cuomo 
said yesterday. Grand Canyon National Park will get $93,000
daily in state and local financing, Governor Jan Brewer said.  Both will be open for the Columbus Day holiday weekend.  “As the shutdown continues, we cannot afford to lose the
thousands of visits to the park each day,” Cuomo, a Democrat,
said in a statement. “So while the dysfunction and gridlock in
 Washington , D.C., has failed to keep this important state asset
open, New York is stepping up to take over this
responsibility.”  The federal government shutdown that began Oct. 1 closed
national parks and monuments across the country, strangling
state tourism business. Direct spending by travelers was $57.3
billion in  New York  last year and $19.3 billion in  Arizona ,
according to state reports, far exceeding the state costs to
temporarily keep their attractions open.  Similar state deals were being worked out to reopen Mount
Rushmore in South Dakota, Zion National Park in  Utah  and Rocky
Mountain National Park in Colorado, the  Associated Press 
reported.  “Arizona is doing what it can to keep the Grand Canyon up
and running, but we cannot pay the federal government’s tab for
long,” Brewer, a Republican, said in a statement.  Rafting Cancellations  The Grand Canyon’s closing devastated small businesses
owners that depend on it for their livelihood. Six rafting
companies that had to cancel trips were expected to lose almost
$1 million in the final few weeks of the 2013 rafting season,
said  John Dillon , executive director of the Grand Canyon River
Outfitters Association in Flagstaff.  Hotels in Tusayan, the three-year-old town at the park’s
South Rim entrance, have been close to empty; ordinarily, they
would be almost full at this time of year. Some residents
protested the Grand Canyon’s closure, and city leaders voted
last week to help pay to reopen the park if they could.  -- With assistance from Amanda Crawford in Phoenix. Editors:
Pete Young, Don Frederick  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alison Vekshin in San Francisco at 
 avekshin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman in New York at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net . 