-- Vineyards Spread as Climate Warms, Wine Author Robinson Says
-- B y   G u y   C o l l i n s
-- 2013-10-12T16:22:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-12/vineyards-spread-as-climate-warms-wine-author-robinson-says.html
Vineyards are spreading in regions
including China and northern  Europe  as rising global
temperatures permit grapes to ripen in more marginal areas and
demand spreads to new markets, wine author Jancis Robinson said.  “Pretty much anywhere that can grow vines is now,”
Robinson said in an interview with Anna Edwards and  Mark Barton 
on Bloomberg Television’s “Countdown” yesterday. “It’s become
a kind of rich man’s dream.”  Robinson, co-author with  Hugh Johnson  of the new seventh
edition of the World Atlas of Wine, said the geography of the
wine industry has evolved significantly in the six years since
the last edition of the book. Higher temperatures in northern
Europe are driving the sparkling-wine industry in southern
 England  and allowing German vintners to produce riper grapes,
while demand in China is encouraging more local vineyards.  “The shape of the wine world has changed,” Robinson said.
“Vineyards are going polewards. Even Scandinavia now has the
odd vineyard, and of course  Asia  is huge, so much bigger.
 China ’s now a very important player as a consumer and a
producer.”  While longer-term trends are highlighting the spread of
vines into less traditional areas, as shown in the atlas
published by Mitchell Beazley, seasonal fluctuations still
affect annual crop sizes.  Chinese Demand  In March this year the International Organisation of Vine
and Wine, or OIV, released figures showing world wine production
dropped 6 percent in 2012, reflecting smaller grape crops in
France, Spain and Argentina. At the same time it said world wine
consumption rose 0.6 percent.  While demand from China helped drive plantings and prices
in recent years, encouraging Bordeaux wine producers to seek
sales in the region, some of that momentum has now slowed.  “The Bordelais in particular courted the Chinese market,”
Robinson said. “Although prices shot up, helped a bit by this
influx of capital from China, the market’s stagnated a bit
recently.”  As Chinese buyers saw “investments weren’t gaining in
value as fast as they’d been told they would, they’ve come out
of the market a bit now,” she said.  Changing consumer perceptions of wine are helping spur
demand in some regions including parts of  Latin America  where
other drinks including beer are more traditional, Robinson said.  “ Mexico  now has a bit of a wine culture, whereas it was a
beer-drinking country and still is substantially,” Robinson
said. Demand is evolving in “all sorts of unexpected places.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Guy Collins in London at 
 guycollins@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: 