-- ZTE Seeks to Become Global Top Three Handset Company by 2016
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-10-12T16:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-12/zte-plans-to-become-global-top-three-handset-company-by-2016.html
ZTE Corp. (000063) , the third-largest
smartphone vendor in  China , plans to be in world’s top three
handset companies in three years as it increases investment in
products, branding and distribution channels, Executive Vice
President He Shiyou said.  ZTE, which became one of the world’s top 10 smartphone
vendors by selling handsets for less than $100, is looking to
costlier devices for  sales  growth. The company plans to get 60
percent of total income from mid-and high-end phones, priced at
more than 1,500 yuan ($245), within three years, He said in an
interview in Taipei yesterday.  In its China home base, the company is set to benefit as
the introduction of fourth-generation wireless service in the
world’s biggest smartphone market lifts sales of top-end
handsets. In the U.S., ZTE this month became a sponsor of
basketball’s  Houston Rockets  to boost the Chinese business’s
profile as it sells two new high-end devices there.  “The Rockets partnership is expected to raise ZTE’s U.S.
and global brand awareness,” He said ahead of a media event
scheduled to coincide with a Taipei exhibition game between the
Rockets and Indiana Pacers today. “The U.S. market is top
priority and expected to be biggest market for ZTE cellphones in
two years.”  Sixty-five percent of ZTE’s cellphone revenue comes from
overseas markets, according to He. The Shenzhen-based company
targets 30 percent growth in global handset sales and shipments
next year, with the U.S. outperforming, He said. ZTE ranks as
the fourth-largest smartphone manufacturer in the U.S., he said.  4G Boost  China Mobile Ltd. (941) , the world’s largest phone company by
users, is conducting a trial of 4G service this year that will
reach 100 cities covering a population of 500 million people,
the carrier said in February. Licenses for commercial 4G service
may be issued by the end of this year, the Beijing-based company
said in March.  The start of 4G service will boost smartphone shipments in
China 25 percent to 450 million devices next year, from 360
million this year, International Data Corp. forecast last month.
China smartphone shipments next year will include 120 million 4G
units, according to IDC.  ZTE last month said its Grand Memo handset was approved by
the Ministry of Industry and  Information Technology  to run on
4G, the first to receive such regulatory approval in China.  Fourth-generation will account for 20 percent of ZTE’s
global smartphone sales this year, growing to as much as 40
percent in 2014, He said yesterday. In China, 70 percent of
cellphones will still use 3G in 2014 as it takes time to develop
the service, he said.  ZTE forecasts a return to profit in the third quarter,
compared with a loss of 1.95 billion  yuan  a year earlier, as it
is on track to sell 45 million to 50 million smartphones this
year, He said.  Rockets Sponsorship  In the U.S. market, handset  revenue  will climb to $1.6
billion this year from $1 billion in 2012, the company said last
month. It’s still on track to reach that goal, He said
yesterday. ZTE will release the Grand S and Nubia smartphones in
the U.S. this month priced at about $450, it said Sept. 24.  To help promote sales of those devices, ZTE reached an
agreement to make it the official smartphone of the Houston
Rockets for the 2013-14 National Basketball Association season,
the company said Oct. 5. The Rockets’ sponsorship is the
company’s largest investment in branding, according to He, who
declined to give figures, citing confidentiality agreements.  The sponsorship will raise brand awareness in the U.S.
while also helping ZTE at home, where the Rockets are well known
as the former team of Chinese basketball star  Yao Ming , and
current home to Jeremy Lin, the first Chinese-American to play
in the league.  TCL, Huawei  The ZTE sponsorship is the latest in a growing trend by
Chinese handset makers looking to raise awareness in foreign
markets. TCL Corp. in January sealed a deal to rename Grauman’s
Chinese Theater in  Los Angeles  as TCL Chinese Theater, buying
naming rights for the cultural landmark along the Hollywood Walk
of Fame. Huawei Technologies Co. in March 2012 signed a
sponsorship deal with the Canberra Raiders rugby league team in
 Australia ’s national capital.  ZTE’s sponsorship of the Rockets builds on an existing
relationship in which the company is a NBA league sponsor for
the China market. ZTE followed the lead of Chinese beer maker
 Tsingtao Brewery Co. (600600) , which in December 2011 became a sponsor of
the NBA’s Miami Heat.  Consumer handset sales are ZTE’s primary form of access to
the U.S. market, where a House Intelligence Committee report
effectively blacklisted ZTE’s traditional wireless network
equipment, warning such equipment may help the Chinese
government spy on the U.S.  U.S. Lobbying  The House committee’s report last year advised U.S.
agencies and government contractors to steer clear of both ZTE
and larger rival Huawei, saying that the companies hadn’t
adequately explained their relationships with the Chinese
government. ZTE has denied that claim.  After that report, ZTE more than quadrupled its spending to
lobby the  U.S. Congress  to $330,000 in the first six months of
this year -- the most since it began lobbying in 2009, Senate
records show. That compared with $80,000 during the same period
a year earlier, according to company filings. The company will
continue to communicate and cooperate with U.S. government to
“blend into the U.S. market,” He said yesterday.  Samsung Electronics Co. was the world’s biggest smartphone
seller in the second quarter with a 30.4 percent share of
shipments, according to IDC. It was followed by  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  with
13.1 percent, LG Electronics Inc. with 5.1 percent, Lenovo Group
Ltd. with 4.7 percent and ZTE with 4.2 percent.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Cindy Wang in Taipei at 
 hwang61@bloomberg.net ;
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  