-- 
M&A ‘Specialist’ Mexichem Lines Up Cash Ahead of ‘Big’ Deal

-- B y   C a r l o s   M a n u e l   R o d r i g u e z
-- 
2011-06-02T18:41:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-02/m-a-specialist-mexichem-lining-up-cash-to-prepare-for-big-acquisition.html
Mexichem SAB, the Latin American
chemical producer which bought more than 15 companies since
2007, is lining up $750 million to expand in  Europe , U.S. or
 India  as part of plans to spend at least $3 billion on growth.  The company expects to sign an agreement in coming days for
the so-called revolving credit facility to prepare itself for a
“large potential acquisition,” Chief Executive Officer Rafael Davalos said yesterday in an interview at company headquarters.  Profit at the Tlalnepantla, Mexico-based company has about
quadrupled in four years through a takeover spree that includes
the $350 million purchase of Ineos Fluor from Ineos Group
Holdings last March. The deal made it the largest producer of
calcium fluoride, a refrigerant component. The company estimates
it will spend about $3 billion in the next five years as it
searches for deals in  Asia , the U.S. and Europe, he said.  “We want to grow and we’re going to go wherever we need to
go,” Davalos said, adding that the company could spend that
cash earlier and require more capital if it was interested in a
big deal in the meantime. “We grew to like acquisitions, we’ve
become an acquisitions specialist,” he said.  Davalos, who took over as the head of Mexichem on Jan. 21,
said that the company will finance organic expansion and smaller
acquisitions through  cash flow  and it will not require any bond
sales this year to finance its global growth.  Mexichem is expanding operations in  Japan  and  South Korea 
as it sees growing demand for chemicals used in refrigerants,
lubricants and propellants.  Trust Expansion  Investors trust the expansion strategy of this company,
Rogelio Gallegos, who helps manage about $700 million at
Actinver SA in Mexico City, said yesterday in a phone interview.  “Mexichem has proven to expand aggressively but with
value,” he said. “We like this company and we have an
important position on it,” he said, declining to give details.  At the time of the acquisition, Ineos Fluor employed 350
workers in operations in Europe, the U.S., Japan and  China . It
supplies chemicals and fluorinated feedstock for refrigerants,
medical inhalants and coatings for cookware and aerospace.  The stock rose 23 centavos, or 0.5 percent, to 45.40 pesos
as of 1:39 p.m. in  Mexico  City and has gained about 2.7 percent
this year, compared with a 7.6 percent decline for Mexico’s
benchmark IPC Index.  Davalos said he’s constantly being approached by companies
all over the world willing to sell assets.  “Even a lunch in  Argentina  supposed to be for a simple
commercial operation ends up becoming another acquisition
opportunity,” he said.  For now, Davalos said, a major acquisition deal may be
closer in Europe or U.S. than in India.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carlos M. Rodriguez in Mexico City at 
 carlosmr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at   dcrofts@bloomberg.net . 