-- 
‘Naked Auditors’ Case Shows Wall Street Not Cured: Susan Antilla

-- B y   S u s a n   A n t i l l a
-- 
2011-06-02T04:02:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-02/-naked-auditors-case-shows-wall-street-not-cured-susan-antilla.html
Fifteen years after female brokers
sued  Smith Barney  & Co. in a lawsuit famously known as the Boom-
Boom Room case, financial firms have set up harassment training,
torn racy photographs from the walls and pulled the plug on
company-paid outings to strip joints.  Despite all that, the industry is far from cured of a male-
dominated culture where women can be intimidated and underpaid
for work equal to the guys. And a recent Supreme Court decision
could block future progress by limiting female plaintiffs’
access to court and forcing more cases into closed-door
arbitration.  After the arrest of former International Monetary Fund
chief Dominique Strauss-Kahn on sexual-assault charges, details
are emerging about an IMF culture so intimidating to some women
that they decline to wear skirts at the office.  Other examples are bubbling up worldwide. Last month a
German newspaper revealed that a subsidiary of  Munich Re , the
world’s biggest reinsurance company, had hired 20 prostitutes to
entertain 100 top insurance agents in Budapest in 2007. The
company said the event violated its policy.  And it’s not just the actions of high-flying IMF chiefs or
European insurers at issue. Such behavior exists in the far
corners of Wall Street, as seen in the recent case of a former
sales assistant at UBS Financial Services in Kansas City,
 Missouri . On May 3, a jury awarded her $10.5 million, including
punitive damages, for sexual harassment and retaliation, after a
16-day trial that had more references to breasts and male sex
organs than you’d find in a romance novel.  What’s That Buzz?  Several jurors sat at the edge of their seats as they heard
how a broker and defendant in the case put on the desk of
plaintiff Carla Ingraham an article entitled “The vibrator:
What’s all the buzz about?” After the verdict, the firm said in
a statement that it will “ensure to the best of our ability
that this kind of conduct does not occur again,” and that it
does not tolerate harassment of any kind. UBS hasn’t decided
whether to appeal, says a spokeswoman for the bank,  Karina Byrne .  “ Wall Street  is the king of harassment,” says Greg-Patric
Martello, who represented two women who sued a Uniondale,  New
York , brokerage firm for harassment and won $1.1 million in a
May arbitration at the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority,
or Finra. “I’ve never seen an industry like it.”  Every industry has its problems with discrimination. The
U.S. securities business, though, has been particularly slow to
improve, in part the legacy of a system that shielded it almost
entirely from the courts until 1999. That year, the Securities
and Exchange Commission changed the rule that had forced
discrimination claims by licensed securities employees to be
heard by private, industry-run arbitration panels.  Arbitration Rules  Today, many securities firms prevent employees from airing
their complaints in court by requiring them to sign contracts
obliging them to use arbitration. Women who are bound by such
agreements are able to get into court only if a judge determines
that they represent a class.  High-profile cases like the Smith Barney lawsuit had
sneaked into court before 1999 through a loophole: Wall Street
arbitration panels weren’t equipped to hear class-action cases,
thus giving groups of women who joined in a class a back door
into court.  That loophole is likely to close as a result of an April 27
Supreme Court decision in AT&T Mobility v. Concepcion, in which
the court said that AT&T could block a class-action suit and
force customers into arbitration. “We will see major growth in
employment arbitration,” as a result of the AT&T case, says
Alexander Colvin, a Cornell University associate professor of
labor relations, whose research shows that employees fare worse
in arbitration than they do in court. The AT&T decision will
make disclosures that come from suits like Ingraham’s even
rarer.  Scattered Among Courts  Today, with Wall Street discrimination cases scattered
among courts, private arbitration panels and dispute resolution
groups, it’s impossible to say how many cases are filed, or how
often women win. Even the very public Boom-Boom Room case ended
with opacity. Most of the almost 2,000 women involved signed
confidentiality agreements before settling. The lead plaintiff,
Pamela Martens, objected to the settlement terms and got nothing
after losing her fight for a court hearing.  Douglas Wigdor, a New York lawyer representing six women in
two cases against  Citigroup Inc. (C) , estimates that 1 percent of
complaints against Wall Street firms go to trial. That makes the
Ingraham case an extraordinary window onto how Wall Street
treats female employees.  Real-World Impact  One thing is certain, says Cliff Palefsky, a lawyer at
McGuinn, Hillsman & Palefsky in  San Francisco  who has fought
against mandatory arbitration for two decades: “You can have 20
secret plaintiffs’ awards in discrimination cases in securities
arbitrations, and they won’t have one-10th of the real-world
impact as the Ingraham verdict.”  As I wrote in my 2002 book, “Tales from the Boom-Boom
Room,” Smith Barney’s office revelers met in a basement room to
pump up the music on a boom box and mix garbage pails-full of
Bloody Marys amid vulgarity and bravado. At UBS in  Kansas  City,
the gang would gather after business hours for drinks and
frivolity in a broker’s office dubbed The Party Cove. Halloween
Day in 2007 was one such occasion, and the group took delight
that someone had purchased a package of fake mustaches.
Ingraham’s lawyer said in court that a male broker donned one of
the mustaches and began to simulate having sex with an imaginary
partner, though others at the party testified that they never
saw that.  A Drinking Seminar  In November 2007, the staff enjoyed an open bar paid for by
UBS at a country club in Mission Hills, Kansas, and then filed
into a banquet room. The post-cocktail agenda: A human resources
manager was presenting Respect in the Workplace, the UBS seminar
on discrimination and harassment.  Worst among the  Kansas City  drinking stories is the tale of
the “naked auditors.” When the Weehawken,  New Jersey ,  home
office  sent two examiners to review the books in 2008, they
wound up socializing after hours with female staffers. According
to court testimony, one auditor became so drunk that he vomited
on himself in the parking lot, was driven back to his hotel, and
invited one of the women to join him in the shower after taking
his clothes off. Several doors down, the other auditor asked the
second woman if she would like to give him oral sex.  Both women declined the offers and relayed the events to a
compliance officer, who testified that she took the matter no
further because the women didn’t appear to have been offended.  A Cialis Joke  A recurring defense by UBS was that Ingraham and other
women participated in the drinking and banter. A broker, for
example, sent Ingraham an e-mail with a video showing women
baring their breasts; she sent him an e-mail about Cialis, the
erectile dysfunction drug.  It’s not unusual for women working in a high-testosterone
atmosphere to adapt by taking on behavior like that of the men
they work with, says Charlotte Fishman, executive director of
Pick Up the Pace, a research and advocacy organization for women
in the workplace. “Whenever you’re in a situation where it’s a
boys’ club, there is pressure to be one of the boys,” she says.
Ingraham put it this way: “There is no denying I sent joke e-
mails. I was immersed in that culture.”  Fired for Lying  After 22 years at her job and performance evaluations that
consistently ranked her above average, Ingraham in 2008
complained about harassment to the UBS in-house dispute
resolution program. Two UBS investigators looked into the
complaints but put a surprising amount of effort into searching
for dirt on her. On July 1, 2009, UBS fired her. She had been
videotaping some of her office colleagues, and lied about it
when management confronted her.  There is no arguing that UBS took some constructive actions
after Ingraham’s complaints, including putting letters in
violators’ personnel files and retraining Kansas City managers -
- with no happy hour beforehand.  John Ellspermann, then the most senior manager at the
branch, got a letter of reprimand for having sent and received
numerous “offensive and inappropriate” e-mails, and a 5
percent cut in his bonus. Reached at Morgan Stanley, where he
now works, Ellspermann declined to comment. It’s hard to imagine
that any of that would have happened without the spotlight
Ingraham put on the matter.  There are ways to fix these problems. Mandatory arbitration
should be banned, allowing employees to choose between courts
and arbitration. Public records of people with securities
licenses should include specifics about all firings; today,
substantial wiggle room allows brokers to say they’ve been
“permitted to resign.”  Tougher Settlements Needed  When the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission or private
plaintiffs negotiate settlements, they should demand five years
of court monitoring to make sure future complaints are handled
properly and promotions are doled out fairly. It takes that long
for change to take hold, according to a March 2011 study,
“Ending Sex and Race Discrimination in the Workplace,” by the
 Institute for Women’s Policy Research .  A cultural change won’t happen by relying on the industry.
UBS has “as stringent a policy on sex harassment as anyone in
the industry,” says Byrne, the spokeswoman. For that reason
alone, it’s a no-brainer that only changes in public policy will
make a difference.  ( Susan Antilla  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Susan Antilla in New York at 
 santilla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Paula Dwyer at   pdwyer11@bloomberg.net  