-- 
3i-Backed Indiareit Plans Funds to Tap Rental Yield, Domestic Debt Market

-- B y   P o o j a   T h a k u r
-- 
2011-06-02T23:48:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-02/3i-backed-indiareit-plans-funds-to-tap-commercial-rent-yield-debt-markets.html
3i Group Plc-backed  Indiareit Fund
Advisors Pvt  plans to start a commercial rental yield fund and a
domestic debt fund in the next few months as borrowing costs
rise for developers and the office market picks up.  The company will also spend 2.46 billion rupees ($55
million) in three residential developments in North  Mumbai ’s
Versova area and in Bangalore, while pulling out of an 825
million rupee project in central Mumbai, Chief Executive Officer
Ramesh Jogani said.  Indiareit is raising money as  India ’s central bank raised
rates nine times in 15 months to cool inflation. Private equity
firms made 10 real estate investments valued at $883 million in
the three months to March, according to Venture Intelligence,
compared with $1.24 billion in 34 deals in India last year.  “The time is right for a debt fund now as the yields will
be very attractive,” Jogani said in a phone interview
yesterday.  Price increases in markets such as Mumbai and the central
bank’s rate policy have hurt sentiment and led to a short-term
liquidity squeeze for builders, S. Sriniwasan chief executive
officer at Kotak Investment Advisors Ltd., said last week.  The increase in borrowing costs has crimped demand for
homes while making it more expensive for builders to access
funds. A seven-month lull in real estate initial share sales
also made it difficult for developers to access the stock
market. Oberoi Realty Ltd. and  Prestige Estates Projects Ltd. (PEPL) ,
which both sold shares in October, are trading at discounts to
their offer prices.  Fundraising  Indiareit said in December it plans to raise about $622
million in three new funds that will invest in properties across
the nation’s major cities.  Billionaire Ajay Piramal, who had planned to sell his
controlling stake in Indiareit to avoid a conflict of interest
with his own real estate development plans, reversed that
decision last month when Piramal Healthcare Ltd. agreed to
acquire Indiareit for 2.25 billion rupees as the drugmaker seeks
to expand into financial services.  Indiareit also sold stakes in other property investments.
The fund completed its exit from Neptune Realtors Pvt.’s
commercial project in Mumbai, a 1.45 billion rupee investment
made in 2007 which yielded a three-fold return, Jogani said. The
investment generated an internal rate of return of 30 percent.  Another Indiareit fund also sold part of its investments in
SSPDL Ltd.’s Retreat project and from Samira Habitats, which is
developing homes in the coastal town of Alibaug near Mumbai, and
returned 58 percent of the money collected from investors.
Another fund also sold part of its holdings in Ariisto
Developers’s residential project in Mumbai and returned 15
percent of the fund to investors.  Indiareit, started in 2006, advises on funds worth about
$850 million that invest in real estate in the Indian cities of
Mumbai, Chennai, Bangalore, Hyderabad and Pune. 3i,  Europe ’s
largest publicly traded private-equity firm, is a cornerstone
investor in Indiareit’s $200 million offshore fund, according to
the fund’s website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pooja Thakur in Mumbai at 
 pthakur@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at   apapuc1@bloomberg.net  