-- 
Abbott in Settlement Talks on Depakote Marketing, U.S. Says

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 
2011-06-02T18:01:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-02/abbott-engaged-in-talks-to-settle-depakote-lawsuit-u-s-tells-judge.html
Abbott Laboratories (ABT)  and the U.S. are
“engaged in active settlement discussions” of the government’s
lawsuit alleging the company improperly marketed its drug
 Depakote , Justice Department lawyers said in court papers.  The U.S. asked the judge overseeing the suit to halt
proceedings until July 8, postponing a May 31 scheduled filing
of an amended complaint by the government and allowing
settlement discussions to continue. The U.S. also asked the
court to consolidate four related false-claims cases.  “The short extension would allow the parties to determine
if a negotiated resolution is possible, which could reduce the
demand on judicial resources,” Timothy Heaphey and Daniel
Bubar, Justice Department lawyers, wrote in a May 20 filing in
federal court in Abingdon,  Virginia . “Consolidating the actions
would avoid having nearly identical filings made in four
different actions.”  Whistleblowers claim in the suits that  Abbott Park ,
Illinois-based Abbott marketed Depakote, an  epilepsy drug , for
unapproved uses including agitation and aggression in patients
with dementia, autism, sexual compulsion and other disorders.
The government joined the False Claims Act suits in February,
according to court dockets. More than 25 states also sued Abbott
over the marketing of Depakote.  “We continue to cooperate with the investigation,”  Scott Stoffel , a spokesman for Abbott, said today in a phone
interview.  Approved Uses  Depakote is approved to prevent migraines, treat acute
manic episodes in bipolar patients and treat seizure disorders
in adults and children, he said in an e-mail.  The company promoted the medicine for “unapproved, off-
label uses in long-term care facilities, assisted-living
facilities, mental retardation/developmentally disabled
facilities and other like facilities” throughout the U.S.,
according to the complaint.  Abbott “knowingly disregarded federal law” and Food and
Drug Administration rules on off-label promotion and
“‘knowingly misrepresented the evidence concerning the efficacy
and safety of the off-label uses” of Depakote, the U.S. said in
its complaint filed in February.  “These false claims cheated the federal and state
governments out of hundreds of millions of dollars,” the U.S.
said.  Under U.S. law, a doctor can prescribe a medicine for any
condition as long as it’s licensed by the FDA and proven safe
and effective against at least one ailment. Drug companies
aren’t allowed to promote a drug for uses other than those
approved.  The case is U.S. ex rel. Spetter v. Abbott Laboratories,
1:10-cv-00006, U.S. District Court, Western District of Virginia
(Abingdon).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Southfield,  Michigan ,
at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 