-- 
AC Milan Wants Didier Drogba, City’s Adebayor, Mirror Says: Soccer Roundup

-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 
2011-06-02T10:15:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-02/ac-milan-wants-didier-drogba-city-s-adebayor-mirror-says-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  Striker Search  AC Milan has targeted  Didier Drogba  and Emmanuel Adebayor
in its search for a big-name striker, the  Daily Mirror  said.  Milan may offer Chelsea 10 million pounds ($16 million) for
the 33-year-old Drogba, the Mirror said. If that bid fails,
Milan will turn its attention to Adebayor, who spent part of
last season on loan at Real Madrid from Manchester City, the
newspaper said.  Chelsea Return?  Guus Hiddink is ready to quit as Turkey national team
manager to over at Chelsea, the  Sun said .  Hiddink has had enough of international soccer and wants to
return to club management as the replacement for the fired Carlo Ancelotti, the Sun said. He expects to open formal talks with
Chelsea owner  Roman Abramovich  next week, following Turkey’s
Euro 2012 qualifier in Belgium tomorrow, the newspaper said.  Higuain Heads Up  Arsenal, Tottenham and Manchester City have been alerted
that Real Madrid may be willing to sell striker Gonzalo Higuain
for just 15 million pounds, the  Daily Mail  said.  Higuain scored 13 goals in 25 games last season, when he
missed four months with a back injury.  Not Quitting  Dimitar Berbatov wants to stay at Manchester United after
being left out of the squad for the  Champions League  final, the
 Mirror  said.  Berbatov said that being dropped has made him more
determined to win back his place, the Mirror said. Newcastle,
Bayern Munich and Dortmund are interested in the striker, the
newspaper said.  Sneijder Replacement?  Inter Milan will make Arsenal’s Cesc Fabregas its top
summer target if Wesley Sneijder leaves for  Manchester United ,
 Metro  said.  Inter is already preparing for Sneijder’s departure and
have also identified Bayern Munich’s  Bastian Schweinsteiger  as a
possible replacement, Metro said.  Chelsea Rejected  Chelsea has had a “substantial” offer rejected for
Palermo playmaker Javier Pastore, the  Mail said .  Palermo has put a price of 44 million pounds on Pastore and
club president Maurizio Zamparini said that five of six teams,
including Manchester City, are interested, the Mail said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in  London  at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 