-- 
Acer Tumbles After Audit Finds ‘Abnormalities’ in Inventory, Receivables

-- B y   W e i y i   L i m
-- 
2011-06-02T09:26:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-02/acer-shares-decline-most-since-1997-after-announcing-plan-to-cut-300-jobs.html
Acer Inc. (2353) , the world’s second-largest
maker of laptops, tumbled the most in more than 13 years in
Taipei trading after the company said an audit found
abnormalities in its inventory and account receivables.  The shares fell by the daily limit of 7 percent to
NT$51.90, pushing the stock past  Lead Data Inc. (2443)  as the worst
performer on the island’s benchmark index this year.  The findings, which will result in a $150 million one-time
charge, further undermined investor confidence in a company that
had cut its sales forecast twice and ousted its chief executive
officer since late March. Last quarter, Acer posted its lowest
profit in six years after the company lost sales to  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s
iPads and  HTC Corp. (2498) ’s smartphones.  “This is obviously a mismanagement issue,” said Jenny Lai,
an analyst at  HSBC Holdings Plc. (HSBA)  in Taipei. “It will be a
challenge to regain investors’ confidence, especially since the
company changed its financial forecasts a few times in the past
couple of months.”  In its audit of the operations in Europe, the  Middle East 
and Africa, Acer found “abnormalities” in inventory stored in
freight forwarders’ warehouses and in account receivables in
Spain, according to the company.  Regaining Trust  “These are necessary measures to get the company back on
track and regain investors’ trust,” Vincent Chen, an analyst at
Yuanta Securities Co., said in a report today. “Potential risk
remains with Acer’s tablet inventory in the third quarter.”  Wang and the rest of the board of directors’ compensation
will be slashed by 50 percent and the company will propose
cutting employee bonuses by 40 percent, it said. Acer also plans
to eliminate 300 jobs in Europe, the Middle East and Africa.  Acer’s share price will remain “under pressure,”
according to  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , which advises investors
to sell the stock.  “At Computex 2011, Acer attracted fewer visitors compared
to  Asustek Computer Inc. (2357)  and had fewer new products on
display,” Henry King and Angel Wei, analysts at Goldman Sachs,
wrote in a report today in reference to this week’s electronics
conference in Taipei. “Without a strong product, we think
Acer’s recovery could take longer than the market expects.”  Acer vaulted past  Lenovo Group Ltd. (992)  and  Dell Inc. (DELL)  to become
the second-largest maker of personal computers in 2009 after a
three-year buying spree that resulted in the purchases of
Gateway Inc., eMachines Inc., Packard Bell BV, and Founder
Technology Group’s PC business. Acer slipped to No. 3 last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net ;
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  