-- 
Andre Agassi Forms Charter-School Fund With Canyon Capital

-- B y   D a n i e l   T a u b
-- 
2011-06-02T21:10:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-02/agassi-forms-fund-to-build-charter-schools-with-canyon-capital.html
Andre Agassi , the former tennis
champion, and Canyon Capital Realty Advisors LLC said they
created a real estate fund that will spend $500 million to
capitalize on and promote the movement for U.S. charter schools.  The Canyon-Agassi Charter School Facilities Fund plans to
develop more than 75 urban campuses with space for about 40,000
students over three to four years, according to a statement
today from Canyon Capital and Agassi Ventures LLC, which manages
the player’s partnerships.  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and  Intel Corp. (INTC) ’s
investment arm are contributing to the Los Angeles-based fund.  It’s the first for-profit investment vehicle formed to
build charter schools, Canyon Capital said. There are more than
5,400 of the schools serving about 1.7 million children in the
U.S., with  465 campuses  in 40 states and  Washington , D.C.,
having opened in the last school year, according to the Center
for Education Reform. A lack of new facilities is the greatest
impediment to further growth, said Bobby Turner, chairman of
Canyon Capital Realty Advisors in Los Angeles.  “Unlike the school district, charter schools don’t have
facility financing provided to them by the state,” Turner said
in a telephone interview. “If you’re a charter school, what
you’re relegated to doing is cobbling together philanthropy
every time you want to build a school. As you can imagine,
that’s very difficult.”  No Taxing Authority  Charter schools typically are open to the public while
operating independently of local governments. The schools set
their own goals, manage their own budgets and hire and fire
teachers using their own criteria. Unlike school districts,
charter schools don’t have taxing authority to fund facility
construction, leading them to rely on charity.  The Canyon-Agassi fund will develop facilities for charter-
school managers, lease them to the operators for about four to
six years, and then allow the schools to purchase the campuses.
Income from the rental and sale of campuses will provide a
“fair, risk-adjusted, market-rate return to investors,” Turner
said. He wouldn’t disclose the expected yield.  The new fund will “allow us to access traditional
capital,” Agassi, 41, said in a telephone interview from  Las
Vegas , where he founded the  Andre Agassi College Preparatory
Academy , a charter school, in 2001. “Philanthropic efforts just
aren’t scalable -- philanthropy doesn’t scale.”  $250 Million  Agassi and Turner declined to say how much they plan to
raise for the fund or disclose the sizes of investments by
individual backers, which also include the Ewing Marion Kauffman
Foundation. According to a  memo  by Timothy Slottow, chief
financial officer at the  University of Michigan , the Canyon-
Agassi fund has “an expected capitalization of $250 million.”
The university’s regents last month approved a $15 million
investment in the fund.  The Kauffman Foundation participated in the fund as part of
its focus on education and entrepreneurship, said Harold Bradley, chief investment officer at the  Kansas City , Missouri-
based organization. Kauffman, which has almost $2 billion under
management, expects its $20 million contribution to the fund to
outperform competing investment options, he said.  “We can make money solving big problems,” Bradley said in
a telephone interview. “When I make an investment, I look for
the sucking sound of demand, and there is a huge sucking sound
of demand in urban education across the country.”  Philadelphia School  Contributions to the fund will be augmented by loans to
allow for the construction of more than $500 million of
facilities, Turner said. Canyon Capital expects it to be the
first in a series of funds, he said.  The fund’s first campus, a former industrial building in
North Philadelphia’s Allegheny West community, is scheduled to
open in August. The facility, managed by the  KIPP  network of
schools, will serve about 500 kindergarten-to-fourth-grade
students and will cost about $10 million, Turner said. That’s in
line with the $8 million to $12 million the fund expects to
spend on a typical 500-pupil school, he said.  Agassi, who won eight Grand Slam titles during a 20-year
career that ended with his 2006 retirement, said for-profit
investment vehicles like the Canyon-Agassi fund are the best way
to get charter schools built quickly.  “The alternative to not doing this means we’re not going
to build 40,000 seats,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Taub in  Los Angeles  at 
 dtaub@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  