-- 
Alibaba CEO Ma ‘Optimistic’ to Reach Deal With Yahoo, Softbank

-- B y   J o s e p h   G a l a n t e   a n d   M a r k   L e e
-- 
2011-06-02T05:58:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-02/alibaba-s-ma-hopes-to-reach-agreement-on-alipay-spinoff-soon.html
Alibaba Group Holding Ltd. Chief
Executive Officer Jack Ma said he expects to reach an agreement
with shareholders Yahoo! Inc. and  Softbank Corp. (9984)  over the
spinoff of the company’s Alipay online payment business.  “I’m optimistic,” Ma said at the AllThingsD conference in
Rancho Palos Verdes,  California , yesterday. Ma said he’s sure a
deal will be reached on Alipay, spun off to facilitate its
application for an online payment license in China.  Yahoo, whose shares have slumped about 15 percent since it
disclosed the spinoff last month, is seeking compensation on
concern the company’s investment in China would lose value.
Alipay was transferred to a Ma company without the approval of
Yahoo and Softbank, the U.S. shareholder had said.  “I heard a lot of words like ‘stealing,’" Ma said. "How
could I do that, when I have so many people looking at me all
the time.”  Yahoo, which owns about 39 percent of Alibaba,  China ’s
biggest online-commerce company, fell 4.3 percent to $15.85
yesterday in New York trading. Shares of the Sunnyvale,
California-based company have underperformed the  Nasdaq  since
May 10, when Yahoo disclosed Alibaba no longer owned China’s
most-popular online-payment operator.  An agreement on Alipay was reached between Yahoo and
Alibaba, Reuters reported this week, citing people close to the
matter. The accord requires the consent of  Japan ’s Softbank,
according to the report.  Foreign Ownership Rules  Alibaba’s board, including Yahoo co-founder Jerry Yang and
Softbank President Masayoshi Son, had discussed for three years
the need to comply with restrictions on foreign ownership of
payment services in China, which prompted the reorganization, Ma
said on May 14. The transfer of Alipay was lawful and
transparent, Ma has said.  Yahoo is making “significant” progress in talks to ensure
Alibaba is compensated for the spinoff of Alipay, Chief
Executive Officer  Carol Bartz  said on May 25. Alibaba’s
management has been “very committed and cooperative” in the
negotiations, she said.  Alipay was awarded an online payment license from the
People’s Bank of China last week, Alibaba said May 26.  Yahoo’s holding in Alibaba Group may account for as much as
three-quarters of the U.S. company’s market value, according to
estimates by Sandeep Aggarwal, an analyst at Caris & Co. in  San
Francisco . Alipay may be worth $5 billion, according to Gabelli
& Co.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joseph Galante in San Francisco at 
 jgalante3@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Lee in  Hong Kong  at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  