-- 
Apple Completes Music Accords for New Service

-- B y   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o   a n d   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 
2011-06-02T23:17:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-02/apple-is-said-to-complete-music-accords-for-new-icloud-service.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  reached an agreement with
Universal Music Group, the largest record label, setting the
stage for its new service to let users access song libraries on
multiple devices, two people with knowledge of the talks said.  The new music service, enabling customers to store their
music on Apple’s servers, will be previewed on June 6 by Chief
Executive Officer  Steve Jobs  at Apple’s annual developers
conference in  San Francisco , said the people, who declined to be
identified because the deals aren’t public.  Apple’s deal with  Vivendi SA (VIV) ’s Universal Music, whose
artists include Lady Gaga and U2, follows agreements with  Sony
Corp. (6758) ’s music unit,  Warner Music Group Corp. (WMG)  and EMI Group Ltd.
By moving the files into the so-called cloud, songs will be
available on devices such as the iPhone and iPad without users
having to plug in and synchronize the gadgets. Instead, tracks
can be streamed from anywhere with a Web connection.  To start, the service will be available only for songs that
have been purchased through iTunes, said the people. Later in
the year, Apple plans to introduce a $25-per-year plan so music
purchased outside iTunes can be stored on its servers and
streamed through an Internet connection.  Under the agreements with the labels, revenue from the
cloud service will be split between Apple and the music
companies. Apple will collect 30 percent, while the record
labels will get 58 percent and owners of publishing rights will
get 12 percent, the people said.  Earlier this week, Cupertino, California-based Apple said
it would discuss its new iCloud service at the developers
conference. The company also will talk about upgrades to its
software for Mac personal computers and mobile devices.  Cnet.com  earlier reported Apple had reached an agreement
with Universal Music Group.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Adam Satariano in San Francisco at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Thomas Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  