-- 
Arden Takes Over Robeco Group’s $1.3 Billion Hedge Fund of Funds Business

-- B y   K a t h e r i n e   B u r t o n
-- 
2011-06-02T13:02:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-02/arden-takes-over-robeco-group-s-1-3-billion-hedge-fund-of-funds-business.html
Arden Asset Management LLC, a New
York-based firm that farms money out to  hedge funds , plans to
take over Robeco Group’s $1.3 billion hedge fund of funds
business.  The transfer, scheduled to close on Oct. 1, will bring
Arden’s assets to $8.5 billion, Arden said in a statement today.
The two companies did not disclose details of the transaction.
Generally, such deals involve a sharing of revenue.  “We look forward to continuing to serve our combined
investor base with a broad range of institutional multimanager
hedge-fund portfolios as we strategically expand our business,”
Averell Mortimer, Arden’s chief executive officer, said in the
statement.  Arden’s takeover of Robeco-Sage, as the unit of the
Rotterdam-based  money manager  is known, comes as the hedge fund
of funds business is contracting. In 2007, fund of funds
accounted for 43 percent of industry assets, according to
Chicago-based Hedge Fund Research Inc. Today, they account for
about 34 percent.  Paul Platkin, Robeco-Sage’s chief investment officer, and
Darren Wolf, head of research, will join Arden’s investment team
and continue to manage the Robeco-Sage portfolios.  Arden, founded in 1993 by Mortimer, did a similar deal with
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  in June 2009, when it took over the $1.1
billion in hedge-fund investments the bank made with its own
money.  Shakil Riaz, the JPMorgan executive who had run the hedge-
fund holdings since 1995, joined Arden at that time.  The agreement was part of JPMorgan’s decision to disband an
investment-banking group that invested the lender’s money in
hedge funds, private equity and real estate.  Arden Institutional Advisers LP, the firm’s main fund, has
posted an average return of 8 percent a year since October 1993,
beating the 6.2 percent gain for Hedge Fund Research’s fund of
funds index. About 80 percent of Arden’s assets come from
institutional investors.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katherine Burton in New York at 
 kburton@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  