-- 
Target Enters Court Mediation in Dispute Over Naming Rights in Canada

-- B y   G a r y   N o r r i s
-- 
2011-06-02T15:50:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-02/target-enters-court-mediation-in-dispute-over-naming-rights-in-canada.html
Target Corp. and a Canadian clothing
retailer entered formal mediation in a dispute over whether the
second-largest U.S. discount chain can use its name north of the
border.  Target, the 1,750-store company, and Fairweather Ltd. of
Toronto are suing each other, alleging trademark infringement
and seeking injunctions to prevent the other from using the
Target name in  Canada .  Minneapolis-based Target said in January it planned to
start opening about 150 Canadian outlets in 2013 after agreeing
to pay C$1.83 billion ($1.87 billion) for 220 store leases of
discount chain Zellers from the Hudson’s Bay Co.  The mediation, which began today in Toronto under Federal
Court of Canada Justice Roger Hughes, is closed to outsiders and
the participants were prevented from talking to reporters. If a
settlement isn’t reached, the Federal Court trial isn’t
scheduled to begin until November 2012.  Closely held Fairweather, controlled by Isaac Benitah,
argues that it bought the Canadian rights to the Target name in
2001 from defunct retail group Dylex Ltd. Fairweather said it
has operated a Target Apparel store in Toronto since 2005 and
has additional locations under the banner in place or planned in
other cities.  The U.S. Target took legal action in 2002 against Benitah,
who runs several other Canadian chains including International
Clothiers. The Federal Court of Appeal ruled in 2007 in favor of
Benitah’s use of the name on apparel.  Target Corp. (TGT)  filed another
trademark challenge last year before its first expansion outside
the U.S., and then initiated new litigation which Fairweather
countered with its own Federal Court action.  The case is Target Brands Inc., Target Corp. v. Fairweather
Ltd. et al. T-1902-10.  To contact the reporter on this story: Gary Norris
 gnorris1@bloomberg.net .   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net ; 