-- 
Harmony Gold Emerges as Takeover Target

-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 
2011-06-03T00:38:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-02/harmony-s-massive-gold-copper-mine-may-lure-newcrest-bid.html
Harmony Gold Mining Co.’s Papua New
Guinea mine is shaping up to be the world’s third-richest gold
and copper deposit, raising speculation its partner in the
venture,  Newcrest Mining Ltd. (NCM) , may make a takeover bid.  “I understand they’ve tried to buy it off Harmony and
Harmony is obviously not selling it,” said Prasad Patkar, who
helps manage about $1.8 billion at Platypus Asset Management
Ltd., including shares in Melbourne-based Newcrest. “One option
for them is to buy Harmony out completely and then spin out all
of the other assets.”  The partners are set to give an update as early as July on
the potential size of the Wafi-Golpu deposit, which they’ve
compared with Freeport-McMoran Copper & Gold Inc.’s Grasberg
mine, site of the world’s largest recoverable reserves of copper
and the biggest single gold reserve. Harmony shares rose to the
highest in more than two years in April as optimism for the
project triggered takeover speculation.  “Every major copper company in the world would be
interested, along with every major gold company,” said Jo Battershill, an analyst at UBS AG in Sydney.  Newcrest fell 0.3 percent to A$38.65 at 10:27 a.m. in
Sydney trading, down 4.4 percent since the start of the year.
Harmony fell 1 percent yesterday in Johannesburg.  Gold reached a record last month and has risen for 10
straight years, driving acquisitions last year to the highest
since at least 1998. Copper rose to a record in February. A lack
of new projects is forcing gold and copper producers to expand
through acquisitions, BlackRock Inc., owner of the world’s
largest mining fund and third-largest shareholder in Harmony,
said last year.  Major Find  Newcrest doesn’t respond to speculation, spokeswoman
Kerrina Watson said by phone. Johannesburg-based Harmony doesn’t
comment on speculation, spokeswoman Marian van der Walt said in
an e-mail.  Wafi-Golpu is valued at about A$9.3 billion ($9.9 billion),
Deutsche Bank AG said in a report. Only Grasberg, in neighboring
 Indonesia , and Ivanhoe Mines Ltd.’s Oyu Tolgoi deposit in
Mongolia, contain higher gold-equivalent ounces per ton of ore,
Harmony said in a March presentation.  “Golpu is the first major copper discovery in 20 years,
the richest in 20 years” said James Bruce, who helps manage
$3.5 billion at Perpetual Ltd., including Newcrest shares.  First production is scheduled to start in 2016 and the
“massive” ore body, located in mountains about 80 kilometers
(50 miles) from the port of Lae, may cost about $5 billion to
develop, Goldman Sachs & Partners Australia Pty. has estimated.  Rising Costs  Harmony is trading at 36 times estimated earnings, the most
of the 14 members in the BI GL Senior Gold index of global
producers. It’s the best performing gold company in the
Bloomberg World Mining Index in the past three months.  Harmony’s Chief Executive Officer Graham Briggs, struggling
with aging mines and rising costs in  South Africa , said in April
that the company hasn’t been approached about any takeover.  The company intends to retain its stake in Wafi-Golpu and
may fund its share of the development costs through bonds and
forward copper sales from the project as well as with cash and
bank debt, spokeswoman van der Walt said in the e-mail.  Newcrest would be happy to talk to Harmony if the company
couldn’t, or didn’t want to finance its full half of the project,
the Australian Financial Review said last month, citing Newcrest
Chief Executive Officer  Ian Smith . Newcrest spokeswoman Watson
didn’t respond to requests for comment on the report.  There have been $12.12 billion of gold takeovers announced
so far this quarter, the strongest second quarter in at least
ten years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Partner List  Three years ago Harmony shortlisted a “handful” of
unnamed potential partners to develop the project, eventually
choosing Newcrest who agreed to pay Harmony $525 million for
half of its  Papua New Guinea  operations, including Wafi-Golpu.
Rio Tinto Group sold Wafi-Golpu for $35 million in 2002, while
BHP Billiton Ltd. sold Oyu Tolgoi for $48 million in 2003.  Barrick Gold Corp. (ABX) ,  Newmont Mining Corp. (NEM)  and  Gold Fields
Ltd. (GFI)  could be interested in the assets, said Anna Kassianos, an
analyst at Austock Securities Ltd. Barrick, which has agreed to
buy Equinox Minerals Ltd. for C$7.3 billion ($7.5 billion), is
well-positioned to make a bid as are copper producers Freeport
and Antofagasta Plc, she said.  “A Harmony takeover still makes sense strategically and
now, even more so, post the Equinox acquisition” for Barrick,
Sydney-based Kassianos said by phone. “Harmony’s aging, high-
cash cost South African assets” and some or all of the Equinox
assets could be funneled into  African Barrick Gold Ltd. (ABG) , she
said.  Legal Case  Sven Lunsche, corporate affairs manager for Johannesburg-
based Gold Fields, declined to comment in an e-mail. Patrick
Bindon, Barrick’s public affairs manager in Perth said the
company doesn’t comment on market speculation. Brian Watt,
principal adviser communications and public relations for
Newmont, declined to comment.  Harmony’s attraction to a suitor may be dimmed by possible
worker compensation claims in South Africa. While the ultimate
number of claims and their size is impossible to determine,
mining companies may face a liability of as much as $100 billion,
 Leon Esterhuizen , an analyst at  RBC Capital Markets  in  London ,
said in a May 6 note to clients. A settlement at a significantly
lower level is more likely, he said in a May 16 interview.  “Harmony has a number of challenges based on this recent
South African labor court case to do with miner health,” said
Saxon Nicholls, who helps manage the equivalent of $970 million
at Herschel Asset Management Ltd. in  Melbourne , including shares
in Newcrest. “We can’t see any company wanting to get involved
with a potentially uncapped liability.”  Harmony isn’t fully valued because of its operations
outside Papua New Guinea, while Golpu was turning out to be a
significant copper resource, said Warren Edney, senior resource
analyst at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc. “It’s potentially
attractive to anyone.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at   ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  