-- 
Arnott Index Derided by Bogle as Witchcraft Beats Vanguard Fund

-- B y   S r e e   V i d y a   B h a k t a v a t s a l a m   a n d   S e t h   L u b o v e
-- 
2011-06-02T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-02/arnott-index-derided-by-bogle-as-witchcraft-beats-vanguard-fund.html
As Robert Arnott was deciding whether
to start his own investment firm, he met with his hero John Bogle for dinner. At a steakhouse in downtown Philadelphia in
2001, the founder of indexing powerhouse Vanguard Group Inc.
spoke with enthusiasm about running his own firm. Bogle, who’s
now 82, told Arnott that starting a company could be rewarding
once your investing ideas catch fire.  Arnott, 56, says Bogle inspired him to set up  Research
Affiliates LLC  less than a year after that dinner. Arnott then
went on to shake the foundation on which the older man built
Vanguard: indexing that allocates equities based on market
capitalization, Bloomberg Markets magazine reports in its July
issue.  Arnott debuted in 2005 a new type of indexing that uses
fundamental measures such as cash flow to pick stocks -- a
methodology that the father of indexing would later denounce as
“witchcraft” in an interview with  Morningstar Inc. (MORN)  because of
its similarity to active management and higher costs. By 2011,
the innovator’s brand of stock indexing had produced better
returns than Bogle’s.  The  PowerShares FTSE RAFI US 1000 Portfolio (PRF)  ETF, which is
based on Arnott’s methodology, advanced at an average annual
rate of 5.3 percent from its inception on Dec. 19, 2005, through
May 9. That beats the flagship Vanguard 500 Index Fund’s 3.2
percent return, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Armed
with those results, Arnott is now planning to stir up the world
of bond funds.  Bond Indexes  As the U.S. and  Europe  struggle with record deficits, the
money manager is building a new set of bond indexes that shun
the world’s most indebted nations and favor developing economies
with smaller obligations.  “Fundamental indexing in bonds may very well be bigger than
in stocks,” Arnott says. “We’re looking now at how a debt burden
affects gross domestic product and capital markets, and it
paints a pretty scary picture.”  Economists and money managers, including Clifford Asness,
founder of AQR Capital Management LLC, the $38.8 billion hedge
fund, have derided Arnott’s indexes. “Rob’s a good guy; he’s
very smart,” says Bogle, who retired as Vanguard’s chairman and
chief executive officer in 1996. “He has beaten the market over
the past five years, but one might want to think about what goes
into that: risk.”  Eugene Fama , a professor of finance at the  University of
Chicago’s Booth School of Business  who helped develop the
efficient market hypothesis, said Arnott’s indexes represent a
triumph of marketing rather than an innovation in investing.  ‘Intellectual Sparring’  In a 2007 interview in the  Journal of Indexes , Fama said
they simply capture the “value effect” by using measures such as
cash flow to select cheaper equities, not unlike what stock
pickers do. In an e-mail in April, Fama said of Arnott’s work,
“My view hasn’t changed.”  In his Newport Beach, California-based office, where he
keeps a first edition of Adam Smith’s “The Wealth of Nations,”
from 1776, Arnott says he enjoys dueling with his adversaries.  “I thrive on the controversy,” Arnott says, smiling behind
his neatly trimmed goatee. “Intellectual sparring is wonderful
fun.”  So is riding motorcycles on  California ’s coastal highway.
Arnott keeps a collection of 20 rare and exotic motorcycles on
hoists in his oversized garage. He says his British Vincent Black
Shadow was the fastest production motorcycle of its era in the
1940s. His Italian Morbidelli 850 V8 is one of four prototypes
produced for what would have been the world’s most expensive
motorcycle. Arnott started riding motorcycles after high school
in Claremont, California, when he couldn’t afford a car. Today,
he confesses to sometimes exceeding 100 miles (160 kilometers)
an hour on long road trips in Southern California.  ‘Pushes the Envelope’  “He pushes the envelope a little bit, although no
wipeouts,” says Bradford Cornell, a visiting professor at
 California Institute of Technology  in  Pasadena  who’s taken
excursions with Arnott. “He’s good at it. He brings to
motorcycles the same sort of competitive verve he brings to
investing.”  Arnott has some of the biggest names in money management on
his side in the debate over fundamental indexing. Bill Gross and
Mohamed El-Erian, the co-chief investment officers of Pacific
Investment Management Co., are so enamored with Arnott that he’s
the only outside  fund manager  they use.  In 2002, Pimco, whose headquarters is about two-and-a-half
blocks down Newport Center Drive from Arnott’s office, hired
Research Affiliates to start and manage its asset allocation
funds.  Mohamed El-Erian  Pimco is also one of more than 20 firms, including San
Francisco-based  Charles Schwab Corp. (SCHW) , that pay Research
Affiliates a licensing fee to use its fundamental indexes. These
firms apply Arnott’s strategy to funds with more than $54
billion in assets.  El-Erian says the criticism of Arnott -- that he practices
active management in the guise of indexing -- is beside the
point.  “The key issue is, rather than be benchmark-centric, any
investment manager should be assessed using three criteria,” El-
Erian, 52, says. “How have they performed in an absolute sense,
how have they done relative to peers and how have they performed
relative to an index.” By these measures, Arnott is succeeding,
with his funds doing well for investors and beating benchmarks,
El-Erian says.  Arnott’s next undertaking -- fundamental indexes for bonds
-- is in line with Pimco’s outlook of a prolonged period of
subdued returns in developed nations due to record levels of
debt. Arnott has maintained that view as stimulus measures by
the  Federal Reserve  have helped U.S. stocks almost double
through May 9 from a March 2009 low.  Arnott’s 3Ds  To design his new bond indexes, Arnott is collecting and
testing data using computer models, going back as far as five
decades for the U.S. and about a quarter of a century for 40
other countries. His aim is to map the relationships between
capital market returns and what he calls the “3 Ds”: deficits,
debt and demographics.  Arnott says nations with higher levels of debt and aging
populations, such as the U.S. and  Japan , will produce lower
returns than countries such as  China , where debt and deficits
are under control.  “The only growth we’ve had in the last decade in the U.S.
is deficit spending, which is unsustainable as a source of
prosperity,” Arnott says.  Masquerade Ball  Arnott, whose firm’s 56 employees oversee more than $75
billion in assets, spends his own money with gusto. He and his
wife, Marina, a Russian abstract impressionist artist, rent a
14,000-square-foot (1,300-square-meter) home on a bluff
overlooking the Pacific Ocean in Corona del Mar just south of
 Newport Beach .  Arnott says the California housing market will continue to
fall and at some point he may buy the home, which real-estate
website  Zillow.com  valued at $22.5 million as of early May.  His wine collection with hundreds of bottles includes about
a dozen of the 1982 first-growth Bordeaux, one of the most
prized vintages from the region. Arnott celebrated his 2007
marriage to Marina, his second, with a masquerade ball following
a wedding in southern France.  At a French restaurant in Boston where Arnott is visiting
investors, he seems more like an absent-minded professor than a
motorcycle daredevil. After an hour-long conversation on how the
U.S. is sinking in debt, he hustles out the doorway to another
appointment and leaves his laptop computer behind on the table.  Arnott, who taught finance as a visiting professor at the
 University of California, Los Angeles , from 2001 to 2002, says
he doesn’t carry a smart-phone, to avoid distractions and
because he’d lose it anyway.  Career Break  Arnott has been steeped in quantitative analysis since
1977, when he received a combined bachelor’s degree in
economics, applied mathematics and computer science from the
 University of California, Santa Barbara .  After stints at Salomon Brothers Inc. as global equities
strategist and Trust Services of America Inc., where he was
president and CIO, he was named president of Morris Township,
New Jersey-based  First Quadrant Corp.  in 1988.  In 2001, Arnott gave a speech that grabbed the attention of
Pimco and produced the most important break of his career.
Arnott compared the magic of compound interest to Jesus finding
a one-dollar gold coin on a sidewalk, says John Brynjolfsson, a
former Pimco manager who heard the speech. At 5 percent annual
interest and over 2,000 years, the gold coin would have grown to
the size of Mars’s orbit around the sun, Arnott told the
audience.  Pimco Job  “It certainly was visually captivating, and we all know
that counts for a lot in the real world,” says Brynjolfsson, who
now runs his own Aliso Viejo, California-based investment firm,
Armored Wolf LLC.  Brynjolfsson invited Arnott to give a talk at Pimco later
that year on asset allocation. Bill Gross was at the meeting.
Afterward, Arnott says, he asked Gross if there were ways they
could work together. Gross referred him to Brent Harris, a Pimco
managing director overseeing the firm’s funds group.  Harris offered Arnott a job as an outside and independent
adviser running a new asset allocation fund, which invests in a
mix of stocks, bonds and commodities and protects investors from
inflation.  Pimco expanded it into three funds, the All Asset Fund, the
All Asset All Authority Fund and the institution-only Pimco VIT
All Asset Portfolio. Starting from nothing in 2002, they held a
combined $34 billion by the end of April. Given free rein by
Pimco, Arnott invests exclusively in the firm’s funds, adjusting
the balance depending on his outlook.  Internet Bust  The $22.5 billion All Asset Fund advanced 7.3 percent on an
annual basis in the five years ended on May 9, better than 99
percent of similar funds, Bloomberg data show.  Arnott’s Pimco affiliation gave him instant credibility
with investors, helping him start Research Affiliates in 2002.
Soon after, Arnott began developing fundamental indexing by
examining the Internet boom and bust of 2000. During the years
leading up to the bubble, indexes automatically loaded up on hot
tech stocks in proportion to their expanding market cap.  In 1996, Cisco Systems Inc. amounted to just 0.4 percent of
the cap-weighted Standard & Poor’s 500 Index. By 2000, the stock
had become 4 percent of the entire index. When tech stocks
collapsed that year, they took down the index funds with them.  In hunting for a better way to index, Arnott hired Jason Hsu in 2002 as a co-founder and researcher. Hsu had just
received a doctorate in finance from UCLA and would later become
the firm’s CIO. Hsu, Arnott and another colleague tested many
key measures of company performance, including unconventional
ones such as the number of employees, to design their index.  ‘Instant Skepticism’  They eventually settled on  cash flow , dividends, sales and
book value -- or the value of total assets minus liabilities --
as the best indicators and assigned a value to them to determine
how much weight to give a stock in the index. During test runs
of the index, it beat the  S&P 500  by two percentage points over
a 43-year span.  “It was almost too good to be true, so our reaction was one
of instant skepticism,” Hsu, 37, says. “As we went back and
double-checked, we realized that you have to really try hard
to underperform the S&P 500.”  Arnott and his associates went public with their findings
in 2005 in the  CFA Institute’s Financial Analysts Journal . Even
before that, some fund managers were intrigued enough to invest
money. The  South Dakota Investment Council , a state pension fund
that oversees $10 billion, in 2004 switched $100 million from
S&P 500 futures into a fundamental index fund.  Contrarian Streak  The council said it beat old-fashioned, market-cap-weighted
funds by two percentage points within the first six months.  As investors started buying fundamental index funds,
traditionalists publicly attacked them. Bogle, now president of
Vanguard’s  Bogle Financial Markets Research Center , and Burton Malkiel, a Princeton University economics professor, penned a
column in the Wall Street Journal in June 2006 criticizing
fundamental index funds for charging higher management fees and
expenses that were five to 10 times as much as those levied by
traditional index funds.  Arnott says his index fees are nowhere near that high. The
PowerShares fund based on Arnott’s methodology charges 0.39
percent in fees. That’s higher than the 0.17 percent expense
ratio on Vanguard’s index fund but about half of the 0.77
percent charged by the average U.S. equity fund.  Chasing Eclipses  Arnott’s contrarian streak has worked to his advantage at
Pimco. As the global recession in early 2009 hammered markets,
investors fled all but the safest government-backed bonds. John Cavalieri, an executive vice president at Pimco, says Arnott
went in the opposite direction.  He added to his investments in high-yield bonds for the All
Asset Fund after saying that the spreads to own the high-yield
bonds relative to Treasuries were the widest since the Great
Depression. The fund rose 23 percent that year, a return that
was comparable to stock market returns, with less than 10
percent of the fund invested in the stocks, says Cavalieri, who
oversees the funds that Arnott manages.  “He delivered equity-like returns with just a fraction of
the volatility of the stock market,” Cavalieri says.  The manager chases solar eclipses almost as often as he
pursues new investing ideas. An amateur astronomer since grade
school, he’s traveled to see 11 of the 14 total solar eclipses
that have occurred since 1991 through June. Arnott even
chartered a six-seat turboprop plane in July 2009 in the
Himalayan kingdom of Bhutan to get above the rain clouds and see
that month’s eclipse.  Japan’s Debt  He’s already booked 10 rooms in a hotel in northern
 Australia  in November 2012 to catch an upcoming one.  “It’s a hobby that helps me go to places I wouldn’t think
of going to otherwise,” Arnott says.  In 2007, Arnott began developing his latest obsession:
fundamental indexes for bonds. Just like equities that are over-
weighted in cap-weighted index funds because they’re popular,
Arnott says indexes that track sovereign and corporate debt have
the biggest slices devoted to large borrowers who gorge on debt.  “If you’re a bond investor, you’re a lender,” Arnott says.
“If you’re a cap-weight bond investor, you’re just lending more
to whoever is more deeply in hock.”  Japan, whose $10.95 trillion in public debt ranks first
among industrialized countries, occupies the biggest portion of
indexes that track the global bond markets. The nation accounts
for more than one-fifth of the benchmark Barclays Capital Global
Treasury Ex-US Capped Index.  Junk-Bond Index  With Japan’s public debt at about twice the size of the
nation’s GDP, investors in bond indexes are automatically
investing in a borrower that rests on a shaky economic
foundation.  Arnott’s bond indexes make investments based on measures of
a borrower’s health, such as GDP, assets available to service
debt, a nation’s land mass and energy consumption. So far, just
one firm has licensed Arnott’s bond index. Last year, Atlanta-
based  Invesco Ltd. (IVZ)  converted an existing exchange-traded-bond
fund into the new  PowerShares Fundamental High Yield Corporate
Bond Portfolio. (PHB)   The fund returned 8.9 percent from August 2, when Invesco
made the switch, through May 9. That’s less than the 11.7
percent increase in State Street Corp.’s  SPDR Barclays Capital
High Yield Bond ETF (JNK) , which tracks the cap-weighted index of junk
bonds.  Motorcycle Skills  When he’s not poring over financial data, Arnott clears his
head by taking one of his motorcycles for a spin. He doesn’t
worry about his own driving skills so much as everyone else’s.  “It’s safest to assume that others are out to get you,
because once in a while, they are,” Arnott says.  After taking barbs from some of the titans of the financial
world, Arnott’s distrust may be understandable. As he licenses
his new bond indexes, money managers will likely launch more
attacks at him, creating the kind of heated debate that keeps
Arnott racing ahead.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sree Vidya Bhaktavatsalam in Boston at 
 sbhaktavatsa@bloomberg.net 
Seth Lubove in  Los Angeles  at 
 slubove@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net 
Laura Colby in  New York  at 
 lcolby@bloomberg.net . 