-- 
Treasuries, Dollar Drop on Concern U.S. Government Debt Rating in Jeopardy

-- B y   M i c h a e l   P .   R e g a n   a n d   E l i z a b e t h   S t a n t o n
-- 
2011-06-02T20:07:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-02/asian-stocks-metals-slump-on-worsening-growth-outlook-as-won-yen-weaken.html
U.S. Treasuries and the dollar fell
as Moody’s Investors Service said it may put the government’s
Aaa credit rating on review for a downgrade if there is no
agreement on the debt-limit debate. Stocks fell, building on the
biggest Standard & Poor’s 500 Index retreat since August.  Yields on 10-year Treasuries climbed to 3.04 percent at 4
p.m. in New York, from 3.01 percent before the Moody’s
announcement and a six-month low of 2.94 percent yesterday. The
euro climbed as much as 1.3 percent to $1.4514, the strongest
level since May 6. The  S&P 500 , which tumbled 2.3 percent
yesterday amid concern the economic recovery is faltering, lost
0.1 percent to 1,312.94.  Treasury prices and the dollar extended losses after
Moody’s said it expects to place the U.S. rating on review if no
progress is made on increasing the government’s debt limit in
coming weeks. The Aaa rating will be kept if the threshold is
increased, and a “credible agreement” on substantial deficit
cuts would support a continued stable outlook, Moody’s said.  “In this event you wouldn’t expect it to be a real
default, but a political or technical default,” said Brett Rose, interest-rate strategist at Citigroup Global Markets in
New York. “The worst case could still be bad. You could still
see a 50 basis point move in rates because of a technical
default, but many would see that as a buying opportunity.”  Debt Ceiling  Two-year Treasury yields climbed three basis points to 0.46
percent and the rate on the 30-year bond jumped 11 basis points
to 4.25 percent. The Dollar Index, a gauge of the currency
against six major peers, lost 0.5 percent to 74.305.  A bill that would raise the U.S. debt limit by $2.4
trillion failed to win House passage May 31 in a vote Democrats
said was rigged to ensure its defeat. In April, S&P put the U.S.
government on notice that it risks losing its AAA credit rating
unless policy makers agree on a plan by 2013 to reduce budget
deficits and the national debt.  Republicans who control the  House of Representatives 
announced the vote last week as a way to demonstrate that
lawmakers don’t support extending the $14.3 trillion debt limit
unless agreement is reached with President Barack Obama’s
administration on significant spending cuts. Treasury Secretary
 Timothy Geithner  has warned that a failure to raise the debt
ceiling by Aug. 2, the date he now projects borrowing authority
would be exhausted, may have catastrophic effects on the  U.S.
economy  by sharply raising borrowing costs.  Six-Week Low  The S&P 500 remained near a six-week low as retailers fell
after reporting disappointing sales and economists cut forecasts
for U.S. payroll gains in May, adding to evidence the global
economy is slowing amid  Europe ’s debt crisis and the aftermath
of  Japan ’s worst earthquake.  Gap Inc. (GPS) , J.C. Penney Co. and Limited Brands Inc. lost at
least 2.2 percent to pace declines in 25 of 31 stocks in the S&P
500 Retailing Index after monthly sales trailed estimates
following a surge in gasoline prices.  The S&P 500 has tumbled 3.7 percent from a nearly three-
year high at the end of April as data on manufacturing and
housing trailed economists’ estimates and investors prepared for
the  Federal Reserve  to complete its $600 billion bond-purchase
program at the end of June.  The index started the session trading at 13.3 times the
estimated 2011 earnings of its companies, Bloomberg data show.  Payrolls Report  More Americans than forecast filed applications for
 unemployment benefits  last week, Labor Department data showed
today. Tomorrow’s monthly payrolls data may show employers added
170,000 jobs in May, following a 244,000 increase in April,
economists forecast. Economists predicted a gain of 185,000
before yesterday’s ADP Employer Services report showed companies
added 38,000 jobs last month, less than a quarter of the median
estimate in a survey of economists.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index dropped 1.3 percent to the
lowest level since April 19 as all 19 industry groups retreated.
Rio Tinto Group helped lead losses among basic-resource
producers, falling 2.6 percent.  Kingfisher Plc (KGF) , Britain’s
largest home-improvement retailer, slid 1 percent after
reporting earnings that missed some analysts’ estimates.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index decreased 0.6 percent.
Benchmark indexes in  China ,  South Korea  and  South Africa  dropped
more than 1 percent.  Peru’s benchmark stock index jumped 7.2 percent, the most
since 2008, after polls showed former army renegade Ollanta
Humala hasn’t taken a lead over Congresswoman Keiko Fujimori in
opinion polls before this weekend’s presidential runoff. The
polls eased concern that Humala would be elected and increase
state control over the economy.  Vietnam ’s VN Index jumped 3.4 percent, the biggest gain
this year, after the central bank took steps to stabilize the
currency.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael P. Regan in  New York  at 
 mregan12@bloomberg.net ;
Elizabeth Stanton in New York at 
 estanton@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net  