-- 
Asian Airlines Add Planes on Growth as Fuel Costs Force U.S. Flight Cuts

-- B y   R o b e r t   F e n n e r
-- 
2011-06-02T16:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-02/asia-airlines-add-planes-as-u-s-europe-cut-flights-on-fuel.html
Air China Ltd. (753) ,  Cathay Pacific
Airways Ltd. (293)  and  Singapore Airlines Ltd. (SIA)  are adding planes
because of Asian  travel demand  as U.S. and European carriers cut
flights on rising fuel prices.  The Asia-Pacific region’s commercial fleet will surpass
 Europe ’s and North America’s within a decade to become the
world’s biggest, according to Ascend, as economic growth makes
China the world’s fastest-growing air-travel market. By
contrast,  Ryanair Holdings Plc (RYA)  and  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  are
paring services because of higher fuel prices and slower demand.  “A strong economy is really boosting traffic” in  Asia ,
 Giovanni Bisignani , head of the  International Air Transport
Association , told reporters yesterday in  Singapore . The airline
group’s annual general meeting opens in the city on June 6.  Asia-Pacific carriers will accept about 37 percent of new
planes over the next decade, more than doubling their proportion
of the global fleet to 30 percent, according to Ascend.  North
America ’s share will decline to 27 percent from 35 percent over
the same period, it said. That region will account for 19
percent of new deliveries, it said.  “There would need to be something pretty drastic to take
the momentum away from Asia,” said Eddy Pieniazek, a director
at Ascend in  London , which provides airlines with fleet analysis
and aircraft valuations. “China is in a sweet spot where a lot
of people are finding their wings.”  The nation’s economy will grow 9.6 percent this year and
 India ’s will grow 8.2 percent, according to the  International
Monetary Fund . Europe’s will grow 2 percent, while the U.S. will
expand 2.8 percent, it said.  Cathay Demand  Cathay Pacific,  Hong Kong ’s biggest carrier, plans to boost
passenger and cargo capacity about 10 percent this year, as it
adds new  Boeing Co. (BA)  777 passenger planes and 747-8 freighters.
Its passenger numbers rose 4.1 percent in April, rebounding from
a decline a month earlier caused by the earthquake in  Japan .  “Business travel into Hong Kong this year is up reasonably
well over last year,” the airline’s Chief Executive Officer
John Slosar said last month. “For us, it’s a good trend.”  Singapore Air intends to boost capacity 6 percent in the
year started April 1, helped by the introduction of eight Airbus
SAS A380s. Korean Air Lines Co. and China Southern Airlines Co.
are also adding A380s this year, the first to join their fleets.  Air China, the nation’s largest international carrier,
plans to expand its group fleet to more than 700 planes from
about 400 by 2015, Chairman Kong Dong said in March. The
carrier, including unit Shenzhen Airlines Co., will be the
largest recipient of new planes this year, according to the
 Centre for Asia Pacific Aviation . Nine Chinese airlines are
among the 50 biggest recipients of new planes this year, the
highest number for any country, it said.  Ryanair, Air France  Expansion in Asia contrasts with cuts in Europe. Ryanair,
the region’s biggest low-cost carrier, will park as many as 80
of its 300 planes over the region’s winter months as it reduces
capacity year-on-year for the first time. Delta and partner  Air
France-KLM (AF)  Group are slashing seats on trans-Atlantic services
by 9 percent.  United Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL) , the world’s largest
carrier, has scrapped plans to boost capacity by as much as 2
percent this year and will instead keep the level about the same
as last year. The Chicago-based carrier, which burns about
$25,000 worth of fuel every minute, also plans to ground less-
efficient jets such as Boeing 737-500s and 767-200ERs.  “We’re actively managing and monitoring the demand
environment, looking at the economy and fuel prices as we
prepare for the remainder of the year,” Chief Financial Officer
Zane Rowe said on a May 19 webcast.  Fuel Prices  The price of oil may cause IATA to cut its industry profit
 forecast  for the year from $8.6 billion, which represented a 46
percent decline from a year earlier. The group pared its 2011
forecast from $9.1 billion in March because of rising fuel
costs.  “I’ll just say that there will be a revision,” Bisignani
said yesterday, when asked if the forecast would be lowered. “I
see that price of oil has not come down.”  The group based its March profit forecast on the assumption
that the cost of  Brent crude  would average $96 a barrel. The
price has instead averaged about $111 so far this year as
political protests in the  Middle East  and North Africa disrupt
supplies and growth in  China  and India boosts demand.  Fuel will represent 29 percent of airline expenses in 2011,
the second-highest proportion on record, and more than double
the level ten years ago,  according to IATA .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Fenner in Melbourne 
 rfenner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  