-- 
Australians Buy Superyachts Like ‘Kids in Candy Shop’ Amid Record Currency

-- B y   G e m m a   D a l e y
-- 
2011-06-02T14:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-02/australians-snap-up-superyachts-as-record-currency-slashes-costs.html
The number of Australians who own
superyachts more than tripled in the past five years as the
nation’s biggest mining boom in a century drove up its currency
to a record, enhancing a drop in prices caused by a supply glut.  Some 110 Australians possess vessels exceeding 98 feet (30
meters) in length, up from about 30 acquirers five years ago as
a 42 percent gain in the currency and slower demand in the U.S.
slashed the prices they pay by 70 percent, according to
Australian Superyachts, a group of companies that brokers,
staffs and services the boats.  “The stars have aligned and created a window of
opportunity for Australian buyers,” said Richard Morris, chief
executive officer of Sydney-based Australian Superyachts.
“They’re like kids in a candy shop.”  China  and  India ’s booming demand for Australian resources
is spurring the nation toward its 20th year of expansion. The
combined wealth of the nation’s 200 richest people expanded 23
percent over the past year as surging iron ore prices helped
make Gina Rinehart the first woman to be ranked as the nation’s
richest person and the first Australian with a fortune exceeding
A$10 billion ($10.6 billion), according to BRW magazine.  The Australian dollar climbed to $1.1012 on May 2, the
highest level since exchange controls were scrapped in 1983,
aided by the  Reserve Bank  of  Australia ’s seven interest-rate
increases since October 2009. The currency was at $1.0615 as of
3:39 p.m. in Sydney yesterday.  Aussie Dollar  Morris negotiated this year for an Australian who bought a
150-foot boat in  Florida  for A$6 million, with the price
dropping from the initial A$7.4 million sought partly because
the Australian currency rose from 98 U.S. cents to $1.10 during
purchase discussions.  “The seller wasn’t a distressed seller, he wanted the
money,” Morris said. “U.S. boatyards are full at the moment,
some of which are vessels that have been repossessed, and
Australia’s booming economy has produced buyers looking for a
bargain.”  The value of minerals and energy projects being developed
in Australia, the world’s largest shipper of coal and iron ore,
rose 31 percent to a record as a mining boom drives the A$1.3
trillion economy.  Retail sales rose in April by the most in 17 months as the
economy recovers from its worst quarterly contraction in two
decades. The sales report, released yesterday, supports the
central bank’s forecast for the economy to accelerate after
floods caused it to shrink 1.2 percent in the first quarter.  Mining Wealth  “The bulk of these new buyers are from the  mining
industry ,” Morris said, without divulging details of the
buyers. “They are very secretive and these yachts are bought
and sold in a discrete manner.”  The government of Western Australian state, which accounts
for 97 percent of the nation’s iron ore production, in November
called for expressions of interest to  develop  Rous Head Harbor
marina at Perth’s Fremantle port to cope with larger yachts.  Both Rinehart and  Andrew Forrest , founder of  Fortescue
Metals Group Ltd. (FMG)  and Australia’s third-richest individual, hail
from Western Australia and depend on iron ore for their wealth.
Australia has 35 billionaires, up from 30, BRW said last month
when publishing its annual list of the country’s 200 richest.  Prime Minister Julia Gillard has said the high currency is
a burden on some parts of the economy, including manufacturers
and exporters.  There are currently 4,385 superyachts in the world,
boasting a full-time professional crew, according to statistics
compiled by Lorenzo Pollicardo, Yachting Division Manager of
Italian-based consultancy  The Docks .  Current owners of the yachts include Crown Ltd. Chairman
 James Packer  and  Premier Investments Ltd. (PMV) ’s Solomon Lew and
Seven Group Holdings Ltd’s  Kerry Stokes , according to Morris.  “The buyers used to come from  North America  and  Europe  and
now Asia is taking over,” Morris said. “There is a huge market
in China as their household wealth grows.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gemma Daley in Canberra at 
 gdaley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  