-- 
Australia Services Industry Contracts in May on Record Currency

-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 
2011-06-02T23:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-02/australia-services-industry-contracts-in-may-on-record-currency.html
Australia ’s services industry
contracted in May as a record-high currency and consumer caution
hurt companies excluded from the resources boom, a survey showed.  The performance of services index fell to 49.9 from 51.5 in
April,  Commonwealth Bank of Australia (CBA)  and the Australian
Industry Group said in Sydney today. A figure below 50 indicates
contraction.  The nation’s service providers are lagging behind the
 mining industry , which is expanding to meet Chinese demand for
raw materials and pushing the job market near a level the
government views as full employment. The Australian currency
reached $1.1012 on May 2, the highest since it was freely
floated in 1983.  “The economy remains lopsided with the combination of the
exchange rate and caution on the part of households, preventing
a more widespread recovery taking hold,” Australian Industry
Group Chief Executive Officer  Heather Ridout  said in a statement.
“The RBA should err on the side of caution when it next reviews
monetary policy.”  Interbank cash rate futures show investors see a 10 percent
chance the central bank will raise rates to 5 percent from 4.75
percent when it meets on June 7.  The index’s gauge for sales advanced to 53.2 from 48.2, and
the reading for new orders slid to 49.4 from 49.9. The wages
indicator dropped to 58.5 from 64.5, the report showed.  Today’s report, based on a poll of about 200 companies, is
similar to the U.S. non-manufacturing ISM index.  The report measures sales, new orders, deliveries,
inventories and employment for companies such as banks, real-
estate agents, insurers, restaurants, transport firms and
retailers to compile the overall performance of services index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  