-- 
Lavrov Says BRICS Nations Gain Support in IMF Bid (Transcript)

-- B y  
-- 
2011-06-02T17:13:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-02/lavrov-says-brics-nations-gain-support-in-imf-bid-transcript-.html
Russian Foreign Minister Sergei
Lavrov discusses the outlook for the leadership of the
 International Monetary Fund .  Lavrov , speaking yesterday in Moscow with Bloomberg’s Henry Meyer,  Brad Cook  and Ilya Arkhipov, also
talks about bilateral relations with the U.S., Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi  and the political unrest in Syria.  (This is not a legal transcript. Bloomberg LP cannot
guarantee its accuracy.)  QUESTION: Mr. Foreign Minister, I was at the G-8 Summit in France last week where Russia hijacked the
official agenda with its initiative to mediate Colonel Qaddafi. What happened? Did President Obama ask President
Medvedev to help NATO get out of the mess it’s in, in Libya?  LAVROV: It wasn’t the Russian initiative. It was a request,
an appeal from President Sarkozy, from President Obama, from
other participants. And this was not about something new us
because in the past few weeks we strongly supported the
mediation efforts by the  African Union  and by the  United
Nations ’ Secretary General Special Envoy, Mr. Habib.  And in support of those first we had been talking to
various parties. Actually, authorities from Tripoli and the
people from Benghazi addressed a [peril] of request to us to be
received in Moscow. And I met with the representatives of both
the authorities in Tripoli, and the representative of the people
in Benghazi and also with Mr. Habib, the Special Envoy of the
United Nations who visited Moscow.  And when in Deauville this issue was discussed the position
of Russia, who among all the participants was probably the only
one keeping contacts with both Tripoli and Benghazi, the
position of  Russia  was appreciated as allowing for further
efforts to promote a cease fire and to promote a deal which
would be acceptable to all mediums. Actually, from Deauville
itself I talked over the phone with the Libyan Prime Minister,
who called me and wanted to talk.  And I explained to him what we think about the whole thing,
the G-8 countries, about the process which should be underway
and should lead to a compromised solution allowing for getting
out of this deadlock, stopping the war, building national
reconciliation, preparing for elections and so on.  And as far as the continued contacts with the Benghazi people are concerned, the Special Envoy of the President
of Russia, Mr. Margelov, would be going there very soon. And we keep open all our channels of communications,
especially with the African Union. The President of South Africa, Jacob Zuma, twice talked to President Medvedev
over the phone before his visit to  Libya  and immediately after. So I hope that the accumulated effort of all those
who want to see an end to the hostilities and the beginning of the construction of a new Libya would bring results.  QUESTION: What kind of guarantees are going to have to be
offered to Colonel Qaddafi to persuade him to step down,
immunity from prosecution of the ICC?  LAVROV: This is the question which should not be addressed
to us. It should be addressed to the Libyan people and to the
coalition as far as I understand, and of course to the African
Union. We are not engaged in negotiating any deals of immunity
or guarantees. This is not part of our effort.  QUESTION: According to your understanding, though, what do
you think the minimum that he will settle for?  LAVROV: I don’t know. I really don’t know. Each person is
unique, but I can tell you without revealing too many secrets
that the leaders of countries who can influence the situation
are actively discussing the possibilities.  QUESTION: So there is a formula which being discussed?  LAVROV: That’s what I told you. The - there are
possibilities which are being discussed.  QUESTION: Is he going to be allowed to go into exile or
stay in Libya?  LAVROV: This is not what we are discussing. We are not
discussing any details of whatever guarantees might be offered
to him.  QUESTION: President Medvedev at his press conference at
Skolkovo last month said that Russia will not back a UN
resolution condemning  Syria  after Western powers abused Russia’s
trust in the resolution over Libya that also has military action
there. Prime Minister Putin, according to the White House, would
have blocked that Libya resolution if he had still been
president. With the benefit of hindsight, do you think that
blocking that resolution might actually have been the better
history?  LAVROV: I don’t know. I don’t know who in the White House
told you so. The vote on the resolution 1973, when we abstained
was agreed by the Russian leadership during the procedures,
which exist for these purposes.  And we coordinated this position with the BRIC countries
and  Germany  joined us, which was an important signal that not
everything in that resolution was okay. We shared the goal of
declaring a no-fly zone, which meant, at least it meant in  Iraq 
when the no-fly zone of Iraq was declared, that the Air Force
cannot use their space to attack civilian targets. And it’s only
the war planes of the regime up in the air, which were the
legitimate targets.  That’s why we wanted, while having supported the no-fly
zone goal we wanted the paragraph which described the means to
achieve this goal to be as specific as necessary. And the size-
less description of all means necessary, anyone who wants to do
it can do this and can do whatever he or she pleases, it’s
really going very far beyond the declared goal and the purposes
of the resolution, goes very far beyond the original request of
the Arab League.  So from now on, and we informed our colleagues in the
Security Council already, from now on whenever somebody would
like to get authorization to use force to achieve a shared goal
by all of us, we would have to specify in the resolution who
this somebody is, who is going to use this authorization, what
are the rules of the engagement and what are the limits of the
use of force. This is a generic position. It is not just for a
Syrian case or for any other case. It’s for the future. This
would be our very firm approach.  As for Syria, there is a resolution of the United Nations
Human Rights Council, which authorized investigation. And this
should be followed on.  As for the Security Council engagement in Syrian case, we
don’t think it’s necessary at all. First, the situation does not
present a threat to international peace and security, the issues
which are on the agenda with the Security Council.  Second, Syria is a very important country in the  Middle
East  and destabilizing Syria would have repercussions far beyond
its borders. So it could do the opposite effect. We don’t see
any threat to international peace and security now, but if we
interfere with the Syrian domestic matters there might be quite
considerable consequences, at least regionally.  And we strongly support the need for reform in Syria.
President Medvedev talked to President al-Assad twice, once in
April and the second time just a few days ago. And we are
gratified that our appeals have been heard because we encourage
strongly President al-Assad to start implementing in practice
the reforms which he announced.  And recently he published a draft of a new constitution. He
declared amnesty for political prisoners and I think this should
calm down the situation and would encourage their position to
sit down and to start talking about implementation of those
reforms.  It is not in the interest of anyone to send messages to
their position in Syria or elsewhere that if you reject all
reasonable offers we will come and help you, as we do in Libya.
It would be a very wrong and very dangerous message, so I hope
the Libyan case would remain unique.  QUESTION: But some people who are say outside the palace
may be encouraging the protests in Syria in order to remove al-
Assad and reduce Iranian influence in the region. What do you
think about that?  LAVROV: I just directly said that this is a very wrong
posture to give their position signals that if they persist in
their refusal to negotiate then they will get foreign military
help. It’s a very dangerous position.  QUESTION: Which countries do you have in mind that may be -  LAVROV: Any, any. It’s unacceptable for any country to plan
some type of action like this.  QUESTION: Russia hosted Palestinian factions recently.
There are talks going on, on the formation of an interim unity
government. How is that going and do you know which will be the
main figures in this new government?  LAVROV: No. Obviously it’s for the Palestinians to decide.
And before the Palestinian factions came here the indication of
the Institute of Oriental Studies on the Russian Academy of
Sciences of course the leaders of all Palestinian factions
signed a deal in Cairo, which we strongly supported. And I hope
this would now be translated into practical steps. At least
that’s what we told our Palestinian interlocutors when they came
to this room, actually, after their two or three-day conference
in the Academy of Sciences.  It is very important to stick to the understanding which
they reached that the government would be technical government
composed of technocrats, not politicians, not of people who have
some [budge] affiliations, and that this government would have
very limited mandate, mostly to prepare for the elections and do
on day-to-day things providing services to the people. So the
elections I hope would be held soon.  It is up to the Palestinians to agree on the dates and the
schedule. And I hope that after the election the Palestinians
would have a parliament and the president who would be firmly
based in their policies on the platform of the Palestinian
Liberation Organization and on the Arab Peace Initiative.  This was a very important element of our discussions with
them and those factions accepted this approach, which is quite
important because PLO platform recognizes  Israel  and recognizes
all existing agreements. And the Arab Peace Initiative modelizes
(ph) behind this position the entire Arab world.  QUESTION: Do you think that Mr. Fayyad and Mr. Hania will
have a role in this techno kind of -?  LAVROV: Not for me to decide on this, as I said.  QUESTION: Let’s go to Iran now. It has been rather pushed
out of the limelight by the events elsewhere in the Middle East
over the last six months. Are you concerned about the impasse in
talks over Iran’s nuclear program? And would Russia soften its
opposition to additional UN sanctions against Iran if there is
no progress made in these talks?  LAVROV: Well, we - normally we try to stick accurately to
the agreed positions with our partners. The reposition of the
Three plus Three group, or Five plus One group, whatever you
prefer, was that we use the deal track approach negotiations and
international pressure, the international pressure being
conceived for the sole purpose to encourage Iran to negotiate,
and the Security Council to be used in support of IAEA to
sanction in a very targeted way those parts of the Iranian
government structure and those persons in Iran who are directly
involved in the nuclear program, just to send the message and to
exert pressure.  So with the adoption of a resolution in June last year all
considerable areas having anything to do with the nuclear
program have been targeted already. So any new sanctions would
have nothing to do with the original purpose of the exercise and
would in fact be aimed at suffocating the Iranian economy.  Consideration number two, when we agreed collectively to go
to the Security Council and to endorse sanctions in support of
IAEA demands to Iran, we have been repeatedly saying that we
must stick together, and the Americans and the Europeans were
telling us the same. And while we painfully negotiated the last
resolution, it touches upon quite a number of areas which are of
economic interest to Russia, to  China , to some other countries,
so it was not easy to negotiate.  So and we did eventually reach a deal. Our friends in the
 United States  and in  Europe  immediately added their own
unilateral packages, in fact introducing those very sanctions
which during the negotiations in the Security Council they
agreed to drop. It’s not a very decent approach to negotiating a
collective position.  So with all these considerations we don’t see any
possibility for additional international universal sanctions on
Iran, but your first question, whether we are concerned with the
lack of negotiating momentum, yes, we are. And we have been
encouraging our partners in Three plus Three group not to make
this pause too long and not to forget about the need to come
back to the negotiating table.  At the beginning of the year there were two meetings between Three plus Three, headed by Cathy Ashton, and
Iranian delegation which did not produce any practical result, but which were important to understand that unless
we become creative we would not be able to move. After all with North Korea the Americans show quite a lot of
creativity and similar intellectual effort could be made on Iran, Israel.  Last November we suggested to our partners in Three plus
Three that the basic position paper, which we gave to Iran I
think a couple of years ago, could be additioned by some kind of
a road map, which would describe a step-by-step approach and the
logic, which I would call action for action. Iran does something
specific, for example resuming the application of additional
protocol to the safeguards agreement with IAEA, and we say -
agree not to introduce any new unilateral sanctions.  And then when Iran does something else, expanding the
access for IAEA to the places where the agency want to go, then
we suspend sanctions, and so on and so forth. The Three plus
Three group accepted the logic of step by step and this
reciprocity approach, but we have to be specific and show to
Iran that if it cooperates, if it answers satisfactorily the
IAEA demands, then it should see the light at the end of the
road.  QUESTION: Russia’s assessment of how soon Iran could
acquire a nuclear bomb.  LAVROV: We don’t have any proof that Iran has taken a
political decision to produce a bomb. And whatever information
IAEA has does not support the conclusion that Iran already is
making a bomb. IAEA has access to all sites which Iran legally
must show to the inspectors.  Iran does not apply, as I said, additional protocol and
modified Code 3.1, which are not obligatory, but which I think
are very important, especially for Iran because apart from its
rights under the Non-Proliferation Treaty Iran has quite
important obligations, obligations related to the need to ensure
exclusively peaceful nature of nuclear program, and there are
some questions and the international community wants to clarify.  So the IAEA resolutions, the Security Council resolutions
are aimed exactly at this and they must be implemented, but Iran
must see the light at the end of the tunnel, as I said. And the
conclusions of the agency would be the crucial criteria. So far,
as I said, they cannot confirm exclusively a peaceful nature of
the Iranian nuclear program, but they cannot conclude that the
Iranian nuclear program has a military vein much (ph). So it’s a
process which can only be successful if we account, not only use
sanctions and threats, but on negotiations, as any other
situation in the world actually.  QUESTION: Prime Minister Putin has been invited President
Obama to visit the United States this autumn. What is he going
to discuss there?  LAVROV: Well, I think it was discussed during Vice
President Biden visit. And whenever Russian and American
presidents, Russian Prime Minister and American leadership meet
they discuss the entire range of issues on the bilateral, and
regional and international agenda. So if I start really
explaining it would take a couple of hours.  QUESTION: Do we know when he is coming?  LAVROV: Not to my knowledge.  QUESTION: But are you working on his agenda?  LAVROV: Well, this was mentioned, but I never heard any
follow up to this. This would have to be handled by respective
protocol services.  QUESTION: President Medvedev said last week in Deauville that he wants BRICs to have the number two job
at the IMF. If Mrs. Lagarde replaces Dominique Strauss-Kahn, has this agreement now been reached with the US
and the EU? Do you have any candidates for this position?  Brazil  is reportedly interested in filling that job.  LAVROV: It’s a matter of principle. The IMF is under a
continued reform process. This reform is not yet finished. The
entire thrust of the reform is to give more voice to the
countries, to the emerging economies who accumulate more
financial and economic power. And this fact must reflect it in
the IMF structure, including the structure of the IMF
Secretariat. And for the BRICs countries to have a position of a
deputy executive director I think is a very logical request, and
it was considered as very legitimate by all the participants of
the G-8 with whom President Medvedev discussed this possibility.  QUESTION: But no specific candidate in mind at the moment.  LAVROV: Not to my knowledge. There is a candidate we should
mention. There is - there are not other candidates, but we want
as a first step to have a decision in principle because the
position we talk about it must be created. It’s a new position.
We don’t want to fire any existing deputy executive directors.  QUESTION: Will Mrs. Lagarde serve her term only the end of Dominique Strauss-Kahn’s original term, or will
she get the full term as, well, Brazil is with (inaudible) condition?  LAVROV: Look, look, look. I don’t run this show in the
Russian, on the Russian side on international. I just don’t know
how this would be handled.  QUESTION: Prime Minister Putin has described the
circumstances surrounding Mr. Strauss-Kahn’s arrest as
mindboggling. And he said he doubted the official version of
events. More than half of French people think that Mr. Strauss-
Kahn was a victim of some elaborate setup. What’s your view?  LAVROV: Frankly, I don’t have any position which would be
firm. It’s a very strange situation whatever is the angle you
look at it. And I just read it as I read it, not as somebody who
would be judging what actually happened.  QUESTION: So you don’t think that there is something fishy
about -  LAVROV: I answered your question.  QUESTION: Very good. Mikhail Khodorkovsky is asking to be freed on parole. Foreign investors say that such
a step would restore their faith in the rule of law in Russia and would help to persuade them to put their money
here. Do you sympathize at all with that point of view?  LAVROV: Well, I can only repeat what was stated very often
that the entire case must be dealt with on the basis of the
Russian legal system. Whatever you think of the system, we don’t
have any other. We see its deficiencies. The President addresses
this issue regularly and undertakes initiative to make it
better. It will take time.  But any case like Mr. Khodorkovsky case must get addressed
only on the basis of the Russian legal system, which provides
for the possibility, by the way, for anyone who is not satisfied
to go to the European Court on Human Rights, which recently
ruled in favor of Mr. Khodorkovsky request for the compensation
of more of difficulties, whatever is the term, and for the -
some court expenses, but which clearly stated that they don’t
see any reason to call it a political case.  QUESTION: Is that a vindication for the Russian legal
system?  LAVROV: It’s a verdict of the European Court on Human
Rights.  QUESTION: How much do you think Belarus may need to borrow
from the Eurasian Economic Community -?  LAVROV: Who?  QUESTION: Belarus, to stabilize its economy? Initially
Russia was talking about a figure of $3 billion, but there is
now a figure of $9 billion being floated out there.  LAVROV: Well, the answer to the question how much Belarus
should borrow is a subject in negotiations between Belarus and
other members of the Eurasian Community Anti-Crisis Fund.  QUESTION: What’s holding up an agreement on a bailout
package and how soon do you think that could be reached?  LAVROV: As soon as an agreement is reached, as soon as all
parties are satisfied, -  QUESTION: You’re not -  LAVROV: - like in any other negotiations on a bailout, a
credit.  QUESTION: You are not aware of any particular issues
holding up the negotiations?  LAVROV: No, no. If you think that I am running all
imaginable issues with our international partners then you
better read the paper which said - which describes the functions
of the Russian Foreign Ministry.  QUESTION: U.K. Prime Minister David Cameron is due in Moscow in September. It’s the first visit by a U.K.
head of government since the assassination of  Alexander Litvinenko  in 2006. How significant is it for bilateral
relations?  LAVROV: I think it’s a first visit for a much longer
period. Any visit of a leader of a country with whom we have
relations and this while we want to develop these relations is
important. President Medvedev invited Prime Minister Cameron and
we agreed that this visit would take place in September.  We will discuss the further increase of our trade and of
mutual investments, which are booming. U.K. is the - one of the
leading partners of Russia as far as trade and investments are
concerned. We will discuss our very fruitful cooperation in
quite a number of international formats, including on Iran,
including in the United Nations Security Council, G-8, G20, you
name it.  And certainly we will discuss promotion of our cultural
exchanges, which are very popular along the British subjects and
in Russia. So the agenda is quite rich. And we hope that we will
be also encouraging our British partners to move after the other
EU members and after the United States to discuss with us a
mutual facilitation of travel for our citizens.  QUESTION: Will there be a reciprocal visit? Will President
Medvedev or Prime Minister Putin be traveling to the U.K.
anytime soon?  LAVROV: We are very polite people and unless invited we are
not really speculating on these things.  QUESTION: What’s your opinion of William Browder’s (ph) campaign over the Magnitsky case? Do you think
has the potential to cast a shadow again over U.K./Russia ties?  LAVROV: Well, I don’t think the British government is very
obsessed with the campaign you mentioned. So I have not noticed
any serious influence on practical development of our
relationship.  QUESTION: If we can return to the first issue we discussed, Libya, Mikhail Margelov, as you mentioned, is
going to Benghazi shortly. President Medvedev said he will also court contacts with the Libyan leadership. Do you
have any details on when and where that might happen?  LAVROV: As I mentioned to you on that very day when this
was announced and dotted, I talked to the Prime Minister of
Libya, Mr. Mahmudi, and conveyed to him everything what needed
to be conveyed, so we don’t exclude the contacts with Tripoli
people in the future, but you are becoming to go in circles,
right? You are out of the questions?  QUESTION: No, no, no, no. This is -  LAVROV: Because I don’t have too much time.  QUESTION: Was at - President Obama was getting (ph) to this
Russia. And he is going to make happen and say full preparation
phase. And what do you expect for this visit?  LAVROV: Well, about expectations, of course I answered
already. It’s a whole range of bilateral, regional and
international issues. Yes, President Obama was invited to
Russia. He was invited by President Medvedev when President
Medvedev visited  Washington  last year. And we hope very much
that before the end of this year this visit will take place.  I was also invited to Washington by  Hillary Clinton  to discuss the preparations for the Summit and we are now
considering the dates, sometime in the summer for me to go. And hopefully soon we would also get some
indication about the dates for President Obama’s visit.  QUESTION: Is very likely to happen. You are very hopeful.  LAVROV: Look, I feel like being stupid or unable to explain
myself because every time I think I answered, you keep repeating
the original question. Sorry if I was not very clear on this and
previous occasions.  QUESTION: Sorry, final question. These deal to by Mistral
contract from  France , which was announced in W, is there going
to be a technology transfer? Is that your understanding under
this comment?  LAVROV: It’s not what I understand. That’s what was
announced by President Sarkozy and President Medvedev.  QUESTION: What is your message to simplism (ph) reform and
what is your investment-oriented message as head of the Foreign
Ministry? And as we know, both the President and the Prime
Minister stressed recently the importance that Foreign Ministry
activity in Balkan (ph) created a more attractive investment
which of Russia one side, and on another side helping Russian
business to go abroad, to expand its activities.  LAVROV: Well, I think the main message is for the investors
to come and see for themselves. The main message for investors
is to read carefully what President Medvedev says and what he
commits himself and the Russian government to by way of specific
measures to improve the investment climate.  You cannot just give investors an order to come and invest.
They must take the decisions on the basis of their own
assessment of the situation. Come and see. Many have come
already and we are very gratified that quite a number of
American leading companies like Microsoft, Google, Wi Inc (ph),
Cisco Systems are working in Scolkovo already or are planning to
do this in very practical terms. Innovation and high-tech
projects is what we want, is what we need to diversify the
economy to make it less reliable on hydrocarbons and other raw
materials. So that’s the main message.  Come and see and many not only come, but also tell us what
they believe should be done additionally to improve the business
climate. And both the President and the Prime Minister we meet
with business communities from Russia, from foreign countries.
And they listen to advice when advice is given on the basis of
experience and when it is well motivated. So that’s the message.
Come and see.  ***END OF TRANSCRIPT***  THIS TRANSCRIPT MAY NOT BE 100% ACCURATE AND MAY CONTAIN
MISSPELLINGS AND OTHER INACCURACIES. THIS TRANSCRIPT IS PROVIDED
“AS IS,” WITHOUT EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND.
BLOOMBERG RETAINS ALL RIGHTS TO THIS TRANSCRIPT AND PROVIDES IT
SOLELY FOR YOUR PERSONAL, NON-COMMERCIAL USE. BLOOMBERG, ITS
SUPPLIERS AND THIRD-PARTY AGENTS SHALL HAVE NO LIABILITY FOR
ERRORS IN THIS TRANSCRIPT OR FOR LOST PROFITS, LOSSES OR DIRECT,
INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, CONSEQUENTIAL, SPECIAL OR PUNITIVE DAMAGES
IN CONNECTION WITH THE FURNISHING, PERFORMANCE, OR USE OF SUCH
TRANSCRIPT. NEITHER THE INFORMATION NOR ANY OPINION EXPRESSED IN
THIS TRANSCRIPT CONSTITUTES A SOLICITATION OF THE PURCHASE OR
SALE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES. ANY OPINION EXPRESSED IN THE
TRANSCRIPT DOES NOT NECESSARILY REFLECT THE VIEWS OF BLOOMBERG
LP.  #<111815.3822621.2.1.87.23378.25>#
 