-- 
Moody’s Outlook Warning Seen by Lawmakers As Call to Action on U.S. Debt

-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   D o d g e   a n d   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n
-- 
2011-06-03T04:00:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-02/lawmakers-agree-moody-s-statement-is-call-to-act-on-deficit-debt-ceiling.html
Congressional leaders from both
parties said a warning by Moody’s Investors Service that it may
put the U.S. government debt rating on review for a downgrade is
an alert to reduce the deficit and raise the debt ceiling.  Each side said it has no intention of letting the government
default on its obligations. Still, neither Democrats nor
Republicans budged from their public positions in the dispute
over the government’s finances, complicating the path to a deal.  House Democrats emerged from a meeting with President
 Barack Obama  at the White House yesterday insisting that tax
increases be part of a deficit-cutting package, a proposal
Republicans reject. The Democrats also continued to resist
Republican proposals for cuts in the Medicare and Medicaid
government health programs as part of a budget-cutting accord to
accompany a debt-limit increase.  The urgency to reach agreement increased yesterday after
Moody’s said it may put the U.S. government debt rating on
review for a downgrade if no progress is made on raising the
debt limit by mid-July.  “We’re going to get this done,” Representative Steny Hoyer of  Maryland , the House’s second-ranking Democrat, told
reporters after the meeting with Obama. “The markets ought to
know we’re going to get this done.”  Democrats want to bring down the deficit and debt while
“making sure Medicare is strengthened and preserved for
seniors,” said Hoyer.  ‘Balanced’ Approach  Representative  Chris Van Hollen  of Maryland, the top
Democrat on the Budget Committee, said there must be a
“balanced” solution. He rejected what he called Republicans’
“lopsided approach.”  Treasury Secretary  Tim Geithner  met with freshman House
members yesterday at the Capitol and told reporters afterward,
“I’m confident two things are going to happen this summer. One
is we’re going to avoid a default crisis, and we’re going to
reach agreement on a long-term fiscal plan.”  In its statement, New York-based Moody’s said: “The
heightened polarization over the debt limit has increased the
odds of a short-lived default.”  “If this situation remains unchanged in coming weeks,
Moody’s will place the rating under review.”  Moody’s statement “underscores the need for Congress to
move quickly to ensure that the U.S. can meet all of its
obligations, while continuing to work on a consensus approach
towards long-term fiscal balance,” said  Mary Miller , Treasury
assistant secretary for financial markets.  Standard & Poor’s   In April, Standard & Poor’s put the U.S. government on
notice that it risks losing its top AAA credit rating unless
policy makers agree on a plan by 2013 to reduce budget deficits
and the national debt.  Republicans, after a White House meeting with Obama on June
1, defended their plans for Medicare and Medicaid, and said
higher taxes must be off the table in any agreement.  The Moody’s warning “makes clear that if we let this
opportunity pass without real  deficit reduction , America’s
financial standing will be at risk,” House Speaker  John Boehner , an Ohio Republican, said in a statement yesterday. “A
credible agreement means the spending cuts must exceed the debt
limit increase. The White House needs to get serious right now
about dealing with our deficit and debt.”  Boehner, intensifying pressure for a quick and far-reaching
deal to slash U.S. government spending, said June 1 “it’s
time” that he and Obama get personally involved in talks on a
broad debt-reduction package.  Biden Talks  Boehner voiced concern that bipartisan negotiations led by
Vice President  Joe Biden  are proceeding too slowly, and said the
White House and Congress should strike a deal within a month to
end an impasse over raising the nation’s $14.3 trillion debt
ceiling that could spook investors and lead to an unprecedented
government default.  Geithner is already using what he calls “extraordinary
measures” to avoid exhausting the nation’s borrowing authority,
and he has said that he will run out of options for avoiding
default by Aug. 2. Boehner said he was worried that the Biden-
led discussions would go down to the wire, putting Congress up
against that date.  White House press secretary Jay Carney yesterday shrugged
off Boehner’s suggestion. “The vehicle for the negotiations are
the talks with the vice president,” Carney told reporters,
adding that negotiations between Biden and lawmakers “have made
progress.”  ‘Rattle the Markets’  Carney also said that pushing the negotiations to the end
of July “could rattle the markets.”  Biden’s negotiations over increasing the debt ceiling as
part of a spending-cut plan began May 5. There have been four
meetings between the vice president and six congressional
leaders, with the next one set for June 9. Biden has said that
progress is being made and that negotiators are trying to find
savings of $1 trillion over 10 years.  Yields on 10-year Treasuries climbed to 3.03 percent at 5
p.m. in  New York  yesterday, from 3.01 percent before the Moody’s
announcement and a six-month low of 2.94 percent June 1. The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, which tumbled 2.3 percent June 1
amid concern the economic recovery is faltering, fell 0.1
percent to 1,312.94 after opening the session at its cheapest
valuation since March.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Catherine Dodge in Washington at 
 cdodge1@bloomberg.net ;
Julianna Goldman in Washington at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  