-- 
Limited, Gap’s May Sales Miss Estimates as Shoppers Retreat

-- B y   M a t t   T o w n s e n d
-- 
2011-06-02T20:09:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-02/may-sales-at-limited-gap-miss-estimates-as-shoppers-retreat.html
 Limited Brands Inc.,  Gap Inc. (GPS)  and
other U.S. retailers reported May sales that trailed analysts’
projections as increasing prices and surging gasoline costs
deterred budget-conscious shoppers.  Limited, operator of the Victoria’s Secret chain, posted a
gain of 6 percent in same-store sales, missing the 7.4 percent
average of analysts’ estimates compiled by Retail Metrics Inc.
Sales at Gap, the largest U.S. apparel chain, fell 4 percent,
more than five times the rate analysts projected.  Surging costs for cotton, oil and labor in  Asia  have forced
some apparel chains to pass costs on to consumers, with several
saying hikes will accelerate this year. Some shoppers are
scrimping on trips to stores because they can’t keep up with the
price of fuel.  “The consumer is really pulling back,” said Edward Yruma,
a New York-based retail analyst for Keybanc Capital Markets.
“Anywhere you have a pressured consumer from gas prices or
unemployment, you saw it in the results.”  Employment increased by 38,000 last month, according to
figures released yesterday from ADP Employer Services. The
median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey called for a gain of
175,000. Consumers’ confidence has withered as a result, with
the Conference Board index falling to 60.8 in May from 66 in
April, the research group said this week.  Limited dropped 2.2 percent to $37.87 at 4:02 p.m. in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading, while Gap fell 4 percent
to $18.12. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Retailing Index declined
3.65 points, or 0.7 percent, to 517.97.  Average Gain  Overall, the 25 chains tracked by Retail Metrics, based in
Swampscott,  Massachusetts , posted a gain of 3.8 percent,
excluding gasoline and currency fluctuations at  Costco Wholesale
Corp. (COST)  Analysts on average projected 3.9 percent on that basis.
At least 15 companies’ sales fell short of estimates.  Most chains count locations open at least a year to
tabulate same-store sales. This revenue is a key indicator of a
retailer’s growth because new and closed sites are excluded.  Limited, based in Columbus,  Ohio , had surpassed
expectations each month since at least the beginning of 2010,
according to Bloomberg data. At Gap, located in  San Francisco ,
sales fell for the third time in four months as revenue at its
Banana Republic chain in  North America  plunged 6 percent.  Hot Topic Inc. (HOTT) , the California teen retailer that began as
a band t-shirt purveyor, also missed estimates, with same-store
sales dropping 0.9 percent at the shops that bear its name. The
chain also sells accessories, music and posters.  Luxury retailers beat projections, with  Saks Inc. (SKS)  posting a
gain of 20 percent and sales at Nordstrom Inc. rising 7.4
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Townsend in New York at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  