-- 
Maybank, CIMB Risk Overpaying in Battle for Malaysia’s RHB

-- B y   C h o n g   P o o i   K o o n
-- 
2011-06-03T09:57:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-02/maybank-cimb-risk-overpaying-in-malaysia-s-rhb-takeover-battle.html
CIMB Group Holdings Bhd. (CIMB)  and  Malayan
Banking Bhd. (MAY)  risk overpaying for  RHB Capital Bhd. (RHBC)  as they get
set to battle to become  Southeast Asia ’s largest lender.  RHB Capital, based in  Kuala Lumpur , trades at 2.21 times
its book value per share, compared with an average 1.63 times
for Asia-Pacific banks, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The median price-to-book value among 39 similar banking
acquisitions in the past five years was 1.78, data show.  The lender today applied for central bank approval to begin
separate merger talks with Maybank, as the nation’s largest
lender is known, and CIMB, which is led by Malaysian Prime
Minister Najib Razak’s brother. That’s set the stage for a
takeover battle as both lenders aim to cement their dominance as
they expand abroad amid competition from foreign rivals at home.  “RHB is already on the high side,” said Choo Swee Kee,
who manages about $233 million as chief investment officer of TA
Investment Management Bhd. in Kuala Lumpur. “Two times book is
the maximum they should pay.”  Malaysian billionaire Quek Leng Chan’s Hong Leong Bank Bhd.
last month bought local rival EON Capital Bhd. for 5.06 billion
ringgit ($1.7 billion) to overtake RHB as the nation’s fourth-
largest bank. The transaction valued EON Capital at 1.42 times
book value, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Fueling Premiums  Shares of RHB, whose biggest stakeholders are the nation’s
Employees Provident Fund and  Abu Dhabi Commercial Bank PJSC (ADCB) ,
have climbed 8.2 percent to the highest since March 1997
following announcements by Maybank and CIMB that they won
approval for the talks.  “They want to see who is going to be the biggest bank in
Southeast Asia,” Johan Tazrin Ngo, managing director of Kuala
Lumpur-based Amara Investment Management Sdn., said in a phone
interview. “CIMB is trying to emphasize on its retail and
commercial banking side. A merger with RHB would probably help
it do that even more.”  The combined market value of CIMB and RHB would be $27.8
billion, based on yesterday’s closing price. Maybank could boost
its capitalization to $28.9 billion, which would exceed the $28
billion value for Singapore’s  DBS Group Holdings Ltd. (DBS) , Southeast
Asia’s largest lender.  CIMB relied on corporate and investment banking for a
quarter of its net income last year, while  consumer banking 
contributed 14 percent, according to Bloomberg data.  Premiums Paid  “As there are now two competing bids, this may fuel some
form of valuation premium,” Keith Wee, an analyst at OSK
Research Sdn. in Kuala Lumpur, said in a June 1 report. “Both
CIMB and Maybank aim to be the top five universal banks in
Southeast Asia within the next five years.”  Spokesmen from Maybank and CIMB didn’t immediately respond
to e-mails from Bloomberg seeking comment.  The premium paid for acquisitions of banks in the Asia-
Pacific region since June 2006 has been an average 21.1 percent,
according to Bloomberg data.  RHB’s operations include retail banking branches, treasury,
 investment banking  and Islamic finance. Its first-quarter profit
climbed 9 percent to 382.1 million ringgit, buoyed by income
from lending and the Islamic banking unit after the nation’s
economy last year expanded at the fastest pace in a decade.  Ranked third in advising on takeovers in Southeast Asia in
2010 with deal volumes of $12 billion, RHB’s investment banking
unit has slipped to No. 27 this year with transactions worth
$170 million, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  UBS AG (UBSN)  is
now ranked first, with Maybank at No. 8 this year and CIMB at No.
14, the data show.  Overpaying for Purchases  Still, a merger with RHB Capital would further the goal of
becoming a “regional financial services leader,” Maybank said
in an e-mailed statement this week. The nation’s biggest lender,
which has bought bank stakes in Indonesia, Pakistan and  Vietnam ,
last month acquired a stake in Kim Eng Holdings Ltd., a
 Singapore  securities and investment-banking group.  Investors drove down Maybank shares by 20 percent in six
trading sessions in October 2008 on concern it was overpaying
for control of an Indonesian bank even after the price was cut
by 15 percent. That purchase was completed in December 2008 at
4.75 times book value, according to Bloomberg data.  Shares of Maybank were unchanged at 8.72 ringgit at the 5
p.m. close today, having advance 19 percent in the past year.
CIMB rose 0.2 to 8.34 ringgit, limiting its gains to 23 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chong Pooi Koon in Kuala Lumpur at 
 pchong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Barry Porter at 
 bporter10@bloomberg.net ;
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  