-- 
Bank of America May Divest CCB Stake to Avoid Share Sale, Citigroup Says

-- B y   H u g h   S o n
-- 
2011-06-02T15:37:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-02/bank-of-america-may-divest-ccb-stake-to-avoid-share-sale-citigroup-says.html
Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , facing an
estimated $18 billion bill to resolve mortgage and foreclosure
disputes, may cover the cost by liquidating its stake in China
Construction Bank Corp., according to Citigroup Inc.  Instead of selling stock to raise capital, Bank of America
could liquidate its 10 percent stake in CCB starting in August,
Keith Horowitz of Citigroup said yesterday in a research note.
Bank of America owned 25.6 billion shares of CCB valued at
$21 billion as of March 31, the firm said in a May filing.  Bank of America has declined 16 percent this year in New
York trading as the projected costs from defective mortgages and
foreclosures mounted. That’s raising concern that the  Charlotte ,
North Carolina-based company may need to sell new shares,
diluting the holdings of current investors. The lender was the
only  U.S. bank  among the largest four that had its capital plan
rejected by the  Federal Reserve  this year.  “There are large risks related to legacy mortgage
businesses, but we believe they are manageable and reflected in
the current stock price,” Horowitz, who rates Bank of America
“buy,” said in the note. “Bank of America’s capital position
is clearly among the lowest of the large banks, but we believe
fears of a capital raise are way overdone.”  The bank may have $10 billion more in costs related to
demands that it repurchase bad mortgages, Horowitz wrote. It may
cost $8 billion to settle with state attorneys general over
documentation lapses during home seizures, he wrote. The firm
became the biggest servicer of mortgages after its 2008 purchase
of Countrywide Financial Corp., which has drawn criticism for
sloppy lending that caused a surge in defaults.  International Rules  Bank of America may also sell its stake in CCB to improve
its capital levels ahead of tougher international rules,
Horowitz said. The sale may result in a $10 billion after tax
gain, he said.  The lender “remains a significant shareholder in China
Construction Bank and we intend to continue the important long-
term strategic alliance with CCB originally entered into in
2005,” said  Jerry Dubrowski , a Bank of America spokesman. While
restrictions on the sale of most CCB shares end in August, about
2 billion units cannot be sold until 2013, he said.  Last month, Bank of America agreed to sell its remaining
stake in BlackRock Inc. back to the world’s biggest money
manager for about $2.5 billion. The bank said at the time that
the sale wouldn’t affect its business relationship with
BlackRock.  Bank of America slipped 2 cents to $11.22 at 10:36 a.m. in
New York Stock Exchange composite trading. Horowitz predicts the
price will rise to $17.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hugh Son in New York at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 