-- 
BankUnited Agrees to Buy Herald National for $71.4 Million

-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l ,   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i   a n d   Z a c h a r y   R .   M i d e r
-- 
2011-06-02T13:13:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-02/bankunited-agrees-to-purchase-herald-national-for-71-4-million.html
BankUnited Inc., the lender backed by
 Blackstone Group LP (BX)  and  Carlyle Group , agreed to buy  Herald
National Bank (HNB)  for $71.4 million in cash and stock to enter the
 New York  market.  Herald National shareholders will receive $1.35 plus 0.099
share of  Miami Lakes , Florida-based Bank United stock, the
companies said today in a statement. That values the offer at
$4.13 a share, the same price as New York-based Herald
National’s closing stock price yesterday. Herald National had a
market value of about $50 million as of the close.  “The acquisition of Herald is an important step toward
expanding the reach of BankUnited into the New York market,”
Chief Operating Officer Rajinder P. Singh of BankUnited said in
the statement. “Herald’s focus on relationship banking is
perfectly aligned with our core vision.”  Chief Executive Officer John Kanas, 64, told investors when
he took BankUnited public in January that he was seeking a New
York expansion. He ran Melville, New York-based North Fork
Bancorporation for about 20 years before selling it in 2006 to
McLean, Virginia-based  Capital One Financial Corp. (COF)  BankUnited,
with $10.8 billion in assets, has about 80 branches in Florida.  New York Branches  Herald National, which opened in 2008, owns three branches,
in New York, in Manhattan, Brooklyn and Melville, and had $501
million of assets as of March 31. The bank was founded by former
CEO David Bagatelle, other executives and investment firms.
Daniel Healy, a former North Fork chief financial officer, was
chairman at the time. The lender is now run by Raymond Nielsen,
who sold his Reliance Bancorp to North Fork in 2000 and was
later on the North Fork board of directors.  Kanas and a group of private-equity investors including
Carlyle and Blackstone bought BankUnited, a collapsed  Florida 
lender, in 2009, pumping in $900 million of capital and entering
into a loss-sharing agreement with the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corp.  The purchase price is expected to consist of $22.9 million
in cash and 1.7 million shares of BankUnited stock, according to
the statement. The price is 1.4 times Herald National Bank’s
book value as of March 31, and 1.1 times the bank’s book value
when adjusted for the recognition of a portion of the deferred
tax asset recorded by Herald National, the statement said.  The purchase is expected to be completed in the fourth
quarter of 2011, according to the statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dakin Campbell in  San Francisco  at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net ;
Zachary Mider in New York at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net ;
Cristina Alesci in New York at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  