-- 
Bankrupt Ex-Owner of Dan’s Papers in Hamptons Gets Court Approval for Plan

-- B y   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 
2011-06-02T21:57:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-02/bankrupt-ex-owner-of-dan-s-papers-in-hamptons-gets-court-approval-for-plan.html
Brown Publishing Co., the bankrupt
former owner of  Dan’s Papers  in the Hamptons, Wall Street’s
summer retreat, had its liquidation plan approved in federal
court.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Dorothy Eisenberg said today in
 Central Islip , New York, that she will confirm the Chapter 11
plan after noting that creditors with unsecured claims who voted
to approve it will recover a small amount of money.  “I’m surprised to find the numerous acceptances filed with
this court,” Eisenberg said at the conclusion of a more than
five-hour hearing. “Apparently the creditors believe this is
the best plan possible.”  The Cincinnati-based company sold most of its assets last
year for about $27 million. Brown Publishing’s former top
executives, including Chief Executive Officer  Roy Brown , had
submitted a winning bid at an auction, then dropped it because
they “lacked the financial ability to close,” according to
court papers.  Brown Publishing’s secured lenders, led by PNC Bank, made a
bid based on the amount they were owed and won the assets.
 Dan’s Papers , based in Bridgehampton,  New York , was sold
separately to Isis Venture Partners LLC.  Economic Recession  Brown Publishing filed for Chapter 11 creditor protection
in April 2010, citing a decline in advertising revenue resulting
from the economic recession. It then operated 15 daily and 32
weekly newspapers, as well as business publications and free
shopping guides. The company listed $94 million of assets and
$104.6 million of liabilities.  The liquidation plan included a settlement agreement
between the committee of creditors with unsecured claims, the
secured lenders and the debtor.  The committee had filed a complaint claiming that a $75
million secured loan to Brown Publishing in 2007 was a
“fraudulent conveyance.” In the settlement, the first-lien
lenders will pay $1.32 million to a liquidating trust for the
payment of unsecured claims and administrative expenses. The
recovery on $38 million of general unsecured claims is
estimated at 0.7 percent.  The principal objection at today’s hearing was from Keith
Evans, who had worked for Brown Publishing after it acquired his
company. He sued the publisher in Texas state court and was in
turn sued by the company in New York over claims for
compensation. His lawyer, Patrick Collins, argued against an
injunction in the plan that would prevent him from proceeding
with his claims against Brown.  Eisenberg granted Evans’s request to remove the injunction.  The case is in re Brown Publishing Co., 10-73295,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Eastern District of New York (Central Islip).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Don Jeffrey in New York at 
 djeffrey1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  