-- 
BofA Combines Its U.S. Leveraged-Loan Sales Forces Under Antonacci, Sysler

-- B y   K r i s t e n   H a u n s s
-- 
2011-06-02T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-02/bank-of-america-combines-u-s-leveraged-loan-sales-forces.html
Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , the largest
underwriter of U.S. leveraged loans this year, combined most of
its loan sales forces into one team and named Douglas Antonacci
and Howard Sysler to jointly head the group.  The team that had been responsible for selling loans in the
secondary market will join with members of the one that markets
new institutional term loans, according to an internal memo
obtained by Bloomberg News. Kerrie McHugh, a Bank of America
spokeswoman, confirmed the contents of the memo.  Bank of America is merging the two groups in an effort to
give clients a single point of contact for multiple types of
loan-sales transactions, according to a person familiar with the
changes, who declined to be identified because the information
isn’t public. The  Charlotte , North Carolina-based bank controls
16.4 percent of the U.S. leveraged-loan market compared with
JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s 14.9 percent share, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “This new structure will benefit our sales, trading and
new issue businesses, as well as improve synergies between our
loan origination and sales teams,” according to the memo from
David Flannery, head of global leveraged finance, Graham Goldsmith, head of global loans and special situations group and
Bryan Weadock, co-head of global fixed-income commodities and
currencies sales.  Bank of America’s primary loan sales team will be
responsible for the remainder of new issue loans and will remain
part of the global capital markets group, according to the memo.  Antonacci and Sysler are both based in  New York  and will
report to Steve Hollender and Gerry Walker, co-heads of credit
sales.  Among the largest loans Bank of America has helped arrange
this year is a $2.7 billion term loan for Del Monte Foods Co.
The bank also was part the financing group on $7.5 billion in
loans and bonds last month for Chrysler Group LLC.  This year, $279.9 billion of leveraged loans have been
issued in the U.S., Bloomberg data show. That’s an 87 percent
increase from the same time period last year, according to the
data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristen Haunss in New York at 
 khaunss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  