-- 
Barclays May Buy Spanish Caja, Bolster Capital, Evolution Says

-- B y   C h a r l e s   P e n t y
-- 
2011-06-02T13:40:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-02/barclays-may-buy-spanish-caja-bolster-capital-evolution-says.html
Barclays Plc (BARC)  may seek to raise as
much as much as 5 billion pounds ($8.2 billion) in a rights
offering to buy a Spanish savings bank and top up its capital,
according to Evolution Securities Ltd.  The lender may need 2 billion pounds to buy a savings bank,
or “caja,” Arturo de Frias, a London-based analyst at
Evolution said in a report today. The bank may also raise at
least another 2 billion pounds to bolster its core tier 1
capital, a measure of its financial strength, said de Frias, who
rates Barclays a “sell.”  “We see the industrial logic, but also feel that such a
deal might impact Barclays’ risk perception amongst investors,”
he said. “To the structural reasons that have underpinned our
negative stance, we now add a caja deal and a 4 billion to 5
billion-pound cash call.”  The hiring of Jaime Echegoyen, formally chief executive
officer of  Bankinter SA (BKT) , to run its Spanish retail unit, and the
reported appointment of Pedro Solbes, a former finance minister,
to its board in  Spain , may mean London-based Barclays is
“getting ready” to make an acquisition, de Frias said. Chief
Executive Officer  Robert Diamond  also recently visited Spanish
Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero, he said.  Barclays may need to buy a retail bank to “rebalance” its
business and banking profitability in Spain is set to improve
over the next three to four years, de Frias said.  Gemma Walmsley, a spokeswoman for Barclays, declined to
comment on the Evolution report. Diamond in September said the
bank had sufficient capital and didn’t plan to turn to
shareholders for more.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Penty in Madrid at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  