-- 
Basel Capital-Buffer Rule May Affect 26 Financial Firms, FSB’s Memo Says

-- B y   C r a i g   T o r r e s   a n d   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 
2011-06-02T21:01:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-02/basel-capital-buffer-requirement-may-affect-as-many-as-26-firms-memo-says.html
As many as 26 financial firms could
be forced to hold extra capital to avoid collapses that would
threaten global financial stability, according to a participant
at a meeting of the Financial Stability Board last week.  “We understand that it is likely that the number will be
in the 15-26 range,”  Tim Ryan , chief executive officer of the
Global Financial Markets Association, a finance-industry group,
said in a memo sent to board members following the meeting in
Frankfurt. “Though a capital buffer is likely, the structure,
amount and implementation timeline is still undecided,” Ryan
said in the memo, obtained by Bloomberg News.  The Basel Committee on Banking Supervision is discussing
forcing so-called global systemically important financial
institutions to hold additional capital buffers equivalent to as
much as 3 percent of risk-weighted assets, people familiar with
the negotiations said in March. New York-based GFMA, whose board
includes executives from  Morgan Stanley (MS)  and  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. (GS) , says the surcharge will suppress returns on equity that
will already be under pressure from new  capital requirements 
that will apply to all banks, not just the largest.  “Our argument to regulators is that until you know the
cumulative impact of what you are requiring, it just doesn’t
make any sense to add in more,” Ryan said in a telephone
interview. “We don’t really know what the right number is, and
they don’t really know.”  Jamie Dimon , chairman and chief executive officer of
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , warned that raising capital requirements
will distort markets.  Impact on Credit  “You’re going to end up with 10 percent capital for banks
like us,” Dimon said at the Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. investor
conference today in  New York . “It will have ramifications on
what people pay for credit, what banks hold on balance sheets.”  Toby Parker, spokesman at the U.K. Financial Services
Authority in London, declined to comment. The press service for
the FSB, based in Basel, Switzerland, didn’t respond to a
voicemail message.  Barbara Hagenbaugh , spokeswoman for the
 Federal Reserve , and Natalie Wyeth, a spokeswoman for the  U.S.
Treasury , both declined to comment.  Ryan’s memo said the FSB will ask for public comment in
July in order to decide on the methodology for identifying
systemically risky global firms in time for a meeting of the
Group of 20 nations in November.  “I don’t think there is a final determination” on the
number, Ryan said in the interview. “Our best intelligence is
that it is a lower number.”  Risk Management  Central bankers and financial supervisors from around the
world are hammering out new capital, liquidity and risk-
management standards for banks. The accord is known as  Basel 
III, named after the city where the meetings are held. The
agreement will be phased in over the next decade.  The officials last year agreed to more than double the
minimum common equity requirement for banks to 4.5 percent from
2 percent of assets weighted for risk. Banks will also be asked
to maintain a “capital conservation” buffer of as much as 2.5
percent common equity in periods of “excess credit growth,”
bringing total common equity requirements to as high as 7
percent of assets weighted for risk. The capital buffer for
systemically important firms would come on top of this new
standard.  Basel regulators said last year that rules on capital
requirements would have forced financial institutions to raise
602 billion euros ($871 billion) of capital had they been in
place in 2010.  Summary Agenda  The meeting of the FSB, which brings together regulators
and finance ministries from the Group of 20 nations, was led by
FSA Chairman Adair Turner, according to the FSB’s summary agenda
attached to Ryan’s memo.  The negotiations were attended by more than 50 people,
including  Barclays Plc (BARC)  Chief Executive Officer  Robert Diamond 
and  Jacob Frenkel , chairman of JPMorgan Chase International.
They took place at the  European Central Bank  in Frankfurt and
lasted for four hours starting at about 8:30 a.m. on May 25.  Ryan said regulators want a surcharge for the largest banks
because they aren’t confident they have a way to wind them down
in case of a crisis.  “We know we have to improve resolvability,” Ryan said in
the interview. “That does not necessarily mean we need to pile
on additional capital.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Craig Torres in Washington at 
 ctorres3@bloomgerg.net ;
Ben Moshinsky in London at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net . 