-- 
Beijing-Shanghai Bullet Train Targets Flyers Sick of Delays

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-06-03T11:24:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-02/beijing-shanghai-bullet-train-targets-flyers-fed-up-with-delays.html
Ma Xiaojing will abandon airlines for
trips to Beijing from  Shanghai  after suffering through delays
that can triple the length of the two-hour flight. Instead, she
will take the new bullet train.  “It’s so annoying when you hurry to the airport, board on
time and then get stuck in the cabin for hours,” said Ma, 34, a
marketing manager for a Shanghai-based luxury-goods company. She
takes her Apple Inc. iPad to pass the time during delays,
studying English and watching the TV show “Friends.” “I will
definitely take the bullet train.”  A 221 billion- yuan  ($34 billion) high-speed rail link
connecting  China ’s most important cities in less than five hours
is due to start service later this month. The line, designed to
carry 80 million passengers a year, will challenge Chinese
airlines that have delays on at least one in four flights
nationwide.  “There will be plenty of travelers willing to switch to
trains as they can’t stand any more airline delays,” said Jack Xu, an analyst with Sinopac Securities Asia Ltd. in Shanghai.
“Given how much the line cost, the ministry will have to try
and win every one of them.”  Silver Trains  The blue-striped, silver-bodied bullet trains, built by
Beijing-based  CSR Corp. (1766) , will begin their 1,318-kilometer (819
miles) journeys at the capital’s South Station, about six
kilometers south of  Tiananmen Square . They will travel at speeds
of up to 300 kilometers per hour (186 miles per hour) to
Shanghai’s  Hongqiao station , which is next to the city’s main
domestic airport. The Lujiazui financial district is a 40-minute
subway ride away.  The line has passed a preliminary check and met standards
for running as fast as 350 kph, the ministry said in a  statement 
today. Operations will start “soon,” it said, without
elaboration.  There will be about 90 services a day when the line opens,
Rail Minister Sheng Guangzu said in an April 13 interview with
state-run  People’s Daily . There will be non-stop services, and
ones calling at stations on the way, he said.  Second-class fares from Beijing to Shanghai will likely
cost about 600 yuan to 650 yuan, said  Zhao Jian , a professor at
Beijing Jiaotong University, which specializes in rail
engineering and management. A one-way June 30  flight  with China
Eastern Airlines Corp. costs about 640 yuan, according to
Ctrip.com International Ltd.’s online travel agency.  The rail ministry declined to comment on fares, timetables
and targets for the bullet-train line, which is known in Chinese
as “Jinghu,” or “Beijing-Shanghai.”  ‘Pretty Good’  The line is the centerpiece of a 2 trillion-yuan investment
in high-speed rail. The country, already home to the world’s
biggest bullet-train network, plans to have 16,000 kilometers of
high-speed track by 2015, the rail ministry said in January.
 Five bullet-train  lines were in service at the end of last year.  Ma, who travels to Beijing from Shanghai as much as three
times a month, has already taken high-speed trains on trips to
Suzhou and Hangzhou, which are both in eastern China.  “The experience is pretty good,” she said. Stations are
easy to use, the trains are comfortable and “mostly important,
the services are reliable,” she said.  The introduction of bullet trains on other routes has
caused fare increases and a reduction in cheaper regular
services. The start of the Hangzhou-Shanghai high-speed line in
October, for instance, led to a 56 percent jump in second-class
fares, according to state-run  China Daily .  The rail ministry has announced nationwide plans to slow
bullet trains to 300 kph from 350 kph beginning July 1 to pare
operating costs and ticket prices. The attempt to boost sales
follows a first-quarter loss of 3.76 billion yuan, according to
a  statement . The ministry operates most of China’s passenger-
train services.  Debt Yields  Concerns about losses and mounting debts have contributed
to the  yield gap  between the ministry’s one-year notes and
government debt more than doubling this year to 118 basis points,
according to Chinabond data on the Bloomberg terminal.  The ministry has sold 70 billion yuan of bonds this year,
making it the nation’s biggest issuer. The total debt pile
stands at almost 2 trillion yuan, People’s Daily said in a May 9
report citing spokesman  Wang Yongping . It will sell another 15
billion yuan of one-year bonds on June 9, according to a
statement posted on China Foreign Exchange Trade System today.  ‘Debt Crisis’  The ministry faces a “debt crisis” by 2015 if passenger
levels fall short of projections, Zhao said. He expects the new
Beijing-Shanghai line to carry fewer than 30 million passengers
in its first year.  It will be “very difficult” for the government to reduce
fares to win more travelers because of construction costs, he
said. By comparison,  Amtrak ’s Acela Express high-speed service
carried 3.2 million commuters along the Washington-New York-
Boston corridor last fiscal year.  Expansion of China’s high-speed network has slowed since
Sheng replaced  Liu Zhijun  as rail minister in February.  The
Ministry of Environmental Protection  last month halted work on a
line between Tianjin city and Qinhuangdao in the northern
province of Hebei and barred services on a route in Shandong
province because they hadn’t passed required evaluations,
according to a May 12 statement.  Liu, an advocate of bullet trains, left the rail ministry
amid a Communist Party investigation into “severe”
disciplinary violations, the state-run Xinhua News Agency said
Feb. 12, citing the Ministry of Supervision and the party’s
disciplinary body. CSR, China’s largest listed trainmaker by
market value, has fallen 27 percent in Hong Kong trading since
Liu’s departure, while the benchmark  Hang Seng Index  is little
changed.  Airlines Impact  China Eastern , the biggest carrier in Shanghai, expects the
new line to affect as many as 10 of its routes from Hongqiao
airport, including services to Beijing, Tianjin, Jinan and
Xuzhou, said a spokesman, who declined to be identified, citing
company policy. Zhu Mei, a spokeswoman for  Air China Ltd. (601111) , the
biggest Beijing-based carrier, couldn’t be reached for comment.  “Bullet trains will definitely lure some passengers from
carriers,” said Li Lei, an analyst with China Securities Co. in
Beijing who expects as much as 10 percent of airline passengers
to ditch planes for trains. “Airlines will have to assign
smaller planes to the route or offer better ticket prices.”  20,000 Seats Daily  China Eastern (670)  operates 55 flights a day between Beijing and
Shanghai, one of its three most-profitable routes, and it filled
about 85 percent of seats in the first four months of the year,
the spokesman said. Carriers will offer an average of more than
20,000 seats a day on the route this month, the seventh-highest
tally worldwide, based on data from OAG Aviation Solutions.  China Eastern is banking on services including online
check-in and the ability to book trips weeks in advance to help
retain business travelers, the spokesman said. It also plans to
make travel more flexible, for instance, allowing passengers to
fly into Shanghai and then leave from another city at no extra
cost.  Frequent delays may hinder airlines’ attempts to retain
customers. About 25 percent of flights nationwide last year were
delayed, according to a May 4 report by the aviation regulator.
Delays are measured according to when the plane door closes,
rather than when the aircraft takes off or lands. About 80
percent of U.S. flights arrived within 15 minutes of their
scheduled time last year, according to Department of
Transportation  data .  Ye Lu, who flew from Shanghai to Beijing 10 times last year,
is looking forward to taking the bullet train. The trip to the
capital from her hometown, Suzhou, about 100 kilometers west of
Shanghai, can take five hours door-to-door.  “High-speed rail will appeal to me if the tickets are
around 600 yuan,” said Ye, a senior manager for an investment
promotion bureau in Suzhou. “It will be so much easier to go to
the station than having to hang around at the airport.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Tian Ying in Beijing at 
 ytian@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  