-- 
Berkshire Failed to Apply Sokol Rule at RV Unit, Ex-Manager Says

-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 
2011-06-02T20:42:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-02/berkshire-failed-to-apply-sokol-standard-at-rv-unit-ex-manager-mart-says.html
Warren Buffett ’s Berkshire Hathaway
Inc., which investigated former executive  David Sokol  and said
he violated insider-trading rules, failed to enforce its code of
ethics when told of abuses at its recreational-vehicle unit,
according to an ex-manager who is suing the company.  The board didn’t give such a review to accusations of fraud
against Peter Liegl, head of the Forest River subsidiary, said
Berkshire Chief Financial Officer Marc Hamburg in a sworn
statement included in a court filing this week. Hamburg was
deposed by lawyers for Brad Mart, who said he was unfairly fired
in his suit against Berkshire, Forest River and Liegl.  “Brad Mart followed the Code and relied upon it,” Mart’s
lawyers said in a May 31 filing in federal court in  South Bend ,
 Indiana . “Defendants simply ignored it.” Liegl, through a
lawyer, denied wrongdoing.  Mart contrasted Berkshire’s handling of his complaints with
the company’s probe and 18-page audit report on Sokol in April.
Mart has claimed that Buffett and Omaha, Nebraska-based
Berkshire didn’t protect him from retaliation after he
confronted Liegl with his accusations. Mart said that he had
brought his grievances directly to Buffett, Berkshire’s chief
executive officer, and asked for direction.  “They discussed how to proceed, including the possibility
of resolving the matter by reporting it to Rebecca Amick,”
Berkshire’s director of internal auditing, Mart’s lawyers wrote.
“But Buffett made it clear to Mart that Mart should instead
discuss the matter directly with Liegl.”  ‘Allegations Are Unfounded’  Liegl’s lawyer, Jeanine Gozdecki, a partner at Barnes &
Thornburg LLP, said, “We believe that Mr. Mart’s allegations
are unfounded.” Gozdecki also represents Forest River.  Liegl required Forest River to buy parts, at inflated
prices, from a company he owned and appropriated cash from
factory vending machines, Mart said in his complaint in April
2010. Liegl also reneged on a promise to make Mart CEO of Forest
River and threatened his life, according to the complaint. Mart
had been named general manager of the company’s financing
business and was fired in 2009, according to the complaint.  Buffett, who oversees the CEOs of more than 70 operating
companies, has faced questions about Berkshire’s personnel since
Sokol’s departure. Sokol, who led energy and luxury-flight
units, violated Berkshire’s code by buying Lubrizol Corp. stock
this year while pushing Buffett to acquire the company, the
 audit committee  said. Buffett has said he knew that Sokol owned
shares and failed to press for details about his holdings. Sokol
didn’t violate Berkshire rules, his lawyer has said.  ‘A Loud Message’  “The company takes its policies very seriously,”
Berkshire’s audit committee said April 27. “We expect this
report to send a loud message that those policies are designed
to be read broadly.”  Berkshire’s April 30 annual meeting was dubbed “The Great
Inquisition” by New York Times writer  Andrew Ross Sorkin  in a
column earlier that month. At the meeting, Buffett told
shareholders he made a “big mistake” in not asking Sokol for
more information about the Lubrizol stockholding. Sorkin was one
of three journalists who selected shareholder questions for
Buffett at the meeting.  Mart’s dismissal wasn’t related to his complaints, and Mart
didn’t alert Buffett to any unethical or illegal activities,
Berkshire Secretary Forrest Krutter said last year. Krutter said
he was instructed by Buffett to investigate “business items”
at the RV maker and subsequently looked into the fraud
complaints. Krutter said he found no “fraudulent, unethical or
illegal activities.”  Krutter and Cary Lerman, a Munger Tolles & Olson lawyer who
is representing Berkshire, didn’t return calls seeking comment
today. Buffett didn’t return a message left with an assistant.  Berkshire, which has said that Mart and Buffett spoke by
phone on three occasions, has sought dismissal of the lawsuit
for lack of jurisdiction. Berkshire, the parent company, doesn’t
do business in Indiana and shouldn’t be subject to courts in
that state, it said in the 2010 request for dismissal. Mart has
said Berkshire’s control over Elkhart, Indiana-based Forest
River submits the firm to the state’s law.  The case is Mart v.  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) , 3:10-cv-00118,
U.S. District Court, Northern District of Indiana (South Bend).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Frye in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  