-- 
Boehner Says Obama Should Engage More Directly in Debt Talks

-- B y   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s   a n d   C a t h e r i n e   D o d g e
-- 
2011-06-02T18:47:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-02/boehner-calls-for-obama-to-engage-more-directly-in-debt-talks.html
House Speaker  John Boehner ,
intensifying pressure for a quick and far-reaching deal to slash
U.S. government spending, said “it’s time” he and President
 Barack Obama  get personally involved in talks on a broad debt-
reduction package.  The urgency to reach an agreement increased today after
Moody’s Investors Service said it may put the U.S. government
debt rating on review for a downgrade if no progress is made on
increasing the government debt limit in the coming weeks.  Boehner, voicing concerns that bipartisan negotiations led
by Vice President  Joe Biden  are proceeding too slowly, said
yesterday the White House and Congress should strike a deal
within a month to avoid a continuing impasse over raising the
nation’s $14.3 trillion debt ceiling that could spook investors
and lead to an unprecedented government default.  The Biden-led talks “are making some marginal progress,
but at the rate that that’s gone, we’ll be right up against the
wall,” Boehner told reporters at the Capitol yesterday. “This
really needs to be done over the next month if we’re serious
about no brinksmanship and no rattling investors.”  ‘Not Optimistic’  Representative Steny Hoyer of  Maryland , the second-ranking
House Democrat, also said the talks hadn’t accomplished much.
“I’m not optimistic from the standpoint that there’s been no
substantive progress made yet,” Hoyer said today on CNBC.
Still, he said he is encouraged that the two parties are
continuing “serious meetings.”  Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner  is already using what
he calls “extraordinary measures” to avoid exhausting the
nation’s borrowing authority, and he has said that he will run
out of options for avoiding default by Aug. 2. Boehner said he
was worried that the Biden-led discussions would go down to the
wire, putting Congress up against that date.  Obama “understands that we need this finished over the
next month -- he said so” at a private meeting he hosted for
 House Republicans  yesterday on the debt impasse, said Boehner,
an Ohio Republican.  ‘Large Ball’  Asked what more could be done to prod a compromise, Boehner
said: “The president could engage himself. I’m willing. I’m
ready. It’s time to have the conversation. It’s time to play
large ball, not small ball.”  White House press secretary Jay Carney today shrugged off
Boehner’s suggestion. “The vehicle for the negotiations are the
talks with the vice president,” Carney told reporters, adding
that negotiations between Biden and lawmakers “have made
progress.”  Responding last night to Boehner, White House spokeswoman
Amy Brundage said in a statement that Obama is “closely
monitoring” the Biden talks and is being “regularly briefed’
on their progress.  Still, Boehner’s comments raised the possibility that the
current debt stalemate could culminate in the year’s second
high-level negotiation between Obama and Republican leaders on
spending cuts. Obama and Boehner hashed out the final details of
an agreement on the 2011 federal budget face-to-face at the
White House in April, agreeing to about $38.5 billion in
reductions with just hours to spare before a government
shutdown.  ‘Closely Monitoring’  Boehner made his comments a few hours after the 75-minute
meeting Obama convened at the White House with the speaker and
his Republican colleagues to discuss the two parties’
differences over the government’s finances. After the session,
Republicans said they had criticized the president’s description
of their Medicare privatization plan, calling it unfair, and
pressed him to offer his own proposal for tackling the debt.  Boehner described the session as “a very good meeting. It
was frank, to-the-point, it was polite,” he said.  Other House Republicans emerged indicating that the meeting
broke no new ground in the push to raise the nation’s debt
ceiling in exchange for reductions in  government spending .  “Unfortunately, what we did not hear from the president is
a specific plan of his to deal with the debt crisis” that could
be evaluated by the nonpartisan  Congressional Budget Office ,
Representative  Jeb Hensarling  of  Texas , head of the  House
Republican Conference , told reporters at the White House after
the meeting.  Republican Frustration  Representative James Lankford, an Oklahoma Republican, said
his colleagues are frustrated because they believe the
administration isn’t offering ideas publicly on how to reduce
the deficit, as Republicans did in April as part of a budget
plan to cut more than $6 trillion over a decade.  Obama wants to work behind closed doors on a plan that can
clear Congress so that he can “step out front at the end of it
and say ‘I led this,’” said Lankford.  “We have three co-equal branches of the government here,
and one of them is sitting and waiting to follow,” he said.  Carney today said “we don’t need new plans.” He said the
two parties “need to find common ground” and “come together,
hold hands, and agree that we’re going to get this done.”  House Budget Committee Chairman  Paul Ryan  said he
confronted Obama about how the president was characterizing the
plan Ryan wrote to privatize Medicare, the government health-
insurance plan for older Americans, by giving people subsidies
to buy coverage.  Demagoguery Dispute  “We’ve got to get our debt under control, and if we try to
demagogue each other’s attempts to do that, then we’re not
applying the kind of political leadership we need to get this
economy growing,” Ryan, a Wisconsin Republican, told reporters.  Obama said there had been demagoguery on both sides,
Boehner told reporters later at the Capitol, adding, “But if
we’re going to change the process, it’s got to start from the
top.”  Carney yesterday dismissed the notion that Obama was
distorting Ryan’s Medicare proposal.  “There is no question that on the issue of Medicare, we
have significant differences,” Carney said. “And what the
president has made clear is that he doesn’t believe that we need
to end Medicare as we know it.”  Carney also said Obama “has clearly led” on deficit
issues and cited the debt-reduction commission the president
established last year and a plan he outlined in an April speech
to cut $4 trillion in cumulative deficits within 12 years.  “His proposal is out there and I think pretty extensive,”
Carney told reporters at yesterday’s White House briefing.  Biden’s Group  Biden’s negotiations over increasing the debt ceiling as
part of a package of spending cuts began May 5. There have been
four meetings between the vice president and six congressional
leaders, with the next one set for June 9. Biden has said that
progress is being made and that negotiators are trying to find
savings of $1 trillion over 10 years.  House Majority Leader Eric Cantor, a Virginia Republican,
said he asked Obama to work with Republicans on a “tax reform
plan” that is being put together by Ways and Means Committee
Chairman  Dave Camp , a Michigan Republican.  He also asked the president to steer clear of “any notion
that we’re going to increase taxes” as part of any agreement on
raising the debt limit  “It’s counterintuitive to believe that you increase taxes
on those individuals and entities that you are expecting to
create jobs,” Cantor said.  Boehner said he stressed to Obama that now “is the
moment” to deal with the deficit issues facing the government.
“We can work together and solve this problem,” he said.
“Let’s not kick the can down the road one more time.”  Obama is meeting with the  House Democratic caucus  at the
White House today. Separately, Geithner is scheduled to meet on
 Capitol Hill  with freshman members of the House to discuss the
debt limit, one in a series of sessions he has been holding with
lawmakers to explain the issue, according to the Treasury
Department.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in Washington at 
 jdavis159@bloomberg.net ;  Catherine Dodge in Washington at 
 cdodge1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  