-- 
Boeing, Emerson Press Congress to Drop Tax Rates

-- B y   S t e v e n   S l o a n   a n d   A n d r e w   Z a j a c
-- 
2011-06-02T17:55:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-02/boeing-emerson-executives-press-congress-to-lower-tax-rates.html
(Corrects attribution of McDermott quote in 11th
paragraph.)  Executives from  Boeing Co. (BA)  and
 Emerson Electric Co. (EMR)  told lawmakers they will struggle to
compete with overseas rivals if Congress doesn’t lower maximum
corporate tax rates.  Testifying today before the  House Ways and Means Committee ,
the executives said the current 35 percent top corporate tax
rate hampers job creation. Walter Galvin, the vice chairman of
St. Louis-based Emerson Electric, said existing tax policy puts
U.S. businesses at risk of being acquired by companies based in
other countries with more favorable tax rates.  “The risk you have is if the U.S. isn’t put on a level
playing field, more and more small-cap U.S. companies will be
acquired by larger companies in  Europe ,” he said. “Not having
a competitive tax rate with the rest of the world causes more
and more jobs to be lost.”  Those comments stand to encourage House Ways and Means
Chairman  Dave Camp , a Michigan Republican, in his efforts to
lower the top corporate rate to 25 percent, which he has said
will create U.S. jobs. James Zrust, vice president of tax at
Chicago-based Boeing, said businesses are willing to give up
some tax breaks for a significant drop in the corporate rate.  “We could support eliminating tax expenditures in order to
obtain a meaningful lower corporate tax rate,” he said, without
specifying which benefits he would support being eliminated.  Incentive to Invest  James Misplon, vice president of tax at  Sears Holdings
Corp. (SHLD) , based in  Hoffman Estates ,  Illinois , said reducing the
corporate tax rate would provide an incentive for retailers to
invest in store improvements or new distribution centers.  “These types of investments lead to higher employment both
within and outside of the retail industry,” he said.  Misplon also said retailers would support eliminating tax
benefits in exchange for lowering the rate. Retailers typically
receive few tax benefits, compared with manufacturers that are
eligible for a special deduction and research-intensive
companies that can receive a special credit.  Representative Sander Levin of  Michigan , the top Democrat
on the committee, expressed doubt that businesses are open to
losing their tax benefits.  “We learned long ago that on the table is different than
action,” he said.  Democrats also said they are skeptical that corporate tax
cuts would spur the economic growth the executives suggested.
Representative Jim McDermott, a Washington Democrat, pressed
Galvin on the business effects of reducing tax rates.  “If we lower the tax rate to 25 percent, will you stop
laying people off?” McDermott asked.  Galvin said he couldn’t provide any assurances.  ‘No Crystal Ball’  “I have no crystal ball as to the sales revenue we’ll
have,” he said. “If there is higher growth in the U.S., we
will obviously grow.”  A report released yesterday by  Citizens for Tax Justice 
said 12 corporations, including Boeing, paid an effective tax
rate of negative 1.5 percent on $171 billion in profits earned
between 2008 and 2010. Boeing’s effective rate in that period
was a negative 1.8 percent on $9.7 billion in profits, according
to the group, which is backed by labor groups.  Representative Pete Stark, a California Democrat, referred
to the report at the hearing and asked Boeing’s Zrust by how
much tax rates should be dropped. Zrust didn’t specify a rate.
He said Boeing’s tax bill is poised to rise in the next three
years because the company won’t be able to claim as many
deductions for airplanes that are on track for delivery.  Stark remained skeptical.  “Oh yeah?” he said. “How much more do you think Boeing
is going to pay us?”  To contact the reporter on this story: Steven Sloan in
Washington at 
 ssloan7@bloomberg.net  and Andrew Zajac in Washington at 
   azajac@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  