-- 
BofA, Citigroup Among Banks That May Be Lowered by Moody’s

-- B y   D o n a l   G r i f f i n   a n d   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 
2011-06-02T21:49:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-02/bofa-wells-fargo-citigroup-ratings-put-on-review-for-moody-s-downgrade.html
Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ,  Citigroup Inc. (C) 
and  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  may be downgraded by Moody’s Investors
Service as the rating firm reviews whether the government will
limit its support of the largest financial firms.  Ever since the financial crisis, ratings for the banks have
been boosted by an assumption that the U.S. would provide extra
support if the lenders got into trouble again, the ratings firm
said in a statement today. A review by Moody’s will “focus on
whether these ratings should be adjusted to remove this unusual
uplift and include only pre-crisis levels of government
support.”  Investors have regarded the banks as too big to fail after
they received  government aid  in 2008 to keep the financial
system from collapsing. Lawmakers have since overhauled
regulations and passed the Dodd-Frank legislation to avoid a
repeat of bailouts that aided firms including  Charlotte , North
Carolina-based Bank of America, which received $45 billion.  “Everyone is cognizant of the fact that the banks will end
up back in the lap of the government should there be a
problem,” said Daniel Alpert, managing partner at Westwood
Capital LLC, a New York-based investment bank. “What the
ratings agency is saying here is that if we had another problem
in the next six to 12 months, it’s unlikely the government will
once again unilaterally protect bondholders. It’s politically
untenable.” Alpert said he holds a small stake in Citigroup.  Building a Cushion  Bank of America, Citigroup and San Francisco-based Wells
Fargo have raised funds from private investors to repay U.S. aid
and have been building capital to guard against further declines
in housing prices. Moody’s rates Citigroup’s senior unsecured
debt at A3, and assigns a rating of A2 to Bank of America and A1
to Wells Fargo. A1 is the fifth-highest of 10 investment-grade
ratings and A2 is sixth.  Citigroup welcomes the reassessment of its rating, Chief
Financial Officer  John Gerspach  said in an e-mailed statement,
calling his bank one of the best-capitalized financial
institutions in the industry. At Bank of America, “our stand-
alone rating should be higher given the progress that we’ve made
to strengthen our balance sheet, improve our capital and
liquidity and reduce our risk profile,” said  Jerry Dubrowski , a
spokesman for the lender.  Mary Eshet , a spokeswoman for Wells Fargo, said Moody’s
review is consistent with its statements from as far back as a
year ago and that the bank’s unsupported ratings remain among
the strongest in the industry.  Credit-Default Swaps  Credit-default swaps on Citigroup rose 7 basis points to
135.4 basis points, according to data provider CMA, which is
owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in
the privately negotiated market. Bank of America’s swaps
increased 6.7 basis points to 155.5 basis points.  Wells Fargo’s swaps rose 4.3 basis points to 89 basis
points, according to CMA. A rising price indicates more doubt on
the part of investors about whether a debtor will meet its
obligations.  Moody’s will assess improvements in Bank of America’s and
Citigroup’s financial strength, and “this may temper the extent
of any ratings downgrades that could result from its review of
these firms’ unusual level of systemic support,” the ratings
firm said.  In March, under expanded powers granted by Dodd-Frank, the
Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. laid out a framework for
priority payment of creditors and procedures for filing claims
in liquidations of large, complex firms. Congress sought the
liquidation authority after the September 2008 bankruptcy of
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. deepened the credit crisis and
highlighted the ties among the largest financial firms.  Liquidation Authority  The move to establish an orderly process for winding down
firms was “key” to Moody’s review, Robert Young, managing
director with the ratings firm, said in a phone interview.  “Post-Dodd Frank, you evaluate willingness and ability to
reduce support or impose losses on creditors,” Young said.
“Clearly the intent of the government is to not provide
support.” The government’s liquidation authority wouldn’t work
as of right now, so Moody’s isn’t prepared to discount
government support entirely, he said.  Bank of America and Citigroup “have sizable residential
mortgage exposures,” Moody’s said. “Their credit costs could
therefore spike if the  U.S. economy  were to contract again.
Further, they continue to face litigation costs related to
faulty foreclosure practices.”  Collateral Damage  Downgrades could weaken the banks’ liquidity, limit access
to credit markets and pressure businesses that rely on trading
revenue, according to regulatory filings. A downgrade by one
level at all rating firms could cost Bank of America $1.2
billion for collateral posting and termination payments tied to
derivatives and trading agreements, the bank said.  Citigroup said a one-grade reduction of senior and short-
term ratings could result in the loss of $8.7 billion in
commercial paper funding and $500 million in derivative triggers
and margin requirements, and Wells Fargo said it would have been
required to post collateral of $1.1 billion as of March 31 had
downgrades below investment grade triggered provisions in
derivative contracts.  “We would not be surprised to see a one-notch downgrade in
Citi and possibly a two notch downgrade in Bank of America’s
published senior ratings,” said David Havens, managing director
of credit trading at Nomura Holdings Inc., in an e-mail. “This
is because Citi has a notch less support, and seems to have less
current issues (read: mortgages) than Bank of America.”  Bank of America advanced 5 cents to $11.29 at 4 p.m. in  New
York  Stock Exchange composite trading, leaving it down 15
percent this year. Citigroup gained 36 cents to $40.01, also
with a 15 percent drop year to date. Wells Fargo rose 22 cents
to $27.16; it’s down 12 percent since Dec. 31.  Bank of New York Mellon Corp. (BK)  had the outlook on its debt
lowered to “negative” from “stable,” Moody’s said. That
brings it in line with other financial firms benefiting from the
assumption of government support, including  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM) ,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  Morgan Stanley (MS) , all based in
New York.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donal Griffin in New York at 
 Dgriffin10@bloomberg.net ;
Dakin Campbell in  San Francisco  at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  