-- 
BP Responded to Mississippi’s Oil-Spill Requests, Barbour Says

-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 
2011-06-02T16:27:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-02/bp-responded-to-mississippi-s-oil-spill-requests-barbour-says.html
Mississippi Governor  Haley Barbour 
disagreed with a report by U.S.  House Republicans  that said
letting  BP Plc (BP/)  lead recovery efforts from its offshore  oil spill 
was “outright offensive” to Gulf Coast residents.  Barbour, a Republican, told the House Oversight and
Government Reform Committee today that BP was sometimes more
responsive than the federal government to requests from state
officials after the April 2010 spill.  “In fairness, to BP, to us, everything we asked them to
do, they considered, and almost every time they did it,”
Barbour said.  The staff report from the committee, which is led by
Representative  Darrell Issa , a California Republican, examines
the effectiveness of the Obama administration’s response to the
oil disaster.  A blast on the Deepwater Horizon drilling rig killed 11
workers, ruptured BP’s well and spilled 4.9 million barrels of
crude into the Gulf. The Obama administration halted deep-water
drilling, lifting the ban in October.  The House report criticized the administration for allowing
BP to make critical decisions in cleaning up the accident, the
worst spill in U.S. waters.  “The government’s decision to place the perpetrator of a
reckless and unnecessary tragedy at the helm of the recovery
operation was clearly controversial,” according to the staff
report. “To many spill victims, it was also outright offensive
and frustrating.”  ‘Wide-Spread Concerns’  The report also cited “wide-spread concerns” about
mismanagement of a $20 billion compensation fund set up by BP
that create “unnecessary confusion among potential claimants in
the Gulf States.”  The  claims facility , overseen by Washington lawyer  Kenneth Feinberg , has paid more than $4.3 billion in emergency and final
payments to spill victims.  Barbour said he’s received few complaints.  “I think they are trying to do a good job,” Barbour said.
Applying for compensation through the fund is “sure better than
to litigate this,” he said.  Barbour did support the report’s disapproval of the
drilling moratorium after the spill. He said the administration
overreacted, leading to job loss in the region.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net 
To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Geimann at 
 sgeimann@bloomberg.net  