-- 
Brasil Foods Falls as Russia Temporarily Bans Beef Imports

-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i   a n d   L u c i a   K a s s a i
-- 
2011-06-02T20:27:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-02/brasil-foods-falls-as-russia-temporarily-bans-beef-imports-1-.html
BRF  Brasil Foods  SA fell to the
lowest price in more than two months after Russia temporarily
banned imports from 85 Brazilian beef plants.  Brasil Foods dropped 1.7 percent to 28.60 reais at the
close of Sao Paulo trading at 4:15 p.m. New York time, the
lowest price since March 18. The ban also included  Marfrig
Alimentos SA (MRFG3) , which rose 1.7 percent to 14.13 reais, and  JBS SA (JBSS3) ,
which climbed 4.1 percent to 5.59 reais. Both advanced after
saying they’ll maintain exports by shipping meat from different
plants.  “The ban may be lifted in the future, but until then the
companies’ sales will be hurt,” Caue Pinheiro, an analyst at
Sao Paulo-based brokerage SLW Corretora, said in a telephone
interview.  Yields on Marfrig bonds due 2018 climbed 17 basis points,
or 0.17 percentage point, to 8.79 percent, after surging as much
as 40 basis points earlier, according to Bloomberg data.  The notes are among the most-traded high-yield, high-risk
bonds today, according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system
of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  Russia  temporarily banned imports starting June 15 from
plants in the Brazilian states of Mato Grosso,  Rio Grande  do Sul
and Parana, the sanitary authority said today in a statement on
its website.  In a separate statement on the same website, the authority
said it inspected 29 Brazilian producers and found their
agriculture safety controls to be weak.  JBS and Marfrig said in separate statements today they will
maintain exports by shipping meat from plants unaffected by the
ban. JBS said it’s seeking to solve any problems that may have
caused the suspension.  In April, Russia restricted purchases of beef and pork from
eight Brazilian meatpackers because of sanitary issues.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ney Hayashi in  Sao Paulo  at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net ;
Lucia Kassai in Sao Paulo at 
 lkassai@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos in New York at 
 papadopoulous@bloomberg.net  