-- 
Brazil Real Advances on Euro Strength; Futures Yields Rise

-- B y   J o s u e   L e o n e l   a n d   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a
-- 
2011-06-02T22:29:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-02/brazil-real-advances-on-euro-strength-futures-yields-rise.html
Brazil ’s real rallied to the
strongest level in a month as the euro gained against the dollar
and commodities rose, boosting demand for higher-yielding
assets.  The real rose 1.2 percent to 1.5750 per dollar, from 1.5942
yesterday. It earlier reached 1.5745 per dollar, the strongest
level since May 2, when the currency touched 1.5693.  Commodity prices, led by sugar, rose 0.4 percent after
declining 1 percent yesterday, according to a UBS Bloomberg
index. Brazil is the world’s biggest exporter of sugar, which
gained 4.72 percent. The euro gained versus the dollar as German
 Chancellor Angela Merkel  said she is committed to the currency
and European Central Bank officials backed the creation of a
euro-region  finance ministry .  “There’s some reversal of the bears since yesterday,”
said  Nick Chamie , global head of emerging markets at  RBC Capital
Markets  in Toronto. “The euro gaining is helping trigger some
gains in Latin American currencies.”  Investor bets that the Brazilian central bank will raise
rates again at its monetary policy meeting next week also
boosted the real, said Reginaldo Galhardo, foreign exchange
manager at Treviso Corretora, a Sao Paulo-based brokerage.  Central bank President Alexandre Tombini will raise
borrowing costs 25 basis points to 12.25 percent when policy
makers meet next week to set the benchmark Selic rate, according
to trading in interest-rate futures contracts.  Most yields on interest-rate futures contracts maturing
through January 2014 rose on concern the slowdown in inflation
in Brazil will be temporary, according to Ures Folchini, head of
fixed-income at Banco WestLB do Brasil SA.  Sao Paulo  Inflation  Inflation in Sao Paulo slowed to 0.31 percent in May, less
than half the 0.70 percent increase in April, the Foundation
Economics Research Institute in Sao Paulo said today.  “With the inflation numbers and the scenario abroad, it
would seem that the yields should be falling, but this isn’t
happening,” Folchini said in a telephone interview from Sao
Paulo. The market is viewing the inflation numbers “with much
caution,” because of the consideration that price increases are
losing steam due to seasonal factors.  Yields on the contract due in January 2013 rose two basis
points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 12.49 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gabrielle Coppola in Sao Paulo at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  