-- 
Californians by 2-1 Want Vote on Brown Plan to Increase Taxes, Poll Finds

-- B y   J a m e s   N a s h   a n d   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 
2011-06-02T04:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-02/californians-want-a-chance-to-vote-on-brown-tax-plan-by-2-to-1-poll-shows.html
More than two-thirds of Californians
want to vote on Governor  Jerry Brown ’s plan to balance the state
budget by extending higher taxes and fees, even though most
would reject the measures, a new poll shows.  About 68 percent of adults and 62 percent of likely voters
said they favor a special election on Brown’s proposal to extend
temporary tax increases and vehicle fees scheduled to expire by
July 1, according to the  Public Policy Institute of California 
poll. Yet only about 41 percent of adults and 46 percent of
likely voters support the specific taxes and fees.  Brown asked lawmakers to put the $9.1 billion in tax and
fee extensions directly before voters in the most populous state
in June and was blocked by Republicans. The 73-year-old Democrat
now wants to bring the matter to a vote in November or later, to
avoid deep cuts to education and public safety.  “This shows the amount of work that the governor would
have to do to get his tax and fee package approved,” said  Mark Baldassare , president of the San Francisco-based institute, in a
telephone interview. “Voters want to have a say -- they’re used
to that. They’re not confident enough in the state government to
let them do all the work and tell them what the consequences are
going to be.”  Brown needs the support of at least four Republicans in the
Legislature to put the plan on the ballot. In March, the
governor broke off negotiations on a June ballot citing a lack
of Republican support. Last week, Brown said talks have regained
momentum as he has taken up demands for pension reform, a state
spending cap and other measures. Brown again yesterday argued
for the special election.  ‘Time for Check-In’  “It’s time for a check-in,” Brown told reporters before a
speech in Sacramento to the  California  State Association of
Counties. “This state is very polarized between the two
political parties. So when we have a logjam like this, it’s very
helpful to get an outside arbiter. And I can’t think of a better
arbiter then the people themselves.”  With an economy bigger than  Russia ’s, California has the
lowest  credit rating  among U.S. states from  Standard & Poor’s .
Even with revenue projected to exceed forecasts by $6.6 billion
through June 2012, the state won’t be able to borrow cash from
 Wall Street  unless lawmakers agree to spending cuts that would
be activated if the tax and fee extensions fail, Treasurer Bill Lockyer said in May.  Assembly Republicans continue to oppose both the tax and
fee extensions and a special election, said Sabrina Lockhart,
spokeswoman for Minority Leader Connie Conway of Tulare.  Raising Taxes  “No matter how you slice it, voters are strongly opposed
to the governor’s tax increases,” Lockhart said by phone.
“Raising taxes doesn’t solve the problem. Republicans have put
forth an alternate plan that protects education without
increasing the tax burden on hard-working families.”  Brown and Lockyer have said the Republican plan -- which
would drain special funds for child-development and mental-
health programs and cut the state payroll by 10 percent -- is
impractical and would lead to long-term deficits.  The poll showed that 42 percent of adults approved of
Brown’s job performance, up from 40 percent in April. About 24
percent said they disapproved, down from 29 percent in April.  The telephone survey of 2,005 adults, conducted May 17-24,
has a margin of error of plus or minus 3.6 percentage points for
all adults and plus or minus 4.3 percentage points for likely
voters.  To contact the reporters on this story:
James Nash in  Sacramento  at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  