-- 
California Plans to Stop Lawmakers’ Pay If Budget Isn’t Passed by June 16

-- B y   A l i s o n   V e k s h i n   a n d   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 
2011-06-02T20:33:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-02/california-controller-threatens-to-stop-lawmaker-pay-if-budget-not-passed.html
California  lawmakers will permanently
forfeit their pay starting June 16 if they fail to pass a
balanced budget by that date, state Controller John Chiang said.  Chiang, a Democrat, said a ballot measure approved by
voters in November clearly calls for lawmakers to lose their
salary and reimbursements for expenses from June 16 until a
balanced budget is sent to the governor. Lawyers for the
Legislature have said that a budget bill approved in March may
have met the requirement, though it didn’t erase what is now a
$10 billion deficit.  “Presenting the governor with a balanced budget by the
constitutional deadline is the most-important, if not most-
difficult, job of the California Legislature,” Chiang said
today in a statement.  Governor  Jerry Brown , also a Democrat, and Republican
lawmakers are at an impasse over how to fill the gap. Last year,
the fiscal 2011 spending plan was a record 100 days late amid a
similar deficit stalemate with then-Governor  Arnold Schwarzenegger . Brown wants the Legislature to approve asking
voters to extend more than $9 billion of expiring tax increases
to offset cuts to schools and public safety.  California lawmakers  earn  $95,291 a year. Legislative
leaders make as much as $109,584.  IOUs Possible  Chiang has warned that California may run out of cash to
pay bills by July absent a budget. That may force him to issue
IOUs again, as he did in 2009.  California’s constitution says lawmakers must send a budget
to the governor by June 15, about two weeks before the fiscal
year begins. The Legislature has met that deadline five times in
the last 30 years. Until this year, there wasn’t any penalty for
missing it.  Voters in November passed Proposition 25, which lowered the
threshold to pass a budget to a simple majority from a two-
thirds requirement. It also stripped lawmakers of salary and per
diem pay for every day they are late in passing a spending plan.
Chiang has withheld their pay during previous years, though they
were reimbursed once the budget was passed.  While Democrats control both chambers of the Legislature,
Brown needs the support of at least four Republicans to put his
tax-extension plan on a ballot because it still requires passage
by two-thirds vote.  New Momentum  In March, the governor broke off negotiations on a June
ballot citing a lack of Republican support. Last week Brown said
talks regained momentum as he has took up demands for pension
overhaul, a state spending cap and other measures.  Democrats in March did send Brown budget bills that cut
what was a $26 billion deficit to about $15 billion. Since then,
better-than-expected revenue from the nascent economic recovery
lowered the deficit to about $10 billion.  “We made progress in March, and over the next two weeks we
will build on that progress and close out the remainder of the
deficit by June 15th,” said Speaker of the Assembly John Perez,
a Democrat from  Los Angeles .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alison Vekshin in  San Francisco  at 
 avekshin@bloomberg.net .
Michael Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 