-- 
Canada Post Workers Extend Rotating Strike to Montreal, Toronto

-- B y   A n d r e w   M a y e d a
-- 
2011-06-14T15:07:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-02/canadian-postal-workers-says-strike-would-start-in-winnipeg-for-24-hours.html
Canadian postal workers said they
extended rotating strikes to Montreal and Toronto, the country’s
two largest cities, involving the largest number of workers yet
in the 11-day-old job action.  Workers at Canada Post, a government-owned corporation,
began a 24-hour strike in the two cities June 13, according to
an e-mailed  statement  by the Canadian Union of Postal Workers.
The union has been holding rotating strikes in cities across the
country since just before midnight June 3.  The union said the company has been cutting working hours
and limiting postal service to three days per week in most
cities. “Management is penalizing our members for exercising
their right to strike,” Gerry Deveau, CUPW national director
for Ontario, said in a statement.  Canada Post says it needs to cut staff costs to avoid
having to take government subsidies as traditional mail services
are replaced by digital communications and electronic commerce.
The union wants the company to improve health and safety and
sick-leave policies, among other issues.  The company said in a statement Monday that uncertainty
caused by the strike is “damaging” the postal system. It
limited delivery of letters and small packages to Mondays,
Wednesdays and Fridays in most urban areas, saying volumes have
declined as much as 50 percent since the rotating strikes began.  No Extension  The union and Canada Post are negotiating a contract for
about 48,000 letter carriers and other staff in urban areas. The
strike doesn’t involve another 7,000 suburban and rural mail
carriers represented by the union, who are involved in a
separate set of negotiations.  Denis Lemelin, CUPW national president, said Monday the
union hasn’t yet extended the strike across the country since
rotating strikes appear to be accomplishing its goal of
reminding the public of the importance of the postal system.  A Conservative lawmaker said Monday the government is
monitoring the talks. “I am concerned about the effects this
will have on Canadians and Canadian businesses across the
country,” Kellie Leitch, parliamentary secretary to the labor
minister, told the House of Commons.  While the government can introduce legislation compelling
the employees to return to work, Leitch said “the best solution
is one that the parties come up with together.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Mayeda in Ottawa at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 