-- 
Canada Dollar Falls Versus Most Major Counterparts on Outlook for Economy

-- B y   C e c i l e   V a n n u c c i   a n d   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 
2011-06-02T21:15:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-02/canadian-dollar-declines-against-most-major-peers-on-greece-economic-data.html
Canada ’s dollar fluctuated versus its
U.S. counterpart and fell against a majority of its 16 most-
traded peers as data showed the recovery of the world’s largest
economy may be faltering.  The Canadian currency, sometimes called the loonie, touched
a one-week low against the greenback before data tomorrow
forecast to show U.S. job growth is slowing. The loonie fell
versus the euro on speculation a higher  default risk  for  Greece 
will cut demand for currencies of commodity exporters. Oil,
Canada’s biggest export, reached the cheapest level in a week.  “The main driver of the Canadian dollar at this point in
time is the slowdown in the  U.S. economy , which is negatively
impacting the currency,” said Lee Hardman, a foreign-exchange
strategist in London at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd.  Canada’s currency gained 0.1 percent to 97.59 cents per
U.S. dollar at 5 p.m. in Toronto, from 97.72 cents yesterday. It
dropped as much as 0.4 percent to 98.10 cents, its weakest level
since May 26. One Canadian dollar buys $1.0247.  Government bonds  fell, pushing Canada’s benchmark two-year
note yield up three basis points to 1.48 percent. It decreased
earlier to 1.44 percent, the lowest level since November. The
1.75 percent security, which matures in March 2013, declined 6
cents to C$100.46. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  The gap in yield between the Canadian security and two-year
Treasuries widened one basis point to 1.03 percentage points.  U.S. Payrolls  Nonfarm payrolls in the U.S., Canada’s biggest trading
partner, added 165,000 workers in May, according to economists
in a Bloomberg News survey, after gaining 244,000 the previous
month. Reports today showed initial claims for  unemployment
benefits  dropped less than forecast, while factory orders
declined the most by almost a year.  “The market typically is reluctant to take on new
positioning ahead of a significant number like tomorrow’s
payroll number,” said  Jack Spitz , managing director of foreign
exchange at  National Bank of Canada  in Toronto. “Given the tone
of most economic releases recently coming out of the States, I
think there’s likely to be a miss.”  Canada ships about three-quarters of its exports to the
U.S.  The loonie, nicknamed for the image of the aquatic bird on
the C$1 coin, touched a four-week low against the euro after
Greece’s risk of default was raised to 50 percent by Moody’s
Investors Service. European officials rushed to put together the
second bailout plan in two years to stave off renewed financial
turmoil in the region.  Merkel, Moody’s  Canada’s currency depreciated 1 percent to C$1.4143 per
euro and touched C$1.4169, the weakest level since May 5.
 Europe ’s shared currency rose after German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said she’s committed to it and Moody’s said if there’s no
progress on increasing the U.S. statutory debt limit in coming
weeks, it expects to place America’s rating under review for
possible downgrade.  Crude oil for July delivery dropped as much as 1.8 percent
to $98.46 a barrel in New York, the lowest since May 25, before
trading at $100.89. Global stocks fell, with the MSCI World
Index down 0.8 percent, while U.S. stocks fluctuated.  “The Canadian dollar is still very much a barometer of
risk appetite,” said  Shaun Osborne , chief currency strategist
at Toronto-Dominion Bank’s TD Securities unit in Toronto. “It
tends to underperform when risk assets and equity markets, for
example, are not doing particularly well.”  Jobless Claims  The loonie fell earlier versus the greenback after U.S.
Labor Department data showed initial claims for jobless benefits
declined by 6,000 last week to 422,000, compared with a
Bloomberg News survey forecast of 417,000. Orders placed with
factories fell in April 1.2 percent, a Commerce Department
report showed.  ADP Employer Services said yesterday U.S. companies added
38,000 workers in May, compared with 177,000 the previous month.  “When we see those negative data for the U.S., it
certainly seems to spread over to Canada quite frequently,”
said  Steve Butler , managing director of foreign-exchange trading
in Toronto at Bank of Nova Scotia’s Scotia Capital unit.  The loonie tumbled the most today against the South African
currency. It depreciated 1.7 percent to 6.8764 rand.  Canada’s dollar is poised to decline to parity with its
U.S. counterpart after closing below a key technical level,
according to Bank of America Corp. The loonie ended yesterday
weaker than its 100-day moving average of 97.51 cents per  U.S.
dollar , indicating it may depreciate further,  MacNeil Curry ,
head of foreign-exchange and  interest-rates  technical strategy
at Bank of America in New York, said in a telephone interview.  Last at Parity  The currency last traded on a one-for-one basis with the
U.S. dollar on Feb. 1 and has gained 1.5 percent since then.  While the American dollar is still in a long-term weakening
trend as U.S. economic growth slows and central banks of other
developed nations raise interest rates before the  Federal
Reserve , the Canadian currency’s technical break may mean a
temporary change in the situation, Curry said.  The greenback may strengthen as investors’ appetite for
risk weakens after a Federal Reserve stimulus program to
purchase $600 billion of Treasuries ends this month, Bank of
Tokyo-Mitsubishi’s Hardman said.  “We would recommend buying the U.S. dollar on dips against
the Canadian dollar in the near term,” Hardman said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cecile Vannucci in  New York  at 
 cvannucci1@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Fournier in Halifax, Nova Scotia at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  