-- 
Carbon Market May Bring Financial Bubble, Bolivian Envoy Says

-- B y   A n d r e w   H e r n d o n
-- 
2011-06-02T05:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-02/carbon-market-may-bring-financial-bubble-bolivian-envoy-says.html
The global carbon market, valued at
about $124 billion in 2010, may create a new financial bubble
and is a poor way to address the climate crisis,  Bolivia ’s
United Nations ambassador said.  “The possibility of a new financial bubble that will be
created through this carbon market is very big,”  Pablo Solon ,
Bolivia’s ambassador to the UN and the country’s chief climate
negotiator, said in a telephone interview.  The comments open a new argument in Bolivia’s effort to
keep CO2 trading off the agenda at the UN climate talks. Solon
spearheaded an effort at last year’s gathering in Cancun,
 Mexico , to exclude carbon-market mechanisms from a program
designed to protect forests.  Solon’s opposition to the measures fed into a rift between
rich and poor nations that derailed the UN talks two years ago
in Copenhagen. His concerns were overruled in December in
Cancun, allowing the discussions to progress.  Speaking in the week before climate negotiators gather for
UN talks in Bonn beginning June 6, Solon said carbon credits can
be bought for around $15 a metric ton and then resold for $100 a
metric ton or more in some cases.  “In reality it is the same ton of CO2, so there are many
problems related to the carbon market that are not really under
control at all,” Solon said. “From our point of view, to
launch and to create all this business to solve this problem
through this new market mechanism is not a good solution.”  $124 Billion Market  The global market for buying and selling emissions
allowances was valued at more than $124 billion in 2010,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg New Energy Finance.  At the talks in Cancun that finished in December, countries
agreed in principle to establish national emissions limits and a
climate fund to support developing nations as they cope with
rising sea levels and more volatile weather. Bolivia was the
only country in attendance to abstain from the agreement.  Solon said developed countries have failed to live up to
their promises on emissions limits, and carbon trading has not
spurred further action.  “Even with the carbon markets, the emission reductions in
developed countries have not increased in a very significant
way,” Solon said. “We have had more problems than benefits,”
including a much-publicized theft of carbon allowances In  Europe 
last year that caused trading to be halted.  New Agreement Possible  There are significant roadblocks to achieving the goals
laid out at Cancun, Solon said. The culmination of talks this
year come near the end of the first commitment period of the
 Kyoto Protocol , whose limits lapse in 2012. While Bolivia and
developing nations want to extend the Kyoto pact,  Russia ,  Canada 
and Japan have indicated they won’t agree to that.  Under Kyoto, industrial nations were given mandatory
emissions limits while developing ones including  China ,  India 
and  Brazil  had no cap. China since then has surpassed the U.S.
as the world’s biggest polluter. Delegates meet again at the end
of this year in Durban,  South Africa .  “To be realistic and pragmatic, the only thing that is
possible for Durban is to have a second commitment period of the
 Kyoto Protocol , even if not all parties agree on that,” Solon
said. “It’s better to have an agreement with many parties than
to keep waiting with nothing on your hands until everybody is on
board.”  Treaty ‘Not Doable’  The U.S. never signed up to Kyoto and is pressing for a new
treaty that would curb emissions for both rich and poor nations.
In April, as envoys were meeting in Bangkok, Todd Stern, who
leads the U.S. delegation, said a binding global treaty was
“not doable.”  Solon said a commitment for cuts from the U.S. would make
developing nations more willing to limit their own emissions.  “Many other developed countries will follow that step and
increase also their ambitions,” Solon said. “Because the U.S.
doesn’t do that and it is very very short in ambition, the whole
negotiation is in some way kidnapped by this pessimistic
position from the U.S.”  Solon said the fate of the talks ultimately lies in the
hands of ordinary voters in the U.S.,  Japan  and other industrial
countries.  “If civil society in Japan, in the U.S., and other
developed countries doesn’t get involved in some way by putting
pressure, then probably the negotiations won’t move or even go
backward,” Solon said. “If there is instead pressure, I think
we can have some movement.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Herndon in  San Francisco  at 
 aherndon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  