-- 
Carstens Criticizes `Strange' European Support for Lagarde to Lead the IMF

-- B y   R a n d y   W o o d s   a n d   K a t e r i n a   P e t r o f f
-- 
2011-06-02T20:11:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-02/carstens-heads-to-brazil-in-lagarde-s-wake-as-campaign-for-imf-chief-flags.html
Mexican central bank Governor Agustin Carstens, nominated to lead the  International Monetary Fund ,
criticized European nations for publicly backing French Finance
Minister  Christine Lagarde  before all the candidates are known.  “I find it strange that they are advocating in some forums
for an open, transparent, merit-based candidate and they have
made up their minds before the candidates are on the table,”
Carstens, 52, said in an interview today in Sao Paulo. “All the
other countries are playing by the book.”  Carstens, who has won a single public endorsement abroad,
from Uruguay, said he expects emerging markets to support his
candidacy once there is a final list of nominees to serve as the
IMF’s next managing director. He met with his counterpart from
 Brazil  today before traveling to Buenos Aires in a bid to rally
support among  developing countries  for his candidacy.  His visit to Brazil follows one by Lagarde on May 30, when
she met with Finance Minister  Guido Mantega . A Brazilian
official said the following day that the government will
privately support Lagarde in the race to succeed Dominique Strauss-Kahn as managing director.  While Carstens’ campaign is unlikely to succeed, his strong
credentials as a former IMF deputy managing director are
impossible to overlook and may advance his bigger goal of giving
emerging markets more say in how the world economy is run,
Guillermo Le Fort, a former IMF economist from Chile, said in a
telephone interview.  ‘Principled Stand’  “Carstens is making a principled stand,” Le Fort, who was
also a director on the IMF’s board for  Chile  and five South
American nations from 2000 to 2004, said. “If he’s successful
in advancing the cause of emerging markets, the Europeans might
feel red in the face and decide to hold more honest, open
elections based on merit in the future.”  Any of the IMF’s 187 member nations has until June 10 to
nominate candidates for the managing director’s position, the
fund said in a May 20 statement. The IMF executive board, which
will select a managing director by June 30, is aiming for
consensus rather than a majority vote, according to the fund.  Winning Endorsements  Europeans have picked IMF heads since its founding at the
end of World War II under an agreement that gives the U.S.
control over the top World Bank post. U.S. Treasury Secretary
 Timothy F. Geithner  has praised Lagarde’s qualifications without
supporting a candidate, while the French minister has won
endorsements from countries across  Europe , including the U.K.
and  Germany .  Emerging economies that advocate a merit-based selection
process appear unlikely to break Europe’s hold on the top job
because so far they have been unable to rally around a single
candidate, Arturo Porzecanski, a professor of international
economics at American University in  Washington , said.  “The likes of Brazil,  Russia ,  China ,  India  will not
support one another -- never mind  Mexico ,” he said in a
telephone interview June 1. “Emerging countries are not being
supportive.”  Carstens’ trip is similar to that of a political campaign
designed to gain support in emerging countries for his bid,
Morris Goldstein, senior fellow at the Peterson Institute for
International Economics in Washington, said in a May 31
telephone interview.  Argentina Visit  Carstens’ meeting today in Sao Paulo with central bank
President Alexandre Tombini followed a meeting yesterday in
Brasilia with finance chief Mantega. He’ll be traveling to
Ottawa after  Buenos Aires  to promote his candidacy.  Brazilian officials and Carstens share the view that IMF
needs to continue to reform and give developing markets more
representation, the Mexican official said.  “What is clear is that we have very similar views on the
challenges and the solutions that need to take place in the
institution,” said Carstens about his meeting with Tombini.  Lagarde met with Mantega in Brazil before traveling to
China. The French government minister has promised to remain in
the campaign even as she faces legal challenges regarding her
resolution of a two-decade old dispute involving a supporter of
President Nicolas Sarkozy.  France ’s Cour de Justice de la Republique, which oversees
ministers’ actions in office, has until June 10 to decide
whether to investigate whether Lagarde abused her powers in
agreeing in 2007 to send the case to arbitration. It resulted in
a 385 million-euro ($556 million) award to businessman Bernard Tapie.  Carstens could be building his reputation for a successful
future run if his bid for the IMF top job fails this year,  Kevin Gallagher , associate professor of international relations at
Boston University, said in a telephone interview June 1.  ‘Household Name’  “He’s trying to carve out a space for emerging markets and
let people know who he is,” Gallagher said. “He’s all of a
sudden become a household name in this community. Maybe five
years from now the world will think that maybe it will be
Carstens’ turn.”  To be sure, Carstens’ campaign isn’t necessarily doomed,
according to Goldstein, who was an IMF official for 24 years.  “It’s a matter of whether he can get support first of all
in the rest of the emerging market world,” he said. “If he
were able to unite the emerging markets, he would have a real
chance.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Randall Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net ;
Katerina Petroff in  Sao Paulo  at 
 kpetroff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  