-- 
Carstens Says Mexico Neutral Rate Lower Than Before Financial Crisis

-- B y   A d r i a n a   A r a i   a n d   K a t e r i n a   P e t r o f f
-- 
2011-06-02T21:20:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-02/carstens-says-mexico-neutral-rate-lower-than-before-financial-crisis.html
Mexico ’s economic fundamentals are
strengthening and the central bank probably won’t have to
increase interest rates to the level they were before the 2008
financial crisis, central bank Governor Agustin Carstens said.  “In a steady state interest rates would be lower than they
were pre-crisis because the country risk has come down,”
Carstens said in an interview in  Sao Paulo  today. “This is a
result of hard work for many years.”  Mexico is the only major Latin American economy that hasn’t
raised interest rates this year. Mexico’s annual inflation rate
-- which rose to 3.36 percent in April, up from a five-year low
of 3.04 percent in March -- is about half the 6.51 percent
recorded in  Brazil , the region’s largest economy.  The Bank of Mexico has lowered its benchmark interest rate
to a record low of 4.5 percent from 8.25 percent since the
bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in September 2008
caused a global financial crisis that prompted central banks
around the world to stimulate their economies.  In its last meeting May 27, the bank kept its benchmark
interest rate unchanged for a 19th straight meeting. A quarterly
inflation report on May 11 showed policy makers kept their 2011
inflation forecast unchanged at 2 percent to 4 percent while
raising their growth estimate to 4 percent to 5 percent.  Brazil raised interest rates to 12 percent in policy
makers’ last meeting in April, the third increase this year.  Mexico’s credit rating was reduced one level to BBB by
 Standard & Poor’s  in December 2009 after tumbling oil output and
the worst recession since the 1930s swelled the  budget deficit .  Carstens said the central bank’s board anticipates Mexican
inflation will meet forecasts, adding that some economists are
reducing estimates.  “We have low inflation, strong public finances, relatively
small debt to GDP, record high international reserves, exports
are growing very fast,” he said. “Mexico is in a good position
right now.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Adriana Arai in Sao Paulo at 
 aarai1@bloomberg.net ;
Katerina Petroff in Sao Paulo at 
 kpetroff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  