-- 
House Member Chaffetz Says He May Take On Hatch for U.S. Senate Nomination

-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 
2011-06-02T04:00:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-02/chaffetz-says-he-may-take-on-hatch-for-u-s-senate-nomination.html
U.S. Representative Jason Chaffetz of
Utah said he is considering challenging incumbent  Orrin Hatch 
for their state’s Republican Senate nomination next year, adding
that he is getting “increasing clarity” about a bid to unseat
the six-term lawmaker.  “I’m potentially running for the Senate,” Chaffetz said
in an interview yesterday. He said he believes Utah voters “are
ready for a change,” and that he will announce a decision after
Labor Day in early September.  Chaffetz, 44, made his comments after the  Salt Lake Tribune 
reported May 31 that five unnamed “Utah politicos” said the
two-term House member has told them in recent weeks that he will
make a run for the Senate nomination, which will first be
considered at a Republican state convention.  Last year, Tea Party activists helped lead a push to reject
Utah Senator  Robert Bennett ’s bid for a fourth term at a similar
party convention. Republican  Mike Lee  then won a primary for the
nomination and captured the Senate seat in November’s election.  Hatch, 77, has been reaching out to Tea Party activists to
avoid Bennett’s fate. He has sought to defuse criticism of his
record of working with Democrats on legislation such as the 2008
bailout of the nation’s banks, creating a pathway to citizenship
for some illegal immigrants and federal funding for
stem-cell research. In 1997, he joined forces with the late
Senator Edward Kennedy, a Massachusetts Democrat, to create a
children’s health-care program.  Tea Party Outreach  Hatch’s outreach to Tea Party groups has included town-hall
meetings and personal calls before Senate votes. And as part of
a conservative tilt, he has pushed to peel back parts of last
year’s health-care overhaul, taken a tougher stance on
immigration, and vowed to fight against any tax increases
proposed by President  Barack Obama .  Hatch first won his seat in 1976, tying him with  Richard Lugar  of Indiana as the Senate’s longest-serving Republicans.
Lugar, 79, is facing a primary challenge from Indiana Treasurer
Richard Mourdock.  Chaffetz said he isn’t ready to make a final decision on a
Senate race, in part because he believes voters tire of lengthy
campaigns. He also said he’s still weighing his options.  ‘Maybe’ Category  “I’m still in the definite ‘maybe’ category, but I do have
increasing clarity,” he said in a phone interview.  Antonia Ferrier, a spokeswoman for Hatch, said the senator
wouldn’t comment about a possible Chaffetz challenge until the
House lawmaker makes up his mind.  “He’s not saying anything he hasn’t said for months,”
Ferrier said of Chaffetz’s remarks.  Former Representative Chris Chocola, an  Indiana  Republican
who is president of the fiscally conservative  Club for Growth ,
urged Chaffetz to enter the race.  “Run, Jason, Run!” Chocola said in a statement yesterday.
“Congressman Chaffetz has been a pro-growth star since entering
the House, and he’s exactly the type of leader we need in the
United States Senate.”  Hatch won re-election in 2006 with 63 percent of the vote.
He serves as the ranking Republican on the Senate Finance
Committee, which has jurisdiction over the  tax code , health care
and trade policy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Litvan in Washington at   or
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva@bloomberg.net  