-- 
Four Killed in U.K.’s Deadliest Refinery Explosion Since 1974

-- B y   R a c h e l   G r a h a m   a n d   N i d a a   B a k h s h
-- 
2011-06-03T13:54:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-02/chevron-pembroke-oil-refinery-has-fire-fire-department-says.html
Four workers were killed when a
storage tank exploded and caused a fire at  Chevron Corp (CVX) ’s
Pembroke plant in  Wales  yesterday, in the U.K.’s worst refinery
disaster for almost four decades.  Another worker was hospitalized with serious injuries,  San
Ramon , California-based Chevron said in a statement. Output at
the 210,000 barrel-a-day refinery wasn’t disrupted and an
investigation is under way.  Yesterday’s explosion was the deadliest since 28 people
were killed in a blast at a chemical plant at Flixborough in
northern  England  in 1974, according to the U.K. Petroleum
Industry Association Ltd. A fire in a crude distillation unit at
Total SA’s 221,000 barrel-a-day Lindsey refinery in northeast
England last year left one person dead.  The Pembroke refinery, which is in the process of being
sold to  Valero Energy Corp. (VLO) , processes crude from the  North Sea ,
 Russia  and West Africa into diesel, gasoline and jet fuel. The
storage tank that exploded contained no crude, minimizing the
disruption to operations.  “There are no implications to supply of finished
products,” Isabelle Guerin, a Chevron spokeswoman based in
London, said by telephone.  Non-Essential Work  Chevron suspended non-essential work at the refinery and
said U.S. experts would be sent over to help with the inquiry.
Shipping at the nearby Milford Haven Port wasn’t affected, the
port’s control room said.  “Chevron has indicated that product supply is
unaffected,” said  Harry Tchilinguirian , head of commodity-
markets strategy at BNP Paribas in London. “Given the refinery
remains fully operational, then we are unlikely to see a
material reaction in oil product prices.”  European gasoline for immediate loading traded from $1,018
to $1,044 a metric ton today, according to a Bloomberg survey of
traders and brokers active in the Amsterdam-Rotterdam-Antwerp
area,  Europe ’s oil-trading hub. Chevron sold 1,000 tons of the
fuel to Royal Dutch Shell Plc at $1,037 a ton, according to the
survey. Deals were done yesterday from $1,020 to $1,068.  There will be no changes to worker shifts at the Pembroke
plant today, said Paul Bray, another Chevron spokesman.
“Staff will be there today on the shift patterns you’d
expect,” said Bray. “A small number of non-essential staff
aren’t coming in.”  Blown Offshore  The refinery continued to operate after the fire was
extinguished, Guerin said yesterday. The workers that were
killed were contractors, the company said.  Material released into the atmosphere as a result of the
explosion and fire was blown offshore, representing no risk to
the neighboring community,  Dyfed Powys Police  said in a
statement on the force’s website. The Welsh environment agency
will carry out an investigation into the incident with the
U.K.’s health and safety executive, according to the statement.  “This news is utterly devastating,” Greg Hanggi, the
refinery’s general manager, said in a statement. “We will take
every step possible to determine the series of events that led
to this tragic incident and ensure that any lessons learnt from
it will be integrated into the business and shared with our
industry partners.”  Forty-four percent of production at the refinery is
gasoline and 40 percent is distillates, a group of fuels
including diesel and jet fuel, according to Valero in March.
About half of the refinery’s output is exported, including to
the U.S. east coast, said Ruth Kent, a London-based spokeswoman
for Chevron.  Tank Farms  The refinery has more than 140  storage tanks  in six so-
called tank farms, according to a company brochure. Crude oil
from the nearby port can be pumped at as much as 100,000 barrels
an hour through pipelines to one of the plant’s storage tanks.
The Pembroke plant was previously owned by Texaco Inc., which
was acquired by Chevron in 2001.  In September 2003, a fire erupted at a steam plant at the
refinery and one person had to be taken to hospital. In March of
the same year, fluid from a pipe leak caught fire, resulting in
the shutdown of a gasoline-producing fluid catalytic cracking
unit. A June 2001 fire in the unifier process unit at the plant,
which makes naphtha, sent flames soaring hundreds of feet into
the air,  Valero, the largest U.S. crude refiner, agreed in March to
buy the Pembroke refinery and 1,000 retail outlets from Chevron
for about $1.73 billion in cash, to gain its first European
plant.  Pembroke’s cash operating costs are about $1 a barrel less
than Valero’s existing plants, making it competitive with other
refineries that supply gasoline to the U.S. Atlantic Coast,
Valero said at the time. Chevron had been seeking a buyer for
its only European refinery for almost a year to reduce its
exposure to the industry.  Bill Day , a spokesman for Valero, said he couldn’t comment
on operations at Pembroke because the company’s purchase of the
plant has not yet closed. The acquisition is expected to close
Sept. 30, according to Bloomberg data.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rachel Graham  in  London  
 rgraham13@bloomberg.net 
Nidaa Bakhsh in London at 
 nbakhsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  