-- 
Chicago’s Willis Tower Owners Said to Seek Buyer or Investor for Building

-- B y   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t
-- 
2011-06-02T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-02/chicago-s-willis-tower-owners-said-to-seek-buyer-or-investor-for-building.html
The owners of  Chicago ’s Willis Tower
are seeking to sell North America’s tallest building or a stake
in the skyscraper as prices for landmark office properties
rebound, according to two people familiar with the plans.  The owners have hired brokers to market the 110-story tower
in Chicago’s West Loop, said the people, who asked not to be
identified because they aren’t authorized to speak about the
situation. The building is owned by a partnership that includes
 New York  investors Joseph Moinian and Joseph Chetrit and
American Landmark Properties Ltd. of Skokie, Illinois. In 2004,
the group paid $841 million for the property, then known as the
Sears Tower, according to Real Capital Analytics Inc.  “This is a great sign of how liquidity is returning to the
marketplace, that this ownership group thinks the market can
digest an asset of this size,” said  Dan Fasulo , managing
director of Real Capital, a property-research firm based in New
York. “Usually you see an asset of this size come to market at
the end of a cycle, not the beginning.”  Prices for so-called trophy office buildings in six U.S.
cities -- New York,  Washington ,  Los Angeles ,  San Francisco ,
Boston and Chicago -- were up 23 percent in March from their
July 2009 low, Moody’s Investors Service reported May 23. The
increase occurred even as overall U.S. commercial property
values show “no sign of recovery,” Moody’s said.  Newmark and Eastdil  James Kuhn of Newmark Knight Frank LLP and Doug Harmon of
Eastdil Secured are representing the owners of Willis Tower, the
people said. Harmon brokered the sale of 111 Eighth Ave. in
Manhattan to  Google Inc. (GOOG)  for $1.8 billion, the largest U.S.
building transaction in 2010.  Mira Matic, a Newmark spokeswoman, said Kuhn couldn’t be
reached for comment. Telephone calls to Chetrit, Moinian and
Martha Wallau, an Eastdil Secured spokeswoman, weren’t returned.  The plans were reported yesterday by Reuters.  The 3.8 million-square-foot (353,000-square-meter) Willis
Tower, completed in 1973, is about 80 percent occupied, said one
of the people familiar with the owners’ plans.  The building became the Willis Tower in 2009 when London-
based Willis Group Holdings Inc., the third-biggest insurance
broker, agreed to rent space there.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) 
vacated about 243,000 square feet there this year, and Ernst &
Young LLP’s lease of 352,000 square feet expires next year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  United Airlines, a  United Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL)  unit,
last year said it would take 12 floors at the tower. The
building has $780 million of securitized senior debt, according
to Bloomberg data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David M. Levitt in New York at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  