-- 
China’s Boom Threatened by Enron-Style Tricks: William Pesek

-- B y   W i l l i a m   P e s e k
-- 
2011-06-02T22:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-02/china-s-boom-threatened-by-enron-style-tricks-william-pesek.html
Credit downgrades can elicit
fascinating reactions. Take a January move by  Standard & Poor’s 
to cut Japan’s rating to the same level as  China ’s. I expected
the backlash to come from Tokyo. Instead, it was the Chinese who
were aghast.  Every Chinese official I’ve met since is bewildered that 10
percent growth and $3 trillion of currency reserves don’t buy a
better grade than the AA- China shares with an overly indebted,
aging nation that names a new prime minister every year. Many in
China even think their economy deserves a higher score than the
U.S., with its AAA rating.  These views are as tantalizing as they are wrong. Credit
risks are rising before our eyes as China battles a worsening
inflation threat, the result of which will be slower growth. The
process poses bigger risks to China’s creditworthiness and the
world economy than investors may realize.  In recent years, economists and credit raters voiced a
similar refrain: Only when growth cools will we know the true
cost of China’s efforts in 2008 to ride out the global crisis.
Somehow, the official price tag, 4 trillion yuan ($617 billion),
never satisfied skeptics who didn’t think it possible for China
to navigate the meltdown in credit markets with the ease it did.  Give China its due: It did a masterful job shrugging off
recessions among key customers. Neither Wall Street’s meltdown
nor  Europe ’s debt crisis nor Japan’s deflation knocked China off
schedule in its quest to become No. 1.  China’s Secret  The secret to China’s success? A huge, unreported
accumulation of debt. Scattered around China are 20 cities that
want international airports, glistening skyscrapers, five-star
hotels, six-lane highways, world-class universities and cultural
centers, Prada stores, Mercedes-Benz showrooms and ample
housing. It is the largest urbanization in modern history.  This building boom is taking place quietly, largely beyond
the control of Beijing and financed with easy credit and local
debt issuance. The surge of loans by banks to local authorities
may spark a wave of  bank failures  that hobbles economic growth.
The jump in local debt, which is tough to measure, increases the
risk of default around the nation and leaves Beijing with a
touchy question: Must it bail out local governments that went
too far?  Cities and provinces can’t borrow directly from banks, so
they set up more than 8,000 investment companies to skirt
regulations.  Fitch Ratings  predicts that, because of lending to
these vehicles and to real estate developers, bad loans might
reach 30 percent of the total at China’s banks.  Revival Plan  That’s not all. One of China’s post-crisis revival plans
calls for building 36 million low-cost homes by 2015, an
initiative that would add 2 trillion yuan to local  government
borrowing  by 2012. Such plans will bump up against efforts to
rein in property prices and inflation.  Expect a huge effort to push liabilities off balance
sheets, Enron-style, as bankers scramble to mask the extent of
their lending to local governments. It’s these kinds of
financial shenanigans that have hedge fund managers like  Jim Chanos  of  New York ’s Kynikos Associates LP betting against
China.  It’s hard to envision a full-blown crash. China has the
world’s biggest pile of currency reserves at its disposal and a
command-economy model that gets things done. The country also
has been here before. In the late 1990s, years of state-directed
credit left lenders saddled with bad loans. The government ended
up spending more than $650 billion on bailouts.  Inflation Threat  This time, the stakes are higher. Inflation reached 5.4
percent in March, the fastest since July 2008, and analysts
worry that it’s actually higher than that. The only answer is
slower output. For a nation at China’s level of development,
with a populace appeased by the promise of prosperity, 5 percent
growth is a crisis.  Japan ’s rise and fall during the past 25 years is a path
China knows it must avoid. There is, of course, a very important
difference between Tokyo and Beijing. While Japan suffers from
political paralysis, China’s top-down system gives President  Hu Jintao  and Premier Wen Jiabao enormous latitude to steer the
economy.  Bad debt is inevitable for China; most developing nations
get in trouble with it at some point. The question is the
dimension -- will it merely be a challenge for the national
government or ruinous for the entire nation?  No economy grows in a straight line forever. As China
applies the brakes it could trigger some chain reactions around
the globe, and not necessarily for the better.  (William Pesek is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
William Pesek in  Tokyo  at 
 wpesek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at 
 jgreiff@bloomberg.net  