-- 
China’s Li Na Makes French Open History By Discovering Clay-Court Game

-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 
2011-06-03T12:28:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-02/china-s-li-na-makes-french-open-history-by-discovering-clay-court-game.html
Australian hard courts or Parisian
clay, the result is the same for Li Na this season: a place in a
Grand Slam final.  The No. 6 seed from Wuhan, China, defeated three-time major
champion  Maria Sharapova  of Russia 6-4, 7-5 yesterday to become
the first Chinese player to reach the final at the French Open.
Li wants to go one better against defending champion Francesca Schiavone of  Italy  in tomorrow’s match after losing to  Kim Clijsters  of  Belgium  in the Australian Open final in January.  “ Melbourne  was more exciting because it was my first time
to the final,” Li, 29, said in a news conference. “I still
have one more step to go, so I don’t want to stop here.”  After Melbourne, Li lost in the opening round of her next
four tournaments. Her form improved on the European clay courts,
where she made the semifinals of tournaments in Madrid and Rome.  As many as 65 million people watched Li’s first Grand Slam
final appearance on television in  China , the women’s WTA tour
said at the time. The tour last year estimated that 14 million
people in China regularly play tennis, up from 1 million when
the sport returned to the Olympics in 1988.  While Li said reaching the final of the Australian Open
hasn’t changed her life much, the impact of being a Grand Slam
finalist contributed to her slump after Melbourne, she said in
an interview at the Foro Italico in Rome two weeks before  Roland
Garros .  Off-Court Demands  “There was a lot of attention from sponsors, from the
media, everything was coming at once,” Li said. “After making
the final, I’d be somewhere training for a match and someone
would come and say ‘hello,’ so I couldn’t focus 100 percent on
the court.”  Her play improved when she started working with Denmark’s
Fed Cup coach, Michael Mortensen, during the European clay court
season.  “He has a lot of positive energy around him,” Li said in
 Rome . “He gives me a lot of confidence on the court.”  Shortly before her match against Sharapova, Li shared a
joke with her husband as she ate a baguette in the players’
lounge.  She said she’ll continue in the same vein before facing
Schiavone and won’t let her 6-4, 6-2 loss to the Italian in the
third round of the French Open last year sap her faith that she
can win the title. The pair is tied at 2-2 in career meetings.  “I made it to the final, so I come with more confidence on
the court,” Li said in Paris. “Also you have to believe in
yourself you can do it.”  Wang Liangzuo, a former coach of the China women’s tennis
Team, said Li may beat the 30-year-old Schiavone in the final.  “The  French Open  is a very good chance for Li,” Wang said
in an interview. “It is quite interesting that the final will
be between two mature players both at the age of about 30, which
shows the real ability of them.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh at Roland Garros through the London sports
desk at   drossingh@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 