-- 
China Local-Government Debt Risk Needs ‘Attention,’ Bank of China Says

-- B y   H e n r y   S a n d e r s o n   w i t h   a s s i s t a n c e   f r o m   V i c t o r i a   R u a n
-- 
2011-06-02T05:13:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-02/china-s-local-government-debt-risk-needs-attention-central-bank-says.html
China ’s central bank urged “paying
attention” to the credit risks of local-government financing
vehicles because their debts have long maturities and are
difficult to oversee.  Some companies set up by provincial and municipal
governments to fund infrastructure projects are unsustainable,
the People’s Bank of China said in a report on its website late
yesterday. The loans are “generally large, with long
maturities, and it is difficult to oversee their use,” the
central bank said.  China is increasing scrutiny of local-government borrowing
to fund the construction of roads, airports and other
infrastructure because of the risk of banks being saddled with
bad loans. Local governments, barred from selling bonds or
borrowing directly from banks, had set up more than 10,000
financing vehicles by the end of 2010 to raise money, mostly for
infrastructure, the central bank said.  News website Sina.com reported yesterday that China will
conduct an investigation into local-government debt, citing  Wu
Xiaoling , vice chairman of the finance and economy committee of
the National People’s Congress. Reuters reported earlier on a
plan to clean up local-government debt, citing unidentified
people.  China should explore how local governments can strengthen
their debt management through market-oriented financing, the
People’s Bank of China said. Authorities should study the
possibility of them selling bonds to alter financing now
dominated by bank loans to investment vehicles, it said.  The report gave some details on the scale of lending to the
financing entities. In no region did lending to the vehicles
account for more than 30 percent of total bank loans at the end
of last year, the report said.  Slower Loan Growth  Lending to the financing vehicles of some provinces and
municipalities that report directly to the central government
rose less than 20 percent last year after gaining more than 50
percent in 2009, according to the report, which didn’t give more
specific data.  More loans are being backed by collateral instead of the
fiscal revenue of provincial and municipal authorities, the
central bank said. Financing vehicles for the municipality of
Chongqing have collateral backing 60 percent of loans, according
to the report.  The number of local-government financing companies has
risen more than 25 percent since 2008, according to the report. 