-- 
Defending Champion Francesca Schiavone, Li Na Reach French Open Final

-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 
2011-06-02T17:25:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-02/china-s-li-na-defeats-maria-sharapova-to-reach-french-open-women-s-final.html
Defending champion Francesca Schiavone and  Li Na  won in straight sets to advance to the final
of tennis’s  French Open  in Paris.  Fifth-seeded Schiavone of  Italy  beat  France ’s Marion Bartoli 6-3, 6-3, while No. 6 Li defeated  Maria Sharapova  of
Russia 6-4, 7-5 to become the first Chinese player to reach the
championship match. They’ll meet for the title in two days.  “The experience to be here in the final is a dream come
true,” Schiavone, who beat  Australia ’s Samantha Stosur in last
year’s final, said in a courtside interview at  Roland Garros .
“It will be really tough, but this is tennis and one has to
win.”  The two have played four times previously, with each
winning twice. Schiavone took the most recent matchup, in the
third round in Paris last year.  “I just need one more step and then my dream is come
true,” Li said in a news conference.  Both matches were played in winds of about 50 kilometers
(31 miles) per hour, which affected shots and sent clay up into
the stands.  Schiavone and Bartoli were able to stay on serve in the
first set until the champion broke for a 5-3 lead. She then
served out, winning when Bartoli sent a backhand long.  Bartoli broke for a 2-0 lead in the second set, but
couldn’t hold serve in the next game. Schiavone broke again for
a 4-3 lead and, after holding serve, got her final break at love
to clinch the match.  ‘Not Easy’  “With the wind, it was a little more in my advantage,”
Schiavone, 30, said. “It was not easy. Marion is a great
talent, I had to run a lot.”  The 26-year-old Bartoli was trying to become the seventh
French woman to reach the final, and first since Mary Pierce in
2005. She made 18 unforced errors and hit only 11 winners.  Li’s victory sends her to a second consecutive Grand Slam
final after losing to  Kim Clijsters  at the Australian Open in
January.  “I never believe that I could be in the final of the
French Open,” the 29-year-old Li said in a courtside interview.
“I wish I can do even better on Saturday.”  The No. 6 seed made 23 unforced errors and got only 66
percent of first serves in. Seventh-seeded Sharapova had 28
unforced errors, 10 double faults and hit only 12 winners.  “It was tough for both of us,” Sharapova, 24, said of the
wind.  Career Slam  Li broke Sharapova in the second game and opened a 3-0 lead
before the Russian pulled within 4-3 with her first break. Neither
player held serve in the next three games and Li took the set
when Sharapova put a forehand into the net.  Sharapova broke to start the second set as Li squandered a
40-0 lead. Li broke back to tie 4-4 and closed out the match
with another break four games later on Sharapova’s double fault.  Sharapova was attempting to complete the career Grand Slam
by taking the title in Paris. She won Wimbledon in 2004, the
 U.S. Open  in 2006 and the Australian Open three years ago.  “It’s great that I have an opportunity to win all four,”
she told reporters. “It didn’t happen this year.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in  London  at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 