-- 
China’s Gekko Runs Banking Empire; Brolin Nails Mezuza: Movies

-- B y   R i c k   W a r n e r
-- 
2011-06-02T02:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-02/china-s-gekko-runs-banking-empire-brolin-nails-mezuza-movies.html
In “ Empire of Silver ,” a colorful
saga about China’s early version of “ Wall Street ,” the villain
is named Lord Kang instead of Gordon Gekko and he’s a banking
baron rather than a corporate raider.  Otherwise, the similarities are striking. In both films,
greed drives money men to act in sordid ways.  Christina Yao’s debut feature takes place in 1899, when
a group of Chinese merchants from Shanxi province ran a banking
empire known as “piaohao.”  The Shanxi group controlled the nation’s money transfers
and deposits, used secret codes and even practiced a form of
profit-sharing. They ran their operation with modern efficiency
and were so powerful they sometimes challenged China’s rulers.  “Empire of Silver” uses a fictional family to tell the
story. Ruthless Lord Kang (Tielin Zhang) wants one of his four
sons, known as Third Master, to succeed him as head of his
banking domain. But Third Master (Aaron Kwok) is suspicious of
his father’s shady dealings and resentful that the old man stole
away his true love (Hao Lei), who is now his stepmother.  The father-son conflict and financial maneuvering of the
Shanxi bankers play out against the backdrop of historic events
like the Boxer Rebellion, a nationalistic movement that opposed
foreign influence in  China .  Yao, a veteran theater director, captures the atmosphere
and look of the time with finely crafted costumes, handsome
cinematography and the use of authentic old buildings.  Though the story and acting sometimes veer into melodrama -
- what is Jennifer Tilly doing in this movie, anyway? --
“Empire of Silver” is an absorbing look at a world little-
known to Westerners.  “Empire of Silver,” from NeoClassics Films, opens
tomorrow in New York,  Washington ,  San Francisco  and Los Angeles.
Rating: ***  ‘Submarine’  Oliver Tate, the protagonist and narrator of “ Submarine ,”
is a precocious Welsh teenager who likes reading the dictionary,
feels guilty about dissecting frogs and tries to look mature by
smoking a pipe and listening to French records.  At the moment, his two main goals are seducing his bad-girl
classmate Jordana (Yasmin Paige) and breaking up an affair he
suspects his mom (Sally Hawkins) is having with a spike-haired
old boyfriend who’s now a self-help guru (Paddy Considine).  The first feature from comedian and music-video director
Richard Ayoade, “Submarine” is a sweet and sour coming-of-age
story based on a novel by Joe Dunthorne. It’s original, funny
and as eccentric as its main character, delightfully played by
newcomer Craig Roberts.  Plot developments involve dog ashes in a barrel, a brain
tumor, pyromania and dimmer switches. Don’t get too literal and
you’ll enjoy the ride.  “Submarine,” from the Weinstein Co., opens tomorrow in
New York and  Los Angeles . Rating: ***  ‘Love, Wedding, Marriage’  “ Love, Wedding, Marriage ” covers all three topics, with
an emphasis on the last. Actor Dermot Mulroney’s directing debut
is mostly about what happens after the wedding bells stop
ringing.  His sitcomish romantic comedy centers on two couples:
Marriage counselor Ava ( Mandy Moore ) and her new hunky husband
Charlie (Kellan Lutz), and Ava’s parents, a mismatched pair
(played by white-haired James Brolin and still-beautiful Jane Seymour) who are about to celebrate their 30th anniversary.  When Ava learns that her mom wants a divorce, partly
because her husband had an affair 25 years ago, she advises her
parents to try marriage therapy. But that doesn’t work and her
obsession with their problems puts increasing strains on her own
marriage.  Thailand  Trip  Ava, a hopeless romantic, tries everything to keep her
folks together. She shows her frustrated mom, who’s planning to
take off for Thailand, the horrors of speed dating. And she lets
her peculiar dad, who nails a mezuza to the doorpost after
rediscovering his Jewish identity, move in with her and her
husband.  She later resorts to more drastic measures, and a few other
twists follow before the totally predictable ending. Just
remember the film isn’t called “Love, Wedding, Marriage,
Divorce.”  “Love, Wedding, Marriage,” from  IFC Films , opens tomorrow
in New York. Rating: *1/2  (Rick Warner is the movie critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his
own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Rick Warner in  New York  at 
 rwarner1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 