-- 
Christie's Helicopter Ride May Crack Cost-Cutter Image

-- B y   E l i s e   Y o u n g   a n d   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 
2011-06-02T22:13:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-02/christie-taking-2-500-helicopter-ride-to-son-s-game-may-cost-him-support.html
Governor  Chris Christie ’s image as a
cost-cutter may have started cracking the moment he boarded a
state police helicopter to get to his son’s high-school baseball
game, leaving New Jersey with a $2,500 bill.  Christie, 48, joined the line-up of past governors whose
personal use of state aircraft led to public outcry -- and in
one case, an apology and reimbursement for the costs.  “It’s time to get rid of the helicopter,” said Michael
Riccards, executive director of the Hall Institute of Public
Policy, a Trenton-based nonpartisan group. “They all get into
trouble with it.”  Christie took office in January 2010 pledging to bring
fiscal restraint to a state with the fourth-highest public-debt
burden in the U.S., $3,940 per capita, according to a report
from Moody’s Investors Service. For fiscal 2012, which starts in
July, he has urged “shared sacrifice” under a $29.4 billion
spending plan that Democrats say skimps on education and health.  The helicopter ride and a trooper-driven arrival at the
ballfield with his wife, Mary Pat, before two varsity teams,
fans and family, drew attention to the Republican’s use of such
gubernatorial perks. Neither the game nor a later meeting he
flew to were state business, said  Patrick Murray , director of
the Monmouth University Polling Institute in  West Long Branch .  “He has been asking everyone else in the state to pull
themselves up by their bootstraps and share in the sacrifice of
all these budget cuts to education and so forth,” Murray said
by telephone. “There were so many pieces to this that should
have screamed out, ‘Don’t do it!’ It makes the governor seem
that he’s tone deaf.”  ‘Trappings of Office’  Christie, who traveled from downtown Trenton to the game,
won’t repay the cost of the flight, said  Michael Drewniak , his
spokesman.  “The governor does not reimburse for security and
travel,” Drewniak said in an e-mail. “The use of  air travel 
has been extremely limited and appropriate.  Using the aircraft shows Christie “in some way has
embraced the trappings of office,” said  Jennifer Duffy , a
senior editor at the Washington-based Cook Political Report.
Given his reputation for political acumen and discipline, the
excursion was surprising, she said in a telephone interview.  “It’s contrary to the image he’s created as an average
guy,” Duffy said. “Many parents may like to helicopter to
their kids’ game, but they can’t.”  Iowa Meeting  Christie flew from the May 31 game to Princeton for an
evening meeting at the governor’s mansion with party donors and
operatives from Iowa, where the presidential nominating process
begins next year. The governor told his visitors that he won’t
be a candidate in 2012, according to Rick Gorka, a New Jersey
Republican State Committee spokesman.  Charging that school labor leaders behave like “political
thugs,” Christie has drawn fire from the  New Jersey  Education
Association, the state’s largest teachers’ union. It is running
a multimillion-dollar advertising campaign critical of his
effort to cut their pay and benefits. The governor’s disapproval
rating rose to a high last month in a voter survey.  Employee Benefits  Christie in the past year has limited annual property-tax
increases to 2 percent and capped superintendents’ pay. He wants
government workers to pay 30 percent of their health-care costs
by 2014, rather than the national average of 17 percent cited by
the U.S. Health and Human Services Department’s Healthcare
Research and Quality Agency.  The New Jersey Supreme Court ruled May 23 that the state
must restore $500 million in budget cuts affecting the state’s
poorest school districts. Christie hasn’t said where the money
may be found. An error in its application caused the state to
miss out on $400 million in federal school aid in 2010.  Christie, the U.S. attorney for New Jersey before his
election as governor, won corruption cases against more than 100
public officials. On Nov. 8, a U.S. Justice Department report
said that a U.S. attorney, later identified as Christie,
routinely exceeded travel allowances in 2007 and 2008.  The state helicopter, which Christie has ridden 33 times,
cost about $2,500 for the hour of May 31 flight time, State
Police Sergeant Stephen Jones said by telephone. Christie
boarded the newly purchased Agusta aircraft in Trenton and
landed in Montvale for the game between his son’s Delbarton
School and Saint Joseph High School. He then flew about 67 miles
(108 kilometers) south to the governor’s official residence in
Princeton for the meeting regarding  Iowa .  Flying Time  The executive protection unit “provides secure, protected
travel by vehicle in the overwhelming majority of the governor’s
business and personal travel, except in those rare instances
when the governor’s schedule warrants use of air travel,” State
Police Superintendent Rick Fuentes said in a statement
yesterday.  There is no additional cost to taxpayers of having Christie
aboard state police helicopters because they fly daily for
homeland security missions or training, Fuentes said.  Earlier Governors  In 2002, the Democratic State Committee reimbursed New
Jersey $18,200 for 14 non-governmental helicopter trips taken by
then-Governor James E. McGreevey, who apologized. In 1993,
Republican Christine Todd Whitman, campaigning against
Democratic Governor Jim Florio, cited his use of state aircraft
as wasteful. Whitman, who won, said she would stop governors’
use of helicopters, then flew in one for state business.  Many parents can understand the desire to see a child’s
team play, yet will balk at using a state helicopter to do so,
said David Redlawsk, director of the Rutgers-Eagleton Poll for
 Rutgers University , a state school in  New Brunswick .  “I don’t think by itself this could make or break his
governorship, but it does put a chink in his armor,” Redlawsk
said in a telephone interview. “Rightly or wrongly, we don’t
want our leaders to be like that. We want them to suffer the
same things we do.”  Redlawsk, who came to Rutgers from the  University of Iowa ,
said the flight to a political meeting will cause people to
question its necessity. A group of Hawkeye State Republican
supporters sought the meeting to persuade Christie to enter the
race despite the governor’s statements that he won’t.  Christie’s flight could figure in his political future,
according to the Cook Report’s Duffy.  “If he runs for national office, this will come back,”
she said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elise Young in NJ Statehouse at 
 eyoung30@bloomberg.net ;
Terrence Dopp in NJ Statehouse at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  