-- 
Christie’s Party to Help Reimburse New Jersey for Governor’s Copter Rides

-- B y   E l i s e   Y o u n g   a n d   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 
2011-06-02T23:02:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-02/christie-will-reimburse-new-jersey-for-personal-use-of-police-helicopter.html
New Jersey Republicans and  Chris Christie  said they reimbursed $3,383.79 to taxpayers for the
governor’s use of a police helicopter to travel to two baseball
games that included his son.  Christie, who has asked workers to give up benefits as part
of “shared sacrifice” in cutting the cost of government, used
the chopper to travel from Trenton to Montvale on May 31 to
watch his son play catcher for Delbarton School, and then flew
to Princeton for a meeting with Iowa Republicans. The flight
cost $2,500 an hour, State Police Sergeant Stephen Jones said.  “I wrote the check and that’s the end of it,” Christie,
48, told reporters at Saint Clare’s Hospital in Denville, where
he signed legislation to require heart screening for newborns.  The governor’s comments today were his first since the
controversy erupted. At one point he called the criticism
“silliness” and said it came from “political hacks.”  “My initial reaction was to not reimburse because I was
told there was nothing to reimburse for,” Christie said. “I do
this because there’s a duty I feel to have attention focused 100
percent on the problems facing this state, not the political
theater.”  He used the aircraft out of a sense of family obligation,
Christie said. “I decided that it was important to be there for
my son.”  Party’s Help  The Republican party delivered a $1,232.29 check today to
the Statehouse for the Montvale-to-Princeton leg of the May 31
trip, Rick Gorka, a spokesman for its state committee, said in a
telephone interview. Christie paid $1,232.30 for the Trenton-to-
Montvale part of the trip, and $919.20 for a flight to a May 27
ballgame, Gorka said.  Michael Drewniak , a Christie spokesman, confirmed the
reimbursements and released a list of 33 flights that Christie
has taken, plus one by Lieutenant Governor Kim Guadagno and one
by aides to the governor. “The travel does not cost taxpayers
additional dollars,” Drewniak said by e-mail.  Christie’s helicopter ride and a trooper-driven arrival at
the ballfield with his wife, Mary Pat, before two varsity teams,
fans and family, drew attention to the first-term governor’s use
of such perquisites. Neither the game nor a later meeting he
flew to were state business, said  Patrick Murray , director of
the Monmouth University Polling Institute in  West Long Branch .  ‘Don’t Do It!’  “He has been asking everyone else in the state to pull
themselves up by their bootstraps and share in the sacrifice of
all these budget cuts to education and so forth,” Murray said
by telephone. “There were so many pieces to this that should
have screamed out, ‘Don’t do it!’ It makes the governor seem
that he’s tone deaf.”  Christie joined the line-up of past governors whose
personal use of state aircraft led to public outcry -- and in
one case, an apology and reimbursement for the costs.  “It’s time to get rid of the helicopter,” said Michael
Riccards, executive director of the Hall Institute of Public
Policy, a Trenton-based nonpartisan group. “They all get into
trouble with it.”  In 2002, the Democratic State Committee reimbursed  New
Jersey  $18,200 for 14 non-governmental helicopter trips taken by
then-Governor James E. McGreevey, who apologized. In 1993,
Republican Christine Todd Whitman, campaigning against
Democratic Governor Jim Florio, cited his use of state aircraft
as wasteful. Whitman, who won, said she would stop governors’
use of helicopters, then flew in one for state business.  Pledge of Restraint  Christie took office in January 2010 pledging to bring
financial restraint to a state with the fourth-highest public-
debt burden in the U.S., $3,940 per capita, according to a
report from Moody’s Investors Service. For fiscal 2012, which
starts in July, he has urged all stakeholders to accept a
measure of “sacrifice” under a $29.4 billion spending plan
that Democrats say skimps on education and health.  The State Police’s executive protection unit “provides
secure, protected travel by vehicle in the overwhelming majority
of the governor’s business and personal travel, except in those
rare instances when the governor’s schedule warrants use of  air
travel ,” State Police Superintendent Rick Fuentes said in a
statement yesterday.  There is no additional cost to taxpayers of having Christie
aboard state police helicopters because they fly daily for
homeland security missions or training, Fuentes said.  Benefit of Office  Using the aircraft shows Christie “in some way has
embraced the trappings of office,” said  Jennifer Duffy , a
senior editor at the Washington-based Cook Political Report.
Given his reputation for political acumen and discipline, the
excursion was surprising, she said in a telephone interview.  “It’s contrary to the image he’s created as an average
guy,” Duffy said. “Many parents may like to helicopter to
their kids’ game, but they can’t.”  Christie flew from the May 31 game to Princeton for an
evening meeting at the governor’s mansion with party donors and
operatives from  Iowa , where the presidential nominating process
begins next year. The governor told his visitors that he won’t
be a candidate in 2012, according to Gorka.  Charging that public-school labor leaders behave like
“political thugs,” Christie has drawn fire from the New Jersey
Education Association, the state’s largest teachers’ union. It
is running a multimillion-dollar advertising campaign critical
of his effort to cut their pay and benefits. The governor’s
disapproval rating rose to a high last month in a voter survey.  Fiscal Austerity  Christie in the past year has limited annual property-tax
increases to 2 percent and capped superintendents’ pay. He wants
government workers to pay 30 percent of their health-care costs
by 2014, rather than the national average of 17 percent cited by
the U.S. Health and Human Services Department’s Healthcare
Research and Quality Agency.  The New Jersey Supreme Court ruled May 23 that the state
must restore $500 million in budget cuts affecting the state’s
poorest school districts. Christie hasn’t said where the money
may be found. An error in its application caused the state to
miss out on $400 million in federal school aid in 2010.  Many parents can understand the desire to see a child’s
team play, yet will balk at using a state helicopter to do so,
said David Redlawsk, director of the Rutgers-Eagleton Poll for
 Rutgers University , a state school in  New Brunswick .  Denting Reputation  “I don’t think by itself this could make or break his
governorship, but it does put a chink in his armor,” Redlawsk
said in a telephone interview. “Rightly or wrongly, we don’t
want our leaders to be like that. We want them to suffer the
same things we do.”  Redlawsk, who came to Rutgers from the  University of Iowa ,
said the flight to a political meeting will cause people to
question its necessity. A group of Hawkeye State Republican
supporters sought the meeting to persuade Christie to enter the
race even though the governor has said that he won’t.  Christie’s aircraft use to get to ballgames could figure in
his political future, according to the Cook Report’s Duffy.  “If he runs for national office, this will come back,”
she said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
{Elise Young} in Trenton at 
 eyoung30@bloomberg.net ;
{Terrence Dopp} in Trenton at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  