-- 
McIlroy, Riley Share Lead at Golf’s Memorial Tournament; Donald 4 Back

-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 
2011-06-03T04:00:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-02/chris-riley-leads-at-golf-s-memorial-tournament-no-1-donald-7-shots-back.html
Rory McIlroy and Chris Riley share a
one-shot lead at 6-under par going into today’s second round at
golf’s  Memorial Tournament .  Riley had eight birdies and McIlroy had seven yesterday at
Muirfield Village Golf Club in Dublin,  Ohio .  Riley, 37, is making his first appearance since 2002 at
the Memorial, a tournament hosted by  Jack Nicklaus . His sole
win on the U.S. PGA Tour came at the Reno-Tahoe Open nine years
ago.  “It’s been a struggle,” Riley told reporters. “I’m
trying to climb out of a hole right now. I played solid last
year and this year hasn’t been that great.”  Riley has missed the 36-hole cut for weekend play in six
of 13 events this season, with his lone top-10 finish coming at
the Sony Open in  Hawaii  in January.  McIlroy, a Northern Irishman, is the only player outside
of the U.S. in the top 20. World No. 1 Luke Donald, Players
champion K.J. Choi of  South Korea  and former U.S. Open and
Masters Tournament winner Angel Cabrera of  Argentina  are the
next-highest-placed overseas players, in a tie for 22nd place
at 2-under.  McIlroy on May 3 last year became the youngest winner on
the tour since Tiger Woods 14 years earlier by capturing the
Quail Hollow Championship with a course record 10-under-par 62
two days shy of his 21st birthday. The tournament has been
renamed the Wells Fargo Championship this year.  “I feel as if I’m playing good enough to get myself in
the hunt come Sunday,” McIlroy told reporters. “ The
conditions are perfect out there. You can’t really get it much
better.”  Tie for Second  Chris DiMarco and Josh Teater are a shot behind the
leaders at 5 under, with  Rickie Fowler ,  Steve Stricker ,  Dustin Johnson  and  Stewart Cink  in a group of nine Americans a further
shot back.  Fowler, seeking his first professional victory to go with
two top-10 finishes this season, held the lead at 5 under
through 15 holes before bogeys on Nos. 16 and 17. He birdied
the 18th to reach 4 under.  “ You’ve got to get the ball in the fairway out here,”
Fowler told reporters. “If you were in the fairway you could
fire at the pins and you could make a lot of birdies.”  England’s Donald, who took over the No. 1 spot in the
 Official World Golf Ranking  with a win last week at the
European Tour’s British PGA Championship, is two shots ahead of
 Phil Mickelson .  “I heard a few ‘No. 1’ shouts and stuff like that, so you
feed off that,” Donald said. “It feels good.”  Woods isn’t playing after withdrawing from last month’s
Players championship with knee and ankle injuries. Woods, who
has fallen to No. 13 in the rankings, has played nine holes
since tying for fourth at the Masters in April.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Buteau in Atlanta at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  