-- 
Cisco Rivals Woo Users With Price Cuts, Less ‘Intimidation’

-- B y   J o s e p h   G a l a n t e   a n d   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 
2011-06-02T20:06:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-02/cisco-rivals-woo-customers-with-price-cuts-less-intimidation-.html
When  StubHub Inc.  executive Robert
Capps oversaw the building of a new data center, he shunned
 Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO) , the company’s regular provider of networking
equipment, opting instead for gear from smaller competitors.  Capps estimates that the online ticket seller spent about
half the money it would have using Cisco products and got
equipment that was better suited to its data centers, the
massive rooms of computers that run websites. Cisco responded to
Capps’s decision by calling his boss and questioning his
competence as a technology manager, he said.  “Cisco wasn’t serving our needs,” Capps said. “They were
not innovating in the areas of data-center operations that we
needed innovation. The way they go about their sales process is
through pressure and intimidation.”  The incident underscores the challenges facing Cisco Chief
Executive Officer  John Chambers , who is leading a turnaround
effort at the world’s largest networking-equipment maker. Rivals
such as  Juniper Networks Inc. (JNPR)  and  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  are
undercutting Cisco on price and pitching products designed to be
simpler. Information-technology managers also have been put off
by Cisco’s response to losing them as customers.  John McCool, a  senior vice president  at  San Jose ,
California-based Cisco, declined to discuss specific customer
examples or whether it has called the bosses of technology
managers. The company is leading efforts to create simpler
networking standards for data centers and its market share has
remained “relatively stable” in recent years, he said.  ‘Like a Partnership’  Even so, some customers say Cisco’s rivals are providing
them with simpler solutions to their networking challenges. Take
Ken Widner, an information-technology director at  Interstate
Battery System International Inc.  He chose Juniper to help him
rebuild the company’s data center in  Dallas  in 2008, and again
last year when rolling out new software to track sales.  “Juniper was out here all the time, taking us back to
their lab, setting things up and letting us try them out,” said
Widner, who estimates that 30 percent of the company’s
networking gear today is from Cisco, versus 100 percent a few
years ago. “It really felt like a partnership.”  Cisco also called Widner’s boss after Juniper was chosen,
he said. Cisco claimed he was jeopardizing Interstate Battery’s
infrastructure, Widner said.  Focus Group  Cisco’s McCool said his company seeks to listen, learn and
forge partnerships with its customers.  “Much of Cisco’s innovation has resulted from listening to
customer needs,” he said in an e-mail. “If you think about the
size of our installed base, we essentially have the largest
networking focus group in the world for understanding future
customer needs and innovating future solutions for them.”  Some customers still praise Cisco’s products. Bart
Falzarano, chief information security officer at  Walz Group  in
Temecula,  California , bought some switches from a competitor two
years ago to try to save money. The switches slowed down the
network and caused problems before Falzarano realized the sales
team had advised buying the wrong products.  Frustrated, Falzarano returned to Cisco. Walz Group hasn’t
had hardware failures since -- a necessity for a company that
manages documents for government agencies, and financial and
health-care companies, he said.  Still,  research firm IDC  shows Cisco’s market share
slipping in routers and switches -- the two main types of
networking equipment. In the past five years, Cisco’s portion of
router sales has dropped to 55 percent from 66 percent, and its
share in switches has fallen 2 percentage points to 67 percent,
Framingham, Massachusetts-based IDC found.  Five Quarters  Cisco earnings reports have disappointed investors five
quarters in a row, sending its stock into a slump. The shares
have fallen 20 percent this year, following a 16 percent drop in
2010. The stock declined 13 cents to $16.25 today on the Nasdaq
Stock Market.  For years, Cisco has benefited from the impression that its
products are a safe bet, said StubHub’s Capps, who switched to
gear from Arista Networks Inc.,  Xsigo Systems Inc.  and Mellanox
Technologies Ltd. to outfit his data center. He cites a commonly
heard phrase: “No one ever got fired for buying Cisco,” a
twist on a saying applied to  International Business Machines
Corp. (IBM)  Like IBM, Cisco pioneered several technology markets, only
to see smaller rivals chip away at its dominance.  “Cisco has moved from a position where everybody in the IT
industry looked to Cisco for support to now everybody in the
industry doesn’t want them anymore,” said Mark Fabbi, an
analyst at  Gartner Inc. (IT)  In his research, he found companies save
money and decrease complexity working with multiple networking
suppliers. “It’s a tough job now all of a sudden. Enterprises
are willing to look to alternative technologies and vendors.”  HP’s Entry  Data-center growth also has drawn competition from Hewlett-
Packard, the world’s biggest maker of computers. It aims to be
more of a one-stop shop for cloud-computing products, which
deliver information and software over the Internet.  “The networking market has lacked competition for at least
a decade,” said David Donatelli, who oversees Hewlett-Packard’s
enterprise servers, storage and networking business.  Hewlett-Packard charges 35 percent to 40 percent less than
Cisco for “major switching products” and has won market share
in switching and wireless local-area networks, Hewlett-Packard
said.  In addition to discounting, Hewlett-Packard has been
telling customers that its networking gear is less complicated
than Cisco’s and giving  20 percent discounts  to companies that
replace Cisco gear with Hewlett-Packard’s. This has helped win
over companies such as  DreamWorks Animation SKG Inc. (DWA)  and G&J
Pepsi-Cola Bottlers Inc., Hewlett-Packard said.  ‘Becomes Obsolete’  Matthew Mackes, a network administrator at Delta Sonic Car
Wash Systems Inc. in Buffalo,  New York , is another former Cisco
customer. He ripped out Cisco boxes from his company’s network
two years ago, when he was redesigning the system to better
connect the phones, security cameras and plasma TVs displaying
ads in  Delta Sonic ’s car washes and gas stations.  Mackes stacked the Cisco switches on a table and asked his
colleagues if there was any reason to keep the gear. No one
spoke up, he said. He estimates he saved $500,000 using
technology from  Vyatta Inc.  and other suppliers instead.  “At a certain point, it becomes obsolete,” Mackes said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joseph Galante in  San Francisco  at 
 jgalante3@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Ricadela in San Francisco at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  