-- 
Citigroup Said to Shut $400 Million Proprietary Fund as Ahmed Has New Role

-- B y   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 
2011-06-02T13:54:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-02/citigroup-said-to-shut-proprietary-fund-as-manager-has-new-role.html
Citigroup Inc. (C) , the third-biggest
U.S. bank, shut a $400 million hedge fund that used the firm’s
money and mathematical models to bet on stocks, according to a
person familiar with the matter.  The company closed the Quantitative Strategies fund after
announcing in April that Shakil Ahmed, the  fund manager , would
become head of electronic market-making for New York-based
Citigroup, according to the person, who declined to be
identified because the matter is private. The fund had no
outside investors, the person said. Ahmed is also the bank’s co-
head of electronic trading.  Regulators are preparing to implement the Volcker Rule,
which bars lenders such as Citigroup from making bets with their
own capital, known as proprietary trading. The  Citi Capital
Advisors  unit still runs other  hedge funds  that contain the
bank’s capital as well as managing assets for external clients,
a business unaffected by the rule.  “All of the businesses that are not pure asset-management
businesses will be shuttered,” Brad Hintz, an analyst at
Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. in New York, said in a telephone
interview. “These pure prop-trading operations, the ones that
are not customer-focused at all and are using bank capital, will
slowly move to other venues.”  The bank didn’t disclose the performance of Ahmed’s fund,
which used so-called quants, or mathematical models, to wager on
“exploitable market anomalies and inefficiencies,” according
to Citigroup’s  website . The $1.28 billion Highbridge Statistical
Market Neutral Fund, a quant fund run by New York-based  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM)  that also invests in stocks, has gained about 1.8
percent this year.  ‘Highly Valued’  “Citi Capital Advisors is a highly valued part of our core
franchise,” Danielle Romero-Apsilos, a Citigroup spokeswoman,
said in an e-mailed statement. “Our platform continues to grow
with substantial investor interest, including over $1.7 billion
of new investor commitments in 2010 and 2011 year-to-date.”  Ahmed was raised in Vienna and received a doctorate in
computer science from  Yale University , according to his  profile 
on Citigroup’s website. He joined the bank in 2008 from Process
Driven Technologies, the largest prop-trading operation at New
York-based  Morgan Stanley (MS) , according to the profile.  Morgan Stanley said in January that it would turn PDT into
an independent firm by the end of 2012, while retaining an
option to buy a preferred stake in the business.  “He’s a very, very talented market-maker who knows
automated trading and electronic trading, and they want that
talent to be applied to their equity market-making business,”
Hintz said of Ahmed. “It’s tough to keep people motivated if
they realize they can’t keep working at your company.”  Citigroup shares fell 27 cents, or 0.7 percent, to $39.38
at 9:52 a.m. in  New York  Stock Exchange composite trading. The
shares have declined 13 percent so far this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Donal Griffin in New York at 
 Dgriffin10@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 