-- 
Coca-Cola Icecek CEO Says 2011 Sales Growth Will Exceed 10%

-- B y   E r c a n   E r s o y
-- 
2011-06-02T10:45:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-02/coca-cola-icecek-says-sales-growth-to-slow-in-second-half.html
Coca-Cola Icecek AS (CCOLA) , the bottler of
Coke drinks in 10 countries including Turkey and central  Asia ,
predicted sales volumes will climb more than 10 percent this
year. The stock rose as much as 3.6 percent in Istanbul trading.  Sales volumes will increase “at high single digits in
Turkey and in the mid-to-high teens” in other countries this
year, Chief Executive Officer  Michael O’Neill  said in an e-
mailed response to Bloomberg questions yesterday. “Thus we
expect to deliver low-teen growth on a consolidated basis.”  Coca-Cola Icecek, in which  Coca-Cola Co. (KO)  holds a 20.1
percent stake, is the fifth-largest bottler of Coca-Cola Co. in
the world, according to an investor presentation on its  website .
The Istanbul-based company’s Turkish sales totaled 74 percent of
the 665.4 million unit cases sold in 2010. Total Sales advanced
14 percent to 2.75 billion liras ($1.7 billion) in 2010.  Per capita consumption of sparkling beverages is 44 liters
a year in  Turkey  and this is “still way below that of
neighboring countries and the European Union average,” O’Neill
said. Bulgaria’s consumption is 89 liters per person a year, he
said. “Our long-term guidance for Turkey operations is high
single-digit growth and mid-to-high-teens growth in
international markets,” O’Neill said.  Coca-Cola Icecek rose as much as 80 kurus to 22.85 liras
and traded 2 percent higher at 22.50 liras as of 12:29 p.m.  Growth Opportunities  The company sells products in  Azerbaijan ,  Kazakhstan ,
 Turkmenistan , Kyrgyzstan, Pakistan,  Syria ,  Iraq , Jordan and
Turkey, with bottling plants in 20 locations, including eight in
Turkey.  Coca-Cola Icecek expects “the pace of growth to decelerate
in the second half of 2011,” after the “high growth” in
volumes of 17 percent in the second half of 2010, O’Neill said.
“We expect the growth momentum to normalize throughout the
year. We also expect net revenue growth to normalize in the
second half in line with volume growth.”  About 62 percent of people in Coca-Cola Icecek’s market of
363 million are aged below 29 and this presents “tremendous
growth opportunities for companies operating in the region,”
O’Neill said. “You will see more countries becoming a part of
CCI in the future,” he said.  “As we look at the next 10 years, we see a more positive
demographic picture,” O’Neill said. “There is no reason” why
Turkey can’t match the Bulgarian per capita consumption and no
reason  Pakistan  can’t reach the Turkey per capita figure “over
time,” he said.  Central Asia, Iraq  The company expects central Asian operations to lead growth
this year as  consumer spending  in these markets is rising,
O’Neill said. Central Asian sales volume grew 25 percent in the
first quarter, he said.  “Iraq operations will be an important growth driver for
CCI,” O’Neill said. Iraq operations delivered over 30 percent
sales growth for the fifth consecutive quarter, he said. Coca-
Cola Icecek bought a 70 percent stake in the Iraqi bottler CC
Beverage Ltd. for $36.9 million in March, raising its stake to
100 percent.  Pakistan, which has a population of 185 million and
accounts for Coca Cola Icecek’s biggest volume sales outside
Turkey, is expected to improve growth this year after floods in
2010, he said. The company’s sales in the country rose 8.3
percent in 2010 and are expected to grow “in the mid-teens”
this year, he said. The company will invest $300 million in
Pakistan in the next three years, he said.  Coca-Cola Icecek’s total capital expenditure will be about
12 percent of net revenue this year, compared with 5 percent in
the past two years, O’Neill said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ercan Ersoy in Istanbul 
 eersoy@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net . 