-- 
Court in India Rejects Plea Seeking Probe Against Anil Ambani, Tata on 2G

-- B y   P . S .   P a t n a i k   a n d   K e t a k i   G o k h a l e
-- 
2011-06-02T12:31:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-02/court-in-india-rejects-plea-seeking-probe-against-anil-ambani-tata-on-2g.html
An Indian court rejected pleas
seeking to probe Reliance ADA Group Chairman  Anil Ambani  and the
 Tata Group  related to the 2008 sale of mobile phone licenses.  Judge O.P. Saini dismissed applications filed by public
interest litigators to investigate billionaire Ambani, Tata
Group Chairman  Ratan Tata , a public relations executive and a
state politician in New Delhi today. The litigators were fined
for filing “frivolous” petitions.  India’s federal investigators questioned Ambani, chairman
of  Reliance Communications Ltd. (RCOM) , his group’s flagship company,
for about two hours on Feb. 16 amid an investigation into the
license award. The Central Bureau of Investigation sought
information from Ambani amid allegations that his group received
favors from former telecommunications minister  Andimuthu Raja ,
who is now on trial on charges he conspired to sell the permits
at below-market rates.  The special court is hearing charges that Raja “entered
into a conspiracy” with government and private company
officials to award phone permits to ineligible companies. The
sale lowered government income by more than 220 billion rupees
($4.9 billion), the CBI said, while  India ’s chief auditor put
the potential loss at about $31 billion.  Reliance Communications, Reliance Infrastructure Ltd. and
other companies owned by Ambani tumbled in Mumbai trading today.
The Reliance ADA Group have denied any wrongdoing.  Share Plunge  Reliance Infrastructure, the builder of a mass rapid
transport system in Mumbai, fell 4.7 percent, the most in more
than three months, at the 3:30 p.m. close in Mumbai. Reliance
Power Ltd. sank 2.7 percent, Reliance Capital Ltd. slid 2.7
percent, and Reliance Communications, India’s second-largest
mobile-phone operator, dropped 4.3 percent.  Separately, CBI lawyer A.K. Singh said in court that there
had been no irregularities in the allotment of licenses to Tata
Teleservices Ltd., the group’s cellular telephony company.  Shares of  Tata Teleservices Maharashtra Ltd. (TTLS) , the listed
unit, had their biggest gain in more than a month. The stock
rose 6.5 percent to 17.3 rupees, the most since April 26.  Tony Jesudasan, a spokesman for the Reliance Anil Dhirubhai
Ambani Group, declined to comment when contacted by phone.
Rajeev Narayan, a spokesman for Tata Teleservices, declined to
comment in an e-mail.  Saini also rejected public interest pleas to probe the role
played by public relations executive Niira Radia, the former
chief minister of the state of Tamil Nadu M. Karunanidhi and his
wife Dayalu Ammal.  Radia, whose firm represents the Tata Group, is being
investigated by India’s tax department over allegations of  money
laundering , court documents show. Sudha Singh, executive
director at Radia’s Vaishnavi Corporate Communications Pvt.,
said the company may issue a statement later today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
PS Patnaik in  New Delhi  at 
 ppatnaik2@bloomberg.net ;
Ketaki Gokhale in Mumbai at 
 kgokhale@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pradeep Kurup at 
 pkurup3@bloomberg.net  