-- 
Credit Suisse Loses Appeal of STMicroelectronics Case

-- B y   T h o m   W e i d l i c h
-- 
2011-06-02T21:46:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-02/credit-suisse-loses-appeals-court-ruling-in-auction-rate-case.html
Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  lost its
appeal of a U.S. judge’s order to pay STMicroelectronics NV,
 Europe ’s largest chipmaker, about $400 million over unauthorized
investments in auction-rate securities.  The federal appeals court in  Manhattan  today upheld most of
a March 2010 ruling by U.S. District Judge  Deborah Batts , who
affirmed a 2009 arbitration award against Zurich-based Credit
Suisse by the  Financial Industry Regulatory Authority .  The court said Batts should have lowered the amount owed by
Credit Suisse because, before her decision, Geneva-based
STMicroelectronics sold securities with a face value of $153.5
million to Deutsche Bank AG.  “The district court’s judgment should have credited Credit
Suisse for approximately $75 million that ST received in
exchange for selling some of the failed auction-rate securities
at issue in this case, and should have reduced Credit Suisse’s
liability of interest accordingly,” the appeals panel wrote.  David Walker , a spokesman for Credit Suisse, said the
ruling will have an “immaterial impact” on the amount of money
the bank sets aside for anticipated losses.  The auction-rate  securities market , once valued at
$330 billion, collapsed in February 2008 when dealers stopped
participating in the auctions. Interest on the investments,
typically municipal and student-loan-backed bonds and preferred
shares, reset every seven to 35 days at bidding managed by the
dealers.  Risky Securities  STMicroelectronics accused Credit Suisse of investing in
risky securities after claiming it would invest only in student
loans backed by the U.S. government.  In 2009, Julian Tzolov and Eric Butler, former Credit
Suisse brokers, were convicted of fraudulently selling
securities to clients, including STMicroelectronics, that cost
investors more than $1.1 billion in losses. The bank claimed in
court papers that the arbitration with STMicroelectronics
focused too much on that case, even though Credit Suisse wasn’t
charged with a crime.  Butler, convicted at a trial, was sentenced to five years
in prison and is free on bail while he appeals. Tzolov, who
pleaded guilty, hasn’t been sentenced yet.  In upholding the arbitration award, Batts cited a “record
replete with evidence of Credit Suisse’s fraud.”  The case is  STMicroelectronics NV (STM)  v. Credit Suisse
Securities (USA) LLC, 10-3847, U.S. Court of Appeals for the
Second Circuit (Manhattan), and 09-cv-01388, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thom Weidlich in Brooklyn, New York, federal court at
   tweidlich@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 