-- 
Croatia to Seek Talks With Mol to Review INA Agreements

-- B y   J a s m i n a   K u z m a n o v i c
-- 
2011-06-02T12:49:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-02/croatia-to-seek-talks-with-mol-to-review-ina-agreements-2-.html
Croatia  will seek talks with Mol
Nyrt. to review 2003 and 2009 agreements that gave the Hungarian
refiner control rights over  INA  Industrija Nafte d.d.  The agreements between the two biggest shareholders in the
Croatian refiner “need to be reviewed” to protect Croatia’s
energy interests and fulfill objectives from the contracts that
had not been achieved, Economy Minister Djuro Popijac told the
Cabinet today.  Mol has 47.47 percent of INA, while the government holds
44.84 percent. Tensions between Budapest-based Mol and Croatian
authorities increased after the Hungarian company in December
made an offer to purchase the outstanding shares in INA. The
government claimed it wasn’t notified of Mol’s intention before
the offer.  Mol has invested $3.8 billion in INA’s refineries and
production since 2003, when it first bought into the Zagreb-
based refiner.  “Our aim is to fulfill objectives from the contract that
have not been fulfilled,” Popijac told reporters in Zagreb,
adding that the government aims “to protect national  energy
security .”  Mol’s spokesman Domokos Szollar said Mol is “open” to
talks with Croatia.  “Mol believes that the development of INA and the
achievements in the field of the” regional “energy security
prove that the original agreements have fulfilled the original
intentions of the two main shareholders and strategic partners,
but Mol is open to further improve on these achievements,”
Szollar said in an e-mailed statement.  If Mol would lose its control over INA, that would be
“negative for both companies, Mol and INA,” said Radim Kramule, oil analyst at Erste Bank AS. “Mol has spent a lot of
time and money trying to consolidate INA, and it would be
beneficial for both companies if Mol keeps control,” he said in
a phone interview from  Prague .  Corporate Governance   INA’s shares have been suspended for trading on the Zagreb
stock exchange since May 9 as the market regulator, or Hanfa,
claims Mol has not sufficiently explained its trading activities
in recent months. Hanfa on May 23 filed charges to the
prosecutor general against Mol for suspected market
manipulation.  Mol repeatedly said it has done nothing wrong in buying INA
shares. The government has formed a committee to conduct talks
with Mol, appointing Popijac, Finance Minister Martina Dalic,
and Davor Stern, head of INA’s supervisory board.  Croatia’s representative in INA’s supervisory board, Davor
Stern, said in a Bloomberg interview on May 18 that the 2009 Mol
agreement created an INA executive board that now exists
alongside the traditional management and supervisory boards,
which he said runs contrary to the law.  Meanwhile, one Zagreb law firm, Madirazza I Partneri, on
May 24 validated management practices in INA, while another,
Hanzekovic I Partneri, said on May 30 that that changes to the
oil company’s corporate management are illegal.  Jasminko Umicevic, oil analyst at London-based Oil & Gas
Consulting Ltd, said the Croatian government could have been
prompted to act by a recent purchase of  Russia ’s  Surgutneftegas
OJSC (SNGS)  stake in Mol by the Hungarian government.  “As INA covers 60 percent of Croatia’s total energy needs,
and the Hungarian government is now the biggest single
shareholder in Mol, that in effect puts  Hungary  in charge of
Croatia’s energy potential,” Umicevic said in a phone
interview. “And that’s a situation no government would like to
see.”  September Inquiry  Lawmakers in September opened an inquiry into how the
government, led by then premier Ivo Sanader, in January 2009
gave control of INA to the Hungarian company under undisclosed
terms. The inquiry over the shareholding agreement closed
without a conclusion, sending a report on their investigation to
the Prosecutor General’s office.  Sanader is in jail in  Austria  fighting extradition linked
to a corruption investigation. His then-deputy, Damir Polancec,
who was the chief government negotiator with Mol, said in
October that he was following instructions from Sanader and the
ruling  Croatian Democratic Union .  Mol is not the only foreign company that has been the focus
of Premier Jadranka Kosor’s administration as she investigates
past agreements made by Sanader.  Last year, Orco Property Group SA’s $130 million in
investments on the Suncani Hvar Adriatic island resort was under
threat as the government questioned a five-year-old agreement to
transform 10 drab socialist-era hotels into a five-star
destination complex. The dispute ended in March when a new
agreement was reached to capitalize loans and ease the resort’s
debt burden.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jasmina Kuzmanovic in Zagreb at 
 jkuzmanovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  