-- 
Crystal Cathedral Ministries Keeps Exclusive Control Over Reorganization

-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 
2011-06-02T18:19:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-02/crystal-cathedral-ministries-keeps-exclusive-control-over-reorganization.html
Creditors of  Crystal Cathedral
Ministries  can’t propose a competing plan to reorganize and sell
the Southern  California  megachurch built by television
evangelist Robert Schuller, a judge said.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Robert Kwan, in  Santa Ana ,
California, today agreed to extend the church’s exclusive right
to propose and solicit support for a bankruptcy-exit plan that
would auction off the Crystal Cathedral campus in Orange County,
an architectural icon in  Southern California  recognized by the
National Register of Historic Places.  Church officials have proposed selling part, or all, of the
30-acre campus and then leasing it back, allowing services to
continue in the Cathedral, a glass-enclosed building designed to
double as a television studio to broadcast Sunday worship
services.  Creditors and church officials will probably fight in court
if a buyer wants to push the ministry off the campus, Marc
Winthrop, an attorney for Crystal Cathedral told Kwan during a
court hearing today.  “We may be back arguing vociferously over which proposal
to approve,” Winthrop said. “Our goal is to have the ministry
continue.”  ‘Hour of Power’  The church, known for its television show “The Hour of
Power,” listed assets and debts of $50 million to $100 million
each in Chapter 11 documents filed in October in  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court  in Santa Ana. The church, based in Garden Grove, claims a
congregation of 10,000 members.  Crystal Cathedral filed a plan last week that would use
cash from the proposed $46 million sale to repay a bank loan of
about $33.3 million in full and pay lower-ranking creditors over
two years.  A committee for the lower-ranking creditors wanted to file
a competing plan that would give it more say over how the church
should be reorganized, their attorney Nanette D. Sanders said in
court.  The case is In re: Crystal Cathedral Ministries, 10-24771,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Central District of California (Santa
Ana).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington,  Delaware ,
at   schurch3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 