-- 
Czech Coalition Spars Over Cabinet Jobs After Health Accord

-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 
2011-06-02T08:11:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-02/czech-coalition-spars-over-cabinet-jobs-after-health-accord-1-.html
The Czech coalition government agreed
on the basics of an overhaul of the health-care system in a
meeting eclipsed by the threat that one of the ruling parties
may leave for the opposition.  Leaders of the three parties reached an accord on the issue
late yesterday in  Prague  after a spat in April triggered a
Cabinet shuffle. Talks on personnel changes will continue today
after Public Affairs, the smallest coalition member, threatened
to quit the government and strip it of its majority in
parliament if Premier Petr Necas rejects its demands.  “The situation is serious,” said Vit Barta, one of Public
Affairs’ negotiators and former Transportation Minister. “It’s
a very improvised situation when we are trying to agree on any
reforms at a time when the coalition agreement is not being
fulfilled.”  The government’s goals, which have helped the country’s
bonds outperform German debt in the past year, include
overhauling the deficit-plagued pay-as-you-go pension system,
boosting private savings for retirement and revamping the state
health program.  Tensions inside the Cabinet rose when Public Affairs leader
Radek John quit as deputy prime minister on May 11, accusing
Necas of interfering with his right to select his own team for
fighting corruption. Public Affairs also demand that Necas
dismiss Defense Minister Alexander Vondra, Finance Minister
Miroslav Kalousek and Agriculture Minister Ivan Fuksa. The party
now holds two ministries, two fewer than set out in the
coalition treaty.  Weakening Currency  The koruna has weakened as the coalition’s bickering
threatens budget plans. Necas, who last year assembled the
largest majority in the legislature since independence in 1993,
pledged to cut the  budget deficit  to less than the European
Union’s limit of 3 percent of economic output, calling the
health-care overhaul a centerpiece of his agenda.  The Czech currency has fallen 2 percent against the euro
since April 26, the first trading day after Necas said his
government had no reason to stay in power unless it can pass
laws to cut public spending by the end of June. That was the
world’s third-worst performance behind the Maldives rufiyaa and
the Turkish lira. It was little changed at 24.563 to the euro as
of 9:48 a.m. today in Prague.  The yield on five-year government debt fell 25 basis points
to 2.62 percent in the past year, the second-best performance
among European Union members behind the U.K, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The yield on German debt of similar
maturity rose 69 basis points in the period.  While the coalition agreed that workers will be able to
divert part of their mandatory pension-insurance payments into
private accounts beginning in 2013, the ministries have yet to
draft the required legislation. The Cabinet will send laws
overhauling spending to parliament by the end of June and will
tie them to a confidence vote, Necas said April 19.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Laca in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  