-- 
De Mello Moves to Schroders From Western to Run Asia Debt

-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n   a n d   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 
2011-06-02T10:14:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-02/de-mello-moves-to-schroders-from-western-to-run-asia-debt-1-.html
Rajeev De Mello will move to
 Schroders Plc  to run Asian debt investments for the U.K.’s
biggest publicly traded fund company, leaving his job at Western
Asset Management Co.  De Mello, 45, said he will be based in Schroders’ office in
Singapore. He ran investments and operations in the city for
Western Asset Management, part of Baltimore-based Legg Mason
Inc. He confirmed the transfer in an e-mail today after Asian
Investor magazine reported the move.  In an interview earlier today, De Mello said there were
several reasons to be bullish on Asia bonds and currencies.
Asian economic growth will outpace the rest of the world, rating
companies are criticizing record debt levels in  Japan  and the
U.S., and Greece and Ireland have needed bailouts, he said.  “If you’re looking for safe-haven assets, Asia debt stands
out as having much better financial ratios,” De Mello said.
“Growth is high enough to service all the debt.”  The Chinese yuan,  South Korea ’s won and Indian bonds are
his favorite investments in the region, he said.  De Mello moved to Singapore from Geneva in 2005 with Pictet
Asset Management, part of Swiss private bank Pictet & Cie. He
started two Asian bonds funds to meet demand for higher yields
from Pictet’s customers.  He left Pictet in 2007 for Western Asset Management, where
he started the Asian Opportunities Fund. It has returned 14.6
percent in the past year, beating about four-fifths of its
competitors, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The fund
is little changed over the past month, lagging behind three-
quarters of its peers, the data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in  Singapore  at  at
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net ;
Wes Goodman in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  