-- 
Dimon Says JPMorgan Chase Buying Back Stock at Faster Pace Than Announced

-- B y   D a w n   K o p e c k i
-- 
2011-06-02T20:10:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-02/dimon-says-jpmorgan-chase-buying-back-stock-at-faster-pace-than-announced.html
Jamie Dimon , chairman and chief
executive officer of  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , said the bank is
buying back stock at a faster pace than originally announced.  JPMorgan, the most profitable U.S. bank, has already
purchased almost $3 billion of its own shares this year, Dimon
told investors at a conference hosted by Sanford C. Bernstein &
Co. in  New York  today.  “We told the world we were going to buy back $3 billion at
a minimum” this year, Dimon said. “Obviously we’re buying back
at a much faster pace than that.”  JPMorgan was among the first of the major U.S. banks
allowed by the  Federal Reserve  to raise its quarterly dividend
in March. The bank increased its payout to 25 cents a share from
5 cents and authorized up to $15 billion in buybacks, with as
much as $8 billion eligible for repurchase this year.  Dimon said the New York-based bank’s buyback depends on
whether there are better opportunities to invest elsewhere as
well as limits on capital plans set by federal regulators.  The Fed told banks in November to consider conservative
dividend payouts that would still allow for a significant build-
up of capital. The central bank said in March that firms are
“generally expected” to keep dividends no higher than 30
percent of earnings.  “We have a lot of excess capital," Dimon said. "We can’t
use all that excess capital. Therefore buying back stock becomes
attractive for us.”  Dimon said the bank’s limit on buybacks this year is $8
billion. “We apply again to regulators next year” to release
more capital, he said.  The Fed capital tests measured how banks would absorb
stresses from a typical recession, such as a decline in the
value of riskier assets and a higher  unemployment rate  that
would pressure borrowers.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dawn Kopecki in New York at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  