-- 
Dimon to Shun Mortgage Ownership Under Proposed Capital Rules

-- B y   D a w n   K o p e c k i   a n d   C r a i g   T o r r e s
-- 
2011-06-02T23:32:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-02/dimon-to-shun-mortgage-ownership-under-proposed-capital-rules.html
Jamie Dimon , chairman and chief
executive officer of  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , said the bank
probably won’t keep mortgages on its books under a plan
requiring the largest lenders to hold extra capital.  The proposal will distort U.S. markets, what consumers pay
for credit and the types of risk banks would be willing to
retain on their balance sheets, Dimon said today at a Sanford C.
Bernstein & Co. investor conference in New York.  “It’s got consequences that I don’t think they’ve really
thought about,” Dimon said of regulators.  Central bankers and financial supervisors worldwide are
devising capital, liquidity and risk-management standards for
banks, known as Basel III. The  Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision , named for the city where its meetings are held, is
considering forcing so-called global systemically important
financial institutions to hold capital buffers equaling as much
as 3 percent of risk-weighted assets, people familiar with the
negotiations said in March.  As many as 26 institutions may need to raise their minimum
capital,  Tim Ryan , chief executive officer of the Global
Financial Markets Association, an industry group, said in a memo
sent to board members.  JPMorgan, the most profitable U.S. bank, won’t make “an
adequate return” on certain products under the proposed rules
and reduce portfolio assets, including mortgages, that require
higher levels of capital, Dimon said.  “Why would we own mortgages if you can own them at 7
percent capital and I have to own them at 10 percent?” Dimon
said. The bank will still originate mortgages, “I just don’t
own them,” he said.  Borrowing Costs  The plan also may distort the market favorably for JPMorgan
as its borrowing costs probably will decrease and deposits may
climb compared with less-capitalized competitors, he said.  The proposal may disadvantage U.S. banks that compete
globally, as Dimon said he’s heard that  Japan ,  China  and  India 
may be excluded from the rules, giving banks based in those
countries a competitive edge.  “We have to make sure we protect our company from a
playing field which is really tilted against JPMorgan being a
global competitor,” Dimon said. “Over the long run, there are
some minuses and pluses for having a lot of capital and being a
global” systemically important financial institution, he said.  Bank officials last year agreed to more than double the
minimum common equity requirement for lenders to 4.5 percent
from 2 percent of assets weighted for risk.  Banks also will be asked to maintain a “capital
conservation” buffer of as much as 2.5 percent common equity in
periods of “excess credit growth,” bringing total common
equity requirements to as high as 7 percent of assets weighted
for risk. The capital buffer for systemically important firms
would come on top of this new standard.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dawn Kopecki in  New York  at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Torres in Washington at 
 ctorres3@bloomgerg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  