-- 
DNA Computer Uses Google-Like Logic Functions For Math, Researchers Say

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 
2011-06-02T18:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-02/dna-computer-uses-google-like-logic-functions-for-math-researchers-say.html
The most complex  DNA computer  ever
developed used the logic functions “and,” “or,” and “not”
to solve math problems, the same process applied by mechanical
computers, researchers reported in the journal  Science .  Introducing computation into a biological cell may provide
new ways to seek out disease using similar logic and terminology
as Google Inc.’s search engine, or lead to more-efficient drug
testing, said  Leonard Adleman , a professor of computer science
and molecular biology at the  University of Southern California 
in  Los Angeles  who wasn’t involved with the work.  The calculations were done using 74 strands of DNA that
scientists manipulated into gates that control the movement of
molecules, depending on which logic function is needed. It is
the largest such “computer” ever developed, said researchers
at the  California Institute of Technology . They used it to find
 square roots  for numbers up to and including 15, and said future
uses are yet to be determined.  “What’s impressive is its sophistication and scale,” said
Adelman, the first researcher to use strands of DNA for this
purpose in 1994. “This is a greater and greater mastery over
the molecular level.”  One problem with biological systems is that some molecules
don’t clearly signal “on” and “off,” the positions necessary
to make a circuit work. The computer constructed by the
scientists amplified some signals and silenced others to clarify
the signaling process, said  Erik Winfree , a professor of
computer science and bioengineering at the Pasadena institute
who helped develop the computer.  Potential Applications  “There are many potential applications,” Winfree said.
“People built a PC and didn’t know what they’d be good for.
Then programs like spreadsheets and word processors came around,
and the builders were surprised by these applications we now
don’t know how to live without.”  One eventual use for DNA computers, Winfree said, may be to
organize molecules in a beaker to help develop new drugs.  “Man’s been doing chemistry for thousands of years, and
nature’s been doing chemistry for millions,” Adleman said.
“The gulf between the laboratory and life is for the first time
being crossed, and these results are an important step along
this journey. We’re crossing the gulf.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in  New York  at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 