-- 
Dollar Declines to a Three-Week Low Versus Yen on Slowing Growth Outlook

-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e   a n d   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s
-- 
2011-06-03T11:50:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-02/dollar-near-one-month-low-versus-euro-on-growth-moody-s-rating-concerns.html
The dollar fell to a three-week low
against the yen before a report that’s forecast to show U.S.
employers added fewer jobs in May, making it harder for the
 Federal Reserve  to tighten monetary policy.  The yen rose against all 16 of its most-traded peers as
Asian stocks declined after a measure of Chinese corporate
activity fell in May. The dollar fell amid speculation that
further signs of economic slowdown will prompt the Federal
Reserve to expand quantitative easing, debasing the currency.
The euro is headed for its longest stretch of weekly gains
versus the dollar since March as international officials prepare
a second bailout for  Greece .  “It’s all about risk dynamics and the prospect of a
deteriorating global economic environment,” said  Jeremy Stretch , London-based head of currency strategy at Canadian
Imperial Bank of Commerce. “The major focus is obviously on the
non-farm payroll report, where markets have downgraded
expectations. We look for risk-off sentiment to predominate into
the close, with the dollar losing out to the yen.”  The dollar fell 0.3 percent to 80.66 yen as of 7:42 a.m. in
 New York  from 80.90 in New York yesterday. It touched 80.53, the
weakest since May 13. It traded at $1.4492 per euro from $1.4491
yesterday, down 1.2 percent in the week. The U.S. currency
earlier reached $1.4518 per euro, the weakest since May 6. The
euro fell 0.3 percent to 116.90 yen.  U.S. Outlook  The Dollar Index, which tracks the greenback against the
currencies of six trading partners, fell as low as 74.21, the
least since May 6, before trading little changed at 74.32.  U.S. job growth slowed to 165,000 new employees in May from
244,000 in April, according to estimates in a Bloomberg News
survey before Labor Department figures due today.  “Depending on economic data, there may be discussions
about additional easing in the U.S., which will trigger a
decline in the dollar,” said Toshiya Yamauchi, a senior
currency analyst in  Tokyo  at Ueda Harlow Ltd., which provides
foreign-exchange margin-trading services. “A drop in stocks or
commodities would be a catalyst for the yen to be bought.”  China ’s non-manufacturing purchasing managers’ index fell
to 61.9 in May from the previously reported 62.5 in April,
according to a statement today by the Beijing-based National
Bureau of Statistics and the Federation of Logistics and
Purchasing. A reading above 50 indicates an expansion.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index declined 0.5 percent after
rising as much as 0.4 percent.  Pound Slides  The dollar has declined 0.2 percent in the past week,
according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes,
which track 10 developed-nation currencies. The euro has
advanced 1.2 percent and the yen is little changed.  Factory-gate prices  in the euro region rose 0.9 percent in
April from the previous month, the European Union’s statistics
office in Luxembourg is forecast to say on June 6, according to
a Bloomberg News survey.  The  European Central Bank  raised its key interest rate by
25 basis points to 1.25 percent in April, even as  Portugal 
joined Greece and Ireland in requesting financial aid from the
EU and the  International Monetary Fund . The Federal Reserve and
Bank of  Japan  are holding rates near zero.  ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said June 1 that the ECB
“will continue to deliver  price stability .”  The pound reached a one-month low against the euro as a
report showed U.K. services growth slowed for a second month in
May. A gauge based on a survey of companies fell to 53.8 from
54.3 the previous month, Markit Economics Ltd. and the  Chartered
Institute of Purchasing and Supply  said today. The median
estimate of economists polled by Bloomberg News was for a
decline to 54.2.  “We look for renewed underperformance of the pound going
forward,” London-based Morgan Stanley analyst Tim Davis wrote
in a research note dated yesterday. “The growth outlook remains
subdued and the recent economic data flow has disappointed.”  The pound fell 0.3 percent to 88.80 pence per euro after
depreciating to 88.98 pence, matching the weakest level on May
6. It declined 0.3 percent to $1.6322.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anchalee Worrachate in  London  at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net ;
Candice Zachariahs in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew Brown in London at 
 mbrown42@bloomberg.net  