-- 
Don Draper Cocktails May Cost More With U.K. Government Plan to End Relief

-- B y   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 
2011-06-02T13:34:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-02/don-draper-cocktails-may-cost-more-with-u-k-government-plan-to-end-relief.html
The cost of an Old Fashioned, the
favored cocktail of Don Draper, protagonist of the Mad Men TV
series, may increase in the U.K. after the government proposed
cutting tax relief on one of its main ingredients.  Angostura Bitters, a blend of herbs and spices made by
Trinidad-based Angostura Ltd. and used as an ingredient in
drinks, is currently exempt from U.K. import duty under the
Alcoholic Liquor Duties Act 1979. The country’s government has
presented plans to abolish the tax relief, which it says is
“unfair” as it applies to only one brand of bitters, according
to a  consultation document  published on May 27.  Ending the tax relief could add 2.28 pounds ($3.74) to the
price of a bottle of Angostura Bitters, the document shows. That
would indicate a possible 53 percent increase based on the price
of 4.29 pounds for 100 milliliters on website  thedrinkshop.com .  The U.K. government expects a “negative impact” on the
maker of Angostura Bitters, it said. The U.K. consumes about
240,000 bottles a year, according to the document. Angostura
Bitters is a “low volume ingredient to cocktails and food,”
which limits the overall impact from the removal of the duty
exemption, according to the document.  Calls to Angostura’s press office in Trinidad and an e-mail
were not immediately answered.  Angostura Bitters is used alongside whiskey, sugar and
lemon peel to make Old Fashioned cocktails. It’s also a popular
ingredient in other drinks, including champagne cocktails.
Angostura Ltd. is a unit of closely held CL Financial Ltd.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clementine Fletcher in  London  at 
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 