-- 
E. Coli Outbreak Infects 1,600 Across Europe as Scientists Seek Out Cause

-- B y   H o w a r d   M u s t o e   a n d   C a t h e r i n e   L a r k i n
-- 
2011-06-02T15:36:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-02/e-coli-outbreak-infects-1-600-across-europe-as-scientists-search-for-cause.html
More than 1,600 people in  Europe  have
been infected with a strain of E. coli bacteria that’s never
been seen in an outbreak before, the  World Health Organization 
said, as authorities search for the source of the malady.  The bacteria, which began spreading in Germany, has
sickened 1,064 there, an increase of 268, while 470 people have
symptoms of a condition that can cause acute  kidney failure , up
by 97 from yesterday, the WHO said today in a statement on its
website. Cases have also been reported in nine other European
countries. Seventeen people in Germany and one in  Sweden  have
died, Deutsche Presse Agentur reported, citing local officials.  “One of our partner institutes examined the bacteria,”
said  Gregory Hartl , a WHO spokesman, by telephone today. “It’s
one that’s never been seen before in an outbreak situation.”  European authorities are searching for the source of the
bacteria, which appear to be more virulent than previous E. coli
outbreaks. Tests conducted on samples showed that cucumbers
imported from Spain aren’t responsible for the outbreak, the
European Commission said in an e-mailed statement yesterday,
leaving investigators looking for fresh clues.  The strain appears to be the offspring of two versions of
E.coli, said Paul Hunter, a professor of health protection at
the University of East Anglia in England. One of the likely
parent strains, known as O157, emerged in the U.S. about 40
years ago and has also been found in the U.K., Hunter said today
in an interview.  ‘Extra Weaponry’  “This is a new strain,” Hunter said of the German outbreak.
“O157 was almost certainly one of its parents. It’s also got
material from another type of E. coli. So you’ve got this germ
that’s like O157 but has this extra weaponry, that makes it more
nasty.”  Tests suggest a mutant form of two different E.coli
bacteria, the  Associated Press  reported today, citing an
interview with Hilde Kruse, a food safety expert at the Geneva-
based WHO. Calls made to the  World Health Organization ’s
Regional Office for Europe in Copenhagen weren’t answered today,
a public holiday.  All humans and animals carry E.coli in their intestines,
and those strains are usually harmless, according to the
Stockholm-based European Centre for Disease Prevention and
Control. Some strains produce toxins and cause illnesses ranging
from diarrhea to hemolytic uremic syndrome, or HUS, a
potentially fatal type of kidney damage, according to the ECDC.  Colonizers  The virulent strains of E.coli attach to the walls of cells
in the gut, forming colonies. They then secrete toxins that
damage the body, according to Ian Jones, a professor of virology
at the University of Reading in  England . About 10 percent of
people infected may have a serious outcome and 1 in 100 may die,
according to Jones, who also specializes in microbiology.  “The vast majority of strains are harmless, but there are a
select few that are armed and dangerous because of the
particular genes they happen to have,” Jones said today in a
telephone interview. “These genes produce those toxins. If they
produce these toxins, the outcome of infection, rather than just
being a tummy upset, can be far more serious.”  Hospitalizations appeared to be on the decline, John Dalli,
the European commissioner for health and consumer policy, said
yesterday. The European Union is engaged in “intensive work”
to identify the source of  Germany ’s largest-ever E.coli
outbreak, Dalli said yesterday at a press conference.  ‘Most Pressing’  Finding the source “is the most pressing thing,” Jones
said. “It’s important from a diagnostic point of view what
strain we are dealing with but I think it’s safe to assume it’s
from the O157 ilk. It’s the type of rare E.coli that produces
toxins which destroy blood cells and also destroy the kidney.”  The “epicenter” is the area around the northern German
city of Hamburg, Dalli said.  Austria ,  Denmark ,  France ,
 Netherlands ,  Norway , Spain, Sweden,  Switzerland  and the U.K.
have all reported cases, the WHO said. All infections found
outside Germany, except for two, are in people who had recently
visited northern Germany or had contact with a visitor from the
area, according to the WHO.  The Metro supermarket chain removed Spanish cucumbers from
its shelves last week, said Ruediger Stahlschmidt, a company
spokesman. Customers in Germany are asking more questions about
the origin of vegetables while shopping, Stahlschmidt said.  “We have also informed our staff to give hints to
customers to clean and boil vegetables,” he said. “We’re
noticing cucumbers, salad and lettuce are not bought as much as
before and we’ve also seen a reduction in Spanish vegetable
purchases.”  FDA Sampling  The U.S.  Food and Drug Administration  has increased its
sampling and analysis of imported produce from countries tied to
the outbreak in Europe as a safety precaution, according to Dara
Corrigan, the agency’s associate commissioner for regulatory
affairs.  There have been no shipments of tomatoes, cucumbers or
lettuce from Germany to the U.S. since January, Corrigan said.
Three shipments of lettuce have come from  Spain  during that time
period and one shipment of cucumbers arrived in May. No fresh
tomatoes from Spain have been imported in the last 18 months.  “As more information about the source of the outbreak
emerges, FDA will adjust our public health protection efforts
accordingly,” Corrigan said in an e-mailed statement today.  A Russian ban on imports of fresh vegetables from all 27
European Union nations is “unacceptable” and the European
Commission will ask Russian authorities to have the embargo
lifted as soon as possible.  Russian Ban  The European Commission’s health department will send a
letter to Russian authorities today, asking for a removal of the
embargo on vegetable imports, while putting continued pressure
on German authorities to determine the source of the outbreak as
soon as possible, said Frederic Vincent, a spokesman for Dalli,
said by telephone from France.  Infection with virulent strains can occur through contact
with uncooked food or animals carrying the bacteria. The E. coli
can live on leaves for as long as two weeks, the University of
East Anglia’s Hunter said. People should wash their hands before
preparing, serving or eating food and after handling fresh
vegetables or raw meat, the ECDC said on its  website .  “Even though the cucumber hypothesis no longer appears to
be the best bet, people should still be encouraged to properly
wash all raw salads prior to consumption, whether or not there
happens to be an ongoing outbreak,” Hunter said.  People who have symptoms, including stomach cramps and
bloody diarrhea, should see their doctors, the University of
Reading’s Jones said. The bacteria respond to a range of
antibiotics, and treatment is essential before kidney damage
occurs, he said.  “Once the damage is done, you may have kidney disorders for
the rest of your life,” Jones said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Howard Mustoe in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  