-- 
The Danger of Living on Bread and Circuses: Alice Schroeder

-- B y   A l i c e   S c h r o e d e r
-- 
2011-06-02T00:05:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-02/the-danger-of-living-on-bread-and-circuses-alice-schroeder.html
Rome  in the first two centuries A.D.
faced a yawning gulf between rich and poor. The mighty empire
built on tribute reached its geographic limits. Its economy
created few exportable goods. Slaves acquired by conquest built
most of its bridges, roads and aqueducts and took jobs in
farming, mining and construction. As this cheaper labor replaced
Roman citizens, idle, unemployed, hungry people filled the
capital.  The Caesars created make-work and part-time jobs,
subsidized housing and doled out grain. Even more, they found,
was needed. “A people that yawns is ripe for revolt,” wrote
Jerome Carcopino in “Daily Life in Ancient Rome.”  The emperors added holidays until, eventually, the Romans
spent half their days attending gladiator games, public
executions and chariot races. Disgusted, the satirist Juvenal
accused his fellow citizens of selling out for bribes of “bread
and circuses.” The Romans did nothing to prove him wrong, until
two centuries later the empire was divided forever and Rome was
sacked by Visigoths.  The complicated causes of Rome’s decline have long
fascinated historians, and provide a lens through which to
examine the vulnerability of other dominant cultures. Americans’
addiction to entertainment has been compared to the circuses of
ancient Rome. We can, and do, spend much of our free time
watching dreck on TV like “Half Pint Brawlers,” about a
company of self-styled “midget wrestlers” who attack each
other with staple guns and broken bottles. In fact, in 2009,
people over age 15 spent an average of 58 percent of their
leisure time watching television, playing games and using the
Internet -- an increase of 16 percent from 2003.  Digital Age  When entertainment dominates a society, it changes more
than the culture; it also reshapes the economy. You can see that
circuses are where the money is from the rise of digital
entertainment, which has steered enormous amounts of
discretionary income toward digital content and the devices that
run it: laptops, televisions, gaming consoles, smart phones. In
the decade leading up to the 2008 financial crisis, the only
major industry other than health care that consistently showed
strong real growth was consumer electronics.  Although hit hard by the recession, spending on digital
media has now begun to rebound. The question is who benefits. We
produce a lot of content, yet most of the devices it comes on
are not made in the U.S.  Trade Imbalances  This exemplifies another problem that vexed the Romans and
faces us today: Dominant economies tend to import more than they
export, creating trade imbalances. The manufactured stuff of
life, basic items such as food, clothing, cars, phones and
furniture -- the bread, as opposed to the circuses -- costs less
to buy if produced elsewhere than if made by a highly developed
country’s own citizens. The result is a loss of jobs at home.  The conquest-driven Romans stand out in history as an
extreme example. They brought home their imports, including
slave labor, as plunder. This made the “bread” as cheap as it
could be, and put the Romans themselves out of work.  We merely face a situation in which our labor costs, laws
and regulations make U.S. business less competitive than that of
other countries. In the 1990s, manufacturing workers went
through a draconian loss of employment as work was sent
offshore. The very thing that drove the jobs overseas made the
bread cheap. During the high-growth bubble decade that
culminated in 2008, the sales growth rates of basic  consumer
goods  such as apparel, cars and sporting goods averaged less
than 2 percent, so low as to be deflationary in real terms.  ‘Service Economy’  Offsetting the loss of manufacturing work, the leverage-
happy bubble era created so many jobs for bankers, hairstylists,
airline ticket agents and home health aides that we began to
describe ourselves as a “service economy.” But service
businesses are vulnerable to the very same forces that drove the
fat out of manufacturing. Take retailing. Since the 1990s,
businesses that helped make the bread cheaper, such as
superstores and warehouse clubs, were the only major category of
retailers to show strong growth. Now these businesses, too, are
severely pressured by more efficient online sellers, which are
growing twice as fast as their offline counterparts.  The proportion of our total population that is currently
working has fallen to 58.4 percent, the level it was in 1983,
when far fewer women were in the job market.  Consumers and Workers  It’s true that this percentage should improve as the
economy moves past the lingering effects of the financial
crisis, but recovery won’t alter the fundamental trend.
Structural forces are creating some very serious employment
headwinds, faced especially by younger, less educated men.  Simply put, what has been good for American consumers
hasn’t been good for workers.  Look at the big picture, and you also see how, unlike Rome,
whose armies looted the lands they conquered, the underemployed
U.S. must borrow money to pay for our bread and circuses. Rome
was so rich that it took hundreds of years for the empire to
crumble. We’re broke, which accelerates the day of reckoning.
Reform of U.S. entitlement spending would buy us time, but
wouldn’t fix the employment situation.  On a positive note, this bread-and-circuses economy does
offer new opportunities. People who can help make things cheaper
will do well. They can use digital technology to build
businesses of truly global scale. Lastly, anyone who can satisfy
the public’s lust for mind-rotting drivel has a viable career
ahead in a growth industry.  Drowning a country in vicarious debauchery may be a lousy
way to sustain a civilization. Still, there is something to be
said for “Half Pint Brawlers” and its ilk. TV-watching keeps
people at home, instead of marching in the streets.  ( Alice Schroeder , author of “The Snowball:  Warren Buffett  and
the Business of Life” and a former managing director at Morgan
Stanley, is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions expressed
are her own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Alice Schroeder at  aliceschroeder@ymail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net  