-- 
LeBron James’s Heat Face Breakup Under NBA Owners’ Latest Labor Proposal

-- B y   S c o t t   S o s h n i c k
-- 
2011-06-02T04:00:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-02/lebron-james-s-heat-face-breakup-under-nba-owners-latest-labor-proposal.html
LeBron James  predicted a year ago
that he and new teammates  Chris Bosh  and  Dwyane Wade  might win
up to seven National Basketball Association championships with
the  Miami Heat .  The so-called Big Three may be broken apart long before
getting anywhere near that number if NBA owners get the salary
limits they want in a new labor agreement.  Management is proposing a hard salary cap, a no-wiggle-room
ceiling on what teams can pay players. The existing contract has
a flexible, or soft, cap that allows clubs to exceed this
season’s $58 million threshold -- $13 million more than the
owners have proposed and $14.5 million more than James, Bosh and
Wade alone receive.  “If you lower the cap and harden it, there’s going to be
teams that are going to have to make some tough decisions,”
said Steve Patterson, former president of the  Portland Trail
Blazers  and founder of  Lake Oswego , Oregon-based Pro Sports
Consulting LLC. “Certainly, Miami is one of them.”  Patterson said he told owners four years ago that for low-
revenue clubs to break even, a hard cap of about $45 million was
required.  “There were a lot of eye rolls,” Patterson said in a
telephone interview. “And here we are.”  Owners included a hard cap in contract proposals for years
but always backed off in exchange for concessions that have
included shorter contracts and smaller annual raises. Such
flexibility might disappear this time, said Russ Granik, who
spearheaded management’s labor talks with players when he was
the NBA’s deputy commissioner from 1990-2006.  Firm Stance  “The owners seem to have a much greater seriousness to
it,” said Granik, who now works for Galatioto Sports Partners
LLC, a New York-based sports-financing firm.  As free agents, James, a two-time league Most Valuable
Player, and Bosh, a four-time All-Star, chose in July to play
for Miami, which is facing the  Dallas Mavericks  in the NBA
Finals. They joined a roster anchored by Wade, MVP of the Finals
in 2006, the Heat’s lone championship season. James and Bosh
make about $14.5 million a year, Wade about $14 million.  The Heat won Game 1 of the Finals, 92-84, two days ago.
Game 2 is tonight in Miami before the best-of-seven series
switches to Dallas for Games 3, 4 and, if necessary, 5.  James is 26 years old, Bosh 27, Wade 29, and all are signed
 through 2013-14  with player options after that. The NBA offer,
made last month, includes a two-year phase-in for the hard cap,
which would allow teams like Miami time to weigh roster options.  “We’re going to play forever,” Bosh said, laughing,
during an interview yesterday. “We just need to come to a
resolution.”  NBA Commissioner David Stern was asked before Game 1 if he
was concerned about teams like the Heat having to shed one of
their stars due to salary constraints.  ‘Complex’ Issue  “This is very complex,” he said. “That’s part of the
negotiation.”  Heat Senior Vice President and Assistant General Manager
Andy Elisburg declined to comment on the roster implications of
a hard cap.  Wade said in a news conference that he wasn’t thinking
about it during the Finals. “Right now it’s the least of my
worries,” he said.  Others teams with multiple highly paid stars -- the Boston
Celtics with a payroll of $83 million this season, and  San
Antonio Spurs  with a $70 million payroll, for instance -- might
also face upheaval, Granik said.  “Teams will have to adjust,” he said in a telephone
interview. “That’s part of running a professional sports
franchise these days, being ready to adjust to different
rules.”  More Talks  Stern said that teams will lose about $300 million this
season. What owners want, he said, is a collective bargaining
agreement that allows well-managed teams to compete for a
championship and make a profit.  Representatives for the owners, including Stern and Deputy
Commissioner Adam Silver, and the players, including union
Executive Director Billy Hunter, are scheduled to hold
negotiating sessions on June 7 and 8 in  Dallas  after meeting
this week in Miami.  The collective bargaining agreement expires June 30.  The players, Hunter said, are vehemently opposed to a hard
cap, which is used in the  National Hockey League  and  National
Football League , where owners imposed a lockout in March.  “What you say to the union is that if you understand our
goals, but you seem to have religion on no hard cap, then
present to us alternative ways to achieve the same end,” Silver
said.  Season Turnaround  While an inflexible cap would leave many teams with
personnel decisions, none would be as dramatic as the Heat.
After a 9-8 start, they wound up  58-24  and second to the  Chicago
Bulls  in the Eastern Conference. They have lost only one game in
each of their first three playoff series, to the  Philadelphia
76ers , the  Boston Celtics  and the Bulls.  James, Wade and Bosh are now three wins from title No. 1 as
teammates. Whether they meet James’s prediction might hinge more
on lawyers than lay-ups.  “It’s the flip side to more fiscal sanity,” Patterson
said.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Scott Soshnick in New York at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  