-- 
Ecuador Says First-Quarter Economic Growth Probably Quickened

-- B y   N a t h a n   G i l l
-- 
2011-06-02T20:47:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-02/ecuador-says-first-quarter-economic-growth-probably-quickened.html
Ecuador ’s economic growth probably
accelerated in the first quarter of 2011 after expanding 6.98
percent year-on-year in the previous three months, the Economic
Policy Ministry said in a report.  “There are strong indications to affirm that the economy
may have continued growing,” the report, which was shown to
Bloomberg before its release later today, said, citing higher
 oil prices , an expansion in  consumer credit  and a decline in
unemployment.  Ecuador, the smallest member of the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries, is using rising oil revenue to
boost public spending and fuel expansion, which reached 3.6
percent last year. The Finance Ministry forecasts 2011 gross
domestic product growth of 5.06 percent this year and 5.17
percent in 2012, according to the 2011 budget.  Growth on a quarter-to-quarter basis may have slowed in the
first three months because of declines in public spending,
retail sales and agricultural output, according to the report.
In the final quarter of last year, the economy expanded 2.64
percent from the June to September period.  “The first quarter is seasonally the least dynamic in the
Ecuadorean economy and one normally sees a deceleration,” the
report said.  Growth may fall short of official forecasts as the
government struggles to boost revenue from oil and mining,
forcing it to crimp public spending, economist Walter Spurrier
said.  Further increases in government income will be limited
because investments to boost oil production and bring new gold
and copper mines into production won’t lift their output until
at least 2013, Spurrier said in a May 31 interview in  Quito .  The economy will expand 4.5 percent this year and 2.8
percent in 2012, Spurrier said.  Ecuador’s central bank is scheduled to publish first
quarter GDP data on June 30.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nathan Gill in Quito at 
 ngill4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at   jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  