-- 
Medvedev Holds Middle East Talks With Biden, Berlusconi

-- B y   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a
-- 
2011-06-02T16:26:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-02/medvedev-seeks-talks-on-middle-east-with-biden-berlusconi-1-.html
Russian President  Dmitry Medvedev 
held talks with Italian Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  and
U.S. Vice President  Joe Biden  on issues including the  Middle
East  during a meeting today in Rome.  The three leaders discussed the situation in Libya and ties
with Egypt’s new leaders, Medvedev’s spokeswoman, Natalia
Timakova, told reporters. They also talked about Russia’s bid to
join the  World Trade Organization  and the dispute between Russia
and the U.S. on missile defense, she said.  “I hope we will manage in trilateral format with the
participation of Vice President Biden to talk about the Mideast
situation and the situation around Libya,” Medvedev said before
the talks. “Yet this is not the only topic. There is a whole
range of issues where we should exchange information.”  Russia  has stepped up efforts for a Libyan settlement since
last week’s Group of Eight summit in France, where Medvedev for
the first time publicly backed calls for long-time leader
Muammar Qaddafi’s ouster amid a revolt that began Feb. 17.
Medvedev is sending Mikhail Margelov, his envoy for Libya, to
the port city of Benghazi for talks with rebel leaders.  Any solution must be “acceptable to all Libyans,” Foreign
Minister Sergei Lavrov said yesterday during an interview in
Moscow. Russia, which abstained from the March 18 vote by the
United Nations Security Council that authorized the use of force
to protect civilians from Qaddafi’s forces, opposes Security
Council involvement in Syria, he said.  “We would greatly like to assist in solving this problem,
not by military means but by means of talks so that the fate of
the state is decided by the Libyan people,” Medvedev said
earlier today, after bilateral talks with Berlusconi.  NATO Campaign  The U.S. and partners including  France  and the U.K.
launched the first attacks under the UN resolution on March 19.
NATO took command March 31 and yesterday extended its mission
for 90 days in what Secretary General Anders Fogh Rasmussen said
was “a clear message” that “we are determined to continue our
operation to protect the people of Libya.”  The air raids killed 718 civilians and wounded 4,067 from
March 19 to May 26, Agence France Presse reported, citing a
spokesman for Libya’s government.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lyubov Pronina in Moscow at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at   bpenz@bloomberg.net  