-- 
HeidelbergCement Must Adapt to Higher Power Prices, Mayor Says

-- B y   R e e d   L a n d b e r g   a n d   A l e x a n d e r   R a g i r
-- 
2011-06-02T06:01:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-02/heidelbergcement-must-adapt-to-higher-power-prices-mayor-says.html
HeidelbergCement AG (HEI)  and other big
energy users in  Germany ’s industrial heartland must adapt to
higher electricity prices as the nation phases out nuclear  power
plants , the mayor of Heidelberg said.  “There will be a change in industry, and there must be a
change,” Mayor Eckart Wuerzner said in an interview at a
meeting of the C40 cities group in Sao Paulo last night. “This
will only cost jobs if we are not developing new economic
structures.”  Chancellor Angela Merkel  plans to phase out atomic plants
by 2022 following the accident at a nuclear plant in  Japan .
Germany will prevent blackouts by building natural gas-fired
power stations and using more renewable energy, said Michael
Geissler, chief executive officer of Berlin Energy Agency.  “We need 10 gigawatts of natural gas just in case the wind
is not blowing,” Geissler said at the C40 gathering. “Natural
gas will be the biggest investment to make sure our capacity
stays in line with demand.”  Wuerzner, whose city is home to the world’s third-biggest
maker of cement and concrete, said it’s “not acceptable” that
power prices currently don’t include some of the cost of burning
fossil fuels, which scientists blame for damaging the climate.  “Some companies are very energy-intensive, and they’re
looking for the cheapest price,” he said. “We’re discussing
how to buy as much clean energy as possible.”  The mayor said 12 percent of the city’s CO2 comes from
industry. Households make 32 percent and vehicles 25 percent.
His goal is to cut emissions 20 percent from 1987 levels by 2015.
While solar energy plays a part, he’s also keen on tapping
geothermal energy from pools of hot water 4 kilometers
underground and on insulation and efficiency programs.  Solar ‘Too Expensive’  Wuerzner said he supports cuts to the feed-in tariff that
guarantees above-market prices for solar energy.  “The solar industry is too expensive,” he said. “If you
subsidize inefficient solar cells, you won’t have development of
cheaper solar power. This is a tricky question when you’re
making a small turn to the feed-in tariff.”  Geissler said gas-fired plants are cheaper than coal to
build and are better paired with wind power, which fluctuates
with breezes. Coal plants take longer to heat up and take off
line than gas-powered generators.  The next biggest investment will be in wind power even
though the country is the world’s biggest market for solar cells,
he said.  “When you have a wind farm erected 10 years ago like we
have and then you put a new highly efficient tower in the same
place, you can double capacity,” he said. “There´s been fast
advancements the past decade.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Reed Landberg in  Sao Paulo  at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net ;
Alexander Ragir in Sao Paulo at 
 aragir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  