-- 
Treasuries Drop Amid Debt Rating Concern; 10-Year Yield Is Back Above 3%

-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   D a n i e l   K r u g e r
-- 
2011-06-02T21:23:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-02/ten-year-treasuries-decline-on-speculation-recent-gains-have-been-too-fast.html
Treasuries fell as Moody’s Investors
Service said it expects to place the U.S. government’s Aaa
rating under review for possible downgrade if there is no
progress on increasing the statutory debt limit in coming weeks.  Most of the losses occurred earlier as 10-year note yields
at almost the lowest level in 2011 discouraged demand before the
Labor Department’s payrolls report tomorrow. Yields rose back
above 3 percent after tumbling yesterday the most in more than
two months as hiring and manufacturing growth slowed.  “The debt limit has to be raised or it’s going to bring a
severe blow to the  U.S. economy ,” Jason Rogan, director of U.S.
government trading in New York at Guggenheim Partners LLC, a
brokerage for institutional investors. “I don’t think it’s
anything too shocking to the market.”  Yields on 10-year notes increased nine basis points, or
0.09 percentage point, to 3.03 percent at 5:19 p.m. in New York,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 3.125 percent
security due in May 2021 fell 26/32, or $8.13 per $1,000 face
amount, to 100 3/4.  Two-year note yields advanced three basis points to 0.46
percent after touching 0.43 percent yesterday, the lowest level
since Dec. 7. A drop of almost two points in the 30-year bond
pushed yields to 4.25 percent today.  The Treasury Department reiterated yesterday that U.S.
authority to borrow under the $14.29 trillion debt limit will
expire Aug. 2.  Congressional Wrangling  A bill that would raise the debt limit by $2.4 trillion
failed to win House passage May 31 in a vote that Democrats said
was rigged to ensure its defeat.  “If the negotiating stances of the two parties continue to
be where they are now, in other words very far apart, and an
agreement on the raising of the debt limit continues to look
remote, probably by mid-July we would consider putting the
rating on review for downgrade,” said  Steven Hess , senior
credit officer at Moody’s in New York.  In April,  Standard & Poor’s  put the U.S. government on
notice that it risks losing its AAA credit rating unless policy
makers agree on a plan by 2013 to reduce budget deficits and the
national debt.  “The Treasury market has been under pressure in the wake
of the Moody’s warning that the U.S. needs to make progress on
the debt ceiling issue in order to avoid a possible downgrade,”
said  Ian Lyngen , a government bond strategist at CRT Capital
Group LLC in  Stamford ,  Connecticut . “While it is unlikely that
the U.S. will be downgraded, it is having an impact on the
market in the absence of any other major events ahead of
tomorrow’s payroll report.”  Gain in Swaps  Credit-default swaps that protect against default for one
year have risen to 46.5 basis points from 24 basis points on May
16, when the U.S. reached its borrowing limit, according to data
provided by CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles
prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market. The
contracts pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet
its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt.  The U.S. will auction $32 billion of three-year notes, $21
billion of 10-year debt and $13 billion of 30-year bonds next
week, the Treasury Department said today, matching forecasts of
10 primary dealers in a Bloomberg News survey.  The $66 billion in securities to be sold in three daily
auctions beginning June 7 matches the total in five of the past
eight months. The government sold $72 billion of this
combination of securities in May.  Treasury Returns  U.S. government debt  returned 1.6 percent last month, the
most since August, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch
indexes, with the sovereign-debt crisis in  Europe  and signs of a
slowdown in America’s economy spurring refuge demand.  Treasuries rallied yesterday as reports showed companies
added fewer jobs in May than economists forecast and
manufacturing expanded at the slowest pace in more than a year,
adding to evidence the central bank will keep its target rate
for overnight lending between banks at virtually zero.  The 10-year note yields dropped 12 basis points to 2.94
percent yesterday, falling below 3 percent for the first time
since Dec. 7 in the biggest decrease since March 16. The 14-day
relative strength index of the yield slid below 30, indicating a
reversal of direction may be imminent.  Employers added 170,000 positions in May after an increase
of 244,000 in the prior month, the Labor Department is forecast
by economists to report tomorrow. The  unemployment rate  may have
fallen to 8.9 percent from 9 percent.  ‘Headed Lower’  “If the economic data continues to weaken at the same pace
that we have seen recently, there is no doubt in my mind that
Treasury yields are still headed lower,”  William O’Donnell ,
head U.S. government bond strategist in Stamford at RBS
Securities Inc., said in a Bloomberg Television interview on
“InsideTrack” with Erik Schatzker. As one of the 20 primary
dealers, the unit of Royal Bank of Scotland Plc is obligated to
participate in U.S. debt offerings.  U.S. companies added 38,000 workers in May, compared with
177,000 in the previous month, ADP Employer Services reported
yesterday. The  Institute for Supply Management ’s factory index
dropped to 53.5 last month from 60.4 in April, with readings
above 50 indicating growth.  The Fed’s policy of quantitative easing failed to meet the
“ultimate objective” of boosting employment and economic
growth, according to Mohamed El-Erian, chief executive officer
at Pacific Investment Management Co.  While the bond-purchase program pushed investors into
higher-yielding assets such as stocks, the “transmission
mechanism” to lower unemployment by driving more money into the
economy didn’t work, El-Erian of Pimco, the world’s biggest
manager of bond funds, said in a radio interview from  Newport
Beach ,  California , on “Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom Keene .  The Fed began the second round of asset purchases, known as
QE2, in November after buying $1.7 trillion in securities
through last year, increasing the amount of money in circulation
to prevent deflation. The purchase of $600 billion in Treasuries
is due to end this month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cordell Eddings in  New York  at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  