-- 
Energy Efficiency Is Winner After Fukushima, Impax’s Simm Says

-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 
2011-06-02T10:20:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-02/energy-efficiency-is-winner-after-fukushima-impax-s-simm-says.html
Energy-efficiency companies are the
“stand-out” winners after  Japan ’s atomic-power disaster that
resulted from the March 11 earthquake and tsunami,  Impax Asset
Management Group Plc (IPX)  Chief Executive Officer Ian Simm said.  Rising oil prices, political unrest in countries from Libya
to Bahrain and Germany’s retreat from nuclear energy after Tokyo
Electric Power Co.’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi suffered a reactor
meltdown have boosted interest in environmental markets, a
sector that includes efficiency, renewable power and water
management, Simm said today in a telephone interview.  “Energy efficiency is probably the stand-out winner,”
Simm said. “The payback periods on investments reduce
significantly as the oil price goes up. The logic is that
everybody has an incentive to save money when oil is over $100 a
barrel.”  The FTSE  Energy Efficiency  Index has risen 33 percent in
the past year, outstripping a 20 percent gain in the Standard
and Poor’s 500 index. The takeovers of Landis+Gyr AG by Toshiba
Corp. and of Telvent GIT SA by Schneider Electric SA are “very
strong signals” that companies whose products cut energy use in
factories, homes and vehicles are attractive, said Simm.  Schneider, the world’s biggest maker of low- and medium-
voltage electrical equipment, yesterday agreed to buy  Spain ’s
Telvent for about 1.4 billion euros ($2 billion). Japan’s
Toshiba last month said it will pay $2.3 billion for Swiss
electronic-metering company Landis+Gyr.  Schneider, Zurich-based ABB Ltd. and Siemens AG in Munich
all stand to benefit from  Germany ’s May 30 decision to shut its
nuclear-power plants by 2022, Simm said. That’s because of
improvements that will be needed to the electricity grid in
 Europe ’s largest economy, he said.  "Taking a large percentage of baseload power off the German
system within 10 years is going to require a quite significant
policy change to reduce energy consumption,’’ Simm said. “The
biggest beneficiary in the short term will be energy efficiency.
There will be benefits for anybody in the grid industry."  Impax, which invests in renewables, waste treatment and
water, today said assets under management increased 30 percent
to 2.36 billion pounds ($3.86 billion) in the six months through
March 31. The shares rose 1.6 percent to 64.75 pence in  London ,
the biggest gain in 10 weeks.  The company’s 380 million-pound  Impax Environmental Markets
Plc (IEM)  investment fund has returned about 6 percent over the past
year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  