-- 
Merkel Says Europe’s Troubles Stem From Debt, Not From Any ‘Euro Problem’

-- B y   J a n   D a h i n t e n   a n d   S h a m i m   A d a m
-- 
2011-06-02T03:18:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-02/merkel-says-europe-s-troubles-stem-from-debt-not-from-any-euro-problem-.html
German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said
the European Union remains committed to its shared currency as
the region struggles with a debt crisis that could send Greece
into default.  “We don’t have a euro problem in  Europe ,” Merkel said in
a speech in Singapore today on the final day of a three-day Asia
trip that also took her to  India . “We have more of a debt
problem. Financial markets doubt whether some EU states can
manage their debt in the long-term.”  Germany  is committed to the euro, which is stable, she said.
The outlook for growth in the country’s economy, Europe’s
largest, is “very positive.”  Her comments came as policy makers discuss a second aid
package in two years to help  Greece  avoid a possible default and
prevent more financial turmoil in the region. The country’s
additional needs may be known as early as today as European and
International Monetary Fund officials finish an assessment of
the country’s public accounts that Merkel has said will shape
her response to the latest stage of the debt crisis.  “The economic and monetary union has to be a community of
joint responsibility,” Merkel said. “It is our joint interest
to tackle the structural weaknesses of individual countries
forcefully and effectively.”  Greek Bonds  Greek bonds have soared to records even after last year’s
110 billion-euro ($158 billion) rescue package as the government,
saddled with Europe’s heaviest debt load, has failed to meet
planned budget deficit targets and the economy shrinks for a
third year.  Moody’s Investors Service yesterday downgraded Greece’s
sovereign debt to Caa1 from B1, putting it on a par with Cuba,
and increasing the risk of default by 50 percent.  Merkel’s government this week decided to abandon the
country’s use of nuclear power, shutting 17 atomic plants by
2022. That decision was influenced by the disaster at  Japan ’s
Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear power plant that was crippled in
March by a record earthquake and tsunami, Merkel said today.  The euro has risen more than 17 percent against the dollar
in the past 12 months, a situation that has hurt European
exporters, Merkel said.  “The euro is strong against the  U.S. dollar ,” she said.
“We think sometimes even very strong, which doesn’t help our
exports.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jan Dahinten in Singapore at 
 jdahinten@bloomberg.net ;
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Hirschberg in  Hong Kong  at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  