-- 
Estonia Retracts Application to EU for Oil-Shale State Support

-- B y   O t t   U m m e l a s
-- 
2011-06-02T11:48:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-02/estonia-retracts-application-to-eu-for-oil-shale-state-support.html
Estonia retracted an application to
the European Commission to approve state aid of as much as 1.5
billion euros ($2.2 billion) for two new power plants fueled
by oil shale, a senior government official said.  The Baltic country instead seeks permission from the
European Union executive to award free carbon allowances for
the construction, Einari Kisel, vice chancellor at the economy
ministry, said in an e-mailed response to Bloomberg questions
today.  “Essentially the reconstruction of oil-shale power
plants is a fully acceptable project for allocating free
allowances under the EU directive, there should be no question
about that,” Kisel said.  Power utilities in western  Europe  must buy all their
allowances for the carbon market’s third phase, starting in
2013. Some nations in eastern Europe are being allowed to hand
out a portion of free allowances, adjusted to exclude
electricity exports. Estonia is still in talks with the
commission about conditions for using free allowances.  The commission said on March 23 that it’s probing
Estonian aid, which would be spread over 20 years as it may
harm competition.  Estonia’s government in December awarded a 950 million-
euro contract to build up to two power units, each at 300
megawatts, to Alstom SA, the world’s third-largest maker of
power equipment. The contract was conditional on state aid
approval.  Estonia is the only country in the world where oil shale,
a rock from which petroleum-like oil can be extracted, is the
primary source of energy, at over 90 percent of total.  The Baltic nation seeks to raise the use of renewable
energy sources in line with EU targets. Still, it expects to
rely on oil shale for most of its output in coming years to
reduce security of supply risks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ott Ummelas in Tallinn at 
 oummelas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  