-- 
Greece to Get EU, IMF Assessment on Economy Plan as Second Bailout Readied

-- B y   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s   a n d   M a r c u s   B e n s a s s o n
-- 
2011-06-03T12:54:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-02/eu-imf-wind-up-greek-economy-review-as-officials-prepare-second-bailout.html
European Union and International
Monetary Fund officials today complete a review of Greece’s plan
for 78 billion euros ($113 billion) in asset sales and austerity
measures as they prepare the nation’s second bailout in little
more than a year.  The assessment caps a week when Greece’s fiscal crisis
worsened enough for Moody’s Investors Service to raise the
probability of a default to 50 percent. Greek Prime Minister
 George Papandreou  will discuss the findings at 3 p.m. on a visit
to his Luxembourg counterpart,  Jean-Claude Juncker , who leads
the group of euro-area finance ministers.  “The medium-term plan is largely completed and some
technical details remain,”  George Petalotis , Papandreou’s
spokesman, said yesterday. “There were no major hiccups.”  The lifeline may incorporate a role for bondholders as
European leaders try again to prevent the euro area’s first
sovereign default. Their May 2010 rescue failed to stem an
investor exodus from Greece and the Greek government now faces a
funding gap of 30 billion euros next year with 10-year borrowing
cost above 16 percent, Europe’s highest debt load and the
economy in a three-year slump.  Protests  Papandreou is promising 6.4 billion euros of spending cuts
this year, another 22 billion euros up to 2015, and 50 billion
euros in sales of assets including  Hellenic Telecommunications
Organization SA (HTO)  and Public Power Corp SA. The pledges are key to
securing a fifth payment of loans under last year’s 110 billion-
euro EU-led rescue as well as more financing over the next two
years as borrowing costs lock Greece out of markets.  Members of the PAME labor union took over the Finance
Ministry offices in central Athens today, preventing employees
from entering building. They hung a banner from the roof calling
for a general strike to oppose the measures.  Moody’s downgraded Greece to Caa1, on a par with Cuba, and
raised the nation’s risk of default on June 1 after policy
makers considered asking investors to reinvest in new Greek debt
when existing bonds mature. The move prompted Greek 10-year
bonds to fall to the lowest since January.  Greece’s two-year note yields headed for their biggest
decline in 11 weeks, falling below 24 percent for the first time
since April. Ten-year bonds rose, pushing the yield down four
basis points to 16.21 percent.  The yield difference, or spread, between 10-year German
bunds and Greek securities of a similar maturity narrowed five
basis points to 1,320 basis points.  ‘D’ Rating  “The general perception is that Greece will head to some
form of restructuring, and eventually the ratings will probably
move to D,” said  Brian Barry , an analyst at Evolution
Securities Ltd. in  London . “For a sovereign rating to fall from
about A to this level is new territory.”  Moody’s today cut the ratings on eight Greek banks,
including the nation’s largest,  National Bank of Greece SA. (ETE)   Juncker said yesterday European authorities want a final
decision on a Greek aid package by the end of the month.  “My personal feeling and knowledge is that Greece will
have a new program submitted under strong conditionality,”
Juncker told reporters in Aachen,  Germany . He said the report by
the “troika” of officials from the EU, IMF and  European
Central Bank  should be issued in the coming days.  Greek Progress  The troika has been reviewing Greece’s progress in meeting
the terms of the bailout since May 11. The conclusions will be
considered when EU finance ministers meet, which may be as early
as next week.  Europe ’s financial leaders need to hammer out a revised
Greek package by the end of June, in time to persuade the IMF to
pay out its share of the next tranche of loans and before a
summit of EU leaders on June 23-24. The IMF had indicated that
it would withhold its share of the June payment unless the EU
comes up with a plan to close Greece’s funding gap for 2012.  The Washington-based lender provided 30 billion euros of
Greece’s original loans, along with a third of the loans since
granted to Ireland and  Portugal  as the spreading crisis
threatened the integrity of the euro.  Policy makers have in recent days narrowed in on bond
rollovers as a pillar of any new aid package. The step would be
favored by the ECB, according to two officials familiar with the
situation, because it would skirt the risk of any agreement
being classified as a default. Investors may be given preferred
status, higher coupon payments or collateral, said two other EU
officials familiar with the situation.  Rollovers  About 55 percent of investors in Greek  government bonds 
would likely roll over holdings of securities maturing through
2013 to help the nation manage its  budget deficit , according to
ING Groep NV.  “If there was a 100 percent take-up of this idea,  Greece 
would save 15 billion euros in 2011, 33 billion in 2012 and 29
billion in 2013, which would more than cover the gap being left
by not getting back to capital markets,”  Padhraic Garvey , head
of developed-market debt in Amsterdam, wrote in an e-mailed note
today. “In reality the voluntary take-up would likely be
dominated by bank hold-to-maturity portfolios, Greek domestics
and the European Central Bank, which would mean a more likely
voluntary take-up of about 55 percent.”  Greece’s debt is likely to mushroom to 157.7 percent of
gross domestic product in 2011, the highest in euro history, the
European Commission said May 13. It predicted a 3.5 percent
economic contraction, shedding doubts on whether Greece will
generate the  tax revenue  to pay off its debts.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Petrakis in  Athens  at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net ;
Marcus Bensasson in Athens at 
 mbensasson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  