-- 
EU’s Barnier Says Post-Crisis Convergence Can Prevent Regulatory Arbitrage

-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h   a n d   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s
-- 
2011-06-03T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-02/eu-s-barnier-says-convergence-can-prevent-regulatory-arbitrage.html
U.S. and European regulators must
work toward convergence on financial-industry rules that prevent
firms from benefiting from regulatory arbitrage, European Union
financial markets commissioner  Michel Barnier  said.  “I want to make sure we act in parallel,” Barnier, the
EU’s top financial regulator, said yesterday during a Bloomberg
News interview in  Washington . “We are not there yet.”  Barnier came to the U.S. capital to meet with officials
including Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  as he pushes
for greater coordination on rules to govern firms whose failure
might imperil the global economic system, as well as the $601
trillion over-the-counter swaps market.  Differences have emerged between the U.S. and EU since
leaders from the Group of 20 biggest industrialized and emerging
economies agreed after the 2008 credit crisis to implement broad
financial regulation principles by the end of 2012. Regulators
should strive to ensure the rules are as close as possible or
allow for reciprocity agreements, Barnier said.  “ Europe  is not going to be under American supervision,”
he said. “The message I want to send to the American
authorities and to the representatives and senators of both
parties is that, do not put into any doubts my resolve to do
reciprocity. There will be reciprocity. There will be either
convergence or reciprocity.”  Barnier, saying “capitalization cannot be the only
answer,” urged regulators to determine which financial firms
pose systemic risk before discussing how to write rules. That
view is at odds with the Dodd-Frank Act, which requires greater
supervision of banks with at least $50 billion in assets and
financial firms deemed systemically important by regulators.  ‘Volcker Rule’  Barnier said European regulators won’t seek a measure
similar to Dodd-Frank’s “Volcker rule,” which aims to limit
banks’ risk-taking by restricting proprietary trading and their
ability to invest in  hedge funds  and private-equity funds.  “We don’t have the same approach,” he said.  Differences in derivatives rules between countries will put
U.S. banks at a disadvantage when they compete for overseas
business, lawyers at New York-based Sullivan & Cromwell LLP
wrote in a Feb. 22 letter to U.S. regulators on behalf of
 Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)   In their initial Dodd-Frank proposal for margin and capital
requirements for swaps, bank regulators said foreign swaps pose
“no lesser risk” to a U.S. company because of their location.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net ;
Cheyenne Hopkins in Washington at 
 Chopkins19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at  lroberts13@bloomberg.net  