-- 
European Stocks Sink on Greek Downgrade, U.S. Economy; BHP Falls

-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 
2011-06-02T16:03:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-02/european-stock-index-futures-decline-as-moody-s-sees-risk-of-greek-default.html
European stocks fell to a six-week
low as Moody’s Investors Service raised Greece’s default risk to
50 percent and a bigger-than-forecast drop in U.S. factory
orders fueled concern the world’s largest economy is faltering.  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  and  Rio Tinto  Group both declined more
than 2 percent as metal prices retreated.  Kingfisher Plc (KGF) ,
Britain’s biggest home-improvement retailer, fell 1 percent as
profit missed estimates. Alcatel-Lucent SA, France’s largest
telecommunications equipment maker, retreated 3.9 percent.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index sank 1.3 percent to 274.7 at the
4:30 p.m. close in  London , the gauge’s biggest two-day drop in
11 weeks. The gauge fell 1 percent last month as investors
speculated that Greece will be forced to restructure its debt.
Since reaching this year’s high on Feb. 17, the gauge has
declined 5.7 percent.  “The recent pattern of poor economic data is beginning to
fuel speculation that the global recovery has lost momentum and
could start going into reverse,” said Jonathan Sudaria, a
trader at  London Capital Group Holdings Plc. (LCG)  This is “causing
traders to flee risky assets.”  The U.K.’s FTSE 100 Index lost 1.4 percent, Germany’s DAX
Index slid 2 percent and France’s CAC 40 Index declined 1.9
percent. Markets in Switzerland, Austria, Luxembourg and the
Nordic region were closed today for the Ascension Day holiday.  Greece’s ASE Index sank 1 percent as Moody’s downgraded the
nation to Caa1 from B1, putting it on a par with Cuba, according
to a report published late yesterday. The move came after policy
makers considered asking investors to reinvest in new Greek debt
when existing bonds mature.  European Finance Ministry  European Central Bank President Jean-Claude Trichet said
governments should consider setting up a finance ministry for
the 17-nation currency region as the bloc struggles to contain
its sovereign-debt crisis.  “Would it be too bold, in the economic field, with a
single market, a single currency and a single central bank, to
envisage a ministry of finance of the union?” Trichet said in a
speech today in Aachen,  Germany .  A U.S. report today showed orders placed with factories
fell in April by the most in almost a year as demand for
aircraft waned and Japan’s earthquake restrained auto-related
supplies. Bookings for manufacturers’ goods dropped 1.2 percent
after a revised 3.8 percent gain in March, according to figures
from the Commerce Department.  U.S. Unemployment  Stocks maintained losses today after a Labor Department
report showed more Americans than forecast filed applications
for  unemployment benefits  last week, signaling the labor market
is struggling to pick up. The data comes before tomorrow’s
monthly government payroll report that may show a fall in the
number of people hired.  Yesterday’s slump in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index is
creating a buying opportunity for investors willing to withstand
declines that may reach 10 percent, according to  Blackstone
Group LP (BX) ’s  Byron Wien . More than $578 billion has been erased
from American equity markets since the  S&P 500  peaked at
1,363.61 on April 29, pushing the index’s valuation to 13.3
times estimated profit for 2011 from 13.8 times.  BHP Billiton , the world’s largest mining company, retreated
2.7 percent to 2,327 pence. Rio Tinto declined 2.6 percent to
4,142.5 pence. Copper, nickel and tin fell in London for a
second straight day.  Kingfisher lost 1 percent to 279.3 pence as first-quarter
retail profit rose 19 percent to 174 million pounds ($284
million). That compares with the 180 million-pound average
estimate of four estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Alcatel-Lucent retreated 3.9 percent to 3.80 euros after
peer  Juniper Networks Inc. (JNPR)  said weakness in the overall economy
is affecting performance and that most sales for the quarter
will come toward the end of the period.  Unione di Banche Italiane ScpA (UBI)  tumbled to the lowest since
Italy’s fourth-biggest bank listed its shares, after setting the
terms of a planned 1 billion-euro ($1.4 billion) rights offer.
The shares fell 5.4 percent to 4.99 euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in London at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  