-- 
Europe Gasoline Crack at 2-Week Low; Gasoil Falls: Oil Products

-- B y   R a c h e l   G r a h a m
-- 
2011-06-02T12:23:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-02/europe-gasoline-crack-at-2-week-low-gasoil-falls-oil-products.html
European gasoline’s premium to  Brent
crude  shrank to its lowest in more than two weeks amid forecasts
for increased supply in the U.S., cutting the need for imports
from Europe.  Gasoline for immediate delivery dropped, tracking crude.
Naphtha’s premium to Brent was close to a seven-week low as
demand in  Asia  declines.  Light Products  The front-month gasoline crack spread, or premium to crude,
narrowed to $7.70 a barrel as of 12:32 p.m. in London today.
That’s the lowest premium since May 17.  U.S. stockpiles of the fuel probably rose 0.4 percent, from
209.7 million in the week ended May 27, according to a Bloomberg
survey before today’s report from the U.S. Department of Energy.
That would be the highest level since the week of April 1.  Motor fuel for immediate delivery declined in northwest
 Europe , according to a Bloomberg survey of traders and brokers
monitoring the Argus Bulletin Board.  Eurobob grade motor fuel, to which ethanol is added before
being sold at the pump, changed hands from $1,054 a metric ton
to $1,064 a ton, the survey showed. That’s less than yesterday’s
lowest trade of $1,070 on the barge market, where lots are about
1,000 or 2,000 tons.  U.S. gasoline closed down 5.5 percent yesterday on the  New
York Mercantile Exchange , the biggest decline in three weeks.  Naphtha’s premium to Brent crude also dropped as demand in
Asia slows. The front-month crack was $6.94 a barrel today,
matching yesterday’s level, which was the lowest since April 11.  Asian demand for naphtha, used in the production of
plastics and gasoline, is falling partly because of chemical
plant repairs. Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corp.,  Japan ’s
biggest ethylene producer, shut plants at Kashima and Mizushima
for maintenance last month.  Middle Distillates  Gasoil futures, the European equivalent of heating oil,
fell on London’s ICE Futures Europe exchange. The contract for
July delivery dropped $6.25, or 0.7 percent, to $955.75 a ton as
of 12:26 p.m. local time.  Refineries  Repsol YPF SA,  Spain ’s largest oil company, delayed the
start of two units at its Petronor refinery in Bilbao.  The visbreaker that was stopped for maintenance will be at
full capacity by June 6, the Madrid-based company said
yesterday. The halted desulfurization unit will resume
operations in about 10 days, it said. Repsol said on May 18 that
the plants would be operating in the last week of May and in the
first week of June, respectively.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rachel Graham in  London  
 rgraham13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  