-- 
Hewlett-Packard Plans $3 Billion Stock Buyback This Quarter

-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 
2011-06-02T21:40:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-02/hewlett-packard-plans-3-billion-buyback-this-quarter-ceo-says.html
Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  Chief Executive
Officer  Leo Apotheker  said the computer maker plans to buy back
$3 billion of its stock this quarter, part of an effort to boost
returns for shareholders amid a flagging share price.  Apotheker, speaking at an  investment conference  in  New York 
today, also said he hopes the company’s board will approve an
increase in Hewlett-Packard’s dividend each year. On March 14,
the Palo Alto, California-based company raised its quarterly
dividend by 50 percent to 12 cents a share.  “The stock is ridiculously cheap,” Apotheker said.  Hewlett-Packard, the world’s largest computer maker, is
seeking ways to provide value to shareholders in addition to
increasing profit, Apotheker said at the conference, which was
hosted by Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. Stock repurchases cut the
number of shares outstanding and reduce dilution of earnings per
share.  The shares have tumbled 21 percent since Aug. 6, when
former CEO  Mark Hurd  resigned. Hewlett-Packard fell 21 cents to
$36.43 at 4 p.m. today in New York Stock Exchange trading.  On Aug. 30, Hewlett-Packard authorized $10 billion in share
repurchases.  The company cut its annual sales forecast by $1 billion on
May 17, after personal computer sales fell and revenue growth
from technology services failed to accelerate.  Hewlett-Packard’s services business will have “visible
changes” in the next four to six quarters, Apotheker said at
the conference. During the company’s second-quarter earnings
report, Apotheker said he is looking for a new executive to lead
the services business, and is orienting the unit to win more
contracts among companies taking advantage of so-called cloud
computing.  The company is also hoping to “capitalize” on  Microsoft
Corp. (MSFT) ’s new version of its Windows operating system, called
Windows 8, running on chip technology from ARM Holdings Plc, he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in  San Francisco  at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  