-- 
Ex-Galleon Trader Goffer Jury Begins Deliberating Insider-Trading Charges

-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h   a n d   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 
2011-06-02T22:54:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-02/ex-galleon-trader-goffer-jury-begins-deliberating-insider-trading-charges.html
Jurors began considering the insider-
trading case against Zvi Goffer, the former deputy of Galleon
Group LLC co-founder  Raj Rajaratnam , who is on trial with two
other men in federal court in Manhattan.  U.S. District Judge  Richard Sullivan  told the 12 jurors
hearing the case to start their deliberations today after
closing arguments ended this morning. They ended the day without
reaching a verdict and are scheduled to return June 6.  Zvi Goffer, 34, Emanuel Goffer, 32, and Michael Kimelman,
40, are charged with securities fraud and conspiracy. The
defendants were involved in one of three overlapping rings tied
to Galleon, according to prosecutors.  Earlier today,  Michael Sommer , a lawyer for Kimelman, told
jurors that his client wasn’t part of the alleged conspiracy and
urged them to find Kimelman not guilty. Assistant U.S. Attorney
Andrew Fish, in a rebuttal, argued that recorded conversations
between Kimelman and  Zvi Goffer  prove Kimelman knew they were
trading on confidential inside information.  Prosecutors allege Zvi Goffer paid two now-former Ropes &
Gray LLP lawyers for tips on upcoming acquisitions. Prosecutors
say the lawyers passed on tips about 3Com Corp, Axcan Pharma
Inc., Kronos Inc and Hilton Hotels Corp.  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission claimed in a
related civil suit that the Goffer scheme resulted in at least
$20 million in illicit profit. Fourteen people were charged in
the alleged insider trading ring. Ten have pleaded guilty and
the remaining defendant is a fugitive.  The case is U.S. v. Goffer, 10-cr-00056, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in  New York  at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Van Voris in Manhattan federal court at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  