-- 
Expert Networker Tapped ‘Cooks’ for Inside Tips, U.S. Says

-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 
2011-06-03T00:09:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-02/ex-primary-global-consultant-jiau-tapped-cooks-for-stock-tips-u-s-says.html
Ex-Primary Global Research LLC
consultant Winifred Jiau gave secret information from insiders
at technology companies she called “cooks” to hedge fund
managers for a fee, prosecutors told a federal jury in  New York .  In opening statements today at Jiau’s criminal trial,
Assistant U.S. Attorney David Leibowitz described a
“sophisticated” scheme in which he said insiders at technology
companies were paid by fund managers for illegal tips. He said
her information was precise “to the decimal point.”  Leibowitz said Jiau spoke in code, demanding payments for
the information, which she called “sugar,” and describing her
sources as “cooks” and referring to tips as “recipes.”  “At the heart of that scheme, playing a critical role, was
the defendant,” Leibowitz told jurors. “The defendant was the
insider who was worth every penny they paid her, and she
received over $200,000 they paid her for that information.”  Jiau, 43, of Fremont,  California , is charged with
 securities fraud  as well as conspiracy to commit wire and
securities fraud for allegedly passing inside tips about  Nvidia
Corp. (NVDA)  and  Marvell Technology Group Ltd. (MRVL)   The charges are connected to the arrests of eight employees
or consultants at Primary Global Research, a  Mountain View ,
California-based firm that links investors with industry experts
at public companies. She is the first expert networker to go on
trial for insider-trading charges and, if convicted, may face as
long as 25 years in prison.  Barai, Freeman, Pflaum  Jiau passed information to Samir Barai, founder of New
York-based Barai Capital Management LP, and Noah Freeman, who
was a portfolio manager at SAC Capital Advisors LLC in  Boston ,
Leibowitz said. Prosecutors said members of the conspiracy would
testify, including Freeman and Barai’s assistant, Jason Pflaum,
both of whom have pleaded guilty.  Leibowitz told jurors they would hear recordings of calls
between Jiau and a hedge-fund manager in which she passed
illegal tips. He said they would also see copies of instant
electronic messages that he called “the crime being committed
in real time, in the defendant’s own words.”  Joanna Hendon, Jiau’s lawyer, told jurors that while her
client passed nonpublic information, it wasn’t “material,” or
something a reasonable investor would consider important in
trading or to have a bearing upon a stock price.  “We’re going to prove to you beyond a reasonable doubt
that none of that information she provided was material, and
certainly there was no crime,” Hendon said.  Hendon said her client, a naturalized U.S. citizen
originally from  Taiwan , had a golden retriever waiting at home.  “Put an end to this misguided prosecution,” Hendon said.
“Send Ms. Jiau back to California, and to her dog.”  Guilty Pleas  Jiau is one of 13 people charged since November in the
expert-networking probe by federal prosecutors in the office of
U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara in Manhattan. That investigation is
part of a larger probe of illegal stock-tipping. Eight have
pleaded guilty to federal charges.  Hendon today said that her client was ensnared in what she
called a “crackdown” on  hedge funds  in late 2010. She said
Jiau was only prosecuted because Freeman and Pflaum decided to
implicate her client to save themselves.  “The intensity of this investigation, the force of that
was felt throughout the industry,” she said. “It was
terrifying to these hedge fund managers.”  Overlapping Rings  Jiau’s case is one of several overlapping insider-trading
rings stemming from the probe of New York-based hedge fund
Galleon Group LLC. Its co-founder,  Raj Rajaratnam , was convicted
of directing the largest hedge fund insider-trading ring and
faces almost 20 years in prison. His former deputy,  Zvi Goffer ,
is on trial in the same  Manhattan  federal courthouse where Jiau
is being tried.  When Barai pleaded guilty May 27, he said he conspired with
Freeman and Donald Longueuil to obtain material nonpublic
information. Both Freeman and Longueuil worked as portfolio
managers at  Stamford , Connecticut-based SAC Capital Advisors,
the hedge-fund firm run by  Steven Cohen .  Barai said he participated in calls with Jiau in 2008 in
which she provided tips to him about Marvell, a  Santa Clara ,
California-based maker of chips for personal computers and
mobile phones.  Barai is also cooperating with the U.S., prosecutors said.
If he provides “substantial assistance,” to their case,
prosecutors said they will submit a letter to his sentencing
judge seeking a reduced sentence because of his cooperation. He
isn’t expected to testify for the U.S., prosecutors said.  Nvidia’s Quarterly Earnings  Sonny Nguyen, a former analyst with Nvidia, which makes
graphics chips, also pleaded guilty in federal court in New York
on May 27. He, too, implicated Jiau in a scheme to pass company
tips, saying he passed tips to her about Santa Clara-based
Nvidia’s quarterly earnings before they were publicly announced.
He said he conspired with Jiau and a Marvell employee he
identified as Stanley Ng to pass and receive tips from 2007 to
2008.  Prosecutors today said Nguyen, who has pleaded guilty and
is cooperating, will testify at Jiau’s trial.  Michael Brown , a special agent with the  Federal Bureau of
Investigation , testified he conducted searches of Barai’s office
and hard drives and recovered e-mails and instant electronic
messages in which Jiau discussed continuing to provide Barai
information at his new fund.  In one June 3, 2008, instant e-mail chat, Jiau wrote,
“Cooks are on strike now,” adding later in the same
conversation, “so drop some of your extra sugar to me.”  Barai replied, “yep.”  ‘Not My Boyfriends’  Jiau answered, “cooks don’t talk to me without sugar. they
are not my boyfriends.”  Barai wrote that he’d gone on a “few dates,” adding that
he hadn’t found them “boring.”  “anyhow, I will know something when I got the sugar,”
Jiau said. “before that, I don’t know anything.”  At a hearing held outside the jury’s presence today, Hendon
complained she’d been “ambushed” by the government, which she
said only recently turned over scores of phone and computer
records related to her client.  Weitzman said prosecutors made a sincere effort to give
Jiau’s team computer records in a timely fashion. He said the
U.S. complied with Rakoff’s order to allow Jiau to review this
computer evidence in the courtroom for three days.  The judge said Jiau’s access to the evidence was cut off
after the second day because of a “violation” in which she
accessed an e-mail account on the computer.  Hendon declined to comment about the incident after court,
as did Weitzman.  Galleon Link  The first arrest in the expert networking case came in
November, when Bharara’s office accused Don Ching Trang Chu,
another former consultant with Primary Global Research, of being
a liaison between the firm and hedge fund clients.  The U.S. alleged that Chu established a relationship with
Richard Choo-Beng Lee, a former partner at  San Jose , California-
based Spherix Capital LLC. Lee was employed as an analyst by SAC
Capital Advisors from 1999 to 2004.  Lee, who has been linked to Rajaratnam’s insider-trading
ring, has pleaded guilty and is cooperating with the U.S. along
with his partner Ali Far.  The case is U.S. v. Jiau, 11-cr-00161, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York federal court at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  