-- 
Former Xinhua Finance Chief Loretta Fredy Bush Pleads Not Guilty to Fraud

-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 
2011-06-02T20:13:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-02/ex-xinhua-finance-chief-loretta-fredy-bush-pleads-not-guilty-to-fraud.html
The former chief executive officer of
 Xinhua Finance Ltd. (9399) , accused of taking part in a $50 million
insider-trading scheme, said she is not guilty of defrauding
investors and lying to regulators.  Loretta Fredy Bush, who headed Xinhua Finance for almost a
decade, pleaded not guilty today in federal court in  Washington 
to charges of conspiracy, mail fraud and making false
statements. Bush entered her plea by telephone from her
residence in  Hawaii  because of illness, her lawyer said.  Assistant U.S. Attorney Seth B. Waxman said Bush must
present herself to the  Federal Bureau of Investigation  in
Honolulu for booking. U.S. District Judge Royce Lamberth said
Bush will remain free pending trial.  Lamberth has ordered that details of Bush’s illness remain
private.  Two former Xinhua Finance board members indicted with Bush,
Shelly Singhal and Dennis Pelino, pleaded not guilty last month.  Xinhua Finance, the first Chinese company listed on the
Tokyo stock exchange, provides information products focused on
Chinese and international financial markets.  The three are accused of using entities to disguise the
sale of shares in Shanghai-based Xinhua Finance from the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission and investors and engage in
 insider trading , according to an indictment. They are also
accused of manipulating the company’s balance sheet to avoid
impairment charges.  False Statements Count  Bush and Singhal face nine charges. Pelino, who was charged
with an additional false statements count, faces 10. Each mail
fraud count is punishable by a maximum penalty of 20 years in
prison.  Bush, 52, co-founded Xinhua Finance with Pelino in 1999.
She was the company’s chief executive and vice chairman of its
board of directors until January 2009, according to the
indictment.  Pelino, 63, was chairman of the compensation committee and
a member of the audit and investment committees, according to
the indictment, and Singhal, 43, was chairman of Xinhua
Finance’s audit committee and a member of its compensation and
investment committees.  This is the second criminal case against Singhal. He was
indicted last year in Washington and is accused of a running a
$10 million stock manipulation conspiracy. Three lawyers have
pleaded guilty in that case and agreed to cooperate.  The case is U.S. v. Singhal, 11-cr-00142, U.S. District
Court,  District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 