-- 
Texas Urges U.S. to Leave Gas Fracking Oversight to States

-- B y   J o e   C a r r o l l
-- 
2011-06-02T16:57:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-02/texas-urges-u-s-to-leave-gas-fracking-oversight-to-states.html
The top energy regulator in the
biggest natural-gas producing state urged federal officials to
keep their hands off drilling techniques that environmental
groups say contaminate drinking water.  Texas Railroad Commission  Chairman  Elizabeth Ames Jones 
said in an interview today that states are better-equipped than
the federal government to regulate hydraulic fracturing, the
practice of injecting high-pressure jets of water, sand and
chemicals into rock formations to release gas and oil. Jones
said yesterday that  Texas  won’t require drillers to disclose
ingredients they regard as  trade secrets .  “It would be a big mistake” for federal regulators to
assume oversight of drilling for natural gas, Jones, 54, said
today on the sidelines of a U.S. Energy Department meeting in
Washington. She said she’s “hopeful” the panel “will come to
the understanding that the one-size-fits-all federal oversight
practice does not merit further attention.”  Jones, a Republican who has announced her candidacy for  U.S.
Senate , told a federal panel studying the risks of hydraulic
fracturing that the practice, known as fracking, never has
contaminated groundwater in Texas. She made her comments during
a meeting of the seven-person  task force  established by Energy
Secretary Steven Chu last month at the behest of President
 Barack Obama .  “It’s geologically impossible for frack fluid to migrate
into the water table” because the process occurs too far
underground, Jones said today.  ‘Huge Gaps’  The task force includes former Central Intelligence Agency
Director John Deutch, Environmental Defense Fund President Fred Krupp and  Daniel Yergin , co-founder of Cambridge Energy Research
Associates, a unit of  IHS Inc. (IHS)   Texas and other gas-rich states such as Michigan, Arkansas
and Wyoming are adopting fracking rules that “leave open huge
gaps” that prevent landowners from discovering what substances
are being injected into wells on their property, said Kate
Sinding, a New York-based senior attorney at the  Natural
Resources Defense Council .  “The industry and some states are looking at the
increasing concern about this practice at a national level and
they want to find a way to forestall federal regulation,”
Sinding said.  State vs. Federal  Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC)  Chief Executive Officer James T. Hackett told the panel yesterday that states should take the
lead in regulating gas drilling, rather than the federal
government. His comments echoed  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  CEO Rex Tillerson’s call last week for the federal government to leave
fracking oversight to the states.  “Every state has a right to permit a well, and every state
has a right to insist on certain practices,” Hackett said
during yesterday’s testimony.  Jones said the railroad commission, which oversees oil and
gas exploration in the state, will begin formulating fracking-
fluid rules in the next few months. The agency was directed to
establish a disclosure process in a bill approved by a vote of
137-8 in the Texas legislature on May 29. The bill is awaiting
Governor Rick Perry’s signature.  New York has temporarily banned fracking while it develops
new rules to ensure the safety of water and air. In France,
senators yesterday began discussing a proposed fracking ban. The
debate follows a May 11 vote in the National Assembly to
penalize drillers who use the technique with fines, jail time
and cancellation of exploration permits.  Exxon’s Campaign  Exxon, the largest U.S. gas producer, is mounting an
advertising campaign to defend fracking as environmentally safe,
Tillerson told reporters May 25.  Michigan’s Department of Environmental Quality last week
 adopted  fracking disclosure rules that allow drillers and
service companies to shield proprietary mixtures from public
view, Brad Wurfel, a spokesman for the agency, said in a phone
interview from Lansing. Wyoming and  Arkansas  approved similar
rules last year that also preclude disclosure of proprietary
recipes.  Regulators in states that rely on oil and gas royalties and
fees for a substantial portion of state revenue may feel too
beholden to the  energy industry  to strictly enforce fracking
rules, said Kenneth Green, the interim director of the center
for regulatory studies at the  American Enterprise Institute .  “Some states are going to be better at it than others,”
Green said. “Those that derive a lot of revenue from the gas
industry may be too lax.”  Gas Output Surges  U.S. gas output expanded  20 percent  in the past five years
as fracking enabled energy explorers to extract the fuel from
shale formations in Texas, Louisiana, Arkansas and Pennsylvania
previously considered impenetrable. In 2010, gas production from
U.S. wells reached a level last seen in 1973, Energy Department
figures showed.  Texas is experiencing a drilling boom as explorers
including Exxon,  Occidental Petroleum Corp. (OXY) ,  Chesapeake Energy
Corp. (CHK) ,  Marathon Oil Corp. (MRO) , Anadarko and  Southwestern Energy Co. (SWN) 
expand the search for oil and gas. The number of rigs drilling
wells in Texas jumped 27 percent in May from a year earlier,
according to Baker Hughes Inc., an oilfield service provider
that tracks rig usage.  Texas pumped 587 billion cubic feet of gas in March, or 31
percent of U.S. production, according to the Energy Department
in Washington.  Shale formations have the potential to more than double the
world’s gas reserves, the Energy Department said in  an April 5
assessment . By 2035, gas trapped in shale may account for almost
half the nation’s supply, the department said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Carroll in  Chicago  at 
 jcarroll8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net . 