-- 
Exemption From Aviation Limits Is ‘Always’ an Option, EU Says

-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a   a n d   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 
2011-06-02T17:12:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-02/exemption-from-aviation-limits-is-always-an-option-eu-says.html
The possibility of exempting
jetliners from outside the European Union from the emissions
trading system will “always be there,” assuming the country
implements a domestic plan to cut  greenhouse gases .  The EU’s cap-and-trade system, the world’s largest, will
expand next year to cover flights serving EU airports, a
decision that the Chinese government contests. The European
legislation offers the option to exclude incoming flights from a
non-EU country if the nation implements “equivalent” measures
to cut emissions from aviation.  A potential exemption would be decided in the so-called
comitology procedure, which requires approval from
representatives of EU member states in the Climate Change
Committee, Peter Zapfel, head of policy coordination at the
European Commission’s climate department, told journalists at
the Carbon Expo conference in Barcelona. The decision would then
be subject to a three-month scrutiny by the European Parliament
and national governments.  The EU decided in 2008 that European flights should be
added to its emissions trading system, known as the ETS, after
airline discharges in the continent doubled over two decades.
The ETS, including more than 11,000 utilities and manufacturers,
requires companies that exceed their carbon-dioxide emissions
quotas to pay a fine or buy spare permits.  Airlines will be the second-largest sector in the system
after power generators. Under the  legislation , 82 percent of the
emission allowances making up the airline-industry cap will be
allocated for free, and 15 percent will be auctioned. The
remaining 3 percent will be put into a special reserve for later
distribution to fast-growing airlines and new entrants.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Barcelona at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net ;
Mathew Carr in Barcelona at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  