-- 
Mexico May Attract as Much as $22 Billion of FDI, Zozaya Says

-- B y   T h o m a s   B l a c k
-- 
2011-06-02T12:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-02/mexico-may-attract-as-much-as-22-billion-of-fdi-zozaya-says.html
Mexico  may garner as much as $22
billion of foreign direct investment this year as the U.S.
rebounds and companies seek to diversify from  Asia , said Jose Zozaya, president of the American Chamber of Commerce in Mexico.  The estimate tops a forecast of $20 billion by Mexican
Finance Minister  Ernesto Cordero  in April and would be an 18
percent increase from the  $18.7 billion  in 2010 reported by
Mexico’s central bank.  “We’re seeing a lot of interest from companies, including
in the  Far East , for locating factories in Mexico,” said
Zozaya, who’s also president of Kansas City Southern’s Mexico
operations, in a phone interview from Mexico City. “This shows
that Mexico is very attractive for foreign investment.”  A manufacturing recovery in the U.S. has helped Mexico
recuperate foreign investment from $15.3 billion in 2009, the
lowest level in a decade. Foreign direct investment, or spending
by foreign companies on factories, equipment, acquisitions and
other areas, peaked in 2001 at $29.9 billion.  The drop in foreign investment correlated with a recession
in the U.S., Zozaya said. Mexico has gotten more than 40 percent
of its foreign direct investment on average from the U.S. in the
last five years.  Foreign investment will increase even as violence related
to organized crime continues to rise, he said. That’s because
large companies can take security measures to minimize the
effects and because the violence is isolated to certain areas in
the country, he said.  Investment Plans  Kansas City Southern (KSU)  de Mexico plans to invest $135 million
in the country this year, the same as last year. The company is
preparing an $80 million project over several years to build a
new railroad terminal in the port city of  Lazaro Cardenas  in
Michaocan state, he said.  HSBC Mexico projects Mexican foreign direct investment will
increase to $25 billion this year and $28 billion in 2012,
according to a May 18 report.  In addition to investor confidence in Mexico’s
macroeconomic stability, “a key factor for the FDI recovery
will be the improving terms of trade in Mexico from the ongoing
gradual appreciation of the Chinese renminbi as well as higher
labor costs in  China ,” the report said.  Deaths related to drug trafficking in Mexico reached 15,273
last year, a 59 percent increase compared with 2009, and total
more than 34,000 since Calderon took office, according to data
compiled by the President’s office. The government estimates the
violence shaves 1.2 percentage points off economic output
annually.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Thomas Black  in Monterrey at 
 tblack@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at   jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  