-- 
Facebook Seeks Contract, E-Mails in ‘Scam’ Ownership Suit

-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 
2011-06-03T00:16:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-02/facebook-s-zuckerberg-demands-e-mails-claimed-in-ceglia-ownership-lawsuit.html
Facebook Inc. and its co-founder  Mark Zuckerberg  asked a court to order  Paul Ceglia , the New York man
who claims half of Zuckerberg’s holdings, to turn over the
original contract and e-mails on which he bases his suit, saying
the steps are needed to short-circuit a fraud on the court.  Facebook today asked a federal judge in Buffalo for an
order requiring Ceglia, 37, to provide expedited fact-finding,
or discovery, in the case. The company said forensic examination
of the documents will support its claim that the contract is
“an amateurish forgery” and the e-mails are fabricated.  “This discovery will bring this case to an immediate end
by establishing that the purported contract and e-mails are
forgeries,”  Facebook  and Zuckerberg said today in the court
filing. “The contract is a cut-and-paste job, the e-mails are
complete fabrications and this entire lawsuit is a fraud.”  Facebook asked for an order forcing Ceglia to immediately
produce the original April 2003 signed contract and all e-mails
referred to in his complaint. The company also asked the court
to seize Ceglia’s computers and otherwise to delay the exchange
of evidence in the case until the documents are turned over and
inspected.  Facebook Experts  Facebook presented the conclusions of a computer forensics
firm, a linguistics expert and a document authentication expert
in support of its argument that Ceglia’s claim is fraudulent. A
former  New York  Police Department lieutenant commander claimed
Ceglia has a history of fraud including an Internet scam to sell
land in New York and  Florida .  “Mr. Ceglia welcomes the opportunity to expedite discovery
in this case and disagrees with the opinions within the filing,
which have been made by those who have not examined the actual
contract at issue in this case or any of the other relevant
evidence,” Ceglia’s lawyers said in a statement today.  In an amended complaint filed in April, Ceglia quoted from
e-mails he said he exchanged with Zuckerberg, which he said
support his claim that the two men formed a partnership that
gave Ceglia half-ownership of Facebook when it was started in
2004.  Ceglia said he is entitled to a multibillion-dollar stake
in Facebook. The closely held company is valued at as much as
$55 billion, according to Sharespost.com, an online marketplace
for investments in companies that aren’t publicly traded.  Palo
Alto , California-based Facebook runs the world’s biggest social-
networking site.  Zuckerberg Testimony  In a sworn statement filed with the motion today,
Zuckerberg said he provided web-development services for
StreetFax, a business Ceglia was trying to start at the time,
after responding to an Internet job listing in 2003. Zuckerberg,
then a student at  Harvard University , signed a contract drafted
by Ceglia, which referred only to the StreetFax work, he said.  The contract didn’t mention Facebook, which Zuckerberg
started months later, he said in the statement. Zuckerberg
didn’t sign the alleged contract put forward by Ceglia and
didn’t write or receive any of the e-mails cited in Ceglia’s
complaint, he said.  Facebook and Zuckerberg said in today’s filing that
Zuckerberg’s Harvard e-mail account contained more than 175
e-mails between him and others affiliated with StreetFax from
2003 to 2004. None of the e-mails referred to Facebook, they
said. The e-mail exchange shows Zuckerberg demanding payment for
his work while Ceglia gives excuses for delaying, they said.  ‘Authentic’ E-Mails  “The authentic Ceglia e-mails -- which show Ceglia
apologizing, begging Zuckerberg’s forgiveness, offering excuse
after excuse, asking for more time, even promising to sell his
property to raise the money he owed Zuckerberg -- demonstrate
that the narrative in Ceglia’s complaint is utter fiction,”
Facebook and Zuckerberg said.  Facebook attached print-outs of some of the e-mails in
court papers. In a Feb. 16, 2004, e-mail, a copy of which was
attached to Facebook’s papers, Ceglia wrote: “If there is any
way I can assure you that I have absolutely every intention of
paying you what is owed plus some when we finally catch up to
our sales goals it would be appreciated to a level I can’t
express in words.”  Cameron and Tyler Winklevoss, two former Harvard
schoolmates of Zuckerberg, are trying to get Facebook to produce
evidence including instant messages from 2003, which they claim
Facebook may have improperly withheld in their lawsuit claiming
Zuckerberg stole the idea for Facebook from them.  In its papers today, Facebook submitted a declaration from
Donald Henne, a managing director at Kroll Associates Inc.,
which conducted a background investigation of Ceglia after he
filed his suit. Henne, a former New York police lieutenant
commander hired as an expert by Facebook, detailed a number of
criminal arrests and fraud claims that have been made against
Ceglia.  ‘Land Scam’  Henne said Kroll reviewed property records and interviewed
several people who agreed to buy properties from Ceglia. Henne
claimed Ceglia conducted a “wide-ranging land scam” from 2005
to 2008, selling worthless properties in Florida and New York on
 EBay Inc. (EBAY) ’s auction website.  Court records reviewed by Bloomberg News show that Ceglia
was arrested in  Texas  in 1997 and pleaded guilty to possession
of hallucinogenic mushrooms. He was fined $15,000 and permitted
to return to his home in New York.  In 2005, Ceglia was arrested for trespassing on land in
Polk County, Florida. According to court records, he was fined
$265.  Ceglia was also arrested at his home in Wellsville, New
York, in 2009 after more than two dozen customers of his startup
wood-pellet business claimed they paid for pellets to heat their
homes and didn’t receive any. According to court records, Ceglia
received an adjournment in contemplation of dismissal and the
charges were later dropped.  Wood Pellets  A fraud lawsuit filed by New York’s former attorney
general,  Andrew Cuomo , shut down the wood-pellet business in
December 2009. The suit was resolved with Ceglia agreeing to pay
$106,000 in restitution and a $25,000 fine.  In its motion, Facebook said Ceglia “has spent the past
seven years as a hustler engaged in various land swindles and
wood-pellet scams.”  Trial judges often exclude evidence of previous “bad
acts” by parties to guard against unfairly prejudicing jurors,
said Bryan Freedman, a litigator with the firm Freedman &
Taitelman LLP in  Los Angeles . When the evidence shows a pattern
or habit of acts related to the case on trial, judges often let
the jury hear it, he said.  Facebook may also be trying “to sway public opinion or the
judge’s opinion” against Ceglia, Freedman said.  The case is Ceglia v. Zuckerberg, 1:10-cv-00569, U.S.
District Court, Western District of New York (Buffalo).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in U.S. District Court in  Manhattan 
at   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 