-- 
Fed May Signal Balance Sheet Will Stay at Record to Counter U.S. Slowdown

-- B y   S c o t t   L a n m a n   a n d   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 
2011-06-02T02:26:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-02/fed-may-signal-balance-sheet-will-stay-at-record-to-counter-u-s-slowdown.html
A wave of surprisingly weak data on
the  U.S. economy  may spur Federal Reserve policy makers to
support growth by making it clear they’re in no hurry to shrink
the central bank’s record balance sheet.  There’s a “strong possibility” that the  Federal Open
Market Committee  will say following the June 21-22 meeting that
it will keep reinvesting proceeds from maturing debt for a while,
said  Michael Feroli , chief U.S. economist at  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) 
in  New York . Previously, the FOMC has said it will keep the
benchmark interest rate near zero for an “extended period”
without a similar pledge about its balance sheet.  Yesterday’s reports showing manufacturing grew at the
slowest pace in more than a year in May and employers added
fewer jobs than forecast prompted Feroli to cut his estimate for
second-quarter economic growth. The slowdown may push policy
makers to consider what options are left after their second $600
billion round of asset purchases sparked a Republican backlash.
Saying the balance sheet won’t shrink immediately could dispel
any notion that the Fed is about to push up borrowing costs.  “The idea of extending the period in which they maintain
this level of accommodation is an easy call, a natural call and
the right call,” said Neal Soss, chief economist for Credit
Suisse Holdings USA Inc. in New York. A third round of asset
purchases “is so contentious within the committee and the
broader political environment, that they aren’t going to go
there. That makes it very unlikely.”  2012 Outlook  Soss said he doesn’t expect any balance-sheet tightening
until 2012 and no increase in the benchmark federal funds rate
until the third quarter of 2012. Feroli sees the first rate
increase in 2013.  Fed Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen , in a Tokyo speech released
late yesterday in  Washington , said that “the current
accommodative stance of U.S. monetary policy continues to be
appropriate because the  unemployment rate  remains elevated and
inflation is expected to remain subdued over the medium run.”
She didn’t elaborate on her economic outlook or discuss the
recent U.S. indicators.  The yield on the U.S. Treasury 10-year note dropped
yesterday below 3 percent for the first time this year. It fell
to 2.94 percent at 5 p.m. in New York from 3.06 percent on May
31. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index tumbled 2.3 percent to
1,314.55, its biggest drop since August.  Traders are betting on the Fed to raise its target interest
rate by August 2012, Fed funds futures contracts show. That
compares with expectations for a December 2011 increase four
months ago.  Portfolio Changes  A Bloomberg News survey in April found that 32 of 44
economists expected the Fed this year to halt its policy of
keeping its portfolio level stable by replacing maturing
mortgage-backed securities with Treasuries. Nine respondents saw
that happening in June; 12 in the third quarter; and 11 in the
final three months of the year.  “The most vulnerable moving part is when do they end the
reinvestment of maturing securities,” said  Carl Riccadonna , a
senior economist at Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. in New York.
“Most likely they will continue to reinvest over the course of
the summer until they get a better sense of where the economy
is,” rather than stopping immediately after the bond-purchase
program ends in June, he said.  The Fed began the reinvestment policy in August, aiming to
avoid what Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said was a “passive
tightening” as growth slowed following the March 2010 end of
the $1.7 trillion first round of asset purchases, also known as
quantitative easing.  Republican Backlash  Three months later, with job growth stagnant and deflation
risks mounting, Bernanke and his colleagues decided to buy $600
billion in Treasuries, a move that  John Boehner , now the House
speaker, and other top Republican lawmakers criticized as
risking dangerous inflation. Some Republicans also advocated
legislation to eliminate the central bank’s goal of maximum
employment to focus on keeping prices stable.  There are differences from a year ago, when the Fed
launched its second round of large-scale asset purchases,
because inflation and expectations that prices will rise are
higher.  Prices climbed 2.2 percent in April from a year earlier
based on the Commerce Department’s personal consumption
expenditures index, the fastest rate in a year. Crude oil, while
down from its 2011 high of $114.83, has traded near $100 a
barrel for the past two weeks.  Inflation Expectations  The difference between yields on 10-year notes and Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of trader expectations
for consumer prices over the life of the debt known as the
break-even rate, fell to 2.20 percentage points yesterday, the
narrowest closing spread since December. That’s still higher
than 1.47 points last August, when Bernanke signaled the Fed may
start QE2.  “It is likely a higher bar for QE3 than last year because
the trend in inflation has been upward,” said  Dean Maki , chief
U.S. economist at Barclays Capital Inc. and a former Fed
economist. At the same time, “the choppiness of the recovery is
one reason we think the Fed will not be doing anything in terms
of tightening this year.”  Any economic boost from the purchases may be starting to
wear off. The economy grew at a 3.1 percent annual pace in the
fourth quarter of last year; that slipped to 1.8 percent in the
three months through March. The Commerce Department’s revised
estimate on May 26 was lower than the median economist forecast
of 2.2 percent.  Housing Slump  Housing prices, which fell in March to the lowest level
since 2003, and 9 percent unemployment have reduced  consumer
confidence  and weighed on the two-year-old expansion.  A halting recovery may harm President  Barack Obama ’s
prospects for re-election next year, said Bill Carrick, a
Democratic political strategist, particularly since jobless
rates are likely to be high by historic standards.  “The danger is that if we continue to take two steps
forward, two steps back, people are going to continue to suffer
a high level of economic anxiety,” Carrick said. “There’s no
way that can be good politically for the president.”  Feroli yesterday lowered his forecast for second-quarter
growth to 2 percent from 2.5 percent, citing weakness in auto
sales and construction. In a research note, he said such a level
of growth would be “abysmal” considering that 14 million
workers remain jobless.  Slower Growth  The Tempe, Arizona-based Institute for Supply Management
yesterday said its factory index fell to 53.5 last month, the
lowest level since September 2009, from 60.4 in April. Companies
added 38,000 workers to payrolls, the fewest since September,
according to ADP Employer Services.  The ADP report prompted some economists to cut their
forecasts for job figures that will be reported tomorrow by the
Labor Department.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  lowered its estimate
for May’s growth in nonfarm payrolls to 100,000 from 150,000,
while Deutsche Bank cut its estimate to 160,000 from 225,000.  “The Fed is very solidly on hold in that they will not do
anything for the next six to eight months,” said  Ethan Harris ,
head of developed-markets economic research at Bank of America
Merrill Lynch in New York. “The Fed’s clock only moves if the
unemployment rate drops, and right now, we look like we hit the
snooze button on the data.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Lanman in Washington at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net ;
 Steve Matthews  in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  