-- 
QE2 Failed to Boost U.S. Spending, El-Erian Says: Tom Keene

-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 
2011-06-02T13:45:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-02/fed-s-qe2-failed-to-boost-u-s-spending-pimco-s-el-erian-says-tom-keene.html
The Federal Reserve’s quantitative
easing policy failed to meet the “ultimate objective” of
boosting employment and economic growth, said Mohamed El-Erian,
chief executive officer at Pacific Investment Management Co.  While the bond-purchase program pushed investors into
higher-yielding assets such as stocks, the “transmission
mechanism” to lower unemployment by driving more money into the
economy didn’t work, El-Erian of Pimco, the world’s biggest
manager of bond funds, said in a radio interview on “Bloomberg
Surveillance” with  Tom Keene .  “If success is defined in terms of the ultimate objective,
which is pushing up valuation in order for people to spend more
on goods and services and therefore get the economy to grow and
unemployment to come down rapidly, then the answer is no,” El-
Erian said from  Newport Beach ,  California .  The U.S. central bank began the second round of asset
purchases, known as QE2, in November after buying $1.7 trillion
in securities through last year, increasing the amount of money
in circulation to prevent deflation. The central bank’s $600
billion in purchases of Treasuries are due to end this month.  “Simply throwing more money at the economy doesn’t seem to
be enough,” El-Erian said. “Part of the unintended
consequences is not only did we get good inflation, which is
higher equity prices, higher asset prices, but we got bad
inflation, which is higher commodity prices.”  Global Markets  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index has climbed 9 percent since
QE2 was announced. At the same time, the S&P GSCI index of 24
commodities has risen 16 percent, while oil futures have climbed
14 percent and gold has increased 9.6 percent.  Treasury yields rose after tumbling yesterday the most in
more than two months as reports showed company hiring and
manufacturing growth slowed. The 10-year note yield fell below 3
percent for the first time this year.  “If you’re just a U.S. investor, be careful because
Treasury bonds are at yields that probably can’t stay this low
for long, and equities have been pushed up by QE2,” El-Erian
said. “The key issue for us is, remember markets are global and
opportunities are global.”  Pimco, a unit of the Munich-based insurer  Allianz SE ,
managed $1.28 trillion of assets as of March 31.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Keene in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  