-- 
Fed’s Williams Says Banks Reluctant to Increase Lending in Slow Recovery

-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 
2011-06-02T03:49:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-02/fed-s-williams-says-banks-reluctant-to-increase-lending-in-slow-recovery.html
Federal Reserve Bank of  San Francisco 
President John C. Williams said U.S. banks have been reluctant
to boost lending because of a slow recovery from the recession.  “Banks would rather hold reserves safely at the Fed
instead of lending them out in the still-struggling and risky
economy,” Williams said today in a speech in San Francisco. The
 U.S. economy  will probably grow about 3 percent this year, he
said in response to an audience question.  Recent economic data have shown signs the economy may be
losing momentum. Manufacturing in the U.S. expanded in May at
the slowest pace in more than a year, Institute for Supply
Management’s factory index showed today. Unemployment at 9
percent and housing prices, which fell in March to the lowest
level since 2003, have reduced  consumer confidence  and weighed
on the expansion.  “We see steady, gradual improvement in the labor market,”
with the  unemployment rate  falling to “maybe 8.5 percent at the
end of the year,” he said in response to questions. The U.S.
probably won’t achieve “full employment for several more
years.”  Inflation is likely to drop to about a 1.5 percent rate
after the first half of the year, he said, adding the public’s
expectations for prices have been “amazingly well anchored.”  Williams defended the Fed’s plan to purchase $600 billion
in U.S. Treasuries, which is scheduled to be completed this
month, saying so-called quantitative easing may add 3 million
jobs by 2012 while helping to avert a broad-based decline in
prices.  “Lower  interest rates ” from asset purchases have
“improved financial conditions and helped stimulate real
economic activity,” Williams, a former research director who
became president in March, said at an American Economic
Association conference for educators meeting at the bank.  Williams, 48, said the Fed can use a new tool of paying
interest on excess reserves to prevent credit growth from
becoming inflationary as the economy recovers.  “In a world where the Fed pays interest on bank reserves,
traditional theories that tell of a mechanical link between
reserves,  money supply , and ultimately inflation no longer
hold,” he said. “The world changes if the Fed is willing to
pay a high enough interest rate on reserves.”  Williams, who has worked in the Fed system since 1994, was
a senior economist for the  Council of Economic Advisers  during
the Clinton administration. The Sacramento, California, native
succeeded  Janet Yellen , who became the Fed board’s vice chairman
in October.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Matthews at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  