-- 
Federer Seeks to End Djokovic Winning Run at French Open Tennis Semifinal

-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 
2011-06-02T22:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-02/federer-out-to-break-djokovic-s-winning-streak-in-french-open-semifinals.html
Roger Federer , the most successful
men’s player in Grand Slam history, stands between Novak Djokovic and the top spot in tennis when they meet in today’s
French Open semifinals.  The second-seeded Serb will take the No. 1 ranking on the
ATP World Tour away from  Rafael Nadal  if he beats Federer, the
winner of a men’s record 16 Grand Slam singles titles, on the
main clay court at Roland Garros in Paris.  A victory also would make Djokovic 42-0 this year, tying
the record for the best start to a season set in 1984 by John McEnroe, his practice partner this week. Djokovic has won 43
straight times since losing to Federer in an indoor match in
 London  in November.  “He’s a great player, a great champion,” Djokovic, 24,
told the tour’s website. “But I’ve been playing the best tennis
of my life and I need to get out there and believe that I can
win. That’s the only way I can get a positive outcome.”  Nadal of Spain plays  Andy Murray  of Britain in the other
semifinal.  Djokovic hasn’t played since May 29. His quarterfinal
opponent, Fabio Fognini, withdrew with an injury. Federer beat
France’s Gael Monfils to reach the semifinals and hasn’t dropped
a set in the tournament.  Although he trails Federer 13-9 in career meetings,
Djokovic has beaten the Swiss right-hander in their last two
Grand Slam matches and three meetings this season. He saved two
match points against Federer in the semifinals of the  U.S. Open 
in September, then beat him in straight sets in the same round
on the way to his second Australian Open title in January.  Reaching Top  “He has a lot on the line, which we all know about,”
Federer, a former No. 1 player now ranked third, said in a news
conference after beating Monfils. “I have been there myself
before in 2004 when I was going for world No. 1 against  David Ferrer  in  Australia  in the semis of a Grand Slam, as well. So
it’s a similar situation.”  Nadal, trying for a record-tying sixth French Open
championship, plays Murray, the fourth seed, in the day’s first
semifinal and said he’d watch Djokovic-Federer if he were a
spectator.  “It’s the best player of this time against the best player
of history,” the Spaniard told a news conference after beating
 Robin Soderling  of Sweden in the quarterfinals. “It’s going to
be a beautiful match.”  There is a lot at stake for Nadal and Murray, too.  Nadal, 43-1 at  Roland Garros , is trying to equal Bjorn Borg’s professional-era record of French Open titles, while
Murray is seeking to break a 75-year-long Grand Slam singles
championship drought for British men stretching back to Fred Perry’s victory in the U.S. National Championships in 1936.  Murray Injuries  “It’s going to be an incredibly difficult match for me,”
Murray said. He has been playing with a partially torn ankle
tendon since the third round and had to visit the dentist two
days ago after chipping a tooth on a baguette.  Nadal leads in their career meetings 10-4 and Murray said
playing the left-hander is “one of the best challenges in
tennis.”  “Obviously, his record here is incredible,” Murray said.
“Definitely, I look forward to it.”  Defending champion Francesca Schiavone of Italy plays Li Na
of  China  in the women’s final tomorrow.  Schiavone won her semifinal yesterday against Marion Bartoli of  France  6-3, 6-3 after Li beat Maria Sharapova of
Russia 6-4, 7-5, becoming the first Chinese player to reach the
championship match in Paris.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh at Roland Garros through the London sports
desk at   drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 