-- 
For-Profit Colleges Get More Time to Comply With Aid Rules

-- B y   J o h n   L a u e r m a n   a n d   J o h n   H e c h i n g e r
-- 
2011-06-02T13:43:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-02/for-profit-colleges-get-more-time-to-comply-with-aid-rules-2-.html
The Obama administration gave for-
profit colleges more time to comply with rules that will cut off
federal aid to institutions whose students struggle the most to
repay their government loans.  Under rules to be published today, for-profit colleges
including University of Phoenix owner  Apollo Group Inc. (APOL) , won’t
risk losing their federal funding until 2015, the U.S. Education
Department said yesterday. Under an earlier proposal, companies
could have lost aid as soon as next year.  While their harshest measures are being delayed, the
regulations will protect students from “exploitative” college
programs that leave them with government-backed debt they can’t
repay, the  Education Department  said in a statement. Congress
and state attorneys general are investigating the education
companies’ recruitment practices, loan-default rates and use of
government aid, which totaled $30 billion last year.  The rules “reflect input from the industry, and they’re
designed to give for-profit colleges every opportunity to reform
without letting them off the hook,” Education Secretary Arne Duncan said late yesterday in a briefing with reporters.  Phoenix-based Apollo, the largest operator of for-profit
colleges, climbed $5.44, or 13 percent, to $47.63 at 9:36 a.m.
in Nasdaq Stock Market trading.  Corinthian Colleges Inc. (COCO)  of
 Santa Ana ,  California , surged $1.50, or 38 percent, to $5.49.
 Strayer Education Inc. (STRA) , based in Herndon,  Virginia , advanced 25
percent to $152.12. The Bloomberg U.S. For-Profit College Index
of 13 companies rose 17 percent.  Lobbying Efforts  The rules are known as “gainful employment” because they
seek to ensure that for-profit college graduates get jobs that
allow them to repay their  student loans . After a draft version
was released in July 2010, an industry campaign generated
thousands of comments, resulting in a delay since November of
the final rules.  For-profit colleges, attended by about 3 million students
annually, spent at least $6.6 million in 2010 to lobby against
the regulations. Trade groups said the rules will cut off
educational access for their low-income and minority students.  U.S. Representative  John Kline  of  Minnesota , a Republican
and chairman of the House education committee, unsuccessfully
tried during February’s budget negotiations to block the rules.  “I remain concerned this regulation could undermine an
entire sector of colleges in the name of rooting out a few bad
actors,” Kline said in a statement late yesterday.  Harris Miller , president of the  Association of Private
Sector Colleges and Universities , a Washington-based trade group
of for-profit colleges, said the Education Department is
exceeding its authority, and the group may file a lawsuit to
block the rule.  Eligibility Requirements  “We want to acknowledge that the department did make
changes” in the rules, Miller said yesterday on a call with
reporters. “Without analysis done by our outside researchers, I
can’t say whether it’s a victory or a defeat.”  The rules being published today set benchmarks that the
companies’ educational programs must meet to remain eligible for
government grants and loans, which can constitute up to 90
percent of their revenue. The rules also apply to state and
private nonprofit colleges that offer career-training
certificates. No more than 1 percent of those programs are
expected to lose eligibility, according to the Education
Department.  Under the rules, programs would remain eligible for federal
aid if they meet at least one of three tests in a given year: at
least 35 percent of former students are repaying their loan
balance; yearly educational-debt payments of typical graduates
account for a maximum of 12 percent of their total income; and
those payments account for no more than 30 percent of the their
discretionary income.  Overcharge, Underdeliver  Programs would have to fail all three tests in the same
year for three out of four years before losing aid eligibility.
The first year that programs could lose eligibility by that
measure would be in 2015.  “Unfortunately, the final rule will allow many programs
that overcharge and underdeliver to continue to receive federal
student aid,” said Pauline Abernathy, vice president of The
Institute for College Access & Success, a consumer advocacy
group in Oakland, California.  About 5 percent of for-profit college programs are expected
to lose eligibility, compared with 16 percent under the previous
proposal, which gave colleges less time to comply.  Corinthian, Strayer  “This reduces exposure for the vast majority of for-
profit programs and targets only the worst performers who are
unable to adjust their business over four years,” Jarrel Price,
an analyst at Height Analytics in Washington, said in a phone
interview. “The industry can grow again.”  Under an earlier proposal, loan-repayment rates at
Corinthian Colleges, Strayer,  Washington Post Co. (WPO) ’s Kaplan
education business,  DeVry Inc. (DV)  and  ITT Educational Services Inc. (ESI) 
would have put them at risk of losing eligibility, according to
Price.  Colleges can also face lesser sanctions. If the programs
fail all the debt and income tests twice within three years, the
college must tell students their debts may be unaffordable and
that the program could lose aid eligibility. They would also
need to explain their transfer options. After failing for one
year, the institution must disclose information about its
performance and establish a three-day waiting period before
students can enroll.  While for-profit colleges enroll about 12 percent of U.S.
higher-education students, they use about one-quarter of federal
student grants and loans and account for 46 percent of student
loan dollars in default, the Education Department said
yesterday, in justifying the new rules.  $14,000  Most for-profit colleges offer career-training programs,
and many, including the  University of Phoenix , also have two-and
four-year degrees, and master’s and Ph.D. programs. The median
loan debt of a student earning an associate’s degree at a for-
profit college is $14,000, while most students at community
colleges don’t borrow, the Education Department said.  “The plain fact is that millions of low-income students
are borrowing heavily to attend for profit colleges and too many
are dropping out, defaulting on loans, failing to get a good job
and leaving taxpayers to pay the bill,” Duncan said yesterday.  Iowa Democratic Senator  Tom Harkin , chairman of the Senate
education committee, has held four hearings in  Washington 
examining for-profit college recruitment, accreditation and use
of funds from the Education Department and military sources.
Harkin has scheduled a fifth hearing for June 7 focusing on
student debt. Harkin and Democratic Senator  Richard Durbin  of
 Illinois  have said they will propose legislation to put
additional safeguards on the industry.  The new rules are “a modest and important first step to
protect students and taxpayers from subprime academic programs
that have a demonstrated track record of failure,” Harkin said
in a statement late yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Lauerman in Boston at 
 jlauerman@bloomberg.net ;
John Hechinger in Boston at 
 jhechinger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonathan Kaufman at 
 jkaufman17@bloomberg.net  