-- 
Ford to Build First Three-Cylinder Engine for Small Cars

-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 
2011-06-02T20:10:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-02/ford-to-build-three-cyclinder-engine-for-first-time.html
Ford Motor Co. (F) , the second-largest
U.S. automaker, will build a three-cylinder engine for the first
time as it shrinks powertrains to improve  fuel efficiency .  The automaker’s smallest engine ever will be used in global
car lines such as Fiesta and Focus, and will have power output
equal to or better than Ford’s four-cylinder engines, Derrick Kuzak vice president of global product development, said today
at a briefing in Dearborn, Michigan, where Ford is based.  “Customers are not really counting the number of cylinders
or the displacement anymore,” Joe Bakaj, vice president of
powertrain engineering, told reporters. Ford has achieved fuel-
economy improvement of as much as 20 percent by adding direct-
injection technology that feeds precise amounts of gas to
cylinders in smaller engines. Ford is targeting similar gains
with this engine, he said.  Regulators in the U.S., where Ford is the second-largest
automaker by vehicle sales, are developing rules that may
require average fuel economy by company of as much as 62 mpg by
2025 up from 27 mpg for 2011 models. Ford last year started
offering two different six-cylinder engines in its F-150 pickup,
part of the top-selling vehicle line in the U.S., after two
model years without offering the smaller engines.  Daimler AG’s Smart Fortwo is the only car selling in the
U.S. with a three-cylinder engine, said Paul Harrison, a Ford
spokesman.  Turbocharger Suppliers  Ford hasn’t identified which auto-parts supplier will
provide turbochargers for the three-cylinder engine, Harrison
said.  Honeywell International Inc. (HON)  supplies turbochargers for the
Ford Flex and Lincoln MKT crossovers and for the Taurus SHO and
Lincoln MKS sedans, said Mike Stoller, a Honeywell spokesman.
 BorgWarner Inc. (BWA)  supplies turbochargers for F-150 pickups,
Explorer sport-utility vehicle and Focus.  Robert Bosch GmbH  and
 Continental AG (CON)  also make the units.  Chief Executive Officer  Alan Mulally  has emphasized fuel
economy as he overhauled Ford’s lineup since arriving from
Boeing Co. in 2006. Ford said today it will be the biggest maker
of hybrid transmissions by spring 2012 after it begins output in
a factory near Detroit later this year.  The hybrid transmission and a separate eight-speed
automatic transmission announced today were developed by and
will be manufactured by Ford, Kuzak said today. The new eight-
speed transmission will replace one designed by Aisin Seiki Co.,
and will improve fuel economy by as much as 6 miles per gallon.  Models Unspecified  Ford didn’t identify the models that will use the hybrid
transmission. Ford showed a Focus Electric compact car, a C-Max
Energi plug-in hybrid and a C-Max Hybrid gas-electric wagon at
the  Detroit  auto show in January.  The C-Max models are two of the five vehicles using
electric power that Ford said in January it will bring to  North
America  during the next two years. The Transit Connect Electric
commercial van began production at the end of last year, and the
Focus Electric will be introduced in late 2011.  Electric and hybrid vehicles may account for as much as
25 percent of Ford sales by 2020, the company has said.  Ford fell 5 cents to $14.18 at 4 p.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading. The shares have declined 16 percent
this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Craig Trudell in Southfield,  Michigan , at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net  