-- 
Ford Missing Quality Targets Puts Pressure on Mulally to Fix Mishaps: Cars

-- B y   K e i t h   N a u g h t o n
-- 
2011-06-02T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-02/ford-missing-targets-pressures-mulally-to-fix-mishaps-cars.html
Ford Motor Co. (F) , ranked the mainstream
brand with the fewest defects by J.D. Power & Associates last
year, is pressing to remedy what it expects will be a “mixed”
performance this year in an area  Alan Mulally  calls critical.  Chief Executive Officer Mulally says industry-leading
quality will be a pillar of the automaker’s success after years
of lagging behind Japanese rivals such as  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  Yet
Ford last quarter missed quality targets because of glitches in
new models and high-tech touch-screen dashboard controls.  “We have just a few issues with some of the newer
technologies associated with Sync and MyFordTouch,” Mulally
told reporters May 31 in  Washington , referring to the voice-
activated and touch-screen communication system in models such
as the Explorer. “It’ll be a lot like consumer electronics
where we’ll rapidly bring innovation, but also continue to
improve it.”  With researcher  J.D. Power  releasing new quality rankings
June 23, Ford is working to maintain the momentum that enabled
the automaker to gain market share and surpass Toyota in U.S.
sales last year. Dearborn, Michigan-based Ford said today it is
deploying $100 million of laser-guided robots in factories to
help reduce wind noise inside its models, a nagging complaint.  “Improved quality has been essential to the revival of the
Ford brand,” said  Jesse Toprak , an industry analyst at
TrueCar.com, a  Santa Monica ,  California , website that tracks
auto-sales trends. “It’s been very, very important when you
look at the growth of Ford in the last couple years.”  Touchy Touch Screen  Ford also is working to get the bugs out of its touch
screen, which helped land its redesigned Explorer sport-utility
vehicle at 17th in a ranking of 19 mid-sized SUVs in the June
issue of  Consumer Reports . The magazine called the Explorer’s
touch-screen controls “complicated and distracting.”  “We’ve heard of screens blanking out,” said David Sargent,
the vice president of research at J.D. Power who oversees the
Initial Quality Survey. “Ford has a concern about how they will
perform based on their own data. They’re making an early warning
to the market that this may be a problem.”  Introducing new models such as the Focus and Fiesta small
cars have stressed Ford’s manufacturing and engineering systems,
said Bennie Fowler, the automaker’s group vice president of
quality and model introductions.  “All I can tell you is I haven’t been sleeping that much
with the amount of products we’ve been bringing out,” Fowler
said in a May 31 interview. “That is the biggest challenge I
face as the quality leader and the new-model launch leader.”  Laser-Guided Robots  Installing laser-guided robots in 17 factories worldwide is
part of Ford’s push to reach “the next level of refinement” in
quality, he said. New laser-vision technology will enable robots
to install doors on Explorer and Focus models to within a tenth
of a millimeter of specifications, reducing wind noise.  Ford is deploying the robotic door technology now because
it wasn’t ready when the Explorer went into production in
December and the automaker began building the Focus in the first
quarter, Fowler said.  “All of this technology is new,” he said. “It has to be
debugged and precise.”  Ford has encountered criticism for rolling out MyFordTouch
before the bugs were worked out: Consumer Reports dropped its
recommendation on the Ford Edge SUV in part because of the
controls, and the New York Times ran a review May 29 of the Edge
headlined: “Tussling With New Technology.”  “You wonder, ‘How did this get into production?’” David Champion, auto-test chief for Consumer Reports, said in an
interview. “If you’re going to be a trailblazer, your
trailblazing system has to have a clear benefit, like Toyota did
with the Prius that got 41 miles per gallon.”  Most Improved  Ford has become the most improved automaker in Consumer
Reports rankings over the last few years, Champion said. The
magazine now recommends 90 percent of Ford and Lincoln models.
Ford matched Toyota as the most favorably viewed auto brand in a
survey the magazine conducted in December in the U.S.  Whether the MyFordTouch system “will hurt them in the long
run, we’ll have to see,” Champion said. “It’s a big gamble.”  Ford must take the gamble on new technology to stand out in
a competitive and crowded auto market, executive Fowler said.  “The world is changing all the time,” he said. “One of
the things we recognize at Ford is either you change with it or
you die.”  Ford is adjusting the touch system based on feedback from
critics including Consumer Reports and from customer surveys,
Fowler said. The automaker has asked dealers to spend as much as
40 minutes training new owners to use the system, he said.  BMW’s iDrive  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) ’s quality rankings fell after
it introduced a complicated  communications system  known as
iDrive a decade ago, J.D. Power’s Sargent said. The German
automaker has since revised the system several times, making it
easier to use and less distracting, he said. BMW ranked 17th in
last year’s new-car study and was below the industry average.
Ford ranked fifth, behind only luxury brands.  “It is a risk to be a technology leader,” Sargent said.
“Even if the technology works as designed, consumers can feel
frustrated by it and report problems with it because it’s not
working the way they want it to. That’s a design flaw.”  That Ford is saying it’s not meeting its goal of improving
quality this year “is a big change from the past, when there
was more arrogance and less acceptance of problems,” Toprak
said.  Fowler said the admission all fits with Mulally’s mantra
that “you can’t manage a secret.”  “We’ve been fairly direct in terms of what our performance
is,” Fowler said. “It’s a big part of what you have to do to
be a company people can believe in.”  Given how long it has taken Ford to establish a good
quality reputation, this setback will likely end up a “bump
they hit, rather than a wall they run into,” Sargent said.  “It’s easy to lose a good reputation and hard to build one
up,” Sargent said. “I suspect they’re working night and day.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Keith Naughton  in Southfield,  Michigan , at 
 Knaughton3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net . 