-- 
Ex-Madoff Employee Lipkin to Plead Guilty to Bank Fraud, Falsifying Books

-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 
2011-06-02T18:40:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-02/former-madoff-employee-eric-lipkin-to-plead-guilty-u-s-prosecutors-say.html
Former Bernard Madoff employee Eric
Lipkin will plead guilty to federal criminal charges including
falsifying books and records of a broker-dealer and bank fraud.  Lipkin will plead guilty to six separate crimes, Assistant
 Manhattan  U.S. Attorneys Lisa Baroni and Julian Moore said in a
letter to U.S. District Judge Laura Taylor Swain, who is
presiding over the case. Lipkin is set to plead on June 6,
Baroni said.  In addition to two counts of falsifying records and one
count of bank fraud, Lipkin will also plead guilty to two counts
of conspiracy and one count of making a false statement. He
faces as long as 70 years in prison.  “The parties anticipate that, at the conference, Eric
Lipkin, a former employee in the investment advisory business of
Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities LLC, will plead guilty
to the information pursuant” to an agreement with the
government, prosecutors said in the June 1 letter that was made
public today.  James Filan, a lawyer for Lipkin, declined to comment.  Five former employees have been charged by Manhattan U.S.
Attorney Preet Bharara’s office in the case and are awaiting
trial before Swain in connection with the money manager’s
multibillion-dollar Ponzi scheme. All have pleaded not guilty.  Annette Bongiorno, who recruited investors and helped run
Madoff’s investment advisory office and Joann Crupi, of
Westfield,  New Jersey , were arrested and charged by the U.S. in
November.  The U.S. previously charged Daniel Bonventre, Madoff’s ex-
operations chief, and Jerome O’Hara and George Perez, both
former programmers who worked at Madoff’s investment business.
No trial date has been set.  The case is U.S. v. Eric Lipkin, 10-CR-228 Southern
District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 