-- 
Gas Exporters’ Forum in Cairo Marked by Qatari Absence, Libyan Arrival

-- B y   B e n   F a r e y ,   R o b e r t   T u t t l e   a n d   O l a   G a l a l
-- 
2011-06-02T13:41:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-02/gas-exporters-forum-in-cairo-marked-by-qatari-absence-libyan-arrival.html
The opening of the 12th Gas Exporting
Countries’ Forum in Cairo was marked by the absence of officials
from  Qatar , where the group has its headquarters, in a possible
sign of their displeasure over Libya’s attendance.  Qatar’s energy minister, Mohammed Saleh al Sada, was due to
attend the meeting today and address a news conference this
afternoon. As of 12:30 p.m. in Cairo, no Qatari delegation had
arrived. It was unclear if Qatar would attend later in the day.  Forum representatives refused to say if Qatar was
boycotting the meeting due to the presence of an official from
the government of Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi . Qatar supports
Libyan rebels fighting forces loyal to Qaddafi.  The Qataris may be staying away from the forum “as a
statement to warn what could happen in OPEC if Qaddafi is
allowed to represent Libya in that organization,” said  Samuel Ciszuk , a Mideast energy analyst at IHS Global Insight in
 London . The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries plans
to meet on June 8 in Vienna to review production targets.  Qatar may want to send a message to OPEC that next week’s
“crucial meeting could be seriously weakened if the Libyan
government is allowed continued representation,” Ciszuk said by
telephone.  An official at state-run energy company  Qatar Petroleum 
declined to comment when asked about the Qatari absence. Leonid Bokhanovsky, the forum’s secretary general, attributed Qatar’s
absence to “extraordinary circumstances,” without elaborating.  The Libyan representative, Mosbah Ali Matoug, attended the
gas forum today and sat behind a miniature green flag of the
Qaddafi regime. Matouq declined to comment on Qatar’s absence.  Supporting Libyan Rebels  Qatar, the world’s biggest exporter of liquefied natural
gas, has supplied fighter jets to support NATO’s campaign to
protect civilians in  Libya  from Qaddafi’s troops. Qatar
recognizes the rebels’ National Transitional Council based in
the eastern Libyan city of Benghazi.  The forum, an 11-nation group controlling two-thirds of the
world’s proven natural gas reserves, is based in Qatar’s capital
city, Doha. It brings together some of the world’s biggest
exporters in the same way OPEC groups oil producers. OPEC has as
a history of continuing to meet even if member nations were at
war, as it did during the Iran-Iraq war in the 1980s and the
Iraqi invasion of Kuwait in 1991.  Switching Flags  Organizers of the gas forum yesterday removed a welcome
banner that included a flag used by Libyan rebels, amid
uncertainty over which officials would represent the North
African nation at energy events.  The flag used by the National Transitional Council of the
Libyan Republic, the rebel movement that formed in February, has
red, black and green horizontal panels with a white crescent and
star in the middle, while the official Qaddafi government flag
is plain green.  The banner was removed from near the entrance of the JW
Marriott hotel, where the forum is meeting, and replaced with
one sporting a plain green flag instead.  The forum’s 11 members, aside from Qatar and Libya, are
 Algeria , Bolivia, Egypt,  Equatorial Guinea , Iran, Nigeria,
 Russia ,  Trinidad & Tobago  and Venezuela. Kazakhstan, the
Netherlands and Norway have observer status.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Robert Tuttle  in Doha at 
 rtuttle@bloomberg.net ;
Ben Farey in London at 
 bfarey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  