-- 
Gazprom Plans Long-Terms LNG Supplies to Indian Buyers to Expand Markets

-- B y   A n n a   S h i r y a e v s k a y a
-- 
2011-06-02T12:03:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-02/gazprom-to-supply-three-indian-buyers-with-7-5-million-tons-of-lng-a-year.html
OAO Gazprom’s marketing & trading
unit seeks to increase supplies of liquefied natural gas to
 India  via long-term contracts as the Russian gas exporter plans
to build LNG capacity to expand in new markets.  Gazprom Marketing & Trading Singapore signed preliminary
agreements to sell as much as 7.5 million metric tons a year of
LNG to  Petronet LNG Ltd. (PLNG) ,  Gail India Ltd. (GAIL)  and Gujarat State
Petroleum Corp., the unit said today in an e-mailed statement.  Sales agreements may be signed within about six months, a
person familiar with the talks said. The companies are still
discussing prices, the person said, declining to be identified
before a decision is reached.  Indian companies are seeking energy assets and supplies
across the world to meet demand from fertilizer and power
producers in the world’s fastest-growing major economy after
 China . Gazprom, the world’s biggest gas producer, wants access
to consumers beyond the reach of its pipelines, with supplies of
the fuel cooled to liquid for transit by tanker.  Gazprom Marketing & Trading will use its current global
supply for the Indian buyers, as well as the Russian producer’s
existing and future output, the unit said. Gazprom has delivered
LNG cargoes to India under spot deals since 2007.  The trading unit is seeking accords with buyers in  Europe ,
 North America  and the Asia-Pacific region, the person said.  Shtokman LNG  Shipments may begin in 2016 to 2018, with Gazprom M&T first
supplying fuel bought in the market, the official said, adding
that the unit expects to sell LNG from the Gazprom-led  Shtokman 
project in the  Barents Sea  and possibly from expanded capacity
at Sakhalin-2 venture.  Petronet and Gail India may each buy up to 2.5 million tons
annually for as long as 25 years, according to statements from
the unit. The long-term supply accord with Gujarat State
Petroleum didn’t specify a timeframe. The official said
agreements may range from 15 to 25 years.  Shtokman, Gazprom’s Arctic offshore project with Statoil
ASA and Total SA, is scheduled to make a final investment
decision at the end of the year. The venture aims to begin LNG
production in 2017, with capacity at 7.5 million tons in the
first phase.  Sakhalin-2 , where Gazprom’s partners are Royal Dutch Shell
Plc, Mitsui & Co. and Mitsubishi Corp., is operating beyond its
designed 9.6 million-ton-a-year capacity and has fully
contracted the LNG.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Shiryaevskaya in Moscow at 
 ashiryaevska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  