-- 
Globalive Wants Spectrum Limits for Large Mobile Carriers

-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 
2011-06-02T19:28:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-02/globalive-wants-spectrum-limits-for-large-mobile-carriers-1-.html
Globalive Communications Corp., a new
Canadian mobile-service provider, said the country’s three main
carriers are sitting on unused spectrum and shouldn’t be allowed
to buy more airwaves in the next government auction.  “The government must ensure incumbents don’t acquire
spectrum at any cost to stave off further competition,” Anthony Lacavera, chairman of Toronto-based Globalive, said today at the
Canadian Telecom Summit in Toronto.  BCE Inc. (BCE) ,  Telus Corp. (T)  and
 Rogers Communications Inc. (RCI/B)  “have way, way more than they need,
they just don’t need anymore,” he said.  Lacavera spoke on the closing day of the conference as
large carriers and new operators argue about what ground rules
the Canadian government should establish for an auction of 700
megahertz-frequency spectrum expected in 2012. Industry Minister
Christian Paradis said this week he’s keeping all options open
for an auction which will give rights to airwaves sought after
for their ability to transmit data and calls through building
and other densely built areas.  2008 Spectrum Auction  In the last auction in 2008, the government set aside some
spectrum just for new entrants, allowing Globalive, Public
Mobile, Mobilicity and Videotron Ltee to begin offering service
by 2010. Videotron Chief Executive Officer Robert Depatie said
yesterday the next auction should give new players the right to
bid for twice as much 700 megahertz spectrum as the incumbents.  Patricia Trott, a spokeswoman for Rogers, did not
immediately return an e-mail message seeking comment. Rogers’s
wireless chief Rob Bruce said this week that any restrictions on
its right to bid would be a “slap in the face” to its
customers.  There has been too much distortion in describing how much
spectrum Telus controls, Michael Hennessy, senior vice president
of regulatory affairs at Telus, said today in an interview.  Telus is already “pushing capacity” on its 800-megahertz
frequency and needs the 700-megahertz spectrum.  The Vancouver-based company is open to compromise on
auction rules and if there are to be limits on incumbents, Telus
would prefer the government impose caps on what they can buy
rather than reserve some spectrum that only new carriers can bid
on, he said.  Caps create more auction winners as they allow “all
participants to bid on all the spectrum,” he said.  Foreign Investment  Echoing Hennessy’s comments, BCE CEO George Cope told
reporters after a speech at the conference that his company
needs new 700-megahertz airwaves as “we’re going through our
spectrum at a level we’ve never seen before” as data-heavy
smartphone growth explodes.  The new spectrum is also critical to the future of faster
LTE, or long-term evolution, wireless technology, he said.  When there is already going to be 50 percent less spectrum
available at the next auction, set-asides would prevent a
national rollout of LTE for at least one of the three major
carriers, Cope said.  Globalive’s Lacavera also urged the government to fulfill
its pledge to open up the Canadian telecommunications industry
to foreign investment and ownership because the domestic capital
markets for telecom companies are “very small.”  Telecom Competition  By securing a majority in last month’s federal election,
Conservative Prime Minister Stephen Harper can move ahead with
that plan without relying on opposition support. The government
plans to appeal a federal court ruling that overturned its 2009
decision to grant a license to Globalive, backed by Egyptian
billionaire  Naguib Sawiris ’s  Orascom Telecom Holding SAE. (ORTE)   “If we want full, real, telecom competition in Canada, we
have to be able to fund it,” said Lacavera. “If we can’t fund
it in our own backyard, then we have to allow for foreign
capital, we have to allow the free market to work.”  BCE’s Cope said he didn’t see others having trouble
accessing capital, adding that “on a global basis our telecom
regime looks consistent with most other regimes.”  Montreal-based BCE favors lifting foreign ownership limits
to 49 percent from a current 46.7 percent, stopping short of a
total scrappage Globalive and others have called for. The
government is weighing those two options as well as allowing
foreigners to control 100 percent of carriers with less than 10
percent market share.  “Why would  Canada  be the only one to step out, when we’re
leading the industry in technology, open up and then others
don’t?” said Cope.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  