-- 
GM Hands Saab Lifeline After Abandoning Brand

-- B y   O l a   K i n n a n d e r
-- 
2011-06-02T22:01:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-02/gm-hands-saab-lifeline-18-months-after-abandoning-brand-cars.html
General Motors Co. (GM)  is giving former
unit Saab Automobile a lease on life 18 months after almost
killing off the Swedish brand.  GM, which had planned to shut down Saab before reaching a
last-minute deal to sell it to  Spyker Cars NV (SPYKR)  in February 2010,
is now producing Saab’s new 9-4X crossover. For 10 days last
month, GM was the only manufacturer of Saab vehicles after a
cash crunch forced Saab to shut its Trollhaettan factory.  “Here is GM giving Saab a lifeline, a bit of time
hopefully to find a partner, a source of finance,” said Garel Rhys, president of University of Cardiff’s automotive industry
research center. “That’s the irony. It’s an indication of what
might have been had GM put more resources into Saab while it
owned the brand.”  Under GM’s ownership, Saab racked up operating losses of
16.5 billion kronor ($2.65 billion) in the five years to 2008 as
Mercedes and BMW took market share. Since being bought by Dutch
sports-car maker Spyker, it has been losing about 25 million
euros a month before shutting down production on March 29.  The 9-4X, the first Saab model to combine sport-utility
vehicle proportions with car handling, will provide a crucial
boost to revenue as the company battles for survival. Saab’s
production restart was funded by a short-term loan from
shareholder Gemini Investment Fund Ltd. and a partnership with
Chinese car dealer Pangda Automobile Trade Co., arranged four
days after a deal with Hawtai Motor Group collapsed.  ‘Hit the Spot’  “This vehicle is enormously important in helping us get
our company going again,” Anders Svensson, who heads Saab’s car
development, said in an interview. “Since we’re a small
carmaker, we can’t really afford to fail with any launch of a
new vehicle. We must hit the spot with the 9-4X.”  Saab, whose global sales peaked in 2006 at 133,000 cars,
sold just 31,700 vehicles last year, down 21 percent from 2009
and missing an original target of 50,000 to 60,000. Restarting
production and restoring ties with suppliers after GM emptied
the Trollhaettan factory as part of the planned closure took
longer than anticipated.  The GM production partnership is a remnant of the Detroit-
based automaker’s two-decade ownership of Saab. The 9-4X, which
shares underpinnings with the Cadillac SRX, was the only Saab
model being assembled until the Trollhaettan plant restarted on
May 27 after a seven-week shutdown caused by suppliers refusing
to deliver parts due to unpaid bills.  Lost Ground  GM began making the Saab 9-4X on May 16 at its factory in
Ramos Arizpe,  Mexico , Svensson said. GM declined to comment on
its relationship with Saab.  The model, which hits U.S. showrooms later this month, is a
welcome relief for Saab dealers like Kurt Schirm. The president
of International Motors Saab, a store in  Falls Church ,  Virginia ,
has lost customers and cut headcount by 50 percent over the past
few years “because of all of the ups and downs and turmoil that
has surrounded the brand,” he said.  The 9-4X is “entering the right segment and has the right
looks,” said Schirm, who now employs about 28 sales and service
staff at his dealership. “Saab’s future is good, but it’s not
going to happen overnight.”  Under GM Saab lost ground, while  Bayerische Motoren Werke
AG (BMW)  and Audi surged ahead. Saab’s sales are about a third of what
they were in 1995, while BMW and Audi have each more than
doubled deliveries by expanding lineups.  ‘Between Two Chairs’  What the Swedish carmaker gained in independence, it lost
in critical size. Zeewolde, Netherlands-based Spyker was an
unprofitable maker of super cars before buying Saab. It sold 36
cars in 2009 and has since agreed to sell the sports-car unit to
focus on turning around Saab.  “Unless you are a niche company like Porsche, Ferrari or
Bentley, you basically have to sell 500,000 to 1 million cars to
be profitable,” said  Ferdinand Dudenhoeffer , director of the
Center for Automotive Research at the University of Duisburg-
Essen in  Germany . “Saab’s in between two chairs, and there it’s
almost impossible to be successful.”  This year’s production stoppages mean that Saab won’t reach
an earlier goal to sell 80,000 cars, Saab’s Chief Executive
Officer Victor Muller has said. The company still aims to become
profitable and sell 120,000 cars by 2012.  Saab was nearly a casualty of GM’s brand shedding after its
government-backed bankruptcy, when it closed Saturn, Hummer, and
Pontiac. The Swedish unit was slated to shut down after a group
led by Koenigsegg Automotive AB pulled out of talks in November
2009. Spyker made a bid after GM had already begun to wind down
Saab, eventually paying $74 million in cash and $326 million in
preferred shares.  ‘Ice Block’ Headlights  The mid-sized 9-4X will go up against established
competition such as the Audi Q5, BMW X3 and Lexus RX. The
crossover will try to set itself apart by emphasizing its
Swedish heritage with a blue-green tone in the “ice block”
headlights. It also features a start button between the front
seats and design elements from the 9-5 sedan, such as a light
ramp over the trunk.  Saab aims to sell at least 12,500 units of the 9-4X
annually, of which 10,000 would be in the U.S., development
chief Svensson said. The targets may prove to be “pretty
modest,” especially if Saab succeeds in breaking into the
Chinese market, with the Pangda deal, he said.  The limited ambitions for the model in  Europe  are a
reflection of Saab’s lack of resources. There is no diesel
engine for the 9-4X, which crosses it off many shopping lists.
Diesel powers more than 50 percent of new cars in western
Europe, according to data from the European Automobile
Manufacturers’ Association.  While the $33,380 base model, which sports a 265-horsepower
V6 engine, is about $2,000 to $6,000 cheaper than its Audi, BMW
and Lexus rivals, its main selling point may be relief.  “There’s a lot of pent-up demand from loyal Saab fans who
are waiting for new product,” said  Jesse Toprak , vice president
of industry trends at TrueCar.com in  Santa Monica ,  California ,
which tracks sales and price trends. “If this product does
well, it can signal that the brand is alive and healthy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ola Kinnander in Stockholm at 
 okinnander@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  