-- 
Gold May Gain on Growth Outlook, European Debt, Survey Shows

-- B y   N i c h o l a s   L a r k i n
-- 
2011-06-02T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-02/gold-may-gain-on-growth-outlook-european-debt-survey-shows.html
Gold may gain on speculation signs of
slowing growth means the  Federal Reserve  won’t start tightening
monetary policy soon and as  Europe ’s debt crisis boosts demand
for a protection of wealth, a survey found.  Fifteen of 17 traders, investors and analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg, or 88 percent, said bullion will rise next week. One
predicted lower prices and one was neutral. Gold for August
delivery was down 1.1 percent for this week at $1,520.60 an
ounce by 11:31 a.m. yesterday on the Comex in  New York . It
reached a record of $1,577.40 on May 2.  Manufacturing in  China , Europe and the U.S. slowed in May
and a private report this week showing slower-than-forecast
growth in jobs spurred concern that today’s Labor Department
employment data will trail estimates. The Fed plans to complete
a $600 billion bond purchase program, a second round of so-
called quantitative easing, this month and keep  interest rates 
“exceptionally low” for an “extended period.”  “The possibility of QE3 due to the slowing U.S. economy
may propel gold to a new record,” said Mark O’Byrne, executive
director of brokerage GoldCore Ltd. in Dublin. “The
fundamentals are as sound as ever.”  Bullion climbed to an all-time high in British pounds this
week and a record in euros last week as the euro region
struggles to contain its sovereign debt crisis. European Central
Bank President Jean-Claude Trichet said governments should
consider setting up a regional  finance ministry .  Currency, Metal  “We remain bullish of gold in non-U.S. dollar terms and in
terms of the dollar itself,” said  Dennis Gartman , an economist
and the editor of the Suffolk, Virginia-based Gartman Letter.
Gold “has become a currency rather than being a metal.”  The attached chart tracks the results of the Bloomberg
survey, with the red bars derived by subtracting bearish
forecasts from bullish estimates. Readings below zero signal
that most respondents expect a decline. The green line shows the
gold price. The data are as of May 27.  The weekly gold survey, which started seven years ago, has
forecast prices accurately in 210 of 365 weeks, or 58 percent of
the time.  This week’s survey results: Bullish: 15 Bearish: 1 Neutral: 1  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Larkin in London at 
 nlarkin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 