-- 
Goldman Said to Get Subpoena From Manhattan Prosecutor Over Senate Report

-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 
2011-06-02T23:19:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-02/goldman-said-to-get-subpoena-from-manhattan-prosecutor-over-senate-report.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , the fifth-
biggest  U.S. bank  by assets, was subpoenaed by the Manhattan
District Attorney’s office for information on the firm’s
activities leading into the credit crisis, two people familiar
with the matter said.  The subpoena relates to the U.S. Senate’s Permanent
Subcommittee on Investigations report on Wall Street’s role in
the collapse of the financial markets, which accused New York-
based Goldman Sachs of misleading buyers of mortgage-linked
investments, the people said, speaking on condition of anonymity
because the inquiry isn’t public.  Goldman Sachs has dropped 16 percent in New York trading
since the Senate subcommittee, led by Michigan Democrat Carl M. Levin, used the firm as a case study in a 640-page report on its
findings released in April. At the time, Levin said Goldman
Sachs had also misled Congress about the company’s bets on the
housing market. The firm has said its testimony was truthful.  “We don’t comment on specific regulatory or legal issues,
but subpoenas are a normal part of the information request
process and, of course, when we receive them we cooperate
fully,” said  David Wells , a company spokesman.  A subpoena is a request for information and doesn’t mean
the company is a target of a criminal investigation. Analysts
including Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.’s Brad Hintz have said they
don’t expect the firm to be criminally prosecuted.  Erin Duggan, chief spokeswoman for Manhattan District
Attorney Cyrus Vance Jr., declined to comment.  Shares Decline  Goldman Sachs dropped 1.3 percent to $134.38 in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading yesterday.  The Senate report was referred to the U.S. Department of
Justice and the Securities and Exchange Commission, which are
also investigating.  Levin said when his report was released that federal
prosecutors should review whether to bring perjury charges
against Goldman Sachs Chairman and Chief Executive Officer  Lloyd Blankfein , 56, and other current and former employees who
testified to Congress last year. Levin said they denied under
oath that Goldman Sachs took a financial position against the
mortgage market solely for its own profit, statements the
senator said were untrue.  Schneiderman’s Probe  Goldman Sachs met last month with New York Attorney General
 Eric Schneiderman ’s office as part of his examination of
mortgage securitization before the housing collapse, according
to a person familiar with the matter, who spoke on the condition
of anonymity because the probe isn’t public. The meeting took
place within the past two weeks, the person said.  Schneiderman has been conducting a broad examination of
mortgage practices and the packaging and sale of loans to
investors, according to the person.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  UBS
AG (UBSN) ,  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ,  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ,  Morgan Stanley (MS)  and
the  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  also are part of that
investigation, the person said. Four bond insurers have been
subpoenaed as well.  Lauren Passalacqua, a spokeswoman for Schneiderman,
declined comment, as did Goldman Sachs’s Wells.  Last year Goldman Sachs paid $550 million to settle SEC
claims related to its marketing of the complex securities known
as collateralized debt obligations. The settlement resolved
claims that the company failed to disclose that hedge fund
Paulson & Co. was betting against, and influenced the selection
of, CDOs the company was packaging and selling.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Harper in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 