-- 
Google Antitrust Investigation by U.S. Could Mean Years Tied Up on Defense

-- B y   J e f f   B l i s s   a n d   S a r a   F o r d e n
-- 
2011-06-02T17:42:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-02/google-antitrust-probe-by-u-s-could-mean-years-of-self-defense.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  may be forced to spend
years defending itself in a U.S. Federal Trade Commission
investigation that could be the government’s biggest antitrust
probe since the  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  case.  Even if Google ultimately prevails, the probe might create
uncertainty around the company’s business, slowing its momentum,
lawyers and analysts said. Federal courts ruled that Microsoft
engaged in illegal monopoly practices in a dispute that
stretched over two U.S. presidential administrations.  “Google effectively is already running under the yellow
flag of caution,” Eric Goldman, associate professor and
 director  of the High Tech Law Institute at Santa Clara
University in  California , said in an interview. An FTC probe
“could make it more difficult” for Google to compete, he said.  The agency is likely to examine whether Google is using its
position in Internet search to subdue rivals in adjacent markets
with threats and jacked-up advertising rates, the lawyers said.
The company’s conduct in new sectors, such as mobile devices,
also will probably be a focus, they said.  The FTC alerted technology companies of plans to gather
information from them for the probe, three people familiar with
the matter said in April.  The FTC’s investigation is the latest example of government
regulators’ growing concern that the  Mountain View , California-
based company is restricting competition on the Internet.  Texas Probe  The European Union and the state of Texas have begun
investigations and the U.S.  Justice Department  is monitoring
Google’s compliance with an agreement letting it purchase ITA
Software Inc.  Google has set aside $500 million for a U.S. government
investigation into online pharmacy ads the company accepted that
may have violated the law, a person familiar with the matter
said.  The FTC is already overseeing Google’s compliance with a
settlement to tighten privacy policies after charges last year
its Buzz social-networking service used deceptive tactics.  The number of regulators looking at Google is like “a lot
of dogs growling at their feet -- and they have to pay attention
to each and every one of them,” said  Rebecca Arbogast , a
Washington-based analyst with Stifel Nicolaus & Co. “This is
the ‘new normal’ for Google, as long as they have dominance and
have their hands in so many pots.”  Mistique Cano, a spokeswoman for Google, said in an e-mail
that the company “understands that with success comes
scrutiny.”  “We are happy to answer questions about our business, as
we have during four separate reviews by the federal government
over the past four years,” she said.  Google rose $2.78 to $528.38 at 1:31 p.m. New York time on
the Nasdaq Stock Market. The shares declined 12 percent this
year before today.  ‘Unassailable’ Advantage  Google invited regulators’ scrutiny by skewing its search
results and advertising fees to favor its own services, giving
it an “unassailable competitive advantage,” said Shivaun Raff,
chief executive officer of Foundem, a U.K.-based price-
comparison website that competes with Google.  Joshua Wright, a law professor at  George Mason University 
in Arlington,  Virginia , said the FTC will focus on potential
harm to consumers, not Google’s competitors.  “I don’t believe the antitrust laws of the  United States 
obligate Google, or rather entitle any of Google’s rivals, to
specific, prominent listings,” he said in an interview.  The FTC may seek to determine whether Google illegally used
its clout as owner of the world’s most popular Internet search
engine to exclude competitors from such search markets as
travel, said Kenneth Glazer, the former deputy director of the
FTC’s Bureau of Competition.  “I’d want to focus on the area of Google’s greatest
strength, which, of course, is  search engines ,” he said in an
e-mail.  Internet Users  The investigation also may involve the FTC’s Bureau of
Consumer Protection, which would look at whether Google deceived
Internet users by skewing search results to favor its own
services, Melissa Maxman, the Washington-based co-chair of the
antitrust practice group at Cozen O’Connor, said in an
interview.  Maxman said she’d be “shocked” if the consumer
protection unit wasn’t involved.  The FTC should examine whether Google doctored search
results to “raise the cost of Google’s rivals, raise their
advertising costs, raise their development or operating costs,”
 said  FTC official Melanie Sabo, who is likely to play a leading
role in a Google probe, at a panel discussion in December.  The FTC may also want to know if Google tried “to decrease
the number of eyeballs” viewing competitors’ websites, said
Sabo, assistant director for the FTC’s anticompetitive practices
division. Sabo said at the time she was speaking for herself and
not the agency.  Antitrust Complaints  Google is already the target of antitrust complaints filed
by rivals. In a case before the EU, Foundem accused Google of
excluding the price-comparison website from its search results
and increasing by 10,000 percent the fee for advertising on
Google.  Foundem’s complaint said a Google official told the company
that computer formulas used to calculate rankings were tweaked
to penalize emerging price-comparison and travel Web services.  When more than three years later, Google lifted Foundem’s
penalty, the company said it discovered Google was giving
preference to its own competing service,  Google Product Search ,
by placing it near or at the top of rankings.  Google has said that 80 percent of Foundem’s content wasn’t
original.  In a court in Franklin County,  Ohio ,  myTriggers.com , a
shopping-comparison site, accused Google in 2008 of raising its
ad rates between 1,000 percent and 10,000 percent.  Google’s power to promote its products is exaggerated by
critics, said Goldman, the Santa Clara professor.  “Just because Google can market the crud out of it,
doesn’t mean it’s going to win in the marketplace,” he said.  Massachusetts  Lawsuit  Federal investigators may also look at Google’s treatment
of Skyhook Wireless Inc., said James Grimmelmann, an associate
professor of law at New York Law School who specializes in the
Internet.  In a lawsuit filed in Suffolk County, Massachusetts,
Superior Court, Boston-based Skyhook said Google sabotaged plans
by Motorola Inc. and Samsung Electronics to use Skyhook’s
location-finding software on the companies’ mobile phones.  Google, which makes a competing application, told Motorola
and Samsung incorrectly that the Skyhook software didn’t work
with the Google-made Android operating system running on the
phones, according to the complaint.  In a May 13 court filing, Google said it hadn’t done
anything wrong.  “If Skyhook suffered any damages, which is denied, then
any such damages resulted solely from its own acts or
omissions,” Google said.  Google’s position of dominance is unprecedented, making the
outcome of any investigation unpredictable, said Bert Foer,
president of the Washington-based American Antitrust Institute.  “We’ve never had a Google or a Google equivalent,” he
said. “We’re going to have feel our way around.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Bliss in  Washington  at 
 jbliss@bloomberg.net ;
Sara Forden in Washington at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 