-- 
Groupon Files to Raise $750 Million in IPO After Coupon Site’s Sales Surge

-- B y   A r i   L e v y
-- 
2011-06-03T00:08:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-02/groupon-files-for-ipo-of-750-million.html
Groupon Inc. , the top online-coupon
provider, filed to raise $750 million in an initial public
offering, riding a wave of Web-company share sales and giving
investors a chance to bet on the surging daily-deal market.  The IPO will be handled by  Morgan Stanley (MS) ,  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS)  and  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) , according to the filing.
Chicago-based Groupon, founded in 2008, will trade under the
ticker GRPN.  Groupon has drawn increasing interest from  Wall Street 
since December, when it opted to weigh an IPO instead of
accepting a $6 billion takeover bid from Google Inc. As early as
March, Groupon was in talks with bankers about an IPO that would
value the company at as much as $25 billion, people familiar
with the matter said at the time. Groupon is benefiting from
demand for daily coupons, which provide discounts at local
businesses like restaurants and nail salons.  “You need to have a war chest,” said Sandeep Aggarwal, an
analyst with Caris & Co. in San Francisco. “You need to have
that access to capital to maintain that level of growth.”  Groupon had an implied valuation of $5.6 billion at the end
of March, according to research firm Nyppex LLC.  Groupon Chief Executive Officer  Andrew Mason  said in a memo
to employees that going public would make it “easier to make big
acquisitions” and that all full-time employees will get equity
in the share sale. He also said employees should avoid any
“forward-looking statements” about Groupon in the months before
the filing, dubbing the IPO “Groubrangelina,” a riff on the
nickname given to celebrity couple  Brad Pitt  and  Angelina Jolie .  Copycats Abound  The company enjoys the benefit of pioneering the market for
daily deals, which according to researcher BIA/Kelsey in
Chantilly,  Virginia , is set to generate $3.9 billion in sales in
2015, up from $873 million in 2010.  Groupon follows LinkedIn Corp., the No. 1 professional-
networking site, which became the first major U.S. social-media
company to sell shares to the public last month. Shares of the
 Mountain View , California-based company has surged 75 percent
since its May 18 debut and is now valued at $7.5 billion.  Mason faces challenges in the market for daily coupons from
hundreds of rivals, including LivingSocial.com, as well as
recent entrants  Google Inc. (GOOG) , Facebook Inc. and Yelp Inc.  Groupon’s sales surged to $644.7 million in the first
quarter, a 14-fold increase from $44.2 million a year earlier.  ‘Scary’ Marketing Costs  The company recorded a $113.9 million net loss in the
period, because of a $208 million marketing expense and $178.9
million in selling, general and administrative costs.  “What was scary to me was the extent of that marketing
expense,” said A.B. Mendez, a research analyst at GreenCrest
Capital Management LLC in  New York . “It’s not yet clear what
their longer-term margins will be or when they will be able to
get to consistent profitability.”  Subscribers increased to 83.1 million in the first quarter
from 3.4 million a year earlier, and the number of deals sold
jumped to 28.1 million from 1.8 million.  Groupon has deals in more than 500 markets worldwide,
compared with 260 for Washington-based LivingSocial. The
companies offer daily discounts of as much as 90 percent and
keep about half the revenue, giving the rest to merchants.
Groupon announced a partnership yesterday with  Expedia Inc. (EXPE) ,
offering U.S. and Canadian customers discounts of about 50
percent on stays at more than 135,000 hotels.  “One of the biggest criticisms of Groupon is their desktop
component is easy to copy, and that’s true,” Mendez said.
“They’re going to have to continue spending a lot of marketing,
and they’re going to need to invest in technology.”  ‘Bunch of Money’  Still, the company has managed to distinguish itself from
rivals and it is likely to keep increasing revenue in the coming
years, said  Greg Sterling , an analyst at Opus Research Inc. in
San Francisco. Groupon said in the filing that it featured
offers from more than 56,000 businesses in the first quarter.  The potential market is “several million,” Sterling said.  “It’s a very dramatic story,” he said. “Unless they screw
it up, they should be able to keep it going for some time until
the business starts to mature. The early investors are going to
make a bunch of money.”  The biggest shareholder is Green Media LLC, which is owned
by co-founder Eric Lefkofsky and his wife, Elizabeth Kramer
Lefkofsky. Green Media owns 21.6 percent of Class A shares and
41.7 percent of Class B stock.  Investors Poised to Gain  Rugger Ventures LLC, owned by the family of Groupon co-
founder Bradley Keywell, hold 6.9 percent of Class A stock and
16.7 percent of Class B.  New Enterprise Associates  and  Accel
Partners  own 14.7 percent and 5.6 percent of Class A shares,
respectively.  Investors with less than 5 percent ownership include T.
Rowe Price Group Inc., Andreessen Horowitz,  Greylock Partners ,
 Russia ’s Digital Sky Technologies and Kleiner Perkins Caufield &
Byers. Bloomberg LP, the parent company of Bloomberg News, is an
investor in Andreessen Horowitz.  Groupon was valued at about $1.3 billion in April 2010,
when it raised $135 million from Digital Sky and other
investors. An investment of $950 million, completed in January,
pegged Groupon’s worth at $4.75 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Levy in  San Francisco  at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  