-- 
Groupon’s Dispatch From the Front Lines of Optimism: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-06-02T23:08:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-02/groupon-s-dispatch-comes-from-the-front-lines-of-economic-optimism-view.html
There are lots of reasons to feel on
edge about the future -- but don’t try to impose any of them on
 Andrew Mason , the 30-year-old founder and chief executive
officer of Groupon Inc. Yesterday, his online-coupon
business filed to go public, with Mason blasting out a message
that is worth remarking on for its youthful exuberance.  The rest of the economic landscape is defined by debt-
ceiling quarrels in  Washington ,  Greece ’s bailout and America’s
stubbornly high joblessness. Mason’s gaze is elsewhere. In the
stock filing, he declares that Groupon “is better positioned
than any company in history to reshape local commerce.”
Skeptics insist that is chutzpah from a man whose company lost
$114 million in the first quarter.  But consider the facts (and as you consider them, also
consider that Bloomberg LP has a stake in the venture-capital
firm Andreessen Horowitz, which in turn has a less than 5
percent stake in Groupon): Mason’s subscriber base in the past
two years has climbed to 83.1 million, from about 150,000.
Groupon has also become a one-company economic-recovery engine:
As of March 31, the company employed 7,107 people, up from 37 in
mid-2009.  What comes next? Mason admits he doesn’t know, but his
entrepreneurial zeal (and honesty) is welcome. “As with any
business in a 30-month-old industry,” he writes, “the path to
success will have twists and turns, moments of brilliance and
other moments of sheer stupidity. Knowing that this will at
times be a bumpy ride, we thank you for considering joining
us.”  Groupon’s chances of success are impossible to predict --as
up in the air as the Republican presidential field or the Mets’
future. The “risk factors” in Groupon’s prospectus include
more than 40 ways the company could come unstuck. Even so, hats
off for trying. And if it doesn’t work out, investors can’t say
that young Mr. Mason didn’t warn them.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 