-- 
Gulf Carriers to Outpace Old Europe With Cargo Expansion: Freight Markets

-- B y   T a m a r a   W a l i d
-- 
2011-06-03T10:58:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-02/gulf-carriers-outpace-europe-in-cargo-growth-freight-markets.html
Qatar Airways Ltd. and Emirates,
already luring passengers from British Airways and Air France,
will extend the contest to the $68 billion air-freight market by
turning their bases into global cargo hubs.  Emirates, the world’s biggest airline by international
passenger traffic, aims to add as many as 18 cargo planes in
Dubai, while Doha-based Qatar Air is converting 15 passenger
jets to freighters and buying 33 percent of Cargolux Airlines
International SA, Europe’s biggest freight-only carrier.  The plans are sounding alarm bells at companies already
under pressure as Emirates builds a fleet of 90 superjumbos and
Qatar awaits delivery of 200 jets worth $35 billion as part of a
bid to persuade travelers to fly via the Gulf instead of London,
Paris and  Frankfurt . SkyTeam Cargo, which includes the freight
arm of Air France-KLM Group, is concerned about the expansion.  “We’re not blind,” SkyTeam Managing Director Michael Wisbrun said in Munich after a meeting of the alliance’s cargo
chiefs. “It will be tough. There’s no reason to have a hub in
Qatar or the  United Arab Emirates , and adding capacity with
supply and demand as they are won’t help the equilibrium.”  Qatar Air Chief Executive Officer Akbar al Baker said in an
interview that the  Middle East ’s No. 2 passenger carrier will
become “one of the major players in cargo” by 2015 as the
addition of Cargolux creates “a very potent airline.”  Freighter Fleets  European airline stocks are among the worst performers in
the region this year. Air France-KLM has dropped 17 percent,
 Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA)  is down 11 percent and BA parent,
International Consolidated Airlines Group SA has lost 19 percent
since it was formed on Jan. 24. The Gulf carriers aren’t traded.  Qatar currently has a five-strong freighter fleet of Airbus
SAS A300s and  Boeing Co. (BA)  777s. That will rise to 16 planes with
the addition of 11 Boeing 747 freighters from Luxembourg-based
Cargolux, into which the CEO says he’s prepared to inject more
cash for expansion as required. The total may reach 31 including
the A330 passenger models earmarked for conversion.  Emirates has a total of eight 747 and 777 freighters, plus
orders for five of Boeing’s updated 747-8s and two 777s and nine
options, giving a possible total of 24 dedicated cargo planes.  In expanding their freighter fleets the Gulf carriers are
bucking a trend to focus cargo provision on the holds of
passenger jets. Paris-based  Air France-KLM (AF) , Europe’s biggest
airline, moves 75 percent of its goods as belly freight and has
14 specialist planes, including five at Dutch cargo-only unit
Martinair, while British Airways has just three leased 747Fs.  Belly Space  Even Lufthansa, the biggest cargo carrier among passenger
airlines with a 50:50 split between belly freight and cargo
aircraft, has only 18 Boeing MD-11 freighters at its main hub in
Frankfurt. The Cologne-based company also operates six 747s
through a business with  China ’s  Shenzhen Airlines  and eight 777s
via a venture with Deutsche Post AG’s DHL Express.  Qatar Air’s passenger fleet provides belly space equal to
about 25 freighters, Al Baker said. Airbus’s A380 double-decker,
of which Emirates is the biggest operator, can carry 15 tons in
its hold on average, and the single-deck  Boeing 777  even more.  Fleet expansion has allowed Emirates, Qatar Air and Abu
Dhabi-based Etihad Airways to add waves of frequencies radiating
from their hubs, providing keenly priced connections to  Europe ,
 Asia , Australasia and  North America . That’s led to clashes with
more established rivals over the use of export-credit financing.  “They’re financed differently and that makes it easier to
add capacity than if you have to go to the banks,” SkyTeam’s
Wisbrun said in an interview on May 11.  ‘Accept Competition’  Emirates, whose record 5.93 billion-dirham ($1.6 billion)
profit for the year ended March 31 was twice Air France-KLM’s
earnings for the same period, says only 20 percent of its plane
purchases have employed export credit. Qatar’s Al Baker said in
a statement on Feb. 10 that European airlines need to “accept
competition and the customer being in the driver’s seat.”  The Emirates strategy envisages adding freight capacity to
 Latin America ,  Africa  and Europe in coming years, according to
Ram Menon, its senior vice president for cargo.  “We’re in it for the long term,” Menon said in an
interview on May 15 in Dubai. “As the world becomes more
globalised and economies move towards liberalization, capacity
will need to improve. The wheels of commerce will not stop.”  Air cargo volumes that currently account for just 2 percent
of the global total are forecast to grow about 6 percent to 46.2
million tons this year and will increase at about the same rate
for the next two-and-half-decades, the International Air
Transport Association industry group said in March.  Doha Hub  Qatar Air bases its plans on building Doha into a “viable
hub” while meeting the needs of the economy, Al Baker said. A
$15 billion airport serving the city that’s due to open in 2011
will be able to handle 2 million tons of freight a year, more
than enough to cope with the planned expansion of a carrier that
moved 455,000 tons in 2009, the last year with available data.  Qatar, the world’s biggest exporter of liquefied natural
gas, has an $81 billion economy and will likely see growth of 20
percent this year, the  International Monetary Fund  has said.  Still, Qatar Air isn’t seeking to copy Emirates and the two
have different strategies, Al Baker said. Whereas the expansion
of Dubai Al Maktoum International airport will accommodate a
theoretical 150 million passengers a year, Qatar would “never
want” a hub bigger than one-third of that size, he said.  ‘Diverging Strategies’  Taking the stake in Cargolux, which serves 90 destinations,
will “complement and supplement” Qatar Air’s own growth plans
as the carriers have contrasting networks, Al Baker said.
Following the deal the pair may take reciprocal bookings via so-
called code-sharing and could operate flights for each other.  Menon said that Emirates for its part has no plans to
invest in outside airlines.  “What we’re seeing is a gradual maturation of the Gulf
airlines,” said Seabury Group analyst Geoffrey Weston. “Qatar
is signaling that it’s going to push air freight as a major part
of its service. Five years ago it and Etihad appeared to be
chasing Emirates. Now we’re witnessing diverging strategies.”  SkyTeam’s Wisbrun said the Cargolux transaction amounts to
a “survival plan” for a carrier that couldn’t have survived as a
freight-only operator and that the surge in capacity from the
Gulf represents a setback for the global air-cargo sector.  “In times of high demand there is no issue, but if it’s
added in times of low demand there will be an issue for the
whole industry,” he said. SkyTeam members also include  Delta Air
Lines Inc. (DAL)  and Korean Air Lines Co., which has one of the
world’s biggest air-cargo operations.  Emirates reckons such a view is “shortsighted” and that
there will be more than enough demand in coming years to support
extra capacity without it heightening competition, Menon said.  “If we doubled the capacity available in the market we
would still not be able to satisfy the demand,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tamara Walid in Dubai at   twalid@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net ;
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net  