-- 
Liberty National Owner Expects Tiger Woods to Return to Revamped Course

-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 
2011-06-02T04:00:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-02/liberty-national-owner-expects-tiger-woods-to-return-to-revamped-course.html
Tiger Woods will be back when
the U.S. PGA Tour returns to  Liberty National Golf Club ,
course owner Paul Fireman predicted.  Woods had less than flattering things to say about the
layout when he tied for second at the 2009 Barclays
tournament at the course in  Jersey City ,  New Jersey . Woods
missed a 7-foot birdie putt on the final hole.  Woods’s comments were among mixed reviews from touring
professionals about the extremely narrow and difficult
course that opened in 2006. As the five-year anniversary
for Liberty National approaches, nearly every hole has been
tweaked to improve its standing as a course capable of
handling professional tournaments and impressing the
world’s best golfers.  “Tiger will be back here,” Fireman, the founder of
Reebok International Ltd., said yesterday at a news
conference to unveil the redesign. “That’s not an issue.”  The Barclays is the first leg of the tour’s FedEx Cup
playoff series. Among the 2009 participants was then-No. 1-
ranked Woods, whose addition Dan Fireman, Paul Fireman’s
son, at the time called “a lucky break” as Liberty
National attempted to draw members during the worst
economic slump since the Great Depression.  After his lone practice round, a pro-am, Woods did not
express much enthusiasm for the course designed by Tom Kite
and Bob Cupp. Asked what he thought, Woods said, “It’s
interesting.” Asked if he meant that in a good way, Woods
repeated the phrase.  Woods made two putts longer than 15 feet during the
tournament and failed with his attempt on the final hole
that would have tied him with Heath Slocum, who won the
event.  $250 Million  “Not too many golf courses that you misread putts
that badly,” Woods said. “This golf course is one.”  Fireman said he spent $250 million to build the course
that has views of the Statue of Liberty on 14 of 18 holes,
pouring 70,000 truckloads of dirt onto the site, which
previously was a toxic waste dump.  Input from the golfers that week played a small role
in motivating Fireman to revamp the course, he said. While
working with the  PGA Tour , they realized that they needed
to improve how the course allowed spectators to move
around, how much gallery space there was and the difficulty
of the greens.  “If you did before and after photos you probably
couldn’t see any difference,” Cupp said. “This is about
quality golf shots, including putts, and gallery space.
Those are the two challenges that we had.”  Barclays Plans  Liberty National wants to bring a top event back to
Jersey City. This year, the Barclays will be held at
Plainfield Country Club in Edison, New Jersey. The site of
next year’s tournament hasn’t been announced, though it
might be at Bethpage State Park’s Black course in New York,
according to the  Associated Press .  Fireman said he expects to have 115-120 members at
Liberty National by the end of 2011.  Among the names on the lockers in the $60 million
glass and steel clubhouse with 32-foot-high floor-to-
ceiling windows are  Justin Timberlake , Ray Romano, Samuel L. Jackson,  Mark Wahlberg , Rudy Giuliani and  Phil Mickelson .  The initiation fee, originally a $500,000 bond, has
been lowered to a $250,000 non-refundable payment that can
be made over a couple of years, Fireman said in an
interview, pointing out a difficult economy that many have
adjusted to.  “People who can afford Liberty are less affected
now,” he said. “They’ve reassessed their lives. They know
they want to move on, so they’re able to join. They’re a
little more cautious, they don’t want to look precocious to
their friends, but I think that’s over.”  As for the test they’ll face when they walk onto the
course, it will still be stiff, even after the renovations.  “Liberty is not a lady that’s just going to say,
‘Just take me when you want,’” Fireman said. “You’ve got
to work for it.”  To contact the reporter on this story: Mason Levinson in
 New York  at   mlevinson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story: Michael
Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 