-- 
Icon Pfizer Deal May Log Over $100 Million a Year, CEO Says

-- B y   F i n b a r r   F l y n n
-- 
2011-06-02T14:15:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-02/icon-s-pfizer-deal-may-log-over-100-million-a-year-ceo-says.html
Icon Plc (ICON) ’s alliance with Pfizer Inc.
is “likely” to generate in excess of $100 million in revenue a
year, and potentially “significantly more,” Chief Executive
Officer Peter Gray said.  “It should mean a significant extra amount of business for
the next couple of years,” as the deal “builds up,” said Gray
today in an interview at the Dublin-based company’s
headquarters. The company expects to boost its capacity to cope
with the influx of new business, he said.  Icon said May 26 it will serve as one of two preferred
providers of clinical trial implementation services for Pfizer,
the world’s biggest drugmaker. The deal should allow Icon to use
spare capacity, which had “squeezed” margins in the first
quarter, according to Gray.  “We were aware that this was coming and have not been
allowing our capacity to shrink.” Gray said. Pfizer is cutting
to two from 17, the companies it partners with on clinical
development, according to Gray.  Icon’s share price was little changed at 17.35 euros at 3
p.m. in Dublin. It has risen 1.8 percent this year.  Icon expects to boost its business by attracting more
outsourced business as drugmakers cut their research and
development spending, according to Gray.  Pfizer Budget  Pfizer CEO Ian Read said in February the company will cut
the drugmaker’s research budget to between $6.5 billion to $7 in
2012 compared with its previous target of $8 billion to $8.5
billion. The New York-based company is closing its Sandwich,
England, research hub, where it developed Viagra.  Icon’s Gray said he would be “surprised” if by the end of
2012 the company’s workforce doesn’t reach “at least” 8,500,
compared with about 7,700 people today. An employee of Icon will
travel to Asia this month to follow up on potential acquisition
leads, he said.  Icon said in April it paid an initial cash consideration of
$27.7 million for its acquisition of Oxford, England-based
Oxford Outcomes, a health outcomes consultancy firm. Icon is
interested in acquiring in companies involved in “late phase”
research, such as technology-driven firms that can help reduce
the cost of tracking clinical trials, said Gray.  Icon said April 21 net revenue rose 5 percent to $229.3
million in the first quarter ended March 31. Income from
operations fell 59 percent to $10.97 million, with operating
margins before restructuring charges falling to 7 percent from
12.2 percent in the same quarter a year earlier.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Finbarr Flynn at 
 fflynn3@bloomberg.net  