-- 
Middle America Business Conditions Index for May (Text)

-- B y   C h r i s   M i d d l e t o n
-- 
2011-06-02T18:06:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-02/middle-america-business-conditions-index-for-may-text-.html
Following is the text from the Mid-
America Business Conditions Survey of supply managers and
business leaders in the region from Creighton University.  For the first time since February of this year, the
Business Conditions Index, a leading economic indicator for the
nine-state Mid-America region, increased. The index from a
monthly survey of supply managers is pointing to positive growth
for the next three to six months. As in prior months, the May
survey indicated soaring inflationary pressures at the wholesale
level.  Overall index:  The index, a leading economic indicator that ranges between
0 and 100, advanced to 60.2 from 57.7 in April. This is the 18th
consecutive month that the index has been above growth neutral
50.0. The overall index, or Business Conditions Index, is a
mathematical average of indices for new orders, production or
sales, employment, inventories and delivery lead time. This is
the same methodology used by the national  Institute for Supply
Management   “While higher commodity prices have cooled regional growth a
bit, our survey points to a healthy expansion in the months
ahead with exports making a significant contribution to growth,”
Creighton University Economics Professor Ernie Goss said today.  Employment:  For the 17th straight month, the regional employment index
remained above growth neutral as the May job reading expanded to
58.1 from April’s 54.0.  “This month 14.1 percent of firms
reported reductions in employment. This compares to 16 percent
of firms that indicated pullbacks in our April survey.  Job
growth was especially strong for firms more dependent on
international sales and those with ties to agriculture,” said
Goss, director of Creighton’s Economic Forecasting Group and the
Jack A. MacAllister Chair in Regional Economics.  Wholesale Prices:  The prices-paid index, which tracks the cost of raw
materials and supplies, slipped to a still inflationary 84.9
from April’s record high 94.0. “Companies continue to report
transportation surcharges for their purchases with sellers
resisting price negotiations.  The higher commodity prices,
especially for energy products, is cutting into the profit
margins of businesses that we survey each month,” said Goss.  Record high inflationary pressures at the wholesale level
have begun to spill over into consumer prices.  “For example,
since December of last year, the core consumer price index,
which excludes energy and food, has exceeded 3 percent on an
annualized basis, even though the  Federal Reserve  (Fed)
indicated it would end its buying of long-term U.S. Treasury
bonds, quantitative easing 2 (QE2), this summer. I expect the
Fed’s record-low short-term interest rates to continue to weaken
the dollar and push inflation above the Fed’s comfort zone,”
said Goss.  This month survey participants were asked how their firms
have changed their real estate utilization over the past six
months and how their real estate utilization will change for the
next six months.  Approximately 17.8 percent indicated they had expanded real
estate utilization while 3 percent reported reducing real estate
utilization over the past six months. The remaining 79.2 percent
indicated that their real estate utilization had not changed in
the past six months.  One supply manager reported, “We did not expand our company
space. However, we greatly expanded our capacity through
significant outsourcing, domestic and international.”  “For the next six month period, approximately 13.1 percent
indicated they expect their firm’s real estate space utilization
to expand while 9.0 percent anticipate a reduction.  The
remaining 77.9 percent indicated their real estate utilization
would not change over the next six months,” said Goss.  Confidence  Looking ahead six months, economic optimism, as captured by
the May business confidence index, grew to 60.4 from April’s
57.5. “Recent pullbacks in energy prices had a positive impact
on supply manager’s economic outlook. Even so, supply mangers
said they expect elevated commodity prices to limit future
economic expansion,” said Goss.  Inventories:  For the 15th time in the past 16 months, supply managers in
the nine-state region expanded inventory levels.  The May
reading expanded to 58.9 from April’s 53.7. “The upturn in
inventory levels of raw materials and supplies for the month is
another indication of the expansion in economic optimism among
supply managers,” said Goss.  Trade:  An expanding global economy continues to boost regional
trade numbers. Aided by a cheap dollar making U.S. goods more
competitively priced abroad, May’s new export orders index
advanced to 60.1 from 57.1 in April. The region’s import reading
dipped to 53.3 from April’s 56.1. “The cheap dollar and a global
economic expansion combined to boost sales and new orders from
abroad,” said Goss.  Other components:  Other components of the May Business Conditions Index were
new orders at 59.6, up slightly from 59.5 in April; production
or sales at 60.9, up from 59.5; and delivery lead time at 63.6,
up from 62.0 in April.  The Creighton Economic Forecasting Group has conducted the
monthly survey of supply managers in nine states since 1994 to
produce leading economic indicators of the Mid-America economy.
States included in the survey are  Arkansas ,  Iowa ,  Kansas ,
 Minnesota ,  Missouri ,  Nebraska ,  North Dakota ,  Oklahoma  and  South
Dakota .  The Creighton Economic Forecasting Group uses the same
methodology as a national survey by the Institute for Supply
Management, formerly the Purchasing Management Association,
which has formally surveyed its membership since 1931 to gauge
business conditions. The overall index, referred to as the
Business Conditions Index, ranges between 0 and 100. An index
greater than 50 indicates an expansionary economy over the
course of the next three to six months. SOURCE: Mid-America
Business Conditions Survey, http:/www.outlook-economic.com  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Middleton in Washington at 
 cmiddleton2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  