-- 
Primary Global, Tiger Asia, UBS, Galleon, J&J in Court News

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 
2011-06-02T12:03:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-02/tiger-asia-countrywide-anadarko-ubs-galleon-in-court-news.html
Prosecutors and lawyers for Winifred
Jiau, an ex-Primary Global Research LLC consultant accused of
passing nonpublic information to hedge fund managers, will
present their opening arguments to jurors today, a judge said.  Jiau is charged in a five-count indictment that includes
conspiracy, securities fraud and wire fraud, for allegedly
passing inside tips about  Nvidia Corp. (NVDA)  and  Marvell Technology
Group Ltd. (MRVL)  She is the first expert networker to go on trial for
insider-trading charges and, if convicted, may face as long as
25 years in prison.  U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff in  Manhattan  said the jury,
which was selected yesterday, will begin hearing opening
statements today. After the jury was dismissed yesterday, Jiau’s
lawyer, Joanna Hendon, told Rakoff that she would concede to the
jury that her client worked as an expert networker and provided
information to hedge fund managers.  Hendon said she would also argue the information that the
U.S. said her client passed wasn’t “material,” or information
that a reasonable investor would consider important to trade
upon or have a bearing upon a company’s stock.  “Sure she got the information, sure she is paid thousands
of dollars, it was nonpublic, sometimes, not always,” Hendon
told Rakoff. “She was happy to get it to her sources, she is
happy to make  hedge funds  happy, but at the end of the day, the
information she had was not material to any trades.”  Jiau’s case is one of several overlapping insider-trading
rings stemming from the probe of New York-based hedge fund
Galleon Group LLC. Its co-founder,  Raj Rajaratnam , was convicted
of directing the largest hedge fund insider-trading ring and
faces almost 20 years in prison at his July 29 sentencing. His
former deputy,  Zvi Goffer , is on trial in Manhattan federal
court on related charges.  Assistant U.S. attorneys Avi Weitzman and David Leibowitz,
who are prosecuting Jiau’s case, have previously argued that she
passed inside information obtained from sources at Nvidia and
Marvell to Noah Freeman, a Boston hedge-fund manager who pleaded
guilty and is cooperating with the U.S., and to Samir Barai,
founder of Barai Capital Management LP in  New York .  Last month, Barai and Sonny Nguyen, a former analyst with
Nvidia, both pleaded guilty to insider trading charges in
federal court in New York and implicated Jiau in their schemes.  The case is U.S. v. Jiau, 11-cr-00161, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Lawsuits/Pretrial  Tiger  Asia  Asks  Hong Kong  Court to Dismiss Trading Suit  Tiger Asia Management LLC, the hedge-fund firm led by Bill
Hwang, asked a Hong Kong judge to dismiss a regulator’s suit to
ban it from trading in the city and to restore alleged insider
trading profits to investors.  “It is not appropriate for a civil court to determine what
is essentially a criminal offense,” said Charles Sussex, a
lawyer for the New York-based hedge fund manager, in Hong Kong’s
Court of First Instance yesterday.  Hong Kong’s Securities and Futures Commission alleged Tiger
Asia engaged in insider trading, and is seeking a court order to
freeze assets valued at HK$38.5 million ($4.9 million) held by
Tiger Asia, Hwang and officers Raymond Park and William Tomita.
The regulator has asked for an order to ban the fund from
trading in Hong Kong securities.  “This is a blatant case of insider dealing that happened
on more than one occasion by the same outfit,” said Simon
Westbrook, a lawyer for the regulator, known as the SFC.
“Unfortunately all of the defendants are based in New York.
None of them are within the jurisdiction.”  Tiger Asia and the three officers sold short 93 million
shares  China Construction Bank Corp. (939) , after having been
approached to take part in the placement of the bank’s shares in
January 2009, SFC said.  In denying wrongdoing in an October letter to clients,
Tiger Asia disclosed receiving a subpoena from the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission for trading records and other
documents, and said it was cooperating with the U.S. regulator.  For more, click here.  Sabre Seeks to Raise Antitrust Claims Against American  Sabre Holdings Corp. escalated its fight with American
Airlines over the distribution of fares and schedules to travel
agents by asking a court for permission to sue the carrier for
antitrust violations.  Sabre yesterday filed a motion to intervene as a defendant
and file a counterclaim in a lawsuit brought by  AMR Corp. (AMR) ’s
American in federal court in Fort Worth,  Texas . American called
the claims “meritless” and added Sabre as a defendant in the
case.  American acted illegally in trying to force agents to use
its proprietary technology to access all of the airline’s data,
Sabre said yesterday in a statement. In doing so, American is
trying to “eliminate” global distribution systems like Sabre,
the Southlake, Texas-based company said.  Sabre, the biggest U.S. global distribution system, and
Fort Worth-based American have been disputing the control and
dissemination of data consumers use to book flights through
travel agents. The U.S.  Justice Department  said May 20 that it
was investigating possible antitrust violations by Sabre and
other GDS companies.  American, through a variety of means, “seeks to destroy
the ability of travel agents, corporate travel purchasers, and
the traveling public to make apple-to-apple price comparisons,”
Sabre said in the proposed complaint.  The case is American Airlines Inc. v. Travelport Ltd., 11-
cv-244, U.S. District Court, Northern District of Texas (Fort
Worth).  For more, click here.  Ex-Countrywide Chief Asks Judge to Dismiss Allstate Suit  Former Countrywide Financial Corp. Chief Executive Officer
Angelo Mozilo asked a federal judge to dismiss a lawsuit filed
against the  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  unit by  Allstate Corp. (ALL)   Ronald P. Fischetti, a New York attorney representing
Mozilo, urged U.S. District Judge Alvin K. Hellerstein in
Manhattan to throw out the insurer’s claims that Mozilo was the
“architect” of a scheme to abandon underwriting at
Countrywide, according to a court document filed yesterday.  Allstate, based in Northbrook,  Illinois , claimed in the
Dec. 27 lawsuit that Countrywide misrepresented $700 million in
residential mortgage-backed securities the insurer purchased.
Mozilo held no position at Countrywide subsidiaries that sold
mortgage-backed securities, said nothing about the securities
and didn’t read the documents that offered them, Fischetti said.  “These conceded facts control the outcome as to Mr.
Mozilo,” Fischetti said. “Nothing in aiding and abetting or
control person law permits a plaintiff to sue a defendant over
sales” of mortgage-backed securities “when he had nothing to
do with them.”  Mozilo, 72, agreed last year to pay $67.5 million to settle
a U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission lawsuit accusing him
of misleading investors. The U.S. Justice Department ended a
criminal probe of Mozilo that started in 2008 and won’t bring
charges, a person familiar with the investigation said in
February.  The case is Allstate Insurance Co. v. Countrywide Financial
Corp., 10-cv-9591, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New
York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Anadarko Liable by Law for Gulf Oil Spill, U.S. Lawyers Say  Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC)  is liable under federal oil
pollution laws for environmental damage caused by the April 2010
blowout of the Macondo well and the  Gulf of Mexico  oil spill
that followed, the U.S. government said.  Anadarko, which owned 25 percent of the  BP Plc (BP/)  well, asked
a federal judge in New Orleans to dismiss it from a lawsuit
brought by the Justice Department claiming violations of
environmental laws in the largest offshore oil spill in U.S.
history. The U.S. has also sued BP and others involved in the
well.  The government asked U.S. District Judge  Carl Barbier  to
deny Anadarko’s motion to dismiss the case and find as a matter
of law that the Woodlands, Texas-based company is liable.
Anadarko and its Anadarko E&P Co. unit are liable under the Oil
Pollution Act and the Clean Water Act, the U.S. said in a filing
late yesterday.  “Liability under OPA and CWA is so straightforward here
that the court -- rather than dismissing the complaint -- should
enter summary judgment in favor of the United States,” the
Justice Department said in the filing.  John Christiansen , an Anadarko spokesman, said the company
is reviewing the filing.  The case is U.S. v. BP Exploration & Production Inc., 10-
04536, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Louisiana (New
Orleans), combined in In re Oil Spill by the Oil Rig Deepwater
Horizon in the Gulf of Mexico on April 20, 2010, MDL-2179, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of Louisiana (New Orleans).  UBS Unit’s Madoff Fund Ties Weren’t Disclosed in E&Y Report  A  UBS AG (UBSN)  unit’s ties to  Bernard Madoff ’s investment fund
weren’t divulged in an auditor report by Ernst & Young LLP to
Luxembourg’s regulator.  The 2008 report didn’t mention Bernard L. Madoff Investment
Securities LLC in a list of custodians the Zurich-based bank
used, according to a copy obtained by Bloomberg News. An
agreement existed between UBS Luxembourg SA and Madoff’s firm
which allowed the Ponzi scheme operator to be sub-custodian for
LuxAlpha Sicav-American Selection, Jean Guill, the Luxembourg
finance regulator’s director general, said in an interview.  “As of October 2007, the bank used mainly a network of 16
correspondent banks” which typically also acted as sub-
custodians for investment funds, according to the so-called long
form report signed in January 2008 by Ernst & Young, UBS
Luxembourg’s auditor. The report doesn’t mention Madoff’s firm
on a “complete list of correspondent banks” used by UBS for
investment funds in its care, including several funds that were
found to be tied to Madoff after his arrest in December 2008.  UBS and its local units are defendants in more than 100
lawsuits in Luxembourg filed by investors who lost millions of
dollars through the funds, for which it acted as custodian,
charged with overseeing and managing deposits and payments to
investors. Irving H. Picard, trustee liquidating Madoff’s
business, sued the bank last year in  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in
New York seeking at least $2.5 billion. He claims UBS “actively
assisted” in the Ponzi scheme by sponsoring and administrating
international feeder funds that invested with Madoff.  Ernst & Young declined to comment.  UBS said it maintains its position that the LuxAlpha fund
was created at the request of wealthy clients who wanted a fund
that allowed them to continue investing with Madoff and that was
made clear to the investors, their advisers and the regulator.  “UBS does not have responsibility to these shareholders
for the unfortunate results of the Madoff scandal,” Dominique
Gerster, a bank spokesman, said in an e-mail.  For more, click here.  For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  New Suits  Amerindo’s Vilar, Tanaka Sue Munder Capital for $15 Million  Alberto Vilar and Gary Tanaka, the technology investors
convicted in 2008 of a scheme to defraud their Amerindo
Investment Advisors Inc. clients, sued Munder Capital Management
and two former directors of the Amerindo Technology Fund for $15
million.  Vilar and Tanaka, in a filing May 31 in state court in
Manhattan, claim funds belonging to Amerindo were fraudulently
transferred. The two-page document, which was filed on behalf of
themselves and Amerindo, doesn’t include details of the alleged
fraudulent transaction.  After Vilar and Tanaka, Amerindo’s founders, were arrested
in 2005, the firm’s board hired Munder Capital to oversee the
fund. In addition to Munder Capital, the suit names as
defendants John Rutledge and Charles Parker, who were
independent directors of the Amerindo Technology Fund, a $103
million mutual fund.  Vilar, 70, was sentenced to nine years in prison and
Tanaka, 67, to five years. Prosecutors claimed the men stole $40
million from investors. Vilar, an opera fan and philanthropist,
and Tanaka, who owned thoroughbred race horses, are serving
their terms in federal prison.  Rutledge didn’t immediately return an e-mail seeking
comment. Parker couldn’t be immediately located. Eric Starkman,
an outside spokesman for Birmingham, Michigan-based Munder
Capital, didn’t immediately return a phone message seeking
comment.  David Burger, the lawyer who signed the summons with notice
filed yesterday, had no immediate comment on the nature of the
dispute.  The case is Vilar v. Rutledge, 651494/2011, New York State
Supreme Court, New York Co. (Manhattan).  Ex-Egypt Bank Chairman Omar Held on Sex Charges in New York  The former chairman of Egypt’s Bank of Alexandria was held
overnight at New York’s Riker’s Island jail complex after being
arraigned in Manhattan on charges of sexually abusing a maid at
the Pierre Hotel in New York.  Manhattan judge Gerald Lebovits around midnight June 1 set
bail for Mahmoud Abdel Salam Omar, chairman of El-Mex Salines,
at $50,000 bond or $25,000 cash, according to the Manhattan
District Attorney’s office. Omar also was ordered to surrender
his travel documents, prosecutors said.  Omar, 72, was taken overnight to Riker’s Island, New York
City’s main jail complex, located off the shore of northern
Queens opposite LaGuardia Airport, Sharman Stein, a spokeswoman
for the New York City Department of Correction, said in an
interview. He can post bail there, she said. Riker’s is where
Dominique Strauss-Kahn, the former International Monetary Fund
chief, was locked up last month on charges of sexual assault and
attempted rape against a Midtown Manhattan hotel maid.  Unlike Strauss-Kahn, Omar is accused of “groping or
molestation which, although serious, doesn’t carry with it the
same penalties under the law,” Fred Sosinky, a New York defense
attorney who isn’t involved in the case, said in an interview.  Omar was arrested May 30 after a 44-year-old female
housekeeper alleged he attacked her the day before, according to
a police spokesman.  Officers were called to the hotel in Midtown Manhattan
after she informed security of an alleged incident when she went
to Omar’s room after he requested tissues.  Omar is scheduled to next appear in court June 3, possibly
to see if a grand jury votes for indictment and a new lawyer,
according to prosecutors. The attorney who represented him last
night, Elizabeth Beal, didn’t immediately return a call for
comment.  For more, click here.  For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  Trials/Appeals  Goffer Evidence Is ‘Overwhelming,’ Prosecutor Tells Jurors  The “overwhelming” evidence against ex-Galleon Group LLC
trader Zvi Goffer includes “devastating” wiretapped telephone
calls in which he’s heard sharing illegal tips, a prosecutor
told jurors at the close of the insider-trading case.  Assistant U.S. Attorney Richard Tarlowe yesterday urged
jurors in Manhattan federal court to convict Goffer, his brother
Emanuel and accused accomplice Michael Kimelman, as closing
arguments began.  “You heard the defendant’s own voice,” Tarlowe said,
citing captured calls at the heart of the government’s case.
There are “plenty of devastating calls,” he said.  The three defendants, who co-founded Incremental Capital
LLC after Zvi Goffer was fired from Galleon, are accused of
trading on illegal tips that came from attorneys then working at
the law firm Ropes & Gray LLP. The tips were about transactions
involving 3Com Corp., Axcan Pharma Inc. and other stocks,
according to prosecutors.  A defense lawyer, William Barzee, told the jury in his
closing that the government twisted “innocent facts” to
support its case.  Goffer’s ex-boss, Raj Rajaratnam, was found guilty May 11
of insider trading. He faces as long as 19 1/2 years in prison
when he’s sentenced on July 29.  The case is U.S. v. Goffer, 10-cr-00056, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  U.S., Health-Care Law Foe Battle Over Congressional Power  The second of at least three appeals courts that will
consider whether Congress can compel Americans to buy insurance
listened to the Obama administration’s top litigator spar with
an attorney for a faith-based legal advocacy group opposed to
the health-care reform law.  The three-judge panel in Cincinnati’s federal courthouse
listened to and questioned acting U.S. Solicitor General Neal
Katyal and Robert Muise, a lawyer for the Thomas More Law
Center, about the limits of congressional power.  “This is the outer reaches of Congress’s authority to
regulate under the commerce clause,” Muise told the court
yesterday as he argued for reversal of last year’s lower-court
ruling throwing out his group’s challenge to the  Patient
Protection and Affordable Care Act .  The legislation, signed into law by President Barack Obama,
a Democrat, in March 2010, is intended to create the first near-
universal U.S. health-care coverage program by barring insurers
from rejecting those who are already sick and from imposing
life-time limits on costs.  It also requires almost every American resident to have
health insurance starting in 2014 or pay a tax penalty, a
mandate that opponents of the act including Muise have argued
exceeds the regulatory power allotted to Congress under the
Constitution.  The Cincinnati panel is the second of three U.S. appellate
courts that will consider the merits of the dispute over a five-
week span. A U.S. appeals court in Richmond on May 10 heard
argument on appeals of two conflicting rulings. Another panel in
Atlanta is set to hear the government’s appeal of a federal
judge’s Jan. 31 decision to find the entire act invalid.  Muise called the legislative action a “power grab”
without precedent adding, “This court should not create it.”  “Congress is regulating the insurance market, something
everyone thinks is constitutional,” Katyal countered.  The Cincinnati case is Thomas More Law Center v. Obama, 10-
2388, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit (Cincinnati).  For more, click here.  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  Verdicts/Settlement  German Online-Bet Ban Legal, Top Administrative Court Says  Germany ’s online-betting ban was upheld by the nation’s top
administrative court, which said the rules are in line with
constitutional and European Union law.  The rules are necessary to combat the dangers associated
with unregulated gaming over the internet, Germany’s Federal
Administrative Court, based in Leipzig, said in an e-mailed
statement yesterday. The ban is also in line with EU law because
it targets all forms of betting regardless of who offers them,
according to the judges.  “The Internet ban follows the legitimate goal to target
the special risks associated with unlimited access to gaming via
with the Internet,” the court said. The rules “aim to protect
juveniles and those persons who have a strong inclination to
gaming or who may develop it.”  The EU’s top court ruled last year that Germany’s betting
monopoly, which only allows publicly owned companies to offer
most sports betting, violates European laws because it’s not
coherent. The German court yesterday said since the online ban
also applies to bets on horse races and offers by government-
owned sports-betting monopolies, it’s in line with EU rules.
Germany has faced criticism for allowing private horse betting
while outlawing other forms of sport bets.  Bwin e.K., the German affiliate of Bwin, said it will file
a constitutional complaint over yesterday’s ruling.  “Online gaming is a market reality in Germany,” the
company said in a statement, and the current German ban hasn’t
changed that.  The case is BVerwG 8 C 5.10.  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  Hid Antibiotic Levaquin Risk, Lawyer Says  A Johnson & Johnson unit knew its antibiotic Levaquin
increased the risk of tendon damage in the elderly and failed to
properly warn patients or doctors, a lawyer said yesterday at
the start of a trial in Minnesota.  Calvin Christensen, 84, who said he ruptured the Achilles
tendon in his right foot after taking the drug while
hospitalized with pneumonia, sued the company and its Ortho-
McNeil Pharmaceutical unit in 2007. The companies downplayed the
risks of Levaquin to boost the drug’s sales, Christensen’s
lawyer, Saul Lewis, said in his opening statement.  “Johnson & Johnson hid the risk from doctors and the
public,” Saul told the Minneapolis jury yesterday. “They sold
$15 billion worth of Levaquin in the U.S.”  Christensen’s case is the second of more than 2,500 pending
claims in U.S. courts to go to trial over allegations that
Levaquin caused tendon damage in patients and that the company
failed to adequately disclose the risk. J&J and Ortho-McNeil
lost the first trial when a separate Minneapolis jury awarded
$1.8 million to an 84-year-old man who ruptured both Achilles
tendons.  The companies deny any failure to warn. The Levaquin label
“has included warnings about tendonitis and tendon ruptures,”
since it was first approved by the FDA in 1996, Bill Foster, a
J&J spokesman, said in an e-mail.  “Additionally, the evidence will show that the plaintiff’s
prescribing physician was aware of the risks of Levaquin,
including the risk of tendon rupture in elderly patients,” he
said.  The lawsuit is Christensen v. Johnson & Johnson, 07-03960,
combined for trial in In re Levaquin Products Liability
Litigation, 08-md-01943, U.S. District Court, District of
Minnesota (Minneapolis).  For more, click here.  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  Litigation Departments  SEC’s Top Foreign Bribery Lawyer Said to Join Simpson Thacher  Cheryl Scarboro, head of the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission’s foreign bribery investigations, is leaving the
agency to join law firm  Simpson Thacher & Bartlett LLP , a person
with knowledge of the matter said.  Scarboro, who joined the SEC as an enforcement attorney in
1992, was appointed in January 2010 to lead an enforcement unit
focused on the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, which prohibits
U.S. companies from bribing officials to win or maintain
business. She will become a partner in Simpson Thacher’s
Washington office, the person said, speaking on condition of
anonymity because the matter isn’t public.  A phone call and e-mail to Simpson Thacher’s media contact
weren’t immediately returned. A phone call to Scarboro wasn’t
returned.  For more, click here.  Former  Chicago  Mayor Richard Daley Joins Katten Muchin  Former six-term Chicago Mayor Richard M. Daley joined
Katten Muchin Rosenman LLP, the law firm that helped negotiate a
deal to lease the city’s parking meters.  Daley, 69, will serve as counsel at Katten and won’t
participate in any work involving the city or any of its
affiliated agencies, the firm said yesterday in a statement.  Daley was mayor of the third-largest U.S. city for 22 years
beginning in 1989, following in the footsteps of his father
Richard J. Daley, who was mayor from 1955 to 1976. Under the
younger Daley’s leadership, Chicago lured Boeing Corp. and
United Continental Holdings Inc. corporate headquarters to the
city and built Millennium Park.  For more, click here.  For the latest litigation department news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 