-- 
India Nifty May ‘Bottom’ at 4,850 in July, ICICI Securities Says

-- B y   S a n t a n u   C h a k r a b o r t y
-- 
2011-06-02T08:18:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-02/india-nifty-may-bottom-at-4-850-in-july-icici-securities-says.html
T.S. Harihar, co-head of
institutional derivatives at ICICI Securities Ltd., comments on
the outlook for Indian equities. He spoke by phone from Mumbai.  The S&P CNX Nifty Index on the National Stock Exchange of
India Ltd. dropped 0.7 percent to 5,552.5 as of 1:29 p.m. local
time. The gauge slid 3.3 percent in May, the most since January.  On Nifty target:  “The global macro situation looks negative and we may see
more aggressive selling. We expect markets to bottom out next
month with Nifty at 4,850 being our worst-case scenario. In the
immediate term, we expect a bout of short-covering to take Nifty
to 5,620. In the medium term, we expect to see U.S. domestic
economic problems resurface after withdrawal of the economic
stimulus. Loan and credit card defaults in the U.S. may spook
global  market sentiment .”  On India’s  interest-rates  cycle  “We expect interest rates to rise in the near term. We
expect the RBI to hike rates by 75 basis points till October,
which will be the end of the rate hike cycle. Higher rates will
lead to a cut in discounted cash flows and reduction in present
value of future capital. This will lead to de-rating in stocks
and 10 percent to 15 percent cut in price-earnings of most
companies.”  On foreign fund flows:  “Recent foreign fund inflows were due to buying by
exchange-traded funds, mostly on account of rebalancing of the
Morgan Stanley Composite Index. However, there are hardly any
sustained positive flows into the Indian markets. The government
borrowing rates and the benchmark index’s price-earnings are
twice that of other BRIC countries, which may restrict further
fund flows into Indian stocks.”  On declining volumes:  “In the May series, rollovers were only 59 percent, with
the remaining 40 percent left to expiry. A lighter series in
June indicates lack of interest. Traders are not building fresh
positions as there are not enough volumes or volatility in the
market. We expect volumes to remain dry until July.”  Indian derivative contracts expire on the last Thursday of
every month. The May series ended on May 26.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Santanu Chakraborty in Mumbai at 
 schakrabor11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  