-- 
Internet Businesses Must Respect Users’ Privacy: Jon Leibowitz

-- B y   J o n   L e i b o w i t z
-- 
2011-06-02T04:01:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-02/internet-businesses-must-respect-users-privacy-jon-leibowitz.html
Throughout cyberspace, almost 2
billion Web surfers post, share, friend, follow, buy, sell and
trade. Because of invaluable Internet technology, the world is
at our fingertips. Vast quantities of data are available with a
tap or a click.  It isn’t news how much information is collected, shared or
sold on the Internet. What is news is how much of that
information might be about you.  Every time you go online, a host of invisible data
catchers, placed on your computer without your permission,
follow you as you browse, reporting your stops and actions to
third-party businesses unrelated to, and sometimes without the
knowledge of, the owners of the sites you visit.  This behind-the-scenes data collection is different from
that done by websites you choose to visit. We know that those
sites track our purchases and navigation on their sites, and use
the information to serve us better by remembering our address,
suggesting products we might enjoy and adjusting their offerings
to meet our apparent interests. In this way, the Internet has
allowed large companies to give us the personal service of a
neighborhood butcher, who puts aside your son’s favorite cut of
meat whenever he comes home from college.  We know less about the third-party data miners. They
compile profiles of our online behavior for their own use or to
sell to other companies, primarily to target  Internet
advertising  to your particular interests. This marketing
strategy helps support the free Web content we all enjoy. But it
also raises serious privacy concerns, especially when the data
involves your health, finances, children or whereabouts.  Consumer Choice  To the extent that this data is used to advertise a shirt,
a car, a vacation destination or a soft drink, we might view it
as innocuous, even beneficial to the thriving Internet market
that has increased choice for consumers everywhere. And that
would be fine, if we knew that your tracked information stopped
at the online ad company. But we don’t. It might continue to
travel throughout an invisible lattice of online and offline
companies, developing into a profile of you that anyone might
buy, including those making decisions about your career, your
credit, your health, your reputation.  Let’s say you print out a fact sheet on alcoholism to help
your son with a project for health class; you know you are a
dutiful parent, but a potential employer might see a boozy job
applicant. You order a big box of your mother’s favorite candy
to take her when you go to visit; you know you are a thoughtful
daughter, but a health insurer could see a destined diabetic.
You buy the book “The Winner’s Guide to Casino Gambling” as a
raffle prize for your church’s Las Vegas Night; you know you are
a generous member of the community, but a loan officer might see
a risky gambler.  ‘Do Not Track’  At the Federal Trade Commission, we want you to have a
choice about what you make public and what you keep private.
Last December, our staff proposed a “Do Not Track” mechanism
that would let you choose the information you share about your
browsing behavior; your tracking preferences would travel with
you every time you went online. We envision a system you can
find and use easily, and one that all companies tracking you on
the Internet would need to respect or face serious consequences.  When we first proposed Do Not Track, many in the online
community complained that it would destroy the Internet
advertising business. But Do Not Track doesn’t stop advertisers
from collecting information about consumers. It does, however,
require them to convince us that they will treat personal data
with care. And at the FTC, we are certain that the advertisers
marketing on the Web today are up to that task.  In fact, a number of leading online businesses, including
Microsoft, Mozilla and Apple, have responded by developing Do
Not Track systems, and other companies may soon join them. A
coalition of advertising industry groups has redoubled efforts
to establish Do Not Track architecture. And key Internet
standards-setting bodies are working on Do Not Track.  Congress Is Looking  With continued work, I am confident that industry will be
able to devise a Do Not Track mechanism that is universal,
simple, persistent, effective and enforceable. Admittedly, this
isn’t easy -- from a technical or a business perspective -- and
the FTC is considering various alternatives.  During hearings in the past year, members of Congress have
inquired about Do Not Track. And last month, Senator John D. Rockefeller IV, chairman of the U.S. Senate Committee on
Commerce, Science and Transportation, introduced legislation
that would empower the FTC to establish an industry-run Do Not
Track mechanism through regulation; the FTC and state attorneys
general would enforce compliance. So Internet companies have a
choice: they can develop a voluntary system that gives consumers
control of their private data, or accept that Congress might
mandate a system they don’t like.  Ideally, the private sector would police itself. The FTC
doesn’t want to set up roadblocks to the online freedom that has
spawned everything from ingenious new technologies to democratic
revolutions. But we also don’t want cyberspace to morph into a
place where you have to surrender your privacy. We call on the
innovators of the Internet to use their brain power to develop a
Do Not Track system that protects every individual and not just
those with something to sell.  (Jon Leibowitz is chairman of the Federal Trade Commission.
The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  