-- 
Iran Sanctions Should Be Eased to Foster Nuclear Cooperation, Russia Says

-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r   a n d   I l y a   A r k h i p o v
-- 
2011-06-02T07:57:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-02/iran-sanctions-should-be-eased-to-foster-nuclear-cooperation-russia-says.html
World powers should offer to ease
sanctions to gain  Iran ’s cooperation in resolving the dispute
over the country’s nuclear program, Russian Foreign Minister
Sergei Lavrov said.  Talks between Iran and the five permanent members of the
 United Nations Security Council  plus  Germany  have stalled since
January and Russia believes incentives are needed to kick-start
the process, Lavrov said yesterday in an interview in Moscow.  “We have to show to Iran that if it cooperates, if it
answers satisfactorily the IAEA demands, then it should see the
light at the end of the tunnel,” Lavrov said, referring to the
 International Atomic Energy Agency , the UN’s nuclear watchdog.  The Persian Gulf state in mid-2010 came under a fourth set
of UN sanctions, which  Russia  supported. The U.S. and European
Union later imposed tougher unilateral measures. Russia won’t
support new sanctions against Iran, Lavrov said.  “It’s a process that can only be successful if we count
not on new sanctions and threats, but on negotiations,” he
said.  The IAEA, based in Vienna, has been probing Iran’s nuclear
work since 2003, when it was revealed that the government had
hidden atomic research for two decades. The U.S. has accused
Iran of seeking to build a nuclear weapon, while Iran says its
program is for civilian energy production.  Russia built Iran’s first nuclear power plant, in Bushehr,
and plans to start full operations at the facility “very
soon,” Rosatom Corp., Russia’s state nuclear holding company,
said May 26.  Tougher Inspections  If Iran agrees to resume tougher IAEA inspections, the EU
and U.S. should pledge not to introduce any new, unilateral
sanctions, Lavrov said.  “And then when Iran does something else, expanding access
for the IAEA to the places where the agency wants to go, then we
suspend sanctions,” he said.  Russian President  Dmitry Medvedev  said in July that Iran
was getting closer to achieving the capability to make nuclear
weapons.  Iran, the world’s fourth-largest oil producer, has rejected
UN demands to suspend  uranium enrichment , which can be used both
for generating electricity and for making nuclear warheads.
Negotiations broke down in January after talks in Istanbul
between Iran and the so-called P5+1 group, comprised of China,
France, Germany, Russia, the U.K. and U.S.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net 
Ilya Arkhipov in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  