-- 
IRS Loosens Aug. 31 Deadline for Offshore Tax Disclosures

-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 
2011-06-02T21:46:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-02/irs-allows-extension-of-aug-31-deadline-for-offshore-disclosure.html
The  Internal Revenue Service  will let
taxpayers with undeclared offshore accounts apply for a 90-day
extension of the Aug. 31 deadline for coming forward.  The change, announced on the  IRS website  today, would let
taxpayers seek the extension in writing by showing that they
have made a “good-faith attempt” to meet the deadline and
explain what information they are missing.  “This would be a welcome relief to many taxpayers,” said
Barbara Kaplan, an attorney at Greenberg Traurig LLP in  New
York . “There is difficulty in getting the records together.”  The IRS is conducting its second voluntary offshore
disclosure program, allowing taxpayers to pay penalties related
to undeclared accounts to avoid criminal prosecution. The
program requires those who come forward to pay as much as 25
percent of the highest annual amount in the account from 2003
through 2010, plus back taxes, interest and other penalties.  The IRS announcement also included a new category of
taxpayers who could qualify for a reduced 5 percent penalty
applying only to unreported financial assets, said  Scott Michel ,
an attorney at Caplin & Drysdale in Washington. Non-U.S.
residents who comply with home-country tax laws and had $10,000
or less in U.S. income in each relevant year can qualify for
that rate, which was already available to some people who
inherited accounts.  ‘A Way Back’  “This is very, very big because there are hundreds of
thousands of Americans living overseas who are compliant in
their home country but have not filed U.S. tax returns,” Michel
said. “It gives them a way back into compliance in the U.S.”  In announcing the disclosure program earlier this year, IRS
Commissioner Douglas Shulman had emphasized the importance of
meeting the deadline.  “You’re going to need to provide all of your paperwork by
Aug. 31,” he said on a conference call with reporters Feb. 8.  In the information provided today, the IRS said taxpayers
who want extensions must apply for them and explain steps they
are taking to obtain missing information.  “The deadline is still Aug. 31 and it is important and we
expect that most taxpayers will meet the deadline,” IRS
spokesman Anthony Burke said in an e-mailed statement. “We have
received feedback about some difficulties in meeting the
deadline and we wanted to provide an opportunity to those
taxpayers that make a good-faith effort to meet it to come in.”  Necessary Information  That flexibility recognizes the difficulty of compiling the
necessary information, Kaplan said.  “The computations are difficult and sometimes getting
complete records is difficult, particularly if you’re dealing
with countries that are not accustomed to maintaining banking
records the way the U.S. is,” she said.  A similar program with more generous terms that ended in
October 2009 attracted about 15,000 taxpayers. They avoided
prosecution by paying taxes on six years of undeclared income,
plus a 20 percent penalty. About  4,000 taxpayers  have come
forward since October 2009, and their cases will be considered
under the terms of this year’s program.  A new law requiring banks based outside the U.S. to provide
the IRS with information about U.S. account holders will take
effect in 2013.  In addition to the offer of extensions, the IRS provided
updated information that helps taxpayers decide whether to opt
out of the civil settlement framework in the program.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in  Washington  at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  