-- 
Ivory Coast’s Ouattara Rewards Allies With Government Positions, ICG Says

-- B y   P a u l i n e   B a x
-- 
2011-06-02T13:57:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-02/ivory-coast-s-ouattara-rewards-allies-with-government-positions-icg-says.html
Ivory Coast’s president,  Alassane Ouattara , is rewarding the allies that stood by him during a
post-election crisis with key posts being handed to an
opposition coalition, said Gilles Yabi, West Africa director of
the  International Crisis Group .  The new cabinet is “not really a government of
reconciliation” with no appointees from the party former leader
 Laurent Gbagbo , Yabi said by phone from Paris today. The list
“reflects a willingness to express gratitude to those
politicians who have helped contribute to Ouattara’s victory.”  Ouattara was sworn in on May 21, taking power almost six
months after a disputed election where Gbagbo, who ruled the
world’s top cocoa producer for a decade, refused to cede power.
At estimated 2,000 people were killed in clashes, according to
the  United Nations , before Gbagbo’s April 11 capture eased the
crisis.  Gbagbo’s Front Populaire Ivoirien will not take part in
Ouattara’s administration until the former leader and his aides
are released, Mamadou Koulibaly, a senior party member, said on
May 25.  Ouattara retained Guillaume Soro and prime minister and
Charles Koffi Diby as finance minister, according to a statement
handed to reporters yesterday in Abidjan, the commercial
capital. The agriculture ministry, which oversees the cocoa
industry, will be headed by Mamadou Sangafowa Coulibaly.  Opposition Rewarded  The smaller opposition Parti Democratique de Cote d’Ivoire
was rewarded with posts at ministries including foreign affairs
and economic infrastructure, said  Samir Gadio , emerging markets
strategist with Standard Bank Plc.  “This is a relatively inclusive government,” he said in an
e-mail.  The PDCI ruled  Ivory Coast  from when it attained
independence from colonial ruler  France  in 1960 until 1999. Its
candidate in the first round of last year’s presidential
election, Henri Konan Bedie, threw his support behind Ouattara
in the November runoff.  The 36-member administration will need to address
continuing insecurity in the country and reunification of a
nation split since between a government-held south and rebel-
controlled north following a 2002 army mutiny. The northerners
supported Ouattara in the post-election fighting.  “Ivory Coast is still in a critical and very fragile phase,
at least until the legislative elections that are planned for
the end of the year,” said Yabi.  Cocoa for July delivery fell for a second day, declining 7
pounds or 0.4 percent to 1,807 pounds per metric ton by 2:02
p.m. in  London  on the NYSE Liffe market.  Ivory Coast’s defaulted $2.3 billion Eurobonds rallied for
a second day, increasing 0.7 percent to 55.667 cents on the
dollar as of 2:04 p.m. in London, according to prices compiled
by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pauline Bax in Abidjan via Accra at 
 ebowers1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at   asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 