-- 
Japan Politics ’Chaos’ With Kan Resignation Vow

-- B y   S a c h i k o   S a k a m a k i   a n d   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a
-- 
2011-06-03T08:52:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-02/japan-in-real-chaos-as-kan-succession-maneuvering-delays-reconstruction.html
Naoto Kan’s pledge to step down as
prime minister set off a contest to select  Japan ’s next leader,
adding to the risk of delays in reconstruction and revenue bills
needed to restore growth and assuage credit concerns.  Kan yesterday survived a no-confidence vote in parliament
after appeasing  Democratic Party of Japan  rebels with an offer
to resign once the nation’s worst postwar crisis is contained.
DPJ lawmakers then divided over when that may happen, with Kan’s
predecessor saying it could be by month-end and the prime
minister suggesting it might not be until early next year.  "This is a new stage of real chaos in Japanese politics,
and I don’t see any scenario where things will suddenly get
better," said  Koichi Nakano , a political science professor at
 Sophia University  in Tokyo. "Japan is paying a very high price
for the instability at the top."  At stake is the “big” spending package Kan has committed
to help rebuild northeastern areas devastated by the March
earthquake and tsunami, which the central bank is counting on
for a second-half economic rebound. Credit-rating companies are
also waiting for a fiscal plan that spells out how Japan will
rein in the world’s biggest public debt.  Disappointed Voters  The prospect of a sixth prime minister in less than five
years may come as a disappointment to voters who propelled the
Kan’s DPJ to power in August 2009 with an historic win over the
 Liberal Democratic Party  that dominated Japan’s postwar
politics. Less than two years later, none of the DPJ’s main
goals, from reducing the power of the bureaucracy to boosting
financial aid to families as a way of halting the decline in
population, has been accomplished.  Kan’s approval rating rose to 33.4 percent in Kyodo News
poll published today from 28.1 percent in mid-May. About 48
percent said he should resign while 45 percent said he doesn’t
need to. Nearly 90 percent of respondents disapproved of the
maneuvering by the DPJ dissidents. The telephone survey
conducted June 2-3 didn’t provide a margin of error.  “There will be a very serious conflict on when he should
step down, so the current stability will be very, very
fragile,”  Jiro Yamaguchi , a political science professor at
 Hokkaido University , said in an interview with Bloomberg
Television today. The ruling party’s divisions mean “it’s
losing the power of policymaking or governing this country,” he
said, adding that Kan will likely at most stay at the helm until
year-end.  Bonds Drop  Japanese bonds posted the biggest weekly drop in two months
on prospects the political turmoil will delay rebuilding from
the disaster. The benchmark 10-year yield gained 1.5 basis
points on the week to 1.135 percent as of 3:01 p.m. in Tokyo.  Kan, 64, failed to galvanize support for higher taxes to
shrink the deficit, abandoned a plan to lower corporate taxes
and was criticized for his handling of the Fukushima Dai-Ichi
power-plant disaster, which ballooned to become the worst
nuclear crisis since 1986. Some DPJ lawmakers suggested he quit.  His offer yesterday to “pass on my responsibility” once
the crisis is contained set off a conflict over timing. Former
DPJ premier  Yukio Hatoyama , who along with indicted former DPJ
party chief  Ichiro Ozawa  had sought to oust Kan, told reporters
that the prime minister agreed in a meeting to step down after a
second post-quake stimulus bill is drafted. Hatoyama said he
thought that would be “by the end of June.”  ‘Lie’  DPJ Secretary-General Katsuya Okada said there were no
conditions or time frame attached to Kan’s comment. Asked about
Okada’s remarks, Hatoyama called it “a lie.”  Speaking at a late-night press conference, Kan denied
reaching an agreement with Hatoyama on when he might resign. He
said “it’s my responsibility” to stay on until the situation
at a crippled nuclear power plant is stabilized through a cold
shutdown of its reactors.  Tokyo  Electric Power Co. in April said
it aims to stabilize the facility by January.  Hatoyama today told reporters that if Kan "doesn’t keep his
promise, he’s a swindler," NHK Television reported.  Okada is a potential successor to Kan, as are Chief Cabinet
Secretary Yukio Edano and former foreign minister  Seiji Maehara .
All were among a group voters cited as preferable candidates in
a Nikkei newspaper survey published May 30.  “This is the beginning of the end for the Kan
administration,” LDP leader  Sadakazu Tanigaki  told reporters.
“Our no-confidence motion prompted his resignation remarks.”  Fresh Headwinds  Japan’s economy, which shrank in the six months through
March and is projected to contract in the current quarter, is
facing fresh headwinds from signs of a global slowdown. Stocks
fell and bonds rose yesterday after U.S. reports indicated
manufacturing was weaker than forecast and companies slowed
their pace of hiring.  The yen rose to 80.62 per dollar at 5:47 p.m. in Tokyo from
80.90 yesterday in  New York . Japan’s benchmark  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock
Average fell 0.7 percent today after closing down 1.7 percent
yesterday.  “If this disorder continues, Japan is going to lose
credibility,” said Kazushige Okuno, a senior  fund manager  who
oversees 23 billion yen ($285 million) at Norinchukin Trust &
Banking Co. in Tokyo. “It’s a little sad.”  Kan is already embroiled in a dispute within the DPJ over
whether to raise taxes to pay for rebuilding from the
catastrophe. He has also failed to win opposition support for
legislation authorizing 44.3 trillion yen in government bond
sales to finance Japan’s debt.  No LDP Cooperation  While the LDP backed an initial 4 trillion yen stimulus
plan, Tanigaki said in submitting the no-confidence measure that
the party would refuse to cooperate as long as Kan is in office.  “The second extra budget will take a long time to get
ready,” said  Yasunari Ueno , chief market economist at Mizuho
Securities Co. in Tokyo. “The rejection of the no-confidence
motion doesn’t mean the state of political confusion will
change.”  Any delay in reconstruction leaves the onus on the  Bank of
Japan , which has refrained from adding monetary stimulus since
March, to support growth. BOJ board member Seiji Nakamura told
reporters yesterday in Nara, western Japan that “the halting or
paralysis of government functions is unacceptable given we need
to solve issues pertaining to the earthquake and Fukushima
nuclear plants soon.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sachiko Sakamaki in Tokyo at 
 ssakamaki1@bloomberg.net ;
Takashi Hirokawa in Tokyo at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  