-- 
Japan Capital Spending Grew at Slower Pace

-- B y   K e i k o   U j i k a n e
-- 
2011-06-02T00:08:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-02/japan-s-capital-spending-grew-at-a-slower-pace-last-quarter-1-.html
Japanese companies increased spending
at a slower pace as the nation’s record earthquake and ensuing
tsunami knocked out power and shut down factories.  Capital spending  excluding software rose 4.2 percent in the
three months ended March 31 from a year earlier, after
increasing 4.8 percent in the previous quarter, the  Finance
Ministry  said today in Tokyo. From the previous quarter, outlays
fell 0.2 percent.  The report adds to evidence of the damage the temblor has
inflicted on companies, whose outlays helped propel the nation’s
recovery in 2009 from the global financial crisis. Sony Corp. is
forecasting profits below analysts’ estimates while  Panasonic
Corp. (6752)  said its earnings were “extremely affected” by the March
11 disaster.  “It’s hard to expect a robust recovery in capital spending
in the months ahead,”  Hiroshi Shiraishi , an economist at BNP
Paribas SA in  Tokyo , said before the report. “There’s high
uncertainty over the course of corporate earnings” as power
shortages could linger and supply-chain constraints could damp
corporate and household income, he said.  The median estimate of five economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News was for a 0.8 percent drop. Today’s report
doesn’t include some companies in the disaster area. The final
figures, which include those firms, will be released on July 29,
the government said.  GDP Revision  The Cabinet Office will use today’s report to revise first-
quarter gross domestic product figures on June 9. The
preliminary report released last month showed the economy shrank
at an annual 3.7 percent pace in the first quarter. Analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg News expect the slump to continue into the
three months ending June, extending a contraction that began in
the final three months of 2010.  Capital spending of less than 3 percent in today’s report
may prompt the government to revise down the GDP figure,
according to calculations made by Naoki Tsuchiyama, a market
economist at Mizuho Securities Co. in Tokyo. Economists use the
gauge that excludes software spending because it is a better
indicator of outlays as measured by GDP.  Factory production rose less than economists forecast in
April and exports had the biggest drop since October 2009,
evidence that companies are still struggling to produce and ship
goods to meet overseas demand. The  unemployment rate  also
climbed in April and households cut spending.  Sony’s Struggle  Sony, Japan’s largest exporter of consumer electronics, is
struggling to improve its earnings and forecasts net income of
80 billion yen ($985 million) in the year ending March 31, lower
than the 115.9 billion yen average of 12 analyst estimates
compiled by Bloomberg.  Panasonic Corp., the world’s largest maker of plasma
televisions, said that supply-chain disruptions from the
earthquake will have an “extremely severe” effect on earnings.
Revenue will probably drop in the six months ending Sept. 30,
President Fumio Ohtsubo said on May 20.  While the economy may shrink this quarter, it will likely
return to a growth path in the following three-month period as
reconstruction works kick, according to Mizuho’s Tsuchiyama.  “Since the earthquake,  Japan ’s economy has slumped because
of supply-chain constraints, not because of a decline in
demand,” Tsuchiyama said. “So companies will likely increase
spending to repair damaged factories and restore output capacity
to meet demand.”  Machinery orders, an indicator of future capital spending,
unexpectedly increased in March, while companies said in a
report this week they plan to boost industrial production in May
and June.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Keiko Ujikane in Tokyo at 
 kujikane@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  