-- 
Japan Stock Futures Rise as Euro Gains, Investors Eye U.S. Jobs

-- B y   N o r i e   K u b o y a m a   a n d   S a t o s h i   K a w a n o
-- 
2011-06-02T23:24:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-02/japanese-stock-futures-rise-as-euro-gains-investors-eye-u-s-jobs-report.html
Japanese stock futures gained after
the euro strengthened and as investors await a U.S. jobs report.
Australian stock futures were little changed after  oil prices 
advanced, while metal prices declined.  American depositary receipts of  Sony Corp. (6758) , Japan’s No. 1
electronics exporter, and  Kyocera Corp. (6971) , an electronic
components maker that gets almost half of its revenue from the
U.S. and Europe, both advanced 0.3 percent after the yen
weakened against the euro, boosting the earnings outlook for
exporters. ADRs of  Woodside Petroleum Ltd. (WPL) , Australia’s No. 2
oil producer, rose 0.4 percent.  Futures on Japan’s  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average expiring in
June closed at 9,560 in Chicago yesterday, compared with 9,550
in Osaka, Japan. They were bid in the pre-market at 9,560 in
Osaka, at 8:05 a.m. local time. Futures on Australia’s S&P/ASX
200 Index were little changed today.  “The euro is strengthening” and “that’s positive for the
stock market,” said Juichi Wako, a senior strategist at Tokyo-
based Nomura Holdings Inc. “Investors are going to be on-hold
today, waiting for the jobs report. We’ve had some poor data out
of the U.S. lately, and the employment numbers will help settle
some questions.”  Jobs Report  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index were little
changed today. In  New York , the index retreated 0.1 percent
yesterday, falling for a second day, ahead of a monthly report
on employment by the U.S. Labor Department. The jobs report is
due tomorrow at 8:30 a.m. in Washington.  Moody’s Investors Service yesterday said it may place the
U.S. government’s debt rating under review for possible
downgrade. The euro rose to the highest level in almost a month
after German Chancellor Angela Merkel said she’s committed to
the shared currency.  The euro rose to as high as 117.38 yen today in  Tokyo ,
compared with 116.29 at the close of  stock trading  on yesterday.
That boosts the value of European sales for Japanese companies
when converted into their home currency.  In  Japan , Prime Minister Naoto Kan yesterday survived a no-
confidence vote in parliament after appeasing  Democratic Party
of Japan  rebels with an offer to step down once the nation’s
worst postwar crisis is contained. DPJ lawmakers then fought
over the timeframe for Kan’s resignation, with Kan’s predecessor
saying it could be by month-end and the prime minister
suggesting it might not be until early next year.  “Investors will likely be in a wait and see stance as the
situation shifts behind the scenes,” Nomura’s Wako said.  Crude oil for July delivery rose for a second day in New
York as the dollar weakened, while the London Metal Exchange
Index of prices for six metals including copper and aluminum
lost 2.2 percent yesterday, the biggest drop since May 23.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index slid 2.3 percent this year
through yesterday, compared with a gain of 4.4 percent by the
 S&P 500  and a drop of 0.4 percent by the Stoxx  Europe  600 Index.
Stocks in the Asian benchmark are valued at 13.3 times estimated
earnings on average, compared with 13.2 times for the S&P 500
and 11.1 times for the Stoxx 600.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Norie Kuboyama in Tokyo at 
 nkuboyama@bloomberg.net ;
Satoshi Kawano in Tokyo at 
 Skawano1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 