-- 
Japan Debt Downgrade ‘Unavoidable’ Even After Vote, Mizuho Says

-- B y   Y u m i   I k e d a
-- 
2011-06-02T08:36:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-02/japan-debt-downgrade-unavoidable-even-after-vote-mizuho-says.html
Yasunari Ueno, chief market economist
at Mizuho Securities Co. in  Tokyo , comments after Japanese Prime
Minister  Naoto Kan  survived a parliamentary no-confidence vote
by offering to resign once the country’s March 11 earthquake
crisis is under control.  On the effects of the vote on Japan’s economy and financial
markets:  “Prime Minister Kan’s offer to resign was made
conditional. The second extra budget for the fiscal year will
take a long time to ready. It’s impossible to submit a no-
confidence motion twice during the same session of parliament.
Kan has spoken of a major extension of the session, so until it
ends, his cabinet is safe.”  “The rejection of the no-confidence motion doesn’t mean
that the state of political confusion will change.  Government
bonds  were bought after some of the uncertainty receded, but the
buying isn’t likely to continue for long. I don’t think that
politics is a significant factor that influences currencies and
markets. Trends in U.S. yields and economic fundamentals are
more important.”  “Japan’s economy will continue to be dependent on exports,
with the  U.S. economy  being a major factor influencing demand.
We also have to see how much progress is made in removing
supply-side constraints. Today’s vote doesn’t mean that the size
of the extra budget or bond issuances have been determined, even
as the level of political confusion intensifies.”  “Yields on 10-year government debt are likely this year to
range between 1 to 1.4 percent.  For the time being, it may
fluctuate between 1.1 to 1.2 percent.”  On the effects of the vote on  Japan ’s sovereign debt
rating:  “The friction with the opposition may continue, and there
seems to be no progress on getting legislation for issuing bonds
passed. Enthusiasm for increasing taxes to finance earthquake
reconstruction has waned, so any plan to raise levies is likely
to run into difficulty. Obtaining a broad political consensus
may be difficult. Regardless of today’s vote, a further
downgrade in Japan’s sovereign debt rating is unavoidable.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yumi Ikeda in Tokyo at 
 yikeda4@bloomberg.net   To contact the translator on this story:
Taku Kato in Tokyo at 
 tkato6@bloomberg.net  