-- 
Japan Steel Works to Target Non-Atomic Energy After Disaster

-- B y   M a s u m i   S u g a   a n d   Y a s u m a s a   S o n g
-- 
2011-06-02T05:06:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-02/japan-steel-works-to-target-non-atomic-energy-after-disaster.html
Japan Steel Works Ltd. (5631) , a maker of
nuclear reactor parts for customers from Areva SA to  Toshiba
Corp. (6502) , will shift sales to non-atomic energy equipment and
may cut idled capacity as the Fukushima disaster curbs orders.  Japan  will freeze construction of nuclear reactors and
 China  is likely to delay new orders by a year, slashing
component purchases from nuclear plant builders, President
Ikuo Sato said in an interview at the company’s headquarters
in Tokyo. The company will focus more on  wind turbines ,  steel
pipes  for natural gas and rotor shafts used in thermal  power
plants  to make up for the shortfall, he said.  Japan’s nuclear accident, the worst since Chernobyl in
1986, coincides with Sato completing an 80 billion yen ($984
million) expansion at its Muroran factory in Japan’s northern
island of Hokkaido. The disaster triggered by the March 11
earthquake and tsunami has prompted governments to reconsider
the future of atomic energy, hampering efforts by Japan Steel
Works to expand nuclear operations.  “I never expected such a crisis would occur in Japan,”
Sato, 62, said yesterday. “We must do whatever we can to
overcome the situation.”  Japanese Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  last month said he
will reconsider a plan to increase the country’s dependence
on nuclear energy. He pledged to generate 20 percent of the
nation’s electricity through renewable forms of energy by
2020.  Japan Steel Works shares fell 2.1 percent to 581 yen at
11 a.m. trading break on the Tokyo Stock Exchange. The stock
has dipped 28 percent since March 11.  Falling Orders  Japan Steel Works expects orders for parts used in
nuclear stations and power plants to reach 41.1 billion yen
for the financial year through March, 2012, or 40 percent
less than the previous forecast, the company said May 20.  Sales of power plant components accounted for 20 percent
of annual revenue in the last financial year, with more than
half nuclear-related sales, according to a May 20
 presentation  by the company.  The Muroran plant is the world’s only factory capable of
producing a nuclear reactor’s pressure vessel from a single
block of steel, which results in a stronger vessel and
reduces the risk of radiation leaks. The company has almost
completed an expansion that will increase capacity to produce
steel parts for 12 nuclear reactors a year, up from 5.5 a
year earlier, Sato said.  The factory’s steel ingot and forging is running at 60
to 70 percent of capacity, the president said. The company
may look into reducing capacity by removing old facilities if
the gap between supply and demand widens, he said.  The company targets component sales at the previous
year’s level of 43.3 billion yen for the year ending March
2013, Sato said. That’s 39 percent lower than its May, 2010
estimate of 70.5 billion yen.  Japan’s record earthquake and tsunami devastated coastal
areas of northern Japan, left almost 24,000 people dead or
missing and crippled  Tokyo  Electric Power Co.’s Fukushima
Dai-Ichi nuclear plant.  To contact the reporters on this story: Masumi Suga in Tokyo
at   msuga@bloomberg.net ; Yasumasa Song in
Tokyo at   ysong9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs in Sydney at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  