-- 
Jobless Claims Fall Less Than Forecast in Sign U.S. Labor Market Weakening

-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a   a n d   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 
2011-06-02T20:14:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-02/jobless-claims-in-u-s-decreased-less-than-forecast-last-week.html
More Americans than forecast filed
applications for  unemployment benefits  last week, signaling the
job market is weakening as employers trim staff to cut costs.  Jobless claims fell by 6,000 to 422,000 in the week ended
May 28, exceeding the 417,000 median forecast of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News, according to Labor Department
figures today in Washington. Another report showed consumer
comfort stabilized last week as gasoline prices retreated.  A pickup in dismissals signals companies will also look to
limit hiring, raising the risk that employment data due tomorrow
will show payroll gains moderated in May. Slowing job growth may
cause households to further curb spending, which accounts for
about 70 percent of the world’s largest economy.  “The job market has clearly lost momentum,” said  John Herrmann , a senior fixed-income strategist at State Street
Global Markets in  Boston . “Jobless claims remain elevated, and
payrolls growth for May could come in at a level that’s
worrisome. The gains in confidence may be short-lived. From here
on, confidence surveys may begin to reflect the broader sense of
uncertainty in the economy, the labor market and the stock
market.”  Stocks fell on concern the economic recovery was slowing.
The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index decreased 0.1 percent to
1,312.94 at the 4 p.m. close in  New York .  Treasury securities 
fell, sending the yield on the benchmark 10-year note up to 3.04
percent from 2.94 percent late yesterday.  Survey Results  The median forecast for claims was based on a survey of 50
economists. Estimates ranged from 400,000 to 440,000. The Labor
Department revised the prior week’s figure up to 428,000 from
the 424,000 initially reported.  Payrolls grew by 170,000 workers last month after
increasing by 244,000 in April, Labor Department data may show
tomorrow, according to the median forecast of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg. The jobless rate dropped to 8.9 percent
from 9 percent, according to the survey.  Economists at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Deutsche Bank
Securities Inc. were among those cutting payroll forecasts
yesterday after a report from ADP Employer Services showed
companies added 38,000 workers last month, the fewest since
September and less than the median estimate in a Bloomberg
survey.  “The labor market is a little less robust than it was,”
said  Michael Feroli , chief U.S. economist at JPMorgan Chase &
Co. in New York. “This is the eighth consecutive week of claims
above 400,000, so it doesn’t look like the move up was an
aberration.”  Comfort Stabilizes  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index improved to minus 47.1
in the week ended May 29 from minus 48.4 in the prior period.
The 2.3-point gain over the past two weeks has yet to make up
for the 6.8-point monthlong slide that propelled the gauge to a
nine-month low two weeks ago.  “The consumer is not doing very well these days,” said
Robert Brusca, president of Fact & Opinion Economics in New
York. “ There is nothing in this weekly survey that gives us
any confidence things are getting better. There is really not
much improvement in the economy.”  Other reports today showed worker productivity slowed in
the first quarter and orders to factories dropped in April.  The measure of employee output per hour increased at a
revised 1.8 percent annual rate after a 2.9 percent gain in the
prior three months, data from the Labor Department showed. Labor
costs climbed at a 0.7 percent rate after dropping 2.8 percent
the prior quarter.  Fewer Orders  Demand for manufactured goods dropped 1.2 percent in April,
the biggest decrease since May 2010, after climbing 3.8 percent
the prior month, figures from the Commerce Department showed.  Initial jobless claims reflect weekly firings and tend to
rise as job growth -- measured by the monthly non-farm payrolls
report -- decelerates.  Some companies are still paring their workforce.  Bank of
America Corp. (BAC) , the largest  U.S. bank  by assets, will cut staff
in its mortgage-sales unit in the next few months because volume
is declining.  Mortgage headcount costs will “flatten out” over time,
Chief Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan  said yesterday at a
Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. conference in New York.  Lower gasoline prices may be giving households some relief.
The average price of a gallon of regular gasoline nationally
dropped to $3.79 on May 29, down from $3.84 a week earlier,
according to AAA, the nation’s largest auto club. It reached
$3.99 on May 4, the highest since July 2008.  Comfort Breakdown  Each of the three components of the Bloomberg comfort index
gained last week, today’s figures showed.  The personal-finances gauge rose to minus 13.4 from minus
13.7 the previous week. A 3.1 percentage-point increase in the
last two weeks failed to make up for ground lost over the prior
four weeks.  The buying-climate index increased to minus 53.1 from minus
55.8 the previous week. It’s still close to the minus 57.4
reached March 13 that was the lowest since October 2009.  A gauge of Americans’ views of the economy was minus 74.6
compared with minus 75.7 the prior week.  “Falling gasoline prices have provided some much-needed
breathing space for beleaguered consumers,” said  Joseph Brusuelas , a senior economist at Bloomberg LP in New York. Even
so, Americans face “considerable economic headwinds, including
a difficult labor market.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in  Washington  at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  