-- 
Kan Survives Japan No-Confidence Vote After Post-Crisis Resignation Signal

-- B y   S a c h i k o   S a k a m a k i   a n d   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a
-- 
2011-06-02T14:13:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-02/kan-survives-japan-no-confidence-vote-after-post-crisis-resignation-signal.html
Japan’s Prime Minister  Naoto Kan 
survived a no-confidence vote after appealing to ruling party
dissidents by offering to resign once the country’s worst crisis
since World War II is under control.  The Diet’s lower house voted 293-152 against the motion, as
opposition lawmakers failed to attract enough support from Kan’s
 Democratic Party of Japan . Former DPJ premier  Yukio Hatoyama 
called for party unity in rejecting the bill after Kan said he
would step down once the disaster is contained.  Deepening discontent over the government’s handling of the
March earthquake and tsunami that precipitated the worst nuclear
disaster in 25 years prompted the measure. Growing disunity in
the ruling party hampered Kan’s efforts to deal with a stagnant
economy and heightened concerns over the government’s ability to
reign in the nation’s debt burden.  “Kan won a measure of confidence but only on the condition
that he won’t last long,” said Steven R. Reed, a professor of
political science at Chuo University in  Tokyo . The opposition
“got a resignation promise from Kan, making him a lame duck.”  Japanese government bond futures rose as concerns over
political instability eased. Ten-year yields fell four basis
points to 1.14 percent. The yen was little changed at 80.89 per
dollar at 4:48 p.m. in Tokyo, while the benchmark  Nikkei 225 (NKY) 
Stock Average closed down 1.7 percent before the vote.  ‘Younger Generation’  Speaking in a nationally televised meeting of DPJ lawmakers
ahead of the vote, Kan said he would “like to pass on my
responsibility to a younger generation once we reach a certain
stage in tackling the disaster and I’ve fulfilled my role.”  While the comment likely reduced the number of DPJ
dissidents who had planned on voting against him, conflicting
interpretations arose over how soon Kan might step down.  Hatoyama, who along with indicted former DPJ chief party
chief  Ichiro Ozawa  had sought Kan’s ouster, said the prime
minister agreed in a meeting to step down as early as this month
after a second post-quake stimulus bill is drafted. DPJ
Secretary-General Katsuya Okada said there were no conditions or
timing attached to Kan’s comment.  Speaking at a late-night press conference, Kan denied
reaching an agreement with Hatoyama on when he might resign. He
said “it’s my responsibility” to stay on until the situation at
a crippled nuclear power plant is stabilized through a cold
shutdown of its reactors. Tokyo Electric Power Co. in April said
it aims to stabilize the facility in six to nine months.  ‘Unavoidably Damaged’  The prime minister “will be unavoidably damaged” by
today’s vote, said  Yasunori Sone , a political science professor
at  Keio University  in Tokyo. “Even if Kan is replaced, it will
be difficult for anybody to manage a divided party and a
government that doesn’t control parliament.”  Kan’s announcement is likely to spur speculation over who
in the party will replace him. Possible successors include Okada,
Chief Cabinet Secretary Yukio Edano and former foreign minister
 Seiji Maehara . All were among a group voters cited as preferable
candidates in a Nikkei newspaper survey published May 30.  Kan’s approval rating was 26 percent in an Asahi poll
published May 16, up five percentage points from a month ago,
while his unfavorable rating was 51 percent. Almost two-thirds
of those asked disapproved of his response to the crisis at the
nuclear plant, where reactor meltdowns sent radiation into the
air and sea and prompted the evacuation of 50,000 households.  Opposition Demand  The main opposition  Liberal Democratic Party , the New
Komeito party and the Sunrise Party of Japan yesterday submitted
the motion to the Diet’s lower house. LDP leader Sadakazu Tanigaki yesterday repeated his call for Kan to step down in a
parliamentary debate, saying the prime minister’s resignation
“would pave the way for cross-party unity.”  Several opposition groups coalesced to form the DPJ in 1998
and the party came to power in 2009, ending the monopoly of the
LDP, which had ruled for all but 10 months since 1955. Kan took
office after Hatoyama resigned in June last year when he reneged
on an election pledge to move a U.S. military base from the
island of Okinawa, angering local residents and prompting a
coalition partner to bolt the government.  Kan has been unable to reach common ground with the LDP
over efforts to rebuild in the wake of the disaster, which left
almost 24,000 people dead or missing. He has also failed to win
opposition support for legislation authorizing 44.3 trillion yen
($545 billion) in government bond sales to finance  Japan ’s debt.  Moody’s Investors Service on May 31 put the country’s debt
rating on review for a downgrade, citing concerns over the
government’s ability to fashion and “achieve a credible deficit
reduction target” and the “intensifying level of political
challenges” for Kan.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sachiko Sakamaki in Tokyo at 
 ssakamaki1@bloomberg.net ;
Takashi Hirokawa in Tokyo at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  