-- 
Kenyan Shilling is World’s Worst Performer as Central Bank Buys Dollars

-- B y   J o h n s t o n e   O l e   T u r a n a   a n d   C h r i s   K a y
-- 
2011-06-02T13:55:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-02/kenyan-shilling-drops-most-in-more-than-week-as-central-bank-buys-dollars.html
Kenya ’s shilling weakened the most in
more than a week against the dollar, making it the world’s worst
performer today, as the central bank’s purchase of the U.S.
currency increased supply.  The currency of East Africa’s biggest economy depreciated
as much as 1.3 percent to 87.10 per dollar and traded 1.1
percent down at 86.95 by 4:41 p.m. in the capital, Nairobi. A
close at that level would be the weakest since May 23. Yesterday
was a public holiday.  The central bank bought $4 million at a rate of 86.9088
shillings, it said in a statement on its Bloomberg page today.
It purchased 500 million shillings ($6 million) of  repurchase
agreements  at 5.7 percent, an official who can’t be named in
line with the bank’s policy said in a phone interview. In a
repurchase agreement, an investor agrees to sell a security to
another trader, while at the same time arranging to buy it back
at a future date and at a pre-determined price.  “The shilling has weakened due to the central bank’s
decision to build its reserves, and further build-up will put
pressure on the currency,” Jeremiah Kendagor, head of trading
at Nairobi-based Kenya Commercial Bank Ltd., said in a phone
interview today.  Kenya’s monetary policy committee raised the benchmark
interest rate by a quarter-percentage point to 6.25 percent and
the  cash reserve ratio  by a quarter of a percentage point to
4.75 percent, central bank said on May 31.  Inflation, Rates  Inflation accelerated for a seventh month to a 25-month
high of 13 percent in May, as fuel prices rose in line with
surging global commodity costs, while dry weather made food more
expensive, the Kenya National Bureau of Statistics said today.
The government’s inflation target is 5 percent. The shilling has
depreciated 7.2 percent against the dollar this year, the third-
worst performer after Suriname’s dollar and the Maldives’
rufiyaa among all currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  The shilling “is a laggard and we are nervous about
rates,” Matthew Pearson, the head of Africa equity products at
Standard Bank Group Ltd., said at the Eye on Africa conference
at Bloomberg’s London office today. “Rates need to push up far
more aggressively” as inflation has been rising.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Johnstone Ole Turana in Nairobi at 
 jturana@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Kay in London at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  