-- 
To End Deficits, Congress Must Stay Inside Baselines: Ezra Klein

-- B y   E z r a   K l e i n
-- 
2011-06-02T00:00:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-02/klein-to-end-deficits-congress-must-stay-inside-baselines.html
Pop quiz: Does President  Barack Obama 
want to raise taxes or lower them? This one should be easy.
Republicans say Obama’s budget plan raises taxes. The White
House agrees. Case closed, right?  Wrong. Or, at least, incomplete. Obama’s budget plan
clearly calls for a tax increase. But a tax increase as compared
to what?  Well, that’s where things get tricky. You have to pay
attention to the counterfactual, which, in Washington, we call
“the baseline,” and which politicians tend to manipulate without
anyone noticing.  In order to gauge a policy proposal’s effect on future
federal budgets, you need to compare it to budget projections
without that proposal. That’s your budget baseline. The question
-- and it turns out to be a very consequential one -- is how you
determine that baseline, because that requires making some tough
judgment calls. Are the Bush tax cuts going to expire? Will
Congress cut payments to Medicare? How fast will the economy
grow?  The simplest way to deal with these variables is to use
what the Congressional Budget Office calls the “current-law
baseline.” It’s a straight-line projection based on the laws
already on the books -- a world where Congress passes no new
legislation whatsoever. Under the current-law baseline, all the
Bush tax cuts expire in 2012. The 1997  Balanced Budget Act 
automatically cuts Medicare payments to doctors by more than 20
percent. The  Affordable Care Act  survives Republican repeal
efforts and health care reform is fully implemented in 2014.  Congress Goes Home  The nation’s fiscal outlook is very different under this
baseline. “It is a fact that if Congress simply goes home,”
writes economist and former Treasury Department official  Brad
DeLong , “that we do not have a long run deficit problem.”  That baseline is implausible. Neither party supports full
repeal of the Bush tax cuts. Neither party will allow the deep
cuts in payments to physicians that the current-law baseline
assumes. In addition, Republicans are hoping to kill, or at
least hobble, the Affordable Care Act, scuttling its cost
controls in the process.  The  Congressional Budget Office  is aware of all these
factors; this isn’t their first time at the rodeo. So it has
developed something called the “alternative-policy baseline.”
Under this scenario, most of the Bush tax cuts are made
permanent. Congress continues protecting Medicare physicians
from deep pay cuts. The Affordable Care Act’s cost controls are
blocked. And the deficit gets real bad, real fast.  Obama’s Baseline  The CBO does not, unfortunately, have a monopoly on
baselines. The Obama administration, for instance, has drawn up
a baseline that basically falls between the CBO’s current-law
and alternative options. The White House baseline assumes that
most, though not all, of the Bush tax cuts are made permanent
and that Congress doesn’t cut payments to doctors, yet saves the
same amount of money by cutting spending or raising taxes
elsewhere. It also assumes that the Affordable Care Act is fully
implemented.  Which brings us back to taxes. Over the next 12 years, the
Obama administration says, it wants to raise taxes by a bit less
than $1 trillion. It sounds like a bold advance for fiscal
responsibility -- except that it’s pegged to a baseline that
already includes the extension of $3 trillion in tax cuts.
According to the current-law baseline, the White House isn’t
raising taxes, it’s cutting them significantly. This is perhaps
the first time in recorded history that a politician is
misleading the public into thinking that a  tax cut  is really a
tax hike.  Political Goal  The White House is hardly unique in gaming the system.
Sometimes, politicians simply make up a baseline to serve a
specific political goal. During the congressional debate over
health reform, the Republicans on the  House Budget Committee 
created their own baseline that added previously existing
expenditures like the  Indian Health Service  to the cost of the
Affordable Care Act. Why? They wanted to make the Affordable
Care Act look more expensive.  Playing baseline games is a way for politicians to hide
irresponsible decisions. And it generally works, because the
details of baselines and budgets are too weedy for the media to
explain easily to the public. Here’s the bottom line on
baselines, and there’s nothing about it that the public can’t
understand: First, Congress should do no harm.  If Congress does nothing, the federal budget basically
balances itself in coming years. It doesn’t achieve balance in a
way that anyone will like -- taxes eventually reach almost 30
percent of GDP and Medicare cuts payments to doctors so
drastically that many of them will abandon the program. But it
balances.  Congress’s Power  Congress can solve the deficit problem simply by sticking
to that baseline. That doesn’t mean it must stick to those
specific policies. The cost of tax cuts can be offset by
spending cuts. The pain of spending cuts can be eased through
intelligent policy reforms. But Congress shouldn’t be allowed to
pretend that the  budget deficit  is some irrepressible force of
nature. When we say we’re facing deficits as far as the eye can
see, what we mean is that this Congress, and the ones that
follow, are expected to pass laws creating such deficits.  So the most credible deficit-reduction plan that President
Obama could offer is also the simplest. He should announce that
he will veto any legislation that increases the deficit over the
current-law baseline. To override his vetoes would require a
two-thirds vote of both houses of Congress -- a near-
impossibility in a closely divided legislature. As a result,
Congress would be forced either to stick to the current-law
baseline or pass deficit-neutral legislation. Obama hasn’t done
that. He’s playing baseline games just like the rest of them.  (Ezra Klein is a Bloomberg View columnist. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Ezra Klein in  Washington  at 
 wonkbook@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Francis Wilkinson at 
 fwilkinson1@bloomberg.net  