-- 
Korean Regulator Criticised for Failing to Probe Banks

-- B y   B o m i   L i m   a n d   S e o n j i n   C h a
-- 
2011-06-02T06:57:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-02/korean-regulator-attacked-as-pressure-grows-for-probe-into-savings-banks.html
South Korea ’s financial watchdog came
under increased scrutiny over its monitoring of savings banks
after Prime Minister Kim Hwang Sik said it resisted probes by
the state auditor into the lenders last year.  The  Financial Supervisory Service  tried to dissuade the
Board of Audit and Inspection from examining savings banks
between January and April 2010 for suspicion of improper lending,
Kim told lawmakers today in Seoul. Kim was chairman of the state
auditor at the time, prior to taking his current post in October.  “Our inspection faced very strong resistance from the FSS,
which said they will do it on their own,” according to Kim.
“They said a stringent probe will turn up too many problems,
which may cause bank runs.”  The ruling Grand National Party yesterday proposed a probe
by an independent counsel into savings banks amid growing
speculation that regulators overlooked illicit activity at the
lenders. Korean finance regulators have also angered investors
with delays that are holding up  Lone Star  Funds’ sale of  Korea
Exchange Bank (004940)  even as President  Lee Myung Bak  pushes for
consolidation in the industry.  The  Financial Services Commission , the state regulator,
said last month it will postpone approval of  Hana Financial
Group Inc. (086790) ’s planned purchase of Seoul-based Korea Exchange Bank
until legal disputes involving Dallas-based Lone Star were
resolved. The FSS is a privately funded agency that enforces
regulations set by the FSC.  Corruption Scandal  “The savings bank crisis is evolving into a corruption
scandal and that’s the last thing the Lee government needs right
now, when it’s already losing its battle against inflation,”
said Kang Won Taek, a professor of political science at the
Seoul National University. “This may make it hard for the
ruling party to retain its parliamentary majority next year.”  South Korea this year suspended eight savings banks,
including Busan Savings Bank and its four units, after their
finances deteriorated because loans for construction projects
soured amid a real-estate slump. The government is seeking to
sell seven of the lenders by August.  In anticipation of a general legislative vote in April and
a presidential election in December 2012, Lee’s  Grand National
Party  needs to bolster its popularity and tame inflation that
has exceeded the central bank’s 4 percent target ceiling for
five months straight.  Approval Drops  Lee’s approval rating has dropped to 27.1 percent from 45.5
percent at the end of last year, according to a survey conducted
between May 23 and May 27 by Seoul-based  Realmeter . The latest
poll had a margin of error of 1.6 percentage point. Lee, 69, is
in his fourth year of the single five-year term allowed by South
Korea’s Constitution.  The Supreme Prosecutors’ Office on May 2 indicted
executives at Busan Savings Bank affiliates on charges including
accounting fraud and embezzlement. The prosecutors blamed
“insufficient supervision” by the FSS for the failure to
detect the lenders’ illegal activities.  The FSS faces “the biggest crisis ever,” Lee said on May
4 as he ordered reforms.  Allegations by the prosecutor’s office come as the FSS is
tightening oversight of foreign banks’ securities trading to
prevent rapid capital flows from disrupting markets. The
regulator said this week London-based  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  and
Paris-based  Credit Agricole SA (ACA)  were penalized for improperly
outsourcing Korean branches’ derivatives trading to branches in
 Hong Kong .  Stern Punishment  Kim said today he rejected a meeting request from then FSS
Chairman Kim Jong Chang to show the auditor’s “strong
determination.” Relatives of managers at the targeted savings
banks also tried to persuade him to call off the inspection, the
prime minister said.  Former FSS Chairman Kim suspended his agency’s ongoing
probe into Busan Savings Bank in February 2010 before resuming
it a week later to buy time for the lenders to respond, KBS
television reported last night. The FSS denied the report and
said the temporary suspension was procedural in an e-mailed
statement today.  “If any officials are found of wrongdoing, they should be
sternly punished,” Prime Minister Kim said.  GNP lawmakers led by Chang Je Won submitted a bill to the
National Assembly yesterday, calling for an investigation by a
so-called “special prosecutor” into the latest scandal,
according to the text of the bill on the parliament website. The
bill comes as the parliament this week agreed to hold a separate
hearing on the case.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bomi Lim in  Seoul  at 
 blim30@bloomberg.net ;
Seonjin Cha in Seoul at 
 scha2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg in Hong Kong at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net ;
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  