-- 
Korea Trade’s Cho Says Petrochemical Firms to Benefit From FTA

-- B y   S a n g i m   H a n
-- 
2011-06-02T06:25:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-02/korea-trade-s-cho-says-petrochemical-firms-to-benefit-from-fta.html
Cho Seong Dae, chief researcher at
the FTA & Industry Research Office Institute for International
Trade, part of the Korea International Trade Association,
comments on the impact of a free-trade agreement with the
European Union on South Korean petrochemical companies.  Once the agreement takes effect in July, the European
bloc’s tariff on more than 90 percent of Korean petrochemical
products, currently 5 percent to 6.5 percent, will end
immediately and the remaining ones will be phased out over five
years.  South Korea  reported a $66 million trade deficit for
petrochemical products with the EU in 2010, compared with a
surplus of $166 million in 2009, according to data from the
association.  “Once the agreement takes effect, there will be tariff
(saving) effects to buyers in the EU amounting to 40 billion won
($37 million) to 50 billion won a year.  ‘‘Korean petrochemical companies are now enjoying growing
momentum, driven by rising demand from China, but it’s doubtful
how long the demand will last. The Korea-EU FTA indicates they
will be able to win a significant market, which will enable them
to be balanced and hedge the China-market risk.  ‘‘In competing with Japanese and Chinese rivals, Koreans
will benefit from the pact, especially in the market for
synthetic resins and other widely used petrochemicals, where
price is an important factor in selecting suppliers. They will
enjoy that advantage for several years as it’s unlikely the bloc
will develop FTA talks with Japan and  China  soon.  ‘‘It’s important for Korean petrochemical companies to
market that advantage aggressively to their partners in the EU.
They can increase the gains to more than the tariff savings.’’  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sangim Han in Seoul at 
 sihan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  