-- 
Won Falls for First Time in Six Days on Concern Global Growth Losing Steam

-- B y   S e y o o n   K i m
-- 
2011-06-02T06:30:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-02/korean-won-falls-for-first-time-in-six-days-on-growth-concern.html
South Korea ’s won weakened for the
first time in six days as U.S. manufacturing and employment data
added to evidence the global economic recovery is losing
traction, dimming the outlook for exports.  The U.S. Institute for Supply Management’s factory index
fell last month to the lowest level since September 2009, data
released yesterday showed. Employers in the world’s largest
economy added 38,000 workers to payrolls, the fewest in eight
months, according to ADP Employer Services. The MSCI Asia-
Pacific Index of shares snapped a two-day rally after Moody’s
Investors Service downgraded  Greece ’s credit rating.  “Moody’s downgrade of Greece’s rating on top of sluggish
U.S. economic indicators is prompting investors to avoid buying
riskier assets, weakening the won,” said Cho Young Bok, a
currency dealer at Daegu Bank in  Seoul . “Some exporters are
trying to take profit after the won fell, repatriating their
income.”  The won dropped 0.6 percent to 1,080.85 per dollar at the 3
p.m. close in Seoul, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The currency has appreciated 3.8 percent this year.  The government’s benchmark three-year bonds gained, with
the yield on the 3 percent note due December 2013 falling nine
basis points, the most since March 10, to 3.56 percent,
according to prices from Korea Exchange Inc.  South Korean bonds held by overseas investors more than
doubled by a net 2.65 trillion won ($2.5 billion), the biggest
jump in seven months, to 78.8 trillion won as of May 31, the
 Financial Supervisory Service  said today. Overseas investors
sold a net 2.8 trillion won of the nation’s stocks last month,
compared with net purchases of 4.4 trillion won in April.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Seyoon Kim in Seoul at 
 skim7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  