-- 
National Express Adds Former Heads of Ferrovial, NYC Transport

-- B y   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 
2011-06-02T10:58:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-02/national-express-adds-former-heads-of-ferrovial-nyc-transport.html
National Express Group Plc (NEX)  hired the
former chiefs of Spanish builder Ferrovial SA and the New York
Metropolitan Transportation Authority as non-executive directors
as the U.K. bus-and-train company seeks to boost overseas sales.  Lee Sander, who was chief executive officer of the New York
Metropolitan Transportation Authority until 2009 and Joaquin Ayuso, who was CEO of Ferrovial until the same year, will start
immediately, the company said in a statement.  The two join as part of a deal between the company and its
largest shareholder, Elliott Advisers, which wanted board
members with experience in  North America  and continental Europe.
Chris Muntwyler, who joined as part of the plan on May 11,
worked in transport and logistics for more than 30 years,
spending 27 years at Swissair and nine at Deutsche Post AG’s
DHL, most recently as CEO of the U.K. unit.  “They bring depth and breadth to our board based on their
transport knowledge in America and in continental  Europe 
respectively,”  National Express  Chairman John Devaney said in
the statement. “They bring strong general management experience
from an international perspective and this will add value to our
strategic thinking long-term.”  Elliott dropped its plan to demand a shakeup of the board
at National Express’s annual meeting last month, and won’t
“agitate” against management publicly for at least another
year, the U.K. company said this month. Elliott, with had an 18
percent stake earlier this month, had been calling for the
operator of commuter trains and long-distance buses to consider
a takeover or breakup to boost earnings and buoy the stock.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Howard Mustoe in  London  at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  