-- 
MRSA Strain That Eludes Traditional Tests Found in Cow’s Milk, Study Finds

-- B y   K r i s t e n   H a l l a m
-- 
2011-06-02T22:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-02/new-mrsa-strain-that-eludes-usual-tests-found-in-cow-s-milk.html
British scientists have discovered a
new strain of the drug-resistant germ known as MRSA in cow’s
milk and some evidence that the animals could be a source of the
infection in humans.  University of Cambridge researchers were led to the
discovery while studying an infection of the animals’ udders,
according to an article published today in the U.K journal  The
Lancet Infectious Diseases.  Tests showed that people in
 Scotland , England and  Denmark  carried the new variant of MRSA,
or methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus, and that the
bacteria can elude the usual means of detection.  Tests that search for the mecA gene, which enables the
bacteria to resist treatment with some antibiotics, can miss the
new, genetically different strain, researchers said. Relying
solely on gene testing can lead doctors to prescribe medicines
that are powerless against MRSA, the researchers said.  “It’s important that any of the MRSA testing that is based
on detection of the mecA gene be upgraded to ensure that the
tests detect the new gene found in the new MRSA,” said Mark
Holmes, the lead researcher, in a statement.  While the new strain can cause disease in people, the risk
of becoming infected is low, the scientists said. Further study
is planned to determine how prevalent the new strain is and
where it’s coming from, the researchers said.  Molecular Testing  Standard molecular screening for MRSA searches for the mecA
gene. The new strain has a mecA gene that’s only 60 percent
similar to the original version, leading to a false negative
result when tested, the study found.  Testing should be updated to identify the genetic change,
researchers said. The majority of testing in British hospitals
is performed by seeing if the bacteria will grow in the presence
of antibiotics, Holmes said.  “Even though this new strain isn’t picked up by the
current molecular tests, they do still remain effective for the
detection of over 99 percent of MRSAs,” said Angela Kearns,
head of the U.K. Health Protection Agency’s Staphylococcus
Reference Laboratory, in a statement.  The researchers also found evidence that cattle could be a
key reservoir of the new strain of MRSA. The samples found in
humans were either of a strain thought to be unique to animals
or other types detected in cattle, the study said. In  England ,
the researchers found a geographical association between human
and animal isolates of MRSA. Pasteurization of milk will prevent
infection, they said.  Staphylococcus aureas bacteria live on the skin and in nasal
passages. Of the people with the bacteria present, about 1
percent have MRSA, according to the U.S. Centers for Disease
Control and Prevention. MRSA causes infection when germs enters
the body through a cut, a sore, a catheter or a breathing tube,
according to the U.S.  National Institutes of Health .  MRSA Infections  MRSA infections can occur in hospitals or in otherwise
healthy people who come into contact with the bacteria in
settings such as locker rooms or daycare centers, the NIH said.
Infections cause a red, painful, swollen area on the skin, and
symptoms of severe cases include chest pain, chills, fatigue,
fever and shortness of breath.  Serious MRSA infections acquired while in the hospital may
be treated with medicines including  Cubist Pharmaceuticals
Inc. (CBST) ’s Cubicin, Pfizer Inc.’s Zyvox and generic drugs such as
doxycycline and tetracycline, according to NIH.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristen Hallam in London at 
 khallam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at   pserafino@bloomberg.net  