-- 
Jill Abramson to Become First Female Executive Editor at New York Times

-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 
2011-06-02T20:19:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-02/ny-times-names-first-female-executive-editor.html
Jill Abramson will replace Bill Keller as the  New York  Times’ executive editor, becoming the
first female editor of the newspaper in its 160-year history.  Abramson, 57, has been managing editor since 2003 and will
take Keller’s spot on Sept. 6, according to a statement today.
Her new role is “a dream job for any journalist,” she said in
the statement.  Keller, 62, has been executive editor for eight years and
has written columns for the New York Times Magazine this year.
He will continue to write regularly for the magazine and will
start a column for the paper’s new Sunday opinion section, set
to be introduced June 26. Keller felt it was time for him to
step down, Arthur Sulzberger Jr., chairman of  New York Times Co. (NYT) 
and publisher of the newspaper, said in the statement.  “Without question, Jill is the best person to succeed
Bill,” said Sulzberger. “Over the past year, she has immersed
herself in our digital strategy and led the effort to fully
integrate the newsroom.”  New York Times Co., which also owns the Boston Globe and
the website About.com, reported falling profit in the first
quarter as advertising and circulation sales declined. Times Co.
announced a so-called Internet paywall on March 28 for its
namesake newspaper to generate additional revenue from online
readers. The company said in April more than 100,000 people have
signed up for paid online subscriptions.  A Different Era  Abramson joined the Times in 1997 and became  Washington 
editor in 1999. Hiring a woman to head the paper is “the
culmination of decades of evolution leading to considering women
as fully equal and able participants in the career of
journalism,” according to Linda Greenhouse, a New York Times
reporter from 1968 to 2008, who covered the  Supreme Court  for 30
years and worked for Abramson.  A class action sex-discrimination lawsuit filed by female
reporters in the 1970s against Times Co. changed the newspaper’s
culture and its hiring practices, Greenhouse said in a telephone
interview. While the case was pending, the Times began giving
women new opportunities, eventually clearing the way for today’s
announcement, she said.  “When I first started, you could have shot a cannon in the
newsroom and the chances of hitting a woman would have been very
slight,” said Greenhouse, who is the Knight Distinguished
Journalist-in-Residence and Joseph Goldstein Lecturer in Law at
 Yale Law School . “Today, Jill’s trajectory seems natural.”  Dean Baquet, bureau chief in Washington, will take over
Abramson’s job as managing editor, the newspaper said. Baquet
was an investigative reporter and national editor for the Times
during the 1990s.  Times Co. fell 14 cents to $7.57 at 4:15 p.m. in New York
Stock Exchange trading. The stock has dropped 23 percent this
year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net  