-- 
Lockheed Cyber Attack Probe Led by FBI, Pentagon Official Says

-- B y   G o p a l   R a t n a m
-- 
2011-06-02T21:54:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-02/lockheed-cyber-attack-probe-led-by-fbi-pentagon-official-says.html
The  Federal Bureau of Investigation 
is leading the investigation of a cyber attack on  Lockheed
Martin Corp. (LMT) ’s computers, a Pentagon official said today.  “The FBI has the lead because it’s a criminal activity,”
Robert Butler, the deputy assistant secretary of defense for
cyber policy, said in an interview. The probe by the National
Cyber Investigative Joint Task Force will determine if the
breach was a result of “poor hygiene, if nothing was
infiltrated and nothing taken or something more.”  Butler declined to say what actions the Pentagon would take
if the investigation showed malicious intent by state or non-
state actors. A spokeswoman for FBI declined to comment on the
investigation.  Speaking earlier in the day at a forum in  Washington  hosted
by the Center for a New American Security, Butler said the
Pentagon determined that the impact of the attack on the Defense
Department was minimal, based on information that Lockheed
shared with the agency.  Lockheed, the world’s largest defense contractor, said May
28 that its computer network suffered a “significant and
tenacious” attack on May 21 that was detected immediately. The
Bethesda, Maryland-based company said no customer, program or
customer data was lost in the attack.  Lockheed uses a network-access security system produced by
Hopkinton, Massachusetts-based EMC Corp.’s RSA unit. RSA
bolstered security for clients, including Lockheed, after a
network breach in March resulted in the theft of RSA data, a
person familiar with the process said May 28.  The remediation involves replacing the SecurID tokens
issued by RSA that often expire in three years, said the person,
who wasn’t authorized to discuss the matter publicly. The
company’s defense-contractor clients, which make missiles,
aircraft and other weapons, also include  Northrop Grumman Corp. (NOC) 
and  Raytheon Co. (RTN)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Gopal Ratnam in Washington at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 Msilva34@bloomberg.net  