-- 
Modelo, Molson Coors Are Said to Work With Banks on Possible Foster’s Bid

-- B y   S e r e n a   S a i t t o ,   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n   a n d   J a c q u e l i n e   S i m m o n s
-- 
2011-06-03T07:28:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-02/modelo-molson-coors-are-said-work-with-banks-on-possible-bid-for-foster-s.html
Grupo Modelo SAB de CV (GMODELOC) , the Mexican
brewer of Corona beer, and  Molson Coors Brewing Co. (TAP)  have been
exploring a possible joint bid for  Australia ’s  Foster’s Group
Ltd. (FGL) , said five people with knowledge of the situation.  The brewers are working with banks including Bank of
America Corp. and Deutsche Bank AG on lining up financing for a
potential purchase, said the people, who declined to be
identified because the matter is private. Shares of Melbourne-
based Foster’s surged 3.5 percent today, giving it a market
value of about A$8.6 billion ($9.2 billion).  A takeover of Foster’s may face challenges if Anheuser-
Busch InBev NV, which owns 50 percent of Modelo, seeks to block
a purchase, the people said. A bid looks less likely now than it
did a few weeks ago because of concerns about the structure of a
deal, they said. The companies could also pursue Foster’s on
their own or with other partners, the people said.  “They do need a partner to finance a deal,” Philip Gorham, an analyst with  Morningstar Inc. (MORN)  in  Chicago , said of
Molson Coors in a telephone interview. “Australia is a mature
market that Molson understands.”  Adding Foster’s may help Modelo stay independent after the
brewer unsuccessfully tried to deny board seats to AB InBev
directors. InBev, the world’s largest brewer, got a non-
controlling stake in Modelo and nine of 19 board seats in its
$52 billion acquisition of Anheuser-Busch in 2008. Modelo has a
market value of about 230 billion pesos ($20 billion).  Consensus on Deal  An acquisition by Mexico City-based Modelo would require
the consensus of the brewer’s shareholders, including AB InBev.  Molson Coors might be more likely to team up with its
existing U.S. partner,  SABMiller Plc (SAB) , to bid for Foster’s,
rather than get tied up with competitor AB InBev, Gorham said.  “To be pulled in two directions like that could lead to a
loss of focus on their own strategic direction,” he said.  Modelo is being advised by Bank of America and Greenhill &
Co., and Molson Coors is working with Deutsche Bank, the people
said. Modelo uses Denver-based Molson Coors, rather than AB
InBev, to distribute its brands in the U.K.  Foster’s said last year it hired Gresham Advisory Partners
as a financial adviser.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  is also an
adviser, and the brewer is open to a takeover, the people said.  Shares Surge  Foster’s rose 15 cents to A$4.43 at the 4:10 p.m. market
close in Sydney, the largest gain since Jan. 24. The stock
earlier rose as much as 7.9 percent.  Foster’s noted the report of a “potential bid” in a
filing and said it’s not aware of any unannounced information
after being queried by the Australian Securities Exchange on the
share price rise.  Modelo declined 0.4 percent to 71.28 pesos in Mexico City
trading yesterday, and Molson Coors declined 3.7 percent to
$44.36.  Colin Wheeler, a spokesman for Molson Coors, and Jennifer Shelley, a spokeswoman for Modelo, declined to comment, as did
Andrew Butcher, a spokesman for Foster’s, and AB InBev’s
Marianne Amssoms. Spokesmen for Deutsche Bank, Bank of America,
Goldman Sachs and Greenhill also declined to comment.  The talks between Modelo and Coors show how a growing
number of consumer-product companies, squeezed by rising
commodity prices and limited consumer demand, are looking to
snap up rivals with business in other markets.  ConAgra Foods
Inc. (CAG)  made an unsolicited $4.9 billion takeover offer for cereal
maker  Ralcorp Holdings Inc. (RAH)  last month.  Foster’s Interest  Other brewers have also expressed interest in Foster’s,
which has a 50 percent share of the Australian beer market.
SABMiller Plc, the world’s second-largest brewer by volume, was
studying a bid for the beer assets, a person familiar with the
situation said in September. A spokesman for SABMiller declined
to comment.  Japan ’s  Asahi Breweries Ltd. (2502)  may also be interested in
Foster’s, according to two people close to the situation.
Takayuki Tanaka, a spokesman for Tokyo-based Asahi, declined to
comment.  Foster’s distributes Modelo’s Corona brand in Australia.
The Australian brewer last month spun off its Treasury Wine
Estates Ltd. division, the world’s second-largest winemaker, to
focus on beer. Treasury Wine was valued at A$2.2 billion as a
public company after Foster’s rejected an unsolicited offer of
as much as A$2.7 billion for the business in September.  Foster’s said in a May 2010 statement that creating
separate wine and beer companies would enable both to be valued
more appropriately by the market over time.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Serena Saitto in New York at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons in Paris at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  