-- 
Moody’s Downgrade Puts Greece in Debt-Rating Hall of Shame Alongside Cuba

-- B y   J a m e s   H e r t l i n g   a n d   A b i g a i l   M o s e s
-- 
2011-06-02T09:35:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-02/moody-s-downgrade-puts-greece-in-debt-rating-hall-of-shame-alongside-cuba.html
Greece entered a league of debt-
market pariahs when Moody’s Investors Service downgraded its
 credit rating  to Caa1, leaving only  Ecuador  as a worse sovereign
risk. Ecuador, now Caa2, defaulted in 1999 and again in 2008.  Caa1, four steps above Moody’s lowest rating and 16 from
the highest, marked a brief stop for  Argentina  in 2001 on its
way to default and devaluation. In 1998,  Pakistan  was cut to
Caa1 after its nuclear-bomb tests isolated it internationally.
Cuba, battered by a U.S. embargo and mounting debt to foreign
exporters, has had the same rating since 1999.  Greece risks becoming the euro area’s first sovereign
default, causing a chain reaction that could rock the financial
system of the world’s second-biggest economic bloc. Last year’s
110 billion-euro ($158 billion) rescue of  Greece  failed to stem
the contagion. With the country facing a funding shortfall of 30
billion euros next year, policy makers are trying to put
together the latest financial lifeline by the end of the month.  “The Moody’s downgrade was absolutely right,” said  Bill Blain , co-head of strategy at broker Newedge Group in London.
“It confirms what we all knew.”  Moody’s said in a statement yesterday that there’s “at
least an even chance of default over the rating horizon.”  Greece responded by saying the cut wasn’t warranted as it
“overlooks” the nation’s commitment to meeting its 2011 fiscal
target as well as an “accelerated” state asset-sales program.
Greece has achieved “significant fiscal targets” and will submit
to parliament its mid-term fiscal plan in the next few days, the
government said in an e-mailed statement.  Series of Downgrades  Struggling to pay its creditors amid a third year of
economic contraction, Greece has had its debt rating cut five
times by Moody’s since December 2009 when the grade was A1.  Greek sovereign debt has been the world’s most expensive to
insure since April, when it surpassed  Venezuela . Credit-default
swaps on Greece now cost 1,467 basis points, exceeding
Venezuela’s by about 300 basis points and leading Pakistan, the
next most expensive, by almost 600.  Credit swaps on Portugal and Ireland, which rose to records
today, now round out the five most expensive sovereigns after
overtaking Argentina in April. A basis point on a contract
protecting $10 million of debt from default for five years is
equivalent to $1,000 a year.  The Greek five-year swaps imply a 72 percent probability
the country will default within that time, according to a
standard pricing model used by traders. The calculation assumes
investors would recover 40 percent on the underlying bonds if
there were a default.  “Over five-year investment horizons, around 50 percent of
Caa1-rated sovereigns, non-financial corporate and financial
institutions have consistently met their debt-service
requirements,” Moody’s said in yesterday’s statement. “Around
50 percent have defaulted.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Hertling in Paris at  jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
Abigail Moses in  London  at 
 Amoses5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  