-- 
Moody’s May Cut U.S. If No Debt Limit Progress

-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e   a n d   H e i d i   P r z y b y l a
-- 
2011-06-02T23:35:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-02/moody-s-says-u-s-may-be-cut-if-no-debt-limit-progres.html
Moody’s Investors Service said it
will put the U.S. government’s Aaa credit rating under review
for a downgrade unless there’s progress on increasing the debt
limit by mid-July.  “The heightened polarization over the debt limit has
increased the odds of a short-lived default,” New York-based
Moody’s said in a statement today. “If this situation remains
unchanged in coming weeks, Moody’s will place the rating under
review.”  Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  has warned that a
failure to raise the debt ceiling by Aug. 2, the date he now
projects borrowing authority would be exhausted, may have
catastrophic effects on the U.S. economy by sharply raising
borrowing costs. Republicans are using the debt-ceiling talks to
press for cuts in  government spending .  Geithner today predicted that agreements would be reached
on both issues.  “I’m confident two things are going to happen this
summer,” he told reporters after meeting with freshman House
members at the Capitol. “One is we’re going to avoid a default
crisis, and we’re going to reach agreement on a long-term fiscal
plan.”  House Speaker  John Boehner , Republican of  Ohio , used the
Moody’s statement to underscore his party’s position that any
deal on raising the $14.3 trillion debt ceiling must be
accompanied by a plan to reduce budget deficits.  ‘Credible Agreement’  “An increase in the debt limit without major spending cuts
will hurt our economy and destroy jobs,” Boehner said in a
statement. “A credible agreement means the spending cuts must
exceed the debt-limit increase.”  In April,  Standard & Poor’s  put the U.S. government on
notice that it risks losing its top AAA credit rating unless
policy makers agree on a plan by 2013 to reduce budget deficits
and the national debt.  The announcement by S&P marked the first time the U.S.
credit outlook was questioned since 1995 and 1996, when a
dispute between then-President Bill Clinton and House Speaker
Newt Gingrich led to government shutdowns.  Fitch Ratings  put
U.S. debt on a “negative ratings watch” in November 1995 until
spring 1996, and Moody’s put some U.S. government bonds on
review for a possible downgrade in January 1996.  “Obviously the debt limit has to be raised or it’s going
to bring a severe blow to the  U.S. economy ,” said Jason Rogan,
director of U.S. government trading at Guggenheim Partners LLC,
a New York-based brokerage for institutional investors. Moody’s
is  “pretty much restating what everyone on  Wall Street  is well
aware of.”  Treasuries, Stocks  Yields on 10-year Treasuries climbed to 3.03 percent at 5
p.m. in New York, from 3.01 percent before the Moody’s
announcement and a six-month low of 2.94 percent yesterday. The
euro climbed as much as 1.3 percent to $1.4514, the strongest
level since May 6. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, which
tumbled 2.3 percent yesterday amid concern the economic recovery
is faltering, fell 0.1 percent to 1,312.94 after opening the
session at its cheapest valuation since March.  Representative Steny Hoyer of  Maryland , the second-ranking
Democrat in the House, said the warning by Moody’s makes clear
that both parties must act on raising the debt ceiling.  “The markets ought to know we’re going to get this done,”
Hoyer said after a White House meeting with President  Barack Obama . A default “would have catastrophic consequences.”  A Treasury official said the department did not have any
conversations with Moody’s in advance of the announcement and
found out about it shortly before it was released.  Spending Cuts  A bill that would raise the limit by $2.4 trillion failed
to win House passage May 31 in a vote Democrats said was rigged
to ensure its defeat. Republicans who control the  House of
Representatives  announced the vote last week as a way to
demonstrate that lawmakers don’t support extending the limit
unless agreement is reached with the Obama administration on
significant spending cuts.  “The negotiations now on  deficit reduction  over the medium
term are a significant opportunity to actually do something on
that front,” said  Steven Hess , senior credit officer at Moody’s
in  New York . “Although fundamentally, the debt limit question
is separate from long-term deficit reduction, they seem to be
linked at this point in  Washington .”  Boehner yesterday said “it’s time” he and Obama get
personally involved in talks on a debt-reduction package.
Boehner was voicing concerns that bipartisan negotiations led by
Vice President  Joe Biden  are proceeding too slowly.  Boehner said the White House and Congress should strike a
deal within a month to avoid a continuing impasse over raising
the debt ceiling.  Face-to-Face  His comments raised the possibility that the stalemate
could culminate in the coming weeks in the year’s second high-
level negotiation between Obama and Republican leaders on
spending cuts. Obama and Boehner hashed out the final details of
an agreement on the 2011 federal budget face-to-face at the
White House in April, agreeing to about $38.5 billion in
reductions with just hours to spare before a government
shutdown.  Biden is directing negotiations among a bipartisan group of
six House and Senate lawmakers, with a goal of a $1 trillion
debt-reduction package.  Democrats and Republicans have found common ground on an
estimated $200 billion in cuts to programs outside of Medicare,
Social Security and Medicaid, according to congressional aides.
Still, the two sides have yet to address many of the most
difficult issues in the budget, according to Maryland
Representative Chris Van Hollen, a Democratic member of the
panel.  Cuts to Medicare  Democratic members, like South Carolina Representative Jim Clyburn, are opposed to cutting Medicare, while Republicans like
House Majority Leader Eric Cantor insist they will not allow tax
increases as part of a budget plan. The Biden group is scheduled
to meet next on June 9.  A separate budget-cutting effort led by Senators Mark Warner of  Virginia , a Democrat, and Saxby Chambliss of  Georgia ,
a Republican, has stalled after losing one of its three
Republican members, Senator Tom Coburn of  Oklahoma .  For all the debate over the debt limit, bond yields in the
U.S. are lower now than when the government was running a budget
surplus a decade ago.  Credit-default swaps that protect against default on  U.S.
debt  for one year have risen to 46.5 basis points from 24 basis
points on May 16, when the U.S. reached the borrowing limit,
according to data provided by CMA, which is owned by CME Group
Inc. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately
negotiated market. The contracts pay the buyer face value if a
borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the value of the
defaulted debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  