-- 
Option Market-Share Data Is in Doubt as Group Calls for Review

-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 
2011-06-02T19:16:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-02/option-market-share-data-is-in-doubt-as-group-calls-for-review.html
The U.S. options industry should
consider standards for how exchanges calculate their market
share because the current system may be sowing confusion,
according to Barclays Plc’s J.P. Xenakis, who is co-chair of a
group that is examining data issues.  Most exchanges use information from Chicago-based  OCC ,
which clears all options trades executed by public venues. That
tally produces a higher number than the volume of buy and sell
requests matched by those venues, said Manisha Kimmel, executive
director of the  Financial Information Forum , which formed a
group co-chaired by Xenakis to examine what data are reported by
both the OCC and Options Price Reporting Authority, which
publishes trade and quotation data in real time.  “There’s a lot at stake,” said Xenakis, New York-based
head of electronic options trading distribution at  Barclays
Capital . Market share matters to exchanges, while retail brokers
and investors may also look at the statistics to decide where to
send orders. “It’s pretty important we find out what exactly
we’re looking at when we look at market share and volume numbers
from OCC and OPRA,” he said.  Options market share has become more important with nine
exchanges competing for orders, up from six in 2007. A pilot
program to quote some contracts in 1-cent price increments that
year also produced changes in the rules some exchanges use to
match orders, intensifying the battle for volume.  ‘Trying to Understand’  “We’re trying to understand the data,” said Kimmel. FIF
is a subsidiary of New York-based  Jordan & Jordan , which
specializes in securities industry information and compliance
issues. “People are seeing different numbers in different
places and want to know what the volume includes,” she said.  Exchanges, brokers and the media use  OCC  data to track
options trading because it’s publicly available and segments
each venue’s share of volume, Xenakis said. He added that it’s
unclear how accurately the current market share data represents
the industry’s actual trading volume, which can differ from the
cleared volume. The FIF committee will also examine whether
users may benefit from changes that identify certain types of
orders in the OCC or OPRA data, he said.  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ) ’s Nasdaq OMX PHLX exchange passed
 CBOE Holdings Inc. (CBOE) ’s  Chicago Board Options Exchange  in May to
become the biggest equity-derivatives venue in the U.S.,
according to data released yesterday by OCC. It accounted for
more than 24 percent of total options volume.  OPRA, which administers the dissemination of trade and
quote information to brokers, investors and market-data vendors
such as Thomson Reuters Corp. and Bloomberg LP, the parent of
Bloomberg News, is managed by the nine options exchanges. It
 charges  users for its data.  ‘Accurate’  The OCC data is an “accurate reflection” of the options
information it’s meant to capture, according to Dan Busby, a
vice president at OCC, which is owned by five exchanges. The
organization, formerly called Options Clearing Corp.,  processes 
all equity derivatives contracts traded on exchanges, as well as
other products such as futures on individual stocks and
securities-lending transactions.  OCC reports cleared trades, which may be a larger number
than the total reported through  OPRA , Busby said. The difference
occurs because orders sent from one exchange to another that has
a better price result in two cleared trades for technical
reasons. If the first exchange’s so-called executing broker
ships the order to another venue and gets a trade, the broker
produces another transaction to give that execution to the
original customer, he said.  ‘Inflated Number’  That second transaction is a cleared trade reported in OCC
volume figures. It is not reported to OPRA.  “There has been some deviation between cleared volume and
OPRA volume for years,” Busby said. “The OCC volume is
somewhat of an inflated number, but I don’t think we know
exactly what that percentage is.”  About 3 percent of the OCC volume may come from cleared
trades beyond the actual number of matched trades, based on data
from December through April that FIF compiled, Kimmel said. An
exchange’s market share may vary based on how much volume it
routes to other venues, she said.  “There’s an awful lot of gray here in terms of what
constitutes volume and market share,” said Thomas Knorring,
vice president for trade processing at the  Chicago Board Options
Exchange , the largest equity derivatives venue in 2010. “The
OCC is very reliable about what it clears, and everyone
understands their data is based on cleared trades.”  Less Than 5%  Since less than 5 percent of trades are currently double-
counted and every exchange routes some orders to other markets
for execution, it’s unclear whether the data used to track
volume should be altered, Knorring said. He added that the OPRA
data may not “sync with” OCC’s because trade messages sent to
OPRA may not be updated or technology outages may lead to
missing transactions.  Knorring is a member of the OPRA committee and chairs the
policy committees of the  Consolidated Tape Association  and
 Nasdaq UTP Plan , which oversee the dissemination of all quote
and trade information for U.S.-listed equity securities. The
members of the CTA and UTP include U.S.  stock exchanges  and the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority. Although additional
transactions for orders routed to other venues also occur in
equities, the 13 stock exchanges use data from the CTA and UTP
to report their volume, not cleared trades, Knorring said.  ‘Objectionable’  The FIF group will also consider whether it may be useful
to identify subsets of options volume reported by OPRA such as
so-called dividend trades or complex orders.  Complex transactions include multiple legs. Dividend trades
involve strategies aimed at profiting from investors’ failure to
exercise options to collect a corporate dividend payment by a
certain date. The  International Securities Exchange  has said the
trades reflect “ objectionable principles ” and shouldn’t be
included in market-share statistics. Nasdaq OMX’s PHLX exchange
accounts for the vast majority of dividend trades, according to
data compiled by ISE.  Segmenting the volume to break out dividend trades or
complex orders may allow brokers and investors to gauge the type
of orders exchanges attract, Xenakis said. That could provide
clarity about the options volume that brokers and their
customers can trade with on a particular exchange, he said.  While most exchanges use OCC data to represent U.S. options
volume and calculate their share of trading, they don’t hew to a
standard for reporting those numbers. The result is that their
market shares don’t reflect comparable statistics.  “Because there’s no defined method for calculating market
share, there are multiple institutions giving different views,”
Xenakis said. “It muddies the water.”  No Dividends  NYSE Euronext , Nasdaq OMX Group and ISE, all based in New
York, publish their markets’  share  of volume that excludes
equity index options. Rival CBOE last month had 93 percent of
the marketplace’s index volume in part because it is the only
exchange allowed to trade options on the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index. ISE  reports  its share of trading with and without
dividend trades. CBOE Holdings  reports  the CBOE’s and C2 Options
Exchange’s portion of total volume and equity options trading
with and without dividend transactions.  BOX Options Exchange, based in  Boston ,  reports  its average
daily volume for the month without providing its market share.
Bats Global Markets in Lenexa,  Kansas ,  publishes  its so-called
matched share of trading. Matched trades reflect the portion of
volume matched on its own exchange and exclude orders routed to
other markets that led to executions.  Knorring said that many arbitrary decisions involving
market data have been made over the last couple decades as the
options industry grew, and “it’s not in the industry’s best
interest to rush to a judgment.”  While CBOE hasn’t yet formed an opinion on whether dividend
and other trades should be marked as such by OPRA, Knorring said
the exchanges should all calculate their share of trading the
same way. The stock market has also gone through periods when
data was reported differently by different venues, he said.  “There are different conventions for reporting options
market share, but we should know what the real market share and
real volume is,” Xenakis said. “We want consistency.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nina Mehta in  New York  at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  