-- 
Tobacco-Maker Lorillard Among Companies Whose Lobby Pays Off for Investors

-- B y   A l i s o n   F i t z g e r a l d
-- 
2011-06-02T04:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-02/lorillard-among-companies-whose-lobbying-is-paying-off-for-investors.html
Tobacco-maker  Lorillard Inc. (LO) , facing
the prospect that the government might ban its top product, made
a bet on Washington lobbying that paid off for shareholders.  The Greensboro, North-Carolina-based company spent $900,000
in its efforts to sway regulators and lawmakers. When an
advisory panel to the U.S.  Food and Drug Administration  in March
stopped short of recommending an outright ban on menthol
cigarettes, which make up 90 percent Lorillard’s sales, the
stock price surged.  The benefit to the maker of Newport cigarettes will likely
last a couple more years, according to Strategas Research
Partners. The New York-based institutional broker dealer says
that shares of companies that spend on lobbying rise more than
the broader market.  The 50 companies with the most intense lobbying efforts
have outperformed the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index an average
12.4 percent each year since 2002, according to Strategas.
Daniel Clifton, the company’s head of policy research, said the
company measures lobbying intensity by comparing what the
company spends to its size. He declined to give the exact
formula because Strategas has a proprietary lobbying index.  “There’s a reason that corporations invest in lobbying
Congress: They see a return, and it’s good for their bottom
line,” says Mary Boyle, vice president of communications at
 Common Cause , a Washington-based advocacy group that tracks
money in politics.  Playing Offense  Legislation and regulation play a huge role in the success
of a company, Clifton says. Corporations use lobbying to play
offense and try to secure changes in laws that will help them,
and defense, to prevent damage from new proposals.  Lorillard is trying to prevent the FDA from banning menthol
flavoring in cigarettes. The company’s Newport brand of menthols
generated 90 percent of its revenue last year. Lorillard paid
the lobbying firm Dickstein Shapiro $900,000 in this year’s
first quarter, about half of what it spent on lobbying in all of
2010, according to the Center for Responsive Politics.  That put it at the top of the Strategas lobbying index for
the quarter, which ended March 31. The investment firm includes
the 50 companies with the most intense lobbying and updates the
list each quarter when new lobbying disclosures are released. At
the end of each year, the list is frozen and that index remains
in place for two more years. Strategas right now has indexes for
2009, 2010 and 2011.  Future Benefits  “Our theory is that what they’re lobbying for now yields
benefits in the future,” Clifton said.  When an FDA draft report on March 18 stopped short of
recommending menthol cigarettes be pulled from the market,
Lorillard’s shares rose the most in more than two years and
analysts at  UBS AG (UBSN)  and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  urged investors
to buy.  While the FDA hasn’t made its final decision, the chance
that it will ban menthol cigarettes has declined, UBS analyst
Nik Modi said in a March 18 note to clients.  For the quarter, Lorillard’s shares rose 16 percent while
the  S&P 500  rose 4.24 percent.  Lorillard spokesman Greg Perry declined to comment.  Most of the companies in the Strategas index are there year
after year. Only about eight companies move in and out of the
top 50 spenders each year.  Union Issue  FedEx Corp. (FDX)  and  United Parcel Service Inc. (UPS)  were locked in a
four-year battle over a change in law that would have made it
easier for FedEx drivers to unionize. UPS already has driver
unions and was pushing for the change, along with the labor
unions.  Both companies boosted their lobbying and UPS reached the
top 50 for the first time in 2009 when it spent $8.4 million on
Washington influence efforts.  FedEx, by contrast, had been in the Strategas top 50 since
2002, and boosted its investment almost fivefold during the
four-year battle, to $25.6 million last year from $5.5 million
in 2007, according to CRP.  FedEx succeeded in delaying the passage of the provision
while labor-friendly Democrats controlled the U.S. House. Now
that Republicans have taken control, the bill’s prospects have
faded. FedEx shares rose 44.34 percent from 2009 through 2010
while the S&P 500 rose 41.25 percent. UPS rose 29.35 percent for
the period.  “Lobbyists play a critical role in shaping all kinds of
legislation, and when a company has a presence on  Capitol Hill ,
it certainly improves their chances of securing the earmarks,
public policies or whatever it is they are seeking,” said
Boyle.  Some companies’ efforts don’t succeed.  Medco Health
Solutions Inc. (MHS) , which spent $1.1 million lobbying in the first
quarter, lost a $3 billion contract to provide prescription drug
benefits to government employees on May 27 to  CVS Caremark
Corp. (CVS) , which isn’t on Strategas’s top 50 list.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alison Fitzgerald in Washington at 
 afitzgerald2@bloomberg.net  