-- 
House Republican Technology Agenda Focuses on Security, Jobs

-- B y   J u l i a n n   F r a n c i s
-- 
2011-06-02T19:03:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-02/house-republicans-technology-agenda-focuses-on-security-jobs.html
House Republicans unveiled a
technology agenda focused on protecting the nation from cyber
attacks and creating jobs by passing pending trade agreements,
updating the  tax code  and fixing a broken immigration system.  “The technology sector is on the front line of our
country’s efforts to create new jobs, and they are concerned
about the policies they are seeing coming out of  Washington ,”
House Speaker  John Boehner , an Ohio Republican, said as the
agenda was announced at a news conference in Washington today.  The House Republican Technology Working Group is also
focusing on increasing the amount of airwaves available for
consumers and public safety groups, and protecting intellectual
property by modernizing patent laws.  The Senate Commerce Committee today set a June 8 vote for a
bill that would authorize incentive auctions of TV spectrum. The
Obama administration backs the auctions, which it says may bring
in more than $27 billion in the next 10 years. The auctions
require legislative approval.  “Freeing up spectrum for new wireless services and
technologies will spur innovation and reduce the federal deficit
by billions of dollars,” said Dean Garfield, chief executive
officer of the  Information Technology Industry Council , a
Washington-based industry association.  “The right people are at the table with the right ideas,”
and “the American people will reward” members of Congress who
vote for the policy ideas, which will create jobs, Garfield said
in a statement.  Economic Security  The Republican focus on cybersecurity follows the May 16
roll-out of the administration’s International Strategy for
Cyberspace, which calls for the U.S. government to work with
other countries on standards to protect intellectual property
and private information. The Republican plan focuses on national
and economic security.  “Through the click of a mouse, adversaries could bring
down” power grids and financial institutions, Representative
Michael McCaul, a Texas Republican, said at the news conference.
“The loss estimates are in the billions of dollars and American
jobs are suffering.”  House Republicans  will focus on “more specific, targeted
legislation,” for cybersecurity because “if you’re not careful
enough” with the Internet, legislative actions lead to
“unintended consequences,” he said. “We’d rather incentivize
the private sector than be punitive.”  Pending Trade Deals  The lawmakers also pointed to making the passage of pending
trade agreements with  South Korea , Columbia and Panama a
priority this summer.  “It’s not simply enough to buy American, you have to sell
American,” said Representative Kevin Brady, a Texas Republican.  The group also said it wants to “simplify” the tax code
to “lower rates on families and businesses, and encourage
companies to invest domestically,” according to a list of
priorities released today.  “We need to strengthen” the research and development tax
credit, “we need to increase it and we need to make it
permanent,” Brady said. Companies should be allowed a
repatriation allowance of up to $1 million to spur investment in
the U.S., he said.  The agenda’s focus on “protecting American intellectual
property from theft overseas” is “noteworthy,” said Robert Holleyman, chief executive officer of the  Business Software
Alliance , an industry advocate for companies including  Adobe
Systems Inc. (ADBE)  and  Apple Inc. (AAPL)   “Rampant software piracy in  China  and other fast-growing
technology markets inhibits U.S. sales and exports, which
stifles  job creation ,” he said in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Juliann Neher in Washington at 
 jfrancis31@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Allan Holmes at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net  