-- 
House Democrats Urge Recess Appointment to Consumer Bureau

-- B y   C a r t e r   D o u g h e r t y
-- 
2011-06-02T19:39:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-02/house-democrats-urge-recess-appointment-to-consumer-bureau.html
A group of Democrats in the  House of
Representatives  are urging President  Barack Obama  to use a
congressional recess to appoint Harvard University professor
 Elizabeth Warren  as first director of the Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau.  “Since Republican Senators have said that no one is
acceptable unless the law is weakened, we would urge you to
nominate Professor Warren as the CFPB’s first Director anyway,”
89 House members wrote in a letter released today. “If
Republicans in the Senate indeed refuse to consider her, we
request that you use your constitutional authority to make her a
recess appointment.”  The letter was initiated by Representatives Carolyn Maloney
of  New York , Brad Miller of  North Carolina  and Keith Ellison of
 Minnesota , members of the House Financial Services Committee.  Forty-four Republicans last month wrote to Obama saying
they would not vote to confirm anyone as CFPB’s first director
without changes to its structure, such as replacing the director
post with a five-member commission. Since confirmations
effectively require 60 votes, Republicans could block any
nominee.  “They had to choose between their constitutional duties
and the demands of the financial industry,” Miller said in a
statement. “Their constitutional duties never had a chance.”  The president can make temporary appointments to open jobs
during a Senate recess, bypassing the confirmation process.
Republicans last week used a procedural blockade to stop the
Senate from formally adjourning.  Petition for Warren  A growing number of activist groups are wading into the
fight over Warren’s possible nomination. The  Progressive Change
Campaign Committee , a political action committee that says it
supports “bold progressive” candidates, and CREDO Action, an
activist network affiliated with mobile phone provider CREDO
Mobile, delivered a pro-Warren petition with 250,000 signatures
to the lawmakers, Maloney said in an e-mailed statement.  Also, the  National Council of La Raza , a Hispanic advocacy
group, today sent an e-mail to members urging them to call their
senators in support of Warren.  “Petty politics is rearing its ugly head once again, and
some members of Congress are trying to weaken the CFPB’s
influence by denying Warren’s appointment and maintaining the
status quo,” La Raza told its members.  The missive went to about 30,000 people, Janis Bowdler,
director of the wealth-building policy project at La Raza, said
in an interview. Warren has met with some council members to
discuss housing and remittances, both priority issues for the
group, Bowdler said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carter Dougherty in  Washington  at 
 cdougherty6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 