-- 
Pakistan Leaders Must Make Choice After Clinton’s Warning: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-06-02T00:29:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-02/pakistan-leaders-must-make-choice-after-clinton-s-warning-view.html
When U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  visited Pakistan last week, she noted that U.S.-
Pakistani relations were at a turning point after the killing of
 Osama bin Laden . It was up to the Pakistanis, she said, to
decide “what kind of country they wish to live in.”  The brutalized body of investigative journalist Syed Saleem
Shahzad, which turned up outside of Islamabad on May 31, may
provide a clue to the answer.  Shahzad disappeared after publishing the first of two
promised articles linking elements of the Pakistan navy to al-
Qaeda following a deadly May 22 attack on a Karachi naval
station. Last fall, after being questioned about a different
story by Pakistan’s Directorate for Inter-Services Intelligence
(ISI), Shahzad wrote that he was threatened by the spy agency.  Alternatively, it could be that foul play like Shahzad’s
murder will become a thing of the past in Pakistan. While in
Islamabad May 27, Clinton and Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of
Staff Admiral Mike Mullen demanded authorities take “decisive
steps” to crush the violent extremists the government has long
supported, which would end the need to intimidate journalists
who expose that support. Whichever way the Pakistan government
goes, the May warnings by the U.S. ought to be the last.  The U.S. administration has continued to insist, as
President  Barack Obama  did in a May 22 interview with the  BBC ,
that the Pakistanis have “generally been significant and serious
partners against the terrorist threat to the West.” This simply
isn’t the case.  Victim, Sponsor  For much of the past decade, Pakistan has been both a
victim and a sponsor of Islamic militants. Its soldiers are
fighting bravely against homegrown terrorists seeking to install
an Islamic government. In 20 attacks in May, these radicals
killed some 150 people.  At the same time, the Pakistani army, led by General Ashfaq
Parvez Kayani, is a longstanding patron of violent groups
targeting  Afghanistan  and India. Guided by excessive fear
bordering on paranoia about India, Pakistan’s military and
intelligence services believe that nurturing those extremists is
an effective way to frustrate  India ’s regional ambitions. The
ISI largely created and continues to support the Taliban and the
Haqqani Network, the principal groups battling U.S. forces in
Afghanistan and the fledgling government in Kabul. It also backs
Lashkar-e-Taiba, the group responsible for the 2008 attacks in
Mumbai that killed more than 160 people.  Double-Dealing  President  George W. Bush ’s administration tried to end this
double-dealing by giving Pakistan billions in economic and
military assistance. Yet Bush didn’t make the aid contingent on
a crackdown on extremists. The Pakistanis cooperated somewhat
with U.S. efforts to dismantle al-Qaeda but refused to act
against other groups, including the Afghan Taliban, which was
given refuge inside Pakistan’s borders.  The Obama administration accelerated the failed Bush
policy, substantially increasing military and economic
assistance, again without imposing rigorous conditions. And
Pakistan continued to ignore administration warnings about
continued support for extremists.  In one incident reported by the  Washington Post , Obama’s
first national security adviser,  James Jones , warned officials
in Islamabad that there would be “consequences” if a terrorist
attack directed at the U.S. was traced to Pakistan. Yet when a
man who had trained at a terrorist camp in that country
attempted to detonate a car bomb in Times Square in May 2010,
the U.S. administration did nothing. Shortly thereafter, Obama
watered down Jones’s words, telling Kayani that a “successful”
attack would have consequences.  Meaning Business  So when U.S. authorities learned that Osama bin Laden might
be housed in a villa in a Pakistani garrison town, they
dispatched Navy Seals to capture or kill him without so much as
notifying the Pakistanis in advance. The raid provoked great
outrage from officials in  Pakistan . Since then, emotions have
cooled. Clinton and Mullen have delivered their warnings, public
and private. And this time, the Americans may mean business.  Will the Pakistanis respond?  Shahzad’s murder is a bad sign. On the other hand, reports
from Pakistani tribal leaders suggest that the Pakistani army
may be preparing a serious campaign in North Waziristan, where
the leaders of the Haqqani Network and other extremist groups
live.  It will soon be clear whether Clinton’s latest message got
through. If not, the administration must consider new ways to
persuade Pakistan to change course, recognizing that the country
is behaving more like an adversary than a partner.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net  