-- 
Palm-Oil Billionaires Acquire London Tower for $473 Million

-- B y   S i m o n   P a c k a r d
-- 
2011-06-02T14:29:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-02/palm-oil-billionaires-acquire-london-tower-for-473-million.html
Kuok Khoon Hong and Martua Sitorus,
the billionaire founders of the world’s largest palm oil
processor, bought  Aviva Plc (AV/) ’s headquarters building in London
for 288 million pounds ($473 million).  The purchase is a private investment and separate from
Singapore-based  Wilmar International Ltd. (WIL) , the $27.5 billion
agricultural business Kuok and Sitorus founded 20 years ago,
Elaine Lim, managing director at Wilmar’s external public
relations firm, Citigate Dewe Rogerson, said by e-mail.  The property occupied by Britain’s second-largest insurer
is the last  office tower  out of nine in the  City of London 
financial district formerly owned by Simon Halabi.  CB Richard
Ellis Group Inc. (CBG) , acting as the special servicer of the debt
secured against the properties, announced the sale today without
identifying the purchaser.  The pound’s weakness has attracted international investors
to prime real estate in central  London , where a shortage of new
developments is lifting office rents. Overseas buyers accounted
for 55 percent of the 2.43 billion pounds of office building
sales in central London in the first three months of this year,
according to figures compiled by Stafford-based  Property Data.   Kuok, the 61-year-old chairman and chief executive officer
of Wilmar, is  Singapore ’s second-richest individual with a
personal wealth estimated by Forbes in March of $3.2 billion. He
is the nephew of  Robert Kuok , the Malaysia-based billionaire.
Sitorus, 51, is Wilmar’s chief operating officer and  Indonesia ’s
fourth richest person with $2.7 billion.  $1.1 Billion Raised  The building occupied by Aviva generates a net annual rental
income equivalent to 5.42 percent of the purchase price,
according to CB Richard Ellis. A total of 1.1 billion pounds
excluding expenses was raised from the sale of nine buildings
owned by Halabi before a June 2009 default, the broker said by
e-mail.  The nine-building selloff may provide a blueprint for
recovering money in other property loan defaults, CB Richard
Ellis said. Moody’s Investors Service said 92 collateralized
mortgage-backed securities in  Europe  were in special servicing
at the end of April, worth 13.8 billion euros ($19.9 billion).
The most, by value, were backed by properties in the U.K.,
including the Halabi loans.  The sale “will hopefully become a benchmark to what can be
achieved,” said Stephen Hubbard, CB Richard Ellis’s  chairman of
real estate finance . Sales of the nine buildings show “how
important a successful real estate recovery strategy is to the
value and risk of the debt instruments.”  Loan Default  A slump in U.K. property values triggered a default on
Halabi’s loans two years ago. In August 2009, CB Richard Ellis
was given the task of returning as much money as it could to
holders of the five classes of notes sold by Halabi’s White
Tower 2006-03 Plc and junior lenders.  The office towers owned by Halabi were valued at 1.83
billion pounds October 2006 after the loans were packaged into
1.15 billion pounds of CMBS. An additional 300 million pounds of
junior loans weren’t securitized.  The value of the towers sank to 929 million pounds in June
2009 after credit markets froze following the bankruptcy of
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. nine months earlier.  Paul Lewis, a director at CB Richard Ellis’s loan servicing
arm, said it was too soon to say how much of the recovered funds
can be returned to note holders and junior creditors.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Packard in London at 
 packard@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ross Larsen at   rlarsen2@bloomberg.net  