-- 
Palm Oil Climbs as Three-Day Decline Spurs Investor Purchases

-- B y   R a n j e e t h a   P a k i a m
-- 
2011-06-02T10:37:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-02/palm-oil-climbs-as-three-day-decline-spurs-investor-purchases.html
Palm oil  gained as a three-day
decline in prices spurred investors to buy the commodity and as
soybeans climbed on U.S. planting delays.  August-delivery palm oil advanced 1.3 percent to 3,403
ringgit ($1,128) a metric ton on the  Malaysia  Derivatives
Exchange. Prices fell 2.3 percent in the previous three days.  There is some “mild short-covering” after the three-day
decline, said Paramalingam Subramaniam, director of Kuala
Lumpur-based brokerage Pelindung Bestari Sdn. Short-covering
refers to investors reversing bets on declining prices.  Palm oil’s decline was fueled by slower export growth from
Malaysia, the second-largest producer, and an improving
production outlook. Malaysia’s output in April expanded 8
percent to 1.53 million tons from March, the nation’s palm oil
board said on May 10. It will report May data on June 10.  “Despite rising crude palm oil supply in April, prices
have not softened as much, as the supplies were quickly absorbed
by the market,” Penny Yaw and Margarett Go, analysts at
Citigroup Inc., said in a report yesterday. “Global demand for
palm oil has picked up as crude palm oil prices are relatively
more attractive versus competing vegetable oils.”  Soybean oil ’s premium over palm was at $166.36 a ton today,
compared with the average of $111.74 this year. Palm oil and
soybean oil are substitutes in food and fuel uses.  Soybean Supply  “While rising inventory levels at home point toward
weakening prices, concerns on soybean supplies are still keeping
oilseeds, including palm oil, from making sharp corrections,”
Bernard Ching, an analyst at ECM Libra Capital Sdn., wrote in a
report yesterday.  Excessive rains in the Midwest, the largest corn and
soybean-growing region of the U.S., made fields too soggy for
farm machinery, delaying planting. U.S. soybean planting was 51
percent complete as of May 29, behind the five-year average of
71 percent, the Department of Agriculture said.  Cooking-oil imports by  India , the biggest user after China,
may rebound next year as record prices prompt farmers to devote
more area to cotton than oilseeds, according to Govindlal G.
Patel at G.G. Patel & Nikhil Research Co.  India meets about 50 percent of its cooking-oils
requirement through imports and increased shipments may extend a
rally that’s seen palm oil futures jump 37 percent in the past
year in Malaysia.  Soybeans for July delivery gained as much as 0.5 percent to
$13.93 a bushel in  Chicago  before trading at $13.925. Soybean
oil for delivery in the same month advanced 0.4 percent to 58.69
cents a pound.  January-delivery palm oil on the  Dalian Commodity Exchange 
gained 0.3 percent to close at 9,292 yuan ($1,433) a ton.
Soybean oil for delivery in the same month increased 0.6 percent
to 10,360 yuan a ton at the close.  CME Group Inc.’s most-active September palm-oil contract,
pegged to the Malaysian benchmark, rose 0.4 percent to $1,112
per ton.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ranjeetha Pakiam in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 rpakiam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  