-- 
Pandora Seeks to Raise $123.2 Million in IPO of Web-Based Music Provider

-- B y   L e e   S p e a r s
-- 
2011-06-02T21:40:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-02/pandora-seeks-to-raise-123-2-million-in-ipo-of-web-based-music-provider.html
Pandora Media Inc., the Internet-
music company that’s lost $92.1 million since it started in
2000, is seeking to raise as much as $123.2 million in a U.S. 
initial public offering.  The Oakland, California-based company will offer 13.7
million shares for $7 to $9 each, according to a filing with the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. Proceeds will be used
to distribute unpaid dividends and for general corporate
purposes.  Pandora is pressing ahead with plans to tap the public
market after professional-networking site LinkedIn Corp.’s
shares more than doubled in value on their first day of trading
and Yandex NV raised $1.43 billion in the world’s biggest
technology IPO of the year last month. Groupon Inc., the top
online-coupon provider, filed today to raise $750 million in an
IPO after booking a 14-fold increase in sales and a $113.9
million net loss in the first quarter.  The $8 midpoint of Pandora’s offering range would value the
company at $1.27 billion, or about 9.2 times sales. Morgan
Stanley, JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Citigroup Inc. are leading the
offering. The shares will trade on the  New York  Stock Exchange
under the symbol P.  Sales more than doubled in the three months through April
30 and registered users topped 90 million, the company said in
its filing. Pandora, which made about 87 percent of its revenue
last year from advertising, has booked net losses every year
since at least 2007 even as revenue increased 33-fold.  Royalty Costs  Advertising and subscription sales haven’t kept up with the
content royalty costs that increase with usage, and that
imbalance may affect future profitability, according to the
prospectus.  Pandora’s net loss in the last quarter widened to $6.8
million from $3 million a year earlier, as spending on marketing
and acquiring the rights to songs increased.  Founded in 2000 by Tim Westergren under the name Savage
Beast, Pandora sells advertisements that target users based on
age, gender, home postal code and musical taste. Ads support the
free radio service, though the company also sells subscriptions
to users who prefer to listen without advertising.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lee Spears in New York at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Jennifer Sondag  at   jsondag@bloomberg.net . 