-- 
Peru Stocks Jump Most in Two Years as Presidential Polls Show Dead Heat

-- B y   A n d r e a   J a r a m i l l o   a n d   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 
2011-06-02T22:20:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-02/peru-stocks-plunge-most-since-2008-on-bets-for-humala-victory.html
Peru ’s benchmark stock index jumped
the most in more than two years, erasing yesterday’s decline,
after polls showed former army renegade Ollanta Humala hasn’t
taken a lead over Congresswoman Keiko Fujimori in opinion polls
before this weekend’s presidential runoff.  The Lima General Index climbed 7.2 percent to 21,736.48 at
4:43 p.m.  New York  time after private surveys today showed the
candidates in a statistical tie. That’s the gauge’s biggest gain
since November 2008. Yesterday the index plunged 5.9 percent as
a private poll showed Fujimori’s lead shrinking and research
company Eurasia Group said Humala will likely win.  “The market is going to be very volatile as these polls
issued in international markets arise,” said Cesar Perez-Novoa,
managing director of Santiago-based brokerage Celfin Capital.  Fujimori had 51 percent support while Humala had 49 percent
before the June 5 vote, Alfredo Torres, the director of pollster
Ipsos Apoyo, told reporters in Lima today, putting her lead
close to the 1.8 percentage points margin of error. Polls by
Datum Internacional and CPI also showed a dead heat, the heads
of the polling firms said. Peruvian law bars researchers from
publishing polls in local media in the week before the election.  Peru’s sol gained 0.7 percent to 2.7580 per  U.S. dollar 
from 2.7783 yesterday. The yield on Peru’s benchmark 7.84
percent sol-denominated bond due August 2020 fell 14 basis
points, or 0.14 percentage point, to 6.60 percent, according to
Deutsche Bank AG’s local unit.  Humala’s Policies  The cost to insure Peruvian government debt against default
for five years with credit-default swaps has soared 18 basis
points since April 8, the final day of trading before Humala won
the first round of presidential balloting, to 148. The cost rose
to the highest since July 2009 on April 27, according to data
provider CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles
prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market.  Humala, a one-time ally of Venezuelan President  Hugo Chavez , pledges to revise Peru’s free-trade accords and change
the constitution to strengthen the government’s role in the $153
billion economy, while Fujimori has promised to foster policies
aimed at drawing foreign investment. Peru, which led  Latin
America  with annual economic growth of 7.2 percent since 2006,
won an investment grade rating on its foreign debt from  Standard
& Poor’s  in 2008 and Moody’s Investors Service in 2009.  Peru’s benchmark stock index jumped 9.8 percent in May as
opinion gauges showed support for Fujimori climbing. The sol
touched a three-year high of 2.7481 on May 25.  Army Rebellion  Stocks and the sol fell yesterday after Eurasia Group said
Humala had the best chances of winning this weekend’s election,
and a private poll commissioned by an investment bank showed
Fujimori’s lead over Humala narrowed to less than 1 percentage
point.  “Humala looks likely to win a larger share of undecided
voters, who are mostly poor and therefore tend to be less
concerned about the risks commonly associated with” the former
army rebel, Eurasia Group analyst Erasto Almeida said in a
statement yesterday. “Despite the tight race, the risk of
serious post-election political instability is low.”  Investors have been wary of Humala’s past support of armed
rebellion. In 2000, as a lieutenant colonel, he led 50 soldiers
who seized and occupied for a week a Southern Copper Corp. mine
to protest corruption that beset the government of  Alberto Fujimori , Keiko’s father, who ruled from 1990 to 2000.  Columbia MBA  Following last month’s decline in polls, Humala backed away
from earlier pledges to levy a mining windfall tax and ban
natural gas exports. He said in a May 23 interview that he’ll
seek consent from investors for any policy overhauls.  In a May 29 televised debate, Humala said he will respect
the country’s free-trade agreements if he’s elected to office
and he will use mechanisms within the accords to protect Peru’s
national interests.  Keiko Fujimori, who is 36 years old and holds an MBA from
 Columbia University , said she favors keeping Peru’s economy open
to foreign investment. Her father, who is in jail for directing
a death squad, led a fight against Maoist guerrillas and laid
the foundation for Peru’s economic boom by slashing inflation
from 7,650 percent to 3.5 percent during his time in office.  Peru is set to receive $50 billion of mining, energy and
infrastructure investments in the next three years, the Finance
Ministry estimates. Foreign direct investment was $7.32 billion
last year and may rise to $8.17 billion in 2011, the central
bank says.  Demand, Investment  Booming consumer demand coupled with private investment in
mines,  power plants  and infrastructure fueled an 8.8 percent
economic expansion last year, the second fastest in 16 years.  “We’ve had a long campaign, presidential debates and
numerous polls, and the market still isn’t sure who’s going to
win,” said Bret Rosen, a Latin America debt strategist at
Standard Chartered Bank.  Financial markets will likely drop should Humala win, said
Pablo Cisilino, who helps manage $24 billion in emerging-market
debt including Peruvian bonds at Stone Harbor Investment in New
York.  “The fundamentals in Peru are super strong,” he said.
“If the markets sell off significantly, we’ll probably buy”
dollar- or sol-denominated bonds, he said.  “Whatever sells off the most,” Cisilino said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
{Andrea Jaramillo} in Bogota at 
 ajaramillo1@bloomberg.net ;
{John Quigley} in  Lima  at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  