-- 
Petronas Acquires Stake in Canadian Gas Fields as It Considers LNG Exports

-- B y   J i m   P o l s o n
-- 
2011-06-02T20:08:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-02/petronas-acquires-stake-in-canadian-gas-fields-as-it-considers-lng-exports.html
Petroliam Nasional Bhd,  Malaysia ’s
state-owned oil company, made its entry into  Canada  by agreeing
to pay  Progress Energy Resources Corp. (PRQ)  as much as C$1.07 billion
($1.1 billion) for stakes in natural-gas fields with the
potential for exports to Asia.  Petronas will pay C$267.5 million for a 50 percent share in
the three fields in British Columbia, Calgary-based Progress
said in a statement today. The Malaysian company also will fund
75 percent, or up to $C802.5 million, of field development costs
for the next five years and will explore a possible liquefied
natural gas terminal to export the fuel.  Petronas, based in  Kuala Lumpur , follows PetroChina Co. and
Korea National Oil Co. in buying Canadian gas assets during the
past year. Encana Corp., the nation’s largest gas producer, said
in April it’s looking for partners to help fund extraction of
the fuel in British Columbia amid “unsustainably low” prices.  “The most attractive markets for gas in the foreseeable
future are clearly in  Asia ,” Progress Chief Executive Officer
Michael R. Culbert said today on a conference call with
analysts. “Petronas is a global leader in LNG. We could not
have found a better partner.”  Petronas agreed to invest as much as C$600 million in the
Canadian company if the decision is made to build the LNG
terminal, Culbert said. Petronas would own 80 percent of the LNG
joint venture.  Progress rose 59 cents, or 4.2 percent, to C$14.57 at 4
p.m. on the Toronto Stock Exchange. The shares have gained 15
percent this year.  Gas Prices   The sale is expected to close in the third quarter, the
companies said. Culbert said gas from the fields can be sold
profitably on North American markets, where prices are lower
than on global markets.  Gas has averaged $4.25 per million British thermal units
this year on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . Japan LNG imports
were $13.05 as of March 31, the last available date for data.  The Progress assets include 150,000 acres of gas fields in
the Montney Shale expected to yield more than 15 trillion cubic
feet, Culbert said. The joint venture has enough supply to keep
an LNG terminal operating for more than 20 years, he said.  “The Montney is a very good asset and this looks like a
strategic move to build up a large export facility,” said Kim Page, an analyst at Wellington West Capital Markets Inc. in
Toronto who has a “buy” rating on Progress and owns shares.
“The price seems a little richer than recent deals, but these
assets also have a higher liquid content.”  Montney Shale  Progress may seek partners for other fields in the Montney
Shale and Petronas will seek more Canadian assets, he said.  The Montney Shale, which lies beneath British Columbia and
 Alberta , holds an estimated 49 trillion cubic feet of gas,
according to  an April 5 report  by the U.S. Energy Information
Administration. Producers inject water, sand and chemicals into
shale, a dense rock formation, to extract gas.  LNG is gas that’s cooled to minus 161 degrees Celsius,
reducing its volume and allowing for shipment by tanker to
markets like Asia that aren’t accessible by Canadian pipelines.  Apache Corp., the Houston-based owner of gas fields in the
province’s Horn River basin, has proposed a similar LNG terminal
near Kitimat, British Columbia.  BMO Capital Markets Ltd. advised Progress on the
transaction and Bank of America Corp. advised Petronas.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Polson in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  