-- 
Pipe Maker Maharashtra Seamless Plans Steel Plant Purchase

-- B y   J a y   S h a n k a r
-- 
2011-06-02T11:06:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-02/pipe-maker-maharashtra-seamless-plans-steel-plant-purchase-2-.html
Maharashtra Seamless Ltd. (MHS) , an Indian
pipe maker that counts Franklin Resources Inc. among its
investors, may build or buy a steel plant to meet rising demand
from domestic and overseas markets for its products.  “We will need 400,000 metric tons of steel billets down
the line and backward integration will improve profitability and
add  shareholder value ,” Chief Financial Officer Ravi Gupta
said. “Export markets such as the U.S. are driving growth as
 oil prices  are at a high and exploration and production
activities will increase.”  That demand may benefit Indian suppliers as the U.S. and
the European Union have imposed anti-dumping duties on Chinese
pipes, Parin Tanna, an analyst at brokerage Batlivala & Karani
Securities Pvt., wrote in a May 3 report. Maharashtra Seamless
is seeking to capitalize on the trade dispute to boost its
presence in the U.S. market, according to the report.  “Inquiries from the U.S. so far have been encouraging,”
Gupta said. The company is also expanding in  Brazil  and the
 Middle East , he said.  A new 3 billion-rupee ($67 million) plant being built in
the western Indian state of Maharashtra will start production by
September, Gupta said.  “Global demand will increase as exploration picks up on
onshore fields,” Amol Rao, an analyst at Mumbai-based Antique
Stock Broking Ltd., said by phone.  Solar Plant  The Raigad-based company may spend 1.7 billion rupees in
the year to March 31, Gupta said.  A solar plant by Maharashtra Seamless is expected to be
completed by the end of this year and will start selling
electricity by January, Gupta said. It has signed a power
purchase agreement with a subsidiary of  India ’s NTPC Ltd. for 25
years.  The company’s shares fell 0.2 percent to 355 rupees at the
3.30 p.m. close in Mumbai after rising 1.1 percent earlier. They
have declined 7.6 percent this year, compared with a 9.8 percent
drop in the Bombay Stock Exchange’s benchmark Sensitive Index.  Franklin Resources , the manager of Franklin and Templeton
funds, owns 6.7 percent of Maharashtra Seamless, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jay Shankar in Bangalore News at 
 jshankar1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Arijit Ghosh at 
 aghosh@bloomberg.net  