-- 
Coelho Leads in Polls as Portuguese Pick Enforcer of Bailout’s Austerity

-- B y   J o a o   L i m a
-- 
2011-06-03T10:01:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-02/portuguese-vote-to-pick-austerity-plan-enforcer.html
Portugal’s opposition leader,  Pedro Passos Coelho , leads Socialist Prime Minister Jose Socrates in
polls heading into elections in two days that may enable him to
forge a majority coalition.  The government formed following the June 5 vote will have
to enact budget cuts required in a 78 billion-euro ($113
billion) international bailout even as unemployment climbs and
the economy shrinks.  “The market is really not interested in the fine print
details of the parties’ programs,” said  David Schnautz , a
fixed-income strategist at Commerzbank AG in  London . “All we
need is implementation. You need a strong government executing
what needs to be done. You need a clear outcome from the
election. Any not clear outcome would be a burden on the
secondary market.”  Socrates’ minority government fell in March after lawmakers
rejected proposed cuts as he struggled to avoid a bailout. With
the country’s debt and borrowing costs surging,  Portugal 
followed Greece and Ireland in seeking a rescue, bringing to 256
billion euros the aid provided to stamp out the sovereign debt
crisis. Another minority administration may threaten Portugal’s
ability to cut spending and receive rescue funds.  Borrowing costs have increased since the bailout. At a June
1 auction, 850 million euros of three-month bills were sold at
an average yield of 4.967 percent. That compares to 4.652
percent at a May 4 auction of three-month bills. Portugal faces
a 4.9 billion-euro bond redemption June 15, its only bond
maturity until June 2012.  Bond Yields  The difference in yield that investors demand to hold
Portugal’s 10-year bonds instead of German bunds reached a euro-
era record of 683 basis points on May 30 and was at 673 today.
The 10-year bond yield was at 9.745 percent and the five-year
bond yield was at 11.393 percent.  Opinion polls indicate no party will win a majority. The
 Social Democrats  led by Passos Coelho, 46, and the People’s
Party, the biggest and second-biggest opposition parties, have
said they support the rescue, while blaming Socrates, 53, for
having to seek it.  “Socrates has a credibility problem,” as he had to ask
for aid, said Andre Freire, a political analyst and a university
professor at Lisbon’s Higher Institute for Labor and Business
Sciences. “On the positive side he has experience, he is very
combative and that is very important politically.”  Socialists Sinking  The Social Democrats have increased their poll lead. A poll
published today by the Jornal de Negocios newspaper indicated
36.3 percent backing for the Social Democrats, 5 percentage
points more than in a survey published on May 19, and 30.1
percent support for the Socialists, 0.6 percentage point more
than in the previous poll. The survey showed 12.4 percent
support for the conservative  People’s Party .  Another survey published today by Publico newspaper
indicated 36.5 percent backing for the Social Democrats and 31.1
percent for the Socialists. The survey showed 11.6 percent
support for the People’s Party.  The Social Democrats and People’s Party have said that if
they fall short of a majority, they won’t form a unity
government with the Socialists as long as Socrates remains party
leader. The People’s Party, or CDS-PP, is a possible coalition
partner for the Social Democrats, or PSD.  Seeking a Majority  “The market does not have a position in terms of
preferring the Socialist Party or the  Social Democratic Party ,”
said Diogo Teixeira, chief executive officer of Optimize
Investment Partners, a Lisbon-based firm that manages 45 million
euros in assets, including Portuguese government debt. “The
only preference is for a clear majority. There won’t be a
negative reaction if the PSD and CDS have a majority. That would
be a positive scenario.”  The three-year aid plan for Portugal set goals for a budget
deficit of 5.9 percent of gross domestic product this year, 4.5
percent in 2012 and 3 percent in 2013. The country had the
fourth-biggest deficit in the euro region last year at 9.1
percent of GDP.  Portugal’s public debt swelled to 93 percent of GDP in 2010
from 68 percent in 2007. The European Commission forecasts
Portugal’s debt will increase to 101.7 percent this year and
107.4 percent in 2012.  “The program must be implemented urgently,” Portuguese
Finance Minister Fernando Teixeira dos Santos said on May 23.
“The country at this moment has three big challenges. First:
implement the program; second: implement the program; and third:
implement the program. Whoever wins the elections, whoever forms
government, won’t have time to sit down.”  Asset Sales  A privatization program representing about 3.5 percent of
GDP aims to sell stakes in companies including EDP-Energias de
Portugal SA, the biggest electricity provider, and REN-Redes
Energeticas Nacionais SA, the operator of the national  power
grid , by the end of this year.  The aid program envisions a recovery in 2013, with
unemployment peaking at 13 percent in that year, according to
Teixeira dos Santos. Portugal’s unemployment rate rose to 12.4
percent in the first quarter.  The government said on May 5 the economy will shrink 2
percent this year, twice as much as it previously forecast. GDP
will also decline 2 percent in 2012, the minister said. The
country’s economic growth has averaged less than 1 percent a
year in the past decade, one of  Europe ’s weakest rates.  Spending Cuts  The aid package calls for spending reductions for 2012 and
2013 amounting to 3.5 percent of GDP, while revenue increases
will represent 1.4 percent of output. The government will freeze
public workers’ salaries through 2013 and cut pensions of more
than 1,500 euros a month. Tax deductions will be limited.  “There is consensus in terms of fulfilling the
agreement,” Paulo Macedo, deputy chief executive officer of
 Banco Comercial Portugues SA (BCP) , Portugal’s biggest publicly traded
bank by assets, said on May 30. “Now we have to focus on the
best possible execution of the agreement. It’s not going to be
about a government just to fix public accounts; it will have to
do the necessary structural reforms to ensure growth.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joao Lima in Lisbon at   jlima1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at   tquinson@bloomberg.net  