-- 
Pound Falls Versus Euro for Third Day on Central Bank Interest-Rate Bets

-- B y   P a u l   D o b s o n
-- 
2011-06-02T15:53:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-02/pound-snaps-three-day-decline-versus-dollar-before-pmi-construction-index.html
The pound weakened for a third day
against the euro amid speculation that slowing U.K. economic
growth will deter the nation’s central bank from raising
interest rates.  Sterling reached its weakest level since May 6 versus the
17-nation currency as investors pared bets on higher borrowing
costs after Bank of England Markets Director  Paul Fisher  told
the  Daily Mail  he would consider adding to its asset purchases.
A gauge of U.K. building activity based on a survey of
purchasing managers showed civil engineering shrank for the
first time in five months as the government cut spending.  “The comments by Fisher add to the negative sentiment
toward the pound,” said  Peter Frank , a currency strategist at
Societe Generale SA in London. “It’s one of several negatives
out there. Even marginal weakness within data sets is enough to
trigger negative sentiment.”  The pound weakened 0.7 percent to 88.34 pence per euro as
of 4:52 p.m. in London after reaching 88.54 pence. It dropped
more than 1 percent versus the South African rand and 0.9
percent against the Norwegian krone. It was little changed at
$1.6322.  The pound has slid 3 percent against the euro this year as
Bank of England officials grapple with signs of deteriorating
economic growth and inflation that accelerated to 4.5 percent in
April, the fastest since 2008. The  European Central Bank  raised
borrowing costs for the euro area in April even as the region
struggles to contain the sovereign debt crisis that saw  Portugal 
join Greece and Ireland in requesting a financial bailout from
the European Union and  International Monetary Fund .  Gilts Rise  Two-year note yields reached the least since November and
short-sterling futures contracts rose today after Fisher said he
would consider further central bank asset purchases if the
economy “did take a sudden downturn,” according to the Mail.
He remains “somewhat reluctant” since the threat of deflation
subsided, the newspaper said.  “We are heading for a slowdown of the economy,” said
 Matteo Regesta , a senior interest-rate strategist at BNP Paribas
SA in  London . “It’s no wonder that people go for the safe-haven
assets. Monetary Policy Committee members like Fisher have made
clear they see more risk in terms of growth than second-round
inflation effects.”  While a gauge of building activity based on a survey of
purchasing managers increased to 54 from 53.3 in April, the
index remained below its average for the first quarter, Markit
Economics Ltd. and the  Chartered Institute of Purchasing and
Supply  said today.  Manufacturing Decline  Reports yesterday showed a manufacturing index fell to a
20-month low and U.K. mortgage approvals dropped to the least in
four months. Services growth also slowed in May, according to
the median of 26 economist estimates before tomorrow’s
purchasing-managers index report.  The implied yield on the short-sterling futures contract
expiring in June 2012 dropped five basis points to 1.28 percent,
as investors cut bets on higher central bank  interest rates .  The two-year note yield was one basis point lower at 0.88
percent, after falling to 0.85 percent, the lowest since
November. The 10-year gilt yield was little changed at 3.25
percent. It pared an earlier advance after demand waned at an
auction of 3.5 billion pounds of 2021 bonds.  Investors bid for 1.6 times the amount of gilts on offer at
today’s sale, less than the 1.72 bid-to-cover ratio the last
time the U.K. sold the securities on April 5. At 3.415 percent,
the yield was lower than the previous sale’s 3.878 percent. The
average yield in the past three sales of 10-year debt is 3.808
percent, while the average bid-to-cover ratio is 1.93.  Gilts have returned 2.8 percent this year, according to
indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European Federation of
Financial Analysts Societies, outperforming German bunds, which
earned 0.2 percent. U.S. Treasuries have handed investors 3.2
percent in 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Dobson in London at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  