-- 
Principal-Protected Notes Generate Warning From U.S. Regulators

-- B y   M a t t   R o b i n s o n
-- 
2011-06-02T20:01:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-02/principal-protected-notes-generate-warning-from-u-s-regulators.html
Investors should be aware of the
risks before buying principal-protected notes, the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission and Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority said in a jointly issued release.  “Structured notes with principal protection contain risks
that may surprise many investors and can have payout structures
that are difficult to understand,” said Lori J. Schock,
director of the SEC’s Office of Investor Education and Advocacy,
in the  media statement .  Capped returns, limited protection of the initial
investment that can be as low as 10 percent, and the possibility
of the issuer going bankrupt were among areas highlighted in  an
investor alert . Structured note sales have jumped 19 percent to
$21.6 billion this year, compared with the same period during
last year’s record issuance, amid low  interest rates .  “Retail investors should realize that chasing a higher
yield by investing in these products could mean winding up with
an expensive, risky, complex and illiquid investment,” John Gannon, Finra senior vice president for investor education, said
in the statement.  UBS AG (UBSN) ,  Switzerland ’s largest bank, was ordered to pay
investors $8.25 million and fined $2.5 million over sales of
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s principal-protected structured
products, Finra said in April.  UBS “effectively misled” some investors when selling the
products, the industry-funded regulator  said . The Zurich-based
bank was ordered to repay some investors who bought Lehman
structured notes after March 2008. The securities, which were
called “100% Principal-Protection Notes,” became almost
worthless when Lehman filed for bankruptcy that September.  Structured notes are securities created by banks, which
package debt with derivatives to offer customized bets to
investors while earning fees and raising money. Derivatives are
contracts whose value is derived from stocks, bonds, currencies
and commodities.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matt Robinson  in  New York  at 
 mrobinson55@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 