-- 
U.S. Productivity Slowed in First Quarter

-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 
2011-06-02T12:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-02/productivity-in-u-s-slowed-in-first-quarter-as-labor-costs-rose-on-hiring.html
The productivity of U.S. workers
slowed in the first quarter and labor costs rose as companies
boosted employment to meet rising demand.  The measure of employee output per hour increased at a 1.8
percent annual rate after a 2.9 percent gain in the prior three
months, revised figures from the Labor Department showed today
in Washington. Employee expenses climbed at a 0.7 percent rate
after dropping 2.8 percent the prior quarter.  Rising costs of inputs such as energy and components means
companies may look to contain labor costs, a sign hiring may not
accelerate. A report tomorrow is projected to show employers
hired 170,000 workers in May, down from 244,000 the prior month,
according to economists’ estimates.  “Productivity growth has slowed in the past year but from
very strong rates and it remains fairly decent,”  Sal Guatieri ,
a senior economist at BMO Capital Markets in Toronto, said
before the report. “Labor costs have moved higher because of
the slowing in productivity growth, but they were generally
falling for some time and remain very weak, essentially implying
no threat to the inflation outlook.”  Economists projected productivity would rise at a 1.7
percent pace, according to the median of 62 forecasts in a
Bloomberg News survey. Estimates ranged from increases of 1.5
percent to 2 percent.  Unit labor costs, adjusted for efficiency gains, were
projected to rise 0.8 percent, according to the survey median.  Jobless Claims  Another report from the Labor Department today showed more
Americans than forecast filled applications for  unemployment
benefits  last week, signaling the labor market is struggling to
pick up. Jobless claims fell by 6,000 to 422,000 in the week
ended May 28, Labor Department figures showed today in
Washington. Economists surveyed by Bloomberg projected a drop in
claims to 417,000, according to the median forecast.  Tomorrow’s payrolls report may also show unemployment fell
to 8.9 percent in May from 9 percent the prior month, according
to economists surveyed.  Today’s report showed productivity climbed 1.3 percent
compared with the first quarter of 2010, the smallest 12-month
gain in two years. Labor costs rose 0.7 percent from the year-
earlier quarter, the biggest year-to-year increase since the
last three months of 2008.  Today’s productivity report showed output rose at a 3.2
percent rate. The increase was led by a 7.7 percent surge among
manufacturers.  More Hours  Hours worked climbed at a 1.4 percent pace after a 1.5
percent gain in the prior quarter. Compensation for each hour
worked increased at a 2.5 percent annual pace.  Adjusted for inflation, compensation dropped at a 2.6
percent pace last quarter, matching the prior quarter’s drop.  Among manufacturers, productivity increased at a 4.2
percent pace, pushing labor costs down by 1.4 percent.  Companies are trying to reduce labor expenses to counter
rising commodity expenses. A barrel of crude oil rose to an
intraday high of $114.83 on May 2, the highest level since
September 2008, and has since receded to around $100 on the  New
York Mercantile Exchange .  Productivity gains are also helping companies such as
 Benton Harbor , Michigan-based  Whirlpool Corp. (WHR)  deal with higher
raw-material costs.  “We do expect to fully offset these increases by continued
strong and improving productivity throughout the year,” Jeff Fettig, chairman and chief executive officer, said in an April
conference call.  Efficiency Limits  The number of hours worked increased in the first three
months of the year from the previous quarter even as the pace of
economic growth slowed, showing employers found it difficult to
meet demand without more hiring.  The economy expanded at a 1.8 percent annual pace from
January through March, after a 3.1 percent advance in the last
three months of 2010, the Commerce Department reported on May
26.  Some companies are already making plans to expand payrolls
further in 2012.  General Motors Co. (GM)  said last week it will
invest $69 million and add 2,500 jobs to start making new models
at the Detroit plant that builds the Chevrolet Volt plug-in
hybrid.  Two shifts will be added at the Detroit-Hamtramck factory
to produce the Chevrolet Impala and Malibu sedans next year,
Detroit-based GM said in a statement. The investments are part
of plans GM announced earlier this month to spend $2 billion and
add or preserve 4,000 jobs at eight U.S. plants.  While today’s productivity report may show labor costs are
rising, wage pressures are likely to remain contained.  “In general, increases in wages have been subdued,”
Federal Reserve policy makers said in minutes of their April
policy meeting released May 18. “Some participants noted that
pressures on labor costs continued to be muted. Participants
generally anticipated that the higher level of overall inflation
would be transitory.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Willis in  Washington  at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  