-- 
Petronas Buys Stake in Canada Gas Fields, Eyes Exports

-- B y   J i m   P o l s o n   a n d   J e r e m y   v a n   L o o n
-- 
2011-06-02T20:03:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-02/progress-energy-to-sell-stake-in-b-c-assets-to-petronas-for-1-1-billion.html
(Corrects company name in first paragraph.)  Petroliam Nasional Bhd,  Malaysia ’s
state-owned oil company, agreed to pay as much as C$1.07 billion
($1.1 billion) for a stake in  Progress Energy Resources Corp. (PRQ) ’s
British Columbia natural-gas fields. The companies will also
form a joint venture to explore exporting the fuel.  Petronas will pay C$267.5 million for a 50 percent share in
the Altares, Lily and Kahta fields in the Montney Shale region,
Calgary-based Progress said in a statement today. The Malaysian
company also will fund 75 percent of development costs for the
fields during the next five years, up to $C802.5 million.  “The Montney is a very good asset and this looks like a
strategic move to build up a large export facility,” said Kim Page, an analyst at Wellington West Capital Markets Inc. in
Toronto who has a “buy” rating on Progress and owns shares.
“The price seems a little richer than recent deals, but these
assets also have a higher liquid content.”  Petronas, based in  Kuala Lumpur , will own 80 percent of a
joint venture that will study the feasibility of building a
terminal in British Columbia to export gas by tanker, Progress
said. Shipping the fuel by tanker would allow exports to  Asia 
and other markets not accessible by Canadian pipelines. Apache
Corp., the Houston-based owner of gas fields in the province’s
Horn River basin, has proposed a similar terminal near Kitimat,
British Columbia.  Progress rose to a 52-week high, gaining as much as 12
percent, the most in 20 months. The shares rose 91 cents, or 6.5
percent, to C$14.89 at 10:37 a.m. on the Toronto Stock Exchange.  “This is a breakthrough for Progress,” Chief Executive
Officer Michael R. Culbert said in the statement. “Canada is
poised to take a larger role on the world’s energy stage.
Developing export options for Canadian natural-gas producers is
a logical step.”  The Montney Shale, which lies beneath British Columbia and
 Alberta , holds an estimated 49 trillion cubic feet of gas,
according to  an April 5 report  by the U.S. Energy Information
Administration. Producers inject water, sand and chemicals into
shale, a dense rock formation, to extract gas.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jim Polson  in  New York  at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at   susanwarren@bloomberg.net . 