-- 
Qantas Expects to Cut 5% of Cabin Crew After Slowing Growth on Fuel Costs

-- B y   R o b e r t   F e n n e r   a n d   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 
2011-06-03T08:04:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-02/qantas-offers-voluntary-redundancies-to-domestic-international-cabin-crew.html
Qantas Airways Ltd. (QAN) , facing rising
fuel costs and increasing competition, expects to cut about 5
percent of cabin crew in its first buyout program in three years
after scaling back expansion plans.  About 350 of the carrier’s 7,000 flight attendants will
likely accept a package, the airline said in a statement today.
It has no plans for mandatory layoffs, it said. Workers will get
three weeks’ pay for every year of service in the first five
years and four weeks’ for each subsequent year, the  Flight
Attendants’ Association of Australia  said.  “A lot of workers would look on this in a very favorable
light,” said Michael Mijatov, who represents about 3,000
workers as secretary of the union’s international division.
“The formula means it is very attractive, if you’re considering
leaving or near retirement.”  The Sydney-based carrier,  Australia ’s biggest, fell the
most in almost two months on the city’s stock exchange as it
said growth in its international division is “slow” and as
Macquarie Group Ltd. cut its recommendation on the stock.  The airline has cut growth plans for domestic and overseas
routes this year because of natural disasters, higher fuel costs
and rising competition from Emirates Airline and Virgin
Australia.  Slow Growth  “Our growth in the international division is slow and
uneven rates of growth on different fleets means our crewing
requirements are changing,” the airline said.  Jet kerosene prices reached $127.3 a barrel yesterday in
 Singapore , rising 22 percent this year, Bloomberg data show.  Separately, the carrier’s long-haul pilots are considering
their first strike in 45 years to demand more  job security  and
higher pay.  Fair Work Australia, the nation’s labor regulator, today
approved a new workplace agreement between Qantas and 7,500
check-in and administrative workers that will include 3 percent
annual pay increases over three years.  The airline fell 2.9 percent to A$2.03 at the 4.10 p.m.
close of Sydney trading. It has dropped 20 percent this year,
compared with a 3.4 percent decline for the benchmark S&P/ASX
200 Index.  Macquarie cut its rating on the stock to “neutral” from
“outperform,” becoming the only broker of the 13 tracked by
Bloomberg not to recommend investors buy the stock.  “Qantas still looks cheap, however we feel there is no
positive earnings momentum at present to reverse the recent
share price decline,” Macquarie said in a June 2 report.  Qantas said in March that it will boost domestic capacity
by just 8 percent in the six months ending June, rather than an
earlier plan for a 14 percent increase. International growth was
cut to 7 percent from 10 percent.  The airline also then forecast A$165 million ($176 million)
of costs in the period following natural disasters in  New
Zealand , Australia and  Japan , as well as disruptions caused an
engine explosion on an Airbus SAS A380 last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Fenner in Melbourne at 
 rfenner@bloomberg.net ;
Nichola Saminather in Sydney on 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  