-- 
Get Set to Conquer Dream Peak, Himalaya’s 26,906-Foot Cho Oyu: Adventure

-- B y   J a m e s   M .   C l a s h
-- 
2011-06-02T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-02/training-to-ascend-dream-peak-himalaya-s-26-906-foot-cho-oyu-adventure.html
Clif Maloney, a seasoned amateur
climber married to New York Congresswoman Carolyn Maloney,
reached the top of  Tibet ’s 26,906-foot Cho Oyu in 2009. It had
long been a dream, and because the 71-year-old investment banker
had tried before and failed, the moment was especially sweet.  “I’m the happiest man in the world,” he said to his
guide.  On his way down, though, an exhausted Maloney stopped at
high camp (23,000 feet) and died.  That’s the world of elite peaks: one minute jubilation, the
next shock and sadness.  I understand Maloney’s love of heights, and the
rollercoaster of risk involved in attaining them. I’ve wanted to
climb in the Himalayas, the highest peaks on earth, all my life.  Cho Oyu is a logical choice. Amateurs like it not just for
its stunning beauty, but because it’s one of only 14 peaks in
the world above 8,000 meters (26,250 feet). And, while it is the
sixth-highest overall, it’s considered easier than some of its
lower siblings like Annapurna (26,547 feet), because of relative
accessibility and forgiving terrain.  But you don’t just go out and climb something like Cho Oyu
without training -- and experience.  There are two types of mountain climbing: rock climbing and
mountaineering. The first, spidering up vertical walls with
ropes, harnesses and rock shoes, is what one does on Yosemite’s
Half Dome. Falling is the obvious risk. Mountaineering, what Cho
Oyu is about, involves snow and cold-weather camping, often at
extreme altitude. Weather, avalanche and mountain sickness are
often more the danger than falling.  Getting Into Shape  For any mountaineering effort, the first step is getting
into shape -- and not just to reach the top. Most problems occur
on the descent, when climbers are tired and clumsy.  To build leg strength for Cho Oyu, I’ve become the building
eccentric, marching up and down the stairs of my Manhattan
apartment complex three times a week with a 50-pound (23-
kilogram) pack. During each session, I lose five pounds to
perspiration.  To strengthen my cardiovascular system, I run 6 miles at an
8-minute pace in Riverside Park, along the  Hudson River . The
thinner air at altitude combined with long climbing days --
often more than 10 hours -- means plenty of heavy breathing. I
also lift weights to strengthen my upper body for ferrying heavy
packs between camps on the mountain.  As for a climbing resume, it takes a while to build it. A
good introduction is provided by  Rainier Mountaineering Inc. ,
which offers year-round training and a climb of  Washington ’s
heavily glaciated, 14,411-foot Mt. Rainier. My classes covered
the basics of snow-climbing: travel in roped teams, use of an
ice axe for self-arrest in case of a fall, use of crampons
(spikes strapped to boots) for traction on snow, and crevasse
rescue.  Altitude Exposure  After Rainier, my next step was some high-altitude
exposure. It’s impossible to overstate how difficult it is to do
anything -- including think -- above 18,000 feet, where oxygen
is less than half what it is at  sea level . I went to  Mexico  and
climbed volcanoes, 17,887-foot Popocatepetl and 18,851-foot
Orizaba. While they are difficult physically, the summits are
doable in one day from high huts, and thus don’t require
camping. For that, and even more altitude, Aconcagua was
recommended as a final test.  At 22,834 feet (about 7,000 meters), Aconcagua is the
highest peak in the world outside of Asia. Its extreme weather,
altitude and short acclimatization time probably best simulate
conditions on an 8,000-meter peak.  Higher Camps  Like Cho Oyu, it also requires building a series of higher
and higher camps to slowly acclimate the body to thinner air. If
a climber ascends too quickly, he develops mountain sickness or,
worse, the more extreme HAPE (high-altitude pulmonary edema) and
HACE (high-altitude cerebral edema). Untreated, both can lead
quickly to death.  In the course of two weeks our group built four ever-higher
camps on Aconcagua, each time suffering initially from lower
oxygen levels at the higher altitude, then gradually becoming
acclimated. Finally, from our high camp at 19,300 feet we set
out for the top early one morning in below-zero weather.  That day, I found out what altitude was all about. The last
section, the Canaleta, is simply the hardest thing I’ve ever
done. It is 800 vertical feet of loose scree -- a kind of hell
up near heaven. Three steps up, then a slide back, or a fall on
my face -- over and over, like trying to climb a down escalator.  There was no concept of time. I just knew I had to put one
foot in front of the other and soon I’d be standing on the
highest patch of ground outside of Central  Asia . My guides later
told me it took a full 20 minutes to cover the last 50 feet. At
the end, I was taking five gasps per step.  The Bad News  Fun, eh? My date with Cho Oyu is this fall or next spring,
depending on my fitness progress and schedule. The bad news: Cho
is 4,000 feet higher than Aconcagua. The good: I have an extra
three weeks on the mountain to acclimate and will use
supplemental oxygen above 24,000 feet.  The plan is to go with  Jagged Globe Expeditions , a U.K.
outfit that offers a quality program for $17,000. More
important, though: Two-time Everest summiteer Robert Anderson
will be my guide. He knows me as a friend and a client (we
climbed virgin peaks in Greenland a few years back).  If anyone can get me to the top safely, it’s Anderson. And
back down again, I hope.  (Jim Clash writes on adventure for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions expressed are
his own.  To contact the writer on the story:  jclash@explorers.org   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Manuela
Hoelterhoff at   mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 