-- 
Raising Taxes Isn’t A ‘Kiss of Death’ for Employment Growth, History Shows

-- B y   D a v i d   J .   L y n c h
-- 
2011-06-02T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-02/raising-taxes-isn-t-a-kiss-of-death-for-employment-growth-history-shows.html
Cutting taxes creates jobs, and
raising taxes destroys them. That’s the view of policymakers,
from President Barack Obama to his Republican adversaries.  Evidence from the last two decades, however, suggests that
conventional wisdom is wrong.  In the five years after a $241 billion tax increase in
1993, which Republicans criticized as the largest ever, the  U.S.
economy  created more than 15 million jobs and grew at an average
annual rate of 3.8 percent.  In the five years after President  George W. Bush ’s 2001 tax
cuts -- which reduced marginal rates, raised the  child tax
credit , phased out the estate tax and gave “marriage penalty”
relief to two-income households -- the economy added about 6.5
million jobs and grew at an annual 2.7 percent pace.  “It’s not that simple,” said Phillip Swagel, who served
Bush as assistant Treasury secretary for economic policy. “In
the short run, yes, if you raise taxes, it’s generally harmful
to growth. In the long run, it doesn’t have to be.”  The consequences of raising taxes are a central issue in
negotiations between the White House and Republican leaders in
Congress over raising the nation’s $14.3 trillion debt ceiling.  In December, when Obama agreed with congressional
Republicans to extend Bush’s lower rates, he promised they would
“help grow our economy and create jobs.” The president and
congressional Democrats now say they want to reduce the deficit
with a “balanced approach” of spending cuts and tax increases
on the wealthy. Republican leaders reject any higher taxes.  Wreaking ‘Havoc’  “A tax hike would wreak havoc not only on our economy’s
ability to create private-sector jobs, but also on our ability
to tackle the national debt,” House Speaker  John Boehner  said
in a May 9  speech  to the Economic Club of New York.  Pinpointing the impact of tax policy is hard, economists
say. For one thing, it’s impossible to know how the economy
would have performed in the absence of the change. Perhaps the
Internet-fueled growth of the 1990s would have produced even
more jobs if taxes hadn’t been raised. Perhaps the Bush tax cuts
kept a bad economy from getting even worse.  Economic growth also is affected by elements other than
taxes, including interest-rate policy, the price of oil and
other commodities, and the business cycle itself.  “High GDP countries are high tax countries,” said Joel Slemrod, an economist at the  University of Michigan ’s Ross
School of Business. “That doesn’t mean high taxes cause the
high GDP.”  Clinton Tax Rates  Slemrod, who served as senior staff economist for President
Ronald Reagan’s Council of Economic Advisers, said raising taxes
today would be risky because the economy remains fragile. But
given the economy’s performance in the 1990s, returning marginal
rates to their Clinton-era levels in 2013, as Obama proposes,
wouldn’t be, he said.  “It’s just hard to say that’s the kiss of death for
economic growth,” Slemrod said.  A 2010  study  by a husband-and-wife team of economists at
the  University of California  at Berkeley concluded that raising
taxes typically depresses economic output. David Romer and
 Christina Romer  -- the former head of Obama’s  Council of
Economic Advisers  -- concluded that a tax increase of 1 percent
of gross domestic product lowers output by about 3 percent of
GDP over the next three years.  An International Monetary Fund  study  in October provided
solace for both sides in the debate. It concluded that deficit
reduction raises unemployment and lowers output in the short
term and is more painful if it primarily relies on tax
increases.  Lowering the Debt  Paring public debt, however, eventually reduces the
government’s need to borrow, bringing down long-term  interest
rates  and freeing capital for private investment, the study
said.  That’s what happened in the 1990s, when the yield on 30-
year Treasuries fell from a peak of 8.2 percent in November 1994
to 5.5 percent in January 2001 when Clinton left office.  “We should be extremely wary of anyone making the argument
that any tax increase at any time is going to kick the legs out
from under the economy,” said  Jared Bernstein , who was Vice
President Joe Biden’s economic adviser until April. “If you
look at the 1990s versus the 2000s, you’d draw the opposite
conclusion.”  Comparing 1993 and 2001 is a reminder of the difficulty of
economic forecasting: Higher taxes or lower taxes, the results
have confounded expectations.  Wrong on Deficit  In January 1994, five months after Clinton signed the
Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1993, the  Congressional
Budget Office  projected a 1999 deficit of  $204 billion .  Instead, stronger-than-expected growth flooded the Treasury
with revenue. Rather than a deficit, the government ran a $126
billion surplus.  In January 2002, following enactment of Bush’s first tax
cut, CBO predicted a 2007 surplus of $166 billion. The actual
outcome, after a recession and the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks,
was a deficit of about $161 billion.  “The effects of the Bush tax cuts on growth were ambiguous
at best,” said Alan Viard, a scholar at the American Enterprise
Institute in  Washington  and a former Federal Reserve Bank of
 Dallas  economist. “They were not much of a poster child for
pro-growth  tax policy .”  The Bush tax package included provisions such as
establishing a 10 percent bracket and doubling the child tax
credit, which provided little incentive for additional work or
savings, he added.  Tax Expenditures  Washington’s political dialogue over tax increases obscures
a distinction being drawn by a growing number of Republicans:
Raising tax rates chills growth. Raising revenue by collecting
taxes on income that’s now off limits to the taxman doesn’t.  “There’s a difference between taxes and tax rates,” said
John Cochrane, a University of Chicago finance professor. “What
matters for growth is tax rates. What matters for government
solvency is taxes.”  Cochrane said raising tax rates on each extra dollar of
income discourages additional work by wealthier individuals who
are best-positioned to create jobs.  Yet  tax revenue  could still be increased by limiting
business subsidies, such as for domestic production, or capping
individual deductions for mortgage interest, employer-provided
health insurance or charitable contributions. In a May 4  New
York  Times op-ed, Harvard University Professor  Martin Feldstein 
said $278 billion could be raised this year by putting a ceiling
on such “tax expenditures.”  Won’t Hurt Growth  That approach “doesn’t discourage effort or
entrepreneurship and doesn’t reduce saving and risk taking,”
Feldstein, who served as Reagan’s top economic adviser, said in
an e-mail. “It therefore doesn’t hurt economic growth.”  In December, a national fiscal commission chaired by
onetime Clinton White House Chief of Staff Erskine Bowles and
former Senator  Alan Simpson , a Wyoming Republican, produced a
deficit plan that included higher tax revenue. It recommended
devoting $80 billion in new revenue to shrink the deficit in
2015 and $180 billion in 2020 by curbing tax expenditures, such
as subsidies for ethanol production.  That drew support from Republicans such as Senators Saxby Chambliss of Georgia and Tom Coburn of Oklahoma.  On April 13, Obama proposed limiting  tax deductions  for the
wealthiest 2 percent of Americans, which he said would increase
revenue by $320 billion over 10 years.  “The clear-cut evidence is that, despite the rhetoric, a
tax increase that reduced the deficit would actually improve
economic growth,” said  Martin Sullivan , an economist and
contributing editor with Tax Analysts, a nonprofit organization
in Falls Church, Virginia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David J. Lynch in Washington at 
 dlynch27@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  