-- 
Rand Gains For Third Day Against Dollar, Tracking Euro, on Merkel Comments

-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 
2011-06-02T15:04:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-02/rand-gains-for-third-day-to-dollar-tracking-euro-as-merkel-backs-currency.html
The rand climbed to a three-week high
against the dollar as U.S. reports signaled a weakening economy
and German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  shored up confidence in the
euro, the currency of South  Africa ’s main trading partner. Bonds
rallied, sending yields to five-month lows.  The rand advanced as much as 1 percent to 6.7413 per
dollar, and traded 0.9 percent stronger at 6.7492 by 4:53 p.m.
in Johannesburg, the second-biggest gain out of more than 20
emerging-market currencies monitored by Bloomberg after  Turkey ’s
lira. It added 0.3 percent to 9.7648 per euro.  Reports showing higher-than-forecast U.S. jobless claims
and the biggest decline in factory orders in almost a year
dragged the dollar lower against its major trading peers. The
euro gained against 13 of its 16 major counterparts after Merkel
said  Germany  is committed to the monetary union even as  Greece 
struggles to avoid a debt default.  “We’ve seen broad-based dollar selling across the
market,” William van Rijn, a currency trader at Johannesburg-
based Nedbank Group Ltd., said by phone. “The planets are
aligned in the rand’s favor at the moment.”  Greece’s risk of default was raised to 50 percent by
Moody’s Investors Service as European officials rushed to put
together the second bailout plan in two years to stave off
renewed financial turmoil in the region.  “In the competition to see who is in the worst state,”
Europe’s debt problems “didn’t quite match the poor U.S. data,
allowing the euro to remain elevated,”  John Cairns  and Nema Ramkhelawan, currency strategists at Rand Merchant Bank in
Johannesburg, said in a research note. The rand is “tracking
the euro once again,” they wrote.  Selling Dollars  The euro, the currency of most of  South Africa ’s trade,
strengthened 0.4 percent against the dollar.  Some traders may still be unwinding long-dollar positions
after South Africa’s Competition Tribunal on May 31 approved
Wal-Mart Stores Inc.’s 16.5 billion rand ($2.4 billion) purchase
of a stake in Massmart Holdings Ltd., Van Rijn said. The rand
has gained 2.9 percent in the past three days.  Bonds gained for a second day, driving yields to the lowest
level in almost five months, on concern slowing growth in the
U.S. will stifle a recovery in Africa’s biggest economy.  “The slowdown we are seeing abroad will impact on South
Africa,” Tradition Analytics researchers led by Johannesburg-
based Quinten Bertenshaw said in a research note. “The strength
in domestic bonds yesterday is therefore considered entirely
appropriate and, in fact, there may be more to come.”  The 6.75 percent securities due 2021 climbed 60 cents to
90.38 rand, driving the yield down 10 basis points, or 0.1
percentage point, to 8.19 percent, the lowest since Jan. 7. The
13.5 percent notes due 2015 added 32 cents to 121.87 rand,
reducing the yield eight basis points to 7.42 percent, the
lowest since Jan. 12.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  