-- 
TransCanada Says More Compromises Are Unlikely on Keystone XL

-- B y   J e r e m y   v a n   L o o n   a n d   B r a d   O l s o n
-- 
2011-06-02T18:47:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-02/transcanada-says-more-compromises-are-unlikely-on-keystone-xl.html
TransCanada Corp. (TRP)  is unlikely to make
more compromises to landowners or regulators to win approval for
its Keystone XL pipeline that will ship Canadian crude oil to
the  Gulf Coast , a company executive said.  TransCanada has made 57 changes to its original plan,
including modifications to the way the company will monitor the
pipeline and prepare for emergencies, said Alex Pourbaix, who
heads the company’s pipeline division.  “We have already gone far beyond the requirements of any
other crude-oil pipeline in the U.S.,” Pourbaix said in an
interview today at the company’s headquarters in Calgary.
“Those 57 conditions really do represent the additional gives
that we’ve been willing to give to landowners and stakeholders
with respect to that pipeline.”  A proposed extension of TransCanada’s C$13 billion ($13.3
billion) Keystone Express pipeline, which would cut through
 Montana ,  South Dakota ,  Nebraska ,  Kansas ,  Oklahoma  and  Texas , has
been delayed by objections from U.S. politicians and
environmentalists. The link between the end of the existing line
in the U.S. Midwest and Gulf Coast refineries needs State
Department approval.  “They’re already doing things that are not just better
than average, but are industry-leading,” said Carl Kirst, an
analyst with BMO Capital Markets who rates TransCanada shares
“outperform” and owns none. “If people have a problem with
Keystone XL, then almost by extension, they’re going to want to
shut down the whole U.S. pipeline grid.”  Enbridge Spill Impact  Kirst said regulators have scrutinized the Keystone project
because of environmental concerns over oil-sands production and
a 20,082-barrel  oil spill  near  Chicago  last year that caused
between C$300 million and C$400 million in damages. Enbridge
Energy Partners LP, which operates the 6B pipeline that leaked
crude into the Kalamazoo River, said after the spill that its
safety standards meet or exceed U.S. requirements.  Compromises TransCanada has agreed to with U.S. regulators
include narrower spacing of isolation valves, which allow the
operator to confine damage and leakage from a section of pipe in
the event of an emergency. The valves will be placed more
frequently “than normal” and will add “pretty significant
incremental capital cost” to the project, said Pourbaix,
without providing details.  “These are pretty expensive valves,” he said. The
equipment will likely be spaced at intervals of “tens of
miles,” he said.  State Department Study  TransCanada says it has agreements with more than 80
percent of landowners in states where the pipeline will cross.
The Canadian company expects to win voluntary easements from
landowners who haven’t yet given their approval to the project
and will use so-called eminent domain, a legal tool that forces
property owners to accept energy infrastructure on their land,
as a “last resort,” Pourbaix said.  A  revised environmental study  issued in April by the State
Department reaffirms support for the TransCanada pipeline. The
study backs the conclusion of last year’s draft, which found
that the pipeline would have “limited adverse environmental
impacts.”  “TransCanada hasn’t done much of anything to improve the
environmental safety of the pipeline,” said Alex Moore, a
spokesman for environmental group  Friends of the Earth  in
 Washington  D.C. “Under a lot of pressure from TransCanada, the
State Department hasn’t properly analyzed other routes. The
chosen route goes through an area that provides 2 million people
with fresh water.”  Keystone’s 11 Spills  Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  said in October that the
department was “inclined” to approve the pipeline to reduce
reliance on Middle East oil and the State Department has said it
expects to decide whether to approve the pipeline by the end of
the year.  The already-functioning portion of the Keystone pipeline
has seen 11 spills in its first year, enough to justify safety
concerns of regulators, said Susan Casey-Lefkowitz,
international program director for the  Natural Resources Defense
Council , an environmental advocacy group based in Washington.  TransCanada’s reluctance to make further concessions is
“pretty outrageous,” she said. The need for safety and studies
of environmental concerns “outweigh any desire TransCanada may
have to fast-track the tar-sands pipeline through the regulatory
process.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeremy van Loon in Calgary at 
 jvanloon@bloomberg.net ;
Bradley Olson in Houston at 
 bradleyolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  