-- 
Record $21 Billion Pouring Into Bond Market as Peso Rallies: Mexico Credit

-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o   a n d   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z
-- 
2011-06-02T21:46:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-02/record-21-billion-pouring-into-bond-market-mexico-credit.html
A rally in the Mexican peso and
inflation near a five-year low are luring a record amount of
foreign investment into the country’s bond market.  International investors bought $21 billion of Mexican debt
denominated in pesos in the six months through March, the most
since the central bank began compiling the data in the 1960s.
Local debt returned 10.3 percent this year in dollar terms,
compared with gains of 9.9 percent in  Brazil  and 3.5 percent in
 China , according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes.
Indian bonds returned 0.6 percent during the period.  Mexico has let the peso rally a record 9 percent in the
past year while developing nations from Brazil to  South Korea 
have taken measures to limit gains in their currencies and shore
up exports. Yields on Mexico’s benchmark peso bonds due in 2024
sank 81 basis points since the end of March to a five-month low
of 7.03 percent yesterday as the country’s economy grows without
fueling a surge in consumer prices, according to Banco Santander
SA.  “One of the reasons why foreign investors are coming is
the currency,” Guillermo Rodriguez, who helps manage $5.5
billion at Corp. Actinver SAB, said in a telephone interview in
 Mexico  City. “There are still a substantial amount of foreign
flows coming in. There is still a lot of room for the peso to
appreciate.”  Overseas investment in Mexico’s bond market more than
doubled in the last three months of 2010 to $10.9 billion, the
central bank said. Foreigners bought another $10.5 billion worth
of the securities in the January-through-March period.  ‘Very Comfortable’  President Felipe Calderon said in a May 10 interview in New
York that he’s “very comfortable” with the gains in the peso.
Brazilian Finance Minister  Guido Mantega , who said in September
that countries were weakening their exchange rates to bolster
economic growth in a global “currency war,” has increased
taxes on foreign investors’ purchases of local debt to reduce
the amount of dollars coming into the country.  Mexico’s economy,  Latin America ’s second-biggest after
Brazil’s, may grow as much as 5 percent this year after a 5.4
percent expansion in 2010 that was the fastest in a decade,
according to the central bank. Annual inflation eased to 3.3
percent in mid-May from 4.4 percent in 2010 and touched a five-
year low of 3.04 percent in March. In Brazil, inflation has
quickened to 6.51 percent, the fastest in six years.  “The large portfolio investments in Mexico are mainly
drawn by its solid economic growth and low inflation,” Nader Nazmi, a senior analyst at BNP Paribas in New York, said in a
telephone interview.  No Rate Increase  Mexico is the only major Latin American country that hasn’t
raised rates in the past year. Policy makers held the benchmark
rate at a record low 4.5 percent last month. Brazil increased
borrowing costs 125 basis points this year to 12 percent while
 India  has raised its benchmark repurchase rate 100 basis points
to 7.25 percent. China has increased  reserve requirements  for
banks 11 times and boosted  interest rates  since the start of
2010 to cool inflation.  Mexico is luring more foreign investors after its local
debt was added to Citigroup Inc.’s World Government Bond Index
in October, said Octavio Lara, deputy general director of public
debt at Mexico’s Finance Ministry. The peso’s appreciation is
playing an “important role” for investors seeking higher-
yields, he said.  “This widens the base of investors and creates a permanent
presence of foreign investors in these bonds,” Lara said in a
telephone interview from Mexico City. “We are seeing a
diversification of places where foreign investors are putting
their money to work.”  ‘Biggest Risk’  A slowdown in the  U.S. economy  may curb that investment by
crimping Mexico’s expansion, according to  Michael Roche , an
emerging-market strategist at MF Global in  New York .  The U.S. economy, which buys about 80 percent of Mexican
exports, expanded at a 1.8 percent annual rate in the first
quarter, less than the 2.2 percent median forecast in a
Bloomberg News survey and down from 3.1 percent in the last
three months of 2010.  More Americans than forecast filed applications for
 unemployment benefits  last week, signaling the job market is
weakening as employers trim staff to cut costs. Jobless claims
fell to 422,000 last week, exceeding the 417,000 average
estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Manufacturing in the U.S. expanded at the slowest pace in
more than a year, The  Institute for Supply Management  said
yesterday. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell for the second
day, having lost 2.3 percent yesterday, the most since August.  “The biggest risk to a withdrawal of the capital would be
the U.S. domestic economic slowdown,” Roche said in a telephone
interview.  Rate Differential  The extra yield investors demand to own Mexican dollar
bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries narrowed nine basis points to
138 at 5 p.m. New York time, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  The peso rose 0.7 percent to 11.6320 per  U.S. dollar .  The cost to protect Mexican debt against non-payment for
five years was little changed at 104 basis points, according to
data provider CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles
prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market.
Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities or the cash equivalent if a government
or company fails to adhere to its debt agreements.  Yields on TIIE interest-rate futures contracts maturing in
December was unchanged at 5.01 percent, indicating traders
expect the central bank will boost its benchmark rate by that
month. Traders see a 33.3 percent chance that the  Federal
Reserve  will boost the U.S. overnight rate target of between
zero and 0.25 percent at its January meeting, interest-rate
futures show.  The interest-rate differential between the two countries
will keep attracting investors to Mexico’s debt market, said Ram Bala Chandran, a Latin American currency and rates analyst at
Citigroup.  “The inflows will pretty much continue,” Bala Chandran
said in a telephone interview from New York.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net ;
Andres R. Martinez in Mexico City at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  