-- 
Recovery Languishes as Americans Await Signal of Better Times: Peter Coy

-- B y   P e t e r   C o y
-- 
2011-06-02T23:59:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-02/recovery-languishes-as-americans-await-signal-of-better-times-peter-coy.html
In 1901, William Randolph Hearst’s
 New York  Journal launched a cartoon featuring two overly polite
friends named Alphonse and Gaston. Each insisted with
conspicuous courtesy that the other go first. Amid elaborate
bowing, scraping, and apres-vous-ing, Alphonse and Gaston never
managed to make it through an open doorway.  Now, 110 years later, economists have a name for the
Alphonse and Gaston routine that’s hobbling the U.S. economy:
“coordination failure,” Bloomberg Businessweek reports in its
June 6 edition. Companies won’t hire because customers won’t
spend. Customers won’t spend because companies won’t hire. This
stare-down has been going on since approximately December 2007,
when the worst slump since the Great Depression took hold. Many
Americans would like someone to make a move so they can get back
to prosperity. Yet they’ve lost confidence in the actions that
were designed to build confidence and restore growth --namely,
near-zero overnight  interest rates , the bailout of the financial
system, a weakening dollar, and stimulus measures that add to
the federal  budget deficit  and the national debt.  The latest downer: Housing prices in 20 big U.S.
metropolitan areas fell in March to their lowest level since
2003, according to the S&P/Case-Shiller Index released on
May 31. “I wouldn’t be surprised to see prices continue to fall
this year and maybe into next year,” says  Paul Dales , a senior
U.S. economist at  Capital Economics  in Toronto. The Conference
Board announced on May 31 that its measure of  consumer
confidence  fell to 60.8 in May from 66 in April. (It was more
than 100 before the recession.) Manufacturing growth is slowing,
too, according to the latest data released on June 1. The
factory index of the  Institute for Supply Management  fell in May
by the most points since 1984.  ‘Pretty Hostile’  In Boulder,  Colorado , Michael Englund, chief economist at
Action Economics, hears the grumbling on the sidelines at his
children’s sports matches. “The whole country’s talking about
monetary policy, and it’s pretty hostile,” says Englund.
“They’re asking me, ‘Are we still going to have a dollar in five
years?’ ” From Scottsdale,  Arizona , retired tech executive and
Tea Party activist Arch McGill says people fear government: “The
elite need to visit the West, Midwest, and South to get an
understanding of the mood of the people -- they are pissed,
buying guns and food for the coming battle.”  The tension between the elite and Main Street is not going
away: Economic decision-makers in  Washington , headed by Federal
Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , continue to defend the
bailouts and easy money as necessities for economic recovery. In
a little noticed remark at his April press conference, the first
by a Fed chairman, Bernanke said that in his view the main risk
is not doing too much, it’s doing too little. In past crises, he
said, it “might be that policy responses were not adequate ...
to get as quick a recovery as might otherwise have been
possible.”  French Economist  Just how or why expansions begin still isn’t well
understood after more than a century of research. The French
economist Leon Walras (1834-1910), the founder of general
equilibrium theory, speculated that an economy climbs back to
full employment through a process called tatonnement -- French
for the groping, trial-and-error strategy that mountain climbers
use to find hand- and footholds on a rock face. As any rock
climber knows, though, tatonnement can lead to dead ends. Says
Franklin M. Fisher, a microeconomist and professor emeritus at
 Massachusetts Institute of Technology  who has studied Walras and
his successors: “The notion that the economy will dig itself out
isn’t always true. Even if you know that the economy will sooner
or later clean itself up, if that ‘later’ is awfully far away,
you have to wonder.”  Low-Growth Rut  The risk is that instead of steadily making its way back to
full employment, the  U.S. economy  gets stuck in the current low-
growth rut. Employers are sitting on their hands. True, they’ve
stopped ditching workers: Layoffs and firings in March were tied
for their lowest level of the past decade, at 1.2 percent of
employment, according to the Labor Department’s Job Openings and
Labor Turnover Survey. But companies aren’t hiring, either. At
3.1 percent of employment in March, the hiring rate is barely up
from the recession low of 2.8 percent. What’s more, it’s lower
than the 3.8 percent level at the same stage of the last
recovery, in late 2003. “If you already have a job, the labor
market probably doesn’t seem so bad, but if you’re looking for a
job, there’s been almost no job market improvement over the last
few years,” says  Michael Feroli , chief U.S. economist at
JPMorgan Securities in New York.  Skills Atrophy  When people are out of work for extended periods, their
skills atrophy, their contacts in the working world dry up, and
their chances of reemployment diminish. Forty-six percent of the
unemployed have been out of work for half a year or more, more
than triple the usual proportion.  Peter Diamond , the MIT
economist who has been awaiting Senate confirmation of his
appointment to the Federal Reserve Board for 13 months, wrote in
February that with so much slack in the labor market, further
fiscal stimulus can add jobs without raising inflation.  Not everyone is gloomy. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index is
hovering near its 2010 high after having doubled since its March
2009 low. Yet the recent drop in Treasury yields, to below
3 percent on the 10-year note from a recent peak of 3.7 percent
in February, reflects increasing skepticism about the outlook
for growth. The  National Federation of Independent Business ’s
index of small business owners’ optimism fell in March and
April, partially reversing a gradual uptrend that began in early
2009. “The ‘get-up-and-go’ usually present in the small business
sector after a recession ‘got-up-and-went,’ ” the organization
announced on May 10. Corporate Executive Board, an Arlington,
Virginia-based research and advisory company, said on May 31
that hiring expectations at large companies dipped in the first
quarter for the first time since its survey began in October
2009.  Feeling of Uncertainty  The public is no more buoyant.  “We are stuck in a vicious
circle,” says Fred Crawford, chief executive officer of
AlixPartners, a Southfield, Michigan-based business consulting
firm. “There’s a pervasive feeling of uncertainty.” The Chicago
Booth/Kellogg School Financial Trust Index, based on a survey of
the American public, fell in March to 20, plumbing the lows of
19 and 20 reached in the depths of the financial meltdown of
2008-09.  There are really two stalemates here. In the economy, both
consumers and businesses are waiting for a stronger signal of
better times ahead. In politics, the system is deadlocked over
whether the economy needs more help from the government or less.
A  Nobel prize  goes to whoever can end this routine and get
America growing again.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Peter Coy  in New York at 
 pcoy3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Power at 
 cpower3@bloomberg.net  