-- 
Relativity Media Hands Universal Film Fund to Backer Elliott Management

-- B y   R o n a l d   G r o v e r
-- 
2011-06-02T04:00:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-02/relativity-media-hands-universal-film-fund-to-backer-elliott-management.html
Relativity Media LLC agreed to spin
off the film-finance fund it set up for  Universal Pictures  and
hand the operation over to Elliott Management Corp.  Elliott, the New York-based hedge fund, in turn agreed to
invest additional capital in Relativity, the film-finance and
production company led by Ryan Kavanaugh, according to a
statement yesterday from the companies.  The split lets Kavanaugh advance his effort to build a
movie production and distribution operation, while Elliott gets
control of a film-finance fund it had backed since 2008.
Kavanaugh is seeking an investor to buy out Elliott’s minority
stake in Relativity, the website The Wrap reported yesterday.
Elliott responded by saying it had no plans to sell.  “As our core business of developing, producing and
distributing our own product has grown to be competitive in size
and scope with the majors, this move allows us to focus our
energy on that business,” said Kavanaugh, chief executive
officer and majority shareholder of  West Hollywood , California-
based Relativity.  Relativity, which will continue to fund movies made by  Sony
Corp. (6758) , bought the production company Rogue Pictures from
Universal in January 2009, and the distribution and marketing
arms of Overture Films from Liberty Media Corp. July 2010.  The agreement averts potential conflicts of interest that
may arise when closely held Relativity finances a project that
competes with a film it’s producing, according to the statement.
Relativity and Universal each have projects based on Snow White
in the works.  Cindy Gardner, a spokeswoman for Universal, declined to
comment. The studio is part of  Comcast Corp (CMCSA) .-controlled NBC
Universal Inc.  Last month, Elliott hired Relativity’s president, Michael Joe, to manage its entertainment investments. A former Universal
Pictures executive, he will head Elliott Media Investments and
manage the funding slate being spun off.  Relativity has an option to buy out Elliott’s Relativity
holding, people with knowledge of the arrangement said
yesterday.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  is leading a group that aims to
purchase the stake for about $700 million, The Wrap reported.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ronald Grover in  Los Angeles  at 
 rgrover5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  