-- 
Tribune Retirees, Deutsche Bank Sue Shareholders Over Buyout

-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h   a n d   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 
2011-06-03T18:37:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-02/tribune-retirees-file-109-million-suit-against-bofa-in-new-york.html
Former shareholders of Tribune Co.
were sued by a  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  unit and retirees over claims
that the media company’s $8.5 billion leveraged buyout was a
fraudulent transfer that pushed it into bankruptcy.  The unit of Frankfurt-based Deutsche Bank sued dozens of
shareholders, brokers and other defendants yesterday in at least
11 states on behalf of Tribune’s pre-buyout noteholders. Those
creditors and others in the lawsuit are owed at least $2.5
billion that can’t be repaid in full because of the 2007 deal,
Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas said.  “The LBO lined the pockets of Tribune’s former
shareholders with $8.5 billion of cash at the expense of
Tribune’s creditors, and precipitated Tribune’s careen into
bankruptcy,” Deutsche Bank Trust said in the complaints. It
asks to recover money paid to shareholders that creditors
labeled “fraudulent transfers.”  The cases are part of the strategy devised by  Aurelius
Capital Management LP , which owns Tribune notes issued before
the buyout. The New York-based hedge fund proposed a
reorganization plan that would use lawsuits against
shareholders, lenders that funded the buyout and others to
collect what pre-buyout creditors are owed.  Tribune, based in Chicago, proposed a competing plan that
is sponsored by  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and two  hedge funds , Angelo
Gordon & Co. and Oaktree Capital Management LP. Their plan also
relies on lawsuits, while settling most claims against the
buyout lenders, including New York-based JPMorgan.  Retirees’ Suit  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and
Scottrade Inc. were among defendants named in the retirees’
complaint, which seeks $109 million. Yesterday’s lawsuits were
the first of a group of cases authorized in March by Tribune’s
bankruptcy judge. The targeted firms sold Tribune shares for
themselves or on clients’ behalf as part of the buyout.  “Tribune, pressured by its majority shareholders and lured
by a scheme orchestrated by Sam Zell, abandoned its duties and
obligations to its retirees, employees and creditors,”
according to the retirees’ complaint filed in New York state
court in  Manhattan .  Courts have ruled that a fraudulent transfer of money takes
place when the people involved know that a deal will enrich one
side and leave the other insolvent.  Competing Plans  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Kevin J. Carey is scheduled to hear
closing arguments about the two competing reorganization plans
on June 14. He authorized the current round of suits in March.  Carey also issued an order requiring that, once the cases
were filed, no further activity take place without his
permission. The suits were filed to beat a deadline of June 4,
when a four-year statute of limitations runs out.  Zell, a real estate investor, led the buyout using more
than $8 billion in loans to take the publishing company private.
The billionaire, who has been named in similar lawsuits, has
repeatedly denied that creditors have any legal basis for suing
him. Tribune, which owes about $13 billion to creditors, is
valued at about $6.75 billion, according to court records filed
by the company.  Bill Halldin , a spokesman for  Charlotte , North Carolina-
based Bank of America, and David Wells, a spokesman for New
York-based Goldman Sachs, declined to comment yesterday on the
retirees’ lawsuit. Carrie Hibbs, a spokeswoman for St. Louis-
based Scottrade, said she couldn’t comment.  Harvard University  in Cambridge,  Massachusetts , was among
the defendants named in the Boston case. A phone message left at
the school’s media office wasn’t returned.  Times Mirror  Most of the retirees who sued were employed by Times Mirror
Co., the former owner of the  Los Angeles  Times, before it merged
with Tribune in 2000. Tribune owns eight newspapers, including
the Los Angeles Times and the Chicago Tribune, with a combined
daily circulation last year of 1.9 million.  The company also has 23 TV stations, including broadcasters
in the three biggest U.S. markets -- New York,  Chicago  and Los
Angeles. Tribune filed for bankruptcy in December 2008 saying it
was hurt by the recession and competition from the Internet.  The company’s 5 1/4 percent bonds due in 2015 fell 4.5
percent today to 51 cents on the dollar, according to Trace, the
bond-price reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority.  The Philadelphia cases are Deutsche Bank Trust Company
Americas v. Commonwealth of PA-PSERS, 11-03570, and Deutsche
Bank Trust Company Americas v. Ametek Inc. Employees Master
Retirement Trust, 11-03569, both U.S. District Court, Eastern
District of Pennsylvania (Philadelphia).  The Boston case is Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas v.
Anne G. Taylor, 11-10982, U.S. District Court, District of
Massachusetts (Boston). The retirees case is Niese v.
AllianceBernstein LP, 651516/2011,  Supreme Court  of the State of
 New York , New York County (Manhattan). The bankruptcy case is In
re Tribune Co., 08-bk-13141,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , District of
 Delaware  (Wilmington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net ;
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net . 