-- 
Trichet Proposes Euro-Area Finance Ministry to Coordinate Fiscal Policies

-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   V i t s   a n d   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 
2011-06-02T12:16:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-02/trichet-proposes-euro-area-finance-ministry-to-coordinate-fiscal-policies.html
European Central Bank President Jean- Claude Trichet said governments should consider setting up a
 finance ministry  for the 17-nation euro region as the bloc
struggles to contain a region-wide sovereign debt crisis.  “Would it be too bold, in the economic field, with a
single market, a single currency and a single central bank, to
envisage a ministry of finance of the union?” Trichet said in a
speech today in Aachen,  Germany . He also favors giving the
European Union powers to veto the budget measures of countries
that go “harmfully astray,” though that would require a change
to EU Treaties.  Trichet, one of the architects of the Maastricht Treaty
that founded the euro, is setting out his vision for how the
currency can be better managed just months before he retires and
as European officials rush to put together a second bailout plan
for  Greece . Last year’s 110 billion-euro ($159 billion) rescue
failed to prevent an investor exodus from Greece, which has been
saddled with Europe’s highest debt load amid a three-year
economic slump.  Ireland and  Portugal  also had to ask for European aid as
borrowing costs soared on concern the countries wouldn’t be able
to tame their budget deficits.  Ministry Functions  German government bonds fell after the remarks before
regaining ground. The 10-year yield was little changed at 2.99
percent as of 12:44 p.m. in London. Greek two-year notes erased
a decline to leave the yield little changed at 24.54 percent.
The euro rose more than a quarter cent to as high as $1.4486.  Trichet, who has no formal power over government decision
making, hasn’t said what he plans to do when he leaves the  ECB 
at the end of October. He said today that while any single
finance ministry would “not necessarily” administer “a large
federal budget,” it would “exert direct responsibilities in at
least three domains.”  These would include “first, the surveillance of both
fiscal policies and competitiveness policies” and “direct
responsibilities” for countries in fiscal distress, he said.  It would also carry out “all the typical responsibilities
of the executive branches as regards the union’s integrated
financial sector, so as to accompany the full integration of
financial services, and third, the representation of the union
confederation in international financial institutions.”  Europe ’s Paymasters  “Germany and  France  as the paymasters of Europe are
unlikely to go with this proposal,” said Tobias Blattner, a
former ECB economist who now works with Daiwa Capital Markets
Europe in London. “While the ECB has been pushing for closer
fiscal integration throughout the crisis, Trichet’s proposals
stop short of making this a proper treasury as he’s not
mentioning enabling this institution to issue common bonds and
it won’t have a budget.”  Trichet said that any new form of fiscal governance would
need to be “decided by the people of Europe” and that the EU
president, the European Commission and the German finance
ministry are sure to have their own views. Calls to the German
finance ministry for comments on Trichet’s proposals were not
immediately returned. Officials at the French finance ministry
declined to comment.  The absence of a European Treasury has drawn criticism in
the past, including from billionaire investor  George Soros  who
said as far back as 2009, before the sovereign-debt crisis
erupted, that the lack of a common European fiscal authority is
among the “issues that need to be confronted.”  Ad Hoc Plans  Dealing with the crisis on an “ad hoc basis looks pretty
much played out now,”  Niall Ferguson , a history professor at
 Harvard University , said in an interview with Deirdre Bolton and
Erik Schatzker on Bloomberg Television’s “Inside Track.”
“People’s minds are turning to the idea of some kind of
permanent fiscal control. Nobody should pretend otherwise.”  Trichet has on many occasions voiced his frustrations at
Europe’s finance ministers’ handling of the crisis, which
effectively left the ECB to shoulder the main burden by buying
distressed  government bonds  in the secondary market and support
Europe’s economy by slashing  interest rates  to a record low.  The ECB is now one of the main holders of Greek government
debt and, along with European lawmakers, may ask investors to
reinvest in new debt when existing bonds mature, said two
officials familiar with the situation.  Trichet signaled the current situation is not ideal. While
financial aid is “justified” for any troubled country “in the
context of a strong” adjustment program, “if a country is
still not delivering, I think all would agree that the second
stage has to be different,” he said.  In this second stage, European authorities could take
decisions “applicable in the economy concerned,” he said,
adding that this could include the “right to veto some national
economic policy decisions.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christian Vits in Frankfurt at 
 cvits@bloomberg.net ;
Gabi Thesing in  London  at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  