-- 
Palin Bus Tour Collides With Romney’s New Hampshire Candidacy Announcement

-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 
2011-06-03T17:02:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-02/romney-s-2012-presidential-campaign-counting-on-new-hampshire.html
Sarah Palin crashed her red, white
and blue bus into  Mitt Romney ’s party yesterday, sweeping into
 New Hampshire  for the final leg of her multiday East Coast tour
as he was in the state declaring his candidacy for president.  Romney, the former Massachusetts governor, formally opened
his bid for the Republican nomination with an assault on
President  Barack Obama ’s economic policies.  “Barack Obama has failed America,” Romney said at a chili
cookout doubling as a political rally in Stratham, New
Hampshire. “When he took office, the economy was in recession
and he made it worse and he made it last longer.”  Romney’s effort, though, to keep the focus on Obama -- and
himself -- was undercut by Palin. Before his official
announcement, she directed some barbs at him in comments in the
Boston area. The bus tour that the former Alaska governor began
May 29 in  Washington  then crossed into New Hampshire about the
same time as Romney’s rally.  Later in the day, at a clambake in Seabrook, New Hampshire,
Palin remained coy about her political intentions.  ‘Plenty of Time’  Asked by reporters about her plans, the 2008 Republican
vice presidential nominee said, “Why should everyone jump in
there right now and start beating each other up in this primary
process, showing the other guys our playbook? There’s plenty of
time for that.”  Still, the attention her mere presence in the early primary
state attracted underscored the power she has to influence the
race, whether she becomes a candidate or remains a commentator.  “She’s become a large part of the discussion this week
just by getting on a bus,” said Steve Duprey, a Republican
National Committee member from New Hampshire, moments after
Romney spoke. “She’s going to be a force in the race.”  Today’s front page of the Union Leader, the state’s largest
newspaper, treated Palin’s stop with a prominently displayed
story and picture. Romney’s announcement was referenced on the
front page with a small picture; the story on it ran on an
inside page.  ‘Best of Luck’  Palin, 47, insisted that she hadn’t intended to overshadow
Romney’s announcement. She said in Seabrook yesterday that her
arrival in New Hampshire simply “worked very well
logistically” as the wrap up to a trip that included visits to
historic sites in Philadelphia and Boston. “I say, best of luck
to Governor Romney,” Palin said.  Her travel plans had remained a mystery to many Republican
officials and activists even as her bus was making its way into
the state.  Kevin Smith , director of  Cornerstone Action , a
fiscally conservative think tank in New Hampshire, said that as
of yesterday morning he had no details about the timing or
location of her visit.  “If she’s coming up to win activists and prepare for a
presidential run, this is not the way to do it,” he said.  Palin isn’t planning to participate in a candidate debate
sponsored by  CNN  in New Hampshire on June 13.  Romney, 64, is making a concerted effort to build support
in New Hampshire, a state critical to his campaign strategy.  After losing the New Hampshire primary in 2008 to the
eventual Republican nominee, Arizona Senator  John McCain , he has
spent the past 2 1/2 years privately meeting with local
activists and donating to Republican state candidates to build
backing, according to advisers and party leaders.  He announced his candidacy under sunny skies at Bittersweet
Farm in Stratham, the home of longtime party activists and a
popular stop for Republican candidates. As hundreds of attendees
cheered, he declared: “I’m Mitt Romney. I believe in America
and I’m running for president.”  Business Background  Romney, who co-founded Boston-based private equity firm
Bain Capital LLC, attacked Obama for failed job-creation
efforts, a lagging housing market, and high federal spending. He
criticized Obama’s foreign policy record, saying the president
has failed to defend  Israel  or adequately support Arab
dissenters, and was too slow to take military action in  Libya .  In an appeal to fiscally conservative Tea Party activists
who helped Republicans rack up big wins in the 2010 elections,
Romney promised to cap federal spending at 20 percent of gross
domestic product, balance the government’s budget and repeal the
health-care overhaul Obama pushed into law last year.  ‘European Answers’  He accused Obama of taking power from states and offering
“European answers” to America’s problems. “This president’s
first answer to every problem is to take power from you, your
local government and your state,” Romney said. “And with each
of these decisions, we lose more of our freedom.”  Still, before he can take on Obama, he must win the
Republican nomination. His critics in the party see his role in
the passage of a Massachusetts health-care law while he was
governor as a major stumbling block, especially among Tea Party
activists for whom Palin is a favorite.  The state law expanded coverage by requiring all residents
to buy insurance. Such an individual mandate is central to the
health-care plan Obama signed into law last year.  Romney, who last month sought to distance himself from the
Massachusetts measure, yesterday stressed the differences
between the state and national laws. He called the Massachusetts
plan “a state solution for a state problem.”  Waiver Pledge  He told voters at a town hall meeting in Manchester, New
Hampshire, today that, as president, on his first day in office
he would issue waivers exempting all 50 states from the law.  Palin assailed the Massachusetts health-care law as she and
her entourage prepared to depart for New Hampshire yesterday.
“In my opinion, any mandate coming from government is not a
good thing,” she told reporters in the  Boston  area. She also
predicted that Romney will face a “big challenge” appealing to
many Republican activists.  Another prospective Republican presidential candidate
causing some commotion in New Hampshire yesterday was former New
York City Mayor Rudy Giuliani. “The reality is that Obamacare
and Romneycare are almost exactly the same,” he told reporters
before addressing a state party dinner in Manchester.  Giuliani, another unsuccessful 2008 contender, hasn’t ruled
out another bid.  Romney today urged Republicans to stay focused on
opposition Obama. “We need to aim at Obama,” he told a voter
in Manchester, after his town hall meeting.  Other Candidates  Romney joins former  Minnesota  Governor  Tim Pawlenty , former
House Speaker  Newt Gingrich  of  Georgia  and U.S. Representative
 Ron Paul  of  Texas  as declared candidates.  Former Utah governor  Jon Huntsman , who earlier this year
gave up his post as U.S. ambassador to  China  under Obama to
explore challenging him, is weighing a bid, as is Representative
 Michele Bachmann  of Minnesota.  Former Pennsylvania Senator Rick Santorum plans to
officially enter the race at a June 6 event in his home state.  Herman Cain, former chairman and chief executive officer of
Godfather’s Pizza Inc., and former New Mexico Governor Gary Johnson also have declared their candidacies. Former Louisiana
Governor Buddy Roemer, a Democrat-turned-Republican, has formed
an exploratory committee.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Lerer in Manchester, New Hampshire, at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  