-- 
Russia RTS Futures Gain as Dollar Weakens, Commodities Rally

-- B y   H a l i a   P a v l i v a
-- 
2011-06-02T21:13:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-02/russia-rts-futures-gain-as-dollar-weakens-commodities-rally.html
Russia ’s RTS stock-index futures
gained, signaling stocks may rally for a second session in
Moscow today, as the dollar weakened against the euro, boosting
prices for oil and other commodities exports from the country.  Futures on the dollar-denominated index expiring in June
rose 0.3 percent yesterday. Contracts on OAO Rosneft, Russia’s
top oil producer, gained 0.2 percent, as those on OAO Lukoil,
the second biggest, fell 0.1 percent. Contracts on OAO Gazprom,
the world’s largest natural gas producer, gained 0.4 percent.  “The dollar remains weak, which provides support for crude
and other commodities,” Julian Rimmer, who trades Russian
shares at CF Global Trading in  London , said via e-mail. “Russia
remains hostage to external factors at present.  Greece , U.S.
growth and Chinese monetary tightening are the primary
concerns.”  Some investors buy oil and other dollar-denominated assets
to protect value when the greenback weakens against the euro.
Russia, the world’s largest energy exporter, benefits from
higher commodities prices because it boosts budget revenue and
the outlook for local companies. The country also produces
metals including steel, copper, nickel, palladium and aluminum.
Oil and natural gas make up a quarter of its economic output.  The euro gained versus the dollar to the highest level in
almost a month as Moody’s Investors Service said it may place
the U.S. government’s rating under review for possible downgrade
and German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said she’s committed to the
shared currency. The dollar dropped against the majority of its
most-traded peers as weaker economic data added to speculation
the nation’s recovery is slowing.  Euro, Crude  The euro rose 1.2 percent to $1.4494 as of 4:40 p.m. in New
York from $1.4328 on June 1.  Crude oil for July delivery rose 11 cents, or 0.1 percent,
to settle at $100.40 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange . Prices have gained 9.9 percent this year.  The Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index of 19 raw materials
climbed 0.6 percent.  Wheat futures rose for the first time in three days on
speculation that exports from Russia won’t be enough to help
meet higher global demand. Corn and soybeans also gained.  Russia, which will lift a ban on grain exports on July 1,
may need to implement duties on shipments to cap domestic
prices, RIA Novosti reported, citing Sergey Ignatiev, the
central bank chairman. Global wheat output may trail consumption
as adverse weather from the U.S. to  Europe  threatens yields, the
International Grains Council said.  The Market Vectors Russia ETF, a U.S.-traded fund that
holds Russian shares, rose 1.8 percent. Lukoil’s American
depositary receipts gained 1.8 percent. Gazprom’s ADRs declined
0.3 percent.  The Micex Index of 30 stocks added 0.5 percent to 1,658.39
in Moscow yesterday. OAO Transneft, Russia’s oil pipeline
operator, jumped 4.7 percent. VTB Group, the country’s second-
largest lender, increased 1 percent. The dollar-denominated RTS
Index rose 0.3 percent to 1,883.09.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Halia Pavliva in  New York  at 
 hpavliva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net ;
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  