-- 
Russia Seeks to Bridge Libyan Civil War in Qaddafi Exit Talks

-- B y   I l y a   A r k h i p o v   a n d   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 
2011-06-02T07:40:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-02/russia-seeks-to-bridge-libyan-civil-war-in-qaddafi-exit-talks.html
Russia  wants to mediate between the
two sides in Libya’s civil war as it tries to negotiate the exit
from power of Colonel  Muammar Qaddafi , said Mikhail Margelov,
the country’s envoy to the rebel stronghold of Benghazi.  Margelov will travel to Libya "in the nearest time" to meet
with the rebel leadership, he said by phone from Moscow
yesterday. Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov is in contact
with Tripoli, held by Qaddafi’s forces, he said.  Russian President  Dmitry Medvedev  on May 27 said Qaddafi
has forfeited his right to govern and his country is using its
contacts with the regime’s leadership to persuade him to step
down. Russia abstained from the United Nations Security Council
vote in March that authorized a NATO-led military intervention
in  Libya .  "My trip is an attempt to help the Libyan elite find a
national consensus," Margelov said. Russia "has a unique
opportunity to become a bridge between those parts of the Libyan
political elite which see the future of their country as one
united state."  Any solution must "be acceptable to all Libyans," Lavrov
said in an interview yesterday, echoing comments South African
President  Jacob Zuma  made after returning from Tripoli in a trip
backed by the  African Union .  Russia itself isn’t involved in negotiating "any deals of
immunity or guarantees" for Qaddafi, though the leaders of other
countries involved are considering a range of options, Lavrov
said. Qaddafi’s future is "the most delicate topic," said
Margelov, who also heads the International Affairs Committee in
Russia’s upper house of parliament, the Federation Council.  "The question of guarantees or immunity, even if it’s being
discussed at the highest levels, isn’t public information and
doesn’t need to be advertised," Margelov said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net ;
Ilya Arkhipov in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  