-- 
Samsung Sues AU Optronics, Acer, Sanyo for Alleged Flat-Panel Infringement

-- B y   J u n   Y a n g   a n d   P h i l   M i l f o r d
-- 
2011-06-02T03:02:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-02/samsung-sues-au-optronics-acer-sanyo-for-alleged-flat-panel-infringement.html
Samsung Electronics Co., the world’s
largest flat-screen maker, sued  AU Optronics Corp. (2409)  and three of
the Taiwanese company’s customers in the U.S., alleging they
infringed some of its display patents.  Samsung filed a complaint with the U.S. International Trade
Commission over the companies’ use of its technologies without
payment in liquid-crystal-display products, the Suwon, South
Korea-based maker said today. Samsung also filed lawsuits with
federal courts in Delaware and  California , it said in an e-
mailed statement.  The customers are Sanyo Electric Co.,  Acer Inc. (2353)  and BenQ
Corp., said Nam Ki Yung, a Seoul-based spokesman at Samsung. The
suit follows one that Samsung filed against  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  in April,
after the iPad maker alleged Galaxy mobile devices copied the
Cupertino, California-based company’s technologies and designs.  AU Optronics is reviewing the matter and will take the
necessary steps to protect the interests of the company and its
customers, Yawen Hsiao, a spokeswoman for the Hsinchu, Taiwan-
based maker, said by telephone. Acer doesn’t comment on pending
legal cases, said Stella Chou, a company spokeswoman in Taipei.
Yuko Hosaka, a spokeswoman for Sanyo in  Tokyo , wasn’t
immediately available to comment. An official at BenQ declined
to comment.  Samsung fell 2.5 percent to 888,000 won as of 11:22 a.m. in
Seoul trading, poised for the steepest decline since April 28.
AU Optronics dropped 1.1 percent to NT$23.30 in Taipei trading,
and Acer fell 6.5 percent to NT$52.20.  In the complaint to the trade commission, Samsung said it
is seeking an order prohibiting the import and sale of the LCD
products used in televisions and computer monitors. The company
is seeking damages in the Delaware and California suits, it
said, without providing figures.  Samsung received the second-largest number of patents in
the U.S. last year after International Business Machines Corp.,
 IFI Claims Patent Services , a Wilmington, Delaware-based
research company, said in January.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jun Yang in Seoul at 
 jyang180@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Milford in Wilmington at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  