-- 
Saudi Arabia Grants $400 Million to Support Jordanian Economy

-- B y   N a y l a   R a z z o u k
-- 
2011-06-02T17:45:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-02/saudi-arabia-grants-400-million-to-support-jordanian-economy.html
Saudi Arabia  granted $400 million to
support Jordan’s economy and ease its  budget deficit , the
Jordanian state-run news agency  Petra  said, citing Finance
Minister Mohamed Abu Hammour.  The grant will help to finance a number of projects “which
will reflect positively on the level and the quality of services
provided to citizens and will help overcome the difficulties
faced by the public budget,” the Jordanian minister was quoted
as saying.  Jordan, one of the smallest economies in the  Middle East ,
imports more than 90 percent of its oil and relies on foreign
investment and grants to support its budget and current-account
deficits. Political turmoil that has engulfed the Middle East in
recent months led to unrest in  Jordan  by opposition groups
seeking faster social and political change.  The Jordanian government increased public salaries and
subsidies in January, adding 460 million dinars ($649 million)
to this year’s budget, to counter protests over falling living
standards.  The  International Monetary Fund  expects Jordan’s economy to
grow 3.3 percent this year, Petra said May 26, citing Paul
Cashin, head of the IMF mission in the kingdom. The government
forecast growth of as much as 6 percent before the outbreak of
pro-democracy protests in Jordan this year.  Inflation quickened to an annual 4.5 percent in April from
4.3 percent the month before, the Department of Statistics said
May 9. Public debt increased to 4.617 billion dinars as of the
end of March from 4.610 billion dinars at the end of 2010,
according to the Finance Ministry website.  -With assistance from Mohammad Tayseer in Amman. Editors:
Heather Langan, Andrew Atkinson  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nayla Razzouk in Amman at 
 nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Inal Ersan at 
 iersan@bloomberg.net . 