-- 
HSBC Raises Brent Oil Forecast by 34%

-- B y   P r a t i s h   N a r a y a n a n   a n d   A n n   K o h
-- 
2011-06-02T07:48:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-02/hsbc-raises-brent-oil-forecast-by-34-to-110-a-barrel-for-2011.html
HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  said speculative
trading may have added $30 a barrel to  oil prices  last month as
a gain in futures holdings by commodities funds outweighed
higher production by  Saudi Arabia , OPEC’s biggest producer.  An increase in Saudi output starting in November, after New
York-traded crude rose above $80 a barrel, failed to stabilize
prices even before the loss of production from Libya in the wake
of political turmoil in the North African nation, according to a
report dated June 1.  “Part of the reason may be speculative activity,” HSBC
analysts Sonia Song and Paul Spedding said in the report.  The number of oil futures contracts held by funds has
doubled since February 2010 and nearly tripled since September
2009, the analysts said, citing data from the  New York 
Mercantile Exchange.  Based on the correlation between the increase in holdings
and the price of oil, the HSBC analysts estimate that
speculative activity may have added up to $30 a barrel to prices
from October to May.  Crude traded at $99.76 a barrel at 3:45 p.m. Singapore time
today in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile Exchange .
Price have risen 37 percent the past year.  Spare Capacity  The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries’ spare
capacity, excluding Libya, is around 3.6 million barrels a day
currently, HSBC estimated. The increase in production by Saudi
Arabia suggests the Middle Eastern nation is seeking lower
prices, the analysts said.  “We expect that it is wary of deflating what it sees as a
speculative bubble too quickly,” Song and Spedding said in the
note.  OPEC will probably maintain production levels when it meets
in Vienna on June 8, resisting calls to ease the pressure on the
global economy from oil at $100 a barrel, according to a survey
of analysts by Bloomberg News.  The group won’t announce any supply increase and will keep
its formal quota unchanged for an eighth consecutive meeting at
the June 8 gathering, said 27 of the 30 analysts surveyed.  OPEC’s 12 members are Algeria,  Angola , Ecuador, Iran,  Iraq ,
Kuwait, Libya, Nigeria, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, the United Arab
Emirates and Venezuela. Iraq is outside the quota system.  Brent Forecast  HSBC also raised its forecast for Brent crude this year by
34 percent to an average $110 a barrel and by 8.4 percent for
2012 to $90 a barrel, according to the report. Brent traded at
$114.25 today on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange.  Prices may gain on risk of supply curbs in the Middle East
and North Africa, HSBC said. Oil has climbed 21 percent in
 London  and 9 percent in New York this year as unrest toppled
leaders in Tunisia and Egypt and spread to Libya,  Algeria ,
Bahrain, Iran, Syria and Yemen.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Pratish Narayanan in Mumbai at 
 pnarayanan9@bloomberg.net ;
Ann Koh in Singapore at 
 akoh15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  