-- 
Scene Last Night: LeClerc, Marron, Steiner, de la Renta, Wolfe

-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 
2011-06-02T15:38:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-02/scene-last-night-leclerc-marron-milstein-steiner-de-la-renta-wolfe.html
Slim and elegant, Paul LeClerc stood
just inside the heavy bronze doors of the  New York Public
Library , beside a giant bouquet of yellow and pink peonies,
extending his hands to Annette and Oscar de la Renta, Tom Wolfe,
in his white suit, and other guests.  The occasion, marking his retirement, was a celebration of
LeClerc’s 17 years as president of the library. During this
time, its endowment has risen to $820 million from $260 million;
the papers of Jack Kerouac, Maya Angelou and Arthur Schlesinger
Jr. have come into its collection; new light-filled branches
have opened; and old branches have been restored.  “What are you doing next?” asked Ruth Messinger, former
Manhattan borough president.  LeClerc ticked off a few things: a book project, teaching
in the library’s adult-literacy program, and, he added, his eyes
and voice brightening, family.  Nearby, LeClerc’s wife, Judith Ginsberg, was beaming. So
was “the other woman” in his life, Catherine Marron, the
chairman of the library.  Marron said she has enjoyed everything about working with
LeClerc, from their e-mail exchanges seven days a week, to their
big-idea conversations.  “Periodically, we talk about how the library stands for
democracy in a way that sets it apart from other places,”
Marron said. “Paul cares so much about everyone having access
to the library.”  Yet another woman in his life, trustee Abby Milstein, an
attorney, recalled a sweet-tooth moment with LeClerc on a
lobbying trip to  Albany .  “To my surprise, Paul packed fantastic snacks,” Milstein
said. “We had dark chocolate all the ride home.”  No Advice for Successor  The new president, Anthony W. Marx, president of  Amherst
College  in  Massachusetts , starts July 1. Asked if he had any
advice to impart to Marx, LeClerc said, “No, that would be
presumptuous of me.”  In formal remarks at a lectern flanked by Astor Hall’s
grand candelabras, Joshua Steiner, the vice chairman of the
library and a senior adviser at Quandrangle Group LLC, invoked
three French words to describe the departing president, a
Voltaire scholar: humanite, curiosite and couleur (which he
translated as “guts”).  On their way to the Trustees Room for dinner (roasted
chicken with morels and blueberry pie), guests stopped to see a
new plaque in the North Corridor honoring LeClerc. (The South
Corridor has a similar plaque for LeClerc’s predecessor Vartan Gregorian.)  LeClerc’s describes him as “a visionary leader and student
of the Enlightenment who guided ‘the best of all possible
libraries’ into the digital age.”  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon in  New York  at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter at @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 