-- 
Sealed Air Shareholders Diminished With 52% Premium for Diversey: Real M&A

-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 
2011-06-02T14:48:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-02/sealed-air-shareholders-diminished-with-52-premium-for-diversey-real-m-a.html
Sealed Air Corp. (SEE)  is handing Clayton
Dubilier & Rice LLC an almost $1 billion windfall at the expense
of its own shareholders by paying a 52 percent premium for
Diversey Holdings Inc.  The $2.9 billion takeover of Diversey, the cleaning-
products maker owned by Clayton Dubilier and descendants of
Samuel Curtis Johnson, values the New York-based private equity
firm’s 46 percent stake at $1.34 billion, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. That’s almost triple the amount Clayton
Dubilier paid in November 2009. Including net debt, the $4.3
billion price tag is 11.9 times Diversey’s earnings, higher than
the average 7.8 times for the most comparable deals this year.  Sealed Air’s Chief Executive Officer William Hickey is
attempting the biggest deal for the maker of Bubble Wrap in over
a decade after competitors returned more than 20 times as much
to their owners in the past five years. While Sealed Air climbed
to a three-year high in February on speculation it would get
taken over, the Elmwood Park, New Jersey-based company has since
declined 16 percent through yesterday as it pursues a business
that’s less than half as profitable as its own operations.  “All I can say at this point is ‘ouch.’ What on earth are
they doing?” said  Malcolm Polley , who oversees $1 billion as
chief investment officer at Stewart Capital in  Indiana ,
 Pennsylvania . “They are giving Clayton Dubilier a huge
windfall. It’s not clear if what they are getting is worth what
they are paying. They are doing it at the expense of the
shareholders, which is a real problem.”  Emerging Markets Bet  After the deal was announced, shares of Sealed Air, the
maker of Cryovac food packaging, Jiffy protective mailers and
medical supplies such as sterile sealed packaging, yesterday
retreated 7.2 percent as it traded without the right to its
quarterly dividend. The stock slumped another 5 percent to
$22.64 as of 10:46 a.m. in New York today.  Hickey said Sealed Air bought Diversey to generate sales
from emerging market food processors concerned about product
safety. Diversey provides cleaning and sanitizing detergents,
gels and foam, plus electronic dispensers to customers in the
food and beverage, health-care and lodging industries.  “It’s not intuitively obvious unless you look in our space
and look at the issues that our customers have, and look at the
issues that kind of the world has on a going forward basis,” he
said in a telephone interview. “There’s a real opportunity to
be a leader in a space that’s now very, very fragmented.”  “The first day of trade is not the meaningful one,” the
66-year-old CEO said.  Target to Acquirer  John Matthews, a spokesman at Sturtevant, Wisconsin-based
Diversey, said the acquisition by Sealed Air is a “very strong
strategic initiative.” He also said Clayton Dubilier “made us
better at what we do.”  A representative for Clayton Dubilier declined to comment.  Sealed Air agreed to pay Diversey $2.1 billion in cash and
31.7 million shares of Sealed Air common stock valued at $25.68
on May 31, the day before the deal was announced. The purchase
also includes $1.36 billion of Diversey’s net debt.  The acquisition is the second-largest in the company’s
history, behind the $4.8 billion purchase of the Cryovac food-
packaging business in 1998 from W.R. Grace & Co., Hickey said.
Sealed Air currently has a market value of $3.8 billion.  “There was a certain element of the market betting that
Sealed Air themselves could be an attractive takeout
candidate,” said Ghansham Panjabi, an analyst at Robert W.
Baird & Co. in  New York . “Clearly that’s not going to be the
case. People are wondering why they didn’t acquire something in
more traditional packaging versus acquiring something in a
completely different business.”  Shareholder Returns  Based on the price that Hickey agreed to pay for Diversey,
Clayton Dubilier stands to reap a windfall of about $861 million
on its initial $477 million investment, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. That represents a 180 percent profit for the
buyout firm’s investors in 18 months.  In that span, Hickey generated a total return of 11 percent
for Sealed Air owners through yesterday. The Standard & Poor’s
500 Index, the benchmark for American common equity, returned
more than twice as much as Sealed Air with a 23 percent gain,
including payouts.  “It’s obviously a great investment for the private equity
firm and they did their homework in finding the right buyer,”
said  Jack Ablin , chief investment officer for Chicago-based
Harris  Private Bank , which oversees $60 billion.  Diversey is also more costly than comparable specialty
chemicals deals this year, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Relative Value  Tom Dohrmann, a credit analyst who covers Diversey at Fitch
Group Inc. in New York, cited three comparable deals this year:
Berkshire Hathaway Inc.’s $9 billion purchase of Lubrizol Corp.
in March, Solvay SA’s takeover of Rhodia SA in April, and
Ashland Inc.’s $3.2 billion acquisition of International
Specialty Products Inc. last month.  Ashland of Covington,  Kentucky , paid the highest multiple,
valuing Wayne, New Jersey-based International Specialty Products
at 8.9 times earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Sealed Air is spending almost 12 times Diversey’s Ebitda of
$359 million in the past 12 months, its regulatory filing
showed. Using adjusted Ebitda, the deal is valued at 9.5 times.  “Sealed Air is willing to overpay for this company because
they think this is their best chance to diversify into a new
segment as well as penetrate emerging markets,” said  Michael Yoshikami , chief investment strategist at YCMNet Advisors, which
manages $1 billion in Walnut Creek,  California . “It’s going to
all come down to the execution, if their salespeople can
leverage out the packaging materials into the disinfectants
market. The jury is out on that.”  Deal Rationale  Sealed Air is turning to Diversey to boost returns after
producing only a 1.6 percent increase for shareholders over the
past five years, including dividends. In the same period,
materials producers in the  S&P 500  advanced 34 percent.  While Hickey will gain more international sales with
Diversey, he’s buying a business that gets less operating income
per dollar of revenue than his own company.  Over the past five years, Diversey had an average operating
margin of 3.3 percent, according to its filing. Sealed Air had
an 11.6 percent margin, while  St. Paul , Minnesota-based  Ecolab
Inc. (ECL) , Diversey’s biggest competitor, had a margin of 12.7
percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “Does this mean that Sealed Air is going in a different
direction?” said Stewart Capital’s Polley. “I don’t know. What
I do know is that companies that tried to get into businesses
they don’t know a whole lot about almost always get into
trouble. It doesn’t make sense.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tara Lachapelle in New York at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net . 