-- 
Serbia to Pick Eurobond Advisers This Month, Deputy Finance Minister Says

-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 
2011-06-02T12:57:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-02/serbia-to-pick-eurobond-advisers-this-month-deputy-finance-minister-says.html
Serbia will select advisers by the
end of this month to prepare its first-ever Eurobond sale,
Deputy Finance Minister Vuk Djokovic said.  The government of Prime Minister  Mirko Cvetkovic  plans to
raise up to 700 million euros ($1 billion) in the sale “by the
end of September or early October,” Djokovic said in a phone
interview today. “We have received 12 offers and plan to choose
two advisers by the end of this month.” He wouldn’t name
bidders.  Serbia has stepped up borrowing this year on the domestic
market, encouraged by growing investor interest in yields of
more than 10 percent on dinar-denominated debt. The government
had to increase debt after it refused to sell a controlling
stake in Telekom Srbija AD to  Telekom Austria AG (TKA)  as the offer
trailed the 1.4 billion-euro asking price.  The Eurobond will consist of two parts, one worth “around
500 million euros in a foreign currency and the other of up to
200 million euros in dinars,” he said.  Serbia is “open” to the advisers’ proposal on how to
structure the issue, as well as how to resolve clearing and
settlement issues for the dinar, which is still neither fully
convertible nor traded internationally, he said.  Dinar-denominated trades can now be settled only through
the Serbian  Central Securities Depository and Clearing House .  The government is looking at the  U.S. dollar  for the larger
portion of the issue, Djokovic said.  “The dollar seems to be very attractive these days and
there’s a great probability that our  bond issue  will be in
dollars,” he said.  The Serbian government will sell the bond just months after
its neighbors, Croatia and  Romania , will sell their Eurobonds.  “Overall, the sentiment for sovereign borrowing is
positive and we expect our bond issue to be attractive for
investors,” Djokovic said. “A year ago, you could not imagine
German banks or French banks buying Serbian debt. Now they do,”
he said, referring to debt issues sold on the domestic market.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  