-- 
Sharapova’s Advance to Career Slam Is Blown Away by Li Na at French Open

-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 
2011-06-02T17:17:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-02/sharapova-s-advance-to-career-slam-is-blown-away-by-li-na-at-french-open.html
Maria Sharapova  couldn’t overcome the
wind, or her own serve, as she failed to complete a full set of
Grand Slam tennis titles.  Seeking to become only the 10th woman to win all four
majors at least once, Sharapova lost 6-4, 7-5 to Li Na in the
semifinals of the  French Open . The Russian’s 10th double fault
made Li the first player from  China  to reach the final in Paris.  “At times I didn’t serve well, and was rushing more than
maybe I had to,” Sharapova, ranked eighth on the  WTA Tour , told
a news conference today after her second semifinal defeat at
Roland Garros. “Considering the conditions, maybe I was just
trying to go for too big second serves, especially.”  World No. 7 Li dealt with the conditions on the main Court
Philippe Chatrier better than Sharapova. Winds of up to 50
kilometers (31 miles) an hour frequently sent clay dust up to
the stands and into the eyes of spectators.  The former top-ranked Russian, a three-time major winner,
was broken five times. Li dropped serve three times, and had
three double-faults. She took the first set as Sharapova hit a
high ball from the mid-court on top of the net, before it
dropped on her own side. It was one of 28 unforced errors, five
more than Li. The Chinese player produced 18 forehand winners,
while her 24-year old opponent had five.  Sharapova improved at the start of the second set, taking a
4-2 lead as she put Li under pressure with her forehand. Serving
at 4-3, the Russian got broken again as she produced her sixth
double fault. Serving to stay in the championship at 6-5 down,
Sharapova started the game with another double fault, and a
forehand long handed Li two match points.  ‘Huge Serve’  “She has a huge big serve, and I was like, please double
fault and I can win the match,” sixth-seeded Li said in a
court-side interview, watched from the presidential box by the
Chinese ambassador to  France .  Another double fault followed, handing Li a spot in her
second Grand Slam final this season. In January, Li became the
first player from China to make it to a major final at the
Australian Open, where she lost to  Kim Clijsters  of  Belgium .  Sharapova, seeded seventh, was full of praise for her
opponent.  “She played a very good match,” Sharapova said. “She
certainly played a lot better than I did and a lot more solid,
and she played the crucial points better.”  Li, 29, plays defending champion Francesca Schiavone of
 Italy , the No. 5 seed, in the final in two days. Schiavone
defeated No. 11 Marion Bartoli of France 6-3, 6-3.  Sharapova, who won Wimbledon aged 17, is already looking
ahead to the grass-court season, which starts after the French
event.  “This was a great result for me here, it’s been a good
season on clay,” she said. “I enjoy going to the grass from
clay. I feel like I have a lot to look forward to.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh at  Roland Garros  through the London sports
desk at   drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 