-- 
Shell Says Delay in U.S. Offshore Oil Drilling ‘Highly Unusual’

-- B y   K a t a r z y n a   K l i m a s i n s k a
-- 
2011-06-02T14:53:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-02/shell-says-delay-in-u-s-offshore-oil-drilling-highly-unusual-.html
Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) , blocked for
about four years from developing 10-year Arctic leases purchased
from the U.S., said the delays are “highly unusual” and
undermine confidence in the federal offshore program.  The Hague-based company acquired oil leases in the Beaufort
Sea in 2005, and added  Chukchi Sea  leases in 2008. Since then,
Shell has been pursuing permits from drilling regulators and the
Environmental Protection Agency.  “Although the leases were issued to Shell, the
government’s permitting and regulatory process has not been
equipped to deliver,” David Lawrence, Shell’s executive vice
president of exploration and commercial, said in remarks
prepared today for a House Natural Resources Committee hearing
in Washington. “This is highly unusual. The federal
government’s decision to hold a sale is, in effect, a decision
that outer continental shelf exploration and development is
desired. ”  The company has said it needed two years to prepare for
drilling in the  Beaufort Sea  and was ready in 2007.  Shell filed two exploration plans last month to drill as
many as two wells a year in the Beaufort Sea, where the leases
expire in 2015, and as many as three a year in the Chukchi Sea
from 2012 through 2013. A delay in issuing an air permit last
year forced the company to postpone exploratory drilling in the
Beaufort Sea that was planned for this year.  The Beaufort and Chukchi seas are among “the most unique
places of the planet” and oil exploration might pose a threat
to polar bears and walruses, the  Natural Resources Defense
Council  said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katarzyna Klimasinska in  Washington  at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  