-- 
Silver Cross, Swarovski Crystal Cheer Cancer Victims in Charity

-- B y   P a t r i c k   C o l e
-- 
2011-06-02T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-02/silver-crosses-swarovski-crystal-cheer-cancer-patients-in-charity-program.html
While a battle with cancer last year
sapped Michael Ferlise’s energy and hope,  Operation Bling
Foundation  lifted his spirits with a sterling silver cross.  Founded by jewelry-store owners Christine and Bill
Ferdinand in New Providence,  New Jersey , Operation Bling has
given to those battling cancer more than 7,000 pieces of jewelry
such as $45  faux pearl earrings  or a sterling silver  bracelet
with Swarovski crystals . The Ferdinands gave the cross to
Ferlise, one of their regular customers, after he was diagnosed
with cancer.  “The cross made me feel that there’s someone thinking
about me,” Ferlise said by phone. “Those rounds of
chemotherapy really kick you in the rear, but when I look at the
cross, it makes me smile.”  Since the program’s founding in 2008, its volunteer “Bling
Angels” have brought gifts to patients in more than a dozen
hospitals and cancer-care centers, including  Morristown Memorial  
in New Jersey, the  American Cancer Society ’s  Hope Lodge  in
 Manhattan  and the Penn State Hershey Cancer Institute.  “They’re so touched by the gesture, the fact that someone
cares to make their day better,” said Christine Ferdinand in a
phone interview. “It’s a Cinderella moment for them.”  The program caught the eye of the  American Cancer Society ,
which gave the nonprofit its Jody A. Morrow Humanitarian Award.  The Ferdinands are hosting a wine tasting for more than 200
people in Morristown, New Jersey, to raise money for their Bling
program. Those attending will be able to buy for $45 jewelry
items offered to cancer patients. Proceeds from the sales will
go to the nonprofit.  The idea for Operation Bling came in 2008 when Barbara
Travisano, a longtime customer who was undergoing chemotherapy
for ovarian cancer, told them she missed wearing some of her
jewelry during her hospital stay. The Ferdinands sent her a
variety of silver zirconium rings.  “The patient gets to remember, ‘I’m still pretty, I’m
still me, and I’m not just a cancer patient,’” Ferdinand said.  (Operation Bling Foundation’s wine tasting and fundraiser
is from 6 to 9 Friday night at 55 Bank St. in Morristown, New
Jersey. Information:
 http://www.operationblingfoundation.org/newsletter_26.html )  To contact the writer on this story:
Patrick Cole in  New York  at 
 pcole3@Bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 