-- 
Sino-Forest Plunges as Short Seller Block Targets Stock Owned by Paulson

-- B y   M a t t   W a l c o f f   a n d   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t
-- 
2011-06-03T10:00:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-02/sino-forest-plunges-as-short-seller-targets-stock-that-paulson-s-fund-owns.html
Sino-Forest Corp. (SFJ) , whose biggest
shareholder is hedge fund Paulson & Co., fell the most since
2008 in Toronto trading after short seller Carson C. Block said
it overstated timberland holdings and production in  China .  Sino-Forest, based in Hong Kong and Mississauga, Ontario,
dropped as much as 25 percent and was C$3.75 lower at C$14.46
when trading was suspended on the Toronto exchange yesterday.
The amount of land the company said it bought from Lincang City
in China’s Yunnan province doesn’t match city records, according
to a  report  by Block, the Hong Kong-based founder of Muddy
Waters Research. Sino-Forest couldn’t have produced as much
timber in the area as it claimed, said Block, who stands to make
money from a decline in the company’s shares.  Sino-Forest has set up a special committee to deal with the
accusations, Charlotte Cheung, assistant manager of  investor
relations , said today in an interview at the company’s Hong Kong
office. Sino-Forest plans to release a statement before  Canada ’s
market opens.  Chinese companies trading in North America have come under
growing scrutiny from regulators and investors. The U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission began an investigation last
year into the use of reverse takeovers, in which a closely held
firm becomes public by purchasing a shell company that already
trades. The Bloomberg Chinese Reverse Mergers Index of U.S.-
listed stocks has retreated 38 percent this year.  Falsified Statements  “There can be a lack of transparency with these types of
companies,” Glenn Ko, a UBS AG fixed-income analyst, said today
by phone from  Hong Kong , noting a probe finding falsified
financial statements at China Forestry Holdings Co. “Company
filings are hard to verify and you’re never sure if you’re
comparing apples with oranges unless you go to the plantations
and check.”  Dave Horsley, chief financial officer at Sino-Forest,
didn’t return calls to his mobile phone and to the company’s
Mississauga office.  Sino-Forest’s German-traded stock declined 6.8 percent to
10.16 euros as of 11:44 a.m. in  Frankfurt  after slumping 16
percent yesterday. That’s equivalent to C$14.39, 0.5 percent
below the Toronto-traded price.  U.S. Trading  Sino-Forest also plunged by a record 61 percent yesterday
to $7.33 in U.S. over-the-counter trading. The shares have
fallen 38 percent this year in Toronto, valuing the company at
C$3.55 billion ($3.63 billion). The cost of insuring Sino-Forest
five-year bonds against default has climbed 51 percent in 2011.  Last month, shares in  Chaoda Modern Agriculture Holdings
Ltd. (682) , a Chinese supplier of fruit and vegetables, fell following
a report in Next Magazine that it had exaggerated the amount of
land it controls. The company said the report wasn’t “factually
accurate.” Its shares dropped 9.8 percent in Hong Kong today.  Merdeka Resources Holding Ltd., a timber plantation
operator, declined 6.8 percent in Hong Kong today. Log harvester
Greenheart Group Ltd. had its shares suspended from trading in
Hong Kong ahead of a price-sensitive announcement.  Block’s report is “a complete, gross exaggeration,” said
John Goldsmith, a Toronto-based  money manager  at Montrusco
Bolton Investments Inc., which manages about C$4.9 billion,
including Sino-Forest shares.  Goldsmith said he has confidence in Sino-Forest’s financial
reporting because it’s been audited by Ernst & Young LLP and the
company’s assets have been valued by consulting firm Poyry Oyj.
A one-month delay in filing its next quarterly statement is due
to a switch to international accounting standards, he said.  Paulson Holding  Paulson & Co. owned 34.7 million shares as of April 29,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The second-biggest
shareholder was Davis Selected Advisers LP, the mutual-fund firm
run by Chris Davis that owned 27.3 million shares.  China MediaExpress Holdings Inc. (CCME)  fell 33 percent on Feb. 3
after Muddy Waters said the Hong Kong-based company inflated
sales and profit. Its auditor,  Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu , said
March 11 it resigned because it was “no longer able to rely on
the representations of management.” MediaExpress’s chief
financial officer resigned later the same month.  Short selling, or selling borrowed shares with the hope of
profiting when they fall, accounted for a record 33 percent of
Sino-Forest’s outstanding stock as of May 31, up from 18 percent
at the end of April and 13 percent at the beginning of the year,
according to Data Explorers, a New York-based researcher. Short
sellers have borrowed 82 percent of the company’s lendable
supply, meaning there’s limited equity available for short
sellers to bet against.  Biggest Short  “It’s one of one biggest shorts to emerge in  North America 
over a relatively short time,” said Will Duff Gordon, a senior
research analyst at Data Explorers. “It’s gone from being a
significant short to an enormous short in the last month.”  The average short interest for the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index is 2.6 percent, the data show. Sino-Forest is the most-
shorted stock in the Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Index,
which has an average short interest of 5.7 percent.  Sino-Forest’s board of directors includes Simon Murray, who
in April was appointed chairman of Swiss commodity trader
Glencore International Plc prior to its initial public offering.
Murray didn’t return a call to his mobile phone seeking comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matt Walcoff in Toronto at 
 mwalcoff1@bloomberg.net ;
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in  New York  at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net . 