-- 
SIPC Forum, BDO Censured, EU Bank Aid, UBS Marketing Probe: Compliance

-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 
2011-06-02T11:52:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-02/sipc-forum-bdo-censured-ubs-probe-sec-s-scarboro-compliance.html
Wall Street’s insurance fund for
failed brokerages is “the worst kind of insurance company,”
according to an investor who lost money with Bernard L. Madoff.  Leah Larsen, 72, who said she lost about $100,000 with
Madoff, said the  Securities Investor Protection Corp.  denied her
claim because her money was pooled with her brother’s account.
SIPC is “constantly finding technical reasons for choking out
victims,” she said.  Larsen was one of five investors who spoke at a forum held
by SIPC yesterday at the Grand Hyatt hotel in  New York . The
purpose was to give investors a chance to voice their opinions
on how to improve the group. It was the second in a series of
national  public forums  soliciting input about the organization,
which hasn’t been the focus of major new legislation in at least
30 years, according to the group’s website.  SIPC, based in Washington, is a nonprofit membership
corporation overseen by the Securities and Exchange Commission
and funded by brokerage firms to compensate investors whose
accounts are missing stocks or other assets because of theft or
other reasons when a member firm fails. SIPC may reimburse
investors for assets of up to $500,000, including up to $250,000
in cash, and generally doesn’t reimburse investors who have been
sold worthless investments.  The group is funded by assessments on its members, the
website said, and had about $1.4 billion in assets in December,
according to its  annual report .  For more, click here.  Compliance Policy  European Bank Stress-Test Results Said to Be Delayed Until July  This year’s round of  European Union  bank stress-test
results may be delayed until next month, a  European Banking
Authority  official said.  The EBA, which is conducting the stress tests, has asked
banks to submit more information, the official, who declined to
be identified by name because the talks are private, said
yesterday. The EBA said as recently as March that it would
publish the results this month.  A date for publication hasn’t been set, because the EBA
must ensure it is satisfied with the quality of submissions from
the banks, the EBA official said yesterday.  Ninety banks will be expected to maintain a Core Tier 1
capital ratio of at least 5 percent under the stress-test
scenarios, the EBA has said. This year’s exams will include a
review of how lenders would handle a 0.5 percent economic
contraction in the euro area in 2011 as well as a 15 percent
drop in European equity markets.  The EBA tests will also examine the effect of a 75 basis-
point-jump in  interest rates  on European sovereign bonds and an
increase in short-term inter-bank financing costs of 125 basis
points.  Treasury Reiterates U.S. Borrowing Authority Expires on Aug. 2  The Treasury Department reiterated that U.S. authority to
borrow under the existing debt limit will expire in two months’
time on Aug. 2.  The Treasury “continues to project that the United States
will exhaust its borrowing authority under the debt limit” on
that date,  Mary Miller , the Treasury’s assistant secretary for
 financial markets , said in a statement yesterday.  Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  “continues to urge
Congress to avoid the catastrophic economic and market
consequences of a default crisis by raising the statutory debt
limit in a timely manner,” she said.  The U.S. stayed under the $14.29 trillion debt limit last
month by taking what Geithner has called “extraordinary
measures.”  Geithner to Be Confronted by EU’s Barnier on Lack of Bonus Rules  Michel Barnier , the European Union’s financial services
commissioner, will confront U.S. Treasury Secretary Timothy F.
Geithner over the lack of American rules to restrict bonuses for
financial-services workers.  The absence of binding laws regulating bankers’ pay in the
U.S. means lenders can avoid curbs envisaged by the Group of 20
Nations in Pittsburgh in 2009, Barnier will tell Geithner when
they meet in Washington today.  Financial watchdogs and politicians across the world sought
to overhaul bonus policies following the collapse of  Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ)  in 2008 to prevent bankers from taking
excessive risks in order to reap short-term gains. Barnier has
said further action may be needed in the 27-nation region to
prevent bonus payouts at “unjustifiable levels.”  Under EU rules, as much as 60 percent of a bonus payout for
risk-takers and senior managers must be deferred for at least
three years, and half of the remaining amount must be in the
form of shares.  The  Financial Stability Forum , the  Financial Stability
Board ’s predecessor, published a set of  principles  in 2009
including that bonus payments should be deferred to take account
of the lenders’ exposure to risk.  Compliance Action  BDO Faulted for Advice Failure in Shore Capital’s Puma Takeover  BDO LLP, the accountancy firm, was censured by the U.K.’s
finance regulator for failing to alert the country’s Listing
Authority about Shore Capital Group Plc’s planned takeover of
Puma Brandenburg Ltd.  BDO, which was advising London-based investment bank Shore
Capital as its sponsor, tried to avoid classifying the deal as a
reverse merger so trading in the bank’s shares wouldn’t be
suspended, the Financial Services Authority said in a  statement
yesterday . The firm agreed with Shore Capital, whose shares are
listed on the  London  Stock Exchange, to delay contacting the
U.K. Listing Authority until after the deal was announced, the
regulator said.  The reprimand is the first public censure of a sponsor by
the FSA in regards to the stock listing authority’s rules, the
regulator said.  The head of advisory services at BDO, Gervase MacGregor,
said the partner at BDO who handled the Shore Capital matter has
since left for unrelated reasons.  “We have reviewed our guidance for sponsor work, delivered
refresher training on the regulatory regime for all corporate
finance partners and directors, and established a corporate
finance public risk committee which approves all new
transactions,” MacGregor said in an e-mailed statement.  Mexico Antitrust Agency Probes Phone, Internet, TV Services  Mexico’s antitrust agency launched an investigation into
the market for pay-TV, Internet and landline phone services,
which cable carriers package together to lure customers from
Telefonos de Mexico SAB.  The probe will focus on possible collusion between
competitors in the market, the agency said yesterday in the
federal  gazette , without identifying the companies involved. The
investigation follows a probe of phone interconnection fees
started by the agency last month.  Grupo Televisa SA (TLEVICPO)  controls three cable operators that offer
packages of TV, phone and Web service, and it shares a brand,
Yoo, with Megacable Holdings SAB, the nation’s largest cable
carrier. Telmex filed a complaint in March with the antitrust
agency against Televisa and Megacable, saying their commercial
agreements hurt competition.  The cable carriers have denied their collaboration hurts
competition.  U.S. Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board Adopts Conflict Rule  The Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board has adopted a
rule change to address possible conflicts of interest by
financial intermediaries in municipal bond underwritings, the
board said in a statement.  The change to Rule G-23 prohibits municipal securities
dealers from acting as a financial adviser to a municipal entity
on a new  bond issue  and later acting as an underwriter on the
same issue, according to the statement.  The prohibition “addresses conflicts of interest, real or
perceived, that are too great for disclosure and consent to
overcome,” MSRB Executive Director Lynnette Kelly Hotchkiss
said in the statement.  Before the change, the rule allowed a dealer serving as
financial adviser for a new issue of municipal securities to
resign from that role and serve as underwriter for the same
issue, so long as disclosure and consent requirements were met.  The rule change becomes effective Nov. 27.  Spain, Ireland Get EU Nod to Extend Bank Aid for 6 More Months  Spain and Ireland won European Union permission for further
extensions to state guarantee programs for banks until Dec. 31.  The guarantees are “an appropriate means of remedying a
serious disturbance in the Irish and Spanish economies,” said
the  European Commission  in an e-mailed statement yesterday. The
regulator has said it plans next year to phase out extra state
help for banks if market conditions allow.  UBS Marketing Probed by  France  Following Regulator’s Complaint  UBS AG (UBSN)  is under investigation in France after the country’s
financial-institutions regulator sent a complaint to the Paris
prosecutor over the bank’s marketing practices.  A preliminary investigation into the complaint was opened
in February and is being conducted by the French customs service
to determine if it warrants a full probe, Agnes Labregere-
Delorme, a spokeswoman for the Paris prosecutor, said yesterday.  “The bank is bound by particularly strict rules” in
countries where it operates, said Dominique Gerster, a spokesman
for UBS, in an e-mail. He declined to comment on the inquiry
that’s under way, and said “the bank has not put in place, nor
participated in any way, in a system to assist in tax evasion.”  The Prudential Control Authority, or ACP as the regulator
is known, oversees banks and other financial institutions. A
spokeswoman for the authority declined to comment.  The investigation was reported earlier yesterday by  Agence
France-Presse .  Deere Says Falcone’s Service to Cause ‘Massive Interference’  Philip Falcone’s proposed LightSquared wireless service
would “create massive interference” with precise agricultural
gear guided by global positioning systems,  Deere & Co. (DE)  told
federal regulators.  Tests conducted in  New Mexico  show the performance of
Deere’s GPS receivers deteriorated within 22 miles of a
LightSquared base station, Deere said in a filing May 31 with
the Federal Communications Commission.  The FCC is to review concerns that LightSquared, which is
backed by Falcone’s Harbinger Capital Partners hedge fund, may
interfere with GPS service. LightSquared proposes serving 260
million mobile devices over a network of 40,000 terrestrial
towers, using airwaves once reserved primarily for satellite
signals.  Makers and users of global-positioning devices, which
depend on low-powered transmissions from satellites, say the
LightSquared service may overwhelm GPS signals used by mobile
phones, aircraft, tractors and military gear. A federal advisory
committee has concluded the service may snarl aviation
navigation unless it is modified to avoid interference.  The FCC awaits a June 15 report from a working group
studying interference issues before deciding whether to let
LightSquared move ahead. The group includes GPS users,
LightSquared executives and federal officials.  For more, click here.  Courts  German Online-Bet Ban Legal, Top Administrative Court Says  Germany’s online-betting ban was upheld by the nation’s top
administrative court, which said the rules are in line with
constitutional and European Union law.  The rules are necessary to combat the dangers associated
with unregulated gaming over the Internet, Germany’s Federal
Administrative Court, based in Leipzig, said in an e-mailed
statement yesterday. The ban is also in line with EU law because
it targets all forms of betting regardless of who offers them,
according to the judges.  The bank follow the “legitimate goal” of targeting
“special risks” associated with unlimited access to Internet
gaming and aims to protect juveniles and people who “may have a
strong inclination to gaming or who may develop it,” the court
said.  The EU’s top court ruled last year that Germany’s betting
monopoly, which only allows publicly owned companies to offer
most sports betting, violates European laws because it’s not
coherent. The German court yesterday said since the online ban
also applies to bets on horse races and offers by government-
owned sports-betting monopolies, it’s in line with EU rules.
Germany has faced criticism for allowing private horse betting
while outlawing other forms of sport bets.  Bwin e.K., the German affiliate of Bwin, said it will file
a constitutional complaint over yesterday’s ruling.  The case is BVerwG 8 C 5.10.  Interviews/Speeches  First Trust’s Wesbury Says Regulation Caused Recession  Brian Wesbury, chief economist at First Trust Portfolios
LP, said mark to market accounting “caused the recession.” The
recession “was not a failure of capitalism,” he said.  Wesbury talked with Bloomberg’s Tom Keene on Bloomberg
Radio’s “Bloomberg Surveillance.”  They are joined by  James
Shugg , a senior economist at  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  in London.  For the audio, click here.  Jain Says Deutsche Bank Is Facing Regulatory ‘Headwind’  Anshu Jain, head of corporate and investment banking at
 Deutsche Bank AG (DB) , gave a presentation in London about the bank’s
strategy and outlook. In addition to a corporate and investment
banking analysis, Jain discussed the impact of regulations,
including compliance with the Basel Accords.  For the video, click here.  Buiter Says Majority of BOE Policy Makers Should be External  Former Bank of England policy maker Willem Buiter said the
majority of the central bank’s  Monetary Policy Committee  should
be external members appointed for a single term to avoid what he
called “groupthink and political capture.”  Buiter made the remarks in a paper that expanded on
comments first made at a Parliament committee hearing on May 23.  In the paper, dated June 1, he said that the Prudential
Regulatory Authority should be outside the central bank. He also
said the Special Resolution Unit for failing institutions should
be under the joint authority of the Treasury and the Bank of
England.  In addition, repeating his comments from last month, he
said the  U.K. Treasury  rather than the central bank should be at
the “center” of financial stability and the chancellor of the
exchequer should chair the Financial Policy Committee.  BOE’s Tucker Says Clearinghouses Should Do More to Monitor Risks  Bank of England Deputy Governor Paul Tucker said
clearinghouses are becoming “systemic” in their importance to
the global financial system and need to do more to monitor risks
among their members.  “Central counterparties need to adopt prudent collateral
policies, but also to monitor the robustness of their clearing
members and risks from the business that they are bringing to
the CCP,” Tucker said in prepared remarks for a speech in
London yesterday. “That means collecting and analyzing
information from clearing members on large positions taken by
their customers. I am not convinced that that is sufficiently
recognized by clearinghouses or by standard setters.”  The Group of 20 nations is encouraging greater use of
clearinghouses to cut some of the risks attached to over-the-
counter derivatives after the September 2008 collapse of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. Because of their increasing importance,
officials should have a policy to deal with the failure of a
central counterparty that may involve either a recapitalization
or unwinding of its transaction book, Tucker said.  Comings and Goings  SEC’s Top Foreign Bribery Lawyer to Join Simpson Thacher  Cheryl Scarboro, a 19-year U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission lawyer who has led the agency’s foreign bribery
investigations since last year, is leaving to join law firm
 Simpson Thacher & Bartlett LLP .  Scarboro, 47, will become a partner in Simpson Thacher’s
Washington office in the government and internal investigations
practice, the firm said yesterday in a statement.  Under Scarboro’s watch, the SEC focused corruption probes
to look across industries and regions it considered more prone
to bribery, instead of targeting individual firms. In November,
the agency reached a $237 million settlement with seven oil
services companies accused of bribing officials in Africa, Asia
and  South America , and earlier this year launched a sweeping
probe into whether financial firms were making improper payments
to win business from sovereign wealth funds.  Bloomberg News reported Scarboro’s plans earlier yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in  New Jersey  at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 