-- 
Sony Pictures ‘Looking Into’ Claims of New Data Theft From Site by Hackers

-- B y   C l i f f   E d w a r d s   a n d   M a r i k o   Y a s u
-- 
2011-06-04T02:49:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-02/sony-pictures-looking-into-claims-of-new-data-theft-from-site-by-hackers.html
Sony Corp. (6758)  said it contacted the U.S.
Federal Bureau of Investigation and took action to protect its
websites after intrusions by a group of hackers.  “We have confirmed that a breach has occurred and have
taken action to protect against further intrusion,” Michael Lynton, chairman of Sony Pictures Entertainment, said in a
statement. “We also retained a respected team of experts to
conduct the forensic analysis of the attack.”  A group calling itself LulzSec posted statements online
saying it broke into SonyPictures.com and downloaded unencrypted
personal information, including passwords, e-mail addresses and
dates of birth from 1 million user accounts.  The attack was the latest on Tokyo-based Sony, which in the
past two months said more than 100 million accounts were
compromised after hackers broke into its networks. Sony, which
two days ago resumed full operation of the PlayStation Network
in the U.S. and  Europe  after six weeks of suspension, said last
month the intrusions will cost about 14 billion yen ($173
million) this fiscal year.  “My biggest concern is whether the expense related to
unauthorized accesses will stay within 14 billion yen,”
Tsunenori Ohmaki, an analyst at Tachibana Securities Co. in
Tokyo, said yesterday. Online businesses have become more
important to Sony as its main TV unit probably won’t contribute
to earnings in the near future, he said.  LulzSec  LulzSec, which described the attack only as recent, posted
customer information online from what appeared to be sweepstakes
and loyalty-program databases, including one tied to the long-
running soap opera “The Young and the Restless.” The group
also took information from Sony music operations in  Belgium  and
the Netherlands, it said.  “It’s just a matter of taking it,” LulzSec said in its
statement. “This is disgraceful and insecure; they were asking
for it.”  Sony fell 0.6 percent to close at 2,129 yen in Tokyo
trading yesterday, extending its loss this year to 27 percent.
The Nikkei-225 Stock Average has lost 7.2 percent this year.  The maker of Bravia televisions and Walkman music players
has been facing series of intrusions to its online entertainment
services, forcing an April 20 shutdown of the Qriocity and
PlayStation Network services. Sony also halted some Internet
services in  Canada ,  Thailand  and Indonesia last month after
detecting unauthorized accesses.  Sony Ericsson  Intruders stole the names and e-mail addresses of about
2,000 customers at  Sony Ericsson  Mobile Communications AB’s
Canadian website, while a site in Thailand may have been
modified to help send fraudulent e-mails, Sony said last month.
The company also suspended a site in Indonesia because of a
suspected attack and found Web codes for the Japanese music unit
were stolen.  At Sony Music Entertainment ( Japan ) Inc., hackers have
stolen programming code related to artists’ sites, Yoshikazu
Takahashi, a spokesman at the unit, said last month.  Tim Schaaff, president of Sony Network Entertainment
International, appeared before a congressional panel June 2 to
defend the company’s response to the April data breach.  Sony restored the PlayStation Network in all markets except
Japan,  Hong Kong  and  South Korea  on June 2. Users of its
Qriocity entertainment services will be able to download music
with the resumption, while video on demand will remain suspended
until further notice, it said.  Sony increased the number of firewalls between servers and
added software to monitor intrusions and system vulnerabilities
before resuming the services.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cliff Edwards in  San Francisco  at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net ;
Mariko Yasu in  Tokyo  at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  