-- 
South African Shares Fall to One-Week Low as Metals Decline

-- B y   S i k o n a t h i   M a n t s h a n t s h a
-- 
2011-06-02T16:05:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-02/south-africa-stocks-fall-to-1-week-low-as-metals-drop-on-growth.html
South African stocks dropped to a
one-week low, led by mining companies, as metals prices fell and
 BHP Billiton Plc (BIL)  faced the first strike in a decade at its
Australian coal mines.  The FTSE/JSE Africa All Share Index slipped to the lowest
since May 25, losing 1.4 percent to 31,877.77 at the 5 p.m.
close in Johannesburg. BHP, the world’s largest mining company,
slumped 2.8 percent to 258.70 rand, the weakest since March 22.
 Anglo American Plc (AAL) , the diversified mining company that makes up
10 percent of the stock gauge, fell for a second day.  Copper, nickel and aluminum declined in  London  for a second
straight day as manufacturing slowdowns from  China  to the U.S.
stoked concern that the global economic recovery may be
faltering. About 4,000 labor union members at BHP’s seven mines
in Queensland had until the end of today to decide in a vote
whether to take industrial action.  “All the negative data that has been hitting our screens
over the last few sessions looks like it has finally hit home
and investors ran for the hills,” analysts at Barnard Jacobs
Mellet Private Client Services, a Johannesburg-based stock
broker, wrote in an e-mailed note today.  Output in the U.S. was the weakest in more than a year,
according to a report yesterday, while industrial production
cooled in  India  and the U.K.  Greece ’s risk of default was raised
to 50 percent by Moody’s Investors Service as European officials
rushed to put together the second bailout plan in two years to
stave off renewed financial turmoil in the region.  Anglo Platinum Ltd. (AMS) , the world’s largest producer of the
metal, dropped to the lowest level in more than a week, trading
1.5 percent down at 638 rand, as platinum fell for a second day.  Impala Platinum Ltd., the world’s second-largest producer
of the metal, fell 0.8 percent, the most since May 26, to 188
rand.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sikonathi Mantshantsha in Johannesburg at 
 smantshantsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  