-- 
South Africa Inflation Bets Spur Best Linkers Rally in 9 Months on Growth

-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 
2011-06-02T08:13:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-02/south-africa-inflation-bets-spur-best-linkers-rally-in-9-months-on-growth.html
South Africa  bonds linked to
inflation are posting their best returns since August as
speculation grows rising oil and food costs will fuel faster
consumer price increases.  Bonds tied to inflation returned 2.14 percent in May, the
biggest advance in nine months, compared with a 1.4 percent
return on fixed-interest  government bonds , according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch data. Debt tied to the  consumer price
index  in developed countries returned 0.989 percent last month,
according to BofA Merrill Lynch’s global index.  Investors stepped up bets that South African price growth
will accelerate after the government reported on May 31 that
gross domestic product rose an annualized 4.8 percent in the
first-quarter, beating the median estimate of 4.2 percent from
18 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. The yield gap between two-
year CPI-linked debt and similar maturity fixed-interest notes,
a gauge of inflation expectations, widened the most in more than
two weeks on May 31 to 5.64 percentage points.  “We’re cyclically in an upward cycle in inflation, and
that is a favorable environment for inflation-linked bonds,”
Rashaad Tayob, who helps oversee about 800 million rand ($117
million) of assets including linkers at Aeon Investment
Management in  Cape Town , said by phone. “I still think there is
a bit of value left, even though real yields are now quite
low.”  Bond Rally  South Africa sold 605 million rand of inflation-linked
debt, more than the 600 million rand it had planned to sell, at
a weekly auction on May 27. The bank is offering another 600
million rand of the securities maturing in 2022, 2028 and 2033
on June 3.  Inflation-linked bonds started rallying in February after
Reserve Bank Governor Gill Marcus said CPI may breach the upper
end of the central bank’s 3 percent to 6 percent target range
“sooner than expected” as oil and food prices surged. The
yield on the 2.75 percent inflation-linked notes due in 2022
dropped 27 basis points, or 0.27 percentage point, to 2.515
percent on May 27, the lowest level since they were first sold.
The yield was 2.52 percent at 9:45 a.m. in Johannesburg today.  The gap in six-year yields, or breakeven rate, climbed 8
basis points on May 31, the biggest one-day increase since May
13, the day after the central bank revised its inflation
estimates higher.  Inflation Target  The central bank left its benchmark interest rate unchanged
at 5.5 percent on May 12 to help support the recovery in
 Africa ’s biggest economy, while warning that price pressures
were intensifying. Forward-rate agreements starting in November
were at 5.86 percent yesterday, implying a 62 percent chance of
a 50 basis-point rate increase that month.  Inflation will probably peak at 6.3 percent in the first
quarter of 2012 and will be close to the 6 percent ceiling for
the rest of next year, Marcus said on May 12. The pace
accelerated to 4.2 percent in April from 4.1 percent in March,
the statistics agency said on May 17.  “The rising inflation story is still intact, and that’s
going to add to returns in this asset class,” said Mark le Roux, who helps oversee about $29 billion of assets including
inflation-linked securities as head of fixed income at
 Coronation Fund Managers Ltd. (CML)  in Cape Town. “That being said,
real yields have contracted. We’ve seen a fair amount of  capital
appreciation . The next lift to this asset class will come from
rising inflation.”  Food, Fuel  Inflation-linked debt pays interest on a principal amount
indexed to the consumer price index. When inflation accelerates,
the securities pay more interest. They return more than fixed-
interest bonds when average inflation is higher than the
breakeven rate.  Rising oil and food prices are driving price growth, the
central bank said in its Monetary Policy Review on May 24.
Global food costs surged an annual 37 percent in April, the same
pace as in March, according to data from the  United Nations ’
World Food Price Index. Brent crude oil climbed 21 percent in
the past six months and was trading as high as $114.70  a barrel
in  London  today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in Cape Town at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net . 