-- 
Sporting-Goods Prices May Increase in Latest Sign of Consumer Inflation

-- B y   A n n a - L o u i s e   J a c k s o n   a n d   A n t h o n y   F e l d
-- 
2011-06-02T04:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-02/sporting-gear-prices-poised-to-increase-in-sign-of-u-s-consumer-inflation.html
Retailers are poised to boost prices
on athletic footwear, apparel and sports equipment as they join
other industries in passing along rising costs for commodities,
foreign labor and freight.  More than 90 percent of sporting-goods manufacturers paid
higher input costs in the first quarter, and 41 percent of these
companies already increased wholesale prices, according to a
quarterly survey of private, independent vendors and retailers
conducted by Robert W. Baird & Co.  “This clearly demonstrates the emerging cost and price
pressure across the sporting-good space,” said Peter Benedict,
a retail analyst in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , at Baird. “We’re
hearing a consistent message from vendors and retailers that
cotton, fuel and wage costs are starting to go up, and they’re
slowly going to come through on the retail side later this year
and certainly in 2012.”  When prices manufacturers paid for imported sporting goods
grew 3.3 percent in 2008, retail price tags increased 3 percent,
according to data from the Bureau of Labor Statistics. That
pattern likely will be repeated following a 2.1 percent rise in
April for imported goods compared with a year ago, said  Dean Maki , chief U.S. economist at  Barclays Capital  in New York.  With these prices at the highest level in almost two years,
“it would be reasonable” for consumers to pay more, Maki said.  Sporting goods is the latest industry to exercise pricing
power, following similar moves by airlines, restaurants and the
broader apparel sector that are starting to show up in the
 consumer price index , Maki said. The  Federal Reserve ’s preferred
gauge, the personal-consumption expenditure index excluding food
and energy, rose 1 percent in April from a year earlier, the
most since September 2010.  Not Worried  “The Fed is still aiming for higher  core inflation , so it
will not be worried if retailers are able to pass along some of
these price increases,” Maki said.  Policy makers have been boosting their forecast for 2011
inflation excluding food and energy, with the  April projection 
at about 1.5 percent, compared with the January estimate of
about 1.2 percent.  Twenty-five percent of sporting-goods retailers already
raised prices on apparel in the first quarter, compared with 17
percent a year earlier, Benedict’s data show.  Nike Inc. (NKE)  introduced a women’s version of its “Dri-Fit
Legend” T-shirt for $22 in February. Sales exceeded
expectations, indicating that “consumers ate the extra $2” and
signaling that its $20 men’s version soon will cost more,
predicted Michael Binetti, an analyst for UBS Securities in New
York.  Missed Estimates  Nike, maker of Air Jordan shoes and VR Pro golf clubs, will
“take more significant price increases across a broader range
of styles” beginning in spring 2012, Chief Financial Officer
Don Blair said on a March 17 conference call after the company
reported revenue and profits that missed analysts’ estimates.  Nike’s plans drew criticism from investors because the
company didn’t raise prices quickly enough to offset higher
input costs, Binetti said. Its stock fell 9.2 percent on March
18. Since Dec. 31, 2009, Nike is up 24 percent, compared with a
48 percent rise in the S&P Retail Exchange-Traded Fund and an 18
percent increase in the S&P 500 ETF.  Binetti said he expects the Beaverton, Oregon-based company
will begin raising prices “fairly broadly” in July on apparel
before the back-to-school shopping rush, with footwear later
this year or in early 2012.  ‘Good Traffic-Drivers’  Under Armour Inc. (UA) , which makes sporting apparel, shoes and
gear, also is planning broad-based adjustments next year, said
Brad Dickerson, chief financial officer, on an April 26
conference call. The Baltimore-based company and Nike are “good
traffic-drivers” for retailers such as  Dick’s Sporting Goods
Inc. (DKS)  and  Foot Locker Inc. (FL) , Binetti said.  “These are the kinds of companies big-box stores want to
lean on for price increases because they have good products,”
he said.  Retailers obviously want to push along higher input costs
to consumers, “the question is, can they get away with it,”
asked  Michael Feroli , chief U.S. economist at JPMorgan Chase &
Co. in New York. With unemployment at 9 percent, gasoline prices
averaging near $4 a gallon nationwide and no significant boost
in wages yet, he predicts across-the-board increases won’t come
until the second half of 2012, at the earliest.  “Retailers are likely hoping the economy will pick up out
of these doldrums, but without that, I think it’s going to be a
challenge for them to raise prices,” Feroli said.  Track Record  Retailers that do go ahead with increases will avoid a one-
size-fits-all approach, Benetti said. Companies that will be
successful “have earned their pricing power through a proven,
sustained track record for innovation.”  While New York-based Foot Locker already is raising some
prices, it likely will make more changes in “targeted, sensible
ways,” during “the latter part of the year,” Chief Executive
Officer Kenneth Hicks said on a May 20 conference call. “We
believe these price increases will, in general, be accepted by
our customers despite the macroeconomics headwinds,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna-Louise Jackson in  New York  at 
 ajackson36@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Feld in New York at 
 afeld2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  