-- 
Sprint Said to Be Close to $20 Billion LightSquared Accord

-- B y   G r e g   B e n s i n g e r
-- 
2011-06-02T20:10:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-02/sprint-said-to-be-near-20-billion-network-pact-with-falcone-shares-climb.html
Billionaire Philip Falcone’s
LightSquared Inc. is close to a deal to pay  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S) 
as much as $20 billion as part of a network construction and
sharing accord, said two people familiar with the talks.  The tentative agreement, spanning 15 years, would allow
Falcone to roll out LightSquared more quickly and let the
companies share network-building costs, said the people, who
declined to be identified because the discussions aren’t public.  Sprint has pledged $5 billion to upgrade its network over
the next three to five years to allow it to use disparate bands
of spectrum on a single base station. Chief Executive Officer
 Dan Hesse  said in May he had held talks with  Clearwire Corp. (CLWR) 
about possibly hosting its network on Sprint’s infrastructure.  LightSquared agreed last year to Federal Communications
Commission conditions that it offer service to as many as 100
million Americans by the end of next year and 260 million by
2016. The company is on schedule to introduce commercial service
by early next year, Jeff Carlisle, regulatory affairs executive
vice president, said on a conference call yesterday.  Sprint would receive as much as $2 billion annually from
LightSquared in the first stages of the contract to help pay for
the network equipment and construction costs, said one of the
people. Payments thereafter would vary annually based on the
number of users on the LightSquared network and usage patterns,
said the person. The full value of the contract will depend on
those payments.  Audrey Schaefer, a LightSquared spokeswoman, and  Bill White , a spokesman for  Overland Park , Kansas-based Sprint,
declined to comment.  AT&T Talks  A deal between the companies may also give Sprint access to
LightSquared’s spare network capacity, allowing it to save $240
million in annual costs,  Jonathan Chaplin , a Credit Suisse Group
AG analyst, said in a May 24 research note. He said the deal
would be worth $1.2 billion a year in recurring revenue for
Sprint.  LightSquared, based in Reston,  Virginia , would need to
raise an additional $3 billion to fully fund its buildout plan,
on top of the $1 billion it has on hand, Chaplin said.  The company has also held talks with  AT&T Inc. (T)  over a deal
to buy network capacity from the carrier, two people with
knowledge of the discussions said this week.  Sprint added 10 cents, or 1.7 percent, to $5.93 at 4 p.m.
in  New York  Stock Exchange composite trading, for its highest
value since October 2008. The shares have gained 40 percent this
year.  LightSquared is backed by Falcone’s Harbinger Capital
Partners hedge fund, based in New York.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Bensinger in New York at 
 gbensinger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net  