-- 
Sri Lanka to Meet Deficit Target on Faster Growth, Minister Says

-- B y   J a s o n   W e b b   a n d   P o p p y   T r o w b r i d g e
-- 
2011-06-02T15:31:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-02/sri-lanka-to-meet-deficit-target-on-faster-growth-minister-says.html
Sri Lanka  will meet its budget-
deficit target as economic growth boosts revenue, according to
Senior Minister for International Monetary Cooperation Sarath Amunugama.  The end of a 26-year civil war in May 2009 has boosted
consumer demand and investment in the island nation, which aims
to cut its budget deficit to 6.8 percent of gross domestic
product from 8 percent last year. It will meet the target
without cutting social spending thanks to an economy which
expanded by 8.6 percent in the fourth quarter, Amunugama said.  “When you have 8 percent growth, 9 percent growth, then
your revenues are going up,” Amunugama said in an interview in
 London , “Our revenues are going up so we are on course.”  Sri Lanka, which secured a $2.5 billion loan from the
 International Monetary Fund  in 2009, hopes to lure investors
attracted by the country’s proximity to India, the world’s
second-most populous country, he said. White sand beaches and
investment in improving highways and airports should boost Sri
Lanka’s appeal as a tourist destination now that the war with
Tamil separatists is over, Amunugama said.  “In the next couple of years, we could go up to 1 million
and in five years we can go up to 2.5 million” tourists from
the current 700,000 per year, Amunugama said.  Sri Lanka doesn’t need to raise  interest rates , and
inflation, which hit a 27-month high of 9.8 percent in April, is
caused by “exogenous factors,” such as the price of imported
oil, Amunugama said. The rate of price increases slowed to 8.8
percent in May.  Reasonable Inflation  The  Central Bank of Sri Lanka  on May 16 left rates
unchanged for a fourth straight month, saying that rising food
supplies and currency gains will help moderate inflation. Policy
makers in April increased banks’ statutory reserve ratio to 8
percent from 7 percent to check price gains.  “Inflation is at a reasonable level,” and the government
doesn’t need to make its rupee exchange rate more flexible,
either, said Amunugama.  Further oil price gains pose the biggest potential problem
for Sri Lanka, he said. Oil traded for as much as $100.90 a
barrel in  New York  today, and has advanced 8.6 percent this year
to date.  “If oil prices go to $130, $140 a barrel, then all bets
are off, not only for us, but for other countries, for  China ,
 India ,” the minister said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jason Webb in London at 
 jwebb25@bloomberg.net ;
Poppy Trowbridge in London at 
 ptrowbridge@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story: 