-- 
Structured Note Sales Rise 16% as Rate-Linked Securities Double

-- B y   M a t t   R o b i n s o n
-- 
2011-06-02T18:06:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-02/structured-note-sales-rise-16-as-rate-linked-securities-double.html
U.S. structured note sales continued
to outpace last year’s record issuance in May as offerings
linked to  interest rates  more than doubled.  Banks sold $3.6 billion of the securities last month, up
from $3.1 billion in April, according to prospectuses filed with
the U.S. Securities Exchange Commission through June 1. Sales
have risen more than 19 percent to $21.6 billion this year, up
from $18.2 billion in the year-earlier period.  Investors bought $925 million of interest rate-tied notes
in May compared with $461 million the prior month, the data
show. Sales of interest-linked notes have increased 38 percent
this year to $4.04 billion, the data show.  “The current yields in money markets are so low that
people are looking to other outlets to pick up yield in their
portfolios,” said Serge Troyanovsky, head of North American
structured-product sales at BNP Paribas SA in  New York .  The average yield on U.S. investment-grade corporate bonds
declined to 3.68 percent on June 1 from 3.89 percent a month
earlier, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data.  The Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility Index, a
benchmark measure of stock swings, has been below its yearly
average of 20.87 since April 1. The VIX, as the index is known,
measures investor expectations of market swings using a formula
that incorporates the price of Standard & Poor’s 500 options
known as puts and calls.  Some structured notes such as reverse convertibles contain
embedded derivatives that fund the coupons paid to investors.
The value of the derivatives declines as volatility falls,
decreasing the coupon.  Search for Yield  “After several months of low interest rates and low
volatility, investors no longer fear high volatility or expect
high coupons,” Troyanovsky said in a telephone interview.
“Investors’ expectations adjust.”  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  issued the largest offering of
structured notes so far this year. The  Charlotte , North
Carolina-based bank sold $275 million of 15-year step-up,
callable notes. The securities, sold May 27, pay a 5 percent
interest rate for the first five years. That rate increases to
5.5 percent in 2016 and 7 percent in 2021, according to a
prospectus filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matt Robinson  in New York at 
 mrobinson55@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 