-- 
Sugar Climbs as Port Delays in Brazil Curb Supply; Cocoa Falls

-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 
2011-06-02T11:42:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-02/sugar-climbs-as-port-delays-in-brazil-curb-supply-cocoa-falls.html
Sugar climbed in New York and erased
all of yesterday’s decline in London as port congestion in top
producer  Brazil  curbed supplies. Cocoa declined.  Cosan SA Industria & Comercio and  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ’s
Brazilian joint venture expects a backlog of sugar shipments at
the country’s ports to last through July, Pedro Mizutani, the
venture’s vice president for sugar, ethanol and bioenergy
production, said yesterday. Demand for white, or refined, sugar
is increasing in Muslim nations ahead of Ramadan, the Muslim
fasting period that starts in about August.  “There is a large need for physical sugar to get to the
refineries,” Connor Noonan, an analyst at Castlestone
Management Ltd. in London, said in an e-mail today. “With the
current delays out of Brazil, we are seeing a demand for any
sugar that is already on the market.”  Raw sugar for July delivery rose 0.15 cent, or 0.7 percent,
to 22.61 cents a pound by 7:21 a.m. on ICE Futures U.S. in New
York. Prices fell 3.1 percent yesterday. White, or refined,
sugar for August delivery climbed $7, or 1.1 percent, to $671.60
a metric ton on NYSE Liffe in  London . White sugar declined 1.1
percent yesterday.  As much as 2.25 million tons of sugar were waiting to load
at Brazil’s main ports, data from shipping agency Williams
Brasil showed. Port delays were caused by a lack of sugar after
production fell on a combination of a late start to the harvest,
less cane crushed, lower yields and more cane directed to
ethanol production, instead of sugar, according to industry
association Unica.  Lagging Crush  “The lagging crush remains likely a major supporting
aspect for international prices,” Keith Flury, an analyst at
Rabobank International in London wrote in a report yesterday.
“Lower cane quality due to weather conditions and a delayed
start this season means production will have to ramp up quickly
to achieve output estimates.”  Arabica coffee for July delivery slid 1.65 cents, or 0.6
percent, to $2.543 a pound in  New York . Robusta coffee for July
delivery fell $55, or 2.2 percent, to $2,507 a ton in London.  Coffee exports from  Guatemala  rose 7.6 percent to 465,277
bags last month, according to the National Coffee Association,
known as Anacafe.  Cocoa for July delivery dropped $18, or 0.6 percent, to
$2,935 a ton in New York. Cocoa for July delivery declined 4
pounds to 1,810 pounds ($2,964) a ton on NYSE Liffe.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 Ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 Ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 