-- 
Sun, SpiceJet Stocks Sink in Mumbai on Investigation Report

-- B y   A m e y a   K a r v e
-- 
2011-06-02T12:42:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-02/sun-spicejet-stocks-sink-in-mumbai-on-investigation-report-1-.html
Sun TV Network Ltd. (SUNTV)  and  SpiceJet
Ltd. (SJET) , companies controlled by the Maran family, plunged on
report India’s federal investigator is probing an investment by
 Malaysia ’s Maxis Group into a business run by the Marans.  Sun TV tumbled a record 28 percent to 272.55 rupees in
Mumbai. SpiceJet sank 16 percent to 34.5 rupees at the 3:30 p.m.
close, the steepest fall in almost five years.  “It’s a free fall for these stocks,” said Ashish Shah, an
analyst at BP Equities Pvt. in Mumbai. “The fact that one of
the family members can possibly be probed is enough for funds to
push the sell button.”  The  Central Bureau of Investigation  will investigate an
allegation that Maxis Group invested 5.99 billion rupees ($133
million) in the Maran family business in return for 14 spectrum
permits awarded to Aircel Group, 74 percent owned by Maxis, the
Times of  India  newspaper  reported , citing unidentified officials
from the federal agency.  Federal Textiles Minister Dayanidhi Maran, brother of
Kalanithi Maran, chairman of Sun TV and SpiceJet, was
telecommunications minister at the time, the newspaper said.  Dayanidhi Maran wasn’t available when called at his home in
 New Delhi  and didn’t respond to an e-mail. Spicejet Chief
Executive Officer Neil Mills didn’t answer two calls made to his
mobile phone.  Sun TV’s Chief Financial Officer S. Natrajhen couldn’t be
reached at his office phone. Sandip Das, chief executive officer
of Maxis Bhd. wasn’t available when called at his office today
and didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail seeking comment. A
call to his mobile phone also went unanswered.  “Even if Dayanidhi doesn’t hold any stake in these two
companies, investors always look at it as businesses run by the
family, and not an individual,” BP Equities’ Shah said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ameya Karve in Mumbai at 
 akarve@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  