-- 
Syrians Protest Alone as Assad Left a Free Hand

-- B y   M a s s o u d   A .   D e r h a l l y
-- 
2011-06-03T16:45:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-02/syrians-protest-alone-as-army-loyalty-world-s-inaction-leave-assad-free.html
Syria ’s opposition defied President
Bashar al-Assad’s security forces again after prayers today
without any sign it’s winning backers at home or abroad who
could make the contest less lopsided and stop the killing.  In most Middle Eastern countries that experienced revolts
this year, the popular movements that started demonstrations
found allies to help sustain or conclude them. In Egypt and
 Tunisia , army generals sided with protesters against longtime
rulers. In  Libya , rebels continue their fight to oust  Muammar Qaddafi  with support from NATO air strikes. Yemen’s Gulf
neighbors sought to broker a compromise, with U.S. backing, that
would remove President Ali Abdullah Saleh from power.  Syrian protesters have found no such recourse. The
fragmented opposition to Assad, and the risk his fall may
destabilize Lebanon and  Israel , has limited the U.S and European
response to imposing sanctions. Syria’s security forces -- where
key posts are often held by members of the Assad family’s
Alawite minority -- are set up to bind political and army
leaders together, leaving few gaps for protesters to exploit.  “It will be very difficult to dislodge Assad because the
opposition doesn’t have the armed force to confront the army,”
said Patrick Seale, a biographer of Bashar’s father, Hafez al- Assad. “European powers still recognize the legitimacy of the
regime. They denounce the methods he is using but they are not
calling for his overthrow because they are worried about the
repercussions.”  Death Toll  Syrian security forces killed more than 60 people in the
town of Hama and injured as many 20 people in Deir Al-Zour as
thousands demonstrated today after prayers in Hama, Damascus and
the province of Idlib, while gunfire was heard also in Nawa in
the south, Mahmoud Merhi, head of the Arab Organization for
Human Rights, said by phone from Syria. The central towns of
Rastan and Talbiseh are surrounded by tanks and troops, he said.  About two-thirds of Syria’s Internet networks were shut
down early today, the Renesys security company, based in
Manchester,  New Hampshire , said on its website.  Assad’s forces have killed more than 1,100 people and
detained more than 10,000 since protests began in mid-March,
according to human rights groups. Initial pledges of reform
haven’t been repeated in recent weeks as the assault escalated.  The government says Islamists and foreign provocateurs are
behind the uprising. State television has shown footage of what
it says are arms and ammunition confiscated from opposition
groups.  Protesters Unarmed  There have been some reports of armed resistance. Residents
of two towns in the central Homs province fought security forces
with automatic rifles and rocket-propelled grenades, the
 Associated Press  reported May 31. Overwhelmingly, though, the
protesters are unarmed, according to Merhi and Ammar Qurabi,
head of the National Organization for Human Rights.  The U.S. and European Union have imposed sanctions
including travel bans on Assad and other top officials.
President  Barack Obama  said May 19 that Assad should stop the
killing and lead a peaceful transition to democracy or “get out
of the way.” Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  has ruled out
using military force in Syria.  Even with U.S. support, there’s no guarantee the United
Nations Security Council mandate for military action in Libya
could be replicated.  Russia  -- which has a veto and abstained in
the Libya vote -- opposes intervention in Syria, Foreign
Minister Sergei Lavrov said.  ‘Repercussions’ Possible  “It is not in the interests of anyone to send messages to
the opposition in Syria or elsewhere that if you reject all
reasonable offers we will come and help you,” Lavrov said
yesterday in an interview in Moscow. “Destabilizing Syria would
have repercussions far beyond its borders.”  Clinton said yesterday that “we do not have agreement in
the  Security Council ” on dealing with Syria.  Syria’s opposition leadership is spread across  Europe , the
U.S. and Arab countries, making it hard for would-be allies to
identify who to help, said  Theodore Karasik , director of
research at the Dubai-based Institute for Near East and Gulf
Military Analysis.  “You have multiple sides that have not coalesced around
each other,” he said.  The armies of Egypt and Tunisia both preserved a distance
from politics that enabled them to supervise a transfer of power
that’s still under way in both countries. Some Libyan army
officers defected to the rebels, adding military know-how to
their popular support base.  By contrast, Syria’s military “is trained in a way that
there is no distinction between the regime and the state,” said
Riad Kahwaji, director of the Institute for Near East & Gulf
Military Analysis in Dubai. Still, he said, if protests continue
then “logic states that fractures will begin to show.”  ‘Force Has Worked’  Many Syrian military commanders are Alawites, including the
president’s brother Maher al-Assad, who heads the presidential
guard, an elite unit of the security forces. The majority of the
population is  Sunni Muslim , and the local branch of the Muslim
Brotherhood, the region’s largest Sunni organization, has sided
with the opposition.  Hafez al-Assad crushed a rebellion led by the Brotherhood
in 1982, killing as many as 10,000 people according to  Human
Rights Watch , then ruled for almost two more decades. That
precedent is probably in the minds of Assad and his security
chiefs, said Brian Davis,  Canada ’s former ambassador to Syria.  “Force has worked in the past and they believe it can work
again,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Massoud A. Derhally in  Beirut , Lebanon, at   mderhally@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  