-- 
U.S. Faces Rating Cut Without Debt Accord, Moody’s Hess Says

-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 
2011-06-02T19:13:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-02/u-s-faces-rating-cut-without-debt-accord-moody-s-hess-says.html
The U.S. government’s Aaa credit
rating may face a downgrade review if there’s no progress on
increasing its statutory debt limit, said  Steven Hess , senior
credit officer at Moody’s Investors Service.  A bill to raise the debt limit by $2.4 trillion failed to
win passage in the  House of Representatives  May 31 in a vote
Democrats said was rigged to ensure its defeat. Republicans who
control the House announced the vote last week as a way to
demonstrate lawmakers don’t support extending the $14.3 trillion
cap unless agreement is reached with President Barack Obama’s
administration on significant spending cuts.  Hess spoke today in a telephone interview from New York.  On the debt-limit debate:  “If the negotiating stances of the two parties continue to
be where they are now, in other words very far apart, and an
agreement on the raising of the debt limit continues to look
remote, probably by mid-July we would consider putting the
rating on review for downgrade.”  “The negotiations now on  deficit reduction  over the medium
term are a significant opportunity to actually do something on
that front. Although fundamentally, the debt limit question is
separate from long-term deficit reduction, they seem to be
linked at this point in  Washington .”  “The chances of them coming to an agreement, we think, are
much reduced if this opportunity goes by and nothing happens.”  “Even though we would maintain the Aaa rating if there was
no missed payment and the debt limit were raised, if the
negotiations came to nothing or didn’t have a significant
deficit reduction that was credible over the longer term, we
would probably put a negative outlook on the rating.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Detrixhe in  New York  at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  