-- 
U.S. Stock-Index Futures Advance as Alcoa, Joy Global Increase

-- B y   A l e x i s   X y d i a s
-- 
2011-06-02T11:29:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-02/u-s-stock-futures-rise-as-selloff-leaves-valuations-at-lowest-since-march.html
U.S. stock-index futures climbed,
indicating the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index will rebound from its
biggest retreat since August, after yesterday’s selloff left
equities trading at their lowest valuations since March.  Alcoa Inc. (AA)  shares climbed in  Europe .  Joy Global Inc. (JOYG) , the
maker of P&H and Joy mining equipment, rose 3.4 percent in New
York after increasing its earnings forecast.  Juniper Networks
Inc. (JNPR)  extended yesterday’s slump after its top executive said
weakness in the overall economy is affecting performance.  S&P 500 futures contracts expiring in June rose 0.3 percent
to 1,315.4 at 7:27 a.m. in New York. Dow Jones Industrial
Average futures expiring the same month advanced 25 points, or
0.2 percent, to 12,299.  The S&P 500 sank 2.3 percent yesterday, pushing its decline
since this year’s high on April 29 to 3.6 percent, as slower
growth in jobs and manufacturing fueled concern that the economy
is faltering. The Citigroup Economic Surprise Index, which
tracks by how much reports beat or missed forecasts, yesterday
closed at its lowest since January 2009.  “This short-term weakness, if it persists, is going to
line up a good buying opportunity for the second part of the
year,” said Tristan Hanson, head of  asset allocation  at
Ashburton Ltd. in Jersey, one of the  Channel Islands . “Although
calling the exact level of the turning point is clearly
impossible.” His company oversees $1.7 billion.  Jobless Claims, Payrolls  Investors awaited today’s weekly initial jobless claims
report and tomorrow’s monthly non-farm payrolls data to assess
the severity of the slowdown. The Commerce Department will today
also release the number of orders placed with U.S. factories in
April.  Companies added 38,000 workers to payrolls in May,
according to figures from ADP Employer Services reported
yesterday, less than one-quarter of the median forecast by
economists. The Institute for Supply Management’s factory index
later showed that U.S. manufacturing expanded in May at the
slowest pace since September 2009.  The reports sent the  S&P 500  to a six-week low yesterday.
The index now trades at 13.2 times the estimated earnings of its
companies, according to Bloomberg data, the lowest valuation
since March 18.  The losses are creating a buying opportunity for investors
willing to withstand declines that may reach 10 percent,
according to Blackstone Group LP’s  Byron Wien .  Yesterday’s decrease was the 126th decline of 2 percent or
more during bull markets since 1962, according to Kevin Pleines,
an analyst at Birinyi Associates Inc. in Westport,  Connecticut .
Of those, 30 percent occurred within a month of the start of a
so-called correction, or 10 percent drop, he said.  Alcoa, Joy Global  Alcoa, the largest U.S. steelmaker, gained 1 percent to
$16.26 in German trading. The shares fell 4.3 percent in  New
York  yesterday, their steepest retreat since April 12.  Joy Global jumped 3.4 percent to $88 in early New York
trading. The company said it expects to earn $5.30 to $5.60 per
share this year, compared with an earlier prediction of $5.10 to
$5.40 as orders increase.  “The  mining industry  continues to deploy record levels of
 capital expenditures  for mine expansion projects,” Joy said in
a statement today.  Juniper Networks extended yesterday’s 9.9 percent plunge,
dropping 0.4 percent to $32.82 in  Germany .  Kevin Johnson , chief
executive officer of the second-largest maker of computer
networking equipment, yesterday said weakness in the overall
economy is affecting performance and that most sales for the
quarter will come toward the end of the period.  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  climbed 0.5 percent to $24.54. Windows
President Steven Sinofsky previewed a touch-screen version of
the operating system that can work on tablets, offering a
glimpse of his company’s response to Apple Inc.’s iPad.
Windows 8 resembles Microsoft’s software for mobile phones,
using “tiles,” rather than icons, to help users navigate
between applications, Sinofsky.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Xydias in London at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  