-- 
U.S. Energy Department Natural Gas Update for June 1 (Text)

-- B y   S t e p h e n   R o s e
-- 
2011-06-02T18:12:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-02/u-s-energy-department-natural-gas-update-for-june-1-text-.html
Following is the text of the weekly
natural gas update as released by the U.S. Department of Energy
in  Washington  D.C.:  The past week was marked by two distinct trading markets -
“before” and “after” the Memorial Day holiday. Cash markets were
listless going into the holiday weekend but escalated Tuesday
following an early heat wave that drifted into the East. The
Henry Hub price advanced 27 cents per million Btu (MMBtu) for
the week (6.2 percent) to close at $4.63 per MMBtu on June 1.  Just prior to the heat wave, working natural gas in storage last
week rose to 2,107 billion cubic feet (Bcf) as of Friday, May
27, according to the U.S. Energy Information Administration’s
(EIA) Weekly Natural Gas Storage Report (WNGSR). The implied
increase for the week was 83 Bcf, leaving storage volumes
positioned 237 Bcf below year-ago levels.  At the  New York Mercantile Exchange  (NYMEX), the July 2011
natural gas contract price gained in all but one day of the
week, closing at $4.629 per MMBtu on Wednesday.  The natural gas rotary rig count, as reported May 27 by Baker
Hughes Incorporated, rose by 15 to 881 active units,
representing the first gain in 3 weeks and the largest absolute
increase since November. Meanwhile, oil-directed rigs were up 4
to 958, still maintaining the disparity between the two drilling
objectives.  Prices  At the NYMEX, the price of the July 2011 contract increased 20.6
cents (4.7 percent) over the week from $4.423 per MMBtu last
Wednesday to $4.629 per MMBtu yesterday. With the official start
of summer still 19 days away, the NYMEX price rose in half of
the trading sessions (Monday was an exchange holiday), likely
due to forecasts of hotter weather continuing into next week,
but gave back 3.7 cents yesterday possibly in response to
reports of rising domestic natural gas production.  The Henry Hub price reflected the post-holiday price surge by
advancing 6.2 percent from $4.36 per MMBtu last week to close at
$4.63 per MMBtu yesterday. The Henry Hub price advance eclipsed
that of the NYMEX and accomplished most of the increase in a
single day (Tuesday).  End market natural gas prices followed the lead of their
wholesale counterparts and advanced somewhat more vigorously.
For example, the New York citygate increased by 32 cents per
MMBtu to close at $5.03 per MMBtu, despite giving back 12 cents
yesterday. Likewise, the Chicago citygate increased a more
modest $0.27 per MMBtu and ended the week at $4.72 per MMBtu.  Spot Prices  Despite the holiday respite, increasing natural gas consumption
due to the cooling load was likely the chief catalyst
contributing to price strength this week. According to estimates
from BENTEK Energy Services, LLC, domestic gas consumption
increased this week by 4.1 percent over last week. The power
sector showed the largest absolute and percentage increase at
10.6 percent in response to increased air conditioning load
demand created by the heat wave. Not to be outdone, both the
residential/commercial sector and the industrial sector also
posted 0.3 percent consumption increases during the week.  According to BENTEK estimates, the week’s average total nominal
gas supply registered an increase of 0.9 percent from last
week’s level. Domestic weekly gas production averaged over 64.7
Bcf per day, up 0.9 percent. Production never dropped below 64
Bcf per day the entire week and even saw two days where
production exceeded 65 Bcf per day. Domestic production now
stands 6.5 percent above this time last year. The week’s
production gain was accompanied by a 1.2 percent increase in
Canadian imports, which averaged just above 5.3 Bcf per day.
Although this import level represents a reversal from the drop
last week, Canadian imports now stand 16.1 percent below year-
ago volumes. Supply also picked up slightly in the liquefied
natural gas (LNG) arena where imports increased to over 1.1 Bcf
per day during the week, but still remain 11.9 percent below
year-ago levels.  Storage  Working natural gas in storage rose to 2,107 Bcf as of Friday,
May 27, according to EIA’s WNGSR (see Storage Figure
< http://www.eia.gov/oog/info/ngw/storagefig.html >). The 83 Bcf
net build is considerably lower than the 5-year average build
for the week of 99 Bcf as well as last year’s build of 90 Bcf.
This reverses two consecutive weeks of above average builds.
Stocks are now 237 Bcf below last year’s level and 42 Bcf below
the 5-year average.  Unusually for this year, the Producing Region saw the lowest
relative build. The East and West Regions added 6 Bcf (11
percent) and 2 Bcf (13 percent) less than the average for the
week, while the Producing Region added 8 Bcf (30 percent) less.
However, the overall movement towards greater relative stocks in
the Producing Region continues. Working gas stocks in the
Producing Region remain 125 Bcf above average for the year. The
East and West Regions’ stocks are 116 Bcf and 51 Bcf below
average.  Temperatures in the lower 48 States during the week ending May
26 were wamer than normal but slightly cooler than last year.
The  National Weather Service ?? degree-day data show that the
temperature in the lower 48 States last week averaged 66.6
degrees, 2.0 degrees warmer than the 5-year average and 0.9
degrees colder than last year (see Temperature Maps and Data
< http://www.eia.gov/oog/info/ngw/maps.html >). Every region of
the country was warmer than normal with the exception of the
Mountain and Pacific Regions in the West. Nationally, heating
degree-days were 19 percent less than normal, but cooling
degree-days were 29 percent above normal. As the weather
continues to warm, cooling degree-days will become more
important as natural gas is consumed for electric power.  Other Market Trends  Marketed Production Hits 64.84 Bcf/d in March. On May 31, 2011,
EIA released the Natural Gas Monthly, which includes data
through March 2011. Total marketed production grew to 64.8
Bcf/d, an increase of about 4 percent from the previous month
(production in February, however, was relatively low due to
wellhead freeze-offs). Working storage inventories ended March
(the official end of the withdrawal period) at 1,581 Bcf,
representing total withdrawals of 2,266 Bcf during the winter
heating season. Inventories at the end of March 2011 were about
5 percent less than inventories for the same time in 2010. Total
consumption declined from 87.5 Bcf/d in February to 71.3 Bcf/d
in March, largely a reflection of declines in the residential
and commercial sectors as heating degree-days declined.
Consumption of natural gas for electric power generation and
industrial consumption declined 8 percent and 12 percent,
respectively.  Hydropower Continues to Abound in the Pacific Northwest. In an
exceptionally strong season for hydropower in the Pacific
Northwest, generation has remained elevated, following heavy
rains over Memorial Day weekend. High generation is expected to
continue as additional rain is forecast for this week, and as
incoming warmer temperatures will lead to increased runoff from
the Pacific Northwest’s largest snowpack in years, according to
recent reports by BENTEK Energy. An oversupply of
hydroelectricity led the Bonneville Power Administration (BPA)
to issue a curtailment policy last month, which limits first
thermal power generation (coal and natural gas), then wind
generation. According to BENTEK, thermal generation has dropped
close to zero as a result of recent implementation of the
curtailment policy. Since implementation of the policy, 49 GWh
(from both thermal and wind generators) has been curtailed,
according to BENTEK. More information from BPA is available at:
 http://www.bpa.gov/corporate/BPANews/ArticleTemplate.cfm?Article 
Id=article-20110518-01  Natural Gas Transportation Update  Questar Pipeline Company has announced that it will complete
repairs today, Thursday, June 2, at its compressor station in
Greasewood,  Colorado . Customers may now schedule flows under
normal operating conditions to TransColorado Pipeline and the
White River Hub. A mechanical failure required Questar to shut
down the compressor station for repairs on Tuesday of this week;
as a result, nominations were not accepted to TransColorado and
White River Hub.  On Friday, May 27, Northwest Pipeline Company on Friday said
that it had discovered several mainline dents near its
compressor station in Soda Springs,  Idaho . As a result, the
pipeline company removed a pipeline segment from service and was
conducting investigations, during which available capacity at
Soda Springs would be limited to 497 million cubic feet per day.
With current nominations there exceeding this level, Northwest
expected to be allocating capacity according to service
priority.  Northwest Pipeline also reported that the Jackson Prairie
storage facility in Chehalis, Washington will upgrade its
control system between June 1-7. During this time, the facility
will not accept injection or withdrawal nominations. Northwest
said that it will have very limited balancing capability while
Jackson Prairie is unavailable.  To contact the reporter on this story: Stephen Rose in Washington
at   srose31@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alex Tanzi at   atanzi@bloomberg.net  