-- 
U.S. Seasonal Drought Outlook for June 2 to Aug. 2011 (Text)

-- B y   S t e p h e n   R o s e
-- 
2011-06-02T12:37:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-02/u-s-seasonal-drought-outlook-for-june-2-to-aug-2011-text-.html
Following is the text of the U.S.
 Seasonal Drought Outlook  as released by the  National Weather
Service  in  Camp Springs , Maryland:  Latest Seasonal Assessment - A classic and very persistent La
Nina precipitation pattern has dominated the country since
Autumn 2010, resulting in broad areas of drought across the
southern tier of states, in the southern half of the Plains, and
along parts of the lower and middle Atlantic seaboard. Extreme
to exceptional drought covers most areas across the southern
Rockies, the central and southern Plains, the immediate Gulf
Coast, and the southernmost Atlantic seaboard. Drought has been
most acute through Texas and the southern High Plains, where
many locations experienced the driest October through May period
on record, in some places by wide margins. Frequently high
wildfire danger, dramatic agricultural impacts, and increasing
hydrologic concerns have been felt throughout these areas.
Farther east, drought dates back more than a year from much of
eastern  Texas  and Louisiana eastward through northern Florida
and southeastern Georgia even as an historic influx of water
from the north flooded rivers and the extensive marshlands in
parts of Louisiana.  The La Nina precipitation pattern should loosen its grip through
the meteorological summer of 2011, leaving a lot of uncertainty
about how drought conditions will evolve by the end of August
2011. The Drought Outlook map was synthesized from a combination
of initial drought conditions, current drought duration,
forecasts for the first two weeks of June, the June monthly
forecast, and climatology (especially whether June - August is a
relatively wet or dry season) to varying degrees. Drought is
expected to persist in the interior Carolinas and through much
of  Louisiana  and adjacent areas, where drought dates back
farther than in most other areas. In other existing areas of
drought, the odds at least nominally favor some degree of
improvement, though there is nothing pointing toward anything
broad-scale and substantial. To wit, the forecasts of “some
improvement” and “improvement” for the parched areas of Texas
and the southern High Plains were driven by the approach of a
neutral to climatologically wet season (summer) which should
provide at least some surface moistening, even if amounts aren’t
unusually heavy. There is nothing to indicate that widespread,
significant drought relief should be expected during the
forecast period, though that of course is a possibility; in
fact, prior to any seasonal increase in rainfall across the
southern High Plains, conditions may well get worse before they
get better.  Discussion for the Seasonal Drought Outlook:  Tools used in the U.S. Drought Outlook (USDO) included the
official CPC precipitation outlook for June 2011 and the long
lead forecast for June - August 2011, various medium- and short-
range forecasts and models such as the 6-10 day and 8-14 day
forecasts, the soil moisture tools based on the GFS model and
the Constructed Analogue on Soil (CAS) moisture, the Climate
Forecast System (CFS) seasonal precipitation forecasts, the
four-month Palmer drought termination and amelioration
probabilities, climatology, and initial conditions.  The Drought Outlook valid through the 2011 meteorological summer
(August 2011) anticipates a slow dissolution of the classic La
Niña precipitation pattern across the contiguous  United States 
dating back approximately to October 2010. This pattern has
covered the southern tier of the country from  Arizona  eastward
through  Florida , parts of the southern and middle Atlantic
Coast, and the southern half of the Plains in drought. Extreme
to exceptional drought covers many areas from southeast Arizona
and central  New Mexico  eastward through Florida and southern
Georgia, and much of the central and southern Plains.
Precipitation has been most critically lacking in much of Texas
and the southern High Plains, where October through May totals
were unprecedentedly low in many areas.  With the unwavering La Niña pattern expected to wane as summer
2011 progresses and the typical decline in long-lead
precipitation predictability during this time of year, there is
a sharp drop in Drought Outlook confidence nationwide compared
to the forecasts issued between September 2010 and April 2011.
In fact, the June - August 2011 long-lead forecast indicates no
tilt of the odds toward either above- or below-normal
precipitation in any of the areas currently experiencing drought
(except in  Hawaii ). As a result, the June - August 2011 Drought
Outlook leans primarily on initial drought conditions, the day 1
through 14 forecasts, the June 2011 monthly forecast, and
climatology.  From southern Mississippi northeastward into the lower mid-
Atlantic coast, Light precipitation is expected through early
June, and the odds favor below-normal rainfall along the Gulf
Coast through southeastern  Georgia  into the middle of June. June
- August is climatologically a little wetter than other times of
the year along the immediate coasts and the southeastern half of
Georgia; however, drought is well entrenched in southern parts
of this region, dating back more than a year. Given these
factors, drought is forecast to persist near the Gulf and in
southeast Georgia, with limited improvement expected in most
other areas. Farther north, drought is also expected to persist
in the central Carolinas with some improvement anticipated
farther east, where dryness has been of shorter duration.
Confidence in the Southeast and along the eastern Gulf and
southern Atlantic coasts is low.  Drought has also gripped the  Florida Panhandle  to varying
degrees for the past several months, which coincides with its
driest time of the year. The odds favor below-normal rainfall in
northern areas through mid-June, and near- to above-normal
amounts farther south. The advent of the rainy season in June
should at least alleviate any surface moisture shortages
existing at that time, even if June - August 2011 totals are
unremarkable. Confidence in the Florida Panhandle is high.  In the lower Mississippi Valley, seriously deficient
precipitation has fallen since Autumn 2010, and consistently
below-normal amounts date back well over a year through much of
Louisiana even as upstream rains led to historic flooding along
rivers and across the swamps, marshes, and natural levees that
cover most of southeastern Louisiana. Given the serious,
protracted rainfall deficits in place and unlikely to change
substantially over the summer, drought is expected to continue.
Light to moderate rain is expected through June 6, with more
than 0.5 inch forecast near the Louisiana  Gulf Coast . Odds tilt
only nominally toward drier than normal conditions thereafter
through mid-June. June - August is climatologically neither a
wet nor dry time of year; however, the entrenched and long-term
nature of precipitation deficits in this area will not respond
readily even to increased precipitation. Confidence in the lower
Mississippi Valley is moderate.  The southern half of the Plains states, and in particular the
southern High Plains, are experiencing the most acute drought
conditions in the country. Even though dryness dates back only
to last October, the period since then has brought record
dryness to many locations, with some parts of western Texas and
eastern New Mexico recording only a few tenths of an inch during
the period. Serious and intensifying agricultural impacts and
frequently high wildfire danger has been a mainstay for several
months now, and longer-term hydrologic impacts have been on the
rise. A few tenths of an inch of rain is expected by June 6
across  Kansas , eastern  Colorado , and much of New Mexico. Through
mid-June, drier than normal conditions appear likely regionwide.
Subnormal rainfall may continue through June across Texas, but
for the summer as a whole, the only indicators of which
direction the drought will take are initial conditions and
climatology. The outlook for the swath of land from central
parts of Texas,  Oklahoma , and Kansas westward through the
southern High Plains was driven exclusively by initial
conditions and climatology. Western and northern parts of this
region are headed into their wet season as summer progresses,
making it likely that at least some surface moisture improvement
will be felt by the end of August, though this forecast should
not be interpreted as calling for widespread, significant
relief, and conditions may well get worse before they get
better. From central Texas into south-central Oklahoma, where
June - August is not particularly wet and/or precipitation since
the start of the water year has been particularly sparse,
limited improvement is expected at best, even if it is only a
marginal boost in surface moisture. Persistence is only forecast
in eastern Texas, where drought dates back farther than in the
rest of the region. Confidence in the southern half of the
Plains is moderate.  Drought also covers the Southwest from western New Mexico
through central Arizona. A few tenths of an inch of rain is
expected in western New Mexico through early June, but generally
drier than normal conditions are expected areawide through the
middle of the month, although this is a dry time of year for the
region anyway. Later June through August tends to be wetter
climatologically, though not to the extent observed a little
farther to the east. The result of these considerations is a
forecast for some improvement. Confidence in the Southwest is
low.  In Hawaii, there are enhanced chances for drier than normal June
- August conditions, resulting in drought conditions similar to
or slightly worse than at the start than at the start of June.
Confidence in Hawaii is moderate.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Rose in Washington at 
 srose31@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alex Tanzi at   atanzi@bloomberg.net  