-- 
U.S. Credit-Default Swaps Benchmark Climbs to Five-Week High

-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 
2011-06-02T22:13:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-02/u-s-credit-default-swaps-benchmark-climbs-to-five-week-high.html
The cost to protect U.S. corporate
bonds from default rose to a five-week high amid concern the
economic recovery is faltering.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, which
investors use to hedge against losses on corporate debt or to
speculate on creditworthiness, gained 0.9 basis point to a mid-
price of 92.9 basis points as of 4:59 p.m. in  New York ,
according to index administrator Markit Group Ltd. The cost of
protecting debt of  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  rose after a report
that the fifth-biggest  U.S. bank  by assets received a subpoena
from the Manhattan District Attorney’s office.  The credit swaps index, which typically rises as investor
confidence deteriorates and falls as it improves, is at the
highest level since reaching 93.6 basis points on April 25. The
measure increased as investors absorbed a Labor Department
announcement that more Americans than forecast filed
applications for  unemployment benefits  last week and a report
that factory orders fell in April by the most in almost a year.  The increase in the credit-default measure “comes on the
back of yesterday’s sharp sell-off, where a confluence of
negative news became too much for the market to handle,”
Michael Reiner, a New York-based credit strategist at Societe
Generale SA, said in a note dated today. The index climbed 2.5
basis points yesterday as manufacturing growth slowed and
employers hired fewer workers than forecast.  Credit-default swaps on Goldman Sachs jumped 8.3 basis
points to 156.6 basis points, according to data provider CMA.
The swaps jumped 7 basis points after Bloomberg News reported on
the Goldman Sachs subpoena, according to broker Phoenix Partners
Group. A U.S. Senate subcommittee has said New York-based
Goldman Sachs misled buyers of mortgage-linked investments
before the housing market collapse.  Highest Since September  “We don’t comment on specific regulatory or legal issues,
but subpoenas are a normal part of the information request
process and, of course, when we receive them we cooperate
fully,” said  David Wells , a company spokesman.  Swaps on Goldman Sachs are at the highest level since
September, according to data provider CMA, which is owned by CME
Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the
privately negotiated market.  Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Childs in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  