-- 
U.S. Drought Monitor Report for the Week Ending May 31 (Text)

-- B y   T e r r y   B a r r e t t
-- 
2011-06-02T12:32:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-02/u-s-drought-monitor-report-for-the-week-ending-may-31-text-.html
Following is the text of the weekly
 U.S. Drought Monitor  as released by the National Drought
Mitigation Center in Lincoln,  Nebraska :  Weekly Weather Summary: The period began with a widespread area
of severe weather (mainly strong winds and large hail) across
the East Coast states, though with minimal tornado activity,
especially when compared to the previous week. Several other
severe weather events followed in the days ahead, first over the
middle Mississippi Valley and southern Great Lakes region, and
then over the northern and central Great Plains. A widespread
area of heavy precipitation (2 inches or greater) was observed
from Kansas and Nebraska eastward across the middle Mississippi
Valley and southern Great Lakes region. Unfortunately, this
broad area doesn’t need the rain, whereas the drought areas to
the south (southern Plains,  Gulf Coast , and South Atlantic
states) received little in the way of beneficial rain.
Temperatures averaged anywhere from 4 to 10 degrees (F) above
average across most of the East, Ohio and Tennessee Valleys,
Gulf Coast states, lower half of the Mississippi Valley, the
southern Plains, and the interior Southwest. Elsewhere, which
includes much of the northern and western CONUS, temperatures
generally ranged from 4 to 10 degrees (F) below average.  Important Note: The drought depiction for south-central
Louisiana was changed last week to show the areas of drought in
the Atchafalaya Basin. As a result, this does not take into
account the areas of flooding that were released into this basin
from the Morganza Spillway courtesy of the lower  Mississippi
River  flooding. The actual flooded areas have been less
extensive and slower to spread than initially forecast; however,
the amount of flooding is still significant.  For the latest text information about river levels in the
region:  http://www.srh.noaa.gov/lmrfc/?n=lmrfc -
mississippiandohioriverforecast  For satellite images (via ASTER on  NASA ?s Terra satellite) of
the Morganza Spillway:  http://earthobservatory.nasa.gov/IOTD/view.php?id=50659&src=iotd 
rss  Upper Great Lakes Region: Light rains (0.5 to 1 inch) were
reported in northeastern Minnesota and the UP of Michigan, with
heavier totals well to the south of the D0(H) areas. NLDAS
ensemble mean soil moisture anomalies (top 1-meter) reveal a
slight degradation in the past month in northeastern Minnesota.
Stream flows have shown some improvement recently, but this area
still needs a good widespread soaking to eliminate the lingering
long-term (12- to 18-months) dryness.  South Atlantic Seaboard and Eastern Gulf Coast States: Over the
past 6 months, the southern Delmarva Peninsula and the adjacent
tidewater area of southeastern  Virginia  have accumulated 5- to
10-inch precipitation deficits. Little if any rain has fallen
during the past week.  Current stream flow values, as well as
those for the past 7-, 14-, and 28-days, are located within the
lowest ten percent of the historical record. On the Delmarva
Peninsula, moderate drought (D1) conditions were expanded
northward into central Sussex County, westward into eastern
Dorchester County, and southward to include the southernmost
counties. Given sandy soils, the recent heat, and the large
precipitation deficits, this region will need to be monitored
for rapid deterioration. The  Washington , D.C. area has also been
drying out, though a thin corridor of wetness remains along
Chesapeake Bay’s western shoreline. If this drying trend
continues, abnormally dry (D0) conditions may be warranted for
next week’s depiction.  Light rain (0.5 inches or less) fell over eastern portions of
the Carolinas during the past 7 days. Standardized precipitation
indices (SPI) for the past 6-months support longer-term
hydrological impacts, especially in eastern  North Carolina .
Stream flows for the past month in eastern North Carolina and
southern  South Carolina  have remained within the lowest quartile
of the historical distribution. Severe drought (D2(A,H))
conditions were introduced to the drought depiction over eastern
North Carolina, emphasizing both short-term and long-term
impacts. With much of upstate South Carolina receiving moderate
to locally heavy rain (1-3 inches or greater), expanding dryness
and drought has been temporarily halted; though with the recent
high temperatures conditions are likely to deteriorate fairly
quickly.  In  Georgia ,  Florida ,  Alabama , and Mississippi, significant
rainfall (1-2 inches, locally greater) once again missed the
drought areas which needed it most. Extreme (D3) drought was
expanded in southern Georgia to include the entire southern half
of the state, while areas of lesser intensity drought (D2, D1,
D0) over central and north-central Georgia were expanded
northward. In the western panhandle of Florida, a general 1-
category degradation was made to the drought depiction to be
consistent with the short- and long-term objective blends, in
addition to the 30-, 60-, 90-, 120-, and 180-day SPI indications.
Stream flows in the western Florida panhandle, southern Alabama,
and southwestern Georgia have been below the tenth percentile
for at least the past month. In southern Florida, the
combination of short-term dryness (90-days: 25 to 50 percent of
normal rainfall) and long-term deficits (since October 1: West
Palm Beach and Fort Lauderdale deficits exceed 20 inches) have
greatly lowered river and lake levels and some wells. West Palm
Beach International Airport (PBI) reported its driest Water-
Year-To-Date (October 1, 2010 to May 30, 2011) since 1850, with
only 10.39 inches of rain. Lake Okeechobee stood at 10.09 feet
(normal 13.13 feet) on June 1st, below the critical line for
water shortages. An area of exceptional (D4) drought was
introduced to southeastern Palm Beach County and eastern Broward
County to reflect the very low well conditions and soil moisture,
the very high fire danger, and the large rainfall deficits noted
earlier.  Lower Mississippi Valley: As mentioned in the above Important
Note, the opening of the Morganza Spillway on May 15 (last
opened in 1973) had projected to flood much of the Atchafalaya
River basin in south-central  Louisiana  by now. But due to the
basin’s hydrological complexity and uncertainty, especially in
the southern end, the rate and extent of flooding was less than
initially forecast. Where it has flooded, however, the flooding
is still significant. In contrast, where the flood waters had
not yet reached, U.S. Forestry officials reported that many
marshes were dry with fish kills from lack of oxygen in the
remaining pools of water in coastal parishes of southwest and
south Louisiana. Therefore, due to the severity of the ongoing
drought and the lack of a recent image of actual flooded land,
the area of drought depiction was returned to all of Louisiana.
And of course, the flooded regions of the Atchafalaya basin (not
depicted) would be drought free.  Elsewhere across southern Louisiana, little or no rain fell once
again, except for a few stations close to the Mississippi border
(1-2.5 inches). Light rains (0.5 inches) occurred in
northeastern Louisiana and southeastern Arkansas. Unfortunately,
additional heavy rains (2 inches or greater) fell across the
middle Mississippi Valley, adding more water downstream into the
swollen main stems of the Mississippi River. Large long-term
(12-months) deficits (15 to 20 inches) remained in portions of
the lower Mississippi River Valley, and were between 25 to 35
inches at 18-months. In southern Mississippi, large rainfall
deficits (12 inches or more) since October 1st suggest a slight
northward displacement of the various drought categories (Dx).  Central and Southern Plains: Widespread showers and
thunderstorms dropped heavy rain (2 to 3 inches, locally
greater) across portions of southern Nebraska, northern and
central  Kansas , and northeastern  Colorado . Moderate rain (0.5 to
1.5 inches) fell over central and eastern portions of Oklahoma,
and across the Red River in nearby northern  Texas . Standardized
Precipitation Index (SPI) maps going back at least 6 months (as
well as recent 2 to 3 inch rains) provides support for a one-
category upgrade in northeastern Colorado and south-central
Nebraska. In southeastern Nebraska, however, conditions did not
appear to warrant the removal of abnormal dryness (D0),
especially when considering the longer-term (90- to 180-days)
precipitation indicators.  In Texas, USDA Topsoil Moisture (May 29th) was rated short to
very short over 86 percent of the state, and in general, the
state is experiencing harsh drought impacts in both the short-
term (up to 90-days) and the long-term  (beyond 90-days). For
the March to May period, San Antonio reported only 0.88 inches
of rain, the second driest such period since 1885, with the
driest being in 1961, when only 0.52 inches of rain fell. Del
Rio experienced its third driest March to May period (1.12
inches) since 1906. A number of adjustments (mostly minor) were
made to the drought depiction in Texas, with the most
significant being a broad expansion of exceptional (D4) drought
across the Panhandle region. USGS stream flows continued to be
in the lower tenth percentile in southern and south-central
Texas, but improving to near-normal in the northeast. According
to USDA/NASS, Texas winter wheat was rated 76 percent poor or
very poor, while similarly-rated pastures and ranges stood at 73
percent. Temperatures ranged from 6 to 10 degrees above average
across the state, causing even further dessication of soils.  In Oklahoma, USDA Topsoil Moisture (May 29th) was rated short to
very short over 53 percent of the state, substantially higher
than the 5-year average of 34 percent. The objective short- and
long-term blends, in addition to the Worst Drought Indicator
Blend, continue to favor mostly agricultural, shorter-term
impacts across the western part of the state.  The West: In the Southwest, nearly all areas experienced no rain
during the past week, as would be expected at this time of year,
in the weeks prior to the seasonal monsoon. The few, spotty
exceptions included several tenths of an inch of precipitation
in northern  New Mexico , southwestern Colorado, and southeastern
 Utah . Agricultural impacts are notable in New Mexico, where 95
percent of the topsoil moisture (USDA) was rated as short- to
very short, compared with 60 percent of the state for the 5-year
average. Farther north and west, continued widespread
precipitation across northern  California , northern Nevada,
Washington, Oregon, Idaho, northern Utah, Montana and Wyoming
warranted no new introduction of abnormally dry (D0) conditions
this week. Heavy precipitation amounts (in excess of 2 inches)
were reported over a significant portion of the Northwest,
primarily in orographically favored areas such as the Cascades
and coastal ranges, the northern Rockies, and the Wasatch
Mountains. Unseasonably cool temperatures have also reduced
natural water demand by vegetation and decreased evaporation.
Snow fell in many high elevation areas this week in the Sierra
Nevada, and with the cool temperatures the snowpack is melting
at a slower rate. Many areas of northern California and northern
Nevada reported May average temperatures anywhere from 2 to 6
degrees below the long-term average.  Hawaii  and  Alaska : Very little rain fell on Maui, Lanai, and
Molokai this past week, though scattered light to moderate
showers (up to 1 inch) were reported on Oahu and Kauai. On the
Big Island, moderate showers (1 to 2  inches) were observed over
the windward (eastern) slopes, though for most other areas, less
than 0.5 inch of rain fell. No changes were deemed necessary in
the drought depiction for Hawaii this week. In Alaska, most of
the southern coast received little if any precipitation, with
the exceptions being Kodiak Island and portions of the Panhandle
where light precipitation (generally 0.5 inches) was noted.
However, amounts were not large enough to eliminate long-term
deficits. In the short-term (30- to 90-days), precipitation in
southwestern and southeastern Alaska is close to or above-normal,
however, in the long-term (since September 1, 2010, the start of
the cold season), much larger deficits have accumulated. This
included departures of -10 to -30 inches since September 1 along
the normally wetter coastal locations. Last week, the D0(H) area
was slightly modified to depict the larger long-term deficits.
This week, no changes were made to the Alaska drought depiction.  Looking Ahead: During the next 5 days (June 2-6), a frontal
system moving across the northern Rockies and northern Great
Plains will bring as much as an inch of precipitation to that
region. Another storm system moving into northern California
will bring 1 to 2 inches of rain. Between 0.5 and 1.0 inches of
rain is expected to fall over New Mexico, east Texas, and
southern Louisiana during the period, which would be beneficial
to those areas. However, much more rain would be needed to make
a significant impact on the drought in those areas.  The 6-10 day CPC outlook (June 7-11) calls for above-normal
temperatures over most of the eastern lower 48 states, and most
of central and eastern Alaska. Below normal temperatures are
predicted over most of the western lower 48 states, and
southwestern Alaska. Above median precipitation is forecast from
the northern and central Great Basin northeastward across the
northern Plains to the central Great Lakes region.
Unfortunately, the drought areas of the southern CONUS, southern
Atlantic, and middle Atlantic states are expected to receive
below median rainfall during the period.  SOURCE: National Drought Mitigation Center  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terry Barrett in Washington at 
 tbarrett1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alex Tanzi at   atanzi@bloomberg.net  