-- 
U.S. Mortgage Proposal May Result in ‘Rental Entrapment’

-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 
2011-06-02T21:51:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-02/u-s-mortgage-proposal-may-limit-homeownership-to-most-affluent.html
Minorities and the working class may
find it harder to buy homes under a U.S. plan that would require
larger down payments to qualify for lower-cost mortgages,
according to lenders, consumer groups and lawmakers.  Bankers and consumer advocates, often at odds on policy
issues, united today to make the case for revising the
government proposal and  released data  that they said shows the
rule would deny loans to millions of borrowers while doing
little to reduce defaults.  “This is a civil rights issue,”  John Taylor , chief
executive officer of the National Community Reinvestment
Coalition in Washington, said in an interview. “It falls around
people of color. It’s a class issue.”  The rule could lead to “long-term rental entrapment” for
“large numbers” of Americans who would need at least a decade
to save for a 20 percent down payment, said David Stevens,
president of the  Mortgage Bankers Association . It would take at
least a decade for a family to save that much in  Los Angeles ,
Philadelphia,  Seattle , and Birmingham,  Alabama , he said, citing
U.S. and industry data on household incomes and  home prices .  Deadline Extension  Regulators plan to extend the deadline for public comment
on the proposal from June 10 to Aug. 1, according to a person
familiar with the matter, who declined to be identified because
the decision hasn’t been made public. That may delay the law
from taking effect.  Spokesmen for the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.,
Department of Housing and Urban Development, Office of the
Comptroller of the Currency and Securities and Exchange
Commission declined to comment. Spokesmen for the  Federal
Reserve  and the  Federal Housing Finance Agency  didn’t respond to
requests for comment.  Taylor and Stevens, former commissioner of the  Federal
Housing Administration , were among mortgage-finance
professionals who held a press conference in Washington where
they accused regulators of overreaching and asked that the
proposal be rewritten. More than 200 Republicans and Democrats
in Congress have expressed similar concerns in letters to
regulators.  Reduced housing demand ”due to an overly burdensome
dictate, could threaten a full-fledged economic recovery,” more
than 160 House lawmakers wrote in a May 31 letter to regulators.  Risky Lending  The Dodd-Frank regulatory overhaul enacted last year
required lenders and bond issuers to keep a 5 percent stake in
the loans they bundle for sale to investors. Forcing the
industry to share potential losses was meant to encourage less
risky lending and avoid mistakes that led to a flood of subprime
mortgages, which helped trigger the 2008 financial collapse.  The law requires regulators to exempt home loans that are
deemed safe, including those with fixed  interest rates  and long
repayment terms. Those exempt loans, known as qualified
residential mortgages, or QRMs, in theory would have lower
interest rates because they would be considered less risky.  Regulators responded to the law with a proposal to exempt
mortgages only if borrowers make a 20 percent down payment and
spend less than 36 percent of their income on debt payments.  Neither rule would lead to fewer defaults, Stevens said. A
quarter of 2009 mortgage borrowers would have been disqualified
under the new rule, said Stevens, citing FHFA. At the height of
the housing bubble in 2006 and 2007, the rule would have cut
delinquencies by less than 3 percent while reducing mortgages by
more than 15 percent, according to the data.  No Down Payments  Today, some lenders are offering loans with little or no
down-payment requirements. Last year, the Navy Federal Credit
Union began offering loans requiring no down payments to
borrowers with good credit and income.  Those opposing the rule are doing so for different reasons.  Industry executives, including mortgage bankers, real
estate agents and builders, have said they’re concerned that a
decline in lending may hurt housing and the economic recovery.  That would disproportionately affect middle-class and
minority borrowers, consumer advocates say. Groups that advocate
for limited government, including the Washington-based  Heritage
Foundation , say the plan may drive home lending to federally
insured programs such as the FHA,  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac ,
which Dodd-Frank exempted from the risk-retention rule.  The Heritage Foundation, in a May 31 letter to regulators,
called the 20 percent down payment requirement “utterly at odds
with the realities of today’s housing market,” where only 16
percent of first-time buyers in 2010 would have met the
standards for a lower-cost qualified mortgage.  The National Urban League said the plan would create a
category of “‘high-risk’ borrowers formerly known as the
responsible middle class.”  “Adding high minimum down-payment requirements will only
exclude hundreds of thousands of consumers -- including legions
of minority renters -- from homeownership, despite their
creditworthiness and proven ability to afford the monthly
payment,” the group wrote in a June 1 letter to regulators.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorraine Woellert in  Washington  at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 