-- 
U.S. Should Limit Vietnam Market Access, Representatives Say

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-06-02T06:52:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-02/u-s-should-limit-vietnam-market-access-representatives-say.html
Vietnam ’s access to the U.S. market
for garments should face restrictions as part of a proposed
trans-Pacific trade agreement, 52 American lawmakers said in a
letter to U.S. Trade Representative Ron Kirk.  Vietnamese garment exports to the U.S. rose 15 percent last
year to $5.76 billion, according to  figures  from the U.S.
International Trade Commission. Vietnam is the world’s No. 2
seller of clothing to the U.S. behind  China .  Negotiations on the Trans Pacific Partnership so far
involve Australia, Brunei, Chile, Malaysia,  New Zealand , Peru,
Singapore, the U.S. and Vietnam. A “mismanaged” accord may
cost jobs in the U.S. textile and apparel industry, according to
the letter,  posted  on the Web site of the  Boston , Massachusetts-
based National Textile Association.  “Noting Vietnam’s non-market economy status and the
subsequent inherent advantages provided to its textile and
apparel sector, special market access rules should be
negotiated,” the 26 Democratic and 26 Republican
representatives wrote.  “Furthermore, Vietnam should be required to meet certain
transparency and market-based economy benchmarks before gaining
benefits,” the legislators said in the letter, which also
argued that Vietnam has an undervalued currency.  The Vietnamese dong has been devalued four times since late
2009, and is currently trading at 20,575 per dollar, compared
with 19,498 at the end of 2010. Garments were Vietnam’s biggest
export through May this year, with the value of shipments
surging 36 percent to $5.13 billion.  --Jason Folkmanis in  Ho Chi Minh City . Editors: Patrick
Harrington, Paul Tighe  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Folkmanis in Ho Chi Minh City at 
 folkmanis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  