-- 
Hungary Yields Highest in Two Months Versus Poland Before Debt Auction

-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 
2011-06-02T08:52:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-02/hungary-yields-highest-in-two-months-versus-poland-before-debt-auction.html
Hungary ’s 10-year bond yields rose to
the highest level in more than two months relative to Polish
debt before today’s debt auction on speculation efforts to rein
in public finances may fail.  Investors are demanding 119 basis points, or 1.19
percentage point, in extra yield to hold Hungarian 10-year debt
rather than similar maturity Polish bonds, the most since March
15, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The spread was as small as
79 basis points on April 11. Hungary will offer 45 billion
forint ($243 million) in notes maturing in 2014, 2017 and 2022
today, according to the Debt Management Agency.  Hungary’s local-currency bonds, the world’s best performing
debt this year, have slumped in the past month on concern
 Europe ’s credit crisis will spread and Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  may fall behind on plans to reduce the biggest debt burden
among the European Union’s eastern members. Hungary designated
July 1 as the deadline three months ago for detailing planned
spending cuts, including changes to disability pensions, early
retirement rules and a new drug subsidy system.  “There are risks around the implementation of the fiscal
package,” Zoltan Arokszallasi, a Budapest-based fixed income
analyst at Erste Group Bank AG, said in a telephone interview
yesterday. “It may happen that the government won’t carry out
everything that it planned.”  The yield on Hungary’s forint notes due in 2022 rose one
basis point to 7.232 percent by 10:29 a.m. in Budapest,
extending the increase since they were sold on May 19 to 18.6
basis points.  Forint, Bonds Slump  The forint strengthened less than 0.1 percent to 266.49 per
euro, after falling 0.8 percent against the euro in May, the
first monthly decline since November.  In the past month, Hungarian bonds have lost as much as 4
percent in dollar terms, the third worst decline worldwide after
Greek and Irish bonds.  Government bonds  with at least 10 years
maturity have returned 23 percent in dollar terms this year, the
most worldwide, according to an index of forint-denominated debt
compiled by Bloomberg.  The Hungarian currency “is vulnerable and will be under
pressure in times of increasing risk aversion, especially if
triggered by the peripheral euro zone debt problems,”  Elisabeth Andreew , strategist at Nordea Bank AB in Copenhagen wrote in a
research note on May 30.  Raising Offer  Hungary’s government bought a 21.2 percent stake in Mol,
the country’s largest refiner, from OAO Surgutneftegas for 1.88
billion euros ($2.7 billion) last week. The purchase cut the
foreign-currency reserves that the country can rely on in case
the government falls behind its debt cutting schedule and needs
extra funds, Arokszallasi said.  For the government, it’s “even more important to show the
market” that it can balance the budget in the longer term, he
said.  Hungary raised its bond offer two weeks ago after an
increase in demand for the debt kept borrowing costs near a
seven-month low for shorter-dated notes. The government sold
67.5 billion forint of bonds compared with the planned 45
billion forint. The state sold 30 billion forint of 2014 notes
at the last auction at an average yield of 6.48 percent,
compared with 6.46 percent on May 5, which was the lowest for
that maturity since Oct. 7.  Declining Popularity  The declining popularity of Orban’s government may also
hurt its willingness to reduce spending, Erste’s Arokszallasi
said. Orban’s Fidesz party lost support last month, Nepszabadsag
reported on May 12, citing an Ipsos poll. Fidesz was favored by
24 percent of those polled, down from 26 percent the previous
month and the lowest percentage since winning elections in April
2010, the newspaper said.  “If foreign confidence in Fidesz’s ability to push through
fiscal adjustment falls sharply, the lack of foreign buyers
could impact bond yields significantly,” Agata Dabrowska, and
Kaan Nazli, New York-based analysts at Medley Global Advisors,
wrote in a research note on May 24 after visiting Budapest.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest 
 agergely@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  