-- 
Vienna Plan Redux Requires Investor Acquiescence: Euro Credit

-- B y   J o h n   G l o v e r   a n d   E m m a   C h a r l t o n
-- 
2011-06-03T11:13:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-02/vienna-plan-redux-requires-investor-acquiescence-euro-credit.html
Greek bondholders may be about to
receive an offer they can’t refuse.  The  European Central Bank  was said to back a plan this week
to persuade investors to replace maturing Greek bonds with new,
longer-dated securities. The idea is modeled on the Vienna
Initiative for eastern Europe in 2009.  Greece , which faces a 30
billion-euro ($43 billion) funding gap next year, is locked out
of markets. Its 10-year bonds yield more than 16 percent.  “I don’t know to what extent the exchange would actually
be voluntary,” said Axel Botte, who helps manage about $770
billion as a strategist at Natixis Asset Management in Paris and
holds short-dated Greek bonds. “I don’t know what kind of
exchange would be both in the interests of the banks and would
be material enough to change the debt sustainability.”  Greece was supposed to be able to fund itself on markets
under the 110 billion-euro European Union and International
Monetary Fund rescue last year. Moody’s Investors Service this
week said Greece has a 50 percent risk of default.  The ECB holds about 50 billion euros of Greek securities,
according to Andrew Sheets at  Morgan Stanley (MS)  in London. About 60
billion euros of Greece’s 287 billion euros of bonds mature
through the end of 2012, Bloomberg data show, and are due to be
paid off at par using public money.  Maturing Debt  Greek bonds maturing in December trade at about 89 cents on
the euro, Bloomberg Bond Trader prices show. Those due less than
two years later are quoted at 67 cents, suggesting investors
aren’t expecting to be paid in full.  European authorities would have to persuade 90 percent of
investors to reinvest maturing principal into fresh debt for the
plan to work, said Hans Humes, president of New York-based
Greylock Capital Management and former co-chairman of the Global
Committee of Argentina Bondholders, which represents investors
who suffered losses when the South American nation defaulted a
decade ago.  “You’d need to be assured that it’s a solution and not a
stop-gap,” Humes said. “There’s going to be a lot of political
pressure to accept it.”  The EU wants holders to roll over notes as they mature,
pushing out maturities without triggering a default, people with
knowledge of the situation said this week. Such a plan would
ease strains on Greece without forcing other nations in the EU
to recapitalize banks that would suffer losses from marking down
defaulted Greek debt. Incentives for bondholders may include
making the new bonds senior to existing debt, increasing coupon
payments or securing the notes, they said.  Standard & Poor’s  said it may consider a voluntary exchange
to be a restructuring if investors were pressured into accepting
the swap, without specifying how it would view an agreement to
replace bonds with new ones as the debt matures.  Eastern  Europe  Model  “Given that the rollover idea is coming from the ECB, it
means there is at least a chance it could postpone some of the
issues that Greece faces without triggering a default,” said
Johannes Jooste, a London-based strategist at Merrill Lynch
Global Wealth Management, which oversees more than $1.5
trillion.  The Vienna initiative was introduced after  Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ)  collapsed. Banks including  UniCredit SpA (UCG) ,
Raiffeisen International AG and  Societe Generale (GLE)  SA pledged to
keep eastern European units afloat by rolling over funding and
providing fresh capital.  Societe Generale SA Chief Executive Frederic Oudea told the
Wall Street Journal his bank would hold Greek debt to maturity
and participate in whatever happens. The Paris-based lender,
 France ’s second-largest, has 2.4 billion euros of Greek debt,
the WSJ said.  Too Many Actors  “If the terms are attractive enough, you could probably
roll over the bonds,” said Joost Van Leenders, who helps run
$787 billion as a strategist at  BNP Paribas (BNP)  Investment Partners
in Amsterdam. “It would be very attractive just to get out at
par. You’d be bailed out by the EU and the IMF.”  A deal may not be possible because of the number of
participants involved, according to Nicola Marinelli, a  fund
manager  at Glendevon King Asset Management in London, which
oversees $153 million. He doesn’t own Greek bonds.  “I don’t think a Vienna-style initiative will work,” he
said. “Eastern Europe was more of a niche. A few banks had 70
percent of the total exposure. There are many different groups,
asset managers, banks and insurers involved in Greece. You are
just postponing the problem. A haircut is the end-game.”  Andrea Beltratti, chairman of  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP) , said
this week that asking bondholders to reinvest is “not the best
solution.” Italy’s second-biggest bank owned about 900 million
euros of Greek debt at the end of April, according to a May 13
presentation.  ‘Concentrated Holdings’  Laurent Fransolet, a strategist at  Barclays Capital  in
London, reckons the top 30 creditors account for about two-
thirds of Greek debt. Greek residents have about 32 percent of
the total, while euro-region investors hold another 58 percent,
including the ECB’s 14 percent, according to a May 11 report.  “Concentrated holdings mean you could probably get a
voluntary agreement that would have a meaningful impact,” he
said. “It would buy time. You wouldn’t be solving the
situation, and it wouldn’t be the last intervention.”  The key issue is to avoid default because of the potential
turmoil it would cause in other markets, Merrill’s Jooste said.
The ECB has ruled out a restructuring before 2013.  Recommending a Vienna-style agreement to clients depends
“on the fine print and whether the deal could work on a non-
default basis,” he said. “We are way more worried about what
to do about other bond and equity markets. If it can be done
without triggering a default, the reaction would be relatively
benign. If it triggered a default, all bets are off.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Glover in  London  at 
 johnglover@bloomberg.net ;
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Gilbert  at 
 magilbert@bloomberg.net  