-- 
Vietnam Dong Strengthens After Dollar Deposit Rate Caps Cut

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-06-02T10:08:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-02/vietnam-dong-strengthens-after-dollar-deposit-rate-caps-cut.html
Vietnam ’s dong gained against the  U.S.
dollar  after the central bank reduced  interest rates  for dollar
deposits to support the local currency. Government bonds rose.  The State Bank of Vietnam lowered the rate cap on dollar
deposits by individuals to 2 percent from 3 percent, and cut the
limit for institutions to 0.5 percent from 1 percent, it said in
a statement posted on its website today, without saying when the
change is effective from. The central bank yesterday ordered
lenders to set aside more dollars as reserves for the second
time in less than two months.  “I expect to see mounting selling pressure on the dollar
as people will continue to switch from dollar to dong deposits,
which should continue to push the dong,” said Francois Chavasseau, head of fixed-income research at Sacombank
Securities Joint-Stock Co. in  Ho Chi Minh City .  The dong rose 0.2 percent to 20,550 per dollar as of 4:53
p.m. in Hanoi, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
yields on the benchmark five-year bonds fell five basis points,
or 0.05 percentage point, to 12.75 percent, according to a daily
fixing from banks compiled by Bloomberg.  The State Bank of Vietnam yesterday increased the reserve-
requirement ratio on U.S. dollar deposits by 1 percentage point
to a range from 4 percent to 7 percent, effective this month. It
has also ordered state-owned firms to sell all the foreign
currency they collect to banks from July 1.  The central bank set the reference rate at 20,638 today,
unchanged from yesterday, its website showed. The currency is
allowed to trade up to 1 percent on either side of the official
rate.  --Nguyen Kieu Giang and Nick Heath in Hanoi. Editors: Andrew Janes, David Yong  To contact the Bloomberg News Staff on this story:
Nguyen Kieu Giang in Hanoi at 
 giang1@bloomberg.net ;
Nicholas Heath in Hanoi at 
 nheath2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  in  Hong Kong  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net . 