-- 
Vinashin Asks Bondholders to Write Off 90% of Debt After Default in April

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-06-02T06:24:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-02/vinashin-asks-bondholders-to-write-off-90-of-debt-after-default-in-april.html
Vietnam Shipbuilding Industry Group,
the state-owned company with more than $4 billion of debt, asked
holders of a local-currency bond it defaulted on in April to
write off as much as 90 percent of the money owed, according to
a bondholder who met with company officials in  Hanoi  last week.  Officials told creditors the shipyard is unable to make any
payments until 2015 at the earliest, Pham Viet Bac, general
director of Ho Chi Minh City-based Sabeco Fund Management, which
holds 30 billion dong ($1.5 million) of Vinashin bonds, said in
a phone interview yesterday.  The shipbuilder’s financial difficulties have raised
questions about the extent Vietnam’s government will support
state-owned enterprises, threatening to undermine investor
confidence in the nation as it aims to accelerate privatization.
A missed payment by Vinashin to international lenders in
December showed government support for state companies isn’t
guaranteed, Moody’s Investors Service said in an April 20 report.  “The Vietnamese government has a long way to go in terms
of restoring its credibility with investors,” said Christian de Guzman, a Singapore-based assistant vice president at Moody’s.
“Investors will be wary of dealing with the government and
state-owned enterprises, given these developments.”  Vinashin Chief Executive Officer Truong Van Tuyen declined
to comment when reached by phone at his office yesterday. Calls
to Chairman Nguyen Ngoc Su weren’t answered.  Vinashin Debts  The Hanoi-based company almost collapsed with debts of 86
trillion dong as of June last year,  Vietnam ’s government said
Aug. 4. The government has said the company needs to narrow its
focus after diversifying beyond shipbuilding into businesses
including securities and tourism.  Prime Minister Nguyen Tan Dung asked police to investigate
whether there are any signs of corruption at the company, Tuoi
Tre newspaper reported in April. Vinashin accounts for as much
as 80 percent of Vietnam’s domestic shipbuilding capacity.  Vinashin failed to pay a 9 percent coupon due April 13 on a
3 trillion dong, 10-year bond issued in 2007, according to
Sabeco’s Bac.  The shipbuilder asked foreign lenders for a one-year
extension after missing a $60 million principal payment in
December on a $600 million syndicated loan, Chairman Su said in
February.  ‘Classified’ Audit  The shipbuilder has amassed total debts of 96.7 trillion
dong, while total assets were 92.6 trillion dong as of Dec. 31,
2009, Lao Dong newspaper reported today, citing an audit by the
Government Inspectorate.  Vinashin told bondholders at the meeting it wouldn’t
provide a copy of its latest audit as the document is
“classified,” said Bac.  “I’m very disappointed,” said Bac, who attended the
meeting at Vinashin’s headquarters along with about 20 other
creditors. “I want the company to be transparent to its
creditors. We have the right to know.”  Vietnam’s bonds slumped at the end of 2010 as Moody’s and
 Standard & Poor’s  cut the nation’s credit rating in December
with a negative outlook. Moody’s, which rates Vietnam four
levels below investment grade at B1, cited the risk of a balance
of payments crisis and a drop in foreign reserves as inflation
accelerates and the currency weakens.  S&P has concerns over Vietnam’s banking system and ranks
the country at BB-, the third highest non-investment grade level.  Government debt rallied as the government approved a plan
in February to tackle quickening inflation with higher  interest
rates  and implemented measures to boost the local currency’s
value. Vietnam’s year-on-year inflation rate in May reached
19.78 percent, the highest in more than two years, according to
the General Statistics Office in Hanoi.  Vietnam’s dollar bonds are posting the best performance in
 Asia  this year, returning 6.1 percent, according to indexes
compiled by HSBC Holdings Plc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
K. Oanh Ha in Hanoi at 
 oha3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Johnson at 
 ejohnson28@bloomberg.net  