-- 
War Cost ‘Right in the Middle’ of Afghan Review, Mullen Says

-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 
2011-06-02T19:56:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-02/war-cost-right-in-the-middle-of-afghan-review-mullen-says-1-.html
The cost of the war in  Afghanistan  is
“right in the middle” of discussions on how quickly U.S.
troops should be pulled out, President  Barack Obama ’s chief
military adviser said.  “Cost is right in the middle of the decision and has been
for a significant” amount of time, Navy Admiral Mike Mullen,
chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, told reporters this
morning in Washington.  Obama has not announced how quickly he intends to reduce
the force, now about 100,000 troops. When Obama announced a
surge in Afghanistan operations in 2009, he said the withdrawal
would begin in July of this year. A full handover of security to
Afghanistan’s security forces is planned by 2014.  The budget for the 2011 fiscal year, which ends Sept. 30,
includes $113.5 billion for Afghanistan operations and $45.8
billion for  Iraq . The fiscal year 2012 request of $117.8 billion
in war spending allocates $107.3 billion for Afghanistan and
$10.8 billion for Iraq, where the pullout is scheduled to be
completed in December.  The Afghanistan price tag is up from $56.1 billion in
fiscal 2009, according to the nonpartisan  Congressional Research
Service .  The Pentagon is spending $5.3 billion a month in
Afghanistan as of March 31, the latest figures available. That
compares with $4.3 billion a month for the first three months of
fiscal 2011 as the troop surge was completed and sustained
military operations began. In fiscal 2009 the U.S. spent $3.9
billion a month in Afghanistan.  Petraeus’s Recommendation  The Office of Management and Budget estimates that the U.S.
spends $10 billion annually for every 10,000 troops it has in
Afghanistan.  Mullen said that Army General David Petraeus, the top
commander in Afghanistan, has not submitted his recommendation
to the White House. It is expected soon and would “kick off the
process,” Mullen said.  “We think the process will move forward rapidly, certainly
in the next few weeks,” Mullen said of the initial withdrawal
recommendation.  The cost of the wars has contributed to a trillion-dollar
federal  budget deficit  that both the president and Congress have
promised to cut. In addition, Obama has called for tightening
other national security spending by $400 billion over the next
12 years.  People Versus Weapons  Secretary of Defense  Robert Gates  said last month that cuts
in the number of troops and their pay and benefits may be needed
to protect major weapons programs, such as  Lockheed Martin
Corp. (LMT) ’s F-35 fighter jet.  Mullen told reporters today that he would look at pay and
benefits, such as health care, before reducing the force size.  “The money is in health care and pay and benefits -- all
things are on the table,” Mullen said. Still, he said, “from
my perspective, we need to avoid just making the relatively easy
decision” to  “cash in force structure, platforms and
people.”  “We have to go through everything else before we get to
that point,” Mullen said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in  Washington  at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  