-- 
West Ham Rejects Offer From AirAsia CEO Fernandes to Buy Soccer Club Stake

-- B y   B a r r y   P o r t e r
-- 
2011-06-02T02:29:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-02/west-ham-rejects-offer-from-airasia-ceo-fernandes-to-buy-soccer-club-stake.html
The owners of West Ham United
Football Club PLC rejected an offer by Malaysian businessman
Tony Fernandes to invest in the English soccer club after it was
demoted from the country’s Premier League last month.  Fernandes, a West Ham fan and chief executive officer of
 AirAsia Bhd. (AIRA) , announced the interest via his official Twitter
site. Club owners  David Sullivan  and  David Gold  have said
dropping out of the elite 20-team division will cost 40 million
pounds ($65 million) and players will be sold. AirAsia is
 Southeast Asia ’s biggest budget airline.  “He has announced this on  Twitter  and people can draw
their own conclusions as to the seriousness of it from that,”
Sullivan said in a statement on the club’s website. “We are not
looking to sell the club, but, as we have always said, we would
love co-investors to join us in rebuilding West Ham United.”  Sullivan confirmed that they also received an e-mail from
Fernandes, who lost out in the race to buy a controlling stake
in the club in January 2010 after its previous owner went
bankrupt. His offer was “immediately rejected,” they said.  “For all you West Ham fans an offer has gone to the
present owners of West Ham,” Fernandes wrote on Twitter
yesterday. “Now we have to respect the process. Let’s see if
they accept.”  Fernandes, who is also manager of Formula One’s Team Lotus,
declined to comment in an SMS to Bloomberg today.  Straumur-Burdaras Investment Bank hf., nationalized by the
Icelandic government in March 2009 after the country’s banking
sector collapsed, took control of West Ham through its CB
subsidiary when the club’s former owner, Bjorgolfur Gudmundsson,
declared bankruptcy amid the credit crunch.  Sullivan and Gold’s purchase of a 50 percent stake in the
Hammers, as the club is known, in January valued it at 105
million pounds, they said at the time. Sullivan put the club’s
debt at 110 million pounds when he and Gold took control.  The pair have since increased their combined stake to 60
percent and have a three-year option to buy the remaining stake
still held by CB.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Barry Porter at 
 bporter10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Collins in  Hong Kong  at 
 collinsc@bloomberg.net  