-- 
Wheat Rises as Russian Exports May Trail World Demand; Corn, Soybeans Gain

-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 
2011-06-02T19:44:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-02/wheat-rises-as-russian-exports-may-trail-world-demand-corn-soybeans-gain.html
Wheat futures rose for the first time
in three days on speculation that exports from  Russia  won’t be
enough to help meet higher global demand. Corn and soybeans also
gained.  Russia, which will lift a ban on grain exports on July 1,
may need to implement duties on shipments to cap domestic
prices, RIA Novosti reported, citing Sergey Ignatiev, the
central bank chairman. Global wheat output may trail consumption
as adverse weather from the U.S. to  Europe  threatens yields, the
International Grains Council said.  “With Russia, politics may be a factor with regard to how
much wheat they export,” said  Jim Gerlach , the president of A/C
Trading Inc. in Fowler,  Indiana . “There’s already talk about
export duties being implemented to limit the amount of grain
that’s allowed to be exported.”  Wheat futures for July delivery rose 10.5 cents, or 1.4
percent, to settle at $7.6975 a bushel at 1:15 p.m. on the
Chicago Board of Trade. The price dropped 7.4 percent in the
previous two days after Russian Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin 
ended an export ban that was imposed in August following a
drought. The grain has jumped 74 percent in the past year.  Russia was once the world’s second-biggest wheat exporter.
The U.S. is the leading shipper.  Corn futures for July delivery rose 8 cents, or 1.1
percent, to $7.665 a bushel. The commodity has more than doubled
in the past year on surging demand from makers of ethanol and
livestock feed, while wet weather slowed planting in the U.S.,
the top producer.  Seven-Week High  Soybean futures for July delivery climbed 20.75 cents, or
1.5 percent, to $14.07 a bushel on the CBOT. Earlier, the price
reached $14.115, the highest for a most-active contract since
April 11. The oilseed has gained 51 percent in the past year.  Parts of the northern Great Plains, where planting has been
delayed this year because of wet weather, may get as much as 1.5
inches (3.8 centimeters) of rain in the next five days,
Commodity Weather Group said in a report. Portions of the
Missouri River also are flooding in  South Dakota , the forecaster
said.  About 86 percent of the U.S. corn  crop  was planted as of
May 29, behind the five-year average of 95 percent, the  U.S.
Department of Agriculture  said this week. Soybean seeding was 51
percent completed, less than the 71 percent average. Spring-
wheat sowing was 68 percent finished, down from the 95 percent
average.  “We’re probably not going to get all the acres planted
that we thought we would,” said Dan Kuechenmeister, the manager
of the commodity department at RBC Dain Rauscher in  Minneapolis .  Corn is the biggest U.S. crop, valued at $66.7 billion in
2010, followed by soybeans at $38.9 billion, government figures
show. Wheat was fourth at $13 billion, behind hay.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney McFerron in Chicago at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  