-- 
World’s Oldest Champagne Sells for $78,400 at Auction

-- B y   R i c h a r d   V i n e s
-- 
2011-06-03T14:56:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-02/world-s-oldest-champagne-from-shipwreck-may-sell-for-145-million-a-bottle.html
Two bottles of the world’s oldest
Champagne, which spent about 170 years at the bottom of the
ocean, sold for 54,000 euros ($78,400) at an auction in Finland
today.  The second lot, containing vintage Veuve, fetched 30,000
euros, which the auction house -- New York-based wine specialist
 Acker Merrall & Condit  -- said was the most paid for a bottle.  “The important thing for this event is that this was a
world record for an auction,”  Richard Juhlin , an authority on
Champagne, said in an interview after the event. “I’m a little
surprised the bidding didn’t go higher. If you had speculators
bidding against each other, it could have sky rocketed.”  Collectors have been paying higher prices for Champagne,
especially for prized vintages, said Juhlin, who had forecast
that the bottles might fetch 100,000 euros, 10 times the minimum
price of 10,000 euros. Bidders applauded at the Veuve price,
given by the same Singapore-based Internet bidder who minutes
before gave 24,000 euros for a bottle of Juglar.  The bottles were sold in Mariehamn, capital of  Aaland , a
Finnish-controlled archipelago of 6,500 islands in the  Baltic
Sea , where divers discovered the precious cargo in a previously
unknown shipwreck.  Madame Clicquot  “This is truly a historic event,” Stephane Baschiera,
president of Veuve Clicquot, said in a statement before the
sale. “We have worked closely with the government of Aaland
since the discovery of the shipwreck to help salvage and protect
the precious wines, which we know now were tasted by Madame
Clicquot herself.”  The auctioneer didn’t charge a premium, Truly Hardy, Acker
Merrall’s director of auction operations, said at the event in
the Culture and Congress House Alandica.  About 145 bottles were found intact, including Veuve
Clicquot, Heidsieck -- today made by Vranken-Pommery Monopole --
and Juglar, which became part of  Jacquesson . Veuve also offered
15 rare bottles from its own cellars and was a partner in the
sale.  Acker Merrall said the top price, equivalent to $43,500,
beat the $42,700 paid for a bottle of 1959 Dom Perignon Rose in
April 2008.  Christmas Cake  Two bottles were cracked open in November and I got to
taste the Juglar, which was remarkably fresh. The fizz had
almost gone and it was too sweet for today’s palate, yet it
retained a distinctive smell of orange and raisins, like a
Christmas cake. It might still be served as a dessert wine. The
Veuve was lighter and more floral, with layers of complexity.  The original destination of the Champagne isn’t known.
Anders Naasman, one of the divers, said it may have been headed
for the tsar’s court in  St. Petersburg . It was well preserved
because it lay horizontally, under pressure, at a low
temperature in the dark, 50 meters (55 yards) below the surface.  The authorities in Aaland, an Swedish-speaking region, say
the proceeds of the sale will go to a good cause, such as
environmental measures to improve the quality of the water in
the seas around Aaland, whose main industries are shipping,
trade, banking, farming and food. About 65 of the islands are
inhabited, with 11,000 people living in Mariehamn, the
archipelago’s only town, founded in 1861.  The oldest Veuve Clicquot previously held by the Champagne
house dates back to 1893, said Francois Hautekeur, a winemaker
with Veuve, who is assisting with preserving the Champagne.  Porcelain Plates  While the exact age isn’t yet known, marine archaeologists
estimate the twin-masted schooner on which the bottles were
found is from the second quarter of the 19th century. Plates on
board were manufactured by Rorstrand porcelain factory between
1780 and 1830.  When one of the Champagne bottles was brought to the
surface, the pressure change caused the cork to pop. One diver
took a swig from the bottle expecting it to taste of seawater
and realized that it was good. The team drank some from plastic
beakers, resealed it and took it to a local sommelier, Ella
Grussner Cromwell-Morgan, to taste the next day.  Veuve Clicquot is made by Paris-based  LVMH Moet Hennessy
Louis Vuitton SA (MC) , the world’s largest maker of  luxury goods .  The divers also discovered bottles of the world’s oldest
beer. That is being analyzed by  the VTT Technical Research
Centre of Finland , with a view to recreating the original recipe
for modern industrial production. VTT is studying what microbes
-- for example, yeast or lactic acid bacteria -- remain in the
beer. It will use chemical analyses to determine what kind of
raw materials were used in the brewing of the beer.  Here is a list of the lots sold today:
 http://www.ackeraland.com/ackeraland_lots.pdf   (Richard Vines is the chief food critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Richard Vines in Mariehamn,  Finland , at  rvines@bloomberg.net , or
Richardvines on  http://twitter.com/Richardvines .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 