-- 
World Bank Cuts Kenya’s 2011 Economic Growth Estimate to 4.8% From 5.3%

-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 
2011-06-02T10:54:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-02/world-bank-cuts-kenya-s-2011-economic-growth-estimate-to-4-8-from-5-3-.html
The  World Bank  cut its estimate for
economic growth this year in Kenya, East Africa’s biggest
economy, to 4.8 percent due to the effect of dry weather on
agricultural output and uncertainty ahead of general elections.  The Washington-based lender reduced its forecast from the
5.3 percent estimated in December, Johannes Zutt, the
institution’s country director, told reporters today in the
capital, Nairobi. The economy will probably expand 5 percent
next year, he said. It grew 5.6 percent in 2010.  “In 2011, Kenya will need to navigate through another
economic storm,” the World Bank said in a report distributed
today at the same event. “This will reduce growth to a
projected 4.8 percent, which is still substantially higher than
the average of the last decade.”  Poor rainfall during the long rainy season from March
through May, which is a vital period for farming, has damaged
crops in an economy that derives almost a quarter of its gross
domestic product from agriculture.  Kenya  is the world’s largest
black-tea exporter and it grows high-quality coffee beans.  Planned investment may fall before presidential and
parliamentary elections in 2012 because of concerns about a
repeat of ethnic violence that followed the previous vote in
2007, leaving 1,500 people dead, the bank said.  International
Criminal Court  hearings into the unrest may also undermine
confidence, it said.  Hearings at the Hague-based court will start in September
to decide whether six Kenyan suspects, including Finance
Minister  Uhuru Kenyatta  and lawmaker William Ruto, will stand
trial. All the men deny accusations of crimes against humanity.  Cash Subsidies  The government should continue tightening monetary policy
and consider offering cash subsidies to its poorest citizens to
help ease pressure from inflation, which accelerated last month
to a 25-month high, the World Bank said.  Kenya’s central bank raised the benchmark interest rate on
May 31 by a quarter percentage point to 6.25 percent, the second
increase this year, to curb price growth. Inflation climbed to
13 percent in May from 12.1 percent a month earlier on rising
food and fuel prices, and the rate has stayed above the
government’s 5 percent target all year, the  Kenya National
Bureau of Statistics  said on May 31.  The  International Monetary Fund  reduced Kenya’s growth
forecast for this year to between 5 percent and 5.4 percent last
month, from a 5.7 percent estimate in April. Efforts by the
government to reduce the supply of local currency in the market
through selling repurchase agreements should help bring down
inflation, Domenico Fanizza, the IMF’s mission chief to the
country, said on May 24.  The central bank sold 21.4 billion shillings ($247.3
million) in repos since May 11 and is offering to sell another
500 million shillings today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Richardson at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net  