-- 
Crude Market Needs 500,000 to 1 Million Barrels More, OPEC Delegate Says

-- B y   A y e s h a   D a y a
-- 
2011-06-02T09:42:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-02/world-oil-demand-needs-extra-1-million-barrels-a-day-opec-official-says.html
Global oil supply needs to increase
by 500,000 barrels to 1 million barrels a day in the next
several months to meet demand, an oil official from a Middle
East nation said six days before OPEC meets.  While members of the 12-nation Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries agree more crude is needed, they have yet to
decide whether to formally change production quotas, the OPEC
delegate said today, declining to be identified by name because
he is not authorized to speak publicly. OPEC pumped 28.9 million
barrels a day last month, according to Bloomberg estimates.  “It is the easy option not to change quotas at this
meeting, but to avoid doing so sends a strong message that spare
capacity is low or that there is a desire for higher prices,”
 Lawrence Eagles , New York-based head of commodities research at
JPMorgan Chase & Co., said by phone today. “On balance, lifting
targets is politically the better option. However, higher
targets and higher output do not necessarily go together.”  OPEC, which supplies 40 percent of the world’s oil, meets
June 8 in Vienna to review output targets, after Brent crude
gained 21 percent this year to over $114 a barrel. The group
will probably maintain production levels, according to 27 of 30
analysts in a survey by Bloomberg News conducted May 24-31.  Oil producers including OPEC aren’t matching rising demand
quick enough, leaving a shortfall in the third quarter, JPMorgan
Chase said last month when the bank raised its 2011  Brent crude 
oil-price forecast to $120 a barrel from $110. Higher commodity
prices are driving inflation, a headwind for manufacturing
growth in China, Europe and the U.S.  Stronger Demand  July Brent crude futures fell 24 cents to $114.29 a barrel
on London’s ICE Futures Europe exchange at 9:48 a.m.  Saudi Arabia, the world’s largest crude exporter and de-
facto OPEC leader, will boost oil production to almost 10
million barrels a day this month, from “close to” 9 million
barrels a day in May, to meet stronger demand from Asian
refiners, consultants Petroleum Policy Intelligence said
yesterday.  Another OPEC official from a different Middle Eastern
nation said on May 17 that OPEC may increase production quotas
because prices remain high, an option that wasn’t considered for
the organization’s previous meeting in December.  OPEC’s 12 members are Algeria, Angola, Ecuador,  Iran , Iraq,
 Kuwait ,  Libya ,  Nigeria ,  Qatar ,  Saudi Arabia , the United Arab
Emirates and Venezuela. Iraq is outside the quota system.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ayesha Daya at 
 adaya1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  