-- 
World Bank Learns From Oil, Tries to Jumpstart CO2 Market

-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r   a n d   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 
2011-06-02T11:11:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-02/world-bank-uses-oil-wells-as-model-in-plan-to-jumpstart-carbon-market.html
The World Bank, helped by its AAA
credit rating, is considering guaranteeing sales of greenhouse-
gas credits, taking cues from the crude-oil market to jumpstart
the United Nations-overseen carbon markets.  The Washington-based bank might stand behind some sellers
of emission credits in the developing world to attract immediate
funding to fight  climate change , said Philippe Benoit, a Latin
America manager for the bank.  Even though  energy-efficiency  projects have high returns,
they are “not getting financed” because they involve up-front
investments and profits that can be several years in the future,
Benoit said yesterday in an interview at Carbon Expo in
Barcelona. Like  oil companies  choosing the most-profitable
wells, the World Bank is seeking to help direct funds into the
most viable climate-protection projects, he said.  Factories and utilities in the European Union carbon market
that know they will need carbon credits a few years in the
future would potentially agree to pay up-front in part because
of the guarantee, he said.  “Up-front payment is possible in exceptional cases,” said
Ludwig Kons, vice president of climate protection for RWE AG.
“It depends on the rating of the counterparty,” he said
yesterday in an interview in Barcelona. “The  World
Bank ’s rating might be good enough.”  Shrinking Market  The value of new-project transactions under the UN’s Clean
Development Mechanism tumbled 44 percent to $1.5 billion last
year from $2.7 billion in 2009 as global climate talks stalled
and the European Union set restrictions for some UN emission-
reduction credits, according to World Bank estimates. The
program, which generates offsets for projects that cut
 greenhouse gases  in developing nations, needs bigger demand that
would come from stricter climate targets, UN Climate Chief
Christiana Figueres said yesterday.  The World Bank, seeking ways to boost the use of carbon
finance for climate protection, would cut its risks by choosing
project developers with ability to deliver, Benoit said.  Installers of energy-efficient lighting in  Mexico , for
instance, might be able to recover 70 percent of their costs
within three years with the revenue from carbon credits alone,
said Chandra Shekhar Sinha, a carbon-finance co-ordinator at the
bank. And that’s before electricity-cost savings, Shekhar Sinha
said in an interview.  “This makes much more sense for energy efficiency, where
the sum total of the carbon revenue is a high proportion of the
total investment costs,” he said. In renewable-energy projects,
carbon revenues might be 10 percent of the investment, Shekhar
Sinha said.  Dramatic Fallout  The UN emissions market shrank last year, even as nations
began preparing for dramatic fallout from climate change,
according to the World Bank’s special envoy on global warming.  “There’s much to be gloomy about,” the World Bank’s
Andrew Steer told delegates at the Carbon Expo in Barcelona,
citing a spate of thefts of emissions allowances in the European
Union emissions market. “We’re not going to stay in the
business if it stays at $1.5 billion.”  The world may need to prepare for temperature increases of
4 degrees Celsius (7.2 Fahrenheit), and the U.S. Navy is
preparing for a 1.3-meter (5-foot) rise in sea levels, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mathew Carr in Barcelona at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net ;
Ewa Krukowska in Barcelona at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  