-- 
Tycoon Wotan Joins Gold Fight in 17-Hour, $4.6 Million ’Ring’

-- B y   S t e p h e n   W e s t
-- 
2011-06-02T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-02/tycoon-wotan-joins-fight-for-gold-in-17-hour-4-6-million-ring-preview.html
David Gockley, general director of
the  San Francisco Opera , must feel like a marathon runner who
has just entered the stadium for a final lap before crossing the
finish line.  For more than a decade, he and director Francesca Zambello
have been working to bring Richard Wagner’s mammoth “Ring of
the Nibelung” to the stage. Now they’re in final rehearsals
before the four-part tale of stolen gold, scheming gods, envious
trolls and sword-wielding heroes is presented in three complete
cycles starting on June 14.  The germ of this production goes back to the turn of the
century, when Gockley was running the  Houston Grand Opera . He
and Zambello were discussing how they might stage the “Ring,”
taking its Germanic mythological characters such as Wotan, the
king of the gods, and Brunnhilde, his rebellious daughter, and
giving them a modern twist.  “Then Enron happened and the city went kaput, and it just
wasn’t possible,” Zambello, dressed in black coat and pants,
recalled last week during a break in rehearsals. “Our ideas
were very much about Wotan as an oilman. I mean, gold and oil
are not that far apart, and the pursuit of one or the other is
very much the same. Gold represents power.” (In the  San
Francisco  production Wotan’s wealth seems to come from the
California gold rush.)  Soon after Gockley moved to his current position in San
Francisco in 2006, the “Ring” was back on his wish list. By
2007, the project was scheduled as a co-production with the
Washington National Opera. “Das Rheingold,” the first part of
the cycle, opened in San Francisco in 2008, and “Die Walkure,”
the second part, was staged last year, both to rave reviews.  No Turning Back  Yet Gockley’s challenges were far from over. The  Washington
company  dropped out as co-producer after staging three parts, in
response to the financial crisis of 2008-09 when contributions
plunged. (The company, which last week named Zambello as
artistic adviser, may complete its cycle in a future season.)  Gockley decided to forge ahead in San Francisco, trimming
$400,000 from the budget for the fourth part,
“Gotterdammerung.” (The entire production cost about $4.6
million for sets, costumes, performance fees and other direct
expenses, not including overhead. By comparison, he estimated
that the  Metropolitan Opera  in  New York  spent $16 million to $20
million on its new “Ring.”)  “We had so much invested at that point that not to go
through with it was a worse fate than canceling it,” Gockley
recalled. He had a practical reason, too: “One of the great
things about the ‘Ring,’ from a financial point of view, is that
people are used to paying high ticket prices.”  Fanatical Fans  The “Ring” is one of the most popular titles in the opera
repertory, with legions of devotees. They’ve already bought 92
percent of the tickets for the three full cycles in San
Francisco.  “I think we’re going to sell out,” Gockley predicted.
“By that third cycle, there are going to be people pounding on
the doors trying to get tickets.”  Both Gockley and Zambello point to the appeal of sprawling
mythological tales for general audiences as well as for the
fanatics.  “People are drawn to these stories,” Zambello said.
“This is not any different from ‘ Star Wars ’ or ‘Twilight’ or
‘Lord of the Rings’ or ‘The Fountainhead.’ All of those are
inspired by Wagner.”  The trick is to make the production both rigorous and
accessible, she said.  “You need to create the show for two audiences, the
cognoscenti -- the people who are opera lovers and who think
they know it all -- and the first-time goer,” Zambello said.  Gold Rush  The San Francisco production manages to do this with a
combination of world-class singers, including soprano Nina
Stemme as Brunnhilde and baritone Mark Delavan as Wotan; an
orchestra with a rich, velvety sound conducted by longtime
Wagnerian Donald Runnicles; and an action-filled staging on sets
by Michael Yeargan that sometimes evoke 19th- and 20th-century
 California  (panning for gold, Yosemite Valley).  Much of the action, especially in the later parts, is set
in desolate industrial landscapes -- warehouses, junky trailers,
places that reek of environmental degradation.  The characters are more modern American than old Germanic.
Brunnhilde, for example, is “a tomboy who becomes a woman,”
Zambello said. (Brunnhilde makes a spectacular entrance in “Die
Walkure” by parachuting onto the stage in a 1920s aviator’s
jump suit.)  Gods vs. Trolls  “Wotan looks like a businessman, like a Madison Avenue
lawyer,” the director said. “By giving those associations, the
audience immediately feels at ease. You want people to know
what’s going on.”  On one level, the “Ring” is a tale of gods (and trolls)
behaving badly -- lying, cheating and stealing as they seek
power through control of the magical ring created from the Rhine
maidens’ gold. Unlike some productions, where Wotan or Siegfried
may be the central character, here Brunnhilde is the hero.  “That’s what Wagner wrote,” Zambello said. “She’s the
one who gets the ring back and returns it to its rightful
owners, the Rhine maidens. More than that, she restores the
natural order, she has the power of redemption and
transfiguration and rebirth. She enables the world to have a
second chance.”  Along the way are sword fights, poisoned drinks, magical
spells, a ring of fire and a smoke-breathing monster that looks
like a cross between a dinosaur and a piece of construction
equipment. The scale of the production -- 17 hours for the four
parts -- explains why Gockley calls the “Ring” a “proving
ground for a major company that can deliver the goods in every
area: orchestrally, chorally, technically, design-wise.”  Looking forward to the fall season, with six productions
including a world premiere, Gockley joked that “everything
looks like child’s play compared to this.”  The four parts of the “Ring” cycle will run on Tuesdays,
Wednesdays, Fridays and Sundays for three full cycles starting
June 14, 21 and 28 at the War Memorial Opera House, 301 Van Ness
Ave. Information: +1-415-864-3330;  http://sfopera.com .  (Stephen West is an editor for Bloomberg News. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this story:
Stephen West in San Francisco at 
 smwest@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 