-- 
Yellen Says Fed Watching Rise in Leveraged Loan Demand for Imbalance Risk

-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 
2011-06-02T01:35:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-02/yellen-says-fed-watching-rise-in-leveraged-loan-demand-for-imbalance-risk.html
Federal Reserve Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen  said an increasing demand for leveraged loans warrants
monitoring as a possible emerging “imbalance” that the Fed
would curb if necessary through regulation.  The central bank will “continue to watch conditions in the
leveraged loan market closely in the coming months, and we will
speak out forcefully if we perceive pressures continuing to
build,” Yellen said today in a speech in  Tokyo . “Strong demand
has been pushing prices higher in the syndicated loan market”
and “inflows into this asset class have indeed been robust and
prices have been rising quite rapidly.”  Yellen said in a brief discussion of the  U.S. economy  that
the “current accommodative stance of U.S. monetary policy
continues to be appropriate because the  unemployment rate 
remains elevated and inflation is expected to remain subdued
over the medium run.”  Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and the  Federal Open Market
Committee  plan this month to complete a $600 billion bond
purchase program aimed at reducing borrowing costs, spurring
growth and raising employment. At their last meeting in April
they said they’ll hold  interest rates  “exceptionally low” for
an “extended period.”  Yellen defended the Fed’s purchase U.S. Treasuries as an
“effective” policy in easing financial conditions, promoting
recovery and reducing the risk of falling prices.  Few Restrictions  The former San Francisco Fed chief cited an increasing
number of “covenant-lite” deals, while saying she sees few
signs of serious asset-price imbalances in the U.S. Such loans
are devoid of restrictions such as a mandate on maximum
leverage, or debt to earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization.  Yellen used most of her talk at a  Bank of Japan  conference
to say the Fed was increasing its resources to watch for
emerging systemic risks, including those from rising asset
prices and increased use of debt.  “At present, we see few indications of significant
imbalances, and the use of leverage appears to remain well below
pre-crisis levels,” she said in remarks prepared for delivery.
“That said, I’ve noted some recent developments that warrant
close attention, including indications of potentially stretched
valuations in certain U.S. financial markets and emerging signs
that investors are reaching for yield.”  Yellen said current valuations for most U.S. stock markets
don’t seem out of line with historical averages, though
valuations of smaller-capitalization equities seem “somewhat
elevated.”  Regulatory powers should be used to address any asset price
issues, and monetary policy would be a “last resort,” she
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Matthews at   smatthews@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  