-- 
Explosions, Gunfire Shake Yemen’s Capital as Saleh Seeks to Retain Power

-- B y   M o h a m m e d   H a t e m   a n d   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r
-- 
2011-06-02T22:51:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-02/yemen-fighting-spreads-to-taiz-after-gunfights-in-capital-kill-15-people.html
Explosions and heavy gunfire shook
Yemen’s capital overnight as shelling set ablaze the Yemenia
Airways office close to the home of opposition tribal leader
Sadiq al-Ahmar.  Fighting in Sana’a between President Ali Abdullah Saleh’s
security forces and supporters of al-Ahmar, leader of the
Hashid, Yemen’s most influential tribe, intensified as it
continued into a fifth day after the breakdown of a truce
mediated by tribal leaders.  Men in plain clothes opened fire on protesters gathered in
a square near Sana’a University, wounding at least six, Mohammed
Saeed, a protester, said by telephone. Soldiers from the First
Armored Division, who defected to the opposition and are
protecting the protesters at the site, fired back, he said.
There was no immediate report from hospitals on the number
killed in the latest clashes around the city.  In fighting the previous night, 15 people, including
soldiers, civilians and tribesmen, were killed, according to a
doctor at a Sana’a hospital. He spoke yesterday on condition of
anonymity because he wasn’t authorized to talk to the media.  Security forces and gunmen clashed yesterday in Yemen’s
southern city of Taiz. Bushra al-Maktari, an activist in Taiz,
said the gunmen came from the countryside and “were angry” at
a government attack on anti-Saleh protesters that began May 28
and lasted until the early hours of May 30. At least 21 people
were killed in that crackdown.  Scores Killed  Scores of people have been killed since the conflict
between Saleh’s loyalists and al-Ahmar’s men broke out last
week. The violence followed Saleh’s refusal to sign a Western-
backed accord brokered by Gulf countries requiring him to give
up power within 30 days.  Security forces have repelled an attempt by tribesmen loyal
to al-Ahmar outside Sana’a to join forces with his fighters in
the capital, the  Defense Ministry  said on its website. It also
said that special anti-terrorism forces, trained by the U.S.,
are involved in the fighting near the ministries of tourism and
commerce.  In  Washington , Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton 
criticized Saleh’s refusal to sign. “His presence remains a
source of great conflict,” she said at the State Department
June 1. “We cannot expect this conflict to end unless President
Saleh and his government move out of the way.”  President  Barack Obama  sent  John Brennan , his top
counterterrorism adviser, this week to meet with government
officials in  Saudi Arabia  and the  United Arab Emirates , both
members of the Gulf Cooperation Council that sponsored the
accord, to discuss options in Yemen.  Pressuring Saleh  “He’s obviously working with our allies in the region to
see what can be done to persuade President Saleh to follow the
agreement he made to sign the accord and to begin the transfer
of power immediately,” White House spokesman  Jay Carney  said in
Washington.  Saleh’s government has warned that rising social unrest
threatens to strengthen al-Qaeda, a concern also expressed by
the U.S. The group has sought to use Yemen, the poorest Arab
nation, as a base from which to destabilize neighboring Saudi
Arabia, the world’s largest exporter of crude oil, and for
attempted attacks on international targets including two U.S.
synagogues last year.  The two sides have blamed each other for breaking a cease-
fire that briefly halted three days of fighting last week.  The violence has overshadowed the protests calling on Saleh
to step down, which have been taking place daily for four
months. In a May 25 briefing with reporters, Saleh called the
demonstrations a rebellion against his rule.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donna Abu Nasr in Dubai at 
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  