-- L’Oreal to Buy Urban Decay to Expand in Specialist Makeup
-- B y   C e l e s t e   P e r r i   a n d   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 2012-11-26T13:52:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-26/l-oreal-to-buy-urban-decay-to-expand-in-specialist-make-up.html
L’Oreal SA, (OR)  the world’s largest
cosmetics maker, agreed to buy the Urban Decay brand from U.S.
private-equity firm Castanea Partners to expand in specialty
makeup.  Urban Decay had sales of $140 million over the last twelve
months, more than three times its revenue when Castanea bought
it in 2009, the firm said today without disclosing terms of the
deal. Regulatory approval is expected before the end of the
year, Castanea said.  “Urban Decay is exactly the type of brand L’Oreal needs to
beef up its makeup portfolio in the prestige channel,”  Pablo Zuanic , an analyst at  Liberum Capital  in  New York , wrote in a
note today. He estimates that L’Oreal purchased the  Newport
Beach , California-based company for about $250 million to $300
million.  The market for specialist makeup brands represents 44
percent of the luxury makeup market in the U.S., L’Oreal said.
The Urban Decay brand was created in 1996 and sells products
including Naked Palette and Naked Skin liquid makeup.  “Urban Decay will beautifully complement L’Oreal’s Luxe
portfolio of iconic brands,” Nicolas Hieronimus, president of
L’Oreal Luxe, said in the statement. “It is the makeup
specialist we needed to fully satisfy young women in search of
playful colors and inspiration in selective distribution at an
accessible price point.”  ‘Contribute Significantly’  The purchase will “contribute significantly” to the
growth of the division for years to come, Hieronimus said.
Castanea, founded in 2001, invested in Urban Decay in March
2009, according to the Newton, Massachusetts-based firm’s
website.  L’Oreal shares slid 0.3 percent to 104.10 euros at 14:50
p.m. in Paris trading. The stock has gained 29 percent this
year.  L’Oreal was advised by  Lazard Ltd. (LAZ)  and Weil, Gotshal and
Manges LLP. Castanea was advised by Deutsche Bank AG, Piper
Jaffray & Co., Cooley LLP and Deloitte LLC.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Celeste Perri in Amsterdam at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net ;
Clementine Fletcher in London at 
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  