-- T. Rowe Buys Saudi Shares After Retreat on Outlook, Touts Egypt
-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 2012-11-26T13:01:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-26/t-rowe-buys-saudi-shares-after-retreat-on-outlook-touts-egypt.html
Saudi Arabian banking and consumer
stocks offer a buying opportunity after this month’s drops, due
to succession concerns, were overdone given the nation’s growth
outlook, T. Rowe Price Group Inc.’s regional fund manager said.  Speculation about the status of King Abdullah’s health,
along with Middle East political tension in Syria and  Iran , were
behind selling on the  Tadawul All Share Index (SASEIDX)  in all but two of
the last 13 trading days,  Oliver Bell , who manages $312 million
in Africa & Middle East Funds at T. Rowe Price, said in an e-
mailed response to questions today.  The Tadawul’s 3.6 percent drop this month has trimmed its
2012 advance to 2 percent, compared with a gain of 17 percent
for Dubai’s  DFM General Index. (DFMGI)  Selling has taken place even as
the kingdom’s investment plans, valued at more than $500
billion, have spurred economic growth, bank lending and consumer
demand in the world’s largest oil exporter, which is home to 28
million people. Shares rose 0.4 percent at the close in  Riyadh .  “The stock market is not reflecting the fundamentals of
the country and in particular of the banks and consumer
companies,” said Bell. “We are buying into this weakness.”  The largest Arab economy is set to grow 5.1 percent this
year, the second-fastest pace in the Gulf Cooperation Council
after Qatar, according to the median forecast of 15 economists
compiled by Bloomberg. Loan growth to private businesses rose to
15 percent in September, the fastest pace in more than three
years. Banks in the kingdom trade at a  price-to-earnings  ratio
of 11.3 times, compared with 13.6 times for the main index.  The Tadawul All Share Retail Industries Index  trades at 
13.8 times estimated earnings, compared with 25 times for the
MSCI  Emerging Markets /Consumer Staples Index.  Egypt Optimism  “It is clear that structural growth is ongoing,” Bell
said. King Abdullah bin Abdulaziz underwent back surgery on Nov.
17, which the government said was successful. The stock market
has weakened since then as the spotlight turned to the nation’s
political succession. “The succession, when it happens, will be
a lot smoother than many expect,” Bell said.  Investors can also find opportunities to buy  Egyptian
shares (EGX30)  after the benchmark index tumbled 9.6 percent yesterday
as clashes broke out between supporters and opponents of
President Mohamed Mursi’s move to place his decisions above
judicial review. Shares rose 2.6 percent today as political
leaders sought to resolve the crisis.  Developments in the North African country don’t represent a
“show of true colors,” Bell said.  Egypt ’s shares have rallied
39 percent this year as the nation’s new government secured
foreign aid from Qatar and  Turkey , and reached an initial
agreement with the  International Monetary Fund  Nov. 20 for a
loan of as much as $4.8 billion.  “We remain cautiously optimistic given the obvious wide
support internationally that has been displayed and see further
weakness as a buying opportunity,” Bell said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaa Shahine at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net  