-- ‘Twilight,’ ’Skyfall’ Help Push Box Office to Record High
-- B y   R o b   G o l u m   a n d   E h r e n   G o o s s e n s
-- 2012-11-26T23:56:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-26/-twilight-skyfall-help-push-holiday-box-office-to-record.html
“The Twilight Saga: Breaking Dawn -
Part 2,” the finale in the teen vampire series, kept the top
spot in U.S. and Canadian cinemas over Thanksgiving weekend,
driving sales to a record for the five-day period.  The last of the five films from  Lions Gate Entertainment
Corp. (LGF)  collected $64.4 million over the long weekend starting
Nov. 21, Hollywood.com Box-Office said in an e-mail, helping
push combined domestic industry revenue to $290.8 million. The
previous five-day record of $273 million was set in November
2009. “Twilight” tallied $43.6 million in sales over the
three-day weekend from Nov. 23 to yesterday.  The young-adult films “Twilight” and “The Hunger
Games,” along with summer hits like “Marvel’s The Avengers,”
have led an increase in 2012 domestic sales, with revenue up 5.5
percent to $9.7 billion through yesterday, according to
Hollywood.com. Three new movies opened in wide release this
week: “Rise of the Guardians” from  DreamWorks Animation SKG
Inc. (DWA) , “Life of Pi” from  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Fox and FilmDistrict
LLC’s “Red Dawn.”  “Across the board, all the films played extremely well,
even though we were talking about leftovers from last weekend,
with no turkeys,” said  Jeff Bock , box office analyst at
Exhibitor Relations. “You can’t point to any one film” for
breaking the record, he said.  Strong Mix  The weekend’s strong mix of films, each reaching specific
audiences, helped buoy ticket sales, with newcomers expected to
attract movie-goers through the holiday season, analysts said.  Among this week’s returning titles, the James Bond film
“Skyfall” collected $35.5 million from Friday to Sunday to
place second in its third weekend for Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer Inc.
and  Sony Corp. (6758)  With about $790 million in worldwide sales as of
yesterday, the studio said in an e-mail. The picture has already
become the best-performing film in the long-running secret agent
series, according to Box Office Mojo.  In the third 007 film starring  Daniel Craig , Bond is
presumed dead after being shot accidentally by an MI6 colleague.
After a surprise return, he battles a new villain, played by
 Javier Bardem , who steals a list of Western intelligence agents
and plots to kill agency chief M, portrayed by  Judi Dench .  “Lincoln,”  Steven Spielberg ’s examination of the 16th
U.S. president’s political campaign to end slavery, was third
with $25.7 million over three days in its second weekend in
nationwide release. The film was produced by the director’s
DreamWorks Studios and is being distributed by  Walt Disney Co. (DIS)   Cerebral Film  Daniel Day-Lewis portrays the president as he maneuvers to
win congressional approval of the 13th Amendment. Unlike most
Spielberg films, “Lincoln” has little action, focusing instead
on negotiations and debates held inside the White House and the
Capitol.  The fact that “Lincoln”, a “more cerebral history
lesson,” is No. 3 behind “Twilight” and “Skyfall” “speaks
volumes to how it’s doing,” said Gitesh Pandya, chief executive
officer at Boxofficeguru.com, in an interview. “Lincoln” is
“a big hit,” he said. “It was very relevant to older
adults.”  “Rise of the Guardians” opened with weekend sales of
$23.8 million, to place fourth, Hollywood.com said.  The 3-D picture, one of two releases this year from
Glendale, California-based DreamWorks Animation, was forecast to
take in $32.1 million, according to BoxOffice.com. The  studio ’s
other 2012 release, “Madagascar 3:  Europe ’s Most Wanted,”
generated $737.6 million in worldwide ticket sales, according to
researcher Box Office Mojo.  Ang Lee Returns  “Life of Pi,” from “Brokeback Mountain” director Ang Lee, opened with sales of $22.5 million to place fifth for
Twentieth Century Fox. The fantasy adventure features Suraj
Sharma as a young man who survives a disaster at sea and finds
himself sharing a lifeboat with a Bengal tiger.  BoxOffice.com predicted weekend sales of $28.2 million for
the picture, based on the book by Yann Martel. The film cost
about $120 million to produce, according to Box Office Mojo.  Disney’s animated “Wreck-It Ralph” fell to sixth place
from fourth with $16.6 million. It stars John C. Reilly  as the
voice of a video game character who grows weary of playing the
villain in a vintage arcade game.  Normally, there aren’t as many quality films and Oscar
contenders in the top 10 over Thanksgiving, Pandya said.
“Usually it’s dominated by family films and mindless popcorn
movies -- it’s incredible.”  Weekend revenue for the top 12 films rose 29 percent to
$200.4 million from a year earlier, Hollywood.com said. Domestic
film sales this year have climbed 5.5 percent to $9.7 billion,
with attendance up 5.3 percent.  The amounts below are based on actual ticket sales from
Nov. 23 through yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rob Golum in  Los Angeles  at 
 rgolum@bloomberg.net ;
Ehren Goossens in  New York  at 
 egoossens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  