-- Macklem Seen as Probable Carney Bank of Canada Successor
-- B y   A n d r e w   M a y e d a   a n d   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 2012-11-27T16:05:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-26/macklem-seen-as-probable-carney-bank-of-canada-successor.html
Bank of Canada  Senior Deputy
Governor Tiff Macklem has emerged as the front-runner to succeed
 Mark Carney  as head of the central bank as it grapples with
slowing growth and record consumer debt levels.  The  Bank of Canada  said yesterday its board of directors
will form a special committee soon to recruit a replacement for
Carney, who will take the helm of the  Bank of England  in July.  Macklem, 51, is “a natural choice,” said  Sebastien Lavoie , economist at Montreal-based  Laurentian Bank (LB)  and former
Bank of  Canada  employee. “He knows his way around in Ottawa,
therefore, he is the best candidate for the number one job.”  Carney, 47, will leave the Bank of Canada on June 1 next
year, 20 months before his seven-year term expires. His
successor will face an economy projected to grow 2 percent next
year, the slowest pace since the global financial crisis,
according to economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  The Bank of Canada is the only Group of Seven central bank
to suggest its next move will be to raise  interest rates , and
policy makers have said record household debt levels present a
risk to the world’s 11th biggest economy.  The next governor must decide whether to return borrowing
costs to “normal” levels even as the economy slows, said Don Drummond, former chief economist of the  Toronto-Dominion Bank. (TD)   Policy Challenge  “It’s a challenge on a theoretical level. It’s a question
on a technical level,” Drummond, now a professor at Queen’s
University in Kingston, Ontario, said yesterday in a telephone
interview. “You’ve done everything you’re supposed to do as a
monetary policy authority, and it’s not working.”  Policy makers led by Carney and including Macklem have kept
the bank’s policy  interest rate  at 1 percent since September
2010, the longest period of unchanged rates since the 1950s, to
spur growth.  Whoever replaces Carney probably won’t change the Bank of
Canada’s approach to policy, said  Gordon Nixon , chief executive
of Toronto-based  Royal Bank of Canada. (RY)   “These central banks don’t change direction because they
have different personalities, so I’m sure there will be a lot of
consistency there,” Nixon said in an interview.  The Bank of Canada has turned to outsiders in making its
last two governor appointments. Carney was the surprise choice
in 2007 over Senior Deputy Governor Paul Jenkins, who was the
consensus of economists. Similarly,  David Dodge  was a surprise
outside choice for Governor in 2000, when most thought then-
Senior Deputy Malcolm Knight would get the post.  Outside Candidates  Potential candidates from outside the bank, according to
the Globe and Mail newspaper, include Julie Dickson, the
country’s top banking regulator, former head of Canada’s civil
service and  Bank of Montreal (BMO)  vice Chairman Kevin Lynch, and
Drummond, who said yesterday he’s not interested.  The bank will revert to promoting from within, according to
ten economists surveyed by Bloomberg, who unanimously said that
Macklem will be appointed to the top job next year.  While Macklem is the leading candidate, others may include
Bank of Canada deputy governors Timothy Lane and Agathe Cote, as
well as Jean Boivin, who left the central bank last month to
become Flaherty’s adviser on G-20 matters, said Bricklin Dwyer,
an economist at BNP Paribas, in an e-mail.  John Johnston, chief strategist at Davis Rea Ltd., also
said in a phone interview he expects Macklem to be the next
governor. “He has experience in finance and he’s an extremely
smart guy,” said Johnston, who helps oversee about C$575
million ($579 million) of assets for the Toronto-based
investment firm.  ‘Easy Step’  Those views were echoed by  Adrian Miller , a fixed-income
strategist at GMP Securities LLC in New York. “It would be an
easy step for the bank and the  finance ministry  to move him into
place given his similar views and position on monetary policy
and the regulatory environment,” Miller said by e-mail.  Macklem was named Senior Deputy Governor in July 2010. he
joined the Bank of Canada in 1984 and rose to the post of
adviser to the governor in 2003. Macklem also worked at the
department of finance as associate deputy finance minister.  A Bank of Canada spokesman declined to comment on potential
candidates to succeed Carney.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Mayeda in Ottawa at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net ;
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at 
 ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  