-- Macquarie Said Among Short-Listed for TIGF Gas Network
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l   a n d   F r a n c o i s   d e   B e a u p u y
-- 2012-11-26T22:30:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-26/macquarie-said-among-short-listed-bidders-for-tigf-gas-network.html
A group led by  Macquarie Group Ltd. (MQG) ,
is among five bidders short-listed by  Total SA (FP)  to purchase its
French gas network, a person with knowledge of the matter said.  Macquarie is teaming up with as many as four other partners
to bid for the TIGF gas-pipeline network spanning about 6,000
kilometers (3,728 miles) in southwestern  France , the person
said, asking not to be named because the process is private. The
asset may fetch about 2.5 billion euros ($3.2 billion), people
have said.  Total has chosen a group of bidders to make final
submissions by mid-January, the person said. The other four
bidding groups are led by  AXA SA (CS) , French government fund CDC
Infrastructure,  Electricite de France SA  and  Enagas SA (ENG) ,
according to company officials and press reports.  An official at Total declined to comment.  Total Chief Executive Officer Christophe de Margerie said
last week Europe’s third-biggest oil company has received seven
bids for the network and wants the sale to go quite quickly. He
declined to detail how many were short-listed or to give a price
sought for the asset.  The explorer is selling TIGF as part of a plan to sell $15
billion to $20 billion of asset disposals from 2012 to 2014 in
order to raise cash for oil and gas projects.  Nuclear Operator  Paris-based EDF, the biggest nuclear operator, has teamed
up with  Government of Singapore  Investment Corp. and  Snam SpA (SRG)  in
a preliminary offer for the networks. The French state-
controlled utility would add TIGF to its fund dedicated to
raising provisions for atomic reactor decommissioning.  French government fund CDC Infrastructure has partnered
with Belgian network operator Fluxys SA to make a non-binding
bid for the Total asset, Reuters reported last week.  Enagas SA, the operator of Spain’s gas delivery network,
has made its bid with partner Borealis Infrastructure, said an
official at the Spanish utility.  Axa’s private equity arm is with  Credit Agricole (ACA) ’s Predica
life insurance unit and  Abu Dhabi  Investment Authority,
according to an official at the French bank.  A Macquarie-led group reached an agreement in May to
acquire E.ON AG’s Open Grid Europe distribution network of
natural-gas pipelines for 3.2 billion euros. Open Grid Europe
operates about 12,000 kilometers (7,450 miles) of gas-
transmission pipes in Germany, according to its website.  Open Grid  Macquarie, Australia’s largest investment bank, partnered
with a fund of German reinsurer  Munich Re , the Abu Dhabi
Investment Authority’s Infinity Investments and British Columbia
Investment Management Corp. for the purchase of Open Grid
Europe.  Macquarie had three partners for its preliminary bid for
TIGF and may add a fourth French one, according to the person.  Erik Portanger, a spokesman at Abu Dhabi’s sovereign fund,
and CDC Infrastructure Chief Executive Officer Jean Bensaid
declined to comment on the biding process as did Fluxys
spokesman Rudy Van Beurden.  Macquarie spokeswoman  Karen Smith  declined to comment. An
official at AXA Private Equity also declined to comment as did
one at Snam.  Officials at Total and EDF also declined to comment.
Spokespeople at GIC and Borealis couldn’t be reached for
immediate comment.  “Predica is part of this consortium,” said Elise
Bouteiller, a spokeswoman at Credit Agricole Assurances in
Paris, when asked about a bid with Axa and Abu Dhabi.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net ;
Francois de Beaupuy in Paris at 
 fdebeaupuy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  