-- Macquarie Mexico REIT Plans $1.2 Billion Initial Offering
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   J .   L e v i n
-- 2012-11-26T20:35:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-26/macquarie-mexico-reit-plans-1-2-billion-initial-offering-1-.html
Macquarie Group Ltd. (MQG) ,  Australia ’s
biggest investment bank, plans to raise as much as 16.1 billion
pesos ($1.2 billion) in a record initial public offering for
Mexico’s real-estate investment trust market.  The trust plans to sell shares for 25 pesos to 29 pesos
each on Dec. 6, according to a prospectus filed today with the
Mexican stock exchange. The deal would raise a maximum of 14
billion pesos before the so-called greenshoe option for
underwriters to buy additional shares.  With similar trusts lining up to sell shares in Mexico,
Macquarie says it plans to use the funds to acquire industrial
properties, including assets from a unit of General Electric
Co., known as GE Capital Real Estate  Mexico . The trust’s initial
portfolio was appraised at $1.41 billion to $1.51 billion by
Colliers International UK Plc, according to a separate
presentation also posted on the bourse’s website.  Bank of America Corp., Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA,
JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Morgan Stanley are helping manage the
deal, according to the prospectus.  Fibra Uno Administracion SA (FUNO11) , Mexico’s first real estate
investment trust, has soared 72 percent since selling shares in
its March 2011 IPO. Concentradora Fibra Hotelera Mexicana SA,
which would be Mexico’s second such publicly-listed real-estate
trust, will seek to raise as much as 4.36 billion pesos in an
IPO scheduled to price on Nov. 29.  Trustee Asesor de Activos Prisma SAPI has also filed to
carry out an IPO of its real-estate investment trust known as
Fibra Inn, according to a preliminary prospectus.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan J. Levin in Mexico City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Brendan Walsh  at 
 bwalsh8@bloomberg.net  