-- Apple, Fraden, A&R Collectibles: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2012-11-26T12:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-26/apple-fraden-prince-a-r-collectibles-intellectual-property.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL) , the maker of the iPad
and iPhone, is seeking a patent on a technology aimed at making
it easier for a user to read a display on a mobile device.  Application  20120287163 , published in the database of the
U.S. Patent and Trademark Office Nov. 15, covers the scaling of
a device’s visual content depending on its proximity to the
user’s face.  Cupertino, California-based Apple explained in its
application that while it is possible to expand or shrink many
devices’ display system by placing two fingers on the screen and
spreading them apart or pinching them together, this can be
inconvenient if the user moved the device to different distances
multiple times.  A user may typically hold a device at arm’s length, and
then, when the arm becomes fatigued, may change positions
multiple times, requiring multiple manual adjustments of the
display’s scale, Apple said.  The technology covered by the application would determine
the distance between the user’s face and the display screen, and
then, using a calibration procedure involving one or more
processors, would adjust the display’s scale.  Sensors that would capture the image of the user’s face for
calibration purposes could include “ an infrared distance
sensing device; a laser distance sensing device; a SONAR
distance sensing device; and an image capture device.”  Apple filed the patent application in May 2011.  Fraden Gets Patent on Temperature, EMF Radiation-Sensing Phone  Fraden Corp. , a closely held San Diego technology company,
received a U.S. patent for a technology that would enable the
use of a mobile phone to take a person’s body temperature.  Patent 8,275,413 covers the use of a wireless communication
device with integrated electromagnetic radiation sensors.  According to the patent, a hand-held device, such as a so-
called smartphone, could incorporate sensors and signal
conditioning modules for measuring signals from external sources
of electromagnetic radiation (EMR) in the low, radio,
ultraviolet and infrared spectrums.  The patent envisions a device that combines the
functionalities of the built-in digital photo camera, a non-
contact thermometer and a pattern recognition algorithm for
guiding the user for a proper positioning of the mobile
communication device, aimed at insuring the optimal conditions
for obtaining a reliable temperature measurement.  The device could also be used for monitoring the signals of
electro-magnetic fields for assessing ambient radiation levels.  Fraden said this could be useful given concerns about long-
term health effects of electromagnetic radiation from a variety
of mobile devices and proposed legislation on some countries
placing limits on the amount of such radiation to which children
and young adults could be exposed.  The company filed the application for this patent in
November 2011.  Chinese Patent Issued for Herbal Treatment for Tubal Adhesions  China ’s  Intellectual Property  Office has granted a patent
for an herbal remedy for fallopian-tube conditions that can
prevent pregnancy.  Lee Xiaoping, a physician in China’s Hubei province, was
granted patent 201110031968 for an herbal compound used to treat
tubal blockage and tubal adhesions. Ordinarily these are treated
with surgery or laparoscopy.  The compound covered by the patent is also used to treat
pelvic inflammation, according to a  statement  from Lee.  Trudeau’s Glass Design Doesn’t Infringe Bodum’s, Court Rules  Trudeau Corp., a 123-year-old Canadian housewares company,
has defeated an infringement claim by a unit of Humlebaek,
Denmark’s Peter Bodum A/S.  The dispute involved the design of double-walled drinking
glasses. Bodum USA Inc. and Pi Design AG claimed that a glass
made by Trudeau infringed two registered industrial designs. In
 Canada , such designs are protected by registration instead of
design patents, as is the case in the U.S.  The plaintiffs had also accused Boucherville, Quebec-based
Trudeau of unfair competition and trademarks infringement.  According to court papers, Trudeau was accused of
infringing the designs for two different double-walled drinking
glasses, one with a convex outer wall and one that has a concave
surface.  The court said it weighed the arguments of the parties and
the testimony of an expert witness who was industrial designer,
and found that the Trudeau glasses didn’t infringe. It also
ruled that the Bodum glasses weren’t entitled to industrial-
design registration because they weren’t sufficiently different
from previous designs for double-walled glasses.  The case is  Bodum USA Inc. and Trudeau Corp., 2012 FC 1128,
Federal Court of Canada.  For more patent news, click here.  Trademarks  Artist Gets Cease-and-Desist Letter Over Doll Honoring Prince  A Seattle-based conceptual artist who created a 12-inch
doll to honor one of his favorite performers has been sent a
cease-and-desist letter by the performer’s legal counsel, the
Minneapolis City Pages  reported .  Troy Gua  made his “ Le Petit Prince ” doll in 2011 to honor
the musician known as Prince, and created multiple outfits and
props for his creation, including a miniature motorcycle,
according to City Pages.  Gua used his  Facebook Inc. (FB)  social media page to inform his
fans that the performer had objected to the  figure , and told
City Pages he was “shocked and upset at the outpouring of
negativity for Prince” that resulted.  The artist said that while he could argue that the figure
“my re-imagining, my recreation, my expression of the
inspiration behind it, and that it is an artistic entity in and
of itself,” but  chooses not to  because “I won’t argue with my
hero,” according to City Pages.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  A&R Collectibles Sues Over DMCA Takedown Notice for Moose Mugs  An  Illinois  manufacturer of gift items has sued a company
specializing in Christmas items over a takedown request made to
 Amazon.com (AMZN)  Inc.  A&R collectibles Inc.  filed suit in federal court in
 Chicago  Nov. 20, seeking a declaration it doesn’t infringe the
copyright to a moose coffee mug sold by  A Christmas Story House
Inc.  of  Cleveland . Additionally, A&R seeks an order barring the
Ohio company from interfering with its relationship with
Amazon.com.  Wheeling, Illinois-based A&R said it commissioned the
creation of a moose coffee mug in August 2006, and began selling
them that year. The company claimed it hasn’t ever changed the
product’s design or packaging.  In December 2006, A&R said it removed some “artwork,
images and logos” in response to a request from Time Warner
Inc.’s Warner Bros. unit with reference to its “National
Lampoon’s Christmas Vacation” film. In this film, several
characters drink eggnog from moose-shaped glasses, according to
court papers.  In April 2008, A&R said the provider of its Web service
received a takedown notice under the Digital Millennium
Copyright Act from  Warner Bros . Warner Bros. then withdrew its
request and has made no other objections since then, A&R said.  On Nov. 13, an attorney representing Christmas Story House
filed a notice with Amazon.com requesting the delisting of all
the A&R Christmas moose mug products, claiming that the products
infringed that company’s copyrights. A&R said it sold moose mugs
long before the Ohio company began making its product.  A&R said it has lost substantial sales and market share to
what it calls “willful, wanton and knowing” interference with
its relationship with Amazon.com. It says it’s suffered
irreparable harm in the process.  In addition to requests for the non-infringement
declaration and the court order, A&R asked for awards of money
damages, litigation costs and attorney fees.  Christmas Story House didn’t respond immediately to an e-
mailed request for comment. Seattle-based Amazon.com isn’t a
party to the litigation.  The case is A&R Collectibles Inc. v. A Christmas Story
House Inc., 1:12-cv-09320, U.S. District Court, Northern
District of Illinois (Chicago).  For more copyright news, click here.  IP Moves  Cooley Scores Two IP Specialists From Chadbourne & Parke  Cooley LLP hired Walter Hanchuk and John Kheit for its IP
practice group, the San Francisco-based firm said in a
 statement .  The two lawyers joined from  New York ’s Chadbourne & Parke
LLP where Hanchuk led its IP practice, and Kheit headed the
mobile-technology practice.  Hanchuk , a litigator, also practiced at the now-defunct
Morgan & Finnegan firm. He has represented clients in the
financial services, information technology and
telecommunications industries. He has also worked as an examiner
at the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office.  He received his undergraduate degree from the  Cooper Union 
and his law degree from George Washington University.  Kheit , who does both litigation and transactional work, has
represented clients whose technologies have included computer
software, microprocessors, electronic commerce, payment systems,
communications, wireless and networks. Before he was a lawyer,
he did software-development work at  Time Warner Inc. (TWX)  and NeXT
Computer Inc.  He has an undergraduate degree in computer science and a
master’s degree in business administration from  Rutgers
University , a law degree from New York Law School and a master’s
degree in intellectual property law from Franklin Pierce Law
Center.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland,  California , at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 