-- Stocks Decline With Euro as U.S. Budget, Greek Aid Loom
-- B y   S t e p h e n   K i r k l a n d   a n d   I n y o u n g   H w a n g
-- 2012-11-26T21:29:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-26/asian-stocks-rise-yen-trades-near-8-month-low-as-oil-retreats.html
Stocks fell, following the best
weekly rally of 2012 for global equities, as U.S. leaders
prepared to negotiate a budget deal and European finance chiefs
meet on Greek aid. Treasuries rose for the first time in a week.  The  MSCI All-Country World (MXWD)  Index slipped 0.1 percent as of
4 p.m. in  New York  after surging 3.9 percent last week. The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index declined 0.2 percent to 1,406.29,
paring an earlier drop of as much as 0.8 percent. The euro
weakened against most of its major peers. Treasury 10-year
yields lost three basis points to 1.66 percent. Gold snapped a
three-day advance in  London  and New York-traded oil fell as 14
of 24 commodities tracked by the S&P GSCI Index dropped.  While U.S. Republican lawmakers favor raising  tax revenue 
by limiting deductions rather than by increasing rates,
Democrats are pushing for higher rates on upper-income earners.
Leaders need to find a compromise to avoid triggering a so-
called fiscal cliff of $607 billion in tax increases and
spending cuts in January that the  Congressional Budget Office 
said may lead to a recession. Euro-area finance ministers meet
today in Brussels to negotiate a bailout payment for Greece.  “People are returning to work and with eyes wide open,
they see news that’s less good than when they left,”  Lawrence Creatura , who helps oversee $370 billion as a Rochester, New
York-based fund manager at Federated Investors Inc., said in a
telephone interview. “The probability of a smooth resolution to
the fiscal seems to have declined,” he said. “Everyone is
sorting through the retail data and it looks like results were
mixed. Rather than an outright robust season, it’s one where
there’ll be winners and losers.”  Retailers Retreat  Macy’s Inc., Big Lots Inc. and Nordstrom Inc. lost at least
2.7 percent to help lead the  S&P 500 Retailing Index (S5RETL)  lower
following a 5.6 percent rally in the previous five sessions.
Stores are extending deals into Cyber Monday and beyond to try
to sustain a 13 percent gain in Thanksgiving weekend sales.
Spending in stores and online rose to $59.1 billion in the four
days starting Nov. 22, the  National Retail Federation  said. A
year ago, sales grew 16 percent over the holiday weekend.  The  S&P 500  retreated following last week’s 3.6 percent
rally, the biggest since June, which was triggered by optimism
Congress would avoid the fiscal cliff and data from China to
Germany that bolstered optimism in global growth.  Senator  Richard Durbin  of  Illinois , the second-ranking
Democrat in the chamber, said yesterday on ABC’s “This Week”
that any deal to reduce the  budget deficit  should allow the top
 tax rate  to rise. Republican Senator  John McCain  of Arizona said
on “Fox News Sunday” that he would be “very much opposed” to
raising taxes and advocated closing “loopholes,” including
limits on deductions for charitable giving and home mortgage
interest payments.  ‘Immediate Focus’  “Fiscal cliff negotiations are likely to be the immediate
focus this week,”  Jim Reid , a strategist at Deutsche Bank AG in
London, wrote in a report. “As a reminder of the gathering
urgency there are only 36 days left until the fiscal cliff is
due to kick-in, and from a practical stand point, exactly four
weeks until the Christmas break to bridge the outstanding gap
between the Democrats and Republicans.”  Telephone, energy and consumer-staples companies led losses
among seven of the 10 main industry groups in the S&P 500, with
Coca-Cola Co., American Express Co. and Microsoft Corp. posting
the biggest losses in the  Dow Jones Industrial Average . Exelon
Corp. jumped 2.6 percent to lead a rally in utilities after
Deutsche Bank advised buying the shares, saying its 34 percent
drop this year may provide an opportunity for value investors.  UnitedHealth Group Inc. slipped 0.7 percent after providing
a profit forecast below analysts’ estimates. DreamWorks
Animation SKG Inc. dropped 5.2 percent as “Rise of the
Guardians” opened in fourth place in cinemas over the
Thanksgiving weekend.  Knight Capital Group Inc. (KCG)  surged 13
percent after a person with direct knowledge of the matter said
the trading firm expects to receive acquisition proposals as
early as this week.  European Markets  The  Stoxx 600 (SXXP)  fell for the first time in six days as 17 of
19 industry groups retreated. Barclays Plc sank 5.4 percent as
Qatar Holding LLC sold the last of the warrants it acquired
during the financial crisis, triggering a 771 million-pound
($1.24 billion) stock offering by the banks that arranged the
transaction. Straumann Holding AG advanced 2.3 percent as Vice
Chairman Thomas Straumann sold a 10 percent stake in the dental-
implant manufacturer to Government of Singapore Investment Corp.  The euro weakened against 13 of 16 major peers, slipping
0.5 percent against the yen and less than 0.1 percent versus
dollar. The yen advanced against all 16 of its major
counterparts.  Greek Options  The  European Central Bank  is considering new ways to reduce
Greece’s funding gap by using the Greek debt in its investment
portfolios, three euro-area officials said. National central
banks of the euro area hold Greek bonds in their investment
portfolios and agreed in February to give any profits back to
Greece. The issue has been reopened and the ECB is now looking
at options including rolling over the holdings or allowing the
Greek government to buy them back, the officials said on
condition of anonymity.  German 10-year bunds rose, pushing the yield down two basis
points to 1.41 percent. Italian 10-year bond yields were little
changed at 4.75 percent and rates on similar-maturity Spanish
yields debt were little changed at 5.62 percent. Hungary’s five-
year note yield rose three basis points after S&P downgraded the
country’s debt late on Nov. 23.  The cost of insuring against default on corporate date
rose, snapping five days of declines, with the Markit iTraxx
Europe index of credit-default swaps linked to 125 investment
grade companies climbing four basis points to 125.  Gold, Oil  Oil declined 0.6 percent to $87.74 a barrel today. Natural
gas, cocoa and coffee lost at least 1.3 percent for the biggest
declines in S&P GSCI Index, while cotton, zinc, aluminum and
Kansas wheat rose the most.  Gold for immediate delivery fell 0.2 percent to $1,749.05
an ounce. Soybeans advanced 0.4 percent on concern dryness in
Brazil and rain in Argentina may threaten supply as demand
increases in China, the world’s biggest buyer. Prices climbed
2.6 percent last week, the most since the five days ended Aug.
24.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  slipped 0.1 percent.
Taiwan’s Taiex index climbed 1.1 percent after Premier Sean Chen
asked the government to prepare a proposal to boost stocks. The
Shanghai Composite Index slipped 0.5 percent while Russia’s
Micex Index lost 0.7 percent and India’s Sensex added 0.2
percent. Brazil’s Bovespa slipped 1.5 percent, retreating for
the first time in three sessions as a drop in commodities
weighed on producers.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Kirkland in London at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Clenfield in Tokyo at 
 jclenfield@bloomberg.net ;
Inyoung Hwang in New York at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  