-- Wal-Mart Fires Supplier That Used Bangladesh Factory
-- B y   A r u n   D e v n a t h   a n d   R e n e e   D u d l e y
-- 2012-11-27T07:04:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-26/at-least-124-killed-in-fire-at-bangladesh-garment-factory.html
Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) , the world’s
largest retailer, fired a supplier that made apparel at a
Bangladesh factory where more than 100 people died in the
country’s deadliest ever blaze at a garment facility.  “The Tazreen factory was no longer authorized to produce
merchandise for Walmart,” Kevin Gardner, a Walmart spokesman,
said in an e-mailed statement. “A supplier subcontracted work
to this factory without authorization and in direct violation of
our policies. Today, we have terminated the relationship with
that supplier.” He declined to name the supplier.  The factory, owned by Tazreen Fashion Ltd., had no
emergency exits, and many workers were burnt alive, as they got
trapped in heavy smoke, said Muhammad Mahboob, a director at the
Fire Service and Civil Defence. Some workers jumped from the
eight-story building to escape the flames, according to Mohammad
Sharif, who runs a local grocery store and whose parents-in-law
worked at the plant.  At least 124 people were killed in the fire on Nov. 24,
said Habibur Rahman, superintendent of police for Dhaka. Shafiul
Islam Mohiuddin, president of the  Bangladesh  Garment
Manufacturers and Exporters Association, estimates the death
toll at 113.  Textiles contribute more than 10 percent of Bangladesh’s
gross domestic product and about 80 percent of the nation’s
exports, mainly to the U.S. and the EU,  according  to the
manufacturers’ association.  Unsafe Buildings  Bangladesh’s High Court yesterday opened a probe into the
nation’s worst garment factory fire. After four human rights
organizations filed a writ petition, two judges in a ruling
asked the government to explain what steps it has taken to
implement an earlier High Court directive to ensure the safety
of garment workers.  About 700 apparel industry workers have died since 2005
because of unsafe buildings in the Asian country, the
International Labor Rights Forum said in a  statement . The second
deadliest fire was in 2006 when 54 people died at KTS Textile
and Garments in the port city of Chittagong, according to the
manufacturers’ association. As wages have risen in  China ,
companies such as Li & Fung Ltd., the world’s largest supplier
of clothes and toys to retailers, are tapping Bangladesh and
other lower-cost Asian countries.  Li & Fung  The factory that burned down has produced apparel for  Li &
Fung (494) , which has said it is in contact with the factory’s owner
and that it will conduct its own investigation.  The fire won’t have any material impact on the company’s
financial performance and the total value of orders placed by
its U.S. subsidiary for the year amounted to $111,000, Li & Fung
said yesterday. It hasn’t placed orders for other customers with
Tazreen, it said.  Wal-Mart has visited supplier factories to identify those
deemed “high risk for fire safety hazards,” it said on its
website. In 2011, the company stopped working with 49 factories
in Bangladesh due to fire safety issues, it said.  Tazreen Fashion, a unit of textile manufacturer Tuba Group,
employs 1,200 workers and exports goods worth $36 million a
year, mainly to the U.S. and  Europe , according to the company’s
website.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Arun Devnath in Dhaka at 
 adevnath@bloomberg.net ;
Renee Dudley in  New York  at 
 rdudley6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  