-- AU Optronics Executive Faces Retrial for LCD Price Fixing
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o   a n d   P a m e l a   M a c L e a n
-- 2012-11-26T19:24:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-26/au-optronics-executive-faces-retrial-for-lcd-price-fixing.html
AU Optronics Corp. (AUO)  executive  Steven
Leung  was a key part of a liquid-crystal display screen price-
fixing conspiracy that has yielded a $500 million penalty
against the company, prosecutors said as Leung’s retrial began.  Prosecutors told a jury in San Francisco federal court
today that Leung, an executive at the Taiwanese company’s
desktop-display unit, had pricing authority for computer monitor
panels, was responsible for large accounts including  Dell Inc. (DELL) ,
 Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  and was a key player in
meetings held from 2001 to 2006 where prices were fixed.  “The evidence will show that Steven Leung’s company was
already engaged in a price-fixing conspiracy and Leung knew
about that conspiracy,” Heather Tewksbury, a U.S.  Justice
Department  attorney, said in her opening statement.  A jury in March convicted AU Optronics, its vice chairman
and a senior vice president, while deadlocking on the charges
against Leung, leading government lawyers to retry his case. He
has pleaded not guilty.  ‘Secret’ Meetings  “He was faced with a choice,” Tewksbury told jurors. “He
could fight it out with his competitors and charge a fair price,
or he could break the law to join with competitors to fix the
price of products sold to his customers. He chose not only to
join the conspiracy, he became a key part.”  Leung was responsible for $2.1 billion of $3 billion in the
company’s monitor sales in 2004, Tewksbury told jurors.  The  executives  met with competitors secretly in hotel
rooms, karaoke bars and other locations in Taipei from 2001 to
2006 to set LCD prices in response to an oversupply that pushed
down prices by 40 percent, the government said in court filings.
AU Optronics is based in Hsinchu,  Taiwan .  Leung’s lawyers claim that the government’s key witness, an
AU Optronics employee, has testified that he didn’t know whether
executives in Taiwan were meeting with competitors to fix
prices.  Leung “had no authority to set prices, no authority to
bargain,” Dennis Cashman, Leung’s attorney, told jurors today
in his opening statement. Leung took notes at meetings on
competitor’s prices and market trends and gave the information
to other executives who made pricing decisions.  “You will hear that it is not illegal to meet with
competitors,” Cashman said. “It is not illegal to discuss
prices and it is not illegal to take notes.”  Plea Deal  AU Optronics was the only LCD maker charged with price-
fixing by the U.S. to take its case to trial. Since 2008, rivals
including  LG Display Co. (034220) ,  Chunghwa Picture Tubes (2475) , Chi Mei
Optoelectronics Corp. and  Sharp Corp. (6753)  agreed to plead guilty and
pay more than $890 million in fines. Seventeen executives have
been charged and 10 have pleaded guilty and been sentenced to
prison, the Justice Department said in March.  U.S. District Judge Susan Illston, who is presiding over
Leung’s trial, ordered AU Optronics to pay $500 million, half
the penalty the Justice Department had sought. AU Optronics and
its executives have appealed the convictions.  The case is U.S. v. Lin, 3:09-cr-00110, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of California (San Francisco).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net ;
Pamela MacLean in federal court in  San Francisco  at
 pmaclean@pacbell.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  