-- Auburn’s Chizik Among 5 Coaches Fired, Two Years After BCS Title
-- B y   D e x   M c L u s k e y
-- 2012-11-26T05:00:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-26/auburn-s-chizik-among-5-coaches-fired-two-years-after-bcs-title.html
Gene Chizik was among five coaches
fired yesterday at the highest level of college football,
dismissed by Auburn University two seasons after guiding the
school to its first national championship since 1957.  Chizik’s stint with the Tigers ended a day after the team
lost 49-0 against the second-ranked University of  Alabama  to
finish the season winless in the  Southeastern Conference  and
with a 3-9 overall mark. Chizik, 50, went 33-19 in four seasons
at Auburn and had a 15-17 record in conference play.  “I’m extremely disappointed with the way this season
turned out,” Chizik said in a statement. “When expectations
are not met, I understand changes must be made.”  Also fired yesterday were  North Carolina State ’s Tom O’Brien, Boston College’s Frank Spaziani, Purdue University’s
Danny Hope and the University of Colorado’s Jon Embree.  Chizik’s ouster at Auburn comes less than two years after
the Tigers, led by quarterback Cam Newton, defeated Oregon 22-19
in the Bowl Championship Series title game. Newton was
subsequently selected by the Carolina Panthers with the first
overall pick in the 2011 National Football League draft.  “We will long cherish the memories of our first national
championship in 53 years,” Auburn Athletic Director Jay Jacobs
said in a statement on the school’s website.  Chizik Buyout  Auburn will pay $11.1 million to buy out the remainder of
the contracts for Chizik and his nine fulltime assistants, the
school said. Chizik will be paid monthly through the 2015-16
fiscal year, it said. Chizik will receive $7.5 million, AP said,
while payments may drop depending on future employment.  The search for a successor will be led by three former
Tigers -- 1971 and 1985 Heisman Trophy winners Pat Sullivan and
Bo Jackson, and Mac Crawford, former chairman of  CVS Caremark
Corp. (CVS) , the largest provider of prescription drugs in the U.S.  O’Brien compiled a 40-35 record in six years at North
Carolina State, going 22-26 against Atlantic Coast Conference
opponents. The Wolfpack went 7-5 this season.  Offensive coordinator Dan Bible will serve as interim
coach, including this season’s bowl game, while a search for a
replacement is conducted. All assistants have been retained and
will have the opportunity to pursue positions with the new head
coach, the school said.  “I feel that the program is in a better place now than
when I started,” O’Brien said in a statement. “I’m proud of
the young men that I have coached here, for their
accomplishments on the field and in the classroom.”  Spaziani Out  O’Brien from 1997 to 2006 coached at Boston College, which
yesterday dismissed Spaziani after he compiled a 21-29 record
over four seasons. The Eagles went 2-10 this season under
Spaziani, who had been promoted in 2009 after 10 years as the
school’s defensive coordinator.  “A personnel decision of this magnitude affects many
people and is never taken lightly, but I felt a change was
necessary,” Athletic director Brad Bates said.  Hope was fired by Purdue after a 6-6 season that gave him a
22-27 record over four years at the West Lafayette, Indiana-
based school. The Boilermakers were 13-19 against Big Ten
Conference opponents.  Hope, who was under contract through 2016, received a
$600,000 buyout, the school said on its website.  Colorado  fired Embree yesterday after the Buffaloes went 1-
11, including a 1-8 record in the Pac-12 Conference. He had a 4-
21 record in two seasons at his alma mater.  “A change in the leadership in our football program is in
the best interests of the University of Colorado, particularly
given our goal to compete at the highest levels of the Pac-12
Conference,” the school said in a statement. “It was a
difficult decision, given Jon Embree’s history with CU, and one
we arrived at after considerable deliberation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dex McLuskey in Dallas at 
 dmcluskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  