-- Australian Women Trail U.S. in Boardroom Power, Government Says
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2012-11-26T14:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-26/australian-women-trail-u-s-in-boardroom-power-government-says.html
Fewer women hold positions on boards
of the 200 biggest publicly traded  Australian companies  than
among the largest U.S. firms, even after a 46 percent increase
in the past two years, a government report showed.  Women hold 12.3 percent of directorships of companies
listed on the  S&P/ASX 200 Index (AS51)  of stocks, compared with 8.4
percent in 2010, according to the report released today. Women
comprise 9.2 percent of executives in the 500 biggest publicly
listed companies in  Australia , compared with 16.1 percent for
the U.S. Fortune 500 Index, the data show.  “When it comes to boards, the number of women is still
very small,” said Helen Conway, director at the Equal
Opportunity for Women in the Workplace Agency that commissioned
the report. “Disappointingly, Australia has the lowest
percentage of female executives compared to countries with
similar governance structures. We’ve been conducting the census
for 10 years and, frankly, you’d expect to see more progress.”  Australia, governed by its first female Prime Minister
Julia Gillard, ranked 25th this year in the World Economic
Forum’s  Global Gender Gap Index  that measures economic
participation, education, health and political empowerment in
135 countries. Under rules introduced last year, Australia’s
stock exchange requires companies to set and report targets for
 gender diversity  at board and senior management level, a move
endorsed by  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  Chief Executive Officer Gail Kelly.  Female CEOs  Twelve of the 500 biggest publicly listed companies in
Australia had female CEOs, according to the survey, which was
expanded this year to include the top 500 companies. It also
showed 23.3 percent of female directors hold more than one
directorship. According to the survey, 141 women hold line
management roles, fewer than the 2,148 men in such posts.  Banks (AS51BANX)  and insurers have the highest level of female
participation on boards. Women are under-represented in roles
that may lead to senior management and leadership, the survey
found.  “The progression of women into senior leadership positions
has stalled and more radical approaches are now required,” said
Mike Smith, chief executive officer at  Australia & New Zealand
Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ)  in  Melbourne . “This is not just about
addressing equality, it actually makes good business sense and
those organizations that take action will reap the economic
benefits of a more productive workforce.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  