-- Banco do Brasil Advances After Plan for Insurance IPO
-- B y   F r a n c i s c o   M a r c e l i n o
-- 2012-11-26T19:15:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-26/banco-do-brasil-considers-ipo-for-insurance-businesses.html
Banco do Brasil SA , Latin America’s
biggest bank by assets, rose 1.8 percent in Sao Paulo trading
after saying it may create an insurance unit that sells shares
by next year.  Banco do Brasil  advanced  to 21.88 reais at the close, after
reaching 22.36 earlier today. The benchmark Bovespa index fell
1.5 percent.  The new division, BB Seguridade SA, would be listed on
 BM&FBovespa SA (BVMF3) ’s Novo Mercado exchange, and the offering would
include primary and secondary shares, Banco do Brasil said today
in a regulatory filing. Federally controlled Banco do Brasil and
Caixa Economica Federal have been lending more and lowering
borrowing costs after Brazil President Dilma Rousseff urged
banks to cut profits to “civilized” levels.  “This is a way to inject capital into the bank, which was
very aggressive in terms of lending after the recent government
push,”  Pedro Galdi , an analyst at SLW CVC Ltda in Sao Paulo,
said in an interview today. “A capitalization fits well as it
helps the bank to be even more aggressive on credit
concessions.”  Banco do Brasil increased its book of loans 21 percent in
the third quarter from a year earlier, compared with 9.3 percent
for Sao Paulo-based  Itau Unibanco Holding SA (ITUB4)  and 12 percent for
Banco Bradesco SA.  Consolidating insurance businesses into a single company
would help lower costs, according to the filing. BB Seguridade
would control Banco do Brasil’s two insurance joint ventures
with Madrid-based  Mapfre SA. (MAP)  The lender said it plans to expand
into dental- and health-insurance brokerages as well.  Disclosure Rules  The sale may occur in the first half of next year depending
on studies the bank is conducting and on market conditions,
which will also determine the size of the offering, said
Alexandre Abreu, vice president of the company’s retail
business. The bank will maintain a controlling stake in the
Seguridade division, he said.  “The IPO may help make clear the hidden value of the
insurance businesses,” Abreu said in a telephone interview.
“An offering will also help to capitalize the insurance unit
without taking resources from Banco do Brasil.”  The insurance businesses posted net income of 937.2 million
reais ($450 million) in the nine months through September, or
about 11 percent of consolidated profit, according to the bank’s
Nov. 8 financial statement.  Novo Mercado has stricter requirements for disclosure and
minority shareholders’ rights, and requires companies to have at
least 25 percent of their shares traded publicly.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Francisco Marcelino in Sao Paulo at 
 mdeoliveira@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  