-- Bank of Israel Leaves Benchmark Rate at 2% as Economy Expands
-- B y   A l i s a   O d e n h e i m e r
-- 2012-11-26T15:30:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-26/bank-of-israel-leaves-benchmark-rate-at-2-as-economy-expands.html
The Bank of Israel kept its
benchmark  interest rate  unchanged following last month’s cut,
after Governor Stanley Fischer said there are signs that
economic growth next year may be faster than expected.  The Monetary Policy Committee held the rate at 2 percent,
the Jerusalem-based bank said on its website today. All but one
of the 22 economists  surveyed by Bloomberg  had forecast the
decision. The other said the bank would reduce the rate for a
second consecutive month.  “We expect the rate to be kept unchanged for some time in
the absence of a sharp deceleration in growth indicators and/or
renewed expectations of a bleaker picture in  Europe ,”  Tevfik Aksoy , chief economist for Central and Eastern Europe, the
Middle East and  Africa  at Morgan Stanley in  London , said before
the announcement.  The Bank of Israel cut the benchmark by a quarter-point in
October and has gradually reduced it from 3.25 percent in
September 2011, in an effort to shore up the economy amid the
European recession and global slowdown.  Growth is expected to ease to 3.5 percent this year, from
4.6 percent last year, the Jerusalem-based Central Bureau of
Statistics said Oct. 15. Indicators for 2013 are becoming “more
positive” and the economy may do better than the 3 percent
expansion forecast, Fischer said on Nov. 14.  Export Markets  Finance ministers from the European Union are meeting today
in Brussels for the third time this month to try to clear the
next instalment of aid to  Greece  and discuss ways to keep the
country a solvent member of the currency bloc.  Israel  relies on
exports for about 40 percent of economic output and Europe is
one of its main markets.  Israel’s eight day conflict with Gaza, which ended in a
Nov. 21 cease-fire accord, isn’t likely to hurt the economy
significantly, Fischer said last week, citing swift recoveries
from previous military conflicts.  Israel is doing well relative to the global economy, and
the recent conflict won’t have a long-term impact, Bill O’Neill,
chief investment officer for Europe, the Middle East and Africa
at Merrill Lynch Wealth Management, said today in a Tel Aviv
press conference, according to an e-mailed statement.  Annual  inflation  slowed to 1.8 percent in October from 2.1
percent the previous month, coming in below the 2.2 percent
median estimate of 14 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. The
government’s target range is 1 percent to 3 percent. Inflation
expectations for the next 12 months, as measured by a central
bank survey of economists, slowed to 1.9 percent in November
from 2.2 percent the previous month.  “We think that the slightly negative ex-ante real interest
rates are sufficient to maintain the accommodative stance,”
Aksoy said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alisa Odenheimer in Jerusalem at 
 aodenheimer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 