-- OGX Drops to 4-Year Low on Oil Field Stakes Purchase: Rio Mover
-- B y   P e t e r   M i l l a r d   a n d   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o
-- 2012-11-27T19:28:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-26/batista-s-ogx-expands-in-deep-waters-with-petrobras-purchase.html
OGX Petroleo e Gas Participacoes SA ,
the  oil company  controlled by billionaire  Eike Batista , dropped
to the lowest in almost four years after agreeing to buy
 Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4) ’s stake in two oil fields, expanding in
deep waters off the coast of Brazil.  Shares  declined  3.7 percent to 4.44 reais at the close in
Sao Paulo, the lowest since Jan. 7, 2009. The stock, which lost
67 percent this year amid disappointing production rates at its
first two wells, was the  third-worst  performer on Brazil’s
benchmark Bovespa index today.  OGX, based in Rio de Janeiro, will pay Petrobras, as the
world’s biggest producer in deep waters is known, $270 million
for its 40 percent stake in the BS-4 block in the  Santos Basin 
that holds the Atlanta and Oliva heavy  oil fields , OGX said in
an e-mailed statement late yesterday. The stakes purchase is a
“small negative” for OGX as the company should focus on saving
cash for its own projects, UBS AG analysts Lilyanna Yang and
Luiz Pinho said.  “OGX in our view should preserve cash for the development
of its 1.2 billion barrels coming from Campos basin,” the
analysts wrote in a note to clients dated yesterday. “While the
acquisition can prove to be accretive, we question the timing
and acquisition price at the moment.”  Batista granted OGX a $1 billion  put option  in case the
company needs additional funds to finance an expansion, OGX said
Oct. 24. OGX also plans to compete for new oil exploration
blocks when the government holds the next bidding round as early
as May. Petrobras is selling assets in Brazil and abroad to help
finance its $236.5 billion five-year investment plan.  The Atlanta and Oliva fields are in 1,500 meters of water
185 kilometers off the coast. OGX’s biggest discoveries to date
are closer to shore in the Campos Basin, where it started
production in January.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Peter Millard in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 pmillard1@bloomberg.net ;
Juan Pablo Spinetto in Rio de Janeiro at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  