-- BBC’s Chief Honed Skills Saving Covent Garden: Commentary
-- B y   W a r w i c k   T h o m p s o n
-- 2012-11-26T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-26/bbc-s-chief-honed-skills-saving-covent-garden-commentary.html
It’s fitting that the new director
general of the British Broadcasting Corp. comes from an opera
world familiar with tales of lust, vengeance and heads on the
block.  Baron Hall of Birkenhead, 61, a friendly and
straightforward man usually addressed as Tony, is leaving his
position as chief executive of the Royal Opera House which he
has held since 2001.  He’s the man to fix the mess as he returns to the  BBC ,
where he started as an intern in 1973 and worked his way up to
director of news.  Police are investigating claims that Jimmy Savile, a
popular BBC presenter, had sexually abused dozens of underage
girls over a period of decades on BBC premises and elsewhere.
Savile died last year.  The bad handling and faulty reporting of this crisis have
also revealed decades of mismanagement at the monolithic and
unwieldy corporation.  Unsurprisingly, there’s the usual tiresome talk of
scrapping the annual BBC license fee of 145.50 pounds ($233)
that must be paid by every householder in the U.K. who uses a
working television to watch live broadcasts.  Hall’s track record at  Covent Garden , where he presided
over both the opera and ballet companies, is impressive.  The theater is in sterling shape. During his time, revenue
increased by 113 percent, while the reliance on government
subsidy decreased by 35 percent. Attendance increased by 3.4
percent. The books are fully balanced. (All figures from the
most recent ROH Annual Review, 2010/11).  Top Standards  The Royal Opera, which has a current total unrestricted
income of 109.5 million pounds (the government subsidy of 27.9
million pounds roughly accounts for just a quarter of it) now
ranks among the top companies in the world for its artistic
standards, and attracts the best singers and conductors.  Much of this is thanks to Hall.  When he arrived, the theater was slowly recovering from
years of disastrous management with the reopening of a
refurbished theater and the brilliantly shimmering Floral Hall.  The American manager, Michael Kaiser, had started the
process of sorting out the finances but left surprisingly soon
for the  Kennedy Center  in  Washington . D.C.  It was left to Hall to steer the company into the future
and he did so with quiet aplomb, building on goodwill and hiring
the galvanizing conductor Antonio Pappano to lead the opera
house.  ENO Mistakes  Any mistake at that time would have been disastrous. A few
years later, the  English National Opera’s  own refurbishment and
re-opening failed to build on similar goodwill for the troubled
company.  Hall capitalized on the precarious stability, and then did
the spade-work of making the books balance year on year and
keeping confidence high.  There were many triumphs. During his tenure, the Royal
Opera took a huge gamble on the world premiere of “Anna Nicole,” about the sad, trashy celebrity of the same name. It
was a major hit, both comical and moving. There’s been a new
Ring Cycle, too, which is a huge achievement.  Hall also oversaw the purchase of DVD label  OpusArte  in
2007 for 5.7 million pounds, so that the Royal Opera House
uniquely now has its own DVD production and distribution arm.
Taking a lead from the  Metropolitan Opera , the company
broadcasts directly into cinemas too. The program reached
230,000 people last year.  Ticket Prices  If top price tickets are high, at about the 200-pound mark,
Hall has kept 30 percent of tickets at a more manageable 30
pounds or less. I don’t hear grumbling about it like there was
10 years ago, and it clearly doesn’t dampen box office receipts
too badly. The Royal Opera House plays to a healthy 92 percent
capacity.  The  Royal Ballet  (also under Hall’s command), despite
strong competition from the more technically assured Russians,
still holds a high place internationally.  I met Hall several times during his tenure, and always
found him cheerful and unflappable. He once told me that running
the house was similar to running a newsroom: everything must be
focused either toward the curtain-up, which is like the “on
air” signal of a studio. It was a question of prioritizing, and
keeping everyone working towards the same goal.  George Entwistle, the previous BBC director general, lasted
just 54 days in the job before he was forced to resign for
allowing an innocent man to be indirectly accused of pedophilia
on a television program.  Payoff Criticism  The chairman of the BBC trust, Christopher Patten, also
faced widespread criticism for allowing Entwistle to walk away
with a full year’s salary (450,000 pounds), which was double his
entitlement.  Entwistle was rewarded for his mistakes. It doesn’t bring
credit to Patten, Entwistle, or the whole rickety structure of
the BBC.  Hall will need every one of the skills he previously
learned in the newsroom, and which he has subsequently honed at
the Royal Opera, to put the BBC back in harmony again.  Perhaps he’ll recall Figaro’s aria while he’s doing it.
“Pronto prontissimo, son come il fulmine” sings the clever
factotum. Faster and faster, I’m like a thunderbolt.  Quite a few things need blasting at the  Beeb , if it’s to
regain public confidence.  Muse highlights include  John Mariani  on wine,  Mark Beech  on
music and  Scott Reyburn  on the art market.  (Warwick Thompson is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Warwick Thompson, in London, at  warwicktho@aol.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 