-- BHP May Attract $2 Billion Potash Mine Partner, Deutsche Says
-- B y   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h
-- 2012-11-26T13:13:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-26/bhp-may-attract-2-billion-potash-mine-partner-deutsche-says.html
BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s
biggest mining company, may attract investment of $2 billion
from fertilizer makers as well as sovereign wealth funds in its
Canadian potash project, according to Deutsche Bank AG.  “Bringing in one or more partners would reduce the capital
outlay for shareholders and guarantee long term sales volumes,”
Deutsche analysts Grant Sporre,  Paul Young  and Rob Clifford
wrote in a report today. The sale of a 25 percent stake could
attract investment from fertilizer producers in  China , India,
U.S. and  South America , they said.  BHP Chief Executive Officer  Marius Kloppers  delayed a
development decision on the Jansen mine in August as part of
decision to shelve all major project approvals this fiscal year.
Jansen is valued at $7.3 billion by Deutsche Bank and would be
the Melbourne-based company’s first foray into mining of the
crop nutrient.  First production from the project in Saskatchewan may start
in 2017 and reach capacity of 8 million metric tons annually by
2024, Deutsche Bank said, estimating the cost of development at
$5 billion to $6 billion. An expanded operation to 16 million
tons of production would cost a total of about $15 billion, the
analysts wrote.  BHP is continuing preparatory work at the site including
developing two underground shafts to extract the material,
Kloppers said in August. The company is still correct to target
potash as a “key commodity,” Kloppers told reporters Aug. 22.  While it produces commodities including  iron ore  and
copper, the company doesn’t yet mine potash, a form of potassium
used to strengthen roots and help plants resist drought. BHP’s
$40 billion hostile bid for  Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc. ,
the world’s biggest producer, was blocked in 2010 by the
Canadian government.  Saskatchewan is the world’s biggest potash-producing
region.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Riseborough in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  