-- Biggest Taxable Rally Since ’94 Narrows Company Gap: Muni Credit
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e
-- 2012-11-26T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-26/biggest-taxable-rally-since-94-narrows-company-gap-muni-credit.html
Municipalities from  Wisconsin  to
 Connecticut  are paying the smallest yield penalty in three years
on taxable borrowings as investors seek out securities with
higher interest rates and lower defaults than corporate debt.  With buyers looking to increase their income as Federal
Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke pledges to keep the central
bank’s key overnight rate near zero through mid-2015, the extra
 interest rate  paid by localities over companies has collapsed by
about  76 percent  this year, the most since at least 1994, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  The rally gave Wisconsin an opportunity to accelerate a
$252 million taxable deal originally planned for 2013. The
state, where Republican Governor  Scott Walker  has moved to limit
collective bargaining rights for public employees, sold revenue
bonds yielding about 0.8 percentage point less than a 2010 issue
of federally subsidized Build America Bonds backed by a general-
obligation pledge.  “The way the taxable muni market was and where interest
rates have been, we decided to move and get the transaction
completed before something happens beyond our control that would
impact the market,” David Erdman, the state’s assistant capital
finance director, said in a telephone interview.  Yield Demand  Investors typically seek more yield from states and cities
than from corporations because local bonds trade less frequently
and feature annual financial disclosure instead of quarterly
reports. The rally in taxable debt has helped issuers finance
pension-fund gaps and other projects not eligible for tax-exempt
borrowing.  Yields on 30-year taxable munis rated AA,  Standard & Poor’s 
third-highest grade, were  0.82 percentage point  above an index
of company bonds with similar maturity and rating, the smallest
difference since July 2009, according to Bloomberg data. The gap
has plunged from 3.35 percentage points Jan. 3.  Wisconsin’s sale shows the rally’s impact. A portion of the
deal maturing in 16 years and rated AA-, S&P’s fourth-highest
grade, priced Nov. 5 with a yield of 3.77 percent. That compares
with the level of about 4.6 percent the state received in 2010
on taxable general obligations due in 16 years and rated one
level higher at AA.  GE Comparison  The yields still have appeal relative to corporate debt. A
segment of Wisconsin’s sale due in 2030 priced with a yield of
3.94 percent. About a month earlier, the finance unit of General
Electric Co., the world’s largest maker of  jet engines , sold a
bond due the same year to yield 3.6 percent.  Investors buying taxable munis also benefit from
historically lower default rates than on company debt.  From 1970 to 2011, an average of 0.08 percent of
investment-grade munis that were sold a decade or more earlier
defaulted, compared with 2.61 percent for investment-grade
company bonds, according to Moody’s Investors Service.  Taxable munis have earned about 10.7 percent this year,
beating the broader tax-exempt market’s 8.5 percent gain and 9.9
percent earnings for corporate bonds, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch data.  Muni yields have fallen for four straight weeks, the best
streak since July. The interest rate on benchmark 10-year
maturities was about  1.45 percent , close to the lowest since at
least January 2009, when the Bloomberg Valuation index data
begin. Yields on a Bond Buyer  index  fell to the lowest since
June 1965.  Smaller Share  Taxable local issuance is decreasing, helping fuel gains in
the securities.  States and localities have sold $31 billion of taxable
securities this year, or about 9 percent of all issuance,
according to John Hallacy, muni research head at Bank of America
in New York. That’s down from 35 percent in 2010, the final year
of the taxable Build America Bonds program, created as part of
President  Barack Obama ’s 2009 stimulus plan.  Issuers sold $188 billion of those securities, which give
localities a 35 percent subsidy on interest costs.  Barring the revival of Build America Bonds, investors such
as  Peter Hayes  at BlackRock Inc. see no end in sight for the
taxable muni rally.  “There’s still a real demand for high-quality, high-
yielding assets, which taxable munis are,” said Hayes, head of
muni debt at New York-based BlackRock Inc., which oversees about
$105 billion of munis.  Tax Adjustment  Reinstating the program would boost the amount of taxable
muni issuance and push up yields, said Gary Pollack, who manages
$12 billion as head of fixed-income trading at Deutsche Bank
AG’s private-wealth unit in New York.  Any move to trim the federal deficit by limiting munis’ tax
exemption may also spur more taxable issuance, should any
agreement involve limiting the types of issuers that can sell
into the tax-free market.  Such a plan would cause some issuers to switch to taxable
securities, Hayes said.  “It’s going to be very difficult for them to really get in
and slice up the market enough, which sectors should issue
taxable and which should issue tax-exempt, but I wouldn’t
totally discount the possibility,” Hayes said.  Following are pending municipal-bond sales:  NORTH CAROLINA MUNICIPAL POWER AGENCY NUMBER 1 is set to
sell about $616 million of debt, including $81 million of
taxable bonds, as soon as this week, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. Proceeds will refund debt and finance improvements to a
nuclear power plant, according to bond documents. (Added Nov.
26)  COOK COUNTY, ILLINOIS, plans to issue $330 million of
general-obligation debt as soon as this week to refinance debt,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. (Added Nov. 26)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Kaske in  New York  at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  