-- Billionaire Kotak’s Expansion Cuts Bank Margins: Corporate India
-- B y   A n t o   A n t o n y
-- 2012-11-27T10:34:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-26/billionaire-kotak-s-expansion-cuts-bank-margins-corporate-india.html
Kotak Mahindra Bank Ltd. (KMB) , the Indian
lender with the widest interest margin, said profitability will
be pressured by slower growth in lending and the cost of
expanding its branch network next year.  The Mumbai-based bank, founded and controlled by
billionaire Uday Kotak, plans to add 111 outlets to its existing
389 branches by the end of 2013, Chief Financial Officer Jaimin Mukund Bhatt, 50, said in an interview. The increase comes even
as he predicts loan growth of 20 percent for the 12 months
ending March 31, compared with an average annual pace of 37
percent since 2003.  “When our expansion is faster than profit growth, there
has to be pressure on the margins,” Bhatt said. “We will grow
our loan book at a slower pace this year as the bank would
rather lose the opportunity of making money than lose the money
itself.”  India’s $1.8 trillion economy is set to expand 4.9 percent
this year, the least in a decade, according to the  International
Monetary Fund , while earnings for 12 of the 30 companies that
constitute the benchmark  Sensitive Index (SENSEX)  trailed analysts’
estimates for the quarter to September, underscoring slowing
demand for loans. Kotak, which has a net interest margin of 4.7
percent, will extend its plan to invest in bad loans to sustain
profits, Bhatt said.  Stock Rally  The lender’s  net income  almost tripled to 18.3 billion
rupees ($329 million) in the 12 months ended March 31, from 6.5
billion rupees three years earlier, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. The stock has rallied 48 percent this year,
outperforming the 22 percent gain in the Sensex.  The advance compares with the 46 percent increase in the
 Bankex Index (BANKEX)  made up of 14 lenders, while lagging behind Yes
Bank Ltd.’s 82 percent surge, HDFC Bank Ltd.’s 59 percent and
ICICI Bank Ltd.’s 51 percent.  Eleven of the 23 analysts who track Kotak recommend selling
the stock, while four rate it a buy and eight a hold,  data 
compiled by Bloomberg show. The shares rose 1.2 percent to
635.05 rupees today in Mumbai, pricing them 32 times estimated
earnings, versus 15 for ICICI and 24 for HDFC Bank.  Mining restrictions in the states of Goa, Karnataka and
Odisha have crimped sales of commercial vehicles and
construction equipment, hurting Kotak, said Hatim Broachwala, a
Mumbai-based banking analyst at Karvy Stock Broking Ltd. The
loans to the sector account for 13.4 percent of Kotak’s assets,
according to the lender.  Mining Probe  “This is one of the expensive stocks in the banking sector
now,” said Broachwala. “Their exposure to commercial vehicle
and construction equipment is weighing on the mind of
investors.”  The western state of Goa, the biggest exporter of iron ore,
and Odisha in eastern  India  have either frozen mining activity
or stopped giving new licenses this year, amid an investigation
by a government panel into allegations the mining companies
flouted environmental laws. The panel, which has submitted its
report on Goa, is currently examining Odisha, and will probe
five more states.  “Many equipment companies are losing business because of
the current slump in mining,” said P.K. Mukherjee, managing
director of Sesa Goa Ltd., India’s biggest iron ore exporter
that hasn’t seen any production in that state for more than two
months.  Sales Slump  Sales of medium and heavy commercial trucks slumped 26
percent in October from a year earlier, the biggest drop since
June 2009, according to data from the  Society of Indian
Automobile Manufacturers .  Kotak plans to buy bad loans from rivals at a discount as
returns more than doubled in past investments, Bhatt said.
Provisioning mandated by regulators for such purchases won’t
deter the bank from expanding the business, he said.  “Short-term accounting pain won’t stop us,” Bhatt said.
“If we see value in stressed assets we will buy it at the right
price and will make money out of it at the end of the day.”  The lender has a team of lawyers, mergers and acquisition
experts, and commercial bankers who specialize in recovering
soured loans from debtors, according to Bhatt. The assets are
typically bought at a price of 20 percent of the loan amount and
at least twice the price is recovered in three years.  Borrowing Costs  “While there is an immediate fall in profits due to
provisions, this business adds to their earnings in the long
term,” said Vishal Narnolia, a Mumbai-based banking analyst at
SMC Global Securities Ltd.  The highest borrowing cost among Asia’s major economies has
curbed lending in the region’s third-biggest economy. The
Reserve Bank of India’s benchmark overnight lending rate of 8
percent compares with 6 percent in  China , 3 percent in  Malaysia 
and 2.75 percent in South Korea.  Loans at banks in India, excluding advances made to state
agencies for food procurement, expanded 16.2 percent in the 12
months to Nov. 2, data  compiled  by the RBI show. The advances
grew 18.45 percent in the year before. The central bank trimmed
its credit growth projection last month to 16 percent for the
year ending March 31, from 17 percent.  Slowing growth also pushed bad loans in the Indian banking
system to 3.25 percent of total assets as of June 30, prompting
the RBI to say on Oct. 30 that they are “a cause of concern.”  Banking License  Kotak, which got the license to operate as a commercial
bank in 2003 from the RBI, had soured debt at 0.61 percent of
total loans, compared with 0.66 percent at  ICICI Bank (ICICIBC) , the
nation’s second-biggest by assets.  Uday Kotak and his family  own  about 45 percent of Kotak
Mahindra Bank, a stake valued at about $3.8 billion, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. It has 11.4 million customers.
The RBI in June ordered the billionaire to cut his stake by more
than half to 20 percent in less than six years.  The bank had a Tier 1 capital buffer of 14.9 percent on
Sept. 30. The capital adequacy ratio for the lender fell to 16.4
percent as of Sept. 30, from 17.8 percent in the previous year,
 exchange filings  show. Banks in India have to set aside at least
9 percent of the assets as a buffer against bad loans. The
lender has no plans to raise capital as of now, Bhatt said.  The shrinking net interest margin may not be a concern
because the lender will get business from the new branches, said
SMC Global’s Narnolia.  “Softening margin is the price that each lender that
aggressively expands has to pay in the short term,” he said.
“The margins will widen as the bank reaps dividends from the
expansion.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anto Antony in Mumbai at 
 aantony1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at   csomayaji@bloomberg.net  