-- BlackRock Sees Asian Demand in Illiquid Hedge-Fund Assets
-- B y   B e i   H u
-- 2012-11-26T05:02:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-26/blackrock-sees-asian-demand-in-illiquid-hedge-fund-assets-1-.html
BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , the world’s largest
asset manager, said there is rising demand from Asia-Pacific
investors for less liquid hedge-fund investments as European and
U.S. financial institutions clean up their balance sheets.  More than half of the money BlackRock’s fund of hedge funds
division drew from regional investors since January 2011 is
dedicated to longer-term, special-situations investments, such
as direct lending to companies that need cash and mortgage-
backed securities, said Joseph Pacini, the Asia-Pacific head of
Alternative Investment Strategy Group. Two-thirds of the
allocation was made in the past year as macroeconomic concerns
eased, he said.  “Asian investors today have a lot of cash and capital,”
Pacini said in an interview in  Hong Kong . “Over the last year,
we have seen a noticeable shift from nervousness about investing
to interest in where the markets are, what’s the dislocation and
where we should be focusing now.”  U.S. and European financial institutions may have to shrink
their balance sheets by another $3 trillion to comply with
tighter regulation after the global financial and European debt
crises, said Pacini. Asian investors who have survived the 1997-
1998 Asian financial crisis and escaped the brunt of the latest
global turmoil are eying opportunities, including in commercial
real estate and aviation financing, to boost returns amid low
interest rates, he said.  Alternative Investments  BlackRock’s alternative investment  arm  managed $110 billion
in assets globally as of September in private equity, real
estate,  hedge funds  and infrastructure. BlackRock Alternative
Advisors, the fund-of-hedge-funds unit, oversaw $18.7 billion as
of early October, with about half of that raised from Asia-
Pacific clients, Pacini said.  Large European banks may shrink their balance sheets by as
much as 2 trillion euros ($2.6 trillion), or 7 percent of their
assets, by 2013, Pacini wrote in a paper last month citing
government and International Monetary Fund data. That compares
with the $250 billion of assets sold off or cut from balance
sheets during the savings and loans crisis in the U.S. in the
late 1980s, and the $350 billion during the Asian debt crisis of
the 1990s, he said.  Trophy Assets  While trophy assets in some markets have been sold, further
deleveraging is expected, Pacini said.  BlueMountain Capital Management LLC, an $11 billion New
York-based manager, said it raised $1.5 billion, double its
target, for a fund that invests in structured corporate credit,
including asset-backed securities and less-often-traded
corporate credit, tapping investor demand for higher returns
amid near-zero  interest rates  and bond yields as governments
around the world try to stimulate economic growth.  The Lyxor Distressed Securities Index returned 6.3 percent
in the first 10 months, while the Lyxor Special Situations Index
gained 3.3 percent. Both outperformed the 1.6 percent advance of
the Lyxor Hedge Fund Index in the same period.  Asian institutions have indicated interest in investing in
such assets through BlackRock funds, tailor-made accounts or
alongside BlackRock funds, Pacini said. BlackRock has allocated
several billions of dollars to managers, often small and
specialized, that invest in such assets or through co-
investments with them, he added, declining to give a more
specific number as it’s confidential.  Aviation Financing  The fund manager is also looking to fill a void left by
European banks such as Societe Generale SA and BNP Paribas SA
that are winding back aviation financing even as aircraft
deliveries increase, Pacini said. Aircraft deliveries this
year may rise 23 percent to $95 billion from a year earlier,
with aviation bank financing to slide 4 percentage points to 21
percent, London-based trade journal Flightglobal reported in
January, citing a Boeing Co. forecast.  There is an estimated real estate funding gap of $86
billion in  Europe  and $31 billion in the Asia-Pacific region
this year and next even after insurers and fund managers have
stepped up to meet some of the refinancing needs, according to a
report this month by property broker DTZ Holdings Plc.  “There’s refinancing that needs to happen because a lot of
the commercial mortgage-backed securities and debt done in 2006,
2007 are coming due,” said Pacini.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bei Hu in Hong Kong at 
 bhu5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  