-- BofA Wins on Limitations of Countrywide Securities Suits
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2012-11-26T22:19:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-26/bofa-wins-on-standing-of-countrywide-securities-investors.html
Bank of America Corp.  may limit its
exposure to claims by Countrywide Financial mortgage-backed
securities investors after a federal judge said she may have
erred two years ago by allowing some claims to proceed.  U.S. District Judge Mariana Pfaelzer in Los Angeles, who
presides over the consolidated mortgage-backed securities cases
against Bank of America’s Countrywide, said in a Nov. 21 order
that she no longer believes that the first investor lawsuits
filed in  California  state court case extended the statute of
limitation for claims brought subsequently in federal court.  “The court is no longer convinced that this conclusion was
correct,” Pfaelzer said. The reasoning “represents a change in
the court’s analysis of existing case law.”  Pfaelzer in two rulings in 2010 and 2011 ruled that
investors who had sued over $351 billion in downgraded
Countrywide mortgage-backed securities, had only so-called
standing to sue over $2.6 billion of the tranches of the
securities that they had bought and that had also had been part
of the first state court cases filed in 2007 and 2008.  As part of her November 2010 ruling, Pfaelzer agreed with
the institutional investors, led by the Iowa Public Retirement
System, that the statute of limitations hadn’t run out for their
claims. The judge agreed that the state court cases had been
brought within the allowed timeframe and that a federal rule
extended the statute of limitation for identical claims.  New Ruling  In her new ruling, the judge said that since state lawsuits
don’t have to meet the same requirements as class-action
lawsuits filed in federal court, the federal rules that would
have preserved the plaintiffs’ standing to pursue the claims
couldn’t be applied to the state lawsuit.  “The reversal of the district court in this order requires
careful consideration for all pending and future cases,”
Patrick McManemin, a lawyer with Patton Boggs LLP in  Dallas  who
isn’t involved in the case, said in a telephone interview.  The parties in the class-action case “are likely
considering what new options or potential argument this ruling
might provide.”  Steve Toll, a lawyer for the plaintiffs in the class-action
lawsuit, said he hadn’t seen the ruling yet and couldn’t
comment.  “We are pleased with the court’s decision,” Lawrence Grayson, a spokesman for  Charlotte , North Carolina-based Bank of
America, said in a telephone interview.  Pfaelzer provided her revised analysis as part of an order
in a separate lawsuit by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.,
which had sued Countrywide as the receiver for Strategic Capital
Bank, a failed bank that had bought $62.6 million in Countrywide
residential mortgage-backed securities.  Thrown Out  The judge threw out the FDIC’s federal securities law
claims, saying the statute of limitations for these had run out
by the time the FDIC took over Strategic Capital in May 2009.
The judge rejected the FDIC’s argument that the California state
court lawsuits preserved their claim because, according to
Pfaelzer, Strategic Capital didn’t invest in the same tranches.  In addition, the judge said, the FDIC’s claims didn’t fall
under the extended statute of limitation because the original
securities lawsuit was a state court complaint.  The judge also rejected FDIC’s argument that they could
proceed with their claims because a recent decision by the
federal appeal court in New York, in a case by mortgage backed-
securities investors against  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , that had
allowed plaintiffs to represent investors in securities other
than the ones that they themselves had bought.  Plaintiffs’ Standing  Under the appellate court’s decision, the FDIC argued, the
plaintiffs in the California state court cases would have had
standing to sue on behalf of all investors with the “same set
of concerns,” not just the ones who had purchased the exact
same securities as they had. That in turn, would have preserved
the statute of limitations for subsequent claims by other
investors.  “Given the pressure on defendants to settle class actions,
the Second Circuit’s rule could force securities defendants to
settle class actions where the plaintiff had no power to
represent most of the class,” Pfaelzer said. “This result may
be more expedient, but it is manifestly less fair.”  The case is FDIC v. Countrywide Financial, 12-4354, U.S.
District Court, Central District of California (Los Angeles.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in Los Angeles at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  