-- Boskalis Offers $885 Million for Dockwise to Add Rig Movers
-- B y   M a r t i j n   v a n   d e r   S t a r r e   a n d   J a s m i n e   W a n g
-- 2012-11-26T15:11:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-26/boskalis-bids-682-million-euros-for-dockwise-on-rig-moving-ships.html
Koninklijke Boskalis Westminster NV (BOKA) ,
the world’s biggest dredging company, offered 682 million euros
($884 million) in an unsolicited bid for  Dockwise Ltd. (DOCK)  to add
ships capable of pulling oil rigs.  Boskalis is offering 17.20 euros a share for Dockwise, a
61 percent premium to the closing price on Nov. 23, it said. The
Papendrecht, Netherlands-based company bought more than 8.5
million shares in the course of trading today, building a stake
of about 22 percent. HAL Investments BV, Dockwise’s main
shareholder with a 31.7 percent interest, has irrevocably
committed to tender its shares, Boskalis said.  Dockwise bought Fairstar Heavy Transport NV this year after
a takeover offer for the provider of transport vessels to the
oil and gas industry was initially rejected as too low. Dockwise
will consider the bid from Boskalis though it is capable of
continuing on its own, the company said in a statement.  “This is a logical takeover” for Boskalis, Andre Mulder,
an Amsterdam-based analyst at Kepler Capital Markets, said in a
note to investors. Its strategy is to further expand in offshore
equipment, and Dockwise also would add dry towage to its wet
towage operations, said Mulder, who has a buy  recommendation  on
Boskalis shares.  Dockwise jumped as much as 59 percent to 17 euros in
Amsterdam and traded at 16.92 euros as of 4:04 p.m. local time.
The Oslo-listed shares surged at about the same rate. Boskalis
declined 0.4 percent to 31 euros, while  HAL Trust (HAL)  added 2.1
percent to 94.20 euros.  HAL also owns about 32 percent of Boskalis, data compiled
by Bloomberg shows.  Deal Financing  Dockwise, based in the Dutch city of Breda, operates 19
 vessels  including some capable of hauling 400-foot-high oil rigs
or 760-foot-long hulls for the Royal Australian Navy’s largest-
ever ships. Boskalis will pay for the deal using  cash  and new
debt facilities, including the sale of new equity of as much as
10 percent, it said.  “From a strategic point of view, we were looking for
companies that could strengthen our business, particularly in
oil and gas and offshore energy, that’s why Dockwise was on our
radar,” Boskalis Chief Executive Officer Peter Berdowski said
in an interview. “The takeover of Fairstar made us even more
interested.”  Higher Ebitda  The combination “will lead to a strong increase” in
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization,
according to the company. The premium per share is about 35
percent above the average Dockwise closing price over the last
three months, Boskalis said.  The purchase would be Berdowski’s second-biggest
transaction since he became CEO in 2006. Boskalis agreed to buy
Smit Internationale NV, the salvage company that lifted Russian
submarine Kursk from the  Barents Sea  in 2001, for 1.1 billion
euros three years ago, capping a yearlong effort to combine the
two Dutch companies.  “Dockwise will consider the intended offer to assess its
merits, risks and the consequences for the company, and its
shareholders, as well as its employees and other stakeholders,
compared with the stand-alone strategy of Dockwise and other
alternatives,” the company said. Dockwise is well-suited to
manage its next steps on a standalone basis, it said.  “We don’t expect a counter bid,” Tijs Hollestelle, an
Amsterdam-based analyst at ING Groep, said in a note. “We
consider the chance that Boskalis has to raise its offer limited
and hence believe the deal has a high chance of success on the
current terms,” said Hollestelle, who has a buy recommendation
on Boskalis.  Dockwise merged with Sealift Ltd. and got a full listing in
 Norway  in 2007.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jasmine Wang in  Hong Kong  at 
 jwang513@bloomberg.net 
Martijn van der Starre in Amsterdam at 
 vanderstarre@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net ;
Mariajose Vera at 
 mvera1@bloomberg.net  