-- Brazil Soccer Chief Questioned as FIFA Checks World Cup Progress
-- B y   R a y m o n d   C o l i t t
-- 2012-11-26T18:16:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-26/brazil-soccer-chief-questioned-as-fifa-checks-world-cup-progress.html
One of  Brazil ’s highest-ranking
soccer officials was brought in for questioning today as part of
a nationwide police sting operation over alleged financial
crimes and extortion.  The sweep coincides with the visit to Brazil of  Jerome Valcke , general secretary of the world soccer governing body
FIFA. Valcke, who is inspecting the construction of stadiums and
other preparations for the 2014 World Cup, told reporters in Rio
de Janeiro that the police questioning of Marco Polo Del Nero,
vice president of Brazil’s soccer federation, or CBF, was an
internal Brazilian issue he would not comment on,  Folha de Sao
Paulo  newspaper said.  Del Nero, who is also a member of FIFA’s executive
committee, was questioned after police searched his home for
documents in a dawn raid, according to a  statement  he posted on
the website of the Sao Paulo soccer federation. A criminal
lawyer by profession, he said his testimony to police was
unrelated to soccer.  The police are investigating Del Nero’s alleged links to a
criminal organization it says engaged in illegal spying and
extortion of politicians suspected of fraud in public tenders.
As part of today’s police operation, 33 people were arrested and
84 search warrants were issued in six states, according to a
federal police statement.  Ricardo Teixeira resigned as head of the CBF in March,
after the British Broadcasting Corp. named him as a beneficiary
of bribes paid by FIFA’s bankrupt former marketing partner ISL
in a separate case. He has denied the allegations.  “We can’t leave soccer in the hands of these guys,”
former soccer star and now congressman Romario de Souza Faria
said in a message on his Twitter account.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Raymond Colitt in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 rcolitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  