-- Brazil Economists Cut GDP Forecasts for Second Straight Week
-- B y   M a t t h e w   M a l i n o w s k i
-- 2012-11-26T12:05:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-26/brazil-economists-cut-gdp-forecasts-for-second-straight-week-2-.html
Analysts covering  Brazil ’s economy
lowered their 2012 and 2013 growth forecasts for the second
straight week, as a lack of investment and the weak global economy
outweigh the effects of stimulus measures in the world’s second-
biggest emerging market.  Brazil’s gross domestic product will expand 1.5 percent this
year and 3.94 percent in 2013, according to the median estimate of
about 100 analysts in a central bank survey published today.
Analysts had forecast 1.52 percent and 3.96 percent respectively
the previous week.  Local manufacturers are struggling to remain competitive
against global rivals even as the real has declined more against
the dollar this year than any other of 16 major currencies tracked
by Bloomberg. Brazil’s recovery remains vulnerable due to low
rates of investment, said Roberto Padovani, chief economist at
Votorantim Ctvm Ltd.  “It’s clear that investments in industry are worrisome,”
Padovani said in a telephone interview from  Sao Paulo . “Many
analysts believe there are serious problems related to
competitiveness, as well as the backdrop of global economic
uncertainty.”  Falling Output  Industrial output in September fell for the first time since
May on lower machine and equipment expenditures. Brazil’s
seasonally adjusted economic activity index, a proxy for gross
domestic product, fell for the first time in six months in
September on slower industrial output and vehicle sales.  Officials in President Dilma Rousseff’s administration have
said that a series of stimulus measures is already reviving
growth. Since August 2011, policy makers have reduced the
benchmark Selic rate by 525 basis points to a record 7.25 percent,
cut taxes for consumers and companies and increased public
spending.  Certain indicators suggest the economy is picking up speed.
Foreign direct investment in Brazil was greater than economists
expected for October, while retail sales rose for the fourth
straight month in September. The government expects GDP to grow
1.2 percent in the third quarter and at least 4 percent in 2013,
Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  said on Nov. 23.  Mantega said on Nov. 23 that Brazil’s real, which has
declined 10.1 percent against the dollar this year, boosting
industry competitiveness, is still not at an “entirely
satisfactory” level.  ’Under Control’  Annual inflation through mid-November accelerated to 5.64
percent, even as the pace of  monthly increases  slowed from mid-
October. Brazil’s inflation remains “under control” and falling
wholesale prices “are expected to be reflected in consumer prices
in the coming months,” central bank President Alexandre Tombini
said in a congressional hearing last week. Tombini added that
inflation will converge to the central bank’s target by the third
quarter next year. The bank targets inflation of 4.5 percent plus
or minus two percentage points.  Economists in the survey forecast inflation of 5.43 percent
this year, down from the previous week’s estimate of 5.45 percent,
and said prices would rise 5.40 percent next year, up from the
previous estimate of 5.39 percent.  Brazil’s economy expanded 2.7 percent last year, down from
7.5 percent in 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Malinowski in Brasilia at 
 mmalinowski@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 