-- Brent Poised to Depose WTI as Most-Traded Oil Futures
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2012-11-26T13:43:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-26/brent-poised-to-oust-wti-as-most-traded-oil-futures.html
For the first year since the futures
were created, Brent crude is poised to overtake West Texas
Intermediate oil as the world’s most-traded commodity.  Daily trading in Brent jumped 14 percent to average 567,000
contracts in the year to Nov. 20 compared with all of 2011,
while WTI fell 17 percent to 575,000, according to data from the
ICE Futures  Europe  exchange in  London  and  New York  Mercantile
Exchange compiled by Bloomberg. The number of Brent futures
changing hands has  exceeded  those for WTI every month from April
through October, the longest streak since at least 1995.  Brent, produced in the North Sea, is gaining favor among
traders because of its role as the benchmark for energy prices
from  Saudi Arabia  to  Russia . Prices have climbed 34 percent in
the past two years, reflecting everything from war in  Libya  to
the embargo on  Iran . WTI, the main grade in the U.S., has risen
9 percent as the nation, which prohibits crude exports, has
struggled to clear a glut at Cushing,  Oklahoma , the delivery
point for Nymex futures.  “ Brent crude  will grow in significance,” Angelos Damaskos, manager of the Junior Oils Trust, which invests about
45 million pounds ($72 million) in energy companies, said by
phone from London on Nov. 20. “The market is looking at Brent
as the international leading index for traded crude. It will be
a trend that will continue for a very long time.”  Peak Transactions  Transactions in Brent peaked at 1.18 million lots a day on
June 21 as prices fell below $90 a barrel for the first time
since December 2010. Volumes of WTI reached a record of 1.47
million on Jan. 28, 2011. Each contract is for 1,000 barrels.  By some measures, WTI remains ahead. Open interest, the
number of contracts that have not been closed, remains 30
percent higher for the U.S. futures at 1.5 million lots this
year, compared with 1.16 million for Brent, data from the
exchanges show. That underscores its continued importance for
world markets, according to  Doug King , the co-founder of the
Merchant Commodity Fund, which invests about $250 million.  If the WTI volumes that are also registered on ICE’s
exchange are added to those on Nymex, the U.S. grade remains the
more widely-traded. Combined WTI volumes on ICE and Nymex have
averaged 704,152 lots this year.  The ascent of Brent futures turnover is a boon for
Atlanta-based Intercontinental Exchange Inc., which owns ICE
Futures Europe and competes with Nymex parent CME Group Inc. in
 Chicago  for dominance in energy derivatives trading.  Index Adjustments  The world’s most-tracked commodity indexes are adjusting
their weightings in response to the expanding Brent volumes,
raising the likelihood that investors who use such gauges will
follow suit.  Brent’s allocation in the Standard & Poor’s GSCI Commodity
Index of 24 raw materials will be increased to 22.34 percent
from 18.35 percent in 2013, while WTI’s will be cut to 24.71
percent from 30.96 percent, Michael McGlone, a vice president at
S&P Dow Jones Indices, said on Nov. 5. The Dow Jones-UBS
Commodity Index will similarly expand the portion allotted to
Brent and reduce WTI, according to an Oct. 24 statement.  “The market has moved over with its daily volumes into the
Brent contract and clearly the passive indexes going forward
will re-weight as well,” King said from London. “Without doubt
it’s a transition that’s happening and will probably continue to
happen unless or until the WTI contract gets reacquainted with
the global marketplace.”  U.S. Fracking  U.S.  oil production  rose for an 11th week through Nov. 16,
the longest stretch of gains since at least 1990, as horizontal
drilling and hydraulic fracturing, known as fracking, unlock
resources in North Dakota,  Texas  and Oklahoma. Output climbed to
an 18-year high of 6.71 million barrels a day, the Energy
Department said Nov. 21. The 1975 Energy Policy and Conservation
Act, enacted two years after the Arab oil embargo, prevents U.S.
companies from exporting crude without government permission.  WTI’s discount to Brent will narrow next year with the
expansion of a pipeline that transports crude from Cushing to
refineries in Texas and Louisiana, according to Greg Sharenow,
who co-manages $30 billion of commodity investments at Pacific
Investment Management Co. in Newport Beach,  California .  The Seaway pipeline, operated by  Enbridge Inc. (ENB)  and
 Enterprise Products Partners LP (EPD) , will be able to send 400,000
barrels a day from Cushing to the Houston area from Jan. 1,
compared with 150,000 a day now, Enterprise Chief Executive
Officer Mike Creel said on Nov. 13.  WTI Relevance  “The global importance of WTI will increase significantly,
commensurate with this expanding physical growth and
distribution,” Bob Levin,  CME (CME)  Group’s managing director for
energy, research and product development, said in an e-mailed
statement. “WTI will reflect the relevant fundamentals, which
are transparently provided on a weekly basis by the U.S.
government.”  Prices for Brent crude have advanced 3.5 percent this year
on ICE, buoyed by the loss of supplies resulting from the
European Union’s embargo against Iran and concern that tension
in the  Middle East  will trigger a wider output disruption. WTI
has retreated 11 percent. Brent for January settlement slid 19
cents, or 0.2 percent, to $111.19 a barrel at 1:37 p.m. today on
the ICE exchange in London while WTI dropped 44 cents to $87.84
on the Nymex.  An unprecedented flow of North Sea crude was shipped to
 South Korea  in the first half of this year after the EU signed a
free-trade accord in July 2011 with the Asian nation, further
supporting the European marker.  Brent has averaged $111.91 a barrel this year, and WTI
$94.78, putting the North Sea marker closer to the average price
of a  basket of crudes  sold by the Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries, at $109.74.  ‘Shift Into Brent’  “As there’s more shift into Brent at the expense of WTI,
we see the index players will increase their position and their
trading on Brent relative to WTI,” said Itay Simkin, chief
executive officer of Krom River Trading AG in Baar,  Switzerland ,
which has a commodities hedge fund managing about $730 million.
“We definitely trade more Brent and its products than before.”  The U.S. crude contract was inaugurated in 1983 on the
Nymex, which is now part of CME. Brent derivatives followed five
years later on the International Petroleum Exchange, which was
later acquired by ICE.  While the price of WTI will probably appreciate relative to
Brent over the next 12 months, the contract itself has lost its
relevance as a marker for global oil markets, Pimco’s Sharenow
said by phone Nov. 20.  “When we talk about  asset allocation , when we talk about
the overall impact of oil on inflation, and all these sort of
things, we’ve been talking about Brent as the price of oil,”
Sharenow said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on 
 sev@bloomberg.net  