-- Bunds Rise as EU Ministers Meet on Greece; Belgian Bonds Advance
-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a
-- 2012-11-26T16:34:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-26/bunds-are-little-changed-before-eu-ministers-meet-on-greek-aid.html
German bonds rose for the first time
in six days amid speculation European Union finance ministers
meeting today will fail to reach a deal on unlocking aid for
 Greece , boosting demand for the region’s safest assets.  Ten-year bund  yields  fell from the highest level in two
weeks as a report showed German  consumer confidence  will drop
for the first time in seven months in December after the euro-
area debt crisis pushed the region into a recession. Spanish
bonds were little changed as pro-independence parties in
Catalonia won a regional vote. Belgian bonds advanced as the
nation auctioned securities at record-low borrowing costs.  “Bunds do look rich at these levels but the selling
pressure isn’t there and is unlikely to be there near term,”
said  Richard McGuire , a senior rates strategist at Rabobank
International in  London . The polls in Catalonia underlined “the
ongoing momentum regarding Catalonian separatism, which is not a
market positive,” he said.  German 10-year yields dropped two basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, to 1.41 percent at 4:33 p.m. London time,
after rising to 1.45 percent on Nov. 23, the highest since Nov.
7. The 1.5 percent bond maturing in September 2022 gained 0.215,
or 2.15 euros per 1,000-euro ($1,296) face amount, to 100.795.  Finance chiefs from the single-currency bloc started their
meeting at 12:30 p.m. in Brussels, less than a week after an
all-night gathering failed to yield agreement and days after a
European Union summit broke up without a proposed seven-year
budget. At stake is the continuation of a three-year mission to
return Greece to financial health.  Financing Gap  A breakthrough hinges on lawmakers coming up with 10
billion euros to fill Greece’s financing gap that emerged when
the nation this month received two more years to meet deficit-
reduction targets.  “It would be irresponsible not to reach an accord given
all the efforts that have been made on all sides,” French
Finance Minister  Pierre Moscovici  said late yesterday on BFM
television. “I’m not going to guarantee that an accord will be
reached, but I think the third time should be the charm.”  Greece’s debt will probably still be too large for the
nation to bear even if European officials agree to repurchase
 government bonds  and release a 44 billion-euro aid payment,
according to Barclays Plc.  “Even a successful Greek debt buyback wouldn’t come close
to achieving a sustainable Greek debt position,” Cagdas Aksu, a
London-based rates strategist at Barclays, wrote in a client
note published on Nov. 23.  Consumer Sentiment  GfK SE (GFK)  said today its  consumer-sentiment index  for  Germany ,
based on a survey of about 2,000 people, will fall to 5.9 from a
revised 6.1 in November. That would be the first decline since
May. Economists predicted a drop to 6.2 from GfK’s initial 6.3
estimate for November, according to the median of 27 estimates
in a Bloomberg  survey .  The yield on  Belgium ’s five-year securities decreased three
basis points to 0.96 percent, while  10-year rates  were two basis
points lower at 2.28 percent, after sliding earlier to 2.27
percent, the least since Nov. 19.  Belgium sold almost 3.2 billion euros of bonds with
maturities ranging from five to 10 years. The Brussels-based
debt agency allotted 855 million euros of 10-year securities at
an average yield of 2.252 percent, less than the previous record
of 2.418 percent in last month’s auction. It also sold 655
million euros of five-year notes at 0.935 percent, down from
1.08 percent on Oct. 29, as well as debt maturing in 2019.  Bond Returns  German bonds returned 3.4 percent this year through Nov.
23, according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European
Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. Belgian debt earned
14 percent.  Catalan President Artur Mas, who called early elections to
force the debate on independence, won 50 of the 135 seats in the
regional assembly for his  Convergencia i Unio  party, down from
62. The separatist Catalan Republican Left, known as the ERC,
more than doubled its seats to 21 from 10. Two smaller parties
that also back a plebiscite secured 16 seats.  The vote strengthened a drive for a referendum on secession
in defiance of Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy , who said
such a move is unconstitutional. Rajoy has been deliberating on
whether to seek a bailout for the country.  The yield on  Spain ’s 10-year bonds was at 5.61 percent,
after earlier rising as much as four basis points. The rate on
similar-maturity Italian debt was also little changed, at 4.75
percent, after falling for four consecutive days.  Volatility on German bonds was the highest in euro-region
markets, followed by those of  France , according to measures of
10-year or equivalent-maturity debt, the spread between two- and
10-year securities, and credit default swaps.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  