-- Canada’s Dollar Weakens as Carney Named Bank of England Governor
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2012-11-26T22:06:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-26/canadian-dollar-falls-from-two-week-high-as-risk-appetite-ebbs.html
The Canadian dollar fell from almost
a two-week high against its U.S. counterpart as Bank of Canada
Governor Mark Carney was named chief of the Bank of  England ,
spurring speculation over who will replace him in Ottawa.  The currency weakened as risk appetite waned amid concern
that  Europe  is struggling with its debt crisis and a budget
deadlock may push the U.S. into recession. Crude oil, Canada’s
biggest export, and stocks fell. Bonds rose. Finance Minister
Jim Flaherty said the government will soon form a special
committee to recruit Carney’s replacement.  “It creates tremendous uncertainty for Canada in the sense
that we don’t know who the next head of the Bank of Canada will
be,”  Camilla Sutton , chief currency strategist in Toronto at
 Bank of Nova Scotia (BNS) ’s Scotiabank, said in a telephone interview.
“Uncertainty typically isn’t very good for currency markets, so
I would expect the Canadian dollar to weaken off.”  Canada’s currency, nicknamed the loonie for the image of
the waterfowl on the C$1 coin, depreciated as much as 0.3
percent to 99.60 cents per U.S. dollar before trading little
changed at 99.31 cents at 5 p.m. in Toronto. It gained earlier
to 99.18 after reaching 99.16 cents on Nov. 23, the strongest
level since Nov. 7. One Canadian dollar buys $1.0065.  A gauge of volatility reached the lowest in more than a
decade before rising as the currency weakened. Implied
volatility for three-month options on the U.S. dollar versus the
loonie touched 5.6425 percent, the least since May 2001, before
rising to as high as 5.8675 percent. The 10-year average is 9.98
percent. Implied volatility, which traders quote and use to set
option prices, signals the expected pace of currency swings.  ‘More Volatility’  “You’re going to get more volatility,”  Joseph Trevisani ,
chief market strategist at WorldWideMarkets Ltd. In Woodcliff
Lake, New Jersey, said in a phone interview. “There’s too many
potential things that can happen over the next two or three
months that will push the Canadian dollar one way or another.”  Canada’s government bonds rose, with securities due in 10
years and more gaining for the first time in six days. The yield
on benchmark  10-year debt  dropped three basis points, or 0.03
percentage point, to 1.76 percent as the price of the 2.75
percent securities maturing in June 2022 increased 23 cents to
C$108.64. Thirty-year bond yields decreased two basis points to
2.34 percent, and two-year note yields fell two basis points to
1.1 percent.  Carney, 47, a former Goldman Sachs Group Inc. managing
director, was named BOC governor in 2008. He also heads the
Group of 20’s Financial Stability Board, where he’s pushed for
tougher regulations for global lenders.  First Foreigner  He will become the first foreigner to run the 318-year-old
BOE as it absorbs new powers to oversee banks. Carney previously
signaled he wasn’t a candidate for the job.  His move to the U.K., effective in July, will hurt the
Canadian dollar “long term, but in the short term, dollar-
 Canada  should stay around the parity level,” Peter Gorra, chief
dealer for BNP Paribas SA in New York, said in an interview on
Bloomberg Television’s “Lunch Money” with Sara Eisen.  “You’ll see some volatility in Canadian bonds and the
loonie as people try to get a handle on what it could mean, but
ultimately I don’t see much of a difference,” Adrian Miller, a
fixed-income strategist at GMP Securities LLC in New York, said
in a telephone interview. “The Finance Ministry and the bank
are likely to promote an individual with similar characteristics
to Carney where he’s going to remain somewhat on the hawkish
side.”  Carney has kept Canada’s benchmark  interest rate  at 1
percent since September 2010 to support the economy. He said
earlier this year tighter monetary policy “may become
appropriate” as the nation’s economy moves toward full output.  Successor Selection  Flaherty said in a statement posted on the Finance
Department’s website that the “usual practice” for selecting
and appointing the Bank of Canada’s governor will be followed.
The bank’s board of directors will form a special panel of
independent directors to recruit the next chief, he said.  BOC Senior Deputy Governor Tiff Macklem is the most likely
successor to Carney as head of the country’s central bank,
economists and money managers said.  Macklem, 51, is “a natural choice,” said  Sebastien Lavoie , economist at Montreal-based Laurentian Bank and former
Bank of Canada employee. “He knows his way around in Ottawa.”  The loonie also weakened as crude oil for January delivery
lost 0.5 percent to $87.80 a barrel in New York, and Standard &
Poor’s  GSCI index  of 24 raw materials declined 0.4 percent.
Commodities including oil account for about half of Canada’s
export revenue. The S&P 500 Index lost as much as 0.8 percent
before ending the day down 0.2 percent.  Resistance Level  The greenback “was unable to muster enough momentum” to
sustain an advance beyond 99.52 cents, a former support level
that has become a key resistance level, Matthew Weller, a
technical analyst in Grand Rapids,  Michigan , at the online
broker GFT Markets, wrote in a client note. Support is an area
on a chart where buy orders may be clustered, and resistance is
where there may be sell orders.  Euro-area finance ministers met in Brussels to try to clear
the next installment of rescue aid to  Greece , where the region’s
sovereign-debt crisis began three years ago, and discuss ways to
keep the country a solvent member of the currency bloc. An 11-
hour overnight session last week failed to produce decisions.  In the U.S., lawmakers prepared to debate in a budget
showdown. If they can’t reach agreement, $607 billion in
automatic spending cuts and tax increases starting Jan. 1 will
cause the world’s biggest economy to contract 0.5 percent next
year, according to the Congressional Budget Office. The
situation is known as the fiscal cliff.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  