-- Canada Opposition Seeks Upset in Calgary Conservative Stronghold
-- B y   J e r e m y   v a n   L o o n
-- 2012-11-26T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-26/canada-opposition-seeks-upset-in-calgary-conservative-stronghold.html
Canada’s ruling  Conservative Party 
faces a possible upset in Calgary, the political home of Prime
Minister  Stephen Harper , in one of three special elections being
held today to fill vacancies in the House of Commons.  Voting takes place in the electoral district of Calgary
Centre -- where downtown condos sit in the shadows of office
towers housing oil and gas  companies  -- with opinion polls
showing Harper’s Conservative Party candidate, Joan Crockatt,
holding a narrow lead over Liberal and  Green Party  contenders.  The Conservatives under Harper won their first majority
mandate last year after running minority governments since 2006,
winning every district in Calgary and all but one in the
province of Alberta. A Liberal win in Calgary would be that
party’s first since 1968, according to  records  kept by the House
of Commons.  A poll of 376 people by Forum Research conducted Nov. 12
showed 32 percent support for Crockett, compared with 30 percent
for  Harvey Locke  of the Liberals and 23 percent for the Green’s
 Chris Turner . The poll has a margin of error of 5 percentage
points. Crockatt’s support has fallen from 44 percent since the
summer, according to Forum Research.  The special election is being held to replace Conservative
Lee Richardson, who resigned to work for  Alberta  Premier Alison Redford. Richardson took 58 percent of the vote in the 2011
election, while the Liberal candidate was a distant second with
18 percent.  Symbolic Blow  A loss would be a symbolic blow for Harper, said James
Lightbody, chairman of the political science department at the
University of Alberta. “Harper is from Calgary,” he said by
telephone. “It would be a serious expression of disloyalty to
elect anyone other than a Conservative in a Calgary riding.”  While the Conservatives swept rural districts in Alberta
and in many other provinces, Calgary Centre is one of the most
urban seats in the province, said Keith Brownsey, associate
professor in the political science department at Mount Royal
University in Calgary. Many of its voters supported Naheed Nenshi, he said, who was elected in 2010 as  Canada ’s first
Muslim mayor.  “Calgarians have a unique opportunity to let the federal
government know what they think in the very near future,”
Nenshi, who is not aligned with any political party, wrote on
the city’s website on Nov. 16. “Since voters know the
government will not change, they often vote on issues over party
or to send a message to the government of the day.”  National issues don’t appear to be key to the Calgary vote.
Green candidate Turner has campaigned on the need for a national
transit strategy to help the city deal with traffic congestion.
In contrast, Crockatt’s  campaign  website features less-local
issues such agriculture and exports.  Cnooc-Nexen  While the Green Party has said that Harper should reject
the $15.1 billion bid by Beijing-based  Cnooc Ltd. (883)  for Calgary-
based oil and gas producer  Nexen Inc. (NXY) , the  Liberal Party  has
been supportive of the deal, while saying the Conservatives
haven’t made foreign-investment rules clear.  “The federal government has completely failed in making
the case for foreign investment,” said Liberal Justin Trudeau
at Locke’s campaign office on Nov. 20. “We need foreign
investment to survive and thrive as a country.”  Trudeau, son of former Prime Minister Pierre Trudeau, is a
candidate for the leadership of the Liberal Party. Other opinion
polls have shown the Liberals’ popularity would increase sharply
with Trudeau as leader.  “There is certainly the possibility of a surprise,” with
today’s vote, said Lightbody. “My instinct would say the
Conservatives will win it, but if a protest vote is going to
materialize it would probably be for the Greens.”  Fast Growing  Alberta was Canada’s third largest economy in 2011,
according to 2011  Statistics Canada . It grew 5.1 percent last
year, almost twice as fast as the national rate, with mining and
oil and gas extraction directly accounting for about 19 percent
of output. Calgary’s jobless rate was 4.7 percent in October,
Statistics Canada reported earlier this month, compared with 7.4
percent  nationally .  The two other elections are being held in Victoria, British
Columbia, and the constituency of Durham, in Ontario. The  New
Democratic Party ’s Denise Savoie won the Victoria seat with 51
percent of the vote in 2011, and has since resigned for health
reasons. The Conservative victor in Durham, former Development
Minister Bev Oda, had 55 percent support last year, and resigned
after facing criticism for her travel expenses.  While an opposition win in Calgary would strike a symbolic
blow, it would do little to change the  balance of power  in the
House of Commons. Before the elections, there were 163
Conservatives in the 308-seat legislature, 100 NDP, 35 Liberals,
four  Bloc Quebecois , one Green and 2 independents.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeremy van Loon in Calgary at 
 jvanloon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  