-- Cape Wind Proceeds With Financing After Contract Approved
-- B y   A n d r e w   H e r n d o n
-- 2012-11-26T22:43:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-26/cape-wind-proceeds-with-financing-after-contract-approved.html
(Corrects spelling of spokesman’s name in fifth
paragraph.)  Cape Wind Associates LLC, the
developer of a 468-megawatt wind farm off the coast of
 Massachusetts , said regulators approved a power sales contract
with utility Nstar, bringing the project one step closer to
financing.  The Massachusetts Department of Public Utilities today
approved the 15-year power purchase agreement for 129 megawatts
of the offshore wind farm’s capacity, Cape Wind said in an e-
mailed statement. The Boston-based developer has a separate deal
with  National Grid Plc (NG/)  for half of the project’s output that was
upheld by the Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court in December.  Construction on the wind farm, which will use  Siemens AG (SIE) 
turbines, has been planned for more than a decade and may begin
as early as next year, Cape Wind said on June 26. Approval of
the second power purchase agreement will help the company secure
financing, Mark Rodgers, a spokesman, said today by e-mail.  “We are moving forward on project financing for the two
PPAs we have in place for 77.5 percent of the project,” Rodgers
said. “We are optimistic we will be able to sell additional
power, and we will seek additional financing for those turbines
at that time,” he said.  He declined to comment how much the first segment of the
project, consisting of 101 turbines, will cost. Both contracts
have provisions that “help enable the project to secure
financing” if a federal tax credit that provides wind-power
producers 2.2 cents a kilowatt-hour expires Dec. 31, Rodgers
said.  Northeast Utilities (NU)  on Feb. 15 received approval to buy
Nstar, and the Cape Wind contract was part of a settlement with
Massachusetts regulators that reviewed the purchase.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Herndon in San Francisco at 
 aherndon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  