-- Capito to Run for U.S. Senate From West Virginia in 2014
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r   a n d   G r e g   G i r o u x
-- 2012-11-26T16:42:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-26/capito-said-to-be-running-for-senate-from-west-virginia.html
Republican Representative Shelley Moore Capito said she will run in 2014 for the  U.S. Senate  seat
from West Virginia that Democrat  Jay Rockefeller  has occupied
since 1985.  “I’m ready to make the run,” Capito said today in an
interview with the MetroNews radio network in West Virginia. “I
know it will be difficult, but I am ready to do it.”  The six-term congresswoman said she decided to run in part
because “the Senate has been basically dysfunctional over the
past several years.”  “I have good ideas that I’ve put forward in the  House of
Representatives , and I want to put them into action in the
Senate,” she said in the interview.  Rockefeller, 75, who earlier this month declined to say
whether he will seek a sixth Senate term, is chairman of the
Commerce, Science and Transportation Committee.  In a statement e-mailed today, he said Capito called him
last week to inform him of her plans, adding that he
“appreciated” the advance notice.  “Being  West Virginia ’s U.S. senator is a great honor, and
I am proud and passionate about my continued service to our
state,” Rockefeller said. He added that his “total focus right
now is on the national budget situation and the fight for West
Virginia families.”  His statement didn’t say whether he will seek another term.  Capito, 59, is viewed as the Republicans’ best candidate in
a traditionally Democratic state that last elected a Republican
U.S. senator in 1956, yet has trended Republican in federal
races including presidential elections. She is the first
Republican woman elected to Congress from West Virginia.  She made her announcement, which was earlier reported by
the Washington Post, less than three weeks after President
 Barack Obama  became the first major-party presidential nominee
in history to lose all 55 West Virginia counties.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net ;
Greg Giroux in Washington at 
 ggiroux@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  