-- Chavez Choking on Bolivars to Spur Venezuelan Bond Sales
-- B y   C h a r l i e   D e v e r e u x ,   D r e w   B e n s o n   a n d   N a t h a n   C r o o k s
-- 2012-11-26T16:19:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-26/chavez-choking-on-bolivars-to-spur-venezuelan-bond-sales.html
The bolivar’s plunge to a record on
the black market is pressuring Venezuelan President  Hugo Chavez 
to end the longest drought of dollar-bond sales in five years.  Venezuela  hasn’t issued bonds denominated in U.S. currency
since October last year, after selling a record $7.2 billion in
the first 10 months of 2011, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. State-owned Petroleos de Venezuela SA, Latin
America’s largest oil producer, last sold dollar-denominated
notes in May. The yearlong drought is leaving the central bank
without enough dollars for Venezuelans to buy at official fixed
rates, sparking the bolivar’s 42 percent drop this year in the
unregulated market. The bolivar declined 6.2 percent today.  Speculation is increasing that Chavez will boost debt sales
to obtain dollars, halting the second-biggest emerging-market
bond rally this year as he tries to devalue the bolivar to boost
oil revenue and close a  budget deficit . Yields on Venezuela’s
benchmark bonds due in 2027 have risen 0.2 percentage point to
10.62 percent since Chavez’s election to a third six-year term
on Oct. 7 disappointed investors who bet his defeat would end
policies that repelled foreign investment and fanned inflation.  “To make this work they need to have a supply of bonds, so
they need to issue,” said Jim Craige, who helps oversee $51
billion in emerging-market debt, including Venezuela and PDVSA
debt, at Stone Harbor Investment Partners in  New York . “It
makes a lot more sense to do it with a weaker  exchange rate  than
where it is right now, which in no way reflects reality.”  Relative Value  An official at the  Finance Ministry  who asked not to be
identified because of government policy declined to comment on
the possibility of a bond sale or currency devaluation.  Venezuela has about $38 billion in dollar bonds while
state-owned PDVSA, as the company is known, has $32.5 billion in
outstanding debt, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
 Brazil  has about $34.5 billion of dollar bonds outstanding.  Venezuela’s dollar bonds have advanced 33.6 percent this
year, second only to the  Ivory Coast , as investors speculated
that Chavez, 58, may not be able to serve out a full term
because of health problems. The former tank commander has cut
down public appearances after undergoing three operations to
remove cancerous tumors since June 2011.  The rally has pushed down average yields by 3.25 percentage
points to 10.86 percent this year, JPMorgan Chase & Co. indexes
show. Venezuela’s borrowing costs are still the second highest
after  Argentina ’s among major developing nations and more than
twice the 4.69 percent average for  emerging markets .  The cost to protect Venezuelan debt against non-payment for
five years has fallen 163 basis points, or 1.63 percentage
points, this year to 764 basis points, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. It rose eight basis points today.  Exchange Rate  The decline in perceived default risk is the largest in
 Latin America  on an absolute basis, the data show. The contracts
pay the buyer face value in exchange for the underlying
securities or cash.  Since Chavez’s re-election, the bolivar has fallen 17
percent in unregulated trading to 14.79 per dollar today,
according to  Lechuga Verde , a website that tracks the rate.  Venezuelans use the black market when they can’t get access
to the central bank’s Sitme exchange, which sells dollars to
businesses for 5.3 bolivars, or the so-called Cadivi system that
sells dollars at 4.3 bolivars for priority imports.  The country is weighing changes to the central bank system
given the bolivar’s plunge in black-market trading, a government
official with direct knowledge of the matter said in an
interview Nov. 12. The central bank is selling fewer dollars on
the Sitme to limit its losses, the official, who asked not to be
identified because no final decision has been made, said.  Spending Spree  He also said scrapping the Sitme was possible, without
providing additional details.  Chavez has cut spending and restricted dollar supplies to
local investors since beating presidential rival Henrique
Capriles Radonski by more than 10 percentage points last month.  Inflation-adjusted spending fell 34.1 percent from a year
earlier in the four weeks after the Oct. 7 vote, according to
Bank of America Corp. The supply of dollars to the Sitme dropped
46 percent to an average of $23.1 million a day so far in
November from an average of $42.6 million a day in the first 10
months of the year.  In the first nine months of the year, Chavez increased
spending by 20.5 percent, according to data compiled by Bank of
America Corp. that adjust for inflation.  While oil revenue over that span climbed to a four-year
high of $72.6 billion, Chavez’s spending spree helped push the
nation’s budget deficit to 7.8 percent of the economy, according
to  Francisco Rodriguez , an economist at Bank of America.  Dollar Shortage  The shortage of dollars will prompt Chavez to turn to the
bond markets, creating a glut that could depress prices of
outstanding debt, according to Kathryn Rooney Vera, a strategist
at Bulltick Capital Markets.  “There’s going to be some necessary issuance,” she said
in an interview from Miami. “It makes sense, too, because you
want to get it over with as soon as possible while you still
have the political capital.”  Venezuela last sold dollar bonds in October 2011, when it
issued $3 billion of 11.75 percent bonds due in 2026 to local
investors seeking foreign currency. The last time the country
went so long without issuing debt was between November 2005 and
November 2007, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The government uses dollar bond sales to help maintain the
value of its currency as well as to supplement its other
mechanisms for allocating foreign currency. The bonds are sold
locally in bolivars at the official exchange rate and importers
can sell them on in the secondary market in exchange for dollars
or euros.  Power Play  Boris Segura , a Latin America strategist at Nomura Holdings
Inc., says the slowdown in Sitme flows doesn’t mean the
government must sell bonds. The central bank may be holding off
on devaluation in order not to incur losses, he said.  Venezuela boosted local debt sales by 60 percent to 246
billion bolivars as of Sept. 30.  “The central bank had to pay the bill last time on the
carry-over from just before to just after the devaluation,”
Segura said. “They might be delivering dollars at a bare
minimum so that the central bank doesn’t have to foot the bill
when there is a devaluation.”  Chavez devalued the bolivar by 40 percent in December 2010.
He first imposed currency controls in 2003 to keep money from
leaving the nation after an attempt to oust him from power and a
nationwide oil strike caused political instability. He tightened
restrictions further in 2010 by shutting more than 50 brokerages
that operated an unregulated  currency market  by swapping bonds
for dollars. The market was replaced by the Sitme.  Government Control  The currency controls, coupled with price caps on over 100
products and the nationalization of more than 1,000 businesses
or their assets, has prompted Moody’s Investors Service to lower
Venezuela’s foreign currency debt by three levels to B2 from Ba2
since Chavez took power in 1999.  The rating, five levels below investment grade, is the
second-lowest among major economies in Latin America after
Argentina.  While Chavez has relied on loans from  China Development
Bank  to fund spending this year and the Sitme market had
sufficient bonds to satisfy currency demand during the electoral
campaign, the government will need access to more dollars as
debt comes due next year, according to Henkel Garcia, the
director of Econometrica, a Caracas-based consultancy.  The nation has about $2.3 billion in dollar debt that needs
to be repaid in 2013, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “They’re going to issue because in 2013 there’s a bunch of
bonds maturing,” said Garcia in a telephone interview.
“They’re going to have to address that and with the foreign
currency flow we’re seeing at the moment you’re either obliged
to issue or go to the Chinese. We’ll see a bit of both.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Charlie Devereux in Caracas at 
 cdevereux3@bloomberg.net ;
Drew Benson in New York at 
 abenson9@bloomberg.net ;
Nathan Crooks in Caracas at 
 ncrooks@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael Tsang  at 
 mtsang1@bloomberg.net  