-- China’s Military Advances With Aircraft Carrier Fighter Landings
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-11-26T05:03:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-26/china-s-military-advances-with-aircraft-carrier-fighter-landings.html
China  achieved a military milestone
when a homegrown fighter jet landed on its new aircraft carrier,
the latest step in a modernization bid that’s recorded advances
in submarines, cyber warfare and in outer space.  The J-15 fighter jet successfully landed on the Liaoning
aircraft carrier, the official Xinhua news agency reported Nov.
24, citing unnamed People’s Liberation Army naval sources. The
English-language China Daily ran a front-page photograph today
of one of the jets taking off from the carrier.  The carrier tests underscore China’s progress in military
modernization, which has been accompanied by a doubling of the
defense budget since 2006. China, the biggest spender on defense
after the U.S., has become increasingly assertive in the region
as President  Barack Obama  executes a strategic shift toward Asia
and tensions rise with Japan and other nations over territorial
disputes.  “There are only a handful of countries that have even
attempted this and been able to achieve it,” Patrick Cronin,
senior director of the Asia-Pacific Security Program at the
Center for a New American Security, said of the carrier
landings. “They’re advancing at a very brisk pace but it’s a
steady pace. It’s one that shows that the defense budget is
growing even faster than the economy.”  China commissioned its Liaoning aircraft carrier in
September. The country is looking to build more carriers and
base them in the South China Sea, the site of territorial
disputes with the  Philippines  and  Vietnam , Cronin said.  The build-up follows advances across the military and in
space. China may be able to deploy submarine-launched nuclear
missiles in two years, according to a U.S. Defense Department
annual report to Congress early this year, and performed its
first manned space docking in June.  Defense Spending  Defense spending, projected to be 670 billion  yuan  ($107.3
billion) in 2012, has more than doubled since 2006, tracking a
rise in nominal gross domestic product to 47.2 trillion yuan
from 21.6 trillion yuan. Military outlays were 1.3 percent of
GDP in 2011.  China may spend about $7 billion building four aircraft
carriers and another $30 billion to complete their carrier
groups, Wang Baokun, an associate professor at the Economic
Security and National Defense Economy Institute at Renmin
University, wrote in the China Daily on Nov. 6.  At the center of the program is the J-15, a jet capable of
carrying weapons including anti-ship, air-to-air and air-to-
ground missiles, as well as precision-guided bombs, according to
Xinhua. The jet was developed and built by AVIC Shenyang
Aircraft Corp., a unit of China’s largest aerospace company,
 Aviation Industry Corp of China.   Shenyang Aircraft President Luo Yang, who was the chief
director at the scene of the test landing, died yesterday of a
heart attack while working, according to an e-mailed statement
issued by AVIC.  Japan Dispute  China is embroiled in a dispute with  Japan  over islands
claimed by both sides. Japan’s decision to buy the islands,
known as Senkaku in Japanese and Diaoyu in Chinese, touched off
protests across China in September. Foreign Ministry spokeswoman
Hua Chunying said Nov. 23 any actions taken by China in response
to the Japanese purchase were “proper and necessary.”  China has also resisted talks with the Association of
Southeast Asian Nations on a legally binding code of conduct in
the South China Sea, where it’s deployed maritime surveillance
ships to assert its territorial claims.  The military advancement is “colored and tainted by the
rivalry that is growing between China and Japan,” as well as
other countries, Cronin said. He said the military had many more
programs aimed at boosting its technology.  “There’s nothing the Chinese are not working on -- they’re
just not working on it publicly,” Cronin said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Nicholas Wadhams in Beijing at 
 nwadhams@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  