-- China Cosco and ICICI Bank Market Debt; Asia Bond Risk Decreases
-- B y   R a c h e l   E v a n s   a n d   T a n y a   A n g e r e r
-- 2012-11-26T03:50:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-26/china-cosco-and-icici-bank-market-debt-asia-bond-risk-decreases.html
China Cosco Holdings Co., the
nation’s largest listed shipping company, and  India ’s  ICICI Bank
Ltd. (ICICIBC)  are marketing U.S. dollar-denominated debt. Bond risk in
the Asia-Pacific region fell.  China Cosco is offering 10-year notes at about 275 basis
points more than similar-maturity Treasuries while ICICI plans
to sell $250 million more of its 4.7 percent bonds due February
2018, according to people familiar with the offerings, who both
asked not to be identified because the details are private. The
cost of insuring corporate and sovereign bonds in Asia is poised
to fall to its lowest in a more than a month, according to Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc and CMA prices.  Sales of dollar debt in the region slowed to $1.8 billion
last week, the least in a month, as issuers paused for national
holidays in the U.S. and Japan. The  yield premium  borrowers must
pay to sell dollar notes is falling, dropping last week for the
first time since the five-day period ending Oct. 19, according
to HSBC Holdings Plc indexes.  “I’m expecting the pipeline to continue,” said Edwin Chan, the head of Asian credit research at UBS AG in  Hong Kong .
“As long as the window is open, issuers will continue to tap
the market before year-end.”  ICICI is marketing its sale of additional 2018 notes at a
spread of about 350 basis points more than  U.S. government debt ,
a person familiar with the matter said. ICICI, based in  Mumbai ,
and China Cosco, based in Tianjin, both plan to sell their bonds
as soon as today, the people said.  Kookmin Meetings  Kookmin Bank, the Korean lender owned by the country’s
second-largest financial group, meets investors in Hong Kong
today, Singapore tomorrow and  London  on Nov. 28 and Nov. 29, a
person familiar with the matter said today.  The yield premium on dollar bonds in  Asia  fell 0.4 basis
points last week after increasing 8.4 basis points the week
prior, HSBC indexes show. A basis point is 0.01 percentage
point.  The Markit iTraxx Asia index of 40 investment-grade
borrowers outside Japan fell 2 basis points to 115 as of 8:15
a.m. in Hong Kong, RBS prices show. The gauge, which has ranged
from 112.6 basis points to 175.3 basis points this half, is set
for its lowest close since Oct. 18, according to CMA.  The Markit iTraxx Australia index decreased 3 basis points
to 131.5 basis points as of 11:09 a.m. in Sydney, according to
Westpac Banking Corp. The measure is set for its lowest close
since March 19, according to CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill
Cos. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately
negotiated market.  Japanese Bonds  The Markit iTraxx  Japan  index also dropped 2 basis points
to 174 basis points as of 9:30 a.m. in  Tokyo , Citigroup Inc.
prices show. The index, which has ranged from 168.5 to 229.5
this half, is headed for its lowest since July 6, according to
CMA prices.  Credit-default swap indexes are benchmarks for insuring
bonds against default and traders use them to speculate on
 credit quality . A drop signals improving perceptions of
creditworthiness, while an increase suggests the opposite.  The swap contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities if a borrower fails to meet its debt
agreements.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rachel Evans in Hong Kong at 
 revans43@bloomberg.net ;
Tanya Angerer in Singapore at 
 tangerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  