-- China’s PBOC Chief Search Spurs Focus on Finance Regulators
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-11-27T02:21:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-26/china-search-for-pboc-chief-spurs-focus-on-finance-regulators.html
China’s likely search for a
successor to Zhou Xiaochuan as central bank chief is spurring
focus on the nation’s banking and securities regulators as the
incoming Communist leadership overhauls top government positions.  Guo Shuqing, 56, and  Shang Fulin , 61, have both run one of
China’s four largest banks, worked as a deputy central bank
governor and currently head regulatory agencies -- matching the
profile of Zhou, 64, when he took the helm of the People’s Bank
of China in 2002.  As securities regulator, Guo has accelerated the pace that
predecessor Shang set for opening up to foreign investors,
suggesting he could favor faster deregulation of financial
markets. While Guo’s public appearances have included a U.S.
television talk show, Shang has a lower profile and was once
described as cautious by former central bank Governor  Dai Xianglong .  “Shang Fulin is a very conservative, very cautious
individual who in eight years didn’t fundamentally change the
stock market at all,” said  Fraser Howie , co-author of “Red
Capitalism: The Fragile Financial Foundation of China’s
Extraordinary Rise.” “If you are looking for reform in the
sense of fundamentally trying to change what the model is, then
Guo Shuqing is your guy.”  The Communist Party is partway through a once-a-decade
leadership change, with Xi Jinping replacing  Hu Jintao  as party
head this month and  Li Keqiang  forecast to succeed Premier  Wen Jiabao  in March. Zhou wasn’t on the new central committee named
Nov. 14, suggesting he will step aside after a decade that
included ending the  yuan ’s peg to the dollar in 2005.  Relevant Experience  Besides Guo and Shang, five people on the central committee,
including China Insurance Regulatory Commission Chairman  Xiang Junbo , have experience relevant to being central bank governor.
The others are Bank of China Ltd. Chairman Xiao Gang, China
Investment Corp. Chairman  Lou Jiwei , Industrial & Commercial
Bank of China Ltd. Chairman  Jiang Jianqing  and central bank
Deputy Governor  Hu Xiaolian . Jiang and Hu are committee
alternates; the others are full members.  Corporate debt issuance under the CSRC rose about 60
percent in the 12 months after Guo took the China Securities
Regulatory Commission’s reins in October 2011 from the previous
year, government data show. The agency during Shang’s 2002-2011
tenure approved 119 qualified foreign institutional investors;
in Guo’s first year, 73 more were licensed. Shang became the
banking regulator in October 2011.  Influence Decisions  While lacking a Western central banker’s independence,
Zhou’s successor will influence decisions that help shape the
global financial landscape. Major issues include how quickly the
yuan becomes convertible and China deregulates  interest rates ,
and the nation’s role in global institutions such as the
 International Monetary Fund .  “The key issue is whether the successor will use his role
to push for reform,” said  Mark Williams , a London-based
economist at Capital Economics Ltd. and former China adviser to
the U.K. Treasury.  China may face 7 percent economic growth in 2013, a 23-year
low, according to Pacific Investment Management Co., which runs
the world’s largest bond fund.  “Guo and Shang are the most likely candidates because of
their backgrounds,” said  David Loevinger , former senior
coordinator for China affairs at the U.S. Treasury Department.
“Zhou’s path to the PBOC was after serving as chairman of a
bank and another regulatory commission, so his successor is
likely to be one of the current regulators and not a banker.”  Likely Successor  Shang is Zhou’s “most likely successor” and Guo would be
“the best successor,” Yu Yongding, a former academic adviser
to the PBOC, said Nov. 14.  Guo holds a law doctorate and a master’s degree in Marxism
and Leninism from the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences in
Beijing. He was previously chairman of China Construction Bank
Corp., the nation’s second-largest lender, and from 2001 to 2005
ran the State Administration of Foreign Exchange and was
simultaneously a PBOC deputy governor.  While at the CSRC Guo has cut trading fees, pushed for
increased dividends and lifted a ban against trust companies
buying equities to bolster a stock market whose benchmark
Shanghai Composite Index is set for a third straight year of
declines. The gauge was down 0.8 percent as of 10:12 a.m. local
time today.  At Construction Bank he oversaw share listings in Hong Kong
and Shanghai. Guo presided over the sale of a 9 percent stake to
Bank of America Corp. for $3 billion in 2005, then the largest
investment in China by a foreign company.  China’s Creativity  Guo appeared on U.S. television in September 2011, telling
host  Charlie Rose  that China lacks creativity and its government
intervenes too much in business. Rose’s talk show airs on
Bloomberg Television, owned by Bloomberg News parent Bloomberg
LP.  Shang, a former People’s Liberation Army soldier, holds a
doctorate in finance from Southwestern University of Finance and
Economics in Chengdu. He was previously president of
 Agricultural Bank of China Ltd.  and also a central bank deputy
governor before his time at CSRC.  Shang’s successes at the CSRC included adopting new
financial products and overseeing the conversion of non-tradable
state shares into tradable ones, said Barry Naughton, a
professor at the University of California at San Diego.  Xiao, 54, has been a central bank deputy governor and
headed a SAFE branch. He lacks experience at another regulator.  Insurance regulator Xiang, 55, also has a resume that
resembles Zhou’s in 2002, having worked as a central bank deputy
governor and headed Agricultural Bank of China.  Banking Links  At the same time, “insurance is a very small part of the
financial sector and the links with the dominant banking system
are weaker than the securities industry,” said  Nicholas Lardy ,
senior fellow at the Peterson Institute for International
Economics in Washington.  Politics may determine the outcome and Xi and Li can choose
“whoever they like to take this position, with or without the
right qualifications,” said Chen Zhiwu, a finance professor at
 Yale University  in New Haven, Connecticut, and former adviser to
China’s State Council.  “Ultimately it’s a complicated dance of who has more
political capital,” said Loevinger, an Asia analyst in  Los
Angeles  at TCW Group Inc., which oversees $135 billion.  -- Kevin Hamlin . With assistance from Paul Panckhurst in Hong
Kong, Zhou Xin and  Henry Sanderson  in Beijing and Stephanie Phang in Singapore. Editors: Scott Lanman, Rina Chandran  To contact Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Kevin Hamlin in Beijing on 
 khamlin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Scott Lanman at   slanman@bloomberg.net  