-- Christie to Seek Second Term After Sandy Boosts Rating
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 2012-11-26T20:54:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-26/christie-intends-bid-to-seek-second-term-as-new-jersey-governor.html
New Jersey Governor  Chris Christie ,
enjoying record approval ratings for his response to  Hurricane
Sandy , said he plans to seek a second term.  Christie, a 50-year-old Republican whose term expires in a
year, said his campaign treasurer filed papers today with the
state Election Law Enforcement Commission. He said the move
followed a conversation this weekend with his wife Mary Pat and
his four children.  “I’m in this race and I’m in it to win,” he said to
applause in a Port Monmouth fire house, where he was thanking
Sandy first responders and volunteers.  The governor’s job approval rating surged to 77 percent
after Sandy, from 56 percent before the Oct. 29 storm, according
to a poll released today by Fairleigh Dickinson University’s
PublicMind polling center.  The storm swept ashore near  Atlantic City  with hurricane-
force winds and surging flood waters, leaving 37 people dead in
New Jersey and blacking out as many as 2.7 million in the state.
Christie crisscrossed affected areas, giving updates on the
recovery and embracing President  Barack Obama , a Democrat,
following a tour of the damage. A Rutgers-Eagleton Poll released
Nov. 21 also showed a Sandy bounce for Christie.  “Because of everything that’s happened, the public needs
to know I’m in this for the long haul,” Christie said. “It
would be wrong to leave now. We have a job to do and that job
won’t be done by next year.”  Christie, often mentioned as a potential 2016 presidential
candidate, also said he’s “more intent than ever” in seeking a
 tax cut . Small businesses harmed by Sandy need a break, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  