-- Congo Rebels Want Talks With Kabila, Warn on Reinforcements
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   K a v a n a g h
-- 2012-11-26T11:37:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-26/congo-rebels-want-talks-with-kabila-warn-on-reinforcements-1-.html
The Democratic Republic of Congo’s
rebel M23 group called for direct talks with President Joseph Kabila on ending its rebellion and warned the government not to
reinforce its troops in the resource-rich eastern region.  Congolese government officials met members of M23 yesterday
in Kampala, the Ugandan capital, and the rebels will make a
decision on their next move once they’ve has been briefed on
those discussions, Lieutenant-Colonel Vianney Kazarama, a
spokesman for M23, said in a phone interview.  “We want inclusive, direct talks with the president,” he
said yesterday.  M23 captured Goma on Nov. 20 after ending an unofficial
three-month cease-fire with the Congolese army, which has fled
the city close to the border with  Rwanda . The renegade group is
made up of soldiers who mutinied in April and is headed by
General Bosco Ntaganda, who is wanted by the International
Criminal Court for war crimes. A United Nations group of experts
monitoring Congo’s arms embargo has accused Rwanda and Uganda of
backing the rebels, allegations both governments deny.  Congo’s North and South Kivu provinces are one of the
world’s largest sources of columbite-tantalite, the mineral
known as coltan that’s used in mobile phones and computers. The
central African nation is also the continent’s biggest producer
of tin ore, most of which is mined in the Kivus.  Banro Corp. (BAA) ,
based in Toronto, operates the Twangiza gold mine about 200
kilometers south of Goma in South Kivu.  Freeport, AngloGold  Freeport McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. (FCX)  of the U.S., Baar,
Switzerland-based  Glencore International Plc (GLEN) , and Minmetals
Resources Ltd., based in Hong Kong, have copper and cobalt
projects in Congo.  Randgold Resources Ltd. (RRS)  and  AngloGold Ashanti
Ltd. (ANG)  are investing in gold mines in the country, which is about
the size of Western Europe.  The talks between the Congolese government and M23, which
began in Uganda in August, have been given new impetus after a
summit of regional leaders on Nov. 24, James Mugume, permanent
secretary in Uganda’s Foreign Ministry, said in a phone
interview yesterday from Kampala.  The 12-nation International Conference on the Great Lakes
Region agreed to deploy a “composite” force, including
government and M23 soldiers and a group of “neutral” guards,
to protect Goma airport within two days, while calling for the
rebels to move at least 20 kilometers (12 miles) north of the
city.  UN Peacekeepers  UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon welcomed the accord and
said he’s “determined to ensure that the UN presence in the
Congo be adjusted to respond to the evolving challenges.” The
UN has more than 19,000 peacekeepers in Congo.  Regional leaders are also expediting the planned deployment
of a neutral military force to combat M23 and other rebel groups
in eastern Congo, Mugume said. The force has been approved by
the African Union and is awaiting the go-ahead from the UN
Security Council, he said.  “We could get the force by January,” Mugume said. The
financing of such a mission has yet to be made final, he said.  Rwandan President Paul Kagame, who wasn’t among the
delegates at the Nov. 24 summit that included Kabila and Ugandan
President Yoweri Museveni, welcomed the outcome of the meeting.  In a joint statement issued with Republic of Congo
President Denis Sassou Nguesso, Kagame urged neighboring
Democratic Republic of Congo’s government and M23 to “commit to
implementing the Kampala decisions as these represented an
important opportunity to resolve the conflict.”  ‘Appropriate Solutions’  “They also noted the importance of correctly assessing and
understanding the real nature of the various armed groups in the
DRC so that appropriate solutions are found for each,”
according to a statement e-mailed by the presidency in Kigali,
Rwanda’s capital.  Soldiers and weapons have been flown into eastern Congo
since M23’s capture of Goma, capital of the North Kivu province,
forced the army to flee, the rebel group said in an e-mailed
statement. M23 has given “clear and firm instructions” to its
forces to “react vigorously in order to discourage this war-
like initiative,” it said.  Angola , Congo’s southern neighbor, denied a report on an
unidentified Congolese radio station that it plans to troops to
fight the M23 rebels, the government-owned Jornal de Angola
reported, citing Manuel Augusto, state secretary in the Foreign
Ministry. Angola wants a “durable solution that does not
include war,” Augusto said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Kavanagh in Kinshasa at 
 mkavanagh9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Richardson at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net  