-- Corporate Credit Swaps in U.S. Climb; Amazon Sells 3-Part Bonds
-- B y   P e t e r   R a w l i n g s
-- 2012-11-26T21:47:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-26/corporate-credit-swaps-in-u-s-increase-amazon-planning-bonds.html
A gauge of U.S. corporate credit
risk rose for the first time in more than a week as lawmakers
prepared to debate the so-called fiscal cliff.  The Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, climbed 1.7
basis points to a mid-price of 100.8 basis points at 4:24 p.m.
in New York, according to prices compiled by Bloomberg.  The Congressional Budget Office has said a failure to avoid
$607 billion in spending cuts and tax increases set to take
effect next year could lead to a recession and a jobless rate of
about 9 percent, compared with the October rate of 7.9 percent.
Congress returns from the Thanksgiving recess this week seeking
a budget deal to avert that scenario.  “Everybody’s trying to get a hold of this political cliff
situation,” William Larkin, a fixed-income money manager at
Cabot Money Management Inc. in Salem,  Massachusetts , said in a
telephone interview. “It makes a lot of people nervous because
we’re running out of runway.”  In  Europe , finance ministers meet in Brussels for a third
time this month to try to release an aid payment to  Greece  and
produce a plan to keep the country a solvent member of the
currency bloc. They failed to make the decisions in two previous
meetings this month.  The credit-swaps index typically rises as investor
confidence deteriorates and falls as it improves. The contracts
pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point
equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of
debt.  Bank Buying  The average relative yield for investment-grade bonds will
probably trade at about 10 basis points wider than the average
cost to protect the debt with credit-default swaps in 2013,
JPMorgan Chase & Co. strategists led by  Eric Beinstein  wrote in
a research note today to clients. Average bond spreads were
trading at 4 basis points more than protection costs according
to a Nov. 16 report from JPMorgan analysts.  Credit swap spreads may tighten more than those of bonds
partly because of “less bank buying of CDS protection as they
instead hold larger capital buffers,” according to today’s
note.  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) , the world’s largest online retailer,
issued $3 billion of debt in three parts in its first bond
offering in more than a decade. The company sold $750 million of
0.65 percent, three-year notes to yield 38 basis points more
than similar-maturity Treasuries, $1 billion of 1.2 percent,
five-year debt with a 63 basis-point spread, and $1.25 billion
of 2.5 percent, 10-year securities with 93 basis points of extra
yield, Bloomberg data show.  Utility Companies  The average relative yield on speculative-grade debt
dropped 4 basis points to 5.85 percentage points, led by spreads
on the bonds of utility companies which narrowed 19 basis points
to 12.88 percentage points, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. High-yield, high-risk debt is rated below Baa3 by
Moody’s Investors Service and lower than BBB- at Standard &
Poor’s.  The U.S. two-year interest-rate swap spread, a measure of
stress in credit markets, rose 0.25 basis point to 13.25 basis
points, according to Bloomberg prices. The spread typically
widens when investors seek the perceived safety of government
securities and narrows when they favor assets such as corporate
bonds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Rawlings in New York at 
 prawlings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  