-- Credit Suisse Seeks $108 Million From Vestia Over Rate Swaps
-- B y   M a u d   v a n   G a a l
-- 2012-11-26T15:14:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-26/credit-suisse-seeks-108-million-from-vestia-over-rate-swaps.html
Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  is seeking
about 83.2 million euros ($108 million) from Stichting Vestia
Groep to unwind interest-rate derivatives after the Dutch
affordable-housing provider failed to provide more collateral.  The Swiss bank is seeking the payment and other relief
after Vestia failed to meet a deadline to offer more security,
according to a claim filed Nov. 22 with a  London  court and
obtained by  Bloomberg News  today.  Vestia agreed with a group of nine banks in June to unwind
derivative contracts after nearly collapsing when falling
interest rates meant it had to post more collateral. Vestia has
forfeited 1.3 billion euros in collateral it had already
provided and agreed to repay 700 million euros to the banks,
including Deutsche Bank AG, ABN Amro Group NV, Citigroup Inc.
and Rabobank Groep. Other Dutch housing associations will help
cover the 700 million-euro payment.  “Vestia reached an agreement with all parties according to
a fixed formula,” said Ronald Florisson, a spokesman for the
Rotterdam-based housing organization. “A similar offer was made
to Credit Suisse, which refused.”  All parties should be treated equally and Vestia will
defend itself against the claim, he said.  Credit Suisse spokesman Adam Bradbery declined to comment
on the case or the reason why the bank didn’t join other lenders
in the settlement.  ‘Too Big’  Vestia was obliged to pay additional collateral to Credit
Suisse, based in Zurich, if the market value of the derivatives
exceeded 100 million euros, according to the court filing. On
June 5, they had a mark-to-market value of 109 million euros,
the bank said. The next day, Vestia said it had stopped meeting
collateral calls from derivative counterparties, according to
the document.  Vestia once held derivatives with a face value of
22 billion euros, it said in February, compared with 6.1 billion
euros in loans it had outstanding. The holdings were “far too
big,” and didn’t befit a housing organization, former Dutch
Interior Minister Liesbeth Spies wrote in a letter to parliament
dated June 19. The loss, which had been as much as 3 billion
euros, stood at 1.7 billion euros as of March, she said.  The remaining banks that joined in the agreement were
Barclays Plc, BNP Paribas SA, JPMorgan Chase & Co.,  Nomura
Holdings Inc. (8604)  and  Societe Generale SA (GLE) , two people with knowledge
of the discussions who asked not to be identified because the
information is private said in June.  The Dutch government has asked Vestia to make an inventory
of damages and to hold liable “those responsible within and
outside Vestia,” Spies  said  last month. Under the June 18
agreement, which the government helped negotiate, the housing
association reserved the right to hold banks liable for any
fraud, bribery or other wrongdoing on their part, the Interior
Minister said.  The case is Credit Suisse International v. Stichting Vestia
Groep,  High Court  of Justice, Queen’s  Bench Division  (London).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maud van Gaal in Amsterdam at 
 mvangaal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  