-- MCX-SX Broker Fees, Costs to Be Transparent, Dependable:
-- B y   S a n t a n u   C h a k r a b o r t y
-- 2012-11-26T11:47:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-26/mcx-sx-broker-fees-costs-to-be-transparent-dependable-.html
Jignesh Shah, the vice chairman of
MCX Stock Exchange Ltd., comments on plans to begin equities
trading and developing bond markets. He made the comments in an
e-mail.  MCX-SX conducted a test session on Nov. 19 to familiarize
brokers with its trading platform. The bourse will begin  stock
trading  when the number of members reach 350, it said in an e-
mailed statement that day.  On attracting retail investors:  “Globally, retail investors grew on the strength of the
bond markets, which are absent in  India  due to neglect of the
existing exchanges. With MCX-SX coming, this will change.  ‘‘It is made to believe by our exchanges that the work
pertaining to capital market development is complete with a
screen-based trading, a popular index and volumes in futures and
options. Stock markets should first serve the needs of the
economy in terms of capital formation, development of small and
medium enterprises and promote bond markets.’’  On broking, transaction costs:  ‘‘Indian exchanges levied a plethora of direct and indirect
charges that caused a huge burden on broking houses, which paid
up on fear of retribution. This will go now. We will have a
completely transparent and dependable pricing policy.’’  On growth of algorithmic trading:  ‘‘The issue here is not about good or bad. We can wait for
assessment by global regulatory institutions on this, which is
under way. The basic purpose and principle of technology is to
provide level playing field whereas co-location and algorithmic
trading differentiates between the big and small traders.  ‘‘Aping technology models of the western exchanges does not
serve priorities of a developing market like ours, where the
fundamental focus of an exchange should not be restricted to
just promoting delta trading.  ‘‘Technology is meant to enhance the quality of market in
terms of speed and integrity. It can lead to serious distrust of
domestic and foreign investors if not handled properly.’’  To contact the reporter on this story:
Santanu Chakraborty in Mumbai at 
 schakrabor11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  