-- Heating Oil, Gasoline Fall as Refinery Starts Mean More Supply
-- B y   B a r b a r a   J   P o w e l l
-- 2012-11-26T20:42:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-26/heating-oil-gasoline-fall-as-refinery-starts-mean-more-supply.html
Heating oil and gasoline declined as
refinery starts in the U.S. signaled that production rates will
increase and supplies will climb.  Futures fell as Phillips 66 was scheduled to restart a
fluid catalytic cracker today in Borger, Texas, and reported a
startup at the Bayway plant in  New Jersey , shut since  Hurricane
Sandy  struck Oct. 29. Motiva Enterprises LLC said it would begin
reopening a crude unit at its Port Arthur, Texas, refinery this
month or in early December.  “The expectation is that products overall may come under
pressure as Phillips 66’s Bayway and Borger come back online and
Motiva Port Arthur brings back its brand new crude unit,” said
 Andy Lipow , president of Lipow Oil Associates LLC in Houston.  December-delivery heating oil slid 3.06 cents, or 1
percent, to settle at $3.0465 a gallon on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange , the first decline in three days. The
December contract, which expires Nov. 30, has fallen 0.7 percent
this month.  December’s discount to January heating oil widened 0.4 cent
to 1.29 cents, the largest difference since Oct. 30, indicating
less immediate concern about supplies.  Motiva’s 325,000-barrel-a-day Port Arthur crude unit shut
for repairs June 3, just weeks after its May start. The unit is
the centerpiece of a $10 billion expansion that was to push the
refinery’s crude processing capacity to almost 600,000 barrels a
day, making it the largest in the U.S.  Products Inventories  U.S.  distillate supplies , including heating oil and diesel,
fell to the lowest level since May 2008 in the week ended Nov.
16 and  gasoline inventories  declined the most since Aug. 31,
according to Energy Department data.  Matt Rogers , president of Commodity Weather Group LLC, said
December may start off much warmer than usual across the U.S.,
which may mean less demand for heating oil. Average temperatures
from Dec. 1 to Dec. 5 may be 5 degrees above normal in the East
and in Maritime Canada and as much as 15 degrees higher across
the Midwest, including  Chicago , said Rogers, based in Bethesda,
 Maryland .  Futures also slipped on concern that Congress won’t reach a
budget compromise in time to avoid the fiscal cliff, the
nickname for a $607 billion combination of automatic spending
cuts and tax increases scheduled to take effect in January.  In  Europe , finance ministers were meeting today for a
fourth round of talks in two weeks to try to reach agreement on
aid to  Greece , whose economy has been shrinking since the third
quarter of 2008.  Sapping Momentum  “There’s concerns over Greece and there’s still concerns
about the fiscal cliff, and it’s taking away from the bullish
momentum,” said  Phil Flynn , senior market analyst at Price
Futures Group in Chicago.  Gasoline for December delivery declined 1.76 cents, or 0.6
percent, to settle at $2.7263 a gallon. Futures have dropped 1.3
percent this month.  The average nationwide cost for  regular gasoline  fell 0.3
cent to $3.423 a gallon, AAA said today on its website. The pump
price reached a 2012 high of $3.936 on April 4.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Barbara J Powell in Dallas at 
 bpowell4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  