-- ECB LTROs to ‘Rock’ World From 2014, World Bank Basu Says
-- B y   K a t i   P o h j a n p a l o
-- 2012-11-26T15:54:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-26/ecb-ltros-to-rock-world-from-2014-world-bank-basu-says.html
Three-year loans granted by the
 European Central Bank  last year will disrupt the global economy
when the debt matures in 2014 and 2015, according to World Bank
Chief Economist  Kaushik Basu .  “It’s a debt wall that’s going to come up to us,” Basu
said at a seminar in Helsinki today. “We’re going to get
another big rocking of the global economy in 2014, 2015.”  The ECB’s injection of more than 1 trillion euros ($1.3
trillion) of three-year liquidity into Europe’s banks in
December and February was intended to be a game changer that
would jump start lending in the region. Instead, the crisis grew
deeper, drawing a subsequent pledge from ECB President  Mario Draghi  to do “whatever it takes” to backstop the 17-nation
currency zone. The ECB’s lifeline only “bought time,” Basu
said. “It doesn’t solve any of the  fault lines .”  Given the circumstances, “I don’t think the ECB had any
other choice,” he said. “But when you bought time, you have to
do things with the time you bought, otherwise the crisis will
come back. And there’s a danger of that.”  As the debt turmoil in Europe persists, the risk that the
global economy will suffer is growing, Basu said.  “The downside risk for the world economy remains very
high,” he said. “The European situation will be very hard for
2 to 2 1/2 years. A slowdown is going to affect the situation in
emerging economies.”  Commodities Effect  The best-case scenario would be for European growth to
stagnate until 2015 before picking up, Basu said. The comments
don’t indicate that the  World Bank  is likely to cut its latest
forecast, he said.  The Washington-based lender projects 2.5 percent economic
growth for the global economy for this year. Next year, gross
domestic product will increase 3 percent, according to a June
forecast. That compares with 2.7 percent growth last year and
4.1 percent in 2010. The World Bank estimates the euro area will
contract 0.3 percent this year.  “The world is now beginning to see a kind of inflation and
stagnation experience, which is very unusual,” Basu said.
“What is happening increasingly is growth is reasonably well
coupled, the industrialized countries and poor countries are
moving together, but inflation is tending to be decoupled.”  Food-Price Inflation  A large part of the ECB’s three-year loans have gone to
sovereign bonds in an arbitrage trade, he said. Liquidity has
also spurred food-price inflation in the emerging world since
2010 as investment banks purchased commodities, Basu said.  Wheat prices have jumped 30 percent this year, while corn
has added 16 percent and soybeans 19 percent. As growth slows,
crude oil has declined 11 percent.  “You have to put together the structural reforms that
 Europe  is trying to put together very quickly, so that by the
time the repayment takes place it’s a stronger Europe that you
have,” Basu said. “And that’s all the fiscal policy, banking
policy which has been talked about -- you want action on
those.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kati Pohjanpalo in Helsinki at 
 kpohjanpalo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  