-- ECB Said to Consider Helping Greece With Holdings
-- B y   S t e f a n   R i e c h e r ,   G a b i   T h e s i n g   a n d   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 2012-11-27T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-26/ecb-said-to-consider-helping-greece-with-investment-holdings.html
The  European Central Bank  is
considering new ways to help reduce  Greece ’s funding gap by
using the Greek debt in its investment portfolios, three euro-
area officials said.  The national central banks of the euro area hold Greek
bonds in their investment portfolios and agreed in February to
give any profits back to Greece. The issue has been reopened and
the ECB is now looking at options including rolling over the
holdings or allowing the Greek government to buy them back, the
officials said yesterday on condition of anonymity.  There are between 10 billion euros ($13 billion) and 15
billion euros in the portfolios, one official said. The amount
saved by Greece would be considerably less than the overall
value of the holdings, the person said. An ECB spokesman
declined to comment on whether such plans are under discussion.  Euro-area finance ministers were meeting in Brussels last
night in the third attempt this month to plug Greece’s funding
shortfall. The impasse is holding up the next bailout payment to
 Athens  and, as they have done so often during the sovereign debt
crisis, governments are once again turning to the ECB for help.
ECB President  Mario Draghi  attended last night’s meeting.  Greece may need as much as 32.6 billion euros in extra
financing through 2016, according to an assessment by the
country’s creditors obtained by  Bloomberg News . Plans to give
Greece two more years to meet deficit-reduction targets would
open up financing gaps of 15 billion euros through 2014 and 17.6
billion euros in 2015-2016, the assessment shows.  Profit Distribution  European leaders agreed in February to help Greece with any
profits on ECB Greek bond holdings, which would normally be
distributed via national central banks to their respective
governments. Now they are looking for ways to squeeze more value
from the bond holdings, three officials said.  Debt rollovers or buybacks may be more controversial
because they could open the central bank to accusations of
monetary state financing.  Germany ’s Bundesbank has already
criticized the ECB’s new bond-purchase plan as a risk to its
independence and credibility.  A rollover would reduce Greece’s immediate funding needs,
while a buyback would likely see the government pay the ECB the
price it paid, which would be less than face value, economists
have said.  Greek Collateral  Greece needs to close the funding gap to meet the terms of
its bailout and receive the next tranche of funds. Should that
happen, the ECB will start accepting Greek government bonds as
collateral again, helping Greek banks to reduce their reliance
on emergency liquidity and refinance at a cheaper rate, two
officials said.  Greek government bonds became ineligible as collateral in
July when an agreement that had been struck before the country
restructured its debt expired. Since then, banks using such
bonds to obtain funding have had to tap Emergency Liquidity
Assistance from their national central banks at a higher cost.  The ECB said at the time it would reassess the eligibility
of Greek  government bonds  once the so-called troika of the ECB,
the European Commission and the  International Monetary Fund 
completed its review.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Black in Helsinki at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net ;
Stefan Riecher in Berlin at 
 sriecher@bloomberg.net ;
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  