-- ECB Needs Extinguisher Before Banking Union, Elderfield Says
-- B y   D a r a   D o y l e
-- 2012-11-26T09:40:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-26/ecb-needs-fire-extinguisher-before-bank-union-elderfield-says.html
European leaders must put the funds
and tools in place to rescue ailing lenders before they transfer
oversight to the region’s central bank or they risk worsening
the sovereign-debt crisis, Ireland’s financial regulator said.  Policy makers need to ensure rules for capital injections
and the orderly winding down of failed lenders are “fully
operational” by the time the  European Central Bank  takes charge
under plans for banking union, Matthew Elderfield, head of
financial regulation at Ireland’s central bank, said in a speech
at Bloomberg’s London office today. Without the right
structures, governments may be forced to inject additional
capital into banks, putting more pressure on their budget
deficits, he said.  “It is a distinctly unpleasant situation to be asked to
put out a fire and to find your fire extinguisher is half-full
and that the only way to get a re-load is to increase debt and
austerity,” Elderfield said.  European Union leaders, trying to stop the cost of failing
lenders driving up the price of borrowing for governments, aim
to hammer out details of the agreement by January, when the ECB
is set to take over supervision of the euro region’s lenders. A
common supervisor would open the door for the euro area’s
firewall-fund to offer direct aid to banks, spreading the cost
of bailing out lenders across  member states .  The voting structure governance of the European Banking
Authority, which coordinates financial rule-making across all 27
EU nations, needs to be altered to address the concerns of
countries such as the U.K. that are outside the  euro zone ,
Elderfield said.  ‘Ins Caucus’  “It would be unfortunate if the ‘ins caucus’ sought to
agree a common position on matters before engaging in debate
around the EBA table,” he said. “I would not see the caucus
leading to a block vote, as individual supervisors will still
retain their responsibility for policy-making.”  Draft proposals give the ECB power to order banks to raise
capital, cut the riskiness of their activities and provide
information on how liquid their assets are, according to
measures drawn up by Cyprus, which holds the EU’s rotating
presidency, and obtained by  Bloomberg News .  Much of the detail on banking union, including which firms
would be covered by the new regulator, has yet to be fleshed
out. ECB President  Mario Draghi  is pushing for a regulator that
oversees all  Europe ’s banks, while German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  has lobbied to limit oversight to systemically important
lenders.  Anglo Irish  A banking supervisor limited to Europe’s top 30 banks
wouldn’t have “caught” either Anglo Irish Bank Corp. or Bankia
SA, which contributed to Ireland and  Spain  seeking bailouts,
Irish Finance Minister  Michael Noonan  said on Nov. 23. Noonan
said the Irish government favors the ECB having oversight of all
lenders in member states that are part of the banking union.  Transitional arrangements could be put in place as the
ECB’s role expands, Elderfield said. The ECB could be given
power to examine banks outside its core group that are
“flashing red on its radar.” The ECB could choose to bring
particular banks directly under its control, he said.  “This would allow it to gradually expand its remit during
the transitional period and have the absolute right to
troubleshoot problems beyond the system group, which is surely
what recent experience has proved necessary,” he said.  Elderfield said regulators are grappling with how to make
banks safer by bolstering capital without jeopardizing growth by
making them restrict lending.  “It certainly makes sense to take off the table any
thought about attempting to impose an additional counter-
cyclical buffer for the foreseeable future,” he said. “With
the end point” clear, banks should set out their plans to
comply with the Basel rules.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dara Doyle in Dublin at 
 ddoyle1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at   tquinson@bloomberg.net  