-- Teens Need Contraception Prescriptions, U.S. Doctors Say
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2012-11-26T19:12:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-26/teens-need-contraception-prescriptions-in-hand-u-s-doctors-say.html
U.S. teenagers should be given
prescriptions for emergency contraception to keep on hand in
case they ever need it, the American Academy of Pediatrics said.  Emergency contraception, such as  Teva Pharmaceutical
Industries Ltd. (TEVA) ’s Plan B One Step, should be given to teens
directly ahead of time, or they should get prescriptions that
will allow them to have access to the drugs as needed, the
doctors’ group said in a  policy  statement online today.  The pills are available now without a prescription to
females 17 and older and males 18 and older. A move by the U.S.
Food and Drug Administration to allow emergency contraception to
be sold over the counter to girls younger than 17 was rejected
by Secretary of Health and Human Services Kathleen Sebelius in
December 2011. The academy encouraged pediatricians to push for
increased non-prescription access.  “The point of this whole piece would be to reduce
unintended pregnancy,” said  Cora Breuner , a member of the
academy’s committee on adolescence who was a lead author of the
statement.  The academy didn’t discuss the age of teenagers that should
be given advance prescriptions, said Breuner, a physician at
Seattle Children’s Hospital. The group suggests that
pediatricians have discussions with their patients about sexual
activity, and give prescriptions to those who are active.  Decreasing Risk  “Emergency contraception is most effective in decreasing
risk of pregnancy when used as soon as possible,” the doctor’s
group said in the statement.  The American Congress of Obstetricians and Gynecologists
said last week that oral contraceptives should be available
without a prescription.  Condoms in addition to hormonal contraception or an
intrauterine device are the best ways for teens to avoid
pregnancy, the pediatricians’ group said. Almost 80 percent of
pregnancies in teens are unintended, resulting from
contraceptive failure or nonuse, according to the statement to
be published next month in the journal Pediatrics.  “I’m pleased that the academy recognizes the need for
adolescents to have access to emergency contraception,” Janet
Crepps, senior counsel at the  Center for Reproductive Rights ,
said in a telephone interview. “It’s not the final solution,
it’s a step along the road to unrestricted access to emergency
contraception for all women.”  Awaiting Ruling  The center is awaiting a federal judge’s ruling in
 Brooklyn , New York, on its lawsuit against Sebelius and the FDA
to allow over-the-counter access to emergency contraception
regardless of age.  “If we don’t have the court ruling before, then the
anniversary of Sebelius’ ruling will be a teachable moment for
us to remind the administration why it was bad,” Kirsten Moore,
president and chief executive officer of the Reproductive Health
Technologies Project, said in a telephone interview.  Moore said her Washington-based organization will release
stories on the Internet of adults who were denied access to
emergency contraception because of forgotten identification on
their way to the gym or in the confusion of the moment.  “We will be ramping up those efforts in the hopes that in
a second administration the doors won’t be slammed shut,” Moore
said.  Like Bush  Nancy Northup, president of the New York-based Center for
Reproductive Rights, compared the Obama administration at the
time of Sebelius’ decision to overturn the FDA to that of former
President George W. Bush. Both are guilty of “playing politics
with women’s health,” she said.  If the center is successful in its lawsuit, companies that
make the emergency contraceptives will still have to seek new
labeling with the FDA.  The rate of nausea and vomiting with levonorgestrel, the
active ingredient in the emergency contraception, is about half
that with methods that combine hormones, the academy said. The
birth control includes  Watson Pharmaceutical Inc. (WPI) ’s Next Choice.  A 2010 review of seven trials of emergency contraception
that included teenagers showed that advance prescriptions
increased use while none of the studies showed an increase in
sexual activity or decrease in contraceptive use, according to
the statement.  The statement didn’t address parents’ role in teenagers’
contraception choices. It did say families of disabled
adolescents should be counseled on emergency contraception.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  