-- Egypt’s Mursi Turns Tyrant to Save Democracy
-- B y   N o a h   F e l d m a n
-- 2012-11-26T23:30:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-26/egypt-s-mursi-turns-tyrant-to-save-democracy.html
Is democracy in  Egypt  over before it
started? Skeptics abroad and protesters in Egypt think so after
President Mohamed Mursi’s unilateral decree that his decisions
are not subject to judicial review by the nation’s
constitutional court.  The fears are exaggerated -- this is not the scene in the
movie where the democratically elected Islamic leader reveals
himself as a religious dictator. Mursi overreached in his decree
and explained it poorly. Yet he did it in the service of
preserving electoral democracy. And he has  reportedly  taken a
first step to repair the damage: agreeing to limit the scale of
the decree to “sovereign matters,” such as protecting the
assembly now writing Egypt’s constitution.  The concerns of Egyptian and foreign secularists are
understandable. Democracy means more than just elections. Those
elected by the people must adhere to constitutional procedures,
not take the fact of their election as a mandate to govern
without restraint. When Mursi stated that he would not be bound
by the decisions of the constitutional court because “God and
the people” had chosen him, he sounded disturbingly like
 Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini  -- or like a fascist dictator.  Yet, despite appearances, Mursi’s decree does not represent
the “one man, one vote, one time” scenario many consider
inevitable when an Islamist party comes to power through
democracy. One must consider the full context of Egypt’s
tumultuous, ongoing revolution -- and the highly questionable
role Egypt’s constitutional court has played in it.  Rubber Stamp  Under President  Hosni Mubarak , the constitutional court
enjoyed a good reputation for moderating dictatorial rule.
Critics contended that it was little more than a rubber stamp
for the regime, but its defenders rightly pointed out that it
was still more impressive than any other constitutional body in
any Arab state.  Since Mubarak fell and the Islamists were elected, the
court has actively tried to constrain the government. The
impulse may have been public-spirited at first, but it quickly
descended into anti-democratic partisanship on the side of the
army. The culmination of the court’s efforts came when it
dissolved the elected legislature in June. In a subsequent
interview, one of the court’s justices  admitted  that the court
was on the side of the military regime all along and prepared
its rulings against the legislature from the moment the
elections took place.  There is good reason to think that the court was poised to
dissolve the elected constituent assembly, just as it dissolved
the parliament -- one more step toward declaring the
presidential election invalid and creating a constitutional coup
d’etat against Mursi.  Make no mistake: The result of any such action by the
courts would be to assure the continued power of the military
leaders, who have not accepted the results of the elections. The
struggle between the elected Islamists and the army is not over.
Properly speaking, Mursi’s decree is part of that struggle.
Perceiving the court as a tool of the military, he was trying to
take it out of the game pre-emptively.  Yet the means Mursi adopted were naive -- and they
backfired badly. Nothing in the interim constitution, or in
general constitutional principles, allows the president to
ignore a court’s constitutional judgment.  What Mursi should have done was turn to the constituent
assembly itself. With no permanent constitution in place, it is
the assembly that embodies the will of the people, not the
president. If sovereignty lies anywhere in such a period of
post-revolutionary uncertainty, it is with the collective body
chosen to make the new ground rules.  Credible Argument  If the constituent assembly declared that it could not be
dissolved by the constitutional court, it would have a credible
constitutional argument as well as a powerful political one.
Many constitutional experts would say that a constituent
assembly can do anything it wants, so long as it does not
violate fundamental human rights. Certainly it would be within
the power of the assembly to abolish the court in a final,
ratified constitution. It follows, then, that the assembly
should be able to protect itself against a usurping court.  Mursi would have been wiser to issue a limited decree
announcing prospectively that the assembly would remain in force
and in office even if the courts tried to dissolve it. By
appearing instead to place himself above the law, however, he
undercut the very democratic ideal to which he should have
appealed.  Having now agreed to limit the scope of his decree, Mursi
should also clarify that he is not claiming any inherent
authority for the presidency, but is simply affirming the
principle that the constitutional court cannot dissolve the
constituent assembly. This would send a signal to supporters of
democracy in Egypt and abroad that Mursi wants to uphold the
democratic process, not subvert it.  Right now, Mursi has substantially weakened his domestic
legitimacy, generating for the first time violent protests
against him. Internationally, things are worse: Coming on the
heels of his public support for Hamas, Mursi has made himself
look like a dictator in the making. Democracy is not yet dead in
Egypt. But Mursi must do more to demonstrate that he still
believes in the system that brought him to office.  (Noah Feldman, a law professor at  Harvard University  and
the author of “Scorpions: The Battles and Triumphs of FDR’s
Great Supreme Court Justices,” is a Bloomberg View columnist.
The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on the need for a  Palestinian
victory at the UN  and on an emerging  fiscal-cliff compromise ;
 Edward Glaeser  on how  New York can protect itself ;  Jeffrey
Goldberg  on how the  Palestinians could gain independence ;
William Pesek on  Japan’s next prime minister ;  Ramesh Ponnuru  on
 Republicans’ misguided plans for candidates ; Tim Judah on
 Yugoslavia’s lesson for separatist movements .  To contact the writer of this article:
 Noah Feldman  at  noah_feldman@harvard.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Tobin Harshaw at   tharshaw@bloomberg.net . 