-- Most Emerging Stocks Advance as Crude Sinks Energy Shares
-- B y   M a r i a   L e v i t o v   a n d   V i c t o r i a   S t i l w e l l
-- 2012-11-26T22:01:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-26/emerging-stocks-post-longest-rally-in-10-weeks-on-taiwan-support.html
Most emerging-market stocks rose,
led by consumer companies, as Japan said it will act to
stimulate its economy, while sliding  oil prices  drove a decline
in Brazilian and Russian shares.  Kangwon Land Inc. (035250) , the South Korean casino and hotel
operator, surged 13 percent after winning approval from the
government to expand its gambling business. United Co. Rusal,
the world’s biggest aluminum producer, rallied to the highest
level in almost two months in Moscow. A gauge of energy
companies in the  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF0CD)  had the second-
largest drop after telecommunications shares. Brazilian oil and
gas explorer  OGX Petroleo e Gas Participacoes SA  tumbled.  The  emerging markets measure  retreated 0.1 percent to
995.10 in  New York  as 430 stocks rose and 334 fell. Crude sank
as European finance chiefs met to negotiate a bailout payment
for  Greece  and as the U.S. seeks a resolution to its so-called
fiscal cliff. Minutes of the Bank of Japan’s Oct. 30 meeting
showed policy makers will continue easing monetary policy to
stimulate Asia’s second-largest economy.  “General risk sentiment has improved,”  Christian Keller ,
the head of emerging-market research at Barclays Plc. in London,
said by phone. “Globally, it remains a mixed picture. It’s
still not very clear on the real economy.”  Brazil’s  Bovespa Index (IBOV)  lost 1.5 percent and Russia’s  Micex
Index (INDEXCF)  fell 0.7 percent as crude oil futures dropped in New York.
The Shanghai Composite Index slid 0.5 percent before the release
of data on industrial profits tomorrow. Benchmark indexes in
Turkey and the  Czech Republic  gained more than 0.6 percent. The
BSE India Sensitive Index rose 0.2 percent.  Egypt Rebounds  Egypt’s benchmark stock index surged 2.6 percent,
rebounding from the lowest level since July. The gauge tumbled
the most in 22 months yesterday amid clashes between supporters
and opponents of President Mohamed Mursi after he issued a
decree granting himself sweeping powers. The Egyptian pound
weakened 0.2 percent against the dollar today, the most since
September 2011, based on closing prices.  Taiwan’s Taiex  Index (VXEEM)  jumped 1.1 percent to the highest
level in five weeks after Premier Sean Chen asked the government
to prepare a proposal to boost stocks. The Philippine Stock
Exchange Index rose 0.5 percent to a record after JPMorgan Chase
& Co. said it remains bullish on the Southeast Asian nation and
expects corporate earnings to accelerate.  The  iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index exchange-traded
fund , the ETF tracking developing-nation shares, was little
changed at $41.64 in New York. The Chicago Board Options
Exchange  Emerging Markets  ETF Volatility Index, a measure of
options prices on the fund and expectations of price swings,
climbed 5.9 percent, the biggest jump since Oct. 23.  ‘General Weakness’  “Across the board, there seems to be a general weakness,
but it doesn’t seem to be terribly discerning weakness,”
 Stephen Wood , chief markets strategist for  North America  at
Russell Investments, said by phone in New York. “It’s a choppy
data environment, it’s a choppy policy environment, so it’s
reasonable to expect that it’s a choppy market environment.”  Yields on Hungary’s five-year bonds rose to the highest
level in a week after  Standard & Poor’s  downgraded the country’s
debt late on Nov. 23, citing “unorthodox” tax policies pursued
by Prime Minister  Viktor Orban ’s government.  A gauge of consumer discretionary stocks in the emerging-
markets gauge rose 0.6 percent, the most of the 10  industry 
groups. The broader index has climbed 8.6 percent this year,
trailing the 10 percent gain in the  MSCI World Index (MXWO)  of
developed-country equities. The developing-nations gauge trades
for 11.4 times estimated earnings, compared with the MSCI
World’s 13.4 multiple, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  PDG Slumps  Homebuilder  PDG Realty SA Empreendimentos e Participacoes 
fell 5.4 percent in  Sao Paulo , the biggest decliner on the
emerging markets gauge. Analysts covering Brazil lowered their
2012 and 2013 economic growth forecasts for the second straight
week.  OGX, the crude producer controlled by the billionaire  Eike
Batista , slid 5.3 percent after the company denied a report by
Exame magazine that it was in talks to sell a stake in fields at
the Campos basin.  Kangwon Land jumped to a record-high after receiving
approval for its plan to increase casino tables and  slot
machines , according to a regulatory filing on Nov. 23 after the
Korean market closed.  Samsung Slips  Rusal, which holds a 25 percent stake in Russian miner OAO
GMK Norilsk Nickel, rose 1.7 percent on the Micex on speculation
billionaire  Roman Abramovich  may buy a stake in Norilsk, leading
to a boost in dividends. Oleg Deripaska, Rusal’s chief executive
officer, is urging fellow billionaire Abramovich to buy a stake
in Norilsk, said three people familiar with the matter who asked
not to be identified because talks are preliminary.  Samsung Electronics Co. slid 2.3 percent in Seoul, ending a
five-day, 10 percent rally. Apple Inc. sought to add
infringement claims over six more Samsung products including the
Galaxy Note II to its multi billion-dollar patent lawsuit
against the South Korean company, according to filings in San
Jose federal court in California.  SP Setia Bhd. (SPSB) , Malaysia’s biggest property developer,
dropped 5.3 percent. The stock will be removed from the MSCI
Malaysia Index at the end of the week, according a MSCI Inc.
statement on Nov. 14.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries added 1 basis point, or 0.01
percentage point, to 295 basis points, according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Levitov in London at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net ;
Victoria Stilwell in New York at 
 vstilwell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net ;
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  