-- Emission Credits for March Drop to Record as ERU Supply Surges
-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 2012-11-26T17:59:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-26/emission-credits-for-march-drop-to-record-as-eru-supply-surges.html
Certified Emission Reduction credits
for March dropped to a record as supply of Emission Reduction
Units surged to 430 million metric tons.  ERU supply is 43 percent more than previously announced on
websites run by countries including Ukraine and  Russia , as well
as the United Nations.  CERs for March dropped 14 percent to match the all-time low
of 56 euro cents ($0.71) a ton on the ICE Futures Europe
exchange in London. March is the futures contract that’s closest
to the April 30 deadline for companies in the European Union
carbon market to surrender carbon permits and offsets matching
their 2012 discharges in the European Union carbon market. EU
permits for December declined 2.4 percent to 6.84 euros a ton.  ERUs for December dropped 13 percent today to 49 euro cents
on ICE. They fell as low as 40 cents on Nov. 15.  ERU credits have plunged 91 percent since the end of
November last year, as muted levels of economic production in
the European Union trimmed demand, and supply of the credits
swelled. The offsets are generated by clean-technology projects
in developed countries that reduce pollution in line with limits
set by the 1997 Kyoto Protocol.  Supplies of ERU offsets may rise above 500 million tons by
the end of the year, according to Wolfgang Seidel, chairman of
the UN-overseen  Joint Implementation Supervisory Committee , who
was speaking at a press conference at climate talks in Doha.  He had earlier confirmed the current supply level, which is
about 130 million tons more than figures published by the UN
Framework Convention on Climate Change and on websites of
supplying nations, Matthew Cowie, an analyst in  London  for
Bloomberg New Energy Finance, said today in an e-mailed note.  New Energy Finance boosted its forecast for ERU and
Certified Emission Reduction use in the EU market for 2012 to as
much as 800 million tons from 450 million tons previously.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  