-- Lehman Opts for Archstone Sale as Apartment REITs Slide
-- B y   O s h r a t   C a r m i e l
-- 2012-11-27T19:53:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-26/equity-residential-avalonbay-to-buy-lehman-s-archstone.html
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. agreed
to sell its Archstone Inc. unit to Equity Residential and
 AvalonBay (AVB)  Communities Inc. for $6.5 billion, scrapping plans for
an initial public offering after a four-month slide in U.S.
apartment stocks.  Equity Residential, founded by Sam Zell, and AvalonBay will
together pay $2.69 billion in cash along with stock valued at
$3.8 billion, based on their Nov. 23 prices, New York-based
Lehman said yesterday in a statement. The buyers, the two
biggest U.S. apartment landlords by market value, will also
assume $9.5 billion of Archstone debt.  “The window was closing to optimize an Archstone IPO,”
said Richard Anderson, an analyst with BMO Capital Markets in
New York. “This basically eliminates the overhang of Archstone
and will it or won’t it be a success.”  Lehman, which filed the biggest bankruptcy in U.S. history
in 2008, is selling assets to pay off creditors after leaving
court protection in March.  Equity Residential (EQR) , which will get 60
percent of Archstone, and AvalonBay, which is taking 40 percent,
are making their biggest acquisitions as the recovery in U.S.
home sales has helped drive down shares of apartment real estate
investment trusts.  A Bloomberg index of 16 apartment REITs has fallen 13
percent since July 17, when the group hit a post-financial
crisis high, and is heading for its first  annual decline  since
2008. The gauge had more than tripled from March 2009 amid
rising rents and falling vacancies caused by the surge in home
foreclosures.  IPO Market  Archstone, based in Englewood,  Colorado , owns about 58,000
apartments in U.S. coastal markets such as New York, Washington,
D.C.,  Seattle  and  California . As of Sept. 30, it had plans to
develop an additional 8,900 apartments. The firm also owns 10
apartment properties in  Germany .  Archstone filed in August to go public. Last week, the
landlord said it was planning to raise as much as $3.45 billion
in the offering, though it didn’t disclose what percentage of
the company it was seeking to sell.  There have been five U.S. apartment REIT IPOs in the past
10 years and none since March 2011, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. Of the four that are still publicly traded, three
have declined since their listing, the data show.  ‘Money Today’  “It’s a reflection of being able to take the money today
at a known value versus going through the IPO process,”
Alexander Goldfarb, a REIT analyst at Sandler O’Neill & Partners
LP in New York, said in a telephone interview.  “If it was an IPO it would have gotten done, but the
question is at what price?” he said. “Lehman may have decided
that, you know, we have two people who are willing to write us
this check today.”  Lehman had been planning for an IPO while negotiating with
both Equity Residential and AvalonBay since the middle of 2011,
said two people familiar with the deal who asked not to be named
because they were not authorized to speak publicly about it. The
value of the offers Lehman received for Archstone, its largest
asset, improved over that time. Ultimately, Lehman concluded
that cash up front, at the current value, made this a better
option than to test the uncertainty of the IPO market, the
people said.  IPOs worldwide slumped to the second-lowest level since the
financial crisis last quarter as a global economic recovery
remained uncertain, and the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index has
declined more than 2 percent since the end of September, posing
a further challenge to new share sales.  Returns Drop  The apartment REIT index has fallen 1.2 percent in 2012,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Including reinvested
dividends, the gauge returned 1.3 percent this year, trailing a
14 percent gain for a  broader index  of 126 publicly traded
REITs, the data show.  Those “managing the Lehman real estate portfolio missed
the entire bull run in apartment stocks and missed the best
pricing for apartment assets generally,” said James Corl,
managing director of Siguler Guff & Co. overseeing distressed
real estate investments. The New York-based firm manages more
than $10 billion, according to its website. “It’s always more
fun to sell into a bull market than into a bear market,” he
said.  Including debt, the Archstone sale is the biggest real
estate deal since Blackstone Group LP’s $26 billion acquisition
of hotel company Hilton Worldwide Inc. in July 2007, according
to Dan Fasulo, a managing director at New York-based Real
Capital Analytics Inc.  ‘Considerable Proceeds’  “The sale of Archstone to Equity Residential and AvalonBay
is a very positive outcome for our creditors,” Owen Thomas,
Lehman’s chairman, said in the statement. “The transaction
delivers significant return on the investment we made earlier
this year to fully control Archstone and has generated immediate
and considerable proceeds for our next distribution to
creditors.”  As a result of the deal, Lehman and its affiliates will own
9.8 percent of Chicago-based Equity Residential and 13.2 percent
of Arlington, Virginia-based AvalonBay, according to the
statement.  In December, Equity Residential had offered to buy 26.5
percent of Archstone for $1.33 billion, bidding on a stake held
by Bank of America Corp. and Barclays Plc. Lehman accused Zell
of trying to bid up the price, then eventually matched it,
paying $3 billion for the 53 percent of Archstone that it didn’t
already own.  ‘Strategic Partner’  Equity Residential realized that it needed “a strategic
partner, with complementary interests” if it wanted to acquire
Archstone, Chief Executive Officer David Neithercut said on a
conference call after the deal was announced. “So last January,
we reached out to one and only one firm, AvalonBay, and I can
tell you it was one of the best decisions we’ve made in this
entire process.”  Equity Residential and AvalonBay have 120 days to complete
the deal, according to Lehman’s statement.  Rental revenue at Archstone increased 8.3 percent in the
third quarter from a year earlier to $272.7 million, last week’s
filing showed. The company booked a net loss of $176.6 million
compared with a profit of $106.2 million a year earlier.  Richard Wolff, a spokesman for AvalonBay, and Bryan Locke,
a spokesman for Equity Residential, said the companies had no
comments beyond their statements and the joint conference call.  Zell’s Companies  Equity Residential, the largest apartment landlord, owns or
has a stake in 418 properties with about 119,000 apartments in
13 states and the District of Columbia. Zell, its chairman, also
ran office landlord Equity Office Properties Trust, which he
sold to Blackstone Group LP for $39 billion including debt in
February 2007, before Lehman went bankrupt, the economy went
into recession and office real estate values plunged.  AvalonBay owns, operates and develops apartment communities
in markets such as New York, San Francisco and throughout the
Northeast and mid-Atlantic U.S. As of Sept. 30, the company
owned or held stakes in 205 apartment communities with more than
60,000 apartments, in nine states and  Washington , D.C.  Morgan Stanley provided financial advice to Equity
Residential, while Hogan Lovells US LLP and Morrison & Foerster
LLP served as legal advisers. Greenhill & Co. acted as financial
adviser to AvalonBay, with Goodwin Procter LLP providing legal
advice. Gleacher & Co. served as lead financial adviser to
Lehman, while Citigroup Inc. and JPMorgan Chase & Co. also
provided financial advice. Weil Gotshal & Manges LLP acted as
legal counsel to Lehman on the deal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oshrat Carmiel in New York at 
 ocarmiel1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  