-- EU Says Spain Banks Qualify for Aid, Bad-Bank Timing Challenging
-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s   a n d   B r i a n   P a r k i n
-- 2012-11-26T12:06:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-26/eu-says-spain-banks-qualify-for-aid-bad-bank-timing-challenging.html
Spain  has met the conditions to get
a first tranche of aid for its lenders from  Europe ’s rescue
funds, even as the schedule for setting up a so-called bad bank
is “challenging,” the European Commission said.  “Spain has fulfilled all the required conditionality for
the first disbursement of funds,” the EU Commission said in its
autumn review, which was obtained by  Bloomberg News .  Spain agreed to the bank bailout of as much as 100 billion
euros ($130 billion) in June, as its narrowing access to
financial markets made it unable to backstop lenders reeling
from the collapse of a real-estate boom. As one of the
conditions, Spain agreed to set up a bad bank for soured real-
estate assets and is still seeking investors to reduce the
burden on taxpayers.  Getting the 60 billion-euro asset-management company
“fully operational by end-November is going to be
challenging,” the commission said. Rapid progress is also
needed on “the assessment of the banks’ viability, the
finalization of effective restructuring plans and the transfer
of assets to a commercially viable AMC.”  The restructuring plans of banks that are set to receive EU
funds are expected to be approved this week, European
Competition Commissioner  Joaquin Almunia  said last month. Spain
is working to a deadline of Dec. 1 for the bad bank to be up and
running.  The commission also called for a “further strengthening of
supervisory competences” for the Bank of Spain, whose capacity
to “issue binding interpretations on supervisory practices and
regulatory issues is currently limited,” according to the
report.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  