-- European Stocks Decline as Ministers Debate Greek Rescue
-- B y   T o m   S t o u k a s
-- 2012-11-26T16:59:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-26/european-stock-futures-little-changed-swiss-re-may-move.html
European stocks  declined, following
the benchmark Stoxx Europe 600 Index’s biggest weekly rally this
year, as euro-area finance ministers met for a third time this
month on  Greece ’s finances.  Barclays Plc (BARC)  dropped the most in almost five months as
Qatar Holding LLC disposed of its remaining warrants in the U.K.
lender.  ThyssenKrupp AG (TKA)  slid 5.1 percent after Credit Suisse
Group AG lowered its recommendation on Germany’s largest
steelmaker. Straumann Holding AG rose 2.3 percent after
Government of Singapore Investment Corp. increased its stake in
the maker of dental implants to 14 percent.  The Stoxx 600 lost 0.5 percent to 272 at the close in
 London , falling for the first time in six days. The  gauge  jumped
4 percent last week as optimism grew that Congress will agree on
a U.S. budget that avoids automatic tax increases and spending
cuts, and data showed  China ’s manufacturing expanded.  “After last week’s unbroken gains, it’s natural to have a
little breather,” said Jakup Petur Baerentsen, chief equity
adviser at Nordea Private Bank in Copenhagen. “The markets have
started to turn upwards again after a long period of doing not
very much. Of course, the political risks remain, both in  Europe 
and also anything coming out on the U.S. fiscal cliff.”  Euro-area finance ministers meet in Brussels to try to
clear the next installment of Greek aid and discuss ways to keep
the country a solvent member of the currency bloc. They failed
to reach agreement in two previous meetings this month.  ‘Third Time’  “It would be irresponsible not to reach an accord given
all the efforts that have been made on all sides,” French
Finance Minister Pierre Moscovici said late yesterday on BFM
television. “I’m not going to guarantee that an accord will be
reached, but I think the third time should be the charm.”  Pro-independence parties in the Spanish region of Catalonia
won a vote, strengthening a drive for a referendum on secession
in defiance of Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy.  Catalan President Artur Mas, who called early elections to
force a debate on independence, lost a fifth of the seats his
Convergencia i Unio party held previously. Mas’s losses showed
he will have to depend on anti-austerity separatists to govern
Spain’s largest regional economy.  In the U.S., Congress returns from the Thanksgiving recess
this week, seeking a budget deal to avoid $607 billion of
automatic tax increases and spending cuts from kicking in next
year. While Republicans favor raising federal tax revenue by
limiting deductions, Democrats have pushed for higher rates on
upper-income earners.  Fiscal Cliff  The Congressional Budget Office has said a failure to avoid
the so-called fiscal cliff could lead to a recession and a
jobless rate of about 9 percent, compared with the October rate
of 7.9 percent.  National benchmark indexes fell in 16 of the 18 western
European markets.  France ’s CAC slid 0.8 percent, Germany’s DAX
dropped 0.2 percent and the U.K.’s FTSE 100 lost 0.6 percent.  European stocks are trading at levels that show investors
anticipate no profit growth for 2013, increasing optimism among
strategists who say equities will rise to a five-year high.  The  Stoxx 600 (SXXP)  is priced at 11 times estimated profit, down
from 13 before the financial crisis, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. Even though the region entered a recession last
quarter, earnings will climb almost 5 percent next year,
according to the average of seven strategist forecasts in a
Bloomberg survey. They predict the gauge will gain 10 percent to
the highest level since 2008.  Barclays Drops  Barclays fell 5.4 percent to 240.5 pence, the sharpest
decrease since June 28. Qatar Holding LLC sold the last of the
Barclays warrants it acquired during the financial crisis,
triggering a 771 million-pound ($1.24 billion) stock offering by
the banks that arranged the transaction.  Deutsche Bank AG and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. sold as many
as 303.3 million shares in the British bank to money managers
for 244 pence apiece, the bottom of the 244 pence to 248 pence
range used to canvas investor interest in the stock, according
to a term sheet obtained by Bloomberg News.  ThyssenKrupp,  Germany ’s largest steelmaker, dropped 5.1
percent to 15.93 euros, the biggest slump since March 6. The
sale of its Americas unit has been delayed until September 2013,
Financial Times Deutschland reported, following a similar report
by Sueddeutsche Zeitung last week. Separately, the stock was
downgraded to neutral from outperform at Credit Suisse. An
outperform rating is similar to a buy recommendation.  Lafarge SA, (LG)  the world’s biggest cement maker, lost 2.4
percent to 43.61 euros amid political instability in  Egypt . The
company gets almost a fourth of its revenue from the Middle East
and  Africa .  Straumann added 2.3 percent to 107.90 Swiss francs,
rallying for a seventh day. Singapore’s GIC bought a 10 percent
stake in the company from Vice Chairman Thomas  Straumann, (STMN) 
becoming the second-largest shareholder.  Royal KPN NV (KPN) , the former Dutch phone monopoly, gained 4.5
percent to 4.48 euros. The stock was raised to buy from neutral
at Bank of America Corp.  Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA) , Europe’s second-largest airline
climbed 3 percent to 12.96 euros as Banco Espirito Santo SA
raised its rating on the stock to buy from neutral.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Stoukas in Athens at 
 astoukas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  