-- Euro Weakens Against Yen as EU Ministers Debate Greek Aid
-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t   a n d   N e a l   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2012-11-26T22:17:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-26/euro-maintains-5-day-gain-on-speculation-greece-to-receive-aid.html
The euro fell for the first time in
six days against the yen as European Union finance ministers
gathered for a third meeting this month to try to reach
agreement on aid for  Greece .  The yen rose against all of its 16 most-traded counterparts
as a decline in global stocks boosted demand for safer assets
and after a technical indicator signaled its recent slide was
excessive. Canada’s dollar weakened after Bank of Canada
Governor Mark Carney was named to lead the Bank of  England ,
spurring speculation over who will replace him in Ottawa.
Philippine’s peso rose on wagers for record remittances.  Negative risk sentiment “is a reflection of the underlying
uncertainty that remains in the market in terms of unease in
 Europe , that nothing is a foregone conclusion,” said  Joe Manimbo ,  a market analyst in  Washington  at Western Union
Business Solutions, a unit of  Western Union Co. (WU)  “Investors are
still clinging to that notion that Greece wins that payday, so
that’s keeping a floor under the euro.”  The euro declined 0.4 percent to 106.47 yen at 5 p.m. in
New York after rising to 107.14 yen, the strongest level since
April 27. The single currency was little changed at $1.2972
after climbing to $1.2991 on Nov. 23, the strongest since Oct.
31. The yen gained 0.4 percent to 82.08 per dollar.  The euro may advance versus the yen to the strongest level
in almost eight months even after failing to break a key level
of resistance, according to Credit Suisse Group AG, which cited
technical indicators.  Loonie Weakens  The shared currency, which found resistance at 107.16 yen
and dropped lower, will increase to 107.74 on a longer-term
basis, Cilline Bain, a London-based technical analyst at the
firm, wrote today in a client note, citing Fibonacci analysis.
The euro may then climb to 111.45, which would be the highest
level since March, Bain said.  Canada ’s dollar fell against most of its major peers and
declined from almost a two-week high versus its U.S. counterpart
as risk appetite waned. The Canadian currency, known as the
loonie, weakened 0.1 percent to 99.35 cents per U.S. dollar.  Carney, Bank of Canada’s top official since 2008, was
unexpectedly appointed to succeed Mervyn King at the Bank of
England. Carney is also head of the Group of 20’s Financial
Stability Board.  “It’s great news for the U.K. -- they need that
credibility,” Peter Gorra, chief dealer for BNP Paribas SA,
said in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s “Lunch Money”
with Sara Eisen. It will hurt Canada’s dollar “long-term, but
in the short-term, dollar-Canada should stay around the parity
level.”  Reserve Currencies  The currency got a boost last week after the International
Monetary Fund’s move to deem the Australian and Canadian dollars
reserve assets, bolstering demand even as the commodity boom
that drove the currencies to the strongest since at least 2007
loses steam.  Britain’s pound erased losses versus the euro after the
announcement, trading little changed at 80.95 pence per euro and
$1.6027.  The Philippine peso rose to a four-year high of 41 per
dollar, according to Tullett Prebon Plc. on speculation
remittances will increase beyond  a record  reached last month.
That is the strongest level since March 11, 2008.  More than nine million Filipinos working abroad sent home
$1.84 billion to their families in September, the central bank
reported Nov. 15. Remittances, which make up almost 10 percent
of the economy, usually rise toward the end of the year to fund
spending for the Christmas and New Year holidays, according to
Security Bank Corp.  Recessionary Phase  Japan ’s currency rallied today as the Stoxx Europe 600
 Index (SXXP)  of shares slid 0.5 percent and the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index dropped 0.2 percent.  The 14-day relative strength index for the yen against the
dollar was at 30 today after dropping to 25 at the end of last
week, with 30 considered a sign an asset’s decline has been too
rapid. Japan’s currency had slumped 3.5 percent versus the
dollar during the previous two weeks.  Minutes of the  Bank of Japan (8301) ’s Oct. 30 meeting released
today showed a few members of the policy board said the economy
entered a recessionary phase, while one indicated the need for
new ways to boost price expectations. The BOJ last month
increased asset purchases by 11 trillion yen, announced a new
lending program and signed a joint statement with the government
on ending deflation.  Greek Debate  Finance chiefs from the single-currency bloc started their
meeting at 12:30 p.m. in Brussels, less than a week after an
all-night gathering failed to yield agreement and days after a
European Union summit broke up without a proposed seven-year
budget. At stake is the continuation of a three-year mission to
return Greece to financial health.  “It would be irresponsible not to reach an accord given
all the efforts that have been made,” French Finance Minister
Pierre Moscovici said yesterday on BFM television.  A solution is hung up on politics in  Germany , the dominant
country in Europe’s crisis management, where  Chancellor Angela
Merkel  is campaigning for a third term next year on the pledge
that Greece won’t cost taxpayers an additional cent.  “It seems a final agreement for Greece is very close
although this is another measure which kicks the can down the
road,” said Lee Hardman, a foreign-exchange strategist at Bank
of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. in London.  Catalan President Artur Mas, who called early elections to
force the debate on independence, won 50 of the 135 seats in the
regional assembly for his Convergencia i Unio party, down from
62. The separatist Catalan Republican Left, known as the ERC,
more than doubled its seats to 21 from 10. Two smaller parties
that also back a plebiscite secured 16 seats.  The euro has weakened 2.2 percent this year, according to
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes, which track 10
developed-nation currencies. The dollar dropped 2.4 percent, and
the yen slid 9.2 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net ;
Neal Armstrong in  London  at 
 narmstrong8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  