-- Europe Priced for No Profit Growth Signals Stocks Rally
-- B y   A l e x i s   X y d i a s   a n d   A d r i a   C i m i n o
-- 2012-11-26T16:53:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-26/europe-priced-for-no-profit-growth-signals-stocks-rally.html
European stocks  are trading at
levels that show investors anticipate no profit growth for 2013,
increasing optimism among strategists who say equities will rise
to a five-year high.  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  is priced at 11 times estimated
profit, down from 13 before the financial crisis, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Even though the region entered a
recession last quarter, earnings will climb almost 5 percent
next year, according to the average of seven strategist
forecasts in a Bloomberg survey. They predict the benchmark
gauge will gain 10 percent to the highest level since 2008.  While bears say 25 percent unemployment in  Spain  and  Greece 
and austerity from  France  to Italy make expectations for any
earnings growth unrealistic, Graham Bishop at Exane BNP Paribas
says valuations 10 percent below historic levels show investors
are too pessimistic. Stocks are the cheapest on record compared
with bonds after European Central Bank efforts to stimulate the
region’s economy, presenting opportunities to buy companies from
 Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  to Madrid-based discounter DIA, according
to Macquarie Group Ltd.’s Daniel McCormack.  “There is room for further revaluation of euro-zone
equities,” Nadege Dufosse, who helps oversee about $100 billion
as senior asset manager at Dexia Asset Management in Luxembourg,
said in a Nov. 20 phone interview. “Fundamentals are not good
and will not change in the near term, but what we can expect is
that the riskiness embedded in European equities will continue
to decrease.”  Greek Talks  Finance chiefs from the 17 euro-region nations met today
for the third time this month to attempt to clear an aid payment
to Greece and forge a blueprint for keeping the country a
solvent member of the currency bloc. The talks come days after a
European Union summit broke up without agreement on a proposed
seven-year budget.  Optimism that policy makers will approve more funds for
Greece helped push the Stoxx 600 to its biggest rally of the
year last week. The index jumped 4 percent to 273.33 as U.S.
President  Barack Obama  also expressed confidence he will reach a
deal with Congress to avert $607 billion of automatic tax
increases and spending cuts. The gauge slipped 0.5 percent at
the close of trading today.  Strategists underestimated this year’s rally. The Stoxx 600
has climbed 12 percent, better than the 9.4 percent projected in
a December 2011 Bloomberg survey, after the ECB announced a plan
to tackle rising sovereign borrowing costs by purchasing bonds
of countries that seek assistance. The index advanced 8.6
percent in 2010 and lost 11 percent last year.  Share Values  The increase in 2013 would add about 700 billion euros
($908 billion) to share values in the Stoxx 600, the highest
annual increase since 1.5 trillion euros was restored in 2009,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  At the same time, valuations are so low that they imply
investors expect income to stagnate. Based on the Stoxx 600’s
level now, European profits would have to stay unchanged in 2013
for the price earnings-ratio to expand to the pre-crisis level
of 13, the data show.  “Embedded in current European equity valuations is an
additional  risk premium  which we believe is largely due to the
current euro-area crisis,” said  Gareth Evans , a strategist at
Deutsche Bank AG in  London  whose prediction for a 23 percent
increase in the Stoxx 600 is the most bullish in the survey.
“If these risks were removed, this premium would be unlocked
and the market would re-rate.”  Growth Forecasts  The Stoxx 600 will rise to 301.5 at the end of 2013, the
highest level since June 2008, based on the average strategist
estimate in the Bloomberg survey. After a 0.5 percent
contraction this year, the euro-area economy will grow 0.1
percent in 2013 and 1.2 percent in 2014, economists’ forecasts
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Strategists, who base predictions on an analysis of the
economy’s effect on earnings, forecast a third straight year of
profit growth below 10 percent for companies in the Stoxx 600.
The projection trails Bloomberg’s compilation of more than
12,000 estimates from equity analysts on the outlook for
individual companies, which shows European  profits  will expand
9.3 percent. Between 2004 and 2006, income increased at an
average annual rate of 26 percent, Bloomberg data show.  European stocks have risen this year even as analysts
trimmed predictions for 2012 earnings growth to less than 1
percent from 14 percent, Bloomberg data show. The forecast
income of 25.04 euros a share for the Stoxx 600 would still be
11 percent below the 2007 record, the data show.  Profit Gains  Profits in the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  will advance 6
percent in 2013 to a record $107 a share, according to the
median estimate from 13 strategists surveyed by Bloomberg.  “The market is priced for a worse outcome than either we
or the consensus believe will materialize,” Exane’s Bishop said
in a Nov. 21 phone interview. He expects earnings will grow 9.4
percent in 2013, led by banks and mining companies.  The euro area still faces obstacles to solving its fiscal
crisis, which forced Greece, Ireland,  Portugal  and Spain to
accept European Union-led bailouts after their borrowing costs
surged to euro-era records. The Stoxx 600 is 32 percent below
its June 2007 peak, wiping out 2.5 trillion euros of market
value, data compiled by Bloomberg show. In the U.S., the  S&P 500 
has climbed to within 10 percent of its all-time high.  European finance ministers last week failed to agree on a
debt-reduction package for Greece as officials faced the tasks
of pumping money to the recession-wracked country while taming
the increase in its borrowings. Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano
Rajoy  is resisting pressure to seek a second bailout that would
allow the ECB to buy the  nation’s debt .  Austerity Measures  Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti  has pushed through 20
billion euros of austerity measures and overhauls of the pension
system and the labor market. In France, President  Francois
Hollande  plans to raise the two highest value-added tax rates.  The budget cuts are taking their toll. The 17-nation euro
area  contracted  0.1 percent in the third quarter, entering a
recession for the second time in four years. The outlook for a
worsening economy and political instability will weigh on
stocks, said Societe Generale SA’s  Paul Jackson , whose
prediction for a 1.7 percent gain in European equities next year
is the smallest of the strategists surveyed.  He said stocks will probably decline in the early months of
2013, before climbing toward the end of the year.  “The long-term sustainability of Greek debt is far from
guaranteed and solutions are not forthcoming,” the strategist
said in a Nov. 21 phone interview. “If the market comes down as
we think it will, we would switch to a more bullish view.”  Forward Multiples  The Stoxx 600 traded at an average 12.2 times estimated
year-ahead profits in 2006, when Bloomberg began collecting the
data, as stocks rose for a fourth straight year. The ratio
tumbled to an all-time low of 6.9 times earnings in October 2008
as the financial crisis dragged the measure down 61 percent, and
climbed to 12.8 times in September 2009 as equities rebounded.  Shell,  Europe ’s largest oil company, is trading at 7.6
times next year’s estimated earnings, according to Bloomberg
data, compared with an average since 2005 of about 8.5 for the
Hague-based company.  Eni SpA (ENI)  in Rome ranks eighth-cheapest among
28 European oil and gas companies based on next year earnings,
the data show.  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) , the world’s biggest energy
company by market value, trades at 11.1 times projected profit
in New York.  DIA Forecasts  Analysts estimate DIA, the Spanish discounter spun off from
Carrefour SA last year, will boost  net income  25 percent next
year after a 63 percent jump in 2012, forecasts compiled by
Bloomberg show. Earnings at Bentonville, Arkansas-based Wal-Mart
Stores Inc., the world’s largest retailer, will climb 6.1
percent in 2013, the data show.  Equity valuations will climb as central-bank stimulus
measures force investors to shift to riskier assets in search of
returns, according to McCormack, Macquarie’s London-based
strategist. The ECB is also helping boost the relative value of
stocks compared with bonds by cutting its benchmark  interest
rate  to 0.75 percent and by providing a backstop for the weakest
euro-area economies.  The Stoxx 600 pays  investors  5.5 percent of their money
back in earnings, almost four times more than German government
 bonds , Bloomberg data show. The dividend yield of 3.83 percent
is 1.58 percentage points above the yield from corporate bonds
in the region, near the record 1.71 points on Nov. 15, according
to data from Bloomberg and Barclays Plc.  “One of the ways for central banks to stimulate growth is
to cause a portfolio reallocation among investors searching for
greater returns,” McCormack said in a phone interview on Nov.
22. “They have crashed returns on low-risk assets to push
investors into riskier ones. Equities are very cheap.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alexis Xydias in London at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net ;
Adria Cimino in Paris at 
 acimino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  