-- Dollar Gains on Concern Greece’s Debt Deal Will Stall
-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t   a n d   N e a l   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2012-11-27T22:19:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-26/euro-climbs-on-speculation-agreement-to-be-reached-on-greek-debt.html
The dollar gained from almost a one-
month low versus the euro as concern a deal for  Greece  to buy
back its bonds may falter while U.S. lawmakers struggled to
reach a budget consensus boosted haven demand.  The Swedish krona declined at least 0.5 percent versus all
of its major peers after consumer confidence was weaker than
forecast. The greenback extended gains against the majority of
its 16 most-traded counterparts after Senate Majority Leader
Harry Reid said he is “disappointed” in the lack of progress
in discussions to avoid the so-called fiscal cliff. The euro
weakened with higher-yielding assets after policy makers
released the plan that will allow Greece to receive its next aid
payment.  “The amount of debt relief from elements of the program,
such as the bond buyback, are questionable,” said  Aroop Chatterjee , a currency strategist at Barclays Plc in New York.
“No actual money was released either by the European Union or
the IMF, and the proposed release next month is also
conditional. There is no guarantee that this will happen when
Dec. 13 rolls around.”  The dollar rose 0.2 percent to $1.2943 per euro at 5 p.m.
New York time after dropping to $1.3009, the weakest since Oct.
31. The euro declined 0.1 percent to 106.34 yen after rising as
much as 0.5 percent. The Japanese currency was 0.1 percent
weaker at 82.15 yen per dollar.  Krona, Peso  The krona fell for the first time in five days against the
euro, declining 0.9 percent to 8.6526, after  consumer confidence 
fell for a fourth month in November. The central bank signaled
it may cut interest rates next month for a fourth time since
December as it predicts the Nordic region’s largest economy will
suffer from falling demand from  Europe .  Mexico ’s peso rose as much as 0.4 percent to 12.9597 per
dollar after bookings for non-defense capital goods excluding
aircraft in the U.S., its biggest export market, rose 1.7
percent last month, the most since May, the Commerce Department
reported. The peso erased gains after Reid’s comments, declining
0.2 percent to 13.0403.  Sterling strengthened after a report confirmed Britain’s
economy exited a double-dip recession in the third quarter. The
pound added 0.2 percent to 80.78 pence per euro. The U.K.
currency was little changed at $1.6022 after rising to $1.6056,
the highest since Nov. 2.  The  Dollar Index (DXY) , which IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback against currencies of six U.S. trading
partners, added 0.1 percent to 80.346 after falling as much as
0.3 percent. It rose after consumer confidence in November
reached the highest since February 2008, according to the
Conference Board’s confidence index.  Fiscal Cliff  “We only have a couple weeks to get something done, so we
have to get away from the happy talk” and do “specific
things,” Reid said to reporters today. “We could have
prevented this crisis months ago by simply adopting what we
passed in the Senate.”  Lawmakers are trying to avert a collection of $607 billion
in automatic tax increases and spending cuts scheduled to take
effect at the beginning of 2013 to prevent a short-term shock to
the economy and reach an agreement on long-term deficit
reduction.  The U.S. currency will appreciate against all of its Group
of 10 counterparts except the Canadian dollar by 2014, as
America weathers the fiscal cliff and its economy expands 2
percent, more than the 1.26 percent G-10 average, data compiled
by Bloomberg show.  Not ‘Enthused’  In the latest bid to keep the 17-nation euro zone intact,
policy makers cut the rates on Greece’s bailout loans, suspended
its interest payments for a decade, gave it more time to repay
and engineered a Greek bond buyback. The country was also
cleared to receive a 34.4 billion-euro ($44.7 billion) loan
installment in December.  “Market participants are not overly enthused by the
tentative deal reached between euro-area finance ministers and
the International Monetary Fund after several rounds of
protracted negotiations to ease Greece’s bailout terms,”
 Samarjit Shankar , a managing director for the foreign-exchange
group in  Boston  at Bank of New York Mellon, wrote to clients
today.  The parliaments of three of the euro area’s AAA rated
countries --  Germany ,  Finland  and the Netherlands -- insisted on
approving the accord, with Dec. 13 set as the deadline for a
formal decision to unlock the next Greek aid tranche.  “If things are muddling along in Europe and things are
muddling along in the U.S. and we get a deal for the fiscal
cliff, focus is going to shift away from here to  Japan ,” said
 Fabian Eliasson , head of U.S. currency sales at  Mizuho Financial
Group Inc. (8411)  in New York.  The euro has risen 2.4 percent in the past three months,
still the best performer among 10 developed-market currencies,
according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The dollar
is 1 percent weaker and the yen has fallen 5.8 percent, to lead
decliners.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net ;
Neal Armstrong in London at 
 narmstrong8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  