-- Euro-Area Bailout Fund Survival Faces Final Hurdle at EU Court
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 2012-11-26T07:22:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-26/euro-area-bailout-fund-survival-faces-final-hurdle-at-eu-court.html
The euro area’s 500 billion-euro
($648 billion) fund to rescue indebted nations faces its final
legal hurdle with the European Union’s highest court set to rule
on the validity of the firewall.  The  EU Court of Justice  is scheduled to rule on an Irish
lawmaker’s challenge to the European Stability Mechanism, or
ESM, tomorrow. While the Luxembourg-based court has the power to
topple the financial backstop by finding fault with the way it
was created, it is likely to approve it or seek minor
modifications.  “I don’t expect the court to rule that the ESM is in
breach of the treaties, that would really be a big surprise,”
said Marco Incerti, an analyst at the  Centre for European Policy
Studies  in Brussels. Even if the court upheld some points, it
would at most ask for “adjustments to be made, but that would
be of little consequence.”  The ESM will replace the temporary European Financial
Stability Facility, which has committed 192 billion euros of its
440 billion euros to aid Ireland, Portugal and  Greece . The ESM
in September survived a legal challenge in  Germany , handing a
victory to  Chancellor Angela Merkel , who championed the facility
as vital to save the euro area from a fiscal meltdown.  The EU court has worked on  the case  under a fast-track
procedure for almost 4 months, using all 27 judges to consider
the challenge -- the first time this has happened in a case
referred by a national tribunal.  EU Role  Thomas Pringle, an independent member of the Irish
Parliament, argues in the EU case that the ESM, violates the  no-
bailout provision  under EU law and encroaches on the EU’s role
in economic and monetary policy. He challenges a  March 2011
decision  by EU governments to change a legal provision in a
treaty to allow for the ESM’s creation, saying this was done
incorrectly.  “The fact that the case was heard by the full court as
well as the active involvement of so many member states and EU
institutions in the hearing underline its importance,” said Joe
Noonan, Pringle’s lawyer. “It is a landmark case in the Union’s
constitutional development.”  Even if the court ruled the ESM is valid, it shouldn’t be
allowed to function until the treaty change has come into effect
on Jan. 1 at the earliest, Pringle claims.  Subversion  “The ESM Treaty was set up deliberately outside the union.
Mr. Pringle believes that to be a subversion of the carefully
designed and well balanced union architecture,” Noonan said.
“The law on which the union is founded is to be respected and
not to be circumvented.''  Ireland’s finance ministry declined to comment on the case.  Ireland’s Supreme Court, where Pringle filed his challenge,
decided in July to refer three questions to the EU’s top court.
In a packed room, the full EU court heard arguments by all sides
at an oral hearing in October.  With rulings often taking between one to two years, the EU
court  decided  on Oct. 4 to treat Pringle’s case under an
accelerated procedure due to the ‘‘uncertainty as to the
validity of that treaty” and “to remove as soon as possible
that uncertainty, which adversely affects the objective of the
ESM treaty, namely to maintain the financial stability of the
euro area.”  The court’s ruling can’t be appealed. The Irish tribunal
that referred the case will have to give a decision afterwards
on Pringle’s challenge, in line with the EU court’s ruling.  The case is:  C-370/12 , Thomas Pringle v. Government of
Ireland, Ireland and the Attorney General.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Bodoni in Luxembourg at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  