-- Ex-SAC Portfolio Manager Martoma Gets New Bail Terms
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s   a n d   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2012-11-27T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-26/ex-sac-portfolio-manager-martoma-appears-in-n-y-court.html
Former SAC Capital Advisors LP
portfolio manager Mathew Martoma, charged in what prosecutors
called the biggest-ever insider trading case, had the terms of
his bail modified and will be allowed to remain free after
appearing in  Manhattan  federal court for the first time.  Martoma, 38, is accused of using illegal tips about a
clinical trial of an Alzheimer’s disease drug to help SAC, the
hedge-fund founded by  Steven A. Cohen , make $276 million on
shares of  Elan Corp. (ELN)  and Wyeth LLC. He was arrested at his  Boca
Raton ,  Florida , home Nov. 20 and freed on $5 million bond
after a hearing there. He faces the possibility of decades in
prison if convicted of the charges against him.  Before and after yesterday’s court appearance, Martoma and
his wife chatted with defense lawyers, smiling. Rosemary
Martoma, a pediatrician, sat straight-backed as she listened to
the judge and lawyers discuss bail. At the end of the hearing,
picking up their coats and bags, she joked “I’m the bag lady.”  The defense and prosecution yesterday agreed to a modified
bail package under which the $5 million bond must be secured by
$2 million in cash or property, as well as signatures from three
instead of two financially responsible people. Martoma, who
surrendered his and his children’s travel documents, is limited
to Florida,  Massachusetts ,  New Jersey  and parts of  New York .  Securities Fraud  The defendant, wearing a gray jacket, dark pants, a sweater
and tie, didn’t speak during the 13-minute court appearance
except to tell U.S. Magistrate Judge  James Cott  he understood he
could be re-arrested if he violates the bail terms. Martoma,
holding hands with his wife, emerged from the courtroom after
the proceeding into a crowd of reporters.  Martoma is charged with conspiracy and two counts of
securities fraud, a crime that carries a maximum 20-year prison
term. Defense lawyer  Charles Stillman  has said he expects his
client to be exonerated.  Martoma was allowed to remain free yesterday on his
signature and that of his wife. The judge set the next court
appearance for Dec. 26. Stillman said the parties may agree to
change the date.  Another Day  “We took care of business today and we’ll be back another
day,” Stillman said outside court yesterday.  The government says Martoma got tips about the drug,
bapineuzumab, from Dr. Sidney Gilman, an 80-year-old  University
of Michigan  neurologist who was overseeing part of the clinical
trial. Prosecutors have reached a non-prosecution agreement with
Gilman, who is cooperating with the investigation.  Prosecutors and the Securities and Exchange Commission,
which has sued Martoma, have linked SAC founder Cohen to the
case, although he isn’t identified by name in their complaints.
A person familiar with the matter said Cohen is the person
identified in the criminal complaint as “Hedge Fund Owner” and
in the SEC’s suit as “Investment Advisor A.”  Martoma denies wrongdoing, and Cohen hasn’t been sued or
charged. A spokesman for the SAC founder, Jonathan Gasthalter,
has denied any wrongdoing and said  Stamford , Connecticut-based
SAC is cooperating with the government.  The criminal case is U.S. v. Martoma, 12-mj-02985; and the
civil case is SEC v. CR Intrinsic Investors LLC, 12-08466, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bob Van Voris in Manhattan federal court, at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net ;
Patricia Hurtado in Manhattan federal court;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  