-- Ex-Texas Rangers Owner Hicks Settles Administrator Suit
-- B y   T o m   K o r o s e c   a n d   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-11-27T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-26/ex-texas-rangers-owner-hicks-settles-administrator-suit.html
  Tom Hicks , the former owner of the
 Texas  Rangers, settled litigation with the Major League Baseball
franchise’s post-bankruptcy plan administrator who last year
accused him of misdirecting money, according to a court filing.  Administrator Alan M. Jacobs last year accused Hicks of
diverting “tens of millions” of dollars from the team toward
the purchase and development of parking lots near the Rangers’
Arlington ballpark.  State Judge Tonya Parker in  Dallas  had ordered the parties
to mediation in August.  “In the days following the mediation, the parties
continued their settlement discussions and now have reached an
agreement in principle to settle all causes of action in this
case,” lawyers for both sides told Parker in a court filing
yesterday.  The accord is subject to formal approval by lenders in the
bankruptcy, according to the filing.  The case had been scheduled to go to trial Dec. 3.  Hicks owned the club from 1998 until the summer of 2010,
when it filed for bankruptcy and was sold to a group led by
Hall-of-Fame pitcher  Nolan Ryan , who played for the team from
1989 to 1993.  Hicks “embarked on a scheme to build a real estate empire
on the backs of the Texas Rangers’ players and creditors and
fans,” Jacobs alleged last year.  “We welcome the opportunity to challenge these allegations
in court,” Lisa LeMaster, a spokeswoman for Hicks, said in a
statement at the time. LeMaster didn’t have an immediate comment
on the settlement.  Cowboys, Lots  Jacobs said in court papers this month that the parking
lots generate “millions of dollars per year” in parking
revenue from events at nearby  Cowboys Stadium  and are worth from
$51.5 million to $75 million.  Details of the settlement weren’t included in yesterday’s
filing.  Jeff Tillotson, a lawyer for Jacobs, said in an e-mail
yesterday that he didn’t have an immediate comment on the
settlement and would confer with his client.  The case is  Texas Rangers  Baseball Partners v. Hicks,
DC-11-10069, 116th Judicial District Court, Dallas County,
Texas.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  