-- Exposure to Traffic Pollution May Be Linked to Autism
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 2012-11-26T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-26/exposure-to-traffic-pollution-may-be-linked-to-autism.html
Exposure to  air pollution  from cars
and trucks during pregnancy and a baby’s first year may be
associated with an increased risk of autism, a study found.  The study, published today in the  Archives of General
Psychiatry , compared 279 autistic children with 245 children who
didn’t have the social and communications disorder. Researchers
said the children who lived in homes with the highest estimated
levels of air pollution from traffic were three times more
likely to be autistic than those with the lowest predicted
exposure.  The cause of autism is unknown, though genetic factors are
probably important, according to the  National Institutes of
Health . Among other environmental causes that have been
suspected are diet, digestive tract changes, mercury poisoning
and vaccine sensitivity.  “The public health implications of these findings are
large because air pollution exposure is common and may have
lasting neurological effects,” the authors, led by  Heather
Volk , an assistant professor of preventive medicine at the
University of Southern California in Los Angeles, wrote in their
study.  The increased risk from air pollution generated by car and
truck traffic may be due to exhaust particles, though today’s
study didn’t measure the particulate matter at any of the homes
of the children analyzed. Instead, researchers modeled what they
expected the air pollution was, based on the mother’s address.
Additionally, the research didn’t explore sources of indoor
pollution, such as second-hand smoke.  Health Hazards  Pollution from small particles is known to cause heart
attacks, early death, decreased lung function and asthma,
according to the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency. The
particles, which come from coal plants, car exhaust, fireplaces,
furnaces and other sources, are common in urban areas.  Decreasing pollution by about 7 micrograms per cubic meter
may lead to a five-month increase in life expectancy, previous
research suggested. More study is needed to know how air
pollution interacts with autism, the study authors said.  The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention  reported in
March that 1 in 88 children in the U.S. had autism or a related
disorder in 2008, the latest period for which data is available.
That was a 23 percent rise from 2006, the agency’s researchers
reported, saying it was unclear how much of the increase was due
to greater awareness of the disease.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in San Francisco at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 