-- Facebook Rises on Advertising Revenue Growth Potential
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2012-11-26T21:30:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-26/facebook-rises-on-revenue-growth-potential-san-francisco-mover.html
Facebook Inc. (FB)  rose to the highest
price in four months after an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein &
Co. said that investors have been underestimating sales growth
potential for the world’s largest social network.  The shares gained 8.1 percent to $25.94 at 4 p.m. in  New
York , the highest close since July 26. The stock has declined 32
percent since an initial public offering in May.  Sales will be $6.98 billion next year and $8.65 billion in
2014, Carlos Kirjner, an analyst at Bernstein, projected in a
research report today. Analysts on average estimated revenue of
$6.41 billion for 2013 and $8.12 billion the following year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Advertising on mobile
devices and more targeted promotions for desktop users will help
propel growth, he said.  “Its revenue growth trajectory will be the main driver of
Facebook’s stock performance,” Kirjner said. “Facebook just
started monetizing mobile and we believe it has enough run-way
to support revenue growth above consensus estimates for the next
18 to 24 months.”  Kirjner upgraded the shares to outperform from market
perform and raised his 12-month price estimate to $33 from $23.  Facebook has been trying to assuage investor concerns about
how quickly it can make money from the growing portion of its
more than 1 billion users who access the service on smartphones
and tablets. The company, which first rolled out its mobile ad
service in March, said last month 14 percent of third-quarter
advertising revenue, or about $150 million, came from ads tied
to mobile devices.  Better targeted ads for users on desktop computers will
also boost revenue, Kirjner said. That includes the Facebook
Exchange, which enables companies to tailor ads on the service
based on users’ Web-browsing history outside of Facebook.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  