-- Facebook Claimant Ceglia Indicted for Wire, Mail Fraud
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2012-11-27T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-26/facebook-claimant-ceglia-indicted-for-wire-mail-fraud.html
Paul Ceglia was indicted on charges
he faked evidence to support his claims that he signed a
contract with  Facebook Inc. (FB)  Chief Executive Officer  Mark Zuckerberg  giving him a multibillion-dollar share in the world’s
biggest social network,  Ceglia was arrested and charged last month in a criminal
complaint with one count each of wire fraud and mail fraud, and
was accused of the same crimes by a New York federal grand jury,
according to an indictment released yesterday by U.S. Attorney
Preet Bharara in Manhattan.  Ceglia, 39, doctored a legitimate 2003 contract with
Zuckerberg, in which the future CEO agreed to perform coding
work for Ceglia’s website, into a phony contract “in which
Zuckerberg agreed to provide Ceglia with at least a 50 percent
interest in  Facebook ,” according to the indictment.  Prosecutors say Ceglia also fabricated e-mails and
destroyed evidence in the case.  The indictment is necessary to bring the western New York
man’s case to trial. Each of the charges carries a maximum
sentence of 20 years in prison. Ceglia pleaded not guilty last
month. He is set to appear in  Manhattan  federal court on Nov.
28.  Ceglia sued Zuckerberg and Facebook in 2010, claiming 84
percent of the company. He later reduced his demand to half of
Zuckerberg’s Facebook holdings. Facebook, based in Menlo Park,
 California , said from the start that Ceglia’s claim was
fraudulent.  Ceglia’s lawyer, Dean Boland of Lakewood,  Ohio , didn’t
immediately respond yesterday to a voice-mail message seeking
comment on the criminal charges.  The contract case is Ceglia v. Zuckerberg, 10-cv-00569,
U.S. District Court, Western District of New York (Buffalo). The
criminal case is U.S. v. Ceglia, 12-mj-2842, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  