-- Facebook Needs a Dislike Button for Abe’s Ideas
-- B y   W i l l i a m   P e s e k
-- 2012-11-26T22:00:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-26/facebook-needs-a-dislike-button-for-abe-s-ideas.html
For Shinzo Abe, it isn’t enough to
see Sony Corp. and Panasonic Corp., two icons of industrial
 Japan , reduced to junk-debt status. The man who probably will
become prime minister next month might do the same for the yen.  That is the upshot of his desire to browbeat the  Bank of
Japan  into unlimited easing. Granted, his  Liberal Democratic
Party  did that for most of the half-century it was in power
until 2009. But Abe’s designs on the BOJ smack of a monetary
jihad that would do more harm than good.  Polls suggest Abe will get a second crack at running Japan
after a Dec. 16 election. His first one, from 2006 to 2007, was
an exercise in mediocrity and focused on education and military
matters. Round two will home in on ending deflation. To Abe,
that means opening the monetary spigot indefinitely.  Abe may well revolutionize the central bank, though in
unhelpful ways. He would get to pick the BOJ’s top three jobs,
including replacing  Masaaki Shirakawa  with a more compliant
governor. Yet Abe, in a series of comments, stepped way over the
line of ignorance and veered into financial irresponsibility.
Maybe the BOJ could do more. It might, for instance, pay greater
attention to how the strong yen is gutting Japanese companies
such as Sony and Panasonic, which Fitch Ratings Ltd. lowered to
speculative grade on Nov. 22.  Rickety System  Abe’s interest in creating inflation ignores the dilemma
hovering over Japan: the largest public debt in the
industrialized world. Let’s say Abe gets his wish and the BOJ
achieves 3 percent inflation in short order. That would drive up
the ultra-low borrowing costs on which Japan depends. Sub-1
percent bond yields are the glue holding together a rickety
financial system. A jump in yields could devastate the economy
and trash the yen.  That would end badly for a nation with a rapidly aging
population, waning competitiveness amid  China ’s ascent and risk-
averse public and corporate sectors. A chaotic plunge in the yen
is in no one’s interest, least of all a government that needs to
import more oil to offset the nuclear reactors that were taken
offline after last year’s enormous earthquake.  The BOJ’s global clout is already in doubt. When it
intervenes in  currency markets  or adds new stimulus, traders
yawn. Making the BOJ a more formal creature of politicians,
turning it into a People’s Bank of China, isn’t the answer.  Abe is backpedaling a bit. His call for the BOJ to buy
construction bonds to support  government spending  ran afoul of
many Japan watchers. Abe took to Facebook to clarify, a rare
step for a Japanese politician and one that has many economists
clicking the “like” button to follow his monetary musings.  Not that they necessarily actually agree with what he is
proposing. One of the more pointed rebuttals came from former
Finance Minister Hirohisa Fujii. At 80, Fujii is one the few
policy makers who recalls growing up amid the insanity and
devastation of World War II.  “The central bank underwrote the government’s war machine,
allowing the government to fight foolish wars,” he said last
week. Of Abe’s desire to alter the BOJ’s charter, Fujii added,
“Revising the BOJ law would mean a revival of the 1942
legislation.” The law made the BOJ an instrument of government,
a relationship that wasn’t really ended until 1997.  Scary stuff. It makes claims that Federal Reserve Chairman
 Ben S. Bernanke  has gone too far look quaint. Hard-money
enthusiasts, such as Texas Congressman  Ron Paul , would be aghast
at what Abe has in mind for the monetary authority that backs
one of the three main international currencies. Compared with
Abe’s expectations for his central bank, Bernanke looks almost
hawkish.  Deflation Symptoms  Has it not occurred to Abe and the LDP that monetary
stimulus alone won’t revitalize Japan? There seems to be little
recognition that  deflation  is a symptom of Japan’s two-decade-
long economic drought, not its cause. Far more good would come
from taking a fresh look at fiscal and tax policies. Ending
Japan’s balance-sheet recession requires new strategies to
increase demand from all directions.  The year ahead promises to be another rough one for the
world economy -- no end in sight to  Europe ’s crisis, America’s
recovery proceeding slowly and China struggling to support
growth. As 2013 unfolds, economists will wonder what Prime
Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  was thinking when he raised consumption
taxes in such a shaky environment.  Why not put Japan’s next finance minister and BOJ chief in
a room together and demand a new course? Japan’s debt already
equals more than twice the size of the economy, and the days of
trying to generate growth with huge public-works projects are
over. So is the time when monetary stimulus could save the day.
The financial levers must be re-assessed. The same goes for
deregulating the economy with more-flexible labor markets and
fewer barriers to trade.  Perhaps it’s all talk. Maybe Abe will pick up an Economics
101 textbook over the holidays and think better of hijacking his
central bank. At the very least, Abe’s monetary fixation
portends something troubling about his second turn as prime
minister: He is coming to the job with some bad ideas. If only
his  Facebook (FB)  page had a dislike button.  (William Pesek is a Boomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  To contact the writer of this article:
William Pesek in Tokyo at 
 wpesek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  