-- FCC Says Dish Plan Would Hurt Public Asset Worth Billions
-- B y   T o d d   S h i e l d s
-- 2012-11-26T22:16:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-26/fcc-says-dish-plan-would-hurt-public-asset-worth-billions.html
Dish Network Corp. (DISH) ’s proposal for a
mobile telephone network would destroy the value of airwaves the
government plans to auction for commercial use, the Federal
Communications Commission said today.  Dish has said its ability to add mobile-phone service to
satellite television offerings could be crippled by FCC Chairman
 Julius Genachowski ’s Nov. 20 proposal to limit power for the
planned network. Dish wants to loosen the limits, which are
intended to prevent interference with nearby frequencies, known
as the H block, that are to be auctioned.  “In arguing that the commission should destroy the value
of the H block, Dish is seeking to take a public asset
potentially worth billions of dollars and turn it into a private
windfall,” Justin Cole, an FCC spokesman, said in an e-mailed
statement.  Genachowski’s proposal awaits a vote by the five-member
FCC, and Dish Executive Vice President R. Stanton Dodge said in
a Nov. 20 statement that the Englewood, Colorado-based company
was ready to “work with the full commission” to produce final
rules.  Today’s FCC statement shows Dish may not succeed in
changing the order,  Paul Gallant , Washington-based managing
director at Guggenheim Securities, said in an interview.  “This certainly suggests the chairman is dug in and not
likely to alter his proposal for how Dish can use its
spectrum,” Gallant said.  Congress directed the FCC to auction the H block, and by
limiting Dish the FCC can generate more revenue to help pay for
a planned nationwide radio network for emergency workers,
Gallant said.  Bob Toevs, a Dish spokesman, didn’t immediately respond to
today’s FCC statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Todd Shields in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  