-- FIX Publishes European Standards for Reporting Trading
-- B y   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r
-- 2012-11-26T08:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-26/fix-publishes-european-standards-for-reporting-trading.html
FIX Protocol Ltd.,  the London-based
organization that owns the global messaging format for financial
trading, published a set of European guidelines on how trade
reports and market data should be consolidated to improve price
transparency for equities.  The standards will call for each trade on each platform to
have a unique identifier and increase consistency in reporting,
FIX said in an emailed statement. One of its proposals is to
identify a security by its unique International Securities
Identification Number, or ISIN, and its currency. FIX also
stipulated a similar standard for indicating the trading venue.  Alternative trading systems such as Bats Chi-X  Europe ,
which accounts for more than 25 percent of pan-European  stock
trading , came into being after new rules in 2007 opened the door
to competition with traditional exchanges. The new entrants
grabbed market share, driving down trading and clearing fees,
and brought improved trading technology.  Even as these new venues took market share from exchanges,
fees for market data haven’t fallen. Also, incumbent exchanges
continue to provide the reference price for stocks listed on
their markets. This has fueled calls for a so-called
consolidated tape that takes into account market data from all
the trading systems to provide the price for a given stock.  Developing a consolidated tape is part of an overhaul of
European trading regulations adopted in 2007 to spur competition
between venues, the Markets in Financial Instruments Directive,
or Mifid. Regulators are seeking to create a data feed that
shows the price and volume of individual stock trades and where
among dozens of venues they occurred.  We “propose a standard approach to be adopted across the
industry by market participants involved in post-trade
reporting,” FIX said today. This is “in order to shape the
clarifications of Mifid post-trade transparency obligations.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nandini Sukumar in London at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net  or @NandiniSukumar on Twitter  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  