-- GE Mutes MRI Rock-Concert Din to Boost Sales to Hospitals
-- B y   T i m   C a t t s
-- 2012-11-26T18:46:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-26/ge-mutes-mri-rock-concert-din-to-boost-sales-to-hospitals.html
General Electric Co. (GE)  is unveiling
magnetic resonance imaging technology to damp the volume on the
notoriously noisy machines to no louder than a whisper from
levels rivaling rock concerts.  “The exam will be silent, basically, as opposed to having
all the clanging noises,” Tom Gentile, chief executive officer
of GE’s health-care systems division, said in a telephone
interview. “That should substantially improve the patient
experience.”  MRI equipment can generate a din exceeding 110 decibels as
it creates a magnetic field and radio waves to peer inside the
human body, Gentile said. Instead of just adding insulation to
mute the sound, GE’s new approach changes the fields more slowly
and uses software to build a complete image.  The technology was introduced today in  Chicago  at the
Radiological Society of  North America ’s  annual meeting . GE, the
world’s biggest maker of medical imaging gear, also is
showcasing enhanced software for three-dimensional image viewing
and its acquisition of a manufacturer of ultrasound scanners for
breast-cancer screening.  GE is confronting a slowdown in medical-equipment purchases
as slack demand in the U.S. and Europe tempers growth in
 emerging markets . MRI orders fell 9 percent in the third
quarter, Chief Financial Officer  Keith Sherin  said in an Oct. 19
conference call with analysts.  Revenue Breakdown  GE’s health-care unit generated $18.1 billion in  revenue 
for the Fairfield, Connecticut-based parent company last year.
Gentile said GE spends about $1 billion annually on research and
development in the field.  The new MRI technology will help boost sales of scanners to
hospitals seeking to attract patients who want to avoid the
noise historically associated with the tests, Gentile said. The
device is awaiting clearance by the U.S. Food and Drug
Administration and isn’t yet available for sale, GE said.  “It’s pretty neat,” said General Electric CEO  Jeffrey
Immelt , who recalled undergoing an MRI scan once that was so
loud that he told technicians he thought the machine was broken.
“You can now have a conversation while the MR scan is going.”  GE competes with companies including Munich-based  Siemens
AG (SIE)  and Tokyo-based  Toshiba Corp. (6502)  to sell MRI equipment and other
diagnostic devices.  The cancer-screening acquisition is  U-Systems Inc. , which
GE agreed to buy on Nov. 9 without giving financial terms. The
company makes ultrasound scanners designed to complement
traditional mammograms, which use X-rays, by helping spot
previously undetectable cancers in some women, according to GE.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Catts in Chicago at 
 tcatts1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net . 