-- UBS Fine, German-Swiss Accord, India Wal-Mart: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n   a n d   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 2012-11-26T13:28:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-26/german-swiss-accord-india-wal-mart-euro-compliance.html
The U.K.’s Financial Services
Authority today fined  UBS AG (UBSN)  29.7 million pounds ($47.6 million)
because of former trader Kweku Adoboli’s $2.3 billion trading
loss. The FSA said the loss revealed serious weaknesses in
management systems and internal controls at the largest Swiss
bank.  Additionally, Finma, the Swiss regulator, said it
instructed UBS to appoint an independent third party to report
on the progress and completion of a program to fix these
failings. The Swiss regulator also said that it may have to
increase capital levels for operational risks.  Adoboli, a former trader in UBS’s London office, was
sentenced to seven years in jail on Nov. 20 for fraud in
relation to the loss, the largest from unauthorized trading in
British history. About $2.1 billion of the loss arose from long
positions in stock futures that peaked at $12.1 billion on Aug.
8, 2011, and were closed out three days later, while the
remainder was incurred on short positions in stock futures that
were entered afterward and peaked at $8.5 billion, Finma said.  Immediately following the discovery of the loss last year
Finma introduced measures to limit the operational risk exposure
of UBS until the controls at its investment bank were working
effectively.  UBS said in an e-mailed statement that it’s “pleased”
that the investigation has been concluded and that regulators
acknowledged the steps the Zurich-based bank has taken since the
incident.  For more, click here.  Special Section: European Banking Congress  Bankers, Reputations Dim, Dine on Humble Pie in Frankfurt  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  co-Chief Executive Anshu Jain says telling
people he works in banking is a conversation-killer at parties,
as the industry fails to convince the general public that it’s
changing.  Europe’s top banking executives met in the continent’s
financial capital last week to discuss the industry’s future.
Among the most hotly-debated topics was how lenders can regain
the public’s trust, battered by taxpayer-funded bailouts and the
deepest slump since World War II.  Carl Graf von Hohenthal, a consultant at public relations
firm Brunswick Group, says there’s a perception that bankers are
earning too much and not helping to raise  living standards 
across economies after the crisis squeezed spending power.  An Ernst & Young LLP study of more than 28,500 retail bank
customers in 35 countries in March found 40 percent of those
questioned had lost trust in banks over the past year while 22
percent gained confidence.  For more, click here.  Weidmann Says ECB Crisis-Fighting Poses Long-Term Risks  Bundesbank President and European Central Bank Council
member Jens Weidmann talked about the risks associated with the
bank’s crisis-fighting policies and its proposed banking
supervisory role.  A panel discussion followed, featuring Julian Nida-
Ruemelin, Ludwig-Maximilians-University, Tomas Sedlacek,
Ceskoslovenska Obchodni Banka, Guido Tabellini,  Bocconi
University . Todd Benjamin moderated the debate at the European
Banking Congress, part of Euro Finance Week conference in
Frankfurt that concluded Nov. 23.  For the video, click here.  Schaeuble Says Bankers Must Know Responsibility  German Finance  Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  talked about
trust in the banking system, regulation and the European debt
crisis. He gave a keynote speech at the  European Banking
Congress , part of Euro Finance Week in Frankfurt.  For the video, click here.  Ingves, Bowles, Blessing, Stepic on Banking Regulation  Sveriges Riksbank Governor  Stefan Ingves  participated in a
panel discussion about banking regulation at the  European
Banking Congress , part of Euro Finance Week in Frankfurt.  The other speakers were  Commerzbank AG (CBK)  Chairman  Martin
Blessing , European Parliament lawmaker  Sharon Bowles ,  Raiffeisen
Bank International (RBI)  Chief Executive Officer Herbert Stepic and
Professor at Geneva’s Graduate Institute of International and
Development Studies,  Charles Wyplosz . Todd Benjamin moderated.  For the video, click here.  Compliance Policy  German Lawmakers Reject Pact on Hidden Swiss Bank Accounts  Germany’s upper house of Parliament rejected an accord over
undeclared bank accounts in Switzerland, dealing a blow to Swiss
efforts to retain European clients spooked by a crackdown on  tax
evasion .  The Bundesrat, controlled by opposition parties after state
election losses by  Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s  Christian
Democrats , voted to block the agreement signed by the two
nations last year. While details of the Nov. 23 vote in Berlin
weren’t disclosed, the outcome had been on the cards for months
with the Social Democratic and Green parties lobbying against
the accord.  The collapse of an agreement that would have imposed a
withholding tax on offshore accounts held by Germans is a
setback for Swiss banks as they try to stem withdrawals by
customers concerned about a widening hunt for tax dodgers.
German opposition parties say the accord contains too many
loopholes for tax evaders and keeps client identities secret.  German Finance Minister Wolfgang Schaeuble said he plans to
call a mediation committee with the opposition to look for a
compromise. A formal decision on the committee will be made by
Merkel’s Cabinet on Nov. 28. The  Social Democrats  will continue
to oppose the initiative, Steffen Rulke, a Berlin-based
spokesman for the party, said Nov. 21.  Germany may lose 13 billion euros ($16.8 billion) in  tax
revenue  next year without the accord, Thomas Schaefer, finance
minister of the state of Hesse, said in a speech to the
Bundesrat.  Switzerland built the world’s biggest offshore wealth
center during an era of “black money” that started to crumble
when the U.S. sued  UBS AG (UBS)  three years ago. The so-called Rubik
accord with Germany would have retained an element of banking
secrecy, even as a crackdown on tax evasion by the U.S. and
European authorities leads to demands for more transparent
arrangements, including automatic exchange of information.  For more, click here.  Latvia Refines Laws on Money Laundering, Watchdog Says  Latvia has improved legal mechanisms to combat  money
laundering , helping clinch convictions for violating the
controls, a European watchdog said.  The Baltic country brought its laws on money laundering in
line with international standards and adopted better regulations
for asset recovery, particularly by subjecting indirect proceeds
from the crime to confiscation, Moneyval, the Council of
Europe’s monitoring body for money laundering and terrorism
financing, said in an e-mailed report Nov. 23.  Latvia continues to need better rules on freezing terrorist
assets under the United Nations Security Council resolutions,
according to the report.  India Looks to Regulate High-Frequency Trading, Sinha Says  Brief stoppage in automated trading is important for
efficient price discovery, Securities and Exchange Board of
India Chairman U.K. Sinha said in Mumbai.  The board, known as Sebi, will soon announce restrictions
to avoid huge stock crashes, including pre-checking of orders
and pricing. Sebi will take action against people responsible
for lapses. He refused to comment on specifics.  Trading in Nifty and some of biggest companies halted for
15 minutes Oct. 5 after a 50-stock gauge sank an unprecedented
16 percent.  Sebi plans to set up a working group for rationalization of
routes for foreign investments.  Schwab CEO Calls for Floating NAV for Institutional Money Funds  Charles Schwab Corp. (SCHW) , the fifth-biggest provider of U.S.
money market funds, called for a compromise in the industry’s
showdown with regulators that would impose a floating share
value on institutional products that invest in corporate debt.  Regulators should allow funds that invest only in U.S.
government-backed securities, and prime funds that cater to
smaller investors, to keep the traditional $1 constant share
value because they are less at risk of credit losses and
investor runs, Chief Executive Officer Walter Bettinger wrote
Nov. 23 in an opinion article for The Wall Street Journal.
Separating retail and institutional investors would be
“manageable,” Bettinger said.  U.S. regulators and asset managers have debated new rules
for money-market mutual funds since September 2008, when the
collapse of the $62.5 billion Reserve Primary Fund triggered a
wider investor run on prime money funds and helped freeze global
credit markets.  For more, click here.  Compliance Action  Wal-Mart Suspends Indian Workers Amid Bribery Investigation  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) , the world’s largest retailer, said
some workers at its joint venture in India have been suspended,
as it conducts inquiries into potential violations of U.S. anti-
bribery laws.  The retailer is conducting a “complete and thorough
investigation,” it said in an e-mailed statement Nov. 23. The
Indian venture, Bharti Walmart Pvt., has suspended planned store
openings until the probe is completed, the Economic Times
 reported  Nov. 23, citing two unidentified people.  Wal-Mart, based in Bentonville, Arkansas, on Nov. 15 said
it started inquiries into potential violations of the Foreign
Corrupt Practices Act in India, Brazil and China. The U.S.
Department of Justice and the Securities and Exchange Commission
are looking into allegations Wal-Mart systematically bribed
Mexican officials so it could more quickly open stores.  Wal-Mart is trying to gain a foothold in India, where the
government in September decided to allow foreign companies to
invest in multibrand store chains, a sector they had previously
been barred from.  An anti-corruption team summoned some employees and told
them two weeks ago not to enter Bharti Wal-Mart’s office until
after the investigation, the Economic Times reported. Wal-Mart
didn’t provide any details of the people suspended or about the
probe it is conducting, saying it would be “inappropriate” to
comment before the investigation is complete. India’s
Enforcement Directorate will seek documents from Wal-Mart
relating to its financial investments and remittances in the
country, Press Trust of India reported Nov. 15, citing a person
it didn’t identify.  Cohen’s SAC Faces Client Questions as U.S. Investigators Circle  SAC Capital Advisors LP is seeking to calm investor concern
about founder  Steven A. Cohen ’s trading in two drug stocks and
possible regulatory sanctions after prosecutors for the first
time tied Cohen to a specific transaction at the center of an
 insider-trading  investigation.  Executives at the $14 billion firm have spoken to some of
their largest clients after a former portfolio manager was
arrested Nov. 20, the sixth time a current or former employee
was linked to insider trading while working at the firm. The
Stamford, Connecticut-based firm is telling investors that
compliance procedures are robust and the hedge fund is
cooperating with the government, said two clients, who asked not
to be named because the fund is private.  Prosecutors say SAC, one of the best-performing hedge
funds, reaped $276 million in profits and averted losses after
Mathew Martoma, a former portfolio manager at a unit of SAC,
used inside information from a clinical trial to trade in shares
of two health-care companies in 2008. The investors said they
are much more concerned about last week’s charges than previous
ones because Cohen, according to a criminal complaint, traded
those shares in his own portfolio and discussed them with
Martoma.  Neither Cohen nor SAC have been accused of any wrongdoing.
While Cohen wasn’t mentioned by name in last week’s complaint,
he is the hedge-fund owner and investment manager referred to in
the criminal complaint and a related civil case filed by the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, according to people
familiar with the matter.  “Mr. Cohen and SAC are confident that they have acted
appropriately and will continue to cooperate with the
government’s inquiry,” Jonathan Gasthalter, a spokesman for the
firm, said last week.  For more, click here.  In the Courts  UBS Leads Wall Street Bid to Halt FHFA Mortgage-Bond Suit  UBS AG is seeking to block a U.S. lawsuit over billions of
dollars in mortgage bonds in a case that could set back
government efforts to recover losses  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac 
incurred in the housing crisis.  UBS is set today to argue that the U.S. Court of Appeals in
Manhattan should overturn a lower-court ruling allowing the
Federal Housing Finance Agency to pursue its lawsuit over losses
on $6.4 billion in mortgage bonds sold to the two mortgage-
finance companies.  At issue on appeal is whether the 2008 law that established
the agency, which regulates Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, also
extended the time the government had to file claims against
Zurich-based UBS and a group of other lenders.  The FHFA sued UBS and more than a dozen other banks,
including  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Barclays Plc (BARC)  and  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS) , over mortgage securities sold to Fannie Mae and
Freddie Mac. Four years after the financial crisis, banks are
still grappling with liability tied to mortgage lending as
investors and government authorities pursue claims and negotiate
settlements.  Stefanie Johnson, a spokeswoman for the FHFA, declined to
comment about the hearing. Megan Stinson, a UBS spokeswoman,
didn’t respond to an e-mail seeking comment.  For more, click here.  Interviews  Dombret Says Alternative to Libor Shouldn’t Be Forced on Banks  Bundesbank board member Andreas Dombret said while it may
be worth considering using an alternative interest rate to the
Libor rate, it should not be mandatory.  Dombret made the comments in a statement published by the
Bundesbank Nov. 23.  The U.K. government plans to overhaul the setting of the
benchmark London interbank offered rate, after Barclays Plc,
Britain’s second-biggest lender, paid a record fine of $465
million in June for manipulating the benchmark which is used to
set rates for more than $300 trillion of securities.  At least a dozen banks are being probed by regulators
worldwide over allegations they colluded to manipulate the
benchmark to profit from bets on derivatives.  While regulators and central banks globally, including the
Bundesbank, debate Libor reform, at the end of the day “the
choice of appropriate benchmark  interest rates  is a matter for
the private sector,” Dombret said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Carla Main in New York at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net   Ellen Rosen in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  