-- German Stocks Decline as Finance Ministers Meet on Greece
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   M o r g a n
-- 2012-11-26T16:54:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-26/german-stocks-decline-before-eu-finance-ministers-meet.html
German stocks  declined, paring last
week’s biggest advance this year, as euro-area finance ministers
met to discuss further financial aid for Greece.  ThyssenKrupp AG (TKA)  dropped 5.1 percent after a report that the
company has delayed the sale of Steel Americas.  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) 
lost 1.9 percent.  Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA)  climbed 3 percent after
Espirito Santo SA upgraded its recommendation on the shares of
Europe’s second-largest airline.  The  DAX Index (DAX)  lost 0.2 percent to 7,292.03 at the close of
trading in Frankfurt. The equity benchmark has still rallied 22
percent from this year’s low on June 5 as the  European Central
Bank  approved an unlimited bond-buying program and the U.S.
Federal Reserve started a third round of asset purchases. The
broader HDAX Index also fell 0.2 percent today.  “It is a case of wait and see at the moment, concerning
what happens in Brussels regarding Greece,”  Robert Halver , head
of capital markets research at Baader Bank AG in Frankfurt, said
in a telephone interview. “It is an emotional problem rather
than a financial problem. If there is only a small solution it
would be sufficient to support the markets.”  Euro-area finance ministers will push the  International
Monetary Fund  and central bankers to endorse new plans to save
Greece from the fiscal abyss. They will brief the IMF and
European Central Bank on “further concessions” that would plug
Greece’s deficit gap without forcing a writeoff of official
loans, Austria’s Maria Fekter said today before the ministers’
fourth round of talks on the Greek crisis in two weeks.  A deal is “practically finalized, there are just a few
centimeters to go,” French Finance Minister  Pierre Moscovici 
said.  Confidence Fall  German  consumer confidence  will drop for the first time in
seven months in December as Europe’s debt crisis damps
households’ income expectations and willingness to spend, GfK SE
said today.  The market research company forecast that its  consumer-
sentiment index , based on a survey of about 2,000 people, will
fall to 5.9 from a revised 6.1 in November. That would be the
first decline since May and the lowest reading since August.
Economists predicted a retreat to 6.2 from GfK’s initial 6.3
estimate for November, according to the median of 27 estimates
in a Bloomberg News  survey .  ThyssenKrupp lost 5.1 percent to 15.93 euros, its biggest
drop in more than eight months. The steelmaker has delayed the
sale of its Steel Americas operation, the Financial Times
Deutschland reported, citing a company timetable. ThyssenKrupp
is unlikely to get the 7 billion euro ($9.1 billion) it is
seeking for the unit, according to the report.  Separately, Credit Suisse AG cut its rating on the shares
to neutral, the equivalent of hold, from outperform.  Lower Demand  “The steel sector is being downgraded because of reduced
demand due to a lower turnover in Asia,”  Arnaud Scarpaci , a
 fund manager  at Agilis Gestion SA in Paris, who helps oversee
about 60 million euros, said in a telephone interview.  Deutsche Bank, Germany’s largest lender, fell 1.9 percent
to 33.15 euros. A gauge of banking stocks fell the most of the
19 industry groups on the Stoxx Europe 600 Index.  HeidelbergCement AG, the world’s third-largest maker of the
building material, fell 1.1 percent to 39.15 euros. A gauge of
construction-related companies was among the worst performers on
the Stoxx 600.  Lufthansa climbed 3 percent to 12.96 euros as Espirito
Santo raised its rating on the stock to buy from neutral.  Deutsche Boerse AG, operator of the  Frankfurt  stock
exchange, rose 1.4 percent to 43.20 euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Morgan in Frankfurt at 
 jmorgan157@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  