-- Giants Fan Charged After Being Caught by Bennett in Stadium Fall
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2012-11-26T17:22:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-26/giants-tight-end-caught-fan-who-fell-over-railing-newsday-says.html
A 52-year-old  New York  Giants fan
who fell over a MetLife Stadium railing before being caught by
tight end Martellus Bennett was charged with disorderly conduct.  Thomas Wall, a plumbing and heating contractor from Monroe,
New York, was arrested last night by  New Jersey  State Police
troopers at the stadium in  East Rutherford , New Jersey, Sergeant
Adam Grossman, a public information officer with the force, said
in a telephone interview. Alcohol wasn’t involved in the arrest,
Grossman said.  Bennett, 25, was throwing his game-used gloves into the
stands near the tunnel that leads to the locker room after last
night’s victory over the  Green Bay Packers  when a man wearing a
team jersey toppled over the barrier, Newsday reported. The
distance of the fall wasn’t reported and Wall said he also
didn’t know.  “I got pushed over the rail by people behind me,” Wall,
who wasn’t injured in the fall, said in a telephone interview.
“I didn’t see who caught me but I got put in cuffs very fast.
That wasn’t appreciated. It was a total accident.”  Wall said he also didn’t know how costly a fine he is
facing or when he’ll have a court date.  “I’ll plead not guilty because I don’t think I should be
penalized for getting pushed over a rail,” he said.  Police identified Wall and his hometown. A search of public
records turned up his phone number and he confirmed he was the
fan involved.  An e-mail seeking comment from Pat Hanlon, a spokesman for
the Giants, wasn’t immediately returned.  After his first instinct was to step back, Bennett said he
“did the righteous thing, so I caught him and slowly tried to
put him down but I tripped over somebody and we all fell.”  ‘Super Hero’  “I just did what any super hero would do, saved his
life,” the 6-foot-6, 265-pound Bennett told reporters after the
game.  The fall and arrest happened so quickly that, Wall said, he
didn’t know who caught him.  “If he caught me, I love the guy,” Wall said. “I
appreciate him saving me. I wasn’t trying to reach out for his
gloves, I was waving to people.”  Wall was wearing a replica No. 22 jersey of Giants running
back  David Wilson , who had six carries for 13 yards in the 38-10
win. Bennett had three on-field catches for 44 yards.  “I would get a Martellus Bennett jersey next,” Wall said.
“And if he gets me off from my ticket that would be even more
helpful.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  