-- Glencore, Vedanta Face Up to 50% Pay-Raise Demand in Zambia
-- B y   M a t t h e w   H i l l
-- 2012-11-26T04:49:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-26/glencore-vedanta-face-up-to-50-pay-raise-demand-in-zambia-1-.html
Employees at mines in  Zambia ,
 Africa ’s biggest copper producer, are demanding pay increases of
as much as 50 percent for 2013, the nation’s biggest
mineworkers’ union said.  Talks with companies began in October and are set to
conclude by the end of the year, when the current wage agreement
expires, Mineworkers Union of Zambia President Chishimba Nkole
said in a Nov. 23 interview. The talks affect  Glencore
International Plc (GLEN) , which owns the Mopani copper mine,  Vedanta
Resources Plc (VED) ’s Konkola Copper Mines unit, and  Jinchuan Group’s (2362) 
Chibuluma mine, he said.  While pay demands at most operations are for increases of
less than 50 percent, “we feel there is the justification in
some cases, where the wages are very low,” for raises of that
percentage, Nkole said by mobile phone en route to Kitwe, about
360 kilometers (224 miles) north of Lusaka, the capital.  Zambia produced 668,000 metric tons of copper last year,
ranking it the world’s sixth-largest miner of the metal,
according to the U.S. Geological Survey’s website. Output of
cobalt was 6,600 tons, placing the southern African fifth in the
world, it said.  Zambia’s economy will probably grow 7 percent next year and
inflation won’t exceed 6 percent by the end of 2013, Finance
Minister Alexander Chikwanda said Oct. 12.  First Quantum  Power supplier  Copperbelt Energy Corp. (CEC)  and  China Nonferrous
Metals Co.’s (8306)  Luanshya mine are also involved, Nkole said. The
talks don’t apply to  First Quantum Minerals Ltd. (FM) , where the
Zambian Industrial Relations Court in September awarded workers
a 13 percent increase this year and 12 percent in 2013, Nkole
said. Frederick Bantubonse, the general manager of the Chamber
of Mines of Zambia, declined to comment because his organization
isn’t involved in the negotiations.  “It’s not anything, it’s the usual way we proceed,” Nkole
said of the wage demands. Management will make an offer, and
negotiations will follow, he said, declining to give reasons for
the demands.  At the Chibuluma copper operation, about 370 kilometers
north of Lusaka, workers proposed a 40 percent raise, the
 Zambian Post  reported Nov. 20. Mine management later denied
that, and Nkole said the union had demanded a 25 percent
increase there. The wage bill accounts for 32 percent of the
mine’s total cost of producing copper, the company said in an an
advertisement published in the Zambia Daily Mail on Nov. 23.  Miners at Chibuluma, which Jinchuan bought through its
$1.36 billion takeover of Metorex Ltd. last year, secured a 17
percent increase in March. Mopani awarded its employees the same
percentage increase the previous month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Hill in Lusaka at 
 mhill58@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  