-- Goldman Recommending Usiminas on Rocca Cuts
-- B y   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o
-- 2012-11-26T19:59:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-26/goldman-recommending-usiminas-on-rocca-cuts.html
Usinas Siderurgicas de Minas Gerais
SA  is beating major steelmaker stocks on speculation cost cuts
will make it profitable after four quarters of losses. The rally
will continue, say Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Deutsche Bank AG
analysts.  Usiminas, as the  Belo Horizonte , Brazil-based company is
known, returned 40 percent in the past three months including
dividends, the most of any steel company with a market value of
$5 billion or more.  Goldman Sachs’s  Marcelo Aguiar , the most accurate
forecaster for Usiminas in a Bloomberg Absolute Return ranking,
this month joined a minority of analysts with a buy
recommendation on the stock. Aguiar and Deutsche Bank AG’s
Rodrigo Barros, the second-most accurate, expect cost-cutting
efforts since Italian billionaire Paolo Rocca’s family joined
the controlling group will result in a profit in 2013.  “There’s a revolution going on” at Usiminas, said Paolo Di Sora, a Sao Paulo-based fund manager at M. Safra & Co., which
increased its stake in Usiminas almost sevenfold in the third
quarter to 1.38 percent through its Everest Participacoes Ltda.
unit. “It’s difficult to find another story like this in the
stock exchange today.”  Surging returns for Usiminas,  Brazil ’s largest steelmaker
after  Gerdau SA (GGBR4) , compare with a 5 percent loss in the past three
months for Luxembourg-based ArcelorMittal, the world’s No. 1
producer.  Of 24 analysts covering Usiminas, five  rate  it a buy, six
have a neutral recommendation and nine say sell, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The remainder have it under review.  Best Performer  The best performer of 57 stocks in the  MSCI Emerging
Markets Metals & Mining Index (MXEF0MM)  since June 30, Usiminas fell 0.4
percent to 11.75 reais in  Sao Paulo  today, reducing a year-to-
date gain to 16 percent.  Porto Alegre , Brazil-based Gerdau rose
27 percent this year and Sao Paulo-based Cia. Siderurgica
Nacional SA, the country’s third-biggest steelmaker, dropped 32
percent. ArcelorMittal fell 18 percent in Amsterdam.  Usiminas is trading at 38 times earnings estimates for the
next four quarters, more than triple the 11 ratio for the
benchmark Bovespa index, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Ternium SA and Tenaris SA, both controlled by the Rocca
family’s Techint Group, last year agreed to pay about 5 billion
reais ($2.4 billion) for a 27.7 percent voting stake in
Usiminas, joining Tokyo-based  Nippon Steel & Sumitomo Metal
Corp. (5401)  in the controlling group.  Goldman Sachs’ Aguiar estimates that Usiminas will post net
income of 592 million reais in 2013, the best in three years,
according to a Nov. 12 report. This year’s net loss will
probably amount to 440.5 million reais, he said, which would be
the biggest in at least two decades.  Improvements  Usiminas has boosted productivity, cut inventories and
signed accords to reduce costs and improve operations, Chief
Executive Officer Julian Eguren, who took office in January
after running the Rocca family’s Ternium unit in  Mexico , said on
a Nov. 1 conference call.  “The measures to improve efficiency, cut costs and improve
volumes will be a strong catalyst for Usiminas,” Deutsche
Bank’s Barros said in an e-mailed response to questions.
“Usiminas’s stock price already reflects the expected
improvements for the next 12 months, but not that such
improvements are a continuous process that may last for several
years.”  Officials at Usiminas’s press office in Belo Horizonte
declined to comment further or make executives available.  Stimulus  President  Dilma Rousseff ’s measures to stoke growth in the
largest emerging economy after  China  helped Usiminas raise
prices as much as 7 percent in July. Rousseff boosted tariffs to
curb steel imports and cut taxes on carmakers, Usiminas’s main
buyers, after slashing Brazil’s benchmark interest rate by 5.25
percentage points since last August to 7.25 percent.  Projects for the 2014 soccer  World Cup  and 2016  Olympic
Games  will help domestic demand rise as much as 6 percent next
year, compared with growth of about 1 percent to 2 percent this
year, Benjamin Baptista, ArcelorMittal’s Brazil head, said in an
Oct. 30 interview in Santiago.  A potential recovery is already incorporated in Usiminas’s
valuation and profit forecasts could be trimmed next year, HSBC
Holdings Plc equity analyst Jonathan Brandt said.  “Most of the good news, if not all, is in the price,” he
said in a Nov. 13 telephone interview from  New York . “All of a
sudden something happens and demand doesn’t materialize.”  Goldman Sachs’ Aguiar estimates that earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization will triple in
2013 to 2.31 billion reais. The average of 15 analysts’
 estimates  compiled by Bloomberg is for 2013 adjusted net income
of 467.6 million reais on Ebitda of 1.96 billion reais.  “Industrial efficiency continues being our main focus,”
Usiminas’s Eguren said. “The measures taken by the government
will help improve the situation in the short-term, but the most
effective changes will be those we do internally.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Juan Pablo Spinetto in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net ;
Adriana Arai at 
 aarai1@bloomberg.net  