-- Gold Fields Profit Declines After Strikes Add to Fire Disruption
-- B y   P a u l   B u r k h a r d t
-- 2012-11-26T16:07:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-26/gold-fields-third-quarter-profit-falls-as-strikes-cut-output.html
Gold Fields Ltd. (GFI)  said third-quarter
profit fell 11 percent as strikes and a fire cut output at its
South African mines, increasing the possibility the country’s
second-largest producer will reorganize.  “You’ve gone through a strike that’s cost you 2 billion
rand ($225 million) in revenue, we’ve lost 145,000 ounces of
production, it’s worsened our financial position, and some of
those areas that we didn’t mine for a while we’re still trying
to build back up, so it’s a big headwind,” Chief Executive
Officer  Nick Holland  said in an interview today at Bloomberg’s
offices in Johannesburg.  Output was hurt by a deadly blaze at the Ya Rona shaft that
made the operation inaccessible for about 46 days. A wave of
strikes that halted gold, platinum, coal, diamond and iron-ore
mines in South Africa also curbed Gold Fields’ production. The
company has been trying to boost output to take advantage of
prices for the metal that have increased for 11 straight years.  About 29,000 employees joined two months of wildcat strikes
at Gold Fields sites. That, combined with rising power and labor
costs “is increasing the risk of a significant restructuring of
our South African operations in the near to medium term,” the
company said in a statement.  South African output fell 11 percent to 387,000 ounces in
the quarter, with 30,000 ounces lost from the fire and 35,000
ounces during a strike at the KDC operation. Total production
slid 5.9 percent to 811,000 ounces from the second quarter.  Shares Gain  Gold Fields rose 1.5 percent to close at 106.62 rand in
Johannesburg, the highest for almost two weeks.  “We did have guidance for impact of the strike in the
third quarter, but I think more importantly Gold Fields
announced that it will have a strategic portfolio review,”
 David Davis , an SBG Securities Ltd. gold analyst in
Johannesburg, said in a phone interview. “They want to maximize
cash revenue.”  Earnings excluding one-time items declined to 1.4 billion
rand, or 1.95 rand a share, from 1.6 billion rand, or 2.20 rand,
in the previous quarter, the company said in a statement. Gold
 analysts  in South Africa compare quarters sequentially.  Gold Fields and other South Africa-based producers are
reviewing their assets and “looking for quality in their
portfolios, not quantity,” SBG’s Davis said.  Reduced Forecast  The company said in August, prior to the strikes, it would
produce no more than 3.4 million ounces of gold-equivalent
metals in the year through December. It already trimmed its
full-year production target to 3.5 million ounces in May. The
previous range was 3.5 million to 3.7 million ounces.  The Chamber of Mines, an industry group representing South
African producers, anticipates that mining companies will be
forced to cut their workforces as a result of high pay increases
they awarded to end the strikes.  “The  mining industry  is going to restructure, there are
going to be retrenchments because the levels of wages are high,
not in absolute terms, but relative to productivity,” the
chamber’s CEO Bheki Sibiya said in  Cape Town  last week. He
estimated the cuts wold exceed 10,000 workers.  While job losses are a last resort, they are “still a
risk,” Gold Fields’ Holland said. “One of the key things we’re
going to have to determine in 2013 is how we can improve the
productivity, because if we can get the productivity up, we can
do a lot to save jobs.”  International Operations  Gold Fields, with operations in  Peru , Australia and  Ghana ,
has its main production in  South Africa . International regions
accounted for 424,000 gold-equivalent ounces, compared with
425,000 ounces in the previous quarter, the company said.  Gold Fields intends to reduce South African operations to
40 percent of total output, preferably by increasing volumes
mined outside the country, Holland said. There has been a
“natural decline” at some South African production sites of
around five to seven percent annually for the last five years,
he said. “If we could reduce that, or just flatline our
production for 2013, that would already be a major
achievement.”  The mining company’s management appear to be seeking to
diversify further, “for example, moving out of South Africa as
fast as they can to protect the business in case South Africa
erupts into a mass of protest and violent  strike action  again,”
 John Meyer , a partner and mining analyst at SP Angel in  London ,
said in an e-mail. “A fall in gold prices could be terminal for
some shafts and many jobs.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Burkhardt in Johannesburg at 
 pburkhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  