-- GSK Consumer Nigeria Gains as Parent to Buy Shares: Lagos Mover
-- B y   C h r i s   K a y   a n d   V i n c e n t   N w a n m a
-- 2012-11-26T13:42:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-26/gsk-consumer-nigeria-gains-as-parent-to-buy-shares-lagos-mover.html
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Nigeria
Plc (GLAXOSMI) , the publicly traded local unit of the U.K.’s biggest
drugmaker, gained the most in more than three weeks as the
parent company said it plans to buy more of the shares.  The  stock  advanced 5 percent to 39.38 naira at the 2:30
p.m. close in Lagos, the commercial capital, the most since Nov.
1 on a closing basis. About 339,000 shares traded, 65 percent of
the three-month daily average volume, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  agreed with its Nigerian unit to expand
its holding from 46.4 percent to 80 percent, it said in a
statement. The U.K. company will buy about 321 million shares at
48 naira a share, for a total of 15.4 billion naira ($98
million) The London-based drugmaker is also buying shares in its
Indian consumer-products unit, boosting stakes in businesses
that are growing faster than branded pharmaceuticals.  “It will definitely have an impact on the performance of
the share price,” Pabina Yinkere, head of research at Lagos-
based Vetiva Capital Management Ltd., said by phone today. “It
is a low-hanging fruit for investors and the important thing for
speculative investors is to cash in on the offer.”  Consumer health-care sales have been rising 21 percent a
year over the past four years in  Nigeria ,  Africa ’s most populous
country of over 160 million people and biggest oil producer,
according to GlaxoSmithKline.  The Nigerian company’s shares have surged 71 percent this
year, compared with 27 percent for the  Nigerian Stock Exchange
All-Share Index. (NGSEINDX)   To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Kay in Abuja at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net ;
Vincent Nwanma in Lagos at 
 vnwanma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  