-- Illinois, New York Oppose FHFA Proposal to Boost Fees
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-11-26T21:34:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-26/illinois-new-york-oppose-fhfa-proposal-to-boost-fees.html
State  attorneys general  of Illinois,
New York and  Connecticut  criticized a Federal Housing Finance
Agency proposal to increase lenders’ guarantee fees for
mortgages in those states, asking FHFA Acting Director Edward J. DeMarco to scrap the plan.  The state legal officers today said they oppose
allowing the U.S.-owned mortgage finance companies  Fannie Mae 
and  Freddie Mac (FMCC)  to increase those fees in states with higher
foreclosure costs and longer processing times than average. The
FHFA in September  proposed  the higher fees, which compensate for
the companies’ risks when they own or guarantee mortgages.  “The fee increase would impose a penalty on borrowers in
states that offer greater statutory protections to homeowners in
foreclosure,” the attorneys general wrote to DeMarco.  A copy of their letter was provided by the office of
Illinois Attorney General Lisa Madigan. Signing with her were
New York’s Eric Schneiderman and Connecticut’s George Jepsen.  New York, New Jersey, Connecticut, Florida and Illinois all
have defaulted-loan carrying costs “that significantly exceed
the national average,” according to the regulatory proposal.  “Mortgages originated in these highest-cost states would
have an upfront fee of between 15 and 30 basis points, which
would be charged to lenders as a one-time upfront payment on
each loan acquired” by  Freddie Mac  and  Fannie Mae (FNMA) , under the
plan.  2013 Target  After reviewing of public input, the agency will determine
a “final state-level guarantee fee pricing method” and expects
to direct Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac to impose the new fees next
year, it said in its  announcement .  Stefanie Johnson, a spokeswoman for the FHFA, didn’t
immediately reply to a voice-mail request for comment on the
states’ letter opposing the fee increase.  The cost of the fees ultimately will be borne by
homeowners, the state officials said.  “The proposal neglects to take into account the potential
benefits of rigorous foreclosure requirements, not just for
distressed homeowners but for Fannie and Freddie and taxpayers
as well,” the AGs wrote. “Statutory safeguards were put in
place to prevent unnecessary foreclosures and provide homeowners
every opportunity to save their homes.”  “We urge you to withdraw it,” they told DeMarco.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in  Chicago 
at   aharris16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 