-- India Bets on Troubled Kashagan to Restart Oil Expansion
-- B y   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y
-- 2012-11-27T04:40:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-26/india-bets-on-troubled-kashagan-to-restart-oil-expansion-abroad.html
India ’s largest oil explorer is
attempting to revive a stalled overseas expansion plan by buying
into a $46 billion project that’s eight years behind schedule
and cost twice as much as expected.  Oil & Natural Gas Corp. (ONGC)  announced the company’s biggest
overseas acquisition yesterday, the $5 billion purchase of
 ConocoPhillips (COP) ’s 8.4 percent stake in Kazakhstan’s Kashagan
project. Touted as the biggest find since the 1960s when it was
discovered in 2000, the field beneath the Caspian Sea is
expected to produce 370,000 barrels a day from next year.  For ONGC, as the state-controlled producer is known, the
deal signals an acceleration in overseas acquisitions as the New
Delhi-based producer spends 11 trillion rupees ($198 billion) by
2030 to increase production at home and abroad. Deals slowed
after completing the $2.2 billion purchase in 2008 of Imperial
Energy Corp., a U.K. company with fields in Siberia where
production started to decline quickly.  “The worst for the Kashagan field, including the delays,
is behind everyone,” D.K. Sarraf, managing director of ONGC
Videsh Ltd., the company’s overseas unit, said in an interview.
“The future of this really large field is good. We’re fully
prepared to participate in the field, including expansion.”  ONGC  rose  as much as 1.4 percent to 253.45 rupees in Mumbai
and traded 1.2 percent higher as of 9:53 a.m., giving it a
market value of $38.9 billion. The shares have declined 1.3
percent this year, compared with a 21 percent gain in the
benchmark  Sensitive Index. (SENSEX)   Winter Freeze  After completing the first phase of the project, the Kazakh
government and partners in Kashagan, including  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) 
and  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) , must decide on whether to expand the
project to 1 million barrels a day, a commitment that would cost
tens of billions of dollars. Drilling at the field is
complicated by winter temperatures that freeze the Caspian and
an oil reservoir that contains lethal gas.  “Fields of Kashagan’s size are always a challenge and
ONGC’s experience from Imperial hasn’t been the best, so
hopefully they’ve learnt from that,” said Kamlesh Kotak,
Mumbai-based vice president of research at brokerage firm Asian
Markets Securities Pvt. “Running the field at full potential is
going to be a challenge. Having been beaten by the Chinese in
the past, ONGC has to do all it can to get what it can now.”  In September, ONGC agreed to spend $1 billion to buy  Hess
Corp. (HES) ’s 2.7 percent stake in Azerbaijan’s largest oil field and
an associated pipeline. BP Plc, the operator of the Azeri-
Chirag-Guneshli fields, has been criticized by the Azeri
government for a faster-than-expected decline in production.  ‘Wrong Experience’  ONGC scrapped a plan to revive production for Imperial’s
fields just months after completing the purchase of the company
because the fields didn’t perform as expected. The Indian
company this year backed away from buying a 25 percent stake in
a second Russian producer, OAO Bashneft, because they couldn’t
agree on a price.  “One wrong experience with Imperial should not stop ONGC
from sourcing other deals, provided utmost care is taken,” said
 Niraj Mansingka , a Mumbai-based analyst with Edelweiss
Securities Ltd. “Their cash flow is positive, hardly any debt
and they plan to raise production overseas to meet India’s
energy demand.”  China  has been more aggressive than India in pursuing
overseas oil and gas acquisitions as the world’s most populous
nations look for oil fields to meet soaring energy demand.  China Versus India  China’s  Cnooc Ltd. (883)  offered $17 billion for  Canada ’s Nexen
Inc. this year. China Petrochemical Corp. bought Addax
Petroleum, based in Canada and focused on  Africa  and the Middle
East, in 2009 for $8.9 billion. By contrast, India’s biggest
prize before yesterday’s deal was Imperial Energy.  ONGC produced 8.75 million tons (about 175,000 barrels a
day) overseas in the year ended in March. The company wants to
produce 60 million tons by 2030 by investing in fields outside
India.  India consumed 3.5 million barrels of oil a day in 2011, up
3.9 percent from the previous year, according to  BP Plc (BP/) ’s
Statistical Review of World Energy. Only the U.S., Japan and
China consumed more.  ConocoPhillips and ONGC Videsh expect to close the deal for
a stake in the North Caspian Sea Production Sharing Agreement in
the first half of next year, according to a statement yesterday.
The Kazakh government and project partners including  Exxon Mobil 
have the right of first refusal on the sale, according to the
statement.  North Caspian Sea Operating Co. operates Kashagan. The
partners include  Eni SpA (ENI) , Exxon Mobil, KazMunaiGaz, Shell and
 Total SA (FP) , each with 16.8 percent, according to ConocoPhillips’
website. Japan’s  Inpex Corp. (1605)  has 7.6 percent.  The budget for the first phase may almost double to $46
billion by the time oil is exported, a person with knowledge of
the matter said in January. An early cost estimate put the tab
at about $24 billion and the first production was originally
expected in 2004.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rakteem Katakey in New Delhi at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  