-- Insanity Defense Appeal Turned Away by U.S. High Court
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 2012-11-26T14:54:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-26/insanity-defense-appeal-turned-away-by-u-s-high-court.html
A divided U.S.  Supreme Court  refused
to consider whether the Constitution requires the insanity
defense to be an option for criminal defendants, leaving intact
an Idaho murder conviction.  The justices today rejected an appeal from John Joseph
Delling, who was convicted and sentenced to life in prison for
murdering two friends in 2007. Three justices --  Stephen Breyer ,
 Ruth Bader Ginsburg  and  Sonia Sotomayor  -- said they would have
considered Delling’s appeal.  Delling, who suffers from acute paranoid schizophrenia, was
under the delusional belief that the friends were killing him by
taking his energy, according to a psychologist who testified.  “The law has long recognized that criminal punishment is
not appropriate for those who, by reason of insanity, cannot
tell right from wrong,” Breyer wrote.  Five states -- Idaho,  Montana , Utah, Nevada and Kansas --
have passed laws abolishing the insanity defense since 1979,
though it was reinstated in Nevada by that state’s supreme
court. Delling’s lawyers contended the insanity defense has
centuries-old roots and continues to be honored in most of the
country.  The issue “strikes at the heart of the integrity of the
criminal justice system,” Delling’s lawyers argued in his
appeal.  The practical importance of the insanity defense is a
matter of dispute.  Idaho  contends Delling is getting virtually
the same treatment he would have received had he been allowed to
use insanity as a defense to the murder charges.  Secure Facility  Delling is currently in a secure mental health facility and
has been under a psychiatrist’s care throughout his
incarceration, Idaho says.  “Idaho law generally entitles insane persons convicted of
crimes to the same treatment as insane persons who are civilly
committed,” Idaho Attorney General Lawrence G. Wasden argued in
court papers.  Wasden urged the Supreme Court not to hear the appeal and
instead to leave intact the Idaho Supreme Court ruling that
upheld Delling’s conviction.  States take a variety of legal approaches toward accused
criminals with mental-health problems. Idaho permits conviction
so long as the defendants have the capacity to understand what
they are doing. Eleven other states permit a verdict of guilty
but mentally ill, Idaho told the  high court .  The case is Delling v. Idaho, 11-1515.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  