-- Intrade Tells U.S. Users to Shut Accounts After CFTC Sues
-- B y   S a r a   F o r d e n
-- 2012-11-27T13:16:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-26/intrade-sued-by-u-s-regulator-over-options-contracts.html
Intrade , the online service that
lets people bet on events such as elections and weather, asked
U.S. customers to close their accounts after regulators sued the
website for allegedly offering improper options trading.  From September 2007 to June 25, 2012, Intrade continued to
offer options betting on future prices of gold, crude oil and
changes in U.S. economic data after it had pledged to stop doing
so under a 2005 order, the Commodity Futures Trading Commission
said in a complaint filed yesterday in  Washington  federal court.  The CFTC said it’s seeking a permanent injunction to
prevent Dublin-based Trade Exchange Network Ltd., which runs
Intrade, from operating in violation of securities laws
including a part of the Dodd-Frank Act intended to crack down on
abuses in the sales of derivatives. The CFTC also said it’s
seeking fines and disgorgement of all monetary benefits received
as a result of the violations.  “We are sorry to announce that due to legal and regulatory
pressures, Intrade can no longer allow U.S. residents to
participate in our real-money prediction markets,” according to
a  notice  posted on the company’s website. Customers have until
Dec. 23 to close out “open predictions” and must withdraw all
money from their accounts by Dec. 31.  It’s against the law to solicit people in the U.S. to buy
and sell commodity options -- even if they’re called
“prediction” contracts -- unless the securities are listed for
trading and traded on a CFTC-registered exchange or are legally
exempt,  David Meister , director of the CFTC’s enforcement
division, said.  ‘Market Integrity’  The requirement for on-exchange trading “enables the CFTC
to police market activity and protect market integrity,”
Meister said in a statement on the agency’s website.  Intrade failed to comply with the 2005 order, “including
its obligation to inform U.S. customers which contracts offered
on the www.intrade.com website they were prohibited from
trading,” according to the suit.  In 2005, Trade Exchange Network agreed to pay $150,000 to
settle allegations it illegally offered contracts in the U.S.
based on the price of gold, crude oil, the euro and the yen,
among other commodities.  The exchange, which extended a “high level of
cooperation” in the investigation, didn’t admit or deny the
findings, the CFTC said at the time.  U.S. Clientele  The CFTC investigation preceding the 2005 order found that
the exchange actively marketed its products to U.S. residents,
eventually building a U.S. clientele that made up as much as
40 percent of its total customers. Trade Exchange Network
currently has about 50,000 members, according to its website.  The CFTC’s 2005 order specifically listed as examples of
banned options such contracts as the daily crude oil contract,
gold futures, light sweet crude oil futures and the intraday
euro versus U.S. dollar rate contract, according to the
complaint.  Trade Exchange Network “has failed to cure or attempt to
cure, its violations of the 2005 order,” the CFTC said in
yesterday’s lawsuit.  The case is U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission v.
Trade Exchange Ltd., 12-cv-01902, U.S. District Court,  District
of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sara Forden in Washington at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  