-- Israeli Defense Minister Barak to Retire, Won’t Run Again
-- B y   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d   a n d   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r
-- 2012-11-26T10:53:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-26/israeli-defense-minister-barak-will-step-down-from-politics-1-.html
Israeli Defense Minister  Ehud Barak 
announced that he is retiring from politics and won’t run in
elections scheduled for Jan. 22.  “I will conclude my term as defense minister with the
formation of the next government in another three months,”
Barak, 70, said at a press conference at the  Defense Ministry  in 
Tel Aviv today. “My decision to resign comes from a desire to 
spend more time with family,” Barak said, adding he could serve 
the country in other ways outside politics.  The announcement came less than a week after Israel reached
a cease-fire agreement with Hamas that ended an eight-day
military operation to stop rocket fire from the  Gaza Strip .  Barak’s Independence faction, which he founded after
breaking away from the  Labor Party  last year and holds five
seats in Israel’s 120-seat parliament, is struggling in the
polls with voter surveys showing it would win at most two or
three seats. Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  is favored to win
re-election.  “The best explanation is that Barak may not see any
political horizon open to him, and maybe he believes by
resigning now he can create a non-partisan image that will help
return as defense minister,” said Gideon Rahat, political
science professor at the Hebrew University. The only impact on
the elections is that the few seats that Independence might have
gotten will now go to other centrist parties, Rahat said.  Netanyahu said he respects Barak’s decision and
“appreciates his contribution of many years to Israel’s
security,” according to a text message from the prime
minister’s office.  Barak is a former prime minister and army chief.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Calev Ben-David in Jerusalem at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Ferziger in  Tel Aviv  at 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  