-- Japan Stock Futures Little Changed as Greece Meeting Continues
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2012-11-26T23:16:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-26/japan-stock-futures-little-changed-as-greece-meeting-continues.html
Japanese stock futures were little
changed as investors awaited indications that European Union
finance ministers have made progress on providing aid for Greece
at their third meeting this month. CSL Ltd. led gains among
Australian equities.  American Depositary Receipts  of  Canon Inc. (7751) , a Japanese
camera maker that gets 80 percent of sales abroad, slid 1.1
percent. ADRs of Honda Motor Co. lost 0.6 percent as  Macquarie
Research  downgraded the stock after the carmaker’s shares closed
at the highest level in more than six months. CSL, the world’s
second-biggest maker of blood-derived therapies, surged 6
percent in Sydney after saying it expects profit growth of about
20 percent.  Futures on Japan’s Nikkei 225 Stock Average expiring next
month closed at 9,395 in Chicago yesterday, down from 9,400 in
Osaka, Japan. They were bid in the pre-market at 9,380 in Osaka
at 8:05 a.m. local time. Australia’s  S&P/ASX 200 Index (AS51)  gained
0.1 percent, led by CSL.  New Zealand ’s NZX 50 Index was little
changed in Wellington.  “Euro group finance ministers are currently meeting as
they look to reach an agreement on Greece which would eventually
lead to them receiving their next tranche of aid,” said Stan Shamu, a market strategist at IG Markets Ltd. in Melbourne. “Of
course, having failed to reach an agreement last week, there is
always a chance that some pieces of the negotiation won’t fall
into place and further stall a decision.”  Brussels Meeting  Euro-area finance ministers are meeting in Brussels to try
to plug Greece’s funding shortfall and produce a plan to keep
the country a solvent member of the currency bloc. They failed
to make reach a decision in two previous meetings this month.
European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  is attending the
meeting.  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index were little
changed today. The  S&P 500  fell 0.2 percent yesterday, following
its biggest weekly advance since June, as lawmakers prepared to
debate the so-called fiscal cliff and euro-area finance
ministers discuss Greek aid.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific (MXAP)  Index yesterday posted its longest
winning streak since the second week of September. The Asian
benchmark gained 13 percent from this year’s low on June 4
through yesterday as central banks added stimulus to spur
economic growth and data showed a slowdown in China may be
ending. The Asian benchmark index traded at 13.9 times estimated
earnings, compared with 13.6 times for the S&P 500 Index and
12.4 times for the Stoxx Europe 600 Index.  The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded
Chinese shares in the U.S. retreated 1 percent yesterday in New
York.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  