-- Jet Air in Stake Sale Talks With Etihad, India Official Says
-- B y   K a r t h i k e y a n   S u n d a r a m
-- 2012-11-26T12:15:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-26/jet-airways-jumps-on-report-etihad-may-buy-stake-mumbai-mover.html
Jet Airways (India) Ltd. (JETIN)  is in talks
to sell a stake to  Etihad Airways , and  SpiceJet Ltd. (SJET)  is having
similar discussions with  AirAsia Bhd. (AIRA) , a government official
said, as  India ’s two largest listed carriers seek funds
following a change in investment rules.  Jet Air may conclude a deal to sell a minority stake to  Abu
Dhabi ’s Etihad in 45 days, said the official, who asked not to
be identified citing rules. Discount carrier SpiceJet’s talks
with AirAsia, the region’s biggest budget carrier, are at an
early stage, the official told reporters today.  The two Indian airlines surged in Mumbai trading on
speculation new investment may help them cut debts and pay for
expansion.  Kingfisher Airlines Ltd. (KAIR) , which grounded flights last
month amid a cash crunch, is also seeking to sell a stake after
losses caused by high fuel taxes and price wars.  “Jet Airways can reduce its debt with the funds coming in,
and SpiceJet needs investments for the aircraft it has
ordered,” said Harsh Vardhan, chairman of Starair Consulting,
which advises airlines. “They will also benefit from the
international operations of the buyers.”  Shares Surge  Jet Air surged 11 percent to 560.85 rupees at close of
trading in Mumbai. The carrier has more than tripled this year.
SpiceJet jumped 13 percent, the most since July 30, to 44.40
rupees. Kingfisher Air rose 4.7 percent.  Ragini Chopra, a Jet spokeswoman, didn’t respond to four
calls to her mobile phone. SpiceJet said in a statement that
some foreign carriers and investors have shown interest in the
carrier and it was “premature” to comment on the possibility
of a stake sale, while Etihad declined to comment on the
government official’s remarks.  “AirAsia rejects the speculation surrounding our possible
expansion in India,”  Tony Fernandes , Sepang Selangor, Malaysia-
based carrier’s group chief executive officer, said in an e-mail
statement. “AirAsia has not submitted a bid for the Indian
budget carrier and has no intention of doing so.”  Jet Air Chief Commercial Officer Sudheer Raghavan and other
executives are in Abu Dhabi for talks with Etihad, the Economic
Times reported today, citing people it didn’t identify. The
Mumbai-based airline said in a statement to the stock exchange
it can’t comment on speculative reports.  A deal would let Jet Air tap the Gulf carrier’s global
network and give Etihad greater access to rising travel demand
in India, according to Binit Somaia at CAPA Centre for Aviation.  “Potentially it can be a win-win situation,” Somaia, a
Sydney-based director at the consulting company, said by phone.
“India is one of the fastest-growing markets in the world,
which Etihad can’t ignore.”  Examining Opportunities  Etihad, the third-biggest Gulf carrier, said in October
that it’s examining opportunities for investment in India after
receiving approaches. Any purchase would be limited to a
minority stake, Chief Executive Officer  James Hogan  said Oct.
16. The carrier has bought stakes in  Virgin Australia Holdings
Ltd. (VAH) ,  Air Berlin Plc (AB1) , Aer Lingus Group Plc and Air Seychelles
Ltd. to help build Abu Dhabi into a global aviation hub.  India in September ended a ban on local airlines selling
stakes to overseas operators to help them raise funds amid
industrywide losses. The investments, which can be as big as 49
percent shareholdings, require approvals from authorities
including the home ministry.  Jet Air plans to repay $600 million of debt in the year
ending March 31 as it seeks to pare borrowing costs. Chairman
Naresh Goyal also needs to reduce his holding in the company to
75 percent from about 80 percent by June to meet a rule capping
founders’ holdings in companies.  ‘Positive Move’  “It’s a very positive move for Jet Airways,” said A.K. Prabhakar, senior vice president at Anand Rathi Financial
Services Ltd. in Mumbai. “For Etihad it makes sense to get
their finger on the Indian pie through Jet.”  Kingfisher, controlled by liquor tycoon  Vijay Mallya , last
month halted operations and had its operating license
subsequently suspended by India’s aviation regulator. The
airline has been trying to raise funds for more than a year.  SpiceJet, India’s only publicly traded discount carrier,
last week said it needs funds for expanding its fleet. The
company is yet to decide on funding plans, S.L. Narayanan, chief
financial officer of parent Sun Group, said Nov. 21.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karthikeyan Sundaram in  New Delhi  at 
 kmeenakshisu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  