-- Job-Supervisor Harassment Rules Confound U.S. High Court
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 2012-11-26T19:51:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-26/job-supervisor-harassment-rules-confound-u-s-high-court.html
U.S. Supreme Court justices grappled
with the limits on holding employers responsible for racial and
sexual harassment, asking about country music and underheated
offices while seeking to apply federal job-bias laws to the
modern workplace.  The high court today heard arguments on an appeal by Maetta
Vance, a black Ball State University catering worker, who is
seeking to revive her racial harassment claim against the
school. At issue is whether the alleged harasser was Vance’s
supervisor, a status that would make it easier for the worker to
win her case.  Employers are generally liable for racial and sexual
harassment by supervisors. Workers file more than 30,000 formal
harassment complaints with the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity
Commission each year.  Today’s hour-long session produced little disagreement on
the question. Both sides, as well as the Obama administration,
said a federal appeals court used the wrong legal standard in
throwing out Vance’s lawsuit on the grounds that the alleged
harasser wasn’t a supervisor.  The Chicago-based 7th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals said
that, to be a supervisor, a co-worker must have the authority to
“directly affect the terms and conditions” of employment, such
as having the power to hire, fire, demote or transfer employees.  Directing Activities  Vance, Ball State and the Obama administration all said
that the lower court test was too limited and that a supervisor
could also be someone with power to direct an employee’s daily
work activities.  Ball State’s lawyer, Gregory Garre, said that test made
sense in a modern workplace, where “jobs are less hierarchical,
more collaborative.”  That stance left some members of the court dissatisfied.
Justice Antonin Scalia told Ball State’s lawyer the court took
up the case to decide whether the 7th Circuit approach was the
right one.  “You don’t even defend that,” Scalia told Garre. “So
there is nobody here defending the 7th Circuit.”  Chief Justice John Roberts said the alternative test might
prove unworkable. He questioned whether it would include a
hypothetical workplace in which the senior employee was allowed
to select the music and then threatened to play country songs
unless a coworker agreed to date him.  Cold Office  Justice Samuel Alito later asked about a hypothetical
employee given the authority to assign workspace, including an
office with no heating or air conditioning.  Under the 1964 Civil Rights Act, an employer can be held
liable if a supervisor discriminates against an employee based
on race, color, religion, sex or national origin.  Vance sued Ball State alleging that a co-worker in the
Muncie, Indiana, university’s banquet and catering department
had slapped her, threatened her and referred to her using racial
epithets.  The advocates today spent much of their time debating
whether the coworker, Saundra Davis, had authority to direct
Vance’s day-to-day activities. Garre contended that Davis didn’t
have that authority because other people, including the chef,
made the daily work assignments.  Vance’s attorney, Daniel Ortiz, said his client should be
given a new chance to gather evidence.  The case is Vance v. Ball State University, 11-556.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  