-- JPMorgan Says IPOs Smaller Part of China Revenue in 2012
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-11-26T22:26:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-26/jpmorgan-says-ipos-smaller-part-of-china-investment-bank-revenue.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  said initial
share sales may account for less than half its China investment
banking revenue in 2012 as more companies opt to raise funds
from the  bond market  to take advantage of lower interest rates.  Initial share sales had been more than half of investment
banking revenue in “recent years,” Fang Fang, chief executive
officer of China investment banking for JPMorgan, told reporters
in Beijing yesterday. “This is the year that we did not have
many elephant IPOs.”  By contrast, greater numbers of companies
are selling debt, he said.  Chinese companies have sold fewer shares and more bonds as
policy makers cut rates to bolster economic growth. Yields on
dollar-denominated debt sold by Chinese companies fell to a
record low of 5  percent  on Nov. 7, according to JPMorgan Chase
indexes. Chinese companies have raised $15.2 billion from
overseas equity sales so far this year, 38 percent less than a
year ago, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  JPMorgan helped  Haitong Securities Co. (600837) , a Chinese brokerage
already listed in Shanghai, raise HK$13 billion in a Hong Kong
stock sale in April, near the bottom of a range marketed to
investors. The New York-based bank this month also helped  Baidu
Inc. (BIDU) , operator of China’s most popular search engine, sell $1.5
billion of bonds.  Chinese corporate bond sales tripled domestically in the
first 10 months this year to more than 1 trillion  yuan  ($161
billion), according to data compiled by Bloomberg. IPO proceeds
fell by more than half to 98 billion yuan, the data show.  The volume of business at JPMorgan’s investment banking
unit in China has climbed this quarter and will continue
increasing in early 2013, Fang said on Nov. 8.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Henry Sanderson in Beijing at 
 hsanderson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  