-- Kansai Electric Seeks Tariff Increase on Rising Fuel Costs
-- B y   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a   a n d   Y u j i   O k a d a
-- 2012-11-26T09:12:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-26/kansai-electric-seeks-tariff-increase-on-rising-fuel-costs-1-.html
Kansai Electric Power Co. wants to
raise electricity rates for companies and households from April
to cover rising fuel costs to run thermal power plants.  The utility, which supplies power to  Japan ’s second biggest
metropolitan area, submitted a request to the government to
raise rates for households by 11.88 percent. It plans to raise
rates 19.23 percent for corporate customers, for which it
doesn’t need approval, the company said in a statement today.  Kansai Electric had a record first-half loss of 117 billion
yen ($1.4 billion) after the Fukushima disaster last year
prompted shutdowns of nuclear reactors and forced the utility to
import fuels for gas-, oil- and coal-fired plants.  Some Japanese manufactures including  Panasonic Corp. (6752) , which
has headquarters in the Kansai region, have said they may move
jobs and factories overseas to avoid higher production costs
from energy bills.  The utility expects to have a net loss of 265 billion yen
in the year ending March 2013, it said in a statement today.
Previously, it didn’t provide a forecast, citing uncertainty
over electricity demand and the restart of idled reactors.  Kansai Electric expects to restart No. 3 and No. 4 atomic
units at its Takahama nuclear plant after July 2013, it said.
The utility’s Ohi No. 3 and No. 4 reactors are currently the
only operating reactors in Japan.  ‘Strictly Assess’  The Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry, which has the
authority to approve or disapprove electricity rate increases
for households, would “strictly assess” such a plan, if Kansai
Electric makes the request, Industry Minister  Yukio Edano  said
last week.  Kansai Electric shares rose 5.3 percent to 754 yen in Tokyo
today, the highest close since July 18.  The utility plans to reduce annual costs by an average of
155.3 billion yen in the three years through March 2016, it
said. The reduction will include cutting about 18 percent, or
34.5 billion yen, of labor bills.  Kansai Electric’s annual fossil fuel bills are expected to
rise by an average of 568.9 billion yen in the next three years,
compared with the level prior to the Fukushima disaster, it
said.  The Japanese government trimmed Tokyo Electric Power Co.’s
request to raise electricity rates for households to 8.47
percent from the requested 10.28 percent. The reduction may
lower Tepco’s revenues by about 84 billion yen compared with the
original plan, according to the utility.  “The government may not reduce Kansai Electric’s proposed
rate increase as much as it did for Tepco” as the utility’s
plan already includes substantial cost cuts, Koki Shiraishi, an
analyst at Daiwa Securities Co., said by phone today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tsuyoshi Inajima in  Tokyo  at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net ;
Yuji Okada in Tokyo at 
 yokada6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Langan at 
 plangan@bloomberg.net  