-- Kreher Says HP’s Autonomy Claims Cover for Bad Purchase
-- B y   R y a n   F a u g h n d e r   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 2012-11-26T23:01:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-26/kreher-says-hp-s-autonomy-claims-cover-for-bad-purchase.html
Bill Kreher , an analyst at  Edward
Jones , said  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  is accusing software maker
Autonomy Corp. of falsified finances to deflect from a badly
executed acquisition.  Hewlett-Packard, based in Palo Alto, California, last week
accused Autonomy of financial irregularities and recorded a
related $8.8 billion writedown. More than $5 billion of the
impairment charge was the result of accounting practices,
Hewlett-Packard said on Nov. 20. Autonomy has denied the
allegations. Michael Thacker, a spokesman for Hewlett-Packard,
said in an e-mailed statement today that Autonomy engaged in “a
willful effort to mislead investors and potential buyers.”  Former Chief Executive Officer  Leo Apotheker , 59, agreed to
buy Autonomy for $10.3 billion last year to diversify away from
hardware and add software that searches a broad range of data,
including e-mails, music, videos and posts on social networks
such as Facebook Inc. Apotheker left in 2011 after less than a
year on the job following repeated strategy shifts and forecast
cuts.  Autonomy was supposed to be “the crown jewel of the
software turnaround and the software transition” at Hewlett-
Packard, Kreher said in a radio interview with  Tom Keene  on
“Bloomberg Surveillance” in New York today. “They really have
to rethink their plans here. Certainly this is a setback for a
company that is trying to restore its credibility as an
enterprise leader.”  The writedown is another blow for Hewlett-Packard, which is
already suffering from management turmoil and slowdowns in its
personal-computer, printer and technology-services businesses.
It comes three months after the company announced an $8 billion
writedown related to an earlier acquisition.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ryan Faughnder in New York at 
 rfaughnder@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  