-- N.J. Revenue Must Rise 10% to Meet Budget Goal, Memo Says
-- B y   S t a c i e   S h e r m a n
-- 2012-11-26T19:18:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-26/n-j-revenue-must-rise-10-to-meet-budget-goal-memo-says.html
New Jersey revenue will need to rise
9.9 percent for the rest of fiscal 2013 to meet Governor  Chris Christie ’s budget goal, after collections through October fell
short, the Office of Legislative Services said.  Revenue in the first four months of the year that began
July 1 rose 3.4 percent above year-earlier levels. That’s less
than the 8.4 percent growth projected by Christie’s
administration, the nonpartisan office said today in a  report .  “Most major revenues continue to lag growth rates
necessary to achieve the certified year-end targets,”
legislative budget analysts said in the memo.  Sales-tax collections have fallen 0.3 percent from the same
period last year, after Christie predicted growth of 6.3 percent
for fiscal 2013. Corporate taxes have risen 1.1 percent, short
of a projected 26 percent increase, while casino revenue has
dropped 0.9 percent after targeted growth of 18.5 percent.  The fiscal 2013 budget Christie proposed in February
counted on a 7.2 percent total revenue gain compared with 2012,
second only to a 7.7 percent jump projected by California
Governor  Jerry Brown , according to an analysis of a National
Governors Association report by the New Jersey treasurer’s
office.  Growth Projections  Christie’s revenue forecasts have been challenged by
Democrats, who control the Legislature, and by  Standard &
Poor’s , the credit-rating company that revised its outlook on
the state’s debt to negative from stable in September.  The governor, a first-term Republican, has said  Hurricane
Sandy  may have hurt revenue for October and November enough to
throw his proposed tax cut into doubt, through rebuilding may
cause a burst of spending. The OLS report also said that Sandy
may hurt revenue in the short term and help later.  Kevin Roberts  and  Michael Drewniak , spokesmen for Christie,
and  William Quinn , a spokesman for Treasurer Andrew Sidamon- Eristoff, didn’t immediately respond to e-mails seeking comment
on the OLS report.  Though Sandy slowed some revenue late in October, income
taxes set a record pace and monthly revenue exceeded last year’s
by 6.8 percent, Sidamon-Eristoff said in a  report  released on
Nov. 23. The impact of the storm “will show up more starkly
with November revenue figures,” he said.  Income-tax collections exceeded budgeted amounts by 4.2
percent in October and 1.6 percent for the four-month period, a
sign of New Jersey’s economic recovery, said  Charles Steindel ,
chief economist for the treasury department.  “The strength of the income-tax revenue is striking and
reflects sustained growth in personal incomes going into the
storm,” Steindel said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stacie Sherman in Trenton, New Jersey, at 
 sbabula@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  