-- Natural Gas Drops Most in Five Weeks on December Forecast
-- B y   N a u r e e n   S .   M a l i k
-- 2012-11-26T20:40:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-26/natural-gas-drops-most-in-five-weeks-on-december-forecast.html
Natural gas tumbled the most in five
weeks as revised forecasts showing an unusually warm start to
December signaled reduced demand for heating fuels.  Futures fell 4.4 percent, closing with the biggest one-day
decline since Oct. 22, as companies including Commodity Weather
Group LLC predicted above-normal temperatures for the lower 48
states in the next six to 10 days. Gas rose to a 13-month high
last week on forecasts showing colder weather in early December
and a government report of a bigger-than-expected supply drop.   “A little bit of cold that we had is coming to a quick
end,” said Dominick Chirichella, senior partner at the Energy
Management Institute in New York. “If the weather does turn out
to be warmer than normal, we could see” more gas additions to
stockpiles.  Natural gas for December delivery fell 17.1 cents to $3.73
per million British thermal units on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  after dropping as much as 5.1 percent to $3.704. If
prices had closed there it would have been the biggest decline
since Aug. 10. The futures are up 5.3 percent from a year ago.  Gas climbed to $3.933 during the previous trading session,
the highest intraday price since Nov. 1, 2011. Electronic
trading volume was 271,004 contracts today at 2:42 p.m.
exceeding the 154,615 contracts that traded on Nov. 23.  “The perception is that the market was a bit overbought
last week” amid low volume because of the U.S. Thanksgiving
holiday, said Bob Yawger, director of the futures division at
Mizuho Securities USA Inc. in New York. “It looks like the
drive to $4 has definitely stalled for the time being.”  Gas Options  December $3.70 puts were the most active options in
electronic trading. They rose 1.3 cents to 1.8 cents on volume
of 1,037 lots at 3:10 p.m. December options expire tomorrow and
futures contracts for the same month expire on Nov. 28.  December may start much warmer than usual across the U.S.,
with highs possibly reaching into the 60s Fahrenheit (15 to 20
Celsius) in the Midwest and along the East Coast, said  Matt Rogers , president of Commodity Weather Group in Bethesda,
 Maryland .  Average temperatures from Dec. 1 to Dec. 5 may be 5 degrees
above normal in the East and as much as 15 degrees higher across
the Midwest, including  Chicago , Rogers said.  “After cool conditions linger in the Midwest and East this
week, a strong warm-up is still slated to expand across the
nation,” Rogers said. The warm weather won’t dominate December
as a whole, Rogers said in a note to clients today.  By Dec. 6, temperatures across the northern Great Plains
and the South are expected to return to seasonal levels while
remaining about 5 degrees above normal in the U.S. Northeast,
Rogers said.  Chicago Low  The low in New York on Dec. 3 may be 46 degrees Fahrenheit
(8 Celsius), 10 above normal, according to  AccuWeather Inc.  in
 State College ,  Pennsylvania . The low in Chicago may be 39
degrees, 12 more than the usual reading.  Heating demand in the contiguous 48 states will be 53
percent below the seasonal norm from Dec. 2 through Dec. 6, data
from Weather Derivatives show. Demand was 18 percent below
normal in the week ended Nov. 24, the Belton, Missouri-based
forecaster said.  About 50 percent of U.S. households use gas for heating,
according to the Energy Department.  U.S.  gas stockpiles  fell 38 billion cubic feet in the week
ended Nov. 16 to 3.873 trillion, the department said. The five-
year average change for the week was a gain of 3 billion.  Supply Report  Inventories in the so-called producing region in the south-
central U.S. were cut by 7 billion cubic feet because one or
more producers  reclassified  supplies from working gas, or
stockpiles available for delivery, to base gas, or supplies
needed to maintain adequate pressure, the department said.  Inventories probably fell 5 billion cubic feet last week,
based on warmer weather, and may show small gains the following
two weeks if temperatures don’t drop, Chirichella said.  The five-year average decline for the week ended Nov. 23 is
18 billion cubic feet. The department is scheduled to release
its stockpile report for the week on Nov. 29.  While the market fell today, a trend higher for gas futures
is intact as long as prices hold above the $3.50-to-$3.60
support level, Chirichella said.  Open interest was 1.19 million contracts on Nov. 23 on the
Nymex versus the three-month average of 1.15 million. The
exchange has a one-business-day delay in reporting full volume
and open interest data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naureen S. Malik in  New York  at 
 Nmalik28@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  