-- Nets-Knicks Makeup Game Has NBA’s Third-Highest Ticket Price
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-11-26T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-26/nets-knicks-makeup-game-has-nba-s-third-highest-ticket-price.html
The Brooklyn Nets will finally
welcome the  New York Knicks  to their new arena tonight, almost
one month after their season-opening game was rescheduled in the
wake of superstorm Sandy.  Tickets for the game at the Barclays Center were being re-
sold for an average of $584 apiece on the secondary market,
according to ticket-aggregator TiqIQ.com, the third-highest in
the  National Basketball Association  this season.  While the average price is down about 36 percent from the
high of $913 for the original Nov. 1 opener, tickets remain at a
premium for the matchup between the two top teams in the Eastern
Conference’s  Atlantic Division . The Knicks have a 9-3 record,
while the Nets are 8-4 and have won five straight games in
Brooklyn, where they’re now 6-1 on the season.  “This is a game that a lot of people have been waiting
for,” Nets coach Avery Johnson said yesterday at a news
conference. “We’re excited about it, we’re at home and I know
our guys are jacked up and ready to play.”  The only two NBA games with a higher resale price for
tickets involve the Knicks, defending NBA champion  Miami Heat 
and the  Los Angeles Lakers .  The Jan. 17 matchup between the Heat and the Lakers in  Los
Angeles  currently has the highest ticket prices on the secondary
market at $633, according to TiqIQ, followed by a $599 average
for the Knicks-Lakers game at Madison Square Garden on Dec. 13.
The highest secondary-market average ticket price for a game
that’s been played was $548 for the Knicks’ Nov. 2 opening game
against the Heat in  New York .  Brooklyn High  The top-priced Nets’ ticket in Brooklyn has been for a Nov.
23 game against the  Los Angeles Clippers , with an average re-
sale price of $465, TiqIQ said.  Prices had climbed to almost twice that for the originally
scheduled Nets-Knicks game, which was postponed after Sandy made
landfall Oct. 29 near Atlantic City, New Jersey, and killed more
than 100 people in 10 states. In New York, Governor  Andrew Cuomo 
said this month that Sandy had cost his state about $33 billion.  While there hasn’t been the same buildup for tonight’s
rescheduled game, Nets center Brook Lopez said there’s going to
be a special atmosphere in the Barclays Center. The game will be
nationally televised on  Turner Sports ’ TNT network.  “It’s going to be exciting,” Lopez told reporters. “I’m
sure there will be a number of Knicks fans, but there’s
definitely going to be Nets fans as well. It’s going to be an
interesting dynamic and I know our guys can’t wait for it.”  Knicks Win  The Knicks yesterday ended a two-game losing skid with a
121-100 home win against the  Detroit Pistons . While New York
remains unbeaten at home at 5-0, they’re 4-3 on the road.  The Nets have gotten off to a hot start in their debut
season in Brooklyn and yesterday pulled away for a 98-85 win
over the  Portland Trail Blazers  in their new $1 billion arena.  The Nets had a 9-24 home record last season in their final
campaign in New Jersey before moving to Brooklyn.  “It’s fun to play at home, we have confidence,” Lopez
said yesterday, when the Nets outscored Portland 28-15 in the
fourth quarter. “We really enjoy going out there and playing
together on our floor.”  The Knicks have won six of seven meetings between the area
rivals over the past two seasons.  “If we don’t get up for this game, then I don’t know what
game we’re going to get up for,” said Knicks forward  Carmelo Anthony , who grew up in Brooklyn. “For me, going back home to
that borough, playing my first game over there, it’s a very
special moment.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  