-- New BOJ Members Sought More-Expansionary Wording
-- B y   A n d y   S h a r p
-- 2012-11-26T07:34:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-26/new-boj-members-sought-more-expansionary-wording.html
Two new members of the  Bank of
Japan (8301) ’s nine-person policy board voted for a more expansionary
wording of the bank’s price outlook released at its Oct. 30
meeting,  minutes  of the session show.  Takehiro Sato and Takahide Kiuchi voted for phrasing that
aggressive easing should continue until a 1 percent inflation
goal “has been steadily maintained,” according to a summary
released in  Tokyo  today. The proposal suggested by Sato was
defeated by majority vote and the bank kept language that it
will continue “powerful easing until it judges the 1 percent
goal to be in sight.”  The minutes highlight the two members’ expansionary stance
on easing as a shrinking economy and election next month
encourage politicians to press the central bank for more
aggressive action to spur growth and counter deflation. The BOJ
expanded its asset-purchase program at the Oct. 30 meeting for
the second time in two months, and is expected to ease further
after the Dec. 16 poll, according to a  Bloomberg News  survey.  “The government is unable to add much fiscal stimulus
because of budgetary constraints,” said Takahiro Sekido, a
strategist at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. who formerly
worked at the central bank. “So it will press the BOJ for more
easing.”  Sato is a former Tokyo-based economist at Morgan Stanley
MUFG Securities Co. and Kiuchi worked for Nomura Securities Co.
The pair joined the board in July.  Weaker Yen  The yen strengthened 0.2 percent to 82.23 per dollar as of
4:31 p.m. in Tokyo after reaching a seven-month low last week.
The  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  closed up 0.2 percent for its third
day of gains. The gauge has risen more than 8 percent since Nov.
14, when Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  called for a Dec. 16
election, triggering speculation the opposition may win and call
for more monetary easing.  BOJ Governor Masaaki Shirakawa in a  speech  today repeated
the bank’s pledge to continue powerful easing until the 1
percent inflation goal is in sight. He said the bank is
concerned the appreciation of the yen could adversely affect
 Japan ’s economy through a fall in exports and corporate profits,
as well as through a deterioration in business sentiment.  “We still want the yen to weaken more and more,” Toshio Mita, chairman of  Chubu Electric Power Co. (9502)  and also head of the
regional economic federation, said at the meeting where
Shirakawa spoke. “Corporate efforts are coming close to the
limit” in dealing with the strong currency, Mita said.  Future Easing  The majority of the board will be more accommodative after
April 2013 with the terms of the governor and his two deputies
ending early next year, Sekido said.  Objections from Kiuchi and Sato show that “animated
discussion is taking place” during the central bank’s board
meetings, according to Shirakawa. “A monetary policy meeting is
a procedure where nine board members exchange ideas, think and
find the best policy for the Bank of Japan,” he told reporters
today.  While the BOJ announced a 1 percent inflation target in
February, consumer prices excluding fresh food fell for a fifth
month in September and are expected to have declined further
last month, according to the  median estimate  of analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Shinzo Abe, leader of the opposition  Liberal Democratic
Party , who according to polls is likely to become the next prime
minister, has said that the central bank should adopt unlimited
easing and set an inflation target of as much as 3 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Sharp in Tokyo at 
 asharp5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Scott Lanman at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net  