-- Nickel Market Seen Moving Into Balance in 2013 by Wood Mackenzie
-- B y   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z
-- 2012-11-26T16:59:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-26/nickel-market-seen-moving-into-balance-in-2013-by-wood-mackenzie.html
The nickel market may be in balance
next year as demand strengthens amid potential delays in adding
supply, according to  Andrew Mitchell , an analyst at researcher
Wood Mackenzie Ltd.  Following are comments made by Mitchell by phone on Nov.
20. Nickel, used mostly to make stainless steel, is down 11
percent this year on the London Metal Exchange, on course for a
second annual retreat.  On prices:  “There is more risk on the upside than on the downside. We
are looking at a higher average price for next year. There is
potential for continued volatility.”  On demand:  “We are looking for a pickup in demand in the first
quarter, and maybe extending into the second quarter as you get
restocking.”  On production:  “Next year we see what one would call a balanced market. I
would call it a balanced market, in essence, and it’s really to
do with production in general.  “In part we’ve had upsets to the projects. You’ve had the
likes of Vale  New Caledonia  and Onca Puma going horribly wrong.  “This oversupply situation is something that we’ve been
looking at probably for the last four or five years. And each
year it gets pushed out and pushed out because we’ve had delays
in the projects getting built. The difference now is that these
projects are built, and therefore delays are much shorter if
anything now.  “Delays are no longer there. All we’re looking at now is
how they’ll actually perform in terms of their production.
History says that they do not perform in general as well as
anticipated, certainly by the owners of the projects.  “You’ve got  Ambatovy  ramping up right now, you’ve got
Koniambo begin to ramp up fairly shortly. If those do not
perform in a manner that the operators hope, obviously that will
impact the amount of nickel supply, both for next year and the
following year. But likewise, if actually Ambatovy and Koniambo
perform really well, then we could have a much bigger surplus
that could put downward pressure on prices.”  On high-pressure acid leaching technology:  “The history of the projects leads us to having this
cautious approach to ramp-ups. If you look at HPAL, it’s a very
complicated chemistry set. It’s a complicated piece of kit. And
each ore body is slightly different as well. And it’s the same
in ferronickel.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  