-- Nigerian Naira Strengthens on Dollar Sales Bets, Bank Supply
-- B y   E m e l e   O n u
-- 2012-11-26T14:23:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-26/nigerian-naira-strengthens-on-dollar-sales-bets-bank-supply.html
Nigeria’s naira strengthened as the
central bank sold dollars at an auction and amid speculation
oil-producing companies are beginning month-end sales of the
U.S. currency.  The currency of  Africa ’s biggest oil producer climbed 0.1
percent to 157.55 a dollar as of 3 p.m. in Lagos, the commercial
capital, after weakening 0.1 percent on Nov. 23. The naira has
appreciated 3 percent this year, the second-best performing
currency tracked by Bloomberg in Africa.  Oil-producing companies, which sell dollars to meet domestic
expenses around the month-end, are the second-biggest source of
foreign currency after the Central Bank of Nigeria, which sells
dollars to lenders at auctions on Mondays and Wednesdays to help
manage the exchange rate. The regulator sold $200 million at its
auction today.  “We expect stability on the naira as oil multinationals
sell dollars for month-end purposes,” analysts at Cowry Asset
Management Ltd. Led by Edgar Ebinum wrote in an e-mailed note.  The naira’s appreciation could be traced to tight monetary
conditions, improved supply of foreign exchange to the market by
oil companies and increased inflows from portfolio investors,
central bank Governor Lamido Sanusi said Nov. 20, after the
regulator held its benchmark rate at a record-high 12 percent.  Inflation, which accelerated for the first time in four
months to 11.7 percent in October on widespread flooding of
farms, is still above the bank’s target of less than 10 percent.  Yields on 10-year naira debt rose 14 basis points to 12.35
percent, according to yesterday’s prices compiled on the
Financial Markets Dealers Association website. Borrowing costs
on the nation’s $500 million of Eurobonds due January 2021
declined nine basis points to 4.322 percent.  Ghana ’s cedi weakened for a fifth day, slipping less than
0.1 percent at 1.8991 a dollar in Accra, the capital.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emele Onu in Lagos at 
 eonu1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dulue Mbachu at 
 dmbachu@bloomberg.net  