-- Noble Urges Israel to Finalize Gas Exports to Unlock Investment
-- B y   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n
-- 2012-11-26T15:55:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-26/noble-urges-israel-to-finalize-gas-exports-to-unlock-investment.html
Noble Energy Inc. (NBL) , the U.S. explorer
behind the largest natural-gas discovery in  Israel , urged the
government to finalize plans for fuel exports to unlock
investment in the fields.  The Noble-led venture is examining plans to develop the
Leviathan  gas field , the world’s largest find of its kind in a
decade before 2010. The Houston-based explorer is looking for a
partner to invest about $5 billion to build a liquefied natural
gas plant in Israel or Cyprus to export the fuel.  Israel should allow as much as 500 billion cubic meters (18
trillion cubic feet) of gas for exports, a committee headed by
Ministry of Energy and Water Resources Director-General Shaul Tzemach recommended in August. The panel also proposed that half
of any field containing more than 200 billion cubic meters
should be reserved for domestic use.  The recommendation “needs to be finalized by the
government. It’s a critical component,” Noble Chief Executive
Officer Charles Davidson told reporters today in  London . “We
can’t make any decisions about how to go forward on any of these
projects until we know what is the appropriate level of exports
that are going to be allowed.”  Noble and partners have discovered about 35 trillion cubic
feet of gas resources in Eastern Mediterranean, Davidson said.
The committee tried to find a proper balance between the
security of domestic supply and allowing exports to attract
foreign investment.  “It has a fair balance between reserving resources for the
state of Israel and also allowing monetization of gas
resources,” Davidson said. “We have to understand what is
going to be allowed for exports out of the region. There is a
lot of work to be done.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduard Gismatullin in London at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  