-- Nordic Next-Week Power Surges to Record on Freezing Temperatures
-- B y   T o r s t e n   F a g e r h o l m
-- 2012-11-26T15:47:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-26/nordic-near-quarter-power-surges-to-month-high-on-cold-forecast.html
Nordic electricity for delivery next
week surged to a record as forecasts for freezing and dry
weather pointed to rising power demand and flagging supplies.  The contract for delivery from Dec. 3 through Dec. 9 gained
4.8 percent to close at 45.75 euros ($59.31) a megawatt-hour as
of 3:29 p.m. on Nasdaq OMX Group Inc.’s energy exchange in Oslo.
The contract for January through March rose 1.5 percent to 41.25
euros, while the December contract advanced 3.5 percent to 41.50
euros.  Minimum temperatures in  Stockholm  may drop as low as minus
9 degrees Celsius (16 Fahrenheit) on Dec. 2 from 3 degrees
today, according to CustomWeather Inc. data on Bloomberg.  “From a short-term perspective we see a good possibility
for rising power prices” due to the cold weather, Mats Forsell,
a commodity trader at SEB AB,  Sweden ’s third-largest bank, said
today in an e-mailed research note.  Hydropower assets may be 1.9 terawatt-hours above the
seasonal normal in two weeks time, 78 percent less than today,
Markedskraft AS data on Bloomberg show. The Nordic region meets
more than half its power needs by running  water through
turbines , which means lower rainfall affects supplies and
electricity prices.  EON SE (EOAN) ,  Germany ’s biggest utility, failed to start the 473-
megawatt Oskarshamn-1 reactor in Sweden today, and delayed
operation until Nov. 30, with full capacity planned for Dec. 7,
the company said today in a filing with the Nord Pool Spot AS
exchange in Oslo.  “Abnormal chemical values” in the reactor vessel at the
country’s oldest reactor, idle since Oct. 30 last year, caused
the delay, Anders Oesterberg, a company spokesman, said today by
phone from the plant.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Torsten Fagerholm in Helsinki at 
 tfagerholm@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  