-- North Carolina’s Governor-Elect Shifts From Transit to Tea Party
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   N e w k i r k   a n d   J e n n i f e r   O l d h a m
-- 2012-11-26T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-26/north-carolina-s-governor-elect-shifts-from-transit-to-tea-party.html
In 14 years as  Charlotte ’s mayor,
North Carolina governor-elect Pat McCrory advocated light rail,
bike lanes, tree planting and mandatory sidewalks in front of
new homes.  “He enjoyed bipartisan support as a thoughtful, moderate-
conservative mayor,” said Chris Fitzsimon, executive director
of NC Policy Watch, a nonpartisan group in Raleigh.  A different McCrory emerged in the gubernatorial
campaign, Fitzsimon said. He spoke against President  Barack Obama ’s health-care overhaul at rallies sponsored by Americans
for Prosperity, a non-profit group funded by billionaire
industrialists David and  Charles Koch . He endorsed a Tea Party-
backed measure condemning as “extreme environmentalism” a 20-
year-old United Nations statement in favor of urban planning and
energy conservation. He told the Charlotte Observer that he
supported a ban on gay marriage.  In January, McCrory, 56, will become the first North
Carolina Republican governor in two decades, and the first to
also have a Republican-controlled legislature in more than 100
years. McCrory has left the state guessing which he’ll be when
he moves into the governor’s mansion: the bipartisan mayor who
championed public transportation or the gubernatorial candidate
aligned with the Tea Party, said J. Michael Bitzer, a politics
professor at McCrory’s alma mater, Catawba College in Salisbury,
 North Carolina   ‘Big Questions’  “The big questions now are how far to the right will the
Republicans in power go, and will he go with them,” Bitzer
said. “You’ve got voter ID, abortion, the redirection of
education dollars to religious schools, a whole host of pent-up
social-conservative issues that are out there and that
legislators want.”  The 2012 election produced the most states with single-
party governments since 1952, reflecting growing polarization,
according to a tally on the National Conference of State
Legislatures website. Only 12 have divided governments, while
 Nebraska ’s single-house legislature is nonpartisan. Fourteen
have Democratic governors and Democratic majorities in their
legislatures, while 23 are unified Republican.  In North Carolina, outgoing Democratic Governor Beverly Perdue repeatedly vetoed bills from the Republican-controlled
legislature, including a waiting period for abortion and a
requirement for voters to show photo identification. Although
lawmakers overrode most of the vetoes, Bitzer said he expects
they’ll bring up voter ID again and will introduce stronger
anti-abortion legislation now that they have a Republican chief
executive.  Switching Positions  In an interview at a meeting of the  Republican Governors
Association  in  Las Vegas , a week after winning the Nov. 6
election, McCrory said his ideological outlook remained
consistent. He took issue with opponents who said his views
shifted.  “We kept hearing that,” he said. “I would ask for
specifics and they never gave us specifics. They tried to label
me as a switching positions, but the message was false.”  Home to banking capital Charlotte, the Raleigh-Durham-
Chapel Hill Research Triangle region,  Duke University  and the
University of North Carolina, the state has topped Site
Selection magazine’s list of best business climates in nine of
the last 11 years, because of business development agencies,
education and the quality of its workforce.  Young Transplant  Still, North Carolina’s economy has suffered as the U.S.
struggles to recover from the 18-month recession that began in
2007, the worst since the Great Depression. The state’s  economic
health  -- based on the performance of local-company shares, tax
collection,  home prices , mortgage delinquency, job growth and
personal income -- declined in April through June from the year
before, according to the Bloomberg Economic Evaluation of States
index.  McCrory’s path to wresting the last Democratic governor’s
seat in the U.S. Southeast began in the North. Born in Columbus,
 Ohio , he watched his father serve as a suburban city councilman,
according to his campaign biography. The family of six moved to
Jamestown, North Carolina, when McCrory was 9.  He joined  Duke Energy Corp. (DUK)  after graduating from Catawba
and worked for the company almost three decades. When the
company dismissed employees, he processed their paperwork and
listened to their concerns, said Chris Sinclair, a Republican
strategist in Raleigh. McCrory concluded he was good at
listening and liked helping people, which got him interested in
politics, Sinclair said.  Selling NASCAR  McCrory won a seat on Charlotte City Council in 1989, and
became the city’s youngest mayor in 1995. He was re-elected
seven times. He became the city’s public face and top salesman,
helping lure economic development projects such as the NASCAR
Hall of Fame.  McCrory’s signature achievement was a 10-mile light-rail
line connecting residential areas with the city center, paid for
with a half-cent  sales tax  he helped persuade voters to approve
in 1998, against opposition from anti-tax conservatives, said
John Hood, president of the John Locke Foundation, which
advocates limited government. McCrory also successfully defended
the tax against a ballot repeal in 2007.  His willingness to stand up for higher taxes for
transportation was one reason Democrats trusted McCrory when he
was mayor, said Fitzsimon. He didn’t speak out, or need to, on
abortion, gay marriage, school vouchers, voter ID or other
issues that divide the parties, he said.  Civic Nickname  Known as Mayor Pat, he “was a natural,” said Bitzer. “He
reminds me of a  Bill Clinton , not necessarily in always
calculating, but in recognizing people. He has that gift of
being able to speak to a wide variety of people.”  Richard Vinroot, a Charlotte lawyer who preceded McCrory,
said his successor worked well with Democrats because he had to.  “In his entire time, he never had a Republican city
council,” Vinroot said.  When he takes office with a Republican legislature, “my
guess is he won’t know how to act.”  Sara Spencer, a former Democratic member of the Charlotte
City Council, said McCrory wasn’t always responsible for the
achievements that burnished his reputation. City staff persuaded
the council to buy land for light rail a decade before McCrory
took office, she said.  Spencer said she never knew what he stood for.  “He’s always been somewhat of an enigma to me,” she said.
“I never quite figured him out.”  McCrory made his first run for governor in 2008. He ran as
an outsider and on his accomplishments in Charlotte, including
transportation and the NASCAR museum. He was defeated by Perdue,
who was then lieutenant governor.  Changing Politics  McCrory spent much of the next four years as a consultant
with a Charlotte law firm, and preparing his next run. By 2010,
the political landscape had changed. Voters elected the first
Republican majority in both houses of the legislature in more
than a century.  McCrory saw where his party was going and followed, Bitzer
said. He protested the health-care law and joined Republican
lawmakers in fighting Perdue, the state’s first female governor,
who didn’t seek re-election.  McCrory ran for governor in 2012 against Lieutenant
Governor Walter Dalton. He raised $11.6 million, compared with
$3.9 million for Dalton, state records show. Outside
groups,including the Republican Governors Association, spent
another $5.3 million on his behalf, according to the Institute
for Southern Studies in Durham, which works with activists
seeking “social and economic change.” Outside groups spent
$2.6 million on Dalton’s campaign. McCrory ran no negative ads.
The outside groups did.  McCrory won with 54.6 percent of the vote, outstripping
presidential candidate  Mitt Romney  by nine points.  Growing Affection  He won support from the  Tea Party , which had been skeptical
because of his support for light rail, said activist Kevin
Shinault. He said he was pleased when McCrory signed on to a
resolution condemning Agenda 21, a United Nations sustainable
development plan that Tea Party activists say subverts private-
property rights.  “It was not love at first sight for the Tea Party and
McCrory,” said Shinault, a physical-education teacher from
Pilot Mountain.  In the interview, McCrory said he wants to reduce
bureaucracy and cut taxes. He said his campaign united
Republicans, Democrats and independents.  “If you try to appease everyone, you appease no one,” he
said. “The best compliment I’d get during the campaign was, ‘We
don’t agree with you on every issue, but you will be a good
leader for our state.’”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Newkirk in Atlanta at 
 mnewkirk@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer Oldham in Las Vegas at 
 joldham1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  