-- Nuveen Hires Former BlackRock Strategist Robert Doll
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n
-- 2012-11-26T17:15:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-26/nuveen-hires-former-blackrock-strategist-robert-doll.html
Nuveen Asset Management hired  Robert Doll  as chief equity strategist, less than six months after he
announced his retirement from the same role at  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) ,
where he was known for his bullish stance on stocks.  Doll, 58, will also serve as senior portfolio manager
directly overseeing about $1.5 billion and reporting to David A. Chalupnik, Nuveen’s head of equities, the Chicago-based company
said today in a statement. Doll will offer a weekly markets
commentary, just as he did at BlackRock, and continue his annual
list of 10 market predictions, he said in a telephone interview
today.  “We have been building out our multi-asset-class business,
and bringing in Bob is the next step in enhancing that brand,”
Bill Huffman, president of Nuveen Asset Management, said today
in an interview from  New York .  Nuveen, known principally for its funds that invest in
municipal bonds, has expanded its stock and taxable bond
strategies in recent years. It acquired U.S. Bancorp’s FAF
Advisors, owners of the First American family of mutual funds,
in 2010. Doll, who has worked in the asset-management industry
for 34 years, retired June 30 to devote more time to his family,
faith and philanthropic interests, Bobbie Collins, a BlackRock
spokeswoman, said at the time.  BlackRock, the world’s largest asset manager, announced a
shakeup of its investment unit on Aug. 1 aimed at reversing
withdrawals from actively-managed products. Doll said there was
“no difference of opinion” between himself and BlackRock Chief
Executive Officer Laurence D. Fink that led to his departure.  ‘Better Fit’  “BlackRock has gotten very big very quickly,” Doll said.
“I’ve chosen to join a smaller firm that’s a better fit for
me.”  Under Doll, BlackRock’s  Large Cap Growth Fund (MDLHX)  beat 59
percent of its peers with a 12 percent average annual return
over the three years ended June 3, the day before Doll announced
his retirement. The Large Cap Core Fund returned an annual 9.1
percent and trailed 83 percent of peers over the same three-year
period. The firm’s Large Cap Value Fund had an average annual
return of 6.4 percent over those three years, falling behind 95
percent of peers, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Doll was president and chief investment officer of Merrill
Lynch Investment Managers before BlackRock bought the unit in
2006.  He graduated from  Lehigh University  and received his MBA
from the  University of Pennsylvania ’s Wharton School of
Business. Doll serves on boards for groups including the Word of
Life Fellowship and Kingdom Advisors, according to their
websites.  “This is an attempt to take the good things happening at
Nuveen and turbo-charge that,” Doll said.  Nuveen Asset Management oversaw about $117 billion as of
Sept. 30, according to the company. Its parent, Nuveen
Investments, is a unit of Chicago-based private equity firm
Madison Dearborn Partners LLC.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Condon in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  