-- To Bolster Palestinian Moderates, Let Abbas Win at the UN
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-11-26T23:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-26/to-bolster-palestinian-moderates-let-abbas-win-at-the-un-view.html
A few weeks ago, the U.S. and  Israel 
were painting  Mahmoud Abbas , leader of the Palestinian faction
Fatah, as an extremist for vowing to ask the  United Nations  on
Nov. 29 to  grant Palestine  status as a nonmember observer state.  In light of the  violence just unleashed  on Israel by
Fatah’s rival, Hamas, it now seems a relatively mild maneuver.
Growing popular support for Hamas’s belligerence makes Abbas an
increasingly rare moderate, whose legitimacy needs to be
bolstered by the international community.  In the past, we have opposed Abbas’s UN campaign as a
 pointless diversion  from direct talks to settle the Israeli-
Palestinian conflict. At this stage, however, it might well be
worth letting Abbas score a political victory at the UN --
particularly if it reinforces  his viability  among his own
people.  The U.S. and Israel object to Abbas’s UN gambit on the
grounds that it violates the notion that the Israelis and
Palestinians should negotiate a settlement themselves with
neither side taking steps to predetermine the outcome. This
makes good sense, though it would be an easier point to argue if
Israel held back on  West Bank   settlement expansion , which by its
nature unilaterally affects the size and shape of a future
Palestinian state.  UN  observer status , a status short of full membership as a
state, would mainly give the Palestinians slightly more
diplomatic heft. It could, however, allow Palestine access to
the  International Criminal Court , where it could challenge
Israel’s occupation of the West Bank. This is a legitimate
concern for Israel, but at this stage a remote one.  Abbas clearly has the simple majority he needs at the UN
General Assembly. If he goes ahead, the Israelis have threatened
to withhold  tax revenue  they collect for the  Palestinian
Authority , which he leads. The U.S. could cut off millions of
dollars in aid. For Abbas, however, failure to pursue the UN
vote could mean losing much more: his credibility as a
Palestinian leader.  That is in no one’s interest but Hamas’s. Abbas represents
the hope, on the Palestinian side, for a peaceful resolution of
the conflict. Days before the most recent spasm of Israel-Hamas
fighting, he  dropped a precondition  for talks that had stymied
earlier efforts to restart them: a freeze on Jewish settlement-
building.  After nine years of on-again, off-again talks, Palestinians
are frustrated by their lack of progress toward self-
determination. Even if they don’t believe Hamas will succeed in
destroying the state of Israel, there are those tempted to
confuse violence with a sense of agency.  Abbas should be given the opportunity to demonstrate that
his way will achieve more for the Palestinians than Hamas’s. The
U.S. and Israel can vote against Abbas at the UN, but their
opposition should end there and not with penalties. Since 2007,
when internecine fighting left Hamas in control of the  Gaza
Strip  and Fatah governing in the West Bank, the U.S. has doubled
its assistance to Abbas’s government. Continuing this flow of
funds, which amounts to about $300 million a year, will support
the development and reform  agenda  of Salam Fayyad, Abbas’s
respected (and moderate) prime minister.  The Palestinians need to see a clear choice: stagnation in
the Hamas-controlled Gaza Strip, hope for the future in the
Fatah-led West Bank. Perhaps then they will support leaders who
offer them a way forward rather than the fleeting satisfaction
of bloodlust.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on an emerging  fiscal-cliff
compromise ;  Noah Feldman  on  Egypt’s power struggle ;  Edward
Glaeser  on how  New York can protect itself ;  Jeffrey Goldberg  on
how the  Palestinians could gain independence ; William Pesek on
 Japan’s next prime minister ;  Ramesh Ponnuru  on
 Republicans’ misguided plans for candidates ; Tim Judah on
 Yugoslavia’s lesson for separatist movements .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 