-- Crude Declines From Three-Day High as EU Ministers Meet
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2012-11-26T13:39:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-26/oil-trades-near-one-week-high-before-europe-meeting-on-greek-aid.html
Oil declined from a three-session
high in  New York  amid concern that  Spain  may postpone a request
for a bailout while European finance chiefs meet today to
discuss additional funds for  Greece .  Futures dropped as much as 0.7 percent after gaining the
most since October last week. Pro-independence parties in
Spain’s Catalonia won a regional vote, strengthening a drive for
a referendum on secession in defiance of the nation’s Prime
Minister. European officials gather in Brussels today, less than
a week after an all-night meeting failed to yield an agreement.
Oil rose last week because of concern that fighting between
Israel and Hamas and unrest in  Egypt  would spread and disrupt
Middle Eastern crude supplies.  “It’s a really bad circle,” Michael Poulsen, an analyst
at Global Risk Management in Middelfart,  Denmark , said of
Europe’s attempts to resolve the debt crisis. “The geopolitical
 risk premium  is the major wild card in the weeks and months to
come.”  West Texas Intermediate, or WTI, for January delivery fell
as much as 64 cents to $87.64 a barrel on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange  and was at $87.88 at 1:34 p.m. London time.
Futures gained 90 cents to $88.28 a barrel on Nov. 23, the
highest settlement since Nov. 19. Prices rose 1.9 percent last
week and are down 11 percent this year.  Brent for January settlement lost 14 cents to $111.24 a
barrel on the ICE Futures Europe exchange. The European
benchmark crude was at a premium of $23.36 to New York-traded
WTI, compared with $23.10 on Nov. 23.  North Cormorant  Prices retreated even after Abu Dhabi National Energy Co.,
known as Taqa, shut three oil and natural gas fields in the
 North Sea , where Brent is produced, and evacuated 92 workers
from its North Cormorant platform after a gas leak.  “The leak has stopped and the situation is under
control,” the company said today in a statement. “There will
be an investigation to establish the cause of the incident.”  Brent is poised to overtake WTI as the world’s most-traded
commodity for the first year since the futures were created,
according to data from the ICE and Nymex compiled by Bloomberg.
Daily trading in Brent jumped 14 percent to average 567,000
contracts in the year to Nov. 20 compared with all of 2011,
while WTI fell 17 percent to 575,000.  The number of Brent futures changing hands has  exceeded 
those for WTI every month from April through October, the
longest streak since at least 1995.  Hedge funds  and other money managers raised bullish bets on
 Brent crude  by the most in four months, according to  data from
ICE Futures Europe .  Bullish Bets  Speculative bets that prices will rise, in futures and
options combined, outnumbered short positions by 97,096 lots,
the London-based exchange said today in its weekly Commitment of
Traders report. The increase of 19,595 lots from last week is
the biggest since July 3 and brings net-longs to their highest
level since Oct. 16.  Egypt’s President Mohamed Mursi will meet the nation’s
judicial council today, the state-run Middle East  News Agency 
reported, citing Yasser Ali, a presidential spokesman. Protests
have taken place since Mursi issued a Nov. 22 decree that
prevents his actions from being challenged by the courts.  Thousands of people poured into Cairo’s  Tahrir Square , the
focal point for an uprising last year, to protest Mursi’s order
after the Egyptian judiciary announced Nov. 24 that courts will
suspend work until the decision is rescinded.  Israel and Hamas agreed on a cease-fire last week, ending
eight days of air and missile strikes that left more than 160
Palestinians and six Israelis dead.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  