-- Oil Fall as European Finance Ministers Meet on Greece
-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2012-11-26T20:38:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-26/oil-fall-as-european-finance-ministers-meet-on-greece.html
Oil dropped as euro-area finance
ministers met to negotiate a bailout payment for Greece and as
American leaders prepared to wrestle with a budget agreement.  Futures declined 0.6 percent as officials gathered in
Brussels to discuss Greek aid less than a week after a meeting
failed to yield an agreement. Republicans and Democrats in the
U.S. need to find a budget compromise to avoid triggering $607
billion in tax gains and spending cuts in January that the
 Congressional Budget Office  said could lead to a recession.  “The outcome of the European finance ministers’ meeting is
the main focus of the markets today,” said  Addison Armstrong ,
director of market research at Tradition Energy in Stamford,
Connecticut. “Given the direction the market is moving, it
appears most people aren’t expecting a positive outcome.”  Crude oil for January delivery declined 54 cents to settle
at $87.74 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . Prices
are down 11 percent this year.  Brent oil for January settlement fell 46 cents, or 0.4
percent, to end the session at $110.92 a barrel on the London-
based ICE Futures Europe exchange.  Finance ministers are dealing with the consequences of a
Nov. 12 decision to give Greece two extra years, until 2016, to
cut its  budget deficit . At an overnight session lasting more
than 11 hours a week later, the ministers failed to fill the
resulting financing gap or show that Greek debt would drop to a
target of 120 percent of gross domestic product by 2020, a
condition set by the  International Monetary Fund .  Debt Crisis  The European sovereign debt crisis began in Greece three
years ago and has reduced economic growth and fuel demand as it
spread to Ireland, Portugal, Italy, Spain and Cyprus.  A solution is hung up on politics in Germany, the dominant
country in Europe’s crisis management, where  Chancellor Angela Merkel  is campaigning for a third term next year on the pledge
that Greece won’t cost taxpayers an additional cent.  The  European Central Bank  is considering ways to help cut
Greece’s funding gap by using the Greek debt in its investment
portfolios, three euro-area officials said. The national central
banks of the euro area hold Greek bonds in their investment
portfolios and agreed in February to give any profits back to
Greece. The issue has been reopened and the ECB is now looking
at options, the officials said on condition of anonymity.  In the U.S., Republican lawmakers advocate raising federal
revenue by limiting deductions rather than by raising rates to
avert the so-called fiscal cliff, as Democrats push for higher
taxes on upper-income earners.  Budget Deal  Senator  Richard Durbin  of Illinois, the second-highest-
ranking Democrat in the chamber, said yesterday on ABC’s “This
Week” that any deal to cut the budget deficits should allow the
top  tax rate  to rise. Republican Senator  John McCain  of Arizona
said on “Fox News Sunday” that he opposed raising rates and
advocated closing “loopholes,” by limiting deductions for
charitable giving and home mortgage interest payments.  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  declined 0.4 percent and
the  Dow Jones Industrial Average  fell 0.5 percent.  Oil rose 1.9 percent in New York last week because of
concern that fighting between Israel and Hamas would spread and
disrupt Middle Eastern crude shipments. Israel and Hamas agreed
on a cease-fire brokered by Egypt and the U.S. that took effect
Nov. 21, ending eight days of air and missile strikes that left
more than 160 Palestinians and six Israelis dead.  Egypt’s president, Mohamed Mursi, will meet the nation’s
judicial council today, the state-run  Middle East   News Agency 
reported, citing Yasser Ali, a presidential spokesman. Protests
have taken place since Mursi issued a Nov. 22 decree that
prevents his actions from being challenged by the courts.  Cairo Protests  Mursi’s announcement has triggered some of the biggest
demonstrations since last year’s uprising against  Hosni Mubarak .
The Egyptian judiciary announced Nov. 24 that courts will
suspend work until the decision is rescinded.  “The cease-fire is holding and the Middle East is
relatively calm,” said Bill O’Grady, chief market strategist at
Confluence Investment Management in  St. Louis , which oversees
$1.4 billion. “It is interesting that after playing peacemaker,
Mursi is now taking a page out of Mubarak’s book and trying to
amass power.”  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 262,183
contracts at 3:36 p.m. Volume totaled 157,466 contracts on Nov.
23, the least since December 2008 and 70 percent lower than the
three-month average. Open interest was 1.51 million. The
exchange shut at 1:30 p.m. on Nov. 23, an hour earlier than
usual, because of the U.S. Thanksgiving holiday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Shenk in  New York  at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets in New York at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net . 