-- Hollande Minister’s Mittal Nationalization Call Sparks Furor
-- B y   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t
-- 2012-11-27T14:18:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-26/hollande-to-meet-mittal-after-minister-calls-for-nationalization.html
French Industry Minister  Arnaud Montebourg  sparked a furor by calling for the nationalization of
a troubled local unit of ArcelorMittal, the world’s largest
steelmaker.  ArcelorMittal Chief Executive Officer  Lakshmi Mittal  is 
scheduled to meet today with French President  Francois Hollande  
after Montebourg told Les Echos yesterday that “we don’t want 
Mittal in  France  anymore.” Montebourg accused the Indian CEO of 
going back on his word to protect jobs and said the company’s 
Florange site in north-eastern France should be under temporary 
state control.  “Montebourg’s comments on Mittal are rarely what we hear
from ministers,” said Yves Marcais, an equity sales trader at
Global Equities in Paris. “The word nationalization hasn’t been
used in France since former President  Francois Mitterrand  in the
early 1980s. The legitimacy here is that there are jobs they
want to save.”  Mittal’s family told Le Monde dated today it was
“ extremely shocked ” by Montebourg’s comments. In  New Delhi ,
 London  Mayor  Boris Johnson  told Indian businessmen, “if France
doesn’t want you, Britain does,” the Telegraph reported.  The 62-year-old steel tycoon, who lives in London, bought
Arcelor SA in a hostile bid in 2006, after promising not to cut
jobs and shift or cut investments. Former President  Nicolas Sarkozy  signed off on the deal. Luxembourg-based ArcelorMittal
now wants to close the furnaces at the site and slash more than
600 jobs, blaming a slump in the  steel industry .  ‘A Symbol’  ArcelorMittal shares  rose as much as 1.9 percent and traded
0.1 percent higher at 11.54 euros at 3:08 p.m. in Amsterdam. The
shares have fallen more than 18 percent this year.  The Hollande-Mittal meeting at the  Elysee  palace in Paris
is slated to take place at 5:45 p.m. local time today.  Although Montebourg has toned down his remarks to say he is
just opposed to “Mittal’s method” of not honoring the
commitments he made to France, his comments are the first sign
the government will hold industrial companies to commitments on
jobs and long-term investments, said Karine Berger, a lawmaker
from Hollande’s  Socialist Party .  “Mittal is a symbol,” Berger said in an interview. “He’s
a symbol of the failure of Sarkozy’s policies, and a sign that
an industry minister can intervene. It would have been better to
have sold Arcelor to Europeans.”  Florange is a plant located in the  Lorraine region  of
France, making steel slabs, coils and plated sheets. The plant’s
long-simmering conflict started in 2002 when it was being
considered for a shutdown -- before Mittal Steel Co.’s takeover.  Plant History  The Florange plant belonged to Sollac, which was
merged into state-owned steelmaker  Usinor-Sacilor (MT)  in 1990. The
group was privatized in 1995 and in turn merged with Luxembourg
steelmaker Arbed and  Spain ’s Aceralia in 2001 to form Arcelor,
which was bought by Mittal in 2006.  The government asked Mittal to find buyers for the site,
with the two-month period for such a move ending on Dec. 1.
While Montebourg claims to have potential buyers, none have been
identified so far.  Berger said that Hollande’s government wants to mark a
break from former Socialist Prime Minister Lionel Jospin, who
famously said in 1999 that “you can’t expect the state to do
everything.”  The last Socialist leader in power, Jospin, who headed the
government from 1997 to 2002, told Michelin SA workers the state
couldn’t help prevent the 7,500 job cuts the tire-maker planned.  “The message being sent now is that the state will
negotiate as an equal with economic power,” Berger said.  Government Intervention  Hollande’s government has mediated in several industrial
negotiations, including on carmaker  PSA Peugeot Citroen (UG) ’s jobs-
cutting plan and to find Petroplus Holdings AG a buyer for a
refinery in France.  It has sought to have a more hands-on industrial policy as
the country grapples with unemployment at a 13-year high.  “My mission is to bring back growth and to cut
unemployment,” Hollande said at a Nov. 13 press conference,
conceding that the labor market would not pick up before the end
of next year. “These should be the only results French people
should judge me on.”  Laurence Parisot , the head of the French business lobby
Medef, who’s traveling in  China , called Montebourg yesterday to
“caution him against such nationalization talk,” her spokesman
 Anton Molina  said in an interview. Parisot, who is meeting with
foreign investors and French CEOs in  Hong Kong , was queried
about the minister’s comments, the spokesman said.  Toning Down  French Finance Minister  Pierre Moscovici , who today met
with representatives of firms including Morgan Stanley, JPMorgan
Chase & Co. and Blackrock Inc., said international investors
have confidence in the government’s policies and that the
ArcelorMittal case has to do with Mittal honoring commitments.  Montebourg sought to tone down his comments, saying, “when
I said I don’t want Mittal in France anymore, I meant to say
that I didn’t want Mittal’s method of not honoring commitments
in France,”  Agence France-Presse  reported.  He said he was not questioning the presence of
ArcelorMittal in France. “What’s in question is Florange, just
Florange,” he said.  While ArcelorMittal wants to shut down the furnaces at
Florange, it wants to continue operating other activities at the
site. It is opposing the sale of the whole of the Florange site,
saying that would risk the viability of the rest of its
operations in France, where the company employs 20,000 people.  Mittal’s Woes  “Mittal is a very important group for France,” Prime
Minister Jean-Marc Ayrault said in Paris today. “At the same
time, the French government pays particular attention to our
country’s industrial sites. It’s important that we can have
frank discussions with the company, and it’s important that
companies keep their promises. We need to come up with a
solution, not just throw ideas around.”  Montebourg says he wants the company to accept one of the
two offers that he has for the whole of the Florange site.  On Nov. 22, Montebourg also told senators the steelmaker
had “a fiscal debt that we consider to be astronomical,”
without giving more details.  In 2008, Mittal slashed about 600 jobs at the Gandrange
plant in eastern France. Mittal had bought the plant, which
makes long steel products for the automotive industry, from
Arcelor in 1999.  On Oct. 31,  Mittal reported  the lowest quarterly profit in
almost three years and cut its 2013 dividend to save $1 billion
as slowing Asian demand sinks steel prices and the company
attempts to cut debt. ArcelorMittal plans the temporary closure
of its Luxembourg headquarters in 2013 to save money,  Les Echos 
said yesterday without citing anyone.  Mittal is the world’s 41st richest man, with a net worth of
$17.1 billion, according to the  Bloomberg Billionaires Index .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Helene Fouquet in Paris at 
 hfouquet1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net  