-- On the Table, Capital Ideas for Fiscal-Cliff Talkers
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-11-26T23:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-26/on-the-table-capital-ideas-for-fiscal-cliff-talkers.html
Here’s the state of play on the
fiscal-cliff-avoidance talks a month before the deadline:
President  Barack Obama  and his Democratic allies insist on
raising $1.6 trillion in new taxes, the bulk of which must come
from higher tax rates on the rich. Republicans just as adamantly
oppose higher rates.  It’s a classic standoff. Or so it would seem. Look more
carefully, and important players on both sides appear willing to
cede territory.  The latest salvo comes from billionaire investor  Warren Buffett , whose Nov. 26 New York Times  op-ed  debunks the idea
that the wealthy would simply quit investing if their taxes went
up. It’s fair to say that Buffett’s experience confers authority
on his argument: As a stockbroker in the 1950s, when marginal
rates topped out at 91 percent (versus 35 percent today) and
capital gains were taxed at 25 percent (versus 15 percent
today), he made good money.  The Buffett contribution is his proposal to define the rich
as households earning $500,000 or more, or twice Obama’s
preferred  cutoff . By raising the bar on what constitutes “rich,”
Buffett seeks to close the gap between the  no-tax-rate-increase 
Republicans and the president, who sees the tax code as a way to
level the income-inequality scales.  Close Loopholes  The Buffett compromise builds on one that Republicans have
been offering. To raise revenue, they are willing to close
loopholes and cap  tax expenditures , such as mortgage interest
and charitable contributions, as an alternative to higher rates.
In addition, there appears to be a growing  willingness  to
entertain higher taxes on investment income, including taxing
capital gains at 28 percent and dividends at ordinary income-tax
rates, and to close the carried-interest loophole that allows
private-equity and hedge-fund managers to pay taxes of just 15
percent.  Add it all up, and one can see the makings of a deal: The
Bush tax cuts would end for those earning more than $500,000 --
about  760,000 households . Marginal rates would rise from 33
percent and 35 percent to 36 percent and 39.6 percent,
respectively -- the same as under President Bill Clinton.  Capital gains and dividends would be taxed at higher rates,
preferably at the same level as ordinary income but no less than
20 percent. Low investment taxes overwhelmingly  benefit  the
wealthiest Americans, with 96 percent of the tax savings going
to the top income quintile,  according  to the Tax Policy Center.
Tax deductions would also be capped between $25,000 and $50,000,
depending on the remaining revenue hole.  It’s worth pointing out that this deal would obviate the
need for the so-called  Buffett rule , a proposed 30 percent
surtax on Americans with incomes of more than $1 million. As we
have noted, such a tax would barely make a dent in the budget
deficit, raising about $47 billion over the next decade. More
important, it runs the risk of being perceived as an act of
class warfare. Dropping the idea would make it easier for
Republicans to swallow a tax-rate increase.  Where does this get us? According to the  Congressional
Research Service , allowing the Bush tax cuts to expire on
earnings exceeding $500,000, combined with 20 percent capital-
gains and dividend taxes, would yield about $566 billion over 10
years, or 72 percent of the revenue gain from Obama’s plan to
raise taxes on those with incomes of more than $250,000. Capping
 deductions  between $25,000 and $50,000 would bring in between
$1.2 trillion and $749 billion, respectively. That puts
negotiators well within Obama’s $1.6 trillion ballpark.  Both parties say they understand that averting the fiscal
cliff will require compromise; now they need to understand that
the outlines of that compromise are within reach.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View.  Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on the need for a  Palestinian
victory at the UN ; Noah Feldman on  Egypt ’s power struggle;
Edward Glaeser on how  New York can protect itself ;  Jeffrey
Goldberg  on how the  Palestinians could gain independence ;
William Pesek on  Japan ’s next prime minister; Ramesh Ponnuru on
 Republicans’ misguided plans for candidates ; Tim Judah on
 Yugoslavia’s lesson for separatist movements .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 