-- Onex Agrees to Buy USI From Goldman Fund for $2.3 Billion
-- B y   S e a n   B .   P a s t e r n a k   a n d   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e
-- 2012-11-26T14:34:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-26/onex-agrees-to-buy-usi-from-goldman-fund-for-2-3-billion.html
Onex Corp. (OCX) ,  Canada ’s largest
publicly traded buyout firm, agreed to buy USI Insurance
Services LLC from a fund run by  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  in a
transaction valued at $2.3 billion.  The deal includes a $700 million equity investment by Onex
Partners III fund, the Toronto-based company said today in a
statement. Employees of the Briarcliff Manor, New York-based
insurance broker will remain “significant” investors in USI,
which has about 100 offices in the U.S.  Private-equity firms are buying insurance-services
companies for their steady  cash flow  and low capital needs. KKR
& Co. agreed on Nov. 23 to purchase brokerage Alliant Insurance
Services Inc. from Blackstone Group LP for an undisclosed
amount. Last month, a group led by CVC Capital Partners Ltd.
said it would acquire insurance-claim adjuster Cunningham
Lindsey Group Ltd. in a deal valuing the company at as much as
$1 billion including debt.  USI “is well positioned to continue to grow both
organically and by building on its track record of successful
acquisitions,” Robert Le Blanc, a managing director at Onex,
said today in the statement. USI, which has 3,300 employees, is
the ninth-largest insurance broker in the U.S., according to its
 website .  The buyout unit of New York-based Goldman Sachs acquired
USI in 2007 in a deal valued at $1.4 billion.  Morgan Stanley advised Onex, and Kaye Scholer LLP provided
legal advice. GS Capital Partners received financial advice from
RBC Capital Markets LLC, and Weil Gotshal & Manges LLP acted as
legal counsel. The companies expect the deal to close by the end
of the year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sean B. Pasternak in Toronto at 
 spasternak@bloomberg.net ;
Devin Banerjee in  New York  at 
 dbanerjee2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  