-- Hong Kong Parking Costs $387,000 as Cash Moves From Homes
-- B y   K e l v i n   W o n g   a n d   S t e p h a n i e   T o n g
-- 2012-11-27T06:58:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-26/hong-kong-parking-costs-387-000-as-cash-moves-from-homes.html
Investors reacting to the Hong Kong
government’s campaign to curb home buying in the world’s most
expensive market are shifting money into parking spaces, pushing
up prices that in high-end neighborhoods can match the cost of
two U.S. homes.  The  average price  of a previously owned parking spot in
residential complexes rose 6.7 percent to HK$640,000 ($82,600)
in the third quarter, the second highest on record, from the
prior three months, according to Centaline Property Agency Ltd.
A space in the exclusive Repulse Bay area sold in May for HK$3
million ($387,000), the most for a single transaction and more
than double the median U.S. home price, according to
CarparkHK.com, a website that tallies parking-spot information.  Hong Kong Chief Executive Leung Chun-ying has unveiled
three major sets of curbs on home buying since taking over in
July, amid concerns that continued U.S. stimulus would attract
more funds into the city and fuel an asset bubble. Apartment
 prices  in the city doubled in almost four years, driven by near
record-low  interest rates  and an influx of money from  China .  “There’s just too much liquidity in the market,” said
Simon Lo, Hong Kong-based executive director of research and
advisory at property broker Colliers International. “The
government has set up a firewall for residential properties, but
all this money still needs to find a place.”  Spaces Transferable  Home prices gained 4.4 percent in the third quarter,
according to Centaline, the city’s biggest closely held realtor
by market share. Hong Kong is the priciest place to buy a home,
according to broker  Savills Plc (SVS) , which compared prices in 10
cities, including New York and  London .  Most parking spaces in Hong Kong, including those inside
residential complexes, are freely transferable with separate
ownership titles from the apartments, according to  Hong Kong
City Parking , which operates 10 parking garages in the city.
Even so, some garages have rules prohibiting nonresidents from
entering and parking on the premises, which lowers the leasing
options available to the owners, said City Parking Chief
Executive Officer Josh Wong.  Spaces in industrial and commercial buildings also are
transferable, though landlords at most prime-office and shopping
locations normally hold on to parking spaces to benefit from the
stable rental returns they provide, said Wong.  “The circumstances are providing a perfect combination for
a bubble in parking spaces,” he said. “There are demand-supply
imbalances in some districts and the banks are pushing for the
mortgage business.”  ‘Less Resilient’  Hong Kong banks normally lend a maximum 50 percent of a
parking space’s value, compared with 70 percent for residential
properties, according to Kenneth Tsin, head of property loans at
 Bank of East Asia Ltd. (23)  Parking-space mortgages are riskier for
banks compared with residential- and commercial-property
mortgages, Tsin said.  “They are relatively less marketable than flats and shops,
while their values are also less resilient than those of housing
prices,” he said.  Developers often sell the spaces independently from the
residential units. Cheung Kong (Holdings) Ltd. sold 514 parking
spaces at its Festival City project in the city’s north on Nov.
24 for HK$980,000 to HK$1.3 million, said Roy Choi, a regional
sales director at Centaline.  While realtors post listings of parking spaces for sale and
charge fees on deals, few brokers specialize in them because the
margin is too small, said City Parking’s Wong. Most buyers go to
websites such as CarparkHK.com or ParkingHK.com, which partners
with Hong Kong City Parking, for information.  Jerry Yeung, a 28-year-old stock broker, bought a parking
space in a residential complex near the Olympic subway station,
about a 10-minute train ride north of the Central business
district, for HK$1.02 million earlier this month, just a week
after the government announced its latest home-buying curbs.  Easier Investment  “All these measures make buying apartments so much
riskier,” said Yeung, who plans to lease the space for HK$3,000
a month. “Parking spaces are a much easier and simpler
investment, plus you don’t need too much capital. If things in
the apartment market don’t change, I’ll probably stick with this
for a while.”  A parking space at Lohas Park, a middle- to low-end
residential project in the city’s northeast, sold for HK$910,000,
Centaline said Nov. 4. The space is being leased for HK$3,300 a
month, equating to a yield of about 4.4 percent.  By contrast, a 900-square-foot apartment in the same
project is being sold for HK$5.18 million, according to
Centaline. With a monthly rental of HK$15,000, the yield is
around 3.5 percent.  Falling Yield  The record for average parking-spot prices is HK$660,000,
set in the fourth quarter of 1997, just before the city’s last
major real estate crash.  The HK$3 million paid for the parking space in Repulse Bay,
a residential district that’s home to some of the city’s richest
people, including billionaire Cheng Yu-tung, is the highest on
record, according to data compiled by  CarparkHK.com , which also
sells advertisement space for auto-related products.  Average yield for a parking space has fallen to as low as 4
percent in some districts from more than 5 percent two years ago
and may decline to around 3 percent next year “if the frenzy
persists,” said City Parking’s Wong.  Hong Kong, with 7.1 million people and a vast public-
transport network, including subways, buses, ferries and trains,
has one of the lowest car ownership rates among developed
countries, with 56 cars per 1,000 people, according to  World
Bank statistics  in 2011. That compares to 439 in the U.S. and
101 in  Singapore .  Luxury Cars  Those that do drive tend to do so in luxury: high-end cars
such as Rolls-Royces, Bentleys and Mercedes-Benz accounted for
47 percent of total private-car sales in Hong Kong during the
first 10 months of this year, according to figures compiled by
industry analyst IHS Automotive.  In space-starved Hong Kong, the government charges a
minimum first-time purchase registration tax of 40 percent of
the value of a private car, and a minimum HK$3,929 annual
license fee.  After Leung, a former property surveyor, imposed a 15
percent tax on non-local and corporate homebuyers and raised a
resale tax on Oct. 26, 68 parking spaces changed hands in the
next seven days, rising to 207 spaces in the week ending Nov. 16,
compared with 33 recorded in the week before the announcement,
according to figures compiled by CarparkHK.com. That’s the most
transactions in a week since the website began collecting such
data in February 2011.  ‘Another Push’  “We have already seen investment going from properties to
parking ever since” the government first imposed an extra tax
on property transactions in 2010, said City Parking’s Wong.
“The latest set of measures just gave it another push.”  The government won’t rule out introducing measures to
prevent a bubble from forming in the nonresidential market,
Financial Secretary John Tsang wrote on his blog on Nov. 4.  There were more than 8,300 parking space transactions in
Hong Kong in the first 10 months of this year, accounting for
8.9 percent of all property deals, real estate broker  Midland
Holdings Ltd. (1200)  said. That percentage is the highest since records
were first kept in 1997.  ‘Negative Correlation’  “The numbers suggest there’s a negative correlation
between parking spaces and homes,” said Buggle Lau, chief
analyst at Midland. “The taxes have driven investors away from
buying apartments.”  Borrowing costs in Hong Kong are almost at record lows
because the Hong Kong dollar’s peg to the U.S. currency ties
monetary policy to the Federal Reserve’s even as the economy is
driven by China’s growth. The city’s biggest lenders such as
HSBC Holdings Plc and Standard Chartered Plc charge an average
2.15 percent on home loans, below the city’s inflation rate of
3.8 percent.  “At this interest rate nobody wants to leave their money
in the bank,” said Wong Leung-sing, an associate director of
research at Centaline. “When you try and stop people from
investing in homes they have to find something else. Shops and
offices are probably too expensive for most retail investors.
Car spaces are the best alternative for them.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kelvin Wong in Hong Kong at   kwong40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  