-- Optos Extends Gains on Retinal Device Prospects: London Mover
-- B y   P e t e r   W o o d i f i e l d
-- 2012-11-26T13:30:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-26/optos-extends-gains-on-retinal-device-prospects-london-mover.html
Optos Plc (OPTS) , a Scottish maker of
scanners to detect eye disease, headed for the biggest four-day
gain in more than seven months as investors bet that revenue
growth will improve on sales of a new retinal imaging device.  Optos focused on commercializing the new Daytona product in
the fiscal year ended Sept. 30, and “2013 is about expansion
into new geographic territories and volume delivery,” Julie Simmonds, an analyst at Canaccord Genuity Ltd. with a buy
recommendation on the stock, said in a note to clients.  The Daytona technology added to costs last year and crimped
the company’s earnings margins. Now, Optos and analysts say the
desktop retinal device will boost sales outside the U.S., where
Optos generates most of its revenue.  The  shares  rose 3.9 percent to 192 pence at 1:20 p.m.,
extending the gain since the Dunfermline, Scotland-based company
reported full-year results on Nov. 21 to 16 percent. A close at
that level would be the best four-day performance since April 3.  “The guidance for next year for high single-digit sales
growth was ahead of expectations,” Charles Weston, an analyst
at Numis Securities Ltd with a  buy rating  on the stock, said in
a telephone interview. “Consensus previously was that sales
would be flat or potentially even down a bit.”  Optos’s share price compares with the average 12-month
price target of 256 pence of six analysts surveyed by Bloomberg,
offering a potential return of 34 percent. Only Vectura Group
Plc, a developer of inhaled therapies for respiratory diseases,
offers a higher potential one-year return among the 11 companies
in the  FTSE techMARK Mediscience Index .  Today’s increase pared the stock’s decline this year to
12 percent. Optos slumped 18 percent on May 17 after it reported
high-than-expected costs.  Revenue adjusted for some items rose 37 percent last year
to $196 million, beating the median of $191 million from seven
estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Operating profit, net income
and earnings per share were all ahead of estimates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Woodifield in Edinburgh at 
 pwoodifield@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Lytle at   dlytle@bloomberg.net  