-- Morgan Keegan Trial Judge to Decide SEC Case He Dismissed
-- B y   D a v i d   B e a s l e y   a n d   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e
-- 2012-11-26T18:30:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-26/morgan-keegan-trial-judge-to-decide-sec-case-he-dismissed.html
Morgan Keegan & Co. is going to
trial before a judge whose decision to throw out regulators’
claims the retail brokerage misled thousands of investors about
the risks of auction-rate securities was reversed on appeal.  Lawyers for the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and
the  Memphis , Tennessee-based financial firm delivered opening
statements today in federal court in Atlanta in a nonjury trial
scheduled to take two weeks.  The case, alleging that Morgan Keegan told clients that the
more than $2 billion in securities it sold had “zero risk” as
the market was collapsing in late 2007 and 2008, was dismissed
by U.S. District Judge William Duffey Jr. in June 2011. In May,
the  U.S. Court of Appeals  in Atlanta overruled Duffey, finding
he incorrectly concluded brokers’ verbal comments to four
customers were immaterial in light of disclosures posted on the
firm’s website.  Morgan Keegan brokers told customers auction-rate
securities were “liquid, short-term investments,” M. Graham
Loomis, a lawyer for the SEC, said during openings today. “None
of the brokers told them their money could be tied up
indefinitely.”  The first witness who testified today, Lakeland,  Florida ,
orange grower John Tillis, said he invested $400,000 in auction-
rate securities in December 2007 in order to “park” the funds
in a safe investment until his taxes were due in April. A Morgan
Keegan broker told him “I would have no problem getting my
money back when I needed it for taxes,” Tillis said. “I did
not realize there was any risk.”  ‘Couldn’t Sell’  When the farmer later tried to withdraw the funds, the
broker “never could tell me anything except they couldn’t sell
them,” Tillis testified. The company later refunded his
principal, he said.  The SEC, in a court filing, listed at least 10 other
witnesses it expects to call to the stand, including Calvin Sullivan,  Morgan Keegan’s chief strategy officer for fixed
income, and General Manager Thomas Galvin. Along with current
and former customers and brokers, the list also includes Kevin Giddis, fixed income head at  St. Petersburg , Florida-based
 Raymond James Financial Inc. (RJF)   Defense Witnesses  Morgan Keegan, which was acquired by Raymond James in
April, listed 71 potential witnesses in a court filing. They
include Giddis and Galvin as well as customers and brokers.  Morgan Keegan sold as much as $2.2 billion in auction-rate
securities that customers were unable to liquidate after the
market’s collapse in 2008, according to the SEC. The commission
sued Morgan Keegan for securities fraud in 2009, even after the
firm had begun buying back the investments.  Typically, auction-rate securities were municipal and
student-loan-backed bonds with  interest rates  that were
determined through periodic auctions, the SEC said. The company
frequently told customers the investments were the “same as
cash” or “cash equivalents,” the agency said in court papers.  The market for auction-rate securities began to
disintegrate in August 2007 after the companies insuring the
investments began suffering heavy losses in subprime mortgage-
related bonds, the SEC said.  Failed Auctions  In November 2007, Morgan Keegan learned of “a small number
of failed auctions” for the securities, in which some of the
investments were left unsold, according to the SEC suit.  By February 2008, auctions began to fail on “a widespread
basis,” the SEC said.  In March 2008, Morgan Keegan began requiring customers who
wished to buy auction-rate securities to sign statements
acknowledging “it may be a considerable period of time before
liquidity returns to this investment,” the SEC said.  Morgan Keegan said in court filings that auction-rate
securities were historically “extremely safe and liquid.” The
company denied the SEC allegations that it failed to tell
customers about the risks of investing in them.  “Morgan Keegan’s failure to predict the future is not
 securities fraud ,” a lawyer for Morgan Keegan, Amelia Rudolph,
said in openings today. “This was a market that went up in
smoke overnight. Morgan Keegan did not misrepresent this product
to anyone.”  Not ‘a Penny’  After the market collapsed and before the SEC filed its
lawsuit, Morgan Keegan voluntarily bought back $2 billion in
auction-rate securities from customers, it said in court
documents.  “Participants in the repurchase program have not lost a
penny” on their auction-rate investments, the company said.  In dismissing the case last year, Duffey said in his ruling
that “failure to predict the market does not constitute
securities fraud.”  The SEC seeks unspecified monetary penalties against Morgan
Keegan.  Raymond James  paid about $1.2 billion to buy the company
from  Regions Financial Corp. (RF)   The suit is Securities and Exchange Commission v. Morgan
Keegan & Company Inc., 1:09-cv-01965, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of  Georgia  (Atlanta).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 David Beasley  in Atlanta at 
 dbeasley3@bloomberg.net ;
Christie Smythe in  New York  at 
 csmythe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  