-- Court Finds Toronto Mayor Violated Conflict of Interest
-- B y   K a t i a   D m i t r i e v a
-- 2012-11-26T22:21:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-26/toronto-mayor-found-guilty-of-conflict-of-interest-court-says.html
Toronto Mayor Rob Ford, who sparred
with his fellow city councilors on everything from subways to
the annual gay pride parade, must vacate his job in 14 days
after being found in conflict of interest, a court ruled.  Ford, who has served as mayor of  Canada ’s largest city for
two years, violated municipal conflict of interest rules after
voting on a council motion that ordered him to repay donations
made to his football fund.  “In my opinion, the respondent’s actions were
characterized by ignorance of the law and a lack of diligence in
securing professional advice, amounting to willful blindness,”
Ontario Superior Court Justice Charles Hackland wrote today in a
ruling.  Ford said he would “absolutely” appeal and run in a by-
election if one is held. “I’m going to fight it tooth and
nail,” he told reporters in front of his office at City Hall.
“This comes down to left-wing politics. The left wants me
out.”  Ford was accused by Toronto citizen Paul Magder of breaking
the Municipal Conflict of Interest Act. According to an
investigation by Janet Leiper, the City of Toronto’s Integrity
Commissioner, when Ford was councilor for Etobicoke North in
2010 he solicited donations from lobbyists for his private
charity, the Rob Ford Football Foundation, by using the City of
Toronto logo, his status as a city councilor, and city resources
while lobbying, the judge’s 24-page ruling said.  ‘Gravy Train’  In August 2010 council ordered Ford to repay C$3,150
($3,169) in donations made to his foundation from lobbyists and
corporate donors. Ford refused, ignoring multiple written
requests from the commissioner’s office and later voted on a
council motion relieving himself of the responsibility to repay
the C$3,150 ($3,169) in donations, the ruling said.  “City staff are reviewing the court’s decision,” Jackie
DeSouza, director of strategic communications for the City of
Toronto, said in a phone interview. “What we really want to get
across to citizens is that city business and services continue
to be ’business as usual.’”  Council meets tomorrow at 9:30 a.m. and councilors may
bring up the verdict for discussion, she said.  Ford, who campaigned for mayor with the slogan “Stop the
Gravy Train” often found himself overruled in council. While
getting elected in October 2010 with 47 percent of the vote on a
vow to expand the city’s subway system, council endorsed a plan
for surface rail instead.  Gay Pride  His actions, including a public weight-loss campaign called
“Cut the Waist” to trim his 330-pound frame, captivated a city
with more skyscrapers under construction than any other in  North
America  yet a chronic budget gap.  Ford, who vowed to stop the “war on the car,” was once
photographed reading a newspaper while driving on a city
expressway. He declined invitations to attend the city’s annual
gay pride parade, breaking with mayoral tradition of the
supporting the largest pride parade in North America, to go to
his family cottage instead.  Lawyer Clayton Ruby took on the case for Magder, which
sought to remove Ford from City Council and prevent him from
running in the next election. Ford’s punishment was “perfectly
sensible,” Ruby said.  “If you want to hold office you must do so with
integrity,” he said at a news conference at Toronto  City Hall .  The chances of Ford vacating his seat soon are “minimal”
because he will file the appeal and the stay as soon as
possible, John Mascarin, partner who specializes in municipal
law at the Aird & Berlis LLP law firm in Toronto, said in a
phone interview.  ‘Bad News’  Ford will claim that kicking him out of office will cause
“irreparable harm to himself and the city” because a by-
election to elect a new mayor will cost taxpayers millions of
dollars, Mascarin said.  “He’s going to have a very good case for a stay,” he
said.  Toronto’s small businesses are “apprehensive” at the
prospect of the political turmoil that will follow the Ford
decision, said John Kiru, head of the Toronto Association of
Business Improvement Areas, which represents more than 30,000
small businesses in the city.  “The uncertainty that this yields at a very critical time
in terms of budget and everything else, I think it’s bad news,”
Kiru said by phone from Toronto.  The Ford administration has worked to bring business taxes
down in line with residential rates, a process begun under his
predecessor, and Toronto businesses want that to continue under
a new regime, he said.  Style Change  If Ford plans to run again and be re-elected he’ll have to
improve his governing style, John Tory, a Toronto radio host who
ran for mayor in 2003, said in a phone interview from Toronto.
Tory was leader of Ontario’s Progressive Conservative Party from
2005 to 2009.  “In the judge’s eyes he was largely the architect of some
of this misfortune.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katia Dmitrieva in Toronto at 
 edmitrieva1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Steven Frank at 
 sfrank9@bloomberg.net ;
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  