-- Toronto Wins CFL’s Grey Cup at Home for First Time in 60 Years
-- B y   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r
-- 2012-11-26T05:30:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-26/toronto-wins-cfl-s-grey-cup-at-home-for-first-time-in-60-years.html
The Toronto Argonauts won the
Canadian Football League championship in front of hometown fans
for the first time in 60 years, beating the Calgary Stampeders
35-22 in the 100th Grey Cup.  Ricky Ray threw two touchdown passes and Chad Kackert
finished with 198 all-purpose yards, including 133 rushing
yards, to earn the game’s most valuable player award last night
at the Rogers Centre in Toronto.  The Argonauts followed up a 9-9 regular season with
postseason wins over  Edmonton ,  Montreal  and Calgary to capture
their record-extending 16th Grey Cup and first since 2004.  Five minutes into the game, Calgary running back Jon
Cornish, named the CFL’s most outstanding Canadian player three
days before, had a fumble that set up Toronto’s first touchdown.  The turnover set the tone for the game as Toronto’s defense
held Cornish to 57 rushing yards, sacked Calgary quarterback
Kevin Glenn twice and also returned an interception for a
second-quarter touchdown that put the Argos up 14-3.  Toronto quarterback Ricky Ray threw for 231 yards on the
night, looking beyond receiver Chad Owens, the league’s most
outstanding player. Jason Barnes and Dontrelle Inman had 125
receiving yards and Toronto’s three offensive touchdowns came
from three different players.  Bright Spot  With the Argos leading 27-9 late in the third quarter,
Larry Taylor had a 105-yard punt return for Calgary, only to
have the touchdown disallowed due to a holding call against
Raymond Keon. Although Calgary finally found the endzone thanks
to Bo Levi Mitchell’s 12-yard fourth-quarter pass to Maurice
Price, it was too late to keep the most successful team in Grey
Cup history from its first CFL title at home since 1952.  The Canadian Football League’s rules differ slightly from
the  National Football League  in the U.S., featuring a larger
field, 12 players on the field for each team as opposed to 11,
and three downs to move 10 yards instead of four attempts.  The Argonauts have been a rare bright spot among Toronto’s
sports franchises. The  Toronto Blue Jays  of  Major League
Baseball  last won the World Series in 1993, while the  National
Hockey League ’s Maple Leafs haven’t won the  Stanley Cup  since
1967.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Altstedter in Toronto at 
 aaltstedter@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  