-- Osborne to Announce Bank of England’s New Governor
-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a   a n d   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2012-11-26T13:40:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-26/osborne-s-boe-race-nears-finish-line-as-countrown-begins.html
Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne will announce today who will be the next Bank of England
governor, managing Britain’s economy and supervising its banks
for the rest of the decade.  Osborne will make a statement in the House of Commons in
 London  at 3:30 p.m. today. He’s been looking at a final list of
candidates to replace Mervyn King drawn up by Treasury
officials. Deputy Governor Paul Tucker is the favorite,
according to bookmakers.  The announcement will be Osborne’s most important personnel
appointment and follows public advertisements for the role in
September. Comments by Tucker and a rival in the past week have
focused the final days of the race on bank supervision, allowing
the chancellor to consider just how aligned their thinking is
with his as he expands the future governor’s powers.  “It’s necessary to have someone with a lot of practical
experience of banks, and who is actually reasonably friendly to
banks,” said Patrick Minford a professor of economics at
Cardiff University and a former U.K. Treasury adviser. “Paul
Tucker is much closer to that sort of thing, and much more
experienced.”  The announcement comes nine days before the chancellor’s
Dec. 5 autumn statement on the state of the economy and the
public finances. European Parliament Economic and Monetary
Affairs Committee Chairwoman Sharon Bowles, one of the
candidates for the job, said on Nov. 23 she expected the result
to be made public that day.  Expanding Powers  Osborne expanded the Bank of  England ’s powers in the wake
of the financial crisis to make it the overarching regulator of
banking and the financial system, ensuring his quest for a
candidate was harder than when the institution’s main function
was to set interest rates.  “The scale of the job is so big,” said Peter Hahn, a
professor of finance at Cass Business School in London and a
former managing director at Citigroup Inc. “They have realized
that there’s almost an impossible range of requirements and they
are trying to find the best balance.”  Speculation on who will succeed King in June and start a
single eight-year term has centered on Tucker, Adair Turner, who
leads the Financial Services Authority, and John Vickers, who
headed the Independent Commission on Banking. Others linked to
the race this year have included Bank of Canada Governor Mark Carney and former Treasury Permanent Secretary Terence Burns,
now chairman of  Banco Santander SA (SAN) ’s U.K. unit.  Testimony Test  Turner, Osborne and Tucker testified on successive days
last week to a panel of lawmakers looking at how to overhaul
regulation of Britain’s financial system. Osborne told them to
stick with legislation proposed by Vickers to erect firewalls
around banks’ deposit-taking operations.  Tucker said that he would back the government’s plans, and
said he did “not completely” agree with King over the need to
eventually break up banks. Turner, like King, takes a tougher
stance on banks and favored the threat of full breakup to
prevent lenders watering down existing proposals.  The episode gave Osborne further food for thought as he
studied the final list of candidates recommended by a panel
comprising Treasury Permanent Secretary Nicholas Macpherson,
Second Permanent Secretary Tom Scholar and David Lees, chairman
of the central bank’s court. They conducted interviews with
shortlisted applicants in late October, two people familiar with
the matter said at the time.  Decision Makers  Osborne will have shared his choice with Prime Minister
David Cameron. Deputy Prime Minister Nick Clegg from the junior
coalition Liberal Democrat party also had a say. Queen Elizabeth II has had to give formal approval.  Osborne broke with a 30-year convention by looking outside
the Bank of England for a successor to King. Widening the pool
beyond bank insiders followed strains with the Treasury dating
from 2007 that center on how King responded to the financial
crisis, people with knowledge of the matter said in February.
The bank gained independence to set monetary policy in 1997.  The Libor scandal has buried the chances of a senior banker
getting the job. It almost torpedoed Tucker’s bid too when his
questioning by lawmakers in July over his knowledge of Libor
rate-rigging raised concerns about his suitability.  Tucker re-emerged as a frontrunner in the past three months
as he gained potential support from Business Secretary Vince Cable, a Liberal Democrat. Cable said in a Sept. 24 interview
that Tucker’s chances hadn’t been hurt by the  Libor probe  and
that the governor needs to be someone who “understands banking
but who isn’t captured by banking.”  ‘Money Talks’  That left Tucker, 54, favored by bookmaker  William Hill Plc (WMH) 
for the job. The bookmaker was offering odds of 1-4 today,
meaning a 4-pound ($6.40) wager would return a 1-pound profit.
Other odds were 6-1 for Vickers, 7-1 for Burns, 10-1 for Turner
and 20-1 for Bowles.  “If money talks, and it should do in this instance, it is
telling us Tucker is home and dry,” William Hill spokesman
Graham Sharpe said in an e-mail.  Osborne is facing further pressure before his autumn
statement after the Institute for Fiscal Studies said today he
may have to extend his austerity program by another year to 2018
after a deterioration in Britain’s economic prospects.  The London-based  research group  said Osborne is on course
to miss his target to see the burden of government debt falling
by 2015, and further tax increases and spending cuts may be
needed to erase the structural deficit in five years, the
mainstay of his economic strategy. It means the total squeeze
may last eight years. Osborne had originally planned for the
cuts to end by the time of the 2015 general election.  Euro Meeting  In Brussels today, euro-area finance ministers will try for
the third time this month to clear an aid payment to  Greece  and
forge a blueprint to keep the country a solvent member of the
currency bloc. A breakthrough hinges on coming up with funding
to fill the financing gap that emerged when Greece this month
got two more years to meet deficit-reduction targets.  Efforts to resolve the  European debt crisis  have stumbled
after the European Central Bank gave leaders more time with its
September pledge to purchase sovereign debt.  In Spain, pro-independence parties in Catalonia won a
regional vote yesterday, sparking concern political uncertainty
may force the country to delay seeking aid. Elsewhere in  Europe ,
German  consumer confidence  fell for the first time in seven
months in December, dropping to 5.9 from a revised 6.1 in
November.  In the U.S., economic activity fell in October, according
to the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago. The Chicago Fed national
index, which draws on 85 economic indicators, was minus 0.56 in
October versus 0 in September. An index of Texas manufacturing
by the Federal Reserve Bank of  Dallas  probably rose for a second
month in November, a Bloomberg survey showed before a report
later today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net ;
Svenja O’Donnell in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  