-- Most Indian Stocks Advance; Tata Steel, Hindustan Unilever Gain
-- B y   R a j h k u m a r   K   S h a a w
-- 2012-11-26T10:40:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-26/most-indian-stocks-advance-tata-steel-hindustan-unilever-gain.html
Most Indian stocks advanced amid
expectation the government will be able to push economic reforms
even as a deadlock continued in parliament over allowing
overseas retailers to set up shop here.  The BSE India  Sensitive Index (SENSEX) , or Sensex, rose 0.2 percent
to 18,538.38, according to preliminary closing prices. Three
shares climbed for every two that fell on the 30-stock gauge.
The gauge added 1.1 percent last week, ending two weeks of
losses.  Tata Steel Ltd. (TATA) , the nation’s biggest producer, climbed
the most in six weeks after cutting 900 jobs at its U.K. unit.
 Hindustan Unilever Ltd. (HUVR) , the largest home-products maker, rose
for the second day.  Prime Minister Manmohan Singh began a campaign in September
to revive India’s economic growth from the weakest since 2009
and avoid a credit-rating downgrade by paring fuel subsidies and
opening up retailing and aviation to foreign investment. Both
houses of parliament were adjourned today after the government
and the main opposition failed to reach an agreement over
investment policies.  The “reforms momentum has slowed, and this time I won’t
blame the government but the opposition,” Samir Arora, founder
of Singapore-based hedge fund Helios Capital Management Pte.,
which focuses its investments on  India , told Bloomberg TV India
today. “These are the crucial two-three months leading up to
the Union budget. What happens in the parliament is important.”  The government will present its annual budget at the end of
February.  The biggest overhaul of government policy in a decade and
increased foreign inflows to Indian equities have driven the
Sensex up by 20 percent this year. The measure trades at 15.2
times  estimated profit , compared with the  MSCI Emerging Markets
Index’s (MXEF)  11.4 times, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The Sensex will probably climb to a  record  23,069 by the
end of next year, helped by an expansion in earnings, global
liquidity and attractive valuations, Morgan Stanley analysts led
by  Ridham Desai  wrote in a report dated today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rajhkumar K Shaaw in Mumbai at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  