-- Lover Image May Top $17.6 Million Sotheby’s Schiele Sale
-- B y   S c o t t   R e y b u r n
-- 2012-11-26T09:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-26/lover-image-may-top-17-6-million-sotheby-s-schiele-sale.html
Three drawings by  Egon Schiele  are
estimated to sell for a total of as much as 12 million pounds
($17.6 million) at an auction in London in February.  The works on paper by the short-lived Austrian
Expressionist are being offered by the Leopold Museum, Vienna,
in Sotheby’s sale of Impressionist and modern art on Feb. 5,
2013, the New York-based auction house said today in an e-mail
sent to Bloomberg.  The drawings are being sold by the museum, founded in 1994
by the late Viennese ophthalmologist and collector Rudolf
Leopold, to pay for the settlement of the restitution claim over
its 1914 Schiele painting “Houses by the Sea.” The privately-
owned foundation has about 220 works by the artist.  “The Leopold Museum is fortunate to hold the world’s
greatest collection of works by Schiele. The sale of these three
works will fund a settlement which will be of benefit to the
museum,” Peter Weinhaeupl, the institution’s Managing Director,
said in the statement.  “Houses by the Sea” was previously owned by the Austrian
collector Jenny Steiner, a Jewish silk-factory owner. She fled
 Austria  in 1938, shortly after the Nazis marched into Vienna,
and later emigrated to the U.S. with her two daughters.  The painting was seized and sold by the Nazis, then later
auctioned. Rudolf Leopold acquired it in 1955. Last year, the
Leopold Museum agreed to pay $5 million to the granddaughter of
Jenny Steiner, who claimed a third of the work, to keep the
Schiele painting.  Further settlements were agreed in June for the remaining
two-thirds claimed by U.S. institutions which inherited from
Steiner’s other heirs.  Lovers’ Embrace  A 1914/15 pencil, gouache and watercolor study of Schiele
and his lover Walburga (Wally) Neuzil in an embrace,
“Liebespaar (Selbstdarstellung mit Wally)” (Lovers (Self-
portrait with Wally)), is the most highly valued of the offered
drawings, estimated at 6.5 million pounds to 8.5 million pounds.  The 1914 study, “Selbstdarstellung in gruenem Hemd mit
geschlossenen Augen” (Self-Portrait in Green Shirt with Eyes
Closed), in the same medium, is priced at 1.8 million pounds to
2.5 million pounds; the erotic 1918 line drawing, “Am Ruecken
liegendes Maedchen mit ueberkreuzten Armen und Beinen” (Girl
Lying on her Back with Crossed Arms and Legs), is priced at
700,000 pounds to 1 million pounds.  All are guaranteed to sell courtesy of third-party
“irrevocable” bids,  Sotheby’s (BID)  said. The auction record for a
Schiele work on paper is the $11.35 million paid for the 1917
study, “Selbstbildnis mit kariertem Hemd” (Self Portrait With
Checkered Shirt) at Sotheby’s,  New York , in 2007.  Restitution Case  This is the second offering of high-value Schiele works at
Sotheby’s on behalf of the Leopold Museum.  In June 2011, the auction house sold the 1914 canvas
“Houses With Laundry (Suburb II)” for a record 24.7 million
pounds ($40 million) in London to pay for the settlement of the
long-running “Wally” restitution case.  In 1998, Schiele’s 1912 painting of his auburn-haired model
and lover was seized by a  district attorney  after being loaned
to an exhibition at the Museum of  Modern Art , New York.  Descendants of the Jewish art dealer Lea Bondi Jaray
claimed that “Wally,” acquired by Leopold in 1954, was stolen
by the Nazis in the 1930s. The claim was upheld by a federal
court in  Manhattan  in 2009, prompting the Viennese museum to
make an out-of-court settlement of $19 million in 2010 to keep
the painting.  The museum also had to pay as much as 3.5 million euros
($5.2 million) in legal costs, Weinhaeupl said. The complex case
was followed by 44 countries drafting guidelines for the return
of looted art known as the Washington Principles.  During Rudolf Leopold’s lifetime -- he died in June 2010 at
the age of 85 -- the museum argued that as a private foundation,
it was not subject to Austria’s restitution law, which only
applies to federal government museums.  After Leopold’s death, his son Diethard Leopold pledged to
settle all outstanding claims for Nazi-looted art in the
museum’s collection as quickly as possible.  Muse highlights include  Mark Beech  on music,  Warwick
Thompson  on  London  theater and  John Mariani  on wine.  To contact the writer on the story:
Scott Reyburn in London at  sreyburn@hotmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 