-- Overnight Rates Surge in Fed’s Operation Twist
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   G a g e   a n d   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2012-11-26T00:01:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-26/overnight-rates-surge-in-fed-s-operation-twist.html
You wouldn’t know the  Federal
Reserve  has done nothing but add to its record monetary stimulus
from looking at short-term funding markets.  The federal funds effective rate on overnight loans between
banks was  0.16 percent  on Nov. 21, up from 0.06 percent at the
end of September 2011, the month Fed officials announced they
would begin swapping short-term securities in their portfolio
for long-term debt under Operation Twist. The rate for borrowing
and lending Treasuries for one day through  repurchase agreements 
also has surged.  Higher overnight interest costs are a side effect of
Operation Twist that has persisted despite new accommodation,
including a third round of quantitative easing and extending the
horizon for near-zero borrowing costs through mid-2015. When the
program ends in December, the Fed will have shrunk its portfolio
of short-term securities by $667 billion through Twist sales and
redemptions, designed to lower long-term  interest rates  while
keeping the size of the Fed’s  balance sheet  constant.  “There have to be distortions whenever you get the Fed
intervening to affect the shape of the term structure,” said
 Robert Eisenbeis , a former research director at the  Federal
Reserve Bank of Atlanta  who’s now chief monetary economist at
Cumberland Advisors Inc. in Sarasota,  Florida . “There’s no free
lunch.”  Record Amounts  The Fed’s sale of short-term Treasuries has put record
amounts of these securities on primary dealers’  balance sheets ,
increasing their financing costs. As of Nov. 14, the 21 primary
dealers that trade directly with the Fed held $69 billion of
Treasury coupon securities due in three years or less, compared
with $1.8 billion on Oct. 5, 2011, Fed data show. That’s down
from a record $76.9 billion on July 25.  The glut has helped drive repo rates higher, as the firms
typically use the securities as collateral for temporary loans
through the overnight lending market as a way to help finance
their holdings. A repo typically involves the sale of U.S.
government securities in exchange for cash, with the debt held
as collateral for the loan. Dealers agree to repurchase the
securities at a later date, and cash is sent back to the lender.  When the amount of debt dealers need to finance through the
repo market increases, rates typically rise to attract more
lenders, which are primarily money-market mutual funds. During
the height of the global financial crisis in 2008, when
Treasuries were in short supply amid global demand for the debt
as a haven, repo rates collapsed to nearly zero given the supply
shortage.  Climbing Rate  The overnight repo rate for Treasuries climbed to 0.288
percent as of Nov. 23 from minus 0.001 percent on Dec. 30, a
Depository Trust & Clearing Corp. general-collateral finance
repo index shows. The index has averaged 0.258 percent in the
last month, compared with 0.096 percent in 2011.  “The ultimate purpose of all that the Fed has been doing
is to create an abundance of cheap credit available in the
economy,” said Boris Rjavinski, interest-rate derivative
strategist at UBS AG in  Stamford ,  Connecticut . “Yet, primarily
as a result of Twist, the repo rate has been stubbornly high,
especially compared to other short-term lending benchmarks.”  Distorted repo rates increasingly matter because the money-
market metric has gained stature as bankers and investors seek
alternatives to the London interbank offered rate, known as
Libor. Regulators across the globe are investigating claims that
banks altered submissions used to set Libor to appear
financially healthier or benefit traders.  Potential Benchmark  An industry group has proposed the repo rate as a potential
benchmark for a floating-rate note program the Treasury
Department is developing. The Treasury Borrowing Advisory
Committee, made up of bond dealers and investors who meet
quarterly with the government, suggested a DTCC repo index as
one of its choices.  The Fed has turned to unconventional easing tools, such as
Twist, after lowering the  target  for its benchmark fed funds
rate to a record low between zero and 0.25 percent in December
2008. In 2007, before the worst recession since the Great
Depression, the rate was  above 5 percent .  The central bank’s balance sheet and communications have
been its main policy levers, and the Fed in September announced
it would buy $40 billion of mortgage debt a month without
setting a limit on the size or duration of the program.  May Expand  Operation Twist, extended in June of this year, is
scheduled for completion by year-end as the Fed holds less than
$80 billion of debt maturing through 2015, almost all of which
will be sold by then. A “number” of Fed officials said the
central bank may need to expand its monthly purchases of bonds
next year, according to the minutes of the  Federal Open Market
Committee ’s Oct. 23-24 meeting.  Twist has succeeded in helping cut longer-term borrowing
costs, with the yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note at
 1.69 percent  on Nov. 23, down from 1.92 percent on Sept. 30,
2011, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices.  “Long-term rates have gone down, and that was the
objective,” Eisenbeis said. “Fed people and Bernanke have
argued strenuously that it’s been very successful.”  On Oct. 24, 2011,  Brian Sack , then markets group chief and
now a senior adviser at the  Federal Reserve Bank of New York ,
said while Operation Twist had “gone well,” he was surprised
by the “upward pressure” on short-term rates. The  New York 
Fed’s markets group is responsible for executing monetary policy
and managing the central bank’s bond portfolio.  ‘Unforeseen Consequences’  “You get unforeseen consequences” when pursuing
unorthodox policies, said  Allan Meltzer , a professor at Carnegie
Mellon University’s Tepper School of Business in Pittsburgh and
author of a two-volume history of the Fed.  Jack Gutt , a spokesman for the New York Fed, declined to
comment.  In 2010, the Fed’s mortgage-bond buying made some
securities so hard to find that  Wall Street  couldn’t complete an
unprecedented number of trades. An industry group rectified the
problem in 2012 by instituting penalties for dealers and
investors who fail to complete transactions in agency debt and
home-loan bonds.  Several times this year, rising repo rates have left
dealers with financing costs that were higher than short-term-
debt yields. The yield on the benchmark two-year note averaged
 0.27 percent  during the last month, nearly matching the average
general collateral repo rate. When funding costs are above debt
yields, so-called carrying costs are negative, increasing the
potential for losses on trades.  Rising Rates  “For collateral providers in the repo market, such as
dealers, the rise in rates has increased their costs and reduced
their income,” said Jeff Kidwell, director of funding and
Direct Repo at  Boca Raton , Florida-based broker dealer AVM LP.
“Money funds and corporations, who provide the cash, have seen
a windfall with the rate increase and a greater availability of
collateral.”  The completion of Twist in December is likely to alleviate
pressure on short-term funding costs, according to UBS and
Citigroup Inc. analysts.  The end “will be one of the factors that will help bring
repo rates down” next year, said Andrew Hollenhorst, fixed-
income strategist at Citigroup in New York, during an interview
on Oct. 30. Treasury repo rates probably will fall to slightly
below 0.15 percent by the second half of 2013, he forecasts.  Twist Distortions  Twist has led to distortions between the cost to borrow in
the repo market on a secured basis and unsecured rates such as
Libor, said  Alex Roever , head of short-term fixed-income
strategy at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in  Chicago . The overnight Libor
rate was 0.155 percent on Nov. 23, cheaper than the repo
market’s 0.27 percent, according to an index compiled by ICAP
Plc, the largest inter-dealer broker of  U.S. government debt .  “Historically, this is not normal, as secured lending
should be less expensive,” Roever said.  The rise in overnight repo rates has caused the fed funds
effective rate to drift higher, with Nov. 21’s 0.16 percent, up
from 0.04 percent at the end of last year. The measure has
averaged  3.2 percent  during the past 20 years and is still
within the Fed’s target range of zero to 0.25 percent.  The rate, a volume-weighted average on trades by major
brokers published daily by the New York Fed, also has increased
as overnight loans between banks have dwindled, another
byproduct of the Fed’s unprecedented monetary easing since 2008.  Daily bank demand for fed funds, which historically helped
keep the effective rate near the target, has slid as the Fed has
tried to spur growth through more than $2 trillion in debt
purchases. This caused a surge in the excess bank reserves it
holds to  $1.44 trillion  on Nov. 14 from $2.2 billion in 2007.  Dysfunctional short-term markets may make it more difficult
for central bankers to tighten policy when they desire, Meltzer
said. The Fed has historically moved the fed funds rate by
buying or selling  Treasury securities , adding or withdrawing
cash from the system.  “Ultimately the Fed is going to want to go back at some
point to its former procedure of operating through the fed funds
market,” Meltzer said. It “doesn’t seem to work anymore.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Caroline Salas Gage in New York at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net ;
Liz Capo McCormick in New York at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  