-- Pennsylvania Confronts $41 Billion in Pension Deficits
-- B y   R o m y   V a r g h e s e
-- 2012-11-26T21:31:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-26/pennsylvania-confronts-41-billion-in-pension-deficits.html
Pennsylvania ’s two public pensions
face a combined shortfall of $41 billion, and their costs will
consume 62 percent of fiscal 2014 revenue growth, according to a
report from the state budget office.  The State Employees’ Retirement System has 65 percent of
assets needed to cover projected liabilities, and the
Pennsylvania Public School Employees’ Retirement System is 69
percent funded, the report said. The plans cover 817,000 people.  In July, Moody’s Investors Service cut the state’s general-
obligation debt rating to Aa2, its third-highest, citing rising
pension obligations that will weigh on its economic recovery.
Funding for state retirement plans across the U.S. fell in
fiscal 2011 for a fourth straight year, to a median coverage
ratio of about 72 percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “Absent meaningful structural pension reform, the state’s
general-fund budget is on a very predictable path that will
force a choice between either fully funding pension obligations
or making cuts to the core functions of government,” Charles Zogby, Pennsylvania’s budget secretary, said in a statement.  State revenue is projected to rise by about $818.7 million
in fiscal 2014, according to the report. Pension cost increases,
estimated at $511.2 million, will account for almost two-thirds
of the additional revenue, the report shows.  Narrowed Premium  The yield premium for holders of 10-year general-obligation
bonds issued in Pennsylvania has  narrowed  by 0.11 percentage
point since Governor Tom Corbett took office, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. An index of 10-year debt yields 2.09 percent on
average, or 33 basis points more than a gauge of top-rated state
and local securities. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  The extra yield was 44 basis points on Jan. 18, 2011, when
Corbett was sworn in. Yield premiums have declined on state and
municipal debt partly because investors have bought tax-free
bonds as a hedge against higher taxes.  Corbett intends to propose a pension overhaul in his 2014
spending plan, for the year that begins in July, according to
the report. Retirees and current employees with accrued benefits
won’t be affected, it said. Steps taken by other states, such as
increasing worker contributions, raising the retirement age and
adjusting payment formulas such as credit for years of service,
provide potential models for Pennsylvania.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Romy Varghese in Philadelphia at 
 rvarghese8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  