-- Pentagon Readies Options for Afghanistan Force After 2014
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2012-11-26T23:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-26/pentagon-readies-options-for-afghanistan-force-after-2014.html
Pentagon leaders intend to present
President  Barack Obama  by year-end with options for how many
U.S. troops to keep in Afghanistan next year and beyond,
according to the Defense Department’s chief spokesman.  “We haven’t really reached a point where any single number
has ripened into recommendations,” George Little told reporters
yesterday, after the Wall Street Journal and New York Times
quoted unnamed officials saying as many as 10,000 troops may
remain after 2014.  With 66,000 U.S. troops now in Afghanistan, down from a
high of 100,000 in May 2011, debate is centering on how many
will be withdrawn over the next two years. The large-scale U.S.
and North Atlantic Treaty Organization presence is scheduled to
end in 2014, turning over the security lead to Afghanistan
military and police forces.  Obama campaigned for re-election on a pledge to
“transition out” of Afghanistan, saying in an Oct. 22 debate
with Republican challenger  Mitt Romney  that “there’s no reason
why Americans should die when Afghans are perfectly capable of
defending their own country.” He didn’t say how many U.S.
troops would remain in the war-torn country.  Obama’s decision faces multiple complications, starting
with the absence so far of a Status of Forces Agreement with the
U.S.-backed Afghan government of President Hamid Karzai. Among
its provisions would be exempting U.S. troops from local law
enforcement actions. Such an agreement is due -- but not
guaranteed -- in May.  The failure of the government of Iraqi Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki to pass such an agreement forced the withdrawal of all
American forces from that country at the end of 2011.  Obama’s Commitment  The U.S. Congress has provided more than $51 billion since
2002 to build an Afghan security force, which has about 337,000
personnel today.  White House Press Secretary Jay Carney told reporters
yesterday that Obama will be deciding “in coming weeks and
months” on on how to fulfill “his commitment that he made very
clearly to continue to draw down forces in  Afghanistan ” over
the next two years.  Obama “will evaluate proposals from the Pentagon and
elsewhere on what we might negotiate with the Afghan government
on a future presence in Afghanistan, after we fulfill our
commitment and NATO’s commitment to end the war in Afghanistan
in 2014,” Carney said. “That commitment and that presence
would be very limited in scope, as we’ve talked about, focused
on counterterrorism operations and training of Afghan forces.”  Insider Attacks  Efforts to withdraw U.S. forces must be reconciled against
challenges, including difficulties in training Afghan forces,
insider attacks on U.S. and allied troops, government-wide
corruption and insurgent safe havens in Pakistan.  “The odds of ‘success’ in creating a stable, secure, and
democratic Afghanistan moving towards economic development on a
national and regional basis by 2014 -- or even 2020 -- are less
than even,” Anthony Cordesman of the Center for Strategic and
International Studies in  Washington  concluded in June.  Max Boot, a senior fellow at the Council on Foreign
Relations in New York, told the House Armed Services Committee
in June that he would advise against withdrawing any of the
remaining troops next year.  Afghanistan Election  “This is a very dangerous situation to leave behind, which
could potentially destabilize” and “lead to the overthrow” of
the Karzai government, he said. Establishing security “will be
difficult enough to do with even 68,000 troops, and I fear
impossible if we go substantially below that number,” Boot
said.  Afghanistan’s national election in April 2014 was cited as
a crucial event by Marine Corps General Joseph Dunford, Obama’s
nominee to lead U.S. and NATO troops there.  Without successful elections “I’m concerned that the
conditional” international contributions pledged this year
“both for development and for security forces, won’t be
there,” he told the Senate Armed Services Committee on Nov. 15.  “The legitimacy of those elections in the eyes of the
Afghan people are gonna have a lot to do with their willingness
to support the Afghan government” and not support the Taliban,
he said.  More immediately, U.S. commanders are attempting to reduce
the number of “green-on-blue” attacks by Afghan personnel
against U.S. and NATO troops. Since January, 37 of the insider
attacks have killed 51 coalition troops, including 32 Americans.  The attacks have raised concerns “about the pace of
progress toward the scheduled hand-off,” John Sopko, the
Special Inspector General for Afghanistan Reconstruction, said
in his latest quarterly report.  ‘Pervasive Corruption’  Sopko also said “pervasive corruption in public life is
widely seen as a major obstacle to reform, development,
stability, and growth for the country.”  Another immediate issue is encouraging  Pakistan  to do more
to disrupt insurgents’ sanctuaries near the Afghan border in
northwest Pakistan.  “It’s not apparent to me that there’s been any progress”
in reducing the safe havens, Dunford said at the Senate hearing
on his nomination.  Defense Secretary Leon Panetta said in response to a
question after a Nov. 20 speech in Washington that “in many
ways the success in Afghanistan is dependent on having a
Pakistan that is willing to confront terrorism on their side of
the border.”  “So in order to really have a secure Afghanistan,
ultimately Pakistan is going to have to take responsibility for
taking on these terrorists and eliminating the safe havens,”
Panetta said.  Special Forces  The U.S. military commitment after 2014 is likely to
include counterterrorism forces and conventional force advisers
who would train Afghan forces, Dunford told lawmakers.  Special forces to help hunt insurgents and advisory and
assistance personnel are needed to sustain a “clear and
compelling narrative” that the U.S. will support the Afghan
government, Dunford said.  While there has been a lot of “discussion informally”
about “where things might be headed,” Little said yesterday he
wasn’t aware of a “formal set of recommendations” from the
current commander in Afghanistan, Marine Corps General John Allen, “for formal passage to the White House.”  Panetta is scheduled to hold his next discussion with
General Allen today by video teleconference “on a range of
issues,” Little said. He said he wasn’t sure whether a formal
troop level recommendation will be discussed.  ‘I can’t say for sure that it will be done completely by
December 31,’’ Little said. “We hope to complete the entire
process as soon as possible within the next several weeks.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  