-- Pioneer’s Earnings Rise on Slow South African Consumer Spending
-- B y   J a c o   V i s s e r
-- 2012-11-26T07:55:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-26/pioneer-s-earnings-rise-on-slow-south-african-consumer-spending.html
Pioneer Foods Ltd. (PFG) , a South African
cereals and fruit-juice producer, said full-year earnings fell
as higher prices held back  consumer spending  on bread, corn and
wheaten products in Africa’s largest economy.  Net income declined 17 percent to 604 million rand ($68
million) in the 12 months through September from a year earlier,
the Paarl, South Africa-based company said in a statement today.
Earnings per share adjusted for a charge relating to the sale of
stock to black shareholders advanced 6 percent to 4.26 rand,
beating the median  estimate  of 4.09 rand of 12 analysts surveyed
by Bloomberg.  “The year under review continued to be challenged by muted
consumer spend,” Pioneer said in the statement. “Raw material
pricing remains volatile and indications are that prices could
weaken in the months ahead that should bring some relief to the
consumer.”  Inflation on Pioneer’s basket of products, which includes
Weet-Bix cereal and Ceres fruit juice, was estimated at about
13.5 percent for the 11 months through August, it said on Sept.
4. That’s more than double South Africa’s  inflation rate  of 5.6
percent in October, which was the highest since April.  “Pioneer has a very strong portfolio of brands, where the
optimization of these brands remains questionable,” Jacques Theron, a portfolio manager at Absa Asset Management Private
Clients, said by phone from Johannesburg before the results were
released. “It seems to lack value-added products in this strong
portfolio compared to its peers.”  Under Pressure  Pioneer sales for the year increased 10 percent to 18.6
billion rand, the company said.  Tiger Brands Ltd. (TBS) , South
Africa’s largest food company by market value, said on Nov. 21
sales for the same 12 month period rose 11 percent, while profit
advanced 5 percent.  South African consumers are under pressure amid
 unemployment  of 25.5 percent and economic growth that will slow
to 2.5 percent this year, the lowest since the 2009 recession,
according to government estimates.  Pioneer’s Chief Executive Officer Andre Hanekom said on
Oct. 17 he will retire at the end of March after 24 years at the
company.  This has created an opportunity for Pioneer to bring in
someone with a background in fast-moving  consumer goods  and
 emerging markets , Standard Bank Group Ltd.’s equity-research
unit said in a note to clients on Oct. 17. It could consider
people from  Unilever Plc (ULVR) ,  Kraft Foods Group Inc. (KRFT) ,  Kellogg Co. (K)  or
 Reckitt Benckiser Group Plc (RB/) , the bank said.  “This could be the catalyst taking the company up a gear,
as it grows into its increased capacity through a more
aggressive investment behind their brands, which we believe has
been below that of its competitors,” the analysts wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jaco Visser in Johannesburg at 
 avisser3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  