-- Pound Declines as EU Meets on Greece, Carney Appointed to BOE
-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 2012-11-26T17:14:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-26/pound-slips-from-three-week-high-before-eu-chiefs-meet-on-greece.html
The pound weakened to a one-month
low against the euro as European Union finance ministers meet
for talks on an updated aid package for  Greece , less than a week
after an all-night meeting failed to reach an agreement.  Sterling pared declines against the dollar and euro after
Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney  was unexpectedly appointed
as the next head of the  Bank of England . Ten-year gilt yields
fell after the  Institute for Fiscal Studies  said Chancellor of
the Exchequer  George Osborne  may have to extend his austerity
program by another year to 2018.  “For today the pound will just be driven by euro-group
chatter,” said Christian Lawrence, a London-based currency
strategist at Rabobank International. A signal from  Europe ’s
finance ministers that they are moving closer to a deal would
push sterling “higher against the dollar and lower against the
euro,” he said.  The pound fell 0.1 percent to 80.97 pence per euro at 5:01
p.m. London time. It earlier dropped as much as 0.2 percent to
81.10 pence, the weakest level since Oct. 24. Sterling slipped
0.1 percent to $1.6016.  Rabobank forecasts the pound will strengthen to $1.65 in
the next six months, Lawrence said.  Currency Indexes  Sterling has gained 1 percent this year, according to
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes, which track 10
developed-market currencies. The euro declined 2.2 percent and
the dollar dropped 2.3 percent.  Greece, facing a sixth year of recession in 2013, has been
negotiating with the euro area and  International Monetary Fund 
over the measures needed to qualify for the payment of loan
installments frozen since June.  A breakthrough hinges on coming up with 10 billion euros
($13 billion) to fill the financing gap that emerged when Greece
this month got a two-year extension to 2022 to meet deficit-
reduction targets.  The pound pared declines against the dollar after Osborne
announced Carney’s appointment. He will take the helm of a
British central bank that’s preparing to become the most
powerful in the world as it absorbs broad new powers to oversee
the financial system and prevent another crisis.  This is sterling supportive “in the sense that he has
credibility and that he understands that financials are at the
core of the U.K. economy, which will help” the currency, said
 Sebastien Galy , a senior foreign-exchange strategist at Societe
Generale SA in  New York . “The issue is that he will try to
maintain a weak pound to help the economy rebalance but that is
not much different from his predecessor.”  Debt Target  The 10-year gilt yield fell less than one basis point, or
0.01 percentage point, to 1.84 percent, after sliding to 1.816
percent, the least since Nov. 20. The 1.75 percent bond due in
September 2022 rose 0.04, or 0.4 pence per 1,000-pound face
amount, to 99.21.  In a report published today, the IFS research group said
Osborne is on course to miss his target of reducing the burden
of government debt, and further tax increases and spending cuts
may be needed to erase the structural deficit in five years.  A second reading of  gross domestic product  data due to be
published tomorrow will show the U.K. economy expanded 1 percent
in the third quarter, according to the median of 33 estimates in
a Bloomberg survey.  Gilts returned 2.8 percent this year through Nov. 23,
according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European
Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. German bunds gained
3.4 percent and U.S. Treasuries earned 2.3 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  