-- Private-Equity Managers Make Moves as Tax Increases Near
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C o l l i n s
-- 2012-11-26T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-26/private-equity-managers-make-moves-as-tax-increases-near.html
Private-equity managers are bracing
for higher taxes in 2013 and in the final weeks of this year are
refinancing investments, accelerating gains and shifting what
they transfer to trusts.  Top earners face higher taxes on wages, investments and
money transferred to heirs starting next year because of tax
cuts set to expire and new taxes for high-income Americans from
the health-care law. Executives in the private-equity industry
also may see taxes rise on their share of profits in buyout
deals -- known as carried interest -- as Congress looks to raise
revenue though an overhaul of the U.S.  tax code .  “They’re economics first,” Sandy Presant, an attorney at
Greenberg Traurig LLP in  Los Angeles  said of his clients who are
private-equity managers. “They’re going to want to cash in by
year end.”  About 90 percent of clients already have used the current
generous exemption for non-taxable gifts, said David Wilfert, a
wealth adviser in the group serving private-equity managers at
New York-based  JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s (JPM)  private bank. “This
client base has been extremely focused on using their $5.12
million exemption,” said Wilfert, who is also a managing
director.  Legislation enacted in 2010 raised the lifetime estate-and-
gift tax exclusion for 2011 and 2012. The opportunity for
individuals to transfer as much as $5.12 million -- or $10.24
million for married couples -- free of estate taxes and gift
taxes is set to expire Jan. 1 and drop to $1 million for 2013.  Gift Taxes  Congress returns to  Washington  this week with about a month
until the current estate and gift tax rules expire. Those taxes
may be addressed as part of negotiations over the so-called
fiscal cliff, or $607 billion of tax increases and federal
spending cuts set to kick in automatically in January.
Republicans and Democrats disagree on what to do to avert the
tax and spending changes.  Private-equity managers’ gifts to relatives typically
include a low-valued “vertical slice” of their general partner
interest in a fund, which includes a piece of their carried
interest, Wilfert said. That way, if the investment does well,
it would appreciate in a trust free of estate and gift  taxes .  Today, with the risk of the exemption shrinking, clients
are taking an opposite approach. To reach that ceiling and place
assets into trusts before Dec. 31, he said, they are using cash,
securities or real estate.  Grantor Trusts  One strategy is to set up the trusts as so-called grantor
trusts, said Hunter Payne, partner and general counsel at
Harbour Capital Advisors in McLean, Virginia. Those types of
trusts often allow the creators to swap initial assets for ones
of equal value later, such as investments in a family
partnership that’s funded with proportionate shares of private-
equity fund interests, Payne said.  This year’s presidential campaign focused attention on the
taxation of private-equity managers as Republican nominee  Mitt Romney , the former chief executive officer of Bain Capital LLC,
built his wealth in the industry. Romney’s 2011 tax return
showed he paid a 14.1 percent federal tax rate on $13.7 million
of income because much of his income was taxed at preferential
rates.  Carried interest is often taxed as capital gains. The top
rate on long-term capital gains, now 15 percent, is lower than
levies on ordinary income such as wages. The rate is set to rise
to 20 percent in 2013. High earners will face an additional 3.8
percent tax on investment income as a result of the 2010 health
care law.  Carried Interest  Democrats including Representative  Sander Levin  of
 Michigan , the top Democrat on the House Ways and Means
Committee, for five years have been seeking to tax carried
interest as ordinary income. President  Barack Obama ’s most
recent budget also  proposes  the change, which according to the
Joint Committee on Taxation would raise $16.8 billion over the
next decade.  Heads of private-equity firms including  David Rubenstein ,
who co-founded the buyout firm  Carlyle Group LP (CG) , indicated this
month they expect carried interest to be among the tax breaks
that Congress will scrutinize in tax-overhaul discussions.  “Carried-interest taxation and a great variety of other
issues will no doubt be addressed,” Rubenstein said Nov. 8.  George Roberts , who runs the private-equity firm KKR & Co.
with his cousin  Henry Kravis , said on Nov. 14 that “it would be
good to look at everything in the tax code” to make it simpler
and fairer.  Accelerating Gains  Private-equity managers are preparing for changes to the
tax treatment of their share of profits, said  Jim Brown , a
partner in the tax group at New York-based Willkie Farr &
Gallagher LLP. Some are considering whether to accelerate gains
on accrued carried interest at current tax rates. One way to do
that is by transferring general partner interests to an
affiliate in a taxable transaction, Brown said.  “The idea of the strategy is to do something that
accelerates the gain” on the general partner’s share of the
underlying assets, Brown said. Once that gain is recognized,
whatever’s left can be protected from the higher rates, he said.  The affiliate is usually set up as an S Corporation or a
non-U.S. firm based in a place like the  Cayman Islands  so it
isn’t subject to corporate-level U.S. tax, he said. Taxpayers
should make sure to follow IRS rules when setting one up, he
said.  Preferential Rates  Private-equity executives also are restructuring funds in
anticipation of changes to the taxation of carried interest,
said Presant of  Greenberg Traurig , who is chair of the firm’s
real estate fund practice. Some are refinancing loans that
partners made to other employees to invest in deals, getting
them instead from third parties such as banks, Presant said.  That’s because the  proposals  in Congress have allowed so-
called qualified capital, or investments that managers make
alongside investors in a deal, to still be taxed at preferential
rates. If those investments are borrowed from a firm’s partners,
they wouldn’t count as qualified capital and would be subject to
higher rates, he said.  With or without legislation to change the taxation of
carried interest, private-equity managers face will face higher
taxes next year, said Patrick Cox, partner and tax chair at
Brown Rudnick LLP in  New York . That’s why some are looking at
accelerating sales of assets such as real estate or trying to
close deals on investments before year end to take advantage of
current rates, he said.  “If you identify property that you may sell in the next
few years, you probably want to race to sell it because you
could reinvest the tax savings,” Cox said.  The potential to close deals -- particularly in real estate
-- while prices and tax rates are attractive is driving managers
to act in 2012, Presant said.  “It’s a perfect storm for people to sell,” he said. “I
get my carried interest at  capital gains  rates, for sure. I get
a high price for the property. And capital gains rates are at
all-time low.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Collins in New York at 
 mcollins45@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  