-- Qatar Disposes of Barclays Warrants, Holding 6.7% Stake
-- B y   A l e x i s   X y d i a s   a n d   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 2012-11-26T16:49:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-26/qatar-disposes-of-barclays-warrants-holds-6-7-stake-steady-1-.html
Qatar Holding LLC sold the last of
the  Barclays Plc (BARC)  warrants it acquired during the financial
crisis, triggering a 740 million-pound ($1.19 billion) stock
offering by the banks that arranged the transaction.  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  sold as many
as 303.3 million shares in the British bank to money managers
for 244 pence apiece, the bottom of the 244 pence to 248 pence
range used to canvas investor interest in the stock, according
to a term sheet obtained by  Bloomberg News .  The Qatar fund will remain the biggest shareholder in the
London-based bank with its 6.7 percent stake staying unchanged.
 Shares of Barclays  have climbed 26 percent since the bank
announced a plan in October 2008 to raise 7 billion pounds of
 capital  from investors including the Abu Dhabi and Qatar
sovereign wealth funds to avoid a government bailout.  “We remain a supportive strategic investor in Barclays,
and maintain our confidence in the long-term prospects for the
business,” Qatar Holding Chief Executive Officer Ahmad Al-Sayed
said in a statement yesterday.  Barclays fell 5.4 percent to 240.5 pence in  London  trading,
the biggest decline since June 28. That brought the gain for
this year to about 37 percent.  The sale “does remove the last bit of overhang from the
2008 recapitalization,” Sandy Chen, an analyst at Cenkos
Securities in London who recommends selling the shares, wrote in
a note to clients today. “So the capital footings can be
regarded as more stable now.”  Largest Shareholder  “Barclays welcomes Qatar Holding’s message of confidence
in its long-term prospects and continues to appreciate the
consistent support it has received since Qatar Holding became
its largest shareholder,” Barclays CEO Antony Jenkins said in
the statement.  Qatar could make 170 million pounds from the deal after
fees, said  Ian Gordon , a London-based analyst at  Investec Plc (INVP) 
who recommends buying shares of Barclays.  “The Qataris sold their warrants to Goldman and Deutsche
and they, in turn, have hedged their position by placing 303
million shares,” he said. The warrants haven’t been exercised,
and they will probably be converted into shares before October
when they expire, he said. “These warrants were a sweetener to
the shares.”  Wealth Funds  John Varley , CEO in 2008 and the predecessor of  Robert Diamond , tapped sovereign wealth funds in the Middle East to
avoid a U.K. government bailout that may have overhauled
management, capped executive salaries and banned dividend
payouts. Qatar made 615 million pounds by selling shares in
Barclays in October 2009, a year after the bailout.  This week’s transaction comes as Barclays grapples with a
criminal probe by the U.K. Serious Fraud Office into fees it
paid in 2008 to Qatar’s sovereign wealth fund as part of the
2008 transactions  The  U.S. Department of Justice  is also investigating
whether the lender made payments that violated the Foreign
Corrupt Practices Act to win a banking license for its wealth-
management unit and investment bank in  Saudi Arabia , the
Financial Times reported on Nov. 9, citing unidentified people
familiar with the talks.  U.S. regulators this month also proposed levying a record
$470 million in penalties on Barclays after it allegedly gamed
energy markets in the Western U.S. from late 2006 to 2008.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alexis Xydias in London at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net ;
Howard Mustoe in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net ;
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  