-- Citigroup Index Inclusion to Fuel Rand Swings, Kganyago Says
-- B y   N a s r e e n   S e r i a
-- 2012-11-27T14:13:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-26/rand-volatility-fueled-by-citigroup-bond-index-kganyago-says.html
The inclusion of South African debt
in  Citigroup Inc. (C) ’s World Government Bond Index will contribute
to the rand remaining the world’s most volatile currency,
Reserve Bank Deputy Governor Lesetja Kganyago said.  Entry into Citigroup’s gauge in October may have
accelerated the currency’s 8.4 percent depreciation against the
dollar this year as slowing global growth, lower commodity
prices and labor strikes curbed appetite for local assets,
Kganyago said yesterday in an interview in  Pretoria .  “The currency is going to remain pretty volatile,”
Kganyago, 47, said. For investors who started buying South
African debt because it was being included in the Citigroup
index “the problem is that they didn’t seem to be very familiar
with the story of an environment of investing in a bond market
where the currency plays such a big factor.”  The rand has slumped since Aug. 10, weakening below 9 to
the dollar for the first time since April 2009, as the worst
mining strikes since the end of apartheid disrupted output,
prompting downgrades by Moody’s Investors Service and Standard &
Poor’s. The rand’s three-month implied volatility, which shows
traders’ expectations of the rand’s movements during that
period, is the highest of 16 major currencies tracked by
Bloomberg.  Inflation Pressure  The rand strengthened 0.6 percent to 8.8092 per dollar as
of 3:28 p.m. in Johannesburg. The yield on the government’s 10.5
percent debt due December 2026 fell four basis points to 7.58
percent.  “Unless these investors are really familiar with the story
and understand the interplay between the currency and the bond
market in the South African context, we are going to have that
kind of volatility with us for some time,” Kganyago said.  The currency’s decline is adding to pressure on  inflation ,
threatening the central bank’s 3 percent to 6 percent target
range and limiting policy makers’ ability to reduce interest
rates to bolster the economy. The Monetary Policy Committee,
which surprised economists by lowering the  benchmark rate  by
half a percentage point in July, left it unchanged at 5 percent
last week.  While inflation accelerated to 5.6 percent in October, it’s
being fueled by “cost-push” factors including higher oil
prices, with little evidence of price pressures spreading in the
economy, Kganyago said.  Flexible Targets  “We are flexible inflation targeters,” he said. “For as
long as we think that inflation is driven by once-off factors
and we don’t see any evidence of second-round effects as
reflected by the fact that the core measure is still remaining
benign, we don’t get overly concerned.” That “gives monetary
policy the room to continue to be accommodative,” he said.  The MPC estimates inflation will probably peak at 5.7
percent in the first quarter. That projection doesn’t take into
account revisions to the consumer-price basket by the statistics
agency next year that may boost the inflation rate by 0.2
percentage points, Kganyago said.  Inflation is accelerating at a time when growth in  Africa ’s
biggest economy is slowing, restricting policy makers’ options.
The central bank lowered its growth forecast for this year to
2.5 percent, which would be the slowest pace since a 2009
recession.  “Are we facing stagflation?,” Kganyago asked. “Not yet,
but I think it remains a risk to the outlook.”  President Jacob Zuma appointed Kganyago as deputy central
bank governor in March 2011. Before that, he served as director
general of the National Treasury, the highest civil-servant
position at the ministry, from 2004. During his tenure, South
Africa posted its first budget surplus since the 1960s.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nasreen Seria in Johannesburg at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  