-- Treasuries Rise First Time in Five Days on Greece Talks
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2012-11-26T22:07:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-26/treasuries-stay-lower-after-13-gain-in-holiday-sales.html
Treasuries advanced for the first
time in five days on speculation euro-area finance ministers
meeting will struggle to agree on a plan to clear an aid payment
to  Greece , underpinning demand for the safest assets.  The benchmark 10-year yield fell from the highest level in
two weeks after pro-independence parties in Spain’s Catalonia
won a majority in a regional vote, strengthening a drive for a
referendum on secession. Euro-area finance chiefs are meeting in
Brussels today, less than a week after an all-night meeting
failed to yield agreement on Greece. At stake is the
continuation of a three-year mission to return Greece to
financial health.  “There’s still an outside shot that the Greece situation
is not totally done yet,” said Michael Franzese, senior vice
president of fixed-income trading at ED&F Man Capital Markets in
New York. “There’s still the aid package to work out. It’s very
difficult to trade this market. We are range bound.”  The 10-year  yield  fell three basis points, or 0.03
percentage point, to 1.66 percent at 4:59 p.m. in New York,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 1.625 percent
note due in November 2022 rose 1/4, or $2.50 per $1,000 face
amount, to 99 21/32. The yield climbed to 1.70 percent on Nov.
23, the highest level since Nov. 7.  The Treasury 30-year  yield  declined three basis points to
2.80 percent after rising to 2.84 percent on Nov. 21, the most
since Nov. 8.  Slow Trade  Treasury trading volume dropped today to $150 billion,
compared with the 2012 daily average of $240 billion, according
to ICAP Plc, the largest inter-dealer broker of U.S. government
debt.  Hedge-fund managers and other large speculators  increased 
net-long position in 10-year note futures in the week ending
Nov. 20, according to U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission
data. Speculative long positions, or bets prices will rise,
outnumbered short positions by 161,413 contracts on the Chicago
Board of Trade, up by 2,894 contracts, or 2 percent, from a week
earlier.  Large traders  held  a net-long position in Treasury-bond
futures. Speculative long positions, or bets prices will rise
outnumbered short positions by 29,771 contracts, versus 16,912
contracts the previous week.  Treasuries traded at the most expensive level in a week.
The 10-year term premium, a model created by Fed economists that
includes expectations for interest rates, growth and inflation
was at negative 0.90 percent, the most expensive level since
Nov. 19. A negative reading indicates investors are willing to
accept yields below what’s considered fair value.  Investors in U.S. government securities have earned 0.2
percent this month through Nov. 23, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch indexes. The debt has returned 2.3 percent this
year, compared with 9.8 percent in 2011.  Index Plays  Government debt was also boosted as some investors bought
debt to increase the duration of their portfolios to match
benchmarks at the end of the month, such as the Barclays Plc
U.S. Treasury Index. Duration measures price sensitivity to
changes in yield, and is partly a function of maturity.  The Barclays U.S. Treasury index is projected to extend by
0.07 year for November, the most since extending by 0.08 year in
August, according to the firm.  Volatility in U.S. government bonds dropped to the lowest
in more than five years on Nov. 23. Bank of America Merrill
Lynch’s MOVE index, which measures price swings for Treasuries
based on options, fell to 53.7, matching the least since May
2007.  “The Federal Reserve has its foot on things,” said David Ader, head of U.S. government bond strategy at CRT Capital Group
LLC in  Stamford ,  Connecticut . “The Fed’s activity is squelching
volatility.”  Fed Policy  The Fed purchased $1.86 billion in Treasuries maturing from
February 2036 to November 2042 today as part of its Operation
Twist program to replace shorter-term securities with longer-
term Treasuries.  The central bank is scheduled to conduct six purchase
operations this week as part the program to strengthen the
economic recovery. It will conduct two separate operations on
Nov. 28 of securities maturing from February 2036 to November
2042 and November 2018 to November 2020. The program is
scheduled to end in December.  The U.S. will sell $99 billion in notes this week, starting
with $35 billion in two-year debt tomorrow. The U.S. is
scheduled to sell an equal amount of five-year notes Nov. 28 and
$29 billion of seven-year securities on Nov. 29.  “Auctions have not proven to be a major challenge at this
stage of the game,” Ader of CRT said.  Debt Auction  The previous sale of two-year notes on Oct. 23 drew a yield
of 0.295 percent, the highest yield in an auction of the
maturity since June. The securities attracted record demand from
direct bidders, a group of investors that includes pension funds
and insurance companies. They purchased 38 percent of the notes,
compared with a 12.2 percent average at the previous 10
auctions.  The two-year note yielded 0.266 percent today. The security
yielded 0.275 percent in when-issued trading.  A breakthrough in the European talks depends on coming up
with 10 billion euros ($13 billion) to fill the shortfall that
emerged when Greece this month got two more years to meet
deficit-reduction targets.  Catalan President Artur Mas, who called early elections in
the region to force the debate on independence, won 50 of the
135 seats in the regional assembly for his Convergencia i Unio
party, down from 62. The separatist Catalan Republican Left,
known as the ERC, more than doubled its seats to 21 from 10. Two
smaller parties that also back a plebiscite secured 16 seats.  Spain Government  Mas has pledged to hold a referendum within four years. In
contrast, the ERC would be willing to declare independence
unilaterally in 2014.  The vote in Spain “continues to highlight how difficult it
is to pull together political majorities in the troubled
sovereigns in  Europe  because the issues are so thorny,” said
Jim Vogel, head of agency-debt research at FTN Financial in
 Memphis ,  Tennessee .  The U.S. Commerce Department will say durable-goods orders,
excluding transportation equipment, dropped 0.5 percent last
month after increasing 2 percent in September, according a
Bloomberg News survey of economists before the figures are
released tomorrow.  Treasuries fell last week on speculation President  Barack
Obama  and lawmakers will reach an agreement to avert the more
than $600 billion in tax increases and government spending cuts
scheduled for the start of 2013 unless Congress acts.  Budget Talks  The combination of Fed efforts to stimulate the economy by
buying bonds and the potential slowdown should politicians fail
to avert the fiscal cliff has made Treasuries the debt that
money managers have to own.  “Treasuries offer little real value, but in the short
term, it is just hard to be a bear,” said Donald Ellenberger,
who manages $10 billion for  Federated Investors Inc. (FII)  in
Pittsburgh, in a Nov. 19 telephone interview. The company has
moved from significantly “underweight” Treasuries compared
with benchmark performance measures to adding the securities.
“The fiscal cliff is a big deal, and the Fed is determined to
keep rates low.”  Ten-year yields will end the year at 1.74 percent,
according to Bloomberg surveys. They will climb to 1.85 percent
in the first quarter of next year, the predictions show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  