-- Record Online Holiday Sales Seen as Mobile Drives Growth
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a
-- 2012-11-26T22:48:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-26/record-online-holiday-sales-seen-as-mobile-drives-growth.html
Online retailers are poised for a
record $43.4 billion holiday sales season as shoppers
increasingly rely on social networks and mobile devices to find
and buy merchandise.  Internet sales  will  grow  17 percent from a year earlier and
make up more than 10 percent of U.S. retail spending in the last
two months of the year, excluding gas, food and cars, said
 Andrew Lipsman , vice president of industry analysis at  ComScore
Inc. (SCOR)  That compares with $29.2 billion spent online during the
same period in 2007, when electronic commerce made up 7.4
percent of total spending.  The growth of smartphones and tablets gives buyers the
ability to shop anytime and anywhere, an opportunity that Web
retailers have been eager to exploit by offering sales to
coincide with traditional storefront deals. The bulk of deals
were rolled out today on so-called Cyber Monday, when many
retailers marked down items sold online.  “People are shopping on their mobile devices between 7
p.m. and midnight -- that’s an occasion that just didn’t exist
in the past, and now we’re seeing it happening in a big way,”
Lipsman said.  Retailers are also offering applications to make mobile
retailing more seamless while tapping into social media, where
shoppers increasingly find and share information on merchandise.  International Business Machines Corp. said Cyber Monday
sales had increased 24 percent from last year, as of 12 p.m. in
 New York , with 22 percent of consumers using a mobile device to
visit retailers’ sites.  Moving Online  Sales across Amazon.com, the largest online retailer, had
risen 52 percent from the previous year as of 11 a.m. today,
according to ChannelAdvisor Inc., which offers services to
third-party sellers on e-commerce sites. EBay sales volume has
increased 57 percent, the firm said.  EBay began offering mobile-only deals starting at 5:23 p.m.
on Thanksgiving -- the exact moment when it expected diners to
push away from their pie plates and start scouring the Web. Four
days earlier,  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  debuted a  holiday deal site 
promising bargains to shoppers who used the company’s mobile app
or signed up for alerts on social networks such as  Facebook Inc. (FB) 
and Twitter Inc.  Online sales already gained 17 percent on Thanksgiving day
and 21 percent on Black Friday, according to IBM’s research,
signaling shoppers are no longer waiting for Cyber Monday that
follows Black Friday discounts by brick-and-mortar retailers.
 Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPad was used for almost 10 percent of online
shopping, followed by the iPhone at 8.7 percent, IBM said.  On Black Friday, online sales, excluding EBay and auction
sites, surged to more than $1 billion for the first time,
according to ComScore. Amazon was the top retailer that day,
with more than 57.3 million U.S. visitors, the researcher said.  Mobile Buying  That growth has been driven, in part, by mobile shopping,
thanks to smartphones and tablets, along with faster networks,
that can deliver a richer Web shopping experience even when away
from personal computers and laptops.  “Mobile is a game changer,” said Steve Yankovich, head of
mobile business at EBay, the biggest online marketplace.
“Consumers expect to shop on their own terms, and tablets and
smartphones make every moment instantly shoppable.”  Emarketer Inc. estimates that Web-based sales completed on
phones will rise 53 percent in the U.S. this November and
December and make up 5.2 percent of Internet buying. By 2015,
mobile purchases will contribute 9.5 percent.  Social Shopping  Photo-sharing sites such as Pinterest Inc. that invite
users to “like” and share products -- from dress shoes to iron
bed frames -- are helping to fuel growth in online sales,
Lipsman said. The company has about 25 million users, four times
what it had heading into the holiday season last year.  While shoppers still have to leave some social sites to buy
items, services like Pinterest -- and more recent copycats such
as  Svpply Inc.  and Thing Daemon Inc.’s thefancy.com -- can turn
visitors into buyers by letting them see what their friends and
style idols are buying.  “For a long time, we kind of talked about social
commerce,” Lipsman said. “People would be making product
recommendations on Facebook and Twitter, but what really is
starting to hit this theme on the head is Pinterest.”  Almost a quarter of online shoppers take advantage of
offers delivered via social media, according to a holiday retail
report by American Express Co., the biggest U.S. credit-card
issuer by purchases.  CafePress Inc. (PRSS) , which sells customized items such as T-
shirts and coffee mugs, keeps a close eye on what images,
buzzwords and products wax and wane in popularity on social-
media websites to decide what to sell.  “All of our content is socially curated, so we have to
really watch for what is emerging,” CafePress Chief Executive
Officer Bob Marino said in an interview.  Store Showrooming  Shoppers have also developed a habit known as  showrooming :
inspecting an item in a physical store and then searching online
for a lower price. About one third of shoppers do this,
according to ComScore.  Showrooming has been made possible by smartphones and
tablets, as more people browse the aisles at stores such as
 Target Corp. (TGT)  and  Macy’s Inc. (M)  and instantly look up competing
online prices.  Compared with last year, holiday shoppers this year are
seeking more deals on smartphones, using more applications that
scan bar codes for price comparisons and accessing more
discounts through mobile apps, according to American Express.  Price Check  Amazon.com’s “Price Check” app lets users scan a bar code
with a smartphone camera, which then calls up the online
retailer’s price. Users can then move the item to a shopping
cart or order it on the spot.  EBay rose $2.39, or 4.9 percent, to $51.40 today after
reports that Cyber Monday sales are boosting revenue for online
retailers, and Amazon rose 1.6 percent to $243.62.  “Not only are consumers spending more online this year,
but smartphones and tablets are becoming an incremental driver
of growth,”  Colin Sebastian , an analyst at Robert W. Baird &
Co, said in a note to clients today. “Growth from mobile would
disproportionately benefit Amazon and EBay, since their mobile
apps tend to be among the most popular and can be used to
compare prices easily.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Kucera in  San Francisco  at 
 dkucera6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  