-- Religious University Gets Hearing on Health Law Exemption
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 2012-11-26T14:52:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-26/religious-university-gets-hearing-on-health-law-exemption.html
The U.S. Supreme Court gave a
 Virginia  university founded by  Jerry Falwell  a new chance to
argue in a lower court that President  Barack Obama ’s health-care
law doesn’t give religious objectors a broad enough exemption.  The justices today told a federal appeals court to revisit
one aspect of Liberty University’s challenge to the health-care
law and its requirement that people get insurance or pay a
penalty. The high court upheld the law in June, saying that
provision was a valid use of Congress’s taxing power. Today’s
action doesn’t affect the June ruling.  Liberty, a Christian university in Lynchburg, Virginia, is
pressing claims the high court didn’t consider, arguing that the
law’s exemptions for religious objectors are deficient. The
university is challenging the law’s requirements on individuals
and employers.  Such arguments haven’t gained traction in lower courts. A
federal appeals court in  Washington  rejected similar religion-
based arguments last year in a separate case.  A federal appeals court in Richmond, Virginia, threw out
Liberty’s lawsuit last year without reaching the religious-
exemption question. The panel said it lacked jurisdiction to
consider Liberty’s arguments because of the Anti-Injunction Act,
a federal law that bars challenges to taxes before they are
assessed.  In its decision in June, the  Supreme Court  said the Anti-
Injunction Act didn’t preclude judges from reviewing the law.  Today’s action marks a reversal for the Supreme Court,
which rejected the Liberty appeal the day after the health-care
decision. Liberty then asked the high court to reconsider,
arguing that it hadn’t yet had a chance to press its religious-
freedom arguments. The Obama administration said it didn’t
object to Liberty’s request.  The case is Liberty University v. Geithner, 11-438.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  