-- Renesas Said to Agree to $2.2 Billion INCJ Buyout Plan
-- B y   N a o k o   F u j i m u r a   a n d   T a k a s h i   A m a n o
-- 2012-11-26T10:55:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-26/renesas-agrees-to-2-2-billion-incj-buyout-nikkei-says.html
A government-backed fund is
preparing to spend more than 180 billion yen ($2.2 billion) for
two-thirds of  Renesas Electronics Corp. (6723)  as shareholders in the
ailing Japanese chipmaker consider the deal, a person with
knowledge of the plan said.  Renesas’s three biggest shareholders --  Mitsubishi Electric (6503) 
Corp.,  NEC Corp. (6701)  and Hitachi Ltd. -- are close to agreeing on a
stake sale to  Innovation Network Corp. of Japan , the person
said, asking not to be named because negotiations aren’t public.
Eight companies, including  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) , will invest more
than 10 billion yen total for minority stakes under the
proposal, which could still change, the person said.  Renesas shares surged 17 percent on the plan, which the
Nikkei newspaper reported earlier today would be announced next
month. The supplier to  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and Nintendo Co. is cutting
jobs and considering closing or selling plants to recover from
losses as demand drops for its system LSI chips, used for
functions including processing TV images.  “An investment by the fund would be good for both Renesas
and suppliers in the short term,” said Masamitsu Ohki, a  fund
manager  at Stats Investment Management Co., a Tokyo-based hedge
fund. “It would help prevent a loss of technology.”  The company would eliminate as many as 5,000 positions and
shut more factories under INCJ’s proposal, the person said.  Mitsubishi Electric  Renesas wasn’t the source of the Nikkei report, Yoichi Kobayashi, a spokesman for the Kawasaki-based company, said
today. A spokeswoman for INCJ declined to comment on the report
and asked not to be named, citing the organization’s policy.  A Mitsubishi Electric spokesman said nothing has been
decided and asked not to be named, citing the company’s policy.
Takehiko Kato, a spokesman for NEC, and Atsushi Konno, a
spokesman for  Hitachi (6501) , said nothing has been decided.  Renesas closed 17 percent higher at 337 yen in Tokyo
trading, the biggest gain in two months. Today’s gain trimmed
the decline of Renesas this year to 28 percent, compared with an
11 percent increase for  Japan ’s benchmark Nikkei 225 Stock
Average.  Mitsubishi Electric, Hitachi and NEC -- which together hold
more than 90 percent of Renesas -- will become minority
shareholders after the investment, the Nikkei reported, without
saying where it got the information. Mitsubishi will accept a
few hundred workers under the agreement while NEC and Hitachi
will pay Renesas about 1 billion yen each to fund an early-
 retirement plan , the report said.  Toyota, Panasonic  INCJ was formed in 2009 to invest in companies that support
Japanese industry and has spent about 400 billion yen on 29
projects,  according  to its website.  The fund took a 70 percent stake in the liquid-crystal-
display venture formed this year by Sony Corp., Toshiba Corp.
and Hitachi Ltd., and it spent $680 million for a 40 percent
stake in Landis+Gyr AG, a Swiss electronic-meter company
majority-owned by Toshiba.  Renesas is a key  supplier  to Japan’s automakers as the
world’s largest maker of microcontrollers, with a 27 percent
market share last year. It has lost 177.6 billion yen since its
formation in 2010 by the merger of money-losing chipmakers
Renesas Technology Corp., a venture between Hitachi and
Mitsubishi Electric, and NEC Electronics Corp.  Eight companies will invest more than 10 billion yen
combined for minority stakes in Renesas, the person with
knowledge of the INCJ plan said. The Nikkei said  Panasonic
Corp. (6752) , Nissan Motor Co.,  Denso Corp. (6902) ,  Keihin Corp. (7251) ,  Canon Inc. (7751) ,
 Nikon Corp. (7731)  and  Yaskawa Electric Corp. (6506)  also will invest.  Earthquake Halt  Renesas is increasing its focus on microcontrollers, used
in cars and TVs, as it tries to post its first annual profit
since being set up in 2010. The business, which accounted for 43
percent of Renesas’s sales last fiscal year, has an operating
profit margin of at least 10 percent, the company said in June.  A production halt at Renesas’s main factory because of the
March 11, 2011,  earthquake  in Japan forced automakers to shut
production because of a lack of parts. Renesas’s share of
microcontrollers used to run systems including airbags and
brakes was 42 percent last year, according to IHS iSuppli. It
competes with  Freescale Semiconductor Ltd. (FSL)  and Infineon
Technologies AG in the market.  The company is cutting production of system chips because
of falling sales for the product used in TVs, mobile phones and
personal computers, Renesas has said.  Renesas’s net loss may widen to 150 billion yen for the
year ending March 31 from 62.6 billion yen a year earlier, the
company  predicted  Oct. 29. Operating profit, or sales minus the
cost of goods sold and selling, general and administrative
expenses, may be 21 billion yen for the 12 months ending March
31, compared with a loss of 56.8 billion yen a year earlier,
Renesas said.  The chipmaker said Oct. 16 it booked a one-time charge of
about 84 billion yen to cut about 7,500 jobs. The company
employed 42,800 as of March 31, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The manufacturer, with 18 factories in Japan, also plans to
sell its Renesas High Components Inc. subsidiary to  Aoi
Electronic Co. (6832)  in January, it said Oct. 12.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Naoko Fujimura in Tokyo at 
 nfujimura@bloomberg.net ;
Takashi Amano in Tokyo at 
 tamano6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  