-- Catalonia’s Republican Left May Resist Austerity After Vote
-- B y   B e n   S i l l s
-- 2012-11-26T14:36:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-26/republican-left-may-use-catalan-gains-to-curb-markets-influence.html
The Catalan Republican Left, the
biggest gainer in yesterday’s regional election, may use its
leverage to reverse the austerity policies that  Spain  and the
European Union have imposed on Catalonia and raise bank taxes.  ERC, as the party is known, will push for a new tax on
banks to help fund an increase in public investment and a  tax
cut  for the workers, leader Oriol Junqueras said at press
conference in  Barcelona  today.  “Austerity is a mistake,” Junqueras said. “We insist on
the need for a change in the budget policies.”  Junqueras’s party holds the balance of power in Catalonia
after doubling the number of seats it holds in the regional
parliament and will demand Catalan President Artur Mas sets out
a clear timetable for a referendum on independence as a
condition for any support, he said. ERC’s advances follow a
surge in support for the anti-bailout Syriza party in  Greece  in
a sign that voters are turning against the austerity policies
that the EU has prescribed for southern  Europe .  ERC could achieve its goals by supporting Mas from the
opposition instead of joining a coalition, Junqueras said.  The party gained at the expense of Mas’s Convergencia i
Unio group, which stepped up pro-independence rhetoric as the
economy sputtered. Mas’s party, known as CiU, still has the most
lawmakers in the 135-seat assembly after falling to 50 seats
from 62. The ERC won 21 seats, up from 10.  Leader’s Call  “Those who have come out of this most strengthened are
those who spoke most explicitly of independence,” Junqueras
told cheering supporters in Barcelona last night.  Junqueras was greeted with cheers and chants of “In-de-
pen-dence” from his supporters. After his address, the crowd
raised their clenched fists as he led them in a rendition of the
Catalan anthem, which is about driving away “conceited and
contemptuous” intruders.  Mas has blamed tax transfers to the rest of Spain for the
area’s financial woes and has pushed for independent tax
collection. The region transfers 15 billion euros ($19.5
billion), or 8 percent of its output.  Since 2010 elections, Mas, whose party’s pro-business
economic policies are in line with those of Spanish Prime
Minister  Mariano Rajoy , led a minority government. Rajoy’s
 People’s Party  has backed his austerity budgets. The 2013 budget
will be one of the new government’s first tasks.  ‘New Taxes’  “Politicians have been co-opted by financial interests,”
Joan Tarda, an ERC lawmaker in the national parliament in
Madrid, said early today in an interview at the party’s election
night headquarters in Barcelona. “We need to put controls on
speculative activity through new taxes, through green taxes. We
need a different policy on the revenue side.”  Debts acquired as a result of speculative activity may be
“illegitimate” and borrowers should reach a “settlement”
with their creditors, he said.  The 7.5 million Catalans make up 16 percent of the Spanish
population and last year contributed 19 percent of the country’s
economic output.  Madrid  is the second-biggest regional economy,
with 18 percent of national output. Catalonia, the country’s
most-indebted region, was cut to junk by Moody’s Investors
Service on Aug. 31.  The fallout from Europe’s debt crisis has shut Catalonia
out of financial markets, making it more dependent on the
central government, while at the same time fueling the campaign
to break away. Mas, who says Catalonia can have a “brilliant”
future alone rather than a “gray” one as part of Spain, was
forced to ask Rajoy for a 5 billion-euro lifeline this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sills in Barcelona at 
 bsills@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  