-- Risk Weights Aid Danske as Swedish Banks Lose: Nordic Credit
-- B y   N i k l a s   M a g n u s s o n
-- 2012-11-26T08:31:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-26/risk-weights-aid-danske-as-swedish-banks-lose-nordic-credit.html
Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE)  and other Danish
lenders are likely to find a more level Nordic playing field to
push them out of their crisis as  Sweden  raises the amount of
capital its banks must set aside for potential housing losses.  Sweden’s Financial Supervisory Authority  proposed  today to
triple the risk-weights on  mortgage loans  to 15 percent from
about 5 percent, on average, following calls by the finance
minister and central bank governor for banks to set aside more
cash amid growing debt burdens in the largest Nordic economy.  The changes, which would close some of the gap to levels in
Europe, may help Danske Bank narrow the capital ratio gap and
compete with Sweden’s  Nordea Bank AB (NDA) , SEB AB,  Swedbank AB (SWEDA)  and
 Svenska Handelsbanken AB. (SHBA)  The regulator said today Sweden’s
biggest lenders would need to set aside an extra 20 billion
kronor ($3 billion) to comply with the higher risk weights.  “When the markets realizes this, it will probably help the
funding costs of the large Danish banks to come even further
down compared to the Swedish banks,” said Mads Thinggaard, a
banking analyst at Nykredit Markets.  Credit default swaps, which indicate the potential for
default, on Danske Bank stood at 143.24 on Nov. 23, compared
with 118.4 for Swedbank, 116.31 for SEB and 87.5 for Nordea.
Handelsbanken’s swaps were at 71.98. Danske Bank’s CDS have
gained 32 percent this quarter, outperforming all the Swedish
competitors.  Banking Crisis  Swedish banks have withstood the financial and sovereign
debt crisis, raising senior debt throughout the turmoil. Part of
the outperformance can be attributed to Sweden’s low risk
weights, which compare with Danske Bank’s 17 percent. Sweden’s
FSA had said it may raise risk-weights to between 15 and 20
percent.  In  Denmark , even the country’s biggest lenders have been
tainted by a regional banking crisis that’s left at least a
dozen banks insolvent since a housing bubble burst in 2008. The
government in 2011 enforced Europe’s first so-called bail-in
laws, which saddle senior creditors with losses. Subsequent bank
packages have sought to encourage mergers to help banks sidestep
bail-in legislation.  Danske Bank has argued its role in Denmark’s economy is too
systemically significant for the government ever to allow it to
fail. The bank last month raised 7.15 billion kroner ($1.22
billion) from shareholders to increase its capital ratios and
credit ratings in an effort to lower funding costs.  Bail-in Fear  “Danish banks have higher funding costs than their Swedish
peers due to a mix of low results, perceived lower common equity
Tier 1 ratios and fear of the Danish Bank Package 3,” as the
bail-in law is known, said Thinggaard.  That difference may ease as investors realize that the bank
package doesn’t apply to the biggest banks and as stricter risk-
weights in Sweden create a more level playing field, he said.  Under Basel III rules and assuming 17 percent risk weights
on mortgage assets, Danske Bank and  Jyske Bank A/S (JYSK) , the two
largest listed Danish lenders, would have core Tier 1 capital
ratios of 12.8 percent said Thinggaard.  Best Capitalized  Swedish risk weights, which banks have calculated from
probabilities based on past defaults, have helped the country’s
lenders emerge as among the best-capitalized in  Europe . Lenders
in the largest Nordic economy also argue that Sweden’s generous
welfare system makes it less likely for households to default as
income lost through unemployment is largely made up in state
benefits.  Handelsbanken was the European Union’s best-capitalized
bank at the end of the third quarter, with a core Tier 1 ratio
of 17.9 percent. Swedbank was second at 17.3 percent, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. SEB had a core Tier 1 ratio of
16.5 percent and Nordea 12.2 percent. In Denmark, Danske Bank’s
ratio was 12.7 in that quarter, while Jyske’s was 13.8 percent.  The Swedish requirements proposed today would mean the
largest banks would need to set aside an additional 20 billion
kronor ($3 billion) in common equity Tier 1 capital, including
7.2 billion kronor for Swedbank and 5.5 billion kronor for
Handelsbanken, the watchdog estimated. That would lower
Swedbank’s core capital ratio by 1.5 percentage points and
Handelsbanken’s by 1.1 percentage points, it said. Nordea would
need to set aside 3.4 billion kronor and SEB 2.3 billion kronor,
lowering their ratios by 0.2 percentage point and 0.4 percentage
point, respectively.  ‘Happily’ Deposit  Nykredit estimated that Swedbank and SEB would have core
Tier 1 capital ratios of 13.9 and 12.9 percent, respectively,
under Basel III rules, new pension accounting rules and mortgage
risk weights of 15 percent. Handelsbanken would have a core Tier
1 ratio of 14.7 percent and Nordea 10.8 percent.  Sydbank A/S (SYDB) , Denmark’s third-largest listed bank, would
have a ratio of 12.6 percent under Basel III, Thinggaard
estimated.  SEB’s capital buffer gives it cheaper funding and means
clients “happily” place deposits, Chief Executive Officer
Annika Falkengren said in an Oct. 25 interview. While high
capital buffers ease funding costs, there “is a limit somewhere
where that doesn’t matter anymore,” Ulf Riese, Handelsbanken’s
chief financial officer, said on Oct. 26.  Danish banks also have lower credit ratings at Moody’s
Investors Services and  Standard & Poor’s , in part because the
Swedish government is seen as more supportive in a crisis, the
ratings companies have said. Danske is rated Baa1 at Moody’s,
while Handelsbanken has an Aa3 rating, four levels higher.  “The  credit rating agencies  attach positive weight to the
probability of systemic government support by up to two notches
more for the Swedish groups compared with the current credit
rating of Danske Bank,” the Danish central bank said in a  June
6 report . “As a result of the higher credit rating, among other
factors, the Swedish banks have generally had better funding
access and lower funding costs compared with other European
banks.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Niklas Magnusson in Hamburg at 
 nmagnusson1@bloomberg.net 
Frances Schwartzkopff in Copenhagen at 
 fschwartzko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  