-- Russia Stocks Advance 2nd Day as Investors Await Greece Meeting
-- B y   K s e n i a   G a l o u c h k o
-- 2012-11-26T07:22:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-26/russia-stocks-advance-2nd-day-as-investors-await-greece-meeting.html
Russian (INDEXCF)  stocks rose for a second day
as investors awaited the outcome of a meeting between Europe’s
finance chiefs.  The Micex Index increased 0.2 percent to 1,415.52 by 10:30
a.m. in Moscow after adding 2.1 percent last week. Federal Grid
Co., the country’s monopoly for high-voltage power transmission,
surged as much as 3.4 percent. OAO Magnitogorsk Iron & Steel
jumped 3.5 percent.  European finance chiefs meet today to negotiate a bailout
payment for  Greece . Federal Grid climbed after President
 Vladimir Putin  signed a decree last week, giving power
distributor OAO MRSK Holding a majority stake in the company.
Magnitogorsk posted a third-quarter profit on Nov. 23, following
a net loss in the previous three months.  “How far investors are able to advance last week’s rally
will depend first on the outcome of today’s meeting between EU
finance ministers and the IMF to negotiate terms for the release
of the next bailout tranche to Greece,”  Chris Weafer , Sberbank
CIB’s chief strategist in Moscow, said in an e-mailed note.
“Optimism is high that a deal will be struck following comments
by senior EU leaders and informal meetings held over the
weekend.”  The dollar-denominated  RTS Index (RTSI$)  gained 0.2 percent to
1,435.14, poised for the highest level since Nov. 2.  Emerging-market stocks rose for a sixth day, the longest
stretch in 10 weeks, after Taiwan’s government said it’s
considering ways to bolster equities and speculation increased
that  Japan  will boost stimulus efforts.  Crude Oil  Crude,  Russia ’s main export earner, declined 0.2 percent to
$88.08, the first decline in three days.  Israel  relaxed
restrictions on Palestinians in the  Gaza Strip  after last week’s
cease-fire with Hamas survived claims of breaches by both sides.
Russia receives about half of its budget revenue from oil and
natural gas sales.  Federal Grid climbed 2 percent to 21.59 kopeks, with
trading volumes at 37 percent of the three-month daily average.
The power transmission company rose 10 percent last week, the
biggest gain on the Micex.  The Micex trades at 5.3 times  estimated earnings , the
lowest valuation among 21  emerging markets  tracked by Bloomberg.
That compares with a multiple of 10 times for the MSCI Emerging
Markets Index. Russia’s benchmark gauge has advanced 0.9 percent
this year, compared with an 8.7 percent gain for the global
index for developing markets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ksenia Galouchko in Moscow at 
 kgalouchko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  