-- Samsung Says China Suppliers Violated Overtime Regulations
-- B y   S a e r o m i   S h i n
-- 2012-11-26T11:06:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-26/samsung-says-suppliers-in-china-violated-overtime-regulations.html
Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) , the world’s
largest maker of TVs and mobile phones, said an internal audit
of suppliers in China found “inadequate practices” that
include employees working more overtime than allowed by law.  Samsung found that some of the 105 suppliers checked in
September were fining  workers  for being late or absent and were
holding copies of labor contracts, the company said in an e-
mailed statement today. The review didn’t identify any instance
of child labor at the suppliers, Samsung said. A New York-based
labor group said in August an assembler contracted by the South
Korean company hired children.  Labor advocates are widening monitoring of electronics
factories in Asia to Samsung,  Dell Inc. (DELL)  and Hewlett-Packard Co.
after suicides at a China plant of  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  supplier Foxconn
Technology Group in 2010 drew increased attention to working
conditions. China Labor Watch said in a report in September it
discovered “severe labor abuses” at factories owned and
operated by Samsung and its suppliers.  “Samsung takes concerns about working conditions in China
seriously,” the Suwon, South Korea-based company said in
today’s statement. “Whenever an issue is identified, we take
immediate and appropriate steps to correct it.”  Samsung is developing and implementing corrective actions
to address every violation, it said in the statement. Those may
include new hiring policies, work hours and overtime practices,
it said.  Verifying IDs  The company said all candidates will be interviewed in
person before hiring to strengthen identity verification
measures and to detect fake IDs. Measures to eliminate working
hours beyond legal limits will be implemented by the end of
2014, the company said.  Samsung said it examined 105 companies in  China , with a
total of more than 65,000 workers, during a four-week period in
response to China Labor Watch’s reports on its suppliers. The
company said it will review another 144 suppliers by year’s end.  “It’s all about corporate image when it comes to consumer
electronics,” said Im Jeong Jae, a Seoul-based fund manager at
Shinhan BNP Paribas Asset Management Co., which oversees about
$31 billion. “The standards people set for every aspect of
Samsung’s business are very high as a global name and, as
Samsung indicated today, improvements will and need to be
made.”  Child Labor  The labor group said in August that seven children younger
than 16 were working in a factory of HEG Electronics (Huizhou)
Co. that makes phones and DVD players for Samsung.  “Although we did not identify any child labor during our
audits in September, we have demanded all suppliers to adopt a
new hiring process immediately, and contracts with suppliers who
use child labor will be terminated,” Samsung said in today’s
statement.  In a Sept. 4 report, China Labor Watch said it found abuses
at six factories owned and operated by Samsung and two of its
suppliers’ facilities. The violations included forced overtime
work amounting to more than 100 hours a month, unpaid work and
11 to 12 hours of standing, the group said.  The eight plants investigated by the labor group employed a
combined 24,000 workers making mobile phones, DVD players,
mobile displays and air conditioners, the Sept. 4 report said.
The base salary for workers at a printer factory owned by
Samsung is about $250 a month, the report said.  IBM, Dell  The group said its investigators either posed as workers to
enter the factories or interviewed workers outside.  Samsung plans to have the Electronic Industry Citizenship
Coalition, a Washington-based industry group, regularly check
its own plants and all of its suppliers in China from 2013.  The EICC is a group monitoring industry supply chains, with
electronics and technology companies as members. Its current
board members include officials from  International Business
Machines Corp. (IBM) , Dell, HP and Intel Corp., according to its
 website .  Foxconn, the Apple supplier targeted by human-rights
activists after the suicides, has cut working hours and improved
safety at a faster pace than it was required, the Fair Labor
Association said in a report in August.  Apple opened factories making its products to the FLA,
becoming the first electronics company to join the Washington-
based independent labor monitoring group.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Saeromi Shin in Seoul at 
 sshin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  