-- San Bernardino’s ‘Toxic Politics’ Snarl Calpers Debt
-- B y   J a m e s   N a s h   a n d   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2012-11-26T14:41:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-26/san-bernardino-s-toxic-politics-snarl-calpers-debt.html
As bankrupt San Bernardino,
 California , neared yet another contentious vote to cut spending,
the city council took a five-minute bathroom break. With one
councilman still gone 40 minutes later, those remaining traded
accusations of dirty politics with shouts of “Shame on you!”
Amid the arguing, the vote never happened.  Infighting and intrigue have complicated San Bernardino’s
effort to pass an austerity plan due in U.S. bankruptcy court
Nov. 30 as part of its application for Chapter 9 protection.
Without it, the judge could dismiss the case, leaving the city
open to lawsuits from creditors led by the California Public
Employees’ Retirement System, owed about $143 million.  Political dysfunction is a factor in most recent municipal
bankruptcies, said Matt Fabian, a managing director of Municipal
Market Advisors, a Concord, Massachusetts-based research firm.
Defaults in Jefferson County,  Alabama , Harrisburg,  Pennsylvania ,
and Wenatchee,  Washington , were exacerbated by local political
disputes, he said.  “In many or most of the cases of a governmental entity
defaulting this year and last, management breakdown was a
critical step in the default,” Fabian said in an e-mailed
response to questions.  The council in San Bernardino, a city of 200,000 about 60
miles (100 kilometers) east of Los Angeles, is to meet tonight
in its final scheduled session in advance of the court-imposed
deadline for the austerity budget, known as a pendency plan.  Procedural Debate  There is still far to go before the council reaches a
resolution. A procedural debate over whether a council committee
needed to consider bankruptcy-related cuts to police and fire
services, before coming to the full council for action, ended
last week with one council member threatening to censure
colleagues for insulting each other.  “As long as we continue to play politics, we’re not going
anywhere,” Barbara Babcock, a 61-year-old resident who
frequently attends council meetings, said in an interview.
“We’ll be just another casualty.”  On Aug. 1, San Bernardino became the second-largest U.S.
city to seek Chapter 9 protection from creditors, behind
Stockton, California.  San Bernardino cited declines in property tax revenue due
to the housing crisis. “Toxic” politics contributed by
delaying higher taxes and budget cuts, Mayor Patrick Morris
said.  San Bernardino’s charter, which is like a constitution for
the city, complicates efforts to get spending in line with
revenue by adding hard-to-overcome legal protections for
everything from the city attorney’s office to the formula for
police and firefighter wage increases, said John Husing, a
Southern California economist.  Charter Changes  Permanently fixing the city’s finances means changing the
charter, a politically difficult task that requires a
referendum, said Husing, who has advised several San Bernardino
mayors in the last 30 years. City employee unions have
successfully blocked changes that might diminish their political
influence or cut their benefits, Husing said.  “The structure of the government is completely
dysfunctional,” said Husing, founder of Economics & Politics
Inc., a Redlands, California, consulting company. “It’s a bad
structure that makes good government impossible.”  San Bernardino is one of about 120 California cities
governed by charters. Because they are adopted by voters, the
laws embedded in a charter trump state law when the two come
into conflict, according to the League of California Cities. The
other more than 350 cities are governed by the general rules set
by the state, which means their local ordinances are subordinate
to California law.  Pay Formula  The formula setting pay for police and firefighters,
protected by the charter, requires wages be comparable to
similar-sized cities, regardless of whether those other towns
have more or less tax revenue.  The charter “ties the hands of the city council from being
able to set salaries for public safety that we can afford,”
said Fred Shorett, a council member.  As the U.S. housing market collapsed, San Bernardino’s tax
revenue fell almost $12 million, or 9 percent, from 2007 to
2011, according to a city budget  analysis . Meanwhile, employee
costs increased, driven by the council’s 2006 decision to lower
retirement ages and boost pensions for police and firefighters.
Pensions are forecast to consume 15 percent of San Bernardino’s
budget in the year beginning in July 2015, up from 9 percent in
2007, according to budget documents.  Pension-Bond Default  San Bernardino last month defaulted on a $1.01 million
payment on pension-obligation bonds, according to a Municipal
Securities Rulemaking Board filing. The city has $90 million of
outstanding general-obligation debt, an Aug. 29  report  to the
City Council said. The municipality is also responsible for an
additional $200 million in securities issued for its
redevelopment agency, which was closed this year under a law
eliminating the function statewide.  The city’s leaders dealt with the widening gaps between
revenue and expenditures by borrowing from special funds
intended for sewer maintenance, workers’ compensation insurance
and other purposes, interim City Manager Andrea Travis-Miller
said in July after analyzing prior budget documents. The city
turned to bankruptcy for help after the special funds were
exhausted and Travis-Miller warned that the city would run out
of money to pay employees.  Council Factions  Babcock said the seven-member City Council split into
factions backing Morris, a 74-year-old former judge who was
elected mayor in 2006, and James Penman, the 65-year-old elected
city attorney, who ran unsuccessfully against Morris for mayor
in 2006 and 2009. The power struggle distracted attention from
the looming crisis, Babcock said.  Under the City Charter, Penman oversees the city’s legal
affairs, including the current bankruptcy case. Morris has the
power to hire the city’s top administrators, but does not get a
vote on the city council.  On Oct. 1, the council failed to take action on a proposal
to transfer trash collection to a private operator after two
council members walked out, leaving the body too small to
legally conduct business. One was Robert Jenkins, who holed up
in the City Hall bathroom for 42 minutes, later complaining of
an upset stomach.  An argument ensued among council members during the break,
and the body never got around to the trash collection issue.  Old West  Penman said the feuding is part of the city’s heritage as a
“blue-collar, working-class town.”  “This has always been the Old West much more than the rest
of Southern California,” he said in an interview. “Fistfights
were not unheard of in the parking lots outside of City Council
meetings in the 1950s and ’60s.”  In December, U.S. Bankruptcy Court Judge Meredith M. Jury
in Riverside, California, is scheduled to consider whether the
city should remain under bankruptcy protection.  To stay in bankruptcy the city council must make progress
on the pendency plan, which is a temporary budget San Bernardino
will use while under court protection, Jury said.  “Without that, you can’t even be moving toward adopting”
a permanent plan to adjust the city’s debt, Jury said in a court
hearing earlier this month.  Charter Change  San Bernardino could ask Jury to change the city charter, a
complicated legal maneuver that has never been tried in
bankruptcy court, according to James E. Spiotto, a partner at
Chapman & Cutler LLP in  Chicago . Lawyers who specialize in
municipal bankruptcies are split over whether a federal judge
has the power to impose changes on a city charter.  San Bernardino’s mayor said he expects the austerity budget
to be finished and approved when the council meets tonight.  “We’re in a survival mode as a city,” Morris said, “and
when you’re in survival mode, it tends to focus the mind.”  The bankruptcy case is In re San Bernardino, 12-28006, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Central District of California (Riverside).  To contact the reporters on this story:
James Nash in Los Angeles at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net ;
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net ;
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  