-- Saudi Shares Rise on Bets Drop Amid King Health Concern Overdone
-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 2012-11-26T13:46:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-26/saudi-shares-rise-on-bets-drop-amid-king-health-concern-overdone.html
Saudi Arabia ’s benchmark stock
index, the Arab world’s biggest, rose from a 10-month low on
bets selling this month prompted by concern about the king’s
health was overdone given the country’s economic prospects.  Saudi Basic Industries Corp. (SABIC) , the world’s largest
petrochemical maker known as Sabic, gained 0.9 percent. Food
producer Savola Group rose the most since Oct. 17.  The Tadawul
All-Share Index (SASEIDX)  climbed 0.4 percent to 6,547.19 at the close in
 Riyadh  after earlier tumbling as much as 1.5 percent. The gain
was the second in 13 trading days.  Today’s advance trimmed the index’s decline this month to
3.6 percent, selling triggered in part by concern about the
king’s health after he underwent back surgery. The drops didn’t
reflect “the fundamentals of the country and in particular of
the banks and consumer companies,” said  Oliver Bell , who
manages $312 million in Africa & Middle East Funds at T. Rowe
Price. The fund is “buying into this weakness,” he said.  King Abdullah’s surgery was successful, the government said
this month. The largest Arab economy is set to grow 5.1 percent
in 2012, the second-fastest pace in the Gulf Cooperation Council
after Qatar, according to the median forecast of 15 economists
compiled by Bloomberg.  Mohammed bin Nayef was appointed as Saudi Arabia’s interior
minister earlier this month, bringing into focus a younger
generation of Saudi royalty as the monarch lines up his
potential successors. Mohammed’s father, Crown Prince Nayef bin
Abdulaziz, was interior minister for three decades until his
death in June.  “The succession, when it happens, will be a lot smoother
than many expect,” Bell said.  The Saudi gauge’s  14-day relative strength index  rose to 31
today after falling to 28 yesterday. A reading below 30
indicates to some analysts that an index is poised to gain.  Sabic increased the most since Nov. 6 to 87.75 riyals.
 Savola (SAVOLA)  advanced 2.5 percent to 40.3 riyals.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaa Shahine at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net  