-- South Africa’s ANC Looks to Ramaphosa to Rescue Economy
-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n   a n d   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 2012-11-27T14:22:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-26/south-africa-s-anc-looks-to-ramaphosa-to-rescue-economy.html
Cyril Ramaphosa, a former South
African labor union leader turned tycoon, is gaining support to
take a top leadership post in the ruling party to help rescue an
economy plagued by strikes and credit-rating cuts.  Ramaphosa, 60, received overwhelming backing to replace
Kgalema Motlanthe as vice president of the  African National
Congress  from the eastern KwaZulu-Natal province, which has the
most delegates at party elections next month. His selection
would position him to succeed  Jacob Zuma  as president. Ramaphosa
won’t yet say if he’ll stand for office at party elections next
month, his spokesman Steyn Speed said by phone.  “Cyril Ramaphosa is appealing to business, to the  labor
movement , to the young people, to everybody,” said Celiwe
Madlopha, chairwoman of the ANC’s Women’s League in KwaZulu-
Natal. “He has the support. We really want to elevate him to
the party leadership.”  Investor confidence in Africa’s economy has been battered
by a series of violent strikes that have shut mines owned by
 Anglo American Platinum Ltd. (AMS) ,  Lonmin Plc (LMI)  and  Gold Fields Ltd. (GFI) 
and spread to the transport and farming industries. The labor
action and rising political risk contributed to Standard & Poors
and Moody’s Investors Services lowering their ratings on  South
Africa ’s sovereign debt.  The rand has plunged 8.3 percent this year, the second-
worst performer of 16 major currencies tracked by Bloomberg. The
unit advanced 0.4 percent to 8.8307 by 4:20 p.m. in Johannesburg
trading.  Investor Confidence  Ramaphosa, South Africa’s second-richest black businessman
after Patrice Motsepe, according to the Johannesburg-based
Sunday Times, owns a stake in mines operated by Lonmin, the
world’s third-biggest platinum producer, a coal-mining venture
with  Glencore International Plc (GLEN) , and has the  McDonald’s Corp. (MCD) 
franchise in South Africa. He’s also the chairman of  MTN Group
Ltd. (MTN) , Africa’s biggest mobile-phone company, and  Bidvest Group
Ltd. (BVT) , and sits on the board of  SABMiller Plc (SAB)  and Standard Bank
Group Ltd.  His experience would give investors confidence that the ANC
would be capable of turning the economy around, Paul Hansen, who
manages 4.5 billion rand ($508 million) worth of assets as
director of retail investing at Stanlib Asset Management, said
in Nov. 14 phone interview from Johannesburg.  “It would be very positive internally and offshore,” he
said. “It’s been very unusual for people in this country to go
from business into public life. It’s a big advantage to have
people in government who understand how business works.”  Parliamentary Domination  Africa ’s oldest political movement controls almost two-
thirds of the seats in Parliament, which elects the president,
and its overwhelming majority faces no immediate threat. Under
current ANC rules, its leader will also be its presidential
candidate in national elections to be held in 2014.  What Motlanthe, the country’s current deputy president,
decides to do at the Dec. 16-20 conference in the central city
of Bloemfontein may determine Ramaphosa’s fate. While he hasn’t
said if he will stand against Zuma for the party’s presidency,
he’s made several speeches criticizing how the country is being
run and has backing in several provinces.  “If Motlanthe decides to run, the Zuma camp wants
Ramaphosa on his ticket,” William Gumede, a political analyst
at the University of the Witwatersrand and author of “Restless
Nation: Making Sense of Troubled Times,” said by phone from
Johannesburg on Nov. 14. “That could open the way for Ramaphosa
to re-enter politics.”  Provincial Nominations  In KwaZulu-Natal, Zuma’s home province, Ramaphosa won 841
votes for the ANC deputy leadership post to Motlanthe’s 16,
Sihle Zikalala, the party’s provincial secretary said by phone
yesterday. Provincial officials, who will account for 22 percent
of the total at the ANC elections, unanimously nominated Zuma as
party leader, he said.  The other eight provinces have yet to hold their nomination
conferences.  The ANC Women’s League, which has 1 percent of the party
vote, also nominated Zuma as party leader and Ramaphosa as his
deputy, Angie Motshekga, the league’s president, told reporters
in Johannesburg today.  Some top ANC leaders want to avoid a repeat of the divisive
leadership struggle that occurred when Zuma ousted  Thabo Mbeki 
in 2007. They’re trying to broker a compromise that would allow
Zuma to remain party leader while relinquishing the nation’s
presidency to Motlanthe in 2014, Gumede said.  Top Negotiator  Ramaphosa, who studied law, helped found the  National Union
of Mineworkers  in 1982 and led the biggest-ever strike in South
Africa’s gold industry five years later. He was the ANC’s top
negotiator with the white-minority government when they reached
agreement to end apartheid and hold South Africa’s first
democratic elections in 1994. He also worked on crafting the
nation’s constitution following the vote.  After Ramaphosa lost to former President Thabo Mbeki in the
race to succeed  Nelson Mandela , South Africa’s first post-
apartheid president, he decided to enter the corporate world in
1996.  Ramaphosa still serves on the ANC’s 80-member national
executive committee, one of its top decision-making structures,
and is deputy head of the National Planning Commission, a
government advisory body headed by former finance minister
 Trevor Manuel .  Ramaphosa’s business holdings and the shooting of striking
workers at Lonmin’s Marikana platinum mine on Aug. 16 may have
undermined his political support.  ‘Dastardly Criminal’  Police killed 34 protesters at the mine northwest of
Johannesburg on Aug. 16 following days of illegal and violent
strike action. Ramaphosa called the strike “dastardly
criminal” in an e-mail a day before shooting, and called for
police to take “concomitant action,” the Johannesburg-based
 Times newspaper  reported, citing evidence at a commission of
inquiry looking into the killings.  “Over the years, since he left active politics to go to
business his political star has waned,” Brutus Malada, a
politics lecturer at the University of Pretoria, said in a Nov.
14 phone interview. “The recent events around Marikana may have
somewhat dented his credibility.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mike Cohen in  Cape Town  at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net ;
Franz Wild in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  