-- Straumann Investor Sells a 10% Stake to Singapore Fund
-- B y   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t   a n d   T h o m a s   M u l i e r
-- 2012-11-26T16:44:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-26/straumann-investor-sells-a-10-stake-to-singapore-fund.html
Straumann Holding AG (STMN) ’s vice chairman
sold a 10 percent stake in the dental-implant manufacturer to
 Government of Singapore Investment Corp.  to meet other financial
commitments, making the fund its second-largest shareholder.  The sale reduces Thomas Straumann’s stake to 17 percent and
increases the Singaporean sovereign-wealth fund’s holding  to 14
percent, the Basel, Switzerland-based company said in a
statement today. Mark Hill, a spokesman for Straumann Holding,
declined to comment on the price the stake was sold at or the
specific reason the vice chairman needed the money.  Straumann’s stock has fallen  71 percent  from its 2007 peak
as the recession prompted consumers to cut back on discretionary
spending. Thomas Straumann cited the “prevailing weak economic
environment” as the reason he had to raise funds to meet other
investment obligations.  Switzerland ’s Tages-Anzeiger newspaper
reported Nov. 15 he was selling assets such as hotels in Gstaad
and Basel because of the decline in Straumann’s share price,
citing people it didn’t identify.  “Given the press coverage well in advance of the sale, we
view this news as a positive for Straumann, as the sale of a
significant stake was achieved without having shares flood the
open market,” Lisa Clive, an analyst with Sanford C. Bernstein
Ltd., wrote in a note to clients.  Implied Price  A non-executive board member of Straumann sold 1.52 million
shares for 150 million Swiss francs ($162 million) on Nov. 23,
according to a stock exchange  filing  that didn’t identify the
seller. That implies a price of 98.45 francs a share, a 6.7
percent discount to the closing price that day.  The shares gained 2.3 percent to close at 107.90 francs in
Zurich, giving the company a market value of 1.69 billion
francs.  Thomas Straumann, the grandson of the company’s founder,
also agreed to a one-year lock-up period during which he won’t
reduce his stake.  “My belief in the long-term future of Straumann is
undiminished,” Thomas Straumann, 49, said in the statement.
“Straumann remains my core investment, and I fully intend to
continue contributing to its direction as a principal
shareholder for the long term.”  Dental implants typically are paid for out of pocket by
patients. Straumann’s sales dropped 6 percent last year and rose
0.1 percent in the first nine months of 2012.  Straumann’s predecessor company was founded in 1954 as a
maker of alloys for use in timing instruments and materials
testing.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Simeon Bennett in Geneva at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net ;
Thomas Mulier in Geneva at 
 tmulier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  