-- Swedish Bank Outlook Now Stable on Capital Boost, Moody’s Says
-- B y   J o h a n   C a r l s t r o m
-- 2012-11-26T14:20:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-26/swedish-bank-outlook-now-stable-on-capital-boost-moody-s-says.html
The outlook for  Sweden ’s banks has
stabilized amid rising capital levels and “strong” overall
asset quality, Moody’s Investors Service said.  The rating company raised its outlook for the Nordic
country’s banks to stable from negative, according to an e-
mailed statement today.  “Asset quality will continue to be one of the main credit
strengths of Swedish banks,” Moody’s said. “Problem loan
levels remain well below those of other systems and we expect
loan-repayment capabilities will continue to be supported by low
interest rates and households’ resilient financial profiles.”  Sweden’s financial watchdog today proposed tripling the
money that banks have to set aside to protect against mortgage
loan losses as household debt has risen to 170 percent of
disposable incomes from 90 percent in 1996. The government is
also mandating that banks in the largest Nordic economy hold
more capital than most of its rivals abroad, requiring 10
percent core Tier 1 capital by the middle of next year and 12
percent by 2015.  Swedish banks’ current capital levels are “adequate,”
Moody’s said. Further capital improvements will occur following
the regulator’s requirement for higher capital ratios for the
four largest banks, including  Nordea Bank AB (NDA) ,  Svenska
Handelsbanken AB (SHBA) ,  Swedbank AB (SWEDA)  and  SEB AB (SEBA) , the agency said.  Slowing Swedish economic growth probably won’t
“materially” impair asset quality and “profitability
metrics” since the Nordic economy will outperform most euro-
area economies, Moody’s said.  Growth in Sweden’s $500 billion economy will slow to 0.9
percent this year from 3.9 percent in 2011 before picking up to
1.8 percent in 2013, the Riksbank estimated last month.  “Swedish banks’ earnings are primarily driven by net
interest income which, while subject to pressure on margins,
continues to provide a stable source of income,” Moody’s said.
Still “Swedish financial institutions are reliant on market
funding a Moody’s says that this reliance continues to represent
a key system vulnerability.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johan Carlstrom in  Stockholm  at 
 jcarlstrom@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  