-- Swiss Re Sees $900 Million Insured Hurricane Sandy Losses
-- B y   C a r o l y n   B a n d e l
-- 2012-11-26T08:56:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-26/swiss-re-sees-900-million-insured-losses-from-hurricane-sandy.html
Swiss Re Ltd. (SREN) , the world’s second-
biggest reinsurer, said it estimates its claims burden from
 Hurricane Sandy  to be about $900 million.  Total market losses could be as much as $25 billion, the
Zurich-based reinsurer said in an e-mailed statement today. The
losses are net of retrocession, or reinsurance bought from other
reinsurance companies, and before tax. The estimate may change
as the company continues to assess its claims, Swiss Re said.  Hurricane Sandy, which made landfall in the U.S. on Oct.
29, caused a  storm surge , resulting in extensive flooding and
loss of life and property. Before it hit the U.S., Hurricane
Sandy affected the Caribbean and the Bahamas.  The claims burden “is more than I expected,” said
 Christian Muschick , an analyst at Frankfurt-based Westend
Brokers. “The question is if this will be general trend or
company specific.”  Swiss Re dropped as much as 0.8 percent in Zurich. It fell
0.6 percent to 66.30 francs at 9:31 a.m., valuing the company at
24.6 billion Swiss francs ($26.5 billion).  Munich Re , the
world’s biggest reinsurer, declined 0.2 percent to 129.6 euros.
 Hannover Re (HNR1)  lost 0.3 percent to 56.98 euros.  Previously, Oakland, California-based Eqecat Inc., a
catastrophic risk modeler, estimated Sandy may result in insured
losses of as much as $20 billion across the industry.  “The hurricane hit the densely populated Northeast coast
of the U.S.,” Matthias Weber, Swiss Re’s chief underwriting
officer, said in the statement. “This led to prolonged power
outages, disruption to public transport and damage to other
infrastructure that have made recovery efforts very difficult.”  The claims estimate is subject to a higher than usual
degree of uncertainty and may need to be adjusted, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carolyn Bandel in Zurich at 
 cbandel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  