-- Thousands of Syrians Flee After Bombing by Assad’s Jets
-- B y   D a n a   E l   B a l t a j i   a n d   S e l c a n   H a c a o g l u
-- 2012-11-26T17:14:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-26/syria-rebels-take-hydroelectric-dam-near-aleppo-opposition-says.html
Thousands of Syrians headed toward
 Turkey  today after President Bashar al-Assad’s air force
attacked populated areas near the border, Arabic and Turkish
media reported.  The strikes on a refugee camp brought retaliatory fire from
Turkish anti-aircraft gunners, Al Arabiya television said, while
the Turkish Anatolia news agency said several people were killed
and injured during an air attack on the town of Atma. Al Jazeera
television said Turkish officials were preventing the refugees
leaving their country.  Syrian warplanes could be seen flying close to the border,
according to two customs officials interviewed by phone at the
Cilvegozu border point in Turkey’s Hatay province.  Turkey has asked the  North Atlantic Treaty Organization  to
deploy Patriot missile batteries on the border and an alliance
delegation begins inspections tomorrow to determine sites.
Tension between the two countries, which staged joint military
exercises in 2009, soared this year after a Turkish jet was shot
down by Syria in June and when a mortar round killed five Turks
near the border last month.  The  Red Cross  said today that it’s alarmed by the way the
Syrian civil conflict is being fought and appealed to the
combatants to fully comply with humanitarian rules.  Strategic Targets  International law states that attacks may only be directed
at “military objectives and not against civilians, or against
civilian objects such as homes, schools, medical facilities and
vehicles, community shelters or places of worship,” Pierre Kraehenbuehl, director of operations for the International
Committee of the Red Cross, said in the statement. He said the
humanitarian situation is getting worse by the day.  Today’s attack along the Turkish border followed the
seizure by rebels of a hydroelectric dam on the Euphrates river,
according to a video posted by the opposition Local Coordination
Committees in Aleppo. That marked the latest in a series of
attacks by rebels against Assad’s strategic installations,
including pipelines and air bases, as they expand their 20-month
campaign. The fighting has killed more than 40,000 people,
according to the opposition Syrian Observatory for  Human Rights .  The Tishrin Dam, which generates 630 megawatts of power,
had been the scene of fierce fighting since at least Nov. 22,
according to the state-run Syrian Arab News Agency. The  YouTube 
video shows rebels roaming around the plant, claiming the
structure has returned to the Syrian people and is no longer in
the hands of Assad’s “gangs.”  Helicopters Destroyed  The authenticity of the video couldn’t be independently
verified by Bloomberg, and the Ministry of Electricity couldn’t
be reached for comment today.  Fighters destroyed tanks, radar systems and helicopters at
the Marj al-Sultan military airport east of Damascus, according
to unverified footage posted on the Syrian Observatory’s
Facebook page yesterday.  Assad’s forces killed more than 100 people yesterday,
including 24 in Damascus, the Observatory said.  Turkey’s military said today that the Patriot missile
deployment is solely aimed at the threat from  Syria  and won’t be
used to enforce a “no-fly zone” or to launch attacks. Iran and
 Russia  have expressed concern that deployment of missiles could
fuel regional tensions.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dana El Baltaji in Dubai at 
 delbaltaji@bloomberg.net ;
Selcan Hacaoglu in Ankara at 
 shacaoglu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  