-- U.K. Business Investment Seen at Pace Damping Economic Growth
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   W i e s e   B o c k m a n n
-- 2012-11-26T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-26/u-k-business-investment-seen-at-pace-damping-economic-growth.html
U.K. business investment will grow
by an estimated 2.3 percent this year and 3.9 percent in 2013, a
pace that’s “hampering” economic recovery, as companies delay
spending decisions, according to the Ernst & Young  ITEM Club .  Business investment, forecast to advance a further 8
percent from 2014 to 2016, won’t return to previous peak levels
until 2015, the London-based economic forecasting group said in
a report published today. Investment fell 24 percent between the
end of 2007 and the end of 2009, it said.  “The  recovery  in U.K. business investment has been poor,”
the ITEM Club said. “The fundamentals are all in place, but a
lack of corporate confidence is holding back major spending
decisions and is now hampering U.K. growth and the rebalancing
of the economy.”  Companies are deciding against committing to lengthy
investment projects amid uncertainty over future returns, with
little evidence that a lack of access to finance is responsible,
the report said. After 18 quarters, investment is 15 percent
below its peak in the U.K., compared to 7 percent for the U.S.
and  Germany , the ITEM Club said.  There’s as much as a 25 percent probability that one or
more countries will default in the euro area and that is
affecting business confidence, the ITEM Club said.  “The degree of uncertainty appears to have promoted a
culture of  risk aversion  which spreads beyond  capital
spending ,” according to the report. Merger and acquisition
activity that’s highly correlated with investment also fell this
year, it said.  Private non-financial corporations removed 65 billion
pounds ($104 billion) from the country’s economy last year,
according to the ITEM Club. Greater clarity on government
spending cuts will lower “uncertainty” and help companies plan
operations, according to the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Wiese Bockmann in London at 
 mwiesebockma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  