-- U.K. Stocks Decline on Spain Concern; Barclays Retreats
-- B y   N a m i t h a   J a g a d e e s h
-- 2012-11-26T17:03:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-26/u-k-stocks-decline-on-spain-concern-barclays-retreats.html
U.K. stocks  retreated, following
their biggest weekly gain this year, amid concern Spanish Prime
Minister  Mariano Rajoy ’s government will have to manage
increased calls for an independence referendum in Catalonia.  Barclays Plc (BARC)  slid 5.4 percent, the biggest drop on the  FTSE
100 (UKX)  Index, after Qatar Holding LLC sold the last of the bank’s
warrants it acquired during the financial crisis in 2008.
 Cranswick Plc (CWK)  jumped the most in almost four years after
reporting its first-half results.  The benchmark FTSE 100 lost 32.42 points, or 0.6 percent,
to 5,786.72 at the close in London. The equity benchmark has
 rallied 10 percent from this year’s low  on June 1 as the
European Central Bank agreed on an unlimited bond-buying plan
and the Federal Reserve began a third round of asset purchases
in the U.S. The broader FTSE All-Share Index declined 0.5
percent today, while Ireland’s ISEQ Index fell 0.5 percent.  “The Catalan election results are a headache the prime
minister doesn’t need at the moment,”  Mike Lenhoff , chief
strategist at Brewin Dolphin Securities Ltd. in London, said by
phone. “The Spanish government has said that a referendum is
unconstitutional and it’s being challenged now. That raises an
element of uncertainty on top of everything else that Spain is
already facing.”  Yields on Spanish 10-year government bonds rose for the
first time in five days as parties seeking a referendum on
Catalonia’s secession won a regional vote. Rajoy, who has
refrained from asking for a bailout from the European Union,
says that such a referendum would be unconstitutional.  Greek Aid  Euro-area finance ministers met in Brussels to find a way
to reduce Greece’s debt over the long term and provide it with
the next installment of its bailout in the short term. They
failed to disburse the aid at two previous meetings this month.  The ministers will brief the International Monetary Fund
and the ECB on concessions that would cut Greece’s deficit
without requiring its lenders to writedown their loans,
Austria’s Maria Fekter said today before the talks began.  In the U.K., the Institute for Fiscal Studies said that
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  may have to extend
his austerity program by another year to 2018. Osborne may need
to further increase taxes and spending cuts to erase the
country’s structural deficit over the next five years, the
London-based research group said.  Mark Carney will be the next governor of the Bank of
England, Osborne said in the House of Commons. He will replace
 Mervyn King , who steps down at the end of June 2013.  Banks Drop  A gauge of banking shares declined 1.7 percent. Barclays
slid 5.4 percent to 240.5 pence after the investment unit of
Qatar’s sovereign-wealth fund said late yesterday it has
monetized 379 million units of the lender’s warrants. Deutsche
Bank AG and Goldman Sachs Group Inc., the banks that arranged
the transaction, sold as many as 303.3 million Barclays shares
to money managers for 244 pence apiece, the bottom of a 244
pence to 248 pence range used to assess interest in the sale.  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  slipped 3 percent to 285.1
pence,  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  dropped 0.9 percent to 620 pence and
 Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  declined 2.8 percent to 45.1 pence.  Centamin Plc (CEY) , a gold producer in Egypt, tumbled 6.3 percent
to 60.6 pence, sliding for a sixth day. Egypt’s secular parties
and youth groups will hold mass demonstrations tomorrow to
protest against decrees on Nov. 22 that placed President Mohamed Mursi’s decisions above judicial review.  Separately, Centamin said in a statement today that it will
file an appeal against a preliminary ruling by an Egyptian court
and is preparing to resume exports. On Oct. 30, the
Administrative Court annulled a contract that allowed the
company to extract gold from the Sukari mine, saying that the
state failed to exercise sufficient oversight of Centamin.  Randgold, Antofagasta  Randgold Resources Ltd. (RRS)  slid 1.7 percent to 6,540 pence and
 Antofagasta Plc (ANTO)  slid 1.2 percent to 1,246 pence.  SDL Plc (SDL)  plunged 14 percent to 438.5 pence after saying that
full-year profit will fall short of analysts’ forecasts by 3
million pounds ($4.8 million) to 4 million pounds. The  average
estimate of analysts  in a Bloomberg survey had called for profit
before taxes of 39.4 million pounds.  Essar Energy Plc (ESSR)  climbed 4.9 percent to 127 pence after
saying first-half revenue surged 97 percent to $12.8 billion
from a year earlier, driven by higher capacity from its
acquisition of the Stanlow oil refinery in Northern England.  Cranswick jumped 10 percent to 812.5 pence, its largest
rally since December 2008, after reporting  first-half pretax
profit  of 22.5 million pounds. The company’s efficiency
improvements will help its margins increase in the second half
of the year, Panmure Gordon & Co. Plc wrote in a report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Namitha Jagadeesh in  London  at 
 njagadeesh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  