-- U.S. Winter-Wheat Crop Worsening as Dry Weather Curtails Growth
-- B y   J e f f   W i l s o n
-- 2012-11-26T21:03:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-26/u-s-winter-wheat-crop-worsening-as-dry-weather-curtails-growth.html
Crop conditions for winter wheat in
the U.S. declined for the fourth straight week and were the
worst since 1985, the government said, as dry, cold weather
slowed seed germination and early plant growth.  An estimated 33 percent of the crop was  rated  good or
excellent as of yesterday, down from 34 percent last week and 52
percent a year earlier, the U.S. Department of Agriculture said
 today  in a report. About 26 percent was in poor or very poor
condition, compared with 13 percent a year earlier.  The worst U.S. drought since 1956 helped send wheat futures
up 32 percent this year. About 56 percent of the six High Plains
states from  Kansas  to North Dakota was in extreme or exceptional
 drought  as of Nov. 20, up from 6.3 percent a year earlier,
government data show. Plant emergence was 88 complete in the 18
top-producing states, compared with 91 percent a year earlier,
the USDA said.  “The crop is already dying in some fields from the lack of
rain,” Alan Brugler, the president of Brugler Marketing &
Management Inc. in Omaha,  Nebraska , said in a telephone
interview before the report. “Crops survived the dry weather
last year because there were surplus soil-moisture reserves. The
crop is more susceptible to wind and cold damage this year
because of the poor conditions.”  Dry, warm weather is expected over the next 10 days, which
will slow root development before plants go dormant for the
winter, according to T-Storm Weather LLC in Chicago. About 46
percent of the wheat crop from  Texas  to  Montana  received less
than half the average rain during the last 90 days, the
forecaster said.  Drought Damage  Winter wheat is the most-common variety in the U.S.,
accounting for about 72 percent of all wheat harvested. The
plants go dormant during the coldest months of the year and
resume growing in March. The drought conditions already cut
output of the nation’s two biggest crops, corn and soybeans,
sending prices to record highs earlier this year. On Jan. 11,
the USDA is scheduled to release its first estimate of the
2012-2013 acreage seeded with winter wheat.  Wheat is the fourth-biggest U.S. crop, valued last year at
$14.4 billion, behind corn, soybeans and hay, government figures
show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Wilson in  Chicago  at 
 jwilson29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  