-- UBS Leads Wall Street Bid to Halt FHFA Mortgage-Bond Suit
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2012-11-26T18:11:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-26/ubs-leads-wall-street-bid-to-halt-fhfa-mortgage-bond-suit.html
UBS AG (UBS)  is seeking to block a U.S.
lawsuit over billions of dollars in mortgage bonds in a case
that may set back government efforts to recover losses Fannie
Mae and Freddie Mac incurred in the housing crash.  UBS argued before the U.S. Court of Appeals in Manhattan
today that the court should overturn a ruling allowing the
Federal Housing Finance Agency to pursue its suit over losses on
$6.4 billion in mortgage bonds sold to the two mortgage-finance
companies.  At issue on appeal is whether the 2008 law that established
the agency, which regulates Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, also
extended the time the government had to file claims against
Zurich-based UBS and a group of other lenders.  “It’s highly politicized,” said  Dan Flanigan , chairman of
the financial services and real estate practices at the law firm
Polsinelli Shughart PC. “There will be huge pressure on all
these courts -- not that they’ll be able to acknowledge -- but
huge political pressure not to let these banks off the hook.”  The FHFA sued UBS and more than a dozen other banks,
including  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Barclays Plc (BARC)  and  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS) , over mortgage securities sold to Fannie Mae and
Freddie Mac. Four years after the financial crisis, banks are
still grappling with liability tied to mortgage lending as
investors and government authorities pursue claims and negotiate
settlements.  Stefanie Johnson, a spokeswoman for the FHFA, declined to
comment about the hearing. Megan Stinson, a UBS spokeswoman,
didn’t respond to an e-mail seeking comment.  ‘Enormous Impact’  Other lenders that FHFA sued have sided with UBS and asked
the appeals court to overturn the lower-court ruling. If not
reversed, the ruling allowing the case to proceed against UBS
will have “an enormous impact,” exposing them to federal and
state securities law claims “long after Congress and the
relevant state legislatures determined that such claims should
have expired,” the banks said in court papers.  An appeals court decision on the timeliness of the
government’s claims will “remove a cloud of uncertainty that
hangs over” the other cases against the banks, said U.S.
District Judge Denise Cote in  Manhattan , who ruled against UBS
and said the case could proceed.  FHFA, which placed Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac into
conservatorship in 2008, sued UBS in July 2011 and then followed
with lawsuits against 17 financial institutions in September
2011.  FHFA Claims  The agency claims that loans backing securities sold to
Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac were riskier than promised, leading
to losses. The original amount of securities at issue in the
cases is about $200 billion, according to the agency.  UBS, which says FHFA “sat” on its claims, argues the case
should be dismissed because the claims expired in 2010 and are
time-barred by the so-called statute of repose, according to its
court filing.  “This appeal involves a belated attempt by the two largest
and most sophisticated issuers and purchasers of MBS in the
world to shift blame for losses they suffered as a result of the
nationwide housing crisis in which they played a critical
role,” the bank said in its brief filed with the appeals court.
“Their attempt, however, comes entirely too late.”  The judge rejected the bank’s argument in a decision in
May. Cote said the law establishing the FHFA -- the Housing and
Economic Recovery Act of 2008 -- gave the agency three years
from when it became conservator of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac to
bring its securities law claims.  Judge’s Ruling  UBS’s argument is based on a narrow reading of the law that
would undermine congressional purpose in passing the
legislation, Cote said.  At today’s hearing, Judge Denny Chin asked how the bank’s
position could be correct if the “entire point” of the
legislation was to put Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac “on solid
footing.”  The FHFA argued in court papers that it would be “severely
constrained” in recovering money for the companies and
ultimately taxpayers if it remained subject to time bars.
Barring the FHFA from pursuing claims “would defeat the very
purpose” of the 2008 law, it said.  The  Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association ,
a Wall Street lobbying group that has sided with UBS, said Cote
made a “policy judgment” in allowing the case to proceed.  ‘Arbitrary Decisions’  “When courts rewrite statutes based on intuitions as to
what Congress would have preferred to have said, uncertainty and
arbitrary decisions result,” the group said in a filing with
the appeals court.  Flanigan, who isn’t involved in the cases, said he expects
the matter to be appealed to the U.S. Supreme Court.  “The statute is ambiguous and both sides are able to point
to some persuasive authority for their position,” he said.  The appeals court case is Federal Housing Finance Agency v.
UBS Americas Inc., 12-3207, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second
Circuit (Manhattan). The district court case is  Federal Housing
Finance Agency  v. UBS Americas Inc., 11-05201, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David McLaughlin in New York
at   dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 