-- UKIP Rejects Vote Pact With Tories, Saying Parties at ‘War’
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n   a n d   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2012-11-26T12:59:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-26/ukip-rejects-vote-pact-with-tories-saying-parties-are-at-war-.html
The U.K. Independence Party, which
wants Britain to withdraw from the European Union, rejected the
suggestion of an electoral pact with Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s Conservatives and said the two parties are at “war.”  UKIP leader Nigel Farage ruled out any deal with the
Conservatives after Tory lawmaker Michael Fabricant, in charge
of parliamentary campaigning, said it was “time to actively
consider whether a rapprochement might be possible” with UKIP
to address a rise in euroskepticism among British voters.  “The basis of any deal is clear: a referendum on the
 United Kingdom ’s future membership of the European Union,”
Fabricant wrote in a report to Cameron, which he also  published 
on the Internet today. “These steps have to be taken to stop
the continued hemorrhage of Conservative votes.”  The threat posed by UKIP was underscored when the party
came third in a special election on Nov. 15 with 14.3 percent of
the vote, compared with 26.6 percent for the Tories, which lost
control of the seat to the opposition  Labour Party . The next
general election is due in May 2015.  Fabricant suggested offering an in-or-out referendum on
U.K. membership of the EU if UKIP would pledge not to stand
against Tory candidates. Such a deal could deliver the
Conservatives 20-40 additional swing seats, he estimates.  He based this in part on an analysis that showed there were
21 seats in the 2010 election where UKIP’s vote was greater than
the margin of Conservative defeat. On this measure, there were
also 14 seats where the British National Party, which says white
Britons are “second-class citizens,” got more votes than the
margin of Conservative defeat.  Potential Damage  “It’s the politics of not understanding data,” said
 Justin Fisher , professor of politics at Brunel University in
 London . “This idea presupposes that all the people who voted
for those parties would otherwise have voted Tory. And it
ignores the damage such a coalition can do to a party’s support
among other voters.”  Farage took to Twitter Inc.’s social-networking site to
respond to Fabricant’s suggestion, saying there can be “no
deals with the Tories: it’s war.” He blamed Cameron for
claiming in 2006 that UKIP was a party of “closet racists.”  Cameron declined to withdraw the comments after reports
yesterday that a local council in Rotherham, northern  England ,
had removed three children from a foster couple because they
belonged to UKIP.  ‘Real Obstacle’  Farage told  Sky News  later he would be prepared to consider
a pact with the Tories only if they first removed Cameron. “The
real obstacle for any deal with the  Conservative Party  is the
Conservative leader,” he said.  Cameron returned last week from a meeting of European Union
leaders that failed to deliver a seven-year budget settlement.
The negotiations highlighted Britain’s tense relationship with
the bloc. The premier is due to set out his views on the
nation’s continued involvement in the EU in a keynote speech
next month.  Fifty-six percent of British voters said they’d vote to
leave the EU of a referendum was held, while 30 percent want to
remain in the bloc, an Opinium Research survey for the Observer
newspaper last week showed. Opinium questioned 1,957 adults
between Nov. 13 and Nov. 15.  Nationally, support for UKIP stands at 8 percent, according
to a  YouGov Plc (YOU)  poll published yesterday. That compares with 9
percent for the Liberal Democrats, the junior partner in the
coalition government, 33 percent for the Tories and 44 percent
for Labour. YouGov questioned 1,812 adults between Nov. 22 and
Nov. 23.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  