-- Tullow’s Second Oil Find Raises Prospects for Kenya Production
-- B y   B r i a n   S w i n t
-- 2012-11-26T07:56:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-26/tullow-s-second-oil-find-raises-prospects-for-kenya-production.html
Tullow Oil Plc (TLW) , the U.K. explorer
that found billions of barrels from Uganda to  French Guiana ,
said it made a second discovery in  Kenya , raising prospects the
country will become an oil producer.  Tullow found 30 meters (100 feet) of oil at its Twiga
South-1 exploration well as well as a layer of so-called tight
oil that’s 796 meters deep, it said in a statement in London.
The find makes the company more confident that it will uncover
oil and gas in neighboring areas of Kenya and Ethiopia.  The company made Kenya’s first oil discovery earlier this
year at its Ngamia well in the north of the country. Tullow’s
Chief Executive Officer Aidan Heavey said in May that Kenya,
which has no history of oil production, may have more potential
than neighboring Uganda, where the company and its partners have
found about 2.5 billion barrels of resources.  “This immediate follow on discovery reaffirms the
considerable prospectivity of the Lokichar Basin,” said  Angus McCoss , exploration director at Tullow, in a statement. “Having
significantly expanded our plans in Kenya and Ethiopia, there is
much to look forward to as the exploration campaign and testing
program move ahead.”  Tullow, along with its partner  Africa Oil Corp. (AOI) , will now
conduct a series of flow tests at Twiga over the next four to
eight weeks. It will then move the rig back to its first
discovery in Kenya at the Ngamia-1 well, where it found more
than 100 meters of oil.  “The well results to date reaffirm the basin’s multi-
billion barrel size and supports our belief in the region’s
transformational potential on Tullow,” said Jamie Maddock, an
analyst at Morgan Stanley in London, in an e-mailed note. He
rates the stock “overweight.”  Tullow expects a result from its Paipai-1 well in Kenya by
the end of the year. The Sabisa-1 well in Ethiopia will start
drilling next year, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Swint in London at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  