-- Hungary Set to Lower Rates as Recession Trumps Inflation
-- B y   E d i t h   B a l a z s
-- 2012-11-27T11:47:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-26/hungary-set-to-lower-rates-further-as-recession-trumps-inflation.html
Hungary ’s central bank will probably
cut its  main interest rate  for a fourth month as a deepening
recession outweighs the European Union’s fastest inflation and a
credit-rating downgrade.  The  Magyar Nemzeti Bank  will reduce the  two-week deposit
rate  by a quarter-point to 6 percent, still the EU’s highest,
according to 23 of 24 economists in a Bloomberg survey. One
forecast no change. A decision will be announced at 2 p.m. in
Budapest followed by a news conference an hour later.  The bank lowered borrowing costs by 0.75 percentage point
since July as policy makers focused on economic output instead
of accelerating price growth. The moves highlighted the split in
the Monetary Council as the four non-executive members outvoted
central bank President Andras Simor and his two deputies for a
third month.  The government’s appointed members to the council “remain
focused on supporting the recessionary economy with further rate
cuts, while inflation is showing initial signs of cooling,”
Phoenix Kalen and Demetrios Efstathiou, strategists at the Royal
Bank of  Scotland  in  London  said in a report yesterday. “The
easing cycle will likely continue with 25 basis point cuts at
the December and January meetings” as well.  The forint, the world’s best-performing currency this year
as investors bet the country will obtain an International
Monetary Fund-led credit line, dropped 1 percent against the
euro on Nov. 23, recouping about half of its losses yesterday.
It traded at 280.8 per euro at 12:38 p.m. in Budapest.  The yield on the government’s benchmark 5-year bonds fell
two basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 6.39 percent.  ‘Dangerous’ Strategy  The central bank’s rate-cutting “strategy can turn out to
be dangerous for Hungary once risk-aversion returns: the forint
may depreciate to as much as 287 against the euro after today’s
expected cut,” analysts at DZ Bank AG said in a note.  Rate setters across eastern  Europe  are following their
counterparts in the U.S. and U.K. with cuts to halt an economic
slowdown sparked by the continent’s sovereign-debt crisis.  Hungary has room to lower rates as the  risk assessment 
improves and the inflation target remains within reach on the
policy horizon, central bankers Andrea Bartfai-Mager, Ferenc
Gerhardt and Gyorgy Kocziszky said Nov. 6. The “equilibrium
 interest rate ” is 4.5 percent to 5 percent, they said.  Positive Reactions  “After external MPC members indicated that the equilibrium
interest rate, which helps growth without boosting inflation, is
about 5 percent, we expect a rate cut at” the meeting, Istvan Horvath, director at the Budapest investment management unit of
 KBC Groep NV (KBC) , said in a note. “Both the forint and domestic
bonds have reacted positively to rate cuts so far, therefore
monetary easing may continue as long as local assets remain
stable.”  A decision by Standard and Poor’s to cut Hungary’s credit
rating to two steps below investment grade on Nov. 23 “may not
deter” rate-setters from lowering borrowing costs further,
economists at Morgan Stanley, Royal Bank of Scotland and
Citigroup Inc. said.  S&P lowered the country’s long-term foreign- and local-
currency sovereign ratings one level to BB, saying
“unorthodox” tax policies pursued by Prime Minister  Viktor Orban ’s government erode economic-growth prospects. The grade,
on par with Portugal and  Turkey , has a stable outlook, said S&P.  Special Tax  Orban backtracked on an earlier promise to reduce a special
bank tax by half from 2013 as part of a salvo of tax measures
aimed at keeping the budget  deficit  below a European Union limit
of 3 percent of economic output.  Hungary is in its second recession in four years and talks
for a credit line of about 15 billion euros ($19.4 billion) with
the IMF remain deadlocked after one year. The economy shrank 1.5
percent in the second and third quarter as the euro area’s debt
crisis saps demand for exports and domestic demand declines.  “With the economy stuck in recession and stagnation for a
few more quarters, we think that the central bank will continue
to look through first-round inflation shocks, and will cut rates
significantly, even in the face of some potential forint
weakness,” Pasquale Diana and Jaroslaw Strzalkowski, analysts
at Morgan Stanley said in a report yesterday.  The benchmark rate may fall to 5 percent by mid-2013 even
as the economy stagnates and inflation averages 5.3 percent
versus the central bank’s goal of 3 percent, according to the
report.  Credit-Default Swaps  The cost of insuring Hungarian debt against non-payment for
five years using credit-default swaps fell to 298 basis points,
compared with 281 basis points at the beginning of November and
598 basis points a year ago, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Higher spreads indicate a worse risk perception.  Hungary has benefited from the stimulus of central banks
such as the U.S. Federal Reserve and the  European Central Bank ,
easing debt financing pressure as investors hunt for higher-
yielding assets. The country will do “all it takes” to keep
its  budget deficit  within EU limits, the  Economy Ministry  said
Nov. 19.  The  inflation rate  declined to 6 percent in October, still
the EU’s highest, from 6.6 percent a month earlier. Central bank
staff forecast in September that with a main interest rate of
6.75 percent, the inflation goal would only be reached in the
second half of 2014.  The four non-executive members said Hungary’s lack of
growth would have a disinflationary effect as cost shocks fade,
while Simor and his deputies considered that monetary conditions
should have been kept unchanged to show a commitment to tackling
inflation, according to the minutes of the last meeting,
published Nov. 14.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edith Balazs in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  