-- Uralkali Sees China Switching to Spot Potash Market on Price
-- B y   Y u l i y a   F e d o r i n o v a
-- 2012-11-26T16:06:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-26/uralkali-sees-china-switching-to-spot-potash-market-on-price.html
OAO Uralkali, the largest potash
producer by output, predicted  China  may switch to the spot
market to secure supplies because of a reluctance to be tied
into long-term contracts.  “The Chinese market is moving in the direction of becoming
a spot market,” Oleg Petrov, director for sales and marketing
at Uralkali, said in an interview. “It may even happen next
year.”  Stockpiles in China of potash, a form of potassium used to
strengthen plant roots and protect against drought, rose 11
percent through the end of August from the previous year to 4
million metric tons, according to Uralkali. That undermined
efforts by Uralkali, Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc. and other
producers to renew contracts with buyers in China, which imports
about a fifth of global shipments.  China will only be interested in signing a new contract
when domestic inventories of the crop nutrient fall below 3
million to 3.5 million tons, Petrov said. That’s unlikely before
the first quarter, he said.  Uralkali’s global  depositary receipts  fell the most in more
than a week, closing down 0.8 percent at $37.54 on the London
Stock Exchange. They have gained 4.3 percent this year, valuing
the company at $22 billion.  Demand ‘Explosion’  Brazil  may experience a “big explosion” in demand in
January in advance of the winter season, Petrov said. The Latin
American country, where spot potash prices reached about $480 a
ton in November according to a researcher, will spearhead demand
growth next year, according to Uralkali.  “The market will buy early again in order to avoid heavy
costs and logistical” issues such as bottlenecks at Brazilian
ports before the summer season, Petrov said.  China consumes about 8 million to 9 million tons of potash
a year, while it only produces 5 million tons, according to
Uralkali. In volume terms, China accounted for 30 percent of
Uralkali’s sales in the first half of 2012, with Brazil lagging
behind at 12 percent and  India  at 8 percent.  Bank of America Corp. has set 2013 contract potash price
forecasts for China at $420 per ton, down from the last contract
price of $470, according to a Nov. 12 report.  “According to the reports, Chinese domestic prices have
been lately around $400 per metric ton,” said Petrov. “We
don’t think these  price levels  truly reflect the fundamentals of
the potash industry.”  India Contract  Uralkali and Silvinit, which merged last year, delivered
about 2.3 million tons of potash to China in 2011, including
rail shipments. Volumes sent by rail may be temporarily cut at
the start of 2013 to prop up prices, according to Petrov.  Uralkali is “more optimistic” about India where a long-
term contract may be signed in January or even earlier for one
year or six months, Petrov said.  “The general increase in demand on the  spot market  in the
beginning of 2013 may push prices up, motivating Indian partners
to consider a timely conclusion of the contract,” Petrov said.
Uralkali is keeping the previous contract price of $490 as a
reference for future deals, he said.  Indian market volumes plunged from the 2008 pre-crisis
level of 6.5 million tons to 3.5 million tons, according to
Uralkali. Belorussian Potash Co., a trading joint venture of
Uralkali and Belaruskali, traditionally accounts for a half of
Indian imports.  “We expect the market to come back to the previous level
of 6.5 million tons after 2014,” Petrov said. “Indian farmers
have been disproportionately applying big volumes of heavily
subsidized nitrogen fertilizers in the past several years, while
potash and phosphate consumption has dramatically declined,” he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yuliya Fedorinova in Moscow at 
 yfedorinova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  