-- Mursi’s Decrees Don’t Threaten Egyptian Courts: Official
-- B y   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y ,   M a r i a m   F a m ,   a n d   A b d e l   L a t i f   W a h b a
-- 2012-11-26T22:34:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-26/mursi-s-decrees-don-t-threaten-egyptian-courts-official.html
Egyptian President Mohamed Mursi
told the country’s top judges that decrees granting himself more
powers won’t infringe on the judiciary, his spokesman said.  Mursi said that the judiciary must remain independent and
only “sovereign” decisions he takes would be immune to
judicial review, spokesman Yasser Ali told reporters yesterday
after the meeting, without providing details. The Nov. 22
decrees triggered some of the biggest demonstrations since last
year’s uprising against  Hosni Mubarak ,  Egypt ’s first democratically elected president, Mursi is
struggling to revive an economy battered after last year’s
uprising. Secular parties and youth groups have called for mass
protests today against the decisions. The  Muslim Brotherhood 
called off a planned demonstration to back Mursi “to avoid
spilling blood,” Saad El-Katatni, secretary-general of the
brotherhood’s Justice and Freedom party, said in an e-mailed
statement.  Mursi is facing the challenge of appeasing critics without
appearing to capitulate, while opposition groups that have
failed to agree on most issues will need to unite to force a
retreat, said analysts including Shadi Hamid, director of
research at the Brookings Doha Center.  “The mistrust is so deeply seated at this point that I
don’t know if there’s anything Mursi could do or the liberals
could do to assure the other side,” Hamid said by phone. “It’s
become a zero-sum game, unfortunately.”  U.S. Concern  Mursi’s decrees exempt the new constitutional assembly from
legal challenge and ordered a re-investigation of top former
officials, in relation to the killing of protesters last year,
as well as the firing of the Mubarak-era public prosecutor.  Many judges and prosecutors have suspended work in protest
over decisions they saw as undercutting their legitimacy and
sidelining their oversight role.  Politically, the showdown could mobilize secularists and
youth groups in the opposition that have been mostly divided
since Mubarak’s ouster, Hani Sabra, Mideast analyst at the
Eurasia Group consultancy, said by phone.  The decree has “galvanized them,” Sabra said. “Now, do
they have the requisite support of the public to be able to
influence Mursi to reverse course -- I think that’s an open
question.”  U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  wasn’t told about
the impending decrees when she met with Mursi on the Gaza crisis
a day before his announcement, State Department spokeswoman
 Victoria Nuland  said yesterday in  Washington . Clinton spoke by
phone yesterday with Egyptian Foreign Minister Mohamed Kamel Amr
about Mursi’s actions and developments involving Gaza, Nuland
said.  The U.S. has “some concerns about the decisions and
declarations” by Mursi, White House press secretary  Jay Carney 
said yesterday at a briefing.  Egypt’s Decision  “We believe that the government in Egypt ought to reflect
the will of the people,” Carney said. “The Egyptian people
have to decide what that government will look like.”  Egypt’s pound weakened yesterday the most in a year and the
government canceled a treasury-bond auction amid concern about
violence. The Arab country withdrew the auction of 1.5 billion
pounds ($246 million) of five- and seven-year bonds and sold
$1.72 billion of one-year dollar-denominated treasury bills
yesterday at an average yield of 3.08 percent, compared with
3.71 percent at the last sale in June.  The Free Egyptian Party, co-founded by Christian
billionaire  Naguib Sawiris , said it will go ahead with protests
planned for today, the state-run Middle East News Agency
reported.  Temporary Action  Former presidential candidate Amre Moussa also urged
Egyptians to join demonstrations demanding Mursi’s decrees be
revoked, saying they infringed on freedoms, MENA reported. Nobel
Laureate  Mohamed ElBaradei , the former United Nations nuclear
chief who played a key role in last year’s revolt, said talk was
pointless until the decrees are rescinded.  Mursi “should have held a national dialogue before issuing
his decrees. He ignored this. Now, we are waiting for the decree
to be rescinded first and then talks can be held,” activist
Esraa Abdel Fattah, a founding member of al Dostour party, said
yesterday by phone.  Mursi has said the moves are temporary and not an attempt
to monopolize power.  Presidential spokesman Ali said yesterday the measures were
designed to restore the rights of “revolutionaries” by
allowing for retrials in relation to the killing of protesters
and to realize constitutional, legislative and eventually
political stability, MENA reported.  First Fatality  The clashes provoked by the decrees claimed their first
fatality Nov. 25 when one person was killed in northern Egypt as
protesters stormed a Muslim Brotherhood headquarters, the
group’s political party said on its Facebook page.  The  Interior Ministry  said that while it will respect
peaceful protests and protect government buildings, it “will
use its right to legitimate defense” as accorded by the law,
MENA reported.  Mursi’s decision came on the heels of his successful
brokering of a cease-fire between Israel and Hamas last week,
thrusting Egypt back into the Middle East peace process.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tarek El-Tablawy in Cairo at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net ;
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net ;
Abdel Latif Wahba in Cairo at 
 alatifwahba@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  