-- White Burgundies From Cote d’Or Set Gold Standard
-- B y   J o h n   M a r i a n i
-- 2012-11-26T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-26/white-burgundies-from-cote-d-or-set-gold-standard.html
Calling a white Burgundy like Clos
de Mouches a first-rate chardonnay is like saying a Maserati is
a fine piston-engine car. Indeed, it says nothing.  Chardonnay is, with  cabernet sauvignon , the most widely
recognized grape varietal in the world (with more than  400,000
acres  planted, with the largest acreage in  California ). It is
also a grape whose basic flavor is pretty dull.  It is primarily the soil of a region, or terroir, that
gives chardonnay its distinctive flavor. Add to that different
styles of vinification and enormous variance in the amount of
time the wine sleeps in an oak barrel (the actual origin of the
oak, age and size of the barrel matter, too), and you find that
a chardonnay from  New Zealand  tastes little like a chardonnay
from  South Africa  or Moldavia.  Winemakers easily can obtain a high yield from the
varietal, and the wine can develop a fairly high degree of
alcohol for a white wine. And therein lies the problem with
modern chardonnay: Far too many examples are mass produced,
overripe, high in alcohol, and taste like caramelized wood,
absorbed from barrels that have been “toasted” with fire.  While ever mindful of new technology, Burgundian wine
producers also trust hundreds of years of experience in
determining which vineyards and what moment in autumn a harvest
will yield the best grapes and, after further assessment, just
how much time their wines should spend in barrel.  Golden Slope  I shall never forget the great lesson I learned long ago
walking with a Burgundian winemaker up a section of what is
called the Cote d’Or (golden slope), tasting grapes as we
ascended.  At the edge of the hill the grapes were tangy and acidic,
but as we walked mere yards upwards, where the angle of the sun
provided more heat and light, the grapes grew sweeter.  The grapes higher up would provide more fruitiness, more
sugar, more body and higher alcohol.  Back at the winery I tasted the wine from three or four
barrels of the illustrious white Burgundy called  Corton-
Charlemagne . All the wines were from the same vineyard and
harvest, yet each barrel’s wine tasted different -- all
distinctly Burgundian in flavor but different enough so that
blending later on would be necessary to achieve a balance.  Burgundy Lovers  Even then, with bottle aging, the wine taste can vary from
bottle to bottle. Getting a producer’s style consistent is the
job of the winemaker, who in Burgundy is often overseen by the
negociants (merchants) who may or may not own parts of the same
vineyard.  For this reason Burgundy lovers either search endlessly for
wines that please their palates most, or, what is much easier,
come to depend on certain producers with longstanding
reputations for consistent excellence.  Names like  Bouchard Pere & Fils , Louis Jadot,  Domaine
Leroy , and Joseph Drouhin are also readily available in the
global market and produce a wide range of good wines, from the
most illustrious and expensive to the wines labeled simply
“white Burgundy,” made from grapes throughout the region.  A tasting of a bottle of Drouhin’s  Clos de Mouches  2010
($120) with steamed lobster and drawn butter reminded me of that
stroll up the Cote d’Or. Here was chardonnay at its highest
expression, in a wine that exemplifies the Burgundy winemaking
tradition at its finest.  Stormy Weather  The summer weather for the 2010 vintage was rainy and cool,
resulting in small grape berries and a reduced crop. The berries
ripened fully in September, concentrating the sugars and juices.
Frederic Drouhin, chief executive officer of the company founded
in 1880, says “because the vintage has less alcohol than the
2009, the wines are more refined, offer great purity and
freshness.”  This coalescence of factors has made for a white Burgundy
whose fruit is impeccably balanced with just enough acid to keep
it bright and with only a rounded hint of oak in the finish.  Burgundy fans might argue that a few more years in the
bottle will only improve wines of this caliber. But drinking it
that night gave me such supreme joy in rediscovering the true
personality and essence of the chardonnay grape in Burgundy,
that I plan to drink Drouhin’s Chassagne-Montrachet Morgeot
($113.75) and  Puligny-Montrachet Folatieres  ($102) within the
next few months.  Chardonnays in the rest of the world may try to imitate the
grand Burgundy style, though its terroir and that sunlight on
the slopes are key to its uniqueness.  If the best white Burgundies -- there are a lot of insipid
ones -- are the gold standard and are  priced  accordingly, I
think it better for the rest of the world to make chardonnay in
their own styles and try to make it better and better.  ( John Mariani  writes about wine for Muse, the arts and
culture section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Muse highlights include  Mark Beech  on music,  Scott Reyburn 
on the art market and  Warwick Thompson  on London theater.  To contact the writer of this column:
John Mariani at  john@johnmariani.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 