-- WTI at Midland Slips on Prolonged Repair Time at Borger Refinery
-- B y   E d w a r d   W e l s c h
-- 2012-11-26T20:08:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-26/wti-at-midland-slips-on-prolonged-repair-time-at-borger-refinery.html
West  Texas  Intermediate oil
delivered in Midland, Texas, weakened against the U.S. benchmark
crude as  Phillips 66 (PSX) ’s refinery in Borger, Texas, was down for
maintenance longer than expected, cutting into demand.  Phillips 66’s Borger refinery took down production units
for maintenance on Sept. 22 and was scheduled to restart them
last week, a person familiar with the situation said. Planned
maintenance at the 146,000-barrel-a-day refinery is ongoing, the
company said in an e-mail today.  WTI delivered in Midland declined 50 cents to $7 below the
same grade of oil delivered in Cushing,  Oklahoma , at 1:51 p.m.
 New York  time, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. West
Texas Sour’s discount to the benchmark narrowed 50 cents to
$6.75.  “You’re seeing the aftereffects of the Phillips 66 Borger
refinery returning from maintenance later than expected,” said
 Andy Lipow , president of Lipow Oil Associates LLC in Houston,
Texas. “That has added to the oversupply situation throughout
the Permian Basin.”  Both Texas grades dropped to a record low of $20 below
Cushing last week, as Borger’s maintenance was extended and as
rising production overwhelmed the capacity of pipelines out of
the Permian.  Texas oil  production  increased 35 percent to an average of
2 million barrels a day in August from a year earlier, Energy
Department data show. New drilling techniques have unlocked oil
in shale rock formations, boosting the state’s output to the
highest level since 1988.  WTI oil delivered at Midland has historically traded less
than $1 below the Cushing price, reflecting the transportation
costs between the two delivery points. This year, the oil has
traded at an average discount of $3.26.  Pipeline projects are under way to provide more capacity to
the region, including  Magellan Midstream Partners LP (MMP) ’s plan to
reverse the flow of the Longhorn pipeline to take crude from
West Texas to Houston, expected early next year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edward Welsch in Calgary at 
 ewelsch1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  