-- ‘Abenomics’ Meets Curse of Second 100 Days
-- B y   W i l l i a m   P e s e k
-- 2013-05-02T21:00:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/abenomics-meets-curse-of-second-100-days.html
The accomplishments of the first 100
days in office are a favorite benchmark for democratic leaders.
It’s thought to offer a preview of his or her worldview,
ambition and political fortune.  So, viewed through this lens, just how is Japanese Prime
Minister Shinzo Abe doing?  Abe’s 100-day mark came and went on April 4, the same day
his new  Bank of Japan  governor shocked markets with one of the
most aggressive monetary jolts in history. Suddenly, Japan was
in the international news for the right reasons, not for natural
disasters, radiation leaks or corporate scandals.  And in the month since? Abe has little to show for his
promises of laying out a program to bringing about radical
structural reforms. If Japan is going to produce steady growth
that raises incomes, it needs sweeping measures to deregulate
the economy. Easy money can help “Abenomics” along, but it is
even more important that Abe start making good on his  rhetoric .  For starters, the media should stop doing Abe’s work. His
public-relations machine convinced the press that Abenomics
consists of “three arrows,” when really it’s more like 1 1/2.  The first so-called arrow is spending, but since  Japan  has
been doling out corporate welfare to construction companies for
decades, let’s dispense with the fiction that this matters.  Broken Arrow  The second arrow -- monetary policy -- is real. Tapping
Haruhiko Kuroda to head the BOJ was a wise move, and he hasn’t
disappointed. The central bank plans to double the monetary
base, weaken the currency, end deflation and impose shock
therapy on a fossilized financial system.  As for the third and most important arrow -- cutting
regulation to increase investment and hiring -- it is nowhere in
sight.  To understand the disconnect between perception and reality
about Abenomics, look no further than Isao Iijima, a political
operative sometimes referred to as Japan’s  Karl Rove , the man
often credited with turning  George W. Bush  into a two-term U.S.
president. Iijima was former Prime Minister  Junichiro Koizumi ’s
chief secretary and the image-maker behind the myth of Koizumi
as Japan’s answer to  Margaret Thatcher  or  Ronald Reagan . When
Koizumi stepped down in 2006, he erred in entrusting his reform
agenda to Abe, who instead focused on stoking nationalism when
he wasn’t committing amateurish blunders.  The main reason Abe’s second turn as prime minister looks
more impressive than the first is that Iijima has kept him
disciplined and on-message. This has been buttressed with
splashy policy pronouncements, public  appearances , a flurry of
overseas trips and copious musings on Twitter and Facebook. The
payoff is an approval rating of more than 70 percent.  Things haven’t always gone smoothly. Recent visits to a
Tokyo shrine to World War II dead by Deputy Prime Minister Taro Aso and 168 lawmakers enraged  China  and  South Korea , who view
Yasukuni as a symbol of atrocities committed during Japan’s
conquest of east  Asia . It raised the question: What good is a
weaker yen if two of your main customers boycott your goods?  With the first 100 days come and gone, it’s time to wonder
what really lies beneath the Abenomics marketing blitz.
International Monetary Fund Managing Director  Christine Lagarde 
is among those anxious to find out.  “In Japan, the recently announced framework of ambitious
monetary easing is a positive step,” Lagarde said in  Washington 
on April 18. “But Japan needs more ambitious plans to bring
down debt, plus structural reforms to shift the economy into
higher gear.”  Abe now needs to display less Rovian spin and offer more
details on plans to make Japan more productive, innovative and
competitive. News releases and vague pronouncements about
opening markets, empowering women, importing foreign talent and
encouraging small businesses won’t do. If the hype over
Abenomics is to meet expectations, the prime minister must
present clear strategies with specific timetables and goals.  Crushing Debt  Japan’s crushing debt explains why Abe has so far relied on
the central bank. It’s bad enough that Japan has the developed
world’s biggest public-debt load; Japan is also a rapidly aging
society. People 65 or older account for about 22 percent of
Japan’s population, the highest proportion in the world.  Many economists say demographics have more to do with
Japan’s deflation and economic inertia than a lack of central-
bank liquidity. So does scant income growth for workers at the
younger end of the age spectrum. Suppose the BOJ succeeds in
generating a 2 percent inflation rate in two years. Without
income growth in excess of that goal, stagflation will replace
deflation.  McDonald’s Corp. shows how. Its Japan operation is raising
some prices by as much as 25 percent, the restaurant chain’s
first increase on burgers in the country since 2008. Missing, so
far, is a parallel wage increase for Japanese workers churning
out Big Macs and fries.  Let’s hope it won’t take Abe the next 100 days to figure
out that inflation and stalled incomes are no better than
deflation. Good luck spinning that.  (William Pesek is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
William Pesek in Tokyo at 
 wpesek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  