-- Aereo Says Networks Bluffing on Threat of Switch to Cable
-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 2013-05-03T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/aereo-calls-networks-bluff-challenging-them-to-go-cable.html
Aereo Inc. Chief Executive Officer
Chet Kanojia challenged  CBS Corp. (CBS)  and  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Fox broadcast
network to follow through on threats to go off the air and
switch to cable to prevent the Internet startup from
retransmitting their shows without permission.  Lower advertising revenue from cable and pressure from
lawmakers will make it difficult to put the switch into
practice, Kanojia said in an interview yesterday.  CBS and News Corp. have both threatened to take their
broadcast signals off the air if Aereo, backed by billionaire
 Barry Diller , is allowed to continue reselling network
programming over the Internet without paying a retransmission
fee. The two networks would be sacrificing billions of dollars
in ad revenue by making the switch, Kanojia said.  “The reality is, they want to get paid twice, and Aereo is
just an excuse to articulate that business strategy,” Kanojia
said. “Good luck to them.”  Broadcast and cable networks have two main sources of
revenue: advertising sales and fees from pay-TV such as  DirecTV (DTV) 
and  Time Warner Cable Inc. (TWC)  that carry their programming.  While broadcast advertising trumps cable advertising
because the audiences are much bigger, CBS and Fox say they must
be compensated for their programming. CBS could go off the air
if courts don’t stop Aereo,  Leslie Moonves , the New York-based
network’s CEO, said this week.  Affiliate Stations  His comments follow those of News Corp. Chief Operating
Officer  Chase Carey , who said last month that Fox and its
affiliate stations would stop broadcasting and serve only pay-TV
customers to protect the billions of dollars spent annually on
programs.  CBS generated $4.17 billion in advertising revenue last
year, about four times more than popular cable networks such as
 Time Warner Inc. (TWX) ’s TNT or  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s USA, according to
estimates from research firm SNL Kagan. Fox had about $2.58
billion in advertising sales.  Fox and CBS could earn much more in cable affiliate revenue
than they do in retransmission fees under the current broadcast
set-up. ESPN generates about $5.54 per cable subscriber per
month, more than the $1 or $2 per subscriber that the networks
earn, according to Kagan.  ‘85 Percent’  CBS rejects Kanojia’s assertion that the networks would
lose billions in ad revenue if they were to leave the airwaves,
said  Chris Ender , a spokesman for the network.  “More than 85 percent of our viewers already receive their
signal” from a pay-TV service, Ender said yesterday in an e-mailed response to Kanojia’s remarks. “CBS could serve the
remaining 15 percent in a variety of legitimate ways. We don’t
believe it’s going to come to that in any event.”  Scott Grogin , a spokesman for  Fox Networks , declined to
comment.  The networks would also have to give up their valuable
broadcast spectrum if they moved to a cable model, Kanojia said.
If they moved their most popular programming to cable and kept
the spectrum for their other content, they may face resistance
from the U.S. Congress and regulators, he said.  “I have a hard time believing lawmakers are going to be OK
with them taking away all the valuable programming,” Kanojia
said. “You’re telling millions of people they’re not going to
have access to sports?”  Aereo won a court ruling last month that its technology,
which receives television signals using tiny antennas and then
resells the programming to customers, doesn’t infringe network
copyrights. Aereo charges $8 to $12 a month for its service,
which includes the four networks and Bloomberg Television.  Aereo, based in New York, is planning a national expansion
throughout this year. The company announced it was expanding
beyond  New York City  to Boston on April 23.  Shares of CBS climbed 2.1 percent to $47.35 at the close in
New York yesterday, taking their gain this year to 24 percent,
compared with a 12 percent rise in the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index. New York-based News Corp., up 2.4 percent to $31.88, has
advanced 25 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  