-- Afghanistan’s Corruption, and America’s Too
-- B y   F o u a d   A j a m i
-- 2013-05-02T22:00:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/afghanistan-s-corruption-and-america-s-too.html
In the unforgiving Afghan landscape,
we have learned that you can’t buy a warlord. You can only rent
one. We owe this education to our man in Kabul, President  Hamid Karzai .  For more than a decade, it has been recently confirmed,
U.S. dollars packed into suitcases, backpacks and plastic
shopping bags have been delivered every month or so to Karzai’s
office. “We called it ‘ghost money,’” Khalil Roman, who served
as the Afghan president’s deputy chief of staff from 2002 until
2005,  told  the  New York  Times. “It came in secret, and it left
in secret.”  In the theory of imperialism, we would venture into the
Hindu Kush and reform its ways. It would, instead, be the other
way around: The U.S. took to the ways of “the East,” and
baksheesh is the order of the day. We do business by  the rules 
of the warlords.  Almost three years ago, Karzai proudly let us know that we
weren’t his sole benefactor. “They do give us bags of money --
yes, yes, it is done, we are grateful to the Iranians for
this.” Give the man his due; he has never whispered sweet
things in our ears about “transparency,” and he hasn’t
bothered retaining a Washington lobbying firm that would tutor
him on what he should say to -- and about -- his American
patrons.  America had struck into his country, and could find no way
out. Two presidents --  George W. Bush  and  Barack Obama  -- paid
court to him even as they knew that the thing was a sham, even
as the cables of their envoys told of a voracious group of
bandit chieftains who were keen to keep the foreign powers in
place while they proclaimed their attachment to the sovereignty
of their own country.  Without Shame  There was no  Afghanistan  to speak of, yet we indulged the
fantasy of a country learning to make its way in the world. We
held out the promise of Afghan security forces “in the lead”
before too long.  Deep down, we knew that these forces are certain to melt
away when the foreign protection is withdrawn. We looked away as
Karzai, as recently as a few weeks ago, accused his American
protectors of colluding with the Taliban against his country.  A  rogue ally  was on the loose: The man needed American help
as he railed against the Americans. He was without shame, that
ally. Corruption was a way of life in his country, but truth be
told, the American largesse, and the eagerness to accommodate
the warlords, fed this culture of corruption. We were snookered
at the bazaar. We had driven up the strategic rent of those
Afghan mountains.  Bush and Obama had both declared the centrality of
Afghanistan to the war on terrorism. Obama had upped the ante
and memorably described the Afghanistan War as the good war of
necessity. We had to pay for the privilege of having access to
that real estate.  A man who saw through the sordid reality of Afghanistan,
 Richard Holbrooke , described the role of the U.S. special envoy
there as pouring water into a bucket with holes in it. He was
sidelined and mocked in Obama’s councils. Holbrooke, who died in
2010 and who had his first tutorial about doomed causes back in
the  Vietnam War , had sinned by saying some inconvenient truths
about Afghanistan.  The French ambassador to Afghanistan, Bernard Bajolet,
recently gave a blunt assessment of the state of things in
Afghanistan. He was leaving for an assignment at home, and it
was obvious that he had pined to describe what he had seen. The
venture in Afghanistan wasn’t destined for success.  “I still cannot understand how we, the international
community, and the Afghan government have managed to arrive at a
situation in which everything is coming together in 2014 --
elections, new president, economic transition, military
transition and all this -- whereas the negotiations for the
 peace process  have not really started,” Bajolet said.  Longest War  The Afghan leaders should “take more visible and obvious
ownership” of their army, he  said . “We should be lucid: A
country that depends almost entirely on the international
community for the salaries of its soldiers and policemen, for
most of its investments and partly on it for its current civil
expenditure, cannot really be independent.”  Some 90 percent of the Afghan budget is provided by
American taxpayers: No wonder Karzai rails against us with such
abandon.  This war -- need we repeat the customary mantra, America’s
longest war -- must be deemed unique in the annals of warfare.
No great passion attends it. It has very few, if any,  defenders, 
and no great wrath is aimed at it. The set date, the year 2014,
for all the transitions that will take place there, for a
“responsible” close to this war, was a convenient two years
removed from the last  U.S. presidential election . The war wasn’t
debated, the incumbent didn’t proclaim ownership of that war,
and his Republican rivals offered no challenge to the strategy
of oblivion and drift.  There ought to be a law in the affairs of nations: Wars
can’t be waged against the background of popular indifference.
Wars and their justice, and the way they are fought, must be
debated and argued about. We mark time in the Hindu Kush --there
are no gains on that horizon.  (Fouad Ajami is a senior fellow at Stanford University’s
Hoover Institution and the author of “The Syrian Rebellion.”
The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Fouad Ajami at  mjring@stanford.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at  kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 