-- Afghan Policeman Killed in Clash Along Disputed Pakistan Border
-- B y   E l t a f   N a j a f i z a d a
-- 2013-05-02T11:23:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/afghan-policeman-killed-in-clash-along-disputed-pakistan-border.html
An Afghan policeman was killed and
three were wounded in a five-hour gun battle with Pakistani
troops along the countries’ disputed border, an official said.  The exchange of fire that began at 9 p.m. local time
yesterday was sparked by Pakistani soldiers fortifying a check
post in an area that  Afghanistan  claims, according to Idrees
Mohmand, an official of the Afghan border police in the eastern
province of Nangarhar. The media unit of  Pakistan ’s army didn’t
respond to phone calls seeking comment.  “We’ve got information the Pakistan soldiers were
improving their military installation,” Mohmand said in a phone
interview. “We sent our border police last night to tell them
to stop the work but they rejected this and after a long
dispute” they opened fire.  Pakistan and Afghanistan share a porous 2,640-kilometer
(1,640-mile) frontier that was established by the British during
the 19th-century. Pakistan views the line as the international
border, while Afghanistan claims territory held by its eastern
neighbor.  Afghan President Hamid Karzai last month ordered military
officials to take action to remove Pakistani installations from
the area. Karzai and the U.S. have accused Pakistan’s army spy
agency of aiding militants fighting in Afghanistan, including
the Haqqani Network.  Pakistan’s army is seeking to preserve its influence in
Afghanistan ahead of a U.S. withdrawal of troops from next year.
Afghanistan’s closer ties to  India  are opposed by Pakistan,
which fears they represent a strategic encirclement.  U.S. President  Barack Obama  has said a bulk of the 66,000
U.S. forces now in Afghanistan will return home by the end of
2014, after which a smaller number of troops may continue to
train and advise Afghan forces and carry out counter-terrorism
operations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eltaf Najafizada in Kabul at 
 enajafizada1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  