-- Obama Says U.S. to ‘Look Before We Leap’ on Syria Policy
-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 2013-05-03T03:58:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/hagel-says-rethinking-whether-to-arm-syria-rebels-among-options.html
President  Barack Obama  said the U.S.
will move carefully on any new action in Syria after Defense
Secretary Chuck Hagel said the administration is weighing
whether to arm opposition groups as it examines all its options.  “We are continually evaluating the situation on the
ground,” Obama said yesterday in Mexico City during a news
conference with Mexican President Enrique Pena Nieto. “We want
to make sure that we look before we leap and that what we’re
doing is actually helpful to the situation.”  The administration has been debating ways to increase
pressure on Syrian President Bashar al-Assad after disclosing
last week that U.S. intelligence agencies found “with varying
degrees of confidence” that small amounts of sarin nerve gas
were used in  Syria . Obama and his national security advisers
have resisted calls to arm the opposition in Syria, in part
because some of the more effective militant factions have ties
to al-Qaeda.  “Arming the rebels -- that’s an option,” Hagel said
earlier yesterday at a Pentagon news conference with U.K.
Defense Secretary Philip Hammond, where both men emphasized no
decision has been made and all options are being reviewed.  “What Secretary Hagel said today is what I’ve been saying
now for months,” Obama said several hours later. The president
said the administration is “working with our international
partners to find the best way to move a political transition
that has Assad leaving, stabilizes the country, ends the killing
and allows the Syrian people to determine their own destiny.”  ‘Rapidly Changing’  More than 70,000 people have been killed since the uprising
against Assad began in March 2011, according to United Nations
estimates. Most Americans reject the notion that the U.S. has a
responsibility to do something about the conflict, with 62
percent opposing intervention, according to a CBS News/ New York 
Times poll taken April 24-28.  Hammond, who conferred with Hagel yesterday about matters
including Syria, described the conflict as a “rapidly changing
situation” that requires more review.  “We have not thus far provided any arms to the rebels, but
we have never said it’s something we will not do,” Hammond told
reporters.  Hammond also suggested that obtaining firm evidence of
chemical weapons use may be difficult unless there are
additional attacks with such weapons.  “After any use of a chemical agent there will be a
degradation over time of the evidence that can be collected,”
he said. A new attack “would generate new opportunities for us
to establish a clear evidence of use,” he said.  Remembering Iraq  Hammond said the U.K. would insist on conclusive evidence
that chemical weapons were used before agreeing to military
action.  “U.K. public opinion remembers the evidence we were
presented with in 2003 around  Iraq , which turned out not to be
valid,” Hammond said, referring to erroneous U.S. intelligence
that Saddam Hussein had stockpiles of chemical and biological
weapons. “There is a very strong view that we have to have very
clear, very high-quality evidence before we make plans and act
on that evidence.”  Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov also cited yesterday
the bad intelligence that President George W. Bush’s
administration embraced before the invasion of Iraq. Lavrov did
so in arguing against UN action that would be aimed at forcing
Assad to let inspectors search for evidence that chemical
weapons were used in his country.  ‘Blanket Authorization’  “The blanket authorization to have unimpeded access to any
site or any person in Syria resembles very much the Security
Council resolutions in Iraq, and we all remember the end of that
story,” Lavrov told reporters in Budapest.  Obama also has said that last week’s U.S. intelligence
assessment on chemical weapons wasn’t sufficient alone to take
new action against Syria.  “We don’t know how they were used, when they were used,
who used them,” Obama said at a news conference April 30. “If
we end up rushing to judgment without hard, effective evidence,
then we can find ourselves in a position where we can’t mobilize
the international community to support what we do.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  