-- Thai Government Seeks Rate Cut Big Enough to Halt Baht Gains
-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e   a n d   S u p u n n a b u l   S u w a n n a k i j
-- 2013-05-02T02:42:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/thai-government-seeks-rate-cut-big-enough-to-halt-baht-gains.html
Thai Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra’s administration is pushing the central bank to cut
its key interest rate to slow foreign inflows that drove the
baht to its strongest level in 16 years last month.  Appreciation of the baht, the best performer this year
among the 11 most actively-traded Asian currencies tracked by
Bloomberg, is hurting exports and may slow economic growth,
Commerce Minister Boonsong Teriyapirom said yesterday in an
interview. The Bank of  Thailand  has held the policy rate at 2.75
percent for the past four meetings.  “Whatever the cut will be, it will have to have an
immediate effect,” Boonsong said at his office in Nonthaburi
outside Bangkok. “It will have to stop the baht from
appreciating further. It would have to send a very strong signal
psychologically so the influx of the dollars will slow down.”  Yingluck’s economic team has criticized central bank
Governor Prasarn Trairatvorakul for failing to cut  borrowing
costs  as loose monetary policy in the world’s biggest economies
increases fund flows to  emerging markets . Consumer prices rose
last month at the slowest pace in more than three years, even as
the baht’s surge threatens to undermine  exports  of vehicles,
rice and computer chips that account for two-thirds of
Thailand’s economy.  “We’re sort of going in circles at the moment,” said
 Supavud Saicheua , managing director at Phatra Securities Pcl in
Bangkok. “The signals you’re getting from the Bank of Thailand
-- they are very, very clear that they will not yield. And
unfortunately I’m not optimistic about a meeting of the minds.”  Inflation Slows  Consumer prices  last month rose 2.42 percent from a year
earlier, the slowest pace since November 2009, as the baht
strengthened and  oil prices  declined, the Ministry of Commerce
said yesterday. Inflation for the full year will average between
2.8 percent and 3.4 percent, it said.  Core inflation , which excludes fresh food and fuel costs,
was 1.18 percent last month. The central bank uses the measure
to guide policy and expects price gains will stay below its
target of 3 percent this year, the ceiling also for last year.
Boonsong said the government is not considering changes to the
inflation target.  The baht’s rapid appreciation and volatility haven’t always
been justified by economic fundamentals, and an “appropriate
policy mix” would be used accordingly, the Bank of Thailand’s
Monetary Policy Committee  said  two days ago. The monetary
authority next reviews policy on May 29.  Exports Threatened  The baht has weakened since reaching a 16-year high of
28.56 per dollar on April 22, trading at 29.37 at 9:32 a.m.
local time. The government sees 29 baht per dollar as a crucial
level for the currency, Boonsong said.  “Once it goes below that then everybody’s going to hurt a
lot,” he said.  The commerce ministry may cut its export growth target of
as much as 9 percent, which was based on a baht level of 30.5
per dollar, Boonsong said. Each time the baht appreciates by one
against the dollar, it reduces the value of exports by 250
billion baht ($8.5 billion), he said.  The Federation of Thai Industries called this week for the
central bank to cut the policy rate by 100 basis points.
Thailand’s benchmark rate of 2.75 percent compares with 3
percent in  Malaysia , 3.5 percent in the  Philippines  and 5.75
percent in  Indonesia . A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  Prasarn in January said benchmark  interest rates  should
reflect local economic conditions, and Thailand’s key rate isn’t
the primary driver of fund inflows.  Resilient Economy  The central bank boosted its 2013  economic growth  forecast
to 5.1 percent last month from a January prediction of 4.9
percent, which remains slower than last year’s 6.4 percent
expansion.  Fitch Ratings  raised Thailand’s rating in March,
citing a resilient economy and a more stable political climate.  Foreign investors bought $12 billion more of sovereign
notes than they sold in the first four months of this year, Thai
Bond Market Association data show. They sold a net $557 million
of stocks during the period, according to stock exchange data.  Low borrowing costs in some of the world’s biggest
economies are amplifying the negative impact of a stronger
currency in Thailand and boosting the case to cut borrowing
costs, Boonsong said.  Japan  has a policy rate of 0.1 percent,
while the U.S. is at 0.25 percent.  “Too much money, dollars, are flushing into the market,”
Boonsong said. “If it’s at normal circumstances, it would not
be hurting the economy so much. But this is out of control.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net ;
Supunnabul Suwannakij in Bangkok at 
 ssuwannakij@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net ;
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  