-- Taiwan Probes MediaTek-MStar Deal for Insider Trading
-- B y   C i n d y   W a n g   a n d   T i m   C u l p a n
-- 2013-05-03T03:42:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/taiwan-prosecutors-probe-mediatek-mstar-deal-for-insider-trading.html
Taiwan authorities are investigating
possible insider trading linked to the planned $3.8 billion
merger of  MediaTek Inc. (2454)  and  MStar Semiconductor Inc. (3697) , companies
that produce 70 percent of the chips used in TVs.  Both companies gave documents to authorities yesterday,
they said in separate stock exchange statements. The
investigations relate to the actions of individuals and not to
the companies’ operations, the Hsinchu-based chip designers said
separately.  Taipei Deputy Chief Prosecutor Huang Mou-hsin said in an
interview late yesterday that investigators searched the offices
and homes of five suspects, including employees of MStar and
another company he wouldn’t name. Prosecutors were expected to
finish interviewing five suspects and two witnesses yesterday.  Shares of both chipmakers have surged more than 30 percent
since MediaTek announced the agreement June 22, compared with a
13 percent increase in the  Taiwan  Stock Exchange index. The deal
would be the fifth-largest semiconductor acquisition globally in
the past decade and would end competition between the companies
as they face stagnating global demand for televisions.  Shares of both companies were unchanged today in early
Taipei trading.  Rising Cost  Both companies’ shares climbed 1.1 percent in Taipei
trading on June 22 before the merger was announced. When asked,
Huang declined to give a timeframe for when the suspicious
trading occurred.  MStar turned over shareholder information and trading
records to authorities, the company said. MediaTek provided
materials to investigators looking into the planned deal, the
company said in an exchange statement.  MStar shareholders would get 0.794 of a new MediaTek share
plus NT$1 ($0.03) in cash for each stock held, a 20 percent
premium to the closing price on the day of the announcement, the
companies said at the time.  MediaTek Chief Financial Officer David Ku said last month
regulatory delays have raised the price of the deal, without
quantifying the cost.  China ’s antitrust regulator remains the
final hurdle after Taiwan and South Korea authorities gave their
approval.  Insider trading  is punishable by as many as 10 years in
prison under Taiwan law. In separate cases, executives of
Inventec Appliances Corp. and  AU Optronics Corp. (2409)  were acquitted
of insider trading charges.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cindy Wang in Taipei at 
 hwang61@bloomberg.net ;
Tim Culpan in Taipei at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  