-- Alibaba Said to Close $8 Billion Loan Deal With 9 Banks
-- B y   L u l u   Y i l u n   C h e n
-- 2013-05-02T07:14:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/alibaba-said-to-close-8-billion-loans-with-hsbc-8-other-banks.html
Alibaba Group Holding Ltd.,  China ’s
biggest e-commerce company, agreed to borrow $8 billion from
nine banks partly to refinance debt at a lower cost, a person
familiar with the matter said.  Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ) , Citigroup Inc.,
Credit Suisse Group AG, DBS Bank Ltd., Deutsche Bank AG,  HSBC
Holdings Plc (HSBA) ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , Mizuho Corporate Bank Ltd.
and Morgan Stanley will lend the funds, the person said, asking
not to be identified because the details are private. Florence Shih, a spokeswoman for Alibaba in Hong Kong, declined to
comment on the financing.  The Hangzhou-based company, formed in 1999 as an  online
marketplace  for Chinese companies, will use $4.8 billion of the
loans to refinance debt, $800 million to buy back preferred
shares from  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO) , and the rest for corporate purposes,
the person said. The loans come amid speculation the company is
preparing for an initial public offering after founder Jack Ma
said in June the company could sell shares in an IPO within five
years.  “These are all necessary procedures that the company needs
to take before it takes the group public,” Alex Wang, an
analyst at Internet consulting group iResearch in Beijing, said
by phone. “Alibaba has had great demand for funding.”  Sina, Tencent  The company this week agreed to pay $586 million for an 18
percent stake in Sina Corp.’s Weibo, China’s largest Twitter-
like service. Alibaba has the option to increase its stake to 30
percent at “a mutually agreed valuation,” according to an
April 29 statement.  Ma, who started developing the company’s mobile business
three years ago, hasn’t been able to keep pace with  Tencent
Holdings Ltd. (700)  and its WeChat messaging service for customers who
access the Internet through mobile devices. Buying a stake in
Weibo, with its 503 million registered users, may boost Ma’s
efforts to compete with his Shenzhen-based competitor in making
money from those platforms.  Alibaba has grown as economic liberalization spurred a boom
in manufacturing and trade. The closely held company has
expanded its workforce to more than 24,000 and added services
including cloud computing, online payments and consumer
auctions.  Ma, who has a net worth of $3.5 billion according to the
 Bloomberg Billionaires Index , is stepping down as chief
executive officer this month to focus on strategy, stoking
speculation the company may be preparing for an IPO.  The loans from the nine banks included three tranches, the
largest being $4 billion, which matures in five years, the
person said. The other parts are $2.5 billion and $1.5 billion
in size, and both have three-year tenors, the person said.  “China has been very supportive toward technology
companies, and Alibaba is a high-quality customer,” said Sheng Nan, a Hong Kong-based analyst at CCB International Holdings
Ltd.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lulu Yilun Chen in  Hong Kong  at 
 ychen447@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  