-- Allianz, Axa, Aviva Show Interest in Unipol Assets, Cimbri Says
-- B y   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i
-- 2013-05-02T14:10:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/allianz-axa-aviva-show-interest-in-unipol-assets-cimbri-says.html
Unipol Gruppo Finanziario SpA (UNI)  said
 Allianz SE (ALV) ,  Axa SA (CS)  and  Aviva Plc (AV/)  are among insurers interested
in buying assets the firm needs to sell to comply with regulator
requests after it won control of Fondiaria-SAI SpA.  “Unipol received expression of interest for assets on sale
from 10 to 15 companies,” Chief Executive Officer Carlo Cimbri
told reporters in Milan today. Possible bidders also include
 Zurich Insurance Group AG (ZURN) ,  Societa Cattolica di Assicurazioni
SCRL (CASS)  and several private-equity firms, he said.  Unipol is merging with  Premafin Finanziaria SpA (PF) , Fondiaria
and its unit  Milano Assicurazioni SpA (MI)  to become Italy’s second-
biggest insurer after  Assicurazioni Generali SpA. (G)  The Bologna,
Italy-based insurer must sell divisions or companies of the
newly merged entity that generate 1.7 billion euros ($2.2
billion) of gross premiums to comply with antitrust requests.
The CEO didn’t disclose the possible value of the assets.  Unipol plans to sell the assets in two blocks, according to
Cimbri. One of them includes some assets of Milano Assicurazioni
and  Fondiaria (FSA) ’s unit Liguria Assicurazioni, while the other
block includes Milano’s assets and Sasa Assicurazioni. In the
next few days the company will send an information memo to the
potential bidders and it expects to receive preliminary non-
binding offers within weeks, Cimbri said.  Unipol, which is waiting for the green light from Italy’s
insurer regulator IVASS to complete the merger, plans to
eliminate Fondiaria and Milano saving shares “if there are fair
conditions” when the deal is completed, Cimbri said. “This is
the next step to simplify the structure,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  