-- America Movil, Telefonica Tower Contracts Suspended in Ecuador
-- B y   N a t h a n   G i l l
-- 2013-05-02T19:25:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/america-movil-telefonica-tower-contracts-suspended-in-ecuador.html
Ecuador ’s anti-monopoly watchdog,
seeking to improve mobile-phone coverage, suspended about 2,000
exclusive contracts used by carriers such as  America Movil  SAB
to get prime locations for network towers.  Mobile-phone carriers, also including Madrid-based
 Telefonica SA (TEF) , will be forced to renegotiate the agreements to
grant competitors access to the private and public land where
their towers are located, said Pedro Paez, head of the South
American nation’s Superintendency for Control of Market Power.
Affected companies can appeal the decision on a case-by-case
basis, he told reporters today in Quito.  Ecuador aims to open the “best” mobile-phone tower sites
to increase competition and improve access for smaller
companies, such as government-owned operator  Corporacion
Nacional de Telecomunicaciones , Paez said. With the new rules,
Ecuador, a nation divided by the Andes Mountains and the
Amazonian  rain forest , joins regional neighbors  Brazil  and
Mexico in a push for stricter telecommunications regulations.  The ruling “suspends exclusivity in contracts, because
they are against the law, in the distribution of certain
specific geographic points that will allow the installation of
antennas and other devices, with the purpose of improving the
national coverage of all operators,” Paez said.  While Ecuador represents less than 3 percent of America
Movil’s  revenue , it was the company’s most profitable market
last year in terms of the margin of earnings before interest,
tax, depreciation and amortization. The Mexico City-based
company, controlled by billionaire  Carlos Slim , had 11.8 million
Ecuadorean subscribers at the end of 2012, compared with
Telefonica’s 4.5 million, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Mexican Congress this week passed a sweeping bill to
encourage foreign investment in telecommunications and to more
tightly regulate competition. Brazil has enacted measures to
require companies to cut fees and share infrastructure.  Neither America Movil’s Ecuador unit nor Telefonica’s
immediately responded to telephone messages seeking comment on
the suspension.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nathan Gill in Quito at 
 ngill4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 Papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  