-- Manchester City Target Fernandinho to Cost $65 Million: Roundup
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r
-- 2013-05-02T10:23:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/manchester-city-target-fernandinho-to-cost-65-million-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the web.  City Target  Manchester City may have to pay 42 million pounds ($65
million) for Shakhtar Donetsk midfielder Fernandinho, the  Daily
Mail  said.  The 27-year-old’s contract runs until 2016, but in January
he said he’s ready to move to Manchester, the newspaper
reported. City is reluctant to spend 23 million pounds on the
Brazilian, but Shakhtar manager Mircea Lucescu said the player’s
release fee is almost double that amount, according to the Mail.  Missing Out  Manchester United  will lose the race to sign Borussia
Dortmund striker  Robert Lewandowski , who will stay in Germany
and join  Bayern Munich ,  the Sun said.   The Polish national team member, valued at 25 million
pounds, will sign a contract worth 160,000 pounds a week with
the German champion, the newspaper said.  The 24-year-old’s contract with Dortmund expires in a year,
the Sun said.  Lampard Contract  Chelsea may give midfielder  Frank Lampard  another year at
the club after his performances this season, the  Daily Telegraph 
said.  The 34-year-old player met with the team’s sporting
director, Michael Emenalo, in December and was told there the
club wouldn’t be making an offer, but now Chelsea may open
talks, the newspaper said.  Lampard is one goal away from equaling Bobby Tambling’s
all-time record of 202 for the team.  Alonso Return?  Chelsea may get midfielder Xabi Alonso along with manager
 Jose Mourinho  from Real Madrid after the season,  the Independent
said.   The Blues are prepared to pay less than Mourinho’s 10
million-pound annual salary to reimburse Real for his departure,
the newspaper said. Alonso, one of the coach’s favorite players,
hasn’t responded to Real’s offer of a two-year extension, the
newspaper added.  The 31-year-old former Liverpool player may stay in Spain
until the end of the 2013-14 season when his contract ends, but
Real want to get some money from his departure, the Independent
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Elser in London at 
 celser@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  