-- Angola Plans to Simplify Tax Codes to Boost Non-Oil Revenue
-- B y   C o l i n   M c C l e l l a n d
-- 2013-05-03T14:25:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/angola-plans-to-simplify-tax-codes-to-boost-non-oil-revenue.html
Angola,  Africa ’s second-biggest oil
producer, plans to simplify taxation and more than double
revenue from sources other than petroleum to curb the
government’s reliance on crude.  The target is to pass three tax codes this year that will
cut fees and modernize laws, some which date from 1948, Gilberto Luther, director of the reform project, said in an interview on
April 29 in Luanda, the capital. The changes will increase
receipts from industries including manufacturing and retail to
about 20 percent of gross domestic product by 2017 from 8
percent in 2011, he said. In Nigeria, Africa’s largest crude
producer, non-oil tax was 6.3 percent of GDP in 2011.  “Companies and taxpayers in general can expect a simpler
tax system, less costly, with less bureaucracy,” Luther said.
“It will be a more business-friendly environment, fostering
private initiative.”  Oil-industry tariffs accounted for 79 percent of tax
revenue in 2011. Plans to earn more from other areas come as
Angola rebuilds from a 27-year civil war that ended in 2002 and
as growth excluding oil reached 9.1 percent last year. The $114
billion economy is forecast to expand 7.1 percent this year from
7.4 percent in 2012, according to the government and  budget
documents .  By 2017 or soon after, a value-added tax on finished
products and services will replace a consumption tax that’s
charged on each stage of manufacturing, Luther said. The new
levy will cut the “cascading effect” of the previous tax,
which increased inflation by making prices higher than a lone
tariff on the final product, he said.  New Code  Angola has separate tax regimes for petroleum, negotiated
with companies including  Total SA (FP) ,  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  and  BP Plc (BP/) 
in production-sharing agreements, and for mining in a code
enacted in November that cut corporate levies to 25 percent from
35 percent. An Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
member, Angola pumped 1.8 million barrels of crude a day in
April, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Nigeria, Africa’s top crude producer, collected 20 percent
of its taxes in 2011 from non-oil sources, compared with
Angola’s 21 percent, according to government data from the
countries. The International Monetary Fund  forecasts  Angola’s
government revenue this year at 44 percent of GDP, the second-highest in sub-Saharan Africa after  Lesotho ’s 60 percent.  Domestic Market  Non-oil economic growth will slow to about 6 percent a year
until at least 2017 because the domestic market isn’t large
enough to support diversification, Alves da Rocha, an economist
at the Catholic University of Angola, wrote in a December
 report .  Angola passed a private-investment law to clarify which
projects get tax breaks, said Luther, whose department has an
$18 million budget and 300 people.  “Tax incentives have limited impact on overall economic
growth, especially in  emerging markets  where other factors such
as poor infrastructure and lack of skilled workers can be larger
deterrents to investment than tax,” he said.  Widening the tax base can best be achieved by ensuring that
state oil revenue, which was $3.1 billion in March according to
the  Finance Ministry , is used to develop non-oil industries
through spending on machinery and other increases in
productivity, according to a Feb. 21 presentation by Nicholas
Staines, the IMF’s representative in Angola.  Tax authorities are guiding the reforms by looking at South
Africa, Ivory Coast,  Morocco , Zambia and Mozambique, countries
where non-oil tax revenue as a percentage of GDP ranged from 14
percent to 28 percent in 2011, Luther said.  Paying Tax  The country wants to get non-salaried workers in the so-called informal economy operating within the financial system
and paying tax, Luther said. Only 20 percent of Angolans have
bank accounts, according to the central bank, which has begun
education programs to increase that number.  “It will be a challenge to convince the citizens of Angola
about the value of paying taxes,” Odd-Helge Fjeldstad of the
Bergen, Norway-based Christian Michelsen Institute, which
conducts development-related research, said in a 2012  report .
“This will require not only reforms, but a major cultural
shift.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Colin McClelland in Luanda at 
 cmcclelland1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  