-- Anti-Fracking Laws in New York Towns Upheld on Appeal
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h   a n d   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2013-05-02T18:09:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/anti-fracking-laws-in-new-york-towns-upheld-on-appeal.html
Anti-fracking laws passed in two New
York towns were upheld by an appeals court, which rejected
arguments by a dairy farm and a Norwegian energy company that
the bans are superceded by state law.  An appellate panel of the New York State Supreme Court in
 Albany  today ruled that drilling bans in the towns of Dryden and
Middlefield don’t conflict with state regulations for the oil
and natural-gas industry.  The state law seeks to protect the right of the general
public, not just the owners of oil and gas properties, “a goal
which is realized when individual municipalities can determine
whether drilling activities are appropriate for their respective
communities,” the court said.  The bans are aimed at stopping hydrofracturing, a process
known as fracking that involves forcing millions of gallons of
chemically treated water underground to break up rock and free
trapped natural gas. The practice has sparked environmental
concerns and lawsuits across the U.S.  “We stood up for what we knew was right,” Mary Ann
Sumner, Dryden’s town supervisor, said in a statement. “The
people who live here and know the town best should be the ones
deciding how our land is used, not some executive in a corporate
office park thousands of miles away.”  Parts of New York sit atop the gas-rich Marcellus Shale
formation, and state officials have sought to balance prospects
for the booming economic development seen in Ohio and
Pennsylvania against environmentalists’ warnings that fracking
may damage water supplies and make farmland unusable.  Dairy Farm  Attorneys for  Norse Energy Corp. (NEC)  and the dairy farm,
Cooperstown Holstein Corp., urged the appeals court in March to
overturn lower-court rulings in favor of the two towns. Scott R.
Kurkoski, an attorney with Levene Gouldin & Thompson LLP
representing the dairy farm, said he plans to appeal the
decision to the state’s highest court in Albany.  “The Appellate Division interpreted the oil and gas law by
relying on a mining case decided by the Court of Appeals,”
Kurkoski said in a statement. “The laws and the public policy
behind each law are vastly different. The mining law
specifically allows zoning but the oil and gas law does not.”  High Court  “New York will never have an effective energy policy if
our courts equate the state’s interests in promoting the
production of sand and gravel with the production of energy,”
Kurkoski said. “It is clear that only the Court of Appeals can
resolve this conflict.”  Thomas West, an attorney representing Norse Energy, didn’t
immediately return an e-mail seeking comment on today’s ruling.  The dairy farm, which signed two oil and gas leases in 2007
with Elexco Land Services Inc. to explore and develop natural
gas resources under the property, said in a September 2011
lawsuit that Middlefield, a town of about 2,000 people 50 miles
(80 kilometers) west of Albany, had no authority to enact a ban
because the activity is governed by state law.  Anschutz Exploration Corp., a Denver-based affiliate of
billionaire Philip Anschutz’s closely held company, sued Dryden,
a town of 14,000 people about 75 miles west of Middlefield, the
same month.  Justice Phillip Rumsey in Cortland upheld Dryden’s ban on
Feb. 21, 2012, and Justice Donald Cerio Jr. in Wampsville ruled
days later that Middlefield’s was also legal. The cases were
consolidated for appeal. Norse Energy, a Lysaker, Norway-based
explorer whose U.S. unit filed for bankruptcy protection in
December, replaced Anschutz Exploration in the Dryden appeal.  ‘An Inspiration’  “Today’s victory stands as an inspiration for communities
seeking to protect themselves from the consequences of the
fracking-enabled oil and gas drilling rush,” Deborah Goldberg,
an attorney with the nonprofit group Earthjustice who
represented Dryden in the appeal, said in a statement. “Today’s
ruling signals to local officials that they are indeed on solid
legal ground.”  Just a week before the appeals court in Albany heard the
arguments, Justice Robert B. Wiggins in Livingston County upheld
a ban in Avon, a town and village of about 11,000 people about
19 miles southwest of Rochester.  The Marcellus Shale beneath parts of New York,  Ohio , West
 Virginia , Pennsylvania,  Maryland  and Virginia has an estimated
400 trillion cubic feet of natural gas, one of the largest such
formations in the world, according to trade groups that
represent companies with natural gas-leases in New York state.  Fracking Bans  Fracking already is banned in more than 50 New York towns,
while dozens more have moratoriums in place or are considering
bans, according to Karen Edelstein, a geographic information-
systems consultant in Ithaca.  U.S. District Judge Nicholas G. Garaufis in  Brooklyn , New
York, in September threw out a lawsuit by New York Attorney
General Eric Schneiderman seeking a full environmental review of
hydraulic fracturing. Garaufis granted a motion by the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency to dismiss the case, finding
that the development plans are in the early stages and the
threat of harm is speculative.  Schneiderman sued the  Delaware  River Basin Commission, the
EPA and other federal agencies in May 2011 to force a fuller
assessment of the environmental impact that gas development
could have on the state’s water supply.  River Commission  The river commission, created in 1961, is a pact among New
York, Delaware, New Jersey, Pennsylvania and the federal
government that is responsible for water quality in the Delaware
River Basin, which supplies drinking water to the four states.  Schneiderman said in the lawsuit that the commission’s
proposed regulations would allow fracking at 15,000 to 18,000
gas wells without a full environmental review. If the
regulations are issued, New York’s moratorium will be lifted.  New York said it has shown that fracking generates millions
of gallons of wastewater contaminated with toxic metals and
radioactive substances, and that companies using the process in
 Pennsylvania  have violated the law 1,600 times, harming the
state’s water.  The cases are Anschutz Exploration Corp. v. Dryden,
902/2011, New York Civil Supreme Court, Tompkins County
(Ithaca); and Cooperstown Holstein Corp. v. Town of Middlefield,
1700930/2011, New York Civil Supreme Court, Otsego County
(Cooperstown).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York State Supreme Court in Manhattan at  cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net ;
David McLaughlin in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  