-- Anti-Quinn Website Shows Perils of Being NYC Mayoral Frontrunner
-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 2013-05-02T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/anti-quinn-website-shows-perils-of-being-nyc-mayoral-frontrunner.html
Anyone clicking on the website
 christinequinn.com  for information about the leading New York
mayoral candidate might be surprised to see her characterized as
a paranoid “political hack” who “runs a shell game.”  Christine Quinn, 46, a City Council member since 1999,
failed to reserve her name as a dot-com Internet address, and
she’s been paying the consequences. The website, which went
online a year before she became council speaker in 2005, may be
slowing an ascent that’s put her in the lead among Democrats
seeking the party’s mayoral nomination.  The goal is to attract the attention of anyone using a Web
search engine such as Google to learn about Quinn, said its
creator, John Fisher, 60, a community activist and Quinn
constituent in  Manhattan ’s Hell’s Kitchen neighborhood. What
they find instead is an unflattering depiction of the candidate.  “Some things are matters of fact, some are
interpretation,” Fisher said in an interview. “We feel she
should not be the mayor.” He said others were involved with the
site, though he declined to name them.  Fisher’s opposition goes back more than 10 years to Quinn’s
role in orchestrating a compromise among community groups, real
estate companies and the Bloomberg administration to rezone the
Hudson Yards on Manhattan’s West Side into a development of
office towers, affordable and luxury housing, and open space.
Fisher says Quinn sold out the community to obtain hundreds of
thousands of dollars in political donations from developers.  Runoff Possible  He is one of several uncoordinated and sometimes anonymous
individuals and groups whose “Anybody but Quinn” agenda has
included misleading Internet addresses, pickets at her public
appearances and television ads unaffiliated with a candidate and
not subject to city disclosure laws. While Quinn remains the
frontrunner, her support has slipped in polls since February as
the attacks intensified.  In a Sept. 10 primary to elect a Democratic nominee, a
candidate needs 40 percent of the vote to avoid a runoff with
the second-place finisher.  Only 330,000 of 3 million registered Democrats voted in the
city’s 2009 mayoral primary, so any tactic that could influence
voters may become significant, said Joseph Mercurio, a
Democratic consultant who specializes in using social media.
Democrats in  New York  outnumber Republicans by 6 to 1.  Tricking Users  “People are going to go to this website, but it will
probably not influence voters when they recognize it’s not
created by her,” Mercurio said. “Immediately you realize
someone is trying to trick me, and that destroys its
credibility.”  The site also undercuts its influence by failing to
identify its sponsor or create a social network to organize
opposition to Quinn, Mercurio said.  Quinn’s failure to register her name as an Internet domain
reflects the unsophistication that most New York City candidates
bring to campaigns, Mercurio said. Many continue to spend
hundreds of thousands of dollars on direct-mail advertising, not
understanding the power of social networks and the Internet.  In the era before the Internet, a neighborhood adversary
like Fisher would be just another gadfly, passing out fliers or
attending public meetings. His access to the Web amplifies his
message and potential influence, Mercurio said.  “He got there before her,” Mercurio said. “He was
thinking about this stuff back when almost no one saw its
potential, and the fact is the mayoral campaigns are still
fairly primitive in using this.”  ‘Rude’ Approach  Quinn declined to comment on Fisher or the website. Her
campaign spokesman, Michael Morey, said in an e-mail, “This is
a silly attack website that has been registered since 2005,
owned by the same person who owns 50 domain names that target
everyone,” including Virginia Fields, a former Manhattan
borough president.  Fields said Fisher’s opposition arose over her support for
a Times Square rezoning in the late 1990s proposed by former
Mayor  Rudolph Giuliani  that permitted construction of office
towers and expanded the theater district.  “I don’t have a problem with activists; they’re a part of
New York,” Fields said in an interview. “But he was very
disruptive and rude, way over the top in how he responded to
things that didn’t go his way.”  Poll Slump  There’s evidence that the sustained attacks on Quinn have
had an impact, Mercurio said. An April 19 Quinnipiac University
poll showed that although she remained the frontrunner, favored
by 28 percent of registered Democrats, her support was down from
37 percent on Feb. 27.  Quinn’s closest rival was former U.S. Representative
Anthony Weiner, who resigned in 2011 after engaging in lewd
online behavior. He received 15 percent without having even
declared his candidacy. Public Advocate Bill de Blasio had 11
percent, former city Comptroller  William Thompson  received 10
percent and  John Liu , the current comptroller, got 9 percent.
The survey had a 3.6 percentage-point error margin.  Mayor  Michael Bloomberg , the founder and majority owner of
Bloomberg News parent Bloomberg LP, is barred by law from
seeking a fourth term.  In March, Quinn’s official campaign website,
 quinnfornewyork.com , was targeted by the creation of an almost-
identical site, quinnfornewyork.org. The bogus site featured a
page that purported to show her reversing a policy position to
call for a city council vote on a proposed law that would
require employers to provide sick pay.            Last month Quinn lashed out at an independent group calling
itself  NYC Is Not For Sale , which began airing a 30-second
television ad on Time Warner’s all-news NY1 cable station and
 CNN  accusing Quinn of advocating policies only for the benefit
of wealthy “friends in the 1 percent.”  Quinn threatened legal action to force the ads off the air.  “You’re not allowed to just put up false ads,” she said
in an interview on NY1.  Mercurio, the political consultant, called Quinn’s response
“the absolute worst thing” she could have done. “It only
attracted more attention to the ads and spread word of the
attack,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Goldman in New York at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  