-- Market-Maker Virtu Expands Globally as It Mulls Public Offering
-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a   a n d   I n y o u n g   H w a n g
-- 2013-05-02T17:18:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/market-maker-virtu-expands-globally-as-it-mulls-public-offering.html
Virtu Financial LLC, the electronic
market maker that tried and failed to buy  Knight Capital Group
Inc. (KCG)  in December, may consider an initial public offering and
acquisitions as it expands, according to President Doug Cifu.  Virtu, which Cifu says accounts for more than 5 percent of
U.S. equities volume, plans to add products and enter new
markets as the firm diversifies its trading. It earned about
$240 million before interest, taxes and other expenses last
year, according to a person familiar with the matter who
declined to be named because the information is private. Cifu
said an IPO could make sense under certain conditions and that
acquisitions may accelerate expansion into new businesses.  The company, which traded only stocks listed in the U.S.
when it started five years ago, now handles shares on six
continents, along with  government bonds , foreign currencies,
contracts in energy and metals, and futures. Its profile rose
last year when it bid for Knight and again last month after
Chris Concannon, a partner at the New York-based firm, met with
new Securities and Exchange Commission Chairman Mary Jo White
about overseeing the agency’s trading and markets division.  The firm would consider an IPO “at the right time and in
the right market,” Cifu said in an interview at Virtu’s
Manhattan office. While the firm continues to build its market
making, “the allure of M&A is that with a wave of the pen we
can get into a business and scale quickly,” he said.  Profit Decline  Virtu is boosting its trading even as some rivals struggle.
Getco LLC, which won the Knight bidding war, saw profit fall 90
percent to $16.2 million last year, according to an April 15
regulatory filing by Knight.  Interactive Brokers Group Inc. (IBKR)  is
committing less capital to its market-making unit and may get
out of the business if  profitability  doesn’t improve, Chairman
and Chief Executive Officer Thomas Peterffy said on a conference
call on April 16.  Trading firms have seen key sources of profits get squeezed
as U.S. equities volume has  fallen  three years in a row and
volatility, as measured by the Chicago Board Options Exchange
Volatility Index, or VIX, reached a six-year low in March.
Electronic market making, in which firms earn money by buying at
the bid price and selling at the offer, depends on scale and
technology to eke out tiny profits as the bid-ask spread across
assets have shrunk over the last decade.  New Products  Virtu, which provides bids and offers on 205 venues around
the world in products from U.S. equities to silver and copper
futures, says its fastest growth is currently in  currency
trading  and providing liquidity to stocks in Asian markets
including Japan and  Australia . It expects rapid growth in new
products that will become available when over-the-counter
derivatives start trading electronically under rules mandated by
the Dodd-Frank Act, Cifu and Concannon said.  “Dodd-Frank is the biggest IPO the financial markets have
ever seen,” Concannon said, referring to the 2010 legislation
passed by Congress that mandated changes to the financial
sector, including a requirement to process most swaps through a
clearinghouse to cut counterparty risk. “You can’t find a
better time to be in the market as an electronic market maker.”  The rules, part of an effort by regulators around the world
to overhaul the $639 trillion derivatives market of privately
negotiated swaps, will boost price competition for derivatives
and new futures, Concannon said. Virtu expects to buy and sell
 interest-rate swaps  and other products electronically on
exchanges and so-called swap execution facilities, he said.  Market Access  Such regulations can benefit trading firms including Virtu
because they establish rules everyone must follow and provide an
entry to markets that previously were opaque and dominated by
banks, Sang Lee, managing partner at Boston-based research firm
Aite Group LLC, said in a phone interview. It also enables them
to diversify their businesses, he said.  “It seems counterintuitive to some people, but it’s
actually true they like regulation, as long as it’s not
regulation that says, ‘You can’t trade in microseconds,’” Lee
said. “As long as it’s a set of rules that puts a framework
around these markets, it’s good for them.”  Bloomberg LP, the parent of  Bloomberg News , sued the
Commodity Futures Trading Commission last month, arguing that
rules setting higher collateral standards for swaps than
comparable futures are arbitrary.  High-frequency trading continues to draw criticism and run
the risk of attracting regulation that could limit business by
firms such as Virtu. Hundreds of academic papers have been
written and regulatory studies done seeking to gauge its impact
on trading, price discovery and competition for orders. High-
frequency trading relies on the automated and rapid placement of
orders, many of which are immediately canceled or updated, and
encompasses strategies such as market making, statistical
arbitrage and momentum-based tactics.  Risk Management  Fighting the image of high-speed participants as firms that
exacerbate volatility and trade only when it’s in their interest
has been like pushing a rock up a hill, Cifu said. Virtu
acquires positions by posting bids and offers and not by taking
liquidity supplied by others, he said. It trades against bids
and offers solely to manage risk.  “We don’t try to convince the world that high-frequency
trading is good,” Concannon said. “We simply explain that
we’re a registered market maker with obligations around the
world.”  Virtu also commits to providing liquidity for a certain
number of shares or contracts and at certain bid-offer widths in
broker-run dark pools and private venues quoting foreign
currencies, Concannon said. The market maker offers quotes in
about 30 U.S. dark pools, he said.  Controlling Shareholder  Concannon and Cifu run the firm’s daily operations with
Vincent Viola, Virtu’s controlling shareholder, chairman and
chief executive officer. Viola, who was chairman of the  New York
Mercantile Exchange  from 2001 to 2004, cofounded the company in
2008 with Cifu and Graham Free, its global head trader. Cifu,
who is also chief operating officer, previously was a partner
and co-head of the private-equity group at law firm Paul, Weiss,
Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison LLP.  Concannon, a former executive vice president at exchange
operator Nasdaq OMX Group Inc., met with the SEC’s new chairman
about running the agency’s division that regulates exchanges and
sets policies for markets on April 10, White’s first day on the
job, according to people briefed on the discussions who spoke on
condition of anonymity because the meeting was private.  The lawyer and former exchange executive said he plans to
stay at Virtu. He worked at the SEC in the mid-1990s and later
held several positions at Island ECN and Instinet Group Inc.
before joining Nasdaq Stock Market in 2003 when it bought a
business owned by Instinet.  Silver Lake  Private-equity firm  Silver Lake  Partners LLC  invested  in
Virtu in 2011 in connection with the market maker’s acquisition
of Madison Tyler Holdings LLC, which Viola and David Salomon, a
former arbitrage trader at Goldman Sachs Group Inc., cofounded
in 2002. Virtu is profitable every day, according to Cifu.  “As a market-making firm that does not take a directional
view of the market, we historically have not had trading days
where we lose money across the firm,” he said.  Virtu lost its all-cash bid for Knight to Getco’s offer of
cash and stock. Chicago-based Getco, one of six firms that
rescued Knight from the brink of bankruptcy with a $400 cash
infusion in August, planned to retain the firm’s public listing
while Virtu intended to take it private and go public later, a
person familiar with the matter said in December.  An automated market-maker going public now would have to
prove it has a “sustainable competitive advantage” over rivals
in a business anyone can enter, James Angel, a professor of
finance at  Georgetown University  in  Washington , said by phone.  ‘Intense Competition’  “The basic strategy is well known: buy at the bid and sell
at the offer,” Angel said. “When a bunch of other people
figured out they could do the same thing, the result was intense
competition. From a corporate-strategy perspective, the
electronic market-making business is hell on earth.”  Virtu, which often accounts for more than 10 percent of
average daily  volume  in  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , usually makes less than
$1,000 a day trading its shares, underscoring the shrinkage in
bid-offer spreads and importance of managing its risk at every
moment, Cifu said. The company has millions of dollars in
positions across asset classes globally at any point in time and
can lose thousands of dollars in a millisecond, he said.  Cifu declined to say how much Virtu spends annually on risk
management, technology and colocation services, in which its
computers are placed near the trading engines of exchanges or
other venues. Virtu has 130 employees and hires mainly
individuals with advanced degrees in computer science and
programming, math, chemistry and physics.  Acquisitions  Getco spent $84.1 million last year on data lines and
colocation, more than four times as much as in 2008, according
to Knight’s April 15 filing.  Virtu has made deals in recent years to broaden its reach.
It bought a market-making unit that handles NYSE MKT stocks from
Cohen Capital Group LLC in December 2011 and became the largest
overseer of trading in shares listed on that exchange, owned by
NYSE Euronext. It acquired Nyenburgh Holding BV, an Amsterdam-
based firm that makes markets in exchange-traded funds, last
September.  The Cohen business allowed Virtu to learn how to supply
liquidity in less-active stocks while the Amsterdam firm
expanded its scope to European ETFs, Concannon said. Virtu
expects to broaden its trading beyond the roughly 2,000 U.S.
companies it now handles as a market maker, he said.  Virtu trades through regional offices, with its Singapore
office handling Australia and  Asia , while the  Middle East  and
 Europe  are managed from Dublin. Employees in  New York  and  Santa
Monica ,  California , are responsible for trading in North and
South America, energy products and currencies.  “We see further growth around the world,” Concannon said.
“There are still products around the globe we don’t trade and
touch and would like to trade and touch.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nina Mehta in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net ;
Inyoung Hwang in New York at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson in New York at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net . 