-- Asheville Seethes as Power Shifts to North Carolina Republicans
-- B y   M e l b a   N e w s o m e
-- 2013-05-02T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/asheville-seethes-as-power-shifts-to-north-carolina-republicans.html
It’s not often that 250 people pack in
to see the city council in Asheville, N.C., in the middle of a
workday. Yet there they were on the afternoon of April 3, when
the city’s elected officials met with citizens to discuss a plan
by the Republican-led General Assembly in Raleigh to take
control of the city’s  water  system.  State lawmakers want to hand control to a new multicounty
board that would be appointed largely by the legislature.
Asheville wouldn’t be compensated for lost revenue from water
bills, leaving the city of 84,000 with a $3 million shortfall
that would force cuts to services.  The mostly Democratic voters in the audience vowed to stop
the bill. But that’s unlikely to happen. For two years,
Democrats who run the largest city in Western North Carolina
have been losing to Republicans in the Capitol.  In 2012, the legislature stripped the city’s control of
Asheville Regional Airport and is currently in the process of
appropriating the land. Lawmakers created an independent state
agency to run the field, saying it would provide better service.  “We can’t find a valid reason for the taking,” says
Asheville’s Democratic Mayor Terry Bellamy. “They have accused
us of mismanaging money, but they have no data to back that
up.” She said the city’s general-obligation bond rating rose
from AA to AA+ in 2010. “Every city in the state should be
watching what’s happening in Asheville and supporting us,” she
says, “because they could be next.”  Airport Takeover  Since January, Republicans in the General Assembly have
introduced a series of bills that would curtail the ability of
Democratic-led cities and urban counties to govern themselves.
The legislators say  Charlotte ’s City Council can no longer be
trusted to manage Charlotte Douglas International Airport, a
major hub. They want an appointed regional authority to run it.  “The Charlotte Airport has become a multibillion-dollar
effort,” says State Senator Bob Rucho, the bill’s main sponsor.
“We’re concerned and want to be sure you have the best minds
and most experienced individuals in place to move that forward
to get the most economic value derived from it.”  Rucho has cited a variety of reasons for the takeover. He
accused Charlotte Mayor Anthony Foxx, President Obama’s nominee
for U.S. Transportation secretary, of planning to divert airport
revenue to fund pet projects. Foxx says that’s not true.  State lawmakers also nullified a lease that let Raleigh use
state property for a park and enacted changes limiting cities’
ability to annex land. Another bill would take away control of
school buildings and construction from the Wake County Board of
Education, which oversees schools in Raleigh and surrounding
areas, and give it to county commissioners.  ‘Unprecedented Attack’  “No one has come out to say specifically ‘this is
political revenge against Democratic strongholds,’” said David
Swindell, who teaches public policy at the University of  North
Carolina  at Charlotte. “But these changes amount to an
unprecedented attack on the state’s cities, which happen to be
home to many of the state’s Democrats.”  There’s not much cities can do to stop the lawmakers. The
state constitution grants the legislators broad powers to
intervene in municipalities without the approval of the
governor, as long as the changes don’t affect more than
15 percent of the counties in the state.  McCrory Abstains  Historically, the legislature gave local governments wide
latitude in controlling their affairs. That’s changed since
2010, when Republicans took control of the legislature for the
first time in a century. Republican Governor Pat McCrory, the
former Charlotte mayor who took office this year, has kept his
distance from what’s happening in his hometown.  “The governor has stayed out of it because it’s a local
matter that doesn’t require the governor’s signature,” said his
communications director, Kim Genardo.  At least one Republican lawmaker has expressed a desire to
dilute the power of mayors.  “There is a definite feeling that cities have too much
power and want to control everything,” State Senator Tom Apodaca told the Charlotte Observer.  Mayor Foxx said there’s a certain irony in watching
conservative Republicans argue against local control.  “I think the legislature would be concerned if the feds
started dictating to them,” he said. “Yet they’re doing to us
what they claim they dislike.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Melba Newsome in Charlotte, North Carolina, at
 melba@MelbaNewsome.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Josh Tyrangiel at 
 jtyrangiel@bloomberg.net  