-- Latvia Bank Deposits to Grow as Cash Leaves Cyprus, Moody’s Says
-- B y   A a r o n   E g l i t i s
-- 2013-05-02T10:56:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/latvia-bank-deposits-to-grow-as-cash-leaves-cyprus-moody-s-says.html
Non-resident deposits in  Latvia , which
plans to adopt the euro in 2014, will swell as cash leaves
Cyprus after the island’s bailout, according to Moody’s
Investors Service.  Non-resident deposits, which make up almost half the Baltic
nation’s total, rose 32 percent in the last two years, while
domestic savings fell 2 percent, Moody’s said today in an e-
mailed report. Instability in countries such as Russia and
Cyprus may spur that trend as depositors turn to the European
Union as a home for their cash, it said.  “We expect further deposit inflows into the Latvian
system, which is stable by comparison, although we recognize
such flows are currently limited by the  capital controls ,”
London-based Moody’s analysts Richard B. Foster and Simon Harris
wrote in the report, referring to restrictions on money flows
from Cyprus.  Latvia has sought to quell concern about its non-resident
banking industry after Cyprus, whose economy is about the same
size, roiled markets with its rescue. Non-resident deposits,
mostly from the former  Soviet Union , have risen since 2002, when
Latvia’s application to join the EU was approved.  Non-resident deposits are credit-negative for Latvian banks
and lenders holding them need more sophisticated risk and
liquidity management to guard against potential volatility,
Moody’s said.  “We view non-resident deposits as less stable than their
domestic counterparts because they lack strong ties with the
host banking system and tend to be driven by unpredictable
political trends,” it said.  Latvian non-resident deposits grew by 400 million euros
($527 million) in the first quarter, when 6.4 billion euros left
Cyprus, Latvia’s bank regulator said today on its Twitter Inc.
 account .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Eglitis in Riga at 
 aeglitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  