-- Latvia Poised to Join Trio Meeting Euro Rules: Chart of the Day
-- B y   A a r o n   E g l i t i s   a n d   O t t   U m m e l a s
-- 2013-05-02T21:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/latvia-poised-to-join-trio-meeting-euro-rules-chart-of-the-day.html
Latvia  is on course to join the euro
region’s only three members that satisfy thresholds for public
finances as it awaits a decision on its bid to adopt  Europe ’s
common currency in 2014.  The CHART OF THE DAY shows that the Baltic nation met
European Union limits last year with a budget deficit of 1.2
percent of gross domestic product and a government debt ratio of
40.7 percent of GDP, according to Eurostat data. Among the
existing 17 euro-area members, only Finland, Estonia and
Luxembourg stayed within the 3 percent and 60 percent maximums.  Latvia has transformed its public finances after the
world’s worst recession in 2008 and 2009 prompted a 7.5 billion-
euro ($9.8 billion) bailout and widened the budget gap to as
much as 9.8 percent of GDP. Other euro-region nations such as
Spain and  Greece  are struggling to narrow fiscal shortfalls and
trim government debt as their economies shrink.  “Latvia is an example of a country that quickly addressed
two problems plaguing all crisis countries in Europe -- falling
competitiveness, represented by huge current-account deficits,
and financial bubbles,” said Fredrik Erixon, director of the
European Centre for International Political Economy in Brussels.
“It’s now in a better shape than the crisis economies that
started with less troubling economic conditions but scotched
reforms to raise competitiveness.”  Latvia meets all conditions to switch to the euro Jan. 1,
Prime Minister Valdis Dombrovskis said in February. A
convergence report that will deliver the EU’s verdict on the
country’s bid is due next month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Eglitis in Riga at 
 aeglitis@bloomberg.net ;
Ott Ummelas in Tallinn at 
 oummelas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  