-- Audi $1.3 Billion Mexico SUV Plant Aimed at Unseating BMW
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h   R a u w a l d
-- 2013-05-03T09:37:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/audi-1-3-billion-mexico-suv-plant-aimed-at-unseating-bmw.html
Among the dry, scrub-covered hills
outside the Mexican town of San Jose Chiapa, a plot of land the
size of 45 football fields will soon give  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  a boost
in its effort to become the world’s biggest automaker.  There, executives from VW’s Audi luxury unit tomorrow plan
to break ground on a $1.3 billion factory with a capacity of
some 150,000 cars a year. With its German facilities running
flat-out, the plant will be instrumental in Audi’s push to
topple  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW)  as the leading auto brand for
wealthy drivers.  The investment in the dusty town of 5,000 between Mexico
City and the port of Veracruz will let Audi boost production of
sport-utility vehicles, key to its effort to catch its German
luxury rivals in the U.S. Last year it sold about half as many
cars in the country as BMW and  Daimler AG (DAI) ’s Mercedes-Benz.  “The new Mexican plant plays a very important role for
Audi, because Audi can produce in North America independent of
U.S. dollar currency swings,” VW Chief Executive Officer  Martin Winterkorn  said on the sidelines of an industry conference in
Vienna last week.  In San Jose Chiapa, about 35 miles from a VW factory in
Puebla, Audi plans to start production of the Q5 SUV from 2016
for the U.S. and other markets. The company is also planning
three new sporty SUVs by 2020, a person familiar with the
situation said in February, though Audi hasn’t said where those
cars will be built.  Profit from Audi funds Volkswagen’s drive to overtake
 General Motors Co. (GM)  and  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  as the world’s biggest
automaker by 2018. First-quarter deliveries at VW reached 2.27
million vehicles, in third place globally behind GM with 2.36
million and Toyota and its subsidiaries with 2.43 million.  Profit Machine  Audi accounted for 56 percent of first-quarter operating
profit for VW, based in Wolfsburg, Germany. This year, Audi is
forecast to generate 5 billion euros, or 42 percent, of the
parent company’s operating earnings as an aging model lineup and
spending on expansion cut into margins, UBS predicts.  “Audi’s winning in other markets such as  China , and there
is no reason why they should not be able to repeat this in  North
America ,” said Christian Stadler, a management professor at the
University of Warwick in Coventry,  England . “Getting closer to
the market in terms of production should help them.”  Audi became the world’s second-largest luxury brand based
largely on sales in  Europe  and an early entry into China. Until
four years ago, Audi built three-quarters of its vehicles in the
German cities of Ingolstadt and Neckarsulm. By 2017, the German
plants will make 45 percent of Audi’s global total as annual
production rises to 1.9 million vehicles from 1.5 million last
year, according to data from IHS Automotive.  Accidental Acceleration  That means Audi will need to pay particular attention to
maintaining the quality of its vehicles as production moves
farther from its home base. That’s an especially acute issue in
the U.S., the world’s biggest market for high-end cars, where
Audi’s image was scarred in the 1980s by unsubstantiated reports
of accidental acceleration in one model.  Winterkorn insists Audi’s  Mexican workers  will be just as
vigilant as those in  Germany . Otherwise, “we wouldn’t do it,”
he said. With VW operations in Mexico dating from 1964 and a
plant in  Tennessee  that opened in 2011, “we have already proven
that we can produce successfully in the dollar region.”  Closing Gap  In the first four months of 2013, Audi’s U.S. sales rose 15
percent, to 47,343 cars. Still, that’s far behind its two main
rivals. Mercedes sold 92,822 vehicles to lead the U.S. luxury
segment, while BMW delivered 88,127.  Globally, Audi in 2011 surpassed Mercedes and it’s closing
in on BMW. Worldwide deliveries in the first quarter rose 6.8
percent to 369,500 vehicles, trailing the BMW brand by 11,900
and widening the gap over Mercedes to 44,600. Volkswagen’s
shares have dropped 12 percent this year, valuing it at 69
billion euros. BMW is down 3.5 percent and Daimler is up 2.3
percent.  Volkswagen is betting on inexpensive Mexican labor to
further pad Audi’s  profit margins , which already beat BMW and
Mercedes. The VW unit reported operating profit that was 11.1
percent of revenue in the first quarter, versus BMW’s 9.9
percent margin and 3.3 percent for Mercedes.  Auto workers in  Mexico  are about 20 percent cheaper than in
the U.S. and  Canada , according to Luis Lozano, lead automotive
partner at PriceWaterhouseCoopers LLP in Mexico City.  Alabama BMWs  Producing in Mexico will also help VW protect itself from
big swings in the value of the euro versus the dollar, since
many supplier contracts are paid in the U.S. currency and the
factory will largely supply American dealerships. For similar
reasons, Mercedes operates a factory in Alabama and BMW makes
sport-utility vehicles in  South Carolina . Over the past year,
the euro has bounced between $1.21 and $1.36 and yesterday
traded at just under $1.31.  Under Winterkorn, first as Audi chief and then as
Volkswagen CEO, the company has poured more than 20 billion
euros into the brand’s research and development, helping Audi
double deliveries in the last 10 years. Audi now sells  12 model
lines , twice what it had in 2003, including three SUVs, the A1
compact and the R8 sports car.  Audi’s new models will face plenty of competition. BMW
plans to roll out 25 new models by the end of next year, 10 of
them vehicles with no predecessor. Mercedes is bringing out 13
all-new models by the end of the decade.  “Audi will benefit from ramping up its SUV model offerings
in the U.S. market,” said Tim Urquhart, an analyst at
researcher IHS in  London , who expects Audi to gain on its rivals
in the U.S. but not catch them in the next five years. “BMW and
Mercedes-Benz are not standing still.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christoph Rauwald in Frankfurt at 
 crauwald@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  