-- Aurizon Drops After Dam Breaks at Quebec Mine: Vancouver Mover
-- B y   L i e z e l   H i l l   a n d   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 2013-05-02T20:08:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/aurizon-mines-drops-after-report-of-dam-failure-vancouver-mover.html
Aurizon Mines Ltd. (ARZ) , the gold producer
that agreed in March to be acquired by  Hecla Mining Co. (HL) , fell
the most in more than four years after authorities reported a
dam broke at the Casa Berardi mine in western  Quebec , spilling
thousands of liters of contaminated water.  Aurizon  dropped  0.7 percent to C$4.23 in Toronto. The
shares earlier plunged as much as 12 percent, the most intraday
since December 2008, before they were halted.  About 150,000 cubic meters (40 million gallons) of liquid
and 15,000 cubic meters (530,000 cubic feet) of solid material
were spilled yesterday, Quebec’s Ministry of Environment said in
a statement posted on its  website .  While a breach of an internal tailings dam spilled liquids
and “suspended solids,” most of the material was contained
within the tailings-pond area, Aurizon said in a statement
today.  “A residual film of material has affected a limited
surface area of outside the external dyke,” the company said.
Environmental authorities are on site and there won’t be any
impact on operations, it said.  The spill is in an isolated region a few hundred kilometers
south of James Bay, said Stephanie Lemieux, a ministry
spokeswoman. The ministry was informed of the spill late
yesterday and an investigation began today to determine the
limits of the damage. There is a creek about 1 kilometer (0.6
mile) from the site of the leak that’s being assessed, she said.  Hecla said March 4 it agreed to buy Aurizon in a cash-and-stock bid with a current value of about C$500 million ($496
million) including debt, trumping an offer from Alamos Gold Inc.  Aurizon said March 25 that a contractor’s employee was
killed in an accident underground at Casa Berardi.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Liezel Hill in Toronto at 
 lhill30@bloomberg.net ;
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  