-- Australian Stock Futures Rise as U.S. Jobless Claims Decline
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2013-05-02T23:21:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/australian-stock-futures-rise-as-u-s-jobless-claims-decline.html
Australian  stock futures  rose after
U.S. jobless claims reached a five-year low and the  European
Central Bank  added to global stimulus by cutting its benchmark
 interest rate  to a record low.  American Depositary Receipts  of BHP Billiton Ltd., the
world’s largest mining company, advanced 0.8 percent as
commodities prices climbed. Shares of Westpac Banking Corp. may
be active after Australia’s second-biggest lender by market
value said it will make an extra dividend payment to
shareholders after first-half cash earnings rose 10 percent.  Futures on Australia’s  S&P/ASX 200 Index (AS51)  advanced 0.5
percent and New Zealand’s NZX 50 Index fell 0.6 percent. Futures
on  Hong Kong ’s Hang Seng Index and contracts on the Hang Seng
China Enterprises Index of mainland Chinese companies trading in
Hong Kong gained 0.1 percent. Markets in Japan are closed today
for a holiday.  “Unlike at this point in the last three years, you have
central banks in Europe, the U.S. and Japan all easing,” said
 Shane Oliver , Sydney-based head of investment strategy at AMP
Capital Investors Ltd., which has $126 billion under management.
“The market is a lot less worried about Europe. Profits are
continuing to rise and we remain overweight stocks on a positive
12-month view. Housing indicators in the U.S. remain firm and
the Fed is on standby. Valuations are still OK.”  Relative Value  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index, the benchmark regional
equities gauge, climbed 8.5 percent this year through yesterday
amid optimism Japan will deploy more measures to beat deflation
and that policy makers in the U.S. and China remain on standby
to buoy growth. That left the gauge yesterday trading at 14
times average estimated earnings compared with 14.5 for the
 Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  and 12.9 times for the Stoxx Europe
600 Index, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index were little
changed. The measure advanced 0.9 percent yesterday after the
ECB lowered its main refinancing rate to 0.5 percent from 0.75
percent and Labor Department figures showed the number of
Americans filing claims for jobless benefits unexpectedly
dropped to the lowest level in more than five years.  The Bloomberg China-US Equity Index of the most-traded
Chinese shares in the U.S. climbed 0.5 percent in New York
yesterday. The Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB Commodity Index
rose 1.2 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  