-- Australia Federal Police Worker Fired on South Korea Spy Charges
-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 2013-05-02T06:51:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/australia-federal-police-worker-fired-on-south-korea-spy-charges.html
An Australian federal police employee
passed classified information to the South Korean Consulate
General in Sydney, according to a judgment from the country’s
workplace tribunal in a spy case involving the trade partners.  Bo-Rim (Bryan) Kim, an information technology officer at
the AFP, was fired from the force in August for failing to
report his associations with people from a foreign government
and disclosing confidential documentation to a foreign
government representative. Kim, who denied wrongdoing, lost his
appeal to Fair Works  Australia  in a  judgment  released yesterday.  Kim’s conduct put him “in a position where he was likely
to be vulnerable to exploitation,” Commissioner Geoffrey Bull
wrote in his decision. “Whether Mr. Kim failed to report these
contacts due to his naivety or poor judgment does not detract
from this conduct constituting a valid reason for dismissal.”  The ruling on Kim’s appeal, which outlines allegations of
spying, coincides with the release of previously sealed files in
the Federal Court of Australia in Canberra. South Korean spies
were cultivating public servants from 2009 to obtain trade
secrets with Australian Bureau of Agriculture and Resource
Economics and Sciences trade specialist Yeon Kim being fired for
disclosing sensitive information, according to an article in the
 Sydney Morning Herald  website today.  South Korea is Australia’s fourth-largest trading partner,
a nation with a “highly complementary” economy and a consumer
of its liquefied natural gas, Prime Minister Julia Gillard said
during a visit two years ago.  Korea Gas Corp. (036460)  is a partner in
the $16 billion Gladstone LNG project in Queensland state led by
 Santos Ltd. (STO) , Australia’s third-largest oil producer, while
Samsung Electronics Co. and Hyundai Motor Co. have become
“household names,” she said.  Trade Agreement  The two countries are working on a free-trade agreement.  “In line with the long-standing practice of Australian
governments, I can’t comment on matters of security or
intelligence,” Australia’s Foreign Minister Bob Carr said in
response to reporters’ questions in Sydney today about the South
Korean spy allegations.  An official in the South Korean consulate in Sydney today
declined to comment on either of the Kims’ cases.  Bo-Rim Kim, while working as an intelligence officer for
the AFP, went to dinner at an apartment of a consular employee
whom he had earlier described as an “intelligence officer” or
“secret squirrel,” Bull wrote in his judgment. That employee
had earlier requested information about what AFP’s security
response would be to a terrorist attack at the Sydney airport,
Bull said. The consulate employee was deported from Australia in
March 2009 for espionage, Bull said.  The Australian Security and Intelligence Organization, the
country’s spy agency, sued to prevent disclosure of Yeon Kim’s
case at the request of the South Korean spy agency, according to
the Sydney Morning Herald.  Yeon Kim had lost his security clearance after Australian
investigators found he had been involved in clandestine contact
with and provided sensitive information to an officer of the
Korean spy service, the newspaper said, citing court documents.  Federal Court Justice Lindsay Foster ruled that keeping the
information secret couldn’t be justified, the newspaper said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  