-- Baht’s Rally Seen Throttling Thai Rice Shipments: Southeast Asia
-- B y   S u p u n n a b u l   S u w a n n a k i j   a n d   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e
-- 2013-05-03T05:13:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/baht-s-rally-seen-throttling-thai-rice-shipments-southeast-asia.html
The Thai baht’s rally to the highest
level in 16 years is hindering exports from the world’s biggest
rice shipper, curbing the government’s efforts to diminish
record state stockpiles and threatening to increase its losses.  Overseas buyers have rejected attempts by the government to
boost prices in dollars to offset reduced revenues as the baht
has strengthened, according to Commerce Minister Boonsong Teriyapirom. Thai stockpiles are set to double to 11.6 million
metric tons in 2012-2013 from two years ago, according to data
from the U.S. Department of Agriculture.  Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra’s administration began
buying rice from farmers at above-market rates in 2011 to boost
rural incomes. While benefiting growers, the program has spurred
the buildup of the biggest-ever stockpiles. Even as the USDA
forecasts  Thailand  will regain its role as the largest exporter
this year, displacing  India , the estimated 8 million tons
shipped would be about 25 percent less than two years ago.  “If it’s maintained at this level, our sales will
definitely be seriously affected,” Boonsong said at his office
in Nonthaburi, outside Bangkok on May 1, referring to the baht.
“If we cannot sell to exporters, we might have to open bids
here in Thailand for the local market.”  Thailand’s baht has risen 3 percent against the dollar this
year, the best performance in  Asia . It reached 28.56 on April 19,
the strongest level since July 1997, and was at 29.69 today. The
baht’s rapid appreciation and volatility haven’t always been
justified by so-called economic fundamentals, and an
“appropriate policy mix” would be used accordingly, the Bank
of Thailand’s Monetary Policy Committee said on April 30.  Export Warning  “Any success in offloading stocks will result in heavy
losses for the government,” said  Darren Cooper , a senior
economist at the London-based International Grains Council,
which monitors global markets and promotes  food security . “So
the baht strength will merely add to what are likely to be very
hefty losses.”  Thai farm exports may drop as much as 8 percent this year
as the strong baht makes them more expensive, the state-backed
Office of Agricultural Economics said on April 25. Rice, rubber,
cassava and fishery products have been significantly impacted,
according to Charuk Singhapreecha, director of KU-OAE Foresight
Center, a unit of the office, which comes under the agriculture
ministry. Agriculture accounts for about 12 percent of the
economy, the largest in  Southeast Asia  after  Indonesia .  Policy Rate  The Bank of Thailand should cut its key  interest rate 
enough to stop the baht from appreciating further, Boonsong said.
The bank’s policy rate, held at 2.75 percent for the past four
meetings, is projected to be 3 percent at the end of this year,
the median estimate from 21 economists tracked by Bloomberg.  Higher rice reserves in Thailand may help increase global
inventories to a record 173 million tons, according to the
 United Nations ’ Food & Agriculture Organization, which forecasts
that world production will exceed demand for an eighth year. The
price of the Thai 5 percent variety has dropped 3.4 percent to
$564 a ton this year, while rough rice in Chicago is little
changed at $15.155 per 100 pounds.  By contrast, corn, wheat and soybeans in  Chicago  have all
tumbled into bear markets, losing at least 20 percent from
closing highs set in 2012, as producers boosted supplies after a
U.S. drought last year hurt output.  The Thai government pledges to buy unmilled white rice at
15,000 baht ($510) a ton, and premium-grade fragrant rice at
20,000 baht a ton. That’s as much as 50 percent above market
prices, according to data from the Thai Rice Mills Association.  Stockpile Forecast  Thailand spends about 300 billion baht a year to build up
the inventories and has purchased more than 22 million tons of
milled rice since 2011, government data show. Milled reserves in
Thailand may jump 40 percent to 18.2 million tons in 2013,
according to the Rome-based FAO.  Last year, Thailand sold about 8 million tons from the
stockpiles, most to governments and the balance to state
agencies and local buyers, Boonsong said. For this year, the
ministry maintains an export target for 8 million tons, with at
least 5 million tons to be sold to governments including  China ,
 South Korea  and  South Africa , he said.  The ministry has received 140 billion baht from rice sales
since October and expects that to rise to 180 billion baht this
year, Boonsong said. Losses from sales of rice stockpiled in the
first year of the program will probably be lower than 80 billion
baht, less than the income the government gained from boosting
domestic consumption and an increase in value-added-tax income,
Boonsong said, without estimating losses in the second year.  Opposition Leader  Boonsong rejected criticism over its cost from political
opponents, saying expenditures are similar to a price-guarantee
program implemented under former Prime Minister  Abhisit Vejjajiva , who is now opposition leader.  “We spend on one hand and receive income from the other
hand,” Boonsong said. “We will keep the program because it is
the main policy of the government but will modify some of
details,” he said, without being specific.  Rice exports fell 6.7 percent to 1.4 million tons in the
first quarter, after tumbling 37 percent to 6.73 million tons in
2012, Ministry of Commerce data show.  Thailand faces a rising financial burden from the program
as well as a shortage of storage facilities, and the government
may have to sell grain at a loss, according to Concepcion Calpe,
secretary of the FAO’s inter-governmental rice group.  A World Trade Organization agriculture committee, with
members from the European Union and the U.S.,  raised concern  at
a meeting in March that the Thai rice program might breach
domestic support limits and the government may offload the
stockpiles by subsidizing exports.  “We are selling even higher than the market price in the
world, so what’s there to argue about?” Boonsong said,
rejecting criticism that the government may be violating WTO
principles with the program.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Supunnabul Suwannakij in Bangkok at 
 ssuwannakij@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tony Jordan at 
 tjordan3@bloomberg.net ;
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  