-- Barroso ‘Confident’ Italy Will Be Able to Exit Deficit Procedure
-- B y   J o n e s   H a y d e n
-- 2013-05-02T14:00:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/barroso-confident-italy-will-be-able-to-exit-deficit-procedure.html
European Commission President  Jose Barroso  said he’s “very confident”  Italy  will be able to leave
the European Union’s excessive-deficit procedure afterEnrico Letta pledged new measures to boost growth.  “We trust the government will finance these in a credible
way, in order to keep the deficit below 3 percent of GDP in
2013, and achieve and maintain a balanced budgetary position in
structural terms,” Barroso said today after meeting Letta,
Italy’s prime minister, in Brussels. “I’m very confident that
it will be possible, provided now that Italy details the
measures that it intends to take, that Italy will be able to go
out of the excessive-deficit procedure.”  Letta told Barroso that Italy will stick to its deficit
targets while pursuing growth-enhancing strategies. In an April
29 speech to the Italian Parliament, the premier pledged a
series of tax cuts to boost economic growth and job creation.  Barroso said Italy’s potential exit from the EDP “now
depends on the presentation in concrete terms of the plans of
the new Italian government.” The commission, the European
Union’s Brussels-based executive, will issue country-specific
recommendations for the 27 EU countries in late May that can be
considered by finance ministers at their meeting in June.  OECD Report  Lifting of the excessive-deficit procedure would be “an
excellent way to welcome, but also support, the new government”
in Italy,  Angel Gurria , head of the Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development, said today in an interview with
Bloomberg Television in Rome. The OECD urged the Italian
government to focus on cutting its debt in a report today.  Letta met earlier this week with German Chancellor  Angela Merkel , French President  Francois Hollande  and EU President
 Herman Van Rompuy . After his meeting with Letta yesterday in
Brussels, Van Rompuy stressed the need for a two-pronged
strategy of shoring up government finances while boosting
economic growth.  “I reiterated that the EU will continue to stand by Italy
in pursuing our common commitment to overcome the economic
crisis and promoting growth and jobs, in making full use of the
existing flexibility while keeping sound public finance as a key
objective,”  Van Rompuy  said in a statement late yesterday.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jones Hayden at   jhayden1@bloomberg.net  