-- Baseball Hall Study Says Athlete Steroid Use May Encourage Teens
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-05-02T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/baseball-hall-study-says-athlete-steroid-use-may-encourage-teens.html
A  National Baseball Hall of Fame -
funded survey found 66 percent of Americans believe that hearing
about steroid use by professional athletes encourages
adolescents to take performance-enhancing drugs.  The Hall of Fame had one of its most scrutinized votes this
year, with  Roger Clemens  and  Barry Bonds  both snubbed, adding
Major League Baseball’s two most-decorated players to the list
of retired All-Stars bypassed because of links to doping.
Cyclist  Lance Armstrong  was stripped of his seven Tour de France
titles last year after acknowledging he used performance
enhancers.  Results of the Hall of Fame’s study released today showed
that while 94 percent of the public believes using steroids
without a prescription to get ahead in sports is cheating, only
19 percent consider steroid use a “big problem” among those
under the age of 18. That compares to 55 percent for alcohol
use, 52 percent for bullying, 50 percent for obesity, 46 percent
for marijuana use and 27 percent for eating disorders.  “In addition to believing that steroid use is about
enhancing athletic performance, the public also believes that
professional athletes play an important role in influencing
adolescents’ decision to use steroids,” according to the study.
“The majority of the public believe that hearing about
professional athletes using steroids encourages use among
adolescents; the public does not believe it discourages use.”  ‘Most Comprehensive’  The Hall of Fame, the Taylor Hooton Foundation and the
Professional Baseball Athletic Trainers Society joined with the
Center for Social Development and Education and the Center for
Survey Research at the University of Massachusetts Boston on the
study, which they said was the “most comprehensive national
opinion survey to date to assess the public’s knowledge,
perceptions and beliefs about the use of performance-enhancing
drugs among adolescents.”  Of the 1,002 adults surveyed nationwide by telephone in an
unspecified timeframe, 17 percent believe that steroid use is a
big problem among high-school athletes, versus 46 percent among
college athletes and 63 percent among professional athletes,
according to the study.  The Hall of Fame said in its summary that it is
“concerning” that little attention is paid in the media to
steroid use among teenagers.  “Even if every single player in  Major League Baseball  used
steroids, that would be approximately 1,300 users, when in
contrast, considering that there are about 16 million private
and public high-school students in the U.S., between 350,000 to
almost a million are using steroids illegally,” the Hall of
Fame said in its summary, citing statistics from the U.S.
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.  Further Investigation  Hall of Fame officials said the study is important for
educational efforts to try to solve the steroid problem among
adolescents. Researchers called for more investigation of
motivations and patterns for steroid use, when teenagers might
start using steroids, and the awareness of negative health
effects.  Ninety-seven percent of those surveyed said they believe
there are negative health effects from using steroids.  Seventy-five percent of the public said they support
mandatory testing of high-school athletes to reduce steroid use.
When given a choice, however, 56 percent said they prefer
educational programs over mandatory testing (44 percent).  The survey sample had an average age of 52.6 years, with 52
percent male.  Empty Hall  This year was the first since 1996 that the Baseball
Writers Association of America didn’t elect anyone to the Hall
of Fame, with eligible candidates needing to receive at least 75
percent of the vote. Some baseball writers, fans, players and
Hall of Fame members such as  Reggie Jackson  have argued that
those tainted by performance-enhancing drug use should be kept
out of the shrine in Cooperstown, New York, while others
maintain the 1980s and 1990s was simply an era of widespread
steroid use in baseball.  Clemens, who won a record seven Cy Young Awards as the best
pitcher in his league, was accused of using steroids and human
growth hormone in a 2007 report by former U.S. Senator  George Mitchell . He was acquitted by a federal court jury in  Washington 
of lying to Congress about steroid use. Bonds, a record seven-
time Most Valuable Player and baseball’s all-time home run
leader, was also identified by the Mitchell Report as a steroid
user and was convicted of obstructing justice in a grand jury
investigation of drug use in sports. Clemens received 37.6
percent of the vote this year, while Bonds was named on 36.2
percent of ballots from the BBWAA.  The BBWAA ballot includes the sentence: “Voting shall be
based upon the player’s record, playing ability, integrity,
sportsmanship, character, and contributions to the team(s) on
which the player played.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  