-- Beiersdorf Quarterly Profit Beats Estimates on Emerging Markets
-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 2013-05-02T06:30:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/beiersdorf-quarterly-profit-beats-estimates-on-emerging-markets.html
Beiersdorf AG (BEI) , the maker of Nivea skin
cream, reported first-quarter profit that beat analysts’
predictions as sales rose in  emerging markets , countering a
decline in western  Europe .  Adjusted earnings before interest and tax rose 8.3 percent
to 215 million euros ($283 million) from 198 million euros a
year earlier, the Hamburg-based company said in a statement
today. The  average estimate  of 11 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg
was 210 million euros.  “We have made further progress in implementing our Blue
Agenda” earnings-growth project, “in particular in the areas
of brands and innovation,” Chief Executive Officer Stefan Heidenreich said in the statement. “We expanded our position
and increased our market share in emerging markets.”  Heidenreich is investing in growing economies, where the
company now gets almost 50 percent of revenue, to generate
business as European customers rein in spending amid the
region’s sovereign-debt crisis. The euro-area jobless rate rose
to a record in March and the region’s economy has contracted for
five quarters. Countries where Beiersdorf is focusing expansion
include  China , Brazil and  Russia .  Sales in the quarter increased 5.4 percent to 1.58 billion
euros from 1.53 billion euros a year earlier on a like-for-like
basis, Beiersdorf said. Revenue matched the average of 11
analyst  estimates . Sales on that basis at the consumer unit,
which accounted for almost 84 percent of annual revenue last
year, increased 5.7 percent. Organic revenue declines at the
division of 1.8 percent in  Germany  and 0.7 percent in the rest
of  western Europe  were offset by jumps of 22 percent in Latin
America and 16 percent in  Africa , Asia and  Australia .  Keeping Forecast  Beiersdorf reiterated that Ebit as a proportion of sales
will improve this year as revenue increases faster than at
competitors. The first-quarter Ebit margin widened to 13.6
percent from 12.9 percent a year earlier, Beiersdorf said.  Under Heidenreich, who has been CEO for just over a year,
Beiersdorf is focusing on large innovations and its main product
lines to drive growth as part of the Blue Agenda reorganization,
which takes its name from the company’s trademark Nivea
packaging.  Heidenreich dropped singer Rihanna from Nivea’s
advertisements last year as he vowed to return the brand to its
roots, which include values such as trust and care. Nivea’s
sales gained 5.7 percent in the quarter, Beiersdorf said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Cruz in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Julie Cruz at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net  