-- Berkadia Looks Beyond Apartments as U.S. Retreating
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C o l l i n s   a n d   O s h r a t   C a r m i e l
-- 2013-05-02T12:28:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/berkadia-looks-beyond-apartments-as-u-s-retreating.html
Berkadia Commercial Mortgage LLC, the
joint venture of  Warren Buffett ’s  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  and
 Leucadia National Corp. (LUK) , is looking beyond apartments as the
U.S. government scales back in the market.  The commercial mortgage originator and servicer plans to
expand its financing of offices, retail properties and hotels,
said Hugh Frater, Berkadia’s chief executive officer. The bulk
of the Horsham, Pennsylvania-based company’s business is
currently tied to originating apartment loans backed by Fannie
Mae, Freddie Mac and the Federal Housing Administration.  “Our intention is to diversify,” Frater, 57, said in an
interview yesterday. “Diversify by property type, do a bit more
in the other food groups, and then also diversify our lender
mix.”  Berkadia, the  third-largest  U.S. commercial and multifamily
mortgage servicer, is preparing for changes at government-backed
Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac that may push up funding costs for
apartment loans. It’s also seeking to profit from a rebound in
offices, retail and other types of commercial properties in
regions such as Texas and  California , and is adding mortgage
bankers and sales advisers in states including Florida and
 Georgia .  “A recovering commercial real estate market, which in turn
means more transactions, is good news for them,” said Ben Carlos Thypin, director of market analysis at New York-based
Real Capital Analytics Inc.  Maturing Debt  Sales of commercial properties totaled $73 billion in the
three months ended March 31, a 35 percent increase from a year
earlier, according to Real Capital. Frater also sees increased
opportunities to refinance debt originated during the boom years
prior to 2008. More than $400 billion of loans contained in
commercial mortgage-backed securities will mature between 2015
and 2017, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Berkshire, based in Omaha,  Nebraska , created Berkadia with
Leucadia in 2009 from the mortgage-lending business they bought
from bankrupt  Capmark Financial Group Inc. (CPMK)  It’s the  third-
largest  U.S. commercial and multifamily mortgage servicer,
according to the Mortgage Bankers Association, with about 27,700
loans worth $196 billion as of March 31.  About three-quarters of Berkadia’s business is in
multifamily properties, Frater said. That investment is
benefitting from a surge in demand for rentals after record home
foreclosures, stricter mortgage standards and an increasing
number of young adults forming households. Work on multifamily
properties  jumped  31 percent in March to an annual rate of
417,000, the most since January 2006, the Commerce Department
said.  Finance Overhaul  Even with Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac’s success in financing
apartments, the government is seeking to curb their role as part
of an overhaul of housing finance. The companies were seized and
put into conservatorship five years ago amid soaring losses.  “For as long as I’ve been following the sector, there’s
never been more momentum and buzz around introducing and moving
forward legislation on housing financing reform,” Frater said.  “If the role of the agencies and the way that they are
capitalized changes significantly, which it could, the cost of
multifamily financing is likely to go up. At a minimum in those
markets where you’re still seeing strong rental growth it will
slow down some of that increase in value.”  Edward J. DeMarco, acting director of the  Federal Housing
Finance Agency , which oversees Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, said
in March that the government-owned enterprises will aim to
reduce their multifamily-housing business by 10 percent this
year. President  Barack Obama  yesterday nominated Representative
Mel Watt, a North Carolina Democrat, to replace DeMarco.  Market Share  Freddie Mac financed $28.8 billion in multifamily loans
last year, or about 20 percent of new volume market share, said
Patricia Boerger, a spokeswoman for the agency. Fannie Mae
financed about $33.8 billion.  “Our market share will continue to go down,” Boerger
said. “We want competition in the market. We don’t want to be
the only funder in town.”  Other providers of capital have become “very aggressive”
in the multifamily market including life insurance companies,
Wall Street firms parceling loans into CMBS, and banks, Frater
said. Berkadia has expanded its business with those lenders, he
said.  The company is seeking to diversify its reach within the
apartment market with deals in housing for seniors and
healthcare.  Nursing Facilities  Berkadia funded a $60 million portfolio of skilled nursing
facilities in  Arkansas , the company said in a  statement  last
week. It originated $16.4 million in loans for seniors housing
properties in Ohio and Nebraska, the company said in March.  “There’s lots of old people and there’s going to be more
of them,” Frater said.  Berkadia also announced in January that it acquired
Phoenix-based Hendricks & Partners to expand into apartment
sales and research. Renamed Hendricks-Berkadia, the company
advises clients on the sale, purchase and financing of
multifamily real estate.  The deal means the company can capture fees from property
sales as well as for mortgage servicing, and cross sell more
lines of business to existing clients, said Thypin of Real
Capital.  Buffett’s Berkshire saw  $35 million  in pretax earnings from
Berkadia last year, up from $25 million in 2011, according to
the billionaire investor’s March 1 letter to shareholders.  Buffett’s Embrace  “Berkadia continues to do well,” wrote Buffett, who is
chairman and chief executive officer of Berkshire. “Our
partners at Leucadia do most of the work in this venture, an
arrangement that Charlie and I happily embrace.”  Buffett, 82, and Berkshire Vice Chairman Charles Munger,
89, will take questions on May 4 at the company’s annual
meeting. The gathering at Omaha’s CenturyLink Center typically
draws tens of thousands of attendees, who come to hear the
executives opine on Berkshire’s more than 80 operating
businesses, the economy and investing. Berkshire has risen 19
percent this year, compared with the 11 percent gain in the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  “If you spend any time listening to him or talking to him
it’s obvious why he’s as successful as he has been: he’s a
really, really smart guy,” Frater said of Buffett. “We’re not
a huge investment for him but he knows a lot about our
company.”  While Berkadia is expanding its businesses across types of
commercial properties and investors, the company will continue
to benefit from apartments even if the government-backed
agencies’ roles change, Frater said.  “People will still be living in them,” he said. “They’ll
need to get financed somehow. As the sources of capital evolve
it’s our job to try and evolve with them.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Collins in New York at 
 mcollins45@bloomberg.net ;
Oshrat Carmiel in New York at 
 ocarmiel1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rob Urban at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net . 