-- Beyonce Writhes in Catsuit as Pop Hits Get Slick: Review
-- B y   R o b e r t   H e l l e r
-- 2013-05-02T06:27:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/beyonce-writhes-in-catsuit-as-pop-hits-get-slick-review.html
Queen Beyonce has famously exacting
standards.  Photographers are banned from her shows, preventing any
unflattering shots. She mimed at  Barack Obama ’s inauguration,
all the better to avoid the risk of a bad note. Her backstage
requirements are reported in every paper to include helicopter
transport and drinking water served at an exact temperature.  Her  Mrs. Carter World Tour  is currently playing at  London ’s
O2 Arena, moves across  Europe  and heads to the U.S. in June. It
delivers the requisite hits and costume changes, sexy dancers
and palatial staging with finesse.  Beyonce is graciously imperial, no matter whether bumping
and grinding or powering out a mega-ballad.  The star strides around the stage with a confidence to
match the upbeat sentiment of “Run the World (Girls).”  A white leotard encrusted with a Swarovski store’s worth 
of sparkling crystal emphasizes her imperious wiggle. A black
equivalent by  Givenchy  is worn for “If I Were a Boy.”  “Baby Boy” is one of many songs that push up the energy
with hip hop and ragga. Beyonce sings “Why Don’t You Love Me” at
full soul throttle. For “1+1” she is in a shimmering purple
catsuit. The pop queen writhes on a grand piano for the chorus
“make love to me.”  “Crazy In Love” and “Single Ladies” provide moments of
unadulterated pop.  Flawless, Funky  The 11-piece all-female band isn’t afraid to rock out.
Beyonce’s voice is flawless, funky, smooth and powerful as
required. An acapella version of “I Will Always Love You” is
spectacular for being so unfussy.  There are a few missteps. The show sags in the middle when
too many dance beats are rocked up. “Grown Woman,” mixing
kalimbas and afrobeats, is an anti-climactic last song.  The biggest problem, though, is the apparent lack of
problems. “Flaws And All” sees Beyonce sing about her
imperfections. Utterly unconvincing, it emphasizes the absence
of human vulnerability amid the polished pizzazz.  The Mrs. Carter World Tour will leave you dazzled, not
stirred: a little imperfection would have gone a long way.  Rating: ***½.  For information, click on  http://www.beyonce.com .  ( Robert Heller  is a music critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Muse highlights include:  Richard Vines  on food,  Jason
Harper  on cars,  Rich Jaroslovsky  on technology and  Amanda
Gordon’s  Scene Last Night.  To contact the writer on the story:
Robert Heller in London at  roberthelleruk@yahoo.co.uk   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 