-- BG First-Quarter Profit Declines 3% as Oil and Gas Output Falls
-- B y   B r i a n   S w i n t   a n d   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n
-- 2013-05-02T06:18:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/bg-first-quarter-profit-declines-3-as-oil-and-gas-output-falls.html
BG Group Plc (BG/) , the U.K.’s third-largest
oil and gas producer, said profit declined 3 percent in the
first quarter as production dropped.  Profit excluding disposals and one-time items slipped to
$1.18 billion from $1.23 billion a year earlier, the company
said today in a statement. That was in line with the $1.12
billion mean estimate in a Bloomberg  survey  of 12 analysts. Net
income fell to $1.21 billion from $1.22 billion.  Chief Executive Officer Chris Finlayson on May 14 will hold
a presentation on strategy after BG last year reported project
delays in  Egypt ,  Brazil , the North Sea and the U.S. Production
fell 3 percent in the first quarter after the company in
February scrapped an output target of 1 million barrels a day
for 2015.  BG has lost volumes from Total SA’s Elgin field in the U.K.
 North Sea , Lucas Herrmann, a London-based analyst at Deutsche
Bank AG, said before the report. At the same time, it has been
“aided by the benefit of an increase in Brazilian oil.”  BG’s production fell 3 percent to 659,000 barrels of oil
equivalent a day. Deliveries of liquefied natural gas dropped 6
percent to 3 million tons.  BG, based in Reading, England, expanded pumping off Brazil
with the start of the Sapinhoa field in January and will benefit
from the North Sea Buzzard oil field, restarted by Nexen Inc. in
November. Total resumed Elgin operations in March.  BG  fell  the most on record on Oct. 31 when it said
production wouldn’t grow this year. Since then, former CEO  Frank Chapman  has stepped down and managers have skipped bonuses.  Shell and  BP Plc (BP/)  are the U.K.’s biggest gas producers. BG
will host a  webcast presentation  at 12 p.m. London time.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Swint in London at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net ;
Eduard Gismatullin in London at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  