-- BG Group Rises After Output and LNG Profit Beat Expectations
-- B y   B r i a n   S w i n t   a n d   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n
-- 2013-05-02T16:04:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/bg-group-rises-after-production-and-lng-profit-beat-expectations.html
BG Group Plc (BG/) , the U.K.’s third-largest
oil and gas producer, rose the most in almost a year after
reporting production and liquefied natural gas earnings that
exceeded analysts’ expectations.  Shares climbed 4.3 percent to 1,136 pence in London, the
most since June 19. Santander SA and  RBC Capital Markets  said
that output and LNG sales came in higher than expected even
though total production slipped.  “This is a positive start to a critical year for BG,”
said RBC analyst  Peter Hutton  in an e-mailed note. “Starting
the year slightly ahead of our forecasts on both production and
income gives a solid base, and supports company guidance.”  Chief Executive Officer Chris Finlayson on May 14 will hold
a presentation on strategy after BG last year reported project
delays in Egypt, Brazil, the  North Sea  and the U.S. Production
fell 3 percent in the first quarter after the company in
February scrapped an output target of 1 million barrels a day
for 2015.  Profit excluding disposals and one-time items slipped 3
percent to $1.18 billion from $1.23 billion a year earlier, the
company said today in a statement. That was close to the $1.12
billion mean estimate in a Bloomberg  survey  of 12 analysts. Net
income fell to $1.21 billion from $1.22 billion.  Production Drop  BG’s production fell 3 percent to 659,000 barrels of oil
equivalent a day. Deliveries of LNG dropped 6 percent to 3
million tons. At the same time, profit from the LNG business
rose 3 percent.  In  Egypt , only one LNG train is operating at Egyptian LNG
and about half of the gas is being diverted from the West Delta
Deep Marine concession into the domestic market, Finlayson said
on a conference call today. The country owed BG about $1.2
billion at the end of the first quarter, $100 million less than
at the end of 2012, he said.  In  Algeria , BG is relinquishing its assets and leaving the
country to focus on other opportunities, he said.  BG, based in Reading, England, expanded pumping off Brazil
with the start of the Sapinhoa field in January and will benefit
from the North Sea Buzzard oil field, restarted by Nexen Inc. in
November.  Total SA (FP)  resumed Elgin operations in March.  BG  fell  the most on record on Oct. 31 when it said
production wouldn’t grow this year. Since then, former CEO  Frank Chapman  has stepped down and managers have skipped bonuses.  Shell and  BP Plc (BP/)  are the U.K.’s biggest gas producers.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Swint in London at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net ;
Eduard Gismatullin in London at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  