-- Bharti Quarterly Profit Misses Estimates on Higher Costs
-- B y   K a r t i k a y   M e h r o t r a
-- 2013-05-02T10:36:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/bharti-quarterly-profit-misses-estimates-on-higher-costs.html
Bharti Airtel Ltd. (BHARTI) ,  India ’s largest
mobile-phone operator, posted profit that missed analyst
estimates after a weaker rupee raised interest payments and
prices for  network equipment .  Net income fell 49 percent to 5.09 billion rupees ($94
million) in the quarter ended March, New Delhi-based Bharti said
today in a statement. That missed the 7.6 billion-rupee median
of 27 analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Billionaire Chairman  Sunil Mittal  is trying to contain
costs as Bharti prepares for license renewals and regulatory
changes. The company has increased call rates to cover some
costs by removing discounts on tariff plans, Chief Financial
Officer Sarvjit Singh Dhillon told investors on Feb. 1.  “One thing Bharti investors can’t afford is the company’s
expenses mounting,” Harit Shah, a Mumbai-based analyst with
Nirmal Bang Equities Ltd., said before the results were
announced. “There are more than a few regulatory fees on the
horizon and with voice tariffs not increasing substantially,
those fees will take their toll.”  Revenue rose 9.2 percent to 204.5 billion rupees, lagging
behind the median estimate of 208 billion rupees.  Bharti shares fell 0.6 percent to 316.75 rupees at the
close of Mumbai trading. The benchmark S&P BSE Sensex rose 1.2
percent.  ‘Pricing Power’  Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and
amortization, or Ebitda,  margin  was 31.7 percent in the quarter,
Bharti said, compared with 33.3 percent a year earlier.  The  company ’s network operating costs increased 18 percent
to 49.1 million rupees. Employee costs rose 24 percent to 10.8
billion rupees, Bharti said.  Net finance costs increased to 12.1 billion rupees from
10.6 billion rupees as year earlier, Bharti said. The rupee
declined more than 6 percent against the dollar in the 12 months
ended March, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Bharti will benefit from any reduction in  interest rates ,
said Kishor Ostwal, managing director of  CNI Research Ltd. (CNIR)   “In the next quarter or the quarter after that, costs will
be under control and margins will improve,” Ostwal said. “The
demand is picking up.”  The number of mobile-phone users in India and  South Asia 
increased to 196.1 million at the end of March from 189.4
million at the end of December, the company said. Subscribers in
 Africa  rose to 63.7 million from 61.7 million.  “Pricing power is slowly returning” as competitive
intensity in the industry eases, Bharti’s Dhillon said in a
press conference in New Delhi today.  The company plans capital spending of as much as $2.3
billion in the year started April 1, not including potential
spending to acquire spectrum, he said.  Bharti has agreed to acquire 30 percent more of unit Airtel
Bangladesh Ltd. from the Warid Group, it said today in a
separate statement, without providing a value for the deal. The
transaction will give the Indian operator full control of the
company in which it had bought 70 percent stake in 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kartikay Mehrotra in  New Delhi  at 
 kmehrotra2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  