-- MBIA Settles Flagstar Mortgage Lawsuit for $110 Million
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2013-05-02T23:03:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/mbia-settles-flagstar-mortgage-lawsuit-for-110-million.html
MBIA Inc. (MBI)  said  Flagstar (FBC)  Bancorp Inc.
agreed to pay $110 million to settle a lawsuit accusing it of
making misrepresentations to induce MBIA to insure mortgage-
backed securitizations that defaulted.  MBIA, based in Armonk,  New York , alleged that Troy,
Michigan-based Flagstar sponsored two securitizations and avowed
that it had originated or acquired all of the loans and each
complied with underwriting guidelines, according to a complaint
filed Jan. 11 in  Manhattan  federal court.  The suit concerned about $1.1 billion of securitization
transactions backed by second-lien mortgages insured by MBIA in
2006 and 2007, according to a statement issued by the company
today. Flagstar will pay $110 million in cash and other
unspecified consideration, and MBIA will use the cash to repay a
portion of its secured loan from National Public Finance
Guarantee Corp., the company said.  MBIA Chief Executive Officer  Jay Brown  called the
settlement “consistent with our recovery expectations.”  “We will continue to focus on resolving our remaining
litigation with other parties so that National Public Finance
Guarantee Corp., our U.S. muni-only insurer, can resume its role
as a leader in the U.S. public finance insurance market,” he
said in a statement.  The announcement is a “major milestone” in moving past
the “legacy challenges” of Flagstar, Michael Tierney, the
bank’s CEO, said in a statement. Flagstar in February was
ordered to pay Assured Guaranty Municipal Corp. $90.1 million
the bond insurer paid when home-equity loans underlying two
Flagstar mortgage-backed securities defaulted.  “We can now focus more time and attention on our national
mortgage business and our community banking operations in
Michigan,” Tierney said.  The case is MBIA Insurance Corp. v. Flagstar ABS LLC, 13-
0262, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York State  Supreme Court  at 
8969 or  cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  