-- Bill Gates Joins Tony Blair in Praising Africa Economic Progress
-- B y   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n
-- 2013-05-02T03:31:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/bill-gates-joins-tony-blair-in-praising-africa-economic-progress.html
Africa is making visible progress on
economic growth as health and governance improve, according to
 Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  founder  Bill Gates  and former British Prime
Minister  Tony Blair .  “Change is happening,” Blair said at the Milken Institute
Global Conference in Beverly Hills, California. “You can see
it.”  Six of the world’s 10 fastest-growing economies are in
Africa, said  Michael Milken , founder of the institute and
moderator of a panel called “Investing in African Prosperity”
that included Blair, Gates and H.E.  Paul Kagame , president of
the Republic of Rwanda. The continent’s mortality rate for
children under age 5 has fallen to 10 percent, down from 20
percent in the mid-1990s, according to Gates, the world’s
second-wealthiest man.  “You can see the progress,” said Gates, whose
philanthropy has funded the fight against diseases including
malaria and polio. “You can see on a year-by-year basis
dramatic things are happening.”  While more than 70 percent of Africans had never heard the
sound of a telephone two decades ago, more than 70 percent now
have a cell phone, according to Strive Masiyiwa, founder of
Harare-based telecommunications company Econet Wireless Ltd. The
spread of technology has brought access to information on food
prices and health to isolated pockets of the continent, he said.  Transparency, Efficiency  “We put $1 billion into Zimbabwe between 2008 and today,”
Masiyiwa, a native of the southern African nation, said. “We
went from 14 percent penetration to more than 100 percent.”  After stepping down as Britain’s prime minister from 1997
to 2007, Blair founded the Africa Governance Initiative, which
operates in Rwanda,  Sierra Leone , Liberia, Guinea and South
Sudan, where it advises leaders on improving services and
fighting poverty. Government transparency and efficiency are
foundations for improving prosperity, he said.  “When there’s stability and there’s order, you can get
things done,” Blair said.  Milken was head of junk-bond trading at Drexel Burnham
Lambert Inc. in the 1980s. He served 22 months in prison
after pleading guilty to securities fraud in 1990 and was
permanently barred from serving as a broker or investment
adviser. In 1998, he agreed to pay $47 million to settle SEC
claims he had violated the ban; he didn’t admit or deny
wrongdoing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Gittelsohn in  Los Angeles  at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  