-- Bloomberg Balances NYC Budget With Unexpected Tax Gain
-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 2013-05-02T20:40:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/bloomberg-balances-final-nyc-budget-with-unexpected-tax-revenue.html
New York Mayor  Michael Bloomberg 
presented an executive budget as more than $1 billion in
unexpected revenue from personal-income taxes, corporate levies
and audits helped balance his final spending plan.  Bloomberg’s $69.8 billion budget for the fiscal year
starting July 1 benefits from a one-time $800 million windfall
from residents selling stocks and property last year to avoid
capital-gains tax increases. Corporate levies and audits raised
more than $400 million that wasn’t expected in January, he said.  The budget, unveiled today at a City Hall briefing,
proposes no new taxes and calls for reduced spending on
education, as the 71-year-old mayor called for in January. Total
spending is down from this year’s $70.4 billion spending plan.
Bloomberg forecast a $2.2 billion deficit for 2015. The city’s
budget must be balanced, under state law.  “The news today is reasonably good, as good as it’s been
in a long time,” Bloomberg said.  The city still faces fiscal challenges. Billions of dollars
in spending and revenue remain uncertain because of disputes
over labor contracts and a plan to sell taxi cab medallions held
up by litigation.  ‘Holding Pattern’  The spending plan “represents a holding-pattern budget
that gets Mayor Bloomberg out the door, even as it leaves a
passel of problems for his successor,” said Comptroller  John Liu , a Democrat running for his party’s mayoral nomination this
year.  The budget assumes the courts will permit the medallion
sales to proceed. However, it reduces the expected revenue the
transactions would yield in the current year to $300 million,
down from $600 million Bloomberg forecast in his January
preliminary spending plan. It still assumes the city would reap
$1.5 billion from the sales over the next four years.  Spending cuts the mayor has proposed include $135 million
for after-school and early-childhood education programs, which
the advocacy group Campaign for Children said would affect
47,000 students.  The January plan to reduce 1,800 teachers by attrition
over two years was scrapped after the state restored funds for
next year that were cut after the city and union failed to agree
on an evaluation plan, said Lauren Passalacqua, a mayoral
spokeswoman.  ‘Irreparable Harm’  City council approval of the budget would hinge on
restoration of all or part of those programs, said Speaker
Christine Quinn, another Democrat running for mayor.  Quinn, in an e-mailed statement, said council members
“remain troubled” by deep cuts to funding for children,
libraries and firehouses.  “Cuts to these programs would do irreparable harm to our
city’s middle-class families,” she said.  The budget renews Bloomberg’s proposal to close 20 fire
companies, which council member Domenic Recchia, head of the
Finance Committee, said would have to be restored before the
budget received approval.  Contracts have expired with the city’s 300,000 workers --in
some cases since 2008 -- and the budget contains no money for
back pay in the event bargaining results in salary increases.
The cost of paying the city’s workforce retroactively would
exceed $7 billion, Bloomberg said.  Can’t Afford  “It’s just something the city cannot possibly afford,”
Bloomberg said. State law requires that expired contracts remain
in force, providing wage and benefit increases, and work rules
established under the old pacts, the mayor said.  If the unions and the administration can’t agree on new
contracts, including a deal to require workers to pay part of
their health coverage, the issues would be left to whomever
succeeds the mayor on Jan. 1. Bloomberg’s third term ends Dec.
31, midway in the 2014 fiscal year. He’s barred by law from
seeking re-election.  New York  City general-obligation bonds maturing March 2025
and callable in 10 years are valued at a yield spread of about
0.59 percentage point above benchmark municipals, data compiled
by Bloomberg using BVAL pricing analysis show. That difference
was about 0.61 percentage point when the city sold the bonds
March 1.  The mayor is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News
parent Bloomberg LP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Goldman in New York at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net . 