-- BOJ’s Kuroda Says Economic Recovery May Be Clear From Mid-2013
-- B y   K e i k o   U j i k a n e
-- 2013-05-02T14:58:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/boj-s-kuroda-says-economic-recovery-may-be-clear-from-mid-2013.html
Bank of Japan  Governor Haruhiko Kuroda
said the central bank’s monetary easing in April was a necessary
move to end more than a decade of deflation and the economy will
probably start gaining momentum later this year.  “Japan’s economic recovery will probably become clear from
around the middle of the year,” Kuroda said in Greater Noida,
India, where he’s attending the Asian Development Bank’s annual
meeting. “There have been good consumption data already, so I
expect positive effects will be seen further in  capital spending 
and other areas.”  Kuroda last month began a campaign to end falling prices by
doubling monthly bond purchases in a bid to reach 2 percent
inflation in two years. Optimism about Abenomics, the policy
framework promoted by Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, has pushed up
stocks and weakened the yen, helping improve consumer sentiment
and boost exporters’ earnings.  Kuroda said today that he will monitor for “unexpected
side-effects” of BOJ easing on emerging economies. He also said
he doesn’t see an asset bubble forming in  Asia  because of
capital inflows.  The BOJ maintained its plan to boost  money supply  at a
policy meeting on April 26, and predicted inflation will almost
match its target in two years even after a report highlighted
deflation’s grip.  The yen has tumbled 17 percent against the dollar and the
Nikkei 225 Stock Average has climbed more than 50 percent since
mid-November when it became clear that Abe would win office in
ensuing national elections. The yen touched 99.95 per dollar on
April 11, the weakest in four years, and traded at 97.76 as of
7:24 p.m. in India.  The  International Monetary Fund  doubled Japan’s fiscal 2014
growth forecast to 1.4 percent from its January projection. IMF
Chief Economist  Olivier Blanchard  said the Bank of Japan’s move
was “appropriate” and its impact on the yen “a logical
consequence.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Keiko Ujikane in Tokyo at 
 kujikane@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  