-- Boston Bombing Suspect’s Body Taken by Family, State Says
-- B y   T e d   B u n k e r
-- 2013-05-03T00:08:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/boston-bombing-suspect-body-claimed-by-family-member-state-says.html
Boston  Marathon bombing suspect
Tamerlan Tsarnaev’s family now has his body, according to the
 Massachusetts  medical examiner’s office. A spokesman confirmed
the release without saying which family member took the corpse.  Tsarnaev, 26, died in a firefight with police April 19
following an intensive manhunt after the April 15 bombings. The
explosions in Boston’s Back Bay section killed three and wounded
more than 260. His brother Dzhokhar Tsarnaev, 19, has been
charged with using a weapon of mass destruction and could face
the death penalty if convicted.  The cause of the older brother’s death will be made public
when an official death certificate is filed by the funeral home
involved, according to Terrel Harris, a spokesman for the
medical examiner’s office in Boston. Harris wouldn’t say where
the body was being taken for disposition.  “The body is claimed,” he said.  Local television stations that tracked the hearse that
retrieved the body reported it was taken to the Dyer-Lake
Funeral Home in North Attleboro, Massachusetts. Funeral
directors there didn’t immediately respond to a telephone call
and an e-mail after normal business hours.  July Fourth  Separately, the  New York  Times and ABC News reported that
the suspects had planned to set off their homemade bombs during
Fourth of July celebrations, citing law enforcement sources they
didn’t identify. The Times said the suspects finished building
their pressure-cooker and pipe bombs sooner than they had
anticipated, so decided to strike the marathon.  The Times said the bombs were constructed in the Cambridge,
Massachusetts, apartment where Tamerlan lived with his wife,
Katherine Russell, and their 2-year-old child.  Christina Sterling, a spokeswoman for U.S. Attorney Carmen Ortiz in Boston, said she couldn’t confirm those details.  Amato DeLuca, Russell’s lawyer, has said she has been
cooperating with investigators. She has moved into her parents’
home in North Kingstown, Rhode Island.  In another development today, the three college friends of
the younger Tsarnaev -- who face related charges --were taken to
the Essex County jail in Middleton, Massachusetts, according to
the U.S. Marshals Service.  Suspects Moved  The three 19-year-olds, Robel Phillipos of Cambridge,
Massachusetts, and Dias Kadyrbayev and Azamat Tazhayakov, who
are both from Kazakhstan, all began college together with
Dzhokhar Tsarnaev. The two Kazakhs have been charged with
conspiring to obstruct justice by removing items from Tsarnaev’s
dormitory room. Phillipos has been charged with willfully making
false statements to investigators.  All four suspects are or were students at the University of
Massachusetts Dartmouth, south of Boston.  In  Washington , Iowa Senator Charles Grassley, the top
Republican on the Judiciary Committee, sent a letter to Homeland
Security Secretary Janet Napolitano asking how Tazhayakov re-entered the U.S. on Jan. 20, even though his student visa was
canceled Jan. 4, after he had been dismissed from the school.  Grassley cited “clear gaps” in the immigration control
system, and requested more information on how both were admitted
to the country and how their visas were dealt with by her
department.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Ted Bunker at 
 tbunker1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net . 