-- BSkyB Says Profit Increases on High-Speed Internet Customers
-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2013-05-02T07:07:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/bskyb-nine-month-profit-increases-on-high-speed-web-customers.html
British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY) ,
the U.K.’s largest pay-TV broadcaster, said operating profit for
the first nine months climbed 9 percent as it won customers for
high-speed broadband.  Adjusted earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization in the nine months through March rose to 994
million pounds ($1.54 billion) from 908 million pounds a year
earlier, the Isleworth, England-based company said in a
statement. Sales advanced 6 percent to 5.38 billion pounds.  BSkyB is under increasing pressure as rivals invest in Web
service and sports programming, where Sky’s dominance has helped
it win and retain pay-TV customers. The company said in March it
agreed to buy  Telefonica SA (TEF) ’s broadband and fixed-line phone
division in the U.K. for 200 million pounds.  “These results highlight the way that our successful
transition to more broadly-based growth has created a bigger,
more profitable business,” Chief Executive Officer Jeremy Darroch said in the statement. “And having more ways to grow
serves us particularly well at a time when household budgets
look likely to remain stretched.”  BSkyB rose 1.4 percent to 856.5 pence in London trading at
8:04 a.m. The stock has gained 22 percent in the past 12 months.  BSkyB said it added 152,000 broadband subscribers in the
third quarter and has increased its customer base for high-speed
Web service by 524,000 in the last 12 months.  Sports Rights  The company also said today that it won the rights to the
U.S. Open tennis matches for three years beginning this year, in
a renewal of its prior broadcast deal. BSkyB spends more than 2
billion pounds a year on content, including exclusive rights to
show popular sports, such as the Premier League soccer games,
and movies. BSkyB began a channel dedicated to  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) 
movies in March, with first-run rights to films such as
“Brave” and “Wreck-It Ralph,” as well as older movies such
as “Finding Nemo.”  Billionaire John Malone has agreed to buy  Virgin Media
Inc. (VMED) , combining the BSkyB competitor’s high-speed fiber-optic
Internet infrastructure with his cable giant  Liberty Global Inc. (LBTYA) 
BT, the U.K.’s biggest broadband provider, has said its BT Sport
channel will start broadcasting this summer, potentially
threatening BSkyB’s dominance in programming.  Bundles that include Internet, phone and television, and
sometimes mobile-phone service, are becoming increasingly
popular as companies in these industries look for ways to
reverse slowing growth and lock in customers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  