-- Buffett Disciple Jason Donville Weighs Energy Stocks
-- B y   E r i c   L a m
-- 2013-05-02T15:58:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/buffett-disciple-jason-donville-weighs-energy-stocks.html
Jason Donville, whose fund has
outperformed Canadian stocks for five years using  Warren
Buffett ’s value investing strategy, is eyeing  Pulse Seismic (PSD) 
Inc.,  Total Energy Services Inc. (TOT)  and other energy stocks after
the recent resources rout.  “We’re sharpening our pencils on energy right now because
it’s very bombed out and the summertime is a great time to go
looking for bargains,” said Donville, chief executive officer
at Donville Kent Asset Management Inc. in Toronto.  His DKAM Capital Ideas Fund, a hedge fund with about C$70
million ($69.4 million) under management, has produced an
average annual return of 24 percent since its inception in
October 2008, compared with a 2.9 percent average return for the
Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Index in the same period,
according to Donville Kent’s  website .  The S&P/TSX rose 0.3 percent to 12,360.15 at 11:48 a.m.
today in Toronto.  Donville, 49, a former analyst for Credit Lyonnais in  Asia 
and a one-time watchkeeper on submarines for  Canada ’s navy,
targets value stocks that trade at low prices relative to
earnings yet report high returns on equity.  “It’s Buffettology, for lack of a better word,” Donville
said in an interview at Bloomberg’s Toronto bureau on April 30.
“Return on equity is the centerpiece of everything I do. ROE is
really important because it’s a measure of how fast the company
is growing.”  Hedge Funds  Return on equity, or net income relative to  shareholders’
equity , is a measure of how well a company uses reinvested
earnings to generate more profit.  Donville’s fund has returned 8.4 percent this year,
outperforming the asset-weighted Scotiabank Canadian Hedge Fund
Index, a gauge of open and closed funds with assets of at least
C$15 million and a 12-month track record, which has risen 2
percent in 2013.  DKAM’s top three holdings,  Constellation Software Inc. (CSU) ,  CGI
Group Ltd. (GIB/A)  and  Paladin Labs Inc (PLB) , which have returned 43 percent,
43 percent and 22 percent respectively in the past 12 months,
all fit Donville’s criteria of ROE greater than 20 percent with
price-to-earnings ratios in the single digits, he said. CGI is a
Montreal-based technology services company; Constellation is a
Toronto-based software maker and Paladin is a drugmaker in
 Montreal .  “We’re looking for the CGIs of the world,” he said. “We
simultaneously want growth and quality and want it tied up in a
single metric.”  Sold Gold  CGI Group surged to a 13-year high of C$31.90 on April 30
after reporting  profit  ahead of analysts’ estimates.  The  fund manager  said he sold his shares of Argonaut Gold
Inc. and B2Gold Corp., as well as a stake in Potash Corp. of
Saskatchewan Inc., about four weeks before an April 15 collapse
in commodities. Prices fell the most since 2008, including the
biggest drop for gold since 1980 that pushed the metal into a
 bear market . Crude fell to its lowest since December.  “The resource trade was busted,” Donville said. “We’re
in the eighth inning of a five-year cycle. There are two things
you want to be light on, the resource stocks and historically
the financials.”  Donville is weighing an investment in Pulse Seismic, a
Calgary-based company that licenses two and three-dimensional
seismic data to energy companies.  Steady Growth  “We love knowledge-based businesses,” Donville said.
“Fifteen years ago 30 guys had seismic libraries, and Pulse has
quietly bought them all up and now they’ve got that critical
mass.”  Technology stocks currently account for about 28 percent of
Donville’s portfolio including Constellation, CGI Group,
 Enghouse Systems Ltd. (ELS)  and MacDonald Dettwiler & Associates Ltd.
all in the fund’s Top 10 holdings. Enghouse is a  software
company  in Markham, Ontario and MacDonald Dettwiler is a
satellite company in  Vancouver .  What they have in common is a focus on steady growth
towards domination of an industry via expansion and
acquisitions, as opposed to constant innovation -- a nuance
often lost on technology investors and analysts, he said.  “I approach these companies as an economist,” he said.
“That’s the secret to looking at them. It has more to do with
oligopolies. So much about software is once it gets embedded,
you have a very sticky relationship with your customers.
Analysts miss this because they get preoccupied with the
technology.”  BlackBerry Bounce  BlackBerry, which Donville doesn’t own and has no plans to
buy, once dominated the cellphone landscape with its line of e-
mail enabled smartphones. The Waterloo, Ontario-based company
fell behind as Apple Inc. and Google Inc. entered the market
with new smartphone and tablet technologies. The stock has
plunged 88 percent in the past five years, the second-worst
performing stock in the S&P/TSX in that period.  BlackBerry has soared 35 percent this year as some
investors bet on strong sales of the new Q10 device, which CEO
Thorsten Heins said this week could be in the ‘tens of
millions.’’  Rebecca Freiburger, a spokeswoman with BlackBerry, declined
to comment on the company’s strategy.  Top Holding  Donville’s top holding is Constellation Software, which
accounts for about 15 percent of his portfolio. The software
holding company acquires smaller businesses, typically with
revenue of less than C$25 million, that specialize in developing
technology for niche areas such as health and leisure clubs and
tourist attractions.  Constellation has soared sixfold in the past five years as
of May 1, the third-best performing stock in the S&P/TSX in that
time. Montreal-based CGI Group, the No. 2 holding, specializes
in information-technology services including management and
consulting.  “Buffett has always said, ‘Oh, I don’t understand
technology, even though I play Bridge with  Bill Gates ,’” and
owns shares in IBM Corp., Donville said. Berkshire Hathaway Inc.
is the largest  shareholder  of IBM, with a 6.1 percent stake in
the Armonk, New York-based company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Lam in Toronto at 
 elam87@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  