-- HTC Margin Forecast Misses Estimates Amid One Handset Costs
-- B y   T i m   C u l p a n
-- 2013-05-02T11:21:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/htc-sees-sales-drop-as-one-phone-drives-turnaround-correct-.html
HTC Corp. (2498)  forecast weaker-than-
expected profit margins as it boosts spending to reverse
shrinking sales and contracting market share.  Second-quarter gross margin will be 22 percent to 24
percent, lagging the 24.6 percent average of 19  analyst
estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. Operating profit will be about
half the average of estimates, while sales outlook was in line.  HTC’s new One handset, meant to challenge Samsung
Electronics Co.’s Galaxy S4, marks a “watershed moment” for
the company as its first franchise product offered
simultaneously through U.S. operators, President Peter Chou said
in an interview last month. Shipment delays caused by production
problems pushed back its release, forcing sales and profit last
quarter to miss estimates.  “HTC One demand is good, but it’s not going to propel
sales of other products or ensure momentum through to the end of
the year,” said Dennis Chan, who rates the stock sell at Yuanta
Financial Holding Co. in Taipei. “Meanwhile, the high cost of
the phone, bad yields, and competitive pricing all play a part
in keeping margins below expectations.”  Operating Margin  Revenue will be about NT$70 billion ($2.37 billion) this
quarter, the Taoyuan, Taiwan-based company said in a statement
today. That’s in line with the NT$69.7 billion average of 20
analyst  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg and 23 percent less than
a year earlier.  Operating margin will be 1 percent to 3 percent, implying
an expectation for operating profit of NT$700 million to NT$2.1
billion, compared with the NT$3.69 billion average of 18 analyst
estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Gross margin was 20.3 percent
in the first quarter and operating margin was 0.1 percent, the
company said.  HTC fell 2 percent to NT$295 in Taipei trading today before
the earnings were announced. The company said yesterday it will
pay a dividend of NT$2 cash per share for last year, the lowest
in a decade and 95 percent less than the NT$40 a share it paid a
year earlier.  A delay in shipments of HTC One was caused by less-than-
expected manufacturing capacity for the device’s camera,
Benjamin Ho, the company’s marketing chief, said March 25.  The supplier situation has “greatly improved,” while
margins may improve in the third quarter, Chou said during an
investors’ conference call today.  Some marketing costs were pushed back to the second
quarter, Chief Financial Officer Chang Chialin said.  Net income dropped 98 percent last quarter to a record low
NT$85 million, while operating profit slumped 99 percent to
NT$43.4 million, the company said April 9.  Made with a thin aluminum case, HTC One includes an
UltraPixel camera, full high-definition screen and front-facing
speakers. HTC, whose global  smartphone share  climbed to 10.7
percent in the second quarter of 2011, had less than 4.2 percent
in the first quarter, researcher IDC  said  April 25.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Culpan in Taipei at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  