-- HCA Holdings Profit Misses Analysts’ Reduced Estimates
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   A r m o u r
-- 2013-05-02T20:35:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/hca-holdings-profit-misses-analysts-reduced-estimates.html
HCA Holdings Inc. (HCA) , the largest for-
profit U.S. hospital chain, reported profit that missed analyst
estimates as growth in patient visits continued to moderate.  First-quarter earnings excluding one-time items were 79
cents a share, the Nashville, Tennessee-based company said today
in a statement. The results were 3 cents less than the average
of 24 analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Same facility
equivalent admissions, the company’s main measure of growth,
fell 0.7 percent before adjustments.  HCA isn’t in a position to say whether the admissions
weakness is the start of a new trend or an anomaly, Chief
Executive Officer Richard Bracken said on a conference call with
analysts and investors today. Patient volume in April rose about
4 percent over a year earlier, he said.  “We have a calendar headwind, and the nice thing about it,
it shifts,” Brian Tanquilut, an analyst at Jefferies & Co, said
by telephone. “It’s setting them up for a better second
quarter.”   HCA, which oversees 162 hospitals and 113 freestanding
outpatient surgery centers, has been struggling with a slowdown
in admissions growth and weakness in outpatient volumes.
Hospitals also are being squeezed by pressures to improve
patient care and curb costs as the U.S. health overhaul focuses
on tying government reimbursement rates to quality of care.  “Unfavorable timing of New Year’s Day and Easter this year
and the loss of a day versus Leap Year last year was mostly
responsible for the sharp drop in admissions for the sector, as
was a weaker flu season,”  Vicki Bryan , an analyst at New York-
based debt researcher Gimme Credit LLC, said in a note yesterday
to investors.  Industry Admissions  HCA  rose  2.5 percent to $40.47 at the close of the market.
The shares gained 50 percent in the past 12 months.  Net income in the quarter declined to $344 million, or 74
cents a share, from $540 million, or $1.18, a year earlier, the
company said. Revenue rose 0.4 percent to $8.4 billion.  Tenet Healthcare Corp. (THC) , the third-largest for-profit
hospital chain in the U.S., reported two days ago that its
first-quarter inpatient admissions fell 4 percent while
outpatient admissions rose 2.2 percent.  Community Health Systems
Inc. (CYH) , the second-largest chain, saw a 4.4 percent decrease in
total admissions.  Same facility outpatient surgery cases at HCA dropped 4.3
percent, while inpatient surgery cases fell 2.6 percent,
according to the statement.  Full-Year Forecast  An analysis of the volume weakening appears to be largely
related to first quarter calendar changes, such as Easter and
New Year’s, Samuel Hazen, HCA’s president of operations, said on
today’s call. HCA initiated expense management steps in late
February that include restricting discretionary spending and
reducing workforce.  HCA had told investors April 15 that its first quarter
wouldn’t be as good as some expected, preparing them for
declines in both earnings and revenue. The company today
reaffirmed its annual earnings forecast of $3 to $3.30 a share
excluding one-time items.  The Affordable Care Act’s expansion of government-
administered health programs starting in 2014 is projected to
benefit hospitals that now have high levels of uncompensated
care.  HCA on April 29 led hospital stocks higher after the U.S.
government proposed new Medicare payment rates that would soften
the blow of federal cuts.  The company was taken public in 2011 by an investment group
led by Bain Capital LLC of  Boston  and New York-based KKR & Co.
Bain and KKR each hold stakes of about 16 percent, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Armour in Washington at 
 sarmour@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  