-- Calls to Rename Rio’s Olympic Stadium Following Bribe Scandal
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2013-05-02T17:40:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/calls-to-rename-rio-s-olympic-stadium-following-bribe-scandal.html
Protesters are pushing for a name
change at the stadium hosting track and field events at the 2016
Olympics in Rio de Janeiro after soccer’s governing body said
the man for whom the facility is named took bribes.  The Estadio Olimpico Joao Havelange in downtown Rio is
where world record holder Usain Bolt will seek to extend his
streak in the 100-meter and 200-meter dash to three straight
Olympics. Havelange, FIFA president between 1974 and 1998, was
among three former soccer officials who took bribes from the
organization’s now-bankrupt former marketing partner ISL, FIFA
said this week. He resigned his role as FIFA’s honorary
president on April 18.  “It’s shame for  Brazil  to have this name attached to the
stadium,” Gabriel Marinho, a member of the Rio-based National
Front of Sports Fans, which is demanding the stadium be renamed,
said in a phone interview. “It will be a great shame if it
still has this name when the Olympics start.”  An official at Havelange’s Rio office declined to comment,
saying the 96-year-old was unwell and was no longer active in an
official capacity.  The stadium was closed indefinitely in March, just six
years after opening, because signs of wear in its roof structure
suggest a danger of collapse, according to the office of Mayor
Eduardo Paes. It cost 390 million reais ($190 million) to build,
and is owned and managed by the city of Rio. A name change is
not on the agenda for now, the mayor’s office said.  ’Start Work’  “The city of Rio is focused only on finding a solution to
the problem with the roof and to start work to reopen the
stadium as soon as possible,” the mayor’s office said in an e-
mailed statement. “The issue of a possible name change, on
behalf of the complaints against former FIFA President Joao
Havelange, is not being discussed at the moment.”  Marinho said fans of soccer team Botafogo, the stadium’s
main tenant, are pushing for the stadium to bear the name of
Joao Saldanha, a soccer coach who managed both Botafogo and the
Brazilian national team in the 1950s. Fans attending matches
before the stadium was closed carried a banner that that read
“Estadio Joao Saldanha,” Marinho added.  FIFA announced Havelange resigned as its honorary president
after an internal inquiry found he, along with one-time son-in-
law Ricardo Teixeira, a former FIFA vice president, and Nicolas Leoz, ex-head of the South American soccer confederation,
accepted “not inconsiderable amounts” from ISL through “front
companies in order to cover up the true recipient.” Havelange
and Teixeira have denied the allegations in the past.  Charity Donation  Leoz told FIFA investigators he donated the money he
received in 2000 to charity in 2008, according to the FIFA
report. He resigned from the confederation on April 24, citing
health and personal reasons.  During his two-decade tenure as FIFA president, Havelange
used the relationship with ISL to bring sponsors including  Coca-
Cola Co. (KO) ,  Adidas AG (ADS)  and McDonald’s Corp. to its quadrennial
World Cup. That tournament now brings in around $5 billion,
including sponsorships, TV rights, and ticket sales.  A separate report published by a Swiss court last year said
that from 1992 to 2000, ISL paid Havelange and Teixeira a total
of at least $22 million.  For Related News and Information:
Ex-FIFA President Joao Havelange Resigns After Bribes Found
(MM2TO10YHQ0X)
Ex-FIFA President Havelange, Teixeira Named in Bribery Documents
(M70SAR6JTSET)
Anti-Graft Adviser Says FIFA May Need Governmental Intervention
(MHWI1Q07SXKX)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  