-- Canadian Natural First-Quarter Profit Falls 50% on Currency
-- B y   R e b e c c a   P e n t y
-- 2013-05-02T23:34:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/canadian-natural-resources-says-first-quarter-profit-declined.html
Canadian Natural Resources Ltd. (CNQ) , the
nation’s third-largest oil and natural gas producer, reported a
50 percent drop in first-quarter profit as losses related to
foreign currency exchange and other expenses offset higher
output and prices.  Net income fell to C$213 million ($211 million), or 19
cents a share, from C$427 million, or 39 cents, a year earlier,
the Calgary-based company said in a statement today. Excluding
C$188 million in expenses tied to fluctuating foreign exchange
rates, hedging and compensation, profit was 36 cents, less than
the 43-cent average of 17 analysts’ estimates compiled by
Bloomberg.  The results were “slightly negative,” Phil Skolnick, a
New York-based analyst with Canaccord Genuity Corp., said in a
note. Though output was higher than expected, per-share earnings
and  cash flow  missed analysts’ estimates, he said.  Production rose 11 percent to the equivalent of 680,844
barrels of oil a day, from last year. The Horizon oil-sands
plant, where the company is focused on improving reliability
after periods of unplanned maintenance, met the upper end of the
quarter’s target, at about 109,000 barrels a day. The project
accounts for about one-sixth of the company’s output.  “Reliability at Horizon has been a key theme for investors
in the company over the last couple of years,” Chris Feltin, a
Calgary-based analyst at Macquarie Group Ltd., wrote in an April
14 note. Prices for crude produced by oil-sands projects are
poised to rise “and Canadian Natural is our top pick for
participating in this upside.”  Canadian Natural said its 24-day planned maintenance
shutdown of the Horizon plant began on April 30.  Kirby Ahead  The 40,000 barrel a day Kirby oil-sands project is ahead of
schedule, as the company will begin injecting steam underground
to produce oil in the third quarter, compared with its previous
target of November, according to the statement.  Canadian Natural found a partner it won’t yet identify
pending regulatory approvals to drill its offshore holdings in
 South Africa , the company said.  Sales increased 12 percent to C$3.84 billion.  Gas prices  rose in the quarter while the price of Canadian
heavy crude fell 12 percent to average $66.99 a barrel, from a
year earlier, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The spread between Canadian heavy crude and the U.S.
benchmark began narrowing after the quarter, “resulting in more
favorable price realizations for Canadian Natural,” Corey Bieber, Canadian Natural’s chief financial officer, said in the
statement. The  price difference  was a record $42.50 a barrel on
Dec. 14, according to figures compiled by Bloomberg.  Montney Shale  Canadian Natural said in March it may sell some of its
holdings in the Montney Shale in British Columbia, one of the
nation’s largest gas finds, as it awaits higher demand.  The company, which has just hired an adviser for the
Montney sale, doesn’t yet have a deadline for a deal,  Steve Laut , president of Canadian Natural, told reporters in Calgary.
It has seen “unofficial interest” in the properties, he said.  The results were released after regular trading on North
American markets. Canadian Natural gained 1.7 percent to C$29.49
in Toronto. The stock, which has 18 buy and 7 hold
recommendations from  analysts , has risen 3 percent this year.  Suncor Energy Inc. (SU)  and  Imperial Oil Ltd. (IMO)  are  Canada ’s
largest oil and gas producers by market value.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rebecca Penty in Calgary at 
 rpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  