-- Carlyle Adds Energy Deal Makers for Global Investments
-- B y   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e
-- 2013-05-02T13:00:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/carlyle-adds-energy-deal-makers-for-global-investments.html
Carlyle Group LP (CG) , the second-biggest
private-equity firm by assets, hired six energy executives led
by Petroplus Holdings AG founder Marcel van Poecke to invest in
energy assets outside  North America .  The team will focus on oil and gas exploration and
production as well as other oil-related services in Europe,
Africa, Latin America and Asia, Washington-based Carlyle said in
a statement today.  Carlyle is expanding its $28 billion energy business after
a joint venture with Riverstone Holdings LLC wound down and the
two private-equity firms started raising money independently.
Carlyle last year acquired Goldman Sachs Group Inc.-backed
Cogentrix Energy LLC, which oversees coal and solar power
projects, and it bought commodities hedge-fund manager
Vermillion Asset Management LLC. In December, Carlyle took a
47.5 percent revenue interest in NGP Energy Capital Management
LLC for $424 million.  “Energy, and particularly carbon-related energy, is the
single most attractive global area in which to invest today,”
 David Rubenstein , Carlyle’s co-chief executive officer, said on
a December conference call with investors and analysts. “There
is a revolution going on in the U.S. and a need for energy
around the world as economies in the  emerging markets  grow.”  Van Poecke started Petroplus in 1993 and grew it into
Europe’s biggest independent oil refiner, which Carlyle owned
from 2005 to 2007. He left in 2007, and the Zug, Switzerland-
based company filed for bankruptcy last year after lenders froze
credit lines.  Other executives joining van Poecke at Carlyle include
Paddy Spink, who will be an operating executive, and Joost
Droege and Joao Saraiva e Silva, who will be managing directors.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Devin Banerjee in  New York  at 
 dbanerjee2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  