-- Carstens Says Intention Wasn’t to Signal Future Rate Decision
-- B y   N a c h a   C a t t a n
-- 2013-05-02T17:20:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/carstens-says-intention-wasn-t-to-signal-future-rate-decision.html
Mexico ’s central bank Governor Agustin Carstens said his intention wasn’t to signal a future rate
decision when he spoke in a radio interview April 29 and that he
and his board aren’t indicating any bias on rates.  “The market or the interpretation that was given to my
comment was that I was in some way prejudging a movement on
interest rates,” Carstens told reporters today in Mexico City.
“That wasn’t my intention.”  Carstens told Radio Formula on April 29 that policy makers
may consider cutting rates if the annual inflation rate falls
below 4 percent from 4.72 percent in early April. The peso
weakened after his statement, and fixed-rate government peso
bond yields plunged to record lows the next day. The central
bank board had published its rate decision statement on April
26, in which there was no direct mention of a possible rate
move.  The peso rose 0.3 percent today at 11:45 a.m. in Mexico
City to 12.1633 per dollar.  “We’re not indicating any bias about the future movement
of  interest rates ,” Carstens said today.  Adverse weather conditions and other factors that pushed
inflation above the central bank’s target range are expected to
be temporary, Carstens said in the April 29 Radio Formula
interview. Inflation should slow to within the 2 percent to 4
percent target range in the second half of the year, he said.  “Perhaps once we’re in this circumstance there’s a
possibility to consider an additional movement,” Carstens said
during last week’s interview. “But while this inflationary
hump, so to speak, doesn’t ease, and we don’t have the certainty
that it will ease, it’s difficult to carry out an additional
movement on interest rates.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nacha Cattan in Mexico City at 
 ncattan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  