-- Chelsea Beats Basel, Will Face Benfica in Europa League Final
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2013-05-02T22:20:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/chelsea-beats-basel-will-face-benfica-in-europa-league-final.html
Chelsea moved within a victory of a
European trophy for the second straight year after it beat Basel
3-1 to reach to the Europa League soccer final against Benfica.  Fernando Torres , Victor Moses and  David Luiz  scored in the
second half last night at  Stamford  Bridge in London to give
Chelsea a 5-2 win in the two-match semifinal.  “Credit to the players in the second half,” Chelsea
interim manager  Rafael Benitez  told ITV. “They were on top of
them and we scored three goals. We controlled the game.”  Benfica also won 3-1 at home over Fenerbahce to claim a 3-2
series victory and reach the final of Europe’s second-tier club
competition for the first time in 30 years. The title match will
be played May 15 in Amsterdam.  Chelsea’s victory gives it the chance to add the Europa
League title to last season’s triumph in the  Champions League .
The Blues dropped into the Europa League this season after being
eliminated from the Champions League group stage.  By winning in Amsterdam, Chelsea would become the first
team to win Europe’s top two club competitions in reverse order
in successive years.  Basel took a 1-0 lead in the match as Mohamed Salah curled
a shot past  Petr Cech  with the final kick of the first half.  Chelsea then broke the game open in a nine-minute span
early in the second half.  Three Goals  Torres tied the score with his 20th goal of the season in
the 50th minute when he slid in to tuck in the rebound after
goalkeeper Yann Sommer stopped  Frank Lampard ’s shot. Moses
scored off another rebound two minutes later to put the Blues up
2-1 and Luiz curled a shot from 25 yards (22 meters) inside the
left post in the 59th minute to clinch the victory.  “In the first half we didn’t perform in the best way,”
Torres told ITV. “At halftime we agreed about that. We showed
the concentration and mentality at the start of the half. We
killed the game off.”  Chelsea is the first English team to reach the Europa
League final since Fulham, which lost to  Atletico Madrid  three
years ago. Liverpool was the last team from  England  to win the
title, in 2001.  The Blues have already lost in the final of the Club World
Cup this season, along with the UEFA Super Cup and the English
Community Shield.  “We have lost three finals this season,” Luiz said. “We
have one more opportunity to win a big title.”  Cardozo Brace  In Lisbon,  Oscar Cardozo  scored twice to help Benfica reach
the final for the first time since 1983, when it lost to
Anderlecht when the competition was known as the UEFA Cup.  After a 1-0 loss in the opening match in Turkey, Nicolas
Gaitan pulled Benfica even with a goal in the ninth minute. Dirk Kuyt then scored with a penalty kick in the 23rd minute to give
Fenerbahce a 2-1 total lead.  Cardozo’s goal in the 35th minute tied the series 2-2 and
left Benfica trailing on the away-goals tiebreaker. The
Paraguayan then fired a left-footed shot into the bottom right
corner midway through the second half to send Benfica to the
final.  Chelsea and Benfica have met once before in European
competition, with the Blues winning their Champions League
quarterfinal matchup last season.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 