-- China’s Manufacturing Expands at Slower Pace, Survey Shows
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-05-02T02:16:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/china-manufacturing-expands-at-slower-pace-private-survey-shows.html
A private gauge of Chinese
manufacturing declined last month, adding to signs that  growth 
in the world’s second-biggest economy will cool for a second
straight quarter.  The final April reading of 50.4 for a  Purchasing Managers ’
 Index (EC11CHPM)  released today by HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics
compares with 51.6 for March and the preliminary reading of 50.5
given April 23. A reading above 50 indicates expansion.  The drop follows a fall in an official manufacturing  index 
reported yesterday and lower-than-estimated gains in industrial
output in the first quarter. The factory slump joins weakness in
export demand and property-market overheating as risks that the
growth slowdown will persist in the three months through June.  “The slower growth of manufacturing activities in April
confirmed a fragile growth recovery” in the broader economy,
Qu Hongbin, chief  China  economist with HSBC in Hong Kong, said
in a statement. “The looming deflationary pressures also
suggest softer overall demand conditions. All this is likely to
weigh on the labor market, which is likely to invite more policy
responses in the coming months.”  The median estimate of 12 analysts in a Bloomberg News
survey was for a reading of 50.5.  Stocks in China extended declines after the report, in the
first trading day following a three-day holiday. The benchmark
Shanghai Composite  Index (SHCOMP)  dropped 0.7 percent at 9:54 a.m. local
time, heading for the lowest level since December.  Machinery Profits  Machinery maker  Sany Heavy Industry Co. (600031)  said last week its
net income fell 44 percent to 1.57 billion  yuan  ($255 million)
in the first quarter while rival Zoomlion Heavy Industry Science
& Technology Co. reported a 71.7 percent decline.  The government-backed Purchasing Managers’ Index for
manufacturers had a reading of 50.6 last month, the National
 Bureau of Statistics  and China Federation of Logistics and
Purchasing said yesterday in Beijing. That compared with the
50.7 median forecast of analysts and a March reading of 50.9.  The economy expanded 7.7 percent in the first quarter, less
than analysts’ forecasts and below the 7.9 percent pace in the
final three months of last year.  The median estimate for second-quarter growth was 8 percent
in a survey of 30 economists conducted April 18 to April 23,
compared with an 8.2 percent median forecast of 31 analysts the
previous month.  Growth in Chinese industrial companies’ profits slowed in
March, with net income increasing 5.3 percent from a year
earlier, down from a 17.2 percent pace in the first two months,
the NBS said April 27.  The HSBC survey covers a sample of more than 420 companies,
and the government PMI survey has a sample base of 3,000
companies in 21 industry groups.  --Zhou Xin. With assistance from Ailing Tan in  Singapore  and
Cynthia Li in  Hong Kong . Editors: Scott Lanman, Nerys Avery  To contact Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Xin Zhou in Beijing at 
 xzhou68@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  