-- China’s Inland Provinces Report Slower Growth in First Quarter
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-05-02T07:41:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/china-s-inland-provinces-report-slower-growth-in-first-quarter.html
Growth in  China ’s less-developed
inland provinces weakened last quarter while expansion in some
coastal areas picked up and all regions reported faster gains
than nationwide figures, local-government data showed.  Expansion in southwestern Sichuan was 10.2 percent in the
first quarter, compared with 2012 full-year growth of 12.6
percent, while neighboring Guizhou’s gross domestic product
gains eased to 12.6 percent from 2012’s 13.6 percent. Eastern
Zhejiang reported 8.3 percent growth in the first three months
after 8 percent in 2012 and export-dependent Guangdong showed
8.5 percent, up from 8.2 percent last year.  The reports indicate the gap in growth speeds between
inland and more-industrialized coastal regions may be narrowing
as the government slows infrastructure investment while the
south and east benefit from higher  exports . Almost half of
China’s provinces set lower targets for expansion this year than
in 2012, according to Nomura Holdings Inc.  “China’s central and western regions are more reliant on
infrastructure investment than coastal areas,” said Xu Gao,
chief economist for Everbright Securities Co. in Beijing. “As
credit gradually feeds into investment projects, growth in
western areas may pick up again -- domestic demand, not external,
will decide China’s growth prospects.”  The growth rate was lower in the first quarter than in
full-year 2012 for about three-fourths of the 31 provincial
areas, according to data compiled by  Bloomberg News . All regions
reported faster growth than the national  reading  of 7.7 percent
for the first quarter, with northwestern Gansu gave the fastest
expansion at 12.9 percent and  Shanghai  the slowest at 7.8
percent, figures from local statistics bureaus showed.  The governments didn’t break down figures for the fourth
quarter.  Manufacturing Gauges  An official survey of manufacturers across the country also
shows a divide. A purchasing managers’ index for the eastern
region was at 51.3 in April, while the gauge for central areas
was 49.6 and it was 50.1 for the west, the National Bureau of
Statistics said yesterday. Numbers above 50 indicate expansion.  The national expansion rate in the first quarter marked an
unexpected slowdown from the 7.9 percent pace in the final three
months of last year. Full-year  growth  was 7.8 percent in 2012.  The provinces are known for reporting growth rates that
often exceed the national pace calculated by the central
government. The combined GDP released by Chinese provinces for
2012 was 5.8 trillion  yuan  ($940 billion) more than the
countrywide figure published by the National Bureau of
Statistics, according to the state-run  China Daily . That’s about
the size of  Indonesia ’s economy.  --Zhou Xin. Editors: Scott Lanman, Nerys Avery  To contact Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Xin Zhou in Beijing at 
 xzhou68@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  