-- China’s Ye, 12, Becomes Youngest to Play on European Golf Tour
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2013-05-02T15:10:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/china-s-ye-12-becomes-youngest-to-play-on-european-golf-tour.html
China ’s Ye Wocheng became the youngest
golfer to play a European Tour event when he shot 7-over-par 79
in today’s opening round at the China Open.  Ye, at 12 years and 242 days, broke the previous record for
youngest player of 13 years, 177 days set by compatriot Guan
Tianlang in last year’s event in Tianjin.  Ye, who made the field through local qualifying, had eight
bogeys and one birdie at Binhai Lake Golf Club and is 13 shots
behind leader Robert-Jan Derksen of the Netherlands.  “I was a little nervous,” Ye, who holed a long chip for
bogey after losing his ball on the par-5 sixth hole, told
European Tour Radio. “I tried to enjoy it.”  Ye is among several young Chinese amateurs to qualify for
the 156-golfer field. Dou Zecheng, 16, is tied for 11th place
after shooting 2-under-par 70, while 15-year-old Bai Zhengkai
shot 83.  Derksen, 39, made eight birdies and two bogeys in shooting
66. He’s two shots ahead of  France ’s Raphael Jacquelin,
Thailand’s Kiradech Aphibarnrat and Australian Brett Rumford.  Derksen was 1-over after making his only bogeys at the
third and fourth holes before finishing with seven birdies over
his final 13 holes.  “It was a funny day, because I started well with a birdie
from about five feet, but then three-putted the third and fourth
and ended up in three divots on the fairways later in the
round,” he told reporters. “But I made a lot of birdies, and
I’ve ended the day in a really good position. I started making a
few putts and my confidence lifted.”  Scotland’s  Paul Lawrie , the 1999 British Open champion, is
among six golfers three shots behind Derksen after shooting 69.  Guan, 14, last month became the youngest player to appear
and make the cut at a major golf championship at the  Masters
Tournament . He also made the cut at last weekend’s Zurich
Classic of  New Orleans  on the U.S.  PGA Tour .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 