-- Chinese Spy Suspect Pleads Guilty to Violating NASA Rules
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2013-05-03T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/chinese-spy-suspect-pleads-guilty-to-violating-nasa-rules.html
A Chinese spy suspect pleaded guilty
to violating computer-use rules of the National Aeronautics and
Space Administration after prosecutors said they didn’t find any
secret information on his electronic devices.  Bo Jiang, who was indicted March 20 for allegedly making
false statements to the U.S. after being pulled from a plane as
he was about to depart for  China , admitted yesterday in federal
court in  Newport News , Virginia, to downloading sexually
explicit images onto his NASA laptop in violation of agency
rules, a misdemeanor.  “None of the computer media that Jiang attempted to bring
to the PRC on March 16, 2013, contained classified information,
export controlled information, or NASA proprietary
information,” according to the statement of facts filed in
Jiang’s case.  As part of the agreement, prosecutors dismissed the
indictment and Jiang was ordered to leave the country within 48
hours.  “Dr. Jiang is relieved this ordeal is over,” his lawyer,
Fernando Groene, said in an interview. “Although he was accused
in arena of public opinion and in the halls of Congress, once
due process was given he was cleared of any and all allegations
that he was a spy.”  Possible Conspiracy  At the time of his arrest in March, Jiang was under federal
investigation at  NASA ’s request for a possible conspiracy
involving violations of the Arms Export Control Act, according
to an FBI affidavit. Prosecutors said in court papers on April 2
that they were trying to determine whether Jiang had taken, or
was seeking to take, “secret, confidential or classified
information” to China.  Jiang, barred from NASA facilities late last year and fired
from his job in January at the National Institute of Aerospace,
was stopped on March 16 as he tried leave Dulles International
Airport outside  Washington  for Beijing. Federal authorities
alleged he lied to them by failing to disclose the computer
equipment in his possession.  Jiang, 31, was one of about 281 nationals from countries
designated as security threats employed at NASA facilities,
according to congressional testimony in March by NASA
Administrator Charles Bolden. He was blocked from resuming his
work at NASA’s Langley Research Center in Hampton,  Virginia ,
after coming back from a monthlong trip to China in December,
according to court filings.  Hard Drive  He took a NASA computer, as well as an NIA external hard
drive from his employer, with him on that trip, violating the
agency’s security regulations, according the criminal
information. Jiang’s employment at the non-profit aerospace and
atmospheric research and graduate education institute was
terminated on Jan. 11.  Representative Frank Wolf, a Virginia Republican, told
reporters in Washington on March 7, more than a week before
Jiang’s arrest, that whistle-blowers at NASA were concerned
about possible security breaches at its research facilities.  A week later, Wolf named Jiang as one of the individuals
identified by the whistle-blowers during an exchange with  Paul
Martin , NASA’s inspector general, at a hearing of the House
Appropriations subcommittee led by the lawmaker. The same day,
the FBI opened an investigation into Jiang for potential
violations of the Arms Control Export Act, according to the
bureau affidavit.  ‘Original Question’  “I remain concerned that neither the prosecutors nor NASA
have addressed the original question of why a NASA laptop was
inappropriately provided to a restricted foreign national
associated with ‘an entity of concern’ and why he was allowed to
take the laptop and all of its information back to China last
December,” Wolf said in an e-mailed statement.  Jiang said in court papers was targeted by Wolf for
political purposes.  Prosecutors alleged that Jiang moved his departure date
forward -- from April 5 to March 16 -- after his name was
released during the March 13 hearing with Martin, the NASA
inspector general.  Jiang, who has been in the country since 2007, obtained his
doctorate from Virginia’s Old Dominion University in 2010 and
worked as a researcher on the  multi-scale retinex , an image
enhancing project developed by NASA, according to court
documents. He was going home because he had no job prospects and
his student visa had expired, papers filed by Jiang’s lawyer.  Zachary Terwilliger, a spokesman for U.S. Attorney  Neil MacBride  in Virginia, declined to comment on Jiang’s plea.  The case is U.S. v. Jiang, 13-mj-00076, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of Virginia (Newport News).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  