-- Cicadas, the Wedding Crashers Who Can Jitterbug
-- B y   C o n s t a n c e   C a s e y
-- 2013-05-02T18:10:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/cicadas-the-wedding-crashers-who-can-jitterbug.html
We are about to  witness  the largest
insect emergence on the planet, and it happens only in the
eastern U.S. At the beginning of May, billions of  Magicicada
septendecim  nymphs will start to rise out of the ground en
masse, from  North Carolina  to  New York , finding a tree (or the
nearest vertical structure, possibly your house) to cling to.
There, they will split their skins and emerge as adults.  The website for  Cicada Mania  has a map that gives a good
idea of where and when the swarms will occur (earlier in the
South) and answers questions. The most frequently asked
question: Will cicadas ruin my wedding?  This is evidence, sad to say, of how incurious and self-centered we human beings can be. Yes, they look bizarre with
their bulbous red eyes. Yes, the sound could interfere with the
band at the reception.  But the event, and I don’t mean the wedding, is very
impressive. A week of body hardening and the males are ready to
sing -- a buzz of 80-90 decibels (about the same as a blow-dryer, kitchen blender, noisy playground or crowded bar). Then
the  insects  have just a month of life, which the males spend
mating many times, the females once. The resulting eggs -- laid
in twigs -- then hatch before the infant nymphs fall to the
ground and dig down a foot to wait for another 17 years. (The
last brood appeared in 1996.)  Cicadas can’t harm human beings, and they will be dead by
the end of June. Brides and grooms, if you insist on June, you
should think about a screened porch. Or consider that an outdoor
June wedding could actually be enlivened by a few thousand
cicadas (sometimes there are a million per acre).  Inept Fliers  The insects don’t sting or bite, though they are very inept
fliers and bump into people, which is either amusing or scream-inducing. Their black bodies trimmed in orange and veined wings
would show up nicely on white tablecloths and pastel
bridesmaids’ dresses. They have no interest in  human food , but
might fall into the pasta salad.  The main point is, however, how about a little awe? It’s a
long time to wait to come up into the light. These insects spend
17 years as little wingless nymphs, feeding on tree roots -- a
dark and quiet life. Their only tasks are to grow bigger and
bigger with successive molts, and to count. How, speaking of
awe, do they count?  Some other creatures in the dark count warm seasons versus
cold ones. The  17-year  cicadas keep track of the years by the
number of springs that the tree to which they are attached
flowers. (Scientists once put some cicadas in a pot under a pear
tree that was forced to bloom twice in a year. The insects’
development accelerated.)  The first really risky thing in their lives occurs when the
counting is over, the soil temperature rises to more than 65
degrees Fahrenheit, and they dig out, clamber up a tree trunk
and shed their nymph exoskeletons. The covering is sticky so
it’s possible to lose an antenna or a leg, or get stuck halfway
out and die before getting a chance to reproduce.  Once the luckier ones unpack themselves and unfold their
crumpled wings, a matter of several hours, the cicadas can fly
away, but they won’t make noise for another week and then only,
thankfully, in the daytime. The males congregate in choruses and
the females, who don’t sing, find their way to the ensemble
where they will find a male and mate -- end to end.
Entomologists say they have no idea what the female is looking
for and whether she is concerned with finding the fittest mate.  “She’s looking for Mr. Good Enough,” says  Cole Gilbert , an
associate professor of entomology at  Cornell University . “Seems
to me like she’s not putting a lot of thought into this.”  Survival Strategy  Not a lot of thought? She has had 17 years to dream of the
perfect male. We know how they have slowly counted out the
years, but why the long, long wait?  The survival strategy for the species is to swamp hungry
predators. Birds, lizards, squirrels, raccoons, foxes, ants and
spiders gorge themselves until they can’t stand to look at
another cicada. Any stragglers coming a year later, or a year
earlier, in a smaller cohort would all be gobbled up. (Cicadas
are easy to catch and satisfyingly  crunchy .) The insects fit
into the web of life by being food, and the masses of leftover
dead bodies add a pulse of nitrogen to forest soil.  This has been going on for a lot longer than human beings
have had  wedding planners . (They should, by the way, have paid
more attention to what year it was. Check those calendars for
2030.) About 4 million years ago, the strategic cicadas diverged
from their brethren that didn’t stay underground as long.  The buzzing, the being bumped into, the picking them off
your gown, the insects in the salad -- these seem paltry
concerns in the big scheme of things. (And you could ask
yourself some meaningful questions about your fellow human
beings, such as, “Will a cicada get drunk and proposition my
father’s second wife?”) These creatures have waited 17 years to
mate; how hard would it be to delay your wedding a few weeks?  (Constance Casey writes the Species column for Landscape
Architecture Magazine and the series “Revolting Creatures” for
Slate. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Constance Casey at  constancecasey927@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 