-- Clearwire Says Needs $1.7 Billion Funds to Keep Operating
-- B y   B e n   L i v e s e y
-- 2013-05-02T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/clearwire-says-needs-1-7-billion-funds-to-keep-operating.html
Clearwire Corp. (CLWR) , the money-losing
wireless-service provider, said it needs at least $1.7 billion
to cover a cash shortage and continue operating.  The company, based in Bellevue,  Washington , needs the funds
through 2014 to make up for the shortfall, it said in a filing
yesterday. The shortfall reflects “less certain revenues and
high fixed costs,” it said.  Clearwire, which is majority owned by  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S) ,
said last month it will draw $80 million in financing from
Sprint for a third straight month, leaning on the wireless
carrier for funding as it awaits a shareholder vote on a
proposal by Sprint to buy the rest of the company.  Rival suitor  Dish Network Corp. (DISH) , seeking to gain control of
valuable airwaves, has offered $25 billion for control of Sprint
and $3.30 a share for Clearwire stock, more than Sprint’s $2.97-
a-share offer.  In the  filing  yesterday, Clearwire said Sprint’s offer
“provides a compelling value to Clearwire minority
shareholders.” As part of the evaluation of the Sprint offer,
Clearwire provided two business scenarios in which it requires
$2 billion to $4 billion in additional funding through 2017.  Under its current structure, the “prospects of securing
funding are highly uncertain,” it said in the filing.  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ) , the second-largest U.S. phone
company, offered Clearwire $1 billion to $1.5 billion for
airwaves in major cities, the New York-based company said last
month. Clearwire reiterated in yesterday’s filing that a special
committee would review the proposal.  Clearwire shareholders are scheduled to vote on Sprint’s
offer on May 21.  The company’s stock fell 1.5 percent to $3.31 at the close
in New York yesterday. Sprint rose less than 1 percent to $7.06,
while Dish declined less than 1 percent to $39.14.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Livesey in London at 
 blivesey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Ben Livesey at 
 blivesey@bloomberg.net ;
Cecile Daurat at 
 cdaurat@bloomberg.net  