-- Clinton Favored in Poll as 2016 Democratic Nominee
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 2013-05-02T16:55:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/clinton-favored-in-poll-as-2016-democratic-nominee.html
The 2016 Democratic presidential
nomination is  Hillary Clinton ’s if she wants it, according to a
poll released today in which Vice President  Joe Biden  is the
party’s frontrunner if she doesn’t.  The Quinnipiac University  survey  showed 65 percent of
Democratic voters backing Clinton as their party’s nominee, with
Biden second at 13 percent. Other frequently mentioned prospects
had support in the low single digits in the April 25-29 poll: 4
percent for New York Governor  Andrew Cuomo  and 1 percent or less
for Maryland Governor  Martin O’Malley , Massachusetts Governor
 Deval Patrick  and Virginia Senator  Mark Warner .  Clinton, 65, “has a rock-solid hold on the hearts of
Democratic voters at this point,” said  Peter Brown , assistant
director of the Quinnipiac polling institute in Hamden,
Connecticut.  A former secretary of state, senator from  New York  and
first lady, Clinton hasn’t commented on any future political
plans since she stepped down from her diplomatic post early this
year. Supporters, though, have formed a super-political action
committee to work for her if she seeks the White House.  Emily’s List  She could also get help from Emily’s List, an advocacy
group that supports Democratic women candidates who back
abortion rights.  “If she decides to take this on, she’s in an incredible
position,” Emily’s List President Stephanie Schriock told
reporters this morning in announcing an effort to elect Clinton
or another woman as president in 2016.  To accomplish its goal Emily’s List plans to enlist its 2
million supporters, as well as use online advertising and
conduct town-hall meetings in the early primary and caucus
states of Iowa, Nevada and New Hampshire. Another tool will be
online chats, such as one later today with followers of a
website geared toward women that was co-founded by actress  Zooey Deschanel .  If Clinton, whose husband, Bill, served as president from
1993 to 2001, decides to skip the race, the Quinnipiac poll
showed 45 percent would support Biden, 70, as the Democratic
nominee. Cuomo’s backing would rise to 15 percent, with 6
percent for Patrick, 3 percent for O’Malley and 2 percent for
Warner.  ‘Long Way’  “There is a long way to go until 2016, but none of the
other younger potential candidates for the Democratic nomination
currently has anything approaching widespread support from party
voters,” Brown said.  Cuomo is 55 years old, Patrick 56, O’Malley 50, and Warner
58.  Clinton would be the first woman to head a major political
party’s national ticket. Democratic Representative  Geraldine Ferraro  of New York in 1984 and Republican Governor Sarah Palin
of  Alaska  in 2008 ran as their parties’ vice-presidential
nominees. Clinton lost the 2008 Democratic presidential
nomination to Obama.  A Feb. 27-March 4  Quinnipiac poll  showed Clinton leading
three potential 2016 Republican presidential candidates: New
Jersey Governor  Chris Christie , Florida Senator Marco Rubio, and
Wisconsin Representative  Paul Ryan , who ran for vice president
last year on a ticket led by  Mitt Romney .  In the latest poll, taken after the April 15 bombings at
the Boston Marathon that killed three people and wounded more
than 250 others, 58 percent of all registered voters supported
trying terrorism suspects in a military court rather than in
civilian courts.  Death Penalty  Also, 59 percent favored the death penalty for Dzhokhar Tsarnaev if he is convicted of carrying out the attack. His
brother, Tamerlan, the other suspect in the bombings, was killed
in a shootout with law officers.  The survey showed 71 percent of registered voters said they
were “dissatisfied” or “angry” at the Senate’s rejection
April 17 of legislation to require those buying firearms at gun
shows or online to undergo the same background checks as those
purchasing weapons from licensed dealers. The measure fell short
of the 60 votes needed to advance in the chamber.  Previous Quinnipiac surveys have shown more than 90 percent
of U.S. voters backing the expanded background checks in the
wake of the December shooting deaths of 20 students and six
adults at a Newtown,  Connecticut , elementary school.  The most recent poll showed a decline in support for
providing a path to citizenship for undocumented immigrants, a
key element in a proposed rewrite of U.S. immigration policy
being pushed by a bipartisan group of senators. Backing for the
citizenship provision declined to 52 percent from 59 percent in
a  Quinnipiac survey  released in early April.  The current survey of 1,471 registered voters had a margin
of error of plus or minus 2.6 percentage points. The subset of
650 Democratic voters or those who leaned Democratic had a
margin of error of plus or minus 3.8 percentage points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan D. Salant in Washington at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Robin Meszoly at 
 rmeszoly@bloomberg.net ;
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  