-- Colony Files to Raise $100 Million in Home Rental IPO
-- B y   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n
-- 2013-05-03T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/colony-files-to-raise-100-million-in-home-rental-ipo.html
Thomas Barrack Jr.’s Colony American
Homes Inc., which has bought more than 8,000 U.S. single-family
rental houses since starting last year, filed to raise as much
as $100 million in a U.S. initial public offering.  The company, based in Scottsdale,  Arizona , didn’t disclose
the number of shares or an offering price in its regulatory
filing yesterday. The offering size is a placeholder amount used
to calculate registration fees and may change.  Private-equity firms including Barrack’s Colony Capital LLC
and Blackstone Group LP have raised more than $10 billion after
the U.S. housing crash to buy single-family homes and rent them
out. There are 14 million rental homes in the country with an
average price of $200,000, giving what was once a mom and pop
business a value of $2.8 trillion, according to a report from
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. last month.  The investors are taking advantage of  prices  that remain 29
percent below their 2006 peak and rising demand for rentals
among people who can’t qualify for a mortgage. The U.S.
 homeownership rate  fell to 65 percent at the end of March, the
lowest since 1995, the Commerce Department said this week.  Colony American Homes, which plans to organize as a real
estate investment trust and apply for listing on the  New York 
Stock Exchange, spent more than $1 billion to acquire and
renovate homes since it was founded last March, buying in 25
metropolitan areas, according to the filing. Colony Capital,
which has bought about $50 billion of real estate since it was
founded in 1991, has raised $2.2 billion from private investors
to purchase single-family rental homes, the filing shows.  Additional Capital  While the company currently has no debt, management plans
to “use leverage in the future and are currently in the process
of negotiating to obtain a credit facility to provide us with
additional capital,” according to the filing.  Silver Bay Realty Trust Corp. (SBY)  in December became the first
pure single-family rental company to become a public REIT. The
Minnetonka, Minnesota-based company’s shares are up 4.8 percent
from the initial price of $18.50 on Dec. 13.  American Residential Properties Inc., a Scottsdale-based
investor in rental homes, said this week it plans an IPO of 13.7
million shares at $21 to $23 each. American Homes 4 Rent, a
Malibu, California-based single-family rental operator led by B. Wayne Hughes with more than 10,000 homes, said in February that
it also expects to register for a public offering.  Credit Suisse Group AG, Morgan Stanley and Bank of America
Corp. are leading the Colony offering.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Gittelsohn in  Los Angeles  at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  