-- Colorado Democrats Push Fracking Rules After Towns Bar Drilling
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   O l d h a m
-- 2013-05-02T00:51:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/colorado-democrats-push-fracking-rules-after-towns-bar-drilling.html
Colorado , where hydraulic fracturing
has helped push oil production to the highest level in 55 years,
is considering legislation to rein in the practice, drawing
threats from drillers who say they will flee the state if the
restrictions become law.  The  General Assembly  is debating at least nine bills that
would require additional groundwater sampling, prioritize
inspections of oil and natural gas facilities, increase
penalties for violations, revise the state oil and gas
regulator’s mission, strengthen reporting standards for spills,
and expedite certain air permits.  “If you go walking down the street in Erie you will see a
drilling rig and a school 500 feet away,” said state Senator
Matt Jones, a Democrat from Louisville, about 22 miles (35
kilometers) northwest of Denver, in a telephone interview.  “It’s an industrial activity going on 750 feet from
peoples’ back doors,” said Jones, who is sponsoring some of the
most contentious bills. “A lot of middle-class people that
would never be involved in political issues contacted me with
concerns.”  The bills are the latest salvo in an intensifying effort by
Colorado municipalities to restrict drilling they say may be
polluting their air and water. Longmont residents voted last
year to  amend  the city’s charter to ban fracking, a process that
forces millions of gallons of water, sand and chemicals into
rock formations to release oil and gas.  Fort Collins , the fifth-
largest city, voted in March to outlaw the method. The  Colorado
Oil & Gas Association , a Denver-based trade group, filed a
lawsuit challenging the Longmont ban.  Seven Days  The measures being debated -- with seven days left in the
legislative session -- come after the state’s largest oil
production  year  since 1957, with 49 million barrels produced in
2012. Colorado is the country’s  ninth -largest oil producer. Gas
production also hit a historic high in the state last year.  Most of the increased drilling involves hydraulic
fracturing, or fracking.  California , the nation’s fourth-largest oil producer, is
also reviewing fracking regulations, including a proposal to
create the state’s own system for tracking chemicals used in the
process and extend the time required for notification of
drilling.  In Colorado, the energy measures are creating a rift
between the Democratic majority in the legislature and Governor
John Hickenlooper, a first-term Democrat and former geologist,
who has said he would veto at least one of the bills, leading
lawmakers to charge that he’s too close to the industry.  ‘Reach Agreement’  “My hope was that we might be able to reach agreement with
the governor’s office on a number of these bills -- we have
not,” said House Majority Leader Dickey Lee Hullinghorst, who
represents Boulder County, in a telephone interview.  “I’m not sure the measures we’re sending to the Senate
will pass,” she added. “Part of that is that the  Colorado Oil
and Gas Conservation Commission  and the administration and the
governor’s office have been lobbying against them.”  The governor opposes a bill that would require uniform
groundwater sampling at  oil fields  statewide and a second
measure that would revise the mission of the state’s oil and gas
regulator, said  Eric Brown , Hickenlooper’s director of
communications. The administration is working with lawmakers on
legislation that would increase penalties for violations and
expedite air- and water-quality permitting, and he supports a
bill that would increase inspections, Brown said.  ‘Too Close’  “Some people say we’re too close to oil and gas; others
say we’re too close to environmentalists,” Brown said. “We’re
focused on doing what’s right for Colorado.”  Industry representatives said in interviews that even if
the bills don’t become law, they illustrate an anti-fossil-fuels
mentality that is pervading a state where mining and energy
represent one of largest economic generators.  “Colorado because of this legislative session has really
earned a reputation as being a battleground on oil and gas
issues,” said Stan Dempsey Jr., president of the Denver-based
 Colorado Petroleum Association , in a telephone interview. “This
is being debated in the context of Colorado’s shifting political
dynamics -- we were a red state that shifted purple but is now
maybe a blue state.”  Republicans agreed, echoing the testimony of industry
lobbyists in hearings that the measures imperil 108,000 direct
and indirect  jobs  and annual public revenue of $1 billion.  ‘It’s Enormous’  “All of the restaurants where those employees eat, all of
the hotels where those employees sleep, if you look at all the
jobs the oil and gas industry affect in Colorado, it’s
enormous,” said state Senator David Balmer, a Republican from
Centennial, at a committee hearing on April 30.  “I think we should be careful to moderate our zeal in
regulating the oil and gas industry because we don’t live in a
vacuum,” said Balmer, who joined a majority of the Senate Local
Government Committee in voting down a measure that would have
allowed local governments to impose fees on energy companies.  Democrats countered that oil and gas firms’ warnings that
they would move drilling operations out of state were not borne
out five years ago when lawmakers last voted to significantly
revise rules governing the industry.  “I think it’s an idle threat,” said Hullinghorst, adding
she recently counted 23 energy lobbyists at a hearing to two
employed by environmental groups. “They talked about that when
we last had rulemaking here and since then we’ve had the biggest
boom in oil and gas in decades.”  Contentious Bills  Among the most contentious bills is a measure that would
revise the mission of the state’s  energy industry  regulator, the
Colorado Oil and Gas Conservation Commission. The body is
charged with both promoting energy development and protecting
the public health. The legislation would elevate environmental
concerns over drilling, said Jones, who sponsored the measure in
the Senate.  Jones argued at a hearing on April 29 that the commission’s
mission must be revised because it instituted rules that give
preferential treatment to  oil companies . Firms drilling in one
of the state’s largest oil fields, for example, are required to
test water less often than those exploring other areas of the
state, he added.  “We don’t get the same water quality sampling around wells
as the rest of the state,” he testified. “Why would anybody in
the  Wattenberg  basin not deserve the same sampling as anyone on
the Western slope?”  The bill would also prohibit those serving on the
commission’s nine-member board from being an employee, officer
or director of an oil or gas operator. Three current
commissioners are employed by the energy industry.  No Conflict  Regulators argued at the April 29 hearing of the Senate
State, Veterans and Military Affairs committee that the
commission’s composition is not a conflict of interest and that
the complexity of energy production requires the expertise of
industry members.  “It’s a solution looking for a problem,” said Mike King,
executive director of the Colorado Department of Natural
Resources. “To my understanding, there are no assertions that
there have been conflicts. The position of the department and
the administration is that they oppose this bill.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jennifer Oldham in Denver at 
 joldham1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey Taylor at 
 jtaylor48@bloomberg.net  