-- Convicted Indian Spy Dies After Attack in Pakistani Prison
-- B y   A u g u s t i n e   A n t h o n y   a n d   A n d r e w   M a c A s k i l l
-- 2013-05-02T05:06:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/convicted-indian-spy-dies-after-attack-in-pakistani-prison-1-.html
A convicted Indian spy who was on
death row in  Pakistan  has died from head injuries sustained in a
jail attack by fellow prisoners, an incident that threatens to
further strain relations between the nuclear-armed neighbors.  Sarabjit Singh was arrested in 1990 and later found guilty
of spying and involvement in deadly bomb blasts in Pakistani
cities. His family has said the man hails from a border village
in the northern Indian state of Punjab and had crossed the
countries’ frontier by mistake.  Indian Prime Minister Manmohan Singh called Singh a “brave
son of India who bore his tribulations with valiant fortitude.”
In a statement, the premier criticized Pakistan for ignoring
pleas to release Singh on humanitarian grounds and called for
justice for his killers.  “This will inflame tensions between the countries,” said
S. Chandrasekharan, director of the South Asia Analysis Group,
based in New Delhi. “There is little chance now of meaningful
progress in peace talks before the next Indian elections in
2014, when there will probably be a new prime minister.”  Pakistan will hold a parliamentary election on May 11. The
Pakistani government said in a statement that Singh died after
being given the best possible treatment and arrangements would
be made to return his body at soon as possible.  The incident comes after Pakistan and  India  engaged in some
of their most serious cross-border skirmishes in almost a decade
in the disputed Himalayan region of Kashmir in January and
February. The fighting strained efforts to repair ties shattered
by the Mumbai terrorist strike in 2008.  Fractured Skull  Singh sustained several injuries, including a fractured
skull, when attacked by prisoners in Lahore’s Kot Lakhpat prison
on April 26. He died shortly after midnight local time, Awais
Sheikh, Singh’s lawyer said in a phone interview from Lahore.
Sheikh said Singh had been in a deep coma.  “The relationship has been hurt by this terrible
tragedy,” India’s foreign minister, Salman Khurshid, told
reporters in New Delhi. “It is a terrible psychological and
emotional setback.”  Police are investigating two prisoners over the attack, the
Times of India  reported . The men told investigators they
attacked Singh because he carried out a bomb attack in Lahore,
the newspaper said, without saying where it got the information.  India and Pakistan resumed peace talks in 2011 more than
two years after they were broken off following the attack by
Pakistani militants on Mumbai that killed 166 people.  The border clashes in Kashmir in January undermined a
sustained bid to improve trade and ease travel restrictions. For
more than a week the two countries’ governments and their
militaries traded accusations of deadly raids across the de
facto frontier.  India last year executed the only one of 10 Pakistan gunmen
to be captured alive during the Mumbai attack. It has since
executed a Kashmiri man found guilty of playing a role in a 2001
raid on India’s parliament.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Augustine Anthony in Islamabad at 
 aanthony9@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew MacAskill in New Delhi at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  