-- Crude Gains Most in Six Months as Jobless Claims Decline
-- B y   M o m i n g   Z h o u
-- 2013-05-02T19:53:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/crude-gains-first-time-in-3-days-on-jobless-claims.html
West Texas Intermediate crude gained
the most in almost six months as the number of Americans filing
applications for  unemployment benefits  slipped and the  European
Central Bank  reduced  interest rates  to a record low.  Oil climbed for the first time in three days after the
government said jobless claims unexpectedly fell to the least in
five years last week. ECB policy makers cut the main refinancing
rate to 0.5 percent from 0.75 percent. WTI extended gains as
natural gas tumbled, forcing traders to liquidate bets that  oil
prices  would drop to meet cash demand, said  Stephen Schork ,
president of the Schork Group Inc. in Villanova, Pennsylvania.  “The jobless claims and the ECB rate cut are providing
support to the oil market,” said  Gene McGillian , an analyst and
broker at Tradition Energy in Stamford,  Connecticut . “The
markets continue to go back and forth on changing economic
perceptions.”  WTI for June delivery rose $2.96, or 3.3 percent, to settle
at $93.99 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , the
biggest one-day increase since Nov. 6. The volume of all futures
traded was 19 percent above the 100-day average for the time of
day.  Brent for June settlement gained $2.90, or 2.9 percent, to
$102.85 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe
exchange. Volume was 42 percent above the 100-day average.
Brent’s premium to WTI shrank to $8.86 a barrel, the least based
on settlement prices since Dec. 30, 2011.  Jobless Claims  The U.S. jobless claims fell 18,000 to 324,000 in the week
ended April 27, the fewest since January 2008, a month after the
last recession started, the Labor Department reported today in
Washington. Economists surveyed by Bloomberg forecast 345,000
claims.  “The  U.S. economy  is probably not as bad as people
thought, and with any luck we’ll see other indicators become
more bullish,” said  Michael Lynch , president of Strategic
Energy & Economic Research in Winchester, Massachusetts.  Futures tumbled 3.7 percent in the previous two sessions
amid signs of a slowdown in economic growth in the U.S. and
China and as U.S. oil inventories reached an 82-year high.  “These moves are exaggerated and just show what happens
with increased computerized trading,” said McGillian. “Over
the next few months we should see a headline driven market with
big moves.”  Employment Report  The Labor Department will release April employment figures
tomorrow. Economists surveyed by Bloomberg forecast the jobs
market made some headway last month, with payrolls growing by
140,000 after a gain of 88,000 a month earlier. The  unemployment
rate  probably held at a four-year low of 7.6 percent, the survey
showed.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index increased as much as 1
percent on the ECB rate cut and the jobless claims.  “The petroleum markets are tracking moderately higher in
sympathy with rising equity prices,” said  Tim Evans , an energy
analyst at Citi Futures Perspective in New York, in an e-mail.
“Friday’s U.S. employment report for April will be the next
significant macroeconomic data point.”  ECB President  Mario Draghi  signaled that officials may take
the unprecedented step of charging banks to park excess cash
with the ECB overnight and that another cut in the main rate is
possible.  ECB Cut  “The ECB rate cut certainly has an effect on asset prices
and in the longer term on oil demand,” Lynch said.  The ECB’s move came after the  Federal Reserve  said
yesterday that it will keep buying bonds at a monthly pace of
$85 billion. The U.S. central bank said it’s “prepared to
increase or reduce the pace of its purchases.”  Crude futures advanced as natural gas dropped 7 percent,
the most in nine months, after a government report showed that
U.S. gas stockpiles expanded by more than forecast.  “We are getting a really crazy selloff in natural gas, so
you might have some positions being liquidated in WTI to cover
margin in gas,” Schork said.  June natural gas slid 30.1 cents to settle at $4.025 per
million British thermal units.  “There is an unwinding of the long-natural-gas, short-
crude trade,” said Rich Ilczyszyn, chief market strategist and
founder of Iitrader.com in Chicago. “People are de-leveraging
out of gas and buying crude.”  Implied volatility for at-the-money WTI options expiring in
June was 23.6 percent, compared with yesterday’s 25.9 percent,
data compiled by Bloomberg showed.  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 575,649
contracts as of 3:27 p.m. It totaled 736,155 contracts
yesterday, 26 percent above the three-month average. Open
interest was 1.75 million contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Moming Zhou in  New York  at 
 mzhou29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  