-- CSN Said to Be Leading Bidder for ThyssenKrupp Americas Plants
-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d ,   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o   a n d   C r i s t i a n e   L u c c h e s i
-- 2013-05-02T21:32:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/csn-said-to-be-leading-bidder-for-thyssenkrupp-americas-plants.html
Cia. Siderurgica Nacional SA (SID) ,  Brazil ’s
third-largest steelmaker, has emerged as the leading bidder for
 ThyssenKrupp AG (TKA) ’s Brazilian and U.S. steel-plant assets, said
people with knowledge of the talks.  ThyssenKrupp could sign an agreement with CSN on the plant
in the state of Rio de Janeiro and on its  Alabama  site in coming
weeks, said one of the people, who asked not to be named because
talks are private.  ThyssenKrupp,  Germany ’s largest steel producer, has spent
the past year figuring out how to dispose of the unprofitable
Americas plants. ThyssenKrupp Chief Executive Officer  Heinrich Hiesinger  is selling them as waning demand from the auto and
construction industries and competition from  China  weaken prices
and squeeze profit margins.  Stefan Ettwig, a spokesman for ThyssenKrupp, said the sale
process is ongoing. He declined to elaborate. CSN declined to
comment in an e-mailed statement to  Bloomberg News .  There’s no guarantee a transaction will occur. ThyssenKrupp
is also still negotiating with Vale SA, which owns a minority
stake in the Rio site, and the Brazilian government on a deal
for the assets, said the people. Vale’s press office in Rio de
Janeiro didn’t have an immediate comment when contacted by
Bloomberg News today.  If the parties can’t come to an agreement on a full sale of
the Rio plant, another option ThyssenKrupp is considering is
selling CSN a one-third stake, with Vale keeping a third and the
German company holding the rest, said two of the people. If that
plan were to succeed, the three may seek to raise about $750
million in capital to improve the plant, they said.  Shrinking Pool  The German company is unlikely to reach a deal with CSN
before reporting fiscal first-half  results  May 15, said one of
the people.  ThyssenKrupp shrank the pool of bidders for its U.S. and
Brazilian assets last month, people familiar with the matter
said then. The company is seeking more than $3 billion,
according to those people.  ThyssenKrupp currently controls 73 percent of the CSA steel
plant in the state of  Rio de Janeiro . Vale, the world’s largest
iron-ore producer and a supplier to the plant, owns the rest.
The German company built the Brazilian facility, with a capacity
of 5 million metric tons a year, to supply steel slabs to its
mills in Calvert near Mobile, Alabama, and in Germany.  The Steel Americas business, labeled a discontinued
operation, reported an adjusted loss before interest and taxes
of 87 million euros the fiscal first quarter, compared with a
loss of 288 million euros a year earlier, spokesman Kilian Roetzer said at the time. ThyssenKrupp said in February that
profit for the whole company shrank 38 percent in the period.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Kirchfeld in London at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net ;
Juan Pablo Spinetto in Rio de Janeiro at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net ;
Cristiane Lucchesi in em São Paulo at 
 clucchesi5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  