-- David Blech Gets Four Years for Manipulating Stock Prices
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2013-05-02T22:46:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/david-blech-gets-four-years-for-manipulating-stock-prices.html
David Blech, the former biotechnology
stock promoter who got probation for a 1998 fraud conviction,
was sentenced to four years in prison for a similar crime by a
judge who angrily rejected his plea for leniency.  “I’m afraid that you had all the mercy that you’re going
to get,” U.S. District Judge  Colleen McMahon  in  Manhattan  told
Blech today. “Now is the time for punishment, which you didn’t
get last time.”  Blech, 57, pleaded guilty last year to separate schemes, in
2007 and 2008, in which he tried to pump up the price of shares
in two biotechnology companies,  Pluristem Therapeutics Inc. (PSTI)  and
 Intellect Neurosciences Inc. (ILNS) , by trading in his own account and
those of friends and family, according to court papers.
Prosecutors called the trades “a fraudulent scheme to
manipulate the market” by enticing other investors to purchase
the securities and raise their prices.  “I am ashamed to be again standing before a court and
pleading for mercy,” Blech told McMahon today. “I am
profoundly sorry.”  In addition to the prison sentence, McMahon ordered Blech
to serve three years of supervised release and to forfeit $1.3
million. McMahon said she will recommend he serve the time in
the federal medical prison in  Massachusetts  where convicted
inside trader Raj Rajaratnam is jailed.  ‘Fragile Family’  McMahon rejected pleas by Blech’s lawyer, Roland Riopelle,
to sentence him to a non-jail sentence, based on Blech’s
gambling addiction, bipolar disease and what Blech called his
“fragile family,” which includes an autistic son.  “The only thing that interests me about Mr. Blech is what
he did,” McMahon told Riopelle. “He manipulated the price of a
stock and he did it for the third and fourth times -- that we
know about.”  In 1999, U.S. District Judge Kevin Duffy sentenced Blech to
five years’ probation, instead of a possible prison sentence of
more than eight years, for defrauding nine broker-dealers and
Bear Stearns & Co., his firm’s clearing broker, of $16 million.  At the time, Blech pleaded guilty to tricking Bear Stearns
in 1994 into thinking he was selling securities to lower the
credit margin of his firm, D. Blech & Co., by trading them to
accounts under his control. He also admitted a separate scheme,
committed while he was cooperating with the government, of using
accounts in the names of family, friends and business associates
to manipulate the price of stocks, according to prosecutors.  Given a Break  “I am going to give you the break,” Duffy told Blech at
the time, citing his mental illness and the help he gave
prosecutors in unraveling the fraud.  McMahon repeatedly remarked on Blech’s return to court
today for sentencing on a similar crime. She told Blech she
didn’t intend a sentence of probation.  “Judge Duffy got talked into that and you threw it in his
face,” McMahon said before sentencing Blech. “You’re not going
to throw it in mine.”  The case is U.S. v. Blech, 12-00372, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in Manhattan federal court at   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 