-- Delcath Fails to Win U.S. Panel Backing for Cancer Device
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2013-05-02T21:26:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/delcath-fails-to-win-u-s-panel-backing-for-cancer-device.html
Delcath Systems Inc. (DCTH)  failed to win the
backing of U.S. advisers for a chemotherapy drug-and-device
combination because of the product’s high level of toxicity.  A Food and Drug Administration advisory panel voted 16-0
that the risks of the Melblez Kit outweigh the benefits. The kit
is intended to treat eye cancer that can’t be surgically removed
and has spread to the liver.  The system performs what New York-based Delcath calls
chemosaturation, using the device to inject a high dose of the
chemotherapy melphalan to the liver. In clinical studies, eight
people, almost 7 percent, died from adverse reactions including
liver failure, hemorrhagic brain lesions and gastrointestinal
bleeding, FDA staff said April 30. Of the patients who received
alternative care, none had fatal reactions.  “Patients have very few treatment options,” Mikkael
Sekeres, panel chairman and associate professor of medicine
staff at the  Cleveland Clinic ’s Taussig Cancer Institute, said
during the meeting today in  Silver Spring ,  Maryland . “Exposing
them to a treatment that could kill them in the next month is
not the right thing to do. The risks of this treatment far
outweigh any benefit and they actually introduce harm.”  The studies the panel considered today were based on an
older filter and the company said it plans to use an upgraded
filter in use in Europe if the product gains U.S. approval.
Delcath didn’t immediately say if it would conduct a new study
on the device.  Delcath rose 4.7 percent to 79 cents at 12:55 p.m. before
the shares were halted during the meeting. The shares had
dropped 74 percent in the 12 months through yesterday.  Bone Marrow  Patients who used the Melblez Kit in studies also
experienced more serious adverse reactions, including a
decreased ability of the bone marrow to make blood cells and
liver toxicity, FDA staff said in their  report  ahead of the
advisory panel meeting. Delcath shares tumbled 40 percent on
April 30 after release of the report.  The agency extended by three months to Sept. 13 its
decision on whether to approve the kit as it looks over
information intended to clarify bridging studies on the filter
that allow Delcath to extrapolate data from other studies.  Delcath generated $350,000 in revenue last year after
receiving European approval in April 2011 to sell its Chemosat
Delivery System, which is the device’s name in  Europe  that was
cleared for general use with the liver.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Romaine Bostick at 
 rbostick@bloomberg.net  