-- Delta Lloyd Quits Private Equity Management on Capital Demands
-- B y   M a u d   v a n   G a a l
-- 2013-05-02T13:03:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/delta-lloyd-quits-private-equity-management-on-capital-demands.html
Delta Lloyd NV (DL) , the biggest Dutch
provider of group life insurance, will stop managing private-
equity investments as stricter regulatory capital demands
attached to the holdings outweigh their returns.  Delta Lloyd’s investment company, Cyrte Investments BV,
will be split in two units, the Amsterdam-based company said
today in a statement. The insurer will become the full owner of
publicly traded equity funds investing in technology, media and
telecommunications stocks. F.J. Botman Holding BV, which held 15
percent of Cyrte, will become owner of Dasym Investment
Strategies BV, managing private-equity investments, according to
the statement.  Under a new pan-European regulatory regime known as
Solvency II, insurers have to match capital reserves with the
perceived riskiness of the assets they own. The capital charges
on private equity are “very hefty,”  Delta Lloyd  Chief
Executive Officer Niek Hoek told analysts today.  “That makes it more difficult to invest in private equity
for us,” he said. “You have to be dead certain that you get a
very high return to justify the additional capital charge.”  Delta Lloyd agreed to buy Botman’s 15 percent stake in
Cyrte, taking into account the valuation of each of the funds,
Martijn Donders, a spokesman for the insurer, said. He declined
to comment on the deal’s value. Delta Lloyd and Dasym will
continue to cooperate on a case-by-case basis, the company said.  Solvency II has been in the making since 2001. No
implementation date has been set as lobbying by German, British
and French insurers over the rules’ impact on long-term savings
products has delayed its introduction. The Dutch central bank is
pushing insurers in the Netherlands to continue preparations for
the framework anyway and will take steps toward more risk-based
supervision this year, it has said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maud van Gaal in Amsterdam at 
 mvangaal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  