-- Too-Big-to-Fail Danish Banks Seek Bailout Text in Sifi Law
-- B y   F r a n c e s   S c h w a r t z k o p f f
-- 2013-05-03T09:42:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/denmark-s-too-big-to-fail-banks-seek-bailout-text-in-sifi-law.html
Denmark ’s biggest banks want the state
to clarify its readiness to bail them out.  The six lenders identified by a government committee as
systemically important for the Danish economy say they need to
be shielded from the country’s bail-in legislation for their
too-big-to-fail designation to be meaningful. Danske Bank A/S,
Denmark’s biggest lender, argues the additional capital costs
they face should be matched by explicit guarantees of state
support, just like in neighboring Sweden.  “We are very concerned about the fact that the legal
wording is different to the extent that our rating is
suffering,” Danske Chief Financial Officer Henrik Ramlau-Hansen
said yesterday in an interview.  Moody’s Investors Service said last week that March
proposals naming Denmark’s systemically important financial
institutions and their capital requirements won’t prompt ratings
upgrades. The banks will continue to get only one notch in
Moody’s systemic support analysis. Swedish banks enjoy three
notches. The rating company grades  Danske Baa1 (DANSKE) , compared with an
Aa3 rating for  Nordea Bank AB (NDA)  of Sweden. Danske says the lower
rating adds to funding costs at a time when they’re being asked
to raise additional capital.  Default Costs  Danske Bank estimates it will need to hold 17.6 percent of
risk-weighted assets in capital by 2022 to meet the Sifi
requirements, according to its first-quarter presentation. The
bank’s regulatory capital was 21.6 percent as of March 31,
including 3 percent state hybrid debt.  Investors pay about 55 basis points more to insure against
a default on senior unsecured debt sold by Danske Bank versus
similar contracts on Nordea, according to five-year credit-
default swap data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Moody’s says there are only further demands on the banks
and no benefits,” Steen Nygaard, head of group treasury at
 Jyske Bank A/S (JYSK) , Denmark’s second-largest listed lender and a
designated Sifi, said in an interview. “‘Maybe, maybe not. But
we regard it as a kind of implicit guarantee, an agreement
between the banks and the government.”  The government may want to avoid making support explicit
because “then it would become a liability,” Nygaard said.
“But for the banks, it would be indisputably a good thing to go
in the direction of an explicit guarantee.”  Bail-In Impact  Danish banks have struggled to persuade investors they’re
as safe as their Swedish rivals after Denmark became the first
European Union country to force losses on senior bank creditors
within a resolution framework. The 2011 failure of Amagerbanken
A/S left most banks in Denmark locked out of funding markets as
creditors shunned the nation’s bail-in legislation.  Danske bank Chief Executive Officer Eivind Kolding told
investors in November he expected the bank’s Sifi status to lift
its credit rating, arguing Denmark wouldn’t force bail-ins on
banks deemed too big to fail.  The proposals, which have yet to be passed by lawmakers,
seek to raise capital requirements by as much as 5 percent and
make Sifis subject to greater scrutiny from regulators. The
measures will help protect taxpayers from losses should a Sifi
get into trouble, according to the committee. Proposals include
giving the Financial Supervisory Authority the power to stop
dividends, fire board members and restrict interest payments on
capital debt instruments.  No Guarantee  “The committee felt that the state shouldn’t give a
guarantee, binding for all future, completely independent of the
situation,” Michael Moeller, chairman of the Sifi committee,
said in an e-mailed response to questions. “As far as I
remember,  Sweden  is the only country that has given such a
strong guarantee.”  Denmark’s banks argue such a stance has left them with the
costs and none of the benefits of too-big-to-fail designation.
Since being named a Sifi in March, mortgage lender BRFKredit A/S
hasn’t seen any decline in its funding costs, according to Sven Blomberg, chief executive officer at the bank.  “We should have seen it already, if that were the case,”
he said yesterday by phone.  “It is especially Moody’s that treats the government
support differently,” Ramlau-Hansen said. “We would like the
government in its final deliberations and response to actually
make a statement that if some of the other resolution mechanisms
do not work, they would not rule out putting money in the banks,
like they have in Sweden.”  Lawmaker View  Benny Engelbrecht, who heads Denmark’s parliamentary
committee on bank laws, said he’s unlikely to back proposals
that move away from Denmark’s practice of bailing in unsecured
bank creditors. That stance also applies to systemically
important banks, he said.  “We won’t back giving Danish Sifis explicit government
support,” he said in an interview yesterday. Denmark’s
financial industry assets are almost four times the size of the
$300 billion economy.  According to Moeller, investors should look to the fact
that the Danish government has the means help its banks should
the need arise.  “The fact that the Danish state has the strength to
support its banks should weigh something,” he said. “Some
European countries have, and may in the future have even
further, problems saving their banks, as we have seen in
Cyprus.”  Debt Triggers  Denmark’s biggest banks also want lawmakers to lower
triggers for regulatory intervention and for converting debt to
equity to boost loss-absorbing reserves. Under the current
proposal, debt would convert to equity when the underlying
equity falls below 10.125 percent of risk-weighted assets.  Investors will demand such high returns for the conversion
risk that the securities will be too hard to sell, forcing banks
to resort to equity instead and limiting their ability to lend,
according to Bjarne Larsen, head of finance at  Sydbank A/S (SYDB) ,
Denmark’s third-largest listed lender.  “Those are the two most important issues,” Larsen said
yesterday by phone. “Moody’s was pretty clear about the Sifi
proposal. It wouldn’t change their view on the Danish banking
sector, and that’s because of the way the language is.”  Danske Bank, the Danish unit of Nordea Bank AB, Jyske Bank,
and Sydbank A/S, and mortgage lenders Nykredit A/S and BRFkredit
should all be named Sifis, the committee said. It also suggested
considering DLR Kredit A/S as too-big-to-fail because of its
dominant role in mortgage lending to farmers.  Engelbrecht said lawmakers are ready to consider lower
regulatory triggers. Winning any more concessions is likely to
prove difficult, given the “public and political resistance
that the public should take any sort of risk,” Blomberg at
BRFKredit said. “That’s going to be very difficult to overcome
for the next couple of years.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frances Schwartzkopff in Copenhagen at 
 fschwartzko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net  