-- Dollar May Rise on GDP, Deutsche Bank’s Ruskin Says: Tom Keene
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 2013-05-02T15:16:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/dollar-may-rise-on-gdp-deutsche-bank-s-ruskin-says-tom-keene.html
The dollar, which has outperformed 13
of its 16 most-traded counterparts this year, is poised to rise
further as U.S growth prospects outstrip much of the developed
world, said  Alan Ruskin , global head of Group of 10 foreign-
exchange strategy at Deutsche Bank AG in New York.  “The dollar looks very well placed,” Ruskin said on
 Bloomberg Radio ’s “Surveillance” with Tom Keene. “At some
point in time, the differences in growth between the U.S, Europe
and Japan will click in.”  The  U.S. economy  is poised to grow 2 percent this year,
compared with 1.3 percent in Japan, 1.1 percent in the G-10
nations and a contraction of 0.4 percent in the Euro area,
according to economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  The Dollar Index, which Intercontinental Exchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback against the currencies of six U.S.
trading partners, gained 0.7 percent to 82.053, after dropping
yesterday to the lowest since Feb. 25.  The  European Central Bank  cut the main refinancing rate
today to a record low 0.5 percent from 0.75 percent and reduced
the marginal lending rate to 1 percent from 1.5 percent. The
euro turned lower as ECB President  Mario Draghi , speaking in
Bratislava, signaled that officials may take the unprecedented
step of charging banks to park excess cash overnight with the
ECB.  This comes after the Bank of Japan unleashed measures aimed
at delivering a 2 percent inflation rate within two years. The
 Federal Reserve , yesterday, reiterated its commitment to asset
purchases to spur economic growth, saying it will maintain its
bond-buying, known as quantitative easing, or QE, at a pace of
$85 billion a month and is prepared to raise or lower the level
of purchases as economic conditions evolve.  “This year, the Fed will be the only central bank that has
any chance of withdrawing or reducing QE, while all other
central banks will be lathering it on,” Ruskin said. “The U.S
side is much less of a problem.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
 Tom Keene  in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  