-- Draghi Says Euro-Area Economic Risks Remain on Downside
-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k   a n d   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2013-05-02T13:35:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/draghi-says-euro-area-economic-risks-on-downside-voices-1-.html
European Central Bank President Mario Draghi comments on interest rates, inflation, and the economy.  He made the remarks at a press conference in Bratislava
today after ECB policy makers cut the benchmark  interest rate  to
a record low of 0.50 percent.  On whether today’s decision was unanimous:  “There was a very, very strong prevailing consensus toward
an interest-rate cut, and within that there was a prevailing
consensus for 25 basis points.”  On a negative deposit rate:  “We said in the past we are technically ready. There are
several unintended consequences that may stem from this measure.
We will address and cope with these consequences if we decide to
act. And we will again look at this with an open mind and stand
ready to act if needed.”  On helping to promote credit:  “All the options are still very open here, our thinking is
very much in a preliminary stage given the complexity of the
issue and we haven’t reached a conclusion either way.”  On banks:  “We should not forget that the funding crisis that the
banks experienced.” It “caused a credit contraction of which
we are victims even today.”  “The two LTROs avoided a worsening, a collapse, of the
situation. And the OMT removed the tail risk for the euro
area.”  “We see progress on the funding side. This progress is
documented by the fact that domestic deposits continue to go up
in all the banks of all the stressed countries.”  “Do we say that everything is back to normal? No. On the
lending side progress is more muted.”  Something that may be a “source of comfort” is that bank
lending surveys show that there is a less of an increase in
tightening. Banks continue to tighten but at a slower pace.’’  “From this survey data, I wouldn’t give the conclusion
that there’s no more fragmentation, but we are observing
improvements.”  “This credit contraction has been lasting for a long time
and has been compounded by the short-term contractionary effects
of fiscal policies. It’s not going to be a one day affair to to
unravel this.”  “Why is credit subdued? There are demand reasons, and
supply. The demand reasons are that the economy is indeed weak,
in consumption and fixed investment.”  “The dominant factor explaining the low demand for credit
is the macroeconomic uncertainty.”  On today’s decision to cut interest rates:  “The governing council has taken this decision consistent
with low price pressure over the medium term.”  “Inflation expectations are well anchored in the medium
term.”  “All in all the Governing Council decided to go for a
cut” and “I invite you not to underestimate the importance of
the other measures.”  “We will look at all the incoming data, and we will
monitor all incoming developments, we stand ready to act if
needed.”  “We act consistently with our analysis of price
developments and the objective of maintaining  price stability  in
the medium term.”  On ECB policy:  “Monetary policy by the ECB has been extraordinarily
accommodative.”  On limits of monetary policy:  “The ECB cannot supplant governments for their lack of
structural reforms.”  “The ECB cannot clean banks balance sheets. The ECB is not
in the business of monetary financing.”  On austerity versus growth:  “It’s an interesting debate. But let’s not forget how this
crisis started.”  “Budget positions were not sustainable. This was the first
stage.”  “The message the ECB has been giving for a while, don’t
unravel the progress that has been achieved.”  “Fiscal consolidation is contractionary in the short term,
so you want to take action to mitigate that.”  But “many fiscal consolidations took place under
emergency, and most governments took the simplest route, of
raising taxes. Taxes were already very high.”  “This could be rebalanced into lower government
expenditure and lower taxes.”  Credibility is assured “by having a detailed medium-term
fiscal consolidation framework.”  On today’s council meeting:  “We took a number of key decisions” on ECB interest
rates, liquidity issues, and possible ways to enhance credit
provisions.  “These decisions are consistent with low underlying price
pressures over the medium term.”  “Monetary and loan dynamics remain subdued. Weak economic
sentiment has extended into spring.”  “Against this overall background our overall  monetary
policy  stance will remain accommodative for as long as needed.”  On ECB operations:  “We decided today to continue conducting the main
refinancing operations as fixed rate tender procedures with full
allotment for as long as necessary and at least until the end of
sixth maintenance period of 2014 on July 8, 2014.”  “We decided to conduct the 3-month longer term refinancing
operations, LTROs, to be allotted until the end of the second
quarter 2014 as fixed rate tender procedures with full
allotment.”  “The Governing Council decided to start consultations with
other European institutions on initiatives to promoting a
functioning market for ABS collateralized by loans to non-
financial corporations. In the meantime It is essential for
governments to intensify the implementation of structural
reforms at national levels.”  On the economic outlook:  “Overall labor-market conditions remain weak.”  “Looking ahead, euro area export growth should benefit
from a recovery in global demand and our monetary policy stance
should continue to support domestic demand.”  “The improvements in financial markets since last summer
should work their way to real economy.”  “Necessary balance sheet adjustments in the public and
private sectors will continue to weigh on activity.”  “Euro-area economic activity should stabilize and recovery
gradually in the second half.”  “The risks surrounding the economic outlook for the euro
area continue to be on the downside.”  On inflation :  “Inflation rates could remain subject to some volatility
throughout the year.”  “Underlying price trends should persist, and over the
medium term, inflation should remain in line with price
stability.”  “Risks to price developments are broadly balanced over the
medium term.”  On money growth:  “The underlying pace of monetary expansion continues to be
subdued.”  “Weak loan dynamics reflect current stage of business
cycle.”  “To ensure adequate transmission of monetary policy... it
is essential that the fragmentation of euro area credit markets
continues to decline further.”  “Progress has been made since last summer in improving the
funding situation of banks”  On how ECB actions help the economy:  “I would use the word frustrated, yes. We view
improvements in financial markets. We think financial markets
are the only and the necessary channel for the transmission of
monetary policy. You don’t go around with helicopter money,
throwing money. In  Europe , you go through banks. You don’t have
 capital markets  as you have in the U.S. We have to go via the
banking system. That is why in my press conference I try to give
you a very detailed reading of different indicators because it
shows how closely we are trying to examine and analyze reality
to see whether these impulses that we’ve been transmitting to
the economy get translated into better welfare, lower
unemployment, better economic activity.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  