-- DuPont Forecasts Wider Profit Margins in Most Businesses
-- B y   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 2013-05-02T20:16:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/dupont-forecasts-wider-profit-margins-in-most-businesses.html
DuPont Co. (DD) , the largest U.S. chemical
maker by market value, forecast wider profit margins for most of
its units in the coming years as the company cuts costs and
introduces new products ranging from pesticides to television
technology.  Pretax operating margins in four businesses, including
agriculture and electronics, will be wider than forecast 17
months ago, DuPont executives said today in a presentation to
investors and analysts at its headquarters in Wilmington,
 Delaware . The company reduced long-term sales growth targets in
four of the company’s six units.  Chairman and Chief Executive Officer  Ellen Kullman  shed the
automotive coatings unit in February and acquired food
ingredients maker Danisco A/S in 2011 to expand margins and
drive faster sales growth. Cost controls also will help boost
earnings 12 percent a year over five years as sales gain 7
percent, she said, maintaining company goals from December 2011.  “We recognize these are challenging growth rates in a
slower growing economy,” Kullman said at the meeting. “We will
achieve these goals and increase returns to you, our
shareholders.”  DuPont rose 0.3 percent to $53.51 at the close in  New York .
The shares have gained 19 percent this year.  DuPont didn’t update its 2012 forecast for earnings growth
of 2 percent to 7 percent. Gains this year have been slowed by
declining prices in the chemicals unit, particularly titanium
dioxide, a white pigment used in paints.  Profit Margins  In agriculture, DuPont forecast long-term profit margins of
as much as 24 percent, 2 percentage points higher than the prior
outlook and 3 points higher than posted last year. Sales will
rise as much as 10 percent a year on new seeds and pesticides in
 North America  and expansion in emerging regions such as Ukraine,
 China ,  India  and  Brazil , Executive Vice President Jim Borel
said.  Profit margins in the electronics unit will widen to as
much as 18 percent long term, compared with 17 percent
previously forecast and 10 percent last year, DuPont said.  Electronics sales will rise as much as 9 percent a year,
down from 10 percent in the prior forecast, on materials used in
solar cells and flat-panel televisions, particularly organic
light emitting diodes, or OLEDs, Executive Vice President Mark Vergnano said. DuPont has licensed its OLED printing technology
to one of  Asia ’s largest TV makers, he said without naming the
company.  New Products  Products soon to be introduced will add $7 billion to sales
by 2016, Executive Vice President Tom Connelly said.  DuPont raised its margin outlook in the industrial
biosciences unit, where profit from cellulosic ethanol and bio-
butanol should reach $100 million in 2017 and $500 million in
2022, Connelly said. The company plans to license the
technologies to producers and also sell enzymes and microbes for
converting plants into fuels.  Performance materials margins will be as wide as 18 percent
long term, up from 14 percent previously forecast and down from
19 percent last year, as the unit continues to benefit from low-
cost U.S. natural gas used to make plastic packaging as well as
rising demand for lightweight auto parts, Connelly said.  Other units where DuPont cut sales growth forecasts are
performance chemicals, performance materials and safety and
protection.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jack Kaskey in Wilmington at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  