-- The Lawsuit That Could Bring Down the NCAA
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   M a h l e r
-- 2013-05-02T22:00:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/the-lawsuit-that-could-bring-down-the-ncaa.html
The storm that’s slowly rolling toward
Indianapolis quietly gained strength this week with the filing
of several devastating documents in a federal court in
 California . If it stays on course, it’s going to hit with
biblical force, reducing the National Collegiate Athletic
Association to a heap of rubble.  This storm is also known as  O’Bannon v. NCAA . It’s an
antitrust lawsuit filed in 2009 by former UCLA All-American
basketball player Ed O’Bannon and a handful of other ex-college
athletes, who don’t think the NCAA should be profiting from
their names and images without sharing the royalty payments.  In their latest filing, O’Bannon’s lawyers argue that the
case deserves class-action status. If their request is granted,
the NCAA would be liable for claims brought not just by the
plaintiffs but also by all former athletes. Anyone who has ever
played a Division I college sport would instantly be suing for
damages for every instance in which his or her image was used in
a video game, highlight reel, broadcast or rebroadcast.  That could get pretty expensive for the NCAA. But if the
case were just about a few billion dollars, the association
would have settled by now. It hasn’t because O’Bannon and his
lawyers are also asking for something else: They want all
current and future college athletes to be able to make licensing
deals of their own. It’s short yardage from there to the NCAA’s
doomsday scenario: schools bidding for the services of student-
athletes.  Idle Threats  The NCAA’s lawyers, of course, are trying everything they
can think of to stop the case from earning class-action status.
They’re so desperate that they’re resorted to idle threats,
enlisting Big Ten commissioner Jim Delany to file a declaration
stating that if the O’Bannon case were to result in student-
athletes getting paid, his conference’s schools would probably
opt out and move down to Division III. (Early line on the
upcoming Amherst-Ohio State game: Buckeyes by 117 1/2.)  Delany’s statement says pretty much everything you need to
know about the NCAA’s legal strategy. It’s called -- and this
is not a legal term -- fear-mongering.  The world of college sports would be radically different,
the NCAA says -- in ways we can’t even begin to predict! -- if
those responsible for making it a multibillion-dollar business
(that is, the athletes) were entitled to receive some monetary
compensation for their efforts. This is the same sort of
doomsaying that Major League Baseball engaged in during its
battle against free agency in 1970, when it warned that without
the  reserve clause , “professional baseball would simply cease to
exist.” For that matter, every time an amateur sports event
“goes pro” -- whether it’s the Olympics, or golf and tennis’s
majors -- it has been preceded by predictions of disaster.  O’Bannon’s response to the NCAA may be the most powerful
case ever assembled against the association’s propaganda
machine. Among other things, it systematically dismantles the
NCAA’s argument that the vast majority of its members lose money
on sports. In fact, most Division I schools are not caught in an
expensive arms race for coaches and athletic facilities. They
have simply obscured the profitability of their football and
basketball programs with accounting tricks, such as shifting
revenue from sports concessions to the food service budget.  The NCAA advances these false claims of poverty so it can
argue that its member schools can’t possibly afford to spend
more money on sports, much less pay their athletes. O’Bannon’s
lawyers put the lie to this, too, invoking foundational truths
of economics dating to Adam Smith and David Ricardo:
“Redistributing rents does not change true economic costs. It
simply takes money from one person or group and shifts it to
another.” Translation: Paying athletes wouldn’t result in
schools spending additional money on sports. They would just
spend less of it on coaches and facilities and more on students.  Star Recruits  In truth, if the NCAA’s cartel were finally broken, the
college-sports world of tomorrow would look … well, it would
look a lot like the college-sports world of today. More student-
athletes might decide to stay in school rather than gambling on
the draft (a bad thing?). Maybe some second-tier schools would
take a run at joining the first tier -- not by shelling out $100
million for a new field house, but by spending a lot less on a
few five-star recruits.  And that’s about the extent of it. The same schools that
invest heavily in their sports teams now would continue to do
so, much as the top recruits would continue to gravitate toward
the biggest, richest programs. Most of all, fans would continue
to watch the games.  The NCAA’s lawyers have one final chance to respond to
O’Bannon’s request that the case be certified as a class action
before the judge rules in June. Whatever happens from here, the
O’Bannon case has already performed a valuable service: It has
exposed a system whose sole purpose is to deny the value of
talented athletes. That system and its overlord -- the NCAA --
both deserve to die.  (Jonathan Mahler is a sports columnist for Bloomberg View.
He is the author of the best-selling “Ladies and Gentlemen, the
Bronx Is Burning” and “Death Comes to Happy Valley.” The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Jonathan Mahler at  jmahler11@bloomberg.net  or  @jonathanmahler  on
Twitter.  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Michael Newman at   mnewman43@bloomberg.net . 