-- Health Management Says U.S. Issued Subpoena on Payments
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   A r m o u r   a n d   R y a n   F l i n n
-- 2013-05-03T20:13:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/health-management-says-u-s-issued-subpoena-on-payments.html
Health Management Associates Inc. (HMA) , an
operator of 71 hospitals in the U.S., said its accounting
procedures, including payments from government health programs,
are being investigated by federal regulators.  The company received a subpoena April 25 from the
Securities and Exchange Commission for documents including
records of payments from Medicare and Medicaid, the U.S. health
programs for the elderly and poor. The government also asked for
data on revenue from privately insured or uninsured patients,
the Naples, Florida-based company said in a statement yesterday.  Health Management operates hospitals in 15 states and got
almost 40 percent of its $5.9 billion in revenue last year from
Medicare and Medicaid, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.
The company said it’s cooperating with the SEC and is unable to
determine the potential financial effects.  “This is a very active, impactful investigation,”  Sheryl Skolnick , an analyst at CRT Capital Group in  Stamford ,
 Connecticut , said in an e-mail. “It’s going to cost money and
be a lot more of a distraction.”  The SEC request is just an inquiry and not uncommon when a
government investigation is going on, Chief Executive Officer
Gary Newsome told investors today on an earnings conference
call. The SEC is seeking records back to Jan. 1, 2007, he said.  “This is really early,” Newsome said. “We just received
this late last week. It’s very early in the process.”  Shares Fall  Health Management fell 4.2 percent to $10.76 at the close
in  New York . The company’s shares have gained 55 percent in the
past 12 months.  Health Management was thrown into the spotlight in December
when the  CBS Corp. (CBS)  television program “60 Minutes” aired a
report criticizing the company’s emergency room practices. The
company at the time called the report inaccurate.  Health Management last month reduced the high end of its
profit forecast because preliminary data for the first quarter
showed a decline in admissions. The company estimates full-year
profit from continuing operations of 86 cents to 95 cents a
share.  Hospitals have been under pressure to improve care and cut
costs as the U.S. health overhaul focuses on tying payment rates
to better quality. Government programs also have been reducing
payments and penalizing facilities that have too many patients
readmitted after their initial treatment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephanie Armour in Washington at 
 sarmour@bloomberg.net ;
Ryan Flinn in  San Francisco  at 
 rflinn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  