-- ECB Cuts Interest Rates to Record Low as Recession Lingers
-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w   a n d   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 2013-05-02T12:17:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/ecb-cuts-key-interest-rate-to-record-low-as-recession-lingers.html
The  European Central Bank  cut its key
interest rate to a  record low  as the 17-nation euro region
struggles to emerge from recession.  Policy makers meeting in Bratislava today lowered the  main
refinancing rate  to 0.5 percent from 0.75 percent, a move
predicted by 45 of 70 economists in a  Bloomberg News survey . The
ECB kept the deposit rate at zero and reduced the marginal
lending rate to 1 percent from 1.5 percent to preserve a
symmetrical rate corridor. President  Mario Draghi  holds a press
conference in the Slovakian capital at 2:30 p.m.  Since Draghi said last month that he stood ready to act if
 Europe ’s economic outlook worsened, inflation plunged, economic
confidence slumped and unemployment rose. Today’s cut, the first
since July last year, takes the ECB closer to exhausting its
conventional policy tools, raising the prospect of a negative
deposit rate or new non-standard measures.  The rate cut “will not have any significant impact on
short-term interbank rates,” said  Nick Kounis , head of macro
research at  ABN Amro  in Amsterdam. However, it will “reduce
funding costs for the mainly peripheral banks that use the ECB’s
lending facilities, so in that sense it is a targeted move.”  Market Bets  The euro rose half a cent after the decision and traded at
$1.3190 at 2:14 p.m. in Frankfurt. Investors had increased bets
on a drop in the cost of borrowing at today’s meeting. Spanish
 government bonds  extended an eight-month gain last week, the
cost of insuring against default on European corporate debt fell
and European stocks posted the biggest increase in five months.  Expectations for a rate reduction and speculation the U.S.
Federal Reserve would affirm its commitment to bond purchases
helped push the euro to a two-month high of $1.3243 yesterday.
The Fed yesterday pledged to keep buying bonds at a pace of $85
billion a month and said it’s ready to raise or lower that level
as economic conditions evolve.  “A cut in the main refinancing rate alone will not get the
job done,” said Marchel Alexandrovich, senior European
economist at Jefferies International Ltd. in  London . “Without a
commitment to new unconventional measures, the meeting would
prove yet another disappointment.”  Policy Options  Faced with a struggling economy and limits on the potency
of conventional means to stimulate it, the ECB could consider
options including long-term loans, corporate-bond purchases and
forward guidance on  interest rates . In the past, policy makers
have found arguments against most of them.  Last month, the Governing Council tasked technical
committees at the central bank to investigate ways to stimulate
lending to small- and medium-sized businesses, which provide
about half of all jobs in  Italy  and  Spain . That plan may involve
other institutions such as the  European Investment Bank  or the
European Commission, Draghi said on April 4.  Since Draghi said the ECB stands “ready to act” in the
face of worsening data, inflation slowed to 1.2 percent in
April, the lowest level since February 2010 and well below the
ECB’s 2 percent price-stability threshold.  Latest Data  Economic confidence  as measured by the European Commission
dropped to its lowest level since December, suggesting business
executives and consumers doubt that Draghi’s predicted recovery
this year will actually materialize. On top of that,
 unemployment  in the 17-member euro area rose to a fresh record
of 12.1 percent in March and manufacturing output contracted for
a 21st month in April.  “So far we haven’t seen any improvement in the
situation,” Draghi said at a press conference in  Washington  on
April 19.  “The central arguments for a rate cut are the persistently
weak economic confidence indicators that don’t point to a rapid
recovery, and the increasing danger of undesirably low inflation
rates,” said Kristian Toedtmann, senior economist at DekaBank
in Frankfurt. “We see an interest-rate move as more than just a
cosmetic maneuver. It would keep long-term money-market rates
low or even lower them further.”  Still, with economies like Spain and Italy stuck in
recession and their banking systems wary of taking on more risk,
today’s rate cut may not automatically pass through to companies
and households wanting to invest.  Fixing Transmission  “The ECB has continuously stated that fixing monetary
transmission will be much more effective than cutting  interest
rates  from the current levels and is key to supporting a
recovery in the periphery,” said Anders Svendsen, an economist
at Nordea Bank Denmark A/S in Copenhagen. “To the ECB, fixing
monetary transmission is done with the use of non-standard
measures.”  Asmussen said last week that the effect of any further rate
reductions may only be “limited” because they are not being
passed on in the economies that need them most. He also said
that the ECB can’t emulate the policies of the  Bank of England ,
the  Bank of Japan  and the Fed.  “Large-scale asset purchase programs targeted at  capital
markets  would not be very helpful in the euro area” and
policies like forward guidance or quantitative easing “are not
easily applicable here,” he said in a speech in London on April
25. One day later, he told a  Frankfurt  audience that higher
inflation or targeting the rate of unemployment “are ideas that
we simply cannot entertain.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  