-- ECB Bid for Fast Start to Bank Loss Rule Blocked by Nations
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2013-05-03T07:43:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/ecb-faces-roadblock-to-2015-start-for-eu-bank-bail-in-plans.html
The  European Central Bank  and  Germany 
met resistance from national governments in their bid to bring
forward the start date of EU rules that would force losses on
failing banks’ creditors.  France and  Spain  were among a large group of EU nations to
weigh in against the proposal, which would have seen the start
date of the so-called bail-in rules shunted forward to as early
as 2015 from 2018, at a meeting of national ambassadors
yesterday in Brussels, according to an EU official.  Nations were concerned that a faster timetable wouldn’t
leave banks with enough time to prepare, said the official, who
couldn’t be named in line with EU policy. The legislation,
proposed last year by  Michel Barnier , the EU’s financial
services chief, would require banks to issue minimum amounts of
unsecured debt and other liabilities that regulators could write
down in a crisis.  EU leaders have set a June deadline for governments and the
European Parliament to agree on the law, aimed at taking
taxpayers off the hook for  bank failures . In the absence of such
a system, nations have injected 1.7 trillion euros ($2.2
trillion) into their banking systems since the 2008 collapse of
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., according to European Commission
data.  Barnier last year proposed that, while most of the
provisions in the law should take effect in 2015, the bail-in
rules should be subject to a longer timetable, to avoid spooking
investors.  Unsecured Creditors  Under the plans, unsecured creditors at a crisis-hit bank
would face losses in order of seniority, and before recourse is
made to taxpayers.  ECB President  Mario Draghi  said last month that the bail-in
rules should take effect “way earlier” than 2018, so that the
EU has a clear road map for handling crises and can avoid “ad
hoc” actions such as those used in the international bailout of
Cyprus. He has mentioned 2015 as a possible start date.  A spokesman for the Frankfurt-based ECB declined to comment
beyond referring to previous comments by Draghi and other ECB
executive board members on the issue.  Chantal Hughes, a spokeswoman for Barnier, said that the
commission could only support a 2015 start date for bail-in if
there is a consensus among nations, and other parts of a so-
called banking union plan to centralize oversight of euro area
lenders is in place.  Earlier Deadline  The earlier deadline is also opposed by Gunnar Hoekmark,
the lawmaker leading work on the draft rules in the European
Parliament.  “Markets and investors need time to adjust,” Hoekmark
said in March.  Rules imposing creditor writedowns will be most
effective if they are implemented after other parts of the law
have already come into force, he said.  The legislation must be adopted by the parliament and
approved by governments in the EU’s Council of Ministers before
it can take effect.  Cyprus became a testing ground for investor losses when
euro-area authorities in March required restructuring of the
country’s two biggest banks as a condition of a 10 billion-euro
rescue.  The Cyprus program, billed by European policy makers as a
unique case, imposes losses on bondholders and uninsured
depositors and was accompanied by  capital controls  to limit
contagion. An earlier version of the bailout plan, which would
have seen state insured deposits also face losses, was rejected
by the country’s parliament.  Uninsured Depositors  Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble ’s chief foreign press
spokesman,  Bertrand Benoit , wasn’t reachable when phoned to seek
comment on yesterday’s meeting.  Ireland, which holds the rotating presidency of the EU,
told ambassadors that further talks will be held on the
timetable, according to the official. The law is set to be
discussed by finance ministers later this month.  Nations were also split at the meeting on how much
protection uninsured depositors should be given from bail-ins,
the official said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  