-- Legal & General’s Cash Flow Beats Estimates on Assets, Savings
-- B y   K e v i n   C r o w l e y
-- 2013-05-02T06:24:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/legal-general-s-cash-flow-beats-estimates-on-assets-savings.html
Legal & General Group Plc (LGEN) , the biggest
manager of U.K. pension assets, said first-quarter cash
generation rose 13 percent, beating analysts’ estimates, as its
funds unit had record inflows and annuities sales rose.  Operational cash generation, a measure of earnings before
dividends and reinvestment, climbed to 281 million pounds ($437
million) from 249 million pounds in the year-earlier period, the
London-based firm said today in a statement. That beat the 272
million-pound average estimate of 14 analysts surveyed by L&G.  “The outlook for the business is strong, and will improve
through broader economic growth and further international
expansion,” Chief Executive Officer Nigel Wilson said in the
statement.  Wilson, who took the role in June 2012, is looking for
acquisitions as the company seeks to bolster its position in the
U.K. pensions market, where the government is pushing more
Britons to save privately. The firm agreed to buy Cofunds
Holdings Ltd., an electronic savings portal, in March and is a
candidate to buy Scottish Widows Investment Partnership,
according to Numis Corp.  Sales rose 28 percent to 555 million pounds in the first
quarter, beating analysts’ estimate of 499 million pounds. That
included a 56 percent increase in sales of income protection and
annuity products and a 20 percent gain in revenue from savings.  The firm had record international net inflows of 6.7
billion pounds into its investment management division, up from
1.2 billion pounds a year ago. Total assets rose 9 percent to
441 billion pounds in the quarter.  Scottish Widows  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY) , the U.K.’s biggest mortgage
lender, is looking to sell Scottish Widows, which manages about
142 billion pounds of assets, four people with knowledge of the
matter said last month. With a large amount of index-linked
funds, the business would fit with Legal & General’s investment
management unit, according to David McCann, an analyst at Numis.  “As well as progressing our own organic and acquisition
growth plans, we are engaging positively with the Bank of
 England , PRA and Treasury as we pursue several growth options
through direct investments,” Wilson said, referring to the
U.K.’s central bank, regulator and finance ministry.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Crowley in London at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  