-- Elan Considered Buying Royalty Pharma, Offer Document Says
-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a
-- 2013-05-02T13:19:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/elan-considered-buying-royalty-pharma-offer-document-says.html
Elan Corp. (ELN)  considered buying  New York 
investment firm Royalty Pharma last year, about six months
before Royalty Pharma turned around with an acquisition proposal
for Elan that’s now valued at about $5.7 billion.  The top executives from the two companies met in September,
when they discussed Royalty Pharma’s interest in becoming a
public company, which an acquisition by Elan would facilitate,
New York-based Royalty Pharma said today in its  offer document .
The parties agreed to further study potential combinations and
meet again, Royalty Pharma said.  By October, Royalty Pharma Chief Executive Officer Pablo Legorreta told Elan CEO Kelly Martin and Chairman Robert Ingram
he thought his company’s market value was larger than Dublin-
based Elan’s, and that he was interested in acquiring Elan,
according to the document. Martin and Ingram agreed to give the
possibility some thought, according to the offer.  The document provides the first glimpse of the discussions
that led to Royalty’s offer in February. Royalty raised the bid
last month, and the offer is now valued at as much as $11.25 per
American depository receipt. The Irish drugmaker’s board
unanimously rejected the proposal last month.  The takeover offer challenges Martin’s plan to embark on
company acquisitions to expand its product portfolio after the
failure of an experimental Alzheimer’s disease treatment.  Shares Fall  Elan shares fell 0.9 percent to 8.65 euros as of 2:08 p.m.
in Dublin. The company declined to comment on the offer
document, said Jonathan Birt, a spokesman for Elan at FTI
Consulting.  Martin told Legorreta on Dec. 9 that Elan’s board wasn’t
interested in a sale to Royalty Pharma and wanted to re-open a
discussion of the Irish company buying Royalty Pharma, according
to the document.  Royalty’s offer for Elan is valued at about $5.7 billion
after Elan last month repurchased $1 billion of stock.  Founded in 1996,  Royalty Pharma  owns royalty interests in
38 approved and marketed pharmaceutical products. In 2004, the
firm bought Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center’s U.S.
royalty interest in Amgen Inc.’s Neupogen drug. Legorreta,
Royalty’s founder, previously worked as a banker at Lazard.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in London at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  