-- Telefonica Deutschland to Expand Deutsche Telekom Tie-Up
-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 2013-05-02T07:35:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/telefonica-deutschland-to-expand-deutsche-telekom-tie-up.html
Telefonica SA’s German division plans
to deepen its cooperation with  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE)  for fixed-
line products as it seeks to reverse a drop in broadband
customer numbers and offer bundles for wireless clients.  Telefonica Deutschland Holding AG signed a memorandum of
understanding to increase its use of the former German phone
monopoly’s infrastructure starting next year, the Munich-based
unit said today in a statement. The project, which will be filed
for antitrust clearance with  Germany ’s Federal Cartel Office,
would be completed in 2019, it said.  The strategy will help Telefonica Deutschland offer faster
speeds to Internet users without having to invest in costly
cable deployment itself. Deutsche Telekom would be able to share
the expenses of its own rollout. The Bonn-based phone company
spends almost 10 billion euros ($13 billion) a year on networks,
including wireless and non-German markets.  “Together with our heavy-duty mobile-data network, we will
be able to further advance our convergence strategy,”
Telefonica Deutschland Chief Executive Officer Rene Schuster
said in the statement. The deal will help the operator offer
“fixed network products on top of our mobile offerings.”  Cable Competitors  Germany’s fixed-line Internet market is contested among
Deutsche Telekom and cable-television network providers  Kabel
Deutschland Holding AG (KD8)  and John Malone’s  Liberty Global Inc. (LBTYA) 
Deutsche Telekom, the country’s biggest phone company, won
preliminary regulatory backing last month for its plan to narrow
the gap with cable providers with so-called vectoring
technology.  Telefonica Deutschland  rose  as much as 0.9 percent to 6.08
euros at 9:33 a.m. in  Frankfurt . Deutsche Telekom  declined  as
much as 0.9 percent to 8.90 euros.  As part of the deal announced today, Telefonica Deutschland
would use the vectoring technology from Deutsche Telekom. The
agreement builds on a contract signed late last year that lets
Telefonica offer faster DSL service via Deutsche Telekom’s
network. Telefonica also uses fiber-optic cables from Deutsche
Telekom to connect wireless towers as it expands so-called long-
term evolution, or LTE, technology.  2010 Purchase  Telefonica SA (TEF) , which operates the O2 mobile brand in
Germany,  acquired  its fixed-line Internet business in the
country in 2010, buying HanseNet Telekommunikation GmbH and its
2.2 million customers from  Telecom Italia SpA (TIT)  for 900 million
euros. Madrid-based Telefonica is considering a sale of the
assets to cut debt, people familiar with the discussions said
last week.  Telefonica Deutschland’s fixed-line network reaches about
67 percent of German households. Revenue from the business fell
4.4 percent to 1.36 billion euros last year, according to
company reports, as the number of broadband customers shrank 8.2
percent to 2.4 million at the end of 2012.  The race to win  customers  for high-speed Internet access is
drawing the interest from non-German companies. Both Liberty
Global and  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  have considered acquiring Kabel
Deutschland, the country’s biggest cable provider, people
familiar with the plans have said.  Telefonica SA Chief Executive Officer Cesar Alierta is
reviewing the Spanish company’s assets as he seeks to reduce net
debt by 4.3 billion euros this year.  In March, Telefonica agreed to sell its U.K. broadband and
fixed-line phone division to  British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY) 
for as much as 200 million pounds ($309 million). Telefonica
said on April 30 that it agreed to sell a 40 percent stake in
its Central American assets to closely held Corporacion Multi
Inversiones to raise $500 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cornelius Rahn in Berlin at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  