-- Elliott Tells Clients Money-Losing Gold Still Best Value
-- B y   K e l l y   B i t
-- 2013-05-02T16:38:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/elliott-tells-clients-money-losing-gold-still-best-value.html
Elliott Management Corp., the $21.8
billion hedge-fund firm founded by Paul Singer, said gold, a
money-losing position for the firm this year, remains the best
store of value in an uncertain global economy.  “Although our gold position lost money in the quarter and
afterward, we remain unconvinced that anything resembling a
genuine normalization of global economic and financial
conditions has been achieved,” Elliott wrote in an addendum
accompanying a first-quarter letter to investors. “There is
only one store of value and medium of exchange that has stood
the test of time as ‘real money’: gold. We expect this dynamic
to assert itself in a large way at some point.”  Singer’s firm joins John Paulson’s Paulson & Co. in
sticking with gold after bullion slumped into a bear market in
April. Both are saying gold will rally because governments have
accumulated too much debt and are printing money on an
unprecedented scale. Paulson, whose Gold Fund declined 28
percent in the first quarter, told clients last month that
purchases by central banks and demand in Asia will support the
metal in the near term.  Elliott, which is based in New York, said gold will rebound
because governments haven’t found a real solution to reduce the
debt they have accumulated.  “It is quite frustrating to watch the price of gold fall
as the conditions that should cause it to appreciate seem more
and more prevalent,” Elliott wrote in the April 25 letter, a
copy of which was obtained by Bloomberg News. “Gold may not
exactly be a ‘safe haven’ in the sense of an asset whose value
is precisely known and stable. But it surely is an asset that,
in a particular set of circumstances, becomes a unique and
irreplaceable ‘must-have.’”  Bearish Bets  Even with gold losses, the firm’s Elliott International
Ltd. fund rose 3.1 percent last quarter, it said in the letter.  Peter Truell, a spokesman for Elliott, declined to comment
on the letter and addendum.  Gold prices will close the year at $1,550 an ounce, 7.5
percent less than at the end of 2012 and the biggest drop since
1997, according to the median of 38 estimates compiled by
Bloomberg. Investors are selling bullion held through exchange-
traded products at the fastest pace on record, hedge funds
accumulated their second-biggest bearish bet ever and futures
had their biggest two-day drop in 33 years last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kelly Bit in New York at 
 kbit@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  