-- Most Emerging Stocks Drop on China Data as Brazil Sinks
-- B y   M a r i a   L e v i t o v   a n d   J u l i a   L e i t e
-- 2013-05-02T21:41:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/emerging-stocks-fall-on-chinese-manufacturing-korean-exports.html
Most emerging-market stocks fell as
weaker growth in Chinese manufacturing overshadowed monetary
easing in Europe and the prospect of interest-rate cuts in
India. Brazil’s  Ibovespa (IBOV)  dropped for the first time this week.  Lenovo Group Ltd. (992)  slumped 2.7 percent in  Hong Kong  after
talks to buy parts of International Business Machines Corp.’s
server division broke down, according to a person familiar with
the discussions. Hyundai Merchant Marine Co. sank to an eight-
year low in Seoul.  Indian (SENSEX)  stocks jumped the most in Asia, while
Turkey rallied to a record. Brazilian mining company Vale SA,
whose biggest export market is China, slumped 2.7 percent.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index dropped 0.1 percent to
1,037.33 in New York, as 428 equities fell while 355 rose. A
private gauge of Chinese manufacturing declined last month,
missing projections. The European Central Bank cut interest
rates to a record low today, and the  Reserve Bank  of India will
lower the repurchase rate for a third straight meeting, 33 of 40
analysts said in a Bloomberg survey.  “These shots of monetary easing are like shots of
adrenaline that have less and less effect,” said Derrick Irwin,
a portfolio manager of the Wells Fargo Advantage Emerging
Markets Equity Fund, who helps manage $10.2 billion in Boston.
“For China, expectations of a strong recovery have definitely
been tempered. That has weighed on markets.”  Measures of commodity shares led losses in the emerging-
market index. The broad gauge has lost 1.7 percent this year,
compared with a 9.8 percent increase in the MSCI World Index of
developed-country stocks. The  emerging-markets  measure trades at
10.8 times 12-month  projected  profit, compared with the MSCI
World’s 14.2 times, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Emerging ETF  The iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index exchange-traded
fund gained 0.8 percent to $43.16. The Chicago Board Options
Exchange Emerging Markets ETF Volatility Index, a measure of
options prices on the fund and expectations of price swings,
lost 4.8 percent to 19.29.  Brazil’s Ibovespa slumped for the first time in three days,
falling 1.1 percent, as Vale retreated from a two-week high.
Mexico’s IPC slid 0.4 percent.  Russia’s Micex Index fell 0.7 percent, resuming trade after
yesterday’s holiday. OAO Bashneft, a Russian oil producer,
plunged 10 percent after HSBC Holdings Plc downgraded the stock.  Markets in the Czech Republic, Poland and Hungary fell at
least 0.2 percent, while Turkey’s Borsa Istanbul Stock Exchange
National 100 Index jumped 3.1 percent.  Migros Ticaret AS (MGROS)  rose to
a two-year high as Carrefour SA’s Turkish joint-venture partner
said it’s considering buying the grocery chain.  Slovenia Bond  Slovenia resumed its first international bond sale this
year after Moody’s Investors Service cut its credit rating to
junk as the euro member seeks to raise funds to rescue its
troubled banks.  India’s S&P BSE Sensex index advanced 1.2 percent, its
highest since Feb. 4.  Tata Consultancy Services Ltd. (TCS)  jumped 3.8
percent, while State Bank of India, the nation’s biggest lender,
paced gains among its peers.  The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  lost 0.9 percent,
while the Shanghai Composite Index fell 0.2 percent in its first
day of trading this week. Lenovo tumbled the most since April
18. China’s  yuan  rose to a 19-year high as the central bank
raised the currency’s reference rate by the most in more than
six months.  South Korea’s  Kospi Index (KOSPI)  slid 0.3 percent as  Hyundai
Merchant (011200)  slumped 9.9 percent after saying that it will sell
$117.6 million of bonds that are exchangeable into common shares
of KB Financial Group Inc.  LG Uplus Corp. (032640)  rose the most on the
emerging-market gauge, on speculation lower marketing costs will
boost profit.  Indonesia’s stocks fell the most in about six weeks and
bonds dropped after Standard & Poor’s cut its outlook on the
rating for Southeast Asia’s biggest economy.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries dropped three basis points, or 0.03
percentage point, to 280 basis points, according to JPMorgan’s
EMBI Global Diversified Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Levitov in London at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net ;
Julia Leite in  New York  at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  