-- Empire State Building Settlement to Get Approval by Judge
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2013-05-02T21:57:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/empire-state-building-settlement-to-get-approval-by-judge.html
A judge in New York said he intends to
approve a $55 million settlement of lawsuits over a plan to take
the  Empire State Building  public in potentially the second-
biggest offering for a U.S. real estate investment trust.  Justice O. Peter Sherwood in state Supreme Court in
 Manhattan  said today he will issue a written ruling. He gave the
accord preliminary approval in February and rejected a request
to intervene in the case by investors opposed to the settlement
including Andrew Penson, owner of Grand Central Terminal.  “This settlement is the result of arms-length and
intensive negotiations between parties with very different
interests,” Sherwood said during today’s hearing.  Empire State Realty Trust Inc., as the new company would be
called, is seeking to raise about $1 billion for the real estate
investment trust. It’s to include the 102-story tower and
20 other properties supervised by the Malkin family. Only the
2006 initial public offering of Santa Monica, California-based
Douglas Emmett Inc. was bigger in the industry, at $1.6 billion,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Opponents and supporters of the IPO are battling for the
few remaining undecided votes. Malkin Holdings LLC needs support
from 80 percent of shares.  Peter Malkin, the firm’s chairman, and his son Anthony, its
president, have said shareholders representing about 75 percent
of the skyscraper’s 3,300 ownership units voted for the buyout.
The Malkins have been calling holdouts seeking their support.  Five Lawsuits  Investors last year filed five class-action, or group,
lawsuits, accusing the company and the Malkins of breaching
their fiduciary duty. The trust announced the settlement of the
cases in November.  Malkin Holdings said it would leave voting on the IPO open
until Sherwood ruled on the legality of a $100-a-share buyout
provision or until today’s hearing on the class-action
settlement. Opponents can avoid being bought out if they change
their votes to “yes” within 10 days after receiving written
notice that the 80 percent approval has been achieved.  On April 30, Sherwood denied a request by opponents of the
settlement to declare the buyout provision illegal. An appeals
court judge yesterday declined to issue a stay of today’s
hearing pending an appeal of that decision.  The deal’s opponents claimed the buyout coerces them to
vote in favor of the REIT. They said their units are potentially
worth more than $300,000 each.  Income Stream  A REIT conversion would mean giving up a reliable income
stream that may rise as renovations at the skyscraper are
finished, they argued.  Sherwood ruled that the investors aren’t members of Empire
State Building Associates LLC and therefore aren’t entitled to
protection under state law that the dissident investors said
guaranteed them fair value for their interests.  Construction on the 1,453-foot (443-meter) Empire State
Building began in March 1930, and the skyscraper opened to the
public on May 1, 1931.  It was the tallest building in the world until New York’s
World Trade Center was built in the 1970s. The building has been
featured in more than 250 feature films, including the 1933
movie “King Kong,” in which the title character, a giant ape,
climbed the structure.  At the end of 2012, the Empire State Building was about
69 percent occupied, with such tenants as  LinkedIn Corp. (LNKD) , the
Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. and Coty Inc., according to the
skyscraper’s annual report.  Settlement Terms  Eighty percent of the settlement will be funded with cash
and 20 percent with securities, according to court filings. The
settlement also provides that members of the class can choose
receipt of operating units and Class B shares instead of Class A
shares and/or cash, which would allow them to avoid most of an
“otherwise massive tax burden,” a change estimated at about
$100 million, attorneys for the plaintiffs said in a court
filing.  It also provides for “deal protection provisions,”
including that investors in the three public limited-liability
corporations involved in the transaction must be told of a
decrease of more than 10 percent in the exchange value of their
property during the solicitation period.  The settlement also says the IPO won’t proceed unless gross
cash proceeds of $600 million are committed or until the
investors in the LLCs giver further approval.  Class Members  Attorneys for the plaintiffs, led by Lawrence P. Kolker of
Wolf Haldenstein Adler Freeman & Herz LLP, asked Sherwood to
award them more than $15 million in fees and expenses. Sherwood
said he would issue a separate ruling on that request.  About 75 percent of the settlement, or about $40.7 million,
will go to the 2,800 class members who are participants in the
limited-liability company that controls the Empire State
Building, Kolker said in today’s hearing. About 11 of the 4,500
class members chose to opt out of the settlement, and another 17
objected, Kolker said.  The settlement has no bearing on the participants’ vote on
the transaction, Kolker said.  “If there is no transaction there is no settlement,”
Kolker said. “We did not try to tell anyone how to vote.”  Sherwood dismissed arguments by  Stephen Meister , an
attorney with Meister Seelig & Fein LLP representing six
investors opposed to the transaction, and Alan Kovacs, a trustee
for a family trust with an interest in the Empire State
Building, to reject the settlement on the grounds that it
doesn’t provide fair value for their investments.  REIT Approval  The suit is “meaningless” unless the REIT is approved by
Empire State Building owners, said Richard Edelman of Solana
Beach,  California , a grandson of an original unit-holder.  “The initial voting period of 60 days ended over a month
ago and the vote is still ’no’ to the REIT,” he said. “‘The
original class-action lawyers’ own expert reported that the
owners of the ESB should have received over $200 million more in
the REIT. Instead this settlement gives them less than
$30 million.”  Howard Smith, 88, who attended today’s hearing, said he is
an original unit holder who has received $130,000 in
distributions for every $10,000 of the $55,000 he invested in
the Empire State Building.  “The amount of money we’re getting is very, very good,”
Smith said. “They have taken very good care of us financially.
The bottom line is you’re going to get a lot of money.”  The case is Meyers v.  Empire State Realty Trust Inc. (ESB) ,
650607/2012, New York state Supreme Court, New York County
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York State Supreme Court in Manhattan
at   cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 