-- Enbridge Expansion Could Turn Into Keystone-Like Fight
-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r   a n d   R e b e c c a   P e n t y
-- 2013-05-02T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/enbridge-expansion-could-turn-into-keystone-like-fight.html
A new front may soon open in the
battle over pipelines that transport Canadian oil to the U.S.  And this one involves a line that would carry even more oil
derived from  Alberta ’s tar sands than  TransCanada Corp. (TRP) ’s
proposed Keystone XL, a project that has inflamed
environmentalists who say it would exacerbate  climate change .  Enbridge Inc. (ENB) ’s request for a permit to boost the volume of
oil on an existing pipeline from Alberta to  Wisconsin  has so far
escaped controversy. That may change as the State Department
begins to review the plan, which would almost double the line’s
capacity to 880,000 barrels a day -- more than the proposed
capacity of Keystone.  “We’re very concerned this has flown under the public’s
radar,” said Peter LaFontaine, an energy policy advocate for
the National Wildlife Federation, which is fighting both
projects. “The public doesn’t seem to have the same sort of
attention for pipeline expansions as they do for pipeline
construction. But we’re talking about a lot of crude.”  Pipeline companies are proposing new ways to export oil
from  Canada  to the south, east and west as rising production
overwhelms existing lines and depresses prices. Output from
Canada’s  oil sands  will more than double by 2021 to 3.38 million
barrels a day, according to the Canadian Association of
Petroleum Producers.  Comments Sought  In March, the State Department asked for public comment
about what it should consider as it updates a 2009 environmental
impact statement for the U.S. permit granted to Enbridge’s
original pipeline, known as the Alberta Clipper or Line 67. The
Calgary-based company, Canada’s largest transporter of crude
oil, is seeking permission to double the flow through the line
that starts in Hardisty, Alberta, and ends at a terminal in
Superior, Wisconsin. From there, the oil is shipped to U.S.
Midwestern and Gulf Coast markets by other pipelines.  The State Department is accepting comments until May 13. It
must complete its environment assessment before it can consider
whether the project is in U.S. national interest. The department
has jurisdiction over Keystone and the Alberta Clipper because
they cross the international border with Canada.  “We will continue to review Enbridge’s application in a
rigorous, transparent and efficient manner,” said Jane Gamble,
a State Department spokeswoman.  Increasing the flow of crude through the Clipper would pose
“little incremental environmental impact” and the risk of a
spill “is very small,” Larry Springer, a spokesman for
Enbridge’s U.S. affiliate, said in a phone interview yesterday.
“We expect that following the supplemental EIS that the permit
will be amended as requested.”  Clipper Expansion  Steven Paget, a Calgary-based analyst at FirstEnergy
Capital Corp., said in a phone interview yesterday that
Enbridge’s Clipper expansion faces an increased risk of U.S.
rejection as opposition to pipelines grows.  “There was pushback against the first Clipper and now
you’ve seen what happened on Keystone and there’s no reason to
believe that’s going to change,” Paget said.  LaFontaine said environmentalists are also worried that
companies including Enbridge and  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  will try to
reverse the flow of pipeline system that now runs from  Maine  to
 Montreal  as another way to send oil sands fuel to the U.S.
Enbridge scrapped that plan in 2009 because of lack of
commercial support, Springer said. Exxon Mobil is shareholder of
the Portland-Montreal Pipe Line System.  Montreal Pipeline  U.S. lawmakers from  New Hampshire , including Democratic
Senator Jeanne Shaheen,  wrote  Secretary of State  John Kerry  last
month urging the department to review the project if it does go
forward. The line crosses the state.  “Now we have groups that are against pipelines that aren’t
even on the table anymore,” Paget said.  Some of the opposition to Keystone has come from ranchers
and farmers in  Nebraska  whose land the pipeline would traverse.
Their opposition led President  Barack Obama  to block
TransCanada’s first route for Keystone.  The company resubmitted a permit application with a new
pathway further east that according to the state Department of
Environmental Quality avoids the Sand Hills wetlands that lie
above the Ogallala aquifer.  Enbridge by contrast is seeking to expand an existing line
that already carries as much as 450,000 barrels a day without
laying new pipe. Paget said that fact may mute some of the
opposition.  Climate Concerns  Even so, the climate concerns with Keystone also apply to
the Alberta Clipper, said Daniel Kessler, a spokesman for
350.org, which promotes public policies to mitigate the risks of
climate change.  “Enabling tars sands expansion is a legacy and moral
question for the president,” Kessler said in an e-mail. “This
is why Keystone has become so contentious.”  Enbridge’s proposal is “just as bad as Keystone,” Eddie
Scher, a spokesman for the  Sierra Club , said in an interview
yesterday. The expansion carries the additional risk of
polluting the  Great Lakes , he said. “This stuff is going to end
up in Lake Superior.”  Calumet Specialty Products Partners LP (CLMT) , which processes
crude from Canada and  North Dakota  at its refinery in Superior,
Wisconsin, is considering adding a barge loading dock on Lake
Superior so it can ship oil to refineries on the East Coast and
Gulf Coast.  Sierra Club  Scher said the Sierra Club planned to urge the State
Department to consider the climate-change impacts of the
pipeline’s expansion as it updates its environmental assessment.
The development and processing of bitumen from the oil sands
releases more carbon dioxide than does the production and use of
more conventional forms of crude.  The State Department draft environmental analysis found
Keystone would have a minimal impact on greenhouse gas emissions
because Alberta’s oil sands would probably be developed whether
the pipeline was built or not.  The Environmental Protection Agency subsequently criticized
the department’s review as insufficient.  Canadian politicians and oil executives say the climate
impact of the oil sands is overstated.  “The oil sands accounted for less than 8 percent of
Canada’s total emissions in 2011,” Joe Oliver, Canada’s natural
resources minister, said in an April 23 speech at the Center for
Strategic and International Studies in  Washington . “Globally,
GHG emissions from oil sands production in 2011 represent 0.1
percent, or one one-thousandth, of total emissions.”  Pumping Stations  Enbridge’s application seeks permission to operate its 36-
inch pipeline at full capacity, about 880,000 barrels a day, by
mid-2015, Springer said. Initially the expansion would allow the
company to transport about 570,000 barrels a day by mid-2014.  Enbridge’s full expansion plan would require adding more
power and units to existing pumping stations in Minnesota, two
new  storage tanks  in Wisconsin without laying new pipe. The
company has sought state approvals, Springer said.  While the Clipper is behind Keystone in terms of the State
Department’s review, it would be operational before the $5.3
billion TransCanada line if approved. TransCanada pushed back
its estimated startup for Keystone XL last week to the second
half of 2015, citing delays in the U.S. review of the project.  Enbridge Plan  Clipper is part of a broader plan by Enbridge to boost its
entire oil system to move Canadian crude to points in the U.S.,
alleviating a bottleneck in western Canada, Paget said.  Line 67 traverses about 327 miles (526 kilometers) in North
Dakota, Minnesota and Wisconsin to the Superior Terminal, from
which its dispersed to other markets, including in the U.S.
Midwest and Gulf Coast. Keystone would carry oil from Canada to
the Gulf Coast across six U.S. states.  Enbridge has already earned the ire of environmental groups
for its response to a July 2010 spill in Michigan after its oil
pipeline ruptured.  In October, the U.S. EPA said the company must do more to
clean up the spill, which polluted Michigan’s Kalamazoo River
and coated birds, muskrats, and turtles in an oily residue.  The price of Canadian heavy crude fell 12 percent from a
year earlier to average $66.99 a barrel in the first quarter,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Oil-sands  benchmark 
Western Canada Select was a record $42.50 a barrel less than the
main U.S. grade in December.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net ;
Rebecca Penty in Calgary at 
 rpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  