-- Energy Future Reports $569 Million First-Quarter Loss
-- B y   M a r k   C h e d i a k
-- 2013-05-02T10:27:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/energy-future-reports-569-million-first-quarter-loss.html
Energy Future Holdings Corp., the
 Texas  power company seeking to restructure at least $32 billion
of debt, reported its ninth consecutive quarterly loss.  The first-quarter loss widened to $569 million from $304
million a year earlier, the Dallas-based company said in a
filing with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission made
public today.  Energy Future, formerly known as TXU, has struggled to
generate profits since it was taken private six years ago in the
largest leveraged buyout in history. Wholesale electricity
prices have dropped on a decline in natural gas costs, which
fell 86 percent from a 2008 high.  Total debt rose to $43.4 billion among all the company’s
units, from $43.2 billion at the end of last year. Creditors
rejected a pre-packaged bankruptcy plan to restructure debt held
by one of its units, the company said April 15. The company had
proposed a plan in which creditors would forgive debt held by
its unregulated power unit in exchange for equity in Energy
Future and $5 billion in cash or new debt.  KKR & Co., TPG Capital LP and Goldman Sachs Group Inc.,
leaders of the $48 billion buyout, said they would support the
proposed Energy Future restructuring if they can retain a 15
percent equity stake in the company.  “We and the creditors have not reached agreement on the
terms of any change in our capital structure and are currently
not engaged in ongoing negotiations,” the company said in
today’s filing.  Energy Future’s units include Luminant, which owns more
than 15,400 megawatts of power plant capacity in Texas; TXU
Energy, a retail electricity seller; and Oncor Electric Delivery
Company, a regulated power-line unit that supplies electricity
to more than 3 million homes and businesses.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Chediak in San Francisco at 
 mchediak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at   susanwarren@bloomberg.net . 