-- Lenovo, IBM Talks on Server Deal Said to Break Down
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-05-02T21:51:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/lenovo-ibm-talks-on-server-deal-said-to-break-down.html
International Business Machines
Corp. (IBM) ’s negotiations to sell parts of its server division to
 Lenovo Group Ltd. (992)  broke down after the two sides couldn’t agree
on a price, said a person familiar with the discussions.  Lenovo Chief Financial Officer Wong Wai Ming, who was in
the U.S. this past week for the talks, left for Hong Kong
without an agreement, said the person, who declined to be
identified because negotiations are private. The talks could
resume later, the person said. James Sciales, a spokesman for
IBM, and Jeffrey Shafer, a spokesman for Lenovo, both declined
to comment.  Lenovo wanted to pay toward the low end of the $2.5
billion-to-$4.5 billion range that Bloomberg News reported on
April 19, while Armonk, New York-based IBM sought a
substantially higher valuation, the person said, without
providing details. In 2005, Lenovo purchased IBM’s personal-
computer unit, which helped make the Beijing-based company the
world’s second-largest PC manufacturer. The servers rely on
similar x86 processors.  The breakdown of talks was reported by Fortune on May 1.
Lenovo shares  fell  2.7 percent to HK$6.90 yesterday in  Hong
Kong . IBM rose 1.4 percent to $202.39 in New York.  Hardware Trouble  IBM was looking to divest a portion of its business with
lower profit as it seeks earnings per share of $20 by 2015,
compared with $15.25 last year. The company has had trouble
selling its hardware products, with a 17 percent drop in the
unit’s revenue last quarter.  On an April 18 conference call with analysts, IBM Chief
Financial Officer Mark Loughridge said cutting jobs and buying
and selling businesses would lead to charges in the second
quarter -- about $1 billion due to restructuring. He said that
gains in the second half from those activities would make up for
those expenses.  The comments probably meant that a divestiture was planned
that would be worth more than $1 billion, said Maynard Um, an
analyst at Wells Fargo Securities in  New York .  Lenovo is diversifying into devices -- including TVs,
tablet computers and smartphones -- and allied itself with EMC
Corp. last year to boost sales of storage equipment and servers
that run corporate networks.  In an April 19 statement through the Hong Kong stock
exchange, Lenovo said it was in “preliminary” discussions
about a potential acquisition with a third party, which it
didn’t identify.  “No material terms concerning the potential acquisition
have been agreed and the company has not entered into any
definitive agreement,” Lenovo said in that statement.  Shafer said yesterday he couldn’t comment on whether Lenovo
will issue an update of that filing with the exchange.  To contact  Bloomberg News  staff for this story:
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net ;
Sarah Frier in New York at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  