-- Here’s a Job JPMorgan’s Dimon Can Do Without
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   W e i l
-- 2013-05-02T22:00:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/here-s-a-job-jpmorgan-s-dimon-can-do-without.html
In 2006, during Jamie Dimon’s first
year as  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s chief executive officer, a
proposal on the company’s proxy statement called for separating
the bank’s CEO and chairman positions. It received  38 percent  of
the votes. And back then, JPMorgan already had someone else as
its chairman: William Harrison, Dimon’s predecessor as CEO.  Dimon got the chairman’s title later that year. Almost
every year since, there has been a nonbinding shareholder
proposal calling for the jobs to be held by different people.
Last year’s version got  40 percent  of the vote. This year’s
initiative might get that much support or more at JPMorgan’s
annual meeting on May 21 in Tampa,  Florida .  JPMorgan knows this. News reports last month said company
executives and directors were  lobbying  large shareholders to
vote against it. The labor-union pension plan behind this year’s
ballot question has said it wasn’t meant as a  referendum  on
Dimon’s leadership. But that’s how it is playing out, spurred by
last year’s London Whale trading debacle, which caused the bank
$6.2 billion of losses and exposed a lack of risk-management and
financial-reporting controls at the company’s highest levels.  Dimon could end this needless drama in one stroke: Hand the
chairman post to someone else. Dimon, 57, would lose little by
giving up the title. He probably would draw public praise for
showing humility, rather than letting his ego drive the outcome.
The company operated fine when it had different people in the
two jobs. For Dimon, the extra designation shouldn’t be worth
fighting for. Doing so turns the issue into something bigger
than it should be.  Ceremonial Post  The chairman’s job at JPMorgan is partly  ceremonial  anyway.
Since December 2006, when Dimon became chairman, the company has
had a “presiding director.” Currently it’s Lee Raymond, 74,
the former chairman and CEO of Exxon Mobil Corp. The presiding
director approves board-meeting agendas, schedules and
materials. He can add agenda items. He officiates over meetings
of JPMorgan’s nonmanagement directors. And he can convene those
meetings himself. (Dimon is the only JPMorgan executive on the
company’s 11-member board.)  The presiding director also facilitates communication
between Dimon and the other board members. If Dimon wasn’t
chairman, he would report to the same people as CEO anyway. In
its  proxy statement  last month, JPMorgan said forcing Dimon to
give up the chairman’s post “could cause uncertainty, confusion
and inefficiency in board and management function and
relations.” If anything, the present structure is more
confusing -- with Dimon in charge of JPMorgan’s board, but not
really.  The arguments for separating the chairman and CEO jobs at
public companies usually center on the idea that CEOs shouldn’t
be their own bosses. In other words, they answer to the
directors, so they shouldn’t be running the boards, too. The
typical counterargument, made by JPMorgan and others, is that
boards should make such choices on a case-by-case basis, and
that a strict prohibition on one person holding both positions
doesn’t make sense.  JPMorgan isn’t a normal company, of course. With $2.4
trillion of  assets , it’s a massive contingent liability the rest
of the country would be on the hook for if the bank ever blew
up. For that reason, JPMorgan’s directors should show they are
serious about proper governance, especially after the Whale
disaster at the bank’s chief investment office in  London .  In a supervisory letter last year, the U.S. Office of the
Comptroller of the Currency concluded that JPMorgan’s “board
and management failed to ensure that CIO management was properly
supervised, and that an adequate risk management and control
infrastructure was in place.” In March, a report by the  Senate
Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations  criticized Dimon for
misinforming investors and regulators during the trading
scandal’s early days. The  report  also strongly suggested that
JPMorgan’s disclosures may have violated federal securities
laws.  Trading Losses  The trading losses might seem small compared with the
bank’s $21.3 billion of earnings for 2012. But JPMorgan and
Dimon both suffered significant reputational damage. Dimon took
a 50 percent pay cut in 2012 to $11.5 million, as if this were a
serious penalty for someone who owns $278 million of his
company’s stock. The board has done hardly anything to show
accountability for its own organizational failings. Switching
out its titular head is common sense.  While this may not be an easy pill for Dimon, forfeiting
the chairman’s title would be a sign of strength, not weakness.
All he would have to say is that it’s for the good of the bank,
and people would believe him, because it would be true.
Sometimes strong leadership means knowing when to exercise less
of it.  (Jonathan Weil is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Jonathan Weil in  New York  at 
 jweil6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  