-- Escaped 1973 Killer of Trooper Joins FBI Terrorist List
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2013-05-02T18:06:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/escaped-1973-killer-of-trooper-joins-fbi-terrorist-list.html
Joanne Chesimard, the Black Liberation
Army militant who fled prison for Cuba after being convicted of
killing a  New Jersey  state trooper in 1973, was added to the FBI
most-wanted terrorist list, and a reward doubled to $2 million.  New Jersey is offering $1 million for information leading
to Chesimard’s capture, on top of an earlier $1 million reward
from the  Federal Bureau of Investigation , state Attorney General
Jeffrey Chiesa said in a statement today, the 40th anniversary
of the execution-style killing on May 2, 1973. She is the first
woman on the FBI’s  most-wanted terrorist list .  “Justice has no expiration date and our resolve to capture
Joanne Chesimard does not diminish with the passage of time,”
Chiesa said in the statement. “We hope that this augmented
reward will spur action that will bring Chesimard back.”  Chesimard, born in  New York , was a prominent member of the
Black Panther Party and later joined the Black Liberation Army,
a revolutionary activist group that claimed responsibility for
the murder of several police officers in the U.S. in the 1970s,
the FBI said on its website. She was found guilty of first-
degree murder in 1977 and  sentenced  to life in prison for
killing Trooper Werner Foerster in a shootout on the  New Jersey
Turnpike .  Chesimard escaped in 1979 from a lockup in Clinton, New
Jersey, with help from a “coalition of radical, domestic terror
groups” who took two guards hostage during an armed assault at
the facility, authorities said.  Lived Underground  Chesimard, 65, who now goes by the name Assata Shakur,
lived underground before being located in Cuba in 1984. She is
still living on the island, according to Chiesa’s statement.  “She attends government functions and her standard of
living is higher than most Cubans,” Chiesa said.  The murder took place after Foerster and another trooper,
James Harper, stopped Chesimard and two accomplices for a motor
vehicle violation, the FBI said. Chesimard, who was wanted for
her involvement in felonies including bank robbery, and the two
others opened fire on the troopers “seemingly without
provocation,” using semiautomatic handguns, the FBI said.  Harper, who mortally wounded one of the assailants, was
shot by Chesimard in the shoulder and returned fire, injuring
her, the FBI said. Foerster engaged in hand-to-hand combat with
the driver of the vehicle, Clark Squire, and was injured. He was
then fatally shot “execution-style at point-blank range” on
the side of the road with his own gun, the agency said.  “Chesimard’s jammed handgun was found at Foerster’s
side,” Chiesa’s office said in today’s statement.  The three shooters fled the scene and abandoned their car
five miles away. Chesimard and Squire, the other surviving
shooter, were caught.  Accomplice Killed  The FBI describes her as having scars on her chest, left
shoulder, abdomen and left knee. She has used birthdays in 1947
and 1952 and may wear African tribal clothing, the agency said.  Squire, the imprisoned accomplice who goes by the name
 Sundiata Acoli , lost a bid for parole in August 2004, after 30
years in prison. The parole board said that he should remain
locked up because his account of the gun battle contradicted
evidence at his 1974 trial. Squire is serving a life sentence in
a federal prison in Cumberland,  Maryland .  Chiesa said the state’s share of the reward will come from
forfeiture funds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in New York
at   elarson4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 