-- ESPN Forms Southeastern Conference Network in Contract Extension
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 2013-05-02T17:20:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/espn-extends-broadcast-agreement-with-southeastern-conference.html
Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s ESPN and the
Southeastern Conference announced the creation of the SEC
Network, a round-the-clock media stage for one of the nation’s
most dominant college athletic leagues.  The conference and ESPN also said at a news conference in
Atlanta that they had extended their broadcast-rights deal for
all SEC sports by 20 years through 2034, the longest such
contract in the U.S. Neither ESPN President John Skipper nor SEC
Commissioner Mike Slive would discuss financial terms of the
agreement.  The new television channel will go on air in August 2014
and be based in ESPN facilities in  Charlotte , North Carolina. It
will be carried on through the conference’s 11 states on a
similar level to ESPN, which reaches 100 million U.S. homes. The
network probably also will be carried on a sports-tier level
similar to other ESPN channels, which reach about 75 million
homes, the two sides said.  “We believe that this conference has national appeal,”
ESPN President John Skipper said. “This is not a regional
network. This is a national network. There are a lot of SEC fans
in  California ,  Michigan , New York and  Nebraska . We expect to be
in all of those places.”  The Birmingham, Alabama-based SEC is the nation’s most
powerful college football conference with seven straight
national championships. It includes 14 schools in Alabama,
Arkansas, South Carolina, Florida, Georgia, Kentucky, Louisiana,
Mississippi, Missouri, Tennessee and Texas.  The SEC Network will feature 24-hour programming of 1,000
live SEC sports events annually, including 45 college football
games, more than 100 men’s basketball games, studio shows and
other feature programming, the two sides said.  The network has reached an initial agreement with  AT&T
Inc. (T) ’s U-Verse for distribution and is in negotiations with
other distributors, Skipper said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Buteau in Atlanta at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  