-- Metro Posts Unexpected Operating Profit on Media-Saturn Chain
-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 2013-05-02T05:48:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/metro-posts-unexpected-operating-profit-on-media-saturn-chain.html
Metro AG (MEO) , Germany’s biggest retailer,
reported an unexpected first-quarter operating profit as losses
at the Real hypermarkets unit and the the Media-Saturn
electronics chain narrowed.  First-quarter earnings before interest, taxes and special
items was 14 million euros ($18.4 million) compared to an 8
million-euro loss in the year-earlier period, the Dusseldorf-
based company said in a statement today. The  average estimate  of
eight analysts compiled by Bloomberg was for a loss of 9.1
million euros.  Metro repeated a forecast for a decline in earnings for the
nine months from January through September, as the company
invests in its Cash & Carry unit and the economy remains
challenging in southern and eastern  Europe . The euro-area
jobless rate rose to a record in March, a report showed on April
30. The region’s economy has contracted for five quarters.  “In many countries, our customers’ purchasing power has
been affected by the economic downturn and the related
government austerity measures,” Chief Executive Officer Olaf Koch said in the statement. “However, we managed to improve our
earnings and maintain our sales at a stable level year-on-year.
This is particularly apparent when looking at the development in
our home market  Germany  where we again saw a rise in like-for-
like sales.”  Revenue Falls  First-quarter revenue fell 0.9 percent to 15.5 billion
euros, as sales at Cash & Carry fell 2.8 percent. Analysts
projected revenue of 15.4. billion euros, according to the
average of nine estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Sales at Media-
Saturn gained 2 percent.  Sales in Germany, where Metro gets almost 40 percent of
revenue, gained 1 percent. In western Europe excluding Germany,
sales fell 6.6 percent while they rose 0.3 percent in eastern
Europe.  When he became CEO at the beginning of last year, Koch said
that he would focus on Cash & Carry and the Media-Saturn
electronics chain as he cuts investment in Kaufhof department
stores and Real grocery outlets. Since then, he has agreed to
sell  Real stores  in eastern Europe to Groupe Auchan SA, sold the
Makro U.K. wholesale unit to  Booker Group Plc (BOK)  and announced
Media-Saturn is leaving  China .  A Kaufhof transaction “isn’t on the current agenda,” Koch
told journalists on March 20, adding that long-term plans for
the unit haven’t changed. Metro suspended talks for the sale of
Kaufhof at the start of last year, citing market conditions,
even as it reiterated that selling the unit remained part of its
strategy.  Metro shar es gained 0.9 percent to 23.68 euros on April 30.
The stock is up 13 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Cruz in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  