-- EDF’s $1.6 Billion French Tax Measure Faces Renewed EU Probe
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n   a n d   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2013-05-02T10:50:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/eu-commission-opens-revised-probe-into-edf-french-tax-measure.html
Electricite de France SA (EDF) ,  Europe ’s
biggest power generator, faces a renewed probe from the European
Commission into whether a 1.2 billion-euro ($1.6 billion) French
tax measure constituted illegal state aid.  The move follows last year’s ruling by the European Union’s
 Court of Justice , which faulted the commission’s analysis in a
previous investigation into the French measure that allowed EDF
not to pay tax on cash reserves it allocated to renovating the
country’s energy grid.  Today’s decision “means extending the scope of the
inquiry” to allow the French authorities and others to argue
“whether the non-payment of tax could in fact represent an
investment, and, if so, whether a prudent private investor would
have made a comparable investment,” the Brussels-based EU
regulator said.  EDF, which is controlled by the government, is seeking to
keep investment stable this year and cut costs in order to
improve its balance sheet. The utility is facing billions of
euros of spending to improve safety at its 58 French reactors
after the country’s atomic authority tightened rules following
the 2011 meltdown at the Fukushima plant in  Japan .  An EDF official said she couldn’t provide immediate
comment. The shares advanced 2.7 percent to 17.43 euros at 12.47
p.m. in Paris trading.  The commission ordered the Paris-based company in 2003 to
pay 889 million euros in back taxes plus interest since 1997,
when EDF booked a tax concession related to its ownership of
 France ’s high-voltage electricity network. EDF repaid France
more than 1.2 billion euros.  EDF appealed to the  EU courts  in 2004, arguing that the
commission made mistakes and forced a repayment far greater than
what was due. The EU’s General Court ruled in favor of EDF in
2009. This was appealed by the commission, prompting the 2012
Court of Justice ruling.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  