-- EU Factories Used Fewer Carbon Offsets Than Expected in 2012
-- B y   A l e s s a n d r o   V i t e l l i
-- 2013-05-02T16:32:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/eu-factories-used-fewer-un-carbon-offsets-than-expected-in-2012.html
Factories and power stations in the
European Union surrendered 500 million  carbon offsets  to cover
emissions last year, 20 percent less than analysts estimated.  The amount of United Nations-sponsored Certified Emission
Reductions and Emission Reductions used in the EU’s carbon-market program was almost double the 254.6 million credits
submitted in 2011, according to data published by the  European
Commission . The median estimate of five analysts surveyed by
 Bloomberg News  was 600 million.  The credits, awarded to projects that cut greenhouse gases,
are a cheaper form of compliance to cover the 1.79 billion
metric tons of carbon dioxide released in 2012 and were used to
offset about 28 percent of emissions. The lower-than-expected
use of UN credits reflects weakening prices for EU permits as
well as reduced expectations that the commission may postpone
issuing some allowances to boost prices,  Matthew Gray , an
analyst in London at Jefferies Group Inc., said by e-mail.  “If companies were expecting regulatory intervention some
time between 2013 and 2020 they would have kept more allowances
in reserve and used as many offsets as possible, especially
those offsets from projects banned after 2012,” he said.  Offset use has surged as credits for emissions of
hydrofluorocarbon-23 and nitrous oxide, byproducts in the making
of refrigerators and nylon, lose their eligibility in the EU
market at the end of the second phase of the market, which ran
from 2008 through 2012. These credits make up about half the
total supply of offsets.  Third Phase  Total use of CERs and ERUs in the five years through 2012
was 1.055 billion tons, according to EU data compiled by
Bloomberg New Energy Finance. That leaves a total offset quota
of about 580 million tons during the third phase of the EU
market, the eight years through 2020, Richard Chatterton, an
analyst in  London  at New Energy Finance, said by e-mail.  UN CERs for December advanced 3.9 percent to 27 euro cents
($0.35) a metric ton on London’s ICE Futures Europe exchange
today. They have fallen 94 percent over the past year.  The low price means the cost of monitoring and verifying
emission reductions can be more than developers of carbon-reducing projects make from selling the credits, James Cooper,
an analyst at New Energy Finance in London, said in April.  ‘Naturally Limited’  “So many CERs have been issued that the offset limit of
around 600 million tons for the eight years through 2020 could
largely be met by already-issued allowances,”  Trevor Sikorski ,
head of natural gas, coal and carbon in London at Energy Aspects
Ltd., said by e-mail. “CER prices remain naturally limited to
around the cost of issuance, as the incentive remains on most
active projects to still undertake the emissions reduction and
just hold off getting issued.”  The EU’s carbon program covers about 12,000 installations.
Each country sets its own limit on the use of offsets ranging
from zero in  Estonia  to 20 percent in  Germany .  UN CERs and ERUs represent the reduction of one ton of
carbon-dioxide equivalent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alessandro Vitelli in London at 
 avitelli1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  