-- European Central Bank President Draghi News Conference (Text)
-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 2013-05-02T14:32:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/european-central-bank-president-draghi-news-conference-text-.html
Following is a transcript of
European Central Bank President Mario Draghi’s comments from his
monthly news conference in Bratislava today:  MARIO DRAGHI, PRESIDENT, EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK: Ladies and
gentlemen, the vice president and I are very, very pleased to
welcome you to our press conference.  I would like to thank
Governor Makuch for his kind hospitality and express our special
gratitude to his staff for the excellent organization of today’s
meeting of the Governing Council.  We will now report on the outcome of today’s meeting,
during which we took a number of decisions on key ECB interest
rates, liquidity provision, and possible ways forward to enhance
provision of credit.  The meeting was also attended by the
commission vice president, Mr. Rehn.  First, based on our regular economic and monetary analysis,
we decided to lower the  interest rate  on the main refinancing
operations of the Eurosystem by 25 basis points to 0.50 percent
and the rate on the marginal lending facility by 50 basis points
to 1 percent.  The rate on the deposit facility will remain
unchanged at zero.  These decisions are consistent with low underlying price
pressure over the medium term.  Inflation expectations for the
euro area continue to be firmly anchored, in line with our aim
of maintaining inflation rates below but close to 2 percent over
the medium term.  In keeping with this picture, monetary and loan dynamics
remain subdued.  At the same time, weak economic sentiment has
extended into spring of this year.  The cut in interest rates
should contribute to support prospects for a recovery later in
the year.  Against this overall background, our monetary policy stance
will remain accommodative for as long as needed.  In the period
ahead, we will monitor very closely all incoming information on
economic and monetary developments and assess any impact on the
outlook for  price stability .  Second, we are closely monitoring money market conditions
and their potential impact on our monetary policy stance and its
transmission to the economy.  In this context, we decided today
to continue conducting the main refinancing operations as fixed-
rate tender procedures with full allotment for as long as
necessary and at least until the end of the sixth maintenance
period of 2014 on 8 July 2014, so at least until the 8th of July
of 2014.  This procedure will also remain in use for the Eurosystem’s
special term refinancing operations with the maturity of one
maintenance period, which will continue to be conducted for as
long as needed and at least until the end of the second quarter
of 2014.  The fixed-rate in these special term refinancing operations
will be the same as the MRO rate prevailing at the time.
Furthermore, we decided to conduct the three-month longer-term
refinancing operations, LTROs, to be allotted until the end of
the second quarter of 2014, as fixed-rate tender procedures with
full allotment.  The rates in these three-month operations will
be fixed at the average rate of the MROs over the life of the
respective LTROs.  Third, the Governing Council decided to start consultations
with other European institutions on initiatives to promote a
functioning market for asset-backed securities collateralized by
loans to non-financial corporations.  In the meantime, it is
essential for governments to intensify the implementation of
structural reforms at national level, building on progress made
in fiscal consolidation and proceeding with bank
recapitalization where needed.  Furthermore, they should
maintain the momentum towards a genuine economic and monetary
union, including the swift implementation of the banking union.  Let me now explain our assessment in greater detail,
starting with the economic analysis.  Real GDP contracted by 0.6
percent in the fourth quarter of 2012, following a decline of
0.1 percent in the third quarter.  Output has thus declined for
five consecutive quarters.  Overall, labor market conditions
remain weak.  Recent developments in short-term indicators,
notably survey data, indicate that weak economic sentiment has
extended into spring of this year.  Looking ahead, euro area export growth should benefit from
a recovery in global demand and our monetary policy stance
should contribute to support domestic demand.  Furthermore, the
improvements in financial markets seen since last summer should
work their way through to the real economy.  At the same time,
necessary balance sheet adjustments in the public and private
sectors will continue to weigh on economic activity.  Overall,
euro area economic activity should stabilize and recover
gradually in the second half of the year.  The risks surrounding the economic outlook for the euro
area continue to be on the downside.  They include the
possibility of even weaker than expected domestic and global
demand and slow or insufficient implementation of structural
reforms in the euro area.  These factors have the potential to
dampen confidence and thereby delay the recovery.  According to Eurostat’s flash estimate, euro area annual
HICP inflation was 1.2 percent in April 2013, down from 1.7
percent in March.  This decline in the annual inflation rate
reflects a significant fall in energy prices, but it’s also due
to a sizeable transitory effect coming from the annual rate of
change in services prices on account of the timing of Easter.  Inflation rates could remain subject to some volatility
throughout the year.  Looking further ahead, underlying price
trends should persist and, over the medium term, inflation
expectations remain firmly anchored in line with price
stability.  Taking into account today’s decisions, risks to the outlook
for price developments are broadly balanced over the medium
term, with upside risks relating to stronger than expected
increases in administered prices and indirect taxes, as well as
higher commodity prices and downside risks stemming from weaker
economic activity.  Turning to the monetary analysis, recent data confirm that
the underlying pace of monetary expansion continues to be
subdued.  Annual growth in broad money moderated in March,
standing at 2.6 percent, after 3.1 percent in February.  The
annual growth rate of the narrow monetary aggregate, M1,
increased slightly further to 7.1 percent in March, reflecting
the continued preference for the most liquid instruments in M3.
Deposits with the domestic money-holding sector continued to
grow further in most stressed countries in March.  The annual growth rates of loans - of loans to non-
financial corporations and households have now remained broadly
unchanged since the turn of the year, standing in March at minus
1.3 percent and 0.4 percent respectively.  To a large extent,
weak loan dynamics reflect the current stage of the business
cycle, heightened credit risk, and the ongoing adjustment of
financial and non-financial sector balance sheets.  The recent Bank Lending Survey confirmed weak demand for
loans in the euro area.  While some signs of stabilization are
emerging, the survey on the access to finance of small- and
medium-sized enterprises in euro area indicates continued tight
credit conditions, particularly for SMEs in several euro area
countries.  Moreover, the available information indicates high
risk perception on the part of banks.  In order to ensure adequate transmission of monetary policy
to the financing conditions in euro area countries, it is
essential that the fragmentation of euro area credit markets
continue to decline further and that the resilience of banks is
strengthened where needed.  Progress has been made since last
summer in improving the funding situation of banks, in
strengthening the domestic deposit base in stressed countries,
and in reducing reliance on the Eurosystem as reflected in
repayments of the three-year LTROs.  Further decisive steps for establishing a banking union
will help to accomplish this objective.  In particular, the
Governing Council emphasizes that the future Single Supervisory
Mechanism and a Single Resolution Mechanism are crucial elements
for moving towards reintegrating the banking system and,
therefore, require swift implementation.  To sum up, taking into account today’s decisions, the
economic analysis indicates that price developments should
remain in line with price stability over the medium term.  A
cross-check with the signals from the monetary analysis confirms
this picture.  With regard to fiscal policies, the spring 2013 deficit and
debt data notifications by euro area countries indicate that the
average government deficit declined from 4.2 percent of GDP in
2011 to 3.7 percent in 2012.  Over the same period, the average
government debt rose from 87.3 percent to 90.6 percent of GDP.  In order to bring the debt ratios back to - on a downward
path, euro area countries should not unravel their efforts to
reduce government budget deficits and continue, where needed, to
take legislative action or otherwise promptly implement
structural reforms in such a way as to mutually reinforce fiscal
sustainability and economic growth potential.  Such structural
reforms should target improvements in competitiveness and
adjustment capacities, as well as aim to increase sustainable
growth and employment.  And now we are at your disposal for questions.  STAFF: In honor of our host country, we’ll take the first
question today from Tomas Viletski (ph), Televizia Markiza.
Hang on just one second.  Can we just have some time to put on
the - yeah, thank you.  QUESTION: (SPEAKING FOREIGN LANGUAGE)  DRAGHI: I can’t hear you.  OK.  OK.  QUESTION: (SPEAKING FOREIGN LANGUAGE)  DRAGHI: Well, the Governing Council has taken this decision
consistent with the low price pressure over the medium term.
And as I said in the introductory statement, HICP inflation went
down considerably.  And, by the way, even though if you look at
the HICP inflation without food and energy, it did go down, as
well, but less so, less so markedly.  Inflation expectations are well anchored in the medium
term.  As I said, monetary and credit developments have been
subdued.  Weakness of the fourth quarter in 2012 extended itself
into the first part of this year.  So all in all, the Governing
Council decided to go for a cut of 25 basis points, accompanied,
however - and I would invite you not to underestimate the
importance of the other measure - by the maintained fixed-rate
full allotment policy for until - at least until the mid-July -
the July of next year.  The - so the combination of the two
measures is especially important, and we can discuss it in the
coming questions.  At the same time, we will certainly - and this answers your
last part of your question - we’ll certainly look at all the
incoming data and we’ll monitor carefully developments.  And as
I said last time, we stand ready to act, if needed.  STAFF: The next question we’ll take will be from Veronica
Jabazo (ph).  Can we have the microphone over there?  QUESTION: Good morning, President Draghi.  Veronica Jabazo,
TVCom Ventiquatro (ph).  What could be now the effects in the
cuts of interest rates? There’s no risk of an inflection (ph),
as you said before.  DRAGHI: Well, we - we act consistently with our - with our
analysis of the price developments and the objective of
maintaining price stability in the medium term.  The weak
developments on the real side of the economy and on the monetary
and credit side granted action by the ECB, which today was
basically founded on the decision we’ve taken of cut rates of 25
basis points and, as I said, the fixed - the maintaining of
fixed-rate full allotment policy at least until July of next
year.  This means that, especially the - well, the combination of
the two measures is very - is important by itself.  It ensures
the smooth transmission of our monetary policy to money markets.
 It - the fixed-rate full allotment will basically represent a
liquidity insurance for the banking system, so, frankly, there
can’t be fears of lack of funding as an excuse for not lending.  And so - and so - and at the same time, we believe that the
restriction of the corridor will also dampen the volatility of
the EONIA rate.  In other words, this is a measure that benefits
all kinds of banks, the banks that borrow at EONIA, the banks -
the middle-tier banks that don’t have access to money markets
but borrow at the MRO, and the banks that are under ELA and
basically that are restricted in their collateral.  In this sense, this measure is addressed to all - all the -
all the different sets of banks, really.  And we believe that
this measure taken now is going to be fully effective for at
least two reasons that I will explain later, if you want.  One
is that we’ve seen signs that fragmentation is receding.  And
the other reason is that this weakness in economic activity and
the revised price stability projections for the medium term are
also now affecting not only non-core economies, where one might
have had doubts about the transmission of monetary policy
mechanisms, but also core economies, where these issues of
transmission of monetary policy mechanisms were never there.  So basically, it is addressed to a broad set of banks, and
we believe it’s going to be more effective today than it would
have been a few months ago.  Thank you.  STAFF: The next question from Michael Steen, Financial
Times.  QUESTION: Yeah, Michael Steen, Financial Times.  Mr.
Draghi, would you say today’s rate cut is too little, too late?
We’ve got unemployment at a record high.  There was this sudden
fall in inflation this month.  I mean, from what you just said,
it sounded a bit like you were implying that you see that as a
one-month blip in the data on inflation, although you’re
expecting volatility over the year, if you could say a bit more
on that.  The second question is, are you the - the last austerity
hardliners left standing? You had an interesting part at the end
of your statement there about where government debt levels are -
and deficits.  And obviously, this has been a subject in the
last few weeks, the austerity versus growth debate.  Do you feel
like you’re the only ones left arguing that we need to keep on
with fiscal consolidation?  And if I can just crowbar in a last question -  DRAGHI: No.  How many questions?  QUESTION: That was two.  DRAGHI: Two.  So I’m answering the first two questions.  QUESTION: OK.  DRAGHI: Let me just remind all of us that monetary policy
by the ECB has been extraordinarily accommodative all
throughout.  And just to give you the sense of the - of how much
has been accommodative, the - look at the financing - how the
financing conditions changed.  The - if we look at changes since
the 25th of July, we see that stock markets went up in  Germany ,
 France ,  Italy ,  Spain , from 22 percent to 38 percent.  And even
in the last month only, stock markets went up again in Italy and
specific by something between 5 percent and 10 percent.  TARGET2 balances have decreased.  You know, when TARGET2
balances decreased, that’s the best sign we have that you have a
return of confidence - gradual, of course.  Given the
seriousness and the gravity of the previous situation, you
wouldn’t expect a change to take place all of a sudden.  So it’s
a gradual process.  And they are now about - if I’m not mistaken
- 256 billion - 256 billion off their peak.  The 10-year sovereign bond yields, they went down for
distressed countries by something between 200 and 300 basis -
more than 200 and 300 basis points, and even for France by 53
basis points.  So these are measures that by themselves describe
a - I would call a very significant easing in the financing
conditions.  And I can go on.  I mean, the EONIA now - the banks that
finance themselves in the interbank market pay something like
seven, six, seven basis points.  So one - almost zero,
basically, that one cannot say that the monetary policy hasn’t
been accommodative.  But this takes into account - the decision we’ve taken
today takes into account evidence.  As I said, we look at the
data.  We monitor it closely.  And we stand ready to act when
needed.  We also had increasing evidence, as I said a minute
ago, that this action now through standard monetary policy
measures would be more effective than it would have been a few
months ago.  Now, on austerity versus growth, this is - I think it’s an
interesting debate, but I think one should make a few points.
The first thing is, let’s not forget how the crisis started.
The crisis has two stages, I would say.  The first is - the
first stage is when, after the financial crisis, we all
discovered the certain positions either in the bank capital
ratios or in the government budget and deficit ratios were not
sustainable.  This was the first stage.  So at that point, governments started to do, belatedly,
some fiscal correction. Then you have a second stage when you
have expectations - self-fulfilling expectations of disruptive
scenario - or what we call tail risk - taking momentum. So we
got rid of this through the OMT, and so we are left with the
memory of the previous situation. I’m sure that no government
wants to be there again.  So what the message that the ECB is giving - and it’s been
giving now for a while - first, don’t unravel the progresses
that you have achieved. And there is no doubt that progress -
significant progress has been achieved in fiscal consolidation
all throughout the euro area. Don’t unravel that.  Second, fiscal consolidation is - and I’ve said this since
the very beginning of my tenure - is contractionary in the short
term and the medium term, as well. So you want to mitigate this;
you want to take action to mitigate the contractionary effects.  How do you do that? Well, we gave three indications. First
of all, do fiscally consolidate basing - based on reductions of
current expenditures, rather than tax increases. Unfortunately,
many of the fiscal consolidations took place under emergency.
And under an emergency situation, most governments really chose
the simplest route, which is the one of raising taxes. Here we
are talking about raising taxes in an area of the world where
taxes are already very high. So no wonder this had a
contractionary effect. Now that there is more time, this could
be rebalanced into having lower current government expenditure
and lower taxes.  Second, a key issue in fiscal consolidation is credibility,
and credibility in multi-year fiscal consolidation plans is
ensured by having detailed medium-term fiscal consolidation
framework. There are countries in the euro area - not only in
the euro area, but in the union - which actually have very good,
very credible structural fiscal consolidations - structural and
nominal, I mean, fiscal consolidation frameworks. And they have
been rewarded. They’ve been rewarded by much, much lower
interest rates on their sovereign bonds.  And, third, just proceed with structural reforms. Many of
the problems that we see today in competitiveness in the labor
markets, in the tax area don’t have anything to do with monetary
policy. Neither can be fixed by monetary policy, but can be
fixed only changing what is wrong in these three areas, at
least. So that’s - that’s how I would cast this discussion
between austerity and growth.  QUESTION: OK, could I just quickly follow up on that, just
- the -  DRAGHI: Finally, let me add another thing. Let me add
another thing, that we discussed several times the fragmentation
and the - and the - and the difference in lending rates across
the area and so on. A key step here is to - as the introductory
statement is to say - a swift implementation of the banking
union through the establishment of the SSM, the Single
Supervisory Mechanism, as quickly as possible. Thank you.  STAFF: We’ll have Michael Shields from Reuters, please.  QUESTION: (OFF-MIKE)  DRAGHI: I was just wondering how long it would take to get
this question, that - it’s - I would say that there was a -
there was a very, very strong pervading consensus towards an
interest rate cut, and within that, there was a prevailing
consensus for a cut of only 25 basis points. I think that is the
- thank you.  STAFF: Brian Blackstone, Wall Street Journal?  QUESTION: Brian Blackstone, Wall Street Journal. When you
said there was a prevailing consensus of only 25 basis points,
you stand ready to act, could interest rates - is there room to
cut interest rates further, including the deposit rate, which
you didn’t touch today?  And I wanted to ask you a bit on this - these consultations
that you’re starting on creating a market for asset-backed
securities. What exactly do you have in mind? And are you
potentially solving one problem by creating an entirely new
problem, given that asset-backed securities were at the root of
the - at least in the U.S., the financial crisis of 2008 and
2009? So if - are you potentially just creating a headache down
the road if you - if you go down this route? Thank you.  DRAGHI: Thank you. On the first part, I think of the very
first part of your question, I think I did respond before,
saying that we’ll look - we’ll look at all the incoming data.
We’ll monitor - we’ll monitor them closely, and we’ll stand
ready to act, if needed.  On the deposit facility rate, we said that in the past we
are technically ready. There are several unintended consequences
that may stem from this measure. We will address and cope with
these consequences, if we decide to act. And we will, again,
look at this with an open mind and stand ready to act, if
needed.  On the other part is actually the - I made reference to
that, but as a matter of fact, no standard measures category,
it’s actually broader than that. And it - it relates to funding
measures, broadly - broadly defined, one of which is collateral.
The second - and the second - the second set has to do with
purchases of assets.  Now, got to be careful here, because the - what the ECB -
let me say once again, what the ECB cannot do, the ECB certainly
cannot do - cannot supplant governments for their lack of
structural reforms. So that’s one thing. Second thing is, the
ECB cannot clean banks’ balance sheets. And the third thing is
that the ECB is not in the business of monetary financing, so
buying  government bonds .  So when you consider all this, you look at what assets
could be purchased, and - and you are left with - no, before -
before saying that, you ask yourself this question, and then you
look at what sort of financial infrastructure the Europeans
have, and it’s different from the  United States . In the United
States, 80 percent of credit intermediation goes via the capital
market. Capital markets rate and price assets in a right or
wrong way, but it’s fairly transparent.  In the European situation, it’s the other way around; 80
percent of financial intermediation goes through the banking
system. So you are left with buying what? SME loans, residential
mortgages, and mortgages to non-residential, and a few other
types of loans.  Now, you can - you can see this makes the problem much more
complicated. You want to - if one decides to take this way - and
really, all the options are still very open here. By the way,
let me say - let me say that our thinking is very much in the
preliminary stage, given the complexity of the issue. And so
it’s - we haven’t reached any conclusion either way.  But if you - if you go this way, you want to find - you
want to find a way of packaging these loans in a way that they
can be priced. And that’s where the reference to other
institutions more suited for this - for this job of packaging
and guaranteeing the loans comes in, the reference to the
 European Investment Bank  and the reference to the commission,
European Commission itself, so that’s why I - I’m not sure -
also, the ABS, you are absolutely right. The ABS has a very bad
name.  But one should say that there were very different kinds of
ABS’s. One was the so-called plain-vanilla ABS, which is a box,
you open the box, you see what is inside, and you know exactly
what’s inside. So if you, for example, put some mortgages there,
it would be like a covered bond.  A different thing was the ABS, the squared ABS and all
this, that we are infamously known to have - to be - to have
been one of the causes for disruption of the financial markets
of the last few years. So - but in any event, we - as I said, we
haven’t - we are far from reaching any conclusion. We are
looking at all possible options. We are aware of the importance
of this. We’re also aware of what we can do and cannot do.  Thank you.  STAFF: Stefan Riecher, Bloomberg.  QUESTION: Stefan Riecher, Bloomberg. Can you hear me? Mr.
Draghi, today you cut interest rates and the euro rose at first.
Now it just turned around after your comments about the deposit
rate. So my question would be, is there a reason for concern?
And is deposit rates more important, do you think, that the
benchmark rates?  DRAGHI: I’m sorry. I didn’t hear you.  QUESTION: Is the deposit rates for investors apparently
more important than a benchmark rate after the euro dropped now
after your comments about the deposit rate? So my question would
be, is there reason for concern, basically, that the euro rose
at first about the benchmark rate and then it dropped about the
deposit rate?  And second question.  Angela Merkel  recently said that,
actually, if you speak about Germany, you would have to raise
interest rates. What do you make of those comments? And is she
correct? Thank you.  DRAGHI: Well, the first part I really don’t have much to
say. I mean, I’m obviously aware the markets read and understand
and try to interpret any - any remark that - that the president
of the ECB makes in these press conferences. But we should never
forget that our objective is maintaining price stability in the
medium term and not being caught by the market reactions. That’s
the - that’s very important to remember.  And - and in this case, of course, besides price stability,
we see the weak economy and the weakness that it - that
continues to linger over the first part of this year. The -
sorry, the second question was -  QUESTION: (OFF-MIKE)  DRAGHI: Yeah. Well, that - I think, first of all, ECB
independence is dear to all, and especially, I would say, to
German citizens.  QUESTION: (OFF-MIKE)  DRAGHI: Excuse me? Second, I think too much was made of
that comment. The comment really - if you take it literally -
meant to say, look, we have a different situation here in the
euro area. We have 17 countries. And the business cycle of these
17 countries is not exactly the same. They are not completely
synchronous. Actually, they’re not synchronous and they differ
very much across the area.  So monetary policy measures which can be sort of benefiting
some may not benefit in others. We think that, given the
extending weakness to the core economies, as well, we think it
does benefit everybody, but it was not a comment meant to - I
don’t think so, at least - it was not a comment meant to
infringe upon the independence of the Governing Council. I’m -
I’m absolutely sure of that. Thank you.  STAFF: Stefan Ruhkamp, Frankfurter Allgemeinen Zeitung?  QUESTION: Thank you. Hello. You described how the OMT
program brought calm to the financial system during the last six
or seven months. And we saw how the rates of sovereign bonds
came down significantly. But we didn’t see that the rates for
small- and medium-sized companies came down. Could you explain
why that didn’t happen and what does it mean for the OMT as an
instrument to address the fragmentation problem?  And my second question is about this ABS program you
indicated. Did I get you right that - that it’s - that the ECB
is thinking about buying ABS, something like this? Or is it all
about collateral and lending?  DRAGHI: No, I - no, I don’t think - on the second question,
no, I don’t think you got it right. We are simply working - we
have a  task force  with the EIB. We view these institutions as -
as the best suited to do things in this field.  We don’t have a precise view of what to do - and also, you
have to consider that the ABS market is dead and has been dead
for a long time. And this is so for a variety of reasons, one of
which is also the regulatory situation of ABS. The other one is
that very low interest rates don’t make the ABS an especially
convenient instrument to fund an institution.  So there are many - what I’m saying is, there are many
obstacles before we can actually - I would be able - before for
me being able to give you a precise description of what - what
we have - what we have in mind.  On the - well, you know, OMT removed the tail risk, and
that’s been - that’s been a very powerful instrument for doing
that. But we should not forget that the funding crisis that the
banks experienced, which dated back to mid-2011, caused a credit
contraction which - of which we are victims even today.  So it’s been a gradual, slow and long process of credit
contraction. The two LTROs avoided a worsening -- the collapse,
I think, of the situation, and then OMT removed the tail risks
for the euro area, but then you have to gradually unravel the
fragmentation that had taken place before the OMT and at the end
-- and, as I said, starts really by September 2011.  However, to say that all is -- all is bad wouldn’t be
correct. And I just -- let me give you a few -- a few facts on
what is the current -- or better, how we view the current state
of fragmentation. You -- I think as I said another time, you
have two sides to fragmentation. You have the funding side and
the lending side.  Now, we see progress -- definitely progress on the funding
side. And this progress is documented by the fact that domestic
deposits continue to go up in all the banks of all the stressed
countries, or almost all, I think. Second, the dispersion in the
growth rate of deposits -- so you look at how fast these
deposits grow, you look at the dispersion of these growth rates
across countries, and you see that this continues to go down
month after month, and now is at its lowest since May 2010. This
is quite important, now, this dispersion.  Third, capital inflows continue to happen, which is also
the other side of the coin of why the euro gets -- in spite of
the weakness of the economy, in spite of the low price path
continues to be strong.  Fourth -- it’s the other side. In other words, it’s the
other side of the return of confidence, really. Fourth, the
claims on the Eurosystem by the central banks continue to go
down, and since July 2012, they went down by 400 billion euros.
And incidentally, we haven’t seen any of the awful, terrible
risks that were predicated at the time.  Finally, the TARGET2 (inaudible) also down, but they have
stabilized. However, do we say the fragmentation on the funding
side is over, that everything is normal? No. No. And there is an
interesting fact that was pointed out to me this morning, is the
same bank issued a bond in Munich and issued a bond in Milan,
and it’s a senior bond, uncollateralized, so it’s not a covered
bond, and there was a spread of, I think, roughly 150, 200 basis
points difference between the two, so it’s the same bank issuing
in two different sovereign jurisdictions.  So it’s not -- on the lending side, progress is more muted.
But here I would point out to something that could be -- could
be a source -- source of comfort. First of all, we have a
stabilization in the dispersion of lending rates. So this has
been increasing, increasing, increasing. Now it seems that it’s
stationary. It’s -- at least the values of this dispersion are
not going up any longer.  The second thing is that the surveys, the Bank Lending
Survey shows that there is a less increased in tightening -- in
other words, banks in the stressed countries continue to
tighten, but continue to tighten at the lower pace, at this
lower pace.  And, third, which in a sense to me is probably the most
important source of information, comes from the survey with the
small- and medium-sized enterprises, where -- where you ask --
you ask them -- you ask them -- you how -- what’s the share of
rejections of loan applications? And that’s gone down.  Second, you ask them, what sort of financial obstacles do
you find in applying for a loan? Here there are three points,
first of all, as I said, the rejections, but also if they are
given an amount which is lower than they ask for. And, third, if
they are asked for -- if the bank asked them for an interest
rate that is so high that the SME has to say, “Thanks, but no
thanks.”  And we see that the responses for -- for these so-called
financial obstacles are for -- for some countries, they are --
some of the stressed countries, they are significantly --
significantly improving. And, by the way, in Germany, you notice
an improvement on all accounts.  So you see some -- some -- for instance, on the
availability of loans for the euro area, you see a smaller
deterioration, by a significant amount, and then the same
happens at country level, for Spain and Italy, and obviously for
Germany, and so on. So from this survey data, you -- I wouldn’t
get -- I wouldn’t get the conclusion that, again, we have no
more fragmentation, but we are observing improvements.  The problem, of course, is that this -- as I said at the
beginning, this credit contraction has -- has been lasting for a
long time. And it’s been compounded by the short-term
contractionary effects of fiscal policies. So it’s not going to
be a one-day affair to unravel this. Thank you.  STAFF: Lucia Vioscova (ph), Slovak Radio? Please just give
us a bit of time for the translation.  QUESTION: I will ask in English, if that’s OK.  STAFF: OK.  QUESTION: OK. So I would like to follow up on the growth
versus austerity question, because that’s quite -- the debate is
quite vocal, also, in Slovakia. You’ve said that some of the
austerity measures taken by countries, by  member states  were
made in emergency and they were not the best measures. But would
you say that possibly for the near future a compromise solution
could be so as to prevent such similar emergency, that the
countries that have already cut their deficit at least to this 3
percent GDP limit, which is the limit for the  euro zone , that
could slow down the consolidation so that it wouldn’t have to
have 0.5 percent of GDP cut of deficit in the next year, but
maybe a bit lower to possibly support the economic growth in
these countries? Because that’s, for example, the argument --
the political argument in Slovakia. Thank you.  DRAGHI: Yeah. I -- I said -- I said at the beginning, the -
- I used not -- well, first of all, the last word in this is not
up to the ECB. Let’s never forget this.  I said that -- I used waringly (ph) the word “don’t
unravel” the progresses that you have achieved. And if you --
if you -- if a country needs time, the tradeoff to having more
time should not be a compromise on the ultimate objective set by
the commission, but having structural reforms and revisiting the
composition of the fiscal adjustment and having a medium-term
framework which is strong and credible. Thank you.  STAFF: Adia Eitenmalect (ph) from  Agence France-Presse ,
please.  QUESTION: Thank you. Many members of the ECB have said that
rate cut would be of little effect in the current situation,
with the lack of --  DRAGHI: I’m sorry. Can you repeat your question?  QUESTION: Doesn’t work here?  STAFF: (OFF-MIKE)  QUESTION: Oh, OK, sorry. Many members of the ECB have said
that a rate cut in the current situation would be of little
effect, especially regarding the lack of (inaudible)
transmission (ph) of the policy (ph) (inaudible) policy, so why
a rate cut now? And have you discussed more precisely what
measures in order to re-establish -- re-establish this monetary
-- this transmission of your monetary policy?  DRAGHI: Thank you. We -- I mean, as I said before, the --
the -- some encouraging signs in the receding fragmentation led
us to take this decision. And the fact that -- let’s not forget,
the other fact is that the weakness is now spreading to
countries where the issue of transmission or lack of it was
never there, in other words, where we know that monetary policy
-- standard monetary policy measures are effective. I think
these are the two predominant considerations.  Why is -- why is credit subdued? There are -- as always,
there are demand reasons and supply. The demand reasons are that
the economy is, indeed, weak, and it’s weak in its domestic
components, consumption and especially fixed investment. The --
also, there is -- also, this comes out of the -- of the Bank
Lending Survey and also from the SME survey. The dominant factor
in the demand -- explaining the demand, the low demand of credit
-- for credit, is the uncertainty, the macroeconomic
uncertainty. And this goes together with  risk aversion , which is
-- which actually plays both -- both sides, both demand and
supply.  There is also -- but this is limited to some countries.
There’s also an issue of deleveraging. The deleveraging process
is not something that only banks may have to do in some places,
but it’s also something that the clients, bank clients may have
to do. Some corporations, some SMEs, some households have to
delever. This is not a euro area problem, but it’s certainly the
problem of some stressed countries. And this, too, explains low
demand.  On the supply side, you have risk aversion predominantly.
At this point in time, but we certainly -- as I said, we look at
all the income data -- but at this point in time, we can’t say
that funding worries are a dominant factor in restricting credit
supply. We don’t see that.  But we have to project this for the coming months. And it’s
certainly true that we will have a gain and hump (ph) in bond
maturities, in bank bond maturities within the next 15 months.  So -- but it’s predominantly risk aversion that makes
supply tight. It’s the -- it’s a fact that in some cases the --
for many banks that have not -- didn’t have any toxic assets at
the beginning of the crisis, were not especially weak at the
beginning of the crisis, have become weaker because of the
rising share of nonperforming loans.  You know, recessions have this feature of being, in a
sense, like a spiral. And so these banks -- some of these --
some of these -- fortunately, these are not euro area problems.
These are limited problems. But some of these banks will have to
strengthen their capital position in order to get back to lend.  Thank you.  QUESTION: (OFF-MIKE)  STAFF: Suzanne Lynch, please, the Irish Times.  QUESTION: Yeah, Suzanne Lynch from the Irish Times. Just
two questions. Firstly, is there any update on when the Irish
promissory note deal will be reviewed by the ECB? And, secondly,
just in terms of bank recapitalization, I’m just wondering how
big of a factor our -- is the banking -- worried about the
banking sector in peripheral countries? The Irish Central Bank
governor said this week that Irish banks would need more
capital. And do you think that a  stress test  is required before
Ireland exits the bailout at the end of this year? There’s some
talk in Ireland that perhaps it should be put back until next
year, of part of the EBA stress tests.  DRAGHI: I think, for me, it’s -- it’s really -- on the
first question, there’s no change, as it’s before. And the
second question, it’s too early to respond to this question.
Something that’s been discussed and pros and cons, there are
views that are different. We are -- it’s sort of -- it’s in that
stage where we -- we’re really putting together our views there
and see what’s best for -- for Ireland. Thank you.  STAFF: The last question will go to Geoff Cutmore from
CNBC, please.  QUESTION: Thank you. Geoff Cutmore, CNBC. I don’t know
whether the Governing Council were aware, but while they were
meeting, the pope was tweeting his unhappiness about the
unemployment situation and expressing some frustration that
people appear to be profiting at this time from rises in
financial markets, even as unemployment hits new record highs.  So I have a two-pronged question. One is, firstly, are you
frustrated with the perception that the ECB seems to be
supporting financial markets, but not doing much to help the
real economy in the euro zone?  And the second point to that would be, I sensed when I
heard you talking at the beginning of this press conference a
little bit of frustration about the way banks are not taking
more risk onto their own balance sheet. Is it not time that the
ECB took that risk onto its own balance sheet and expanded its
balance sheet, the rules notwithstanding at this stage?  DRAGHI: Thank you. Well, the -- we are -- I wouldn’t use
the word -- well, yeah, I would use the word frustrated, yes,
certainly. We -- we view improvements in the financial markets -
- we think financial markets are the only and the necessary
channel through which monetary policy is transmitted. You don’t
go around with helicopter money, throwing money. I mean, just --
you have to go -- and in  Europe , you go through banks. You don’t
have  capital markets , as I said, in the -- as you have in the
United States. And so we have to go via the banking system.  And so that’s why, in my press conference, I tried to give
you a very detailed reading of different indicators, because it
shows how closely we’re trying to examine and analyze reality to
see whether these impulses that we’ve been transmitting to the
economy since now a long time get translated into better wealth
or better lower unemployment, better economic activity. So no
doubt about that.  On the second point of your question, would the ECB take
risks on its balance sheet? Well, I’ve gone through this a
moment ago, really, and I’ve shown you -- I think I’ve shown you
how more difficult is this problem in Europe, in -- in Europe,
I’d say, than it is in the United States. And so I think in
judging the central bank, one should be aware of what is its
mandate, what it can do, and what is the institutional set-up
surrounding the action of the central bank.  And institutional set-up is basically made by two things --
first of all, the government’s action and, second, the financial
structure in which the central bank finds itself to -- to act.
Thank you.  STAFF: Thank you. We’ll close the press conference for
today. We’ll just take a five-minute break, and then we’ll be
back for the ceremony of the new five-euro notes, just in this
room again. You can just go out for five minutes. Thank you.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  