-- Euro Falls on ECB as U.S. Stocks Advance on Jobless Data
-- B y   I n y o u n g   H w a n g   a n d   M i c h a e l   P .   R e g a n
-- 2013-05-02T14:44:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/euro-weakens-before-ecb-as-commodities-gain-with-u-s-futures.html
The euro fell against the dollar for
the first time in five days and the region’s bonds rallied as
European Central Bank President Mario Draghi said policy makers
have an open mind about a negative deposit rate. U.S. stocks
rose as American jobless claims decreased to a five-year low.  The euro lost 0.8 percent to $1.3073 at 10:43 a.m. in New
York while two-year German note yields fell below zero and rates
on 10-year French and Belgium debt slid to records. The Standard
& Poor’s 500 Index climbed 0.6 percent after yesterday’s 0.9
percent drop. Copper jumped 1.8 percent and aluminum added 0.7
percent as 19 of 24 commodities in the S&P GSCI Index rose,
while natural gas plunged 4.6 percent after bigger-than-forecast
growth in inventories. Ten-year U.S. Treasury yields rose less
than one basis point to 1.63 percent.  European policy makers cut the main refinancing rate to a
record low 0.5 percent from 0.75 percent and reduced the
marginal lending rate to 1 percent from 1.5 percent. The euro
turned lower as Draghi, speaking in Bratislava, signaled that
officials may take the unprecedented step of charging banks to
park excess cash with the ECB overnight.  “Most importantly he seemed more open to a cut in the
deposit rate and it is this that drove the euro lower after
trading choppily initially,” Marc Chandler, chief currency
strategist at Brown Brothers Harriman & Co. in New York, wrote
in a note to clients.  The euro weakened against 15 of 16 major peers, losing more
than 0.8 percent versus the currencies of South Africa,  Mexico 
and  Canada .  ‘Ready to Act’  The euro fell on the prospect of a negative deposit rate,
which would amount to the ECB venturing into territory few
others have dared. With the 17-nation economy mired in recession
and weakness spreading to the largest economies in the region,
Draghi is ramping up the ECB’s response.  “We will look at all the incoming data and stand ready to
act if needed,” Draghi said at a press conference in the
Slovakian capital. Asked if further action could include taking
the deposit rate into negative territory from zero, he said:
“We will look at this with an open mind.”  Sweden’s krona dropped versus all but one of its major
peers after data showed the nation’s manufacturing unexpectedly
contracted in April.  The S&P 500 rebounded from the biggest drop in two weeks.
 Facebook Inc. (FB)  advanced 3.2 percent as the operator of the
world’s largest social network reported first-quarter sales that
topped projections. General Motors Co. rose 4.7 percent as it
narrowed its first-quarter loss in Europe. MetLife Inc. and
Prudential Financial Inc. climbed more than 3 percent and 7
percent respectively after the insurers’ earnings beat
forecasts.  Jobless Data  Applications for U.S. unemployment insurance payments fell
18,000 to 324,000 in the week ended April 27, the fewest since
January 2008, Labor Department figures showed. Economists
forecast 345,000 claims, according to the median estimate in a
Bloomberg survey. A Labor Department official said there was
nothing unusual in the data.  A report tomorrow is projected to show U.S. unemployment
stayed at 7.6 percent in April, while payrolls rose 145,000,
compared with an increase of 88,000 the prior month, according
to the median estimates of economists in a Bloomberg survey.  The Stoxx  Europe  600 Index was little changed as most of
the region’s markets reopened following a holiday. The regional
benchmark erased an earlier decline as investors weighed the
ECB’s actions and companies from Sanofi to Statoil ASA reported
profit that fell short of analysts’ estimates.  European Movers  Sanofi slipped 1.1 percent as France’s largest drugmaker
said the expiry of several patents has led to increased
competition for some of its medicines. Statoil retreated the
most in almost a year after reporting lower oil and gas
production in  Norway . Bayerische Motoren Werke AG climbed after
saying that demand increased for its 3 Series cars.  Italy’s two-year note yield fell to as low as  a record
1.05 percent, and Spain’s tumbled 10 basis points to 1.63
percent, the least since August 2010.  France ’s 10-year bond
yield fell to a record 1.67 percent.  Copper climbed 1.8 percent to $6,918 a metric ton and
aluminum rose 0.7 percent to $1,837 a ton. The LME Index of six
industrial metals fell 3.2 percent yesterday, the most since
December 2011, as nickel and tin joined copper in a bear market.  Emerging Markets  Most emerging market stocks fell as weaker growth in
Chinese manufacturing and South Korean exports fueled concern
that the global economy is slowing. The MSCI  Emerging Markets 
Index was little changed, as energy  stocks  retreated 0.9 percent
as a group. Technology shares gained the most in the index,
rising 0.6 percent. The Shanghai Composite Index fell 0.2
percent as it traded for the first time this week.  Indian stocks advanced 1.2 percent, gaining for a third day
to the highest level since Feb. 4 on a closing basis. The
Reserve Bank of  India  may lower its key rate by 25 basis points
at a meeting tomorrow, according to the median estimate of 40
economists in a Bloomberg survey.  The Philippines peso strengthened 0.4 percent versus the
dollar to a three-week high as S&P raised the country’s credit
rating one step to BBB-, the lowest investment grade. S&P cited
moderating inflation and declining reliance on foreign-currency
debt as reasons for the upgrade, with a positive outlook.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Inyoung Hwang in New York at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net ;
Michael P. Regan in New York at 
 mregan12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  