-- Euro Weakens as Draghi Open to Negative Deposit Rate
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2013-05-02T23:28:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/euro-weakens-against-dollar-on-speculation-ecb-will-lower-rates.html
(Corrects deposit rate definition in 11th paragraph.)  The euro fell for the first time in
five days against the dollar after European Central Bank
President  Mario Draghi  said policy makers may take the
unprecedented step of charging banks to hold excess reserves.  The single currency dropped against all except one of its
16 most-traded peers as the ECB cut its main refinancing rate
and Draghi said policy makers had an open mind on a negative
deposit rate. The dollar rose the most in almost two weeks
versus the yen after number of Americans filing claims for
jobless benefits unexpectedly dropped to a five-year low.
Sweden’s krona slid as manufacturing in the nation shrank.  A deposit rate below zero “would be a potential game-
changer for the ECB,”  Joe Manimbo , a market analyst at Western
Union Business Solutions, a unit of Western Union Co., said in a
phone interview from  Washington . “It would compel banks to
flood the financial system over there with euros, which would
inherently put downward pressure on the single currency.”  The euro dropped 0.9 percent to $1.3065 at 5 p.m. in New
York after strengthening 1.3 percent during the previous four
days. The 17-nation currency declined 0.3 percent to 127.95 yen.
The dollar gained 0.6 percent to 97.94 yen. It climbed as much
as 1 percent, the biggest intraday jump since April 19, after
falling 0.3 percent earlier to 97.09 yen.  Rand Climbs  The South African rand gained the most in six months versus
the euro as the ECB cuts spurred demand for higher-yielding,
emerging-market assets. The currency appreciated 1.7 percent to
11.6924 per euro and climbed as much as 2 percent, the most
since October.  Sweden’s krona weakened for the first time in seven days
against the dollar after  Swedbank AB (SWEDA)  said its  index  of
manufacturing based on a survey of  purchasing managers  fell to
49.6 in April from 52.1 the previous month. The krona dropped
1.1 percent to 6.5417 to the greenback.  Denmark’s krone declined versus most major peers after the
nation’s central bank lowered its key  interest rate  as policy
makers in Copenhagen defended the currency’s peg to the euro.
Nationalbanken said in a statement it cut its lending rate to
0.2 percent, from 0.3 percent.  The Danish krone sank 0.9 percent to 5.7059 per dollar. It
was little changed against the euro at 7.4547.  Options Trading  Trading in over-the-counter foreign-exchange options
totaled $22 billion at 5 p.m.  New York  time, compared with $21
billion yesterday, according to data reported by U.S. banks to
the Depository Trust Clearing Corp. and tracked by Bloomberg.
Volume in options on the euro-dollar exchange rate amounted to
$6 billion, the largest share of trades at 27 percent. Dollar-
yen options were the second most actively traded, at $3.9
billion, or 18 percent.  Euro-dollar options trading was 27 percent above the
average for the past five Thursdays at a similar time in the
day, and dollar-yen options trading was 71 percent below,
according to Bloomberg analysis.  The ECB, meeting in Bratislava, Slovakia, cut its  benchmark
rate  by a quarter-percentage point to 0.5 percent. It reduced
its marginal lending rate, which banks use for overnight credit,
to 1 percent, from 1.5 percent, and kept its deposit rate, which
banks receive when they park cash with the central bank, at
zero.  Asked at a press conference if further action could include
taking the deposit rate into negative territory, Draghi said the
central bank is “technically ready” and that “we will look at
this with an open mind.” He said the ECB also will continue to
lend banks as much money as they need at least until mid-2014.  ‘Clearly Spooked’  “The euro was quite upbeat until Draghi made his comment
that the ECB would be able to cope with any consequences of
negative deposit rates,” said  Daragh Maher , a currency
strategist at HSBC Holdings Plc in  London . “Previously, the
language of the ECB on this front has characterized it as
uncharted waters. Today, it seems the ECB is more open to the
idea. The euro was clearly spooked.”  A gauge of  manufacturing  in the euro area declined to 46.7
last month from 46.8 in March, London-based Markit Economics
said today before the ECB decision. The reading has been below
50, which indicates contraction, for 21 consecutive months.  The dollar strengthened for the first time in six days
against the yen after the U.S. Labor Department said initial
claims for jobless benefits fell to 324,000 last week, the
fewest since January 2008. Economists in a Bloomberg survey
forecast 345,000 claims.  China Report  Japan ’s currency rose earlier against most major peers as
data showed  China ’s factory output slowed, spurring demand for
the relative safety of the yen. HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit
Economics said their  index  of Chinese manufacturing fell to 50.4
in April from 51.6 the previous month.  The yen has dropped 3.2 percent in the past three months,
according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes that track
10 developed-market currencies. The dollar gained 2.9 percent
and the euro fell 1.9 percent.  The greenback is poised to rise further as U.S. growth
prospects outstrip much of the developed world,  Alan Ruskin ,
global head of Group of 10 foreign-exchange strategy at Deutsche
Bank AG in New York, said in an interview on  Bloomberg Radio ’s
“Surveillance” with  Tom Keene .  The U.S. currency fell yesterday versus the yen and euro
after the  Federal Reserve  said it will maintain its bond buying
at a pace of $85 billion a month to spur growth and is prepared
to raise or lower the amount as economic conditions evolve.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  