-- Euro-Area Manufacturing Contracted for 21st Month in April
-- B y   P a t r i c k   H e n r y
-- 2013-05-02T08:54:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/euro-area-manufacturing-contracts-for-21st-month-in-april.html
Euro-area manufacturing output
contracted for a 21st straight month in April, adding to
pressure on the  European Central Bank  to cut  interest rates  to
spur lending and growth.  A gauge of manufacturing in the 17-nation euro area
declined to 46.7 last month from 46.8 in March, London-based
Markit Economics said today. That’s above an initial estimate of
46.5 on April 23. A reading below 50 indicates contraction.  With the euro-area economy mired in a recession, the ECB’s
Governing Council will cut its benchmark rate today to a record
low 0.5 percent from 0.75 percent, according to the median of 70
economists’ estimates in a  Bloomberg News survey . The Frankfurt-
based central bank sees the economy shrinking 0.5 percent in
2013.  “There is nothing here to suggest that manufacturing will
turn the corner and stabilize any time soon, putting greater
onus on policy makers to act quickly to reinvigorate growth,”
 Chris Williamson , chief economist at Markit, said in today’s
report.  The euro pared losses against the dollar after the data
were released, trading at $1.3172 at 10:41 a.m. in Brussels,
down less than 0.1 percent on the day.  Record Unemployment  The euro-zone economy has  contracted  for five consecutive
quarters. That trend is forecast to continue in the first three
months of this year before a return to growth in the second
quarter, according to a separate Bloomberg survey of 25
economists. Inflation cooled to a  three-year low  in April and
March unemployment  rose to a record  12.1 percent.  Siemens AG (SIE) ,  Europe ’s largest engineering company, cut its
full-year forecast today amid a slowdown in orders for some
offerings and charges for the delayed delivery of trains. Net
income from continuing operations will approach the low end of
its 4.5 billion-euro ($5.9 billion) to 5 billion-euro target,
the Munich-based company said.  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG, the world’s biggest maker of
luxury cars, reported a 4.5 percent drop in first-quarter profit
as the plunging European market pushed car prices lower.
Earnings before interest and taxes fell to 2.04 billion euros
from 2.13 billion euros a year earlier, the Munich-based company
said today.  Growth Slowdown  The euro-area economic gloom contrasted with the U.K.,
where an April factory index released yesterday by Markit and
the  Chartered Institute of Purchasing and Supply  rose more than
economists forecast, adding to signs the economy may be starting
to recover. The gauge rose to 49.8 from 48.6 in March.  In  Asia , the purchasing managers’ index for  China  released
today by Markit and HSBC Holdings Plc fell to 50.4 from 51.6 in
March, adding to signs that a growth slowdown will persist in
the world’s second-biggest economy.  The drop follows a decrease in an official manufacturing
index reported yesterday and lower-than-estimated gains in
industrial output in the first quarter.  U.S. manufacturing expanded in April at the slowest pace
this year and companies took on the fewest workers in seven
months, adding to evidence of a slowdown in the world’s largest
economy.  In the euro area, ECB President  Mario Draghi  has stoked
expectations that officials will deliver a rate cut today even
as they doubt its impact.  Faced with a struggling economy and limits on the potency
of conventional means to stimulate it, the ECB could also
consider options including long-term loans, corporate-bond
purchases and forward guidance on interest rates.  The ECB decision is due at 1:45 p.m. in Bratislava, where
the Governing Council is meeting this month. Draghi holds a
press conference in the Slovakian capital 45 minutes later.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Patrick Henry  in Brussels at 
 phenry8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  