-- European Power Prices Slide to Record as Coal Slumps on Surplus
-- B y   J u l i a   M e n g e w e i n ,   R a c h e l   M o r i s o n   a n d   M a r e k   S t r z e l e c k i
-- 2013-05-02T16:05:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/european-power-for-2014-slides-to-record-as-coal-prices-decline.html
European power prices dropped to
records as thermal coal slumped to the cheapest level in almost
three years amid a glut of the fuel.  French baseload electricity, for delivery around the clock,
declined 0.6 percent at 5:23 p.m. Paris time. The equivalent
contract in  Poland  slid 0.8 percent, while German power was
little changed. European 2014 coal fell as much as 0.5 percent
before rebounding.  Prices in markets from Germany,  Europe ’s biggest consumer,
to the Czech Republic have plunged this year as the euro area’s
second recession since 2008 depressed industrial demand for
energy. Germany’s gross power use last year dropped 1.3 percent
to the lowest level since 2003, data from  AG Energiebilanzen
e.V. , an association of energy lobbies and the economic research
institutes, show.  “The oversupply in the coal market is driving prices down
and power is following suit,” said Thomas Randel, a power
trader at  EnBW Energie Baden-Wuerttemberg AG. (EBK)  “The market is in
such a bearish mood, it’s awful.”  French power for next year slid 25 euro cents to 41.95
euros ($54.70) a megawatt-hour, according to broker prices
compiled by Bloomberg. The German electricity contract gained 5
cents to 38.55 euros after earlier trading as low as 38.35
euros.  European coal was little changed, trading at $92.25 a
metric ton. It earlier fell as much as 0.5 percent to the lowest
price since it started trading in January 2010. It has dropped
10 percent this year.  Imports of coal used in German  power plants  rose to a
record last year to about 35 million tons from 33.6 million tons
in 2011, data from Verein der Deutschen Kohlenimporteure e.V.,
the nation’s coal lobby show.  Global Oversupply  While Australia, Colombia and  Indonesia  are boosting
exports of the fuel, a recovery in  China ’s imports “might not
suffice to absorb all the oversupply this year,” Bank of
America Corp. said in a March 20 research report.  The U.S. is an exporter of coal and has been burning less
of the fuel since the boom of cheap shale gas used for power
production, leading to higher exports of the fuel, according to
VDKi. U.S. coal imports to Germany rose 20 percent last year to
about 10 million tons, according to the coal lobby.  U.S. coal production fell 9.3 percent to 241.7 million tons
in the first quarter from a year earlier, data from the U.S.
Energy Information Administration show.  European coal probably won’t fall below $90 a ton, Paolo Coghe, an analyst at  Societe Generale SA (GLE) , said today by phone
from Paris.  ‘Crucial Value’  “This is a crucial value because this level triggers cuts
to more expensive supply, for example in  Russia , which could not
sustain production levels at such low prices,” he said.  “Utilities are starting to burn coal again in the U.S.
which may give some support to European coal prices in the form
of lower US exports,” Coghe said.  Germany added 290 megawatts of solar panels in March,
boosting total installations to 33,165 megawatts, the  nation’s
grid regulator  said April 30. This represents 19 percent of the
nation’s total generation capacity and compares with 36,952
megawatts of hard coal and lignite-burning plants.  Germany ’s solar growth “should drive wholesale power
prices and load factors of conventional plants further down,”
Patrick Hummel, Zurich-based analyst at UBS AG, said today in an
e-mailed report.  German power for delivery in June dropped as much as 1.7
percent to a record at 32.70 euros, broker data showed.  “If Germany gets a lot of solar power this summer, we
could see a very comfortably supplied power system,” Gary Hornby, an analyst at Inenco Group Ltd. in Lytham St. Annes in
northern  England , said today by e-mail.  Polish 2014 baseload electricity declined to 153.95 zloty a
megawatt-hour, its lowest level since start of trading in June
last year. The equivalent contract for electricity in  Czech
Republic  lost as much as 2.3 percent to 37.90 euros, lowest
since Bloomberg started tracking the contract in February 2012.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julia Mengewein in Frankfurt at 
 jmengewein@bloomberg.net ;
Rachel Morison in London at 
 rmorison@bloomberg.net ;
Marek Strzelecki in Warsaw at 
 mstrzelecki1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  