-- European Stocks Advance as ECB Lowers Interest Rates
-- B y   S o f i a   H o r t a   e   C o s t a
-- 2013-05-02T15:58:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/european-stock-futures-little-changed-before-ecb-decision.html
European stocks rose to a seven-week
high as the  European Central Bank  lowered its benchmark interest
rate, while companies from  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  to Bayerische
Motoren Werke AG posted profit that beat analysts’ estimates.  Royal Dutch Shell Plc advanced to its highest price in
three months in Amsterdam after saying earnings from refining
and marketing rose because of higher processing margins. BMW
gained 1 percent. Statoil retreated the most in almost a year
after reporting lower oil and gas production in  Norway .  Danske
Bank A/S (DANSKE)  declined the most in six months after saying that  low
interest rates  have caused net interest income to decline.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index added 0.3 percent to 297.88 at
the close in London, rebounding from a decline of as much as 0.5
percent. The equity benchmark completed an 11th month of gains
in April, its longest winning streak since 1997. Western-
European markets, except for the U.K., Ireland and  Denmark , were
closed yesterday for Labor Day.  “The fashion right now for all central banks is to help
the economy with a lot of money, and this will go on, and this
will lead equity markets higher,” said Herbert Perus, who helps
oversee $36 billion as head of equities at Raiffeisen Capital
Management in Vienna.  Interest Rates  The ECB cut its key  interest rate  to a record low. Central
bankers meeting in Bratislava, Slovakia lowered the main
refinancing rate to 0.5 percent from 0.75 percent, a move
predicted by  45 of 70 economists  in a Bloomberg News survey. The
ECB left its deposit rate at zero and reduced its marginal
lending rate to 1 percent from 1.5 percent.  “Our monetary policy stance will remain accommodative for
as long as needed,” Draghi said at a press conference after the
meeting today. “We are closely monitoring money market
conditions and their potential impact on our monetary policy
stance and its transmission to the economy.”  In the U.S., the  Federal Reserve  said it will continue to
buy $85 billion of bonds a month and will raise or lower
purchases if economic conditions change.  “The committee is prepared to increase or reduce the pace
of its purchases to maintain appropriate policy accommodation as
the outlook for the labor market or inflation changes,” the
 Federal Open Market Committee  said late yesterday following a
two-day meeting in  Washington .  European Indexes  National benchmark indexes declined in nine of the 18
western-European markets today.  Germany ’s DAX rose 0.6 percent,
while the U.K.’s FTSE 100 added 0.2 percent and  France ’s CAC 40
increased 0.1 percent.  The volume of shares changing hands in Stoxx 600-listed
companies was 10 percent greater than the 30-day average,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Shell rose 1.4 percent to 26.20 euros in Amsterdam.
 Europe ’s largest oil company said  first-quarter profit  excluding
one-off items and inventory changes increased 3 percent to $7.5
billion from a year earlier. That beat the $6.4 billion  average
estimate  in a Bloomberg survey.  BMW advanced 1 percent to 70.74 euros. The world’s biggest
luxury-car maker said first-quarter earnings before interest and
taxes declined to 2.04 billion euros ($2.7 billion), a smaller
drop than  analysts had predicted . The company said demand
increased for its 3 Series cars.  Beiersdorf AG advanced 4.2 percent to 71.64 euros after the
maker of Nivea skin cream reported first-quarter Ebit that
exceeded estimates. Emerging-market sales, which contribute
 almost half  of total revenue, jumped, according to a statement.
The stock  declined  4.6 percent in April, its largest monthly
drop in 20 months.  EDF, Statoil  Electricite de France SA (EDF)  climbed 1.6 percent to 17.24
euros. French Industry Minister  Arnaud Montebourg  said the
government, which  controls  about 84 percent of EDF, has no
intention of lowering its stake in Europe’s biggest power
generator.  Statoil retreated 3.9 percent to 135.20 kroner. Norway’s
national oil company posted  adjusted net income  of 12 billion
kroner ($2.1 billion) for the first quarter, less than the 13.7
billion kroner  estimated by analysts .  Danske Bank slipped 5.4 percent to 103.10 kroner. Denmark’s
biggest lender also reported net income of 1.47 billion kroner
($258 million) in the first quarter. Analysts had predicted 1.57
billion kroner of profit for the period, according to  estimates 
compiled by Bloomberg.  Swisscom AG (SCMN)  lost 1.8 percent to 429.90 Swiss francs.
Switzerland’s largest phone company said net income fell to 388
million francs ($415 million) in the first quarter. The average
analyst  estimate  had called for 402.5 million francs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sofia Horta e Costa in  London  at 
 shortaecosta@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  