-- Evans Randall Targets Hedge Funds With Mayfair Deal
-- B y   P a t r i c k   G o w e r
-- 2013-05-02T09:02:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/evans-randall-targets-hedge-funds-with-mayfair-property-purchase.html
(Corrects purchase price in first and second paragraph)  Evans Randall Ltd., half owner of the
 London  tower known as the Gherkin, bought 60 million pounds ($93
million) of office property in the city’s Mayfair district.  The buyout firm purchased a 34,000 square-foot (3,150
square-meter) office building at 15 Sackville Street, Evans
Randall said yesterday in a statement. It also joined with Al
Salam Bank Bahrain in the purchase of 4 and 5 Queen Street,
where it will develop six luxury apartments, according to the
statement.  “We intend to lease the vacant offices to companies where
demand is strong such as hedge funds, boutique investment firms
and perhaps technology, media and communications firms on the
lower floors,” Evans Randall Chairman Michael Evans said in a
telephone interview.  Mayfair and nearby St. James’s, the London districts with
Europe’s biggest concentration of hedge funds, have seen
increased competition for space as developers have converted
offices into luxury homes to take advantage of higher returns.
London’s West End replaced  Hong Kong  as the world’s most
expensive location per worker to lease new  office space , broker
DTZ said in a report in January.  The Sackville Street purchase represented a yield of 5.5
percent, Evans Randall said. In a separate transaction, the firm
paid 16 million pounds for a  data center  near Amsterdam’s
Schiphol Airport.  German real estate company  IVG Immobilien AG (IVG)  and Evans
Randall bought the Gherkin at 30 St. Mary Axe from insurance
group Swiss Re Ltd. for about 600 million pounds in 2007. The
building was valued at 473 million pounds to 510 million pounds
last year, according to IVG’s website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Gower in London at 
 pgower@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  