-- Ex-Diamondback Manager Gets 4 1/2 Years in Insider Case
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2013-05-02T22:53:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/ex-diamondback-manager-gets-4-1-2-years-in-insider-case.html
Former Diamondback Capital Management
LLC fund manager  Todd Newman  was sentenced to 4 1/2 years in
prison for his role in an insider-trading scheme that used tips
from technology company insiders to earn $72 million.  U.S. District Judge Richard Sullivan imposed the term today
in Manhattan federal court and also ordered Newman, 48, to pay a
$4 million fine for the proceeds the fund earned from the
scheme.  Sullivan said he may decide by later today whether to let
Newman remain free pending his appeal. He granted a request by
defense lawyers to allow Newman to serve his term at the federal
prison camp in Devens,  Massachusetts . That facility is where
Galleon Group LLC co-founder Raj Rajaratnam is serving an 11-
year sentence for  insider trading .  “It’s hard to see why somebody who’d reached the pinnacle
of success, who had the respect of the community and wealth,
would risk that for more,” Sullivan said. “This was all about
money and getting more. It’s hard to explain why somebody would
do that when they had so much.”  While Newman didn’t speak in court, his lawyers cited his
kindness and generosity while urging the judge to impose a
prison term of less than the 63 to 78 months recommended under
U.S. sentencing guidelines. John Nathanson, a lawyer for Newman,
said after court his client will appeal the conviction.  Secret Payments  Sullivan said it troubled him that trial evidence showed
Newman authorized secret payments of $175,000 to the wife of one
source of illicit tips and that the scheme lasted for two years.  “It was clearly done over a period of time in a
surreptitious way in order to continue this gravy train of
inside information that generated substantial profits,”
Sullivan said.  He questioned why Newman, who earned $3 million to $4
million a year as a portfolio manager for the  Stamford ,
Connecticut-based fund, would be motivated to commit crimes,
saying he wasn’t like other defendants who were motivated by
poverty or lack of opportunity.  “People should understand the lines are so bright here
that the penalties have to be severe enough to send a message,”
Sullivan said.  “Insider trading is a serious crime,” he said. “People
should know when you do that, the penalty will be harsh.”  Six-Week Trial  Newman, of Needham, Massachusetts, was convicted in
December after a six-week trial along with Level Global
Investors LP co-founder Anthony Chiasson. Prosecutors said they
were part of a group of portfolio managers, fund analysts and
insiders at technology companies who swapped and shared material
nonpublic information about the firms and reaped millions of
dollars in profits by trading on the illicit tips.  Newman was found guilty of four counts of  securities fraud 
and one count of conspiracy related to trades on inside
information that prosecutors said earned his fund more than $4
million from his insider trading. The jury found that he engaged
in a two-year scheme to trade on  Dell Inc. (DELL)  and  Nvidia Corp. (NVDA) 
using illicit tips provided by his then-analyst, Jesse Tortora.
Tortora pleaded guilty, agreed to cooperate with the U.S. and
testified against Newman during the trial.  Chiasson, who was convicted of one count of conspiracy and
five counts of securities fraud, is scheduled to be sentenced by
Sullivan on May 13.  Six Others  Six others charged with being part of the insider-trading
ring have pleaded guilty and are cooperating with the U.S.,
including Jon Horvath, a former analyst at SAC Capital Advisors
LP’s Sigma unit. In March, Michael Steinberg, a portfolio
manager to whom Horvath reported, was indicted by prosecutors in
the office of Manhattan U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara.  During the trial, prosecutors presented evidence that
showed Newman knew he was receiving highly sensitive information
about Dell and Nvidia, such as earnings and revenue data ahead
of quarterly announcements.  The government’s evidence also included e-mails Newman
received with the names of other fund managers who were also
receiving the illicit tips, including Chiasson and Steinberg.  To date more than 80 people have been charged and more than
70 have pleaded guilty or been convicted at trial of insider
trading since the Manhattan U.S. Attorney and the  Federal Bureau
of Investigation  in  New York  began an initiative to combat
insider trading by portfolio managers, analysts and company
employees.  Restitution Request  Diamondback, which was raided by the FBI in November 2010
as part of the federal investigation of insider trading at hedge
funds, has asked for $39 million in restitution from Newman
under the federal Mandatory Victims Restitution Act. The fund
claims it’s a victim of Newman’s crimes and is seeking
management fees lost as a result of his crimes.  The fund said after the raid that there was a “massive
wave” of investor redemptions of about $1.3 billion and that it
lost at least $26 million, or the 2 percent management fees it
would have earned on those funds during the next year.  Diamondback avoided prosecution and agreed to pay $9
million to settle a suit brought by the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission stemming from Newman’s case.  The fund announced it would close in December after clients
pulled money as a result of publicity from Newman’s case.  Peter Neiman, a partner at WilmerHale who’s representing
Diamondback, argued today in favor of restitution. He cited the
non-prosecution agreement to end the criminal investigation.  Management Fees  Prosecutors said while they agree Diamondback is a victim
of the fraud, it hasn’t established that it’s entitled to
restitution for loss of its management fees.  Sullivan expressed skepticism about the restitution
request.  “Should an entity’s status as a ‘victim’ turn solely on
whether the government, in its discretion, decides to pull the
trigger on an indictment?” Sullivan said. “It’s hard to get
one’s head around the fact that Diamondback is a victim when
Diamondback could have been charged as a corporate entity.”  Sullivan today ordered Newman to forfeit $737,724 to the
government and said he will determine at a later date whether
Diamondback should receive restitution. The judge suggested that
defense lawyers submit a filing explaining their position. He
said he would rule after reviewing their arguments, as well as
those by the government and Diamondback.  Neiman said in a statement issued after court that
Diamondback will provide Sullivan with additional information.
He noted that after the government’s investigation of the hedge
fund, prosecutors concluded Newman had “routinely violated”
Diamondback’s compliance policies. The U.S. also determined that
there was “no evidence” Newman’s conduct was “known to the
firm’s co-founders,” Neiman said, quoting from a statement
prosecutors issued at the time the non-prosecution agreement
with Diamondback was announced.  “The government at sentencing agreed that Diamondback was
a victim of Newman’s crimes and that Diamondback was therefore
entitled to substantial restitution,” Neiman said in the
statement.  The case is U.S. v. Newman, 1:12-cr-00121, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  