-- Ex-Giants Linebacker Leaves Goldman to Tackle Dubai Loans
-- B y   Z a i n a b   F a t t a h
-- 2013-05-03T13:15:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/ex-giants-linebacker-leaves-goldman-to-tackle-dubai-loans.html
Brandon Short says he’s found a way to
recapture the excitement he experienced playing football for the
 New York  Giants almost six years ago.  The former National Football League linebacker left Goldman
Sachs Group Inc.’s Dubai unit last month to start a closely held
Islamic lender that will specialize in loans to small and
medium-sized companies, a market he says is underserved by banks
across the Middle East.  “I’ve been blessed to live the dream in the NFL, but I
find that doing something entrepreneurial gives me that same
thrill and energy,” Short, 35, said in a telephone interview in
Dubai. “If you can master finance, it can give you flexibility
to do anything within business and that was really the driving
force for me.”  The lender, World Business Partners UAE, will use a sale-and-lease model to provide finance that complies with Islam’s
ban on interest. It will start operations in September, offering
loans ranging from 35,000 dirhams to 1.5 million dirhams ($9,500
to $410,000), he said. The company will also work within Islamic
bans on investment in alcohol, firearms and other prohibited
products.  “In the  Middle East  and North Africa, there is limited
access to capital and that represents a significant opportunity
for us to come in and meet the demand of small businesses,” he
said.  Shunned Companies  Many banks in the region shun funding for small companies.
In  Saudi Arabia , the Arab world’s largest economy, 2 percent of
bank loans go to small and medium-sized enterprises, according
to the International Finance Corp., the  World Bank ’s private
lending arm. That compares with an average of 8 percent in the
Middle East, which itself is low by global standards.  The lack of lending is the result of the region’s
relatively immature debt markets, according to Short, who worked
at New York-based Goldman as an investment banking executive for
three years before quitting last month to start World Business
Partners.  Short founded the firm with Doug Naidus, former managing
director of residential lending at  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , and Alex
Gemici, who founded Dubai-based boutique investment bank
Greenstone Equity Partners.  Small businesses “play an essential role in private sector
growth and they are a significant contributor to employment and
economic development,” he said.  Dubai’s economy is set to expand 4.6 percent, on average,
between 2012 and 2015, government forecasts show, as the second-biggest sheikhdom in the  United Arab Emirates  is bolstered by a
rebound in the tourism, trade and retail industries.  Super Bowl  Short was a member of the  New York Giants  team that lost
the  Super Bowl  in 2001 to the Baltimore Ravens, and he also
played for the  Carolina Panthers . He received his undergraduate
degree from Penn State University in 2000 and studied at
 Columbia Business School  after leaving the NFL. Short joined
Goldman in 2010 and moved to Dubai last year, allowing him to
see opportunities in the region’s growing economies.  Other NFL players have entered finance after ending their
football careers.  Steve Young , a Super Bowl-winning quarterback
for the  San Francisco 49ers  who was inducted into the Hall of
Fame in 2005, is a managing director and co-founder of Huntsman
Gay Global Capital LLC. Former New York Jets wide receiver Wayne Chrebet works for Barclays Plc’s investment-banking unit. HRJ
Capital LLC, a fund-of-funds founded by 49ers defenders Harris Barton and Ronnie Lott, faced insolvency with more than $338
million in unfunded pledges when Capital Dynamics AG of
Switzerland acquired its assets in 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zainab Fattah in Dubai at 
 zfattah@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  