-- Ex-RBS CDO Trader Unfairly Fired in Pricing Case, Judge Says
-- B y   K i t   C h e l l e l
-- 2013-05-02T16:56:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/ex-rbs-cdo-trader-unfairly-fired-in-pricing-case-judge-says.html
A former  Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc  trader, who lost 5.6 million pounds ($8.7 million) in
bonuses when the bank found evidence he manipulated internal
pricing systems, was unfairly fired, a U.K. court said.  An employment tribunal judge found that while Alex Mallinson had been at fault, the Edinburgh-based lender hadn’t
handled his internal challenge to the dismissal properly.
Mallinson, who now works at Chalkhill Partners LLP, ran the
collateralized debt obligation trading desk in  London .  “Collectively, the concerns I have would fail to satisfy
me that the appeal process was conducted in an appropriate
manner,” Judge Paul Stewart said in a written decision. While
Stewart didn’t rule on damages, he said the dismissal was 85
percent caused by Mallinson’s conduct.  RBS fired all three members of the CDO trading desk, which
made about 250 million pounds in profits during three years
under Mallinson, after the bank found evidence they had executed
trades to manipulate its system for pricing securities. Both the
other traders, Wai Kin Hui and Shailen Patel, also sued for
unfair dismissal.  RBS spokesman Rebecca Nelson and Mallinson’s lawyer,
Danielle Spiers, declined to immediately comment on the ruling.  If the sides can’t agree on damages, the tribunal will hold
another hearing, Judge Stewart said.  Compensation Cap  While compensation for unfair dismissal is normally capped
at about 70,000 pounds, Stewart said in his ruling that
Mallinson’s lawyers indicated they might seek to recover his
bonuses through the  High Court  in London.  Mallinson’s gross misconduct justified withholding the
bonuses, RBS staff testified at February tribunal hearings.  Mallinson argued the immediate sale and repurchase of
securities in 2010 had been to reduce the administrative burden
on his colleagues to comply with internal pricing systems. RBS
unfairly singled him out for punishment, he told the tribunal in
February.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kit Chellel in London at 
 cchellel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  