-- FBI Inquiry Into Ties to Donor Clouds Virginia Governor’s Future
-- B y   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y
-- 2013-05-02T04:00:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/fbi-inquiry-into-ties-to-donor-clouds-virginia-governor-s-future.html
Star Scientific Inc. (STSI)  Chief Executive
Officer Jonnie Williams treated  Virginia  Governor Robert McDonnell to a $2,268 vacation getaway.  When the Republican governor’s daughter married in 2011,
Williams paid $15,000 for the catering. And the company Williams
runs, a  money-losing  maker of dietary supplements based in Glen
Allen, Virginia, spent $7,383 on a trip for McDonnell to
 Massachusetts  and more than $100,000 funding his campaigns,
according to state filings.  Gifts from Star’s CEO are the focus of questions by the
Federal Bureau of Investigation, which is asking people close to
the governor whether his administration did anything to help the
company, according to a law enforcement official familiar with
the matter. The inquiry, reported in local media, including the
 Washington  Post, threatens to tarnish the image of the potential
2016 presidential candidate and influence the race for his
successor.  “This still-unfolding scandal is a real departure from the
governor’s generally squeaky-clean image,” said Stephen
Farnsworth, the director of the Center for Leadership and Media
Studies at the University of Mary Washington in Fredericksburg,
Virginia. “This controversy has really put a dent into the
governor’s political future.”  McDonnell, 58, who says he has done nothing wrong, has
cultivated a political presence beyond his home state. In 2011
and 2012, he was the chairman of the Republican Governors
Association, which raises money for candidates, and last year
was seen as a potential vice presidential pick for  Mitt Romney .  Chef’s Tale  The case also has injected controversy into the race
between Republican Kenneth Cuccinelli, the state’s attorney
general, and Terry McAuliffe, the former director of the
Democratic National Committee, to win the November election to
succeed McDonnell.  In a Virginia court filing this week, Todd Schneider, a
former chef for McDonnell at the governor’s mansion, said he
told federal investigators in March 2012 about Williams’s
efforts to curry favor with the governor. That included lending
his summer home, cars and private jet, the chef said in the
filing.  Star received help, too: During a luncheon at the
governor’s mansion in August 2011, the company promoted a
dietary supplement that accounts for almost all of its sales.  Virginia law allows public officials to accept gifts, as
long as they are disclosed, while those to family members can go
unreported. McDonnell, who hasn’t been charged with any
wrongdoing, has said he neglected to report the $15,000 that
Williams paid for catering because it was a gift to his
daughter.  Governor’s Response  McDonnell, in an interview this week, said his
administration hasn’t conferred any special benefits on Star
Scientific. He said the company’s event at the governor’s
mansion was organized by the office of his wife, Maureen, and
that he attended because Star was giving grants to the state
university’s medical systems.  “The purpose of that was not to bestow any particular
benefit on the company,” he said.  “I don’t ever do anything, whether it’s with Mr. Williams
or his company or any other person or any other company, to give
anybody any special treatment,” the governor said.  As for the wedding catering, “I made the determination --
and I think that I believed was correct -- that it was a gift to
my daughter and therefore under current laws did not need to be
disclosed,” McDonnell said in an  interview  with WTOP radio on
April 30. He said the decision to accept the gift from Williams
was his daughter’s “It’s caused a fair amount of pain for me.”  Chef Charged  The governor wouldn’t comment on the FBI inquiry.  FBI spokeswoman Dennette Rybiski in Richmond declined to
comment, citing the bureau’s policy.  Schneider was charged in March with embezzling food from
the mansion and is fighting the allegations. Margaret Spencer, a
state circuit judge, on April 30 told attorneys to refrain from
discussing the case.  Schneider has sought to have the case against him
dismissed, alleging that state Attorney General Cuccinelli had
conflicts of interest. Cuccinelli owned stock in Star Scientific
and used Williams’s vacation home last summer, according to the
chef’s filing.  Thanksgiving Stay  On April 26, Cuccinelli made a motion to withdraw from the
case. He also restated his financial disclosures -- after
reviewing them -- to report previously undisclosed gifts,
including a family summer vacation worth $3,000. Williams’s
company has been fighting a $1.7 million tax assessment from
Virginia in court. Last month, Cuccinelli’s office appointed an
outside law firm to handle the case to avoid any conflict of
interest.  Brian Gottstein, a spokesman for Cuccinelli, said Schneider
is seeking to politicize his case.  “This case will be tried in court and not in the media,”
Gottstein said.  Steven Benjamin, a lawyer for Schneider, didn’t immediately
respond to a request for comment.  Star Scientific, a former cigar and cigarette company that
has shifted into making dietary health supplements and skin
cream, disclosed in  a March filing  with the Securities and
Exchange Commission that the company and its directors were
being investigated by the U.S. Attorney’s office. The company
said the investigation is principally centered on securities
transactions.  Family Friend  Williams has been Star’s CEO since 1999. McDonnell
described him as a family friend. The CEO didn’t respond to a
request for comment.  When McDonnell first ran for governor in 2009, Star donated
$28,600 to his campaign, according to the Virginia Public Access
Project, which tracks money in the state’s politics. In 2010, it
gave $79,900 worth of plane flights to Opportunity Virginia, the
governor’s political action committee, according to the group.  The focus on Williams’s ties in Richmond, the state
capital, has drawn attention to Virginia laws that make it easy
to lavish gifts on politicians. Virginia is one of only 10
states that don’t place limits on such giving, according to the
National Conference of State Legislatures, which reviewed laws
that apply to lawmakers.  “Even if no laws were broken -- and Virginia laws are
notoriously lax regarding gifts to the family members of public
officials -- the cozy relationship between the governor’s family
and the businessman using his Richmond connections to help
promote sales of his dietary supplements is quite unseemly,”
said Farnsworth of the University of Mary Washington.  Final Months  The questions about Star’s ties to the governor come as he
is completing his final months in office, with the legislature
already adjourned for the year.  “Only time will tell if it’s a real case and what it will
do to his political image,” said Nathan Gonzales, an analyst
who follows state races for the Rothenberg Political Report.  McDonnell has remained popular with voters since he was
elected, seeking to stoke job growth while overseeing a state
spared the worst of the recession. With an  economy  fueled in
part by federal spending, 5.3 percent of Virginians were
unemployed in March, compared with 7.6 percent nationally.  Fifty-three percent of voters approved of McDonnell’s
performance, according to a  poll  by Quinnipiac University in
late March.  “The public has always seen him as a nice guy, if nothing
else; this scandal has the possibility of taking that away,”
said Quentin Kidd, the director of the  Judy Ford Wason Center 
for Public Policy at Christopher Newport University, in Newport
News, Virginia. “If this scandal lingers or goes bad, and the
public turns away from him, it will be easy for Republicans to
dismiss him having any political future.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
William Selway in Washington at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  