-- Ford Boosts F-150 Production as Pickups Pace U.S. Sales
-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 2013-05-02T18:10:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/ford-boosts-f-150-production-as-pickups-pace-u-s-sales.html
Ford Motor Co. (F) , reacting to U.S.
pickup sales that have gained momentum for almost two years
straight, said it plans to add workers at an F-150 truck factory
to boost production of its most profitable model line.  Ford will hire a third crew at its plant in Claycomo,
 Missouri , to boost F-150 output starting in the third quarter,
the company said today in a statement. The No. 2 U.S. automaker
is adding more than 2,000 employees at the factory for the extra
pickup production and to begin building the Transit commercial
van in mid-2014.  The F-Series pickup line is a juggernaut for Ford. It’s led
the U.S. truck segment the last 36 years and has been the best-
selling vehicle of any type in the country for more than three
decades. Ford plans to make more pickups to keep up with demand
after 21 straight months of increases for the F-Series as
rebounding housing and energy sectors lift U.S. market share for
Ford,  General Motors Co. (GM)  and Chrysler Group LLC.  “It’s a huge vote of confidence in our truck, our sales
and what’s going on in the industry overall and the economy,”
Joe Hinrichs, Ford’s president of the Americas, said in a
telephone interview. “We wouldn’t be hiring if we didn’t think
it was going to last. It is a strong indication of how we feel
about our continued leadership in the segment.”  Kansas City Assembly  will be capable of operating 120 hours
per week after the third crew is added, up from the 100 hours
per week that it’s been running with two shifts, Hinrichs said.  Atlas Prototype  GM is rolling out revamped Chevy Silverado and GMC Sierra
pickups this month. Dearborn, Michigan-based Ford answered GM’s
new offerings by showing an F-150 pickup prototype at the
 Detroit auto show  in January called the Atlas that foreshadowed
its future trucks.  Ford is examining use of more aluminum in the next-
generation F-150, Chief Executive Officer  Alan Mulally  told
reporters after revealing the Atlas.  Alcoa Inc. (AA) , the largest
U.S. aluminum producer, said today that it will invest $275
million to expand a Tennessee plant and meet increased demand
for the lightweight metal in cars and trucks.  “We’re going to use all of the lightweight materials,”
Mulally told reporters in January. “We’re using more and more
aluminum, so I anticipate we’ll be considering more aluminum”
for the new F-150.  Shedding Weight  Ford has said it plans to shed as much as 750 pounds (340
kilograms) from its next-generation truck to improve fuel
economy as part of a company fleet-wide goal to cut 250 pounds
to 750 pounds from all of its models. Hinrichs declined to
comment about the new F-150.  Ford, GM and Fiat SpA-controlled Chrysler yesterday
reported better-than-projected  U.S. sales increases  for April,
building on their first sweep of market share gains in the first
quarter of any year in two decades. Ford’s sales of cars and
light trucks rose 18 percent, and GM and Chrysler both increased
11 percent, according to company statements released yesterday.
The automakers exceeded the average estimates of 11 analysts in
a survey by Bloomberg for gains of 17 percent by Ford and 10
percent by GM and Chrysler.  Automakers are making gains in the U.S. as  consumer
confidence  improves and the recovery in the housing market
gathers momentum, buoyed by record low borrowing costs and a
tight supply of homes for sale.  Housing Starts  New-home construction in the U.S. climbed in March to the
highest level in almost five years, with starts increasing 7
percent to a 1.04 million annual rate, the Commerce Department
said April 16. Auto dealers including  AutoNation Inc. (AN) , the
largest U.S. retailer of new cars and trucks, also are citing
growing demand from energy companies in states such as  Texas .  “There still is a significant number of personal-use
buyers in the market, but what’s fueling the sales growth now
are the housing, construction and oil industries that need
trucks and have traditionally driven truck sales,” said
Hinrichs, 46. “Most of the drivers for the increased sales
you’re seeing on trucks are coming from the commercial side.”  Combined sales of Ford’s F-Series, Detroit-based GM’s
Chevrolet Silverado and GMC Sierra and Chrysler’s Ram trucks
surged 29 percent, based on sales figures released by the
companies separately. The automakers built on gains in the first
three months of the year, when Ford, GM and  Auburn Hills ,
Michigan-based Chrysler all increased U.S. market share in a
first quarter for the first time since 1993, according to the
Automotive News Data Center.  Profit Contribution  “The Big Three are gaining big time because the housing
market’s gaining big time,”  Eric Noble , president of the Car
Lab, an industry consultant in Orange,  California , said
yesterday on Bloomberg Television. “The economy is going well
enough that businesses and independent owners have confidence
they can chin the bar. They’ve got to replace the tools, and
that means replacing the truck.”  No model is more important or more defended by U.S.
automakers than the full-size pickup. The $8,000 to $10,000 in
gross profit that each truck hauls in for the three companies
account for the vast majority of their earnings -- an estimated
90 percent for Ford and two-thirds for GM, Morgan Stanley said
earlier this year.  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  revealed a redesigned Tundra in February
at the Chicago Auto Show that is scheduled to arrive at
dealerships in September. Tundra deliveries have increased 15
percent this year to 31,856. Chrysler’s Ram trucks, the No. 3
model line of pickups among U.S. automakers, almost outsold
Tundra in the month of April alone, with 31,409 deliveries.  Detroit Boon  “The Japanese automakers don’t get the same lift benefit
from those kinds of things that stimulate truck growth,” Larry Dominique, president of TrueCar Inc.’s ALG and a former product
planner for  Nissan Motor Co. (7201) , said by telephone. “Those trucks
that put a lot of coffers into the domestics, when they’re up,
it really is a boon to the domestic manufacturers.”  Ford’s North American operations earned $2.4 billion in the
year’s first three months, the division’s best quarter ever,
after setting  annual records  of $8.34 billion with a 10.4
percent profit margin last year.  Ford gained 0.5 percent to $13.45 at 2:08 p.m.  New York 
time. The shares rose 3.3 percent this year through yesterday,
trailing an 11 percent climb by the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.
GM shares rose 4 percent to $31.39 after the automaker posted
first-quarter earnings today that beat analyst estimates as  it
narrowed its loss in  Europe .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Craig Trudell in Southfield, Michigan at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  