-- Former BBC Host Stuart Hall Pleads Guilty in Sex-Assault Probe
-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 2013-05-02T12:01:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/former-bbc-host-stuart-hall-pleads-guilty-in-sex-assault-probe.html
Stuart Hall, a former host of British
Broadcasting Corp. television programs, pleaded guilty to 14
sexual-assault offenses, involving victims as young as nine over
a period spanning almost two decades.  Hall, who hosted British comedy game show “It’s a
Knockout” in the 1970s, will be sentenced next month at Preston
Crown Court in northern  England , the U.K. Crown Prosecution
Service said in a statement. The 83-year-old Hall was an
“opportunistic predator,” prosecutor Nazir Afzal said.  “We prosecuted Stuart Hall because the evidence of the
victims clearly established a pattern of behavior that was
unlawful and for which no innocent explanation could be
offered,” Afzal said in the statement. “Whether in public or
private, Hall would first approach under friendly pretences and
then bide his time until the victim was isolated.”  Officers are probing the abuse of hundreds of children over
almost 50 years by people in the entertainment industry. The
investigations began with accusations against the late  BBC 
television star Jimmy Savile, whose alleged actions triggered a
scandal at the world’s biggest broadcaster.  Max Clifford , a celebrity publicist who has represented
 O.J. Simpson , was charged last month with sexual offenses
involving girls as young as 14 over almost two decades.  Prosecutors said they dropped a rape charge against Hall
after securing guilty pleas on the other counts.  “The BBC is appalled by the disgraceful actions of Stuart
Hall and we would like to express our sympathy to his victims,”
the broadcaster said in a statement. “We will continue to work
with the police to assist them in this and any other enquiries
they are making.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Moshinsky in London at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  