-- Forstmann Said to Choose Morgan Stanley, Evercore for IMG Sale
-- B y   S e r e n a   S a i t t o ,   S c o t t   S o s h n i c k   a n d   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2013-05-02T17:24:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/forstmann-said-to-choose-morgan-stanley-evercore-for-img-sale.html
Forstmann Little & Co. is working with
Morgan Stanley and  Evercore Partners Inc. (EVR)  to find a buyer for
IMG Worldwide Inc., the talent agency that represents sports
stars such as Peyton and  Eli Manning , said people with knowledge
of the matter.  The business could fetch $2 billion, said two people, who
asked not to be named because the process is private. Non-
disclosure agreements will probably go out to suitors in a
couple of weeks, with first-round bids likely due in July, said
another person.  The company, now led by Chief Executive Officer Michael
Dolan, represents top athletes such as the National Football
League’s Mannings and tennis champion Venus Williams, according
to its website. The agency also represents models such as Gisele
Bundchen and manages fashion and sports events such as Mercedes-
Benz Fashion Week and Wimbledon.  The company was founded more than half a century ago with a
handshake agreement between Mark McCormack and golfer  Arnold Palmer , according to IMG’s website. Forstmann Little, the New
York-based private-equity firm co-founded by the late  Ted Forstmann , bought IMG in 2004 for about $750 million, according
to another person.  A representative at Morgan Stanley declined to comment.
Representatives at Forstmann Little and Evercore didn’t
immediately return calls seeking comment.  Possible Suitors  George Pyne, president of IMG Sports, said about a month
ago during a sports business conference that the company would
probably be sold in the next four to 24 months. Pyne didn’t
respond to an e-mail seeking comment.  Possible suitors may include Guggenheim Partners, owner of
the  Los Angeles  Dodgers; Silver Lake Management LLC, which has a
stake in William Morris Endeavor Entertainment LLC; and  Creative
Artists Agency , part owned by private-equity firm TPG Capital,
said Inner Circle Sports’s Rob Tilliss.  “Since they’ve bought it, they’ve really rationalized a
lot of cost out of the equation,” said Tilliss, who founded the
firm that advises on the buying and selling of professional
sports teams. “Their individual business units are
profitable.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Serena Saitto in  New York  at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Soshnick in New York at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net ;
Andy Fixmer in Los Angeles at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  