-- Friends Land in Jail After Dumping Bomb Suspect Backpack
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n ,   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n   a n d   J a n e l l e   L a w r e n c e
-- 2013-05-02T03:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/friends-land-in-jail-after-dumping-bomb-suspect-backpack.html
Three days after the Boston Marathon
bombing, three friends of 19-year-old Dzhokhar Tsarnaev met at
his dorm room at the University of Massachusetts-Dartmouth,
drawn there after seeing pictures on the news of one of the
suspects that resembled their friend.  They watched a movie and noticed a backpack containing
fireworks that had been emptied of powder, according to criminal
complaints filed yesterday against the three in federal court in
Boston. Tsarnaev wasn’t present that night in the room; a
roommate had let them in.  One of the friends, Dias Kadyrbayev, “knew when he saw the
empty fireworks that Tsarnaev was involved in the marathon
bombing,”  Federal Bureau  of Investigation Special Agent Scott
Cieplik said in the complaints. Federal authorities hours
earlier had released images of two suspects at the scene of the
April 15 double bombing that killed three and wounded more than
260 spectators near the marathon’s crowded finish line.  Another friend, Robel Phillipos, said Kadyrbayev and a
third man, Azamat Tazhayakov “started to freak out” when they
realized from news reports that Tsarnaev was involved in the
bombing, according to the complaints. Phillipos said he didn’t
understand much of what the other two, who are from  Kazakhstan ,
were saying because they were speaking in Russian.  Removed Backpack  Kadyrbayev decided to remove the backpack from the room
“in order to help his friend Tsarnaev avoid trouble,” the U.S.
said. He decided to take the laptop as well, “because he did
not want Tsarnaev’s roommate to think he was stealing or
behaving suspiciously by just taking the backpack,” according
to the complaints.  Kadyrbayev, along with Tazhayakov and Phillipos, all 19-
years-old, were arrested yesterday and charged with hindering
the bombing probe. Kadyrbayev and Tazhayakov are accused of
obstructing justice by removing or throwing away evidence they
found in Tsarnaev’s dorm room, while Phillipos is accused of
lying to investigators about how the trio reacted to suspicions
about their friend.  About the time they went to the dorm room, Tsarnaev
received a text message from Kadyrbayev saying he looked like
one of the suspects pictured in the news. Tsarnaev responded,
“lol,” the U.S. says.  In the messages, sent about 8:45 p.m. on April 18, Tsarnaev
told his friend “you better not text me” and suggested
Kadyrbayev “come to my room and take whatever you want,” which
the friend said he initially interpreted as a joke, the U.S.
said.  News Reports  With Tsarnaev’s belongings in hand, the three men returned
to an apartment near campus shared by Kadyrbayev and Tazhayakov
and continued to watch news reports about the terrorist attack.
They collectively decided to throw the backpack and fireworks in
the trash, the U.S. said, citing Kadyrbayev’s version of events.  About 10 p.m. that night, Kadyrbayev placed the backpack in
a black plastic bag and put it in a dumpster near the apartment
building, according to the complaints. While the two other men
didn’t assist in the disposal, they knew it was happening, the
U.S. said.  At 6 a.m. on April 19, the three men saw news reports
identifying Tsarnaev and his brother Tamerlan Tsarnaev, 26, as
the bombers and announcing that the older man was killed during
a shootout with police.  That day, investigators interviewed Tazhayakov.  Tazhayakov told investigators he became friends with
Tsarnaev in 2011 and that the two became closer the next year
when Tsarnaev starting spending more time at their apartment.
Tsarnaev had dropped Tazhayakov off at the apartment around 4
p.m. on April 18, after they attended classes together.  Voluntary Detention  The three men charged yesterday all agreed to voluntary
detention. If convicted, they face as long as five years in
prison for obstruction and eight years for false statements.
Tsarnaev faces two capital counts, including using a weapon of
mass destruction.  Robert Stahl, a lawyer for Kadyrbayev, and Tazhayakov’s
attorney, Harlan Protass, said their clients will plead not
guilty.  “As we’ve said from the very beginning, he assisted the
FBI in this investigation,” Stahl said of Kadyrbayev outside
the courtroom yesterday. “He was just as shocked by the
violence in  Boston  as everyone else. He did not know this
individual was involved with the bombing.”  Stahl said the laptop wasn’t discarded. The FBI now has the
laptop, he said. The U.S. attorney’s office declined to comment
on whether the laptop was recovered.  Student Visas  Tazhayakov and Kadyrbayev, who live in New Bedford, are in
the U.S. on student visas. They were arrested on April 20 on
immigration violations, according to the criminal complaints.
Phillipos is a U.S. citizen who lives in Cambridge.  While Tazhayakov is enrolled at  University of
Massachusetts , he has been suspended pending resolution of the
criminal case, the school said yesterday in a statement.
Kadyrbayez and Phillipos aren’t currently enrolled, the school
said.  “UMass Dartmouth will continue to fully cooperate with law
enforcement authorities investigating the Boston Marathon
tragedy,” the school said in the statement.  Dzhokhar Tsarnaev met Kadyrbayev and Tazhayakov on a smoke
break last year on the first day of classes at the university,
said Steven Silva, 20, who also met the three men that day and
was a roommate of Phillipos. The three hit it off after they
realized they all spoke Russian, said Silva, who has since
transferred to the university’s Boston branch.  ‘Very Surprised’  Silva said he was hanging out in the dorms with Kadyrbayev
and Tazhayakov on April 15, when Kadyrbayev’s girlfriend called
with news of the bombing. He described them as “very
surprised” when they heard the news.  Silva described Phillipos as a regular kid who didn’t go
out or party. The “Terrorista #1” vanity license plates on a
BMW automobile driven by Kadyrbayev and Tazhayakov was given to
them as a joke by two girls at school, Silva said.  Jennifer Rymszewicz, 38, of  New Bedford , said she saw one
of the two Kazakhs at about 8:30 a.m. on April 18 outside the
students’ apartment on Carriage Street in New Bedford talking on
a cellphone.  “He was outside. It was really cold, he had no shoes. He
was wearing shorts. He was loud,” Rymszewicz said in an
interview, adding that she didn’t know whether it was Kadyrbayev
or Tazhayakov. “He had his hands waving in the air. He was
really loud.”  ‘Pay Attention’  Two women who wouldn’t give their names attended
yesterday’s court appearance to support Phillipos, and left with
his attorney, Dereje Demissie, of Cambridge.  In court, Phillipos was scolded by U.S. Magistrate Judge
Marianne Bowler for being inattentive to the proceedings.  “I suggest you pay attention to me instead of looking
down,” she told him.  Raja Nageswaran, 25, a graduate student at UMass Dartmouth,
said he knew the two Kazakh students.  “These two had a black BMW,” Nageswaran said yesterday in
an interview. “They were noticeable, the way they drove.”
Kadyrbayev and Tazhayakov would blast music from the car as they
drove around, tires screeching, he said.  The three men arrested yesterday are “ancillary” to the
investigation, and their cases won’t help get to the “nitty
gritty” of how the bombing took place, said criminal defense
attorney Richard Herman, who isn’t involved in the case. The men
will probably claim in their defense that they weren’t aware of
the significance of their actions, he said.  Formed Bond  “They’re foreigners in another land and I’m sure they
formed a bond,” Herman said in a phone interview. “It probably
all happened so quickly that they just acted -- in retrospect,
they’ll be kicking themselves for not thinking about it
longer.”  Police in New Bedford said April 22 they believe Tsarnaev
spent the two nights after the bombing with acquaintances near
campus. Tazhayakov and Kadyrbayev’s apartment was cordoned off
and searched that day.  Kadyrbayev, Tazhayakov and Phillipos began attending the
university with Tsarnaev in 2011, according to court papers.
Tazhayakov became friends with Tsarnaev in the fall of that
year, the U.S. said.  Kadyrbayev also found a jar of Vaseline in the dorm room
and told Tazhayakov that he believed Tsarnaev had used the
Vaseline to make bombs, according to the filings.  Homework Assignments  On the night of April 19, Tazhayakov saw a garbage truck
arrive at the apartment complex to empty the dumpster, he said.
Investigators recovered Tsarnaev’s backpack from a New Bedford
landfill on April 26, according to an agent’s affidavit filed
with the court. The backpack held Vaseline, fireworks and his
homework assignment sheets from school.  Phillipos was a 2011 graduate of  Cambridge Rindge and Latin
School , according to the city school system’s superintendent’s
office. Tsarnaev also attended the prestigious public high
school, and received a higher-education scholarship from the
City of Cambridge in 2011.  “Phillipos initially said that he did not remember going
to Tsarnaev’s dormitory room on the evening of April 18,”
investigators said in the complaints. “He then changed his
story and said that he did remember going to Tsarnaev’s room
with Kadyrbayev and Tazhayakov.”  Prison Hospital  Tsarnaev, who was injured during a four-day manhunt by
police, is in a federal prison hospital outside Boston. The FBI
has been interviewing people connected to him and his brother,
Tamerlan.  The Tsarnaev brothers, ethnic Chechens who came to the U.S.
with their parents as refugees from  Russia ’s Caucasus region,
were motivated by radical Islam they learned mostly over the
Internet, according to lawmakers briefed by federal law-
enforcement officials.  “It looks as though the prosecution has a reasonably
straightforward case. The three friends seemed to recognize
their friend in the photos and took steps to hide the
information from the authorities,” James Cohen, a professor at
Fordham Law School in  New York  who teaches courses on psychology
in criminal and civil law, said in a phone interview.  The case is U.S. v. Phillipos, 13-02162, U.S. District
Court, District of  Massachusetts  (Boston).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Erik Larson in New York at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net ;
 David McLaughlin  in New York at   dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net ;
Janelle Lawrence in Boston federal court
at  jmlawrence@me.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  