-- Fuchs Declines as Low U.S. Demand Hurts Profit: Frankfurt Mover
-- B y   S h e e n a g h   M a t t h e w s
-- 2013-05-02T08:38:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/fuchs-declines-as-low-u-s-demand-hurts-profit-frankfurt-mover.html
Fuchs Petrolub AG (FPE) , the world’s largest
independent lubricant maker, dropped as much as 5.2 percent in
Frankfurt trading after weak demand in the U.S. led  to lower-
than-expected quarterly earnings.  The preferred stock fell as much as 3.31 euros to 60.68
euros. Earnings before interest and taxes gained 1.2 percent to
73.4 million euros ($97 million) in the first quarter, the
Mannheim, Germany-based company said today in a statement.
Analysts had predicted 77.4 million euros, according to a
Bloomberg survey.  Fuchs said today it is sticking to a full-year target to
increase earnings and sales even though revenue in North and
South America declined 4.2 percent in the first three months.
The forecast is based on organic growth in  Europe , Asia-Pacific
and  Africa , it said. The lubricant maker is also building new
factories in Kaluga, Russia and Yingkou,  China .  “The biggest negative surprise for us came out of the
Americas,” John Philipp Klein, an analyst at Berenberg Bank,
wrote in a note to clients. “Weak demand from industrial
customers” led to a decline in sales and in profitability.  The shares were trading down 2.9 percent at 62.13 euros as
of 9:58 a.m. local time. Fuchs has gained 11 percent this year,
boosting the company’s market value to 4.2 billion euros.  First-quarter sales fell 1.4 percent to 442 million euros,
missing a 461.4 million-euro analyst estimate. Net income was
little changed at 51.5 million euros, also missing predictions.  Chief Executive Officer Stefan Fuchs has said he is seeking
acquisitions to boost this year’s revenue increase beyond the
“low single-digit percentage range” that is forecast for
organic growth.  The Fuchs family owns a majority stake in the company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sheenagh Matthews in Frankfurt at 
 smatthews6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  