-- Galaxy Securities Said to Weigh Valuation Below Top Peers in IPO
-- B y   F o x   H u
-- 2013-05-02T03:49:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/galaxy-securities-said-to-weigh-valuation-below-top-peers-in-ipo.html
China  Galaxy Securities Co., seeking
to entice investors to a $1.5 billion initial public offering in
 Hong Kong , may offer a lower valuation than those of competitors
including Citic Securities Co., two people with knowledge of the
matter said.  The Beijing-based brokerage, controlled by China’s
sovereign wealth fund, is considering a  price range  that would
value it at about 1.2 times estimated end-2013 book value, said
the people, who asked not to be identified as the deliberations
are private.  A slump in Hong Kong’s IPO market is putting pressure on
Galaxy Securities and Sinopec Engineering Group Co. as they seek
to complete they city’s first billion-dollar offerings since
November. IPO proceeds fell to a four-year low of $1.1 billion
in the first quarter, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Citic Securities (6030) , China’s biggest publicly listed
brokerage, trades at 1.68 times estimated 2013 book value in
Hong Kong, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Haitong
Securities Co., which raised HK$14.4 billion ($1.9 billion) in a
share sale in April last year, carries a multiple of 1.35, the
data show.  Citic Securities shares have advanced 32 percent since its
September 2011 stock sale in Hong Kong, which valued the
brokerage at 1.28 times book value. Haitong is up 6.6 percent
from its offer price. Both companies also have shares traded in
mainland China.  Galaxy Securities plans to start taking orders for its IPO
within two weeks, the people said. The company is trying to
raise more than $700 million from so-called cornerstone
investors, they said. Cornerstone investors typically agree to
hold their stock for six months in return for guaranteed
allocation in an IPO.  Founded in January 2007, Galaxy Securities is controlled by
Central Huijin Investment Ltd., a unit of China Investment
Corp., according to the brokerage’s  website . An external
spokeswoman for Galaxy Securities declined to comment on the
targeted valuation and order-taking timing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fox Hu in Hong Kong at 
 fhu7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  