-- GDF Suez Mulls Operating Planned Turkish Nuclear Plant, CEO Says
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2013-05-02T17:28:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/gdf-suez-mulls-operating-planned-turkish-nuclear-plant-ceo-says.html
GDF Suez SA (GSZ)  would operate a nuclear
plant in  Turkey  with a local partner should the government
choose GDF and  Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Ltd. (7011)  to develop a
project.  The prospects are “favorable” for the Franco-Japanese
partners to be picked, Chief Executive Officer Gerard Mestrallet
told reporters today in Paris. He was speaking ahead of a
meeting between Turkish Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan and
his Japanese counterpart Shinzo Abe in Ankara tomorrow when a
political accord on nuclear energy is expected.  Turkey is planning to develop its second nuclear plant in
Sinop on the Black Sea coast, and has also been considering bids
from Canada, China,  Japan  and South Korea. Russia is to build
Turkey’s first plant at Akkuyu on the Mediterranean. Tomorrow’s
agreement would be one of the first major nuclear deals since
the atomic disaster at Fukushima in 2011.  The Turkish reactor is still “years away” from
construction, Mestrallet said today. The country has to create a
nuclear safety authority that will give building permits.  The Franco-Japanese bid is being led by Mitsubishi Heavy,
which together with  Areva SA (AREVA) , the French reactor builder, has
developed an 1,100-megawatt model called the Atmea. The unit is
a smaller, less-expensive version of the EPR, which is being
built by  Electricite de France SA (EDF)  in Normandy and Areva in
Finland. Both projects are behind schedule and over budget.  “We are confident in the Atmea, Mestrallet said. ‘‘We
wanted to build one in France.’’ The Atmea has never been built
anywhere after a project in the Rhone Valley was canceled.  The chief executive declined to provide specifics about any
potential Turkish partners in the project or how long the
utility could take before committing to development.  GDF Suez, which operates seven nuclear reactors in Belgium
through its Electrabel SA unit, has long said it wants to push
ahead with new projects outside  France  in countries such as the
U.K. and possibly Brazil.  Since the meltdown of reactors after an earthquake and
tsunami struck Japan two years ago, French developers of nuclear
technology have failed to win any orders. ‘‘This is a positive
sign,’’ that countries are willing the keep nuclear in their
future energy mix, Mestrallet said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  