-- Glencore Completes $29 Billion Xstrata Deal With Trade Tomorrow
-- B y   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h
-- 2013-05-02T10:07:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/glencore-completes-29-billion-xstrata-deal-with-trade-tomorrow.html
Glencore International Plc (GLEN) , the
largest publicly traded commodities supplier, said it completed
its $29 billion takeover of  Xstrata Plc (XTA)  and that the combined
group will begin trading tomorrow in London.  Glencore Xstrata Plc will start trade at 8 a.m. in the city
and in Hong Kong on May 6, the Baar, Switzerland-based company
said today in a statement. Outgoing Xstrata Chairman  John Bond 
remains on the board, according to the statement. Bond said in
November that he planned to stay on after the takeover to help
appoint a new chairman before resigning.  The deal creates the world’s fourth-biggest mining company
by adding Xstrata’s coal, copper, nickel and zinc mines to
Glencore Chief Executive Officer Ivan Glasenberg’s commodities
trading empire. Glencore received regulatory approval from China
last month, the final hurdle in a 15-month takeover battle that
will see a number of senior Xstrata executives depart.  Mick Davis , the 55-year-old who headed Xstrata from its
inception in 2001, will act as a consultant until June 30. Other
senior management including Charlie Sartain, head of copper,
nickel chief Ian Pearce and Loutjie Smit, interim CEO of Xstrata
alloys, are scheduled to leave today.  Strategy and corporate affairs head Thras Moraitis and
chief legal counsel Benny Levene will also depart after acting
as consultants for six months, Xstrata said last month.  Glencore rose 0.1 percent to 314.75 pence by 10:48 a.m. in
London. The company was advised by Citigroup Inc. and Morgan
Stanley. Xstrata hired Goldman Sachs Group Inc., JPMorgan Chase
& Co., Deutsche Bank AG and Nomura Bank International Plc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Riseborough in  London  at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  