-- Global Piracy, SAP, Takeda, GM: Intellectual Property
-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 2013-05-02T11:50:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/global-piracy-sap-takeda-gm-intellectual-property.html
Ukraine’s copyright protections have
deteriorated to a level where the Obama administration may
consider trade sanctions, according to a U.S. report that also
cites  China  for trade-secret theft.  The U.S. Trade Representative’s office labeled Ukraine as
the lone “priority foreign country” yesterday in its annual
assessment of enforcement of intellectual property rights. The
designation, reserved for nations the U.S. considers egregious
violators of IP trade law, can spark an investigation and,
potentially, an increase in tariff rates.  In releasing the report, the U.S. pledged “to take strong
action to support critical jobs and exports in IP-intensive
industries,” acting U.S. Trade Representative Demetrios Marantis said yesterday in a statement.  The U.S. also urged China’s government leaders to take
“serious steps” to stop trade secret theft from American
companies tied to Chinese operators. “The theft of trade
secrets is an escalating concern,” according to the report.  Cyber attacks and corporate espionage originating in the
Asian nation have added tension in relations between the U.S.
and China, the world’s largest economies. White House National
Security Adviser Thomas Donilon said in a March 11 speech that
the U.S. is concerned about “cyber intrusions emanating from
China at a very large scale.”  President  Barack Obama ’s administration in February
released a strategy to combat trade-secret theft, including use
of the USTR report to identify weaknesses in trade-secret
protections.  China remained on the agency’s “priority watch list” for
concerns about its failure to enforce intellectual property
rights, according to the report. Other countries on the list are
 Algeria , Argentina,  Chile , China,  India ,  Indonesia ,  Pakistan ,
 Russia ,  Thailand , and  Venezuela .  For more, click here.  U.S. Finds Porn, Not Secrets, on Suspected China Spy’s Laptop  A Chinese research scientist suspected of spying on the
National Aeronautics and Space Administration -- and pulled from
a plane in March as he was about to depart for China -- is set
to plead to a misdemeanor charge of violating agency computer
rules.  Bo Jiang, who was indicted March 20 for allegedly making
false statements to the U.S., was charged April 30 in a separate
criminal information in federal court in Newport News,  Virginia .
Jiang unlawfully downloaded copyrighted movies and sexually
explicit films onto his  NASA  laptop, according to the court
filing. A plea hearing is set for later today.  Along with the misdemeanor, the government said it had
resolved the false statements case, Assistant U.S. Attorney
Gordon Kromberg said in a filing yesterday.  At the time of his arrest in March, Jiang was under federal
investigation at NASA’s request for a possible conspiracy
involving violations of the Arms Export Control Act, according
to an FBI affidavit. Prosecutors said in court papers on April 2
that they were trying to determine whether Jiang had taken, or
was seeking to take, “secret, confidential or classified
information” to China.  Jiang, 31, was one of about 281 nationals from countries
designated as security threats employed at NASA facilities,
according to congressional testimony in March by NASA
Administrator Charles Bolden. He was blocked from resuming his
work at NASA’s Langley Research Center in Hampton, Virginia,
after coming back from a monthlong trip to China in December,
according to court filings.  Jiang’s lawyer, Fernando Groene, declined to comment on the
new charge and plea hearing. Zachary Terwilliger, a spokesman
for U.S. Attorney  Neil MacBride , didn’t immediately respond to a
phone and e-mail messages seeking comment on the plea agreement.  Jill Shatzen, a spokeswoman for Wolf, didn’t immediately
respond to an e-mail message seeking comment on the plea
agreement.  The case is U.S. v. Jiang, 13-mj-00076, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of Virginia (Newport News).  For more, click here.  For more copyright news, click here.  For trademark news, click here.  Patent  SAP Loses Bid to Overturn $345 Million Patent Verdict Loss  SAP Inc., (SAP)  the world’s biggest maker of business-management
software, lost a bid to overturn a $345 million jury verdict won
by Versata Software Inc. over ways to customize pricing.  The U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit in
Washington did say an order limiting SAP’s sales and maintenance
of its software was too broad, and ordered the trial judge to
modify that part of the case. The  decision  was posted yesterday
on the court’s website.  “Sufficient evidence supports the jury’s verdict of
infringement,” Chief Circuit Judge Randall Rader wrote for the
three-judge panel, rejecting SAP’s arguments that it didn’t use
the invention.  The dispute is over software that can customize pricing
based on factors such as the particular customer, product and
size of the order. Closely held Versata sold its software,
called Pricer, in the late 1990s to customers such as
International Business Machines Corp. and Motorola Inc.
Walldorf, Germany-based SAP began offering customized pricing as
part of its enterprise software in 1998, according to the
court’s opinion.  Versata “had tremendous sales success until precisely the
point in time that SAP entered the market with the patented
product,” said Michael McKool of McKool Smith, which
represented Versata. He said the company, which still sells
software, was pleased with the ruling.  SAP said its lawyers are reviewing the court’s ruling.  “We are pleased the court found the injunction was
overbroad and remanded it to the lower court for modification,”
Andy Kendzie, an SAP spokesman, said yesterday. “Until we have
had a chance to review this ruling in detail, we will not
comment further.”  The case is Versata Software Inc. v. SAP America Inc.,
12-1029, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit
(Washington). The lower court case is Versata Software Inc. v.
SAP America Inc., 07-cv-00153, U.S. District Court, Eastern
District of Texas (Marshall).  For more, click here.  Takeda Gets $6.5 Million Diabetes-Drug Verdict Thrown Out  Takeda Pharmaceutical Co. (4502)  persuaded a judge to throw out a
$6.5 million jury verdict over its Actos diabetes drug because
lawyers for a California man didn’t produce sufficient evidence
to show his cancer was caused by the medication.  Judge  Kenneth Freeman  in state court in Los Angeles ruled
yesterday Jack Cooper’s attorneys weren’t able to properly link
the former telephone-company worker’s bladder cancer to his
Actos use and jurors shouldn’t have had a chance to return their
verdict against Asia’s largest drugmaker. It was the first of
more than 3,000 lawsuits over the medication to go to trial.  Testimony from a doctor who concluded Cooper’s Actos use
caused his bladder cancer turned out to be “inherently
unreliable” and that justified throwing the case out, Freedman
said in a 27-page ruling.  The verdict came almost three months after Takeda won U.S.
regulatory approval for  Nesina , a diabetes drug to replace
Actos, which lost patent protection last year. Actos  sales 
peaked in the year ended March 2011 at $4.5 billion, or 27
percent of Takeda’s revenue at the time, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “We agree with the court’s finding that Mr. Cooper’s
allegations were not supported by the evidence,”  Kenneth
Greisman , general counsel for Takeda’s U.S. unit, said in a
telephone interview yesterday.  Takeda faces more than 3,000  suits  alleging Actos caused
bladder cancer or other ailments, according to court records.
Cooper’s suit was among those gathered before Freeman in Los
Angeles. Other cases are in state court in  Illinois .  Michael Miller , one of Cooper’s lawyers, said he would
appeal the post-verdict ruling throwing out the case.  “We believe the court has misinterpreted the law and feel
confident the decision will be reversed,” Miller said in a
telephone interview.  The case is Cooper v. Takeda Pharmaceuticals America Inc.,
CGC-12-518535, California Superior Court (Los Angeles).  For more patent news, click here.  Trade Secrets  Ex-Goldman Sachs Programmer Loses Bid to Toss State Charges  Sergey Aleynikov, the former  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) 
programmer who won reversal of a federal conviction for stealing
proprietary software code from the firm, lost a bid to throw out
New York charges based on the same allegations.  State court Justice Ronald A. Zweibel in Manhattan denied
Aleynikov’s request in a 40-page ruling made public yesterday.
The state charges were filed last year after the U.S. Court of
Appeals in New York overturned a jury’s conviction of Aleynikov.  Defense attorney  Kevin Marino  argued in January that his
client had the right to copy the code and that the state’s
charges created double-jeopardy, which is barred by the New York
and U.S. constitutions.  “Neither of the crimes defendant is charged with in his
state indictment requires that his access to Goldman’s computers
be unauthorized,” Zweibel wrote, distinguishing the elements of
those charges from the ones Aleynikov faced in federal court.  The state’s evidence in support of its counts was legally
sufficient to allow the case to proceed, the judge also said in
the ruling dated April 5.  Aleynikov faces one count of unlawful duplication of
computer-related material and two counts of unlawful use of
scientific material.  “We were advised weeks ago that the motion to dismiss
would be denied but we have yet to receive the court’s
opinion,” Marino said in an e-mail. “We are confident Mr.
Aleynikov will again be exonerated.”  The office of Manhattan District Attorney Cyrus Vance Jr.
declined to comment on the court’s decision.  Aleynikov is scheduled to return to court on May 21.  The federal laws under which he was charged -- the National
Stolen Property Act and the Economic Espionage Act -- didn’t
apply to his case, the appellate panel said.  The state case is New York v. Aleynikov, 04447-2012, New
York State Supreme Court (Manhattan).  Ex-GM Engineer’s Husband Gets Three Years in Secrets Theft  A former  General Motors Co. (GM)  engineer’s husband was
sentenced to three years in prison for stealing hybrid
technology trade secrets from the carmaker to help develop
vehicles in China.  Yu Qin, the husband of the ex-GM employee, was accused of
using the Detroit-based carmaker’s data to seek business
ventures or employment with its competitors, including China’s
Chery Automobile Co. His wife, Shanshan Du, was accused of
copying GM’s private information on the motor control of hybrids
and providing documents to her husband. Du was given a year and
a day in prison.  “This is an extremely serious case involving a serious
crime,” U.S. District Judge Marianne O. Battani said at the
sentencing hearing in federal court in  Detroit  yesterday.  Qin was convicted in November of three counts of trade
secrets theft, three of wire fraud and one of obstruction of
justice. Du was convicted on three trade-secret counts.  “This is all my fault,” Qin said at the hearing. “I want
to take full responsibility. I want to apologize to the court
for all the trouble I caused.”  The secrets at issue were worth more than $40 million to
General Motors, prosecutors said in a presentencing memorandum
filed last week. The U.S. asked Battani to sentence Qin and Du
to as long as 10 years and a month in prison.  The defendants, who had pleaded not guilty, said the
information didn’t consist of trade secrets, wasn’t stolen and
was useless for other companies. They sought probation.  The case is U.S. v. Qin, 10-cr-20454, U.S. District Court,
Eastern District of Michigan (Detroit).  Technology  Taxi Smartphone Hail Program in N.Y. Blocked by Appeals Court  New York livery car groups won a bid to block a pilot
program that would enable people to hail and pay for rides in
one of the city’s 13,000 yellow taxis using location-based
smartphone applications.  The measure adopted by the New York City Taxi & Limousine
Commission in December would run for 12 months and exempt areas
such as airports that have provisions for taxi lines. While all
licensed city cab drivers would be eligible, participation would
be optional.  The Livery Roundtable, Black Car Assistance Corp. and
several car-service firms sued the TLC in February, claiming the
program violates city codes and may let drivers discriminate
against racial minorities based on their names or locations, as
well as the elderly, who are less likely to own smartphones.  New York State Supreme Court Justice Carole Huff in
Manhattan last week dismissed the lawsuit and lifted her March 7
order blocking the program. Yesterday, Associate Justice Helen E. Freedman of the Appellate Division, First Department, issued
an emergency injunction blocking the program from going forward
and ordered expedited review by a full panel of appeals court
judges, Randy Mastro, an attorney for the livery cab companies
with Gibson Dunn & Crutcher LLP, said in an e-mail.  The ruling came a day after Uber Technologies Inc., the
first company approved for the program, said its service was
available in the city.  Mastro said he expects the appeals court to hear arguments
on the case this month.  “We’re disappointed that there is a further delay in
implementing the e-hail pilot program,” Michelle Goldberg-Cahn,
senior counsel in the administrative law division of the Law
Department, said in a statement. “It’s unfortunate that taxi
riders will not be able to continue to test this innovative tool
for hailing taxis.”  The case is Black Car Assistance Corp. v. City of New
York, 100327-2013, Supreme Court for the State of New York,
County of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ellen Rosen in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  