-- MGM Gains as Las Vegas Gambling Fuels Surprise Profit
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2013-05-02T20:39:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/mgm-resorts-posts-surprise-first-quarter-profit-on-gain-in-vegas.html
MGM Resorts International (MGM) , the largest
casino operator on the Las Vegas Strip, rose to the highest
price in more than a year after posting a surprise first-quarter
profit amid a pickup in Nevada betting.  MGM Resorts  jumped  5.4 percent to $14.55 at the close in
New York, after the company reported first-quarter profit of 1
cent a share, compared with a 44-cent loss a year ago. It was
the stock’s highest closing price since March 2012.  The results represent the best first quarter since the
global economic downturn began five years ago, the company said
in a  statement . Profit was aided by record performance at MGM’s
Chinese unit, as well as more domestic leisure travel to Las
Vegas, Chief Executive Officer Jim Murren said in a telephone
interview after the earnings were released.  “The domestic customer is coming back, they’re spending a
bit more money,” Murren said. “There’s such operating leverage
in this business, small changes could have nice results.”  Net income was $6.55 million, compared with a loss of
$217.3 million a year earlier, the Las Vegas-based company said
today in the statement. Excluding items, profit totaled 3 cents
a share. Analysts  projected  a loss of 10 cents, on average.  First-quarter revenue increased 2.8 percent to $2.35
billion, MGM Resorts said, beating the $2.34 billion average of
21 estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Hakkasan Nightclub  Profit at MGM’s wholly owned U.S. resorts, measured as
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization,
rose 12 percent to $361 million. MGM’s China unit reported
adjusted property Ebitda climbed 10 percent to $180 million.
Industrywide, first-quarter gambling revenue in Macau increased
by 15 percent, according to Bloomberg Industries research.  The company last month opened Hakkasan, a night club at the
MGM Grand Hotel & Casino in Las Vegas, and announced plans for
an outdoor  dining and shopping  area adjacent to its Monte Carlo
resort there as well.  MGM China Holdings Ltd. (2282)  paid a $500 million special
dividend in March. The company’s board will consider other such
dividends over the next two years, Murren said in the interview.
MGM will not borrow money to pay for dividends or stock buybacks
as Apple Inc. did this week and  Las Vegas Sands Corp. (LVS)  said it
was considering.  “We’re not Apple,” he said. “We’re not going to leverage
up to pay out dividends.”  MGM Resorts has gained 25 percent this year,  compared  with
an 12 percent gain for the Russell 1000 index.  (MGM Resorts held a conference call at 11 a.m. New York
time. A replay can be accessed at www.mgmresorts.com.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in Los Angeles at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  