-- Goldman May Receive $38 Million Handling Record Apple Bond Sale
-- B y   S a r i k a   G a n g a r   a n d   C h a r l e s   M e a d
-- 2013-05-02T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/goldman-may-receive-38-million-handling-record-apple-bond-sale.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  paid $53.25 million in fees
to underwriters led by Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and  Deutsche
Bank AG (DBK)  for the iPhone maker’s $17 billion bond offering, the
largest sale on record.  Goldman Sachs, which underwrote 72 percent of the sale
according to a regulatory filing, would get $38.3 million if
commissions are divided in proportion to firms’ involvement. The
fees amount to 0.313 percent of the funds raised, below the
average 0.483 percent paid on offerings of investment-grade U.S.
corporate bonds, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Apple’s six-part offering, intended to help finance a $100
billion capital reward for  shareholders , was a rare opportunity
for Wall Street firms to work with the Cupertino, California-based technology company, which hasn’t issued bonds for 17
years. The deal pushed New York-based Goldman Sachs to third
place among underwriters of U.S. investment-grade debt, and
Deutsche Bank to sixth, Bloomberg data show.  Deutsche Bank managed 17.5 percent of the offering,
according to the filing yesterday by Apple. That would entitle
the Frankfurt-based lender to about $9.3 million, if the fee
pool is divided proportionally. Other banks in the April 30 deal
were  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Bank of America
Corp. (BAC) ,  Barclays Plc (BARC)  and  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN) , the filing
shows.  Goldman Sachs made a record $694 million from debt
underwriting in the first quarter of the year, which was 6.9
percent of the firm’s overall revenue in the period, according
to figures posted on its website.  Deutsche Bank’s revenue from debt origination was 455
million euros ($600 million) in the first quarter, 4.8 percent
of the group’s total, figures on its website show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sarika Gangar in  New York  at 
 sgangar@bloomberg.net ;
Charles Mead in New York at 
 cmead11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  