-- Gold Traders Most Bearish in Three Years After Drop
-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 2013-05-03T20:12:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/gold-traders-most-bearish-in-three-years-after-drop-commodities.html
Gold traders are the most bearish in
three years after investors sold a record amount of metal held
in exchange-traded products and prices tumbled in a bear market.  Twenty analysts surveyed by Bloomberg expect bullion to
drop next week, with nine bullish and four neutral, the biggest
proportion of bears since February 2010. Investors sold 174
metric tons through ETPs last month, and $17.9 billion of value
was wiped out, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Hedge funds 
accumulated their second-biggest bet against gold on record,
according to U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission data.  Prices last month had the biggest two-day drop in more than
three decades, and a majority of the 38 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg said gold’s 12-year winning streak is over. The rout
highlights how some investors have lost confidence in the
traditional store of value, even as central banks print an
unprecedented amount of money and  Europe ’s debt crisis spreads.  “The fundamental picture, for now, has changed,” said Ole Hansen, the head of commodity strategy at Saxo Bank A/S in
Copenhagen. “The investment community or those trading paper
gold in futures and ETPs are still heading for the exit.”  Gold fell 12 percent to $1,467.11 an ounce this year in
 London , after climbing as much as sevenfold in the previous 12
years. The metal slid into a  bear market  on April 12 after
dropping more than 20 percent from its record closing high of
$1,900.23 in September 2011. The Standard & Poor’s GSCI gauge of
24 commodities dropped 2.4 percent this year and the MSCI All-
Country World Index of  equities  gained 9.2 percent. Treasuries
returned 1 percent, a Bank of America Corp. index shows.  Mine Supply  Investors sold an additional 13.2 tons from ETPs this
month, taking combined holdings to 2,262.7 tons valued at about
$107.4 billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
total is equal to about nine months of mine supply. Institutions
own about 50 percent of holdings in the SPDR Gold Trust, the
biggest ETP, and they may sell about half as prices drop and
investors favor equities, Deutsche Bank AG said in an April 26
report.  While prices rallied 11 percent since reaching a two-year
low April 16, the metal probably will cap its first annual loss
since 2000, according to the Bloomberg survey of analysts. Gold
will close the year at $1,550, 7.5 percent less than at the end
of 2012 and the biggest drop since 1997, the survey showed.  Hedge funds and other large  speculators  held 69,726 so-
called short contracts on the Comex bourse in  New York  on April
23, the CFTC data show. That’s up from as few as 7,283 contracts
at the end of November.  U.K. Mint  The mid-April slump in prices spurred worldwide demand for
coins and jewelry. The  U.S. Mint  ran out of its smallest gold
coin last month, the U.K. Mint said demand more than tripled and
the Perth mint stayed open through the weekend to meet orders
that reached a five-year high. Premiums paid by jewelers in
 India  to get supply surged as much as fivefold in 10 days, the
Bombay Bullion Association said.  The price swings are also spurring more demand on
exchanges, with record volume in the Shanghai Gold Exchange’s
 benchmark  cash contract on April 22. Trading in Comex futures
and options reached an all-time high a week earlier.  Central banks are still adding to gold reserves that are
now at an eight-year high, according to International Monetary
Fund data. Banks bought 534.6 tons last year, the most since
1964, according to the London-based World Gold Council. They are
on pace to exceed that this year, Jason Toussaint, the managing
director of investments at the council, said April 30.  Hedge Funds  John Paulson , the biggest investor in the SPDR Gold Trust,
told investors in a letter last month that he remained bullish
because central bank stimulus will eventually spur inflation.
Paulson & Co., founded by the billionaire hedge fund manager,
held a stake now valued at $3.1 billion at the end of last year,
a U.S. Securities & Exchange Commission filing shows.  Inflation expectations measured by the break-even rate for
five-year Treasury Inflation Protected Securities reached the
lowest since November on April 18.  The  European Central Bank  cut its benchmark  interest rate 
to a record yesterday and the  Federal Reserve  reiterated May 1
that it would keep buying bonds at a pace of $85 billion a month
to boost growth. Gold rose 70 percent as the Fed bought $2.3
trillion of debt in two rounds of quantitative easing from
December 2008 through June 2011.  ‘Being Punished’  Gold buying may slow if prices rally to $1,500, and a
“significant number of funds” may place bearish bets above
that level, Credit Suisse Group AG said in a report yesterday.  “The rally we had in gold has been on extremely light
volume,” said  Dennis Gartman , an economist who writes the daily
Gartman Letter from Suffolk, Virginia. “The public got too
enamored of gold two years ago, and the public is being punished
for that now.”  In other commodities, copper traders were bearish for a
fifth week in six, with nine analysts anticipating lower prices
next week. Six forecast gains and five were neutral.  Copper for delivery in three months, the London Metal
Exchange’s benchmark contract, dropped 8.3 percent to $7,270 a
ton this year. The pace of  China ’s manufacturing expansion
slowed in April, an HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics gauge
showed yesterday. The nation is the top copper consumer.  Fourteen of 25 corn traders surveyed expect corn to rise
next week, while nine predicted a drop and two were neutral.
Soybean analysts were bearish, with 13 predicting price
declines, 10 expecting gains and two neutral. Eleven analysts
were bullish on wheat, seven bearish and four neutral.  Cold Weather  Corn rose this week, snapping a two-week slump, as wet
weather delays planting in the Midwest. That may encourage more
soybean planting because the oilseed can be sown later. Cold,
dry weather is threatening wheat crops in the Great Plains.  Five of 11 people surveyed expect raw sugar to decline,
with five bullish and one neutral. The price fell 10 percent to
17.53 cents a pound this year on ICE Futures U.S. in New York.  The S&P GSCI slid 4.7 percent in April, the biggest monthly
loss since May 2012. Investors probably took $7 billion out of
commodities in the first quarter, Barclays Plc estimates. Assets
under management dropped to $409 billion in March, from $424
billion at the end of last year.  The S&P GSCI is little changed since the end of 2010 while
the S&P 500 stock-index gained 28 percent.  “Commodity markets are more sensitive than equities are to
economic prospects, and economic activity is slowing
everywhere,” said  Julian Jessop , head of commodities research
at Capital Economics Ltd. in London. “We think this year will
be the third successive year of poor returns on commodities in
general.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney McFerron in London at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  