-- Goldman Sachs Deal Averted Osborne Embarrassment, Group Says
-- B y   J e r e m y   H o d g e s
-- 2013-05-02T16:05:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/goldman-sachs-tax-deal-saving-31-million-reviewed-by-u-k-court.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  was able to
avoid paying as much as 20 million pounds ($31 million) in U.K.
taxes as the government fought to shield Chancellor of the
Exchequer George Osborne from political embarrassment, an
advocacy group said at a London trial.  The group, UK Uncut, said Her Majesty’s Revenue & Customs
reached the agreement with Goldman Sachs on the day Osborne
announced a bankers’ code to counter tax avoidance. The HMRC
executive said in an e-mail cited by UK Uncut that he was
concerned the bank might drop out of the code if the deal was
scuttled.  “The reputation and standing of officials or of HMRC, and
potential embarrassment to a minister, is not a relevant matter
to take into account when deciding to waive collection of
several million pounds of interest,” Ingrid Simler, a lawyer
for UK Uncut, said in filings prepared for a judicial review
that started in London today.  The U.K. government has pledged to clamp down on tax-
avoidance schemes following widespread media and public anger
caused by the amount of corporation tax the likes of  Google
Inc. (GOOG) ,  Starbucks Corp. (SBUX)  and  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  pay in the country.
Lawmakers said in a report last week that increased transparency
about companies’ tax affairs would build pressure on
multinational businesses to “pay a fair share.”  2010 Meeting  UK Uncut, which lobbies for alternatives to government
spending cuts, says the deal between HMRC and Goldman revolves
around a 2010 meeting between the then tax secretary, Dave Hartnett, and Goldman Sachs’s then tax director, Mike Housden.
The deal resulted in the company paying back taxes it owed on
National Insurance payments for bankers’ bonuses, while forgoing
interest payments.  Lawmakers said last year that the amount involved was about
10 million pounds. UK Uncut argues it is close to 20 million
pounds.  While the advocacy group is criticizing the deal, the
lawsuit isn’t seeking to overturn it, the HMRC said.  “The only thing they are seeking is declaratory relief and
to inform the future,” said James Eadie, a lawyer for the HMRC.
“The guts have been ripped out of this litigation.”  Goldman Sachs isn’t involved in the suit and declined to
comment, a spokesman in  London  for the New York-based bank said.  Judicial reviews are a legal mechanism that examines the
decision-making process of public bodies. While an authority may
be ordered to reconsider an action, it may be allowed to draw
the same conclusion provided all procedures are correctly
followed.  HMRC Review  Lawyers for UK Uncut said today that Hartnett overruled
advice from lawyers and an internal HMRC review to proceed with
the deal. In a 2010 e-mail, Hartnett expressed concerns that a
rejection of the settlement would cause “major embarrassment to
the chancellor of the exchequer,” they said in the court
filings.  “George Osborne announced the bankers code for tax
avoidance with great fanfare, claiming that he was forcing banks
to pay their fair share,” Murray Worthy, director of UK Uncut,
said in a statement. “Yet on the same day, Goldman Sachs were
threatening to withdraw from the code if HMRC forced them to pay
the tax they owed.”  Osborne wasn’t involved in the Goldman Sachs negotiations,
the U.K. Treasury said.  “Taxpayer confidentiality means that decisions are always
made by HMRC without any ministerial knowledge or involvement,
” the Treasury said in an e-mailed statement.  Hartnett was summoned last year to appear before lawmakers
after admitting mistakes were made in the negotiations.  The case is: The Queen on the application of UK Uncut Legal
Action Ltd. v. Commissioners of Her Majesty’s Revenue And
Customs, High Court of Justice, Queen’s Bench Division
Administrative Court, No. CO/12618/2011  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeremy Hodges in London at 
 jhodges17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  