-- Goldman-Arranged Bond Sale Stings Najib Before Malaysia Election
-- B y   E l f f i e   C h e w   a n d   D a v i d   Y o n g
-- 2013-05-02T09:10:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/goldman-arranged-bond-sale-stings-najib-before-malaysia-election.html
Malaysian Prime Minister Najib Razak
is facing calls before a weekend election to justify a $3
billion bond placement by the sovereign-wealth fund he leads,
with opponents saying the deal was unnecessary and mispriced.  Goldman (GS)  Sachs Group Inc. arranged the March 19 sale of 10-
year debt by  1Malaysia Development Bhd. , also known as 1MDB, and
the notes were priced to yield 4.4 percent, 141 basis points
more than sovereign Islamic dollar bonds due July 2021 were
yielding at that time. The 1MDB yield was 3.76 percent today,
giving investors who were in at the start a return of 5.7
percent for the six weeks since the debt was issued. U.S.
Treasuries gained 1.43 percent on average during the period,
according to a Bank of America Merrill Lynch index.  “The private placement raised too many red flags, coming
so close to the election date,” said Wong Chen, a 44-year-old
corporate lawyer and a parliamentary candidate from the
opposition National Justice Party. “They were rushing this out
and they don’t know how to spend it. We don’t know who received
this private placement and who they may sell it on to.”  Najib is chairman of the board of  advisors  of 1MDB and the
March bond sale has given candidates opposing him in the May 5
polls ammunition to criticize the fund, with Wong calling for
more transparency. The accusations are part of a smear campaign
before the voting, according to a government spokesman, who’s
not authorized to be named. Recent opinion polls suggest that
the election will be tight with the opposition alliance having
gained support in recent months, Bank of America Merrill Lynch
said in a report published today.  ‘Timely Completion’  1MDB considered all of its options in raising debt before
the March sale and chose the Goldman-led structure to “ensure
the timely completion of this economic initiative,” it said in
an April 23  statement . The $3 billion will be used for
investments in “strategic and important high-impact projects
like energy and real estate,” which are part of a collaboration
agreement between Malaysia and Abu Dhabi, it said.  The fund will not elaborate further on the sale, said
Shahriza Embi, a spokeswoman. 1MDB Chief Executive Officer Mohd
Hazem Abd Rahman was not available to comment. Goldman 
spokesman Edward Naylor declined to discuss details of the March 
bond sale.  Goldman was selected for the placement after arranging a
$1.75 billion bond issue for 1MDB in May 2012, as well as having
raised $1.6 billion in two offerings on behalf of the Sarawak
state government in the past two years.  Goldman Fees  The New York-based bank’s fees for the four sales exceeded
$200 million, a sum equivalent to 3.1 percent of the money
raised, according to a person familiar with the matter. Korea
Development Bank, which is state-linked and rated A by Standard
& Poor’s, paid 0.3 percent for a $500 million debt sale in
January. 1MDB’s March issue was unrated at the time of sale and
graded A- on April 12 by S&P, which noted that government
support for the issue differed from an outright guarantee.  “Should the government fail to honor the obligations, a
claim under the letter of support would be for damages for
breaches of contract, rather than the amount of principal and
interest of the notes,” S&P said in its rating announcement.  Global bond sales that raise $3 billion are typically
underwritten by several banks, which market the securities to
investors. Wong, who is also chairman of the opposition’s
investment and trade bureau, said local banks have “bare
minimum fees” and should have been involved in any debt sale by
a government-linked issuer. Goldman competes “aggressively”
against a strong field of banks for business in  Malaysia , said
Naylor, declining to comment on fees received for the 1MDB debt
sales.  ‘Complex Financing’  “We perform the same consistently high global standards of
due diligence and business selection in connection with all
securities offerings,” Naylor said in an e-mailed statement.
“Clients seek us out for our ability to develop and deliver
complex financing solutions individually tailored to meet
objectives that might not be achievable through more
conventional structures or through the public markets.”  Kuala Lumpur-based 1MDB has  19.8 billion ringgit  ($6.5
billion) of bonds outstanding, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The company signed agreements with Aabar Investments
PJSC, a company controlled by Abu Dhabi’s state-owned
International Petroleum Investment Company, to co-invest 18
billion ringgit in projects in Malaysia, it said in a March 12
e-mailed statement.  1MDB also is developing an $8.5 billion financial district
in Kuala Lumpur called the Tun Razak Exchange development. It
bought billionaire T. Ananda Krishnan’s electrical power
generation business for 8.5 billion ringgit in March last year
and Genting Bhd.’s domestic energy operations for 2.3 billion
ringgit in August.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elffie Chew in Kuala Lumpur at 
 echew16@bloomberg.net ;
David Yong in Singapore at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  