-- Goldman Takes Ebix Private as Probes Said to Intensify
-- B y   G r e g   F a r r e l l
-- 2013-05-02T16:28:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/goldman-takes-ebix-private-as-probes-said-to-intensify.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  made its
$820 million offer to take  Ebix (EBIX)  Inc. private as U.S. regulators
intensify their probes of the insurance software maker,
according to people familiar with the matter.  The all-cash deal amounts to about $20 a share, Atlanta-
based Ebix said yesterday. Its shares jumped 11 percent on the
news to $20.60 in Nasdaq trading, the biggest one-day gain since
October 2011. The shares dropped 5.1 percent to $19.55 at
12:26 p.m. today in New York. A “go-shop” provision allows
Ebix to solicit competing bids in the next 45 days.  Should no better offer emerge, New York-based Goldman Sachs
will become the owner of a company whose accounting practices
were already under scrutiny by the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission in November, according to four people with direct
knowledge of the matter.  That probe, consisting of interviews with former employees,
has since been upgraded to a formal investigation, according to
a person who was briefed on the matter after the Goldman Sachs
deal was announced and who asked not to be named because the
matter was confidential.  Ebix is also the subject of an Internal Revenue Service
investigation, according to this person, along with a second
individual with direct knowledge of the matter.  ‘Complete Lie’  Ebix Chief Executive Officer Robin Raina denied the
existence of an SEC probe in November. “You could not be more
off the mark -- that is a complete lie and at least not known to
us in any manner whatsoever,” he wrote in an e-mail at the
time.  Tim Lynch of Joele Frank, Wilkinson, Brimmer Katcher, a
spokesman for Ebix, declined yesterday to comment on any
regulatory probes. He said the company’s public statements on
accounting and tax issues remained in force. Andrew Siegel,
another company spokesman, had no immediate comment today on
whether Ebix had received a subpoena.  In the press release announcing the deal, Goldman Sachs
managing director Sumit Rajpal said, “We look forward to
working with the company and helping it maximize its growth
potential.” Andrea Raphael, a Goldman Sachs spokeswoman, said
the company had no comment beyond the public statement
announcing the deal.  Justin Jeffries, the Atlanta-based SEC attorney who is said
by people who have been interviewed by him to be leading the
investigation into Ebix’s accounting practices, didn’t return
calls seeking comment.  Overseas Revenue  The IRS is looking into Ebix’s policy of booking  revenue 
from sales made in the U.S. to units overseas, particularly in
 India  and Singapore, where the company enjoys low tax rates,
according to the two people informed of the IRS probe, who asked
not to be named because the investigation is confidential.  According to its SEC filings, Ebix’s transfer-pricing
strategy has helped keep its tax rate low. In 2012, Ebix paid
$7.5 million in taxes on pretax income of $78 million. For the
prior year, Ebix paid $2.1 million in taxes on pretax income of
$73.5 million.  Lev Glikman, the IRS analyst in charge of the probe,
according to the two people informed of the matter, declined to
comment. In its most recent annual report, Ebix listed the
possibility of “greater than anticipated tax liabilities” as a
risk.  ‘Regular Review’  “We are subject to regular review and audit by both
domestic and foreign tax authorities,” the company said. “Any
adverse outcome of such a review or audit could have a negative
effect” on earnings.  The company is facing  lawsuits  that have advanced to the
stage at which parties exchange evidence. A shareholder class
action, or group lawsuit, claims the company’s management made
materially false and misleading statements from 2009 through
June 2011.  In its 2011 annual report, Ebix described the class action
and several so-called derivative actions, suits brought by third
parties against  directors  on behalf of the company, as unlikely
to succeed. “The company believes that the complaints are
legally insufficient,” according to the report.  A federal judge disagreed and last year allowed the class
action to proceed. In its most recent annual report, Ebix said
that “the likelihood of an unfavorable outcome for this matter
is not estimable.”  In a suit over a $1.5 million earnout, lawyers for Peak
Performance Solutions Inc., which was sold to Ebix in 2009, are
planning to take depositions from Ebix executives in a month,
according to Peak’s lead attorney, Albert Lucas.  Acquisition Boost  Boosted by  acquisitions , Ebix’s revenue has grown over the
past decade to almost $200 million a year from $12 million,
while its net income surged to $70.1 million for 2012 from
$500,000 in 2002, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Ebix became a small-cap darling, winning recognition from
Fortune and Forbes magazines as one of the fastest-growing
technology companies in the U.S. In early 2011, the company’s
share price approached $30 and its market capitalization
surpassed $1 billion.  As the shares rose, Ebix became a target of  short-sellers 
who questioned its business strategy and reliance on low-tax
zones in India and Singapore to help it meet earnings targets.  On March 22, 2011, a blogger writing under the name
Copperfield Research posted a critical analysis of the company’s
earnings on the Seeking Alpha website. The article described
Ebix as a “house of cards.”  Stock Drops  Two days later, Ebix fell 24 percent to $22.52. The market
capitalization shrank to $878 million from $1.2 billion.  Ebix responded, saying the Copperfield Research argument
misrepresented and distorted facts “not relevant to the
company’s current financial position, long-term growth prospects
and management policies.”  This February, short-seller Gotham City Research posted its
own negative conclusions about Ebix on Seeking Alpha. The post
revealed the existence of a $65.8 million related-party loan on
the books of Ebix’s  Singapore  unit that was never disclosed in
the company’s filings with the SEC. The shares dropped to $14
from $19.07 that day.  Raina, Ebix’s CEO, subsequently described the loan as an
“inter-company” transaction that didn’t need to be disclosed
in consolidated earnings statements to the SEC.  Following yesterday’s announcement about the Goldman Sachs
buyout, Gotham City Research issued a statement.  “We believe that should Goldman Sachs or another entity
acquire Ebix, they will come to regret it,” wrote Daniel Yu,
director of research at Gotham City. “That said, public
 investors  are clearly better off if Ebix no longer participates
in the public markets.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Farrell in New York at 
 gregfarrell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ; 