-- Google Buys Stake in LendingClub Startup Valued at $1.55 Billion
-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l   a n d   A r i   L e v y
-- 2013-05-02T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/google-buys-stake-in-lendingclub-startup-valued-at-1-55-billion.html
Google Inc. (GOOG) , owner of the world’s most
popular search engine, acquired a minority stake in LendingClub
Corp. as the peer-to-peer lender closes in on $2 billion in
funded loans.  Google was joined by earlier investor Foundation Capital in
purchasing $125 million in equity from current shareholders,
according to a statement. Google provided the bulk of the
investment, Renaud Laplanche, LendingClub’s chief executive
officer, said in an interview. The firm’s technology and large
customer base made the opportunity attractive, he said.  “We’d be hard-pressed to find another company that has a
better alignment with how we are using technology to innovate,”
Laplanche said yesterday. “Now that they are onboard, we can
start exploring some ideas.”  LendingClub issues loans of as much as $35,000 to help
consumers pay off student loans, remodel their homes and take
vacations, offering interest rates that are typically lower than
credit cards. About 40 percent of the roughly $1.7 billion in
loans that the San Francisco-based company has funded have come
in the last six months.  Today’s funding, known as a secondary transaction in
Silicon Valley parlance, allows early backers to sell some of
their equity to new investors and keeps the company from having
to issue additional shares. Laplanche and other employees didn’t
sell shares in this round, the CEO said.  Threefold Increase  The deal values the company at $1.55 billion, an almost
threefold increase over the $570 million implied in June when
venture-capital firm Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers led a $15
million investment, Laplanche said.  Google, based in Mountain View,  California , is expanding
beyond its core search-based advertising business.  David Lawee ,
Google’s former head of mergers and acquisitions, led the
investment and will serve as a board observer at LendingClub.
Lawee, who remains at Google, also participated in a January
investment in SurveyMonkey.com LLC.  “We would all be very disappointed if all that comes out
of this is advertising value,” Laplanche said. The partnership
is intended to lead to “more ambitious projects,” he said.
Laplanche declined to elaborate.  The search firm approached LendingClub initially, Laplanche
said. Google spent $291 million on acquisitions and assets
during the first quarter and also runs a venture-capital arm
called Google Ventures.  LendingClub’s business model, which takes funds provided by
retail and institutional investors and directs them to consumers
looking for loans, hasn’t been tested by a credit crunch. While
the company was founded in 2006, almost all its growth has come
since the financial crisis of 2008 and 2009, with the economy on
an upswing.  There is also competition emerging.  Prosper Marketplace
Inc. , another startup based in San Francisco, offers a similar
peer-to-peer online market and recently received a $20 million
investment from Sequoia Capital.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dakin Campbell in San Francisco at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net ;
Ari Levy in San Francisco at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  