-- Gordhan Says He’s Concerned by Risk of Capital Outflows
-- B y   M a r i a   L e v i t o v
-- 2013-05-02T18:27:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/gordhan-says-he-s-concerned-by-risk-of-capital-outflows.html
South African Finance Minister  Pravin Gordhan  said he’s concerned by the risk of capital outflows as
investors snap up local-currency bonds in search of yield.  Managing unpredictable movements of cash is an issue all
major emerging markets, including  Brazil , face, Gordhan said in
an interview in London today. The world needs a coordinated
effort to smooth out volatility, he said, adding that South
Africa doesn’t have many domestic instruments to manage the
rand’s fluctuations.  “Clearly a risk that all of us see is a sudden change in
sentiment,” Gordhan said. “Once there have been good inflows
there might be unanticipated outflows and the message that we
send to the global community and in particular to those that
have excess liquidity is be aware of the spillover effects.”  Foreign investors boosted their holdings of South African
local-currency notes to 36 percent at the end of 2012 from 29
percent a year earlier, according to data from the National
Treasury. That compares with 30 percent ownership by local
pension funds, down from 33 percent at the end of 2011.  While “we appreciate the interest” in local bonds, “in
the global context we argue for more coordination, less
volatility, less sentiment-driven flows into and out of  emerging
markets ,” Gordhan said.  Yields on benchmark  government bonds  due Feb. 2023 dropped
12 basis points today to 6.16 percent, a record, after the
 European Central Bank  lowered its benchmark  interest rate  to 0.5
percent. South Africa’s key policy rate is 5 percent.  Rand’s Depreciation  Even after falling 66 basis points since the beginning of
March, South African 10-year yields remain the highest after the
Ukraine and  Russia  among emerging-market nations in  Europe , the
 Middle East  and Africa tracked by Bloomberg.  The rand has lost 5.5 percent against the dollar this year,
making it the worst performer of the 24 major emerging-market
currencies tracked by Bloomberg. Brazil’s real has strengthened
2 percent in the same period, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  “We don’t have too many instruments to deal” with the
rand’s volatility, Gordhan said. “Our approach and the central
bank’s approach is to let the rand do what it has to do.”  The currency of  South Africa , the world’s fifth-biggest
gold producer, is losing ground as the price of the metal is
poised to post its first annual decline since 2000, according to
the median forecasts of 38 estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Bullion slumped into a  bear market  in April even as central
banks printed money on an unprecedented scale, Europe’s debt
crisis spread and the  International Monetary Fund  made a fourth
consecutive cut to its 2013 economic growth forecast.  ‘Reasonably Comfortable’  “The gold price itself will not necessarily go into
terminal decline,” Gordhan said. “These things fluctuate with
time and depend on sentiment.”  The government’s revenue targets already take into account
the slide in metal prices, the minister said, adding that he is
“reasonably comfortable” with the outlook. There is also
“more optimism” that the economy can grow faster than the 2.7
percent estimated in February, he said.  South  Africa  may borrow $1.5 billion from international
markets this year, including possibly issuing its first Islamic
bond, according to Gordhan.  “The sukuk bonds are an important new innovation in the
South African context,” he said. “We’ve designed the concept,
we’ve started the process of getting the necessary allocations
determined and I’m hoping that by the end of the calendar year
if not by the end of the financial year we’ll see the first
product coming to market.”  The debut dollar-denominated issue, likely five to seven
years in duration and less than $1 billion in size, is set to be
used to finance schools, roads and other social infrastructure
development, Thuto Shomang, head of the National Treasury’s
Asset and Liability Management Division, said in  London  today.  “The challenge for us is not ourselves,” Gordhan said.
“The challenge for us is that there must not be any other
extraneous shocks that might destabilize the kind of direction
we want to go in.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maria Levitov in London at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  