-- IBM Cuts Hours of Contract Employees as Company Retrenches
-- B y   S a r a h   F r i e r
-- 2013-05-02T21:32:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/ibm-cuts-hours-of-u-s-contract-workers-as-company-retrenches.html
International Business Machines Corp. (IBM) ,
cutting costs in the wake of its first quarterly earnings
shortfall in eight years, ordered some U.S. contract workers to
reduce their hours, according to a memo obtained by Bloomberg.  CDI Corp. (CDI) , a provider of staffing and outsourcing services,
told employees working on IBM jobs that they should bill for no
more than 36 hours a week in the second quarter, according to
the memo. CDI, based in Philadelphia, cited “challenging
economic conditions” in explaining the move.  “You should understand that this action is being taken by
IBM to retain as many CDI resources as possible for future
work,” Eric Gonzalez, a delivery executive, said in the memo.
“This action is not a reflection of any dissatisfaction over
the services provided by you or CDI but rather an IBM business
decision.”  When it reported earnings on April 18, IBM said it would
spend $1 billion cutting jobs in its own workforce to reduce
expenses. The company, famous for methodically setting and
meeting its goals, jolted shareholders by posting first-quarter
profit of $3 a share, missing the $3.05 predicted by analysts.
The shares tumbled almost 10 percent to $187.83 over the
following two trading days.  Stock Rebound  IBM has regained some of that ground over the past 10 days.
The stock  climbed  1.4 percent to $202.39 at the close today in
New York, bringing it within $5 of its pre-earnings value. CDI
shares, meanwhile, fell 4.9 percent to $14.04.  Vince Webb, a CDI spokesman, declined to comment on the
memo. IBM, the world’s biggest computer-services provider,
accounts for 20 percent of CDI’s revenue, according to the
contractor’s  annual report .  James Sciales, a spokesman for Armonk, New York-based IBM,
also declined to comment on the memo. The company relies on
contractors to manage labor costs on information-technology
projects for clients, he said.  IBM told CDI that the change in hours would only be in
effect during the second quarter, according to the memo. The
employees aren’t allowed to work beyond 36 hours unless approved
in writing by IBM management.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Frier in  New York  at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at   nturner7@bloomberg.net  