-- IBM Says Justice Department Probing Bribery Allegations
-- B y   S a r a h   F r i e r
-- 2013-05-03T20:18:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/ibm-says-justice-department-has-started-bribery-probe-correct-.html
International Business Machines Corp. (IBM) 
is being probed by the U.S.  Justice Department  over corruption
allegations in  Poland , Argentina, Bangladesh and Ukraine, adding
to bribery charges from the Securities and Exchange Commission.  The Justice Department is investigating whether IBM
violated the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the company said in
an April 30  filing . In Poland, the department is focusing on a
transaction that the Polish Central Anti-Corruption Bureau
already was studying, the company said. It involves allegations
of a former IBM employee selling to the Polish government.  The Justice Department probe adds scrutiny in new territory
as IBM tries to settle with the SEC over activity in China and
 South Korea . The global reach of the investigation indicates
that this isn’t an isolated matter, said  Charles Elson ,
corporate-governance professor at the  University of Delaware .  “If it happens in one country, you can say it’s an
individual,” Elson said. “If it happens in multiple, you have
to ask, is it systemic? And how well was the compliance program
put in place to prevent it?”  It’s not uncommon for global companies to face FCPA reviews
--  Anheuser-Busch InBev NV (ABI)  said in March that its India joint
venture was being investigated by the SEC for violations of the
act. Still, the probes can rankle investors. Shares of  Las Vegas
Sands Corp. (LVS) ’s Macau unit dropped in March after the parent
company said it probably violated the FCPA.  IBM is cooperating with the investigations, the Armonk, New
York-based company said in the filing.  Peter Carr , a Justice
Department spokesman, declined to comment on the disclosure of
the investigation.  SEC Case  In March 2011, the company said it had agreed to pay $10
million to settle with the SEC over allegations that it bribed
officials to win at least $54 million in government contracts.
U.S. District Judge Richard Leon, who has had the case under
review, said he won’t accept the deal without a requirement that
IBM report any future  law enforcement  or administrative probes
to the court.  “This is a company that has a history of violating the
books and records provision of the FCPA,” the judge said in
February.  The 1977 Foreign Corrupt Practices Act bars companies or
individuals regulated or based in the U.S. from paying bribes to
foreign officials to win business. Foreign companies and
nationals also can be prosecuted if their corrupt acts were
committed in the U.S.  Global Compliance  While FCPA enforcement actions started by the Justice
Department fell to a six-year low of 11 last year, the
government has committed to robustly enforcing the law, a
February  report  by Gibson Dunn & Crutcher LLP said.  IBM’s filing doesn’t give further detail on the
transactions in Argentina, Bangladesh and Ukraine that the
Justice Department is investigating. The Justice Department also
is probing IBM’s global FCPA compliance, the company said.  Ed Barbini , an IBM spokesman, said yesterday in an e-mail
that the company has a “robust and effective compliance
program.”  “While we will not comment on the specifics of this
investigation, it is noteworthy that many such investigations
result in no findings of wrongdoing,” Barbini said. “However,
if it turns out that our Business Conduct Guidelines have been
violated then we will address it promptly and effectively.”  Jacek Dobrzynski, a spokesman at Poland’s Central Anti-Corruption Bureau, couldn’t be reached for comment. Calls to
Ukraine’s  Interior Ministry  and the country’s committee for
fighting corruption and rights protection weren’t returned.
Today is a public holiday in both countries.  ‘Slush Funds’  The alleged payments at issue in IBM’s SEC case occurred
from 1998 through 2009 and were made by employees at three
subsidiaries of IBM, as well as LG IBM PC Co., a joint venture
with  LG Electronics Inc. (066570) , according to the SEC’s complaint.  The SEC said cash payments to South Korean officials from
1998 to 2003 totaled $207,000 and were connected to contracts
worth almost $54 million. In China, the IBM employees created
“slush funds” at local travel agencies that were used to pay
for overseas excursions by government officials, the SEC said.
IBM employees also gave gifts, such as cameras and  laptop
computers , to Chinese officials, according to the complaint.  IBM shares  rose 1 percent to $204.51 at the close in New
York. The stock has climbed 6.8 percent this year.  The FCPA also formed the basis for an investigation of Wal-Mart Stores Inc.’s Mexican unit.  Bloomberg News  said last year
that the Justice Department was probing allegations that
employees for the business paid bribes valued at more than $24
million, a story first reported in the New York Times.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Frier in New York at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  