-- Ibovespa Drops as Slower China Growth Dims Export Outlook
-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i
-- 2013-05-02T21:12:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/ibovespa-futures-drop-as-slower-china-growth-dims-export-outlook.html
The  Ibovespa (IBOV)  retreated from a three-
week high as a report that showed the pace of Chinese
manufacturing slowed last month rekindled concern that growth
will falter in Brazil’s top trading partner.  Mining company Vale SA, whose biggest export market is
China, fell from a two-week high. Insurer  Sul America SA (SULA11) 
declined for a third session after reporting first-quarter
earnings that trailed analysts’ estimates.  OGX Petroleo e Gas
Participacoes SA , the  oil company  controlled by the billionaire
 Eike Batista , fell the most on the gauge, extending a two-
session drop to 16 percent.  Brazil’s benchmark equity index lost 1.1 percent to
55,321.93 at the close of trading in Sao Paulo. Fifty-four
 stocks  declined on the gauge while 14 advanced.  “We had weak economic data in China, which is an important
trading partner for Brazil, and that’s having a negative impact
on the market,”  Alvaro Bandeira , a partner at Orama Asset
Management, said by phone from  Rio de Janeiro .  China’s  Purchasing Managers ’ Index fell to 50.4 in April
from 51.6 a month earlier, according to HSBC and Markit
Economics. That compares with the median estimate of 50.5 among
economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Readings above 50 signal
expansion.  Vale fell 2.7 percent to 31.75 reais. OGX sank 6.2 percent
to 1.83 reais after earlier today slumping as much as 10
percent. The MSCI Brazil/Materials index was the worst performer
among 10 industry groups. The real fell 0.4 percent to 2.0092
per dollar amid concern that a slowdown in China will hit
currencies of commodity-exporting countries, said  Vladimir Caramaschi , chief strategist at Credit Agricole Brasil SA DTVM.  Growth Concern  “Markets are being affected by concerns about the pace of
global growth,” Caramaschi said in a phone interview from Sao
Paulo.  Sul America dropped 4.8 percent to 14.10 reais. The company
posted adjusted net income of 23.6 million reais in the first
quarter, trailing the average  forecast  from analysts of 85.5
million reais, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The figures released yesterday may increase market
concerns over a potential deterioration in the company’s
operating performance” in the second quarter, Banco Espirito
Santo de Investimento SA’s analysts Gustavo Schroden and Mateus
Renault wrote in a report today.  Ibovespa Valuation  The Ibovespa has  retreated  13 percent from this year’s peak
on Jan. 3 amid concern accelerating inflation may curb Brazil’s
economic recovery and the government’s interventionist policies
will hurt profits in industries including utilities and energy.
The MSCI BRIC Index of shares in Brazil, Russia, India and China
has lost 6 percent over the same period.  Brazil’s benchmark equity gauge  trades  at 11.4 times
analysts’ earnings estimates for the next four quarters,
compared with 10.5 for the MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index of 21
developing nations’ equities, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Trading volume for stocks in  Sao Paulo  was 8.18 billion
reais today, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That
compares with a daily average of 7.68 billion reais this year
through April 29, according to data compiled by the exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ney Hayashi in Sao Paulo at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  