-- IG Metall Widens Walkouts to Daimler’s State in Pay Push
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h   R a u w a l d
-- 2013-05-02T08:29:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/ig-metall-widens-walkouts-to-daimler-s-state-in-pay-push.html
IG Metall ,  Germany ’s largest
manufacturing labor union, widened protests including temporary
walkouts into the state of Baden-Wuerttemberg in a push for
higher pay raise for workers at industrial companies.  The 500 employees on the night shift at  Daimler AG (DAI) ’s
Mercedes-Benz car plant in the Stuttgart suburb of Sindelfingen
halted work early this morning, and further temporary walkouts
are planned at the site as well as at Porsche AG’s main auto
factory in Stuttgart’s Zuffenhausen district, IG Metall said
today in an e-mailed statement.  “Several thousand employees” are expected to join the
protests in Baden-Wuerttemberg, the union said.  The labor group is demanding a 5.5 percent pay increase. It
rejected an offer by employers last month of a raise exceeding
2.3 percent. Union leaders are pushing for higher wages after
German manufacturers such as  Siemens AG (SIE) ,  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  and
Stuttgart-based Daimler generated multibillion-euro earnings
last year. IG Metall’s protests are also aimed at countering
waning labor-union influence in Germany, where unemployment
rates are the lowest in the recession-plagued euro-area.  “While companies post record results and shareholders are
happy about generous dividend payments, employees should get a
wage freeze,” Joerg Hofmann, a representative of  IG Metall  in
Baden-Wuerttemberg, said yesterday in a statement. “That’s
deeply antisocial, and requires our power of protest.”  The union also plans walkouts tomorrow in Berlin, affecting
a Mercedes component plant as well as factories owned by  Robert
Bosch GmbH ,  General Electric Co. (GE)  and  SKF AB (SKFB) , IG Metall said
today in a separate statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christoph Rauwald in Frankfurt at 
 crauwald@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  