-- Illinois House Approves Pension Bill Asking Workers to Pay More
-- B y   T i m   J o n e s
-- 2013-05-03T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/illinois-house-approves-pension-bill-asking-more-of-workers-1-.html
The Illinois House of Representatives
approved a bill designed to repair the nation’s worst-funded
pension system by raising contribution levels for state
employees and delaying the  retirement age .  The measure, approved today 62 to 51 in the Democrat-dominated chamber, faces an uncertain future in the Senate,
which is preparing its own approach to resolving a $97 billion
liability. With annual retirement costs projected to grow by
more than $900 million in next year’s budget, lawmakers in both
chambers approved different bills in March to rein in expenses.  House Speaker Michael Madigan, a Chicago Democrat, proposed
this latest measure making employees contribute two percentage
points more of their incomes. Annual cost-of-living increases
would be restricted, pensionable income capped and younger
employees required to work until 67.  “It’s time to do the right thing, the responsible thing,
to provide for a pension system that protects investments and
gives security without bankrupting our state,” said
Representative Elaine Nekritz, a Northbrook Democrat and a co-sponsor.  The municipal-bond market rewarded the vote as yields on
Illinois debt dropped after the measure passed. A taxable
pension-obligation bond sold in June 2003 and maturing in June
2033 traded at a yield as low as 4.98 percent after the bill was
approved, down from 5.14 percent in the minutes before the vote
concluded, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Forced Action  The measure is meant to stabilize in 30 years the five
funds that cover teachers, university employees, judges,
legislators and state employees.  “If I’m a state worker, if I’m a teacher, a university
worker, I have every right to be mad as hell,” said House
Republican Leader Tom Cross, referring to the state’s history of
underfunding pensions. “We have no choice. We have to move
forward today.”  Democratic Governor  Pat Quinn  applauded the vote in a
statement, saying Illinois “is closer than ever to addressing a
decades-long problem that is plaguing our economy, our bond
rating and the future of our children.”  As lawmakers enter the final month of their budget session,
the chambers are at odds over pensions. Senate President John Cullerton favors giving employees a choice between currently
scheduled payments or preserving state-paid health insurance
after retiring. Raising contribution levels would violate the
Illinois Constitution and wouldn’t survive a legal challenge,
the Chicago Democrat said.  Daily Costs  The pension deficit increases by $17 million a day,
including obligations to current and future retirees. Illinois
has the lowest-graded credit of any U.S. state by Moody’s
Investors Service and  Standard & Poor’s  partly because of the
unfunded retirement plans. Moody’s, S&P and Fitch Ratings all
have a negative outlook for the state.  Illinois is paying for years of mismanagement and political
gridlock, with only 39 percent of assets needed to cover
projected obligations for five major groups of employees,
according to the Civic Federation, a Chicago-based nonprofit
research group.  On March 12, the state settled with the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission over charges it misled investors from 2005
to 2009 about retirement shortfalls.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Jones in Chicago at 
 tjones58@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  