-- Imperial Tobacco Jumps as U.K. May Not Alter Packs: London Mover
-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 2013-05-02T11:28:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/imperial-tobacco-jumps-as-u-k-may-not-alter-packs-london-mover.html
     May 2 (Bloomberg) -- Imperial Tobacco Group Plc, (IMT)  Europe’s
second-biggest tobacco company, rose the most in a year in
London trading after the Sun reported that the U.K. government
has scrapped plans to consider legislation on plain packaging.  The shares jumped as much as 2.9 percent to 2,373 pence,
the steepest intraday advance since May 1, 2012.  British
American Tobacco Plc (BATS)  rose 0.4 percent to 3,620 pence.  While U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  initially backed
plans for plain packaging, he has backed away as such a move
would damage the packaging industry and cost 3 billion pounds
($4.7 billion) in lost  tax revenue , the Sun reported. The
proposed law is to be pulled from the Queen’s speech on May 8,
which is the government’s announcement of its program for the
next parliamentary session, the newspaper said.  “If this is true, it is good news for tobacco shares and
Imperial in particular,” said  Erik Bloomquist , an analyst at
Berenberg Bank in London.  Imperial Tobacco  is market leader in
the U.K., with a share of about 45 percent.  Australia became the first country to introduce plain
packaging on Dec. 1. All cigarettes in the country must be sold
in uniform packs, with the brand name relegated to the bottom
quarter of the package on a drab brown background. Both Imperial
Tobacco and BAT have said so far they have seen no significant
fall-off in cigarette consumption there.  The U.K. government hasn’t released the results of its
consultation on plain packaging, the  Department of Health  said
today in an e-mailed statement.  ‘Open Mind’  “The government has an open mind on this issue and any
decisions to take further action will be taken only after full
consideration of the consultation responses, evidence and other
relevant information,” the department said.  Imperial Tobacco doesn’t believe plain packaging will have
a “material impact” on consumption, “which is one of the
reasons why we are so against this,” Corporate Affairs Director
Matthew Phillips said on a press call this week. “There are a
lot of other things the government should be focused on right
now, but the first step is the result of the consultation.”  Imperial Tobacco shares traded at 2,369 pence, up 2.7
percent, at 12:09 p.m. in  London .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  