-- Indonesia’s Stocks Fall Most in Six Weeks After S&P Cuts Outlook
-- B y   H a r r y   S u h a r t o n o
-- 2013-05-02T09:36:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/indonesia-s-stocks-fall-most-in-six-weeks-after-s-p-cuts-outlook.html
Indonesia’s stocks  fell the most in
about six weeks and bonds dropped after Standard & Poor’s cut
its outlook on the rating for Southeast Asia’s biggest economy.  S&P revised its outlook on  Indonesia ’s BB+ rating to stable
from positive. PT Bank Mandiri and PT Bank Rakyat Indonesia, the
two largest lenders by assets, slid more than 3 percent while PT
Astra International, the largest company by market
capitalization, retreated 1.4 percent. The three companies were
the biggest  drag  on the Jakarta Composite Index.  “This will trigger a correction in the stock market,”
Fadlul Imansyah, fund manager at CIMB-Principal Asset
Management, said by phone from Jakarta. “Some investors decided
to lock in their gains since the Jakarta Composite Index gained
so much.”  The Jakarta Composite fell 1.2 percent, bound for its
steepest decline since March 22. Before today’s drop, the
benchmark  index  had risen 17 percent this year and traded at
15.4 times 12-month projected earnings, the highest level since
Nov. 10, 2010, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
gauge has doubled since the end of 2009, bolstered by an economy
that has expanded more than 6 percent annually in the past three
years.  “The outlook revision to stable reflects our assessment
that the stalling of reform momentum and a weaker external
profile have diminished the potential for a rating upgrade over
the next 12 months,” S&P said in a statement today.  Government bonds fell after the report, pushing the yield
on 10-year notes to the highest level since April 11, according
to prices from the Inter Dealer Market Association.  The rupiah slid to as low as 9,764 per dollar earlier, the
weakest level since April 5, before rebounding to hold steady at
9,727, prices from local banks compiled by Bloomberg show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Harry Suhartono in Jakarta at 
 hsuhartono@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  