-- Indonesia Picks Sumitomo, Wijaya to Build Tunnel for MRT Project
-- B y   E k o   L i s t i y o r i n i
-- 2013-05-02T12:29:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/indonesia-picks-sumitomo-wijaya-to-build-tunnel-for-mrt-project.html
Sumitomo Mitsui Construction Co. (1821)  and a
group of companies won a 3.6 trillion-rupiah ($370 million)
contract from Indonesia to build an underground tunnel for a
proposed mass rapid transit system in Jakarta.  The 5.9 kilometer (3.7 miles) tunnel will be built by
Sumitomo Mitsui and a partner as well as a consortium of  PT
Wijaya Karya (WIKA) , PT Jaya Konstruksi,  Shimizu Corp. (1803)  and  Obayashi
Corp. (1802) , said PT MRT Jakarta President Director Dono Boestami. The
network’s first phase of 15.7 kilometers will be completed in
2017, Jakarta Governor Joko Widodo told reporters today.  Widodo, who was elected in September, has pledged to
improve the mass transit system as traffic growth stretches road
capacities, worsening congestion in the city of 9.6 million
people. Domestic vehicle sales rose 23 percent to 1.1 million
units last year, according to data compiled by  PT Astra
International (ASII) , the nation’s biggest car seller.  “We can begin the work as people have been waiting for
it,” Widodo said. The MRT “will attract people to use mass
transportation.”  Once completed, the MRT’s phase 1 will link Hotel Indonesia
circle in the city’s main business district to Lebak Bulus in
the south, Boestami said. The 125 billion-yen ($1.3 billion)
project will be financed by loan from Japan International
Cooperation Agency, he said.  The MRT system will stretch over about 110.8 kilometers,
according to a statement on MRT Jakarta website. The South-North
corridor will range 23.8 kilometers and East-West corridor of
about 87 kilometers.  Roads, Ports  Construction of the project has been delayed since studies
were first conducted in the 1980s, illustrating  Indonesia ’s
difficulty to push forward with projects to build roads, bridges
and ports. The country missed its 2012 budget deficit target
amid lower-than-expected government spending as land clearances
for infrastructure projects had been slow.  The expenditure shortfall underscores President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono’s challenge to sustain one of Asia’s fastest
growth rates with spending on infrastructure. Such investment
has fallen to about 4 percent of gross domestic product from
more than 8 percent in 1995 and 1996, Theo Thomas, senior public
sector specialist at the World Bank in Indonesia, said Dec. 6.  Jakarta ranked 181 out of 221 cities for personal safety in
a survey conducted in 2011 by advisory company Mercer that
ranked internal stability, crime levels and law enforcement
effectiveness. The city ranked 140 in overall quality of life,
below  Singapore , Kuala Lumpur, Bangkok and  Manila .  Indonesia’s state-owned companies also plan to build a 54-
kilometer monorail line linking Jakarta and surrounding areas
that can carry as many as 191,600 passengers daily. The 9
trillion-rupiah project will involve companies including PT Adhi
Karya, PT Jasa Marga and  PT Telekomunikasi Indonesia. (TLKM)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Eko Listiyorini in Jakarta at 
 elistiyorini@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Greg Ahlstrand at 
 gahlstrand@bloomberg.net  