-- Infineon Jumps as Forecast Beats Estimates on Order Recovery
-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 2013-05-02T10:37:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/infineon-second-quarter-sales-beat-estimates-as-orders-pick-up.html
Infineon Technologies AG (IFX) ,  Europe ’s
second-biggest chipmaker, gained the most in almost four years
after projecting revenue for this quarter that would top
analysts’ estimates as demand for its semiconductors recovers.  The stock rose as much as 10 percent, the biggest intraday
jump since July 2009, after Neubiberg, Germany-based Infineon
said sales in the fiscal third quarter through June will be
about 1 billion euros ($1.32 billion). Analysts predict 948
million euros, the average of  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  The company, whose biggest customers include car-component
maker  Robert Bosch GmbH  and Apple Inc. supplier Hon Hai
Precision Industry Co., lifted its revenue forecast for the
fiscal year to the upper end of an earlier range. Infineon joins
other chipmakers in projecting a recovery in  demand  after weaker
sales prompted the company last year to scale back production
capacity to curb costs.  “We feel good about how the company has weathered the
recent downturn,” Chief Executive Officer Reinhard Ploss said
on a conference call. “As volumes rise we expect our
profitability to rise in tandem.”  The segment margin, a measure of operating profitability,
will rise to 10 percent in the current quarter from 7.4 percent
in the preceding three months, Infineon said. The shares
 advanced  8.9 percent to 6.53 euros at 12:35 p.m. in  Frankfurt ,
valuing Infineon at 7.1 billion euros.  ‘Trough’ Behind  Infineon lifted its forecast for the year ending Sept. 30
to the “upper end” of its previous projections for both sales
and profit. It  had predicted  a “mid-to-high single digit”
percentage drop for revenue and a segment-result margin “in the
mid-to-high” single digits.  Fiscal second-quarter sales rose 8 percent to 918 million
euros from the previous three months. That also beat analysts’
estimates. The segment result, or operating profit adjusted for
some items, increased 55 percent to 68 million euros.  While orders from automotive suppliers in particular
recovered in the quarter, a large share of contracts are short
term, meaning it’s difficult for Infineon to predict its
performance toward the end of its fiscal year, Ploss said.  “It does look like the trough is behind them and the whole
sector for now,” said Tim Wunderlich, an analyst at Hauck &
Aufhaeuser Privatbankiers KGaA. “It’s difficult to see whether
this can be sustained for several quarters as the euro crisis is
still alive and the macroeconomic environment still fragile.”  More Chips  To increase efficiency in the longer term, Infineon is
pioneering production from larger, 300-millimeter diameter
wafers, which the company says will help it manufacture 2.5
times as many chips from each slice.  Texas Instruments Inc. (TXN)  and  Intel Corp. (INTC)  forecast in April
sales for the quarter ended June 30 that may top some analysts’
estimates. Dallas-based Texas Instruments cited strengthening
demand from manufacturers of automotive and industrial parts,
while  Santa Clara , California-based Intel is betting on server
chips to offset a slump in sales of personal computers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cornelius Rahn in Berlin at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  