-- InterOil Turning Into Target as CEO Retires: Real M&A
-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e   a n d   A n g u s   W h i t l e y
-- 2013-05-02T01:04:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/interoil-turning-into-target-as-ceo-retires-real-m-a.html
InterOil Corp. (IOC) , the natural gas
explorer in the South Pacific that’s seeking a partner for its
biggest project, may attract an acquirer instead after its
founder retired this week.  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  and  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  are among the
world’s largest energy companies that have been bidding for gas
assets so they can ship the fuel to  Asia , where it fetches more
than triple the North American price. InterOil, which needs a
partner to help finance its Papua New Guinea liquefied natural
gas project, is without a chief executive officer. With one of
the region’s largest gas fields, the U.S.-listed company may be
a tempting target, said Raymond James Financial Inc.  While InterOil, which is incorporated in Yukon,  Canada ,
already commands a higher multiple of profit than 98 percent of
energy stocks, striking a deal now would allow a buyer to get a
hold of the company before its shares gain another 39 percent in
the next 12 months, according to data and analysts’ estimates
compiled by Bloomberg. The departure of founder and CEO Phil Mulacek boosts the likelihood that suitors will bid for either a
larger piece of its resource base or the entire $3.8 billion
company, Westlake Securities LLC said.  “I see his resignation as really clearing the deck,” Tony Regan, Singapore-based principal consultant at Tri-Zen
International Pte, an oil and gas advisory business, said in a
telephone interview. “With him gone, a deal can be done. They
could be a takeover target, but equally, there’s an opportunity
now for a credible LNG partner to come in and join them.”  Stock Surge  Representatives for InterOil weren’t available to comment
on whether it’s for sale or has received offers, Meg LaSalle,
the company’s investor relations coordinator, said in an e-mail.  Shares of InterOil have advanced 39 percent this year as
the company inches closer to finding a partner to help finance
its proposed LNG plant in  Papua New Guinea , an island  nation 
that lies about 160 kilometers (99 miles) to the northeast of
 Australia .  InterOil indicated April 15 that there are multiple bidders
that want an interest in the Elk and Antelope fields, which will
eventually produce gas to export to Asian cities. InterOil
 expects  production of least 3.8 million metric tons per year.  Last week, the company surprised shareholders by announcing
that Mulacek would retire from the CEO post April 30 and that a
search is under way for his replacement. That’s opened the door
for a possible acquisition of the company, said Chris McDougall,
an Austin, Texas-based analyst at Westlake Securities.  Sale Catalyst  “Mid-size oil and gas companies that are developing large
resources, such as InterOil, know that a possible outcome at
some point in the company’s existence is for it to be acquired
by a major player,” McDougall said in a phone interview. “Mr.
Mulacek’s departure makes it more likely that the company will
sell off a large portion of the resource or perhaps the whole
company.”  While the Elk and Antelope fields aren’t producing yet,
InterOil does provide petroleum products to gas stations in
Papua New Guinea and has a refining business, according to its
year-end  report .  InterOil’s  enterprise value  -- market capitalization plus
net debt -- is equal to 58 times this year’s estimated earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization. That’s a
higher Ebitda multiple than that of 98 percent of energy
companies valued at more than $1 billion, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Analysts project the stock will continue climbing in the
next 12 months. Their average share-price estimate is $107.50,
versus its closing price yesterday of $77.18, the data show.  Tempting Target  “The management team is not seeking a corporate takeover,
but it could be a target -- and a tempting one -- for some major
international  oil companies ,”  Pavel Molchanov , a Houston-based
analyst at Raymond James, said in a phone interview. An acquirer
would have to pay “a substantial premium” to account for
future production.  InterOil currently trades for about 70 cents per thousand
cubic feet of gas in the ground, according to Molchanov. He said
that similar transactions in the South Pacific over the last
five years were struck at $1.20 per mcf.  Cove Energy Plc, another gas explorer whose biggest asset
is in  Mozambique , was the target of a bidding war last year
between Shell and  Thailand ’s PTT Exploration & Production Pcl.
Shell,  Europe ’s biggest oil company by market value, dropped out
of the race in July. That month, Shell told analysts that it had
discussions with InterOil and that it was interested in its
Papua New Guinea LNG plant.  Chevron Corp. (CVX) , the world’s third-biggest energy company,
has a project on Australia’s Barrow Island nature reserve that
is expected to deliver its first LNG cargoes in early 2015.  Export Focus  Both Shell and Chevron “seem to be prepared to put a lot
of money into gas and LNG in this part of the world,” Tri-Zen’s
Regan said. “Certainly, the government would like to see Shell,
Chevron, one of the majors, come in.”  Korea Gas Corp. (036460) , the world’s biggest LNG importer, also
showed interest in InterOil last year. The company said in
August that it agreed to form a consortium with Mitsui & Co. and
 Japan  Petroleum Exploration Co. that would seek to partner with
InterOil on the Papua New Guinea project.  Exxon, the world’s largest energy company, operates a $19
billion LNG project in Papua New Guinea with partners Oil Search
Ltd. and Santos Ltd. Exxon said in December it expects the
country will supply more than 10 million metric tons of LNG
annually by 2025 and that the Asia-Pacific region will account
for 29 percent of worldwide gas demand in 2040.  ‘Impressive’ Assets  Japan’s average import  price  for natural gas, the Asian
benchmark, was $16.81 a million British thermal units in
February, the last month for which data is available. North
American natural gas traded at $4.33 yesterday.  Representatives for The Hague-based Shell,  San Ramon ,
California-based Chevron, and Exxon in Irving,  Texas , declined
to comment on whether their companies are interested in buying
InterOil. Lee Sang Wook, a Korea Gas spokesman, had no immediate
comment.  InterOil said last week, after announcing the CEO’s exit,
that it adopted a new poison pill, which would make a hostile
takeover of the company more expensive. Still, a full takeover
is possible, said  Raymond James ’s Molchanov.  “InterOil has a very impressive and unique asset base,”
he said. “We know that LNG gas is a very popular theme and, for
someone that perhaps wants to boost their LNG presence in the
Asia Pacific, buying InterOil could be one way of doing that.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tara Lachapelle in  New York  at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net ;
Angus Whitley in Sydney at 
 awhitley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net  