-- Is Obama Undermining America’s Credibility?
-- B y   S t e p h e n   L .   C a r t e r
-- 2013-05-02T22:00:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/is-obama-undermining-america-s-credibility-.html
Polybius, in his “ Histories ,” tells
the story of Antiochus IV, ruler of the Seleucid Empire, who
invaded  Egypt  during the second century B.C. The Egyptians, led
by Ptolemy, sent urgently to Rome for assistance. When the Roman
ambassador arrived, he handed over a list of the Roman Senate’s
demands, then used his staff to draw a line in the sand around
the “astonished” Antiochus “and told him he must remain inside
this circle until he gave his decision about the contents of the
letter.”  This tale, if it really happened, represents one of the
earliest uses of the term “line in the sand” in its current
sense. Antiochus gave in because, as one historian has noted, he
knew Rome by reputation: He understood the risks to both his
kingdom and himself if he resisted.  The story comes to mind in light of the debate over the
decision by U.S. President  Barack Obama  to back away from his
own “red line” on the use of chemical weapons by the Syrian
government in its civil war. In  a speech  at the National Defense
University in December, Obama issued a warning to Syrian
President Bashar al-Assad: “If you make the tragic mistake of
using these weapons, there will be consequences and you will be
held accountable.”  Backing Down  In  his news conference  this week, however, Obama insisted
that no action would be appropriate in the absence of
international consensus -- that the U.S. didn’t want to “find
ourselves in a position where we can’t mobilize the
international community to support what we do.” In other words:
The U.S. alone had no intention of holding Assad accountable.  This certainly sounds like the president is backing down,
and he has been taking some hard shots for his change of mind.
But what should fascinate the scholar about this episode is the
way that it provides a real-world test of an intriguing academic
debate with serious practical consequences: Which kind of
regime, democratic or authoritarian, is more credible when it
issues a threat?  The political scientist James Fearon, in  an influential
1994 paper , argued that democracies were more likely to keep
their commitments because of the “audience costs” -- that is,
political punishment from negative public reaction -- were their
leaders to back down. The idea, a common one in game theory, is
that my commitment is more credible if I bear a cost for
breaking it. The law of contracts, for example, makes promises
more reliable by placing costs on the breacher.  Fearon’s insight was that authoritarian leaders worry less
than democratic leaders about public response should they make
and then break a commitment. The authoritarian leader, by
hypothesis, has a significant degree of control over his public.
By contrast, the need to satisfy his “stronger domestic
audience” makes the leader of a democracy less likely to make
threats he doesn’t intend to keep. Opponents in the
international arena know this, and are therefore “more likely to
shy away from contests and more likely to back down once in
them.”  The model is an elegant one, even if later work has cast
doubt on whether history bears it out. And we are testing it
now. Obama is a shrewd politician; it is entirely possible that
he calculated from the start that he and his party would suffer
little domestic political cost should he back away from his
implicit promise to intervene if Assad used chemical weapons.
That is, Obama might have intuited that the “audience costs”
theory is wrong.  Blinking First  On the other hand, the administration’s frantic leaks over
the past few days that the president is “leaning toward”
supplying weapons to the Syrian opposition might represent a
recognition that the calculation was wrong -- that the American
public, as Fearon proposed, doesn’t want to see its leaders be
the first to blink. If this is true, however, helping to arm an
already well-armed opposition would not be, in Assad’s eyes,
much of a consequence.  Interventionists  are calling for  a U.S.-enforced no-fly
zone, but they called for one long before Obama made his initial
threat. Opponents are insisting that the threat should never
have been made. What’s useful to remember is the lesson of the
story of Antiochus, who backed down not because of the
reputation of any Roman leader but because of the reputation of
 Rome . Obama’s decision to back away from his line in the sand
might not hurt him politically, but it surely damages the
nation’s credibility.  Every international-relations major understands that
nations gain influence in the world by making credible
commitments. But a commitment is less credible, the Nobel
laureate Thomas Schelling has written, when it leaves “any
visible means of escape.” What makes the commitment credible is
the high cost of breaking it.  A nation’s reputation for keeping its word is valuable;
loss of that reputation has traditionally been understood as a
cost a rational nation will not want to pay. Because once it’s
lost, it’s hard to get back.  (Stephen L. Carter is a Bloomberg View columnist and a
professor of law at  Yale University . He is the author of “The
Violence of Peace: America’s Wars in the Age of Obama,” and the
novel “The Impeachment of  Abraham Lincoln .” The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Stephen L. Carter at  stephen.carter@yale.edu  or  @StepCarter  on
Twitter.  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
 Michael Newman  at   mnewman43@bloomberg.net . 