-- Japan Builds Sri Lanka Ties With Aso Visit as China Clout Grows
-- B y   A n u s h a   O n d a a t j i e
-- 2013-05-02T03:37:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/japan-builds-sri-lanka-ties-with-aso-visit-as-china-clout-grows.html
Japan  and Sri Lanka will hold their
second high-level talks in less than two months as the East
Asian nation seeks to safeguard ties and counter China’s growing
influence on an island lying on key maritime routes.  Finance Minister Taro Aso is due to discuss bilateral ties
with the island’s President Mahinda Rajapaksa today, according
to an Embassy of Japan statement. He will also visit Sri Lanka’s
main port in Colombo, which has been expanded with $800 million
of Japanese assistance.  Rajapaksa has lured investment from China, Japan and  India 
as he capitalizes on the end of Sri Lanka’s 26-year civil war to
build a trade gateway to  emerging markets .  China  has tightened
its embrace by committing at least $3.7 billion since 2005 for
projects from ports to a power plant, on an island that has
attracted the world’s dominant nations since the 16th century
for its access to pivotal sea links.  “Japan may be trying to counter China’s influence on Asia,
while also diversifying its investments,” said Bimanee
Meepagala, an analyst at NDB Aviva Wealth Management Ltd. in
Colombo, the island’s largest private fund. “For Sri Lanka,
it’s new sources for tapping funds, and who it can align itself
with.”  Rajapaksa met Prime Minister Shinzo Abe in March in Japan.
Sri Lanka has the potential to be a regional maritime hub and
would play a “crucial” international role, the leaders said in
their  joint statement  then.  Abe also thanked the president for welcoming port calls by
Japan’s maritime self-defense force vessels engaged in anti-
piracy operations, according to the statement.  Rajapaksa, whose armed forces defeated separatist rebels in
May 2009, is seeking to take advantage of Sri Lanka’s position
31 kilometers (19 miles) off India’s southern coast. There lie
the main shipping lanes connecting the Far East, West Asia,
 Africa  and  Europe .  The tropical nation’s strategic location led to
colonization by the Portuguese, Dutch and British until
independence in 1948.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anusha Ondaatjie in  Colombo  at 
 anushao@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  