-- Jets’ Geno Smith Favored to Win NFL’s Top Offensive Rookie Award
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-05-02T14:00:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/jets-geno-smith-favored-to-win-nfl-s-top-offensive-rookie-award.html
Geno Smith has no assurance of a
starting job and is one of five quarterbacks on the  New York
Jets ’ roster. Still, he’s favored by oddsmakers to win the 2013
National Football League offensive rookie of the year award.  The former  West Virginia  University signal-caller was among
three players invited to attend last week’s draft who were not
selected in the first round, a slight he said was “tough to
stomach.” Smith finally went 39th to the Jets, who also have
quarterbacks  Mark Sanchez , David Garrard,  Greg McElroy  and Matt Simms left after cutting  Tim Tebow .  Jets first-year general manager John Idzik said there will
be open competition for the team’s quarterback job after
Sanchez, a first-round pick in 2009, was benched late last
season. Smith’s opportunity for playing time with a rebuilding
franchise that’s missed the playoffs the past two years is the
main reason he’s a 5-1 favorite to join Robert Griffin III, Cam Newton and  Sam Bradford  as the fourth straight quarterback to
win the NFL’s offensive rookie of the year award.  “My goal is to be a starting quarterback, to be a
franchise quarterback, but at this time in the process the only
thing I can focus on is the present and I’ve got a lot of work
ahead of me,” Smith said on the Jets’ website. “I’m just going
to continue to hone in on the playbook, work on my footwork,
work on everything I need to be prepared.”  Smith, 22, was the second quarterback drafted this year,
taken 23 spots after the  Buffalo Bills  selected E.J. Manuel of
Florida State. Three wide receivers were taken among the top 32
picks, while no running backs were drafted in the opening round
for the first time since 1963.  Austin Second  One of Smith’s top targets at West Virginia, wide receiver
Tavon Austin, was the first non-lineman drafted this year --
going eighth overall to the  St. Louis Rams . Austin is the second
favorite to win the NFL’s offensive rookie of the year award,
with 13-2 odds at Jamaica-based online sportsbook TheGreek.com.  Minnesota Vikings  receiver Cordarrelle Patterson, the 29th
pick, is tied at 8-1 odds with running backs Montee Ball of the
 Denver Broncos  and Eddie Lacy of the  Green Bay Packers . Ball and
Lacy were among the final five second-round picks.  Wide receiver Percy Harvin was the last non-quarterback to
win the rookie award, with the Minnesota Vikings in 2009.  Manuel has 20-1 odds of being named the NFL’s top offensive
rookie, tied for 18th among first-year players.  The lack of offensive playmakers drafted in the first round
this year was a stark contrast to 2012, when quarterbacks  Andrew Luck  and Griffin went 1-2. Griffin then won the rookie award
over Luck, who had been the oddsmakers’ preseason pick.  ‘Extra Motivation’  Smith said not being taken in the first round will provide
incentive as he begins his NFL career in New York. A four-year
starter at West Virginia, Smith threw for a school-record 11,662
yards, with 98 touchdowns and 21 interceptions while completing
67 percent of his passes.  “I’ve always played with a chip on my shoulder, I’ve
always been considered an underdog, here is no different,”
Smith said. “That’s just extra motivation.”  Smith will be given a chance to win the Jets’ job due to
Sanchez’s recent struggles. Sanchez has committed 52 turnovers
the past two seasons and hasn’t completed more than 56.7 percent
of his passes over four seasons in the NFL.  Smith, shortly after being drafted, said in an interview
with NFL Network that the Jets will make the playoffs this
season. Idzik said he appreciates that Smith has a strong belief
in both himself and the team.  “As a rookie he believes this team is good enough to go to
the playoffs and certainly those are the expectations that we
set for ourselves always,” Idzik said. “That’s what you strive
for. I don’t know, we’ll see if that pans out. But certainly I
think that’s the right mentality to have.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  