-- Kansas City Will Receive First Measurable May Snow Since 1907
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   C a m p b e l l
-- 2013-05-02T18:11:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/kansas-city-will-receive-first-measurable-may-snow-since-1907.html
A storm system is projected to dump a
record-breaking snow in  Kansas  City, Missouri, as areas in the
central U.S. receive winter precipitation “rare” for the month
of May, according to the  National Weather Service .  Parts of Kansas City may get 1 inch (2.54 centimeters) to 3
inches of snow with the heaviest precipitation in the northern
and western areas and less further east, Mike July, a
meteorologist at the service, said by telephone from Kansas
City. Most of the snow will come overnight as temperatures cool
off and the system strengthens, he said.  Kansas City’s last measurable snow during the fifth month
of the year occurred on May 3, 1907, with 1.7 inches, July said.
While there were probably other instances of “a few flakes,”
the weather service, which has data back to 1888, doesn’t record
that, he said. Snow anywhere in Missouri this month is “a very
rare event,” July said. The weather service is expecting snow
all the way up to the Iowa-Missouri border, along the I-35
corridor, he said.  A system developing across the central U.S. may bring 6
inches to 8 inches of snow across parts of the central Great
Plains and the upper Midwest today, and some areas may get more
than 12 inches, according to a  report  on the weather service’s
website. The snow will continue overnight and taper off tomorrow
afternoon, the service said.  ‘A Rarity’  Iowa  may get 4 inches to 6 inches of snow, and parts of
northern Wisconsin may see 8 inches to 10 inches by tomorrow
afternoon, said Jim Keeney, the deputy chief for weather
services at the central region headquarters for the National
Weather Service.  “The further north you go, this happens somewhat more
often where we have May snows, but this amount of snow potential
is more of a rarity,” Keeney, who is based in Kansas City, said
in a telephone interview. “These areas picking up 8-plus inches
is fairly significant for this early spring season.”  The western third of Kansas had 1 inch to as much as 6
inches of snow as of this morning, Keeney said. From western
Iowa through northwestern  Wisconsin , there was 1 inch to as high
as 15 inches of snow with the larger amounts in small sections
of southeastern  Minnesota  and northwestern parts of Wisconsin,
he said.  Wheat Tour  The cold spell is threatening to damage wheat crops in the
region that farmers will begin harvesting next month, after
unusually dry and frigid weather since March. About 75
producers, grain traders and agronomists have been examining
fields in Kansas and northern  Oklahoma  as part of an annual
wheat tour. A separate group of agronomists and crop consultants
toured Oklahoma fields on April 29 and 30.  This is the first time in his 21 years on the wheat tour
that it has snowed, said Ben Handcock, the executive vice
president of the Pierre, South Dakota-based  Wheat Quality
Council . Kansas is the biggest winter-wheat grower in the U.S.  Planalytics, a Berwyn, Pennsylvania-based weather
forecaster, cut its U.S. winter-wheat yield forecast to 43
bushels an acre, compared with 47.2 bushels a year earlier,
according to its report to clients on April 29, citing damage
from drought and freezing temperatures.  Winter-wheat  conditions  were rated 33 percent good or
excellent as of April 28, compared with 35 percent on April 21
and 64 percent a year earlier, the U.S. Department of
Agriculture said in a report on April 29.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Campbell in Chicago at 
 ecampbell14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net . 