-- Kion Targets IPO for 2013 as KKR, Goldman Sachs Monitor Markets
-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d ,   R u t h   D a v i d   a n d   A l e x   W e b b
-- 2013-05-02T11:53:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/kion-targets-ipo-for-2013-as-kkr-goldman-sachs-monitor-markets.html
Kion Group GmbH said it’s considering
an initial public offering this year, the first time the world’s
second-largest maker of forklifts publicly confirmed plans to
list in 2013.  The company and its shareholders  KKR & Co. (KKR)  and  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , are “actively monitoring the  capital markets 
to decide on the timing of any potential transaction,” company
spokesman Michael Hauger said in an e-mailed statement today.
Kion hasn’t yet decided on the final timing, he said, adding
that an IPO would help to “continue its profitable growth path
and support its future strategic development.”  Kion was part of German industrial-gas maker Linde AG
before a 4-billion euro buyout in 2006. Sales increased 8.2
percent to 4.7 billion euros last year even as global demand for
industrial trucks dropped by 3.1 percent, as the company
benefited from orders in  China , where Kion is the largest
overseas forklift-maker.  KKR and Goldman Sachs have already lined up banks to handle
the planned initial public offering of Kion, people with
knowledge of the matter said this week.  Morgan Stanley (MS)  was added to the list of financial
institutions that already includes owners Goldman Sachs and
KKR’s equity capital markets arm as well as Deutsche Bank AG,
said the people. The IPO will probably happen before July if
markets remain stable and Wiesbaden, Germany-based Kion may sell
as much as 25 percent of its stock, they said.  KKR and Goldman sold 25 percent of Kion to Weichai Power
Co., China’s biggest maker of heavy-duty trucks, in August to
help trim debt. Kion also sold 70 percent of its hydraulics unit
to the Chinese firm. The moves brought Kion 738 million euros
($974 million) in investment from Weichai.  Kion trails Toyota Industries Corp., an affiliate of Toyota
Motor Corp., in the global forklift market.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Kirchfeld in London at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net ;
Ruth David in London at 
 rdavid9@bloomberg.net ;
 Alex Webb  in Munich at 
 awebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  