-- Koruna at Six-Week High as Intervention Bet Eases: Prague Mover
-- B y   K r y s t o f   C h a m o n i k o l a s
-- 2013-05-02T16:23:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/koruna-at-six-week-high-as-intervention-bet-eases-prague-mover.html
The Czech koruna strengthened to a
six-week high after central bank Deputy Governor  Vladimir Tomsik 
signaled an intervention to weaken the currency isn’t imminent.  The koruna gained 0.3 percent to 25.636 per euro as of 5:49
p.m. in  Prague , the strongest intraday level since March 20. The
currency has lost 4.3% since Sept. 17, the day before the
central bank first signaled readiness to weaken the currency in
a market intervention to help stem the nation’s recession.  Policy makers today kept the benchmark  interest rate  at
0.05 percent and cut their forecasts for gross domestic product
this year and next. The currency’s weakness has been offsetting
anti-inflationary pressures, making intervention unnecessary,
Tomsik said today, adding that koruna sales remain the bank’s
next tool if additional monetary-policy easing is needed.  “We think the Czech National Bank will step directly into
the foreign-exchange market only if there is a threat of
deflation,” Jiri Skop, an economist at Komercni Banka AS, wrote
in a report after Tomsik’s comments. “We see a low inflationary
environment in coming years, but no threat of deflation.”  Czech policy makers are in uncharted territory as they
debate whether the first koruna sales in a decade are needed to
meet their inflation target as the economy has shrunk for five
quarters, the longest contraction since at least 1996. A weaker
 exchange rate  boosts exports that account for about 80 percent
of GDP, increases import prices and limits deflation risks.  “Since the weakening of the exchange rate has so far, to a
large extent, been compensating the anti-inflationary effects of
the local economy, there hasn’t been a need at this moment to
take the path that we had agreed on,” Tomsik said. “On behalf
of this bank, I cannot say at the moment when or whether any
such steps will be needed.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Krystof Chamonikolas in Prague at 
 kchamonikola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at   wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  