-- Nahmad Gallery Scraps ‘Monet Richter’ Show After Raid
-- B y   K a t y a   K a z a k i n a   a n d   C a t h e r i n e   H i c k l e y
-- 2013-05-04T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/nahmad-gallery-scraps-monet-richter-show-after-raid.html
The Helly Nahmad Gallery canceled a
major exhibition titled “Monet Richter” and scheduled to open
during next week’s semi-annual art auctions, following charges
of racketeering and money laundering against its owner.  “The ‘Monet Richter’ show has been postponed,” said
 Benjamin Brafman , co-counsel for gallery owner Hillel Nahmad, in
an e-mail. Brafman declined to comment on what caused the change
of plans and whether another date has been set.  The show, with loans from U.S. and European museums, was
supposed to open on May 10 and run through June 10, according to
a full-page ad in the May issue of Art & Auction magazine,
coinciding with the Impressionist, modern and contemporary art
auctions in New York.  The plan was scrapped after police raided the gallery and
34-year-old Nahmad, known as Helly, was charged on April 16 by
Manhattan U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara with running a high-stakes
gambling ring that catered to celebrities and the very wealthy.
Nahmad was among 34 people charged with operating two
overlapping gambling rings.  In addition, Nahmad himself will not attend Art  Basel  in
Basel,  Switzerland , next month, Brafman said. As part of his
bail, Nahmad surrendered his U.S., Italian and Brazilian
passports and his travel is restricted to the southern and
eastern districts of New York, according to the U.S. Attorney’s
office.  The gallery is still expected to participate, according to
an Art Basel representative.  Museum Loans  The “Monet Richter” show was to include paintings by
 Gerhard Richter  from the collections of the  Hirshhorn Museum and
Sculpture Garden  in  Washington , D.C., the  Albertina  in Vienna
and the  Frieder Burda Museum  in Baden-Baden,  Germany , according
to the artist’s official website.  Horst Koppelstaetter, a spokesman for the Frieder Burda,
said the exhibition was canceled shortly after the police raid.
The museum had planned to lend the 1997 “Abstract Painting,
Lake.”  “Our picture was not sent off,” Koppelstaetter said, in a
telephone interview.  The Hirshhorn Museum had considered lending its 1988
“Sanctuary,” but “now that won’t be,” said Glenn Dixon, the
museum spokesman.  The Albertina’s 1986 “Abstract Painting” and 1999
“Summer Day” were also to be included in the show.  “These loans were indeed supposed to be going to  New
York ,” Sarah Wulbrandt, spokeswoman for the Albertina, said in
an e-mail “The exhibition was canceled by the Helly Nahmad
Gallery.”  Such exhibitions are mainly branding exercises and rarely
involve sales. Many museums that lend art to galleries require
the shows to be of an educational rather than commercial nature,
said Maxwell Anderson, director of the Dallas Museum of Art and
former president of the Association of Art Museums Directors.  Good Standing  The Helly Nahmad Gallery would have a hard time getting a
museum to lend it art as long as the investigation is ongoing,
Anderson said.  “I can’t imagine a museum would be prepared to lend to a
gallery that’s not in good standing, and the indictment of the
owner would qualify as not being in good standing,” he said.  The Helly Nahmad Gallery remains open and has up a small
exhibition entitled “Impressionist & Modern Masters,” with
works by  Mark Rothko , Wayne Thiebaud, Jean Dubuffet and
 Alexander Calder .  “To the extent that any museum director elects not to
deal with (the) gallery at this time, that is certainly their
right,” Brafman said. “We note however, that the gallery has
never been charged with any criminal violation.”  Muse highlights include Jaime Widder, Andy Fixmer and
 Robert Heller  on  music .  To contact the reporters of this story:
Katya Kazakina in New York at 
 kkazakina@bloomberg.net ;
Catherine Hickley in Berlin at  chickley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 