-- Penguins Rout Islanders, Bruins Top Maple Leafs in NHL
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2013-05-02T05:27:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/nhl-eastern-conference-playoffs-open-with-penguins-bruins-wins.html
The Pittsburgh Penguins routed the New
York Islanders and the Boston Bruins defeated the Toronto Maple
Leafs in the opening games of their National Hockey League
playoff series.  The Penguins, the top seed in the Eastern Conference, beat
the Islanders 5-0 and the Bruins defeated the Maple Leafs 4-1.
In the Western Conference, the San Jose Sharks won 3-1 at the
 Vancouver  Canucks in the opening game of their series.  The Penguins, who are missing captain Sidney Crosby because
of a broken jaw, took a 2-0 first-period lead at Consol Energy
Center in Pittsburgh on goals by Beau Bennett and Pascal Dupuis.
Pittsburgh doubled its lead with two goals in 32 seconds early
in the second period, from Kris Letang on a power play and
Dupuis, before Tanner Glass added a fifth goal 11 minutes later.  “It’s one win,” Dupuis said. “We definitely feel good
about it, but we’ve just got to put this one behind us and get
ready to work for the next one. They’ll definitely look at tape
and come out harder, that’s for sure.”  In tonight’s games, the  New York  Rangers open their playoff
series at the Washington Capitals, the Ottawa Senators visit the
Montreal Canadiens, the Detroit Red Wings try to even their
series at 1-1 against the host Anaheim Ducks and the St. Louis
Blues seek a 2-0 lead over the visiting Los Angeles Kings.  Playoffs Drought  The Islanders are making their first playoff appearance
since 2007.  “Some guys worked hard and played a good game,” Islanders
coach Jack Capuano told reporters. “We need all 20 guys going,
and we didn’t have all 20.”  James van Riemsdyk got the opening goal for the Maple Leafs
on a power play after one minute, 54 seconds at TD Garden in
 Boston . Wade Redden tied it at 16:20 and Nathan Horton scored on
a power play 12 seconds before the end of the opening period for
Boston.  David Krejci added a third goal for the Bruins midway
through the second period and Johnny Boychuk completed the
scoring 5:19 later.  The Islanders and Penguins stay in Pittsburgh for Game 2 in
the best-of-seven series tomorrow, while the Bruins and Maple
Leafs reconvene the following day in Boston.  At Rogers Arena in Vancouver, Kevin Bieksa put the Canucks
ahead midway through the second period, four minutes before
Logan Couture tied the game with a power-play goal.  The Sharks took the lead on Dan Boyle’s goal 9:17 into
the third period and Patrick Marleau added a third goal for the
visitors.  Vancouver hosts Game 2 tomorrow.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  