-- Nigerian Bourse Says Nasdaq Platform to Start by Third Quarter
-- B y   C h r i s   K a y
-- 2013-05-02T14:14:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/nigerian-bourse-says-nasdaq-platform-to-start-by-third-quarter.html
The  Nigerian Stock Exchange (NGSEINDX) ’s  Nasdaq
OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ)  trading platform will be operational by the third
quarter of this year, said Chief Executive Officer Oscar Onyema.  The system is currently being tested, the CEO said today in
an interview in Lagos, the nation’s commercial capital. Arunma Oteh, the head of  Nigeria ’s capital market regulator, said in
December it would probably take all of 2013 to make the system
functional.  The platform will allow the bourse, sub-Saharan Africa’s
largest after  South Africa , to trade options in 2014 and futures
in 2015 to help deepen the market, Oteh said last year. Nigeria
is targeting a $1 trillion market value for the exchange by 2016
from the current $67 billion estimated by Bloomberg. The
Nigerian All-Share Index has advanced 23 percent this year, the
best performance in  Africa  after Ghana and  Kenya .  “We’ve seen a vote of confidence from foreign and local
investors with regards to reforms that have taken place,”
Onyema said. “The locals tend to be more momentum traders and
so I believe they’re coming back in a faster pace than the
foreigners who were the thrust to actually start to get the
market going.”  Domestic investors, who accounted for as little as 33
percent of trading in 2011 after a  market crash  in 2008, have
now flocked back to the exchange, overtaking foreign buyers with
58 percent of volumes last year, said Onyema.  Retail Bonds  The bourse saw 14 million naira ($88,523) of bonds traded
on its retail investor platform last month, the highest amount
since its February start, the CEO said. Trading was previously
restricted to institutional investors through the over-the-
counter market, where banks and brokers set prices with typical
minimum trades of 100 million naira.  “We’re not where we’d like to be,” Onyema said. “If you
think there are five million investors in the market place and
if each one was to have balanced portfolios we should be seeing
significantly higher numbers.”  New trading floor licenses aren’t being considered after
media reports that the exchange is considering the applications
from some global investment banks, Onyema said.  “We’ve seen a lot of interest from foreign broker dealers
that want to access the market there directly and we are
engaging them and talking to them and trying to find a way to
get them to participate in the market,” he said. “It doesn’t
mean they cannot buy other licenses.”  Share Sale  The bourse is waiting on guidelines to be approved by the
Securities and Exchange Commission before it begins the process
of demutualization and selling its shares, Onyema said. The
exchange “engaged” the regulator on the issue last month and
has asked them to make it a priority he said.  “There has been a lot of work done, there was an industry
technical committee that put together proposed guidelines,” he
said. “We’re waiting for the securities and exchange commission
to act on that and give us guidelines so we can go out.”  There is concern that the fall in global  oil prices  could
sour investor sentiment, said Onyema.  Bonny Light crude , one of
the main export grades of Africa’s biggest oil producer, fell
7.1 percent last month, it’s worst performance since May 2012.  “The Nigerian economy is highly correlated with oil prices
and the stock market is quite reflective of the economy so yes
we’re worried,” said Onyema. “We’re looking at it and we
believe that one of the things we’re trying to do this year is
to make sure the market is diversified enough” to withstand a
drop in prices, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Kay in Lagos at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  