-- NII Jumps After Adding Subscribers, Naming Permanent CEO
-- B y   T o m   L a v e l l   a n d   N i c k   T u r n e r
-- 2013-05-02T13:45:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/nii-names-shindler-chief-as-chairman-role-to-be-split-correct-.html
NII Holdings Inc. (NIHD) , the provider of
Nextel-branded service in  Latin America , rose as much as 8.6
percent after adding users and naming interim Chief Executive
Officer Steven Shindler to the job permanently.  NII added 152,000 subscribers to its network last quarter,
increasing its total by 5 percent to 11.5 million, the Reston,
Virginia-based company said today in a statement. Adjusted
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization
were $230 million. That topped the $192 million estimated by
 Jennifer Fritzsche , an analyst at  Wells Fargo & Co . in  Chicago .  The shares  rose 3.6 percent to $8.63 at 9:43 a.m. in New
York. The reached as high as $9.05 earlier. The stock had
climbed 17 percent this year through yesterday.  The appointment of Shindler to the permanent CEO job also
is good news, Fritzsche said. He served as the company’s CEO
from 2000 and 2008 and that experience will help him confront
NII’s current challenges, she said. The wireless carrier is
reorganizing assets as it struggles with larger competitors such
as America Movil SAB and  Telefonica SA. (TEF)  It’s counting on new
third-generation networks to attract more customers.  Shindler retaking the CEO job is “an extremely positive
development as Shindler was the one to successfully oversee NIHD
during prior transitions,” Fritzsche said in a note to clients.  Chairman Role  Shindler had been serving as the company’s chairman. The
board is now considering splitting the CEO and chairman roles,
NII said in a statement.  “I will continue to focus my attention on the build-out of
our 3G networks, high-quality subscriber growth, key financial
metrics and providing a quality product,” Shindler said in the
statement today.  Even as the Ebitda figure improved, the company continues
to post net losses, including $207.5 million, or $1.21 a share,
in the first quarter. Sales declined to $1.41 billion from $1.63
billion.  Still, a comeback appears to under way, especially in
 Brazil , which has been one of NII’s more challenging markets,
Fritzsche said. The company had its first subscriber growth in
the country since the second quarter of 2012, she said.  “Q1 gave us strong evidence that the foundation for this
turnaround is being laid,” she said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tom Lavell in Frankfurt at 
 tlavell@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Turner in New York at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  