-- Obama Says He’s ‘Comfortable’ With FDA Decision on Plan B Pill
-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 2013-05-02T23:50:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/obama-says-he-s-comfortable-with-fda-decision-on-plan-b-pill.html
President  Barack Obama  said he’s
“comfortable” with the  Food and Drug Administration ’s decision
to clear the Plan B One-Step emergency contraceptive for sale
without A prescription on pharmacy shelves to girls as young as
age 15.  The FDA cleared Petach Tikva, Israel-based  Teva
Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA)  to expand access to its so-called
morning-after pill after previously denying the company’s
request to make it available to all females of reproductive age.  A federal judge on April 5 ordered the FDA to make
emergency contraception available nationwide without limits
within 30 days. The Justice Department filed a notice yesterday
in federal court that it’s appealing the ruling.  Obama said Health and Human Services Secretary  Kathleen Sebelius  reviewed the FDA decision.  “She’s comfortable with. I’m comfortable with it,” Obama
said in response to a question at a news conference in Mexico
City with Mexican President Enrique Pena Nieto.  The pill and its generic copies have been kept behind drug
store counters and sold without a prescription to women 17 and
older. Government statistics show that more women are turning to
emergency contraception, even as reproductive rights become
embroiled in controversy after the 2010 Affordable Care Act
required some employers to pay for preventive services.  He said the FDA decision was based on “solid, scientific
evidence.”  Obama said the appeal of the judge’s ruling was a “ Justice
Department  decision. My understanding is part of it has to do
with the precedent and the way in which the judge handled that
case.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Lerer in Mexico City at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  