-- Obama’s Mexico Policy Fails Both Sides of the Border
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-05-02T15:32:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/obama-s-24-hour-mexico-policy-fails-both-sides-of-border.html
Mexican President Enrique Pena Nieto
hopes to use U.S. President  Barack Obama ’s visit to affirm one
crucial theme: that his country is much more than the sum of its
problems. During a whirlwind first 100 days, he has already
pushed through significant reforms to strengthen Mexico’s
notoriously mediocre educational system and to deliver Mexicans
from costly and oppressive monopolies.  Yet for Pena Nieto to build on such achievements, he must
be willing to take some big political risks. And to realize the
newfound economic promise that has attracted billions of dollars
in portfolio investment in recent months, he must address
Mexico’s abiding poverty and inequality and help build a  broader
partnership  with its neighbor to the north.  Dismantling the monopolies and oligopolies whose products
devour  close to a third  of an average Mexican’s household budget
(and more for the poor) is a good start. This week, the Mexican
Senate passed a landmark bill that takes aim at  America Movil
SAB (AMXL) , which controls 70 percent of Mexico’s mobile-phone
subscribers and has helped make  Carlos Slim  the world’s richest
man. Grupo Televisa SAB, which garners 70 percent of the
nation’s broadcast-television audience and -- oh, by the way --
has employed Pena Nieto’s actress wife, will also take a hit.
The law gives a new regulator the power to force companies that
control more than 50 percent of the telecommunications market to
share or even sell assets, and allows foreigners to take
majority stakes in landline phone and cable networks for the
first time.  Joint Platform  Underpinning such bold moves is a political entente that
might make the stymied Obama weep with envy. Shortly after Pena
Nieto won election with a plurality of seats in both houses, his
 Institutional Revolutionary Party  (PRI) and the two biggest
opposition parties, the  National Action Party  ( PAN ) and
Democratic Revolution Party, agreed to adopt a joint platform of
95 goals called the  Pact for Mexico .  This loose alliance has enabled each of the parties to take
risky steps together. Yet the pact is hardly bulletproof. A
recent vote-buying scandal involving the PRI in Veracruz forced
a delay in introducing a banking bill after the PAN demanded an
investigation. Elections in July will sharpen such tensions. And
the toughest and potentially most rewarding reforms, broadening
Mexico’s tax system and opening its insular state oil company
Pemex to foreign investment, are yet to come.  Pena Nieto’s chief economic challenge is reorienting
Mexico’s economy to work for the benefit of the many rather than
the few. Despite its growing middle class, about half the
population is poor, and inequality remains high. More than 60
percent of the workforce is still employed in the informal
sector, i.e., outside tax and labor laws. Reforms on hiring and
firing enacted on the eve of Pena Nieto’s inauguration will
help. So will making it easier to start a business and find
credit, changes that the stalled banking bill promised to
promote.  Mexico  needs to incubate more small and medium
enterprises and entrepreneurs to thrive.  With sustained growth, illegal immigration to the U.S. will
begin to take care of itself. Since the end of 2009, Mexico’s
economy has  grown  about twice as fast as that of the U.S. More
of its workers have stayed there as a result: Net Mexican
migration fell to zero from 2005 to 2010, according to a Pew
Research Center  study  released last year.  Public Relations  The drug-fueled violence that has caused more than 60,000
deaths in the last six years is a different matter. Pena Nieto
has shrewdly sought to downplay Mexico’s war on drugs and to
focus on its economic prospects. That approach won’t succeed
without a clear, forthright strategy for containing the
violence. So far, his efforts to reorganize the police and to
restrict anti-narcotics cooperation with the U.S. by channeling
it all through the  Interior Ministry  seem more focused on public
relations than results.  Like Pena Nieto, Obama has an incentive to “shift the
narrative.” Doing so might help win more domestic support for
goals that are critical for both countries, such as immigration
reform and  gun control . With increasingly intertwined economies
and societies, Mexico and the U.S. have powerful incentives to
cooperate on promoting global free trade and democracy, not to
mention clean energy and economic development throughout the
hemisphere.  Obama’s relative neglect of Mexico hasn’t helped. Mexico is
the U.S.’s  third-biggest  trading partner, leading market for 22
of 50 states and ancestral homeland of about two-thirds of U.S.
Hispanics. Yet in this year’s  State of the Union  address, it
merited a sole reference: “Ford is bringing jobs back from
Mexico.” That’s not exactly visionary. During his
administration, Obama has allowed pesky disputes over cross-border trucking and tomatoes to fester; a promising  agreement  on
transborder energy exploration signed with much fanfare and
ratified by Mexico has languished in Congress.  One symbolic yet practical way to reaffirm the importance
of expanded cooperation would be to re-establish the Cabinet-level  U.S.-Mexico Binational Commission , which existed from 1981
to 2000. In addition, Obama could at last appoint the special
envoy to  Latin America  that he promised as a presidential
candidate in 2008.  Still, 24 hours on the ground in Mexico won’t do much to
advance shared goals or redress a history of fitful neglect. For
that, Obama will have to work more seriously. Pena Nieto’s
actions thus far suggest such efforts could be well rewarded.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 