-- Obama’s Mexico Trip Ties Immigration Debate to Economy
-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r   a n d   N a c h a   C a t t a n
-- 2013-05-02T19:26:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/obama-s-mexico-trip-ties-immigration-debate-to-economy.html
President  Barack Obama  arrived in
 Mexico  today with a message that ties the immigration debate in
the U.S. to economic growth on both sides of the border.  In his discussions with Mexican President Enrique Pena Nieto, Obama also will be conscious of his audience back home,
where Congress next week resumes negotiating possible changes to
immigration law. That debate will affect U.S. and Mexican
businesses as well as the millions of Mexicans living in the
U.S. illegally.  Obama and Pena Nieto are scheduled to meet for about an
hour before holding a joint news conference at 4:10 p.m. local
time.  The domestic debate is intertwined with the thorniest
issues in U.S. relations with  Latin America , including border
security, drug trafficking and  free trade .  “The White House is hoping to highlight the economic
opportunities that would emanate from a modernized immigration
system,” said Ana Navarro, a Republican strategist who met with
Obama and other White House officials about the trip this week.
“He doesn’t want security and violence issues to dominate this
trip.”  Mexico’s  economic expansion  has been changing the dynamics
of the U.S. immigration debate and opening opportunities for
Obama to meet his goal of doubling U.S. exports by the end of
next year. The  Mexican economy  has grown at about twice the pace
of the U.S. since the end of 2009, lessening the lure of the
U.S. for Mexican workers. Net Mexican migration dropped to zero
from 2005 to 2010, according to a Pew Research Center study
released a year ago.  Bigger Market  A growing Mexican middle class has boosted the market for
U.S. products. Mexico is the biggest buyer of U.S. goods sold
abroad after  Canada , with $216 billion in purchases last year,
according to data compiled by the U.S. Department of Commerce.
The U.S., in turn,  bought  about $278 billion, or 80 percent, of
Mexico’s exports, led by oil, cars, auto parts and flat-screen
televisions.  Obama made reference to that economic relationship this
morning in announcing he’ll nominate Chicago businesswoman and
political backer  Penny Pritzker  as commerce secretary and
 Michael Froman , currently the deputy national security adviser
for international economics, as U.S. trade representative.  The trip is designed to promote “growth here at home and
offer our businesses growing markets where they can sell more
American-made goods and services abroad,” he said at the White
House before departing.  Security Concerns  The economic aspect of the immigration debate has been
overshadowed by security issues. Amid a violent drug war in
Mexico that has claimed more than 60,000 lives in the past six
years, many U.S. Republican lawmakers have made hardening the
U.S.-Mexico border a condition for agreeing to measures to give
undocumented immigrants a path to citizenship and creating a
guest worker program.  Mexican officials have ended the broad access the country
has long given to U.S. security agencies to help combat drug
trafficking. Instead, programs to fight drug cartels and
organized crime will be run through Mexico’s  Interior Ministry .  “What this new coordination seeks is to have more impact
in less time and to emphasize an area that hadn’t been
emphasized in the fight against organized crime over the past
months and years, which is the area of prevention,” Sergio
Alcocer, Mexico’s deputy foreign minister for North American
affairs, said in a telephone interview.  U.S. Reaction  Asked about the security changes during an April 30 news
conference in  Washington , Obama said he wasn’t “going to yet
judge how this will alter the relationship between the  United
States  and Mexico until I’ve heard directly from them.”  Even with continuing security concerns, officials from both
countries are casting the trip as an opportunity to link the
debate over immigration to a more positive economic story.  “We’ve spent so much time on security issues between the
United States and Mexico that sometimes I think we forget this
is a massive trading partner responsible for huge amounts of
commerce and huge numbers of jobs on both sides of the border,”
Obama said.  The Mexican government is equally eager to downplay the
security issue. Since taking office in December, Pena Nieto has
been working to change the country’s image from the home of a
violent drug war to a center of growing industry.  Greater Cooperation  White House officials say they support efforts by the
Mexican government to revise their security process. Still,
Obama’s trip, which includes meetings with Central American
leaders in  Costa Rica  later this week, is focused on enhancing
economic cooperation.  “We believe there’s significant potential to increase and
deepen our economic ties,”  Ben Rhodes , Obama’s deputy national
security adviser, said at a briefing yesterday. “The two
leaders will really be lifting up the economic portion of the
relationship in their discussions.”  Mexico is part of talks with the U.S. and nine other
nations on creating a Trans-Pacific Partnership trade accord and
is seeking to join the U.S. in talks on a free trade agreement
with the European Union.  Along with trade, energy will be on the agenda for the two
leaders. Pena Nieto’s government is preparing a bill to boost
private investment in the state-owned oil sector, and the  U.S.
Congress  is still debating an agreement to develop cross-border
oil reservoirs signed by both nations in February 2012.  Mexico’s Impact  Immigration law in the U.S. will remain a subtext in much
of Obama’s discussions on economic matters.  Almost two-thirds of Hispanics in the U.S. are of Mexican
descent, including 11.4 million who were born in Mexico,
according to an analysis of Census Bureau data by the Pew
Research Center. Of Mexican immigrants in the U.S., about 51
percent are there illegally, Pew said.  Mexico is the fourth-largest recipient worldwide of
remittance payments, with citizens collecting $23 billion from
residents overseas in 2011, according to an April 19 report by
the  World Bank . In Central America, those payments play a large
role in the economies of developing nations, equivalent to 17
percent of the gross domestic product of Honduras and 16 percent
of El Salvador’s GDP in 2011  “Immigrants are basically economic ambassadors that tie
the U.S. with its southern borders.” said Neil Ruiz, senior
policy analyst at the  Brookings Institution , a policy group in
Washington. “They contribute to two economies simultaneously.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lisa Lerer in Washington at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net ;
Nacha Cattan in Mexico City at 
 ncattan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  