-- Obama Tells Mexican Students Ties Built on Shared Growth
-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r   a n d   N a c h a   C a t t a n
-- 2013-05-03T15:29:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/obama-says-changes-won-t-alter-u-s-mexico-security-cooperation.html
President  Barack Obama  said the U.S.
relationship with Mexico must be built on a shared economic
future rather than old ideas and stereotypes that have hindered
cooperation in the past.  Speaking to Mexican students and business leaders today,
Obama made only passing reference to the border security
concerns that have long been the focus of the U.S.-Mexico
relationship. Instead, he focused on Mexico’s emerging economic
strength and growing political power.  “It’s time to put old mindsets aside. It’s time to
recognize new realities,” he said in a speech at the National
Museum of Anthropology in Mexico City. “A new Mexico is
emerging.”  Obama and Mexico’s new president, Enrique Pena Nieto,
worked to avoid highlighting the most contentious issues in the
relationship between the two neighbors and instead focused on
deepening economic ties.  After his address, Obama was scheduled to meet privately
with Mexican business leaders before leaving for Costa Rica for
talks with President Laura Chinchilla and other Central American
leaders.  Education has dominated Mexican politics as Pena Nieto has
pressed to revamp the country’s school system.  Pena Nieto pushed through a constitutional amendment to
ensure that teachers are hired and promoted on merit, a move
that has sparked violent protests. The government also arrested
on corruption charges the powerful head of the teachers’ union,
Elba Esther Gordillo, who was long considered to be untouchable.  Future Look  Obama said he will work with Pena Nieto to expand trade,
educational exchanges and joint economic ventures. He also said
he would work with Congress to change U.S. immigration laws and
stem the flow of firearms from the U.S. into  Mexico  by trying
again to pass gun control measures, which failed to win support
in Congress last month.  “In this relationship there is not senior partner or
junior partner,” he said. “We are two equal partners -- two
sovereign nations that must work together in mutual interest and
mutual respect.”  Since taking office in December, Pena Nieto has been
working to change the country’s image from one of violent drug
wars to one of industrial growth.  The U.S. president said today that he recognizes the “root
cause of much of the violence” in Mexico is the demand for
illicit drugs in the U.S. He said legalizing those drugs is not
the answer.  Continued Cooperation  Obama said the U.S. will keep up its close cooperation with
Mexico in battling drug trafficking and organized crime, even as
Pena Nieto limits access by U.S. security agencies.  Pena Nieto is transferring responsibility for his country’s
fight against drug cartels and organized crime to the Interior
Ministry, a move billed as emphasizing prevention.  At a joint news conference with Pena Nieto yesterday, both
leaders sought to diminish differences between their
governments.  Pena Nieto declined to comment on the debate in  Washington 
over immigration law. The effort is a top priority for Democrat
Obama and it faces opposition from many Republicans in Congress.  “Mexico understands that this is a domestic affair for the
U.S. and we wish you the best,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lisa Lerer in Washington at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net ;
Nacha Cattan in Mexico City at 
 ncattan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  