-- OCI Climbs Most in Six Weeks After Tax Settlement: Cairo Mover
-- B y   A h m e d   A .   N a m a t a l l a
-- 2013-05-02T13:15:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/oci-climbs-most-in-six-weeks-after-tax-settlement-cairo-mover.html
Orascom Construction  Industries gained
the most in six weeks after  Egypt ’s biggest publicly traded
company agreed to settle a tax dispute with the government,
paving the way for a share transfer to Amsterdam.  Shares of Orascom Construction, also known as OCI,
increased 3.1 percent, the most since March 21, to 240.67 pounds
at the close in Cairo. The benchmark EGX 30 Index gained 1.5
percent.  OCI said on April 30 it agreed to pay about 7 billion
pounds ($1 billion) over five years to settle a tax claim
stemming from the company’s 2007 sale of its cement business.
With the tax settlement, the company said it “expects to
proceed with its filing” for a mandatory offer for the Cairo-
listed shares by Amsterdam-based parent  OCI NV. (OCI)   “The tax agreement is better off for the company than
extending the dispute for the government,” Hassan Kenawi,
equities trader at Cairo-based HC Brokerage, said by phone.
“Also, there’s speculation on the stock’s upside if OCI
maintains its previous offer for shareholders.”  Orascom said in February that 99.9 percent of minority
shareholders approved a plan giving them the option of
exchanging their stakes for stock in OCI NV or selling them for
280 pounds apiece. If the company revises the offer, it will not
fall below 246.6 pounds a share, the average closing price over
the past three months and the minimum required by the regulator,
Cairo-based investment bank Pharos Holding said in an April 30
report.  OCI said in January it secured $2 billion of commitments
from investors led by  Bill Gates ’ Cascade Investment LLC to help
finance the share transfer. The company said the move would help
lower borrowing costs and boost its global profile.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ahmed A. Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  