-- OECD Urges Italy to Focus on Cutting Debt After Deficit Trimmed
-- B y   A n d r e w   D a v i s
-- 2013-05-02T09:01:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/oecd-urges-italy-to-focus-on-cutting-debt-after-deficit-trimmed.html
Italy ’s government has made
“considerable progress” in improving public finances and
should now make reducing the euro-region’s second-biggest debt a
top priority, the Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development said in a report.  Italy’s debt will reach 134.2 percent of gross domestic
product this year, excluding contributions to European bailouts.
Given Italy’s progress in trimming its  deficit , the government
could get the debt down to the European Union limit of 60
percent of GDP by 2030 by achieving a structural budget surplus
of 2 percent by 2017, the OECD said. The government is seeking
to balance the structural deficit this year.  “Italy remains exposed to sudden changes in financial
 market sentiment ,” the Paris-based  OECD  said in its economic
survey report. “Large and sustained reductions in public debt
are therefore the top fiscal priority.”  Italy has had the weakest economy in the OECD over the past
decade and reducing the debt and making more efforts to reduce
rigidities in the economy will help boost competitiveness, the
OECD said. The euro bloc’s third biggest economy will contract
1.5 percent this year, before expanding 0.5 percent in 2014, the
OECD said in the report.  “Italy’s real GDP growth per capita has been the weakest
of all OECD countries over the past decade,” the report said.
“This reflects very low underlying productivity growth and has
resulted in long-standing fiscal difficulties and in stagnant,
and recently declining, real income levels.”  Monti’s Reforms  The OECD urged Italy to continue the “structural reforms”
implemented by former Prime Minister  Mario Monti  that included
easing labor-market rules and partially opening closed
professions. Italy should also seek to lower payroll taxes,
particularly on the lowest earners, the OECD said in the report.  “Future reforms, in carefully planned and coordinated
legislation, will need to remove remaining restrictions in
professional and public services and promote a more inclusive
labor market,” according to the report. “This requires helping
workers with job-search and training, coordinated together with
income support for the unemployed, whose families are most at
risk from the increased poverty that prolonged recession has
brought.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Davis in Rome at 
 abdavis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at 
 tquinson@bloomberg.net  