-- MoFo Turns to Tokyo for Department Heads: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2013-05-02T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/mofo-turns-to-tokyo-for-department-heads-business-of-law.html
Morrison & Foerster LLP  announced
leadership changes, appointing San Francisco partner Brandon Parris and Tokyo partner Randy Laxer as co-chairmen of the
corporate department and  New York  partner Gary Lee and Tokyo
partner Dale Caldwell to lead the finance group.  “It’s no accident that both departments are co-led by
partners in Asia given how vitally important the region is to
our clients and to our firm’s strategic growth,” Chairman
Larren M. Nashelsky said in a statement. “Our recent opening of
the Singapore office, our fifth in Asia, signals our commitment
to advancing the interests of our many global clients doing
significant business in the region.”  Parris, who represents public companies in mergers,
securities offerings and joint ventures, was part of the team
representing Japanese wireless carrier  SoftBank Corp. (9984)  in its
agreement to acquire a 70 percent stake in  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S) 
for $43.5 billion, and the team advising Novellus Systems Inc.
in its $3.3 billion stock-for-stock merger with Lam Research
Corp.  Laxer, who focuses on complex cross-border mergers, private
equity, strategic alliances and joint ventures, represented ON
Semiconductor Corp. in its acquisition of Sanyo Semiconductor
Co. and Taisho Pharmaceutical in its takeover of Bristol-Myers
Squibb Co.’s Indonesia manufacturing and distribution unit.  Lee, who has been firmwide chairman of MoFo’s restructuring
and insolvency group, advises stakeholders in the U.S., U.K. and
 Europe . He represented two Icelandic banks in restructurings
after the financial crisis, and he leads MoFo’s representation
of mortgage lender Residential Capital LLC, which was the
largest Chapter 11 filing in the U.S. in 2012, the firm said.  Caldwell representing lenders, sponsors and contractors in
the development, financing and acquisition of large
infrastructure projects globally, the firm said. He acted for
the sponsors in developing and financing the Caserones Mining
Project in Chile and led the MoFo finance team in advising
SoftBank in the Sprint Nextel deal.  The new leaders take over from San Francisco partner Susan Mac Cormac and Singapore partner Eric Piesner, who led the
departments from 2010 to 2013. Piesner was named MoFo’s managing
partner for Asia and head of its Singapore office, which opened
in January. Mac Cormac, who founded the firm’s renewable energy
and cleantech practice, will be co-chairwoman of MoFo’s emerging
and growth companies practice. Pamela Reed, former MoFo firmwide
managing partner, has been named vice chairwoman for both
departments.  MoFo has more than 1,000 lawyers at 16 offices in the U.S.,
Europe and Asia.  News  Ex-Dewey Chairman’s Settlement With Firm Erased After Six Years  Steven Davis , the former chairman of Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP
who agreed to pay the bankrupt law firm $511,000 in return for a
waiver of claims against him, will have any outstanding balance
forgiven by 2019, the American Lawyer magazine  reported .  The settlement agreement is scheduled to be approved at a
May 13 hearing at which Dewey insurer XL Specialty Insurance
Co., which agreed to contribute $19 million to the estate, will
also be considered.  Davis will begin paying the settlement next year with a
minimum of 8 percent of his earnings over the next six years,
according to the magazine. He’s unemployed and would be required
to make $6 million over the next six years in order to pay the
$511,000, the American Lawyer said.  Dewey’s liquidating Chapter 11 plan was approved by the
 bankruptcy court  in February and implemented in March. The firm,
which once had 1,300 lawyers, estimated that midpoint recoveries
for secured and unsecured creditors under the plan would be 58.4
percent and 9.1 percent, respectively.  The liquidation began under Chapter 11 in May 2012. At the
outset of bankruptcy, there was secured debt of about $225
million and accounts receivable of $217.4 million, the firm has
said. The petition listed assets of $193 million and liabilities
of $245.4 million.  The bankruptcy case is In re Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP, 12-
bk-12321, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  Deals  Munger Tolles’ Todd Advises Berkshire on $2.05 Billion Purchase  Munger, Tolles & Olson LLP partner Mary Ann Todd  advised
 Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  in its $2.05 billion bid for the 20
percent of IMC International Metalworking Cos. it doesn’t
already own as Chairman  Warren Buffett  expands his bet on the
Israeli manufacturer.  Advising IMC is a team from Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen &
Katz’s led by corporate partner Adam O. Emmerich that also
includes tax partner Jodi J. Schwartz.  IMC, known as Iscar, makes cutting gear for industries
including aerospace and auto manufacturing. Jacob Harpaz will
remain chief executive officer of Tefen, Israel-based IMC, the
companies said yesterday in a statement.  Buffett has structured deals to buy Marmon Holdings and IMC
to allow the selling families to retain a stake in the companies
they built. Omaha, Nebraska-based Berkshire can then increase
its ownership with the price based on the results after the
initial deal. He said in 2006 that he bought 80 percent of Iscar
in a transaction that valued the company at $5 billion.  Iscar had 11,933 employees at the end of last year,
compared with 6,518 six years earlier, according to Berkshire’s
 annual reports . The company has been bolstering operations in
Asia, including at its Tungaloy unit in Japan. Iscar has also
invested in TaeguTec Ltd., a cutting-tools maker based in  South
Korea .  Eitan Wertheimer, who sold the company to Berkshire in
2006, has described himself as Buffett’s “travel agent” and
accompanied the billionaire on meetings with business owners in
Asia, Germany, Italy, Switzerland and Spain as Berkshire hunts
for acquisitions. Wachtell Lipton also represents the Wertheimer
family.  Berkshire “fully appreciates the unique nature of the
global Israeli enterprise that we have created, and that is
committed to remaining true to that heritage,” Wertheimer said.  For more, click here.  Moves  Kaye Scholer Hires New York Appeals Judge James Catterson  James Catterson, a New York appeals court judge, has joined
Kaye Scholer LLP’s complex commercial litigation department as
special counsel.  Catterson spent nine years as an associate justice of the
Appellate Division,  First Department , where he was involved in
more than 6,000 civil and criminal appeals. He wrote more than
250 signed opinions and dissents, the firm said in a statement.  “Jim authored hundreds of judicial opinions on virtually
every aspect of New York law, particularly complex commercial
matters,” James Herschlein, co-chairman of Kaye Scholer’s
complex commercial litigation department, said in the statement.
“His energy and wealth of experience as both a judge and a
litigator will be of great benefit to Kaye Scholer’s clients.”  Before his election to the court, Catterson was deputy
county attorney for New York’s Suffolk County, on Long Island.
He also was chief of the Asset Forfeiture Unit in the U.S.
Attorney’s Office of the Eastern District of New York.  Kaye Scholer has 450 lawyers in nine U.S. and international
offices.  Edwards Wildman Hires Troutman Corporate Partner in New York  Edwards Wildman Palmer LLP added partner Howard H. Jiang
and another lawyer to its business law department in New York.
Before joining Edwards Wildman, the lawyers were at Troutman
Sanders LLP.  Jiang represents clients in mergers and acquisitions and
securities work in domestic and cross-border transactions. He
has advised companies in the acquisition and sale of equity
interests and assets, strategic alliances, joint ventures, and
special arrangements, the firm said in a statement.  He has expertise in advising U.S. and foreign companies on
investment projects in Asia, especially China, as well as in
counseling companies from the Asia-Pacific region on their
investments in the U.S. and elsewhere.  Edwards Wildman has 625 lawyers at 15 offices in the U.S.,
U.K. and Asia.  Clifford Chance Adds Asset Finance Partner in New York  Clifford Chance  LLP announced that Emily DiStefano,
formerly of Debevoise & Plimpton LLP, joined the firm as an
asset finance partner in New York.  DiStefano has experience in aircraft finance, including
secured lending, leasing, private-equity investments and
restructuring of transactions, the firm said in a statement. She
advises U.S. airlines on public and private Enhanced Equipment
Trust Certificates and has expertise in leveraged finance.  Clifford Chance has 3,400 legal advisers at 35 offices in
25 countries around the world.  Jones Day Adds Litigation Partner Chaka Patterson in Chicago  Chaka Patterson, formerly of Skadden Arps Slate Meagher &
Flom LLP, joined  Jones Day ’s Chicago office as a partner in the
business and tort litigation practice.  Patterson has experience as a trial and appellate lawyer.
He represents clients in government investigations and
litigation, including state attorney general matters and  False
Claims Act  matters, the firm said.  Patterson also worked at public utility holding company
Exelon Corp. as associate general counsel and treasurer.  Jones Day has more than 2,400 lawyers in 36 offices
worldwide.  Fees  Bernard Madoff’s Brokerage Cost $774.8 Million to Liquidate  Liquidating Bernard L. Madoff’s defunct brokerage has cost
$774.8 million, including lawyers’ and consultants’ fees and
expenses of $737.1 million, the trustee for the firm said in a
report.  The trustee, Irving H. Picard, who has been liquidating the
firm since Madoff’s December 2008 arrest, has paid customers
about $4.6 billion, out of as much as $20 billion he says they
lost in the  Ponzi scheme . Another $802 million went to customers
from the Securities Investor Protection Corp., which spent
almost as much picking up the lawyers’ and consultants’ bills,
according to the report filed yesterday in federal court in
Manhattan.  Picard, a bankruptcy lawyer whose firm Baker Hostetler LLP
has billed SIPC for $440 million, files twice-yearly reports on
his progress. Most of the money he has raised in more than four
years has come from settlements with investors whom he accused
of profiting from the fraud.  He has been less successful in his pursuit of banks such as
JPMorgan Chase & Co.,  UBS AG (UBSN) ,  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  and  UniCredit
SpA. (UCG)  Picard is appealing court rulings that barred him from
demanding a total of about $30 billion from those banks on
behalf of Madoff customers.  The Madoff estate holds $4.4 billion of  Treasury securities 
and $173.7 million in cash, Picard said in the report. Madoff is
serving a 150-year prison sentence after pleading guilty to
running the biggest Ponzi scheme in U.S. history.  The Madoff liquidation case is Securities Investor
Protection Corp. v. Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities
Inc., 08-bk-01789,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of
New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  