-- Oklahoma Wheat Production May Fall Further as Freeze Expected
-- B y   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s
-- 2013-05-02T15:37:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/oklahoma-wheat-production-may-fall-further-as-freeze-expected.html
Oklahoma  wheat production, already
expected to decline 45 percent from a year earlier, may fall
further as freezing weather tonight threatens crops.  Temperatures may drop below freezing in northwest Oklahoma,
southwest Kansas and eastern Colorado tonight, Commodity Weather
Group said in a report today. The Oklahoma Wheat Commission said
yesterday production will total 85.5 million bushels, down from
154.8 million a year earlier.  The production estimate may be “optimistic,” Mike Schulte, the executive director of the Oklahoma Wheat
Commission, said during an interview near Cottonwood Falls,
Kansas. “A lot can happen between now and harvest and most of
those things would not be favorable because of the current
weather conditions.”  Crops this year have been damaged by the worst drought
since the 1930s and freezing weather since plants emerged from
winter dormancy last month. Hard, red winter varieties, used
mostly to make bread, are grown from  South Dakota  to  Texas .  “We’ve had five freeze scenarios between the last part of
March and tonight, significant hail damage and extreme
drought,” Schulte said. “All this that has come into play and
has not factored into a favorable crop year. Crops have been
extremely stresses all year long.”  Fields in central and southwestern Kansas and northern
Oklahoma are expected to yield 40.5 bushels an acre, according
to 75 participants on the Pierre, South Dakota-based Wheat
Quality Council’s annual three-day tour of the hard-red winter
wheat crops. Final yield estimates for the state will be
presented at the Kansas City Board of Trade today.  About 75 producers, grain traders and agronomists have been
examining fields in  Kansas  and northern Oklahoma. A separate
group of agronomists and crop consultants toured Oklahoma fields
on April 29 and 30.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony C. Dreibus in Chicago at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  