-- Honda Plans to Build Transmission Plant in Mexico
-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n   a n d   B r e n d a n   C a s e
-- 2013-05-02T20:09:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/honda-plans-to-build-transmission-plant-in-mexico.html
Honda Motor Co. (7267) , the first Japanese
automaker to build cars in the U.S., plans to build a $470
million transmission factory in  Mexico  at the same site as an
auto plant opening in 2014.  The parts facility opens in 2015’s second half in Celaya,
near the central Mexican city of Guanajuato, and will be able to
make as many as 700,000 continuously variable transmissions a
year, Tokyo-based Honda said today in an e-mailed statement. It
will employ 1,500 people and be adjacent to a factory scheduled
to start making Fit subcompact cars next year.  “This will establish an efficient production structure
that will maximize our Mexican and North American content,”
Executive Vice President  Tetsuo Iwamura  said at a press
conference in Mexico City with Economy Minister Ildefonso Guajuardo.  Mexico has drawn billions of dollars in automotive
investment in recent years, particularly from Japan’s carmakers.
Along with the country’s lower production costs, Mexico’s
favorable trade agreements with the U.S.,  Latin America  and the
European Union make it appealing as an export base.  Honda announced its $800 million Celaya auto-assembly plant
in 2011.  Mazda Motor Corp. (7261)  is building a $650 million factory in
the same state, where it will make Mazda2 and Mazda3 cars and
also small cars for Toyota Motor Corp. Nissan Motor Co. expects
to complete a $2 billion plant alongside an existing facility in
the state of Aguascalientes by the end of this year.  Honda said today that transmissions made in Celaya will
also be exported to its other plants in North America and
overseas. The company’s American depositary receipts rose 1.1
percent to $39.63 at the close in New York.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in  Los Angeles  at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net ;
Brendan Case in Mexico City at 
 bcase4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  