-- Opap Shares Fall After Greece Accepts Revised Bid: Athens Mover
-- B y   P a u l   T u g w e l l
-- 2013-05-02T09:32:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/opap-shares-fall-after-greece-accepts-revised-bid-athens-mover.html
Opap SA (OPAP)  fell after  Greece ’s state
asset sales fund accepted a revised offer from Emma Delta, the
only group to submit a valid binding bid for a 33 percent stake
in  Europe ’s largest listed gambling company.  Opap dropped 4.3 percent to 7.17 euros at 12:20 a.m. in
 Athens  after falling as much as 6.4 percent earlier. The stock
rose 8.9 percent on April 30, before yesterday’s market holiday.
Opap shares have added 33 percent since the start of the year,
giving it a market value of 2.3 billion euros ($3 billion).  Greece’s state asset sales fund, known as  HRADF , yesterday
accepted Emma Delta’s revised offer of 652 million euros, which
compared with an initial bid of 622 million euros. The fund on
April 22 asked Emma Delta to raise its bid.  Emma Delta is a variable equity fund controlled by Jiri
Smejc and George Melissanidis, according to a statement late
yesterday. Investors include Czech Republic-based Emma Group and
 Russia ’s ICT Group.  The fund is committed to improving Opap’s performance and
will invest substantially in the company, Emma Delta said.  “The disposal of the state’s 33 percent stake is
transformational for Opap’s investment case due to the long-term
benefits it entails,” Athens-based Eurobank Equities wrote in a
note to investors today. The benefits include less state
intervention, rejuvenation of games such as Stihima and more
active pressure on the government to curb illegal gambling,
Eurobank said.  Samaras Pledge  Prime Minister Antonis Samaras’s government has pledged to
speed up state asset sales, a key plank in cutting the country’s
debt. Proceeds from the sale of the Opap stake as well as
natural gas company Depa SA and grid operator Desfa SA will make
up the bulk of 2.3 billion euros Greece needs to raise from
asset sales this year, HRADF Chief Executive Officer Ioannis Emiris told Bloomberg in an interview.  “Successful conclusion of Opap’s privatization will send a
strong message to local and foreign investors that the Greek
government is determined to implement the asset sales program
agreed with its creditors, thus further improving investor
sentiment for the  Greek economy ,” Dimitris Birbos, an analyst
at Athens-based IBG Research, wrote in a note to clients today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Tugwell in Athens at 
 ptugwell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  