-- Houck’s Phosphorescent Finds Spotlight’s Glow: NYC Music
-- B y   J a i m e   W i d d e r
-- 2013-05-02T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/houck-s-phosphorescent-finds-spotlight-s-glow-nyc-music.html
As the indie folk-rock scene took off
in 2000, Matthew Houck was there at the start, forming
 Phosphorescent  in 2001, releasing their first album in 2003 and
then five more, waiting for a spotlight turn.  The moment came on April 18 as he found himself headlining
a sold-out  Bowery Ballroom .  The Alabama-to- Brooklyn  transplant and his five-piece band
kicked off with the slow-building “Terror in the Canyons.”
Houck painted guitar slides and vocals over languid drums and
stretched-out organ notes. The tune drew cheers and calls to
“turn it up!”  With the volume cranked, Houck lead the band on the
sprawling “Quotidian Beasts,” one of the many standout tracks
on his latest record, “Muchacho” -- itself a standout among
2013 releases so far. After a quiet start, Houck got to howling
over high guitar notes that fenced with sharp-edged keyboards.
The elements of frailty and strength here are echoed on the
record.  The opening bass line of “Song for Zula” brought cheers
again. Houck’s trembling voice, with lyrics sly and emphatic,
drifts over layers of string-like synths. He released the crowd
from this desolate space with the playful “Ride On/Right On.”  A set of Houck alone on stage had material that cut even
deeper, including a raw version of “Wolves” from the 2007
album, “Pride.” The crowd fell silent as he built the song
with looped guitar notes and earnest vocals.  Crowd Sings  He continued with the folksy “My Dove, My Lamb” and then
covered Waylon Jennings and Jessi Colter’s “Storms Never
Last.” The band returned to close with the anthemic “ Los
Angeles ,” a breezy and spacious number filled with infectious
harmonies that had the crowd singing along.  Phosphorescent is in  Europe  during May. Outside of its
appearance at this year’s  Pitchfork Music Festival , July 19-21
at Chicago’s Union Park, his only other scheduled stateside show
is in support of The Walkmen at Brooklyn’s McCarren Park on June
15. That show is in conjunction with the local Northside
Festival, June 13-20 at various venues in Brooklyn.  Here’s a selection of New York-area shows in May. Please
note that opening bands aren’t always listed. Shows marked (SO)
are sold out, although online services such as Craigslist often
have tickets.  (Jaime Widder works in sales for  Bloomberg News . Any
opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Jason Harper  on cars,  Lance Esplund 
on art.  To contact the writer on this story:
Jaime Widder in  New York  at 
 jwidder@bloomberg.net  or @Widder_Twidder.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 