-- How 30-Year Mortgages Saved the Housing Market
-- B y   L o u i s   H y m a n
-- 2013-05-02T19:18:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/how-30-year-mortgages-saved-the-housing-market.html
In most of the world, homeownership
isn’t seen as a natural step in the progress toward responsible
adulthood. Outside the U.S., mortgages are for small amounts,
for shorter times, and have adjustable  interest rates . The
popular U.S.  30-year mortgage  with a fixed rate, which makes
possible low monthly payments and a more certain future, is an
oddity.  How did Americans develop such a peculiar financial
practice? The New Deal.  In many ways, the mortgages of the 1920s resembled the more
exotic ones of today. Balloon loans with terms of just three to
five years were common. Homeowners, like those of the 2000s,
simply expected to be able to refinance. The money for these
 mortgages , in an eerie echo of today, came from debt that banks
sold to investors, and the bond-repayment periods were equally
short.  As investors became skittish after the stock-market crash
of 1929, investors stopped buying mortgage bonds. Banks no
longer had the capital to refinance  homeowners , and no one could
refinance their mortgages. The only thing that prevented the
collapse of the housing market was the Home Owners’ Loan
Corporation, a government-sponsored enterprise, which started
swapping bonds of its own for bank mortgages, injecting
liquidity into the system.  New Deal  Understandably, when policy makers started to think about
how to reform the system, they tried to find ways to make
mortgage borrowing and lending have longer terms, so that a
crisis wouldn’t be self-perpetuating. In 1934, the  Federal
Housing Administration  introduced an audacious plan to remake
the way Americans borrowed.  In 1933, much as today, private capital was piling up in
banks that were too afraid to lend. President  Franklin D. Roosevelt  tapped James Moffett, a vice-president of Standard Oil
Co., to oversee the new agency. Both agreed that capital needed
to flow nationally for the economy to reignite. Roosevelt
thought that a national mortgage market would be more stable and
just. Writing to Moffett, he reaffirmed “that the refunding of
existing mortgages in long term, amortized mortgages” would
“result in a safer mortgage structure for the country.”  But FDR wasn’t just concerned with market stability; he
shared the American “conviction that every practical attempt at
lowering the cost of homes to the great mass of our people is
worthy of our best efforts.”  The most imaginative part of the FHA plan was that the
government wouldn’t pay for any of it. Lenders would contribute
to an insurance pool organized by, but not funded by, the
federal government. If there was a  default  on a mortgage, the
lender would be paid out of the pool. Paid in low-yielding
bonds, the lender wouldn’t lose the principal of the mortgage,
but neither would the lender have an incentive to lend to the
unworthy. With such a long repayment period, the monthly
installments could incorporate both interest and principal.  Mortgage amortization, as such a plan was called,
eradicated the need for refinancing, which made the balloon
mortgages so precarious. A long period made the  mortgages 
independent of short-term fluctuations in the economy. Borrowers
wouldn’t have to weather both unemployment and refinancing at
the same time.  The FHA preserved private choice while accomplishing a
public good. No lenders had to comply with the FHA, but if they
did, their business would be much easier to conduct. Risk-free
loans with guaranteed buyers provided an incredible -― and
noncoercive -― incentive to lend private capital.  Immoral Loans  The FHA’s plan was a revolution in finance. No longer would
homeowners borrow on balloon notes for a few years. Instead they
could borrow for 15 or 20 years (a length of time that bankers
had previously thought was immorally long). The loans could only
be used for good housing that would last for decades, and the
FHA would inspect all the houses to make sure they met
standards. The new thinking was that it was more immoral to
create a situation where homeowners would be  foreclosed  on.  As Time magazine described it, the new system was a
departure from the “old-fashioned mortgage that was renewed in
good times and foreclosed in bad.” The FHA insured the loans so
that private capital sources, such as banks and insurance
companies, would invest in them. Moffett authorized pamphlets
explaining how the building and banking industries could both
profit from the FHA. Animosity toward  government spending 
remained, but support for the FHA increased.  With guaranteed mortgages, the risk fell to nothing,
allowing Roosevelt to mandate that the FHA  mortgages  paid a low
fixed rate of 5 percent (compared with the market rate of 12
percent) nationwide. Moral or not, long-term mortgages
stabilized the housing market and increased the quality of U.S.
housing stock, bringing a new expectation of long-term mortgages
to the American borrower.  (Louis Hyman is an assistant professor of history at
 Cornell University  and the author of “Borrow: The American Way
of Debt.” The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more Echoes columns  online .  To contact the writer of this post:
Louis Hyman at  lhyman@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this post:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net  