-- How Keynes Locked Horns With Soviet Spy at Bretton Woods
-- B y   S a m   K n i g h t
-- 2013-05-02T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/how-keynes-locked-horns-with-soviet-spy-at-bretton-woods.html
History has been kind to  Bretton
Woods , the international economic conference that took place in
the  mountains  of  New Hampshire  in the summer of 1944.  Within weeks of D-Day, the story goes, diplomats and
negotiators from 44 countries gathered to thrash out a new
monetary framework for peacetime.  Led by enlightened officials from the  U.S. Treasury  and the
great British economist John  Maynard Keynes , they agreed on a
new architecture that would contain, if not prevent altogether,
the damaging “economic aggression” -- competitive devaluations
and trade wars -- that had contributed to the breakdown of order
in the 1930s.  The  International Monetary Fund  (IMF) and the  World Bank 
emerged from the talks. Twenty-five years of relative stability
and worldwide economic recovery followed, enshrining the memory
of the occasion and its supposedly utopian spirit -- so much so
that the need for “a new Bretton Woods” has been frequently
invoked since the onset of the financial crisis in 2008.  Now Benn Steil, a senior fellow at the  Council on Foreign
Relations , has carefully dismantled this anodyne version of
events. In his masterful account, “ The Battle of Bretton
Woods ,” Steil situates the conference firmly in the tense,
heightened atmosphere of the final months of World War II.  Desperate Economies  Though they might have been sincere in their hopes for a
durable new monetary system, almost all the delegates were most
immediately concerned with the desperate state of their wartime
economies and with securing access to U.S. dollars for their
reconstruction.  For no country was this truer than Britain, which faced the
unraveling of its empire and its status as the world’s foremost
trading nation. The bargaining position of the British
delegation was almost entirely defined by the weight of its
debts to its ally, the U.S.: $22 billion in Lend-Lease
assistance and loans, which were not paid off until 2006.  The Roosevelt administration, meanwhile, knew that  Bretton
Woods  was a singular opportunity to rewrite the rules of
international trade and foreign exchange to the benefit of the
U.S., and to install the dollar as the world’s reserve currency.
As Treasury Secretary Henry Morgenthau declared to his team:
“Now the advantage is ours here, and I personally think we
should take it.”  Great Allies  The showdown between the two great allies -- one in
decline, the other ascendant -- was embodied perfectly by their
chief negotiators, “the antipodal characters” of  John Maynard
Keynes , Britain’s “silver-tongued” celebrity economist, and
his counterpart, the dogged, bullying, nerve-ridden figure of
Harry Dexter White, the U.S. Treasury economist later revealed
as a Soviet spy.  For both men, Bretton Woods was a chance to imprint their
economic vision on the world to come. Steil’s book comes alive
in his description of their contrasting experiences at the
conference.  Feted by reporters, accompanied by his Russian ballerina
wife, Keynes gave wonderful, amusing speeches while quivering
with rage at the concessions he was forced to make and the
“Cherokee” legalese of the negotiating text.  White, on the other hand, stayed largely out of sight,
substituting critical phrases into the agreement without
consulting anybody at all.  Cut Short  Neither man lived long enough to see the outcome of Bretton
Woods. Exhausted by his wartime exertions, Keynes died in April
1946. White, the victor of the conference, suffered a massive
heart attack the following summer, three days after appearing
before the House Un-American Activities Committee to deny his
Communist connections.  (The full extent of White’s work for Soviet intelligence
was not made public until 1995.)  The true “Bretton Woods era” did not last very long
either. It was not until 1961 that the articles of the IMF were
fully implemented and within a decade, President  Richard Nixon 
had canceled the convertibility of dollars into gold, the
keystone of White’s new monetary order.  As a result, the main aim of Bretton Woods -- to establish
a fair system to balance the monetary needs of the world’s great
debtor and creditor nations -- remains elusive. Seventy years
later, however, the roles of the protagonists have changed. Now
the U.S. is in debt to  China , and any “new Bretton Woods” is
likely to be as tense and confrontational as the last.  “The Battle of Bretton Woods: John Maynard Keynes, Harry
Dexter White and the Making of a New World Order” is published
by  Princeton University Press  in the U.S. and U.K. (449 pages,
$29.95, £19.95). To buy this book in  North America , click  here .  (Sam Knight writes for Muse, the arts and leisure section
of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Lewis Lapham  on history and  Zinta
Lundborg ’s NYC weekend.  To contact the writer on the story:
Sam Knight in London at  sam.knight@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New York  at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 