-- Peugeot Faces In-Depth EU Probe of Reorganization Program
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 2013-05-02T12:18:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/peugeot-faces-in-depth-eu-probe-of-reorganization-program.html
PSA Peugeot Citroen (UG) , Europe’s second-
largest automaker, faces an in-depth European Union probe into
whether 7 billion euros ($9.2 billion) in French government bond
guarantees are in line with antitrust rules.  The European Commission will determine whether the aid
would hurt competition and if planned job cuts and a factory
closing will restore the company’s long-term financial viability
without continued state support, the Brussels-based regulator
said in a statement today.  Peugeot needs the state guarantees to keep down borrowing
costs for its financing unit, which is key to offering loans to
buyers that are competitive with rivals such as  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ,
the region’s biggest automaker. Paris-based Peugeot, which
reported a 576 million-euro operating loss in 2012, said last
month that first-quarter revenue fell 6.5 percent to 13 billion
euros as  Europe ’s market sinks for a sixth straight year.  “Today’s announcement is clearly negative,” said Sascha Gommel, an analyst at Commerzbank in  Frankfurt  with a reduce
rating on the shares. “PSA would have problems to access bond
markets without government support at the moment. However, we
regard it as rather unlikely that the EU Commission or  France 
will allow PSA to go out of business.”  Shares Drop  The  shares  declined as much as 28 cents, or 4.6 percent, to
5.80 euros and were down 2.9 percent as of 2:16 p.m. in Paris
trading. The stock has gained 8 percent this year, valuing the
French automaker at 2.09 billion euros.  The regulator in February granted temporary EU approval for
the state to guarantee 1.2 billion euros of bonds at Banque PSA
Finance, which the carmaker’s finance arm successfully sold in
March. The EU said today it’s also examining grants and
repayable advances of 85.9 million euros.  “This is a completely normal and usual procedure, and by
no means a surprise,” said Jean-Baptiste Mounier, a spokesman
for Peugeot. The company is cooperating with the EU, he said.  The proposed plan includes a restructuring of the
industrial organization and the administrative structures, and a
research and development project in the field of hybrid
technologies, the EU said.  “It forecasts a return to viability in 2015 and a number
of compensatory measures to limit distortions of competition,”
the commission said.  Court Approval  A French court last month approved plans by Peugeot to move
forward with the elimination of 11,200 jobs and a factory
closing over the objections of two unions. Labor leader
representing 75 percent of workers signed off this week on the
restructuring measures.  Peugeot aims to shrink its French automotive workforce by
17 percent over the next two years in response to the downward
spiral in European auto sales, which are near a 20-year low. The
automaker is also closing a factory on the outskirts of Paris in
Aulnay, selling assets and building a strategic alliance with
 General Motors Co. (GM)   Large state subsidies require EU approval and regulators
can impose conditions, including asset sales, to counter any
advantage the aid gives the company over rivals. EU rules say
this can involve withdrawal from loss-making activities, making
operations more efficient or diversification toward new and
viable operations.  “My belief is that the state did what it had to do so that
the PSA bank could finance itself in a satisfactory way,”
Finance Minister  Pierre Moscovici  said in Paris. “We discussed
the matter with European Commission and we continue to discuss
it. What we did was completely in line with European law.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Bodoni in Luxembourg at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  