-- Philippine Peso, Bonds Rally on S&P Investment-Grade Rating
-- B y   C l a r i s s a   B a t i n o
-- 2013-05-02T09:27:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/philippine-peso-bonds-rally-on-s-p-investment-grade-rating.html
The Philippine peso posted its biggest
gain in almost two weeks and government bond yields fell after
the nation won an investment-grade rating from  Standard & Poor’s .  The rating on the nation’s long-term foreign currency-
denominated debt was raised one level to BBB- from BB+, S&P said
in a statement today, citing an improving external profile,
strengthening public finances and cooling inflation. The outlook
on the ranking is stable. Fitch Ratings Ltd. raised the
 Philippines  to investment grade on March 27, while the country
has the highest junk assessment at Moody’s Investors Service.  “The peso and bonds rallied after the S&P upgrade,
reinforcing the bullish sentiment of investors,” said Rafael Algarra, executive vice president at Security Bank Corp. in
Manila. “After the initial reaction, there may be some profit
taking in the coming days. It will take a while before funds
focused on investment grade assets can process approvals.”  The peso gained 0.3 percent to 41.055 per dollar at the
close in  Manila , after falling as much as 0.2 percent earlier,
according to Tullett Prebon Plc. One-month implied volatility, a
measure of expected moves in the  exchange rate  used to price
options, declined five basis points to 4.63 percent.  The yield on the 4 percent bonds due December 2022 fell 15
basis points, or 0.15 percentage point, to 2.85 percent,
according to Tradition Financial Services.  The upgrade could also boost the Philippine equities market,
said Alex Pomento, a Manila-based strategist at Macquarie Group
Ltd. The benchmark  stock index  rose 0.3 percent today, closing
before the S&P announcement.  ‘Remain Vigilant’  Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas will “remain vigilant against
risks associated with greater inflows,” Governor  Amando
Tetangco  said in a statement. The upgrade will cut the nation’s
borrowing costs, presidential spokesman Edwin Lacierda said.  The $225 billion economy expanded 6.6 percent in 2012, the
fastest pace in Asia after  China . Growth may have exceeded 6
percent in the first quarter, Economic Planning Secretary
Arsenio Balisacan said this week. Consumer-price gains probably
slowed to a range of 2.2 percent to 3.1 percent in April from
3.2 percent in March, Tetangco said on April 29. The government
will report last month’s inflation data on May 7 and first-
quarter gross domestic product on May 30.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clarissa Batino at   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at   jregan19@bloomberg.net  