-- Pilot, Haslam Sued by Trucking Firm for Fuel Rebate Fraud
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2013-05-02T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/pilot-haslam-sued-by-trucking-firm-for-fuel-rebate-fraud.html
Pilot Corp. (7846)  and Chief Executive
Officer Jimmy Haslam were sued by a Wisconsin trucking firm over
federal allegations that its Pilot Flying J truck-stop business
cheated customers on fuel rebates.  The complaint, filed at the U.S. courthouse in Chicago
yesterday by Edis Trucking Inc. of Franksville, Wisconsin,
follows allegations lodged against Pilot and company executives
last month by an FBI agent seeking court permission to search
Pilot offices in Knoxville, Tennessee.  U.S. Federal Bureau of Investigation Special Agent Robert
Root alleged “a scheme to defraud executed by various Pilot
employees to deceptively withhold diesel fuel rebates and
discounts from Pilot customers.”  Root’s 120-page affidavit, unsealed by U.S. Magistrate
Judge H. Bruce Guyton in Knoxville on April 18, was cited in
Edis’s complaint, which accuses the company, Haslam, President
Mark Hazelwood and other executive of racketeering.  “They engaged in repetitious and systematic mail fraud,
interstate  wire fraud  and/or foreign wire fraud,” Edis alleged
in its complaint seeking class status on behalf of all people
and entities that were party to fuel rebate and discount
contracts with the defendants from January 2005 to the present.  No federal charges have been filed in connection with the
allegations contained in Root’s affidavits. Rachel Albright, of
the Ingram Group in Nashville, a spokeswoman for Pilot, didn’t
immediately reply to a request for comment on the Edis
complaint, e-mailed to her after regular business hours
yesterday.  Punitive Award  The Wisconsin company is also seeking unspecified money
damages including a punitive award and other relief. Pilot has
also been sued by customers in federal courts in Birmingham,
 Alabama ,  Little Rock ,  Arkansas , and Jackson,  Mississippi .  Haslam, who owns the  National Football League ’s Cleveland
Browns franchise, said in an April 18 statement that his company
was cooperating in the federal probe.  “I maintain that the foundation of this company is built
on its integrity and that any willful wrongdoing by any employee
of this company at any time is intolerable,” he said.  Search warrants were issued in U.S. v. Pilot Flying J Inc.,
13-mj-02028, 13-mj-02029, 13-mj-02030 and 13-mj-02033, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of Tennessee (Knoxville).  The case is Edis Trucking Inc. v. Pilot Corp., 13-cv-03294,
U.S. District Court, Northern District of Illinois (Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in the  Chicago  federal courthouse at
   aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  