-- Pioneer Rises on Forecast Beat, More Drilling: Dallas Mover
-- B y   J i m   P o l s o n
-- 2013-05-02T16:58:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/pioneer-rises-on-forecast-beat-more-drilling-dallas-mover.html
Pioneer Natural Resources Co. (PXD) , the
second-biggest oil producer in the Permian Basin of  Texas , rose
the most in more than two years after first-quarter profit beat
forecasts and the company accelerated drilling plans in what it
estimates may be the biggest crude find in U.S. history.  Pioneer, based in Irving, Texas, increased 6.7 percent to
$126.93 at 12:15 p.m. in New York. Earlier the shares rose 7.5
percent, the biggest intraday gain since Nov. 10, 2011. The
shares have gained 19 percent this year.  First-quarter profit excluding a decline in the value of
forward contracts was 5 cents better than the  average  of 34
analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  The company is accelerating drilling faster than planned in
the eastern half of the Permian Basin, known as the Midland
Basin, after determining deposits there may yield 50 billion
barrels of oil, making it the biggest U.S. oil discovery ever,
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Scott Sheffield said on a
call with investors and analysts today.  “They’re the best-positioned company in the Midland
Basin,”  Leo Mariani , an Austin, Texas-based analyst for  RBC
Capital Markets , said today in a telephone interview. “Costs
are under control and these guys are executing on their plan.”  Mariani rates Pioneer a buy and owns no shares.  Production Rises  First-quarter production was equivalent to 171,000 barrels
of oil a day, beating a forecast for as much as 170,000 barrels,
according to a statement released yesterday after markets
closed.  Pioneer’s estimate for recoverable oil and gas from the
Midland basin is nearly double that for the Eagle Ford Shale in
southern Texas, and nearly four times larger than for Alaska’s
Prudhoe Bay, Sheffield said on today’s call.  Pioneer’s leases cover 900,000 acres of deposits known as
the Spraberry and Wolfcamp that it considers most prospective,
according to the statement.  Occidental Petroleum Corp. (OXY)  is the
largest oil producer in the Permian,  according  to the Texas
Railroad Commission.  Pioneer is ramping up drilling in the southern Midland
Basin under a $500 million joint venture with  Sinochem Group ,
 China ’s biggest supplier of chemicals, that is scheduled to
close in June. The deal calls for Sinochem to pay $1.2 billion
of Pioneer’s future drilling costs. Rig count will rise from
seven to 10 next year.  Promising well results 25 miles (40 kilometers) to the
north of the joint venture area triggered plans to add four
horizontal drilling rigs in that area this month, Sheffield
said. He reiterated a $2.75 billion 2013 drilling budget.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Polson in  New York  at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  