-- Polish Manufacturing Falls Most in 45 Months on Slowdown
-- B y   P i o t r   S k o l i m o w s k i
-- 2013-05-02T08:39:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/polish-manufacturing-falls-most-in-45-months-on-slowdown.html
Poland ’s manufacturing shrank the most
in 45 months in April, a sign that the European Union’s largest
eastern economy continued to slow and may need more interest-
rate cuts, according to HSBC Holdings Plc.  The purchasing managers’ index, a gauge of manufacturing,
fell to 46.9 from 48 in March, HSBC said today in a statement on
 Markit Economics ’s website. That was the weakest reading since
July 2009 and below the 47.8 median estimate of 21 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg. A result above 50 indicates expansion,
while a figure below that shows contraction.  Poland is seeking to avoid the steepest slowdown in more
than a decade as demand for its exports from the euro area wanes
while rising unemployment curbs consumer spending. The central
bank is meeting next week and some policy makers have indicated
they will seek a resumption in monetary easing after the pause
last month.  “The April manufacturing PMI index delivers a significant
disappointment,”  Agata Urbanska , an economist for central and
eastern  Europe  at HSBC, said by e-mail. “Weak activity data and
weak leading activity indicators matched with below-expectations
inflation will keep up pressure for further interest-rate
cuts.”  The zloty strengthened 0.2 percent to trade at 4.1522 per
euro by 10:29 a.m. in Warsaw after the report, paring its loss
to the common currency to 1.6 percent since the start of 2013.  The contraction deepened because of “sharper declines” in
output and new orders, HSBC said. Manufacturing employment fell
for the eighth month, the longest streak of job shedding in
almost 3 1/2 years, according to the report.  No Vote  Polish central bankers didn’t vote on rate cuts in April
after reducing borrowing costs to a record low in the previous
five months because of “ambiguous” signs of a recovery,
minutes of the meeting showed last week.  Since then, Anna Zielinska-Glebocka and  Jerzy Hausner , two
of the Monetary Policy Council’s 10 members, said they won’t
rule out a rate in May.  A recession in the 17-nation euro area, which buys 52
percent of Polish exports, and “restrictive” monetary policy
at home have forced the government to lower its growth forecast
to 1.5 percent this year, which would be the slowest pace in 11
years, Finance Minister  Jacek Rostowski  said last week.  The  European Central Bank  will cut borrowing costs today,
according to 45 of 70 economists surveyed by Bloomberg after a
month in which inflation plunged, economic confidence slumped
and unemployment rose. The Ifo institute index of business
climate in  Germany , Poland’s biggest trading partner, fell for a
second month in April.  While export orders in Polish manufacturing improved in
April from a month earlier, “there are downside risks building
up” amid weak sentiment indicators in the euro area, HSBC said.  The council “might be forced to consider reopening of the
easing cycle even earlier than it implied, i.e., ahead of the
new inflation report due in July,” Urbanska said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Piotr Skolimowski in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  