-- Predator Targets Hit as Banks Shut Branches Amid Profits
-- B y   F r a n k   B a s s   a n d   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 2013-05-02T16:00:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/post-crash-branch-closings-hit-hardest-in-poor-u-s-areas.html
Banks that opened more than 15,000
branches across the U.S. in the decade leading to the financial
crisis are retreating from lower-income neighborhoods, even as
the industry posted its second-most-profitable year on record.  Banks have shut 1,826 branches since late 2008, and 93
percent of closings were in postal codes where the household
income is below the national median, according to census and
federal banking data compiled by Bloomberg. The number of
branches, boosted by acquisitions at  Bank of America Corp.  and
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , peaked at 99,540 in 2009, up 20 percent
from 1998. A  study released  two days ago estimates the branch
total could fall by as much as 40 percent in the next decade.  The figures show that the same neighborhoods targeted by
predatory lenders before the housing-market collapse are now
suffering the biggest losses in bank branches. The decline
limits access to basic financial services for people who don’t
have bank accounts and forces them to pay fees for such
activities as cashing checks and settling utility bills.  “It’s very hard for people to get an economic toehold in
neighborhoods without banks,” said Sarah Ludwig, co-director of
the Neighborhood Economic Development Advocacy Project, a New
York-based community support center. “If you don’t have banks,
you’re not fostering small businesses. You’re diminishing jobs,
and you’re diminishing your own tax base.”  Unregulated Businesses  A study released in September by the  Federal Deposit
Insurance Corp.  estimated 10 million households lack bank
accounts. Another 24 million are “underbanked,” using check-
cashing services and other unregulated businesses for financial
transactions. The households represent 28 percent of the U.S.
total.  The ranks of underserved people approach 50 percent in more
than a dozen U.S. counties. The Bronx in  New York  City  ranks
behind  only Hidalgo County in  Texas  as the nation’s most
unbanked large county, with 48 percent of households either not
having an account or relying on alternative financial providers.
That’s according to  a report  by the Corporation for Enterprise
Development, a Washington-based advocacy organization for lower-
income Americans.  More than 96 percent of the 47,300 people who live in the
Longwood neighborhood of the Bronx are black or Hispanic. Median
household income in the postal code is $22,458, less than the
2011 national poverty line of $22,811 for a family of four,
according to the Census Bureau.  Pawn Central  Two bank branches operated in the neighborhood in June
2012, down from five in 2008. The remaining branches, owned by
Hato Rey, Puerto Rico-based  Popular Inc. (BPOP)  and New York-based
JPMorgan, are within 300 feet of each other on a busy street.
They’re outnumbered 3-to-1 by pawn shops, gold-buying stores and
check-cashing businesses.  “There used to be a bank over there,” Amar Ndiaye, 65,
said, gesturing at a fast-food restaurant across the street from
the table where he has sold electronics accessories for more
than a decade. “We used to have more choices.”  On the other side of the street, a dozen people stood in
line waiting to use one of Chase bank’s four ATMs as the No. 2
train screeched above on its elevated track.  The banking withdrawal from lower-income neighborhoods has
occurred on the heels of a “reverse redlining” epidemic where
lenders targeted poor and uneducated residents with ruinous
credit terms.  Settling Complaints  Banks acquired the mortgages from brokers, securitized the
loans and sold them to investors, before the housing bubble
burst. Major financial institutions, including Countrywide
Financial Corp. and  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , settled federal
complaints that their policies encouraged reverse redlining,
paying more than a half-billion dollars in penalties.  The U.S. Justice Department last month began notifying
customers of a  Virginia  subsidiary of  SunTrust Banks Inc. (STI)  that
they were part of a class of black and Hispanic neighborhood
residents who might be eligible to share in a $21 million
settlement reached with the Atlanta-based bank. SunTrust, the
nation’s  10th-largest  bank by deposits, denied allegations of
wrongdoing.  Median income and other demographic data were available for
only about half the bank branches shut nationwide in recent
years. Officials at the biggest U.S. banks said income levels
had nothing to do with the departures from less-wealthy areas.  “We’ve got a moral and regulatory obligation to be in
those places and serve those customers,” said Pablo Sanchez,
JPMorgan’s national director of consumer banking. “We’re not
walking away from them.”  Community Reinvestment  Banks, which posted $141.3 billion in net income last year,
are required to provide services to low- and moderate-income
communities under the 1977 Community Reinvestment Act. While
some Republican politicians, including 2012 presidential nominee
 Mitt Romney , have said the law prodded banks to give mortgages
to those who couldn’t afford them, a 2009 Federal Reserve Bank
of Minneapolis study found it didn’t encourage banks to make
high-risk loans.  Branches generally require $40 million of deposits to be
profitable, Paul Miller, an analyst with FBR Capital Markets in
Arlington, Virginia, has estimated. About 15 percent of bank
branches in the U.S. held less than $15 million in deposits,
Brian Foran, now head of regional bank coverage for Autonomous
Research LLP in  London , said in a 2011 interview.  A report released Tuesday by Celent, a Boston-based
consulting firm, predicted that the number of branches could
fall by as much as 40 percent within the next decade in an
erosion that “will be gradual, but unavoidable.”  Pressuring Banks  Bob Meara, co-author of the report, said in a telephone
interview that regulatory changes and increased reliance on
digital transactions in recent years “took the wind out of
banks’ profit sails.” Net interest margins, rates and fee
income have decreased, putting extra pressure on individual bank
branches to show steady profits, he said.  The lack of banking services is taking a toll on
communities like the South Bronx.  “People here are in a desperate situation,” said Greg
Jost, deputy director of the  University Neighborhood Housing
Program , a New York nonprofit group. “They’re living paycheck-
to-paycheck, and they’re paying higher fees than people in
 Manhattan  to make the same transactions.”  Banks Everywhere  About eight miles south of the Bronx, those in need of a
bank needn’t look far. The neighborhood that includes Union
Square has 34 banks, up from 26 in mid-2008.  There are 56,024 people in the area, with 95 percent citing
white or Asian ancestry. Median household income is $88,601,
about 175 percent of the national figure. AOL Inc. and  Nielsen
Holdings NV (NLSN)  have corporate offices in the neighborhood, also
home to the  Union Square Greenmarket , one of the nation’s
largest farmer’s markets.  “They’re everywhere,” Stephanie Bealert, 33, said of the
banks while selling cheese in the square for Consider Bardwell
Farm, a dairy based in West Pawlet,  Vermont . A trio of national
banks --  Citigroup Inc. (C) , JPMorgan and Bank of America -- rings
the southern end of the park.  The trend is obvious in Bealert’s Williamsburg,  Brooklyn ,
neighborhood, she said. The area along the East River across
from Manhattan, once known for its concentration of Hasidic
Jews, is now also home to many artists and hipsters.  “There was one local bank when I moved there” in 2008,
she said, “and now, it’s gotten a bunch of the big national
banks.”  Increasing Count  JPMorgan, the nation’s largest financial institution by
assets, increased its bank branch count by 78 percent to 5,586
during the five-year period, according to FDIC data. The
majority of the growth occurred as a result of its 2008 purchase
of Washington Mutual Inc.  The percentage of JPMorgan branches in higher-income postal
codes grew to 63 percent in 2012, up from 61 percent in 2008,
census and banking data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Charlotte , North Carolina-based  Bank of America Corp. , the
nation’s second-largest bank, has 30 percent of its branches in
federally defined low- and moderate-income neighborhoods, said
Tara Burke, a spokeswoman.  The company had 5,635 branches on June 30, down from its
2008 tally of 6,042. The percentage of branches in neighborhoods
with incomes higher than the national median rose less than a
percentage point to 58 percent, according to the banking and
census data.  ‘Rigorous Analytics’  Wells Fargo, which has 6,293 branches, the most of any U.S.
bank, has closed 425 brick-and-mortar buildings during the last
five years. About 75 percent of the closures were related to the
company’s 2008 takeover of Wachovia Corp., said  Mary Eshet , a
spokeswoman for the San Francisco-based bank.  “The decision to close any store goes through rigorous
analytics, including in-depth evaluation by our community
development group which looks specifically at impacts to low-and
moderate-income neighborhoods,” she wrote in an e-mail.  Seventy percent of closed Wells branches were within a mile
of another bank location, and 90 percent within two miles, Eshet
said. The banking and census data show the bank’s percentage of
branches in higher-income postal codes stayed essentially the
same in 2012 at 55 percent, with about 3,489 high-income
branches out of 6,293.  “We love affluent customers,” Eshet said. “But we’re a
mass-market bank.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Frank Bass in Washington at 
 fbass1@bloomberg.net ;
Dakin Campbell in San Francisco at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Flynn McRoberts at 
 Fmcroberts1@bloomberg.net ;
Mark McQuillan at 
 mmcquillan@bloomberg.net  