-- Productivity in U.S. Rises as Companies Try to Cut Labor Costs
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2013-05-02T12:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/productivity-in-u-s-rises-as-companies-try-to-cut-labor-costs.html
The  productivity  of U.S. workers rose
in the first quarter as companies focused on containing labor
expenses.  The measure of employee output per hour increased at a 0.7
percent annual rate, after dropping 1.7 percent in the prior
three months, a Labor Department report showed today in
 Washington . The  median  forecast in a Bloomberg survey of
economists called for a 1 percent advance.  Expenses per worker 
increased at a 0.5 percent rate after jumping 4.4 percent.  Employers tried to control expenses by making do with their
existing staff as demand grew in the January to March period.
The emphasis on wringing efficiency gains may mean hiring will
take time to accelerate, particularly as across-the board
 federal budget  cutbacks and higher payroll taxes restrain the
world’s largest economy.  “Businesses are struggling to raise productivity,” Guy Berger, an economist at RBS Securities Inc. in  Stamford ,
 Connecticut , said before the report. “Companies are struggling
to increase profits as well. Employment has taken a downshift.
The second half is going to be better for employment.”  Estimates of the 51 economists surveyed ranged from a
decline of 1 percent to a 2.8 percent gain.  The drop in fourth-quarter productivity was revised from a
previously reported 1.9 percent decrease.  Another report from the Labor Department showed the number
of Americans filing claims for jobless benefits unexpectedly
dropped last week to the lowest level in more than five years,
indicating companies are retaining staff even as the economy
cools.  Jobless Claims  Applications (INJCJC)  for unemployment insurance payments fell
18,000 to 324,000 in the week ended April 27, the fewest since
January 2008. Economists forecast 345,000 claims, according to
the median estimate in a Bloomberg survey. A Labor Department
official said there was nothing unusual in the data.  Unit labor costs, which are adjusted for efficiency gains,
were forecast to rise 0.7 percent, the survey median showed.  Productivity climbed 0.9 percent from the first quarter of
2012. That compares with an average gain of 2.3 percent from
2000 through 2011.  Labor costs increased 0.6 percent year-over-year in the
first quarter, down from a 2 percent gain in the previous three
months.  Among manufacturers, productivity jumped at a 3.8 percent
rate in the first quarter.  Growth Pickup  Gross domestic product grew at a 2.5 percent annualized
pace in the first three months of 2013, up from a 0.4 percent
rate from October to December. Growth may weaken this quarter,
in part due to the lagged effect of a two percentage-point rise
in the payroll tax at the start of 2013 and $85 billion in
automatic budget cuts that began March 1.  The economy will slow to a 1.5 percent pace of expansion
from April through June, then reaccelerate to an average 2.4
percent rate in the last six months of the year, according to an
April survey by Bloomberg.  “Fiscal policy is restraining economic growth,” Federal
Reserve policy makers said in a statement yesterday after
meeting in Washington. While the economy has been expanding at a
“moderate pace,” they said, “the  unemployment rate  remains
elevated.”  The central bank said it will maintain bond buying at a
rate of $85 billion a month and is “prepared to increase or
reduce the pace of its purchases to maintain appropriate policy
accommodation.”  Payroll Forecast  Employers probably hired 145,000 workers in April after
taking on 88,000 in March, and the  unemployment rate  held at a
four-year low of 7.6 percent, according to the median forecast
in a Bloomberg survey ahead of payrolls figures due tomorrow.  Job gains averaged 168,000 a month in the first quarter,
after a 208,000 average for the final three months of 2012.  3M Co. (MMM) , the maker of products ranging from  Scotch tape  to
dental braces, is among companies trying to wring out more
productivity by controlling expenses. The  St. Paul , Minnesota-
based company cut its annual earnings forecast after quarterly
profit trailed estimates amid a slowing global economy.  “We’ve been managing costs quite cautiously through last
year, through the first quarter,” David Meline, chief financial
officer, said in an April 25 earnings call. “We’re in a
position now where we’ll continue to do that until such time
that we see our growth picking up more strongly, which would
support incremental investments in certain areas.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  