-- PulteGroup Among Builders Buying First Great Park Lots
-- B y   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n
-- 2013-05-02T15:43:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/pultegroup-among-builders-buying-first-great-park-lots.html
PulteGroup Inc. (PHM)  and  Lennar Corp. (LEN)  are
among eight builders buying the first 726 lots at the Great Park
Neighborhoods, a residential community in Orange County,
California, that has struggled to open since 2005.  “This is big signal in terms of the Orange County
market,” Emile Haddad, chief executive officer of FivePoint
Communities Inc., the  Aliso Viejo , California-based developer of
Great Park, said in a telephone interview. “It’s big in terms
of the project itself when you had a lot of doubters saying it
would never happen.”  Demand for new homes in Southern California, where the U.S.
housing bubble was fueled by locally based subprime lenders such
as Countrywide Financial Corp. and New Century Financial Corp.,
has come back as buyers take advantage of low  mortgage rates  and
few existing properties are on the market.  FivePoint has permits for 5,000 homes at Great Park.  Irvine 
Co., Orange County’s largest developer, is opening a new
community with 3,800 homes this year, and other builders are
opening additional communities with 3,300 homes -- the most in
the area in about eight years, said Mike Balsamo, chief
executive officer of the the Building Industry Association of
Orange County.  New Home Co., a closely held builder based in Aliso Viejo,
tomorrow will break ground on Meridian, a 79-unit condominium
project on a golf course in Newport Beach with prices ranging
from $1.5 million to $4 million.  “It’s been more than 20 years since a new for-sale
residential community opened in this part of Newport Beach,”
Tom Redwitz, New Home Co.’s chief operating officer, said in an
interview. “Nothing’s been for sale for a long, long time.”  Hovnanian, Ryland  Hovnanian Enterprises Inc. (HOV) , William Lyon Homes Inc.,  MDC
Holdings Inc. (MDC) , Ryland Group Inc.,  Taylor Morrison Home Corp. (TMHC)  and
Shea Homes LP are the other builders that won bids for lots at
the Great Park, FivePoint said today in a statement.  “It is great to see the project happening and we’re very
delighted to be part of this new community,” Richard Douglass,
Southern California division president of Ryland, a  Westlake
Village , California-based builder, said in the statement.  Construction of the community’s initial model homes will
begin this month, and the first residents probably will be able
to move in by the end of the year, Haddad said.  Lot prices, which Haddad wouldn’t disclose, are “not
significantly below where the market was in 2005 or 2006,” he
said. While the homes are currently slated to sell for $600,000
to $1.2 million, high demand may push prices up, he said.  Lehman Brothers  Lennar, a Miami-based homebuilder that owns 60 percent of
FivePoint, acquired the 3,700-acre (1,500-hectare) site of the
Great Park Neighborhoods, formerly home to the El Toro Marine
Corps Air Station, for $700 million in 2005. The project was
recapitalized in 2010 to buy out the interests of FivePoint’s
biggest partner,  Lehman Brothers  Holdings Inc., which filed for
bankruptcy in September 2008.  FivePoint plans to open a second Great Park phase in 2014,
and has applied to develop as many as 11,000 homes at the site,
including 6,000 to be built on land currently approved for
commercial space, Haddad said. Great Park is about 40 miles (64
kilometers) southeast of  downtown Los Angeles .  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Gittelsohn in  Los Angeles  at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  