-- Qatar: Attention-Starved Teen of the Middle East
-- B y   J e f f r e y   G o l d b e r g
-- 2013-05-02T12:14:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/qatar-attention-starved-teen-of-the-middle-east.html
Here is the genius of Qatar, the
peanut-sized Persian Gulf state that provides material support
to Hamas, the Muslim Brotherhood and possibly some of  Syria ’s
jihadist rebel groups, in a single image: A two-cheeked kiss, in
public, between Qatar’s second-most powerful man, the prime
minister (and foreign minister), Sheikh Hamad bin Jassim bin
Jaber  Al Thani , and  Haim Saban , the Israeli-American billionaire
who funds, among other things, the Saban Center for Middle East
Policy at the  Brookings Institution .  The kiss took place at a Brookings dinner last week in
 Washington  that was convened to pay homage to Al Thani for his
support -- because, yes, in addition to pledging $400 million to
Hamas, Qatar also supports Brookings, one of Washington’s
premier research groups.  One of the biggest questions asked by people who watch the
Middle East is a simple one: What, exactly, does Qatar want?  In addition to funding Hamas and providing support for
Islamists across the region, Qatar also hosts the forward
headquarters of the U.S. Central Command at the huge Al Udeid
Air Base. The government of Qatar also hosts, and owns, the  Al
Jazeera  television network, which allows it to project its often
anti-American ideas around the world. (The only government that
has guaranteed immunity against criticism from Al Jazeera is,
unsurprisingly, Qatar’s). And as the kiss on Saban’s two cheeks
suggests, Qatar sees nothing incongruous about maintaining open
contacts with Israelis while funding an organization whose
declared goal is killing Israelis.  Three Interests  Many Arab leaders think that Qatar’s leadership is
motivated by three basic interests. The first is that Qatar’s
emir, Sheikh Hamad bin Khalifa Al Thani (the prime minister’s
boss and cousin), actually feels sympathy for Islamists. The
second is that despite this sympathy, he understands that the
best guarantor of his continued rule in his unhappy neighborhood
is the permanent presence of the American military on his
territory. The third is that Qatar will support -- out of
competitiveness, spite and jealousy -- whatever  Saudi Arabia ,
its much larger neighbor, opposes.  The ultimate explanation for Qatar’s behavior, however, may
be that the country is essentially an attention-starved
teenager, whose emotional insecurity causes it to insert itself
into everyone’s business. That’s one reason the Qatari
government maintains an intermittently open relationship with
Israeli officials; it wants to play a central role in the  Middle
East  peace process. This week, it spearheaded a drive to revive
negotiations, reintroducing a version of the 2002 Arab Peace
Initiative, calling for the establishment of a Palestinian state
and normalization of relations between Arabs and  Israel .  It may seem improbable that the Qataris would even try to
match Saudi Arabia, or any of their larger neighbors, in
influence. Qatar is about half the size of Belize. But thanks to
its immense oil wealth, the country’s per-capita gross domestic
product is  one of the highest  in the world.  Qatar may also be the biggest exploiter of guest workers in
the world. Of a population of roughly 1.9 million, almost 90
percent are migrant workers who, human-rights groups allege, are
often treated with  great cruelty  by their employers and by the
state. Qatar was recently chosen to host the 2022  World Cup , and
it plans to use an army of  exploited  Pakistanis, Bangladeshis
and Nepalese to build its new stadiums.  Uncomfortable Questions  If it sounds as if I’m describing a miserable place, I am.
I went to the dinner that night embarrassed on behalf of
Brookings, which, like many institutions in Washington,
shouldn’t be taking money from despotic Middle Eastern regimes,
yet does. And the warm-up acts were indeed cringe-worthy. I
can’t write about what was said, because these introductory
remarks were summarily declared off the record, but suffice to
say that various government officials who should have known
better ventilated on the subject of Qatar’s magnificence with
more than the minimally required sycophancy.  The main event -- a  conversation  between HBJ, as Sheikh
Hamad bin Jassim bin Jaber Al Thani is known, and  Martin Indyk ,
a vice president and director of foreign policy at Brookings --
was more enlightening. When his turn came, Indyk (who is a
friend of mine) asked HBJ a series of direct and uncomfortable
questions that prompted answers so incredible they had many of
the people in the audience not on Qatar’s payroll rolling their
eyes. “Whether it’s your bailing out the Muslim Brotherhood
government in  Egypt , or your support for the Muslim Brotherhood
in Syria, or Hamas in Gaza,” Indyk said, “there’s the impression
that you’re taking sides.”  HBJ replied: “I am happy for this question because this
thing has been spread a lot in Washington and I know how it’s
being spread.” When Middle Eastern countries are upset with one
another, he said, “we try to make rumors against each other.” He
went on to argue that Qatar -- whose government is a family-run
business that allows neither dissent nor political parties --
supports whichever Arabs happen to be rising against their
leaders at any given moment.  “The Tunisian people chose the Islamic government, and we
should respect that,” he said, citing a country not named by
Indyk. “We will respect anything being chosen by the people, not
by us.” He went on, “It is the same in Egypt, everybody is
talking about the Islamic Brotherhood, and Qatar is supporting
them. Also, I know and you know that these rumors come from our
region. Fine, we expect this.”  Indyk’s next question touched on an even more sensitive
subject: Qatar’s support for antigovernment Syrian Islamists,
including those with direct ties to al-Qaeda. Again, the prime
minister bobbed and weaved, eventually settling on a rhetorical
strategy of blaming the U.S.: “We have to do more. The  United
States  has to do more,” he said. “But later, don’t blame us, or
you blame yourself, because it will be our mistake together not
to intervene.” He ended by scolding his host: “So this rumor,
again, it’s between families, which are sometimes jealous.
Sometimes we tease each other. Don’t go to this business,
Martin.”  Unpretty Picture  For a reality check, I spoke to two administration
officials deeply engaged on the Syria question and on Qatar’s
role in supporting the rebels. (They requested anonymity to
speak freely.) They painted an unpretty picture. The officials
were pleased by the role Qatar is playing in the Arab-Israeli
 peace process , but they were flummoxed by its support for Hamas
-- which directly undermines the possibility of achieving an
equitable two-state solution (Hamas being, as it is, opposed to
Israel’s existence). They were also concerned that Qatar may be
supporting the most radical Syrian group, the Nusra Front, which
is openly affiliated with al-Qaeda.  In a  meeting  with the emir on April 23, President  Barack Obama  is said to have spoken in blunt terms about Qatar’s
support for jihadists, and to have warned that Qatari backing of
al-Qaeda-like groups would pose a direct challenge to the
national-security interests of the U.S. The emir was said to
have agreed with the president wholeheartedly on the matter.  He was also said to have suggested to the president that
stories about Qatari two-timing were mere rumor.  ( Jeffrey Goldberg  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Jeffrey Goldberg at  goldberg.atlantic@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 