-- India Says Inflation, Trade Gap Constrain Policy Scope: Economy
-- B y   K a r t i k   G o y a l
-- 2013-05-03T02:25:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/rbi-says-consumer-inflation-trade-gap-curb-policy-scope.html
The  Reserve Bank of India  said the
space for  monetary policy  to support economic growth remains
constrained by elevated consumer-price inflation and a record
current-account deficit.  “Monetary policy would need to be calibrated recognizing
the very limited policy space available to ease further,” the
Reserve Bank said yesterday in an economic review before today’s
rate decision in Mumbai. It cited “significant” risks
including a “high” current-account gap and “inflation above
the threshold over which it becomes inimical to growth
sustainability.”  India ’s  economy  expanded at the weakest pace in a decade
last fiscal year, and wholesale-price inflation slowed in March
to a more than three-year low even as consumer inflation held
above 10 percent. Governor Duvvuri Subbarao will cut the
repurchase rate for a third straight meeting to 7.25 percent
from 7.50 percent, 33 of 40 analysts said in a Bloomberg survey.  “The central bank will approach any further easing with a
lot of caution,” said  Anubhuti Sahay , an economist at Standard
Chartered Plc in Mumbai. Sahay said she doesn’t expect further
interest-rate cuts after a 25 basis-point reduction in the
decision due at 11 a.m.  The yield on the government note maturing June 2022 has
declined to 7.72 percent from 8.05 percent at the end of last
year. The rupee has appreciated about 2 percent versus the
dollar. The S&P BSE Sensex index has risen 1.6 percent.  ‘Slow-Paced’  The central bank said a “slow-paced” recovery is possible
later this year, “contingent on improved governance and
concerted action to resolve structural bottlenecks.” It also
said headline inflation is likely to remain “range-bound”
around current levels in 2013-2014.  “Policy recalibration could become necessary in either
direction as may be considered appropriate” depending on
economic risks, the  Reserve Bank  said.  India’s economy  will expand 6 percent in the fiscal year
through March 2014, based on a survey of forecasts from other
organizations, yesterday’s report showed. The previous survey in
January projected 6.5 percent. Wholesale-price inflation may
average 6.5 percent, the survey said, compared with an earlier 7
percent estimate.  “The challenge is to counter the growth slowdown by
reviving investment while managing the trade-off between
objectives of reviving demand and restraining the CAD,” the
Reserve Bank said, referring to the trade imbalance.  Manufacturing PMI  A report yesterday signaled Indian manufacturing expanded
at a slower pace in April. A purchasing managers’ index from
HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics fell to 51 from 52.
That’s the slowest since the same reading in November 2011. A
number above 50 indicates growth.  In  Asia  today,  China  reported non-manufacturing PMI
expanded at a slower pace in April. In  Australia , producer
prices rose at a faster pace last quarter from the previous
three-month period.  The European Commission will announce economic growth
forecasts while a report may show euro-area producer-price gains
slowed in March. The U.S. will release reports on non-farm
payrolls and factory orders.  India’s minority government has changed policies since
September to tackle price pressures, lure capital inflows and
spur economic expansion. The steps included paring the  budget
deficit  and opening the retail and aviation industries to more
investment from abroad.  Etihad Airways PJSC agreed last week to buy a 24 percent
stake in Mumbai-based Jet Airways (India) Ltd. for 20.6 billion
rupees ($383 million), taking advantage of the liberalization.  Inflation Risks  Inflation in Asia’s No. 3 economy, as measured by the
 wholesale-price index , slowed to a 40-month low of 5.96 percent
in March, while the  consumer-price gauge  climbed 10.39 percent
from a year earlier.  Higher energy prices as subsidies are curbed, rising food
costs and wage pressures are among the inflation risks India
continues to face, the monetary authority said.  Imports of gold and oil, and subdued exports, contributed
to a  current-account shortfall  of $32.6 billion in October
through December, or a record 6.7 percent of GDP. A drop of
about 8 percent in  gold prices  in April stoked optimism the gap
will narrow.  “The recent moderation in commodity prices, including oil
and gold” will help reduce the pressure on the current account,
the central bank said. Still, it’s “likely to remain above
sustainable level,” it said.  Six respondents in the rate survey expect no change in the
policy benchmark, while one predicts 7 percent. Nine of 32
economists in another survey are calling for a reduction in the
 cash reserve ratio  to 3.75 percent from 4 percent, with the rest
seeing no change.  Gross domestic product rose 5 percent in 2012-2013, the
statistics agency estimates. That’s less than the average of
about 8 percent in the past decade. The pace will accelerate to
6.1 percent to 6.7 percent this fiscal year, Finance Ministry
advisers said in February.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kartik Goyal in  New Delhi  at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  