-- RBS Seen Posting First-Quarter Profit as Bad Debts Fall
-- B y   G a v i n   F i n c h
-- 2013-05-02T09:31:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/rbs-seen-posting-first-quarter-profit-as-bad-debts-fall.html
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc ,
Britain’s biggest government-owned lender, may tomorrow post its
first quarterly profit since 2011 as bad loans and the cost of
redress for past missteps fell.  The firm will report net income of 356 million pounds ($554
million) in the first three months of 2013, according to the
median estimate of five analysts in a Bloomberg  survey . That
compares with a loss of 1.5 billion pounds a year ago, and would
be RBS’s first profit since the third quarter of 2011.
Impairments may fall 22 percent to about 1 billion pounds,
analysts said. RBS reports earnings at 7 a.m. local time.  “Everything is improving pretty steadily at RBS and we
expect that to continue,” said Shailesh Raikundlia, an analyst
at Espirito Santo Investment Bank in London with a sell rating
on the shares. “We’re not expecting anything dramatic from them
this quarter.”  Chief Executive Officer Stephen Hester, 52, said in
February that the lender will this year complete the “most
important” parts of its restructuring after receiving the
biggest bank bailout in 2008 and 2009. Hester’s attempts to
revive profit at the Edinburgh-based lender have been hampered
by surging loan losses tied to the collapse of the Irish real
estate market and the rising cost of compensating clients who
were improperly sold payment-protection insurance.  Follow Barclays?  The firm is likely to follow  Barclays Plc (BARC)  and  Lloyds
Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  in not setting aside additional funds to
compensate clients who were sold insurance that didn’t cover
them or that they didn’t require, the analysts said. The 81
percent government-owned bank has already earmarked more than 2
billion pounds for PPI compensation, compared with 6.8 billion
pounds for Lloyds and 2.6 billion pounds for Barclays.  RBS was down 0.9 percent to 304.3 pence by 10:03 a.m. in
London, giving it a market value of about 34.1 billion pounds.
The stock has fallen 6.3 percent this year, making it the  worst
performer  among Britain’s five-largest banks in the period.  The Treasury is planning to start reducing its stake in RBS
before the 2015 general election even if the shares trade below
the average price the government paid for its holding, the
Financial Times reported today, citing unidentified senior
figures in Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne’s party.  The government has already reduced the price at which it
says it would break even on its 45.5 billion-pound investment to
407 pence a share from the average of 502 pence paid during the
rescue, people familiar with the matter said in March.  Shrink Bank  After pressure from regulators and the government to boost
capital, RBS said in February it would shrink its investment
bank and sell a 25 percent stake in Citizens Financial Group
Inc., the U.S. consumer and commercial lender acquired in 1988.  Revenue from the markets business, its second-biggest unit
after consumer and commercial-banking, will drop to 387 million
pounds in the first quarter from 824 million pounds a year
earlier,  Mark Phin , an analyst at Keefe, Bruyette & Woods Ltd.
in London, wrote in a note to clients.  RBS last year announced plans to cut about 3,800 jobs at
the investment bank, and sell or close its unprofitable cash
equities, mergers advisory and equity-capital markets divisions.  Since Hester took over from CEO Fred Goodwin he has reduced
the size of the firm’s so-called non-core business to 57.4
billion pounds at the end of 2012 from 258 billion pounds at the
end of 2008, reduced costs and announced more than 36,000 job
cuts.  The company probably cut a further 6 billion pounds off its
non-core unit in the first quarter, Phin said.  ‘Less Noise’  “What he absolutely has to do is deliver further cost
reductions, a lot less noise from one-off items and be able to
show core profitability,” said  Simon Maughan , an analyst at
Olivetree Securities Ltd. in London. ‘Expectations for RBS are
pretty low, so they have the opportunity to deliver a positive
surprise.’’  Operating costs have reduced by 2.7 billion pounds, or 16
percent since 2009 as the bank eliminated jobs, according to
company filings.  Lloyds, Britain’s biggest mortgage lender, this week posted
a near-threefold increase in first-quarter profit as impairments
for souring loans dropped by more than analysts estimated.  Pretax profit at Lloyds rose to 1.48 billion pounds from
497 million pounds in the year-earlier period, beating analyst
estimates. Provisions fell 40 percent to 1 billion pounds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gavin Finch in  London  at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  