-- Rexnord Said to Abandon Sale Process After Offers Fall Short
-- B y   D a v i d   W e l c h   a n d   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n
-- 2013-05-02T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/rexnord-said-to-abandon-sale-process-after-offers-fall-short.html
Rexnord Corp. (RXN)  is ending the search for
a buyer after bids for all or parts of the industrial-components
maker failed to meet expectations, said people familiar with the
matter.  The Milwaukee-based company is disclosing to suitors that
it’s abandoning the process, said the people, who asked not to
be named because the talks were private. Rexnord, majority-owned
by  Apollo Global Management LLC (APO) , attracted interest from
private-equity firms and strategic bidders such as  Watts Water
Technologies Inc. (WTS) , the people said.  The decision comes about three months after Rexnord said 
it retained Goldman Sachs Group Inc. as an adviser on strategic
options. Rexnord also worked with Deutsche Bank AG on the
review, a person with knowledge of the process said in March.  Rexnord dropped almost 3 percent to $17.69 yesterday in New
York, giving the company a market value of about $1.7 billion.  Charles Zehren , an outside spokesman for Apollo with
Rubenstein Associations Inc., declined to comment. A message
left on Rexnord’s investor relations line wasn’t returned.  Rexnord has two main businesses: the water-management unit,
which sells systems to water and waste-water management
companies, and process and motion control, which makes parts for
companies in industries from mining to aerospace to food and
beverage.  Apollo bought Rexnord from Carlyle Group in 2006 for about
$1.83 billion. The New York-based private-equity firm took the
ball-bearing maker public in March 2012, with Rexnord raising
$490.3 million including an overallotment option.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Welch in New York at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken in  New York  at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  