-- Rhode Island Becomes 10th to Make Same-Sex Marriage Legal
-- B y   A n n i e   L i n s k e y
-- 2013-05-03T04:00:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/rhode-island-legislature-approves-same-sex-marriage.html
On same-sex marriage, New England is
now united.  Rhode Island  became the 10th U.S. state and final one in
the region to make gay weddings legal, after its  House of
Representatives  passed a bill expanding marriage rights to
homosexuals. Governor Lincoln Chafee, a 60-year-old independent,
has pushed the change since taking office in 2011 and signed the
bill yesterday, shortly after its approval.  “I am proud and humbled to make the Marriage Equality Act
the law of the land in Rhode Island,” Chafee said in a
statement. “We would not be where we are today without the
Rhode Islanders who for decades have fought for tolerance and
freedom over discrimination and division.”  Chafee backed the measure as a way to spur the state’s
economy. Rhode Island’s law takes effect Aug. 1.  Along with the five other New England states --
 Massachusetts ,  Maine ,  New Hampshire , Vermont and Connecticut --
same-sex marriages also are legal in Washington,  Iowa ,  New York ,
 Maryland  and the  District of Columbia . Similar measures are
pending in Delaware, Illinois and Minnesota.  The law will make Rhode Island “a place that is welcoming
to the younger generation, the creative generation,
entrepreneurs,” Chafee said in an interview at Bloomberg News
headquarters in New York this week.  “New England is now complete,” Marc Solomon, national
campaign director at Freedom to Marry, a New York-based group
that helps and funds local gay-rights organizations, said by
telephone. “We have an entire region of the country that has
approved the freedom to marry.”  No Surprise  Frank Schubert, national political director for the
National Organization for Marriage, a Washington-based group
that fights same-sex marriage legislation around the country,
said the loss for his side wasn’t a surprise.  “It is a heavily Catholic state, which is what helped us
hold same-sex marriage off for so long,” Schubert said by e-
mail. “It is also one of the most Democratic states.”  Rhode Island’s House, led by Representative Gordon D. Fox,
a Democrat and the country’s first openly gay House speaker,
passed a same-sex marriage measure by 51 to 19 in January. On
April 24, the Senate approved a modified version by 26 to 12
that expanded protections for religious organizations. That
change was approved in yesterday’s 56-15 vote.  All five Republicans in the 38-member Senate endorsed the
proposal, marking the first time that a state Republican
legislative caucus has unanimously done so, they said.  Generational Shift  “We recognize that there is a national consensus building
on this generational issue, and we are glad that support for the
freedom to marry is growing within the  Republican Party ,” the
caucus said in a statement last week.  Two years ago, Rhode Island’s legislature pulled back a
gay-marriage bill and instead approved civil unions. The state
has granted fewer than 100 of them since, according to the
Health Department. Rhode Islanders United for Marriage, a local
gay-rights group, has said the low rate stems partly from the
state’s proximity to others where gay marriage was already
legal.  Last May, Chafee signed an executive order recognizing
same-sex marriages performed out of state.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Annie Linskey in Boston at 
 alinskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  