-- Robusta Coffee Rises on Inventory Sales Speculation; Sugar Falls
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2013-05-02T10:08:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/robusta-coffee-rises-on-inventory-sales-speculation-sugar-falls.html
Robusta coffee rebounded in  London  on
speculation exchange data due later today will show stockpiles
declined as beans from producing countries are trading at a
premium. Sugar fell and cocoa swung between gains and losses.  Robusta inventories with a valid grading certificate in
warehouses monitored by NYSE Liffe were 126,250 metric tons on
April 15. The exchange data is due today and may show that
inventories dropped in the two weeks to April 29. Coffee from
Vietnam, the world’s top producer of the robusta variety, and
third-ranking Indonesia was trading at a premium of $90 a ton to
NYSE Liffe last week, according to Volcafe, the Winterthur,
Switzerland-based unit of ED&F Man Holdings Ltd.  “There’s speculation that certified stocks have been sold
to the industry,” Jerome Jourquin, head of agricultural
commodity derivatives at Aurel BGC in Paris, said by e-mail
today, referring to coffee roasters.  Robusta futures for delivery in July were up 0.7 percent at
$2,012 a ton by 10:50 a.m. on NYSE Liffe in London. The price
fell 0.4 percent yesterday. Arabica futures for July delivery
gained 0.9 percent to $1.3585 a pound on ICE Futures U.S. in New
York after sliding 0.3 percent yesterday. Futures trading
volumes were 54 percent lower than the average for the past 100
days for this time of day, data compiled by Bloomberg showed.  Robusta fell 2.1 percent last month as rainfall returned to
growing areas in  Vietnam , easing concerns a drought would cut
next year’s output. Coffee growing regions in the Dak Lak
province, which represents about 30 percent of the country’s
crop, will get rains in the first 10 days of May, the
Meteorology and Hydrology Department said in a report yesterday.  Dip Buying  “We continue to like robusta from the long side when
bought on dips,” Sterling Smith, a futures specialist at
Citigroup Inc. in  Chicago , said in a report e-mailed yesterday.
“Inclinations for upside action have become tempered due to the
change of weather and the weak arabica market.”  Cocoa swung between gains and losses after rallying as much
as 2 percent in London yesterday as traders weighed buying by
speculators and potential sales from producing nations in West
Africa.  Ivory Coast  and  Ghana  may resume their selling program
today after yesterday’s holiday and “every push higher may be
met by a greater level of resistance,” said Eric Sivry, head of
agriculture options brokerage at Marex Spectron in London.  “System speculators went cocoa-loco, buying everything
they could lay their hands on,” Sivry said in a report e-mailed
today. “At this point in time, the likelihood is that they are
mainly going long rather than still covering shorts. Cocoa is
moving more because of technical issues.”  Cocoa for July delivery was unchanged at 1,566 pounds
($2,437) a ton in London. It rose as much as 0.5 percent to
1,574 pounds a ton, the highest for a most-active contract since
Dec. 4, and also fell as much as 0.3 percent. Cocoa for July
delivery was little changed at $2,412 a ton in  New York .  White sugar for delivery in August fell 0.2 percent to $499
a ton on NYSE Liffe. Raw sugar for delivery in July was little
changed at 17.32 cents a pound on ICE.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 Ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 Ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 