-- Rolls-Royce Shuffles Executive Ranks as Aerospace Head Quits
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-05-02T07:36:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/rolls-royce-shuffles-executive-ranks-as-aerospace-chief-resigns.html
Rolls-Royce Holdings Plc (RR/) ,  Europe ’s
largest maker of  aircraft engines , said the head of its main
aerospace unit, Mark King, will depart in June, triggering a
reorganization of management ranks.  King, 48, “has decided to resign” and will be replaced by
Tony Wood, head of the ship-engine business, London-based Rolls
said in a statement. Lawrie Haynes takes on responsibility for
the marine unit while remaining head of nuclear energy.  King joined Rolls in 1986 and became head of the newly
combined commercial and military aerospace business only in
January after previously heading civil activities. His
replacement Wood was hired from landing-gear maker Messier-Dowty
in 2001 and has had stints in both aircraft-engine units.  Rolls-Royce reiterated its guidance for “good growth” in
underlying profit for 2013 after first-quarter trading matched
expectations. The company commented ahead of an annual investor
meeting at which Ian Davis, senior adviser at private equity
firm Apax Partners LLP, succeeds Simon Robertson as chairman.  U.S. Purchase  The management shuffle comes as Rolls continues a review of
anti-corruption practices after last year alerting the U.K.
Serious Fraud Office to potential wrongdoing in activities in
 Asia . The company plans to tighten controls over sales agents.  Chief Executive Officer John Rishton has broadened the
product portfolio with the acquisition yesterday of closely held
Hyper-Therm High Temperature Composites Inc. of  California  for
an undisclosed sum. Rolls also said April 23 it would sell its
half of the RTM322 helicopter-engine venture to partner  Safran
SA (SAF)  for 293 million euros ($385 million) by the year’s end.  Hyper-Therm specializes in materials such as ceramic matrix
composites, one-third the density of nickel super alloys and
able to withstand higher temperatures, which Rolls plans to use
in applications spanning aircraft engines to energy turbines.  “We expect CMCs will revolutionize the weight and
performance of engines,” John Gallo, Rolls-Royce North America
executive vice president of operations, said in the release.  Rolls-Royce traded 1.2 percent lower at 1,120 pence as of
8:27 a.m. in London. The stock has advanced 30 percent this
year, valuing the company at 21 billion pounds ($33 billion).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in  London  at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net  