-- Romania Seen Leaving Rates on Hold as CPI Above Target
-- B y   A n d r a   T i m u   a n d   I r i n a   S a v u
-- 2013-05-02T06:29:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/romania-seen-leaving-rates-on-hold-as-cpi-above-target.html
Romania’s central bank will probably
refrain from cutting its main  interest rate  for a ninth meeting
as it waits for the European Union’s highest inflation rate to
get closer to its target.  The Banca Nationala a Romaniei will keep the benchmark rate
unchanged today at an EU-high 5.25 percent, according to all 19
economists in a Bloomberg  survey . The decision is due after 11
a.m. in Bucharest. Governor Mugur Isarescu will brief reporters
later in the day.  Romania halted a rate-cutting cycle a year ago as waning
agricultural output boosted food prices and a pledge to the
 International Monetary Fund  and the EU to liberalize energy
tariffs increased consumers’ utility bills. Other central banks
in the region are lowering borrowing costs in an attempt to spur
economic growth as the euro area, their main trading partner,
struggles to contain the impact of a debt crisis.  “Under our base scenario, the key rate will be left
unchanged for the rest of the year, before room for monetary
easing opens up in early 2014,” Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc strategists Abbas Ameli-Renani and Demetrios Efstathiou
wrote in a note before the decision. “We would not dismiss the
chances of a rate cut in the fourth quarter, particularly if
inflation falls faster than expected.”  Romania ’s inflation slowed more than estimated in March to
5.25 percent from 5.65 percent in February. Price growth will
return to the central bank’s target range of 1.5 percent to 3.5
percent by year-end, policy makers predict.  Leu Price  The leu, the best-performing currency against the euro this
year among eastern European peers, traded at 4.3230 per euro at
9:20 a.m. in Bucharest, down 0.2 percent from yesterday’s close.
It gained 3 percent so far this year.  Neighboring Hungary cut its main rate to a record-low 4.75
percent on April 23 to help its economy emerge from a recession
as the inflation rate stood at 2.2 percent in March, the lowest
in almost 39 years.  Poland ’s central bank also reduced its
benchmark seven-day  reference rate  to 3.25 percent on March 6.
The  Czech Republic  has kept its rate at 0.05 percent since last
November and is expected to remain on hold at a meeting today,
according to a Bloomberg survey of 18 economists.  Romania avoided a recession last quarter as gross domestic
product rose a seasonally adjusted 0.4 percent from the previous
three months, more than a previous estimate of 0.1 percent. The
economy is set to grow 1.6 percent this year, according to the
European Commission.  “We expect Romania’s economy to be amongst the
outperformers of the region, posting a healthy, albeit modest
growth rate of 1.8 percent for full-year 2013,” Ameli-Renani
and Efstathiou said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andra Timu in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net ;
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net ;
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  