-- Perelman Pledges $100 Million to Columbia Business School
-- B y   J a m e s   C a l l a n
-- 2013-05-02T14:22:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/ronald-perelman-donates-100-million-to-columbia-business-school.html
Billionaire investor Ronald Perelman
pledged $100 million to Columbia Business School to develop a
new facility aimed at strengthening innovations and programs for
future business leaders.  In recognition, the business school will name one of its
two buildings on the new campus after Perelman, the New York-
based university said today in a statement.  “The business landscape is changing rapidly and
dramatically, and as such the principles that define strong
business leadership -- such as an entrepreneurial mindset and
solving complex challenges -- are more important now than ever
before,” Perelman, who holds undergraduate and graduate degrees
from University of Pennsylvania, said in the statement.  The Ronald O. Perelman Center for Business Innovation will
be situated opposite the Henry R. Kravis Building, which is
named in recognition of a 2010 gift of $100 million made by
alumnus Henry R. Kravis, the billionaire co-founder of private-
equity firm KKR & Co. The new buildings are part of Columbia
University’s expansion into the Manhattanville section of New
York.  Perelman, 70, who ranks 65th on the Bloomberg Billionaire’s
Index with a net worth of $13.7 billion, controls cosmetics
company  Revlon Inc. (REV)  and is chief executive officer of MacAndrews
& Forbes Holdings Inc., which invests in industries including
consumer products, entertainment and financial services. He’s
been a member of Columbia’s Board of Overseers since 1994.  In February, Perelman donated $25 million to Penn to create
a new home for the political science and economics departments.
His parents gave $225 million to Penn’s medical school in 2011,
the largest single gift in the school’s history.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Callan in New York at 
 jcallan2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Cecile Daurat at 
 cdaurat@bloomberg.net ;
Lisa Wolfson at 
 lwolfson@bloomberg.net  