-- Rossi Restructuring Spurs Bets on Brazil Builder’s Profit
-- B y   D e n y s e   G o d o y   a n d   C h r i s t i a n a   S c i a u d o n e
-- 2013-05-02T21:08:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/rossi-restructuring-spurs-bets-on-brazil-builder-s-profit.html
Rossi Residencial SA (RSID3) ,  Brazil ’s most
indebted homebuilder, is benefiting from efforts to sell assets
and shrink operations, helping the stock post its first monthly
gain this year.  Rossi, backed by Government of Singapore Investment Corp.’s
Reco Aster and Vinci Partners, is exiting low-income housing and
dozens of cities to focus on apartments costing 200,000 reais to
1 million reais ($99,900 to $500,000) in regions such as Rio de
Janeiro and Sao Paulo, Chief Executive Officer Leonardo Diniz
said in an interview. The steps will help Rossi return to profit
in 2013 and generate cash starting in July, he said.  Rossi and  Cyrela Brazil Realty SA (CYRE3)  are leading a turnaround
in an industry that piled on debt to expand and then was saddled
with too much inventory after overestimating demand, according
to Wesley Bernabe, a Banco do Brasil analyst. At 123 percent of
shareholder equity, Rossi’s debt tops Brazil’s 10 biggest
homebuilders by market value, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “Before, the focus of the company was growth, sales and
launches,” Diniz said at Bloomberg’s office in  Sao Paulo . “The
company’s focus now is on generating cash and deleveraging.”  Stock Rally  The stock rallied 9.7 percent in April, the first  monthly
gain  in 2013 after a 32 percent first-quarter plunge. Rossi
traded on April 30 at 6.2 times estimated 2013 earnings, the
lowest of Brazil’s 10 biggest homebuilders.  JHSF Participacoes
SA (JHSF3) , the fourth-largest, has the highest multiple at 14. Shares
declined 2.1 percent to 3.31 reais at the close of trading in
Sao Paulo today.  Cyrela’s 4.9 percent gain last month also beat the 0.8
percent decline for Brazil’s benchmark Ibovespa index. Its
price-earnings ratio was 8.9, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Rossi is in talks with private-equity funds to sell a
minority stake in Rossi Urbanizadora, which builds gated
communities and has a land portfolio valued at 6.8 billion
reais, Diniz said. He declined to elaborate.  The asset sales will reduce Rossi’s land holdings to 8.8
billion reais from about 20 billion reais, he said. New projects
fell to 2.7 billion reais last year from 5.5 billion reais in
2011, according to company regulatory filings.  “We’re working to have a  land bank  compatible with a much
smaller company,” Diniz said. “There’s no use in having a lot
of launches without profitability, without a return.”  General and administrative  costs  were cut to 221 million
reais in 2012 from 261 million reais a year earlier, and Rossi
is targeting expenses of 180 million reais annually through
2015.  Cyrela Success  Rossi may be seeking to emulate Cyrela, the nation’s
biggest homebuilder by market value, which implemented a
restructuring plan in 2011, said Banco do Brasil’s Bernabe, who
is reviewing his rating on the stock.  “The main challenge for Rossi now is execution of projects
-- the company is committing to operate in fewer regions,
improve cost controls, meet delivery deadlines and not use
contractors by doing its own projects,” Bernabe said in a
telephone interview from Sao Paulo. Cyrela “already obtained
 good results  that inspire others. If Rossi can create strategies
that prove to be successful, other homebuilders may follow.”  Net income  at Sao Paulo-based Cyrela rose 33 percent last
year to 660 million reais, the biggest gain in the industry,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. Rossi swung to a net loss of
205.7 million reais in 2012 from a profit of 78.7 million reais
the year earlier.  Consumer Debt  Brazilian consumers struggling under bigger debt burdens
may derail homebuilders’ efforts to generate cash flow and
profits, according to Cristiane Spercel, a Sao Paulo-based
analyst at Moody’s Investors Service, which rates Rossi as Ba2
with a negative outlook. Last year, Rossi had 1.3 billion reais
of cancellations on 2.8 billion reais in sales, she said.  “ Consumer debt  commitments have increased,” she said by
phone. “After a couple of years, when the apartment is ready to
be delivered, and the buyer is being passed on to a bank, they
are more in debt than before and the bank rejects the loan.”  Default rates on personal loans fell 0.1 percentage point
to 7.6 percent in March to the lowest since November 2011, the
central bank said in a report last week. Defaults matched a 30-
month high as recently as September.  Five analysts  rate Rossi  as sell, 11 say hold and one
recommends buying the shares, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Other measures aimed at boosting profitability include
reducing third-party contractors to 10 percent of projects from
50 percent, Chief Financial Officer Rodrigo Medeiros said at the
interview with Diniz.  “Rossi’s plan makes a lot of sense -- that’s why the stock
is doing better now,” Banco do Brasil’s Bernabe said. “We
won’t see the results of these steps in a quarter or two, but
the expectation is more positive now.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Denyse Godoy in Sao Paulo at 
 dgodoy2@bloomberg.net ;
Christiana Sciaudone in Sao Paulo at 
 csciaudone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net ;
Jessica Brice at 
 jbrice1@bloomberg.net  