-- India Probed After Zuma’s Friends Use Airbase for Guests
-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d   a n d   K a m l e s h   B h u c k o r y
-- 2013-05-02T14:15:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/s-africa-suspends-state-protocol-chief-over-gupta-india-wedding.html
South Africa is investigating if the
Indian High Commission abused diplomatic privilege after a
civilian Airbus carrying guests to the wedding of the Gupta
family, which has been linked to President  Jacob Zuma , was
allowed to land at a military base.  “The investigations will point out to us if that is the
case,” Minister in the Presidency Collins Chabane told
reporters in  Pretoria  today. “If so, the necessary steps will
be taken. This is a serious matter.”  South Africa’s Department of International Relations and
Cooperation suspended its Chief of State Protocol Ambassador
Bruce Koloane. The government is probing how permission was
granted for guests of the wedding of Vega Gupta and Aakash
Jahajgarhia to land at the Waterkloof Air force base, near
Pretoria, on April 30, the ministry said in an e-mailed
statement today.  The Guptas, an Indian family that has been doing business
in South Africa since 1993, own Sahara Computers and The New Age
newspaper. They were part of a group including Zuma’s son,
Duduzane, that sought 800 million rand ($90 million) for a
mining right disputed by  Anglo American Plc (AAL)  unit  Kumba Iron Ore. (KIO) 
Members of the family also control Shiva Uranium Ltd.  Zuma has been a friend of the Gupta family for about a
decade, Atul Gupta said in an interview with Johannesburg-based
Daily Maverick in 2011. Zuma won’t attend the wedding, Chabane
said.  Police Escort  The  African National Congress  “will never rest where there
is any indication that all and sundry may be permitted to
undermine the republic, its citizens and its borders,” the
ruling party said in a statement on April 30.  Unlike other visitors, the family received police escorts
using state resources in South Africa, the Congress of South
African Trade Unions, an ANC ally, said in an e-mailed statement
today.  “It is an absolute insult to the people of  South Africa 
that private individuals can use a public facility for their
social activities and that state officials should escort them,”
Cosatu said.  Police officials may have violated regulations when they
gave VIP protection when escorting guests to Sun City, the
resort where the wedding is being held, Police Minister Nathi Mthethwa said today in an e-mailed statement. The police has
started its own investigation into the incident, he said.  Full Permission  The air force base, on the outskirts of the capital city,
is classified as a “national key point” and access is
restricted to government and military officials. Sun City is
about 150 kilometers (90 miles) west of Waterkloof.  “Waterkloof Air Force base was used with full permission
of the authorities to receive foreign dignitaries including some
ministers,” Haranath Ghosh, a spokesman for the Gupta wedding,
said in an e-mailed statement today.  While “no executive authority” was given to land the
plane at the base, it’s clear that some officials gave clearance
for the flight, the Department of International Relations said.  The Indian High Commissioner made the request after a bid
by Sahara was refused, the  Department of Defense  said in an e-
mailed statement today.  No one at the High Commission in Pretoria was available to
comment when called by  Bloomberg News .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Franz Wild in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net ;
Kamlesh Bhuckory in Johannesburg at 
 kbhuckory@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  