-- S. Africa May Lower Power Levy to Curb Carbon-Tax Effect
-- B y   A n a   M o n t e i r o   a n d   T s h e p i s o   M o k h e m a
-- 2013-05-02T08:25:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/s-africa-may-lower-power-levy-to-curb-carbon-tax-effect.html
South  Africa  is considering reducing
duties on power from non-renewable sources to counter the
effects of a planned carbon-emissions tax on growth, the
National Treasury said.  “The impact on the country’s economic growth is shown to
be largely neutral if accompanied by effective revenue-recycling
measures,” the Pretoria-based Treasury said in an e-mailed
statement today. “One of the ways to recycle the expected
carbon tax revenue is by reducing other taxes.”  A duty of 120 rand ($13) per metric ton of carbon will
apply on 40 percent of a company’s emissions from Jan. 1, 2015,
rising by 10 percent each year through 2020. The effective tax
rate will range from 12 rand to 48 rand per ton once the tax-
free thresholds and other relief measures are accounted for, the
Treasury said. It may lower an existing levy on electricity made
from coal and nuclear energy, it said. South Africa produces 80
percent of its power from coal.  The country delayed introducing the carbon tax from April
this year after metals companies such as  ArcelorMittal (MT)  South
Africa Ltd. and  Gold Fields Ltd. (GFI)  objected. The nation in 2009
said it would try to cut emissions 34 percent by 2020 on
condition that developed countries offer money and technical
assistance. South Africa released 547 million tons in 2010, and
the transport, oil refining and power generation industries
comprised more than 80 percent of emissions in 2000, the
Treasury said.  South Africa will raise about 15 billion rand annually from
the tax, Cecil Morden, the chief director of tax policy at the
Treasury, told reporters at the release of the carbon tax
discussion policy paper in  Pretoria  today.  Emissions Trading  The government of Africa’s biggest economy will investigate
the feasibility of an emissions-trading system, which will
complement the proposed carbon tax by 2025 or sooner, the
Treasury said.  “An emissions-trading system needs a certain number of
traders and sufficient trading volumes for the market to operate
efficiently,” it said. “The oligopolistic market structure of
the energy sector in South Africa may fail to meet these
requirements which make the market very ‘thin’.”  The lack of a viable number of industry players “is likely
to limit the opportunities for domestic trade in a purely South
African trading scheme,” it said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ana Monteiro in Johannesburg at 
 amonteiro4@bloomberg.net ;
Tshepiso Mokhema in Johannesburg at 
 tmokhema@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net  