-- SAC Beset by Scandal Toughens Oversight With Clawbacks
-- B y   K a t h e r i n e   B u r t o n   a n d   S a i j e l   K i s h a n
-- 2013-05-02T16:34:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/sac-beset-by-scandal-toughens-oversight-with-clawbacks.html
SAC Capital Advisors LP, the hedge-
fund firm that agreed in March to pay more than $600 million to
settle insider-trading allegations, is strengthening compliance
rules, including clawing back compensation for portfolio
managers and analysts who violate securities laws.  The firm, based in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , also is limiting
the use of industry consultants, restricting contact with
public-company employees and hiring additional compliance staff,
founder  Steven Cohen  said in a letter today to clients.  “These reforms send an unmistakable message: we have zero
tolerance for wrongdoing and if you are caught breaking the
rules, it will cost you,” Cohen wrote in the letter, a copy of
which was obtained by  Bloomberg News .  SAC Capital, which oversees $15 billion, has defended its
compliance standards as among the industry’s best even as a
multiyear U.S. investigation has linked at least nine current or
former employees to allegations of profiting from improperly
obtained information while at the firm. The U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission in March reached a record settlement with
Cohen’s firm over claims that it profited from illegal tips
about drugmakers received by former portfolio manager Mathew Martoma. A federal judge signed off on the agreement last month,
pending approval of a case unrelated to SAC Capital.  Jonathan Gasthalter, a spokesman for SAC Capital at Sard
Verbinnen & Co., declined to comment on the letter.  Bringing Sanctions  SAC Capital will implement its clawback rule starting Jan.
1, Cohen said in the letter. If portfolio managers or analysts
are sanctioned by regulators or found guilty on criminal
charges, their compensation will be subject to recovery. If an
employee departs while there is a regulatory or criminal
investigation, the firm will withhold deferred payments pending
the outcome.  The new rule would not apply to Martoma or any other
current or former employees who have been charged with  insider
trading  while at the firm, according to a person familiar with
SAC Capital, who asked not to be identified because the
information wasn’t in Cohen’s letter.  Hank Higdon, head of New York-based executive-recruiting
firm Higdon Partners LLC, said the clawbacks may be more about
improving SAC Capital’s image than stopping trading abuses.  “Do you really need additional disincentive for doing
something wrong?” he said. “Isn’t a fine and 10 years in jail
enough?”  Common Practice  Steven Nadel, a partner at New York-based law firm Seward &
Kissel LLP, said clawbacks are common at hedge funds.  “If you are fired for cause you lose your deferred
compensation,” said Nadel, whose firm advises  hedge funds .  Cohen said in his letter that the clawback would serve as a
warning to new recruits.  “We want to let job applicants know that if they do not
intend to play by the rules they should not come to SAC,” Cohen
wrote. The letter didn’t say whether Cohen would be subject to
the provisions.  Wall Street banks made compensation changes following the
2008 financial crisis to align pay more closely with results and
discourage improper risk-taking. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and
Morgan Stanley said earlier this year that they will expand
clawback policies to include supervisors as well as employees
who take excessive risk or engage in improper conduct.  Expert Limits  Martoma, who has pleaded not guilty and awaits trial,
received a bonus of $9.38 million in January 2009 based largely
on his trading in two pharmaceutical-company stocks, the
government said. He allegedly got information the previous year
about a drug trial from a  University of Michigan  neurologist,
Sidney Gilman, who worked for Gerson Lehrman Group Inc., an
expert-network firm that links investors with industry
specialists. Gilman earned almost $108,000 for 59 consultations
with Martoma and SAC starting in 2006, according to the SEC.  SAC Capital is limiting the use of any one expert-network
consultant by a portfolio team to four calls a year without pre-
approval from compliance, Cohen said in the letter. The hedge
fund is increasing the “chaperoning” of expert-network phone
calls and is adding professionals trained in medical science to
its compliance group to help better analyze its health-care
team’s communications, he said.  The U.S. government’s crackdown on insider trading has
targeted hedge funds’ use of expert networks to obtain nonpublic
information. Some other firms have said they’ll no longer use
the consultants in their research.  SAC Capital is banning contact with public-company
employees other than senior management or investor-relations
staff. Personal or incidental communications aren’t covered by
the rule and company executives can grant exceptions, Cohen
said.  Compliance Hiring  SAC Capital, founded by Cohen in 1992, has more than 1,000
employees, including 350 people focusing on investments who are
organized into 130 teams.  The firm plans to increase its 36-person compliance group
by 25 percent this year, Cohen said in the letter. SAC Capital,
whose compliance team has grown from 10 employees in 2008, will
increase its investment in technology to improve oversight, he
said.  The compliance group, run by Steve Kessler, monitors
communications such as instant messages and e-mails, including
those sent and received by Cohen.  SAC Capital, whose clients asked in the first quarter to
pull $1.68 billion, last week gave investors more time to decide
on further redemptions for this year as they await final
approval of the regulatory settlement and Martoma’s trial.  Investors will have until mid-August to tell the firm if
they want to withdraw, three months later than previously
required, according to a person with knowledge of the plan. They
will be able to get 50 percent of their money in each of the
third and fourth quarters, said the person.  If clients choose not to wait, they need to tell SAC
Capital they want to redeem by May 15, after which they will get
one-third of their money in each of the next three quarters.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Katherine Burton in  New York  at 
 kburton@bloomberg.net ;
Saijel Kishan in New York at 
 skishan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  