-- Sanofi First-Quarter Profit Plunges 34%, Hurt by Generics
-- B y   A l b e r t i n a   T o r s o l i
-- 2013-05-02T05:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/sanofi-first-quarter-profit-plunges-34-hurt-by-generics.html
Sanofi (SAN) , France’s largest drugmaker,
reported a 34 percent decline in first-quarter profit, crimped
by generic competition to three key medicines in the U.S.  Profit excluding some costs, which Sanofi calls business
net income, fell to 1.61 billion euros ($2.1 billion), or 1.22
euros a share, from 2.42 billion euros, or 1.83 euros, a year
earlier, the Paris-based company said in an e-mailed statement
today. That missed the 1.77 billion-euro  average estimate  of 12
analysts compiled by Bloomberg. Sanofi also announced a
reorganization of its commercial operations, appointing two new
members to its executive committee.  Chief Executive Officer  Chris Viehbacher  has sought
partnerships and acquisitions to replenish Sanofi’s drug
pipeline and make up for the revenue losses caused by generic
competition to the Plavix blood thinner and other top-selling
products. He is introducing new products such as Aubagio, a pill
for multiple sclerosis, Lyxumia, a diabetes treatment, and Auvi-
Q, which guide users through emergency allergy injections.  First-quarter results were “mostly impacted by the
comparison with last year, prior to the patent expiry” of
Plavix and the Eloxatin cancer medicine, Viehbacher said in a
conference call with reporters today. Sanofi also reported
“strong growth” at its so-called growth platforms, he said.  Sanofi shares have  returned  50 percent over the past year
including reinvested dividends, beating the 32 percent return of
the Bloomberg Europe Pharmaceutical Index.  Growth Forecast  Revenue slipped 5.3 percent to 8.1 billion euros in the
first three months of the year, missing the average analyst
estimate for 8.3 billion euros. Revenue from its top-selling
Lantus insulin advanced 20 percent to 1.34 billion euros.  Viehbacher reiterated he expects growth to resume in the
second half. Revenue for the company’s growth platforms --
diabetes, consumer health, vaccines,  animal health , Genzyme,
other innovative products and  emerging markets  -- climbed 8.6
percent to 5.7 billion euros.  Today’s results are in line with full-year guidance, Sanofi
said. The drugmaker expects 2013 earnings per share excluding
some costs to be unchanged at best or down 5 percent at worst
from last year, excluding currency fluctuations.  Plavix lost market exclusivity in the U.S. a year ago. In
the quarter, Sanofi also suffered from U.S. generic competition
to Eloxatin and the Avapro hypertension drug. Generic
competition wiped out 553 million euros of sales during the
first three months of the year, Sanofi said. In the first half,
cheaper copies of its medicines will probably lead to a total of
800 million euros in lost profit, it added.  Executive Committee  Peter Guenter, Sanofi’s senior vice president of  Europe ,
will be appointed executive vice president of global commercial
operations, Sanofi said today. The French drugmaker also
appointed Pascale Witz, president and chief executive officer of
medical diagnostics at GE Healthcare Inc., executive vice
president of global divisions and strategic commercial
development. Both will join Sanofi’s executive committee.  The appointments, effective July 1, are in replacement of
Hanspeter Spek, Sanofi’s president of global operations, who is
due to retire this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Albertina Torsoli in Paris at 
 atorsoli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  