-- Sawiris Looks at Assets Including Wind for Italy Comeback
-- B y   D a n i e l e   L e p i d o
-- 2013-05-02T16:04:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/sawiris-looks-at-assets-including-wind-for-italy-comeback.html
Naguib Sawiris said he’s interested in
Italian telecommunications assets including his former company
Wind Telecomunicazioni SpA as the Egyptian billionaire seeks to
re-enter the market.  Sawiris, looking for opportunities in the industry after
his offer to buy a stake in Milan-based  Telecom Italia SpA (TIT)  for
at least 2 billion euros ($2.6 billion) was rejected five months
ago, said Italy is a “very good place to invest” and the
options he’s considering include Wind.  “When we find a good opportunity we will come back for
sure,” Sawiris, 58, said today in a phone interview. “I am
very optimistic on Italy.”  Sawiris’s return to Italy would mark a comeback for a
businessman who helped shape the country’s phone industry.
Sawiris ventured into Italy in 2005, when he bought Wind, the
country’s third-largest mobile-phone provider, in a 12.2
billion-euro deal from utility company  Enel SpA. (ENEL)  He sold it to
 VimpelCom Ltd. (VIP)  in 2011. Under Sawiris, Wind reached 20 million
wireless subscribers in 2010 and became  Italy ’s second-biggest
fixed-line company.  Wind’s revenue fell 2.6 percent to 5.43 billion euros in
2012, according to the company’s  annual report . Mobile customers
increased to 21.6 million from 21 million and Wind had a net
loss of 124 million euros in the period. Net financial debt was
9.15 billion euros at the end of last year.  Telecom Italia  Wind announced last month that it will spend 1 billion
euros in the coming five years on a high-speed mobile network.
Rome-based Wind has hired Shenzhen, China-based Huawei
Technologies Co. and Milan-based Sirti SpA to supply equipment
and infrastructure services for the network.  Sawiris said a potential combination of Telecom Italia SpA
and  Hutchison Whampoa Ltd. (13) ’s Italian business wouldn’t be
successful because the two carriers have different cultures and
business models. Telecom Italia, Italy’s biggest phone company,
said last month it’s examining a possible merger with
Hutchison’s H3G unit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniele Lepido in Milan at 
 dlepido1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  