-- HSBC Says Madoff-Era Liability Rules for Custodians Less Strict
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i   a n d   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 2013-05-02T14:37:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/hsbc-says-madoff-era-liability-rules-for-custodians-less-strict.html
HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) , custodian of a fund
that lost about 1.1 billion euros ($1.5 billion) through  Bernard Madoff ’s Ponzi scheme, said liability rules for banks in  Europe 
weren’t as strict at the time of the scandal surrounding the
convicted fraudster.  The fund in question had “very specific obligations” to
investors, HSBC said at the  High Court  in Dublin today on the
third day of a trial scheduled to last 14 weeks. Thema
International Fund Plc is seeking about $1.5 billion in damages.
The case is the first of dozens of disputes in Europe to focus
on the liability of banks as custodians to investment funds that
put money with Madoff, who was charged in December 2008.  HSBC, Europe’s largest bank, faces more than 50 complaints
in Ireland over claims it failed to discover Madoff’s
activities. The fraud hurt several European Union-regulated
funds, or UCITS, like Dublin-based Thema. At least three UCITS,
which stands for Undertakings for Collective Investment in
Transferable Securities, have since been liquidated.  At the time “there was no strict liability” on the
custodian, Paul Gallagher, a lawyer for the London-based bank,
told  Judge Peter Charleton  during his opening arguments. “Since
the Madoff scandal,” European legislators proposed new rules
that “will impose a strict liability regime on the custodian.”  Tougher Regime  Lawmakers in the European Parliament this month are set to
vote on draft rules that would impose a tougher regime for
banks. The European Union unveiled the new rules in July to
safeguard investment funds’ assets and to prevent another fraud
similar to Madoff’s Ponzi scheme. The measures must be adopted
by the assembly, and signed off by nations in the EU’s Council
of Ministers, before they can take effect.  “This suit is the investors’ only hope of recovery,”
Dermot Gleeson, a lawyer for Thema, told the court earlier this
week.  Banks argue that as a custodian they were responsible to
manage deposits and payments to shareholders.  “This case is being presented to you as if Thema as
investment manager had no role at all in this,” HSBC’s lawyer
Gallagher said. Thema is presenting a “complete abdication of
its duty of care to scrutinize” Madoff and “his returns over
12 years.”  On Thema claims that HSBC should have discovered the fraud
by Madoff, Gallagher said: “we didn’t and couldn’t have and his
process and his records were so sophisticated that they defied”
discovery by far more resourced and powerful investigators.  Madoff, who turned 75 on April 29, pleaded guilty in 2009
to orchestrating what prosecutors called the biggest  Ponzi
scheme  in history, using $65 billion in real and artificial
assets. He is serving a 150-year sentence in U.S. federal
prison.  Confidential Settlement  HSBC settled a related case last year, a day after a trial
started in Dublin. Kalix Fund Ltd., which had invested money
with Thema, was seeking $35.6 million before reaching the
confidential settlement.  The hearing is taking place in part of the city’s criminal
court building, which has larger rooms and was commandeered to
accommodate the ranks of lawyers and their boxes of files.  Hundreds of suits were also filed in Luxembourg against  UBS
AG (UBSN)  over its custodian duties to Access International Advisors
LLC’s LuxAlpha Sicav-American Selection, another UCITS fund,
which failed after Madoff’s activities were discovered.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Joe Brennan  in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Bodoni in Luxembourg at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  