-- Scandlines Owners Said to Receive Three Bids for Ferry Operator
-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d   a n d   S h e e n a g h   M a t t h e w s
-- 2013-05-02T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/scandlines-owners-said-to-receive-three-bids-for-ferry-operator.html
The owners of  Scandlines ,  3i Group Plc (III) 
and Allianz Capital Partners GmbH, received three bids for the
Danish-German ferry operator in a deal that may value the
company at as much as 1.4 billion euros ($1.8 billion),
according to people with knowledge of the matter.  Buyout firms Star Capital Partners Ltd. and TPG Capital as
well as Danish shipping company  DFDS A/S (DFDS)  have made offers, said
the people, who asked not to be identified because the talks are
private. The deal, which will probably be agreed on before the
summer, may fetch between 1 billion euros and 1.4 billion euros,
according to the people.  Ferries will face new competition from 2021, when  Germany 
and  Denmark  plan to complete a rail tunnel beneath the Fehmarn
Belt strait, according to the company. That isn’t deterring the
ferry operator, which said this month that it will buy two new
ferries for the route between Gedser, Denmark, and Rostock,
Germany.  3i and Allianz hired  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  ING Groep
NV (INGA)  to advise and finance a potential sale on the ferry operator,
which is based in Copenhagen and Rostock, people familiar with
the matter said in October.  Representatives for 3i, Allianz Capital Partners,
Scandlines, Goldman Sachs and ING declined to comment. Spokesman
at Star Capital and TPG couldn’t be immediately reached for
comment.  Sales Unchanged  Scandferries Group, the holding company for Scandlines,
increased earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and
amortization by 27 percent to 212 million euros last year,
according to the annual report. Sales stayed almost unchanged at
608 million euros after the company sold its Baltic freight
routes. The company forecast that revenue and net income will
grow as much as 5 percent this year and next.  3i, Britain’s oldest private-equity firm, and Allianz
Capital Partners, the buyout unit of Germany’s largest insurer
 Allianz SE (ALV) , each own 49 percent of Scandferries Group. The rest
is owned by management.  The two private-equity investors, along with shipping
company Deutsche Seereederei GmbH, agreed in 2007 to jointly
acquire Scandlines from Germany’s national rail operator
Deutsche Bahn AG and the Danish government for 1.56 billion
euros. 3i and Allianz Capital Partners bought out Deutsche
Seereederei’s stake in 2010.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Kirchfeld in London at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net ;
Sheenagh Matthews in Frankfurt at 
 smatthews6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  