-- SEC Swaps Plan, Grassley, Spanish CoCos, FCC: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2013-05-02T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/sec-swaps-plan-grassley-spanish-cocos-fcc-compliance.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS)  and other U.S. swap dealers would gain limits on the
Dodd-Frank Act’s reach for overseas trades under a Securities
and Exchange Commission proposal released yesterday.  SEC commissioners voted 5-0 to seek comment on measures
that would exempt overseas affiliates, including those
guaranteed by U.S. banks, from registration when they conduct
business predominantly with foreign clients. Overseas branches
of U.S. banks could be exempt from Dodd-Frank standards for
conduct with clients for equity and some credit swaps.  The proposal approved yesterday would govern how other SEC
swap rules, many of which haven’t been completed, apply in
cross-border transactions. The vote releases the proposal for a
public-comment period to solicit views on its ideas.  The SEC said it hoped the proposal would influence how
global regulators address rule differences while working to
reduce risk and increase transparency in the swaps market. The
Commodity Futures Trading Commission is the predominant U.S.
regulator for the $639 trillion global swaps market. The SEC,
whose staff said the agency oversees 5 percent of the overall
market, is writing rules for equity and some credit-default
swaps.  Dodd-Frank, the regulatory expansion enacted in response to
the 2008 credit crisis, calls on the SEC and CFTC to have most
swaps guaranteed at clearinghouses, traded on exchanges or other
platforms and reported to regulators. The U.S. agencies have
come under pressure to limit their international reach from
JPMorgan and Goldman Sachs, both based in New York, as well as
European, Asian and South American regulators.  Swaps rules under consideration by the SEC and CFTC are
fragmenting the global market, nine overseas finance officials
said in an April 18 letter urging Treasury Secretary Jacob J.
Lew to limit Dodd-Frank’s reach.  The cross-border rules is the SEC’s first major proposal
under White, who took over as chairman on April 10.  For more, click here.  Compliance Action  SAC, Viking Questioned in Grassley’s Medicare Rate Plan Probe  SAC Capital Advisors LP and Viking Global Investors LP are
being questioned by Senator  Charles Grassley  in his review of a
possible leak of a U.S. government decision on payment
reimbursements to health insurers.  Grassley, an Iowa Republican, sent letters yesterday to the
investment firms, asking about their dealings with “political
intelligence” firms that try to predict government decisions. A
Height Analytics LLC report on April 1 told clients more than 40
minutes before the official announcement that the U.S. would
reverse plans for a Medicare Advantage rate cut.  Shares of  Humana Inc. (HUM) ,  UnitedHealth Group Inc. (UNH)  and other
insurers soared after the report. Trades by Andreas Halvorsen’s
Viking hedge fund company and  Steven A. Cohen ’s SAC “raise
questions regarding the transmission of political intelligence
from Washington, D.C. to  Wall Street ,” Grassley said in his
letter. He cited a Wall Street Journal report that the two firms
traded in health stocks before the Medicare decision.  Eric Komitee, general counsel for New York-based Viking,
said he couldn’t confirm the trades and declined to comment on
Grassley’s letter. Jonathan Gasthalter, a spokesman for
Stamford, Connecticut-based SAC, also declined to comment.  The U.S. Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, the
agency that runs Medicare, and the inspector general for the
Health and Human Services Department are also investigating
whether there was a leak of the Advantage decision. Spokesmen
for the two agencies didn’t immediately respond to e-mails
yesterday asking about the status of their investigations.  For more, click here.  BBVA Sells First CoCo Deal as Europe Tests Basel Regulations  Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA) ’s $1.5 billion of new
perpetual bonds are the first debt securities in Europe
complying with new rules published last month setting out how
debt securities can be used to bolster banks’ capital.  Spain’s second-biggest bank April 30 sold 9 percent
preferred notes known as contingent convertibles, or CoCos, that
it intends to include in its  Tier 1 capital , the riskiest
segment. The bonds meet the so-called capital requirements
directive, or CRD IV, endorsed on April 16 as part of the
introduction of the Basel III regime in Europe.  The 2008 financial crisis underlined that many debt
securities banks counted as capital couldn’t absorb losses
outside of a default, prompting regulators to tighten the rules
for what can be Tier 1, the most junior layer of capital. While
that must consist of equity and retained earnings, lenders can
also hold additional securities, such as BBVA’s new bonds, that
are specifically designed to absorb  losses  in a crisis.  The bonds, which are expected to be  rated  BB-, three steps
below investment grade, at  Fitch Ratings , will automatically
convert to equity if BBVA’s  Tier 1 capital  ratio falls to below
5.125 percent of assets weighted by risk.  Other  capital ratios  that may trigger conversion include a
drop below 7 percent using definitions from the European Banking
Authority and from national regulators, as well as a 6 percent
level that’s triggered if four quarters of losses reduce capital
by a third.  Bond buyers have shown they are willing to buy CoCos as
central banks print money to hold down  rates , forcing investors
to take more risk to get a return. CoCos absorb losses either by
converting to equity or by being written down.  For more, click here.  Courts  Fannie Mae Found Exempt From Maryland County’s Transfer Tax  Fannie Mae (FNMA) ’s and  Freddie Mac (FMCC) ’s charters exempt them from
paying real-estate transfer taxes, a federal judge in Greenbelt,
Maryland, ruled, dismissing a claim by the state’s Montgomery
County.  The tax exemption issue could eventually come before the
U.S. Supreme Court.  The ruling April 30 by U.S. District Judge Deborah Chasanow
is the latest in a series of decisions in similar suits filed
across the U.S. against  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac  to recover
the taxes. Most rulings have favored the home-mortgage finance
companies, Chasanow said.  “There will be an appeal,” Don Springmeyer, a Las Vegas-
based attorney for Montgomery County, said in an e-mailed
statement. Springmeyer, who is handling similar complaints in
seven other states, said he expects the U.S. Supreme Court to
eventually decide the issue.  The case is Montgomery County, Maryland v. Federal National
Mortgage Corp., 13-cv-00066, U.S. District Court, District of
Maryland (Greenbelt).  Defunct Madoff Brokerage Cost $774.8 Million to Liquidate  Liquidating Bernard L. Madoff’s defunct brokerage has cost
$774.8 million, including lawyers’ and consultants’ fees and
expenses of $737.1 million, the trustee for the firm said in a
report.  Irving H. Picard, who has been liquidating the firm since
Madoff’s December 2008 arrest, has paid customers about $4.6
billion, out of as much as $20 billion he says they lost in the
 Ponzi scheme . Another $802 million went to customers from the
Securities Investor Protection Corp., which spent almost as much
picking up the lawyers’ and consultants’ bills, according to the
report filed yesterday in federal court in Manhattan.  Picard, a bankruptcy lawyer whose firm has billed SIPC for
$440 million, files twice-yearly reports on his progress. Most
of the money he has raised in more than four years has come from
settlements with investors whom he accused of profiting from the
fraud.  The Madoff liquidation case is Securities Investor
Protection Corp. v. Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities
Inc., 08-bk-01789,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of
New York (Manhattan).  Chiasson Seeks Leniency From U.S. Judge Citing Charitable Deeds  Level Global Investors LP co-founder Anthony Chiasson,
convicted of an insider-trading scheme that reaped $72 million,
asked a judge to give him less time in prison than the 13-year
term called for by U.S. sentencing guidelines.  Lawyers for Chiasson, 39, called such a sentence
“draconian” in an April 29 court filing. They urged U.S.
District Judge Richard Sullivan in Manhattan to impose an
unspecified shorter prison term, saying the alleged crimes were
“aberrant” and that Chiasson has led an “exemplary life,”
and cited his charitable work.  Chiasson, who began his career on Wall Street at  Salomon
Brothers  and left SAC Capital Advisors LP to start the hedge
fund, is scheduled to be sentenced May 13.  While U.S. court officials said that based on non-binding
guidelines Chiasson should serve 121 to 157 months in prison,
his lawyers said the appropriate range is 78 to 97 months.  The case is U.S. v. Newman, 1:12-cr-00121, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Schwab Sues BofA and Other Banks Over Alleged Libor Manipulation  Charles Schwab Corp. (SCHW) , whose antitrust claims against banks
over manipulation of the London interbank offered rate were
tossed from federal court in New York, sued  Bank of America
Corp.  and other financial institutions for fraud in state court
in San Francisco.  Schwab alleged in a complaint filed April 29 that it and
other company entities purchased billions of dollars in Libor-
based instruments that are paying artificially low returns
because the banks agreed to depress the rate.  Bank of America and other banks won dismissal in March of
more than two dozen interrelated federal antitrust cases brought
by San Francisco-based independent brokerage Schwab and other
institutional investors, when the court ruled the plaintiffs
were unable to show they were harmed.  In its new complaint against more than a dozen banks,
Schwab alleges they concealed their conduct even after questions
were raised beginning in 2007 about potential Libor
manipulation. The lawsuit includes claims of fraud, violation of
California unfair business practices and federal securities laws
and seeks to rescind purchases of Libor-based instruments.  Lawrence Grayson, a spokesman for Charlotte, North
Carolina-based  Bank of America , didn’t immediately respond to an
e-mail seeking comment on the complaint after regular business
hours April 30.  The case is Charles Schwab Corp. v.  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ,
CGC-13-531016, California Superior Court, San Francisco.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 