-- Sharif Sees Quelling Militants as Job One in Pakistan Return
-- B y   H a r i s   A n w a r   a n d   A u g u s t i n e   A n t h o n y
-- 2013-05-03T04:39:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/sharif-sees-quelling-militants-as-job-one-in-pakistan-campaign.html
Nawaz Sharif , the two-time Pakistan
prime minister seeking a return in next week’s election, will
prioritize quelling militancy ravaging the country should he win
power, according to one of his party’s top officials.  Leading in opinion polls before the May 11 ballot, Sharif,
63, would seek the support of military commanders and political
rivals to counter extremism, Chaudhry Nisar Ali Khan, who led
Sharif’s Pakistan Muslim League party in opposition in the last
parliament, said in an interview April 26.  Faced with insurgent groups and extremist networks with
differing loyalties, the “government of the day and the armed
forces’ leadership must sit together and be clear as to who are
with us and who are against us,” said Khan. Overhauling the
crippled power sector and stemming losses at state-run companies
would follow.  Sunni radicals have stepped up attacks on Muslim sects they
consider infidel, killing 250 people in bombings targeting the
Shiite minority in Quetta and Karachi this year. A government
minister and a provincial governor who opposed blasphemy laws
were killed in 2011.  Pakistan ’s army, which is fighting Taliban
guerrillas in the northwest, dominates security policy and has
its own links to extremist groups that have been enmeshed in
conflicts in  India  and  Afghanistan .  If elected, “Sharif will likely lead a weak government and
from a position of weakness, he won’t be able to take drastic
steps needed to challenge the militants,” Muhammad Waseem, a
political science professor at the Lahore University of
Management Sciences, said May 2. “The policy to deal with them
will firmly remain within the domain of army. I don’t think he
is going to challenge that.”  ‘Changed Man’  The Taliban have escalated their fight to topple the state
from bases near the Afghan border, killing 60 people in attacks
on election candidates.  Sharif, whose first administration was cut short over
corruption allegations and his second by Pervez Musharraf’s 1999
army coup, would face stiff challenges. Economic growth has
slowed to an annual average of 3 percent since 2008 as a record
power crisis shuts the grid for up to 18 hours a day. Ties with
top aid-donor the U.S. have deteriorated.  Sharif “is a changed man,” said Khan at his home in
Rawalpindi, abutting Islamabad. “A lot of democracy has seeped
into our decision-making. Nawaz Sharif consults very often, very
vigorously.”  Sharif received 37-percent support in a Gallup survey in
March, double that for President Asif Ali Zardari’s  Pakistan
Peoples Party  or former cricket star  Imran Khan . The Sharif
stronghold of Punjab province sends more than half the elected
272 lawmakers to parliament.  House Arrest  In a stark reversal of fortunes, Musharraf is under house
arrest, shut out of the election over his 2007 emergency-rule
declaration, subsequently judged illegal. Unidentified gunmen
today shot dead the chief prosecutor investigating Musharraf
over the assassination of former prime minister  Benazir Bhutto ,
police said.  A distinction had to be drawn between militants like the
Taliban at war with the state and followers of radical ideology
who don’t resort to violence, said Khan.  “If somebody is an extremist and retains it in his heart,
he doesn’t expound it, doesn’t implement it, fine,” he said.
“Dealing with them is a longer term process” requiring better
governance and an attack on poverty. Still, “those people who
challenge the constitution and the state will be taken on.”  Political Career  William Milam , U.S. ambassador to Pakistan from 1998 to
2001 and a scholar at the Wilson Center in  Washington , said the
issue of extremism loomed over Pakistan’s future.  “There’s real serious concern about whether Pakistan is
losing control of one of the things that’s most important for a
state -- the definition of what’s legitimate violence,” Milam
said in an interview. In five to 10 years, “we could see an
accelerated unraveling, a real unraveling, if the government
doesn’t take action on the economy and violence.”  Sharif’s family moved to Pakistan from India in 1947,
building a business group that included steel and sugar mills.
He entered politics under military ruler Zia-ul-Haq and as
civilian government was restored became the chief rival of
Bhutto, who had inherited control of the Peoples Party.  As the two took turns in power for a decade, the armed
forces backed successive dismissals of each over graft
allegations.  Kargil War  Sharif ended state monopolies in shipping, airlines and
telecommunications and ordered highways built when in office. He
ordered nuclear tests in 1998, weeks after rival India.  In 1999, the army attacked Indian troops in disputed
Kashmir. Sharif, fearing a wider war and under pressure from
U.S. President  Bill Clinton , ordered a withdrawal. Months later,
Sharif dismissed Musharraf, triggering the coup.  Sharif will appoint professionals to run state-owned
companies, especially power firms loaded with debt, to stop “a
massive amount of economic hemorrhage,” Khan said. Ultimately,
loss-making firms would be privatized. Taxes would be overhauled
to reduce the burden on manufacturing while encouraging more
people to pay.  “It is our party, which initiated privatization, opened up
the economy, brought in private banks, private insurance
companies. So we know what we are talking about,” Khan said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Haris Anwar in Islamabad at 
 hanwar2@bloomberg.net ;
Augustine Anthony in Islamabad at 
 aanthony9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  