-- Shell First-Quarter Profit Rises 3% on New Projects, Refining
-- B y   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n
-- 2013-05-02T06:08:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/shell-first-quarter-profit-rises-3-on-new-projects-refining.html
Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) , Europe’s
biggest oil company, reported an increase in first-quarter
earnings on new projects and refining.  Earnings excluding one-time items and inventory changes
rose 3 percent to $7.5 billion from a year ago, Shell said today
in a statement. That beat the $6.4 billion average  estimate  of
11 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Chief Executive Officer  Peter
Voser  will retire in 2014.  Shell was “aided by the cold European winter and the
benefit of a full quarter’s contribution from  Pearl ” gas-to-
liquids project in Qatar, Lucas Herrmann, a London-based analyst
at Deutsche Bank AG, said before the report was released.  U.K.  gas prices  were about 25 percent higher in the first
quarter from a year earlier because of higher demand for
heating. Shell is the fourth-largest gas supplier from the U.K.
North Sea fields and together with Exxon Mobil Corp. is pumping
the fuel from the Dutch  Groningen  field, one of the largest in
the world.  Shell plans to raise volumes to about 4 million barrels a
day as soon as 2017. The company has boosted output at its $19
billion Pearl venture, reaching full capacity in January after a
delay of about six months.  Shell is the last of Europe’s biggest oil producers to
publish earnings;  BP Plc (BP/)  and Total SA saw their first-quarter
profits drop on lower  oil prices  and a decline in output.  Nigerian Disruptions  Shell last month shut the Nembe Creek pipeline and declared
force majeure on Bonny Light oil exports for the second time
this year because of sabotage and theft in  Nigeria . Its gas
supplies to Nigeria LNG Ltd. were also disrupted in the quarter.
Oil  prices  in Canada, where it runs an oil-sands project in
 Alberta , were about 12 percent lower than a year earlier.  “Shell’s volumes are impacted by increased levels of
bunkering in Nigeria,”  Oswald Clint , a London-based analyst at
Sanford C. Bernstein & Co., said before the earnings statement.  Shell suspended drilling off Alaska in February after
disruptions and damage to two drilling vessels last year. Shell
had spent about $5 billion over seven years preparing to explore
the Beaufort and Chukchi seas.  Of the 29  analysts  that cover Shell, 15 recommend buying
the shares, 11 have hold ratings and three advise selling the
stock.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduard Gismatullin in London at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  