-- Shell’s Henry Seen as Likely Successor to CEO Voser Next Year
-- B y   B r i a n   S w i n t
-- 2013-05-02T13:55:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/shell-s-henry-seen-as-likely-successor-to-ceo-voser-next-year.html
Simon Henry is the frontrunner among
analysts to become the next chief executive officer of  Royal
Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  after Peter Voser unexpectedly announced his
resignation next year from Europe’s biggest oil company.  Henry, Shell’s chief financial officer, was tipped as a
candidate by Macquarie Capital Europe and RBC Capital Markets to
succeed Voser.  Marvin Odum , Shell’s U.S. chief, and Andy Brown,
head of upstream, may also be contenders.  Voser, 54, will leave the company in the first half of 2014
after five years. Since he took over in July 2009, Shell’s
shares in  London  have risen 46 percent, outperforming most of
their peers, as Voser cut costs, sold assets and reversed a
seven-year decline in output. He also oversaw the company’s
biggest ever investment, a gas-to-liquids plant in Qatar.  “Voser has done quite an admirable job,” said Macquarie’s
 Jason Gammel . “Shell has a deep bench of high-quality people.
It’s normally the kind of company that would promote from
within.”  Henry, 51, told journalists today that Shell’s nomination
committee will look at both internal and external candidates for
a replacement. He declined to comment on whether his name would
be considered.  A Cambridge University graduate and British citizen, Henry
succeeded Voser as CFO in 2009 after serving as an executive
vice-president for finance of the exploration and production
division. He started as an engineer in the Stanlow refinery in
the U.K. and was in charge of finance for units in  Egypt  and
Asia before becoming head of investor relations in 2001.  Succession Committee  The nomination and succession committee is led by Jorma Ollila, the former CEO of mobile phone maker Nokia Oyj who is
also the chairman of Shell’s board. Former Deutsche Bank AG CEO
Josef Ackermann and Hans Wijers, previously CEO of  Europe ’s
biggest paintmaker Akzo Nobel NV, are also on the committee.  Voser, a Swiss national who started working for Shell in
1982 and was CFO for five years before taking over the top job,
said he’s retiring for personal reasons. He is “essentially
looking for a lifestyle change,” Henry said. Voser didn’t join
the conference call to discuss first quarter earnings, which
unexpectedly rose.  Under Voser, Shell outperformed most of its rivals among
the world’s biggest five oil companies. The 46 percent gain in
the share price compares with a 25 percent increase for Exxon
Mobil Corp. and declines for European peers BP Plc and Total SA.
Only Chevron Corp. has done better, gaining 82 percent since
July 1, 2009, the day Voser started.  Reserves Scandal  When he took over from Jeroen van der Veer, who retired at
61, the company was still recovering from a scandal where it had
overstated its reserves, leading to lawsuits from investors and
regulators.  Profitable investments such as the $19 billion Pearl gas-
to-liquids plant in  Qatar  have bolstered returns at Shell. The
company raised its dividend for the first time since 2009 last
year and raised it again for the first quarter. It plans to
raise volumes to about 4 million barrels of oil equivalent a day
as early as 2017.  “Voser has been very good at providing processes for the
company,” said RBC’s Peter Hutton. “I’m sure the succession
process will be equally well-organized.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Swint in London at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  