-- Shire Cuts Full-Year Sales Forecast as Revenue Misses Estimates
-- B y   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2013-05-02T11:24:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/shire-cuts-full-year-sales-forecast-as-revenue-misses-estimates.html
Shire Plc (SHP) , the world’s largest maker
of attention-deficit drugs, reduced its revenue forecast for the
year after sales in the quarter were lower than expected.  Shire said it expects sales to grow by a percentage in the
mid-to-high single digits, compared with an earlier forecast of
low double-digits. Sales in the quarter were $1.16 billion,
missing the average analyst estimate of $1.21 billion, Dublin-
based Shire said in a statement today.  “Shire’s strategic priorities are to grow sales of our
existing portfolio and to bring new innovative treatments to
market through both research and development and business
development,” Flemming Ornskov, who took over this week as
chief executive officer from Angus Russell after a four-month
transition period, said in the statement.  Shire’s shares fell 2.5 percent to 1,969 pence as of 12:13
p.m. in  London , giving the company a market value of 10.9
billion pounds ($17 billion). Before today, the stock had gained
0.7 percent in the past year, including reinvested dividends,
 compared  with a 32 percent advance in the Bloomberg Europe
Pharmaceuticals Index of 18 companies.  Sales of Vyvanse, the company’s top-selling drug, climbed
15 percent to $298 million. Shire said yesterday the product won
U.S. regulatory approval as a treatment for children age 6 and
older who have attention deficit hyperactivity disorder. Vyvanse
was previously approved for adults.  Earnings excluding some items rose to $1.63 per American
depositary receipt from $1.48 a year earlier, Analysts predicted
profit of $1.57 per ADS, the average of 10  estimates  compiled by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simeon Bennett in Geneva at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  