-- Siemens Cuts 2013 Outlook Amid Charges for Delayed Trains
-- B y   A l e x   W e b b
-- 2013-05-02T15:58:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/siemens-cuts-full-year-forecast-amid-charges-for-delayed-trains.html
Siemens AG (SIE) ,  Europe ’s largest
engineering company, cut its full-year forecast after quarterly
earnings missed analyst estimates amid charges for failed wind
energy transmission projects and the delayed delivery of trains.  Net income from continuing operations will approach the low
end of its 4.5 billion-euro ($5.9 billion) to 5 billion-euro
target, the Munich-based company said today. Siemens now also
predicts a “moderate” decline in organic sales, after a
previous forecast for stable sales.  The reduced forecast is a setback for Chief Executive
Officer  Peter Loescher , who is implementing a plan to trim costs
after acknowledging in November he had been slow to react to the
economic downturn. The CEO, in his second five-year term, has
also come under pressure to refocus Siemens after deals that he
supervised soured and profitability trails that of rivals  ABB
Ltd. (ABBN)  and  General Electric Co. (GE)   “The economy is weaker but that is only part of the
story,” said London-based JPMorgan analyst Andreas Willi, who
has a neutral rating on Siemens. The main reasons for the
reduced forecast are “the project charges and weak underlying
performance in some businesses that have backlog.”  As a result of the worse-than-expected economic conditions,
Siemens today increased its savings target to 6.3 billion euros
from the previous 6 billion euros, with lower raw material costs
helping facilitate the deeper cost reductions.  Missing Estimates  The stock rose 0.6 percent to 79.81 euros in Frankfurt
trading. Before today, the stock had declined 3.5 percent this
year, while ABB gained 12 percent and General Electric rose 5.5
percent.  Net income from continuing operations climbed to 982
million euros in the three months through March from 979 million
euros a year earlier, Siemens said today. That missed the 1.21
billion-euro average  forecast  of six analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. Revenue fell 6.7 percent to 18 billion euros.  Costs relating to train delivery delays and energy projects
reached 245 million euros. The worse-than-expected economic
conditions mean that Siemens has increased its original savings
target by 300 million euros, it said today.  Profit tumbled 90 percent to 27 million euros at the
infrastructure and cities sector, more than at any of the
company’s other units. In the industry sector, profit fell 47
percent to 350 million euros while slipping 3.8 percent to 551
million euros at the energy sector. The healthcare division
reported the only profit growth, with an increase of 4.9 percent
to 445 million euros.  Solar Charges  Loescher put the solar energy unit up for sale in October,
two years after its founding through acquisitions including
Archimede Solar Energy and Solel Solar Systems. Deteriorating
prices for photovoltaic modules have made concentrated solar
power less attractive, and the activities had been unprofitable
since Siemens bundled the operations into a separate unit in
2011.  Siemens said today that the solar business, which had to be
reincorporated into continuing operations for regulatory
reasons, may trim the full-year earnings forecast by an
additional 500 million euros.  The planned disposal of the solar business is “not easy
due to the problematic market environment, and its handling on
the balance sheet must be reviewed,”  Chief Financial Officer
Joe Kaeser said last month.  Solar Sale Delay  Loescher said today Siemens no longer sees the sale of the
solar business this year as “highly probable”.  The company today said it also booked charges of 84 million
euros in the quarter for its offshore wind business and Loescher
said he can’t rule out further charges.  “We are missing a growth engine around the world,”
Loescher said in a Bloomberg Television interview. “ China  is at
the lower end, Europe is in a recessionary environment and there
is the sequester environment in the U.S.,” he said in reference
to mandatory U.S. budget cuts.  Siemens’ 9.5 percent profit margin in its last fiscal year
lagged behind the 10.3 percent at ABB and 15 percent at General
Electric, its two biggest competitors. The savings plan is
intended to boost Siemens’ profit margin to 12 percent of sales.  The fiscal second-quarter charges add to 300 million euros
of provisions in the fiscal first quarter.  Job Cuts  The industry unit will bear the brunt of the job cuts, with
4,000 positions set to go, while Siemens’ energy division will
contribute the greatest financial share of the savings, at 3.2
billion euros. The healthcare division and infrastructure unit
will meanwhile contribute 800 million euros apiece, with 1.1
billion euros stemming from the industry division’s savings,
Siemens said today.  Profit at the industry automation unit, where orders are
more short-term than elsewhere at the company, declined 40
percent to 201 million euros. Company-wide orders increased 20
percent to 21.5 billion euros.  “The order number looks good, but it has a few large what
I’d call low quality orders because they’re in rail and wind, so
not their best businesses,” Martin Prozesky, a London-based
Sanford Bernstein analyst who rates Siemens market perform, said
by phone. “The core businesses around fossil, industrial
automation and health-care, there the orders were quite a lot
weaker.”  Profit at the Osram lighting unit, which shareholders have
agreed to spin off, more than doubled to 57 million euros from
25 million euros a year earlier. The company plans to list
shares of Osram, which it values at 3.23 billion euros, in early
July, it said today. Osram will shut or sell a further six
plants for a total of 11 divested by the end of 2014 as it
targets one billion euros in savings by 2015.  The company is also seeking to offload water technology,
airport luggage system and mail automation units as it focuses
on sectors with higher margins and growth potential.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Webb in Munich at 
 awebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  