-- Singh Seeks Boost With Regional Poll Win Over Chief India Rival
-- B y   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n
-- 2013-05-02T18:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/singh-seeks-boost-with-regional-poll-win-over-chief-india-rival.html
India ’s ruling Congress party aims to
oust its chief rival in weekend elections in southern Karnataka
state, a victory that may bolster the government as it bids to
revive the economy ahead of a national poll.  Congress and the Hindu-nationalist  Bharatiya Janata Party 
have deployed star campaigners  Rahul Gandhi  and  Narendra Modi  to
the province seeking votes. An  opinion poll  for the CNN-IBN
television channel forecast Congress may win as many as 129
seats in the 224-member assembly to the BJP’s 49. Voting is on
May 5, with results due May 8.  Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  and his Congress party are
trying to build momentum ahead of national elections scheduled
for May 2014 in the face of persistent corruption charges that
have hobbled the government’s legislative agenda. For the BJP,
losing power in Karnataka, which is home to offices of  Intel
Corp. (INTC)  and General Electric Co., would frustrate the party’s bid
to expand its support base beyond its stronghold in the north.  “For Congress, winning Karnataka is crucial as the party
has had very little good news in recent times,” said Sandeep
Shastri, pro-vice chancellor of Jain University in Bangalore,
Karnataka’s capital. “Victory will be a huge morale booster.”  The BJP took control of Karnataka in 2008, claiming a
breakthrough in extending its support nationwide.  The provincial government in 2011 became embroiled in a
$3.6 billion illegal mining scam in which companies were accused
by the state’s anti-corruption ombudsman of operating without
permits and evading taxes. Chief Minister B.S. Yeddyurappa was
named in the probe and was forced to step down. He left the BJP
to form his own party.  Lost Allies  The CNN-IBN opinion poll questioned 4,198 people across the
state. It didn’t give a margin of error. A survey by Headlines
Today and C-Voter last month  predicted  Congress would win 118
seats while the BJP was set to take 52.  Singh has lost two key allies since September -- Mamata Banerjee’s Trinamool Congress and the Tamil Nadu-based Dravida
Munnetra Kazhagam -- in a blow to Congress’ bid to win a third
straight term in 2014.  Congress is set to benefit from the BJP’s failures, said N. Bhaskara Rao, chairman of the New Delhi-based Centre for Media
Studies. “Congress is gaining an electoral advantage because of
splits, infighting and corruption allegations against the BJP,”
Rao said.  Congress Vice President Gandhi and Modi, the BJP chief
minister of western Gujarat state, have addressed rallies in
Karnataka, trading barbs about corruption. The two men are being
promoted within their parties as candidates for prime minister.  Modi Win  Modi secured another five years of BJP rule in Gujarat in
elections last year.  The  Supreme Court  criticized federal investigators on April
30 for allowing the government to vet the findings of a probe
into alleged graft in the award of coal blocks, saying political
interference had shaken “the very foundation of the
investigating process.”  Singh’s government has been assailed by graft charges since
the nation’s auditor in 2010 reported that an “arbitrary” sale
of mobile-phone licenses may have cost the government $31
billion in revenue. Opposition protests over alleged corruption
have paralyzed parliament for more than two years, delaying
plans to lift some caps on foreign investment and overhaul rules
on the acquisition of land for industry.  India’s economy  rose 5 percent in the year ended March
2013, according to an estimate from the statistics agency.
That’s less than the average of about 8 percent in the past
decade.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bibhudatta Pradhan in  New Delhi  at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hari Govind at 
 hgovind@bloomberg.net  