-- Small Banks Seek Exemption in U.S. Collection of Fee Data
-- B y   C a r t e r   D o u g h e r t y
-- 2013-05-02T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/small-banks-seek-exemption-in-u-s-collection-of-fee-data.html
Small banks are pushing to be exempted
from what they call an unneeded and overly burdensome U.S. data-
collection effort to spot how consumers may be abused by
checking account overdraft fees and other charges.  The Federal Deposit Insurance Corp., Office of the
Comptroller of the Currency, and  Federal Reserve  on Feb. 21
proposed that banks add data about the fees to their required
call report, a quarterly public accounting of their main assets
and liabilities. The regulators said the Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau needs the information to carry out its mandate
to root out abusive practices in the industry.  “Calling for more granular disclosures of consumer fees in
the call report serves no necessary regulatory purpose,” James
Kendrick, vice president for accounting and capital policy at
the Independent Community Bankers of America, wrote in an April
22  letter . “Most banks currently provide or make available to
their customers fee schedules that fully disclose all service
charges.”  The group also said the additional collection would be an
added regulatory burden that should be alleviated by exempting
banks with less than $10 billion in assets.  The small banks said that the proposal overlooks the fact
that they offer “tailored products that meet the needs of the
communities they serve” and are hard to fit into regulators’
categories. “The disclosures proposed are relevant only for the
largest  depository institutions ,” they wrote.  ‘Data-Driven’ Agency  The consumer bureau, created by the 2010 Dodd-Frank Act,
has a mandate to supervise and enforce the laws on banks with
assets above $10 billion. It has vowed to be “data-driven” in
its mission, and is buying and collecting large amounts of
information on consumer finance.  The move has drawn criticism from banks, who have
complained about the regulatory burden, and congressional
Republicans, who have complained it’s a potential privacy
concern. Cordray countered in an April 23 hearing by saying that
banks already do the same thing and more.  The new reports would include itemized data on overdrafts,
monthly maintenance charges and automated teller fees on
consumer accounts, according to the proposal. There is currently
no data that allows estimates of the composition of the fees, or
how they affect consumers and bank earnings, it stated.  “Data specific to overdraft-related fees is particularly
pertinent for supervisors and policy makers in part because of
recent trends in such fees and because of concerns about the
harm such fees may impose on some depositors,” according to the
 proposal .  More Dependent  Smaller banks are relatively more dependent on overdraft
fees than larger banks, according to Camden Fine, president of
the  Independent Community Bankers of America . In an interview in
February, Fine said revenue from overdraft fees represents 3
percent to 15 percent of total income for institutions in his
association. By contrast, 2011 financial disclosures show that
overdraft fees provided about 1 percent of net revenue for  Wells
Fargo & Co. (WFC) , the fourth-largest  U.S. bank .  Groups that represent larger banks have taken a harder
position than the smaller banks, urging the regulators to
withdraw the proposals entirely. The Financial Services
Roundtable, the  American Bankers Association  and the Consumer
Bankers Association said in an April 22 letter that the proposal
is “a major departure” undertaken without prior consultation.  The agencies proposed that the new reports take effect for
the quarter ending June 30.  Overdraft Probe  The consumer bureau last began an investigation of
overdrafts as a potential source of consumer harm, a probe that
has now slowed and could take “a couple of years,” the
agency’s director,  Richard Cordray , said on Feb. 5.  Consumer groups -- the same ones who pushed hard for the
agency’s creation -- want tougher overdraft rules, saying that
banks don’t make their policies clear and that fees hit hardest
at people least able to afford them.  Community banks, which have pressed the bureau for
exemptions from rules, say stricter policies could choke off a
key stream of revenue. Their position resonates because the
banks and credit unions have been courted by bureau officials as
a counterweight to Wall Street banks.  Consumers paid $32 billion in overdraft fees in 2012, up
slightly from $31.6 billion for 2011, according to Moebs
Services, a Lake Bluff, Illinois-based research firm. Overdrafts
occur when consumers spend or withdraw more money than is
available in their checking accounts, whether through the use of
 debit cards , checks, ATM withdrawals or direct debits.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carter Dougherty in Washington at 
 cdougherty6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  