-- Smith & Nephew Buys Indian Trauma Business to Return to Growth
-- B y   A l l i s o n   C o n n o l l y
-- 2013-05-02T07:58:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/smith-nephew-starts-buyback-buys-indian-firm-as-sales-stall.html
Smith & Nephew Plc (SN/) ,  Europe ’s biggest
maker of artificial hips and knees, said it will buy an Indian
trauma business and start a share-buyback program after first-
quarter earnings missed analysts’ estimates.  Trading profit, which excludes reorganization and
acquisition costs, declined to $241 million from $252 million a
year earlier, the U.K.’s biggest medical-device maker said today
in a statement. Excluding divestments and currency effects,
trading profit was unchanged. Earnings excluding some items were
18.5 cents a share, missing the 19-cent average estimate of 11
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Smith & Nephew said it plans to spend $300 million
repurchasing shares and also agreed to acquire Adler Mediequip
Private Ltd., and the brands and assets of Sushrut Surgicals
Private Ltd. The U.K. company has said it wants to expand in
wound-care and minimally invasive surgery and  emerging markets 
to offset lower European sales. The company still expects
profitability will decline this year.  “We will continue to invest in our growth products,
franchises and geographies and maintain adequate headroom for
further significant acquisitions,” Chief Executive Officer
Olivier Bohuon said in the statement.  Price Tag  The acquisitions in  India  together with the purchase of the
Brazilian distribution business Pro Cirurgia Especializada on
May 2 totaled about $70 million, Smith & Nephew said.  Smith & Nephew rose 0.4 percent to 739.50 pence as of 8:30
in  London , giving the company a market value of 6.7 billion
pounds ($10.4 billion).  Revenue was unchanged at $1.08 billion, matching the
average estimate of 11 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Excluding
currency effects and the absence of the biologics and clinical
therapies business, which was spun off in May 2012 as Bioventus,
sales rose 1 percent.  Revenue for Advanced Surgical Devices, which includes
implants, sports medicine and trauma, declined to $760 million
from $839 million a year earlier and dropped 2 percent when
excluding currency effects and acquisitions and disposals. On
that basis, sales at the Advanced Wound Management business
during the quarter advanced 12 percent to $315 million.  Sales from hip and knee implant franchises both fell 6
percent during the quarter. By comparison,  Zimmer Holdings Inc. (ZMH) 
reported unchanged knee implant sales and a 2 percent decline in
hip sales during the quarter. Sales from sports medicine joint
repair and trauma both improved during the quarter, up 4 percent
and 8 percent respectively, the company said.  “Despite the weaker hip and knee growth, Smith & Nephew
delivered on the market’s profit expectations, demonstrating
some of the efficiency improvement progress,” Ingeborg Oie, an
analyst with Jefferies LLC, wrote in a note to investors.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Connolly in London at 
 aconnolly4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  