-- Southern California Wildfire Prompting Evacuations
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 2013-05-02T22:39:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/southern-california-wildfire-fire-prompting-evacuations.html
A fast-moving wildfire northwest of
 Los Angeles , fanned by strong Santa Ana winds, forced the
evacuation of homes and a college campus with 4,900 students.  More than 500 firefighters were battling the blaze that had
grown to more than 6,500 acres (2,630 hectares) south of
Camarillo, according to the Ventura County Fire Department.
Officials ordered the evacuation of  California State University ,
 Channel Islands , and closed State Route 1, known as the Pacific
Coast Highway, as the fire approached.  While summer wildfires are common in  California  and other
western U.S. states, officials have  warned  that an unusually dry
winter left the Golden State more vulnerable than usual. More
than 680 wildfires have occurred statewide since January, about
200 more than average for this time of year, according to the
California Department of Forestry and Fire Protection.  Ninety-six fire engines, six helicopters and five
bulldozers were fighting the blaze, the Ventura County Fire
Department said in a statement.  The  National Weather Service  issued a Red Flag Warning for
 Southern California  as dry Santa Ana winds, which blow toward
the coast from the desert, were expected to reach as much as 45
miles per hour (72 kilometers per hour). The weather warning is
used to alert area firefighters and communities that conditions
are ideal for rapidly spreading wildfires. Camarillo is about 50
miles from Los Angeles.  Deadly Fires  A series of fires that spread across the state in 2008
killed 23 people. A year earlier, 1,500 homes were burned and
nine people died in a string of fires that were visible from
space.  Large wildfires aren’t limited to California. Colorado
suffered its most destructive fire season in 2012, with dozens
of blazes fueled by drought-ravaged grass and beetle-killed
timber. Flames destroyed at least 600 homes and charred more
than 116,000 acres of forest. Damage was estimated at more than
$450 million, with the Waldo Canyon blaze, which consumed entire
neighborhoods in the foothills of  Colorado Springs , becoming the
most expensive fire in state history.  California often uses prison inmates to help fight
wildfires. Corrections Department officials said the state
expects to have about the same number of inmates available this
year as they did prior to Governor  Jerry Brown ’s program to
shift thousands of non-violent offenders to county jails in
order to reduce the state’s prison population as ordered by
federal courts.  About 3,850 inmates are housed in more than 40 camps across
the state, available to fight fires, according to the latest
 inmate population data . In first week of May 2011, before
Brown’s program began, the state had 3,988.  The Corrections Department said 82 fire crews, consisting
of 1,093 inmates and 97 guards, were assisting in 14 fires
across the state yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael B. Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  