-- Suicide Rate Rises as Economy Stresses Middle-Age America
-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2013-05-02T16:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/suicide-rate-rises-as-economy-stresses-middle-age-america.html
More middle-aged Americans are killing
themselves, and the economy may be the reason, according to a
government  report .  The annual suicide rate of people 35 to 64 years old rose
28 percent from 1999 to 2010, more than any other age group, the
U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention said in the
report today. The working-age group probably is more affected by
the economic downturn in the past half-decade than the young or
old, and that may be driving suicide rates higher.  ``The suicide rate started accelerating in 2008, 2009 and
2010 -- someone might still be working, but their house is
underwater, or they’re working but they’re working part-time,''
Eric Caine, the director of the CDC’s  Injury Control Research
Center for Suicide Prevention , said by telephone. ``These things
ripple into families. There’s an economic stress.''  The increase in middle-age suicides puts a new focus on
that group, as opposed to young or old people who typically have
been seen as higher risk, the Atlanta-based CDC said. In
addition to the economic downturn and related financial crisis,
the growing availability of prescription opioid drugs -- such as
oxycodone and hydrocodone -- may be a contributing factor.  Researchers have only recently begun focusing on society-level causes of suicide, Caine said.  ‘‘Only in the last 10 or 15 years has there been a lot of
attention swinging back to the macro forces,’’ Caine said.
‘‘There hasn’t been the kind of research to dig under what’s
really a superficial view.”  The suicide rate among the middle-aged group was 17.6 per
100,000 people in 2010, an increase from 13.7 per 100,000 in
1999, the CDC said.  Public Awareness  Hanging was the fastest growing method of killing oneself,
while use of guns was the most common method, the agency said.  The suicide trends suggest “a need for increased public
awareness of suicide risk factors and research of potential
suicide prevention strategies,” the CDC said.  Men are most likely to kill themselves with a gun or
suffocation. Women are most likely to use a gun, or poison
themselves, according to the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Drew Armstrong in  New York  at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  