-- SunPower First-Quarter Loss Narrows on Installations
-- B y   E h r e n   G o o s s e n s
-- 2013-05-02T21:40:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/sunpower-reports-narrower-first-quarter-loss-on-installs.html
SunPower Corp. (SPWR) , the second-largest
U.S. solar manufacturer, said its first-quarter loss narrowed
and sales exceeded company estimates as project installations
increased.  The net loss narrowed to $54.7 million, or 46 cents a
share, from $74.5 million, or 67 cents, a year earlier,  San
Jose , California-based SunPower said in a statement today. The
company, which hasn’t reported a profit since 2010, was expected
to lose 32 cents a share, the average of seven analysts’
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Sales of $635.4 million exceeded the company’s February
forecast of $450 million to $525 million. Global oversupply of
solar products and waning government support for renewable
energy dragged down  prices  for photovoltaic panels 31 percent
last year to 64 cents a watt. SunPower and other panel makers
have turned to building solar projects that use output to help
boost demand.  SunPower invested downstream ahead of its peers and that
strategy is paying off,  Tom Werner , president and chief
executive officer said today in an interview. “We’ve gone from
selling hardware to selling energy.”  Werner doesn’t see the large, struggling Chinese solar
manufacturers as the company’s competitors, he said. “More than
half of our revenue is in the form of a lease and power purchase
agreements.”  Margins  SunPower said gross margin was 9.3 percent, compared to an
average of negative 3.2 percent among peers, according to  data 
compiled by Bloomberg. The company’s gross margin exceeds that
of its peers, Ben Kallo, an analyst at Robert W Baird & Co. in
 San Francisco , said in an interview before results were
released.  “If I look at half the Chinese module manufacturers
they’re reporting low single digit gross margins,” Kallo said.
“They have a good balance sheet comparatively.”  SunPower rose 18 percent to close at $15.29 in  New York ,
the highest since Aug. 17, 2011. Shares have risen more than 172
percent since the start of the year.  SunPower, majority-owned by the French  oil company  Total
SA, said April 26 that it began construction on two Antelope
Vally solar farms totaling 579 megawatts in  Los Angeles  and Kern
counties. They will provide enough power for 400,000 California
homes and will sell electricity to Edison International’s
Southern California Edison utility under long-term contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ehren Goossens in New York at 
 egoossens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  