-- Sweden Manufacturing Shrinks as Job Cuts Grow on Krona Surge
-- B y   J o h a n   C a r l s t r o m
-- 2013-05-02T08:04:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/swedish-manufacturing-unexpectedly-contracts-as-orders-slow.html
Swedish  manufacturing  unexpectedly
contracted in April as the euro area recession and a stronger
krona weighed on output amid deepening jobs losses in the
largest Nordic economy.  The krona fell 0.4 percent against the euro to 8.5553 as of
9:53 a.m. and slid 0.5 percent versus the dollar on increased
speculation the central bank will need to cut  interest rates 
again. The currency has gained 3.5 percent versus the euro and
the dollar over the past 12 months, raising costs on exports.  An index based on responses from  purchasing managers  fell
to a seasonally adjusted 49.6 from 52.1 the prior month,
Stockholm-based  Swedbank AB (SWEDA) , which compiles the data, said
today. A reading below 50 indicates a contraction. It was seen
falling to 51, according to the  median estimate  of nine
economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  “This is another nail in the coffin that the Riksbank will
have to cut” rates at its meeting in July and to 0.5 percent by
year end, said Par Magnusson, chief economist at Royal Bank of
Scotland Plc in  Stockholm .  The central bank last month pushed back plans to increase
its  main lending rate , in part as a strengthening krona has
reduced inflation. The Riksbank predicts it won’t increase its 1
percent repo rate until late next year -- about a year later
than it forecast in February.  A Breather  The production sub-index fell to 52.8 from 54.7, while the
order index fell to 50.9 from 55.3. The employment index slumped
to 42.6 from 44.2.  “The recovery in the manufacturing is taking a breather”
as fewer companies see rising orders than a month earlier,
Swedbank said in a statement. The reading “suggests companies
are still cautious to hire new staff” as “production plans
have damped,” it said.  Swedish  unemployment  has risen to 8.8 percent as companies
such as Ericsson AB cut jobs to cope with the reduced demand
from abroad.  Sweden   exports  about half of its output, of which
about 70 percent go to  Europe . The  European Central Bank 
predicts fiscal austerity means the 17-nation euro economy will
shrink 0.5 percent this year before expanding 1 percent in 2014.  “The krona is strong and demand from abroad is weak so
Sweden can’t grow in a vacuum,” Magnusson said. “Very weak
growth in the coming quarters” will mean that an expansion will
slow to 0.1 percent this year from 0.8 percent in 2012, he
forecast. The Riksbank predicts it will pick up to 1.4 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johan Carlstrom in Stockholm at 
 jcarlstrom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  