-- Swiss Re Quarterly Profit Rises 21% on Non-Life Business
-- B y   C a r o l y n   B a n d e l
-- 2013-05-02T05:56:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/swiss-re-quarterly-profit-rises-21-on-non-life-business.html
Swiss Re Ltd. (SREN) , the world’s second-
biggest reinsurer, posted a 21 percent increase in first-quarter
profit as higher premiums and lower-than-expected catastrophe
claims boosted property and casualty earnings.  Net income rose to $1.38 billion from $1.14 billion a year
earlier, the Zurich-based company said today in a statement.
That beat the $1.06 billion average estimate of seven analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg.  Property and casualty income climbed 53 percent due to the
absence of large natural disasters in the quarter and after the
expiry of a quota share agreement with  Warren Buffett ’s
 Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  at the end of December. Swiss Re, which
said the renewal of reinsurance contracts in April showed
“moderate growth,” reiterated its financial targets.  “It’s a great start to the year for Swiss Re,” said
Stefan Schuermann, a Zurich-based analyst with Vontobel Holding
AG. “Swiss Re has a very strong balance sheet with a good
solvency ratio and non-life was very good.”  Swiss Re said profit in the quarter was boosted by a gain
of about $100 million after settling a dispute over a so-called
retrocession deal with Berkshire Hathaway in March. Property and
casualty premiums climbed 15 percent to $3.54 billion compared
with the company’s February estimate for an increase of about 25
percent over the next two years.  Strong Quarter  A “very strong” first quarter “demonstrates we have the
right strategy and structure in place to reach our 2011-2015
financial targets,” Chief Executive Officer Michel Lies said in
the statement. “The successful April renewals are another proof
of Swiss Re’s ability to perform and grow despite economic
headwinds and a continuous low interest rate environment.”  Swiss Re and larger rival  Munich Re  are seeking to bolster
profit partly by investing in higher-yielding assets such as
corporate credit and property after the euro region’s debt
crisis undermined returns from  government bonds .  Lies said on April 24 the company will boost holdings of
corporate debt and stocks this year to counter depressed returns
from government bonds. The reinsurer reported a return on
investments of 3.4 percent for the quarter, down from 4 percent
a year earlier.  Munich Re, the world’s biggest reinsurer, said profit in
the first quarter was “close to 1 billion euros” ($1.3
billion) after an increase in prices and no major natural
catastrophes.  The estimated first-quarter disaster bill in  Europe  was
$1.8 billion as heavy snowfall, sub-freezing temperatures, high
winds, ice and flooding spurred claims, according to a report by
reinsurance broker Aon Benfield. Natural disasters caused $77
billion in global insured losses in 2012, down from $119 billion
the previous year, according to Swiss Re.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carolyn Bandel in Zurich at 
 cbandel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  