-- U.K. April Construction Shrinks Less Than Forecast, Markit Says
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2013-05-02T08:49:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/u-k-april-construction-shrinks-less-than-forecast-markit-says.html
U.K.  construction  shrank less than
economists forecast in April as homebuilding strengthened,
 Markit Economics  said.  An index of activity rose to 49.4 from 47.2 in March,
Markit and the Chartered Institute of Purchasing and Supply said
today in London. Economists forecast a reading of 48, based on
the median of nine estimates. Still, the index remained below
the 50 level that divides expansion and contraction for a sixth
month. The report also showed that new business fell for an 11th
month, the longest period of decline since 2008-2009.  Construction was one of the main weak spots of Britain’s
economy in the  first quarter , according to preliminary data
published last month. While the economy grew 0.3 percent,
construction shrank 2.5 percent and knocked 0.2 percentage
points off gross domestic product. Markit said the April survey
indicates construction may be less of a drag this quarter.  “The sector showed signs of stabilization in April,” said
CIPS Chief Executive Officer David Noble. “This is a reasonable
signal that things are a bit better in the industry but, that
said, construction is still contracting and witnessing marginal
declines in new orders.”  Employment in the construction industry was “broadly
stable” in April and input costs rose at the slowest pace since
June, Markit said. Housing activity was the strongest since
April 2012. More than twice as many builders anticipate an
increase in their output over the next twelve months as those
that forecast a reduction, according to the report.  Manufacturing Index  A report yesterday by Markit showed that manufacturing
barely shrank in April, with a factory index rising to 49.8 from
48.6.  Services (PMITSUK)  probably maintained growth last month, economists
said before a third report scheduled for release tomorrow. The
services gauge probably stayed at 52.4, according to the median
of 27 forecasts in a Bloomberg survey.  In the euro area, manufacturing contracted for a 21st
straight month in April, adding to pressure on the European
Central Bank to cut interest rates to spur lending and growth. A
factory gauge for the 17-nation region declined to 46.7 from
46.8, Markit said today. That’s above an initial estimate of
46.5 on April 23.  The ECB’s Governing Council will cut its benchmark rate
today to a record low 0.5 percent from 0.75 percent, according
to the median of 70 economists’ estimates in a Bloomberg survey.  The Bank of  England , which kept its  bond-buying stimulus
program  on hold last month, will hold its next policy meeting on
May 8-9. BOE official Ben Broadbent said yesterday there are
more reasons to be optimistic about the economy than there were
last year.  “If you ask me are there signs other than just our
forecast that the economy is going to grow over the next six
months, I’d say yes, and there are probably more of those signs
than in the middle of last year,” he told reporters in London.
Still, the recovery is “a lot weaker than a normal recovery and
weaker than even the average.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in  London  at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  