-- U.K. Underemployment Shows Labor Market Slack, Niesr Paper Says
-- B y   F e r g a l   O ’ B r i e n
-- 2013-05-02T08:51:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/u-k-underemployment-shows-labor-market-slack-niesr-paper-says.html
An increasing number of Britons are
working less than they want to and the issue of so-called
underemployment is a better indicator than the  jobless rate  of
slack in the labor market, according to a paper published today.  Using data in the Labour Force Survey, David Bell and  David
Blanchflower  said underemployment rose to 9.9 percent in 2012
from 6.2 percent in 2008. That’s above the unemployment rate of
7.9 percent, according to the most recent data.  In the paper, published by the  National Institute of
Economic and Social Research  in  London  today, they said the
phenomenon is “particularly concentrated” among the young,
with 30 percent of 16-24-year-olds in employment wanting to work
longer hours. It means the labor market for that age group is
tougher than traditional data imply.  “Even if there was an upturn in demand, employers would
likely extend the hours of existing workers before taking the
risk of hiring new young employees,” according to the paper.  Underemployment partly explains why Britain’s jobless rate
didn’t rise as much as expected  during the recession  as
companies cut costs by reducing working hours rather than firing
staff. Still, the resulting weak productivity has raised
concerns about potential cost pressures once the economy
recovers and demand increases.  “This new measure helps us to understand the true level of
excess capacity in the U.K. labor market,” according to the
paper. “It is also clearly relevant to the debate about the
size of the output gap. It supports the view that even a
substantial increase in aggregate demand is unlikely to exert
significant upward pressure on real wages.”  Bell is a professor at the  University of Stirling ,
 Scotland . Blanchflower is a professor at  Dartmouth College  and a
former  Bank of England  policy maker.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fergal O’Brien in London at 
 fobrien@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  