-- U.S. Commercial Paper Market Contracts for Third Week, Fed Says
-- B y   J o h n   P a r r y
-- 2013-05-02T15:23:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/u-s-commercial-paper-market-contracts-for-third-week-fed-says.html
The market for corporate borrowing
through  commercial paper  contracted for a third week led by a
decline in issuance from financial institutions.  The seasonally adjusted amount of U.S. commercial paper
dropped $12.4 billion to $997.4 billion outstanding in the week
ended yesterday, the Federal Reserve said today on its website.
That’s the lowest level since the market touched $968.6 billion
in the period ended Nov. 14.  Companies are favoring bonds to obtain longer-term, stable
funding with yields at about record lows, in preference to
shorter-term financing via commercial paper.  “One need only look at the sharp increase that is
occurring in longer-term corporate bond issuance to understand a
major reason why commercial paper issuance has been weak,”  Tony Crescenzi , a portfolio manager and strategist at Pacific
Investment Management Co. in  Newport Beach , California, wrote in
an e-mail.  Company bond sales worldwide are approaching the fastest
pace on record as central bank stimulus from the U.S. to Japan
and Europe stokes demand and prompts economists to scale back
forecasts for interest-rate increases.  “Extending the duration of liabilities remains a key goal
of many companies, especially given today’s low borrowing
rates,” Crescenzi said.  Commercial paper sold by non-U.S. financial institutions 
fell $4 billion to $234.4 billion outstanding, declining from
the highest level since Feb. 6, while the  amount issued by U.S.-
based banks  dropped for a third week, declining $3.4 billion to
$288.1 billion, the least since the period ended Nov. 14,
according to the Fed.  Corporations sell commercial paper, typically maturing in
270 days or less, to fund everyday activities such as rent and
salaries.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Parry  in  New York  at 
 jparry5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  