-- U.S. to Delete Data on Life-Threatening Mistakes From Website
-- B y   C h a r l e s   R .   B a b c o c k
-- 2013-05-02T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/u-s-to-delete-data-on-life-threatening-mistakes-from-website.html
Two years ago, over objections from
the hospital industry, the U.S. announced it would add data
about “potentially life-threatening” mistakes made in
hospitals to a website people can search to check on safety
performance.  Now the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services is
planning to strip the site of the eight hospital-acquired
conditions, which include infections and mismatched blood
transfusions, while it comes up with a different set. The agency
said it’s taking the step because some of the eight are
redundant and because an advisory panel created by the 2010
Affordable Care Act recommended regulators use other gauges.  The decision to pull the measures is a retreat from a
commitment to transparency, according to organizations
representing employers that help pay for health insurance.  “We have a right to know if hospitals are making errors
that are catastrophic to patients,” said Leah Binder, president
of the Washington-based Leapfrog Group, whose members include
General Motors Co. and Verizon Communications Inc. “What
they’re saying basically is hospital claims of unfairness have
more weight than consumers’ right to know.”  The initial proposal CMS has made for new safety-assessment
data suggests the  Hospital Compare  website won’t be as
comprehensive as it is now, Binder said.  Bill Kramer, executive director for national health policy
at the Pacific Business Group on Health, said removing the data
“would be a significant step backwards.” The coalition,
including Wal-Mart Stores Inc. and Walt Disney Co., was among 33
business, labor and consumer organizations that argued against
taking the hospital-acquired conditions, or HACs, off the site.  Error Rates  The debate over public reporting of hospital errors
underscores the challenges regulators face in balancing patient
and provider interests in an economy that spends $2.7 trillion a
year on medical care, about one-third of it at hospitals.  The statistics were first posted in October 2011. CMS
officials have said they’ll be removed during the website’s
annual update in July, according to Binder and the American
Hospital Association. Binder estimated it could be two years
before data from the new HACs appear on Hospital Compare.  Patrick Conway, CMS’s chief medical officer and top
quality-control official, declined to be interviewed and didn’t
respond to written questions about the HACs’ removal, the new
measures and when they might appear on the site.  The hospital industry argued against adding the statistics
to Hospital Compare from the beginning, contending the data,
culled from Medicare billing records, aren’t precise enough and
can paint inaccurate pictures.  ‘Real Picture’  “Our members have long been in favor of transparency,”
said Nancy Foster, vice president for quality and patient safety
policy at the Washington-based American Hospital Association.
“The only thing we have insisted upon is that the measures be
accurate and fair, that they represent a real picture of what’s
going on in an individual hospital if you’re going to put it up
on a public website.”  Baltimore-based CMS, which oversees the government health
insurance programs that pay almost half of all U.S. medical
bills, revealed it would be stripping Hospital Compare of the
HACs in an Aug. 31 regulation.  CMS said it was doing so in part because two of them, both
involving catheter infections, are already mentioned in other
sections on the site and that three more are included in
composite scores in another category.  New List  In addition, the Measure Applications Partnership or MAP,
the group created by the health-care overhaul law, recommended
that CMS instead use hospital-acquired conditions endorsed by
the  National Quality Forum . MAP is part of the nonprofit, which
advises the U.S. government and hospitals on best practices.  The health-care law requires CMS to cut Medicare payments
starting in October 2015 to hospitals that score in the 25
percent of worst-offenders on a list of hospital-acquired
conditions, which the law leaves to regulators to define.  CMS proposed on April 26 that the measures include versions
of two currently on the site -- bed sores and objects left
inside surgical patients’ bodies -- and others that cover
accidental cuts and tears, collapsed lungs, blood clots after
surgery and other post-operative complications.  Two now on Hospital Compare that aren’t among those
proposed by CMS are transfusions of the wrong type of blood and
air embolisms, which are air bubbles that become trapped in the
bloodstream. Both are known in the medical community as never-
events, because they should never happen.  The agency will accept comments from the public on the
suggested new HACs until June 25.  ‘Great Concern’  Binder said it “should be a great concern to every
American” that blood transfusion and air embolism aren’t among
the proposals. “We deserve to know where they happen.”  Foster at the American Hospital Association said she
couldn’t comment yet on the specific CMS proposals. While the
trade group is concerned some might not be reliable indicators,
she said, AHA experts are still studying them.  The website’s current HAC data are for the period from July
1, 2009, to June 30, 2011. Hospitals are scored on incidents per
1,000 discharges, and compared to a national ranking.  Regulators have emphasized curbing infections and injuries
since the Institute of Medicine reported in 1999 that as many as
98,000 Americans die annually from preventable hospital mishaps.
While some states track them, Hospital Compare is the only
national compilation.  ‘Done Right’  “It’s better to have measures that might not meet the
highest level of statistical reliability than to ask your next-
door neighbor,” said Dolores Mitchell, executive director of
the health-care program for Massachusetts state employees, who
said she was the only member of the MAP panel that opposed
removing the HACs.  In Los Angeles, the Ronald Reagan UCLA Medical Center has a
Hospital Compare score of .079 per 1,000 discharges for air
embolisms, compared to a national average of .003.  After a transplant patient died in 2010 because an air
bubble blocked a vein, UCLA conducted a root cause analysis and
identified and put into place several changes in procedure, said
Tom Rosenthal, who is chief medical officer of the UCLA Hospital
System. “We have done everything we can do to reduce patient
harm, and we’ve had no cases since.”  Opposition to the HACs on the website doesn’t mean the
industry is “trying to cover up our dirty linen,” Rosenthal
said. “The public does have a right to know what’s going on at
UCLA and every other hospital in the country. But it should be
done right.”  With assistance from Danielle Ivory in  Washington . Editors: Anne
Reifenberg, Gary Putka  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles R. Babcock in Washington at 
 cbabcock1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gary Putka at 
 gputka@bloomberg.net  