-- U.S. Speeds to Stop Terror as Texas Blast Safety Ignored
-- B y   M i c h a e l   C .   B e n d e r
-- 2013-05-02T00:33:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/u-s-speeds-to-stop-terror-as-texas-blast-safety-ignored.html
Political labels fell aside after the
Boston Marathon bombing that killed three as Americans “united
in concern for our fellow citizens,” said President  Barack Obama , a Democrat. House Speaker  John Boehner , a Republican,
urged the country to “come together with grace and strength.”  Yet while terrorism galvanizes top federal officials to
move to prevent future attacks, industrial safety gets less
attention -- even after 14 died in a Texas fertilizer-plant
explosion April 17, two days after the Boston bombing. Lawmakers
in Congress have just started to investigate the Texas deaths
while state officials defend their regulation of chemical
facilities.  “It’s going to take more plants blowing up before policy
makers start realizing there’s a serious issue,” said Nasima
Hossain, the federal public health advocate in  Washington  for
the U.S. Public Interest Research Group, a consumer advocacy
organization.  Workplace fires and explosions killed 1,842 from 2001 to
2011, U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics data show. The  Boston 
bombings would be the highest-profile terrorist act in the U.S.
since Sept. 11, 2001, when 2,977 lost their lives, according to
the National September 11 Memorial & Museum.  Most Americans say there’s little the federal government
can do to prevent attacks like the one at the Boston Marathon:
75 percent of U.S. adults see  occasional  acts of terrorism as a
part of life, up 11 percentage points from a year ago, according
to a poll by Pew Research Center for the People & the Press. The
telephone survey of 1,002 adults in the continental U.S., taken
April 18-21, had a margin of error of plus or minus 3.7
percentage points.  Tougher Rules  Still, federal lawmakers of both political stripes used the
bombing to push their side of the debate over immigration laws,
 gun control  and government efficiency.  Safety advocates say the ways to stop deaths like those
that occurred in West, Texas, are tougher regulations and zoning
for chemical plants. The fire and ensuing blast at Adair Grain
Inc.’s fertilizer plant devastated the town of 2,800, wrecking
two schools, a nursing home and an apartment building all built
within blocks of the plant.  Texas officials who testified yesterday at the state’s
first legislative hearing on the explosion said current
regulations are adequate to prevent future disasters.  “The system worked,” said Nim Kidd, chief of emergency
management at the Texas Department of Public Safety.  Responses to the two tragedies show how a surprise attack
and ensuing chase in one of the most populated cities in the
U.S. can hold the public attention for weeks, while two days
later a deadlier explosion in small-town America -- the worst
industrial disaster in three years -- becomes an afterthought on
the evening news.  Bombing Site  “We can’t prevent every tragedy,” said Dan Fee, an
airline pilot from  Kansas  visiting the Boston bombing site last
week. He shrugged off a question about the need for more
regulations after the  Texas  explosion. “We have this endless
cycle of trying to assign blame and pass laws. I’m tired of the
knee-jerk reactions.”  Fee was among countless Americans who have turned the
bombing sites and a nearby memorial at Boston’s Copley Square
into a hive of activity. Last week, more than 10 days after the
attack, traffic halted while a group of runners completed their
marathon, embracing after passing the finish line near a half-
dozen satellite television trucks.  More than 20 people waited in line to buy merchandise from
Marathon Sports, a fitness store on Boylston Street that had its
storefront blown apart by the bombs. Dozens more took photos of
buildings boarded up with plywood.  In West, reporters who packed the only hotel in town and
crowded into an auction barn for news conferences have mostly
left. Meanwhile, the community remains under a boil-water order,
a result of pipes broken in the explosion.  Disrupted Town  “It’s slowed down tremendously,” Barbara Schissler, 64,
who runs the Czech Stop grocery and Little Czech Bakery in West,
said of national media attention. “But the town isn’t back to
normal and it won’t be for quite a while.”  The marathon bombings received at least two-and-a-half
hours of coverage on ABC’s “World News with  Diane Sawyer ,”
according to Vanderbilt University’s Television News Archive.
The program devoted about 17 minutes to the West explosion.  CNN  continues to broadcast live from near the Boston
Marathon site. The media frenzy continued yesterday as
authorities said they planned to charge three additional
suspects. There seemed to be no trouble finding an audience.  Almost two-thirds of those surveyed said they were
following the bombing story “very closely,” according to the
Pew poll. Half as many said that about the fertilizer-plant
explosion.  Uninspected Plant  In a  YouGov Plc (YOU)  poll of 1,000 adults taken April 23-24 only
18 percent of Americans agreed that stricter workplace safety
regulations would “prevent another accident like the one in
Texas.” The U.S. Occupational Safety and Health Administration
hadn’t inspected the West plant since 1985, while the risk plan
filed with regulators listed no flammable chemicals.  West Fertilizer handled  anhydrous ammonia , a nitrogen
fertilizer that farmers inject into the soil for plant growth.
It also stored as much as 270 tons of ammonium nitrate, a solid
fertilizer that was used in  Oklahoma City  by Timothy McVeigh to
destroy the Alfred P. Murrah Federal Building, killing 168
people, in 1995.  There are no federal rules mandating that such plants be
located away from residential areas, and  current safety plans
aren’t always shared widely with residents nearby, said Paul
Orum, an independent consultant who wrote a  report  on chemical
security for the Center for American Progress. The Washington-
based group was founded by  John Podesta , a former chief of staff
for President  Bill Clinton .  Boxer Investigates  After the blast, U.S. Representatives  George Miller , a
California Democrat, and Joe Courtney, a Democrat from
 Connecticut , wrote the Government Accountability Office on April
25 asking whether federal regulators can better prevent
explosions at fertilizer facilities. Senator  Barbara Boxer , a
California Democrat and chairman of the Environment and Public
Works Committee, said the panel will investigate the blast.  “I’m confident that given the death toll here and the
number of people that have been injured, close to 200, that all
of these questions will be throughly investigated,” U.S.
Senator  John Cornyn , a Texas Republican said in an April 24
conference call with reporters. “And they should be.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael C. Bender in Tallahassee at 
 mbender10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  