-- U.S. Wins Record $240 Million Discrimination Verdict
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2013-05-02T00:21:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/u-s-wins-record-240-million-discrimination-verdict.html
The U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity
Commission said an  Iowa  jury awarded $240 million in damages, a
record for the agency, in a trial accusing a Texas-based  turkey 
processing company of severe abuse and discrimination against
workers with intellectual disabilities.  The jury in federal court in Davenport, Iowa, found that
Hill Country Farms Inc., doing business as Henry’s Turkey
Service, subjected 32 men to verbal and physical harassment,
harsh living conditions and other abuses from 2007 to 2009,
after 20 years of similar mistreatment, the EEOC said today in a
statement.  The Goldthwaite, Texas-based company employed the men in
Iowa, where they worked eviscerating turkeys. The EEOC presented
evidence that the company exploited the workers because their
intellectual disabilities made them vulnerable and unaware of
their rights, the agency said.  The men were hit, kicked, called “retarded,” and “dumb
ass,” denied adequate medical care and forced to live in
“deplorable and sub-standard” conditions, the EEOC said. At
least one case of hand-cuffing was reported, as well as disabled
workers being forced to carry heavy weights as punishment, the
agency said.  David Scieszinski, an attorney for Hill Country Farms,
didn’t immediately return a voicemail message seeking comment
about the verdict after regular business hours.  The jury awarded each of the men $2 million in punitive
damages and $5.5 million in compensatory damages. A district
judge in September ordered Henry’s Turkey to pay the men $1.3
million for unlawful disability-wage discrimination, bringing
the total judgment to $241.3 million, the agency said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Blumberg in  San Francisco  at 
 pblumberg1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  