-- U.S. Company Credit Swaps Drop; Loews Issues $1 Billion of Debt
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S t i l w e l l
-- 2013-05-02T20:49:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/u-s-company-credit-swaps-fall-as-ecb-lowers-key-interest-rate.html
A gauge of U.S. corporate credit risk
fell to the lowest level in more than five years as the  European
Central Bank  cut its key  interest rate  to a record low and
initial jobless claims declined.  The Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, dropped 3.7
basis points to a mid-price of 74.3 basis points at 4:23 p.m. in
 New York , according to prices compiled by Bloomberg. That’s the
lowest intraday level since December 2007 and erases yesterday’s
3.1 basis-point jump.  Policy makers meeting in Bratislava today lowered the main
refinancing rate to 0.5 percent from 0.75 percent, a move
predicted by 45 of 70 economists in a Bloomberg News survey. The
ECB kept the deposit rate at zero and reduced the marginal
lending rate to 1 percent from 1.5 percent. In the U.S.,
applications for unemployment insurance payments fell 18,000 to
324,000 in the week ended April 27, the fewest since January
2008, Labor Department figures showed today in  Washington .  “Even if you’re a bear, you have to admit that we’re not
in recession or in danger of going into recession,”  James Lee ,
senior high-yield analyst for Calvert Investment Management Inc.
in Bethesda,  Maryland , said in a telephone interview. “ Europe 
is sort of a major wildcard risk out there, and concern ebbs and
flows. What the ECB did today was in line with majority
thinking.”  Loews Debt  The credit-swaps index typically falls as investor
confidence improves and rises as it deteriorates. The contracts
pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point
equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of
debt.  Loews Corp. (L) , the New York-based conglomerate with holdings
in insurance, energy and hotels, issued $1 billion of bonds in
its first debt sale in more than eight years.  The holding company  controlled  by New York’s Tisch family
sold $500 million of 2.625 percent, 10-year notes to yield 105
basis points more than similar-maturity Treasuries and an equal
portion of 4.125 percent, 30-year securities with a relative
yield of 135 basis points, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Proceeds will be used for general corporate purposes,
according to a regulatory  filing .  The new bonds are rated A2 by Moody’s Investors Service,
according to a rating report today.  Liquidity Stress  The  risk premium  on the Markit CDX North American High
Yield Index declined 15.2 basis points to 358.5 basis points,
Bloomberg prices show.  Moody’s liquidity-stress index fell to a record low of 2.8
percent in April from 3.2 percent the month before, according to
a report yesterday from Moody’s. The gauge has averaged 7.4
percent since 2002 and reached a high of 20.9 percent in March
2009.  “Strong demand for high-yield debt is allowing companies
to proactively shore up their cash and maturity positions before
they become problems for liquidity,” analysts led by John Puchalla said in the note. “The market is looking past sluggish
growth in corporate revenues and operating earnings, as well as
record-low yields for high-yield bonds.”  The cost to protect against a  default  by  Beazer Homes USA
Inc. (BZH)  dropped as the Atlanta-based homebuilder posted fiscal
second-quarter revenue that beat analysts’ estimates and
forecast profitability for its second half.  Beazer Sales  Five-year credit swaps tied to Beazer debt dropped 51.8
basis points to 428.2 basis points by 3:30 p.m., according to
data provider CMA, which is owned by McGraw Hill Financial and
compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated
market. That means it would cost the equivalent of $428,200
annually to protect $10 million of obligations for five years.  Beazer  booked  $287.9 million in sales for the quarter ended
March 31, according to a company statement, beating the $253.6
million expected by 10 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. The
homebuilder reported an adjusted loss of 63 cents a share, while
analysts projected a 69-cent loss. A higher backlog, improving
margins and better cost control should allow the company to be
profitable for the second half of fiscal 2013, Chief Executive
Officer Allan Merrill said today in the statement.  The average relative yield on speculative-grade, or junk-
rated, debt tightened 2.9 basis points to 506.4 basis points,
Bloomberg data show. High-yield, high-risk debt is rated below
Baa3 by Moody’s and less than BBB- at  Standard & Poor’s .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Stilwell in New York at 
 vstilwell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  