-- Man Accused of Trying to Join Al-Qaeda Ally Wins Bail
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2013-05-02T22:39:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/u-s-man-accused-of-trying-to-join-al-qaeda-confined-to-home-1-.html
A U.S. citizen accused of attempting
to join an al-Qaeda ally in  Syria  was ordered confined to his
parents’ home with electronic monitoring while he awaits trial.  Abdella Ahmad Tounisi of Aurora, Illinois, about 42 miles
west of Chicago, was arrested at O’Hare International Airport on
April 19 as he was about to board a plane bound for Istanbul
with plans to travel on to Syria, according to a  Federal Bureau 
of Investigation statement.  U.S. Magistrate Judge Daniel G. Martin in Chicago today
denied the U.S. government’s request to continue holding
Tounisi, who has been in custody since his arrest.  “It’s a very close issue,” Martin said, adding that
Tounisi was entitled to a presumption of innocence.  His release was delayed until tomorrow to afford
prosecutors time to challenge the decision and for installation
of a land-line telephone at his parents’ house.  Randall Samborn , a spokesman for acting Chicago U.S.
Attorney  Gary Shapiro , said in an e-mailed statement that
prosecutors would appeal Martin’s ruling to U.S. District Judge
Edmond E. Chang tomorrow.  Tounisi, 18, is charged with a single count of attempting
to provide material support to a foreign terrorist group. He
faces as long as 15 years in prison if convicted.  Martin today rejected Assistant U.S. Attorney William
Ridgway’s argument that the teen was a flight risk and a danger
to the community in spite of his youth.  ‘Terrible Things’  “We should not underestimate him and his commitment,” to
engaging in violent jihad, or holy war, the prosecutor said.
“People very young can do terrible things.”  Molly Armour, Tounisi’s lawyer, countered that her client
was bereft of money and bound to his family, friends and
neighbors, gesturing to about 30 people who turned out to
support him and occupied courtroom benches behind her.  “He is beholden to the whole community that is here
today,” she said, arguing for Tounisi’s release into his
father’s custody.  Tounisi was close friends with an  Illinois  man charged last
year with an attempted bombing in Chicago, the FBI said in its
April 20 statement.  Adel Daoud, 19, was arrested in September in an FBI sting
operation during which he allegedly tried to detonate a phony
bomb given to him by an undercover U.S. agent as an act of
violent jihad.  Daoud’s Plea  Daoud pleaded not guilty in October to charges of
attempting to use a weapon of mass destruction and attempting to
damage or destroy a building with an explosive. His attorney,
Thomas A. Durkin, told reporters Daoud was the victim of a set-
up. Daoud remains in U.S. custody.  While Tounisi didn’t participate in Daoud’s bombing
attempt, he helped in the early planning, according to the
affidavit of FBI Special Agent Dwayne W. Golomb filed with the
criminal charging papers.  “Tounisi apparently decided against participating in the
attack, in part because he believed the UC was associated with
 law enforcement ,” Golomb wrote, using UC as an abbreviation for
the FBI’s undercover agent.  The FBI said Tounisi was traveling to Syria to join a
jihadist militant group operating inside the country. He
allegedly conducted Internet research on Jabhat al-Nusrah,
listed by the U.S. State Department as an alias for al-Qaeda in
 Iraq , a designated foreign terrorist organization.  FBI Website  He disclosed his travel plans to a person he believed to be
a Jabhat al-Nusrah online recruiter who was actually working for
the FBI, according to the government. Tounisi had found that
person through a website created by the bureau.  While Tounisi bought his plane ticket to Istanbul, the
undercover agent made arrangements for him to travel by bus to
Gaziantep, near the Turkish border, where Tounisi was told he’d
be met by a “brother,” and taken to an entry point on the
Syrian frontier, Golomb said.  Watched by the FBI as he cleared airport security on the
evening of April 19, Tounisi was arrested after allegedly
telling customs agents he was traveling to  Turkey  for
sightseeing and had no plans to visit any other country.  Martyr, Roadkill  Ridgway today told Martin Tounisi wasn’t deterred by
Daoud’s arrest or by his father’s admonishment to his son that
he would not die a martyr in battle, rather he would “die as
roadkill.”  The law presumes Tounisi’s entitlement to bail, Armour told
the judge. She also said her client abandoned Daoud’s plan
because he didn’t want to participate in anything that would
harm his community.  “He’s charged with attempting to leave the community, not
harm it,” Armour said.  Before ruling, Martin asked the teen if he understood what
was going on before him.  “Yes,” the slightly-built Tounisi replied quietly.  “I wonder if you understand the seriousness of this,” the
judge said moments later.  He had the teen’s father, Ahmad, 49, swear under oath that
he would report any violation of his son’s release terms.  In ordering Tounisi’s confinement, Martin said failure to
abide by that directive could trigger a $50,000 obligation.  “You’re not allowed to leave,” he said.  The case is U.S. v. Tounisi, 13-cr-00328, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of Illinois ( Chicago ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in the Chicago federal courthouse at
   aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  