-- UBS Should Split Investment Bank, Shareholder Knight Vinke Says
-- B y   A m b e r e e n   C h o u d h u r y
-- 2013-05-02T07:48:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/ubs-should-split-investment-bank-shareholder-knight-vinke-says.html
UBS AG (UBSN)  should consider splitting its
investment bank from the wealth management and Swiss banking
businesses, shareholder  Knight Vinke  Asset Management LLC said.  The “best owners” of the investment banking arm could be
its own employees and management, who are the recipients of the
largest part of any profit, Knight Vinke, which is based in New
York, said in a letter to UBS staff and shareholders today. The
firm said it owns almost one percent of UBS shares.  “We question the merits of keeping the investment bank
under the same roof as the wealth management and Swiss banking
businesses,” Knight Vinke said. “The investment bank has
delivered a good set of results for the first quarter of 2013
but nearly destroyed UBS in 2007-09. Investment banking is a
very risky business and these risks pose a serious threat to
UBS’ wealth management and Swiss banking franchise.”  A spokesman for UBS wasn’t immediately available to comment
on the letter.  UBS, Switzerland’s largest bank, reported first-quarter
earnings that exceeded analysts’ estimates on higher revenue at
the investment bank and in wealth management. Chief Executive
Officer  Sergio Ermotti  said last year that UBS was cutting
10,000 jobs and exiting most debt-trading businesses to
concentrate on money management and to boost profitability.  “It’s too early to talk about vindication or to declare
victory, but I think I’m extremely pleased with the progress we
made so far in executing our strategy,” Ermotti, 52, said in an
interview with Bloomberg Television two days ago. “It’s
working. I’m very pleased to see that clients are responding
well to the strategy.”  Profit Climbs  The investment bank posted a 92 percent gain in first-
quarter pretax profit to 977 million francs ($1.1 billion), UBS
said on April 30. That was more than triple the average
analysts’ estimate of 321 million francs. The unit had a pretax
return on equity of 49.5 percent for the quarter, up from 17
percent a year earlier and exceeding a goal for the year as a
whole of more than 15 percent.  Knight Vinke, led by founder Eric Knight, targets large,
publicly traded companies and seeks to recruit other
institutional investors to press the companies’ management to
change course.  In 2007, Knight Vinke said that  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) ,  Europe ’s
largest bank, misled investors about a new share plan payable in
2008 to reward management. It’s in dialogue with Italian energy
producer  Eni SpA (ENI)  about group structure, according to its
 website .  -- Editors: Mark Bentley, Steve Bailey  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ambereen Choudhury in London at 
 achoudhury@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  