-- Lufthansa Has First-Quarter Loss on Reorganization Costs
-- B y   R i c h a r d   W e i s s
-- 2013-05-02T09:03:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/lufthansa-has-first-quarter-loss-on-reorganization-costs.html
Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA) ,  Europe ’s
second-largest airline, said it’s confident of reaching its
full-year earnings targets as a savings plan starts to take hold
and after the carrier averted more strikes with a pay accord.  The company predicted higher operating profit and sales for
this year, after reporting a first-quarter loss of 359 million
euros, unchanged from a year earlier. Lufthansa rose as much as
5.8 percent, the most in six months, after the carrier reached
the agreement with workers yesterday on pay. Markets were closed
in  Germany  on May 1 because of a public holiday.  “The agreement with the unions is a positive surprise as
we feared a longer lasting dispute,” said  Jochen Rothenbacher ,
an analyst at Equinet in Frankfurt. “The conditions should be
acceptable for Lufthansa, as the annualized pay rise is in the
region of CPI growth.” He raised his recommendation to “hold”
from “reduce” today.  Chief Executive Officer Christoph Franz is seeking to wring
more savings from the company with a plan that includes
eliminating 3,500 jobs and transferring all continental traffic
outside its main hubs to its Germanwings low-cost brand. The
airline plans to lower costs and increase sales to lift
operating profit to a record 2.3 billion euros by 2015,  Lufthansa’s passenger airline reduced its first-quarter
operating loss by 15 percent to 363 million euros, while the
cargo, maintenance, and catering units posted higher profit, the
company said in a  statement  today.  Union Agreement  The company settled with unions yesterday on pay
improvements of ground staff and employees at other departments,
avoiding more strikes that have hobbled the airline in past
weeks.  “We took another step towards our target of sustainable
earnings improvements in the first quarter,” Chief Financial
Officer Simone Menne said in a statement today.“Nearly all the
group companies improved their result.”  The airline rose as much as 88 cents to 15.95 euros in
Frankfurt, the most since the end of October. Lufthansa has
advanced 13 percent this year, valuing the company at about 7.2
billion euros.  The Cologne-based company expects to spend 7 billion euros
on fuel this year, 200 million less than previously predicted.
Spot prices for European  jet fuel  have declined 13 percent this
year. The company’s share of premium revenue on long-haul
flights dropped 3.3 percentage points to 51.6 percent in the
quarter.  Fuel Cost  “The reduced guidance for fuel costs is a positive, as is
the agreement with Ver.di union yesterday,” said Ruxandra Haradau-Doeser, an analyst at Kepler Capital Markets in
 Frankfurt . “The market will feel comfortable with 2013 earnings
expectations, while we will have to carefully watch to what
extend long-haul yields continue to be diluted from the larger
proportion of economy class seats.”  Lufthansa had costs of 64 million euros tied to the
efficiency program in the quarter, and expects the full-year
number to be at about the same level of last year, which stood
at 160 million euros.  Analysts expect Lufthansa’s full-year operating profit to
almost double this year from the 524 million euros earned in
2012,  data  collected by Bloomberg show. For the first quarter,
the analysts had predicted a loss of 323 million euros.  The carrier said it will add less capacity on long-haul
flights than previously planned, while its offerings on short-
haul services will be reduced less than planned. In total,
capacity will rise 1 percent this year, unchanged from a March
14 forecast.  Lufthansa adjusted last year’s earnings to account for the
way it books employee benefits. Sales in the first quarter were
little changed at 6.63 billion euros, in line with estimates.  Lufthansa is still negotiating a wage accord with pilots,
whose union Vereinigung Cockpit, representing some 5,500 cockpit
staff, said it demands an improved offer by May 13.  Air France-KLM (AF) , the largest carrier in the region, will
report first-quarter earnings tomorrow, with British Airway’s
parent  IAG SA (IAG)  following May 10.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Richard Weiss  in Frankfurt at 
 rweiss5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  