-- Hugo Boss Quarterly Operating Profit Drops Amid New Collection
-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 2013-05-02T06:05:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/hugo-boss-quarterly-operating-profit-drops-amid-new-collection.html
Hugo Boss AG (BOSS)  said first-quarter
operating profit fell 11 percent as the German luxury-clothing
maker changed its collection cycle and economic conditions
remained difficult in Europe.  Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, amortization
and one-time items fell to 132.6 million euros ($174.6 million)
from 148.4 million euros a year earlier, the Metzingen, Germany-
based company said in a statement today. The  average estimate  of
nine analysts surveyed by Bloomberg was 135.1 million euros.
Wholesale revenue adjusted for currency effects declined 14
percent, Hugo Boss said.  “The market environment proved to be very challenging in
the early months of this year,” Chief Executive Officer Claus- Dietrich Lahrs said in the statement. “With a better
performance of the wholesale business in the further course of
this year, we shall return to renewed growth in the second
quarter.”  Hugo Boss, which sells men’s suits for 400 euros and
women’s pumps for 200 euros, doubled its number of collections
to one per season. The switch to four fashion lines a year will
affect deliveries at the wholesale business in the first quarter
after “supporting” them in the fourth quarter, Andreas Riemann, an analyst at Commerzbank AG, wrote in a report on
April 22.  Hugo Boss posted a 21 percent increase in fourth-quarter
revenue at its wholesale business partly because of the new
delivery cycle, the company said in February.  Revenue fell 2 percent to 593.5 million euros, the company
said. The average estimate of 11 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg
was 607.6 million euros. Revenue adjusted for currency effects
gained 1 percent in Asia while sales in  Europe  dropped 5
percent. Hugo Boss still expects sales adjusted for currency
effects to rise at a “high single-digit rate” this year.  Growth Engine  Retail sales, which exceeded wholesale in 2012 for the
first time, will be the “growth engine” this year, Lahrs said
in March. The retailer, controlled by buyout firm Permira
Advisers LLP, will spend more this year as it expands its own
store network, Lahrs said.  Revenue at Hugo Boss’s own stores gained 15 percent in the
first quarter.  Hugo Boss aims for revenue of 3 billion euros and Ebitda of
750 million euros in 2015, with the retail business representing
about 55 percent of revenue by that year.  Permira, based in  London , acquired a majority holding in
Valentino Fashion Group SpA in 2007. Valentino was Hugo Boss’s
parent company at the time. Permira owns about 66 percent of
Hugo Boss, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The stock
price has more than doubled since the end of 2007.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Cruz in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  