-- UN Envoys Consider 2050 Carbon Target in Climate Deal Talks
-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 2013-05-02T16:20:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/un-envoys-consider-2050-carbon-target-in-talks-on-climate-deal.html
Envoys at United Nations global
warming talks are considering whether to adopt a target for
carbon emissions around 2050 as they struggle to work toward a
deal to limit climate change that they aim to agree on in 2015.  The delegates from about 190 nations meeting this week in
Bonn are discussing whether they could tighten targets by
adopting a worldwide goal for the middle of this century backed
by interim measures proposed by national governments, said Alden Meyer, policy director at the  Union of Concerned Scientists ,
which is following the talks.  “The fear is countries would pick their own criteria to
put their own plan in the best light,” Meyer said in a
telephone interview.  The measures would feed into the agenda for the annual
round of global warming involving environment ministers and
heads of state starting in November in Warsaw. Meyer said he’s
concerned the efforts fall short of goals to limit global
warming to 2 degrees Celsius (3.6 degrees Fahrenheit) from pre-industrial levels.  “If no one does anything on mitigation, there may be a
huge cost on adaptation, and with the little money you put in
you might not be able to cover that cost,” Artur Runge-Metzger,
climate negotiator for the European Union, said today in an
interview in Bonn. “So maybe that’s not going to work out, that
kind of thing.”  Adopting Goals  Delegates to the talks already have agreed that they would
work toward a new pact on limiting emissions in 2015 that would
take affect in 2020. They’re seeking to replace the Kyoto
Protocol, which was adopted in 1997 and limits greenhouse gas
pollution from industrial nations.  Pushing the goal back to 2050 would help bridge the
difficulty of nations agreeing more ambitious targets this
decade. The  U.S. submission  to this week’s discussions said
countries may not have in place even by 2015 their “full
range” of post-2020 measures and “will need to have the
flexibility to update their contributions.”  Global emissions in 2020 will be at least 52 billion metric
tons of carbon dioxide equivalent, or 18 percent more than the
44 billion-ton limit needed to meet the 2 degrees target, the UN
said in a  report  on Nov. 21.  National Plan  The proposals being discussed in Bonn would include
measurable criteria and would be scrutinized by other nations.
They could be adjusted over time to help ensure the country was
doing its fair share, Meyer said.  Each national plan may include efforts to mitigate the
effects of global warming and help nations adapt to rising sea
levels and more violent storms predicted as a result of
increasing carbon dioxide concentrations in the atmosphere, said
 Tara Shine , head of research and development at the Mary
Robinson Foundation on Climate Justice, a Dublin advocacy group.
Shine made a  presentation  at the talks on April 29.  The new measures would allow governments to tell voters the
world is moving toward a climate goal over the next few decades,
Shine said. Such steps would preserve governments’ control over
programs within national capitals, and ensure reviews of
adequacy of country actions at international level.  “You’ve got to give the politicians a story they can tell
their electorates,” such as how cutting emissions now will
reduce costs in the future, she said. Cuts alone are a difficult
policy to sell, she said.  Nations may be able to participate in emissions trading,
while targets set in country plans can cut investment risk in
the absence of global limits, Shine said.  India  has been arguing for a climate agreement that goes
beyond emission cuts and covers requirements outlined in the
1992  UN Framework Convention on Climate Change , said Mira
Mehrishi, the nation’s lead negotiator.  “It has to include all the elements that are there in the
convention,” Mehrishi said in an interview at the talks.
“Currently we are all going around. Let’s see how it develops
in June perhaps.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  