-- Unilever Wagers Billions on India Economic Revival
-- B y   A d i   N a r a y a n   a n d   M a t t h e w   B o y l e
-- 2013-05-02T10:11:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/unilever-wagers-billions-on-india-economic-revival.html
In 1888, when Queen Victoria ruled
 India , the company that would become  Unilever (UNA)  decided the
country was the future. More than a century on, it’s staking
$5.4 billion that it still is.  The Anglo-Dutch maker of Dove shampoo and Lipton tea,
successor to one of the first multinationals in India, plans to
spend as much as 292 billion rupees ($5.4 billion) to increase
its control over Indian unit  Hindustan Unilever Ltd. (HUVR)   The early entry gave Unilever, based in  London  and
Rotterdam, a lead on rivals such as  Procter & Gamble Co. (PG)  in the
world’s second-most populous country. The latest investment
would help it gain greater influence over a business that
boosted earnings by 37 percent last year selling brands tailored
to Indians, such as Fair & Lovely skin lightening cream and
shampoo sachets at about 3 rupees (6 cents) apiece.  At stake is a $42 billion market for beauty and home-care
products and packaged foods where competitors from P&G to
 Colgate-Palmolive (CL)  Co. are making a bigger push to win shoppers.
Hindustan Unilever has so far held its ground as India’s biggest
consumer-products maker by catering to local tastes and building
a distribution system of 6.3 million sales outlets, more than
double P&G’s 2.5 million.  Unilever’s latest investment in India comes as economic
growth is weakening and government bureaucracy slows the
expansion of international companies from  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) 
to Ikea.  India’s economy  expanded 5 percent in the year through
March, the national statistics agency estimates, versus an
average of about 8 percent annually for the past decade.  ‘Grinding Halt’  “An Indian economy growing at 5 to 6 percent is not
enough,” Unilever Chief Executive Officer Paul Polman said in a
December interview in  New York . “India’s problem is India
itself. The government has come to a grinding halt on making the
reforms that need to be done.”  To boost its stake in Hindustan Unilever from the 52.5
percent it owns to its target of 75 percent, the Anglo-Dutch
parent is offering 600 rupees a share, 21 percent above the
Indian unit’s closing price on April 29, the day before the
offer was made.  Shares of Hindustan Unilever, based in Mumbai, rose 17
percent to 584 rupees on April 30. Unilever fell 0.4 percent to
32.3 euros in Amsterdam April 30, trimming its gain this year to
12 percent. P&G has gained 13 percent this year.  “We wish Unilever had done this deal sooner, because the
share price has been a strong performer, but in our view it
makes a lot of sense both strategically and financially,”
 Graham Jones , an analyst at Panmure Gordon in London, said in an
April 30 note.  ‘Obscene Valuation’  Hindustan Unilever shares dropped as much as 2.3 percent in
Mumbai trading today. Traders were today buying the largest
amount of bearish options on Hindustan Unilever in three months
to hedge against declines in the stock.  If completed, the transaction will be Unilever’s biggest
since its 2000 purchase of Best Foods Ltd. Nitin Mathur, an
analyst at Espirito Santo Investment Bank, cautioned that even
at the “obscene valuation” Unilever is putting on the Indian
unit, some investors may refuse to tender their shares. A
Unilever spokeswoman says the company expects to be successful,
and that the offer provides a good return for its shareholders.  Part of Hindustan Unilever’s strategy has been to convince
villagers to use products such as shampoos in place of home-made
herbal powders. Selling items like detergent in sachets
convinced millions of poor Indians to try the company’s
products, according to Ina Dawer, an analyst at researcher
Euromonitor International.  Whitening Scrubs  “That actually helped Hindustan Unilever attract rural
customers -- to make them switch from traditional alternatives
to branded products,” she said.  To broaden its reach, the company started hiring rural
women in 2000 as brand ambassadors who travel to sell directly
to nearby areas, a program that now spans 130,000 towns. More
recently, it has offered urban consumers higher-end brands such
as TRESemme shampoo and more expensive whitening scrubs and
creams under the Pond’s and Lakme brands. It’s also boosted its
marketing budget to about 15 percent of sales from 8 percent in
2009, Deutsche Bank AG estimates.  That strategy has helped Unilever fend off P&G, the world’s
biggest consumer-goods maker, as well as smaller global
competitors such as  Reckitt Benckiser Group Plc. (RB/)   Bill Ackman  Cincinnati-based P&G, which established its India business
in 1964, has gradually boosted its share of the personal and
beauty care segment to 5.2 percent in 2012 from 4.6 percent in
2007 by introducing Indians to global brands such as Olay
lotions, according to Euromonitor. That still trailed Unilever’s
32 percent share in the sector.  P&G, the maker of Tide detergent, Pampers diapers, and
Pantene shampoo, is preoccupied with trying to reinvigorate its
business in more mature markets, said Jeff Stent, an analyst at
Exane BNP Paribas in London. P&G CEO Bob McDonald has said he
will cut $10 billion in costs through 2016 and renew focus on
the company’s leading businesses. McDonald has been under
pressure from activist investor  Bill Ackman , who bought a $1.8
billion stake last year and pushed to replace him.  Unilever’s Indian strategy hasn’t been foolproof. Sales of
its low-cost Wheel detergent are growing at a slower pace due to
“increasing competitive intensity” from smaller players,
Hindustan Unilever CEO Nitin Paranjpe said in a January
conference call. The share of privately held Rohit Surfactants
Ltd.’s Ghari detergent doubled to 6.1 percent in the five years
through 2012, Euromonitor estimates.  British Soap  “Unilever’s lost some market share in detergents, likely
because of Wheel,” said Deutsche Bank analyst  Harold Thompson .
“Competitors have improved substantially.”  Unilever’s Indian business  started  more than a century ago
when British soap maker Lever & Co. introduced the Sunlight
brand. India is now Unilever’s third-largest market, accounting
for about 8 percent of sales, according to Bernstein Research.
On average, its products command a 40 percent market share in
India, higher than in any other country where it operates,
 Liberum Capital  estimates.  The plan to boost its stake comes on the heels of
Unilever’s January decision to increase the royalty the Indian
unit pays to 3.15 percent of revenue, up from 1.4 percent, in
phases over five years.  Regardless of how fast India grows, “there are huge
volumes here and that’s what they want,” said Sachin Bobade, an
analyst at Brics Securities Ltd. in Mumbai. “Unilever always
intended to own as much of this company as possible and they’re
paying a huge premium for it.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Adi Narayan in Mumbai at 
 anarayan8@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Boyle in London at 
 mboyle20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  