-- Turkey Shares Climb to Record on Bets Peace Drive to Aid Rating
-- B y   T a y l a n   B i l g i c
-- 2013-05-02T15:06:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/turkey-index-set-for-record-on-bets-peace-process-to-aid-ratings.html
Turkey   stocks  headed for a record as
growing optimism over a peace process with Kurdish militants in
the nation’s southeast and falling commodity prices fueled bets
of a second credit-rating upgrade this year.  The Borsa Istanbul National 100 index rose 3.1 percent to
88,669.73 at the close in Istanbul, advancing for an eighth day
to the highest level on a closing basis since at least January
1988. The 16-member banking  index  jumped 4.5 percent to the
highest since at least May 2001.  Brent crude  has slumped 14
percent from its high this year to $100.77 a barrel today.  Turkey is in talks with  Abdullah Ocalan , the jailed leader
of the Kurdistan Workers’ Party or PKK, in an effort to end a
conflict that began in the early 1980s and has left about 40,000
people dead. Moody’s Investors Service described the process as
a “visible and credit-positive step” in an April 11 report.
Turkey’s import of oil and gas -- which amounted to $60 billion
in 2012 -- was the main cause of the nation’s $47.5 billion
current-account deficit last year, the world’s third-largest.  Apart from the peace process, the potential for deals with
Iraq and  Israel  in the energy space and falling commodity prices
are supporting the rally, Ali Riza Incekara, head of research at
BGC Partners in Istanbul, said in an e-mailed report today.  Annual inflation in April is expected to drop to 6.5
percent from 7.3 percent in March, according to the median
estimate of 10 economists in a Bloomberg survey. The statistics
office in Ankara will publish the data tomorrow.  Fitch Ratings  lifted Turkey to investment-grade status in
November, the economy’s first such ranking in 18 years. Moody’s
and Standard & Poor’s rate Turkey one level below investment
grade.  ‘Supportive Factors’  The “re-rating supportive factors” are in addition to
investor expectations of another rating upgrade amid a declining
interest rate environment that’s good for companies, according
to the BGC report.  Lender  Turkiye Garanti Bankasi AS (GARAN)  rose 5.6 percent.  Haci
Omer Sabanci Holding AS (SAHOL) , Turkey’s second-biggest group of
companies, added 4 percent.  Turkiye Halk Bankasi AS (HALKB) , a state-run
lender, jumped 4.9 percent.  Two-year benchmark yields declined for a seventh day,
tumbling 18 basis points to 5.02 percent, the lowest level since
at least April 2005.  “As investors price in inflation expectations in bonds,
the rally goes on,” Isik Okte, a strategist at Halk Invest in
Istanbul, said in e-mailed comments. “Institutional funds
especially favor Turkish banks and major holding stocks.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Taylan Bilgic in Istanbul at 
 tbilgic2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  