-- Virgin Crews to Wear ‘Cheeky’ Skirts From Punk Pioneer Westwood
-- B y   K a r i   L u n d g r e n
-- 2013-05-02T11:55:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/virgin-crews-to-wear-cheeky-skirts-from-punk-pioneer-westwood.html
Virgin Atlantic Airways Ltd. has hired
U.K. designer Vivienne Westwood for the first makeover of its
scarlet uniforms in a decade, turning to the pioneering figure
of punk fashion to spearhead a renewal of the brand.  The revamp of more than 7,500 outfits for cabin crew,
pilots, lounge staff and Virgin Holidays employees will seek to
combine a futuristic look with elements of 1940s French fashion
and tailoring drawn from London’s Savile Row, the company said.  Virgin Atlantic has seen its trendsetter-status eroded by
rivals including British Airways, which pioneered flat-bed
seats, and Gulf and Asian carriers like Qatar Airways Ltd. and
 Singapore Airlines Ltd. (SIA) , which have won plaudits for their cabin
service. The U.K. company has responded with innovations such as
a cheese trolley and afternoon tea for its premium passengers.  “From a design perspective we continually try to challenge
the norm and stand out from the crowd,” founder and majority
shareholder  Richard Branson  said in a statement, adding that
other airlines have begun to copy the existing uniforms.  The new designs from Westwood, who found fame with her punk
outfits in the 1970s in a partnership with Sex Pistols manager
Malcolm McLaren, will be trialed in July and rolled out in 2014.  The project unites two figures known for their freewheeling
fashion sense, with Branson last month revealing pants with the
words “stiff competition” under a Virgin-red kilt after a flight
to  Scotland , and Westwood photographed in 1992 twirling her
skirt outside  Buckingham Palace  to show she wore no underwear.  The outfit to be worn by female flight attendants features
an “extremely feminine” silhouette, according to Virgin.  “The jacket enhances the female form with the aid of
cleverly placed bust pleats, a nipped in waist and a curved hip
line,” the Crawley, England-based company said. “The pencil
skirt, which looks deceptively simple from the front, then
reveals a cheeky dart and double pleat at the back.”  Male cabin crew will wear a burgundy-colored three-piece
suit. The airline said it plans to use recycled materials
including a polyester yarn made from plastic bottles, and that a
special nano finish will help the uniforms last longer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kari Lundgren in  London  at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net  