-- Virginia Judge Throws Out Toll Plan for Norfolk Project
-- B y   S a r a   F o r d e n
-- 2013-05-03T18:01:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/virgina-judge-throws-out-toll-plan-for-norfolk-project.html
A  Virginia  judge threw out a plan to
pay for a $2.1 billion tunnel project in the state’s
southeastern region, ruling that lawmakers can’t give the state
transportation department free rein in setting tolls.  “The General Assembly has exceeded its authority by ceding
the setting of toll rates and taxes,” Judge James Cales said in
a ruling from the bench, according to a transcript of the May 1
hearing. The legislature “has given unfettered power to the
Department of Transportation without any real or meaningful
parameters,” Cales said.  Funding for the improvements, which are designed to reduce
traffic congestion and include building a new tunnel under the
Elizabeth River connecting Norfolk and Portsmouth, relied in
part on toll revenue from two existing tunnels. Tolling was
slated to start in February, according to the project’s  website .  Financing for the project was developed through a public-
private partnership that included $675 million of private
activity bonds, a $463 million federal loan under the
Transportation Infrastructure Finance Innovation Act and $421
million from the Virginia Transportation Department, among other
sources, according to the  website . The Virginia Transportation
Department is providing the revenue from the planned tolling in
the interim.  A group of community businesses and residents sued in 2012,
claiming the plan for tolling at the tunnel violated Virginia’s
constitution.  ‘Economic Vitality’  Virginia Governor Robert McDonnell called the project
“vital to the safety, transportation and economic vitality” of
the region and said in an e-mailed statement the state will seek
a stay and appeal the ruling.  Cales’s ruling calls into question the future of public-
private partnerships to construct major transportation projects
in Virginia, Brian Gottstein, a spokesman for Virginia Attorney
General  Ken Cuccinelli , said in a statement.  “We are disappointed with the court’s decision,”
Gottstein said. “The tolls cannot be considered a tax and it’s
completely within the Virginia Department of Transportation’s
authority to set reasonable tolls to pay for the construction,
operation, and maintenance of the project.”  Existing Tunnels  The state’s non-government partner, Elizabeth River
Crossings OpCo LLC, took over operations of the existing tunnels
in July. The  project , which was slated to be finished in 2016,
included the construction of a second Midtown tunnel,
renovations of the existing tunnel and the extension of the
Martin Luther King Jr. Freeway to Interstate 264.  “Construction on the Elizabeth River Tunnels Project
remains underway” and Elizabeth River Crossings continues to
operate and maintain the tunnels and associated roadways as they
have since assuming responsibility for the project, the company
said in an e-mailed statement received today.  Even with the lawsuit, the value of the municipal bonds has
increased since the Virginia Small Business Financing Authority
sold the debt April 9, 2012, to help finance the tunnel project.
Bonds maturing January 2042, and subject to the alternative
minimum tax, traded May 3 with an average price of 107.35 cents
on the dollar, compared with 100 cents when the authority sold
the debt last year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Jayne Ross, an analyst for  Standard & Poor’s , said the
rating firm is reviewing the judge’s ruling and couldn’t comment
on how it may affect the bonds or the debt’s credit rating.  Soctt Zuchorski, an analyst at  Fitch Ratings , said the
company’s view on the bonds hasn’t changed at this point.  “We’ll just continue to monitor it see how the appeals
process plays out,” he said.  Standard & Poor’s and Fitch rate the bond BBB-, one step
above non-investment grade.  The case is Meeks v. Virginia Department of Transportation,
740-CL-12001705-00, Circuit Court for the Commonwealth of
Virginia (Portsmouth).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sara Forden in  Washington  at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net . 