-- VIX Clings to Stocks Like It’s 2007 as S&P 500 Peaks
-- B y   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t   a n d   W h i t n e y   K i s l i n g
-- 2013-05-02T14:05:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/vix-clings-to-stocks-like-it-s-2007-as-s-p-500-peaks.html
Historical relationships between U.S.
equity and options prices have come under increasing strain in
the past week, with the record rally in the Standard & Poor’s
500 Index awakening demand among both speculators and hedgers.  The Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility Index moved
in the same direction as the  S&P 500  for four straight days
through April 29, including three advances and one drop. That’s
the longest stretch of lockstep moves since February 2007,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The indexes swing in
the opposite direction about 80 percent of the time.  Options prices usually fall when equities gain because the
optimism driving share prices reduces the demand for protection
against losses. That relationship is wavering as traders become
less certain about the direction of stocks after a four-year,
134 percent advance, according to Andrew Greeley, a senior
managing director at  Stamford , Connecticut-based Acorn
Derivatives Management Corp. Dealers are charging bears more for
insurance and bulls more to speculate on gains.  “Normally we would expect to see the VIX continue to slide
lower as the  S&P 500 (SPX)  grinds up,” Greeley, who helps manage more
than $450 million in volatility assets, said yesterday in an
interview. “But as we get more extended in the recent trend and
approach significant economic reports and central bank meetings,
the VIX is capturing greater interest in out-of-the-money
options, both calls and puts, as people bet on more stock gains
as well as buy hedges.”  Lockstep Moves  The VIX rose 1.7 percent from April 24 to April 29, while
the S&P 500 gained 0.9 percent as speculation increased that
central banks will add stimulus and companies beat earnings
estimates. The options and stock benchmark gauges have moved
together as traders awaited data on the American labor market
and reports from the central banks of Europe and the U.S.  Policy makers at the  Federal Reserve  said yesterday they
will maintain bond buying at a pace of $85 billion a month and
are prepared to raise or lower the level of purchases as
economic conditions evolve. Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  is pressing
on with his effort to boost employment as 11.7 million Americans
remain jobless almost four years into the expansion.  The  European Central Bank  cut its benchmark rate to 0.5
percent from 0.75 percent today.  Jobs Report  The U.S. Labor Department publishes its monthly jobs report
tomorrow. Combined payrolls for companies and government
agencies increased by 145,000 workers in April after rising
88,000 in March, according to a survey of economists by
Bloomberg.  “Market highs induce a psychological inflection point,”
Ed Tom, global head of equity derivatives strategy at Credit
Suisse Group AG in New York, said yesterday in an interview.
“As the market nears historic highs, investors simultaneously
buy downside puts to protect gains and upside calls to lever
into a continuing rally.”  The VIX jumped 7.2 percent to 14.49 yesterday for the
biggest advance in two weeks as the normal relationship to
stocks returned. The gauge of options prices on the S&P 500 has
 risen 28 percent  since March 14, when it slid to its lowest
level in six years. The S&P 500 slipped 0.9 percent to 1,582.70
yesterday. It reached an  all-time high  on April 30.  The U.S. volatility gauge fell 2.1 percent to 14.19 at
10:05 a.m. in  New York  today as the S&P 500 added 0.4 percent to
1,588.41.  Options, Stocks  Options traders have been increasing bullish bets on
American equities. Outstanding bullish S&P 500 options rose 57
percent since the end of March to 4.17 million on April 29, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. During that time, open interest for
puts increased 39 percent to 6.75 million. That cut the ratio of
puts to calls to 1.62-to-1, close to the lowest level since
January.  Puts with an exercise level 10 percent below the S&P 500
cost 8.27 points more than calls 10 percent above, according to
data on three-month contracts compiled by Bloomberg.  The last time the options and stocks moved in tandem for
four days was in February 2007, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg data. Of the 45 instances when they moved in lockstep
since 1990, the S&P 500 rose 62 percent of the time in the next
four weeks. The equity gauge has gained an average of 1.3
percent in those times, compared with a 0.6 percent gain in all
four-week periods.  Cheap Protection  Volatility may return as investors brace for losses during
the historically weak second quarter, according to Randall Warren, chief investment officer at Warren Financial Service.
U.S. stocks have retreated between April and June in each of the
past three years, with losses in the S&P 500 averaging 5.2
percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “The VIX and the S&P 500 moving together tell a tale that
even though the market is moving up, people are still looking
for protection,” Warren, who oversees about $85 million
including VIX options, said yesterday on the phone from Exton,
 Pennsylvania . “Protection is pretty cheap and maybe it’s time
to pick up some for a rainy day. It’s well known that this time
of year is tough for investors.”  Investors using exchange-traded funds have increased bets
that stock swings will widen. Shares outstanding for the iPath
S&P 500 VIX Short-Term Futures ETN  climbed  to an all-time high
of 68.8 million on April 15, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
The figure for the ProShares Ultra VIX Short-Term Futures
reached a  record  54.6 million shares on April 11. The two had
the highest volume in the past 30 days among volatility-related
securities.  There are more outstanding options betting on higher
volatility than lower, with 4.82 million VIX  calls  versus 2.23
million puts as of April 29, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
The ratio of calls-to-puts climbed to 3.10-to-1 on March 28, the
highest level since February 2010.  Bullish Options  The VIX moving with the S&P 500 is a sign that investors
may be expecting further market gains, buying bullish options on
the benchmark equity  index (VIX)  while at the same time using bearish
contracts to hedge their increasing stock positions, according
to Gene Lynch, an equity derivatives trader at Access Securities
Inc. in Stamford,  Connecticut .  “VIX levels can be driven by greed as much as by fear,”
Lynch said yesterday in an interview. “The fear now seems to be
driven more by being underinvested, which translates to buying
calls and/or stocks with protective index puts.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net ;
Whitney Kisling in New York at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  