-- Wal-Mart to J.C. Penney Join Bangladesh Safety Talks
-- B y   R e n e e   D u d l e y
-- 2013-05-03T13:13:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/wal-mart-to-j-c-penney-join-bangladesh-safety-talks.html
Western retailers and international
labor activists who met earlier this week in  Germany  are still
wrangling over a two-year-old memorandum aimed at improving
Bangladesh factory safety.  The contractually enforceable document, which would require
companies to pay suppliers more so factory owners can afford
safety upgrades, was at the center of discussions in  Frankfurt 
on April 29. Since retailers including  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  and 
J.C. Penney Co. began discussing the agreement in April 2011, 
more than 600 Bangladesh garment workers have died. At least 511 
perished last week alone after a factory building collapsed.  Wal-Mart, based in Bentonville,  Arkansas , and Plano, 
Texas-based J.C. Penney were among the retailers that attended 
the Frankfurt meeting, which was scheduled before Rana Plaza 
collapsed. The participants set a May 15 deadline to draft an 
agreement and decide whether to accept the terms. So far two 
companies have signed the original memorandum:  PVH Corp. (PVH) , which 
makes Tommy Hilfiger brand apparel, and German retailer Tchibo.  “My hope is that companies have been shocked to their
cores by seeing the photos and hearing the workers’ quotes
coming out of Rana Plaza,” said Liana Foxvog, a spokeswoman for
the International Labor Rights Forum, a Washington-based
advocacy group.  “I trust that they realize that enough is
enough and have the sense to sign on to the same core elements
that PVH and Tchibo have adopted.”  Increasing Pressure  Retailers have faced increasing pressure to ensure
Bangladesh factories are safe in the wake of the building
collapse. It was at least the third reported industrial accident
in the South Asian nation since November, when 112 people died
in a fire at a workshop that was producing clothes for companies
including Wal-Mart and  Sears Holdings Corp. (SHLD) , which is based in
 Hoffman Estates ,  Illinois . Both have said the factory was not
authorized to make their clothes.  The global garment industry would have to spend about $3
billion over five years to bring safety standards at Bangladesh
apparel factories to Western standards, according to an analysis
by the Worker Rights Consortium. Upgrading the country’s
approximately 4,500 factories would cost the garment industry
about 10 cents per garment, the Washington-based labor
monitoring group said.  The annual cost would be $600 million, or about 3 percent
of the $19 billion the Bangladesh Manufacturers & Exporters
Association says Western companies spend annually on
manufacturing in Bangladesh.  Fire Extinguishers  Fifty percent of  Bangladesh ’s garment factories don’t meet
legally required work safety standards and those that have
improved working conditions have done so under pressure from
Western apparel makers, according to Kalpona Akter, executive
director of the Bangladesh Center for Worker Solidarity, a non-
governmental organization founded by two former garment child
workers to promote safer factories. Bangladesh’s labor law
requires safety measures such as fire extinguishers and easily
accessible exits at factories.  As the death toll mounted in Bangladesh, the authorities
said Rana Plaza lacked the required building permits and that
its owner Sohel Rana, 38, was arrested along with the owners of
factories located inside the building. Workers were ordered back
to work after an engineer had warned the building was no longer
safe, local officials said.  Companies rushed to respond to the disaster.  Loblaw Cos. (L) ,
whose Joe Fresh brand garments were made at Rana Plaza, said
yesterday it was dispatching four executives to Bangladesh to
meet with government officials. Loblaw, which is based in
Brampton, Ontario, also plans to put Joe Fresh employees
permanently on the ground to ensure the buildings it sources
from hew to local building codes.  ‘Deafening Silence’  “I am troubled by a sequence of events or management
practices that saw fit to send apparel workers back into this
building after it was declared dangerous,” Loblaw Chairman
Galen G. Weston told reporters in a briefing in Toronto. Weston
said he was also troubled by the “deafening silence” from the
many retailers who bought clothing from the collapsed building
that have not come forward to address this issue.  Joe Fresh founder and chief Joe Mimran reiterated that
Loblaw has no plans to leave the country, where it has 47
locations that supply the brand. However, Mimran said that the
company will have to rethink which countries it will enter if
the reliability of audits there can’t be trusted.  Walt Disney Co. (DIS)  told suppliers in March that it will no
longer let its branded merchandise be made in Bangladesh and
will restrict production to a list of permitted countries,
according to a letter the Burbank, California-based company
released today.  ‘Complicated Issues’  “These are complicated global issues and there is no ‘one
size fits’ solution,” Bob Chapek, president of Disney’s
Consumer Products division, said an an e-mailed statement.
“Disney is a publicly held company accountable to its
shareholders and after much thought and discussion we felt this
was the most responsible way to manage the challenges associated
with our supply chain.”  Wal-Mart,  Gap Inc. (GPS)  and Children’s Place, a Secaucus, New
Jersey-based kids’ apparel chain, all said they wouldn’t pull
out of Bangladesh.  Bangladesh Economy  “Global buyers are a critical part of the Bangladesh
economy and simply walking away is not the answer,” Jane
Singer, a Children’s Place spokeswoman, said in an e-mail. “The
terrible tragedy provides further impetus for coordinated
efforts between retailers, NGOs and the Bangladesh government to
provide long-term solutions to prevent future safety issues.”  In the meantime, retailer and labor activists will keep
talking and trying to come to an agreement.  “The question is whether the magnitude of the horror at
Rana Plaza will be enough to overcome the long-standing
resistance of most companies to making any enforceable
commitments on building safety,” Scott Nova,  executive director 
for the Worker Rights Consortium, said in an e-mail. “If the
apparel industry has any moral conscience, a serious,
enforceable agreement can be reached. We will see.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Renee Dudley in  New York  at 
 rdudley6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  