-- Wall Street Knicks Fans Left Waiting for End to NBA Playoff Skid
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s   a n d   M a x   A b e l s o n
-- 2013-05-02T06:13:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/wall-street-knicks-fans-left-waiting-for-end-to-nba-playoff-skid.html
Roy Behren and two colleagues waited
about 20 minutes last night before  BGC Partners Inc. (BGCP)  equity
derivatives head  Richard Anthony  walked through Madison Square
Garden’s 31st Street VIP entrance wearing a tie, pocket square,
shoes and laces in  New York  Knicks orange.  “It’s been a long time coming,” Behren, who oversees
investments at Westchester Capital Management LLC, said about a
winning Knicks playoff series, before the foursome went to
Anthony’s courtside seats.  They will have to wait at least two days longer. Celtics
center  Kevin Garnett  scored 16 points and had 18 rebounds in a
92-86 victory that temporarily denied New York its first
National Basketball Association playoff series win since 2000.  Knicks All-Star forward  Carmelo Anthony  scored a game-high
22 points in the loss. His team leads the series 3-2 with Game 6
in Boston tomorrow night. The Celtics are trying to become the
first team in NBA history to win a seven-game series after
trailing 3-0. The winner of the series will play either the
 Indiana Pacers  or the  Atlanta Hawks  in the next round.  New York last won a playoff series 13 seasons ago and
hasn’t clinched one at home since the previous year, when it
beat  Indiana  to advance to the NBA Finals. Allan Houston scored
32 points in that June 1999 game, with Pacers guard Reggie Miller held to 3-of-18 shooting.  Ricky Martin ’s “Livin’ La Vida Loca” was the top song on
Billboard’s chart that month. Apple Inc.’s stock, $439 at close
yesterday, was $11.  ‘Write Off’  The Knicks have sold out 110 straight games at Madison
Square Garden, including preseason and playoff contests. Last
night, journalist  Katie Couric  and actors Zach Galifianakis and
 Ben Stiller  were among the crowd of 19,033.  So were finance, real estate, advertising and entertainment
executives, according to Vinayak Singh, president of broker-
dealer International Strategy & Investment Group Inc.  The Celtics “are too good a team to write off,” Singh
said after the loss.  Five Celtics players scored at least 16 points, including
forwards  Paul Pierce  and  Brandon Bass . Boston held a six-point
lead at halftime after the Knicks opened the game with an 11-0
run, and the Celtics never trailed in the second half.  “We talked before the game that we were going to have to
overcome tremendous emotion at the start of the game and that
happened,” Celtics coach Doc Rivers said. “Everybody just
wanted to be in the fight tonight, and everyone did their
part.”  Below Average  The Knicks have averaged 87.6 points per game in the
series, 12.4 points below their regular-season average, and the
team has shot below 40 percent from the floor in two failed
attempts to close out the series.  “If we hold them to less than 95 points I’m happy, but
we’ve got to find some offense somewhere,” Knicks coach  Mike Woodson  said. “Nobody said it would be easy.”  The NBA’s regular-season scoring champion, Anthony’s 22
points were his fewest since he scored that many on March 27
against the  Memphis Grizzlies . He said after the game that the
team remains confident.  “We still control our own destiny,” he said.  In the 14 years since New York’s 1999 Finals loss to the
 San Antonio Spurs , the team has had four first-round playoff
exits and a nine-year stretch from 2002-2010 when it made the
playoffs once.  Tickets for last night’s game were listed on the secondary
market for an average price of $540, the most expensive game of
the NBA playoffs so far, according to aggregator TiqIQ. It said
the cheapest resale ticket at tip-off was $78.  $4,250 Each  That’s less than one fiftieth of the $4,250 that BGC’s
Anthony said is the starting playoffs price for one of his four
season-ticket seats, which belonged to credentialed media until
the 2005-06 season. He agreed to buy the season tickets without
asking the price, $3,600 each for regular-season games, he said.  “I feel extremely optimistic and through this challenge
will come positive results,” Anthony said after last night’s
game.  The Pacers lead their series 3-2 after a 106-83 home win
last night and can finish off the Hawks with a win in Game 6 at
Atlanta tomorrow night. Also last night, the  Houston Rockets 
stayed alive in their series with a 107-100 win at the Oklahoma
City Thunder, who still lead 3-2 with Game 6 tomorrow night at
Houston.  The Knicks entered this year’s playoffs with the fourth-
best odds to win the NBA title at 16-to-1, according to online
sportsbook Bovada.lv, trailing the defending-champion Miami Heat
(2-3), Oklahoma City (17-4) and the Spurs (10-1).  ‘Seminal Moment’  “People in New York want to be around exciting moments,”
said David Maurer-Hollaender, a vice chairman of the consulting
unit at commercial real estate broker CBRE Group Inc. “This is
a seminal moment in New York sports, and so everyone wants to be
here.”  New York Giants defensive end  Justin Tuck , sitting in the
same row, has played through those moments. The Giants’ 2012
Super Bowl title was the city’s most recent major championship.  Tuck said after halftime that fan fervor would be lifted
instead of damaged if the series returns to New York for a
deciding game on May 5.  “If it goes to Game 7, there will be 20,000 fans here
screaming their lungs out,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams at Madison Square Garden in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net 
Max Abelson at Madison Square Garden in New York at
 mabelson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  