-- Westpac to Pay Special Dividend After Cash Profit Rises 10%
-- B y   N a r a y a n a n   S o m a s u n d a r a m   a n d   B e n j a m i n   P u r v i s
-- 2013-05-03T05:47:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/westpac-first-half-cash-profit-rises-10-as-cost-ratio-declines.html
Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC) ,  Australia ’s
second-biggest lender by market value, will pay a special
dividend for the first time since 1988 after first-half cash
earnings rose 10 percent as its expense ratio narrowed.  Cash profit , which reflects earnings from continuing
operations, climbed to A$3.53 billion ($3.62 billion) in the six
months ended March 31, the Sydney-based lender said in a
statement. Analysts had estimated earnings on that basis of
A$3.47 billion. The special dividend of 10 Australian cents per
share will be on top of an interim payout of 86 cents.  Chief Executive Officer Gail Kelly has passed on only a
portion of central bank interest-rate cuts to protect margins
and relied on trimming costs to maintain profits as loan  growth 
remains close to a record low.  Australia & New Zealand Banking
Group Ltd. (ANZ)  this week also posted higher first-half earnings,
driven by expense reductions.  “It was a good decision to increase the dividend,” Brett Le Mesurier, an analyst at Sydney-based stockbroker BBY Ltd.,
said in a phone interview. “They’re in a stronger capital
position. It’s best that they don’t hold onto the money when
they’ve got the franking credits.”  Westpac shares dropped 1 percent to $33.56 as of 3:36 p.m.
in Sydney.  Commonwealth Bank of Australia (CBA)  fell 1.9 percent,
while ANZ was up 0.3 percent.  “The recent run up and upcoming ex-dividend date is
pushing some to take the profit and exit,” said Evan Lucas,
market strategist at Melbourne-based IG Markets Ltd. Westpac
will start trading without its dividend on May 13, according to
its website.  Capital Strength  While the bank considered a share buyback, Westpac’s
surplus of so-called franking credits enabled the majority of
its shareholders to gain a greater benefit from the special
dividend, Chief Financial Officer Philip Coffey said on a
conference call today. Franking credits are prepaid taxes that
can be claimed back by Australian investors.  “There’s enough capital strength to justify a small
special dividend,” Coffey said.  Common Tier 1 capital , a measure of Westpac’s ability to
absorb future losses, rose 100 basis points to 8.7 percent and
is above the bank’s preferred range of 8 percent to 8.5 percent,
according to the statement. A basis point is 0.01 percentage
point.  Raising Dividends  Westpac last paid a special dividend in 1988, when it
returned 10 cents-a-share to stockholders, according to the
lender. It completed a A$1 billion share buyback in December
2005, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The lender also boosted its interim dividend by 2 cents per
share from the second half of last year.  Net income rose 11 percent to A$3.3 billion from a year
earlier. Westpac’s expense to income ratio improved 51 basis
points to 40.6 percent from a year earlier. Lending rose 3
percent, spurred by Australian housing loans, while customer
deposits surged 12 percent, the bank said.  “There have been some promising signs of improving
 consumer confidence  and conditions in the housing market have
firmed,” Westpac said in the statement. “Business confidence
and the investment outlook remain subdued.”  The charge for bad debts declined 28 percent to A$438
million, Westpac said. Soured loans have continued to fall for
its Australian retail unit, the lender said in a March market
update.  ‘Increasingly Confident’  Cash return on equity  expanded 102 basis points from a year
earlier to 16.1 percent.  “The impressive performance supports our positive outlook
on Westpac and the major banks,”  David Ellis , an analyst at
 Morningstar Inc. (MORN) , said in a note. “We are increasingly
confident in the medium-term outlook and will likely reassess
earnings forecasts.”  ANZ Bank, the country’s third-largest lender by market
value, on April 30 reported a 10 percent increase in cash profit
and increased dividends. National Australia Bank Ltd. reports on
May 9. Commonwealth Bank of Australia, the nation’s largest
lender, reports third-quarter earnings on May 15.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Narayanan Somasundaram in Sydney at 
 nsomasundara@bloomberg.net ;
Benjamin Purvis in Sydney at 
 bpurvis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  