-- West Virginia Governor Backs Medicaid Expansion for Poor
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   N e w k i r k   a n d   M a r k   N i q u e t t e
-- 2013-05-02T19:21:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/west-virginia-governor-backs-medicaid-expansion-for-poor.html
West Virginia  Governor Earl Ray Tomblin said for the first time that he will expand Medicaid
under President  Barack Obama ’s health-care law.  About 91,500 low-income residents will be added to
Medicaid, the Democrat told reporters today in Charleston. The
governor has the power to expand the program without approval
from the legislature, Amy Goodwin, a Tomblin spokeswoman, said
in an e-mail.  “We have weighed the options and believe expanding
Medicaid is the best choice for West Virginia,” Tomblin said.  Obama has been opposed by some Republican governors over
his plan to expand the federal-state Medicaid program, a key
component of the Affordable Care Act’s promise to broaden
medical coverage to about 27 million people by 2017. Twenty
states with Republican governors, including Alabama,  Alaska ,
Mississippi and Texas, said they won’t expand their programs,
according to data as of April 16 from the  Kaiser Family
Foundation , a nonprofit health research group based in  Menlo
Park , California.  Twenty-six states and Washington, D.C., said they support
the expansion and four states had yet to make a definitive
declaration of their plans, according to Kaiser.  Tomlin said the expanded Medicaid coverage will cost the
state $375.5 million from 2014 through 2023, and will bring
approximately $5.2 billion in federal dollars to the state
during that period.  Residents and businesses would face higher insurance costs
if West Virginia rejected the expansion, he said.  Hiring Consultants  Tomblin’s administration hired consultants to perform an
actuarial analysis and modeling for developing a health-
insurance exchange and for expanding coverage.  Maryland-based CCRC Actuaries worked with  Jonathan Gruber ,
a health economist at the  Massachusetts Institute of Technology ,
and Michael Madalena of Pittsburgh, according to the company’s
website.  About 333,000 state residents are covered under Medicaid,
the governor’s press secretary, Kimberly Osborne, said in an e-
mail today.  Bishop Michael J. Bransfield of the Diocese of Wheeling-
Charleston wrote to Tomblin on March 25 on behalf of the
diocese’s 83,000 Catholics urging him to accept the expansion.  “Catholic social teaching supports adequate and affordable
health care for all,” Bransfield wrote. “Our national and
state health-care policy must protect human life and dignity,
not threaten them, especially for the most voiceless and
vulnerable.”  November Election  Tomblin, elected to a full term in November after filling
an unexpired term, was the lone remaining Democratic governor to
make a decision about the expansion, according to the  Advisory
Board Co. (ABCO) , a research and consulting company in Washington.  Tomblin sent a letter July 19 to  Kathleen Sebelius ,
secretary of the  U.S. Department of Health  and Human Services,
saying he had mixed feelings about the expansion. While it would
give more residents access to medical care and potentially
reduce costs by treating conditions earlier, it’s not clear the
state can afford it in the long run, Tomblin wrote.  “I think we all agree the federal government’s current
fiscal path is unsustainable,” the governor wrote. “Therefore,
I am very cautious in relying on their future funding
promises.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Newkirk in Atlanta at 
 mnewkirk@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Niquette in Columbus at 
 mniquette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  