-- Twitter Hires Morgan Stanley’s Gaylor Before Possible IPO
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2013-05-02T19:50:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/twitter-hires-morgan-stanley-s-gaylor-in-development-before-ipo.html
Microblogging pioneer Twitter Inc.
hired  Morgan Stanley (MS)  managing director Cynthia Gaylor to run
corporate development, adding an executive with 17 years of
investment-banking experience in the run-up to a possible
initial public offering.  Gaylor’s appointment was announced by Twitter staffers on
the service and confirmed by the San Francisco-based company.
Gaylor will focus on strategy and mergers and acquisitions, she
said in a Twitter message.  “Pointed north,” she said. “Let the migration begin!”  Closely held  Twitter , which is targeting $1 billion in
revenue in 2014, will probably draw on Gaylor’s background in
the securities industry as it prepares for a potential market
debut. Gaylor’s experience includes providing advice on IPOs, as
well as mergers and equity and debt financing, according to her
LinkedIn profile.  While Twitter Chief Executive Officer  Dick Costolo  has said
that management isn’t concentrating on an IPO, the company is
widely predicted to hold a share sale before long to help it
bankroll expansion and give early funders a way to realize
financial gains on their investments.  Founded in 2006, Twitter was valued at about $9 billion in
January after early employees sold $80 million in shares to a
fund managed by  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , three people with knowledge of
the matter said at the time.  A graduate of the Wharton School of the  University of
Pennsylvania , Gaylor also worked in technology investment
banking at Hambrecht & Quist, according to her LinkedIn profile.
She has advised on more than 150 transactions, representing more
than $100 billion in value, the profile says.  Twitter declined to make Gaylor available for comment.  Costolo has beefed up senior management in other ways. He
appointed Ali Rowghani -- then chief financial officer -- as
chief operating officer in December. Twitter had lacked a COO
since Costolo vacated the role in 2010. Mike Gupta, who joined
in 2012 after leaving  Zynga Inc. (ZNGA) , was named CFO at the time.  -- Editors: Tom Giles, Stephen West  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  