-- Won Climbs to 7-Week High on Trade; Bond Yields at Record Low
-- B y   S e y o o n   K i m
-- 2013-05-02T02:15:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/won-climbs-to-7-week-high-on-trade-bond-yields-at-record-low.html
The won touched a seven-week high, and
bond yields fell to a record low, as South Korea posted a  trade
surplus  and the U.S. Federal Reserve’s stimulus program fueled
speculation investors will buy more emerging-market assets.  Exports from Asia’s fourth-largest economy rose 0.4 percent
from a year earlier in April, exceeding imports for a 15th
straight month, government data showed yesterday, while
inflation cooled. Manufacturing expanded for a third month, a
separate report showed today. The Fed said yesterday it will
keep buying $85 billion of bonds each month and stands ready to
raise or lower purchases as economic conditions evolve.  “The trade surplus is adding to dollar supply and
exporters are selling,” said Jeon Seong Ji, a currency analyst
at Samsung Futures Inc. in Seoul. “With the Fed maintaining its
bond-purchase program, speculation is rising that increased
liquidity in  emerging markets  will support the won.”  The won gained 0.1 percent from April 30 to 1,100.20 per
dollar as of 10:53 a.m. in Seoul, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. It touched 1,098.15, the highest level since March
13. Local financial markets were closed for a holiday yesterday.
One-month implied volatility, a measure of expected moves in the
 exchange rate  used to price options, rose 11 basis points, or
0.11 percentage point, to 7.45 percent today.  PMI, Exports  South Korea’s  Purchasing Managers ’ Index compiled by  Markit
Economics  climbed to 52.6 in April from 52 in March. Fifty is
the dividing line between expansion and contraction. The
increase in the nation’s exports was less than the 2 percent
gain forecast by economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  “Export growth was minimal, which is evidence that a
weaker yen is having a negative impact on Korean exports,” Jeon
said. “That may limit further gains in the won.”  The government said yesterday it will add 11.1 trillion won
($10.1 billion) of financial support this year for companies
including small- to medium-sized exporters grappling with a
sliding yen. While  South Korea ’s economy expanded at the fastest
pace in two years in the first quarter, weakness in the Japanese
currency threatens to undermine shipmnets of electronics,
automobiles and steel. The won gained 9.3 percent  against the
yen this year.  Consumer prices rose 1.2 percent from last year and dropped
0.1 percent in April from March, separate government report
showed yesterday. That compares with a forecast for a 1.5
percent increase from a year earlier and a 0.2 percent gain from
the previous month in a Bloomberg survey of economists.  Benign inflation data reinforces the view that the  Bank of
Korea  will cut  interest rates  by 25 basis points in May or June,
Goldman Sachs Group Inc.’s Seoul-based economist  Kwon Goohoon 
said in a research note yesterday. Central bank policy makers
are due to meet on May 9.  The yield on the 2.75 percent government bonds due March
2018 fell six basis points to 2.5 percent, according to prices
from Korea Exchange Inc. That’s the lowest for a benchmark five-
year bond in Bloomberg data going back to August 2000.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Seyoon Kim in Seoul at 
 skim7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  