-- WTI-Brent 16-Month Low Pits Goldman Against BofA
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2013-05-02T13:14:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/wti-brent-16-month-low-pits-goldman-against-bofa.html
The collapse in the price  difference 
between the world’s two most-traded crude oil grades is
fulfilling a prediction Goldman Sachs Group Inc. has held for
more than a year. Bank of America Corp. says it won’t last.  Brent crude’s premium to West  Texas  Intermediate slumped
more than 50 percent to a 16-month low in the past two months,
falling to less than $10 a barrel for the first time since
January 2012. The differential narrowed to as little as $8.66 a
barrel today, after rising to a record $28.08 in October 2011.
Brent was typically cheaper in the past decade, averaging $1.28
a barrel less than WTI, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The spread “has been extremely volatile, moving one way
and then another,” said  Olivier Jakob , managing director at
consultant Petromatrix GmbH in Zug,  Switzerland . “The question
remains of where is the equilibrium price.”  The divide between Brent, a gauge for more than half the
world’s oil, and WTI, the U.S. benchmark grade, has narrowed as
North Sea supplies resumed following oilfield maintenance, while
a switched pipeline began relieving a glut of crude at America’s
oil hub at Cushing,  Oklahoma . Credit Suisse AG and Barclays Plc
said in 2011 that the Cushing gridlock had made WTI so cheap
relative to Brent, that the U.S. grade was losing its relevance
as a global benchmark.  North Sea  Brent has lost 9.6 percent in 2013, trading at $100.45 a
barrel today on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange,
after the restart of  North Sea  oil fields such as Buzzard and
Elgin-Franklin in March. WTI on the  New York Mercantile Exchange 
was at $91.45, little changed this year, as projects including
Enterprise Products Partners LP and Enbridge Inc.’s Seaway
pipeline eroded the glut at Cushing.  Goldman Sachs has said since February 2012 that the gap
would narrow, reiterating April 23 that it would shrink to about
$5 a barrel in the third quarter as refiners in the Midwest
boost operations after seasonal maintenance work and new U.S.
supplies from Texas are redirected away from Cushing.  “The entire balance at Cushing will shift from a small
surplus into a pretty significant deficit over the next couple
of months,” Stefan Wieler, a senior economist at Goldman Sachs
in  New York , said in a telephone interview on April 30. “The
bottleneck between Cushing, Oklahoma, and the Gulf Coast is
starting to disappear. There are a number of pipelines that have
been added, reversed or expanded that will make this happen.”  Seaway Pipeline  Enterprise (EPD)  and Enbridge’s Seaway pipeline transported
302,000 barrels a day from Cushing to the Gulf Coast in the week
to April 26 after flows through the link were reversed last
year, remote-sensing company Genscape Inc. said yesterday.
Magellan Midstream Partners LP’s Longhorn line, Sunoco Logistics
Partners LP’s Permian Express, and TransCanada Corp.’s Keystone
XL project are also set to divert crude from Cushing.  For Bank of America, the narrowing of the spread is
temporary, with the difference poised to rebound to $21 a barrel
in the third quarter, according to an April 17 report.  “The market knows that this is all coming on stream, and
is positioned for that,” Sabine Schels, a commodity strategist
at Bank of America in London, said in an interview yesterday.
“Our worry is that that production growth will eventually
outpace the growth in pipeline capacity. And more importantly,
what are refiners going to do with all that crude?”  Refiners on the  Gulf coast  aren’t configured to process the
additional low-density, or “light,” crude being produced,
according to the bank.  Catch On  “By the end of this year, the market will catch on to the
fact that we’re just going to push the inventories in Cushing
down to the Gulf coast,” Schels said. “That should lead to a
wider spread again.”  The Bank of America and Goldman WTI-Brent predictions are
among the most divergent of analyst estimates compiled by
Bloomberg. The median forecast for the third quarter is about
$15 a barrel, and $12 for the fourth quarter, according to 36
analyst predictions for WTI and 38 for Brent. Citigroup Inc. and
Standard Chartered Bank Plc predict that the gap will end the
year close to current levels, averaging $10 a barrel in the
fourth quarter.  While “U.S. shale oil production is flourishing,” putting
downward pressure on WTI prices, “pipelines are being built,
reversed and expanded to accommodate the growth of local,
abundant crude supply,” capping the spread,  Ed Morse ,
Citigroup’s global head of commodity research in New York, said
in a report on April 12.  Hydraulic Fracturing  U.S. crude production  climbed to 7.33 million barrels a day
in the week ended April 19, the highest level since April 1992,
the Energy Department reported on April 24. Output has expanded
20 percent in the past year as a combination of horizontal
drilling and hydraulic fracturing, or fracking, unlocks supplies
from shale formations in  North Dakota , Oklahoma and Texas.  Oil’s so-called forward curve, formed by prices for
successive monthly futures over the next decade, suggests the
Brent-WTI spread may remain closer to Goldman’s estimate in the
third quarter than to Bank of America’s. Brent contracts
averaged over the third quarter are trading at a premium of
$7.88 a barrel to the equivalent three-month average for WTI.  “It’s what makes a market,” Marshall Berol, co-portfolio
manager of the Encompass Fund in  San Francisco , which has about
$250 million in assets, said in a telephone interview. “You get
some people on one side of a question and others on the other
side. It’s a huge market, and a lot of people are playing in it
with big bucks.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Grant Smith in  London  at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  