-- Wynn Resorts' Okada Lawsuit Halted for Criminal Probe
-- B y   V a l e r i e   M i l l e r   a n d   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2013-05-02T19:25:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/wynn-resorts-okada-lawsuit-halted-for-criminal-probe.html
Wynn Resorts Ltd. (WYNN) ’s lawsuit with
former director Kazuo Okada was halted while U.S. authorities
pursue a criminal investigation into possible bribery of
Philippine officials by the Japanese billionaire.  A  Nevada  judge today granted the Justice Department’s
request to halt pretrial evidence exchanges in the suit for six
months while it conducts the probe. Clark County District Judge
Elizabeth Gonzalez, addressing concerns raised by Okada’s
lawyers, told U.S. lawyers not to seek extensions of the stay.  “Don’t come back asking for another six months, and
another six months, because it ain’t going to happen,” she said
at a hearing in Las Vegas.  Wynn Resorts sued Okada last year for breach of fiduciary
duty and forcibly redeemed his 20 percent stake in the casino
operator, alleging he made potentially illegal payments to
Philippine government officials that could threaten the
company’s gaming licenses. Okada, 70, filed counterclaims to
undo the redemption of his shares.  The U.S. last month asked to halt discovery in the civil
case where it overlapped with a criminal investigation into
whether Okada violated the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act that
prohibits bribery of foreign officials to win business. Okada,
the chairman of Tokyo-based  Universal Entertainment Corp. (6425) , is
developing a casino resort in the  Philippines .  ‘Ties Us’  Charles McCrae, a lawyer for Okada, argued at the hearing
that stopping all discovery in the case “ties us to a chair”
by preventing Okada’s attorneys from gathering evidence related
to a report by former Federal Bureau of Investigation Director
Louis Freeh that was the basis for Wynn Resort’s redemption of
Okada’s shares.  On April 22, Universal Entertainment released a review it
commissioned from former Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff that concluded Freeh’s report was “deeply flawed,”
“one-sided, and seemingly advocacy-driven.”  The case is Wynn Resorts v. Okada, A-12-656710-B, Clark
County District Court, Nevada (Las Vegas).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Valerie Miller in Las Vegas at  valeriemusicmagic@yahoo.com ;
Edvard Pettersson in Los Angeles at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  