-- Yacktman Cuts BlackBerry Stake Again on Stock Price
-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 2013-05-02T20:44:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/yacktman-cuts-blackberry-stake-again-on-stock-price.html
Donald Yacktman , whose $19 billion
mutual-fund firm has outperformed 99 percent of its peers over
the past five years, says he’s cut his stake again in BlackBerry
because it’s too expensive given its prospects.  Yacktman Asset Management Co. sold 6.23 million shares in
the quarter ended March 31, slashing its stake to 5.83 million
shares, valued at $92.1 million as of yesterday’s closing price,
according to  data compiled by Bloomberg . The Austin, Texas-based
firm sold 11.4 million shares in the fourth quarter, following a
third quarter of buying.  “When it got down to $7, it just looked like a good deal
and at that price we were willing to invest a lot of money,”
Yacktman said in a phone interview. “When the stock was at $13,
$14, it changed the matrix so we reduced our holding
dramatically.”  Shares of the company, formerly known as  Research In Motion
Ltd. (BBRY) , have climbed 80 percent in the past six months on optimism
that its new lineup of phones can pull it out of a sales slump
and win back market share lost to Apple Inc.’s iPhone and
Samsung Electronics Co.’s lineup. BlackBerry shipped 1 million
units of its new flagship Z10 phone last quarter, in line with
analyst expectations.  After Yacktman’s comments today, the shares fell 0.6
percent to $15.70, reversing intraday gains.  Analyst Reports  The company has been dogged by reports about lackluster
demand for the Z10 in recent weeks. The Waterloo, Ontario-based
company has asked Canadian and U.S. regulators to investigate
one analyst report that the Z10 was facing unusually high rates
of customer returns.  “A company like BlackBerry -- where the outcomes,
particularly the long-term outcomes, are so cloudy -- you leave
a lot of latitude there,” Yacktman said.  Yacktman relies more than peers on picking individual
stocks rather than indexes, a strategy that helped his firm
outperform other mutual funds during the economic slump. The
Yacktman Focused Fund, with $9.2 billion in assets, has returned
14 percent over the past five years, putting it in the top 1
percent of comparable funds, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Success with the new BlackBerry 10 operating system is
probably the last chance the company has to avoid a sale or
breakup of the company, Yacktman said.  “It’s third and long to some degree, but they might throw
the touchdown pass,” he said, using a football analogy. “If
the attempt doesn’t work, they’ll probably end up punting and
end up part of something else.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  