-- Yahoo Case Not Against Foreign Investments, Montebourg Says
-- B y   A l b e r t i n a   T o r s o l i
-- 2013-05-02T14:38:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/yahoo-case-not-against-foreign-investments-montebourg-says.html
The French government’s decision to
block  France Telecom SA (FTE) ’s sale of its Dailymotion SA unit to
 Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)  isn’t indicative of a harder stance against foreign
investments, Industry Minister  Arnaud Montebourg  said.  France opposed Yahoo’s plan to buy 75 percent of the French
video site, with an option for 100 percent, preferring a 50-50
partnership, Montebourg said in a telephone interview today. The
government only got involved because of its stake in France
Telecom, he said.  The collapse of the Yahoo-Dailymotion talks coincides with
efforts by France to attract foreign investors and may raise
questions about government intervention. France has been
courting overseas investments to help stem rising unemployment,
with jobless claims rising to a record high of 3.22 million in
March, the 23rd such monthly increase.  “The concerns of foreign investors are unfounded,”
Montebourg said. “We are very happy to work with our American
friends, it’s a tradition in  France .” If other offers for
French companies were to come from the U.S., the government
wouldn’t interfere “if it wasn’t a shareholder,” he said.  The case is the latest in a string of run-ins Montebourg has
had with foreign companies in France. In November, the minister
sparked a furor by calling for the nationalization of a troubled
local unit of ArcelorMittal, which the world’s largest
steelmaker was looking to shut down. In February, Montebourg got
into a war of words with Titan International Inc. Chairman
Maurice Taylor, who turned down a proposal to buy a tire plant
that Goodyear Tire & Rubber Co. is closing in France.  ‘Not Blocking’  Paris-based  France Telecom  will resume its search for a
partner for Dailymotion, a person with direct knowledge of the
situation said yesterday. The government isn’t aware of whether
Yahoo has pulled out of the talks, Montebourg said today.  Yahoo spokeswoman Sara Gorman in Sunnyvale, Calif. declined
to comment on the minister’s remarks.  France Telecom Chief Executive Officer Stephane Richard was
cited by French daily Les Echos today as saying that Dailymotion
is a unit of France Telecom, “and not of the state. It’s the
group, its management and its board that are managing the
dossier.” The company didn’t immediately return calls seeking
comments on the status of the Dailymotion talks.  France owns 26.94 percent of former phone monopoly France
Telecom, directly and through its sovereign fund FSI.  France’s efforts for a “win-win” partnership with Yahoo
showed the government’s position was “extremely moderate,
because it wasn’t meant to block a deal,” Montebourg said.
Yahoo is successful in  Japan  with only a minority stake in its
Japanese operations, he added.  Yahoo Unit  That’s why, at a meeting last month with Yahoo Chief
Operating Officer Henrique de Castro, “I told Yahoo: ‘You’re
welcome, but we need to work together on Dailymotion’s
development in the U.S.,” Montebourg said. “We don’t want it
to become a unit of Yahoo,” given that the U.S. company “has
problems,” the minister added.  The government’s advice on the possible transaction was
solicited by France Telecom, Montebourg said.  France Telecom, owner of the Orange brand, bought its
initial 49 percent stake in Dailymotion in 2011 for 58.8 million
euros ($78 million), and boosted the holding to 100 percent in
January this year.  Dailymotion, and partnerships such as a linkup with music
service Deezer, were designed to help France Telecom gain access
to more content.  Government Difference  Montebourg’s intervention in the Dailymotion sale prompted
a response from French Finance Minister  Pierre Moscovici , who
said today that he will “look more closely” at whether it
damages the country’s reputation with foreign investors.  Moscovici said he had a general discussion on the matter
with Montebourg while not participating in the decision. The
remarks contradicted the industry minister’s comment that the
government was aligned on the Dailymotion action.  Montebourg said today that the government has put in place
several measures to lure foreign investors, adding that there
are 20,000 overseas companies in France.  “Much more than in  Germany ,” he said.  President  Francois Hollande  called on the Chinese to invest
in France in a speech in Beijing last week.  Montebourg blamed the foreign media for making France seem
like an unfriendly place to invest.  “This bashing in the English-speaking media should stop,”
he said. “It’s not justified.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Albertina Torsoli in Paris at 
 atorsoli@bloomberg.net ; 