-- Yext Will Begin Syncing Its Business Data With Facebook
-- B y   S a r a h   F r i e r
-- 2013-05-02T12:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/yext-will-begin-syncing-its-business-data-with-facebook.html
Yext Inc. , a New York-based startup
that lets businesses manage information on websites such as Yelp
and Foursquare, is expanding its service to  Facebook. (FB)   Yext, which introduced its technology in 2011, allows
businesses to store their data in one place and automatically
send any updates to about 50 websites. That means if a store’s
hours or address changes, the owner doesn’t have to manually
input the information into multiple pages. The business listings
will begin syncing with Facebook today, Yext said.  Facebook Inc., owner of the world’s biggest social network,
is adding Yext data after rolling out its Graph Search feature
in January. Graph Search makes it easier for users to find
friends, restaurants and interests based on social connections.
By letting businesses use Yext to update their Facebook pages,
the site will help ensure that information is more complete and
up-to-date, Chief Executive Officer Howard Lerman said.  Businesses, meanwhile, are increasingly eager to be
included in social-networking searches, he said. Facebook users
often try new stores and local services based on what their
friends are using, Lerman said.  “With the advent of Graph Search and local search, it
became relevant for businesses to do this,” Lerman said.
“What’s going to help me pick the gym I want to pick is where
my friends go.”  Facebook Searches  About 92 percent of searches for local businesses on
social-networking sites took place on Facebook in 2012,
according to a  Neustar Localeze  study. Facebook is counting on
search features to ensure that users visit its site more often
and stay longer, helping increase the amount of advertising that
the company can sell.  Facebook’s first-quarter sales topped analysts’ projections
yesterday, a sign that CEO  Mark Zuckerberg  is attracting more
advertisers. While the  Menlo Park , California-based company has
more than a billion members, investors have expressed concerns
that it’s been too slow in generating revenue from its massive
user base.  Yext makes money by charging customers for the software
that syncs up their data across websites. The startup, which is
backed by investors such as Sutter Hill Ventures, Institutional
Venture Partners and WGI Group, last raised funding in June
2012. The $27 million round valued the company at $270 million,
Yext said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Frier in  New York  at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at   nturner7@bloomberg.net  