-- Yield Hunger Overcomes Risk as N.J. Cuts Bond Cost: Muni Credit
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e   a n d   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 2013-05-02T01:00:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/yield-hunger-overcomes-risk-as-n-j-cuts-bond-cost-muni-credit.html
New Jersey , where Governor  Chris Christie  has lowered revenue forecasts, sold $350 million of
general-obligation debt with investors starved for yield
reducing the state’s borrowing cost to the cheapest in six
years.  The state issued tax-exempt securities yesterday with a 10-
year portion yielding 0.15 percentage point above benchmark
municipal bonds, the smallest gap since 2007, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. It was the first time since 2009 that New Jersey
sold general obligations to finance new projects.  The reduced penalty shows the extra risks investors are
taking as the  Federal Reserve  maintains monthly bond purchases
to bolster the economy, pushing yields toward generational lows.
New Jersey bucked the trend of the past eight quarters in the
$3.7 trillion municipal market, where investors have shunned
state general obligations in search of higher returns.  Investors are “in search of yield,” said Robert Amodeo,
who manages $30 billion of munis, including $2 billion of New
Jersey debt, at Western Asset Management in New York. “If
there’s any spread left, people are trying to take that out.”  Revenue Risks  Christie, 50, who’s up for re-election in November, revised
his revenue projection for this year to $31.3 billion, from
$31.7 billion, as tax collections fell short.  Standard & Poor’s ,
which has said he may not meet that lowered 2013 forecast, has
had a negative outlook on the state since September. The
governor forecasts a recovery to a record $32.8 billion for the
fiscal year starting July 1.  Democratic lawmakers are skeptical about the revenue
projections, and have refused to approve his proposed 10 percent
tax cut until they have a clearer picture of collections for
this fiscal year.  That didn’t stop New Jersey from selling the bonds at a
premium, with Bank of America Merrill Lynch paying the state
$399 million for the debt and the state obligated to repay $350
million, according to the state’s Treasury Department.  Bonds maturing in 10 years yielded 1.89 percent. Bank of
America submitted the winning bid with a true interest cost of
2.737 percent, the lowest for New Jersey since 1976, according
to  William Quinn , a spokesman for the department.  Confidence Vote  “It’s a nice vote of confidence for New Jersey as a strong
credit with a long history of responsible management,”
Treasurer Andrew Sidamon-Eristoff said in an interview in
Trenton.  A rally in Treasuries helped New Jersey cut its borrowing
costs, said Gary Pollack, managing director with Deutsche Bank
AG’s private-wealth unit in New York.  Ten-year Treasuries gained as the Fed said it will keep
buying bonds at a pace of $85 billion a month and is prepared to
raise or lower the level depending on economic conditions. The
central bank has held its  target  for the federal funds rate near
zero since December 2008. U.S. debt yields fell to the lowest
level this year.  “It was a strong market to begin with,” Pollack said.
“It’s some aggressive bidding by underwriters.”  The day before the sale, Pollack bought some New Jersey
general obligations maturing in 2020 with a 1.6 percent yield.
Similar-maturity bonds in yesterday’s sale priced to yield 1.34
percent.  Yield Advantage  New Jersey fared better in its offer than  Connecticut ,
which sold 10-year general obligations in March at a yield
spread of 0.2 percentage point. The states have the same Aa3
rating from Moody’s Investors Service, the fourth-highest level.  The New Jersey borrowing came six months after  Hurricane
Sandy  struck Oct. 29, damaging seaside resort towns and
railroads.  Proceeds will finance capital projects, according to bond
documents. Standard & Poor’s and Moody’s give New Jersey a
comparable grade, though the former assigns a negative outlook.  New Jersey had about $2.4 billion of general-obligation
debt and $31.6 billion of bonds repaid with annual allocations
from the state legislature as of June 30, according to its
fiscal 2012 debt report.  While yields on top-rated municipals due in 10 years are
near a three-month low at  1.74 percent , tax-exempt bonds are
still cheaper than comparable-maturity Treasuries, which yield
 1.63 percent .  The yield ratio between the two securities, a measure of
relative value, is about  107 percent , above the five-year
average of about 100 percent. The higher the percentage, the
cheaper munis are relative to Treasuries.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michelle Kaske in  New York  at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net ;
Terrence Dopp in Trenton at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  