-- “Hurt Locker” Director Bigelow Saluted by CIA, Military
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   G r e e n
-- 2013-10-29T07:46:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-29/-hurt-locker-director-bigelow-saluted-by-cia-military.html
Kathryn Bigelow, the first woman to
win an Oscar for film direction, was honored last night by
Washington’s military and intelligence establishment for her
gritty films.  John R. Allen, former commander of U.S. forces in
 Afghanistan , introduced her at the Mellon Auditorium while
Michael Hayden, former director of the Central Intelligence
Agency praised Bigelow’s films as “highlights of American
culture,” in a video message.  “The idea of social responsibility is what really moves
me,” said the director of “Zero Dark Thirty” and “The Hurt
Locker.” “It’s a very galvanizing feature that I think film
can possess.”  Also honored at America Abroad Media’s inaugural awards
dinner was Indian actor-director Aamir Khan for his program
“Truth Alone Prevails,” which reaches 800 million people and
tackles some of  India ’s most pressing issues including sexual
assault.  ”We look at these topics with hope and love,” said Khan,
accompanied by his director wife  Kiran Rao.   A third award went to the  International Center on
Nonviolent Conflict  which was accepted by Peter Ackerman, the
center’s founding chairman and managing director of Rockport
Capital Inc.  Media Mission  “We wanted honorees suited to our mission,” said Aaron
Lobel, who founded America Abroad Media ten years ago to produce
media in the Middle East, South Asia, and North Africa that
would foster freedom and dialogue.  Other guests included former Secretary of Homeland Security
Michael Chertoff, now chairman of security consultancy Chertoff
Group, and James Glassman, former undersecretary of state and
chairman of bipartisan communications firm Public Affairs
Engagement.  Before the three-course dinner, Ackerman’s daughter,
Xanthe, an associate director at the Brookings Institution,
huddled with John Whitehead, a former chairman of the Federal
Reserve Bank of New York and chairman emeritus at Brookings, who
co-chaired the evening.  (Stephanie Green is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include Jeffrey Burke on books and Greg Evans on television.  To contact the writer on this story:
Stephanie Green in  Washington  at  sgreen57@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter @stephlgreen.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 