-- Abe’s Special Zones to Fuel Economic Reform, Hatta Says
-- B y   C h i k a k o   M o g i   a n d   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a
-- 2013-10-29T06:06:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-29/abe-s-special-zones-to-fuel-economic-reform-hatta-says.html
Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s
reforms may be aided by excluding the agriculture, trade and
welfare ministries from oversight of special economic zones,
according to the head of a working group on the plans.  “Abe sees the strategic special zones as the heart of
regulatory reforms,” Tatsuo Hatta, 70, said in an interview in
 Tokyo  on Oct. 26. The prime minister is aware that the public is
“fed up” over the sway that vested interests have had over
policy in Japan, Hatta said.  Investors are trying to assess the strength of Abe’s
commitment to the so-called Third Arrow of Abenomics,
deregulation and economic reforms intended to sustain growth
after the initial jolt from monetary and fiscal stimulus wears
off. The zones would be areas where the government can
experiment with reforms in the labor market, health care and
agriculture as Abe tries to end 15 years of deflation.  While the structure of the council is yet to be finalized,
it will be chaired by Abe and is likely to exclude the
regulatory ministries, Hatta said. That could make it harder for
such agencies to limit reform efforts. The zones will be the
“engine” of reforms, he said.  The Topix index of stocks surged more than 60 percent from
October last year, while the yen tumbled 20 percent against the
dollar on Abe’s pledges for bold action to drive an exit from
deflation and the Bank of  Japan ’s unprecedented monetary easing.
Now, investors are waiting for Abe to further flesh out plans
for the so-called Third Arrow.  Limited Progress  The Topix index was down 0.7 percent at 12:39 p.m. in
Tokyo, paring yesterday’s biggest gain in five weeks, as the yen
advanced amid expectations the U.S. will maintain stimulus. The
Japanese currency rose 0.2 percent to 97.49 per dollar.  UBS AG economist Daiju Aoki said last week that after a
“disappointing lack of progress” on the special zones, the
structure of the special-zone council demonstrated Abe’s
commitment to the project. The government aims to submit a bill
on the zones to the Diet next month.  Asked about proposals for labor-law reforms in the special
zones, Hatta said it had been “unrealistic” to expect changes
that made firing workers “easy.”  In the interview, Hatta referred to vested interests such
as in agriculture, labor and health care. He said the council’s
legal status, ranking above some other entities set up by
Cabinet order, and the prime minister’s leadership will give it
extra clout. If hurdles emerge in the process of implementing
reforms in the zones, the council will be able to act swiftly to
change regulations to make them more effective, Hatta said.  Industrial Promotion  Gree Inc. (3632)  was among several companies that proposed zones
or business plans related to the special areas, according to the
 website  of the prime minister’s office, which listed 62 ideas.
Among the proposed zones were a special agricultural zone in
Ibaraki Prefecture, and a manufacturing and craftwork zone
covering regions including Nagoya, the home of  Toyota Motor
Corp. (7203) , and Hamamatsu City, the home of  Suzuki Motor Corp. (7269)   The reform areas will include methods to make it easier for
farmers to borrow, meaning that the “financing monopoly” of
agricultural cooperatives will collapse, at least within the
zones, Hatta said.  A bill to create the zones will be presented to the current
session of the Diet. A majority in both houses of parliament
until elections set for 2016 gives Abe better odds of pushing
his policies through.  Improving Data  Japan needs to get on a steady growth path, not just to
implement stimulus, Jerald Schiff, the International Monetary
Fund’s Japan mission chief, said in an interview with Bloomberg
TV. Schiff said he’s concerned about complacency in the Japanese
government.  Economic data released today showed improvement in the
world’s third-biggest economy. Confidence of small businesses
rose in October to the highest since November 2006, according to
Shoko Chukin Bank. The diffusion index increased to 50.8 from
49.8 in September, the first time since March 2007 that more
companies were optimistic than pessimistic.  Japan’s household spending rose 3.7 percent in September
from a year earlier, more than a median 0.5 percent increase
estimated by economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News , and the
biggest gain since March. Retail sales climbed 1.8 percent in
September from the previous month, more than an estimated 0.5
percent rise and the steepest gain in more than two years.  Japan’s jobless rate declined to 4 percent in the same
month from 4.1 percent in August, in line with the median
forecast, according to government data today.  While Japan is trying to generate inflation,  India  raised
 interest rates  today after price gains unexpectedly accelerated
to the fastest pace in seven months in September.  Monetary
policy  must tackle elevated inflation even as growth remains
“tepid,” the  Reserve Bank  of India said yesterday.  Elsewhere in  Asia ,  South Korea ’s current account surplus
expanded to $6.57 billion in September.  U.K. mortgage approvals probably rose in September, and
U.S.  consumer confidence  likely fell in October, according to
separate surveys ahead of data due today. The  Federal Reserve 
meets today for the first day of a two-day meeting.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chikako Mogi in Tokyo at 
 cmogi@bloomberg.net ;
Takashi Hirokawa in Tokyo at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  