-- Madoff’s Broker-Dealer Backed by Stolen Money, Jury Told
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2013-10-29T17:36:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-29/madoff-s-broker-dealer-backed-by-stolen-money-jury-told.html
Bernard Madoff ’s broker-dealer and
proprietary trading units were backed by “hundreds of millions
of dollars” in stolen money from his fraudulent investment
advisory business, a jury was told in the trial of five former
employees accused of aiding the $17 billion Ponzi scheme.  Madoff funneled money intended for customer investments
through his London-based operation and through external U.S.
brokerage accounts so it could be used for rent, payroll and
credit card payments at his businesses where real trading took
place,  Bruce Dubinsky , a government witness who analyzed the
fraud in 2011, testified today in federal court in Manhattan.  “That’s customer money -- the most sacred account in an
investment advisory business,” Dubinsky told the panel of 12
jurors and six alternates. “You can’t stick your hand in the
piggy bank and use it for other means.”  One of the defendants, Daniel Bonventre, who oversaw the
broker-dealer and proprietary trading operations, argues he
wasn’t aware of the fraud because Madoff lied to him, and
because he didn’t work in the investment advisory unit. The U.S.
alleges Bonventre knew his business benefited from fraud.  In his guilty plea in 2009, Madoff said the market-making
and proprietary trading side of his firm was “legitimate”
while admitting he ran the scheme from the advisory unit. The
judge overseeing the liquidation of Madoff’s operations to help
repay victims approved the sale of the market-making business
for as much $25.5 million in April 2009.  Internal Documents  Prosecutors today showed the jury copies of internal Madoff
documents including a Dec. 28, 1999, check for $31 million from
the investment advisory unit paid to the primary bank account of
the broker-dealer unit. Dubinsky, a managing director at Duff &
Phelps LLC, said in his testimony that that transaction and
others like it weren’t properly accounted for.  “It wasn’t booked as anything other than a fake
security,” Dubinsky said.  The other defendants, accused of conspiring to trick
customers and regulators for years, are Annette Bongiorno and
Joann Crupi, who ran the investment adviser and managed large
accounts, and computer programmers George Perez and Jerome O’Hara, who allegedly automated the creation of millions of fake
documents. All five have pleaded not guilty.  False Appearance  The 2009 charges against Madoff alleged he directed the
transfer of $250 million from investment advisory clients’ funds
to his market making and proprietary trading businesses. Those
transfers, through his London business, gave the false
appearance that he was conducting transactions in Europe on
behalf of investors, the U.S. said.  Madoff is serving a 150-year sentence at a federal prison
in North Carolina for running the world’s biggest Ponzi scheme,
which deprived investors of $17 billion in principal and
billions more in fake profit customers believed was being held
in their accounts.  U.S. District Judge Laura Taylor Swain said the trial may
last as long as five months.  The case is U.S. v. O’Hara, 10-cr-00228, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in New York at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Dunn at   adunn8@bloomberg.net  