-- Madoff Fraud Driven by Novice Workers, Accountant Says
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2013-10-30T13:36:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-29/madoff-fraud-driven-by-novice-workers-accountant-says.html
Bernard Madoff  “utilized” workers
with a low level of education and professional training to keep
his $17 billion Ponzi scheme alive for so long, a government
witness told a jury in the trial of five former employees.  Bruce Dubinsky , a forensic accountant whose team analyzed
the fraud in 2011, made the remark about the workers in a 2012
deposition and confirmed the words yesterday under cross-examination by defense lawyers in Manhattan federal court.  Inexperienced workers “were being utilized to continue the
scheme,” Dubinsky said in the deposition, which was taken in a
lawsuit brought against former Madoff customer Saul Katz, an
owner of the New York Mets, by the trustee unwinding Madoff’s
company.  “‘Utilized’ is another word for ‘used,’ right?” Eric
Breslin, the lawyer for defendant Joann Crupi, who managed large
accounts for Madoff, asked Dubinsky yesterday.  “Yes,” Dubinsky said.  Breslin and the lawyers for the other four defendants told
the jury during their opening statements on Oct. 17 that Madoff
duped their clients, hiring them when they were young and
inexperienced. The employees saw him as almost like a god or the
Wizard of Oz, the lawyers said.  Crupi joined Madoff’s company straight out of college in
1983.  High School  The other defendants, accused of conspiring to trick
customers and regulators for years, are Annette Bongiorno, who
joined Madoff’s firm out of high school; Daniel Bonventre, who
oversaw the broker-dealer and proprietary trading operations;
and computer programmers George Perez and Jerome O’Hara, who
allegedly automated the creation of millions of fake documents.
All five have pleaded not guilty.  Katz’s case isn’t directly related to the criminal trial. A
trustee sued hundreds of former Madoff customers to recover fake
profit they received through the fraud. Katz, along with fellow
Mets owner Fred Wilpon and dozens of related entities, won court
approval in May 2012 of a settlement under which they agreed to
pay $162 million to the Madoff estate.  Dubinsky, a managing director at Duff & Phelps LLC, also
testified yesterday that Madoff’s broker-dealer and proprietary
trading units were backed by “hundreds of millions of dollars”
in stolen money from his fraudulent investment advisory
business.  Rent Payments  Madoff funneled money intended for customer investments
through his London-based operation and through external U.S.
brokerage accounts so it could be used for rent, payroll and
credit-card payments at his businesses where real trading took
place.  “That’s customer money -- the most sacred account in an
investment advisory business,” Dubinsky told the 12 jurors and
six alternates. “You can’t stick your hand in the piggy bank
and use it for other means.”  Bonventre has argued that he wasn’t aware of the fraud
because Madoff lied to him and because he didn’t work in the
investment advisory unit. The U.S. said Bonventre knew his
business benefited from fraud.  In his guilty plea in 2009, Madoff said the market-making
and proprietary trading side of his firm was “legitimate”
while admitting he ran the scheme from the advisory unit. The
judge overseeing the liquidation of Madoff’s operations to help
repay victims approved the sale of the market-making business
for as much $25.5 million in April 2009.  Improper Accounting  Prosecutors yesterday showed the jury copies of internal
Madoff documents including a Dec. 28, 1999, check for
$31 million from the investment advisory unit to the primary
bank account of the broker-dealer unit. Dubinsky testified that
the transaction and others like it weren’t properly accounted
for.  Madoff was accused of directing the transfer of
$250 million of investment advisory client funds to his market-making and proprietary trading businesses. Those transfers,
through his London business, gave the false appearance that he
was conducting transactions in Europe on behalf of investors,
the U.S. said.  Madoff is serving a 150-year sentence at a federal prison
in North Carolina. U.S. District Judge Laura Taylor Swain said
the trial of his former employees may last as long as five
months.  The case is U.S. v. O’Hara, 10-cr-00228, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in New York at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Dunn at   adunn8@bloomberg.net  