-- Aetna Profit Misses Estimates as Medicare Cuts Loom
-- B y   S h a n n o n   P e t t y p i e c e   a n d   A l e x   N u s s b a u m
-- 2013-10-29T20:52:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-29/aetna-net-rises-as-coventry-acquisition-boosts-membership.html
Aetna Inc. (AET) , the third-biggest U.S.
health insurer, reported profit that missed analyst estimates
and said pressure from Medicare payment changes may leave
earnings little changed next year.  Third-quarter earnings excluding one-time items were $1.50
a share, missing the $1.53 average estimate of 17 analysts
tracked by Bloomberg. Net income climbed 3.9 percent to $518.6
million, or $1.38 a share, from $499.2 million, or $1.47, a year
earlier, the Hartford, Connecticut-based carrier said in a
statement today.  Chief Executive Officer Mark Bertolini said the company’s
worst-case scenario for 2014 is that per-share earnings from
operations won’t increase from 2013. Insurer shares have slid
this month after the top two carriers,  UnitedHealth Group Inc. (UNH) 
and  WellPoint Inc. (WLP) , gave outlooks for next year that
disappointed investors. The industry faces falling payments from
the U.S. Medicare program. Technical issues with the Obamacare
rollout also have clouded prospects for new business from the
federal health-care law.  “There’s a whole host of operational questions about
2014,” said Thomas Carroll, a Stifel Nicolaus & Co. analyst in
 New York , in a telephone interview. “Even if the companies have
clarity on that, it really is not in their best interests to
stick their necks out.”  Aetna fell 1.7 percent to $60.75 at the close in New York.
The insurer has risen 31 percent this year.  Third-quarter revenue jumped 46 percent to $13 billion,
boosted by the acquisition of rival Coventry Health Care Inc.  Aetna Forecast  Aetna reiterated its 2013 profit forecast of $5.80 to $5.90
a share. Analysts had estimated an average of $5.90 for the
year. The company plans to give a detailed outlook for 2014 at a
meeting in December with analysts.  The insurer won’t be affected much next year by the flawed
debut of the Obamacare insurance exchange website since the
company gets less than 3 percent of its revenue, and a smaller
percentage of its profit, from the sale of insurance to
individuals and small groups, Bertolini said on a conference
call with investors and analysts.  “Right now, this isn’t a big exposure for us,” he said.
“It is an appropriate risk to take in testing a new
marketplace, which we believe will be around for an extended
period of time.”  May Deter  He said the delays to the site, which may not be fully
functional until December, could deter young, healthy consumers
from buying plans on the exchange created by the Patient
Protection and Affordable Care Act of 2010. That might lead a
disproportionate amount of sick consumers signing up, costing
insurers more.  “The younger, healthier people aren’t likely going to give
it more than one shot,” he said.  Aetna completed its acquisition of Coventry in May,
anticipating higher growth in Medicaid and Medicare, the
government insurance programs for the poor and elderly. The
purchase expanded Aetna’s enrollment by almost a third, bringing
the company closer to  Minnetonka , Minnesota-based UnitedHealth
and WellPoint, based in Indianapolis.  The deal was valued at $8.7 billion when it closed,
including the assumption of $1.8 billion in Coventry debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Nussbaum in New York at 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  