-- Malaysia Leaps Into Top 10 of World Bank Doing Business Rank
-- B y   B e n   S c h e n k e l   a n d   C h o n g   P o o i   K o o n
-- 2013-10-29T03:07:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-29/malaysia-leapfrogs-into-top-10-of-world-bank-doing-business-rank.html
Malaysia advanced for the first time
into a top 10 ranking of nations the World Bank deems
friendliest to businesses as  Singapore (SGDPQOQ)  led the annual
competitiveness scorecard for an eighth straight year.  Malaysia vaulted to sixth from 12th a year ago after easing
procedures for registering a company, applying for a
construction permit and getting electricity, the bank said in
its 2014 “Doing Business” report. Rounding out the top five
after  Singapore  were  Hong Kong ,  New Zealand , the U.S. and
 Denmark , unchanged from a year ago.  China  slid five spots to
96th, while the U.K. dropped to 10th from seventh.  Bureaucracy has improved under Malaysian Prime Minister
Najib Razak’s economic and government transformation programs,
even as the Southeast Asian grapples with crime and corruption.
While the country moved to 54th from 60th place among 176
countries in Transparency International’s Corruption Perceptions
Index last year, it was ranked worst for bribery among 30
countries surveyed.  “Malaysia has done a good job in streamlining business
processes in the past few years,” K.M. Loi, secretary-general
of Transparency International’s Malaysia arm, said in a phone
interview today. “But we still need to strengthen business
integrity and anti-bribery practices. Corruption hurts
everybody.”  Methodology Questioned  The  World Bank ’s study, in its 11th year, covered a record
189 economies, assessing them on measures such as the costliness
of commercial regulations and the strength of public
institutions. Nations are ranked based on indicators such as the
time required to start a business, file tax returns and export
or import goods.  Jim Yong Kim, World Bank president, pledged in June to
improve the report, which he called “an important catalyst in
driving reforms around the world.” Non-profit groups such as
Oxfam have criticized it and  India , which slid two spots to
134th, has questioned its methodology.  “Governments play a crucial role in supporting a dynamic
ecosystem for firms,” the Washington-based lender said in the
report. “Without good rules that are evenly enforced,
entrepreneurs have a harder time starting and growing the small
and medium-size firms that are the engines of growth and job
creation for most economies around the world.”  Ukraine’s Rise  The  report  counted 238 policy improvements, an increase of
18 percent from the previous year and the second-highest total
since the financial crisis. Ukraine, rising to 112th after
coming in 137th a year ago, was identified as the country that
made the greatest progress with reforms, having simplified
measures in areas such as customs, bankruptcy and a value-added
tax.  Greece , whose insolvency helped trigger the  European debt
crisis , rose in the ranking to 72nd from 78th, while  Spain ,
beset with a 26 percent unemployment rate, slipped to 52nd from
44th, according to the report.  In Malaysia, Najib’s government has tightened anti-corruption legislation and set up specialist courts. It’s also
introducing tighter detention laws after a violent crime wave
this year, during which AMMB Holdings Bhd. founder Hussain Ahmad
Najadi was gunned down and killed in Kuala Lumpur.  Some other emerging economies also gained in the World
Bank’s report, with Russia jumping to 92nd from 112th a year ago
and being named among the most improved.  Brazil  rose to 116th
from 130th, according to the report.  Kim’s Support  The publication has taken criticism for its ranking
methodology. An outside review initiated by the World Bank last
October found that the listing may create perverse incentives
for governments seeking to perform better.  Starting with next year’s report, responsibility for
carrying out the research will move from the International
Finance Corp., the World Bank unit that lends to the private
sector, to the office of the chief economist, according to the
bank.  “I am committed to the ’Doing Business’ report, and
rankings have been part of its success,” Kim said in June,
addressing the review panel’s conclusions.  The study’s criteria differ from those used in the  World
Economic Forum ’s global competitiveness index, which accounts
for macroeconomic stability and the level of public debt. The
Geneva-based forum last month gave its top score to  Switzerland ,
which was No. 29 in the World Bank’s latest report.  “We anticipate there will be a number of significant
changes in the report’s methodology next year,” Augusto Lopez-Claros, a global indicators and analysis director at the World
Bank, said in a conference call from  Washington . One probable
change will be evaluating several cities per country rather than
focusing on the city with the greatest business activity, he
said.  The World Bank decided this year to test the “conventional
wisdom that doing well favors smaller governments,” Lopez-Claros said, because they are seen as having fewer cumbersome
regulations. The report showed that governments with higher
spending relative to gross domestic product tended to perform
better on the indicators.  Chad is the worst place to do business, switching positions
with Central African Republic, which ranked second-to-last,
according to the World Bank.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Schenkel in Washington at 
 bschenkel@bloomberg.net ;
Chong Pooi Koon in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 pchong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  