-- Ally Sees $170 Million Charge on Settlements With FHFA, FDIC
-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 2013-10-29T22:29:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-29/ally-sees-170-million-charge-on-settlements-with-fhfa-fdic-1-.html
Ally Financial Inc. (ALLY) , the auto and
home lender rescued by the U.S. government, said it reached a
settlement tied to disputed mortgages with two federal agencies.  The agreement with the  Federal Housing Finance Agency  and
the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. will result in a $170
million third-quarter charge, Detroit-based Ally said today in a
statement. The accord ends all pending litigation and the
agencies won’t object to the reorganization plan for the
company’s money-losing Residential Capital mortgage lender,
according to the statement.  “These settlements are key steps in Ally addressing its
remaining legacy mortgage risks,” Chief Executive Officer
Michael A. Carpenter said in the statement.  Ally has sought to pay off mortgage liabilities caused by
ResCap, once one of the largest subprime home lenders, whose
billions of dollars in losses led to a $17.2 billion government
bailout of Ally. ResCap agreed in July to pay $230 million to
compensate borrowers for improper foreclosure practices,
according to a Federal Reserve statement.  Ally has now set aside $520 million in reserves to cover
the settlements,  Gina Proia , a company spokeswoman, said in an
e-mail. The third-quarter charge adds to $350 million of
reserves remaining from prior periods. The lender took two
charges totaling $2.3 billion and paid $1.95 billion to the
ResCap estate to secure releases from mortgage liabilities,
leaving $350 million, according to company statements.  FDIC Portion  Proia said she couldn’t comment on the total cost of the
settlement because the details haven’t been disclosed. The
FDIC’s portion of the deal, settled last week, is $55.3 million,
said  David Barr , an agency spokesman.  “We are pleased to have reached settlements that put these
matters behind us,” Proia said in an e-mailed statement.  FHFA General Counsel Alfred Pollard said in a statement
that his agency has “agreed to resolve securities law claims”
with Ally. Final terms are still being set and details will be
released by the end of the year, he said.  As part of the settlement, the FHFA will vote in favor the
ResCap plan, Ally said in a filing. The FDIC did not cast a vote
for the plan. The hearing to approve the ResCap plan is
scheduled for Nov. 19, according to the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dakin Campbell in  New York  at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
 Christine Harper  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net  