-- Amazon Adds California Distribution Sites in Tax Accord
-- B y   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 2013-10-29T20:02:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-29/amazon-adds-california-distribution-sites-in-tax-accord.html
Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  has begun making
good on a deal with California officials, opening three
distribution centers across the state and today announcing a
fourth, 1.2 million square-foot (111,500 square-meter) facility
east of  Los Angeles .  The Moreno Valley hub will have about 1,000 full-time
workers, according to Mike Roth, vice president of North
American operations. That will bring total employment for the
four facilities to more than 2,400.  The world’s largest online retailer pledged to build the
centers as part of a 2011 compromise with Governor  Jerry Brown 
and lawmakers ending a fight against a state law that taxes
online sales. Amazon said it would spend $500 million on
facilities and add 10,000 workers in California by December
2015.  “A lot of things have happened in California to make
things right,” Brown said at a ceremony at the facility in San
Bernardino, hailing it as another step in the state’s economic
recovery. “What’s good is you have people working.”  The San Bernardino center opened last year as the city
became the third-largest U.S. city to seek  bankruptcy
protection . Job growth in the distribution center may help
cushion bankruptcy-related cuts in public services in the city
of 209,000.  The San Bernardino site has about 1,400 employees, Kelly Cheeseman, a spokeswoman for Amazon, said by e-mail. There are
“hundreds” at other new centers in Tracy and Patterson, both
in California’s San Joaquin Valley southeast of  San Francisco ,
that opened this month. She declined to be more specific.  Tax Delay  Amazon’s agreement in California, which allowed the company
to delay collecting sales taxes there until September 2012, came
in a compromise in which the company dropped a planned
referendum to permanently exempt it from levying sales taxes on
California customers.  California has the highest statewide sales tax rate, 7.5
percent, with an average local rate of 0.91 percent,  according 
to the  Tax Foundation . Cheeseman and Jerome Horton, chairman of
the Board of Equalization, which collects sales taxes in
California, declined to say how much the company has turned
over.  Amazon and California leaders also agreed to push for a
national standard on taxing online purchases. The  U.S. Senate 
voted in May to authorize states to require online retailers to
collect sales taxes. The measure hasn’t come up for a vote in
the House.  California still loses more than $1 billion in  tax revenue 
from sales by online and catalog merchants, the equalization
board said in an August  report . The sum amounts to $44 per
household, the report said. Purchasers are supposed to self-report online transactions on tax forms and remit payments to
the state. Few do, Horton said.  Roth declined to say what percentage of Amazon.com sales
are fulfilled by third-party vendors. Brown said he was unaware
of the board of equalization’s finding and would look into it.  The law that covers Amazon and other large retailers
 exempts  companies with $10,000 or less in sales to  California 
residents via in-state affiliate retailers, or with $1 million
or less on total sales per year. Visitors to Amazon’s website
may purchase items from affiliates that pay to be listed yet are
separate from the Seattle-based company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Nash in San Bernardino, California at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  