-- MAN SE Third-Quarter Profit Rises 1% on Cost Reductions
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h   R a u w a l d
-- 2013-10-29T07:28:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-29/man-se-third-quarter-profit-rises-1-on-cost-reductions.html
MAN SE (MAN) ,  Europe ’s third-largest maker
of commercial vehicles, said third-quarter earnings rose 1
percent as the company reduced spending and delivered more
trucks in Latin America.  Operating profit increased to 189 million euros ($261
million) from 187 million euros a year earlier, the Munich-based
division of carmaker  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  said today in a  statement .
Revenue declined 6 percent to 3.66 billion euros.  MAN, which Wolfsburg, Germany-based Volkswagen controls
with 75 percent of the  voting rights , scaled back production in
the first half of 2013 as freight carriers held off making
purchases amid recessions in Europe. Measures to protect
earnings included reducing work shifts, cutting costs and
streamlining procurement.  “The economic environment remains difficult,” Chief
Executive Officer Georg Pachta-Reyhofen said in the statement.
“Although the recession in the  euro zone  appears to have been
overcome, the global economic recovery is still slow.”  Truck orders surged 88 percent to 24,271 vehicles in
markets excluding  Latin America  and jumped 20 percent to 15,488
units in the region. Demand in Europe was pushed by so-called
pre-buying of cheaper vehicles before stricter emissions
regulations limit sales to models with newer, more expensive
pollution-control technology.  Spending Decline  MAN’s third-quarter cost of goods sold fell 7.9 percent to
2.86 billion euros. The company had a net loss of 221 million
euros versus year-earlier net income of 58 million euros because
of a one-time tax charge triggered by the integration into
Volkswagen.  The truckmaker reiterated that it  expects  full-year revenue
at last year’s level, with a “very pronounced” decline in
operating profit.  Nine-month industrywide registrations in Europe of trucks
heavier than 16 metric tons fell 6.1 percent to 156,786
vehicles, the  ACEA  regional carmaker lobby said today in a
statement. The decline was buffered by an 8.3 percent gain in
September as customers bought models in advance of tighter
European Union emissions rules taking effect in 2014.  Daimler AG, the world’s biggest truckmaker, and VW’s
Swedish commercial-vehicle unit  Scania (SCVB)  said a week ago that
orders in Europe were helped by pre-buying.  VW’s Role  Volkswagen, Europe’s biggest carmaker, has held a voting
stake of just over 75 percent since June 2012, and in mid-2013
bid 80.89 euros a share for the remaining outstanding stock, 3.9
percent lower than the market price at the time. Investors who
don’t accept the cash deal are being offered an annual dividend
of 3.07 euros per share.  VW faces 162 lawsuits in Munich Regional Court from MAN SE
minority shareholders who want the carmaker to pay more,
Stefanie Ruhwinkel, a court spokeswoman, said yesterday. The
first two cases over the offer price were filed in August.
Hearings are unlikely to take place until next year, she said.  Shareholders accused MAN at the annual general meeting in
June of working to keep the truckmaker’s valuation low to avoid
a higher mandatory offer by parent VW.  Boosting efficiency at MAN is vital for VW’s strategy of
pushing cooperation between the German truckmaker and the car
producer’s Scania AB commercial-vehicle division in  Sweden .  Volkswagen rearranged its truck operations’ management in
2012 after a six-year effort to get MAN and Soedertaelje-based
Scania to work together. Leif Oestling was promoted from his
post as chief executive officer of Scania to join VW’s
management board to help forge the alliance.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christoph Rauwald in Frankfurt at 
 crauwald@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  