-- Apple Expands China Business, Moving Beyond Big Cities
-- B y   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o
-- 2013-10-29T20:37:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-29/apple-expands-china-business-moving-beyond-big-cities.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  Chief Executive Officer
 Tim Cook  is working to broaden the company’s distribution in
 China  as a way to reignite growth after the iPhone maker
reported its first decline in annual profit in at least a
decade.  Cook said Apple is expanding how it sells the iPhone and
iPad tablet in China, focusing on areas outside the country’s
largest cities. The Cupertino, California-based company is
adding more outlets besides Apple stores to sell its devices,
and the iPhone is now available in 50 percent more stores in the
country than last year, he said on a conference call this week.  Apple’s sales in China rose 6 percent in the recent quarter
to $5.7 billion, making it the company’s second-biggest market
after the U.S. Yet it lags behind Samsung Electronics Co. and
local manufacturers who offer cheaper smartphones and tablets
with more design choices than the iPhone and iPad. China is
critical as Apple seeks to jump-start sales and profit growth,
which have stalled in the increasingly crowded mobile market.  Apple’s “one-size-fits-all” approach is more challenging
in China, said Robin Li, co-founder and chief executive officer
of  Baidu (BIDU)  Inc., China’s largest search engine.  It will take more than new stores to draw in customers, Li
said. Mobile phones need to be more customized for the Chinese
market, and buyers in the country tend to prefer larger screens
and the ability to personalize their devices with software tools
to tap out messages more quickly in Chinese, he said.  “Chinese characters are very different from English -- you
need an input method engine to do that,” Li said in an
interview with Bloomberg Television. “Apple does not have a
good one, and they do not allow good ones to be uploaded in the
 App Store .”  Android Dominates  Baidu, with more than 20,000 employees, manages about 80
percent of China’s search-engine queries and is working to make
its service more accessible for the 464 million customers in the
country that log on to the Internet from a mobile device.
Devices running  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android software dominate the
mobile-computing market in China, according to Li. Worldwide,
Android will have 75 percent of the smartphone operating-system
market in 2013, compared with 17 percent share for Apple’s iOS
software, IDC estimates.  Like many Chinese customers, Li said he uses a Samsung Note
smartphone because it has a larger screen than Apple’s iPhone.
At the same time, Li complimented Cook for appreciating the size
of the Chinese market.  “He’s good. He’s very reasonable, he’s very smart,” Li
said. “He understands the Chinese market.”  Immediate Release  As part of Cook’s push, Apple is putting China on par with
other major sales hubs for the debut of its products. Last
month, the iPhone 5s and 5c models were released in China at the
same time as the U.S. and other countries for the first time,
and the new iPad Air will be available there Nov. 1. The company
opened its fourth store in  Shanghai  in the past few weeks.  “We’re working on both coverage, on launching earlier and
execution, and continuing to build on our retail practice
there,” said Cook, who has visited the country several times.  Apple may get a boost if it forges a deal with  China Mobile
Ltd. (941) , the world’s largest wireless carrier, to sell the iPhone.
The companies have been negotiating for years and had been
nearing a deal before the iPhone 5s was released last month, a
person familiar with the talks said in September.  Apple fell 2.5 percent to close at $516.68 at yesterday’s
close in  New York . They shares are down 2.9 percent so far this
year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Satariano in  San Francisco  at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  