-- ARA Jumps on Straits Trading Property Alliance: Singapore Mover
-- B y   J o y c e   K o h   a n d   P o o j a   T h a k u r
-- 2013-10-29T09:23:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-29/ara-jumps-on-straits-trading-property-alliance-singapore-mover.html
ARA Asset Management Ltd. (ARA) , a real
estate investment trust manager partly owned by billionaire  Li
Ka-shing , posted its biggest gain in more than seven months
after agreeing with Straits Trading Co. to jointly invest in
property funds.  The stock climbed 4.6 percent to S$1.83 at the close of
trading in Singapore, the biggest gain since March 15.  Straits
Trading (STRTR)  advanced 3.6 percent to S$3.78, the most since Aug. 15.  Straits Trading said yesterday it would buy a 20.1 percent
stake in ARA for S$294.4 million ($238 million) from Li’s Cheung
Kong Investment Co. and Chief Executive Officer John Lim, making
it the biggest shareholder. The Singapore-based tin-smelting
company said it will also form a new company with Lim to
undertake property investments with capital commitment of as
much as S$950 million.  These are “exciting times ahead with Straits Trading
Company as a new strategic partner,” Derek Tan, an analyst at
DBS Vickers Research ( Singapore ) Pte, said in a note to clients
today. “With a much-needed strong war chest to accelerate its
growth trajectory, we see exciting times ahead for ARA.”  Tan raised ARA’s target price to S$2.08 from S$1.89.  ARA’s Lim, who will own 19.25 percent of the company, said
yesterday that assets under management in the new investment
fund will climb to S$10 billion over time. Li’s Cheung Kong will
own 7.84 percent after the transaction.  ARA said in March that it plans to double assets under
management over five years as its private funds buy more
properties. With six REITs listed in Singapore,  Hong Kong  and
 Malaysia , ARA planned to expand with acquisitions and enhance
existing properties, Lim said in the March interview.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joyce Koh in Singapore at 
 jkoh38@bloomberg.net ;
Pooja Thakur in Singapore at 
 pthakur@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  