-- Martin’s Mother Seeks Change in Stand-Your-Ground Laws
-- B y   L a u r i e   A s s e o
-- 2013-10-29T16:16:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-29/martin-s-mother-seeks-change-in-stand-your-ground-laws.html
The mother of slain Florida teenager
Trayvon Martin told a congressional panel that “stand-your-ground” self-defense laws are confusing, open to abuse and
should be changed.  “Trayvon was minding his own business” as he went to a
store to buy a drink and candy, Sybrina Fulton said today during
a Senate Judiciary subcommittee hearing in  Washington . “He was
not the criminal that the person who shot and killed him thought
he was.”  Stand-your-ground  laws let individuals use lethal force
instead of retreating if they feel threatened with death or
serious injury in public by another person. Similar laws have
been adopted in 25 states in addition to Florida, said
subcommittee Chairman  Dick Durbin  of  Illinois .  Such laws have led to increases in homicides and shooting
injuries without deterring crimes such as robbery and assault,
Durbin, the Senate’s No. 2 Democrat, said. Studies show that
shootings of black people by whites are more often ruled to be
justified than shootings of white people by blacks, he said.  “These laws often go too far in encouraging confrontations
that escalate into deadly violence,” Durbin said. “They are
resulting in unnecessary tragedies, and they are diminishing
accountability under our justice system.”  Senator Cruz  Republican Senator  Ted Cruz  of Texas said self-defense “is
a bedrock liberty of every American” and such laws are the
responsibility of state governments. The federal government
should increase its prosecutions for illegal gun purchases and
violent gun crimes, he said.  “The stand-your-ground law does not apply to aggressors,”
Cruz said. “It is a defense that only, only, only applies to
those who are the victims or potential victims of other violent
aggressors.”  He also said some politicians are trying to exploit the
Martin case “for agendas that have nothing to do with that
young man who lost his life.”  The Senate panel also heard from Lucia McBath, mother of
17-year-old Jordan Davis, shot to death in Jacksonville,
 Florida , late last year.  “My son Jordan was shot and killed last November while
sitting in the back seat of a friend’s car listening to loud
music,” McBath said. “The man who killed him opened fire on
four unarmed teenagers even as they tried to move out of harm’s
way. That man was empowered by the stand-your-ground statute.”  “This law declares open season on anyone that we don’t
trust for reasons that we don’t even understand, that don’t even
have to be true,” McBath said.  Zimmerman’s Firearm  Fulton’s 17-year-old son, Martin, was unarmed when he was
shot dead in February 2012, in Sanford, Florida, by George
Zimmerman, a neighborhood-watch volunteer who had followed him
and told police the teenager was acting suspiciously. Martin was
walking home from a convenience store.  Zimmerman, who was legally carrying a firearm, told police
that when he got out of his truck he was confronted and punched
by Martin, and shot him in self-defense. Martin’s parents, and
others, said Zimmerman racially profiled the black teen.
Zimmerman was acquitted of second-degree murder on July 13 of
this year.  Fulton said she wanted “to let you know how important it
is that we amend this stand-your-ground because it certainly did
not work in my case. The person that shot and killed my son is
walking the streets today, and this law does not work.”  ‘Feel Safe’  “We need to do something about this law when our kids
cannot feel safe in their own communities,” Fulton said.  McBath’s son, Davis, was shot and killed in November 2012.
Michael David Dunn is charged with first-degree murder in that
case, according to the  Florida Times-Union  in Jacksonville.  Dunn, who is white, is accused of firing on a vehicle
carrying four black teenagers during a dispute over their loud
music, killing Davis, the newspaper said. Dunn said he saw a gun
in their vehicle although no gun was found, the paper said. A
trial is scheduled for next year.  In reaction to the Martin case, President  Barack Obama  said
July 19 that “Trayvon Martin could have been me, 35 years
ago.” The nation needs to do some “soul searching” on race
and violence, Obama told reporters in a surprise appearance in
the White House briefing room.  The teenager’s father, Tracy Martin, told lawmakers in July
that Congress should make it a crime to profile minors based on
race and then kill in self-defense. He spoke to the first
meeting of the Congressional Caucus on Black Men and Boys.  Tracy Martin  said he wanted to see legislation, named after
his son, passed within 50 years. Such a proposal has little
chance of winning passage by both chambers in the current
Congress split between the Republican-controlled House and
majority-Democratic Senate.  The Senate in April lacked the votes to advance a measure
to expand background checks for most  firearm purchases . The bill
was proposed after the shooting deaths of 20 children and six
adults at Sandy Hook Elementary School in Newtown,  Connecticut ,
in December.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurie Asseo in Washington at 
 lasseo1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net ;
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  