-- Asian Stocks Drop Ahead of Fed Meeting; ANZ Bank Gains
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2013-10-29T11:28:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-29/asian-stocks-drop-ahead-of-fed-meeting-anz-bank-rises.html
Asian  stocks  fell, with the regional
benchmark gauge paring its first back-to-back monthly gain since
April, as investors awaited a Federal Reserve policy meeting.  Komatsu Ltd. tumbled 8.1 percent in  Tokyo  after the world’s
second-largest maker of construction equipment cut its full-year
profit forecast by 26 percent.  Galaxy Entertainment  Group Ltd.
slumped 3.3 percent in Hong Kong, leading Macau casino operators
lower after Credit Suisse Group AG said gaming stocks are at
risk of a correction following this year’s rally.  Australia &
New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ)  climbed 1.2 percent to a record
in Sydney after posting its highest profit and raising its
dividend more than forecast.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index slid 0.3 percent to 142.2 as of
7:25 p.m. in Hong Kong. Investors are waiting for clues on the
outlook for Fed monetary stimulus when a two-day meeting
concludes tomorrow, after U.S. payrolls rose less than predicted
last month and the 16-day government shutdown took at least $24
billion out of the world’s largest economy.  “We’ve seen very strong gains across  Asia  and the market
is pondering what the Fed is going to say,” Tai Hui, Hong Kong-based chief Asia market strategist at JPMorgan Asset Management,
which oversees about $2.2 trillion globally, told Bloomberg TV.
“The market is positioning for some new messages from the Fed,
especially their assessment after the government shutdown.”  Cash Injection  China ’s Shanghai Composite Index dropped 0.2 percent after
the central bank’s first cash injection in two weeks failed to
reduce money-market rates. Borrowing costs in the world’s
second-biggest economy surged through Oct. 25 as the central
bank refrained from injecting funds into the banking system.  “Liquidity flows are still going to be very accommodative
from a central-bank perspective,” Stephen Davies, Singapore-based chief executive officer at Javelin Wealth Management Pte
Ltd., told Bloomberg TV. “If that’s the case in the U.S., then
it’s doubly so for the  European Central Bank , the Bank of  Japan 
and various central banks out here in Asia.”  Japan’s Topix index slid 0.4 percent.  Australia ’s S&P/ASX
200 Index dropped 0.5 percent and New Zealand’s NZX 50 Index
fell 0.2 percent.  South Korea ’s Kospi, Taiwan’s Taiex index and
 Hong Kong ’s  Hang Seng Index  climbed 0.2 percent. Futures on the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index were little changed.  Asian Earnings  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index has gained 2.6 percent in
October, on course for a second monthly increase. That pushed
its  price-earnings  multiple to 13.7 times estimated earnings
from 12.7 at the end of August, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. That compares with 15.9 for the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index and 14.8 for the Stoxx Europe 600 Index.  Of the 158 companies in the MSCI Asia Pacific Index that
have provided quarterly results this  earnings season  and for
which Bloomberg compiles estimates, 53 percent posted profit
that missed expectations, the data show.  More than 1,100 companies on the Topix are reporting
results through Nov. 7, the peak for earnings season, according
to  data  compiled by Bloomberg. Earnings per share for companies
on the measure are expected to increase 56 percent from the
previous quarter, according to  analyst estimates .  Japanese shares are the best performers this year among
developed markets amid optimism Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s
policies and unprecedented monetary easing from the  Bank of
Japan  will lead the country out of deflation.  Indian Rates  India ’s S&P BSE Sensex Index reversed losses after the
 Reserve Bank  of India raised its benchmark  interest rate  for the
second straight month to fight the fastest inflation rate in
Asia. The gauge climbed 1.7 percent.  The Fed is likely to delay reducing its $85 billion in
monthly bond purchases until March, according to a Bloomberg
News survey of economists conducted Oct. 17-18.  Komatsu lost 8.1 percent to 2,168 yen in Tokyo. The firm,
which sells large  dump trucks  and excavators to customers such
as Rio Tinto Group and BHP Billiton Ltd., said yesterday that
demand for mining equipment may fall by half in the 12 months
ending March 31.  NSK Ltd. sank 5.1 percent to 1,028 yen, paring its surge
this year to 69 percent, even after the Japanese maker of ball
bearings reported net income that beat estimates.  Galaxy Entertainment, the best performer on the Hang Seng
Index this year, fell 3.3 percent to HK$56.20. Sands China Ltd.,
the Macau casino operator controlled by billionaire  Sheldon
Adelson , slipped 3.2 percent to HK$53.85.  Chinese lenders and developers advanced. ICBC, as the
nation’s biggest bank is known, jumped 2.7 percent to HK$5.34.
China Construction Bank Corp. gained 2.1 percent to HK$5.89.
China Overseas Land & Investment Ltd., the largest mainland real
estate company traded in Hong Kong, added 1.1 percent to
HK$23.65. Shimao Property Holdings Ltd., controlled by
billionaire Hui Wing Mau, jumped 5.1 percent to HK$18.70.  ANZ, Australia’s third-largest bank by market value, rose
1.2 percent to A$33.63 after posting a 13 percent increase in
second-half cash profit on higher lending and lower operating
expenses. The bank boosted its final dividend to 91 Australian
cents a share from 79 cents a year earlier. The median estimate
of eight analysts surveyed by Bloomberg was for a dividend of 86
cents.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah McDonald at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net  