-- Audley’s Treger Targets Coal Mines for Anglo Pacific Royalties
-- B y   T h o m a s   B i e s h e u v e l
-- 2013-10-29T10:03:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-29/audley-s-treger-targets-coal-mines-for-anglo-pacific-royalties.html
Julian Treger, co-founder of
activist investor Audley Capital Advisors LLP, will mimic North
America’s biggest royalty companies by focusing on bulk
commodities after taking over at  Anglo Pacific Group (APF)  Plc.  Treger, appointed chief executive officer of Anglo Pacific
last week, is seeking to increase the company’s royalties in
coking coal and look to add positions in copper,  iron ore , zinc
and uranium, he said in a telephone interview. He may also look
at oil and gas.  Royalty companies hold rights that entitle them to a
percentage of a mine’s sales in return for help paying for the
project. Anglo Pacific has royalties in coal mines in Australia
operated by  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  and Rio Tinto Group. Opportunities
in precious metals are limited in a market dominated by Canada’s
 Silver Wheaton Corp (SLW) , the world’s largest precious-metals finance
company, and gold-investor  Franco-Nevada Corp. (FNV) , Treger said.  “Franco-Nevada and Silver Wheaton have done an excellent
job in scaling their businesses,” Treger said. “It’s difficult
for us to compete with them. There is a big gap in the market
with respect to bulk commodities and non-precious commodities
where we think we could become the go-to player.”  The company will avoid long-term speculative mine
development and focus on investments that allow it to increase
dividend payments in the next 18 to 24 months, he said. Treger,
who has an  interest  in 1.1 percent of Anglo Pacific shares, said
he intends to increase his stake further and possibly have
Audley invest too.  Treger, who has twice attempted to compel change at  Walter
Energy Inc. (WLT) , a coal producer, to reduce debt and corporate
expenses to boost profit, said he’s prepared to deal with
activist shareholders as CEO.  “Shareholders have the right to expect delivery from the
management,” he said. “If we don’t do so, they’re within their
rights to ask for changes.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Biesheuvel in London at 
 tbiesheuvel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  