-- MLB Seeks Testimony From Alex Rodriguez’s Publicist
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2013-10-30T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-29/mlb-seeks-testimony-from-alex-rodriguez-s-publicist.html
Major League Baseball’s commissioner
sued to compel the head of the public-relations firm Sitrick &
Co. to comply with a subpoena issued by a panel arbitrating a
dispute with  New York  Yankees third-baseman Alex Rodriguez.  Commissioner Bud Selig filed a petition in New York State
Supreme Court in Manhattan asking a judge to order Michael S. Sitrick to comply with the September subpoena seeking his
appearance at arbitration proceedings between Rodriguez and
Major League Baseball.  The Miami New Times reported in January that Rodriguez’s
name was on a list of clients of Coral Gables, Florida-based
anti-aging clinic Biogenesis of America, citing documents
provided by Porter Fischer, a former employee of the clinic who
said Bosch owed him money.  Rodriguez hired Sitrick & Co. to provide public-relations
services. The firm issued a statement the same day the Miami New
Times article was published saying Rodriguez hadn’t been treated
or advised by the clinic’s founder, Anthony Bosch, according to
the petition filed yesterday.  Yahoo! Sports published a story the following month
identifying players, including Milwaukee Brewers outfielder Ryan Braun, who allegedly received performance-enhancing substances
from Bosch. That story included excerpts of Bosch’s handwritten
records.  Excerpt Source  Selig’s office said in the petition yesterday that the
excerpts were provided to Sitrick by Rodriguez or people acting
on his behalf and passed along to Yahoo by the firm.  MLB and the baseball players association agreed that
Rodriguez would provide any documents and information about any
efforts by the player or others acting on his behalf to obtain
records maintained by Bosch, according to the petition.  The players union also agreed that if it couldn’t produce
the documents, it would certify that Sitrick didn’t have and
never had them, according to the petition.  Sitrick’s counsel in September objected to the subpoena,
which seeks his testimony at the arbitration and a limited
number of documents, and said Sitrick wouldn’t appear or produce
the documents, according to the petition.  ‘Necessary’ Testimony  “To date, MLB has received neither responsive documents
from Sitrick & Company, nor an affidavit from Mr. Sitrick
certifying that neither he nor the company has or ever had the
documents in question,” according to the petition. “The
testimony of Mr. Sitrick is necessary to establish whether
Rodriguez or his representatives have or had documents relevant
to MLB’s allegations in the arbitration in their possession and
when these documents were obtained.”  “It is our intention to work it out,”  Michael Sitrick ’s
attorney, J. Michael Hennigan of McKool Smith Hennigan, said in
a phone interview. “Mr. Sitrick wants to cooperate to the
extent that he can.”  Rodriguez sued MLB and Selig this month, accusing them of
trying to destroy his reputation and career with a 211-game
suspension. A three-time American League Most Valuable Player,
Rodriguez is fifth on MLB’s career home-run list with 654, six
behind Hall of Fame outfielder Willie Mays.  Rodriguez was allowed to play pending an appeal of the
suspension. He has acknowledged taking performance-enhancing
drugs as a member of the Texas Rangers from 2001 to 2003, and
denied any use after that.  Rodriguez, who is seeking compensatory and punitive
damages, has finished the sixth season of a 10-year, $275
million contract, the largest in baseball. He was activated from
the disabled list the day the suspension was announced in August
and hit .244 with seven home runs in 44 games this season.  The case is the Office of the Commissioner of Baseball v.
Sitrick, 653774/2013, New York State Supreme Court, New York
County ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York State Supreme Court at 
8969 or  cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  