-- Baidu Profit Beats Estimates on Rising Mobile Search Revenue
-- B y   L u l u   Y i l u n   C h e n
-- 2013-10-30T03:33:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-29/baidu-profit-beats-estimates-on-rising-mobile-search-revenue.html
Baidu Inc. (BIDU) , the owner of China’s
largest Internet search engine, said it will continue to
aggressively invest in mobile to boost market share, after third
quarter profit beat estimates.  Net income rose 1.3 percent to 3.05 billion  yuan  ($498
million) from 3 billion yuan a year earlier, Beijing-based Baidu
said in a statement yesterday. That surpassed the 3 billion-yuan
average of 10  analysts’ estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. Revenue
rose 42 percent to 8.89 billion yuan, compared with the 8.79
billion-yuan average of 18 estimates.  Baidu is investing in mobile development as its search app
installments rose 50 percent to 330 million users by the end of
September compared with three months ago. The Internet company
agreed in August to pay $160 million for 59 percent of location-based e-commerce service Nuomi Holdings Inc. and in July said it
would buy app store  91 Wireless Websoft Ltd.  for $1.9 billion.  “The company is very willing to invest in mobile and so
far results are good,” Echo He, analyst at Maxim Group LLC in
New York said by phone. “Baidu’s fourth quarter results should
be better than this quarter as it will sell more advertisements
to businesses during the holiday and shopping season.”  The American depositary receipts of Baidu rose 7.4 percent
to $170.21 at 5:02 p.m. in New York trading yesterday.  Crucial Year   Baidu forecast fourth-quarter revenue of as much as 9.5
billion yuan. That compares with the 8.92 billion-yuan average
of 15 analysts’ estimates.  “We have invested more than any of the other competitors
in the mobile search front,” said Robin Li, chairman and chief
executive officer of Baidu during an earnings call today. “This
year and next year will be very, very crucial for the eventual
success of the overall mobile strategy.”  Baidu had an 81 percent share of search-engine queries in
 China  in the three months ended June, followed by Qihoo with
10.1 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The company’s online marketing revenue climbed 42 percent
in the third quarter.  “Businesses had bigger budgets to run ads on Baidu’s
platform,” Ricky Lai, an analyst at Guotai Junan International
Holdings Ltd. in Hong Kong, said before the earnings. Baidu’s
“strengthening mobile position also helps with traffic.”  China had 1.21 billion mobile-phone subscribers as of
September, an 8.5 percent increase from the end of last year,
based on data released by the Beijing-based Ministry of
Information Industry.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lulu Yilun Chen in Hong Kong at 
 ychen447@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  