-- Batista on Brink of $3.6 Billion Default as Talks Fail
-- B y   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o   a n d   P e t e r   M i l l a r d
-- 2013-10-29T20:32:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-29/batista-s-ogx-ends-bondholder-talks-without-reaching-agreement.html
OGX Petroleo & Gas Participacoes SA (OGXP3) 
failed to reach an agreement with holders of dollar-denominated
bonds as former billionaire  Eike Batista ’s oil company heads
toward  Latin America ’s biggest corporate debt default.  Discussions between OGX, which is running out of money to
test its most promising field, and holders of bonds due in 2018
and 2022 concluded without any restructuring agreement, the Rio
de Janeiro-based company said in a  statement  released today.
Shares  fell  as much as 24 percent in Sao Paulo.  The breakdown opens the way for a  bankruptcy protection 
filing that would put $3.6 billion of dollar bonds into default,
the region’s largest on record, and culminate a 16-month decline
that wiped out more than $30 billion of Batista’s personal
fortune after offshore deposits he had valued at $1 trillion
turned out to be duds.  “He tried to do too much too fast and he tried to do that
with borrowed money,”  Arthur Byrnes , who oversees about $1
billion as senior managing director at Deltec Asset Management
LLC and sold all OGX notes before June, said by phone from New
York. “He has failed and the whole thing is a shame because any
country needs aggressive and successful entrepreneurs.”  Batista became  Brazil ’s richest man after raising billions
of dollars in equity markets and loans from a  state bank  to fund
OGX’s drilling program and sister commodities startups. He then
tapped debt markets, selling bonds to investors including
 BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  and Pacific Investment Management Co.  Cash Depletion  OGX continues to review debt restructuring options, it said
in today’s statement. The company, which expects to run out of
cash in the last week of December, needs about $250 million to
sustain operations through April, it said in an Oct. 23
presentation to Rothschild, the adviser hired by bondholders.  “New capital from either debt or equity financing is
required to bridge near-term liquidity in the first quarter of
2014,” OGX said in the presentation posted today on its
website. “OGX is evaluating a number of farm-out opportunities
to fully fund the mid- to long-term business plan.”  The company’s cash fell to about $82 million at the end of
September, it said in a separate document dated Oct. 7 and
posted on its website today. OGX has an enterprise value of
$2.72 billion in a “base case operating model”, the company
said. That’s more than seven times OGX’s market value of 776.6
million reais ($357 million).  ‘Critical Vendors’  The company has been building arrears with suppliers.
Diamond Offshore Drilling Inc., a rig supplier to OGX, said Oct.
24 it wrote off $58 million from second and third quarter
earnings on missed payments. Ensco Plc, another supplier, said
on the same day that OGX’s “deteriorating” financial situation
curbed its third-quarter profit.  “Payments are only made to critical vendors who currently
perform services at the Martelo field to get first oil
production up and running,” OGX said in the Oct. 7 document,
titled “Project Olympic.”  The suppliers claims amount to $546 million, OGX said in a
September presentation also posted on its website today.  The  oil company  missed a $45 million payment on Oct. 1,
prompting  Standard & Poor’s  to assign a default rating to $1
billion of bonds. Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch Ratings
are giving OGX the 30-day grace period before calling a default.
The grace period expires Oct. 31.  Earlier this month, two people with direct knowledge said
OGX was considering filing for bankruptcy protection late
October or early November. Once a judge accepts a filing, the
company would have 60 days to present a restructuring plan.  Regulatory Risk  An official at OGX’s press office in Rio, who isn’t an
authorized spokesperson, declined to give additional comments
when reached by phone today. Melissa Garville, a spokeswoman at
BlackRock in  New York , declined to comment. Pimco spokesman
Michael Reid didn’t reply an e-mail request seeking comment.  OGX risks having the country’s oil regulator revoke its 30
oil and natural gas licenses in Brazil if it files for
bankruptcy, according to Sao Paulo-based TozziniFreire
Advogados, a  law firm  that has clients in the oil industry.  The head of Brazil’s oil regulator, Magda Chambriard, said
Oct. 17 the regulator hadn’t decided if OGX would keep its
fields if it goes into bankruptcy protection.  Shares of OGX, which Batista founded in 2007, lost 95
 percent  in the past 12 months, the  worst-performing  stock among
73 members of the Brazilian benchmark Ibovespa Index, after a
series of missed output targets. The stock dropped 21 percent to
23 centavos in  Sao Paulo  today.  ‘Caged Animal’  Batista asked bondholders to convert debt into equity,
diluting his role in the company, two people with direct
knowledge of the matter said Sept. 9. OGX’s $2.56 billion in
bonds due in 2018 trade at 8 cents on the dollar.  Batista is running out of alternatives for OGX, Deltec’s
Byrnes said.  “He is like a caged animal now,” he said. “I feel sorry
for him, but if you want to be a big shot, you have to
deliver.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Juan Pablo Spinetto in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Millard in Rio de Janeiro at 
 pmillard1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  