-- Batista Collapse Leaves Unpaid Bills With Loews to Ensco
-- B y   D a v i d   W e t h e ,   P e t e r   M i l l a r d   a n d   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2013-10-30T15:02:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-29/batista-collapse-leaves-unpaid-bills-with-loews-to-ensco.html
Brazilian entrepreneur  Eike Batista ’s financial collapse is being reflected on the balance
sheets of global suppliers to his  oil company .  OGX Petroleo (OGXP3)  & Gas Participacoes SA, controlled by the
former billionaire, said in a statement yesterday that it has
cut payments to all but “critical” suppliers to its most
promising field.  Diamond Offshore Drilling Inc. (DO) ,  Ensco Plc (ESV)  and
 Schlumberger Ltd. (SLB)  are among those paying the price.  The company, based in Rio de Janeiro, expects to run out of
money in late December after missed targets at its offshore
deposits spurred a 95 percent drop in market value. OGX is
cutting staff, selling assets and accruing debt with suppliers
as it focuses on resurrecting a deal with Petroliam Nasional
Bhd. for the Martelo field, its last hope to start making money.  “Payments are only made to critical vendors who currently
perform services at the Martelo field to get first oil
production up and running,” OGX said in an Oct. 7 document,
titled Project Olympic, posted on its website yesterday.  Diamond Offshore, a subsidiary of  Loews Corp. (L) , said Oct. 24
that it wrote off $58 million in the second and third quarters
on missed payments related to contracts with OGX. Loews is led
by Chief Executive Officer James Tisch.  Ensco, the offshore drilling contractor building six rigs,
said last week that a loss of $27 million for a pair of vessels
contracted to OGX reduced quarterly earnings by 12 cents per
share.  ‘Non-commercial’  One of Diamond’s rigs being used by Batista’s company was
transferred to another Brazilian operator and another is bound
for operations in Asia Pacific, Diamond’s Chief Executive
Officer Lawrence Dickerson said on an Oct. 24 conference call.  “Although it was once a very strong company, projects that
were ultimately judged non-commercial have deprived OGX of the
cash necessary to meet its obligations,” he said.  Still, the writedown represented less than 5 percent of
revenue that Diamond collected from OGX since 2008, Dickerson
said. The company once had as many as five rigs working for
Batista’s company in Brazil.  General Electric Co. (GE) , which in July said it wrote down a
$300 million investment in Batista’s holding company, and
seamless steel pipe maker  Tenaris SA (TEN)  are also among suppliers to
OGX, according to  data compiled  by Bloomberg. Tenaris declined
to comment in an e-mailed response sent by an external public
relations representative in Brazil.  Schlumberger, the world’s largest oilfield services
contractor, first talked publicly about its work for OGX in July
2009 when it was hired for services on four deep-water rigs. The
two-year contract with possible extensions covered 11 blocks in
the Santos and Campos Basin.  Experiencing Delays  Technology that OGX acquired from Schlumberger included
real-time monitoring, directional drilling and the ability to
evaluate the formation for oil while reducing risk in the high
pressure and high temperatures of exploring for crude offshore.  Schlumberger’s management of large projects for OGX “is
probably the most advanced one of those that we have,” Andrew
Gould, CEO at the time, told analysts and investors on an
October 2010 conference call.  “In recent months, Schlumberger began experiencing delays
in payment from OGX,” according to a Oct. 23 regulatory filing
in the U.S. “At this time, it is not possible to predict the
ultimate outcome of this situation.”  Jose Firmo, the head of Schlumberger’s  Brazil  unit,
declined to comment when asked at a conference in Rio yesterday
about money owed by OGX. The press departments of Diamond
Offshore and Ensco referred to comments made in last week’s
earnings calls when asked about OGX receivables.  Restructuring Talks  Claims from suppliers amount to $546 million, OGX said in a
September presentation also posted on its website yesterday. OGX
released the presentations as part of an arrangement with
bondholders after restructuring talks concluded without reaching
an agreement.  OGX has also delayed payments to Batista’s shipbuilder OSX
Brasil SA. OSX is preparing to remove a production vessel from
the Tubarao Azul offshore field after missed payments. OGX has
failed to meet production targets at Azul and output has been
shut since July, when the company said it was repairing subsea
equipment.  One of the Ensco rigs is already leased to another customer
and moving to the Mediterranean. The other, capable of working
in water as deep as 1,000 feet, may be out of work for several
months as it hunts for a new customer, Luke Lemoine, an analyst
at Capital One Southcoast in  New Orleans , said.  The four rigs OGX leased from Diamond and Ensco were lower
end, meaning their rates were about half that of the world’s
most expensive drilling rigs that rent for more than $600,000 a
day, Lemoine said in a phone interview.  Cash Depletion  “It’s not good for them right now, but longer term, I’m
not terribly concerned about it,” said Lemoine, who rates Ensco
and Diamond shares the equivalent of a hold and owns none.
“There’s no guarantee that even if OGX had had money that they
would have renewed those rigs.”  OGX’s failure to reach a restructuring deal after months of
talks with bondholders opens the way for a  bankruptcy protection 
filing that would put $3.6 billion of dollar bonds into default.  Earlier this month, two people with direct knowledge said
OGX was considering filing for bankruptcy protection late
October or early November. Once a judge accepts a filing, the
company would have 60 days to present a restructuring plan.  An official at OGX’s press office in Rio, who isn’t an
authorized spokesperson, declined to give additional comments
when reached by phone yesterday.  The company’s cash fell to about $82 million at the end of
September, it said in a second document dated Oct. 7 and posted
on its website yesterday. OGX has an enterprise value of $2.72
billion in a “base case” operating model, the company said.
That’s more than seven times OGX’s market valuation.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Wethe in Houston at 
 dwethe@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Millard in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 pmillard1@bloomberg.net ;
Noah Buhayar in  New York  at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net ;
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  