-- Billionaire Jacqueline Mars Faces Charge in Fatal Crash
-- B y   A n d r e w   Z a j a c
-- 2013-10-30T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-29/billionaire-jacqueline-mars-faces-charge-in-fatal-crash.html
Jacqueline Badger Mars, the
billionaire co-owner of candy maker Mars Inc., faces a
misdemeanor charge of reckless driving in connection with a
fatal accident on Oct. 4, according to the Loudoun County,
 Virginia , Office of the Commonwealth’s Attorney.  Mars, 74, was traveling westbound in a 2004 Porsche sport
utility vehicle on Route 50 near Aldie, Virginia, at about 2:30
p.m. when her SUV crossed the center line and struck an
eastbound minivan occupied by six women, the county sheriff said
in a statement.  A back-seat passenger in the minivan, Irene Ellisor, 86, of
Huntsville,  Texas , was killed in the crash. Ellisor wasn’t
wearing a seatbelt, according to the statement.  A summons was issued for Mars to appear in Loudoun General
District Court in Leesburg, Virginia, on Dec. 5 to face the
reckless driving count.  Heather Williamson, a spokeswoman for Commonwealth’s
Attorney Jim Plowman, declined to discuss the charge.  “Because this is now an active case in the court, our
office cannot comment on the investigation or pending case,”
Williamson said in an e-mailed statement.  “As court proceedings begin, Jacquie’s thoughts and
prayers remain with those who have suffered injury and loss,”
 Kent Jarrell , Mars’s personal spokesman, said in an e-mailed
statement. “She regrets this tragic accident.”  Mars, of The Plains, Virginia, has a net worth of $23.3
billion, making her the 27th-richest person in the world,
according to the Bloomberg Billionaires Index.  Most of her fortune comes from a one-third stake in McLean,
Virginia-based Mars, the world’s second-largest candy maker. The
closely held company’s brands include Snickers, Milky Way and
M&M’s.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Zajac in Washington at 
 azajac@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  