-- Blackstone Adds to Biggest Year for REIT IPOs Since 2004
-- B y   H u i - y o n g   Y u
-- 2013-10-29T23:09:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-29/blackstone-adds-to-biggest-year-for-reit-ipos-since-2004.html
The debut of  Brixmor Property Group
Inc. (BRX)  is adding fuel to what is already the biggest year for U.S.
real estate initial public offerings in almost a decade.  The No. 2 U.S. shopping-center landlord, owned by
Blackstone Group LP, raised $825 million in its IPO today,
excluding extra shares for underwriters, the largest IPO of a
retail real estate investment trust since  Simon Property Group
Inc. (SPG)  in 1993. Brixmor sold 41.25 million shares at $20 apiece
after offering 37.5 million for $19 to $21 each.  Blackstone took its  first REIT  public in what is poised to
be a wave of property IPOs by the world’s largest alternative-asset manager, from hotel chain Hilton Worldwide Holdings Inc.
to potential sales next year of its IndCor Properties Inc. and
Invitation Homes businesses. The U.S. economic recovery, falling
commercial real estate vacancies and low  interest rates  have
primed the pump for public offerings, with REIT stocks at close
to six-year highs.  “It’s a great time to sell,” said Anthony Breault, senior
real estate investment officer for the state of Oregon’s pension
fund, which is seeing the most distributions from its private-equity real estate managers this year since the commercial-property boom that ended in 2007. “Leasing is back up and
there’s a froth of demand for income-producing assets.”  Deal Jump  Property-related IPOs, including REITs, real estate
operating companies and mortgage trusts, have had their biggest
year since 2004 by money raised, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. So far in 2013, real estate IPOs have raised $4.7
billion, compared with $3 billion in all of 2012, the data show.
The total was $7 billion in 2004, when the biggest stock sales
were BioMed Realty Trust Inc. and CBRE Group Inc.  Brixmor exceeded the $811.8 million raised by Malibu,
California-based house-rental company  American Homes 4 Rent (AMH)  in
July, which included overallotments. It followed only the $1.07
billion offering of  Empire State Realty Trust Inc. (ESRT) , the New
York-based owner of Manhattan’s Empire State Building, for deals
this year, according to the Bloomberg data. Indianapolis-based
Simon, the world’s largest owner of shopping malls, raised $840
million in its 1993 IPO.  Nine of the 14 real estate IPOs this year before Brixmor
gained from their initial offering price through yesterday, led
by a 29 percent jump in  Re/Max Holdings Inc. (RMAX) , a Denver-based
residential property broker. The biggest loser was Ellington
Residential Mortgage REIT of  Old Greenwich ,  Connecticut , which
fell 18 percent from its May 1 debut.  May High  The Bloomberg REIT  index  has more than tripled from its
2009 low and in May reached the highest level since 2007. It has
trimmed about 10 percent of those gains since then amid concern
interest rates would rise and increase borrowing costs. The 136-member gauge slipped 0.7 percent today.  Sustained increases in interest rates or flagging economic
growth could hurt commercial-property valuations, said Harris Trifon, head of commercial real estate debt research at Deutsche
Bank AG in  New York .  “We’ve benefited a lot from the return of capital and the
financing environment and liquidity and if anything disrupts
that, that would cause a major problem,” he said. “We’re not
expecting that.”  Blackstone (BX) , based in New York, may take Hilton public as
soon as December in what could be the year’s biggest real estate
IPO, according to a person with knowledge of the firm’s plans
who asked not to be named because the details are private. The
McLean, Virginia-based hotel chain -- which will have a
traditional corporate structure rather than a tax-saving REIT --
has filed to raise as much as $1.25 billion, a placeholder
amount.  Extended Stay  The Hilton sale probably will be preceded by the IPO of
 Charlotte , North Carolina-based Extended Stay America Inc., a
budget lodging chain one-third owned by Blackstone that’s
looking to raise $500 million, the person said.  Peter Rose , a
Blackstone spokesman, declined to comment.  Hilton is poised to be the largest hotel IPO ever. The
company has increased room count in franchised and managed
hotels by 39 percent since Blackstone bought it for $26 billion
in 2007, expanding in Asia and other overseas markets, with
plans to develop and build another 268,000 rooms, according to
its IPO filing. The company could raise more than the $1.59
billion that Douglas Emmett Inc., a  Santa Monica , California-based office and industrial landlord, raised in its 2006 IPO,
which was a record for a U.S. REIT.  High Profile  “The IPOs happening are very large and high profile,”
said Steven Marks, managing director at  Fitch Ratings ,
contrasting the current market with 2004. “Companies do need
compelling management, a growth strategy and value, whereas back
in the ’03-’04 timeframe, a company could go public as a blind
pool with just a strategy and no assets.”  The pipeline of real estate IPOs from Blackstone alone
probably will continue in 2014. IndCor, the firm’s Chicago-based
U.S. warehouse unit, and Invitation Homes, the Dallas-based
single-family home-rental business with 40,000 properties, are
likely to go public in the next year, said Joe Smith, co-chief
investment officer of CBRE Clarion Securities in Radnor,
Pennsylvania.  “Blackstone’s got a lot of equity to sell over the next
several years,” said Smith, whose firm manages $25 billion of
real estate investments.  Growing Pipeline  Stephen Schwarzman , Blackstone’s chairman and chief
executive officer, said this month the firm is moving into a
period where the potential “is very high for large amounts of
realizations and consequent gains” for its investors.  “The pipeline for realizations is really growing,”
Schwarzman said on the company’s third-quarter earnings call on
Oct. 17. “Hilton itself, which has shown dramatic improvement
along with our type of business plan, is just indicative of the
kind of exit that we’ll make over time.”  Blackstone plans to remain a substantial Hilton shareholder
for many years, Schwarzman said.  “Greater realization activity is not indicative of a view
that markets have peaked,” he said.  Blackstone, which didn’t plan to sell any shares in the
Brixmor IPO, will own about 73 percent of Brixmor’s common stock
after the offering, according to the original prospectus terms.
The REIT has 522 properties, trailing only  New Hyde Park , New
York-based  Kimco Realty Corp. (KIM)  as the largest U.S.  shopping-center  landlord.  Market Value  Brixmor has an implied market value of about $6 billion,
behind Kimco,  Federal Realty Investment Trust (FRT)  and  DDR Corp. (DDR)   Since the last recession ended, the recovery in commercial
real estate has spread from apartments to hotels, offices and
industrial properties. Vacancies have declined across all
property types, according to Reis Inc., a New York-based real
estate research firm.  Multifamily buildings have seen the biggest increase in
average rents since the financial crisis, with effective rents,
or the amount paid after any concessions, up 11.3 percent, Reis
data show. Office rents are up 5.8 percent on average from the
low, while warehouse rents have gained 3.3 percent and retail
rates climbed 1.6 percent.  The real estate recovery has mostly been confined to
primary markets such as New York and  Chicago , with demand for
assets in smaller cities lagging behind, said Breault of
Oregon’s pension fund, which has about $7.4 billion invested in
real estate private-equity funds.  “More of us were buyers than sellers” from 2005 to 2007,
Breault said. Most “of the groups have been waiting for the
sell opportunity.”  Private-equity real estate funds have been increasing
distributions to investors as they sell holdings, he said.  “Finally, the market’s at a point where they’re capturing
good returns,” said Breault. “It’s industrywide.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hui-yong Yu in Seattle at 
 hyu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  