-- Boeing Open to South Korea Buying F-15s With Lockheed’s F-35s
-- B y   S a m   K i m
-- 2013-10-29T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-29/boeing-open-to-south-korea-buying-f-15s-with-lockheed-s-f-35s.html
Boeing Co. (BA)  is open to  South Korea 
buying a mix of its F-15 Silent Eagle fighter jets and F-35
models made by  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  when the country opens a
second round of bidding, a senior company official said.  South Korea on Sept. 24 called off a tender for 60 fighter
jets after rejecting Boeing’s bid for the 8.3 trillion-won ($7.8
billion) contract on concerns the F-15SE wasn’t advanced enough
to counter  North Korea ’s nuclear threat. The F-35s and the
Eurofighter Typhoon of European Aeronautic, Defence & Space Co.
had been rejected earlier on cost grounds.  “If it turns out a split of 40 F-15s and 20 F-35s is the
right answer, then, of course we will want to participate in
that,” James Armington, vice president for East Asia-Pacific
business development at Boeing’s defense unit, said in an
interview yesterday near Seoul. “Whatever the requirement is
determined to be, whatever the need is determined to be, we
definitely want to participate.”  South Korea is seeking to modernize its air defenses in
response to the North’s growing nuclear muscle. The Kim Jong Un
regime tested its third nuclear device in February and
threatened first strikes against the U.S. and South Korea the
following month. The growing tensions contributed to the U.S.
and South Korea revising their defense pact to include the
possibility of preemptive strikes against the North.  Stealth Technology  Based on the F-15 that entered U.S.  Air Force  service in
 1974 , Boeing’s Silent Eagle features radar-evading stealth
technology. Armington said the plane would be just “as
effective as” the F-35 if South Korea had to strike North
Korean nuclear targets.  “If you’re going after nuclear weapons targets, it’s
probably buried in the ground and you probably need a large
weapon,” Armington, a former F-15 pilot, said. “In many cases,
the F-15 with its speed and payload and ability to launch
standoff weapons is probably more survivable and can have
greater effect on some of these hardened targets.”  Standoff missiles refer to weapons that can be launched
from a distance long enough to evade air defenses.  Mix of Models  South Korea may consider acquiring a mix of models in the
future,  Defense Ministry  spokesman Kim Min Seok said after the
Boeing bid was rejected. The government is seeking to replace
aging F-4s and F-5s and add to the arsenal of its Boeing F-15Ks
and KF-16s from  General Dynamics Corp. (GD)  that form the backbone of
the air force. South Korea operates about 460 fighter planes,
according to its 2012 defense white paper.  Armington said buying F-15SEs now and F-35s a few years
later would “make sense because by that time, the F-35 costs
will be better known, the development program will be completed,
full-combat capability will be more clear.”  “If Korea does conclude they need a few specialty
airplanes for that first day, for that first pre-emptive attack,
you don’t need 60,” Armington said.  Retaliation Threat  South Korea faces North Korea over one of the world’s most
heavily armed borders, a legacy of the 1950-53  Korean War  that
ended in a truce. In 2010, North Korea bombarded a South Korean
island near the front line, killing four people. That incident
has led military officials to vow air strikes should another
frontline provocation take place.  South Korea plans to spend nearly 1 trillion won next year
building a command system that would allow its military to carry
out first strikes against targets in North Korea if required.
The South is also spending 120 billion won to enhance missile,
according to the Defense Ministry. President Park Geun Hye said
Oct. 1 her government would hasten the development of those
systems.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sam Kim in  Seoul  at 
 skim609@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  