-- BofA Accord With FHFA Could Cost $8 Billion, Fitch Says
-- B y   H u g h   S o n
-- 2013-10-29T15:48:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-29/bofa-accord-with-fhfa-could-cost-8-billion-fitch-says.html
Bank of America Corp. , the second-biggest U.S. lender, may have to pay $5 billion to $8 billion to
settle federal claims tied to faulty mortgages after a rival
lender’s deal set “a relatively high bar,”  Fitch Ratings  said.  Bank of America had about $57 billion of mortgage-backed
securities cited by a Federal Housing Finance Agency  lawsuit ,
compared with about $33 billion in a case involving JPMorgan
Chase & Co. that was settled last week for $4 billion, Fitch
analysts wrote in a note today.  The FHFA, regulator for  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac ,
demanded at least $6 billion from Bank of America to settle
claims the lender sold faulty mortgage bonds to the U.S.-backed
finance firms, a person with knowledge of the matter said this
month. The regulator sued Bank of America and 17 other companies
two years ago to recoup losses absorbed by taxpayers after the
government bailed out Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac in 2008.  The size of settlements so far “reflects the more
aggressive stance taken by the federal government in resolving
litigation against the banks involving precrisis matters,” the
Fitch analysts wrote. Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. analysts
estimated on Oct. 10 before the JPMorgan deal was announced that
suits from the FHFA and insurer American International Group
Inc. would cost Bank of America about $4 billion.  More Reserves  Lenders facing FHFA claims may have to boost litigation
reserves based upon the JPMorgan deal, Fitch said. Settlement
expenses probably won’t affect  credit grades  at the Charlotte,
North Carolina-based lender, Fitch said.  Larry DiRita , a Bank of
America spokesman, declined to comment on Fitch’s note.  Bank of America and firms it acquired created more than a
quarter of the bonds targeted by the FHFA, the most of any
defendant, followed by New York-based JPMorgan. UBS AG,
 Switzerland ’s biggest bank, agreed to an $885 million settlement
in July over $6.3 billion of mortgage-backed securities.  JPMorgan, the largest U.S. lender by assets, agreed to pay
$4 billion to end the FHFA’s lawsuit accusing the bank of
selling Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac faulty mortgage bonds, plus
$1.1 billion for claims that it sold Fannie and Freddie
defective loans that they packaged into their own securities.
 Citigroup Inc. (C)  and General Electric Co. also reached settlements
this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugh Son in  New York  at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Christine Harper  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  