-- Boston Scientific’s Nerve Device Lowers Blood Pressure
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2013-10-29T20:56:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-29/boston-scientific-s-nerve-device-lowers-blood-pressure.html
Boston Scientific Corp. (BSX) ’s Vessix
hypertension treatment significantly lowered blood pressure
levels in patients with a hard-to-treat form of the condition
that doesn’t respond well to drug therapy, a study found.  The treatment, which silences overactive nerves in the
renal arteries that contribute to hypertension, reduced systolic
blood pressure by 24.6 millimeters of mercury after six months.
The benefit grew with time, yielding a 29.6 mm/Hg reduction
after a year, the study presented yesterday at the  Transcatheter
Cardiovascular Therapeutics  conference in  San Francisco  found.  Boston Scientific acquired the Vessix technology a year
ago, drawn by a procedure that can be done quickly and in small
arteries. It competes with similar products from  Medtronic Inc. (MDT) ,
which is presenting three-year results with its device, and St.
Jude Medical Inc. Boston Scientific is talking with regulators
about starting a global study that would lead to U.S. approval,
said Jeff Mirviss, president of the Natick, Massachusetts-based
company’s peripheral interventions unit.  The procedure known as renal denervation “is well suited
for the future of health care,” Mirviss said in a telephone
interview. “It’s very rare to find a technology where all the
different stakeholders are on the same side of the table,” with
patients getting a health benefit, hospitals getting a new
procedure to improve patient care and insurers getting lower
costs by preventing heart complications, he said.  Positive Results  The Boston Scientific study is an interim analysis of the
company-funded Reduce-HTN clinical trial involving 139 patients.
Treatment lowered  blood pressure  for about 85 percent of
patients, said lead researcher Horst Sievert, director of the
Cardiovascular Center Frankfurt at Sankt Katharinen Hospital in
 Germany . The 29 mm/Hg reduction in  systolic blood pressure , the
top number that measures force when the heart is contracting,
would cut the risk of stroke by about 70 percent, he said.
Patients still needed drug therapy.  “We are using this technique only in patients with
resistant hypertension in the study, when all other medications
have failed,” he said in a telephone interview. “The aim of
the procedure isn’t to remove medication, but to bring blood
pressure down to normal levels,” he said. “It’s of tremendous
importance for the patient.”  Boston Scientific rose 1.8 percent to $11.79 at the close
in  New York . The company’s shares have doubled this year.  Medtronic, based in  Minneapolis , will present data at the
meeting today showing its similar Symplicity renal denervation
system reduces blood pressure for at least three years. The
company’s study, the longest running test of the approach, found
an average systolic blood pressure reduction of 33 mm/Hg, with
85 percent of patients responding.  ‘Significant Milestone’  “These results continue to demonstrate the impact renal
denervation can have on patients with uncontrolled
hypertension,” said Robert Whitbourn, director of the
Cardiovascular Research Centre at St. Vincent’s Hospital in
 Melbourne . “As the first and longest-term experience in a
randomized, controlled setting, these data mark a significant
milestone for the renal denervation clinical community.”
years.’’  There are about 1.2 billion people worldwide with high
blood pressure, and about one-third don’t respond well to
existing drug therapy. Hypertension increases the risk of heart
attack, stroke and death from  heart disease .  The renal denervation process silences the overactive
nerves by burning them with a radiofrequency technology.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  