-- BP Raises Dividend as Quarterly Earnings Beat Estimates
-- B y   B r i a n   S w i n t
-- 2013-10-29T17:06:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-29/bp-raises-dividend-as-quarterly-earnings-beat-estimates.html
BP Plc (BP/) ,  Europe ’s third-largest oil
company, raised its dividend after third-quarter earnings fell
less than expected. The shares gained.  Profit adjusted for one-time items and inventory changes
dropped to $3.7 billion from $5 billion a year earlier, the
London-based company said in a statement. That beat the $3.4
billion average  estimate  of 13 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.
It increased the dividend by 5.6 percent to 9.5 cents a share.  Chief Executive Officer Bob Dudley is trying to return BP
to growth after divesting more than $60 billion in assets in the
wake of 2010’s Gulf of Mexico oil spill. While BP still faces
billions of dollars in fines and settlement payouts, Dudley is
bolstering dividends and buybacks to gain investor confidence as
the shares languish about 30 percent below the pre-spill level.  “The underlying business is performing very well,” Dudley
said in a Bloomberg Television interview. “Our shareholders
have been very patient with BP and it’s time to reward them.
Capital discipline is also very important.”  The company will sell a further $10 billion of assets by
the end of 2015 and give most of the proceeds to shareholders,
favoring buybacks, it said today. BP is already about halfway
through an $8 billion buyback program, funded by a deal in which
it sold its half of Russian venture TNK-BP and took a 20 percent
stake in OAO Rosneft, the country’s biggest oil producer.  Shares Gain  BP jumped 5.6 percent in  London  trading, the biggest one-day gain since January 2011, to close at 477.5 pence.  The company, which competes in Europe with  Royal Dutch
Shell Plc (RDSA)  and was overtaken by  Total SA (FP)  in market value this
year, said in February that underlying oil and gas production
should increase this year after holding steady in 2012. Reported
output will drop as disposals shave off 150,000 barrels a day.  Production was 3.17 million barrels of oil equivalent a day
in the third quarter. Excluding  Russia , output was 2.3 percent
lower than a year earlier at 2.2 million barrels a day following
asset sales. Adjusting for disposals, volumes rose 3.4 percent
on higher output from fields in the North Sea and  Angola .  Brent crude prices averaged $109.65 a barrel in the period,
just 23 cents higher than a year earlier, while BP’s refining
marker margin, a generic measure of profitability, dropped to
$13.62 a barrel from $23.15. Profit from BP’s refining arm
plunged to $1 billion from $3.4 billion.  Spending, Tax  Capital expenditure this year will be $24 billion to $25
billion and stay at that level next year. It will range from $24
billion to $27 billion through 2020, BP said. The ratio of net
debt to net debt plus equity was 13.3 percent at the end of the
third quarter, while the effective  tax rate  was 31 percent.  “The stock market doesn’t want the oil majors to spend
money,” said Neill Morton, an analyst at Investec Securities in
London. “Instead, investors want their cash back. BP has
obliged this morning.”  While Dudley is trying to keep a lid on spending, the
company is increasing investment in exploration. It will
complete as many as 18 exploration wells this year and bought
stakes in blocks off  Morocco  this month.  BP won a partial U.S. courtroom victory on Oct. 3 when an
appeals court ordered a re-examination of a settlement with
spill victims and suspended payments after the company said it
was forced to pay out for “fictitious” claims. In the second
quarter it raised its provision for the cost of those claims to
$9.6 billion from an initial $7.8 billion.  Today it cut that figure to $9.2 billion and said that
$19.3 billion of the $20 billion  trust fund  it set up after the
spill has been paid out or assigned.  Separately, BP is in the middle of a three-phase trial with
the U.S. government over liability for the spill, which may lead
to as much as $17 billion in fines under the  Clean Water Act .
The trial’s final stage probably won’t start until next year. BP
today adjusted its provision for the disaster to $42.5 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Swint in London at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  