-- Brazil’s Soccer Secretary Opposes Premier League-Style Structure
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2013-10-29T02:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-29/brazil-s-soccer-secretary-opposes-premier-league-style-structure.html
Brazil’s plans to reform soccer
after decades of mismanagement won’t include an English Premier
League-style model because it would weaken the national team,
according to the government official overseeing the sport.  Lawmakers, club presidents and the Brazilian football
confederation, or CBF, have been discussing the creation a new
soccer structure as Brazil prepares to host the 2014  World Cup .  Revenue for Brazil’s top 24 teams reached 3 billion reais
($1.4 billion) in 2012, according to a study by bank Itau BBA.
The 20 clubs in the Premier League, soccer’s richest, generated
2.3 billion pounds ($3.7 billion) in 2011-12, Deloitte LLP said.
 England ’s elite division has opened up to foreign ownership and
teams are largely made up of overseas talent, reducing game-time
at the top level for local players.  “It’s great league, but it’s very bad for the national
team,” Toninho Nascimento, Brazil’s national secretary for
soccer, said in an interview. “We don’t want this in Brazil.”  More than half of Premier League team owners, including
Chelsea’s  Roman Abramovich  and Arsenal’s  Stan Kroenke , come from
outside the U.K. English players account for less than a third
of playing time this season, according to a British Broadcasting
Corp.  study  published earlier this month. English Football
Association Chairman Greg Dyke has set up a commission to look
at ways of improving the national team amid concern a lack of
homegrown talent is to blame for England’s failure to win a
major championship since its sole World Cup triumph in 1966.  ‘Big Problem’  Nascimento, a former sports editor of Brazil’s  O Globo ,
said although the spectacle served up by the 21-year-old  Premier
League  is “marvelous,” it comes at a cost. Squads full of
foreigners harm national team prospects, he said.  “We have to be careful about what we do,” Nascimento
added. “The system in England is a big problem.”  About 70 percent of all Premier League players are foreign
compared to 6.9 percent in Brazil, according to website
transfermarkt.co.uk, which monitors trades. The most high-profile are Dutch midfielder Clarence Seedorf of Rio de
Janeiro’s Botafogo and Uruguay striker Diego Forlan at
Internacional, which plays in  Porto Alegre .  Richard Scudamore , the Premier League’s chief executive
officer, told reporters in July that his competition isn’t to
blame for England’s title drought.  The league “didn’t start until 1992,” Scudamore said.
“What happened between 1966 and 1992? Whose fault was that? The
whole thing is immensely frustrating. It cannot be our fault on
any level.”  World Cup Will  Brazil will go for a record-extending sixth World Cup title
when it hosts next year’s tournament. Nascimento said staging
the quadrennial event has helped to create momentum to fix the
domestic game.  Professional clubs’ debt to the state has swollen to 4.5
billion reais, mostly through unpaid taxes. A group of leading
players has also started an organization called  Bom Senso FC , or
Common Sense FC, to demand that the CBF improve their
conditions. Players say the local soccer calendar risks their
health because of the number of games they’re expected to play.
They’ve also called for penalties for teams that don’t pay
salaries on time, a commonplace occurrence in  Brazil .  “I agree with the players,” Nascimento said. “The
players are the spectacle so if we don’t protect them we don’t
protect the spectacle.”  Cluttered Calendar  Brazil’s soccer season starts in January with state
championships, followed by the national league, a domestic cup
competition and South American championships, and it ends in
early December. Nascimento said he’d like Brazil to adopt a
European calendar running from August through May, and reduce
the number of matches top teams play. Because of the World Cup,
the league will have to break off midway before reconvening.  “That’s absurd,” said Nascimento. “The rest of the world
doesn’t have this problem. Why are we so different?”  He also said a deal allowing clubs to refinance their debt,
provided they sign up to tighter governance guidelines, is
likely to be agreed by December. The regulations, which will
allow debt to be repaid to the state over 15 or 20 years,
include penalties such as points deductions and even relegation.  Romario, the 1994 World Cup winner who’s now a Brazilian
lawmaker, said Oct. 16 that authorities won’t be able to
administer the policy because clubs are too powerful.  Similar misgivings when the current league format was
created in 2003 have proved unfounded, according to Nascimento.
Critics said at the time the biggest teams would be saved if
they were at risk of being demoted to the second tier.  “That didn’t happen,” Nascimento said. “So his argument
is wrong.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  