-- Brixmor Gains After Property Firm IPO Raises $825 Million
-- B y   H u i - y o n g   Y u
-- 2013-10-30T21:05:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-29/brixmor-raises-825-million-in-the-first-reit-ipo-by-blackstone.html
Brixmor Property Group Inc. (BRX) , the
second-largest U.S. shopping-center landlord, climbed 2 percent
in its trading debut after raising $825 million in an increased
initial public offering.  Brixmor closed at $20.40 after selling 41.25 million shares
yesterday for $20 each, the midpoint of its proposed range of
$19 to $21. The property company increased the size of the sale
from 37.5 million shares. The proceeds will be used to repay
debt, according to a regulatory filing by the New York-based
real estate investment trust.  Brixmor, the first of several property-company IPOs
expected from  Blackstone Group LP (BX) , is the second-largest U.S.
real estate IPO this year. The economic recovery, falling
commercial-property vacancies and low  interest rates  have helped
make 2013 the busiest for property-company offerings since 2004,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “It is a good outcome for Blackstone,” said Cedrik Lachance, managing director at Green Street Advisors Inc., a
real estate research firm. “The upsize is good news as it gives
the company a little more money” to pay down debt. Lachance
said the pricing was in line with his estimate of fair value for
the shares.  Brixmor is the largest IPO of a retail REIT since Simon
Property Group Inc., the world’s biggest owner of shopping
malls, raised $840 million in 1993, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. Brixmor is listed on the  New York  Stock Exchange under the
symbol BRX.  ‘Continued Improvement’  The company is benefiting from leasing improvements as
anchor tenants help attract smaller retailers and the economy
expands, Brixmor Chief Executive Officer Michael Carroll said
today in a telephone interview.  “We’re seeing a broad-based recovery in the markets in
which we operate,” Carroll said of the economy. “As we look
out, we see continued improvement. It’s going to be slow but on
a positive trajectory.”  Brixmor has increased occupancy for 10 consecutive quarters
compared with year-earlier periods, to 92 percent as of June 30,
according to its IPO filing.  Given that rents in place are lower than current market
rates, “rent growth on lease renewals should be sizable,”
Green Street’s Lachance wrote in an Oct. 20 report. “The
company is maintaining strong leasing momentum while it is
slowing down for the average strip-center REIT.”  Centro Purchase  Blackstone formed Brixmor in 2011, after purchasing
shopping centers from  Australia ’s debt-laden  Centro Properties
Group  for about $9 billion. The New York-based firm later sold
some of the properties and acquired others from Equity One Inc.
and Regency Centers Corp. Brixmor has 522 centers, the most in
the U.S. after  New Hyde Park , New York-based  Kimco Realty Corp. (KIM)   “The pipeline for realizations is really growing,”
Blackstone Chairman and CEO  Stephen Schwarzman  said on Oct. 17,
on the private-equity firm’s third-quarter earnings call.  Blackstone, the world’s largest manager of alternative
assets, also has filed for IPOs of hotel chains Extended Stay
America Inc. and Hilton Worldwide Holdings Corp., which probably
will take place later this year. Investors expect IPOs next year
of the firm’s U.S. warehouse business, IndCor Properties Inc.,
and its house-rental company Invitation Homes.  Before Brixmor’s offering, real estate IPOs raised $3.9
billion this year, compared with $3 billion in all of 2012,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The total was $7
billion in 2004, when 29 property companies went public, the
data show.  Biggest IPOs  Empire State Realty Trust Inc., the owner of  Manhattan ’s
Empire State Building, completed 2013’s largest real estate IPO,
raising $1.07 billion this month, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. American Homes 4 Rent, a housing landlord, raised
$811.8 million in July. Both totals include overallotment
options.  Brixmor sold almost 14 percent of the company in the IPO
after the exchange of all outstanding unit shares, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. That implies a market value of about
$6 billion.  The IPO would surpass Indianapolis-based Simon’s as the
largest for a retail REIT if underwriters exercise their option
to purchase additional shares. The year Simon went public was an
exceptionally busy time for REIT IPOs, with the industry’s
market value roughly doubling from 1992 to 1993 as the economy
rebounded from the savings and loan crisis, according to the
National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts.  Blackstone will own about 73 percent of Brixmor’s common
shares after the IPO and Centerbridge Partners LP will own 8.3
percent, the prospectus shows.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hui-yong Yu in Seattle at 
 hyu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  