-- Brooks, Coulson Face Trial Over Hacking at News Corp. Paper
-- B y   J e r e m y   H o d g e s   a n d   R i c h a r d   A l l e y n e
-- 2013-10-29T16:30:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-29/brooks-faces-trial-with-coulson-over-news-corp-paper-hacking.html
Rebekah Brooks, the former chief
executive officer of  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s U.K. unit, will face charges
she intercepted voicemails, paid bribes and hid evidence at a
 London  trial that may last as long as six months.  Brooks and  Andy Coulson , both 45-year-old former editors of
 News Corp .’s now-defunct News of the World tabloid, will stand
trial over the reporting practices at the paper. A jury of nine
women and three men was selected today and opening arguments
will start tomorrow at London’s Central  Criminal Court .  More than 100 journalists and public officials have been
arrested in investigations of News Corp. newspapers starting in
2011 that have uncovered allegations of phone hacking and
bribery.  Rupert Murdoch , the company’s chairman, shut down the
News of the World in July 2011 in a bid to defuse the scandal.  Judge John Saunders warned the jurors that “British
justice is on trial,” giving them orders to decide the outcome
of the case based purely on the evidence they hear in court.  He showed jurors a copy of the November issue of Private
Eye magazine, which had a picture of Brooks on the cover.  “It’s meant to be satire, you ignore it,” he said to the
jury. It’s a “joke in especially bad taste.”  Cameron Adviser  In addition to Brooks and Coulson, a former press adviser
to U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron , six other people will go
on trial.  Stuart Kuttner, the 73-year-old former managing editor of
the tabloid, and Ian Edmondson, a 44-year-old former news
editor, are both accused of phone hacking. The newspaper’s one-time royal reporter,  Clive Goodman , 56, is charged with
conspiring to commit misconduct in a public office.  Brooks’s husband, Charlie, her former assistant  Cheryl
Carter , and News U.K.’s former head of security, Mark Hanna,
face charges of conspiring to pervert the course of justice. All
eight have pleaded not guilty to the charges.  The case, the first of four trials which will extend well
into 2014, has attracted media attention worldwide. Saunders,
who oversaw the trials of former politicians embroiled in the
U.K. Parliamentary expenses scandal, will preside over the case.  Conspiracy Charges  The case will look at seven separate charges of conspiracy
to intercept communications, conspiracy to commit misconduct in
a public office and conspiracy to pervert the course of justice.  The maximum prison term for perverting the course of
justice is 36 months while committing misconduct in a public
office carries as much as a life term, according to the Crown
Prosecution Service’s website. The heaviest sentence that can be
handed down for unlawful interception of communications is two
years.  Andrew Edis  is the lawyer who will lead the prosecution
team. Edis successfully tried former U.K. Energy Secretary  Chris Huhne  and his ex-wife Vicky Pryce in March for lying about who
was driving Huhne’s car when it was caught speeding.  Brooks is represented by  Jonathan Laidlaw , while Coulson’s
lawyer is  Timothy Langdale , who specializes in fraud and
criminal trials.  Trinity Mirror Plc (TNI)  tabloids were pulled into the U.K.
scandals in March when police arrested four journalists linked
to the newspaper, opening a new front in the investigation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeremy Hodges in London at 
 jhodges17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  