-- Caesars Entertainment Loss Widens on Atlantic City
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2013-10-29T20:58:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-29/caesars-entertainment-loss-widens-on-atlantic-city.html
Caesars Entertainment Corp. (CZR) , the
largest owner of casinos in the U.S., said its net loss widened
to $761.4 million after the company wrote down properties in
 Atlantic City  and gambling revenue shrank.  The loss totaled $6.03 a share, including $930.9 million in
impairment charges, the company said today in a statement.
Operating income in  Las Vegas , where Caesars is based, more than
doubled due to higher revenue and lower expenses.  Regional competition hurt casino revenue in Atlantic City,
Caesars said. Results in other markets outside  Nevada  also
trailed a year earlier, the company said. Caesars sold part of
its holding in a Uruguay casino, which also contributed to a 7.1
percent drop in total casino revenue.  Caesars was expected to lose $1.28 a share, the average of
seven analysts’  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. Third-quarter
revenue fell 0.7 percent to $2.18 billion, missing the $2.24
billion average estimate of analysts.  The company said it sold its Claridge Hotel Tower in
Atlantic City to TJM Properties Inc., a hotel operator in
Clearwater,  Florida . Terms weren’t disclosed. TJM plans to
upgrade the rooms and install a new front desk and restaurant,
Caesars said in a statement.  In addition, Apollo Global Management LLC and TPG Capital,
the two private equity firms that bought Caesars in a 2008
leveraged buyout, said they would increase their investment in
Caesars Acquisition Corp., a new entity that will own an
interest the company’s online gaming business.  Equity Offering  The firms will purchase $600 million of stock in the
offering, up from $457.8 million. The offering is expected to
close Nov. 18.  Caesars  fell  3.5 percent to $17.75 in extended trading
after the results were announced. The stock declined 0.9 percent
to $18.40 at the close in  New York  and has more than doubled
this year.  The company pulled out of a Massachusetts casino project on
Oct. 18 after regulators recommended the company be denied a
license. Caesars also said its under U.S. grand jury
investigation for possible violations of banking laws.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in  Los Angeles  at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  