-- California Fracking Study May Take 18 Months, Brown Says
-- B y   L y n n   D o a n
-- 2013-10-29T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-29/california-fracking-study-may-take-18-months-brown-says.html
Governor  Jerry Brown  said it may
take as long as 18 months for California, the third-largest oil-producing state, to complete an environmental review of the oil
and gas drilling technique known as hydraulic fracturing.  Technological advancements have ignited a boom in the
development of fields that were once deemed uneconomical,
particularly in shale formations. California lawmakers approved
regulations for state oversight of fracking in September.  The state’s Monterey Shale field may hold 15.4 billion
barrels -- two-thirds of the nation’s shale-oil reserves,
according to U.S. estimates. Environmental groups including the
Center for Biological Diversity’s Climate Law Institute say
fracking poses unacceptable risks of air and water pollution.  “I think we ought to give science a chance before deciding
on a ban on fracking,” Brown, a 75-year-old Democrat, told
reporters following a conference in San Francisco yesterday.
 California ’s study will become “the most comprehensive
environmental analysis of fracking to date,” he said.  The technique forces water, sand and chemicals underground
to break up rock layers and free trapped oil and gas. It has
helped drive  U.S. oil output  to the highest level since 1989.  While groups have raised concerns about pollution from
fracking, Brown said the drilling boom has also helped cut U.S.
emissions as companies switch from burning coal to cheaper and
less-carbon-intensive gas.  ‘Complicated Equation’  “So this is a very complicated equation,” he said. “You
can be sure that California is doing everything it can to reduce
 greenhouse gases  and support a sustainable economy.”  Brown spoke after a ceremony with the governors of  Oregon 
and  Washington  to sign an agreement to put a price on emissions
and adopt fuel standards, bringing their efforts to cut
greenhouse-gas pollution closer to those of California and
British Columbia.  Under the agreement, Oregon will build on existing programs
to set a price for  carbon emissions  and Washington will impose
limits and establish a market to meet those caps. British
Columbia and California will maintain existing efforts, and all
four will link programs “where possible” to offer consistency.  The accord falls short of creating a regional carbon
market, an aspiration in California since the state began a cap-and-trade program when the U.S. federal government was unable to
come up with a national system in 2010. A movement to establish
a market across the western U.S. and parts of  Canada  fell apart
two years ago after some states decided to pursue other means of
cutting emissions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lynn Doan in  San Francisco  at 
 ldoan6@bloomberg.net  