-- Cameron Announces U.K. Plans for Debut Issue of Islamic Gilts
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2013-10-29T12:33:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-29/cameron-to-unveil-u-k-s-plans-for-debut-issue-of-islamic-gilts.html
Prime Minister David Cameron said
the U.K. plans to become the first country outside the Muslim
world to sell a Shariah-compliant bond as soon as next year.  Cameron laid out his government’s intentions in a speech 
to the World Islamic Economic Forum in London. The Islamic 
bonds, known as sukuk, would be valued at about 200 million 
pounds ($320 million). Cameron also said  London Stock Exchange
Group Plc (LSE)  is creating an Islamic market index.  “For years people have been talking about creating an
Islamic bond -- or sukuk -- outside the Islamic world, but it’s
never quite happened,” the prime minister said. “Changing that
is a question of pragmatism and political will. And here in
Britain we have got both. This government wants Britain to
become the first sovereign outside the Islamic world to issue an
Islamic bond.”  The bond announcement is a reversal from the position that
Robert Stheeman, chief executive officer of the U.K.’s Debt
Management Office, set out in a Sept. 25 interview. Stheeman
said then that offering sukuk was “not going to be value for
money” and that something would need to change before Britain
would shift its view.  “The government was previously looking at a relatively
large program of sukuk issuance as part of its regular financing
program, but this has now changed and the strategy is now to
look at a more modest sukuk issue in order to derive wider
benefits such as instigating activity in the Islamic finance
industry,” Steve Whiting, a spokesman for the DMO, said in an
e-mailed statement. “By restricting the supply the government
also believes it may result in a lower yield than a larger
program.”  Malaysian Dominance  Islamic bonds are typically backed by assets or cash flow
because of the religion’s ban on interest. About 60 percent of
the world’s sukuk is issued from  Malaysia , according to Malaysia
International Islamic Financial Centre.  The lack of highly rated sterling sukuk constrains Islamic
lenders in the U.K. because the Bank of England requires them to
hold easy-to-sell assets as protection against short-term
funding shocks, according to ABC International Bank Plc and Bank
of London & the Middle East, or BLME. Islamic finance should be
as British as “fish and chips,” London’s lord mayor, Roger Gifford, said at a sukuk summit in June.  Islamic financial assets are growing 17 percent a year and
are set to reach $2.67 trillion by 2017, up from $1.21 trillion
now, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP said in a July report.  Challenging Dubai  “Already London is the biggest center for  Islamic finance 
outside the Islamic world,” Cameron said. “Today our ambition
is to go further still. Because I don’t just want London to be a
great capital of Islamic finance in the western world, I want
London to stand alongside Dubai and Kuala Lumpur as one of the
great capitals of Islamic finance anywhere in the world.”  The government established an Islamic financial task force
in March to bring together policy makers and industry officials
to review subjects ranging from banking regulation to standards
for Islamic finance education.  Other than those of the Jeddah, Saudi Arabia-based Islamic
Development Bank, top-ranked sukuk are sparse. Sovereign Islamic
bond issuers include Qatar, which has the third-highest
investment grade at Moody’s Investors Service and Standard &
Poor’s. Britain had its top-notch credit score cut by one level
at Moody’s and Fitch Ratings this year, while it retains a AAA
rank at S&P.  Global Islamic bond sales declined this year after reaching
a record $47 billion in 2012 as speculation the Federal Reserve
will start tapering monetary stimulus pushed up borrowing costs.
Sukuk sales have fallen 18 percent to $33 billion this year
through Oct. 28, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Hutton in  London  at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  