-- Canadian Dollar Touches 7-Week Low After Poloz Extends Stimulus
-- B y   C e c i l e   G u t s c h e r
-- 2013-10-29T21:12:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-29/canadian-dollar-gains-for-second-day-before-poloz-testimony.html
The Canadian dollar fell to a seven-week low after Bank of  Canada  Governor Stephen Poloz said he
would extend a three-year pause in interest-rate increases.  The currency erased a gain versus its U.S. counterpart as
Poloz told a House of Commons committee in Ottawa that
“substantial” monetary stimulus in place remains appropriate
as a weak U.S. recovery damps demand for Canadian commodity
exports. The Canadian dollar tumbled by the most since June last
week after the central bank dropped a bias toward higher
interest rates it had included in every policy statement for
more than a year and held the benchmark rate at 1 percent for
the 25th consecutive meeting.  “The Governor’s comments seem to be in line with the tone
of the interest-rate announcement that fed into a weaker Canada
last week, and plays part and parcel with the move here,”
Matthew Perrier, director of foreign exchange at Bank of
Montreal, said by phone from Toronto.  The loonie, as the Canadian dollar is known for the image
of the waterfowl on the C$1 coin, fell 0.2 percent to C$1.0469
per U.S. dollar at 5 p.m. in Toronto, after reaching the weakest
level since Sept. 6. One loonie buys 95.52 cents.  Currency Weakness  The Canadian dollar has declined 2.2 percent in October,
bringing its losses against nine developed nation currencies
this year to 3.7 percent, according to the Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Index. The Australian dollar is down 7.8
percent, and the U.S. dollar has added 2.2 percent.  Concern about the pace of global demand is delaying growth
in exports and investment, and Canada’s economic output is less
than policy makers had expected, Poloz said.  Inflation (CACPIYOY)  will
accelerate to the bank’s 2 percent target by the end of 2015, he
said.  “Poloz’s comments were quite similar to the monetary
policy report, but taken as a whole are fairly dovish, weighing
on the Canadian dollar,”  Camilla Sutton , Toronto-based head of
currency strategy at Bank of Nova Scotia, said in an e-mail
reply to questions. “At the same time as Gov. Poloz was
speaking, the U.S. dollar was also broadly strengthening.”  The Bloomberg U.S. Dollar Index rose to the highest level
in more than a week before the Federal Reserve policy makers
issue a statement tomorrow. The Federal Open Market Committee is
forecast to retain $85 billion a month of bond purchases at the
conclusion of a two-day meeting.  Options Trade  Trading in over-the-counter foreign-exchange options on the
U.S.-Canada dollar exchange rate amounted to $9.7 billion, the
largest share of trades at 20 percent, according to data
reported by U.S. banks to the Depository Trust Clearing Corp.
and tracked by Bloomberg.  “Recent indications suggest a lot of activity in the
options market with interest closer to the C$1.07-to-C$1.08
level,” Ian Pollick, fixed-income strategist at Royal Bank of
Canada’s RBC Capital Markets, said in a note to clients today.
RBC forecasts the Canadian dollar to weaken to as low as C$1.08
in the first quarter of next year, according to the note.  Canada’s benchmark 10-year government bonds rose, pushing
the yield down two basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to
2.41 percent. The 1.5 percent security maturing in June 2023
added 18 cents to C$92.29.  The Bank of Canada will provide addition details on Oct. 31
about a five-year note auction scheduled for Nov. 6.  Canadian manufacturers’ raw material costs fell for the
first time in five months in September, Statistics Canada said
today from Ottawa. The  raw-materials price  index declined 1.5
percent, the first decline since April, reflecting lower prices
for crude oil and vegetable products. Economists predicted a 0.5
percent decline, according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg
survey with six responses.  Futures of crude oil, Canada’s largest export, fell 0.9
percent to $97.76 per barrel in New York and the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index of U.S. stocks rose 0.6 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cecile Gutscher in Toronto at 
 cgutscher@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  