-- Canada to ‘Liberalize’ Telecom Sector Under EU Trade Pact
-- B y   A n d r e w   M a y e d a
-- 2013-10-29T20:27:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-29/canada-to-liberalize-telecom-sector-under-eu-trade-pact.html
Canada said it will further open its
telecommunications industry under an agreement in principle with
the European Union.  The deal “locks in future liberalization” in Canada’s
telecom industry, according to a  summary  of the agreement
released by the government today. The document doesn’t elaborate
on how industry rules will be relaxed.  The government has tried to boost competition in the
Canadian mobile-phone industry for years by taking measures such
as making it more difficult for the country’s three biggest
companies,  Rogers Communications Inc. (RCI/B) ,  BCE Inc. (BCE)  and  Telus Corp. (T) ,
to make acquisitions and buy wireless spectrum.  Last year, Canada lifted restrictions on foreign investment
in the sector for companies with less than 10 percent of market
share by revenue.  Rudy Husny, a spokesman for Canadian Trade Minister Ed Fast, didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail seeking details
about the telecom changes.  Prime Minister Stephen Harper and European Commission
President Jose Barroso announced on Oct. 18 the two sides had
agreed on a treaty that would eliminate about 98 percent of
tariffs when it takes effect.  The trade-deal summary says Canada will raise the threshold
for reviewing takeovers of European companies to C$1.5 billion
($1.4 billion). The government currently reviews foreign
takeovers with assets of at least C$344 million, and has said it
will raise the floor to C$1 billion, while keeping it at the
existing level for state-owned enterprises.  The summary says other countries with which  Canada  has
free-trade agreements will benefit from the raising of the EU
threshold, because of existing “most-favored nation”
commitments.  It also says European investment in Canada’s uranium
resources will become less restrictive by exempting companies
from the requirement of “first finding a Canadian partner.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Mayeda in Ottawa at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  