-- Canada Stocks Rise on Stimulus Bets as Fed Policy Makers Meet
-- B y   E r i c   L a m
-- 2013-10-29T20:32:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-29/canada-stocks-rise-on-stimulus-bets-as-fed-policy-makers-meet.html
Canadian  stocks  rose to the highest
level in two years, after U.S. economic reports fueled
speculation Federal Reserve policy makers will continue stimulus
measures as they begin two days of meetings.  Thomson Reuters  Corp. climbed to a two-year high after
disclosing it will buy back some of its shares and cut 3,000
positions in a bid to focus on growth.  Sears Canada Inc. (SCC)  jumped
6 percent after deciding to terminate five leases, including its
flagship location in Toronto.  Bank of Nova Scotia  and Toronto-Dominion Bank rose more than 1 percent to pace gains among the
nation’s largest lenders as financial shares rallied.  The  Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Index (SPTSX)  rose 68.77
points, or 0.5 percent, to 13,440.61 at 4 p.m. in Toronto. The
benchmark Canadian equity gauge has advanced 5.1 percent in
October, for the biggest monthly gain in two years.  “The recent government shutdown and continued uncertainty
about U.S. fiscal policy are expected to keep growth little
changed through the end of the year,” said  Paul Ferley ,
assistant chief economist with RBC Capital Markets, in a note
today. “These recent developments weigh in favor of the Fed
leaving the pace of asset purchases unchanged.”  Central bank policy makers meet today and tomorrow to
consider whether to scale back the $85 billion a month of
stimulative bond purchases. The Fed support has helped fuel a
rally in global equities.  U.S. Data  Retail sales in the U.S. declined 0.1 percent in September,
restrained by the biggest decrease at auto dealers since October
2012. Confidence among U.S. consumers declined in October by the
most since August 2011 as the 16-day government shutdown took a
toll on outlooks.  President  Barack Obama ’s nomination of  Janet Yellen , vice
chairman of the Fed, to succeed  Ben S. Bernanke  as chairman at
the end of January has added to speculation the central bank
will not make any changes to its policy.  “When you have a new person coming in, they won’t do
anything dramatic at all,” said  David Cockfield ,  fund manager 
with Northland Wealth Management in Toronto. He helps manage
C$225 million ($216 million) with the firm. “In times like
these you do as little as possible and with the threat of
further interparty fighting, you want to remain soft,
accommodative and don’t introduce anything else that will cause
stress or strain.”  Consumer Stocks  Thomson Reuters gained 3.4 percent to C$38.60, the highest
since April 2011, as consumer discretionary stocks added 1.2
percent as a group. Eight of 10 industries advanced on trading
volume 7.2 percent lower compared with the 30-day average.  Thomson Reuters (TRI) , a provider of news and information
services, plans to cut 3,000 positions, or about 5 percent of
the workforce, to focus on growth markets and boost
profitability.  The company also reported higher-than-projected earnings of
48 cents a share in the third quarter, compared with 44 cents
estimated by analysts.  Sears Canada  increased 6 percent to C$14.35, the highest
close in almost two years. The department store retailer is
selling five store leases to Cadillac Fairview Corp. for C$400
million, including its flagship location in the Toronto Eaton
Centre.  In the U.S., parent  Sears Holdings Corp. (SHLD)  is considering
separating its Lands’ End and auto center units to raise cash.  Bank Records  Toronto-Dominion Bank rallied 1 percent to C$95.15 and
Scotia Bank advanced 1.1 percent to C$63.54 as both lenders
extended record highs. The S&P/TSX Banks Index climbed 1
percent, extending a record as it gained for the 13th time in
the last 14 sessions.  Talisman Energy Inc. rose 2.6 percent to C$13.25 and Suncor
Energy Inc. added 1.4 percent to C$38. Crude slipped for the
first time in four days.  Imax Corp. (IMX) , the big-screen cinema technology company,
gained 1.8 percent to C$30.94. Imax will develop and produce in-home theater systems in partnership with Hong Kong-based TCL
Multimedia Technology Holdings Ltd. The first products will be
introduced in China and other unspecified global markets in
2015.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Lam in Toronto at 
 elam87@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  