-- CCB Said to Be Close to Deal to Buy Brazil’s BicBanco
-- B y   C r i s t i a n e   L u c c h e s i   a n d   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 2013-10-30T02:55:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-29/ccb-said-to-be-close-to-deal-to-buy-brazil-s-bicbanco.html
China Construction Bank Corp. (939) , the
nation’s second-biggest lender by assets, is close to reaching a
deal to acquire  Brazil ’s Banco Industrial & Comercial SA,
according to a person with direct knowledge of the matter.  BicBanco, as the Sao Paulo-based lender is known, will
probably fetch a price higher than its current market value of
1.67 billion reais ($764 million), the person said, asking not
to be identified because the talks are private. Under the
agreement, Construction Bank would buy the 70 percent held by
the controlling shareholders, the Menezes de Bezerra family, and
make a tender offer to acquire the rest, the person said.  Acquiring a lender is the easiest way for Construction Bank
to obtain a license in Brazil as it follows customers to the
nation, the person said.  China  and Brazil in March agreed to
establish a $30 billion currency swap line and China National
Petroleum Corp. last week won the rights to help develop
Brazil’s biggest oil discovery in the Libra field.  “Chinese banks are interested in Brazil because it is an
emerging market with faster economic growth,” said Edmond Law,
an analyst at UOB Kay Hian Holdings Ltd. in  Hong Kong . “The
resources sector there is booming, creating fresh demand for
banking services that the Chinese lenders can tap.”  Shares of Beijing-based Construction Bank climbed 1.2
percent to HK$5.96 in Hong Kong as of 10:49 a.m., narrowing the
bank’s drop this year to about 4.3 percent. The city’s benchmark
 Hang Seng Index  advanced 0.8 percent today.  Overseas Expansion  “CCB is following its customers in planning its overseas
expansion,” Grace Wu, an analyst at Daiwa Capital Markets Hong
Kong Ltd., said by phone today. China is Brazil’s largest
trading partner, with exports and imports between the two
countries reaching $63.7 billion by the end of September.  CNPC and Cnooc Ltd. are among oil and gas producers that
won a concession to develop Brazil’s Libra discovery at last
week’s auction. The Chinese companies will partner with Petroleo
Brasileiro SA, Royal Dutch Shell Plc and Total SA. CNPC is also
nearing an agreement to buy assets in  Peru  from Petrobras, three
people with knowledge of the matter said yesterday.  Construction Bank’s bigger rival, Industrial & Commercial
Bank of China Ltd., is also expanding in  Latin America . Beijing-based ICBC bought 80 percent of Standard Bank Group Ltd.’s
Argentine division last year, after having opened in Peru and
received authorization to open a bank in Brazil.  BicBanco (BICB4)  hired New York-based  Citigroup Inc. (C)  to advise on
the sale to Construction Bank, two people said. Morgan Stanley
is advising the Chinese lender, one of the people said.  Lending Standards  BicBanco specializes in loans to mid-sized companies and
has total equity of 1.92 billion reais, according to company
filings. The bank tightened its lending standards after leverage
rose and  credit quality  deteriorated among small and mid-size
companies in 2011 and 2012, analysts at Banco Bradesco BBI SA
said in a report in May.  “Acquiring a majority stake in a smaller firm in a new
market could be good for CCB, as the control would ensure that
there will be a strategic alliance or business synergy,”
Daiwa’s Wu said.  BicBanco’s loan book shrank 5.7 percent in the second
quarter from the first and 4.1 percent from a year earlier,
according to company filings. It has total assets of 16.8
billion reais.  The bank’s deposit ratings were cut to junk in August by
Moody’s Investors Service, which said the company’s loan margins
are being compressed as it shifts toward lower-risk borrowers.  BicBanco said in a statement that controlling shareholders
are in talks to sell a stake, and no agreement has been reached.
The bank declined to comment further.  Rob Julavits, a Citigroup spokesman, declined to comment.
Press officials at Construction Bank in Beijing didn’t return
two calls and an e-mail seeking comment. Mary Claire Delaney, a
spokeswoman for New York-based  Morgan Stanley (MS) , declined to
comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cristiane Lucchesi in  Sao Paulo  at 
 clucchesi5@bloomberg.net ;
Dakin Campbell in  New York  at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  