-- Chelsea Tops Arsenal in League Cup as Manchester United Advances
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-10-30T00:31:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-29/chelsea-manchester-utd-reach-league-cup-soccer-quarterfinals.html
Chelsea beat London rival Arsenal
2-0 to advance to the quarterfinals of English soccer’s League
Cup along with  Manchester United , which routed Norwich City 4-0.  Cesar Azpilicueta and  Juan Mata  scored at Emirates Stadium
last night as four-time champion Chelsea extended its winning
run to four matches against Premier League leader Arsenal in
 England ’s second-tier cup competition.  “The win is very important for our confidence,” Mata said
in a televised interview. “After beating  Manchester City  and
now Arsenal this week, we feel strong because they are very good
teams.”  Chelsea’s sixth straight victory in all competitions sent
the Blues into the last eight of the League Cup for the seventh
time in the past 10 seasons. The quarterfinal draw will be made
after tonight’s two fourth-round games.  Javier Hernandez  scored a goal in each half and  Phil Jones 
and Fabio added the others for Manchester United in yesterday’s
only other all-Premier League matchup. West Ham won 2-0 at
Burnley, Leicester defeated Fulham 4-3 and Stoke beat 10-man
Birmingham in a penalty shootout after their match finished 4-4
following extra time.  Chelsea and Arsenal made multiple changes to their lineups
after the weekend’s Premier League matches and Azpilicueta
pounced on  Carl Jenkinson ’s weak back header in the 25th minute
to put the visitors ahead. It was the Spanish right-back’s first
goal for Chelsea.  Mata sealed the victory with 24 minutes left with a right-foot shot from the edge of the penalty area.  Hernandez’s Double  At Old Trafford, Hernandez put Manchester United up 1-0
from the penalty spot in the 20th minute and doubled the lead
with a second-half header. Jones volleyed in the third goal with
three minutes remaining, before substitute Fabio closed the
scoring in the fourth of 11 added minutes following a head
injury to Norwich forward Robert Snodgrass.  West Ham converted two late penalty kicks by  Matt Taylor 
and Jack Collison to win at Burnley. Fulham was the only Premier
League team to lose to lower-tier opposition as Lloyd Dyer’s
89th-minute goal secured Leicester’s upset win with the game set
for extra time at 3-3.  Stoke overcame a comeback by 2011 champion Birmingham to
advance 4-2 on penalties. Birmingham played with 10 men after
Wade Elliot was red-carded for fighting just before halftime,
and rallied from 3-1 down to tie 3-3 and force extra time.
 Kenwyne Jones  then put Stoke ahead for the third time in the
game before Olly Lee scored to set up the shootout.  The fourth round continues tonight as Manchester City
visits Newcastle and Tottenham Hotspur hosts Hull.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  