-- China’s Shenhua Agrees to Buy 1 Billion Tons of Mongolian Coal
-- B y   M i c h a e l   K o h n
-- 2013-10-29T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-29/china-s-shenhua-agrees-to-buy-1-billion-tons-of-mongolian-coal.html
Three companies that mine coal in
Mongolia’s Tavan Tolgoi basin have agreed to export 1 billion
tons of the fuel to  China ’s Shenhua Group Corp. in the next 20
years, said the chief executive officer of one of the suppliers.  Erdenes Tavan Tolgoi JSC,  Mongolia Mining Corporation (975)  and
Tavantolgoi JSC signed the memorandum of understanding with
Shenhua on October 25, Yaichil Batsuuri, CEO of state-owned
Erdenes Tavan Tolgoi, said in an interview yesterday in
Ulaanbaatar. The coal delivered by the three companies could
generate about $50 billion at current prices, Batsuuri said.  The MOU would ensure a long-term buyer for the companies
operating in the Tavan Tolgoi basin, which contains 6.4 billion
tons of coal reserves. Shipping 1 billion tons of coal over 20
years would be an average of 50 million tons annually. That’s
almost triple the 18 million tons that Batsuuri said he expected
the three Mongolian companies to export this year.  The agreement signed with Shenhua also stipulates that any
coal supplied by the Mongolian companies and not wanted by
Shenhua can then be sold on the international market, Batsuuri
said.  Mongolia’s total coal exports fell to 11.38 million tons in
the first nine months from 14.29 million tons a year earlier,
according to the nation’s statistics bureau. The value of the
coal exports dropped to $783.94 million from $1.43 billion a
year earlier, according to the agency.  State-owned Erdenes TT may export 5 million tons of coal
this year, Batsuuri said. The company doesn’t currently earn
revenue from these shipments, which are going to  Aluminum Corp.
of China Ltd. (2600)  to pay back a $250 million loan from 2011.  Chalco Loan  Batsuuri said 3 million tons of coal, valued at $170
million, needs to be delivered to Chalco to pay off the balance
on the loan. He said he expects the debt to be paid in full by
January or early February.  MMC exported 3.2 million tons of coal in the first half of
2013, according to an August statement by the company, citing
data from the National Statistics Office. It accounted for 42
percent of Mongolia’s total coal exports in the period.  Shenhua, China’s biggest coal producer, also signed a
separate MOU with the three companies and Mongolia’s state-owned
railway company to build a freight line that will help
deliveries to the Chinese border. Shipments of coal from the
Tavan Tolgoi basin to the border have stalled this year amid
complications with trucking companies, said Batsuuri.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Kohn in Ulaanbaatar at 
 mkohn5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  