-- China Stocks Fall as PBOC Cash Fails to Stem Jump in Money Rates
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-10-29T09:24:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-29/china-money-rate-drops-as-pboc-resumes-reverse-repos-to-add-cash.html
China’s stocks declined and money-market rates climbed to the highest levels since July as the
central bank’s first injection of funds in two weeks failed to
alleviate a cash squeeze.  The People’s Bank of China conducted 13 billion  yuan  ($2.13
billion) of seven-day reverse-repurchase agreements today,
according to a statement on its website. That compares with the
102.5 billion yuan  drained  from the banking system in the last
two weeks as existing contracts matured and the monetary
authority suspended sales of new agreements at a time when
companies need funds to pay tax.  “The amount was very small and it was more about trying to
inject confidence into the market,” said Guo Caomin, a bond
analyst at Industrial Bank Co. in  Shanghai . “We still believe
beyond month-end that rates will quickly come down but, since
the June crunch, big banks have become extremely cautious in
lending.”  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  fell 0.2 percent to 2,128.86
at the close. The  seven-day repurchase rate , a gauge of funding
availability in the banking system, increased seven basis
points, or 0.07 percentage point, to 5 percent, according to a
fixing by the National Interbank Funding Center. That is the
highest level since July 30 and compares with a record 10.77
percent on June 20, when interbank rates surged amid concern
some lenders would struggle to meet debt payments. The overnight
repo  rate  jumped 22 basis points today to 4.68 percent.  Tax Payments  Today’s reverse repos were conducted at a yield of 4.1
percent, up from 3.9 percent when the agreements were last made
available on Oct. 15. The cash injections were halted on Oct.
17, after the central bank offered seven- or 14-day contracts at
twice-weekly auctions for about three months.  Corporate tax payments are the “main reason” for the
current cash squeeze, according to Industrial Bank’s Guo. Policy
makers are limiting the cash supply to help keep inflation in
check as growth gathers pace in the world’s second-largest
economy. Consumer prices increased 3.1 percent from a year
earlier in September, the most since February, and gross
domestic product rose in the third quarter at the fastest pace
this year, official data show.  “Improving economic data and an acceleration of inflation
don’t support the case for monetary policy to be kept loose,”
said Shi Tongliang, a fixed-income analyst at China Securities
Co. in Beijing.  PBOC Operations  The PBOC has used open-market operations as the main tool
to adjust  money supply  since July 2012, when benchmark  interest
rates  were last cut. It halted bill sales in June as interbank
rates climbed to all-time highs and started weekly auctions of
reverse-repo contracts in late July to add short-term funds to
the financial system, while locking up long-term liquidity by
rolling over some maturing three-year notes, including 5.9
billion yuan of the  securities  this week.  The Shanghai Composite fell as much as 1.9 percent today,
after an earlier advance of 1.4 percent. The  Hang Seng China
Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of mainland companies traded in  Hong Kong 
climbed 1.3 percent, after rallying as much as 1.6 percent.  “We were rising in the morning because of the reverse
repos, but after pricing that in, we have to note the market is
still in a weak mode,” said Zhang Haidong, an analyst at Tebon
Securities Co. in Shanghai. “Liquidity is still tight.”  The one-year interest-rate swap, the fixed payment needed
to receive the floating seven-day repo, rose nine basis points
to 4.19 percent. It earlier fell as much as two basis points.
The yield on  government bonds  due August 2023 climbed two basis
points to 4.24 percent, according to data from the Interbank
Funding Center.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Helen Sun in Shanghai at 
 hsun30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  