-- Chinese Police Look for Suspects Linked to Tiananmen
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-10-29T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-29/china-tightens-security-at-tiananmen-after-car-runs-into-crowd.html
Chinese police have identified two
people as having links to the crash of a sport-utility vehicle
near Beijing’s Tiananmen Square that killed five, while falling
short of calling the incident a terrorist attack.  One person is from Shanshan county and another from Pishan
county in the far western region of Xinjiang, a police official
said yesterday. The region has experienced sporadic protests by
ethnic Uighurs against Chinese rule. The names of the suspects
suggest they are not Han Chinese, the person said.  While about 90 percent of  China ’s population is ethnic Han,
more than 40 percent of Xinjiang’s 22 million people are
Uighurs, some of whom have protested the Beijing government’s
decades-long policy of encouraging Han migration to the area, as
well as restrictions on religious freedom. Xinjiang was the
scene of clashes in 2009 between the mostly Muslim Uighur
minority and the ethnic Han that left almost 200 people dead.  Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Hua Chunying did not comment
on whether the crash was linked to suspects from Xinjiang.  “We do admit that there are some violent and terrorist
acts in Xinjiang,” Hua said at a briefing yesterday in Beijing.
“I believe every government, including the Chinese government,
will strongly oppose and crack down on such incidents so as to
ensure the safety and security of society and the property and
lives of the people.”  Billowing Smoke  Pictures of the crash posted by users of Sina Corp.’s
Twitter-like Weibo service showed a vehicle in flames at the
scene, billowing smoke. The vehicle plowed through a crowd of
tourists around noon on Oct. 28 and struck a guardrail at the
gate, which is just north of  Tiananmen Square  and an entrance to
the Forbidden City, according to the official Xinhua News
Agency.  Police are looking for four cars that might have be linked
to the crash and have asked hotels to submit information about
suspicious guests and vehicles parked in the area, the police
official said.  Of those killed, three were inside the vehicle and the
other two were tourists from the  Philippines  and the southern
Chinese province of Guangdong, Xinhua reported. Philippine and
Japanese nationals were among the injured, it said. Thirty-eight
people were injured in the crash and fire, Xinhua reported.  “The relevant government departments are investigating the
incident and will take effective measures to ensure the safety
and stability of the capital,” Hua said.  Tight Security  Domestic media reporting on the incident has been limited.
The Beijing News, Beijing Times and the Beijing Youth Daily all
published Xinhua’s Chinese-language article and none carried
photos of the crash.  The site of the crash near Tiananmen gate, where the
portrait of  Mao Zedong  hangs, attracts throngs of tourists
during the day. Tiananmen square, located in the center of the
capital, has been subject to tight security since the government
violently put down student protests there in 1989. Individuals
and their belongings are subject to security screenings before
entering. In 2009 three people inside a car set themselves on
fire a few blocks from the square.  Earlier this year, a wheelchair-bound man set off a
homemade bomb at Beijing’s international airport to protest what
he said was a beating by police in 2005. He lost his hand in the
July blast and a police officer suffered minor injuries.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Henry Sanderson in Beijing at 
 hsanderson@bloomberg.net ;
Steven Yang in Beijing at 
 kyang74@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net ;
 John Liu  at 
 jliu42@bloomberg.net  