-- CNPC Said to Be Close to Purchaseing Petrobras Assets
-- B y   C r i s t i a n e   L u c c h e s i ,   Z i j i n g   W u   a n d   R o d r i g o   O r i h u e l a
-- 2013-10-29T15:04:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-29/cnpc-said-near-deal-to-buy-petrobras-assets-for-over-2-billion.html
China National Petroleum Corp., the
country’s largest oil producer, is nearing an agreement to buy
Petroleo Brasileiro SA’s assets in  Peru  for more than $2
billion, said three people with knowledge of the matter.  The proposed deal may be announced as soon as next month,
said one of the people, who asked not to be identified because
the talks are private.  Petrobras, the most indebted publicly traded oil company,
has been  selling assets  to help finance projects in Brazil’s
deep waters. The company, controlled by Brazil’s government,
agreed to sell oil blocks and pipelines in Colombia to Perenco
UK Ltd. for $380 million last month.  CNPC is the most acquisitive Asian energy company this
year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Li Runsheng, a CNPC spokesman in Beijing, didn’t answer
calls to his office. A  Petrobras (PETR4)  press officer, who can’t be
named under corporate policy, declined to comment on the
proposed sale in an e-mailed response to questions.  Petrobras entered Peru in 1996, according to its  website .
It produces about 16,000 barrels a day in the country and holds
stakes in exploration assets in the Maranon, Huallaga and Madre
de Dios basins, the website shows.  Divestment Plan  Petrobras declined 2.36 percent to 19.42 reais at 12:58
p.m. in Sao Paulo trading.  Petrobras also owns a 46 percent stake in the Repsol SA-operated Block 57 in Peru’s Amazonian region. Repsol said last
year that the block’s Kinteroni gas field holds at least  2
trillion cubic feet of natural gas and announced July 25 that
the field is ready to start production. Petrobras said in
September 2012 that it was reviewing investments in the block.  Petrobras also owns the so-called Lot 58, with 56.6
trillion cubic meters of contingent natural gas resources,
according to its website.  The state-run producer said Oct. 8 that it raised $4.3
billion dollars in asset sales this year, as part of a $9.9
billion divestment plan between 2013 and 2017. Its biggest
divestment this year was the $1.5 billion sale of 50 percent of
its African assets to  Brazil ’s Grupo BTG Pactual in June.  Petrobras, which last week reported a 40 percent drop in
third-quarter profit, is seeking to finance plans to spend $237
billion to build refineries and develop deep-water fields in the
five years through 2017. Petrobras took a 40 percent stake in
the Libra field, the largest discovery in Brazil’s history, in a
government auction on Oct. 21.  Subsea Prospects  Libra is the first auction of subsea prospects known as
pre-salt using a production-sharing model. The group that won a
35-year concession for the Libra field also includes  Royal Dutch
Shell Plc (RDSA)  and Total SA, each gaining a 20 percent stake. CNPC
and Beijing-based Cnooc Ltd. have 10 percent apiece.  State-owned CNPC said in March it would spend $4.2 billion
to buy a stake in  Eni SpA (ENI) ’s natural gas assets in  Mozambique .
The Beijing-based producer agreed in September to pay about $5
billion to purchase a stake in the Kashagan oil project from
state-backed KazMunaiGaz National Co. in Kazakhstan.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zijing Wu in Hong Kong at 
 zwu17@bloomberg.net ;
Cristiane Lucchesi in Sao Paulo at 
 clucchesi5@bloomberg.net ;
Rodrigo Orihuela in Rio de Janeiro at 
 rorihuela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  