-- Coffee Posts Longest Slump Since 1972 on Brazil Supply Outlook
-- B y   M a r v i n   G .   P e r e z   a n d   L u z i   A n n   J a v i e r
-- 2013-10-29T18:25:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-29/coffee-heads-for-longest-slump-since-1972-on-brazil-crop-outlook.html
Coffee futures capped the worst rout
in more than four decades as wet weather signaled bigger crops
than forecast in  Brazil , the world’s largest grower.  Increasing precipitation in Brazil this week will improve
conditions for crops that have been able to flower multiple
times amid ample rain, MDA Weather Services in Gaithersburg,
 Maryland , said yesterday. Soil moisture will also gain in
 Colombia , the second-biggest producer, the forecaster said.  Brazil may collect a record crop in 2014 after “perfect”
weather, Sao Paulo-based Somar Meteorologia said yesterday. The
Colombian Coffee Growers Federation estimates that farmers may
reap the biggest harvest since 2007. Global production is set to
exceed demand for a fourth straight season, according to the
 U.S. Department of Agriculture . The glut is helping to cut costs
for  Starbucks Corp. (SBUX)  and Kraft Foods Group as coffee futures
tumbled 26 percent in 2013.  “All these flowerings taking place in Brazil are leading
traders to think that there’s going to be more production than
initially thought,”  James Cordier , the founder of
Optionsellers.com in Tampa,  Florida , said in a telephone
interview. “The country has a lot of coffee left from last
year, and they have to move it to make space for the new
supplies. Colombian output is also definitely on the rebound.”  Arabica coffee for delivery in December fell 0.6 percent to
settle at $1.0695 a pound at 2 p.m. on ICE Futures U.S. in New
York, after touching $1.066, the lowest since March 2009. Prices
fell for 11 straight sessions, the longest slump since at least
1972.  Global Surplus  Global production, including the robusta variety that
accounts for 41 percent of supply, will exceed demand by 4.46
million bags in the 2013-2014 season, from a 10 million-bag
surplus a year earlier, according to the USDA. Inventories will
reach a five-year high of 30.53 million bags, the USDA predicts.  Lower costs have helped increase margins for Waterbury,
Vermont-based  Green Mountain Coffee Roasters Inc. (GMCR) , Frances Rathke, the chief financial officer, said on a call with
investors and analysts on Sept. 10. About 38 percent of the cost
for producing the company’s single-serving coffee K-cups come
from the commodity, he said. Starbucks cut prices for some of
its packaged coffees sold in U.S. supermarket and retail stores
in May.  Prices are heading for the third straight annual decline,
the longest slump since 1993. Americans are less interested in
buying coffee as the number of alternative options has
increased, according to Ross Colbert, a global beverage
strategist at Rabobank International in New York.  Energy Drinks  “We’re seeing double-digit growth rates in energy drinks
and energy shots,” Colbert said. “This is probably taking
consumers away from coffee.”  The “recent favorable weather conditions” prompted
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. to lower its price outlook by 7.7
percent, analysts said in an Oct. 18 report. The commodity will
be at $1.20 in three, six and 12 months, down from a previous
forecast of $1.30, the bank said.  Futures may slump to $1 in the next month, Cordier of
Optionsellers.com said. That would be the lowest since August
2006.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Marvin G. Perez in  New York  at 
 mperez71@bloomberg.net ;
Luzi Ann Javier in New York at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  