-- Colombia Presidency Contender Zuluaga Mulls Ecopetrol Stake Sale
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w   a n d   O s c a r   M e d i n a
-- 2013-10-29T18:42:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-29/colombia-presidency-contender-zuluaga-mulls-ecopetrol-stake-sale.html
Colombian presidential candidate
Oscar Ivan Zuluaga will study the sale of another stake in
state-controlled oil company  Ecopetrol SA (ECOPETL)  to close a “gigantic
deficit” in the country’s roads and ports.  The Andean nation can grow at 6 percent per year by
upgrading its transport infrastructure and investing in
education, Zuluaga said today in an interview in his Bogota
apartment. As finance minister in 2007, Zuluaga oversaw the sale
of a 6.6 trillion peso ($3.5 billion) initial stake in the oil
giant.  “This is something we’ll discuss depending on the fiscal
outlook and the size of the investments,” Zuluaga said. “This
will always be an option as long as the proceeds are invested in
infrastructure that improves the nation’s productivity and
competitiveness.”  Colombia  should keep a majority stake in the company,  Latin
America ’s third-biggest by market capitalization, Zuluaga said.
The government owns 88.5 percent of Ecopetrol.  Zuluaga, 54, will run in presidential elections next May as
the candidate of the Democratic Center, a movement founded by
supporters of former President  Alvaro Uribe  critical of the
security policies of President  Juan Manuel Santos . Santos hasn’t
announced whether he will seek a second four-year term.  Squandering Gains  Zuluaga accuses Santos of squandering security gains made
during Uribe’s 2002-2010 presidency, and demands an end to peace
talks in Havana with Marxist rebels from the Revolutionary Armed
Forces of Colombia, or FARC. He also advocates a firmer line
with the Venezuelan government of President Nicolas Maduro.  “We need to have a clear relationship based on the
principle that  Venezuela  can’t support FARC terrorism,” Zuluaga
said. “There has to be political will to confront terrorism and
drug trafficking, which are the two big enemies of democracy.”  Santos’s press office declined to comment.  Uribe, who supported Santos’s candidacy in 2010, now
attacks him continually via his Twitter site and in interviews.
The government has been talking to FARC negotiators in  Havana 
since November last year, seeking an end to the country’s 50-year conflict.  The guerrillas continue to control territory and mount
attacks on army patrols and oil pipelines, even after the army
tracked down and killed the group’s top two commanders. Santos
rejected the FARC’s offer of a ceasefire during the talks, to
prevent them from regrouping.  Public Finance  Zuluaga, an economist who studied public finance at the
University of Exeter in  England , said he doesn’t have major
disagreements with Colombia’s current monetary, fiscal and
exchange rate policies, and that his economic reforms would
mainly be at a microeconomic level.  The government should encourage more competition among
banks to bring down the “very high” spreads charged on
 consumer credit , and increase the number of Colombians with
access to financial services, Zuluaga said.  The average  interest rate  on consumer loans was 17.6
percent in September, while the central bank’s policy rate was
3.25 percent, the lowest in the region.  Zuluaga, a former senator from Caldas province in
Colombia’s coffee region, also served as president of Acesco SA,
a steel company.  Santos’s approval ratings fell to a record in August after
students and truck drivers joined farmers in nationwide protests
amid discontent with the economy. Thirty-six percent of
Colombians have a favorable image of Santos, compared with 66
percent who have a favorable image of Uribe, according to a
Polimetrica poll taken this month.  The central bank last week raised its forecast for 2013
economic growth to 3.5 percent to 4.5 percent, up from a
previous range of 3 percent to 4.5 percent. The economy grew 4.2
percent in the second quarter from a year earlier, faster than
forecast by all 31 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Bristow in Bogota at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net ;
Oscar Medina in Bogota at 
 omedinacruz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Sanders at 
 psanders@bloomberg.net  