-- Consumer-Stock Pendulum May Favor U.S. Staples
-- B y   D a v i d   W i l s o n
-- 2013-10-29T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-29/consumer-stock-pendulum-may-favor-u-s-staples.html
Shares of companies producing food,
beverages, tobacco products and other consumer staples are due
for a rebound against their more economically sensitive peers,
according to Michael A. Gayed, chief investment strategist at
Pension Partners LLC.  The CHART OF THE DAY displays the ratio between shares of
Select Sector SPDR exchange-traded funds that track staples and
consumer-discretionary indexes. Automakers, homebuilders, hotel
chains, media companies and retailers are in the latter gauge.  As the chart shows, the ratio fell on Oct. 4 to its lowest
reading since the ETFs started trading in December 1998. The
indicator rebounded 3.2 percent through yesterday’s close. It’s
poised “to build momentum,” Gayed wrote yesterday in a Twitter
posting with a similar chart.  Staples stocks stand to gain from speculation that the
Federal Reserve “will be less dovish than people believe” in
setting monetary policy, the New York-based strategist said in
an interview yesterday. Fed policy makers will meet today and
tomorrow to determine whether to keep buying $85 billion of
bonds monthly to spur economic growth and employment.  Discretionary shares have been the best performers among
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index’s 10 main industry groups since
the current bull market began in March 2009, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The industry group’s barometer almost
quadrupled through yesterday.  The S&P 500 Consumer Staples Index has failed to keep pace
with the broader gauge during the bull market. Its 119 percent
advance through yesterday ranked seventh among the 10 groups.
Only energy, telephone and utility stocks had smaller gains.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Wilson in  New York  at 
 dwilson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Nagi at 
 chrisnagi@bloomberg.net  