-- Copper Rises as Warehouse Orders Jump Most in Four Months
-- B y   J o e   R i c h t e r   a n d   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z
-- 2013-10-29T18:18:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-29/copper-rises-as-withdrawal-orders-jump-the-most-in-four-months.html
Copper futures rose after orders to
remove supplies from warehouses jumped the most in four months
and inventories extended the longest decline since 2009.  The  orders  to take copper from  London  Metal Exchange depots
rose 12 percent, the most since June 20. Today, Federal Reserve
policy makers begin a two-day meeting amid speculation they will
maintain economic stimulus in the U.S., the world’s second-biggest copper consumer.  “Base metals, especially copper, seem comfortably
underpinned by an apparently attractive combination” of
declining stockpiles and warehouse orders, Michael Turek, a
senior director at Newedge Group SA in New York, said in an e-mail. “Prices are tentatively making upside progress away from
the trading-range confines, and are likely to gradually continue
to do so.”  Copper futures for December delivery rose 0.3 percent to
settle at $3.278 a pound at 1:15 p.m. on the Comex in New York.
LME stockpiles dropped for the 39th straight session, the
longest slump since July 2009.  In London, copper for delivery in three months added 0.1
percent to $7,200 a metric ton ($3.27 a pound). The price
climbed for the fourth straight session, the longest rally this
month.  The Fed probably won’t scale back its $85 billion a month
in bond purchases until March, a Bloomberg survey showed.  Copper advanced as interest rates rose in  China , creating
an incentive to use the metal as collateral to obtain loans. The
seven-day repurchase rate, a gauge of funding availability in
the banking system, increased to 5 percent, the highest since
July 30. The nation is the top consumer of the metal.  “Financing demand is alive and well in terms of Chinese
import financing,” Gayle Berry, an analyst at Barclays Plc in
London, said in a telephone interview. “Chinese demand has been
stronger than anyone thought this year, but it’s not been as
strong as some of the headline numbers would appear to
suggest.”  Nickel advanced in London. Zinc was unchanged, while
aluminum, lead and tin dropped.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joe Richter in New York at 
 jrichter1@bloomberg.net ;
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  