-- Copper Drops for First Day in Four Before U.S. Economic Data
-- B y   J a e   H u r
-- 2013-10-29T07:12:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-29/copper-drops-for-first-day-in-four-before-u-s-economic-data.html
Copper fell for the first time in
four days before U.S. data forecast to show  consumer confidence 
fell to a five-month low and retail sales stalled as the  Federal
Reserve  starts a two-day meeting today.  The metal for delivery in three months on the London Metal
Exchange declined as much as 0.8 percent to $7,135.25 a metric
ton and traded at $7,181 at 4:07 p.m. in  Tokyo . The metal is
down 1.6 percent in October, the first monthly drop in four
months.  The Conference Board’s  index  of U.S. consumer confidence
probably declined to 75 this month, the weakest since May, from
79.7 a month earlier, according to a survey. Economists in a
separate poll predict the Commerce Department to report today no
change in retail sales in September, the worst reading in six
months. The U.S. is the top user of copper after  China .  “The market was focusing on U.S. economic data due later
today, and closely watching the Fed’s policy meeting today and
tomorrow,” said  Hiroyuki Kikukawa , the general manager of
research at Nihon Unicom Inc. in Tokyo. “The downside is
limited because of declining LME stockpiles and expectations
that the Fed will keep stimulus.”  The Fed will delay slowing its $85 billion of monthly bond
buying under the quantitative-easing stimulus strategy until
March, according to economists surveyed by Bloomberg. The Open
Market Committee meeting comes after U.S payrolls rose less than
projected last month and a government shutdown took at least $24
billion out of the economy.  China’s money-market rates climbed to the highest levels
since July and stocks declined as the central bank’s first
injection of funds in two weeks failed to alleviate a cash
squeeze. The People’s Bank of China conducted 13 billion  yuan 
($2.13 billion) of seven-day reverse-repurchase agreements
today, according to a statement on its website.  Metal for delivery in January on the Shanghai Futures
Exchange was unchanged at 51,510 yuan ($8,462) a ton. Futures
for delivery in December slid 0.1 percent at $3.2665 a pound on
the Comex in  New York .  LME copper stockpiles declined 0.6 percent to 478,200 tons,
the lowest since March.  Zinc and lead also fell on the LME, while aluminum, nickel
and tin were little changed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jae Hur in Tokyo at 
 jhur1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Brett Miller at 
 bmiller30@bloomberg.net  