-- Credit Swaps in U.S. Fall; Coca-Cola Sells $5 Billion of Bonds
-- B y   C a l l i e   B o s t
-- 2013-10-29T21:35:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-29/credit-swaps-in-u-s-fall-coca-cola-sells-5-billion-of-bonds.html
A measure of U.S. company credit
risk declined as Federal Reserve policy makers began a two-day
meeting.  Coca-Cola Co. (KO)  raised $5 billion in its biggest bond
offering ever.  The Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, decreased
0.7 basis point to 71.1 basis points at 5:16 p.m. in  New York ,
according to prices compiled by Bloomberg. The benchmark closed
Oct. 22 at 70.1 basis points, the lowest level since November
2007 in data that adjust for the effects of the market’s shift
to a new version in September.  The central bank, which concludes the meeting tomorrow,
will delay the first reduction in its asset buying until March
after a partial government shutdown slowed fourth-quarter
growth, according to a Bloomberg News survey of economists. The
Federal Open Market Committee’s policy statement may help
investors gauge when the Fed will start reducing its $85 billion
in monthly bond purchases, which have boosted credit markets.  “Investors are waiting on direction from the Fed rather
than committing to one view or another,” Edward Marrinan, a
macro credit strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc’s
securities unit in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , said in a telephone
interview.  The swaps index typically falls as investor confidence
improves and rises as it deteriorates. Credit swaps pay the
buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations,
less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals
$1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  Coca-Cola  Coca-Cola issued fixed- and floating-rate debt maturing in
three to 10 years in a five-part offering, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The largest portion was for $1.5 billion
of 3.2 percent, 10-year bonds that yield 70 basis points more
than similar-maturity Treasuries. Proceeds from the sale, which
exceeded a $4.5 billion offering in November 2010, will be used
to repay or redeem debt, the Atlanta-based company said in a
regulatory  filing .  Laboratory Corp. of America Holdings , a clinical testing
company based in Burlington,  North Carolina , sold $400 million
in 2.5 percent, five-year bonds that yield 125 basis points more
than similar-maturity Treasuries and $300 million in 4 percent,
10-year notes with a relative yield of 165 basis points.  The  risk premium  on the Markit CDX North American High
Yield Index, a credit-swaps benchmark tied to speculative-grade
bonds, declined 1.5 basis points to 345.4 basis points,
Bloomberg prices show.  The average extra yield investors demand to hold dollar-denominated, investment-grade corporate bonds rather than
similar-maturity Treasuries increased 0.5 basis point to 125.8
basis points, Bloomberg data show.  Investment-grade debt is rated Baa3 or higher at Moody’s
Investors Service and at least BBB- by  Standard & Poor’s .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Callie Bost in New York at 
 cbost2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  