-- Crude Falls First Time in Four Days on Inventory Outlook
-- B y   M o m i n g   Z h o u
-- 2013-10-29T13:37:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-29/crude-falls-first-time-in-four-days-on-inventory-outlook.html
West Texas Intermediate crude fell
for the first time in four days on estimates that inventories
rose last week to a four-month high in the U.S., the world’s
biggest oil-consuming country.  Futures dropped as much as 0.9 percent. Stockpiles climbed
for a sixth week in the seven days ended Oct. 25, according to a
Bloomberg survey before a report from the Energy Information
Administration tomorrow. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. cut its 2013
estimate for production from the Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries, citing supply constraints in Libya.  “The idea that we will have a sixth straight week of
inventory build in the U.S. is weighing on the market,” said
 Gene McGillian , an analyst and broker at Tradition Energy in
 Stamford ,  Connecticut . “As long as we continue to see weakening
fundamentals, the market will have a tough time to pick its head
up.”  WTI for December delivery slid 45 cents, or 0.5 percent, to
$98.23 a barrel at 9:33 a.m. on the New York Mercantile
Exchange. The volume of all futures traded was about 50 percent
less than the 100-day average. Prices are 4 percent lower so far
in October, poised for a second monthly loss.  Brent for December settlement dropped 54 cents, or 0.5
percent, to $109.07 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe exchange. Volume was 9.6 percent below the 100-day
average. The European benchmark crude was at a premium of $10.84
to WTI, compared with $10.93 yesterday.  Crude Supply  Crude stockpiles climbed by 2.35 million barrels last week
to 382.1 million, the Bloomberg survey showed. The total would
be the most since June 28, while the advance would be the
longest stretch since March.  U.S. output has jumped 13 percent this year on increasing
output from shale formations, according to the EIA, the Energy
Department’s statistical arm. Refineries kept their operations
at a six-month low last week, reducing demand for crude, the
survey also showed.  “Yet another inventory increase is expected,” said  Eugen Weinberg , head of commodities research at Commerzbank AG in
 Frankfurt . “The reasons for the WTI weakness and increasing
inventories include low refinery utilization due to maintenance
and yet another strong increase in shale oil production.”  The U.S. will account for about 21 percent of global oil
demand this year, almost double the estimate for  China , the
second-biggest consumer, according to forecasts from the
International Energy Agency.  Libyan Output  Brent, the European benchmark, rallied yesterday as Libya’s
crude production was cut by half amid protests. Production
nationwide dropped to about 250,000 to 300,000 barrels a day as
Tuareg nomads seeking greater political recognition halted flows
from the Al-Sharara field, the state-run National Oil Corp. said
yesterday.  OPEC’s output will decrease by 760,000 barrels per day from
last year, according to Goldman Sachs, which had previously
projected an annual loss of 570,000. Libya’s production will
remain capped at 650,000 barrels this year, the bank predicted.  The Federal Reserve’s policy makers meet today and tomorrow
to consider when to start trimming their $85 billion of monthly
bond purchases. They won’t begin to slow stimulus until March,
according to a Bloomberg News survey of economists this month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Moming Zhou in  New York  at 
 mzhou29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  