-- Czech Currency Sales Urged by Tomsik to Deliver on Target
-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 2013-10-29T14:55:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-29/czech-currency-sales-urged-by-tomsik-to-deliver-on-target.html
The Czech central bank should start
selling the koruna for the first time in 11 years, driving up
import prices by weakening the currency to bring inflation to
its target, Vice Governor Vladimir Tomsik said.  The need for currency interventions has increased since the
central bank published its latest forecast in August, with data
pointing to growing disinflation risks, Tomsik said in an
interview on Oct. 25 and cleared for publication today. While
the economy is showing some signs of recovery, it remains far
from generating inflation pressure, he said.  “Foreign-exchange interventions are still very probable,”
Tomsik said in his office at the central bank in downtown
 Prague . “It’s not possible to expect inflation to move toward
the target without delivering further policy easing.”  Czech rate-setters have been debating for almost a year
whether slowing price growth warrants the first koruna sales
since 2002 after three  interest-rate cuts  last year exhausted
room for traditional monetary stimulus. Faced with narrowing
policy options as the economy exited a record-long recession in
the second quarter, the board rejected proposals to start
interventions at the last two meetings.  Currency Focus  The currency has shifted to the center of policy
deliberations because its depreciation would make imports more
expensive and boost the competitiveness of exports, curbing
deflation risks. The koruna has lost 2.6 percent against the
euro this year, trading 0.2 percent weaker at 25.753 by 2:18
p.m. in Prague today.  “When the  monetary policy  so far hasn’t delivered further
easing of monetary conditions, and there are signals of new
anti-inflationary risks, I’m asking myself: ‘what will generate
inflation next year to make it come near our inflation
target?’” Tomsik said. “I personally wouldn’t hesitate to
relax monetary conditions further already.”  Consumer prices  rose 1 percent from a year earlier in
September, the slowest pace since March 2010 and below the
central bank’s 1.4 percent forecast. Inflation relevant to
monetary policy and adjusted for the primary effect of changes
in indirect taxes slowed to 0.2 percent in September from 0.5
percent in August and has undershot the central bank’s 1
percent-3 percent target since February.  ‘Anti-Inflationary’  “The prevailing message of the new information we have
received since the publication of the latest forecast is in an
anti-inflationary direction,” said Tomsik.  Core inflation , food costs, regulated prices and the
outlook for electricity charges underpin the need for looser
monetary policy, he said.  The Ceska Narodni Banka kept the benchmark  interest rate  at
what it calls a “technical zero” of 0.05 percent on Sept. 26,
almost half a point below the  European Central Bank ’s benchmark.
It will next review monetary policy at a Nov. 7 meeting in
Prague.  While central bank Governor Miroslav Singer has also called
for monetary easing, a majority of the seven-member board
rejected proposals to start koruna sales in votes on Aug. 1 and
Sept. 26.  Highlighting the division among policy makers, board member
Kamil Janacek said he was cautious about starting the
interventions because of the lack of clarity over how to manage
its exit from currency sales, according to an interview with
Reuters  published  today.  Janacek said last month that he’ll be ready to back koruna
interventions if signs of deflation risks emerge.  High Chance  Most board members agreed at the September meeting that the
probability of starting currency interventions remained high,
minutes from the session showed.  Some rate setters said weakening the  exchange rate  now
would risk damping private consumption and curbing economic
growth, the minutes said, without revealing individual views of
board members. The bank doesn’t publish details of votes on
currency interventions.  “I wouldn’t consider it a pragmatic economic policy to do
nothing and take a two-year holiday when the forecast is showing
me a need for monetary-policy action to meet the inflation
target,” Tomsik said. “Monetary policy should do its job as I
fear that the cost of a passive approach would be large.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Laca in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  