-- Prague Stocks Jump Most in 21 Months as Election Halts Tax Push
-- B y   K r y s t o f   C h a m o n i k o l a s
-- 2013-10-29T16:33:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-29/czech-stocks-soar-as-vote-result-eases-tax-concern-prague-mover.html
Czech shares surged the most since
January 2012 as political parties promising to raise company
taxes failed to gain control of parliament in general elections.  The  PX (PX)  index jumped 2.7 percent, the biggest gain among 94
global gauges tracked by Bloomberg after Cyprus and  Venezuela .
Komercni Banka AS, a unit of Societe Generale SA, increased 4.1
percent to a record 4,690 by the close in Prague as Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. and Deutsche Bank AG recommended buying the
stock. Power utility CEZ AS added 6.5 percent, its best day
since 2009. Czech sovereign bonds gained while the koruna fell.  The Social Democrats, or CSSD, and Communists, who planned
to increase taxes on utilities and banks, received a combined 88
of parliament’s 200 seats in the Oct. 25-26 election, after most
opinion polls favored the two parties to get a majority. Having
won the vote with 50 seats, the CSSD is now seeking to rule with
the support of billionaire Andrej Babis’s pro-business ANO
party, which rejects higher taxes, and the  Christian Democrats .  “It would be hard for the  Social Democrats  to levy special
company taxes in this setup,” Petr Bartek, an analyst at Ceska
Sporitelna AS in Prague, said in a report to clients today.
“That is good news for the Czech stock market.”  The bourse was closed yesterday for a state holiday.  A leadership struggle within the Social Democrats that
broke out after the snap election complicates the search for
partners to help the party form the country’s ninth government
in 10 years. The previous administration of Prime Minister Petr Necas collapsed in June amid a spying and corruption scandal.  Fragmented Parliament  Investors have ignored Czech political instability as the
economy doubled in size between 2003 and 2012 to  $196 billion ,
World Bank data show. The nation’s debt holds the highest credit
ratings in emerging  Europe , along with  Estonia , and is cheapest
to insure against non-payment with credit default swaps.  “The fragmentation of parliament means that another early
election can unfortunately not be ruled out,” Bartek said.
“Such a scenario would prolong the uncertainty and nervousness,
albeit with relatively limited impact on the economy.”  The  yield  on the government’s five-year koruna notes fell
three basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 1.11 percent,
headed for a five-month low and compared with similar securities
trading at 1.13 percent in France. The Czech default swaps were
little changed at 60 basis points, just above higher-rated
 France , data compiled by Bloomberg shows.  The koruna depreciated 0.1 percent to 25.756 per euro after
Deputy Governor Vladimir Tomsik said in a Bloomberg interview
published today that central bank interventions to weaken the
local currency are “still very probable” as policy makers seek
to lift inflation toward the bank’s target.  ‘Buying Opportunity’  CEZ, the largest Czech power producer, Komercni Banka and
Telefonica Czech Republic AS, the biggest phone company, have
underperformed industry peers in the past year amid a record-long recession and as the Social Democrats pledged to raise the
tax to as much as 30 percent from 19 percent.  The utility has tumbled 23 percent in the past 12 months,
the most among 16 global industry peers tracked by Bloomberg and
compared with a 4.8 percent gain for western Europe’s Stoxx 600
Utilities Index that CEZ joined on Sept. 23.  Komercni Banka ’s 15
percent gain lags a 26 percent rally for European peers.  Komercni Banka was raised to buy from hold at Deutsche Bank
today, increasing its share-price projection to 5,300 koruna
from 4,000 koruna in a report to clients. Goldman Sachs lifted
its 12-month projection for Komercni to 5,300 koruna from 4,850
koruna in a note dated yesterday.  Czech stocks represent a “buying opportunity” as the risk
of higher taxes has declined while the central bank is showing
readiness to support the economic recovery with koruna sales,
London-based strategists Carsten Hesse and Mateusz Zawada at
Czech brokerage Wood & Co. wrote in a report to clients today.  “Investors can take a breather,” they said. “The worst-case scenario for Czech equity investors has been prevented.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Krystof Chamonikolas in  Prague  at 
 kchamonikola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  