-- Czech Central Bank Needs to Deliver Further Easing, Tomsik Says
-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 2013-10-29T13:13:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-29/czech-central-bank-needs-to-deliver-further-easing-tomsik-says.html
The Czech central bank needs to
relax monetary policy further to lift inflation toward its
target, Vice Governor Vladimir Tomsik said.  Tomsik commented on monetary settings, economic recovery
and koruna interventions in an Oct. 25 interview cleared for
publication today:  On monetary easing:  “Our forecasts have been assuming further easing of
monetary policy for some time. Since January 2013, the forecasts
have indicated that we should deliver another  interest rate  cut,
by 25 basis points.  ‘‘The August forecast then showed that we should deliver a
second interest rate cut, by 50 basis points in total. This
means the forecasts are showing the need for further relaxation
of monetary conditions.  ‘‘I personally think that the need for relaxing monetary
conditions has increased even further from what was indicated in
the August forecast.  ‘‘It’s not possible to expect inflation to move toward the
target without delivering further policy easing.  ‘‘Foreign-exchange interventions are still very probable. I
would personally say the need to launch them may even be
increasing because of the cumulating anti-inflationary
pressures.  ‘‘When monetary policy so far hasn’t delivered further
easing of monetary conditions, and there are signals of new
anti-inflationary risks, I ask myself, ‘what will generate
inflation next year for it to come near our inflation target?’ I
personally wouldn’t hesitate to relax monetary conditions
further already.’’  On disinflation risks:  ‘‘The prevailing message of the new information we have
received since the publication of the latest forecast is in the
anti-inflationary direction.  ‘‘ Core inflation , food prices, regulated prices and the
outlook for next year, namely all components of electricity
prices, all this new information is showing more relaxed
monetary conditions are needed.  ‘‘I wouldn’t consider it a pragmatic economic policy to do
nothing and take a two-year holiday when the forecast is showing
me a need for monetary-policy action to meet the inflation
target. I believe monetary policy should do its job, because I
fear that the cost of a passive approach would be large.’’  On economic recovery:  ‘‘There are some signs of an economic recovery, but I’m
convinced that there is a wide output gap, meaning the economy
is performing well below potential output. Because of this, it
would take a long time before we see a pick-up in inflationary
pressures.  ‘‘An important factor to consider is that we are seeing
historically low growth in nominal wages this year in the Czech
private sector.  ‘‘Moreover, the revival in the export industry may resume,
generating appreciation pressure on the koruna, which would add
to anti-inflationary risks.  ‘‘If a weaker koruna makes imports more expensive, then I
see this translated into cutting retail margins. I don’t expect
more expensive imports to have a material impact on retail
prices in the  Czech Republic , because demand is weak and
unemployment is high.’’  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Laca in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  