-- Danes, ‘Homeland’ in Top Form; Spader’s ‘Blacklist’: TV
-- B y   G r e g   E v a n s
-- 2013-10-29T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-29/danes-homeland-in-top-form-spader-s-blacklist-tv.html
Strip-searched, hooded and kidnapped
by a mysterious band of home-invaders (certainly terrorists,
possibly Iranian) super-spy Carrie Mathison ended Sunday’s
episode of “ Homeland ” right where we need her.  On her own.  Five episodes into this reinvigorated series’s third season,
Showtime’s “Homeland” seems finally to have ditched the tired
Carrie/Brody romance and returned to its thriller roots.  The excellent  Claire Danes  had already bowled us over last
week, when the show revealed that a major recent storyline --
Carrie’s national humiliation, the public decimation of her
career and her confinement to a mental ward -- was in fact a
ruse designed to bait terrorists.  As conspiracy tales go, this one’s a whopper, a perfect
balance of cynicism (the CIA can’t be trusted) and idealism (the
CIA can work wonders).  As television, it’s even better.  Like  Bryan Cranston  on the late, great “ Breaking Bad ” and
the Jessica Lange-led cast of divas on “ American Horror Story:
Coven ,” Danes pushes the bedraggled, hysterical Carrie to the
limit of our affections.  And she’s not alone. Her chemistry with Mandy Patinkin’s
Saul Berenson is impeccable.  Damian Lewis, the show’s ostensible male lead, has been
featured in only one episode this season, and as good as the
actor is, “Homeland” hasn’t really missed his played-out Brody.  That could change, of course. “Homeland” is nothing if not
surprising.  “Homeland” airs Sunday on Showtime at 9 p.m.  New York  time.
Rating: *****  ‘The Blacklist’  Never underestimate the power of a juicy ham with a rakish
hat.  NBC’s “ The Blacklist ” is the fall’s most popular new drama,
with star James Spader lugging the show into that spot week
after week.  Spader (who was a perfect foil for  William Shatner  on
“ Boston Legal ”) plays Raymond “Red” Reddington, TV’s latest
iteration of a Hannibal Lecter-esque sicko genius. (The
network’s dismal “ Hannibal ” returns in 2014).  While the supercilious, fedora-sporting Spader is an amusing
knock-off of  Anthony Hopkins ’s “ Silence of the Lambs ” creep, his
affectless costar, Megan Boone, is no  Jodie Foster .  Yet even a better actress -- think Jennifer Carpenter of
“ Dexter ” -- would have trouble with the dim character concocted
by “Blacklist” creator Jon Bokenkamp.  Clueless Profiler  Here’s an FBI profiler so clueless she’s married to a
possible killer and seems oddly incurious about the sudden
interest coming her way from a criminal mastermind old enough to
be...her father.  So far, at least, the spotty “Blacklist” shows no intention
of letting Agent Keen live up to her name.  “The Blacklist” airs Monday on NBC at 10 p.m. New York time.
Rating: **1/2  ( Greg Evans  is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Jeremy Gerard  on Broadway box
office and Washington  Scene .  To contact the writer on the story: Greg Evans at
 gregeaevans@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 