-- Danish Central Bank Says Crisis Loans to Continue After Jobs Cut
-- B y   P e t e r   L e v r i n g
-- 2013-10-29T13:29:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-29/danish-central-bank-says-crisis-loans-to-continue-after-jobs-cut.html
Denmark’s  central bank  said it will
continue to offer more lenient collateral terms and keep in
place its emergency lending facilities after revealing it’s
cutting 10 percent of its staff.  The job cuts, which the bank said yesterday represented a
scaling back of resources needed to tackle the crisis, won’t be
matched by reductions in other facilities designed to support
financial markets, central bank spokesman Karsten Biltoft said.  “We’ve felt that the extraordinary strain on the central
bank’s resources caused by the financial crisis is abating,”
Biltoft said by phone today from Copenhagen. Still, “we can’t
say anything about how long the extraordinary measures will
continue to be in place,” he said.  Denmark, which uses monetary policy to defend the krone’s
peg to the euro, extended its lending facilities during the
crisis, easing collateral requirements and giving banks access
to three-year credit at its benchmark rate. Governor Lars Rohde
cut the bank’s main lending rate to 0.2 percent in May, matching
a record low. The bank’s deposit rate has been below zero since
July last year.  The bank said yesterday it plans to let 55 employees go by
the first quarter of 2015 after “the extraordinary strain”
that came with the financial crisis eased and the need for extra
workers faded. Fifteen of those cuts will follow technology
improvements, Biltoft said.  Denmark ’s  $340 billion econom y suffered a real estate
crisis after its property bubble burst in 2008. The ensuing loan
losses triggered a community banking slump, during which 62 of
Denmark’s lenders were wiped out.  More recently, Denmark’s financial industry has shown signs
of recovery. Rohde said last month he sees no need to provide
another infusion of three-year emergency loans, which were
offered twice last year. “From our perspective, there is
liquidity in the Danish system,” he said in a Sept. 26
interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Levring in Copenhagen at 
 plevring1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  