-- Danske Bank Shareholder Realdania to Cut Stake to Limit Risk
-- B y   P e t e r   L e v r i n g
-- 2013-10-29T08:49:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-29/danske-bank-shareholder-realdania-to-cut-stake-to-limit-risk-1-.html
Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE) ’s third-largest
shareholder, Realdania, said it plans to reduce its stake in
 Denmark ’s biggest bank in an effort to limit risk in its
portfolio.  Realdania, a philanthropic organization based in
Copenhagen, last cut its stake in March to 4.87 percent from
more than 10 percent in an accelerated book-build that raised
5.46 billion kroner ($1.01 billion). Even after that sale, the
group’s Danske holding accounts for too large a share of its
portfolio, Chief Executive Officer Jesper Nygaard said.  “We still have about 25 percent to 28 percent of our
equity placed in Danske Bank, and from a strategic perspective,
that’s too much,” Nygaard said in an interview. “The process
needs to be normalized, but I can’t say how or when this will
happen.”  Realdania is revealing its intention to keep selling shares
in Danske a little more than month after the bank fired Eivind Kolding, arguing he lacked the banking expertise to continue as
CEO. His successor, Thomas F. Borgen, will present Danske’s
 third-quarter earnings  on Oct. 31.  Danske has struggled to compete with its Swedish rivals in
delivering shareholder returns after the Copenhagen-based bank
lost customers. Danske was also hurt by property bubbles in its
home market and in Ireland, which the bank entered in 2005 just
before the nation’s housing bust sent impairments soaring.  Private Moves  Danske shares fell as much as 1.6 percent to 123.90 kroner
today, the lowest since Oct. 21. The stock declined 1.1 percent
to 124.50 kroner at 9.44 a.m. in Copenhagen.  “We’re now under 5 percent in Danske,” Nygaard said. “We
no longer need to flag what we want do with the stake and we’ll
continue to keep that private.”  Realdania’s holding in Danske is tied to the bank’s home-loan arm. Danske bought Realdania’s  mortgage  and retail banks
Realkredit Danmark A/S and BG Bank in 2000. In exchange,
Realdania received a 19 percent stake in the merged bank and
became a philanthropic organization dedicated to spending the
dividends from its investments on not-for-profit projects.  Realdania cut its Danske stake to 15 percent by 2001 and
reduced it further to 10 percent over the next decade.  “We’ve always been very aware of diversifying risk, and
before selling the 52 million shares this year, selling Danske
Bank shares was always done gradually to avoid influencing the
price,” Nygaard said.  Not Satisfactory  Borgen, who became CEO after leading Danske’s corporate and
institutional banking unit, said in an interview this month the
lender’s performance over the past five years “has not been
satisfactory” as he unveiled a set of measures to revive
business. Danske, overseen by Chairman Ole Andersen, also this
month fired Group Treasurer Steen Blaafalk, who had been with
the bank for three decades.  Realdania “won’t carry out any active ownership in
Danske,” Nygaard said. “We leave that to the  board , which we
have full confidence in.”  Realdania sold Danske  shares  at 105 kroner a piece on March
6. Since then, Danske shares have gained 17 percent compared,
with a 6 percent increase in the Copenhagen 20 benchmark index
of the country’s most traded shares.  Danske shares traded at 71.78 kroner in 2000, when
Realdania became a holder, and peaked at 252.63 kroner in
February 2007. The shares hit a 14-year low of 31 kroner in
March 2009.  Charity Donations  A “large part” of the 52 million Danske shares Realdania
sold in March was bought by Cevian Capital AB, the Swedish fund
said at the time. Cevian now owns about 9 percent of Danske,
second only to  A.P. Moeller-Maersk A/S (MAERSKB) , Denmark’s biggest
company, which has about 23 percent.  Realdania makes donations to charity and research in
architecture, housing and  energy efficiency . It manages 698
projects, from sponsoring books to office building construction
in central Copenhagen and has donated about 14 billion kroner in
the last 13 years.  The organization in March used proceeds from its Danske
share sale to buy equities in the U.S.,  emerging markets  and in
 Europe  on an assumption the debt crisis will pass and growth
will again accelerate, Chief Investment Officer Gert Poulsen
said in an interview.  Realdania invested 13.9 billion kroner in equities at the
start of the year. Its investment in Danske is the only stock it
publicly identifies in a portfolio of 14 of listed shares.  Realdania had 57 percent of its investment portfolio in
listed shares at the start of 2013. The organization says it has
no plans to become an activist investor, using its position to
influence corporate decisions, or to become a majority
shareholder in any of its holdings, Poulsen said.  “If we can make a decent return on plain vanilla
investments, why bother more than we have to with structured
investments or anything even more complicated,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Levring in Copenhagen at 
 plevring1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  