-- Defaults Seen Below Crisis Levels in Next Cycle, Moody’s Says
-- B y   M a t t   R o b i n s o n
-- 2013-10-29T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-29/defaults-seen-below-crisis-levels-in-next-cycle-moody-s-says.html
The next wave of company defaults
isn’t likely to reach the rate triggered by the financial crisis
five years ago, according to a report from Moody’s Investors
Service.  While the default cycle will last longer than the “short
and severe” 21-month period that started in 2009 amid the worst
recession since the Great Depression, the rate probably won’t
surpass the 14.7 percent level reached in November 2009, Moody’s
said in a report dated Oct. 28. The ratings firm didn’t forecast
when the next wave of defaults may begin.  “We’ll get a longer default cycle, but not as sharp,”
David Keisman, one of the authors of the report, said in a
telephone interview yesterday. “No one is estimating a
timeframe, but when it does, it can happen much more quickly
than you thought it could.”  Prospects for a rise in defaults remain low with the New
York-based credit grader expecting a 2.7 percent rate among U.S.
speculative-grade issuers at the end of this year. The riskiest
corporate borrowers have been buoyed by the  Federal Reserve ’s
unprecedented monetary stimulus, which has pushed bond yields to
the lowest ever.  Even as the default rate holds below a two-decade average
of 4.5 percent,  credit quality  has started to decline, leading
to an increase of downgrades to the B2 and B3 categories, five
and six levels below investment grade. Companies have increased
their ratios of debt to earnings, lowered interest coverage and
issued more covenant-light securities that have fewer investor
protections.  Energy Future  Energy Future Holdings Corp., taken private in 2007 for $48
billion, may file for bankruptcy as soon as this month. The
buyout of the Dallas-based energy producer by KKR & Co., Goldman
Sachs Capital Partners and TPG Capital was predicated on rising
gas prices. Instead, they fell as the development of hydraulic
fracturing created a surge in U.S. gas supplies.  In  Brazil , OGX Petroleo & Gas Participacoes SA, former
billionaire  Eike Batista ’s oil company, may seek  bankruptcy
protection  that would put $3.6 billion of dollar bonds into
default, the region’s largest on record.  The degree of losses on soured debt is poised to increase
as recovery rates for defaulted companies decline amid fewer
prepackaged bankruptcies and distressed debt exchanges that
allow companies to reach agreements with creditors outside
courts, Moody’s said in the report. More companies may declare
Chapter 11 restructurings in the next period, which tend to lead
to lower recovery values, the analysts said.  Yields on bonds issued by the riskiest U.S. companies fell
to a record low of 5.98 percent in May, according to the Bank of
America Merrill Lynch U.S. High Yield index. Borrowing costs
have since risen to 6.44 percent, below the average of 9.05
percent during the past 10 years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matt Robinson  in  New York  at 
 Mrobinson55@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Alan Goldstein  at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 