-- DeNA Plans Push Past Games With E-Commerce, Content Deals
-- B y   T a k a s h i   A m a n o
-- 2013-10-29T11:16:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-29/dena-plans-push-past-games-with-e-commerce-to-content-deals-1-.html
DeNA Co. (2432) , the Tokyo-based company
whose service lets people play games on mobile phones, is
seeking to expand its e-commerce and mobile entertainment
businesses and is mulling acquisition opportunities.  The operator of the Mobage network has lost about 25
percent this year as mobile subscribers shift to smartphones
from an earlier generation of handsets that relied on the
gamemaker’s platform to download titles. DeNA is the  fifth-worst 
performing stock on  Japan ’s benchmark Topix index this year,
which has gained 39 percent over the period, boosted by Prime
Minister Shinzo Abe’s fiscal and monetary stimulus.  As DeNA moves further into e-commerce, it will have to
compete with online retailers such as  Rakuten Inc. (4755)  and  Yahoo
Japan Corp. (4689) , which are fighting for customers amid a declining
population at home. DeNA had about  $470 million  in cash and near
cash items in the quarter ended June.  “Gaming is a big pillar of our company but we won’t be
dependent on it,” Chief Executive Officer Isao Moriyasu said in
an Oct. 24 interview at Bloomberg’s  Tokyo  offices. “We are
paying close attention to the entertainment content space.”  The maker of “Blood Brothers” and “Ninja Royale” got 89
percent of its revenue from social media in the fiscal year
ended in March. E-commerce-related sales accounted for about 7
percent.  DeNA rose 2.6 percent to close at 2,127 yen in Tokyo, the
highest since Aug. 19. The benchmark Topix index lost 0.4
percent.  Credit Card  The company has a “strong” pipeline of native apps in the
second-half of this year, Jefferies LLC analyst  Atul Goyal  said
in an Oct. 28 note. He upgraded the company’s shares to “buy”
from “hold.”  Apple Inc.’s iPhone and Samsung Electronics Co. handsets
using the Android operating system allow users to download games
and other apps directly.  Earlier this month, DeNA began offering a credit card that
allows users to accumulate points through purchases that can be
used on its platform. The company will produce 60 titles for
Japan and 20 for Europe and the U.S. this fiscal year, Moriyasu
said.  “We want to produce new services. We may do it internally
or through acquisitions,” Moriyasu said. “We would like to
spend money in the mobile Internet business domain so we can
grow bigger.” Moriyasu declined to elaborate.  In August, some of Japan’s biggest game makers, including
 Sega Sammy Holdings Inc. (6460)  and Capcom Co., said they would team up
to promote each other’s titles for smartphones.  Sega, creator of Sonic the Hedgehog, developed a system to
allow makers to display advertising of mobile app games by other
members, Koji Ueda, a Sega spokesman, said at the time. The
alliance may allow the companies to bypass platforms operated by
DeNA and rival  Gree Inc. (3632)  and avoid commissions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Takashi Amano in Tokyo at 
 tamano6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  