-- Deutsche Bank Covets Top Rates Role as Credit Suisse Shrinks
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t
-- 2013-10-29T15:06:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-29/deutsche-bank-covets-top-rates-role-as-credit-suisse-shrinks.html
Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  wants to remain one
of the largest fixed income and derivatives traders globally in
anticipation of higher profitability as competitors shrink, co-Chief Executive Officer Anshu Jain said.  The return on equity “in that business will stabilize to
cover and indeed comfortably exceed cost of equity for the top
firms,” Jain said on a conference call with analysts after the
Frankfurt-based bank published third-quarter earnings today.
“Deutsche always has been one and we intend to remain one.”  Jain, 50, was responding to a question by Jernej Omahen, a
London-based analyst with Goldman Sachs Group Inc., about
whether Deutsche Bank would follow  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) ,
 Switzerland ’s second-biggest bank, in shrinking part of its
rates business as more stringent leverage rules made it more
expensive.  Jain’s pledges come as he prepares to divest some assets
within the business as part of a plan to increase the bank’s
leverage ratio, or capital as a share of the balance sheet.
Deutsche Bank merged its rates and credit trading arms this year
to reduce costs, Jain said.  Banks that run profitable fix income and derivatives
businesses while managing their own leverage stand to profit,
according to Jain.  “What you’re seeing is a tremendous concentration of
market risk among the top few firms,” Jain said. “These are
things which our clients desperately need and will always
need.”  Credit Suisse  The market for bilateral rates trades is “shrinking fast”
as investors use central clearing houses instead, Credit Suisse
Chief Financial Officer  David Mathers  said on a conference call
with journalists last week. The Zurich-based bank’s
reorganization will “certainly” result in job losses, he said,
declining to provide numbers.  Deutsche Bank said in July that it will reduce its total
assets by 250 billion euros ($344 billion), or 16 percent, by
2015, in part by dissolving some derivatives transactions with
other securities firms. The company will lose 450 million euros
to 500 million euros in annual pretax profit should all the
measures in its “leverage toolbox” be implemented, Chief
Financial Officer  Stefan Krause  said on the call today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Comfort in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  