-- Deutsche Boerse Third-Quarter Earnings Fall on Low Volatility
-- B y   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r   a n d   S a m   M a m u d i
-- 2013-10-29T19:36:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-29/deutsche-boerse-third-quarter-earnings-fall-on-low-volatility.html
Deutsche Boerse  AG, operator of the
Eurex derivatives market and the Frankfurt stock exchange, said
third-quarter profit fell 61 percent as volatility and  interest
rates  remained low.  Net income for the quarter dropped to 62 million euros ($85
million) from 160 million euros a year earlier, according to a
statement today from the Frankfurt-based exchange. Earnings
before interest and taxes dropped to 101 million euros from 245
million euros. Both figures were reduced by 114.8 million euros
because of a U.S. government investigation of Deutsche Boerse’s
Clearstream unit.  Deutsche Boerse and rivals including NYSE Euronext and
London Stock Exchange Group Plc have seen trading volumes drop
following the global financial crisis of 2008. Traditional
exchanges have also lost market share to new venues such as Bats
Global Markets Inc.  The German exchange owner said yesterday that the fine its
Clearstream unit faces from U.S. government allegations that it
violated sanctions against  Iran  may be half the previously
disclosed amount. The penalty totals $169 million, or only $152
million if the company settles with the U.S. Treasury
Department’s Office of Foreign Assets Control, Deutsche Boerse
said in a statement yesterday. In January, it estimated the
potential fine at $340 million.  Third-quarter net revenue fell 2.8 percent to 458 million
euros at Deutsche Boerse, while operating costs rose 58 percent
to 359 million euros.  Deutsche Boerse was blocked last year by the European
Commission from buying New York-based NYSE Euronext.
IntercontinentalExchange Inc. of Atlanta later agreed to
purchase NYSE Euronext in a deal it says should close by Nov. 4.
Chicago-based CME Group Inc. has approached Deutsche Boerse to
consider starting merger talks, four people familiar with the
situation said in February.  Shares of Deutsche Boerse fell 1.9 percent to 56.31 euros
today, trimming their 2013 gain to 22 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nandini Sukumar in London at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net ;
Sam Mamudi in  New York  at 
 smamudi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  