-- Dollar Drops on Forecast for Extended Fed Stimulus
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2013-10-30T16:54:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-29/dollar-maintains-three-day-gain-versus-yen-before-fed-decision.html
The dollar fell versus most of its
major peers before a policy statement from the  Federal Reserve ,
which is forecast to maintain its monthly asset purchases.  The Bloomberg U.S.  Dollar Index  snapped a three-day gain as
companies added fewer workers than projected in October and
inflation rose the least since April. The Fed will maintain
purchases of Treasuries at $45 billion and mortgage-backed
securities at $40 billion, according to economists surveyed by
Bloomberg. The euro rose for a fifth day versus the yen after
Spain exited a two-year recession.  Brazil ’s real dropped.  “The data that came in this morning was weaker than
expected,” Sireen Harajli, a foreign-exchange strategist at
Mizuho Bank in  New York , said in a phone interview. “There’s no
strong case to see any kind of Fed action from now until next
year. It confirms the dovish tone for the Fed.”  The dollar weakened 0.2 percent to $1.3766 per euro at
12:51 p.m. New York time. The shared currency rose 0.2 percent
to 135.21 yen. The dollar was little changed at 98.22 yen.  The greenback has lost 1.7 percent this month versus the
euro and has slid 4.2 percent year-to-date. Against the yen, the
U.S. currency has been little changed this month and has
appreciated 13 percent since the start of 2013.  Bloomberg’s  dollar gauge , which monitors the currency
against 10 major counterparts, fell 0.2 percent to 1,004.40
after rising 0.4 percent yesterday, the most since Sept. 5.  Higher Volatility  A measure of price swings among the currencies of Group of
Seven nations has increased this week. The JPMorgan G7
 Volatility Index  rose to as high as 7.84 percent today after
sliding to 7.48 percent Oct. 28, the lowest since Dec. 21. The
2013 average is 9.38 percent.  Brazil’s real declined versus most major peers as slower-than-forecast  inflation  damped speculation the country’s central
bank will raise borrowing costs next month. The currency was
little changed at 2.1832 to the greenback after weakening
earlier as much as 0.4 percent.  The Indonesian rupiah sank versus all of its 31 most-traded
counterparts on speculation companies stepped up dollar
purchases to meet month-end payments. It decreased 0.6 percent
to 11,175 per dollar after earlier sliding 1 percent, the most
since Sept. 30.  New Zealand ’s dollar was little changed at 82.59 U.S. cents
after Moody’s Investors Service Senior Vice President  Steven Hess  said the company discussed stripping the country of its
sole remaining top credit rating amid concern the nation’s
current-account deficit is exacerbating its vulnerability to
external shocks. The currency, nicknamed the kiwi, dropped
earlier as much as 0.5 percent and strengthened 0.4 percent.  Fed Stimulus  The Fed will wait until its March meeting to slow its $85
billion of monthly bond buying, according to a Bloomberg News
survey of economists on Oct. 17-18. The purchases, made to push
down long-term yields and spur growth, tend to debase the
dollar. Policy makers refrained from slowing stimulus last month
to await further evidence of economic recovery.  “With expectations having settled on March or April for
the start of tapering, there’s little reason for the Fed to
stick its neck out today,” said  Adam Cole , head of Group-of-10
currency strategy at Royal Bank of Canada in  London . “The bulk
of currency managers’ positioning is still located in long
dollar-yen positions. That doesn’t mean those positions have to
unwind but that is a risk as we get to year-end.” Long
positions are bets currencies will gain in value.  The dollar will decline to 92 yen by year-end, he forecast.  U.S. Economy  American companies boosted payrolls by 130,000 in October,
figures from Roseland, New Jersey-based ADP Research Institute
showed today. Economists surveyed by Bloomberg called for an
advance of 150,000.  The cost of living in the U.S. rose 1.2 percent in
September from a year earlier, the smallest increase since
April, after advancing 1.5 percent in August. The Fed’s target
inflation rate is 2 percent.  The dollar will face an “interesting test” if the Fed’s
post-meeting statement suggests tapering could be delayed
further into 2014, David de Garis, a senior economist at
National Australia Bank Ltd. in  Melbourne , wrote today in a
research note.  The euro strengthened versus the yen after  Spain ’s National
Statistics Institute said  gross domestic product  grew 0.1
percent in the third quarter compared with the previous three
months, when it declined 0.1 percent. A separate report showed
economic confidence in the euro-area rose more in October than
analysts forecast, adding to signs the region’s recovery is
gaining momentum.  Krone Gains  The Norwegian krone gained versus most major peers,
advancing for a second day versus the dollar after Norges Bank
Governor Oeystein Olsen said he’ll avoid policies that drive up
the  property market .  “The comments remove one of the big obstacles for the
Norwegian krone,” Morten Helt, a senior analyst at Danske Bank
A/S in Copenhagen, wrote in a note to clients. “The risk of
Norges Bank turning even more dovish than they already are
should be relatively small.”  The krone gained 0.3 percent to 5.8807 per dollar and rose
0.1 percent to 8.0965 per euro.  Trading in over-the-counter foreign-exchange options
totaled $28 billion, from $48 billion yesterday, according to
data reported by U.S. banks to the Depository Trust Clearing
Corp. and tracked by Bloomberg. Volume in options on the dollar-yen  exchange rate  amounted to $7 billion, the largest share of
trades at 25 percent. Options on the dollar-Chinese-yuan rate
totaled $5.2 billion, or 19 percent.  Greenback-yen options trading was 20 percent more than the
average for the past five Wednesdays at a similar time in the
day, according to Bloomberg analysis. Dollar-yuan options
trading was 110 percent above average.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  