-- DreamWorks Animation Shares Jump After Profit Tops Views
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i   a n d   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2013-10-30T14:18:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-29/dreamworks-animation-profit-beats-estimates-on-turbo-.html
DreamWorks Animation SKG Inc. (DWA) , the
film studio run by  Jeffrey Katzenberg , jumped the most in more
than four years after the box-office success of “Turbo” and
“The Croods” helped profit top analysts’  estimates .  The shares rose as much as 15 percent to $31.90 in  New
York , the biggest intraday gain since April 2009. DreamWorks had
already climbed 68 percent this year through yesterday, compared
with a 24 percent gain in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  The Glendale, California-based company posted third-quarter
net income yesterday of $10.1 million, or 12 cents a share.
Analysts had predicted that DreamWorks would merely break even
in the period, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The Croods,” released in March, and “Turbo,” in
theaters in July, continue to amass worldwide box office sales,
the company said. “Turbo,” a movie about a speedy snail made
for $135 million, has accrued $246.2 million in worldwide ticket
sales after a disappointing debut. Investors had been bracing
for a writedown on “Turbo,” said  Tony Wible , an analyst at
Janney Montgomery Scott in Philadelphia.  “The big surprise was no ‘Turbo’ impairment,” he said in
an e-mail.  “The Croods” is the sixth highest-grossing film of the
year on a global basis, DreamWorks Animation said. The studio
shares box office revenue with cinemas and its distributor  21st
Century Fox Inc. (FOXA)   Quarterly Sales  While sales fell 17 percent to $154.5 million, they also
exceeded the average estimate of $139.7 million.  The company will begin reporting results in four segments:
feature films; television series and specials; consumer
products; and all other operations, Lew Coleman, DreamWorks
Animation’s chief financial officer, said in the statement.  The film division had revenue of $120.7 million and gross
profit of $55.4 million. “The Croods” and “Turbo” together
contributed revenue of $10.4 million, while “Rise of the
Guardians” collected sales of $42.4 million mainly from
worldwide  pay television , the company said.  “‘Guardians’ continues to surprise and pulled a much
better pay TV number,” Wible said.  Television had revenue of $18.2 million and gross profit of
$4.2 million, helped by “DreamWorks Dragons: Riders of Berk”
on Cartoon Network, the company said.  Gross profit at the consumer products division totaled $3
million on revenue of $12 million, while the all other items
segment that includes the AwesomenessTV YouTube channel had
revenue of $3.6 million, the company said.  Fourth-quarter results will be driven by the feature film
division and holiday-themed TV programming, the company said.
The home entertainment releases of “The Croods” and “Turbo”
are in the current period, on Oct. 1 and Nov. 12 respectively,
the company said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in  Los Angeles  at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net ;
Andy Fixmer in Los Angeles at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  