-- The Case Against Negotiating With Assad
-- B y   A a r o n   D a v i d   M i l l e r
-- 2013-10-29T15:40:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-29/the-case-against-negotiating-with-assad.html
U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry
is on a roll. Against the odds, Israeli-Palestinian  negotiations 
are alive; the U.S.-Russia agreement for removing Syria’s
chemical weapons is  working ; and the U.S.-Afghan security pact
is almost  final .  In trying to convene a United Nations-sponsored meeting to
end Syria’s civil war, however, Kerry may be overreaching.  Last week, along with the “ London 11 ” -- which represents
the core group of nations belonging to the Friends of the Syrian
People -- Kerry seemed determined to push for a round of
meetings in Geneva, perhaps as early as next month.  That would be a mistake. Middle East peace conferences have
historically been good for one of two things: beginning a
credible negotiation process or concluding one. Another hastily
conceived gathering in Geneva -- the first meeting was held  in
June 2012  -- is unlikely to accomplish either goal.  To have any chance for success, the talks must meet two
conditions that seem out of reach: There must be a U.S.-Russian
understanding that President Bashar al-Assad of  Syria  will leave
power, and a unified opposition to the regime, including the
groups that are doing the fighting, must be fully represented.  An ill-prepared conference, however, would only lead to a
further weakening of the opposition and a boost for Assad.  War’s Toll  Kerry’s sense of urgency for ending Syria’s civil war is
understandable. The conflict is a moral, humanitarian and
strategic disaster. After almost three years, it has caused more
than 100,000 deaths, created 2.5 million  refugees  -- with
millions more internally displaced -- and destroyed large areas
of the country.  The notion that a political solution could end this brutal
war is compelling. However, the idea that a successful political
process is possible under present circumstances is fantastical.
Too much blood has flowed to allow the regime and the divided
opposition to find an alternative to violent struggle (though
the carnage hasn’t been enough to force a divided, preoccupied
and self-interested international community to  intercede
effectively ).  At best, another meeting would result only in more talk.
Worse, at the moment, the Russians seem to see Geneva as a way
to maintain the status quo, not to effect a real transition. The
agreement between the U.S. and Russia that compelled Assad to
begin giving up  his chemical weapons  is a positive development,
but it isn’t predictive. The main U.S. objective in the
chemical-weapons deal was to avoid military action -- a goal
that is shared by Russian President Vladimir Putin.  At the same time, Putin was intent on helping Assad shore
up his own position. The complex and lengthy process of removing
Syria’s chemical weapons bought time for the regime. The U.S.
acquiesced, in a quid-pro-quo that could be interpreted as
exchanging the elimination of Syria’s chemical-weapons
capability for keeping Assad in power. Indeed, there are
indications that in the wake of the deal,  Russia  has  stepped up 
its weapons deliveries to Syria.  In addition, there is no indication Russia is looking for
alternatives to Assad. Given its support for the regime, and the
billions of dollars Russia holds in Syrian debt and government
contracts, it is reasonable to believe that no successive
government would grant Russia the privileged position it now
enjoys in Syria.  There is also the question of which rebel groups would
participate in talks. The Syrian regime has the advantage of
being unified and, with the support of  Russia and Iran , it would
be further legitimized by negotiations.  Divided Rebels  The rebels are divided, however. The main external group,
the  Syrian National Coalition , which operates from  Turkey , is
favorable to the U.S., but it is just one of many insurgent
organizations. The real powers are the opposition forces
fighting and organizing inside the country. Some of these are
acceptable to the West; others, of a more extreme jihadi bent,
aren’t. Unless the acceptable groups doing the fighting are
represented, the negotiations won’t appear legitimate to the
Syrian people and will fail to produce an authoritative
transitional government.  Kerry should remember that the  Hippocratic Oath  -- first do
no harm -- also applies to diplomacy. Just because a conference
can be convened doesn’t mean it should be. Before anything
substantial can be accomplished through negotiations, there are
some essential conditions to be met, including an understanding
with Russia that the purpose is to begin a process of transition
beyond the Assad government; a clear commitment to provide the
opposition with more money, military aid and training; and the
presence of a representative unified opposition.  A conference convened without these guiding principles
risks making matters worse by legitimizing a murderous regime
and showcasing a fractious and  dysfunctional  opposition.  If a second Geneva conference fails, it is unlikely another
could be held anytime soon. Then Syria’s fate won’t be decided
at a negotiating table in Switzerland but on the battlegrounds
of a seemingly endless, bloody and vicious civil war.  (Aaron David Miller, author of “The Much Too Promised
Land: America’s Elusive Search for Arab-Israeli Peace,” is vice
president for new initiatives at the Woodrow Wilson
International Center for Scholars, and has served as a Middle
East negotiator in Republican and Democratic administrations.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Aaron David Miller at  Aaron.Miller@wilsoncenter.org .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Alex Bruns at   abruns@bloomberg.net . 