-- Ecclestone Made ‘Corrupt’ Deal to Sell F1 Stake, Lawyer Says
-- B y   K i t   C h e l l e l
-- 2013-10-29T14:20:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-29/ecclestone-made-corrupt-deal-to-sell-f1-stake-lawyer-says.html
Bernie Ecclestone, the chief
executive officer of Formula One, was accused on the first day
of a London trial of making a “corrupt bargain” to ensure the
controlling stake in the sport’s parent company was sold to his
preferred bidder.  German media company  Constantin Medien AG (EV4)  is suing
Ecclestone over allegations that he paid bribes to German banker
Gerhard Gribkowsky in 2005 when F1 was sold to private equity
firm CVC Capital Partners Ltd. He wanted to ensure he remained
as chief executive of Formula One, which was in doubt at the
time, said Philip Marshall, a lawyer for Constantin.  Ecclestone, 83, has already been charged in Germany over
the scandal and the U.K. trial starts on the same day Swiss
prosecutors said they are investigating whether any laws were
broken in that country. Gribkowsky was convicted in Munich of
receiving a bribe last year and sentenced to 8 ½ years in
prison.  Ecclestone gave about $44 million to Gribkowsky, who
managed Bayerische Landesbank’s controlling stake in F1, then
concealed the payments using offshore companies in Mauritius and
the British Virgin Islands and “bogus documents,” Marshall,
told the court, citing prosecution documents from  Germany .  Ecclestone’s lawyers at Herbert Smith Frehills LLP in
London declined to comment, according to a spokesman for the
firm. He has said that he made the payments after Gribkowsky
threatened to tell U.K. tax officials about a family trust
controlled by Ecclestone’s wife at the time.  Constantin says it lost as much as $171 million because the
2005 deal undervalued its stake in the sport. The sale was made
without any marketing, independent valuation or competing bids,
Marshall said.  Ecclestone and CVC co-founder Donald Mackenzie are due to
testify at the trial in November.  The case is: Constantin Medien AG v. Bernard Ecclestone,
case no. 11-02586, High Court of Justice, Chancery Division.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kit Chellel in  London  at 
 cchellel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  