-- Medtronic Device Repairs Heart Valve With Low Stroke Risk
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2013-10-29T20:25:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-29/medtronic-device-repairs-heart-valve-with-low-stroke-risk.html
Medtronic Inc. (MDT) ’s CoreValve replaced
damaged aortic valves more safely than expected in patients who
can’t tolerate traditional open-heart surgery, leading U.S.
regulators to say it won’t need an advisory committee review.  The  Food and Drug Administration  found the study presented
today in  San Francisco  provided enough information to determine
if the valve should be sold in the U.S., Minneapolis-based
Medtronic said in a statement. The company now expects it will
get U.S. approval for extreme-risk patients by April.  The study, the first of CoreValve in the U.S., found 25.5
percent of patients died or suffered a stroke within a year
compared with the 43 percent estimated before the trial started.
Medtronic’s device will compete with  Edwards LifeSciences
Corp. (EW) ’s Sapien, the only rival available in the U.S. market that
analysts say is growing more slowly than anticipated.  “This was truly a patient population who wouldn’t be
suitable for surgical aortic valve replacement,” said Jeffrey Popma, director of interventional cardiology at the Beth Israel
Deaconess Medical Center in  Boston . “The positive clinical
outcomes and low complication rates set a high standard for what
transcatheter valves can achieve.”  Medtronic  shares  rose 1.5 percent to $58.50 at 4:05 p.m. in
 New York , the highest price since January 2006. Edwards, based
in  Irvine ,  California , fell 4.6 percent to $69.86.  Study Results  The valve improved quality of life and eased heart failure
symptoms, with 90 percent of patients posting marked improvement
in the measure used to gauge its severity, according to the
study presented at the  Transcatheter Cardiovascular Therapeutics 
conference. The device is already sold in  Europe . Twenty-two
percent of patients needed a pacemaker after the procedure.  There are about 300,000 people worldwide with  severe aortic
stenosis , a narrowing of the valve between the left ventricle
and the aorta. Blood can back up in the heart, leading to chest
pain, breathlessness and weakness. One in three patients can’t
tolerate the open-heart surgery that has been proven to improve
quality and lengthen life. Studies show this group has a 50
percent mortality rate at one year without treatment.  The low profitability of the procedures, especially for
smaller hospitals, may discourage sales of the Medtronic device,
 Glenn Novarro , an analyst at  RBC Capital Markets  in New York,
said today in a note to clients. The high cost of the device and
varying insurance reimbursement levels may be limiting its use
in the U.S., where Sapien got approval in 2011, he wrote.  More Choices  CoreValve will provide interventional cardiologists and
surgeons an alternative to Sapien, offering four different sizes
and a smaller catheter to insert the device, Popma said. The
higher rate of pacemaker implants with the valve contrasts with
lower levels of leakage around it, he said.  There was moderate leakage in 11.5 percent of patients at
one month. The self-expanding device continued to work itself
into the damaged valve after it was deployed, with leakage
falling to 4.1 percent at one year, Popma said.  The condition known as paravalvular leak has been linked to
higher death rates with rival devices from Edwards and others in
European studies. CoreValve patients with moderate leakage
weren’t more likely to die in the study.  “Most studies have suggested if there is a moderate or
severe degree of leakage around the valve that affects how long
the patients live,” said Popma, a principal investigator of the
trial who presented the results. “I think we didn’t find that
because we had the right-sized valve, and the nature of the
valve is that it continued to expand and reduce that leaking
over a year.”  The need for a pacemaker, higher than seen in studies with
Edwards’s Sapien, also didn’t increase the mortality risk, Popma
said in a telephone interview.  Trade Off  “What we did was reduce aortic regurgitation, which is
associated with late-term mortality, with a slightly higher
pacemaker rate that isn’t associated with late-term mortality,”
he said. “I think that’s a reasonable trade-off.”  Stroke  is one of the most dangerous complications of
treatment for aortic regurgitation, since it can leave patients
more debilitated than the original ailment. After one month, 2.4
percent of CoreValve patients had experienced a major stroke,
rising to 4.1 percent at one year. The risk is among the lowest
ever seen for such sick patients, Popma said.  CoreValve was approved in the European Union in 2007. It
has been used to treat more than 45,000 patients in 60
countries. Medtronic plans to present the findings from a lower-risk group of patients at the American College of Cardiology
meeting in March. The FDA will consider that group separately.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  