-- Egypt Brotherhood Not Responding to Plan, Minister Says
-- B y   M a r i a m   F a m
-- 2013-10-29T15:23:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-29/egypt-brotherhood-not-responding-to-plan-minister-says.html
Egypt ’s Muslim Brotherhood has
signaled no willingness to accept an official program that calls
for the renunciation of violence, Deputy Prime Minister Ziad Bahaa el-Din said.  “What I was hoping to do is to have a space open for
participation by all political parties and all political players
and the terms for joining this are to say, ‘We are renouncing
violence; we may not like the road map but we will work with the
road map,’” he told a small group of reporters in Cairo today.
“This signal has never come from the Brotherhood, whether in
jail or outside of jail.”  While the army-backed government installed after the ouster
of President Mohamed Mursi is pushing ahead with a political
blueprint that envisions constitutional amendments and new
elections, Mursi’s supporters have vowed to resist what they say
is the coup that toppled him and are refusing to recognize the
political road map.  The main alliance backing Mursi says it is committed to
peaceful means and many hundreds of his supporters have been
killed in clashes with the security forces during protests.  “I think the Brotherhood is responsible for the
continuation of the atmosphere of violence in Egypt,” Bahaa el-Din said. “Who is holding the gun and shooting -- I really
don’t have this level of information.”  Government officials have said they are committed to an
inclusive political process for those not involved in violence,
though Brotherhood supporters say a campaign that includes
arrests and asset freezes against the group’s leaders renders
such calls hollow.  “Do I believe that a security solution alone is capable of
taking Egypt forward? No,” Bahaa el-Din said. While current
tensions alone “will not cripple the economy,” the country
ultimately “needs to move toward a framework of political
accord.”  “It needs a political framework,” that “would be more
inclusive to everybody,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  