-- Heirs Win Back Nazi-Looted Art, Lose Others in Auction
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   H i c k l e y
-- 2013-10-29T12:19:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-29/heirs-win-back-nazi-looted-art-lose-others-in-auction.html
The heirs of Max Stern, a Jewish  art
dealer  who fled  Nazi Germany  after he was forced to close his
gallery, today announced the recovery of a painting he lost 76
years ago.  That is only half the story. They may have lost track of
two more pictures that Stern was forced to sell for good.  Andreas Achenbach’s 1837 landscape was offered at  Van Ham
Fine Art Auctions  in Cologne in May. Encouraged by Van Ham, the
consignor agreed to negotiate with Stern’s estate. The painting
was presented in a ceremony at the Canadian Embassy in Berlin.  Two other pictures in the Van Ham catalog of the May event
also belonged to Stern, yet the consignor of these refused to
negotiate with the dealer’s heirs.  He said his grandfather bought the works legally at the
1937 Nazi-forced auction of Stern’s gallery, according to a
person familiar with his letter to Van Ham.  “This kind of situation happens frequently,” said Anne
Webber, co-chair of the Commission for Looted Art in  Europe .
“Heirs are often dependent on the goodwill of private owners.
Some consignors may not want to deal with what their
grandparents did.”  Van Ham returned the two paintings to the consignor and
declined to reveal his name to Stern’s heirs, leaving them with
little hope of recovering the artworks.  ‘Reluctant’ Trade  The Stern estate’s experience spotlights the difficulties
heirs face in tracing and reclaiming the countless Nazi-looted
artworks that have vanished into German private collections,
even when they are offered for sale by auction houses.  “Members of the art trade have been reluctant to work with
claimants on the return of Holocaust-era works,” Clarence
Epstein, director of the  Max Stern Art Restitution Project  at
Concordia University in  Montreal , wrote in an e-mail.  While museums are morally accountable under  international
principles  endorsed by the German government on returning Nazi-looted art, German art dealers and auction houses often pursue
strictly legal arguments. Under German law, the statute of
limitations for theft expires after 30 years, and claimants have
little hope of winning title in court.  Max Stern took over his father’s Dusseldorf art gallery in
1934, a year after the Nazis seized power. Stern was informed in
1935 that as a Jew, he could no longer practice his profession.  After the forced sale of his gallery’s contents at the
 Lempertz  auction house in Cologne -- for which Stern never got
the revenue -- he fled to  London  in 1938, later making his way
to  Canada . He settled in Montreal and became one of the most
important art dealers in Canada.  Tracing Works  He died in 1987 without children, leaving the bulk of his
estate to three universities: Concordia and McGill in Montreal
and the  Hebrew University of Jerusalem . In 2002, the colleges
began a campaign to recover the lost art, creating the Max Stern
Art Restitution Project, administered by Concordia.  The two pictures returned to Van Ham’s consignor -- “Canal
in Dordrecht” by Hans Herrmann and Jakob Becker’s “Children’s
Festival in the Country” -- are among about 400 Stern’s heirs
are trying to trace.  They have recovered 11 so far. Epstein says most of the
rest are probably in German private collections.  “There are still thousands and thousands of works of
looted art that have not been returned and the art trade
continues to sell disputed works,” Webber said.  ‘Powerless Claimants’  “The claimants are powerless in the process. The balance
of power is in favor of the possessor of the art.”  While  Sotheby’s (BID)  and Christie’s International have teams of
researchers checking provenance, the smaller German houses often
rely uniquely on the services of the Art Loss Register, a
London-based company with a database of stolen art.  Yet all three Stern paintings in the Van Ham catalog for
the May sale have been listed since July 2005 with photographs
on  lostart.de , the German government’s database of art missing
after World War II, according to Michael Franz, who
administrates the website.  Van Ham submits all catalogs to the Art Loss Register, Anne
Srikiow, a spokeswoman for Van Ham, said by telephone from
Cologne. If there is any reason to be skeptical about a work’s
provenance, the company conducts some basic checks, she said.  “We can’t do it with every piece,” Srikiow said. It is
not company policy to routinely check lostart.de, she said.  In contrast, Sotheby’s has four provenance researchers,
said Richard Aronowitz, who heads the London research team. They
check the painting itself, the company’s own database built up
over 15 years, the artist’s catalogue raisonne and the main
lists of lost works published by national governments.  Loss Register  The findings are sent to the Art Loss Register, which runs
a second check.  “Of say 5,000 lots that we examine a year, 50 to 60 may
raise concerns serious enough that we have to send someone to
investigate in archives abroad,” Aronowitz said. “Out of those
maybe 10 to 15 will be unrestituted Nazi-looted artworks.”  When disputed works come up at auction in  Germany ,
claimants may not be able to prevent a sale even if they succeed
in tracking down the work.  In 2010, heirs of the painter Max Liebermann failed to
prevent the sale of a sketch by the artist at the Hamburg
auction house Hauswedell & Nolte.  The heirs’ lawyer wrote requesting more research before the
sale of the sketch, which he said was probably seized by the
Nazis or sold under duress. The auction house argued that the
consignor had proven legal title and said the claim was
unfounded.  Return to Consignor  Where Sotheby’s keeps hold of disputed pieces to encourage
consignors to negotiate, Van Ham returns them to the consignor.
Srikiow said German data protection laws prevent the company
from passing the names of consignors of Nazi-looted art to
claimants.  For foreign buyers, purchasing prewar art at auction in
Germany is a case of “caveat emptor,” said Christian Bauschke,
a lawyer at Bauschke Braeuer in Berlin.  Bauschke represents the  New York  dealer Richard Feigen, who
in 2009 agreed to return a picture to the Max Stern estate that
he had purchased from the Kunsthaus Lempertz nine years earlier.
The work was seized by U.S. customs. He is now seeking
compensation from the auction house in a lawsuit scheduled to be
heard by a court in Cologne in December.  Art Crime  The German police also can take action, Rene Allonge, the
officer who leads the art crime department of the Berlin force
said by telephone.  “In cases of theft and confiscation dating back to World
War II, the criminal act is too far in the past, the perpetrator
is probably dead, and the statutes of limitations have
expired,” Allonge said. “But even in such cases, it is
possible to open an investigation on suspicion of handling
stolen goods.”  Proving that the suspect was aware the object in question
was stolen can be very difficult, Allonge said.  “But police can search an auction house’s premises and
expose the identity of the consignor,” he said. That can help
heirs pursue title in civil courts, he said.  Muse highlights include  Scott Reyburn  on the art market,
 Greg Evans  on television and  Stephanie Green’s  D.C. Scene.  To contact the writer on the story:
Catherine Hickley in Berlin at 
 chickley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 