-- Electronic Arts Projects Quarterly Profit Trailing Views
-- B y   C l i f f   E d w a r d s
-- 2013-10-29T20:05:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-29/electronic-arts-projects-quarterly-profit-trailing-views.html
Electronic Arts Inc. (EA) , the No. 2 U.S.
video-game maker, said profit rose in the second quarter while
predicting earnings in the current period that trailed estimates
as some revenue on games for new consoles is deferred.  Profit, excluding some items, is projected to be about
$1.22 a share, in the three months ending in December, the
 Redwood City , California-based company said today in a
statement. That forecast is below the $1.32 average analyst
estimate, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Sales in the
current quarter are projected to be $1.65 billion, also below an
average analyst estimate of $1.75 billion.  “There’s still a lot of uncertainty in the business,”
Chief Financial Officer Blake Jorgensen said in an interview.
“But we’ve got our heads down and are delivering what we think
are fantastic products in the marketplace.”  Electronic Arts is transitioning from a maker of games sold
mostly at retail stores to one that plans to generate the bulk
of its revenue from digital downloads within the next five
years. The third-quarter projection accommodates increased
marketing costs and revenue from some games consumers will be
purchasing for new consoles that will be deferred until the
fourth quarter, Jorgensen said.  Electronic Arts fell 2.8 percent to $24.13 at the close
today in  New York . The shares are up 66 percent this year on
optimism that new CEO  Andrew Wilson  can deliver solid digital
results while benefiting from the introduction of next-generation consoles next month from Sony Corp. and Microsoft
Corp.  ‘Real Racing’  In the second quarter ended in September, profit excluding
some items totaled 33 cents a share, compared with 15 cents a
year earlier, Electronic Arts said. That beat the average
analyst estimate of 12 cents gain. Sales before changes in
deferred revenue fell 3.7 percent to $1.04 billion, surpassing
an estimated projection of $977.7 million.  Online sales rose 39 percent to $450 million, on titles
including “Plants vs. Zombies 2,” “FIFA” and “Real Racing
3.” Like other game makers, Electronic Arts has reduced the
number of packaged titles it makes for consoles to devote more
resources to the Web.  The net loss in the three months ended Sept. 30 narrowed to
$273 million, or 89 cents a share, from $381 million, or $1.21 a
year earlier.  Electronic Arts said yesterday that  Tiger Woods  will no
longer be associated with its golf title, after the maker of
“Tiger Woods  PGA Tour ” made a mutual decision with the golfer
to end their 15-year partnership.  Last month, the company said it has agreed to stop making
college football games after settling a lawsuit brought by
former players from the National College Athletic Association
who said they weren’t being compensated for their likenesses.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cliff Edwards in  San Francisco  at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  