-- Electronic Arts Parts Ways With Tiger Woods on Golf Title
-- B y   C l i f f   E d w a r d s
-- 2013-10-29T15:07:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-29/electronic-arts-parts-ways-with-tiger-woods-on-golf-title.html
Electronic Arts Inc. (EA) , the second-largest U.S. video-game publisher, announced that  Tiger Woods 
will no longer be associated with its golf title.  The maker of “Tiger Woods PGA Tour” made a mutual
decision with the golfer to end their 15-year partnership, Daryl Holt, a general manager for EA Sports, said yesterday in a blog
posting that showed screen shots of its next version.  “We’ve always been big fans of Tiger and we wish him
continued success in all his future endeavors,” wrote Holt, who
said the company will continue to use the PGA Tour name.  Sports games, including “Madden NFL” and “FIFA Soccer,”
are among the company’s top-grossing titles. Electronic Arts
began selling “Tiger Woods PGA Tour 14” in March, along with a
historic Masters edition.  John Reseburg, a spokesman for  Redwood City , California-based Electronic Arts, didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail
seeking comment.  Electronic Arts fell 2.1 percent to $24.31 at 11:03 a.m. in
New York. The shares had risen 71 percent this year as of
yesterday.  The stock has advanced as new Chief Executive Officer
 Andrew Wilson  repositions the company from primarily a maker of
packaged titles into one that sells more of its products on the
Web. Electronic Arts reports fiscal second-quarter results today
after the New York close.  Woods, 37, hasn’t won a major title since the 2008 U.S.
Open. In 2009, he lost endorsement deals with AT&T Inc.,
 Accenture Plc (ACN)  and TAG Heuer watches following a marital scandal.
Electronic Arts said at the time that the negative publicity
didn’t affect sales.  Athlete Likenesses  Electronic Arts also has agreed to stop making college
football games after settling a lawsuit brought by former
players from the National College Athletic Association who said
they weren’t being compensated for their likenesses.  In July, Woods signed his fourth golf endorsement deal with
 Nike Inc. (NKE) , the world’s largest sporting-goods company. Woods has
endorsed Nike’s products since turning professional in 1996 and
re-signed with the company in 2001 and 2006.  Woods, who’s No. 1 in the Official World Golf Ranking, was
voted the U.S. PGA Tour’s Player of the Year for the first time
in four years last season. He won five titles and led all
players with $8.6 million in prize money. It was the 11th time
he’s won the PGA Tour’s Player of the Year award since he turned
professional.  Woods has 79 career PGA Tour victories, three shy of  Sam
Snead ’s record of 82, and his 14 major championship wins are
four behind the record held by  Jack Nicklaus .  In March, Golf Digest magazine said Woods earned $77
million off the course in endorsements in 2012, while Sports
Illustrated reported Woods’s 2012 earnings at closer to $40
million. Woods’s agent,  Mark Steinberg , has called such rankings
inaccurate.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cliff Edwards in San Francisco at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  