-- Emerging Stocks Advance After India Eases Liquidity Curbs
-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r   a n d   S h a r o n   C h o
-- 2013-10-29T21:08:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-29/emerging-stocks-advance-after-india-eases-liquidity-curbs.html
Emerging-market stocks rose for a
second day, led by financial companies, as India’s benchmark
equity gauge jumped to a three-year high after the nation’s
central bank took steps to boost cash supply for lenders.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index added 0.2 percent to
1,036.76, extending its monthly advance to 5 percent.  ICICI Bank
Ltd. (ICICIBC)  jumped 5.9 percent, driving India’s S&P BSE Sensex to the
highest level since November 2010. The PX index led gains among
major developing-nation gauges as political parties promising to
raise company taxes failed to gain control of the Czech
parliament in general elections. The won approached a two-year
high as  South Korea ’s current-account surplus widened.  The  Reserve Bank of India  cut the marginal standing
facility rate to 8.75 percent from 9 percent, making short-term
funds cheaper for banks. The cost was raised in July in an
emergency move to stem the drop in the currency. India’s central
bank also raised key borrowing costs to fight accelerating
inflation. The  Federal Reserve  begins a two-day meeting to
consider whether to start trimming its bond purchases.  “There are bits of news that are helping individual
markets, such as in India and the  Czech Republic , and when put
into the greater EM context, markets are receptive to that
positive news,”  John Lomax , emerging-market strategist at HSBC
Securities Inc., said by phone from London. “The big story is
how easy monetary policy will be -- not necessarily when
tapering may occur -- as this will help current-account deficit
countries which are supported by low U.S. rates.”  Monthly Move  The gauge for developing nations was poised for a second
monthly advance, the longest winning streak since January. It
trades at 10.7 times projected earnings, compared with the
 valuation  of 14.4 for the MSCI World Index.  The iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index exchange-traded
fund advanced 0.3 percent to $43.14. The Chicago Board Options
Exchange Emerging Markets ETF Volatility Index, a measure of
options prices on the fund and expectations of price swings,
decreased 0.2 percent to 20.82.  Brazil ’s Ibovespa fell from a one-week high as  Eike
Batista ’s  OGX Petroleo e Gas Participacoes SA  sank after ending
talks with bondholders without an agreement, outweighing gains
by lender Itau Unibanco Holding SA. Plane builder  Embraer SA (EMBR3) 
dropped after JetBlue Airways Corp. said it will defer purchases
of 24 aircraft. Itau led financial stocks higher after posting
profit that exceeded analysts’ estimates.  Russia, India  Russian shares rallied for a third day as OAO Bashneft
climbed 5 percent after the oil producer recommended a debut
interim dividend, restoring investor returns after the latest
full-year payout was cut. The PX index jumped 2.7 percent, the
most since January 2012. Komercni Banka AS, a unit of Societe
Generale SA, increased 4.1 percent to a record.  India ’s S&P BSE Sensex added 1.7 percent, following a five-day decline. ICICI Bank surged to its highest level since July
2.  State Bank of India  advanced 3.9 percent, driving the S&P BSE
Bankex Index to its highest close since July 15.  China’s stocks declined and money-market rates climbed to
the highest levels since July as the central bank’s first
injection of funds in two weeks failed to alleviate a cash
squeeze. The Shanghai Composite Index slipped 0.2 percent after
advancing as much as 1.4 percent earlier today.  The won also advanced after Trade Minister Yoon Sang Jick
said  Asia ’s fourth-largest economy will likely post record
exports in October, before figures due Nov. 1.  The premium investors demand to own emerging-market debt
over U.S. Treasuries rose two basis point, or 0.02 percentage
point, to 316 basis points, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zahra Hankir in  London  at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net ;
Sharon Cho in Seoul at 
 ccho28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  