-- End Sequestration Now
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-10-29T14:31:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-29/end-sequestration-now.html
The history of budget conclaves is,
at best, discouraging. High-level negotiations set to begin
tomorrow and end in six weeks aren’t likely to improve the
record. That is, unless  lawmakers  focus on doing the one thing
they all claim they want -- helping the economy grow faster.  It’s possible to accomplish this quickly, creating jobs in
the process, and it comes down to two simple words: End
sequestration.  The $80 billion in across-the-board cuts in discretionary
spending this year (increasing to $109 billion come January and
adding up to $1.2 trillion through 2021) are exactly what the
economy doesn’t need right now. In August, the  Congressional
Budget Office   said  that, by canceling sequestration for the next
14 months, lawmakers could add 1 million jobs and increase gross
domestic product by 0.7 percent. There can be little doubt that
sequestration is doing more harm than good to the economy.  Nor can there be much doubt about the response to this line
of reasoning: Yes,  job creation  is important, but so is  deficit
reduction . There are at least two answers to this argument.  One, deficit projections for the next seven years without
sequestration  are lower now  than they were when the cuts were
originally imposed. That is, if the goal of sequestration was to
reduce the deficit by a certain amount by a certain date, then
that goal can now be achieved without sequestration.  Sequestration has undoubtedly helped shrink the deficit,
which the CBO  estimates  will hit $642 billion, or 3.9 percent of
gross domestic product, this fiscal year. It was almost 10
percent of GDP in 2010. The red ink is expected to keep receding
until it reaches just 2 percent of GDP in 2015.  Over the next decade, discretionary spending will decline
to about 5 percent of GDP from just over 7 percent because of
repeated rounds of cuts and, to a lesser extent, sequestration.
In 2023, such spending -- which encompasses things as varied as
research grants, funding for the National Park Service and Head
Start, and prescription-drug approvals -- will be at its lowest
level relative to output since 1962.  Two, there is a time for deficit cutting, and now is not
it. The U.S. certainly needs to rein in its spending habits. But
the economic case against sequestration this year and next is
clear-cut. The CBO, for example, says rapid deficit reduction
has harmed employment and economic growth at a time when
“output is so far below its potential level that the  Federal
Reserve  is keeping short-term  interest rates  near zero.”  At any rate, the deficit will grow in the medium term --
with or without a pause in sequestration. Interest rates will
rebound eventually and push up payments to bondholders. More
important, the pressures of an aging population, rising health-care costs and new federal subsidies for health insurance will
cause mandatory spending to increase as a percentage of GDP
after 2018.  And that brings up another problem with sequestration:
Congress is looking for cutbacks in all the wrong places.
Focusing on 5 percent of the economy means little at a time when
health-care and retirement programs are mushrooming.  That has to change. Congress has several years to figure
out how to tackle the real problem. For now, though, draining
$109 billion from the economy is akin to using leeches. Which
was about as effective for treating fevers in 19th century
 Europe  as sequestration is for speeding economic growth today.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 