-- Energy Future Said to Add New Directors as Vote on Default Nears
-- B y   B e t h   J i n k s   a n d   R i c h a r d   B r a v o
-- 2013-10-30T00:01:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-29/energy-future-said-to-add-directors-as-board-default-vote-nears.html
Energy Future Holdings Corp., the
power producer preparing for bankruptcy, added two directors to
its boards before a vote this week on whether to make a crucial
interest payment, said a person with knowledge of the situation.  At least one of the newly appointed board members is
independent, said two people, who asked not to be named because
the process isn’t public.  The former TXU Corp., the subject of the largest leveraged
buyout ever, faces a Nov. 1 deadline to make about $270 million
in  interest payments . Directors of companies approaching
bankruptcy are required to shift their priorities to benefit
creditors rather than equity holders.  “You want independent directors to sign off on those
decisions,” said  Erik Gordon , a professor at the  University of
Michigan ’s Ross School of Business in  Ann Arbor . “You don’t
want the decisions to be attacked as being self-interested
rather than for the benefit of the company and its creditors.”  Adam McGill, a spokesman for Dallas-based Energy Future,
declined to comment.  Senior lenders want Energy Future to file for Chapter 11
before making the coupon  payments  to boost their recoveries.
Creditors have been negotiating this week over how to divide
ownership and new  debt  in a restructuring of the biggest power
plant owner in  Texas .  Secured Lenders  Secured lenders including  Oaktree Capital Group LLC (OAK) ,  Apollo
Global Management LLC (APO)  and Centerbridge Capital Partners LLC lead
a group poised to seize majority ownership of a restructured
Energy Future. They’re in discussions with an enlarged group of
other debt holders and the company’s existing owners.  KKR & Co., Goldman Sachs Capital Partners and TPG Capital
led the $48 billion takeover in 2007. The investment was
predicated on rising  gas prices . Instead, they fell as the
development of hydraulic fracturing created a surge in U.S. gas
supplies, triggering 10 straight quarterly  losses  at the company
since 2011.  TXU’s acquirers paid $69.25 a share, a 15 percent premium
when the deal was announced on Feb. 26, 2007. Natural gas prices
plunged 72 percent from a July 2008 peak as shale drilling
expanded, depressing rates the company could charge for its
power. Power prices depend on gas costs in most markets because
plants that use the fuel usually provide the marginal power
needed to meet demand. Coal is easy to store, and plants powered
by it are usually slow to be turned on and off.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Beth Jinks in  New York  at 
 bjinks1@bloomberg.net ;
Richard Bravo in New York at 
 rbravo5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  