-- England’s Hart Could Lose City Spot, Mirror Says: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-10-29T08:33:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-29/england-s-hart-could-lose-city-spot-mirror-says-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  Hart Stopper  Manchester City goalkeeper  Joe Hart  may lose his starting
place if understudy Costel Pantilimon impresses in tomorrow’s
League Cup match at  Newcastle United , the  Daily Mirror reported .  City manager Manuel Pellegrini told Pantilimon he has the
chance to keep the starting spot for the Nov. 2 Premier League
game against Norwich City after  England  national team goalie
Hart made his ninth error of 2013 in a loss at Chelsea two days
ago, the Mirror added.  Liverpool Targets  Liverpool is vying with Tottenham Hotspur to sign FC Basel
winger Mohamed Salah and also try to hire Derby Country’s
teenage midfielder Will Hughes, the  Daily Mail reported .  The Reds plan to strengthen their squad in the January
transfer window as they aim to make an impact on the Premier
League title race, the newspaper added.  Agger Angry  Liverpool defender  Daniel Agger  said he may leave the club
if he can’t win back his place in the starting line-up, the
 Daily Express reported .  “I’m here to play football, nothing else,” the Express
cited Agger as saying. “So if I don’t play football then I
don’t want to be here anymore.”  Fletcher Returns  Manchester United midfielder  Darren Fletcher  returned after
10 months out with a serious bowel condition to play for the
club’s under-21 team, the  Daily Mail reported .  Fletcher, who had surgery on ulcerative colitis, has been
in full training since mid-September and played 67 minutes in
last night’s 2-2 draw with Fulham, the newspaper added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  