-- Merkel-SPD Agree to German Push for a European Transaction Tax
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e   a n d   B i r g i t   J e n n e n
-- 2013-10-29T13:39:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-29/merkel-spd-agree-to-german-push-for-a-european-transaction-tax.html
Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s party and
the Social Democrats reached an initial accord to push for a
broad-based European financial-transaction tax as part of
coalition talks aimed at a new German government.  A working group negotiating European policy in Berlin, one
of at least 12 meeting after Merkel’s Christian Democratic-led
bloc and the SPD began negotiations last week, agreed to give
the levy new impetus as part of any coalition agreement. The two
factions are trying to hammer out terms for a “grand
coalition” in negotiations that may stretch through November.  “We’ve agreed on a broad-based financial transaction tax
at a low  tax rate ,” SPD lawmaker Axel Schaefer, who sits on the
European working group, said in a phone interview today. “I’m
optimistic that on the basis of such a coalition agreement, we
will be able to move ahead in  Europe .”  Merkel’s previous government championed a transaction tax
among 11 nations in the euro area that would charge a 0.1
percent rate for stock and bond trades and 0.01 percent for
derivatives transactions, with some exemptions. The SPD
campaigned on the issue and has made the introduction of such a
tax a condition for joining a government with Merkel.  Schaefer, who is a deputy leader of the SPD parliamentary
caucus, said the tax proposals consider how to handle any impact
on pension funds. Agreements in the German coalition working
group will be passed to the main group of 75 negotiators, which
is meeting tomorrow in Berlin.  Any plan to levy an FTT in the European Union will confront
legal hurdles. EU lawyers have clashed over whether an 11-state
levy, as proposed, is legal under the 28-nation bloc’s governing
treaties, with skeptics saying the plan would discriminate
against member countries not participating.  The feud centers on proposals for worldwide tax collection
on trades involving a bank or financial security based in one of
the participating nations. Supporters of the FTT say it will
raise revenue while discouraging market speculation, while
opponents contend it would hurt the economy with little gain.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net ;
Birgit Jennen in Berlin at 
 bjennen1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  