-- Esprit Climbs After Hiring Executive From Zara
-- B y   V i n i c y   C h a n   a n d   R a c h e l   E v a n s
-- 2013-10-30T03:55:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-29/esprit-hires-ex-zara-executive-rafael-pastor-as-product-chief.html
Esprit Holdings Ltd. (330) , the clothing
retailer rebuilding its brand, jumped the most in almost a year
in Hong Kong trading after hiring a former Zara executive to
manage product creation and design.  The stock  rose  as much as 7.8 percent to HK$14.1, headed
for the biggest gain since Nov. 15, 2012, after saying it
appointed Rafael Pastor Espuch as chief product officer.  The company in September predicted a return to
 profitability  in the fiscal year ending June, after reporting
its first annual loss since a 1993 listing amid a revenue slump
and competition from  Inditex SA (ITX) ’s Zara and  Hennes & Mauritz AB. (HMB) 
Retail sales in Europe, Esprit’s biggest market, jumped 5.6
percent in local currency terms in the three months through
September as stores performed better.  “Esprit has put a strong management team in place,” Tanuj Shori, a Hong Kong-based analyst at Nomura wrote in a research
note published today, “We estimate that it would still take
several quarters, or even years, to overhaul the entire supply
chain.”  Pastor worked for 18 years at Zara, according to a
 statement  from Esprit to Hong Kong’s stock exchange yesterday.
Inditex is the world’s biggest clothing retailer.  Pastor will join Jose Manuel Martinez Gutierrez, who also
worked at Zara before becoming Esprit’s chief executive officer.
The Hong Kong company that makes 79 percent of its sales in
Europe lost two top executives in 48 hours in June last year.  Retail Shift  Pastor replaces Melody Harris-Jensbach, who quit earlier
this month and will be a consultant on several projects next
year.  While Europe retail sales improved, Esprit yesterday posted
a 5.2 percent decline in fiscal first-quarter overall revenue to
HK$6.55 billion ($845 million), according to a separate  filing 
to Hong Kong’s stock exchange. The decline was largely because
of a 14.5 percent drop in retail sales in Asia, the company
said.  Esprit was helped in Europe by its “shift from the
wholesale to retail-driven model,” said Nomura’s Shori.
Comparable store sales, which strip out the effect of newly
opened locations, rose 1.6 percent for Esprit’s retail
operations in its fiscal first quarter.  The stock traded at HK$13.76 as of 11:50 a.m. Hong Kong
time. It has advanced 28 percent this year, compared with a 1.7
percent gain for the benchmark Hang Seng Index.  Harris-Jensbach will leave Esprit on tomorrow to pursue
“new and broader” opportunities, the company said in a
separate filing last week. Pastor will start as chief product
officer on Nov. 4.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Vinicy Chan in Hong Kong at 
 vchan91@bloomberg.net ;
Rachel Evans in Hong Kong at 
 revans43@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  