-- EU Says Countries Given Budget Should Implement Reforms
-- B y   I a n   W i s h a r t
-- 2013-10-29T16:30:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-29/eu-says-countries-given-budget-should-implement-reforms.html
European Union countries that are
given extra time to meet the bloc’s budget targets should use
that leeway period to push through economic reforms, the
European Commission said.  The EU’s executive arm said countries that are granted more
time to bring their  budget deficit  below 3 percent of gross
domestic product, as required by the bloc’s rules, are expected
to implement policy changes in return. The commission was
responding to remarks made yesterday by Dutch Finance Minister
Jeroen Dijsselbloem, who called for  specific conditions  to be
imposed on countries if their deadline is extended.  “If a member state has been given a deadline extension for
excessive deficit there’s obviously the expectation that they
take the necessary steps and the necessary additional structural
reforms,”  Chantal Hughes , a commission spokeswoman, told
reporters today in Brussels.  The Netherlands, together with Spain, France, Poland,
Portugal and Slovenia, won extra time in May to meet deficit
goals. The commission is currently scrutinizing draft budgets
for each of the euro-area countries apart from those in a
bailout program, after nations with the strongest fiscal
positions, such as AAA rated  Germany , demanded oversight at EU
level.  In an e-mailed statement, the commission said that all
countries for which the EU recommended a deadline extension
should use the time to implement structural reforms. It said
that under tougher budget rules introduced in May countries
under surveillance for excessive deficit had to identify
specific measures to ensure that the deficit is kept under
control.  Toughen Rules  For Dijsselbloem, who leads the group of euro-area finance
ministers, the stricter rules do not go far enough. He said that
deadline extensions were “now granted without any conditions.”  “The agenda should be based on more than just peer review
and peer pressure,” he said in a speech in  Madrid .  “In future cases, I propose to link deviation of fiscal
targets in the stability and growth pact to the concrete
achievement of reforms,” he said. “In other words only if a
country pushes forward crucial reforms can the deadline for
fiscal targets be extended.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian Wishart in Brussels at 
 iwishart@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  