-- European Aerospace Earnings Seen at Risk From Dollar Weakness
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-10-29T13:36:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-29/european-aerospace-earnings-seen-at-risk-from-dollar-weakness.html
European aerospace and defense
companies from  Rolls-Royce Holdings Plc (RR/)  to  Finmeccanica SpA (FNC)  face
an increased risk to earnings as the dollar weakens against the
euro and pound, according to industry analysts.  Dollar weakness “has probably created the biggest single
macro risk to our positive stance on the European commercial
aerospace stocks,” Ben Fidler, a London-based analysts at
Deutsche Bank AG said in a note today. “Share prices could be
vulnerable if current U.S. dollar weakness were to be sustained
or worsen further.”  European commercial aerospace companies are exposed to
dollar swings with most of their revenue generated in the
greenback while costs are accrued in local currency. The dollar
slid to a two-year low against the euro last week amid concern
that U.S. growth was hampered by a government shutdown earlier
this month. Companies such as Airbus-parent  European Aeronautic,
Defence & Space Co. (EAD)  and  Zodiac Aerospace SA (ZC)  use hedging
contracts to protect against exchange-rate volatility.  “The level of unhedged open exposure is the highest for
Zodiac,” Fidler said. “Safran and Rolls-Royce due to their
high hedging levels have the least short-term earnings
sensitivity” to exchange rate changes.  Defense companies, which generate a large portion of sales
from the Pentagon, also face pressure as they repatriate
profits. Finmeccanica has the largest impact linked to its U.S.-
based DRS Technologies Inc. unit, UBS analyst Charles Armitage
said in a note today.  Hedged Positions  Sustained dollar weakness may also affect companies with
large hedging positions, such as EADS and Rolls-Royce, Armitage
said. “In the long term, Rolls-Royce has the largest
fundamental impact, with 1 cent moving the fair value by about 8
pence per share,” he said.  EADS,  Safran SA (SAF) , and  MTU Aero Engines Holding AG (MTX)  are at
risk from a strong euro as dollar hedging positions unwind,
Armitage said.  EADS’s hedge portfolio stood at $82.1 billion at mid-year
with an average hedge rate of $1.36 per euro for the last six
months, according to the company.  The dollar gained 0.1 percent to $1.3768 per euro at 1:30
p.m. in London after falling to $1.3832 on Oct. 25, the lowest
since November 2011.  Rolls-Royce, which sees a 10 million pound ($16 million)
impact on profit from a 1 cent movement in the dollar against
the pound, had a hedge book of $26.7 billion at an average rate
of $1.59 as of June 30.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in  London  at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  