-- Ex-CIA Deputy Morell Says Snowden Forcing Healthy Review
-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 2013-10-29T17:17:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-29/ex-cia-deputy-morell-says-snowden-did-extensive-damage.html
Former CIA Deputy Director Michael Morell said the one good thing to come from Edward Snowden’s
disclosure of U.S. surveillance programs is a healthy re-examination of the top-secret operations.  “It is a good thing for an organization, or a community
organization, to scrub themselves, to take a hard look at what
it is they’re doing,” Morell, a 33-year veteran of the U.S. spy
agency, said today at a forum in Washington sponsored by
Bloomberg Government. “That’s exactly what the president is
doing. It’s exactly what Congress is doing, and it’s what the
president has asked the review board to do.”  Morell, 55, who retired in August after twice serving as
acting director of the Central Intelligence Agency, is among
President  Barack Obama ’s appointees to a panel reviewing covert
operations by the National Security Agency after Snowden, a
former NSA contractor, disclosed documents on its surveillance
programs.  Most recently, news reports based on disclosures by Snowden
said that the NSA tapped the phone calls of allies such as
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel , triggering protests around the
world.  Morell declined today to say whether spying on allies is
necessary or what damage the latest revelations have caused.  “In my mind, this guy is not a hero,” Morell said of
Snowden, because he “violated the law and violated the trust
that was placed in him.”  Snowden’s disclosures caused “extensive” damage, Snowden
said, “the most damage that I have ever seen from a
disclosure.”  Feinstein’s Inquiry  Senator  Dianne Feinstein , chairman of the Senate
intelligence committee, said in a statement yesterday that her
panel plans to conduct an investigation into all intelligence
collection proposals.  She said the committee “was not satisfactorily informed”
of the eavesdropping on the leaders of allies.  “It is my understanding that President Obama was not aware
 Chancellor Merkel ’s communications were being collected since
2002,” said Feinstein, a California Democrat. “That is a big
problem.”  Morell served as acting director of the CIA when  Leon Panetta  left the post to become secretary of defense and again
after retired General David Petraeus resigned in the midst of an
adultery scandal.  Briefing Bush  Morell was with President  George W. Bush  on the day of the
terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, and was with Obama on May
1, 2011, when U.S. Navy SEALs killed  Osama bin Laden . After that
successful raid in  Pakistan , Morell said, Obama asked him to
brief Bush about the operation. Morell said he talked with Bush
for two and a half hours.  “It was closure for him, as it was for me,” Morell said.  The CIA’s former No. 2 official also said his concerns
about terrorism focus chiefly on  Syria  and  Afghanistan .  The greatest risk in Syria, he said, may be the collapse of
the state, in which case it becomes a safe haven for al-Qaeda.  “They’re thinking of using Syria as a launching pad for
attacks against the U.S.,” Morell said of al-Qaeda.  On Afghanistan, the danger is that al-Qaeda will grow
stronger by finding safe havens in areas controlled by the
Taliban, he said.  In that case, “there is a risk the threat to the homeland
will re-emerge to a level that is significant again,” Morell
said.  Asked to describe any misperceptions about the CIA, the
former deputy director said, “We are not  Matt Damon  and we are
not rogue.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  