-- Texas Seeks Emergency Stay to Implement Abortion Limits
-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 2013-10-29T17:42:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-29/texas-seeks-emergency-stay-to-implement-abortion-limits.html
Texas  asked a federal appeals court
in  New Orleans  for an emergency order blocking a U.S. judge’s
ruling yesterday in Austin striking down some state abortion
restrictions as it seeks to enforce new limits on the procedure
that were set to take effect today.  The state asked the appeals court to temporarily block the
Austin judge’s order, which throws out a law requiring doctors
to have hospital admitting privileges within 30 miles of where
they perform abortions.  Texas asked the court to rule by tonight, so the measure
can be implemented immediately. The state also asked the court
to expedite its appeal for hearing in January.  “There is no evidence –- and no findings in the district
court’s opinion -- that any woman will face any obstacles to
obtaining an abortion if the law takes effect,” Texas’s lawyers
said in the filing today in New Orleans appellate court.  Planned Parenthood  and a coalition of abortion providers
convinced the federal judge in Austin that enough abortion
providers lacked hospital-admitting privileges that many clinics
would be forced to close, leaving women in wide swaths of the
state without access to the procedure.  Lawyers for the abortion providers today urged the appeals
court to deny Texas’s bid to block the lower-court ruling and
allow the state restrictions to take effect.  ‘Decimate Availability’  “Allowing the admitting privileges requirement to go into
effect, even for a few weeks or months, would decimate the
availability of abortion services in the state, as the
undisputed evidence showed that one-third of the state’s
providers cannot comply,” Janet Crepps, a lawyer for the
providers, said in a filing today.  “The result would be that one in three Texas women seeking
abortion will be unable to access abortion during that time, and
some may have to carry unwanted pregnancies to term. Others will
face increased travel burdens and costs, and have to wait longer
for procedures, increasing the risk of complications,” Crepps
said.  Texas’s new rule “does not bear a rational relationship to
the legitimate right of the state in preserving and promoting
fetal life or a woman’s health,” U.S. District Judge Lee Yeakel
said in a ruling yesterday in Austin. Yeakel declared the
measure unconstitutional as a “substantial obstacle” in the
path of women seeking abortions.  FDA Protocols  Yeakel also partially struck down another abortion
limitation passed by Texas lawmakers earlier this year. The
judge said Texas was within its rights to require doctors to
follow FDA protocols when administering abortion-inducing drugs,
even though the plaintiffs argued safer methods of dispensing
the medications have been developed. Yeakel said the state’s
restrictions won’t apply in cases where doctors believe that
following the newer medication procedures are necessary to
safeguard a pregnant woman’s health.  “Individual doctors do not have a constitutional right to
second-guess the FDA’s medical judgments, and the Constitution
provides no remedy simply because a judge concludes that the FDA
has been too slow to approve a drug or update a protocol,”
state lawyers said in their filing. Texas asked the court to
stay that portion of Yeakel’s ruling as well.  The appellate case is Planned Parenthood v. Abbott,
13-51008,  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Fifth Circuit (New
Orleans). The underlying case is Planned Parenthood of Greater
Texas Surgical Health Services v. Abbott, 13-cv-00862, U.S.
District Court, Western District of Texas (Austin).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  