-- Texas Abortion Ruling May Begin Climb to Supreme Court
-- B y   E l i s e   Y o u n g   a n d   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2013-10-29T05:16:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-29/texas-abortion-ruling-may-begin-climb-to-supreme-court.html
A federal judge struck down a  Texas 
law requiring abortion doctors to be affiliated with local
hospitals, a tactic tried by opponents in several states to
restrict the procedure, beginning what may be a climb to the
U.S.  Supreme Court .  U.S. District Judge Lee Yeakel in Austin ruled that
compulsory affiliation “does not bear a rational relationship
to the legitimate right of the state in preserving and promoting
fetal life or a woman’s health.”  Texas is the most populous state to pass comprehensive
clinic regulations. The legislation signed in July by Republican
Governor  Rick Perry  requires abortion facilities to become
outpatient surgical centers and -- until Yeakel ruled otherwise
-- that their doctors have admitting privileges at nearby
hospitals. At least three clinics shut because of it, bringing
closings in the state to at least six since 2011.  “The state has already appealed the court’s ruling,” said
Lauren Bean, a spokeswoman for Texas Attorney General  Greg Abbott , a Republican who is running to succeed Perry. “As
everyone -- including the trial court judge -- has acknowledged,
this is a matter that will ultimately be resolved by the
appellate courts or the U.S. Supreme Court.”  The Texas ruling was only a partial victory for abortion-rights advocates. Yeakel allowed the state to enforce
restrictions on using drugs to terminate pregnancy, except when
the mother’s health is at extreme risk.  ‘Protect Life’  Perry said the decision “will not stop our ongoing efforts
to protect life and ensure the women of our state aren’t exposed
to any more of the abortion-mill horror stories.”  The restrictions prompted an 11-hour filibuster in June by
state Senator Wendy Davis, drawing national attention to the
Fort Worth Democrat and providing the springboard for her
campaign for governor.  “Texas families are stronger and healthier when women
across the state have access to quality health care,” Davis
said yesterday in a statement. “As a mother, I would rather see
our tax dollars spent on improving our kid’s schools than
defending this law.”  Senator  Ted Cruz  of Texas, a prospective Republican
presidential candidate, said he hoped the  U.S. Court of Appeals 
in  New Orleans  would uphold the state’s “reasonable law.”  The challenge to the law was filed by the New York-based
 American Civil Liberties Union  and the Center for Reproductive
Rights.  Those organizations, in a statement issued jointly with
 Planned Parenthood , praised Yeakel’s decision on the hospital-affiliation rule, while criticizing his decision to let the bulk
of the drug-induced abortion restriction stand.  Health Crisis  The decision on hospital affiliation “has averted a
catastrophic health crisis for women,” Nancy Northup, president
of the Center for Reproductive Rights, said in a statement.
“Politicians, not doctors, pushed for both these
unconstitutional restrictions.”  The medication ruling “will force providers to use less-safe methods,” Louise Melling, deputy legal director for the
ACLU, said in a statement.  The opponents contended the requirements threatened the
ability of women to obtain the constitutionally protected
procedure in large swaths of the second-most populous U.S.
state. Proponents of the legislation said they were necessary to
protect women’s health.  Yeakel, who was appointed to the bench by President  George W. Bush , said his role wasn’t to decide whether women should be
allowed abortions. The issue was whether the challenged
legislation fell within “existing constitutional confines.”  The case is Planned Parenthood of Greater Texas Surgical
Health Services v. Abbott, 13-cv-00862, U.S. District Court,
Western District of Texas (Austin).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elise Young in Trenton at 
 eyoung30@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  