-- Stricken Banks’ CEOs Risk Ouster in EU Deal on Crisis Plans
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n   a n d   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 2013-10-29T16:18:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-29/failing-banks-ceos-risk-ouster-in-eu-deal-on-stricken-lenders.html
European Union lawmakers and
national officials reached a tentative agreement on plans to
give regulators the power to fire executives of ailing  banks .  Regulators would be handed sweeping powers to parachute in
“temporary administrators” in a last-ditch bid to bring a bank
back from the brink of collapse, according to a document
obtained by  Bloomberg News .  Authorities would have discretion to fire individuals or
the “management body of the institution, in its entirety” when
there is “a significant deterioration” in the bank’s financial
situation and other steps have failed to turn the situation
around, according to the document. Such action could also be
taken when the bank has been guilty of “serious violations of
law, regulations or bylaws, or serious administrative
irregularities.”  The measures are a component of the EU’s blueprint for
tackling failing banks and taking taxpayers off the hook for
bail-outs. The draft law, proposed last year by EU financial
services chief  Michel Barnier , would also empower regulators to
impose losses on senior creditors and require nations to create
so-called resolution funds that could stabilize crisis-hit
lenders.  A tentative deal on the bank-management replacement plan
was struck by European Parliament lawmakers and  Lithuania , which
holds the rotating presidency of the EU, at a meeting earlier
this month. The provisional accord on manager replacement
requires confirmation at a subsequent negotiation meeting.  Lehman Collapse  Talks are continuing on the bank resolution law, which
requires approval by the parliament and by national governments
to take effect. EU leaders last week renewed calls for a deal on
the legislation by the end of this year.  The negotiations “are making good progress on all fronts,
and we are confident of getting a political deal on the draft
law by the end of the year,”  Chantal Hughes , a spokeswoman for
Barnier, said in a telephone interview.  A spokesman for Lithuania’s EU presidency declined to
comment and Gunnar Hoekmark, the EU parliament legislator
leading work on the plans, declined to comment.  The financial crisis that followed the 2008 collapse of
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. saw a wave of top management
departures at stricken banks.  RBS Chief  Fred Goodwin , the former chief executive officer of Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc resigned in 2008 after the U.K.
injected 20 billion pounds ($32 billion) of taxpayer money into
the lender to prevent its collapse. Adam Applegarth, the former
chief executive officer of Northern Rock Plc, quit in 2007,
prior to the company’s’ nationalization in February 2008.  The planned EU powers would allow regulators to send in
managers even before a bank has failed. Such steps could be
taken as an early intervention measure in a bid to turn the
company around, and so stave off more extreme regulator-imposed
steps like forced creditor writedowns or the breaking up of the
firm.  Regulators “may, based on what is proportionate in the
circumstances,” appoint a temporary administrator either to
replace a stricken bank’s management or to work alongside the
existing team, according to the document. Such appointees
wouldn’t normally be in place for more than one year. Their
powers would have to be “in conformity with the applicable
company law,” including on treatment of shareholders.  No Justification  “There’s no justification for parachuting in special
managers at an early intervention stage,” Gilbey Strub, head of
resolution and crisis management at the Association for
Financial Markets in  Europe , said in an e-mail.  “It could confuse the market and disrupt the bank’s
execution of its recovery plan,” she said.  Once a bank has
failed, and the regulators have been called in, then it’s “a
different story.”  AFME represents international lenders including  Deutsche
Bank AG (DBK) , HSBC Holdings Plc and  UniCredit SpA. (UCG)   Under the draft plans, the powers of supervisor-appointed
bosses would be boosted once a bank has breached its minimum
 capital requirements  and needs to be either rescued or wound
down.  Special Managers  In such cases regulator-appointed “special managers”
would have “all the powers of the shareholders, senior
management and the management body of the institution,”
according to the document.  Powers available to a special manager at this stage include
deciding on capital raising and takeovers, and reorganizing the
bank’s ownership structure, according to the document.  The practice of regulators parachuting managers into banks
that are getting into trouble has “historical roots” in  France 
and  Italy , according to a European Commission study published
 last year . As many as twenty special administrators or managers
had been appointed in France in the previous eight years,
according to the commission’s data.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net ;
Ben Moshinsky in London at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  