-- Food Stamps Loom Over Negotiations to Pass Farm Bill
-- B y   A l a n   B j e r g a   a n d   D e r e k   W a l l b a n k
-- 2013-10-29T21:27:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-29/food-stamps-loom-over-negotiations-to-pass-farm-bill.html
U.S. lawmakers meeting tomorrow to
reconcile House and Senate versions of agricultural policy
legislation will find the table crowded with members who have
deeply held and widely divergent views on food stamps.  The tension is underscored by conferees the House
leadership has added to the House-Senate negotiating committee:
Tea Party Republican Representative Steve Southerland of Florida
and Representative Marcia Fudge of  Ohio , chairwoman of the all-Democrat Congressional Black Caucus.  With a new law needed before outmoded programs potentially
double milk prices early next year, both President  Barack Obama 
and House Republican Majority Leader Eric Cantor have called for
passage of a bill. The appointment of conferees from outside
traditional rural constituencies -- and who are polar opposites
on food stamps -- shows the law may not be the place where a new
era of deal-making will dawn.  “It wouldn’t come as any surprise if the nutrition title
is the toughest thing to negotiate,” said Representative
Michael Conaway, a Texas Republican and conferee.  Spending on  food stamps , officially known as the
Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program, is the biggest
conflict surrounding the bill, which benefit processors
including  Archer-Daniels-Midland Co. (ADM)  and insurance companies
such as  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  along with grocers including  SuperValu
Inc. (SVU)  By subsidizing food purchases, the farm bill encourages
bigger production, while its conservation and economic
development programs promote rural business growth and a cleaner
environment.  Food Flashpoint  The farm bill, normally left to rural lawmakers, has
emerged as a partisan flashpoint as House Republicans have
targeted food stamps for cuts.  The Democratic-controlled Senate would cut $4 billion over
ten years to food stamps in its farm-bill version. The version
passed by the Republican-led House would cut $39 billion over a
decade, require work or job training, let states drug test-recipients as a condition of eligibility and set food aid on a
different authorization timeline from farm subsidies. That would
divorce food stamps from agriculture program, a goal of Tea
Party-affiliated groups.  Record Spending  “I know where he stands, he knows where I stand,” Fudge
said of Southerland. “Obviously we are in very, very different
places in our position, but I just hope there will be more
reasonable people on the conference, people who understand in a
very different way then maybe he does.”  Food-stamp spending reached a record  $78.4 billion  in
fiscal year 2012, the last year data was available, amid a 77
percent increase in annual average food-stamp enrollment since
2007. Monthly food-stamp enrollment peaked in December at 47.8
million and was  47.6 million  in July, the most recent month
available.  The appointment of Southerland “says there are a lot of
people from around this place who are very interested in the
details of this bill,” Lucas said in an interview. “So am I.”
Fudge’s appointment is a sign that Democrats are serious about
finding a solution, he said. Southerland did not respond to
requests for comment.  Stimulus Lapse  A 5 percent reduction in benefits unrelated to the
agriculture debate takes effect later this week, as Congress
allows a temporary spending boost included in the 2009 economic-stimulus law to lapse. The conflict over food stamps illustrates
how deeply divided  Washington  has become and how everything,
even a traditionally less-partisan farm bill, has become part of
a winner-take-all atmosphere, said Julian Zelizer, a history and
public affairs professor at Princeton University in New Jersey.  “For Democrats, this is a part of the welfare state that
remains popular. For conservatives, this is a symbol of excess
and waste,” he said. “Both sides wants to make it a symbol of
what each despises about the other.”  It’s also a frustration to the traditional farm and
nutrition organizations who in the past have had a strong enough
political coalition to get their programs through Congress. More
than  250 agricultural  groups wrote farm-panel members and
leadership today, urging a five-year law that keeps farming and
food stamps together.  “Developing and adopting comprehensive farm legislation
has been an effective, balanced arrangement for decades,” wrote
groups ranging the American Farm Bureau Federation, the largest
U.S. farmer group, to the  Florida  Watermelon Association and the
Oregon Wheat Growers League.  Other differences to be negotiated between House and Senate
plans include whether or not to revamp dairy subsidies, payment
restrictions and conservation requirements on crop insurance,
the biggest U.S. farmer-aid program, and the replacement of
about $5 billion in direct payments to farmers with greater
protections against low prices and failed harvests.  Beyond leadership, House conferees also include appointees
from the Foreign Affairs and Ways and Means committees, looking
at international food aid and tax issues in the bill.  The bill is H.R. 2642.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alan Bjerga in Washington at 
 abjerga@bloomberg.net ;
Derek Wallbank in Washington at 
 dwallbank@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  