-- Galante Sees FHA at Tipping Point Balancing Mission With Costs
-- B y   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s
-- 2013-10-29T17:37:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-29/galante-sees-fha-at-tipping-point-balancing-mission-with-costs.html
The  Federal Housing Administration 
has reached a “tipping point” in its mission of providing low-cost protection for homebuyers while trying to keep its
insurance fund liquid, Commissioner Carol Galante said today.  “As we continue to seek a balance between strengthening
the fund and ensuring access to credit we must assess whether
FHA premiums are set to appropriately account for risk to the
fund without making the cost of credit prohibitive for qualified
homebuyers,” she told lawmakers today at a U.S. House Financial
Services Committee hearing in  Washington .  Galante testified before the House panel for the first time
since the FHA was forced to take a $1.7 billion draw from the
 U.S. Treasury  amid unprecedented losses on loans it insured.
Members of the committee’s Republican majority have said the
shortfall shows the need for lawmakers to restructure the agency
as part of a broader housing-finance overhaul.  The FHA, whose website describes it as the world’s largest
insurer of mortgages, has increased premiums five times since
2009, most recently on April 1. In September, the agency said it
would take the Treasury infusion to shore up the insurance fund,
which has been depleted by losses on defaults stemming from the
credit crisis.  “While we recognize that the need for a mandatory
appropriation is not welcome news to anyone, the fact is that it
does not reflect the real-time improvements to the portfolio,”
Galante said in her testimony. “FHA has been, and continues to
be, a reliable steward of taxpayer dollars and a key source of
access to homeownership, both for today’s families as well as
future generations.”  Shrinking Mission  With the funds transfer, FHA has more than $48 billion in
liquid assets and projections show the agency won’t require a
subsidy in fiscal year 2014, she said. Still, the need for
taxpayer funds for the first time since the agency was formed in
1934 has fueled calls by Republicans to shrink its mission.  “I’m certainly troubled by what this says about the state
of FHA,” Representative  Scott Garrett  of  New Jersey  said at the
hearing. “And I’m more than troubled, angered actually, about
forcing the American people to rescue yet another failed
government-backed housing agency.”  Democrats on the committee countered by praising the FHA
for its role in the housing market during the financial crisis.  “When the private sector virtually left the market, the
Federal Housing Administration stepped up and provided the
liquidity that kept our struggling housing market afloat,” said
Representative Maxine Waters of  California , the panel’s top
Democrat. “This is the countercyclical role of FHA, as it has
been throughout the course of its nearly 80-year history.”  Market Share  The FHA insures $1.1 trillion worth of mortgages and backs
about 15 percent of U.S. loan originations for home purchases,
almost quadruple the 4 percent share it had in 2007.  The agency has raised the amount it charges borrowers to
insure mortgages against default and tightened underwriting
after an independent actuary predicted last November that the
insurance fund would require a $16.3 billion subsidy.  The House Financial Services Committee passed a Republican
bill, known as the Path Act, in July that would largely limit
FHA coverage to first-time borrowers purchasing moderately
priced homes. The Senate Banking Committee in July approved a
bipartisan measure that would set a floor on premiums the agency
charges and require it to hold more money in reserve.  “The Path Act will achieve needed objectives for the
FHA,” said Representative  Jeb Hensarling , the Texas Republican
who leads the House Financial Services Committee. “It will put
FHA on sound financial footing and keep it there. It clearly
defines FHA’s mission to ensure that the agency is serving
first-time homebuyers and low-to-moderate-income borrowers.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cheyenne Hopkins in Washington at 
 chopkins19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  