-- GCL-Poly to Buy $232 Million of Same Time Shares, Convertibles
-- B y   J o s h u a   F e l l m a n
-- 2013-10-29T21:34:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-29/gcl-poly-to-buy-232-million-of-same-time-shares-convertibles.html
GCL-Poly Energy Holdings Ltd. (3800) , the
world’s biggest maker of polysilicon, is considering investing
HK$1.8 billion ($232 million) in  Same Time Holdings Ltd. (451) , which
may add solar-power investment to making printed circuit boards.  GCL-Poly may buy new Same Time shares at HK$4 each,
acquiring about a 29 percent stake in the Hong Kong-based
company, according to a pair of filings with the city’s stock
exchange yesterday evening. The companies didn’t say how many
shares GCL-Poly may acquire under a non-binding memorandum of
understanding.  The polysilicon maker, also based in Hong Kong, will invest
the difference between the share purchase amount and the HK$1.8
billion total investment in zero-coupon five-year convertible
bonds issued by Same Time, the companies said.  GCL-Poly said acquiring a stake in Same Time will provide a
separate, listed company to develop solar-power projects, making
its business “more focused.” For Same Time, which has been
 unprofitable  in three of the past four years, the deal would
give it an entry into the renewable-energy industry, according
to the company’s filing.  The HK$4-a-share price represents a 47 percent discount
from Same Day’s closing price yesterday. There’s no penalty for
failing to complete the deal.  The deal replaces a proposal first disclosed in April for
Same Time to buy stakes in three Chinese  power plants  from GCL-Poly Chairman Zhu Gongshan and his family for at least HK$5
billion. The parties won’t proceed with that transaction, Same
Time said.  Same Time gained 0.3 percent to HK$7.56 at the close in
Hong Kong yesterday, before releasing the statement. GCL-Poly
dropped 2.9 percent to HK$2.31.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Fellman in  New York  at 
 jfellman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  