-- Genworth’s Profit Surges as U.S. Mortgage-Unit Results Improve
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r   a n d   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 2013-10-29T20:36:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-29/genworth-s-profit-surges-as-u-s-mortgage-unit-results-improve.html
Genworth Financial Inc. (GNW) , the seller
of  life insurance  and long-term care coverage, said profit more
than tripled in the third quarter as results improved at the
unit that guarantees U.S. home loans.  Net income  advanced to $108 million, or 22 cents a share,
from $35 million, or 7 cents, a year earlier, the Richmond,
Virginia-based company said today in a statement. Operating
profit, which excludes some investing results, was 24 cents a
share, missing the 26-cent  average estimate  of 10 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg.  Genworth Chief Executive Officer Tom McInerney is
benefiting from a rebound in the U.S. housing market, after
enacting a plan to secure the company’s investment-grade  credit
rating  this year. McInerney, 57, is cutting expenses and raising
premiums for long-term care insurance amid pressure from low
interest rates.  “A year and a half ago, there was a perception that the
U.S.  mortgage-insurance  unit could sink the company,”  Mark Palmer , an analyst at BTIG LLC, said by phone before results
were announced. “Now, the conversation has changed dramatically
to how profitable could the unit ultimately become.”  Genworth gained 1.3 percent to $14.57 at 4 p.m. in  New
York . The insurer has  rallied  94 percent this year under
McInerney, who started Jan. 1.  Home prices  have jumped this year and  unemployment  has
declined, helping the U.S. mortgage-insurance unit, which covers
losses when homeowners default and foreclosures fail to recoup
costs. The unit’s loss narrowed to $3 million from $37 million a
year earlier.  Mortgage Coverage  Mortgage insurance is typically required in the U.S. when
borrowers pay less than 20 percent of the cost of a home up
front. Genworth also sells the coverage in countries including
Australia and  Canada .  McInerney replaced Michael Fraizer, who stepped down May 1,
2012, after Genworth shelved a planned initial public offering
of its Australian mortgage insurer. Chief Financial Officer
Martin Klein had been acting CEO. McInerney said last month that
an IPO of that unit will probably come in 2014.  Genworth said in June it would cut 400 jobs, helping the
company save as much as $90 million a year. McInerney has said
he’s working to raise premiums on some long-term care policies
sold in prior years, and the company has tightened terms for new
coverage. Insurers including  MetLife Inc. (MET)  and Prudential
Financial Inc. retreated from long-term-care coverage as rising
costs and low  interest rates  pressured results.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net ;
Dakin Campbell in New York at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  