-- Goldman Sachs Commodities Co-Head Magid Shenouda Leaving Bank
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 2013-10-29T21:39:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-29/goldman-sachs-commodities-co-head-magid-shenouda-leaving-bank.html
Magid N. Shenouda, Goldman Sachs
Group Inc.’s London-based co-head of commodities trading, is
leaving the bank.  Shenouda joined the firm in 1999 and became a partner in
2008, according to an internal memo from Pablo Salame and
Isabelle Ealet, co-heads of the trading division.  Michael DuVally , a company spokesman, confirmed the contents of the memo
and declined to elaborate. Gregory A. Agran is Shenouda’s New
York-based co-head.  Goldman Sachs is among banks whose ability to participate
in the  commodities markets  is being examined by the  Federal
Reserve . The Fed is conducting a review while U.S. lawmakers and
regulators raise concerns that banks might abuse their various
roles in physical commodities markets, or that the businesses
pose risks to the firms’ financial stability.  “We have a long, long investment in the commodity
business, and we have at this stage no intention of selling our
business,” Chief Financial Officer Harvey Schwartz said in a
conference call this month after Goldman Sachs reported third-quarter results. “We’re very committed to our clients here. And
so we’ll just work with the regulators.”  Shenouda previously ran the New York-based bank’s European
crude oil and products trading unit and its European gas and
power trading business.  “He has been responsible for driving several key
acquisitions, as well as the expansion of our business
activities into new regions and products, including the build-out of our energy, coal, freight and emissions franchise,”
Ealet and Salame wrote in the memo.  Spark Spread reported on the departure earlier today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Moore in  New York  at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
 Christine Harper  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net  