-- Goldman Sachs Cuts OPEC Crude Output Forecasts For 2013 on Libya
-- B y   M o r g a n e   L a p e y r e
-- 2013-10-29T12:08:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-29/goldman-sachs-cuts-opec-crude-output-forecasts-for-2013-on-libya.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  said crude
production in the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
will decline this year by more than the bank previously
estimated because of renewed disruptions in Libya.  OPEC’s output will decline by 760,000 barrels per day from
last year, according to the bank, which had previously projected
an annual loss of 570,000 a day. The supply reduction will keep
Brent futures supported at $110 a barrel despite an accumulation
in oil inventories amid weaker-than-expected fuel demand,
Goldman said. Libya’s production will remain capped at 650,000
barrels a day this year as a result of political disputes, the
bank predicted.  “The conflicts in the country’s east appear more permanent
in nature given the diversity of involved parties, which makes a
near-term resolution seem increasingly unlikely,” analysts led
by  Jeffrey Currie  in New York said in a note to clients on Oct.
28. “We believe that production levels will only recover to
around 1.3 million barrels per day through 2014.”  Output losses among OPEC members have buoyed oil prices
against muted growth in world oil demand, which expanded by
400,000 barrels a day in the third quarter from a year ago
compared with 1.5 million a day in the second, Goldman said.
Saudi Arabia, the group’s biggest member, will need to keep
output near record levels above 10 million barrels a day for the
rest of the year to compensate for the disruptions in other OPEC
nations, according to the bank.  Further Losses  OPEC’s production slumped to a near two-year low of less
than 30 million barrels a day in September as labor unrest
crippled Libya’s export facilities and as Iraq conducted
maintenance at its southern oil terminal, the International
Energy Agency said on Oct. 11.  “The potential for further disruptions in Libya” means
that crude prices may exceed the bank’s current forecasts,
according to Goldman. Brent, trading today at $108.95 a barrel
on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange, will advance to
about $110 in three months’ time, Goldman said.  Production from OPEC member  Iran  will also remain
“materially affected by international sanctions through to the
end of the year and 2014,” despite the resumption of talks with
western governments about the country’s nuclear program, Goldman
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Morgane Lapeyre in London at 
 mlapeyre@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  