-- Greenberg Among Firms on Consol Deal: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2013-10-29T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-29/greenberg-among-firms-on-consol-deal-business-of-law.html
Greenberg Traurig  LLP, Wachtell,
Lipton, Rosen & Katz, Steptoe & Johnson PLLC, Buchanan Ingersoll
& Rooney PC and Kirkland & Ellis LLP acted as legal counsel on a
transaction between  Consol Energy Inc. (CNX)  and  Murray Energy Corp.   Consol agreed to sell assets including five West  Virginia 
thermal-coal mines to Murray for about $850 million to help fund
the expansion of natural gas production from shale deposits.  Greenberg Traurig acted as lead counsel for Consol, with a
team led out of the Philadelphia office by corporate and
securities shareholder David Gitlin and labor and employment and
Philadelphia operating shareholder Robert M. Goldich.  Additional team members included London corporate and
securities shareholder Frank Adams; Washington tax shareholders
Robert Simon and Thomas C. West Jr.;  New York  business
reorganization and financial restructuring shareholder Maria DiConza; Houston energy shareholder William Garner; and Tysons
Corner, Virginia, tax shareholder Ian Herbert.  Wachtell’s team advising Consol was led by corporate
partner David A. Katz and consists of partners Joseph D. Larson,
antitrust; Adam J. Shapiro, executive compensation and benefits;
Eric M. Rosof, restructuring; and finance and Deborah L. Paul,
tax.  Buchanan shareholders Lewis Davis, Brian Novosel and Hannah
Frank were counsel to Consol on the deal.  Kirkland represented Murray with a team led by corporate
partner William Sorabella. Also on the deal were corporate
partner Daniel Michaels, debt finance partner Ashley Gregory and
capital markets partner Christian Nagler.  The deal will also give Consol about $184 million in future
royalties and other payments, the Canonsburg, Pennsylvania-based
company said yesterday in a statement. Closely held Murray will
take on $2.4 billion of liabilities as part of the deal, which
should close by year-end.  For more, click here.  Firm News  European Law Firm Osborne Clarke Opens New York Office  European law firm  Osborne Clarke  opened an office in New
York that will be staffed on a semi-permanent basis with a
rotating roster of partners.  The firm, known for its work in advertising and digital
business, has 550 professionals at 14 offices, including one in
Palo Alto,  California , that opened in 2001.  “We see the New York office as a platform for growth,
providing a vital link with our West Coast and European offices.
This office gives our clients access to a major global market,”
Tim Birt, corporate partner at Osborne Clarke who is leading the
firm’s opening in New York, said in a statement.  The initial Osborne Clarke team will consist of Andrew
Saul, Birt, Adrian Bott, Nicolas Gabrysch, Tim Simmonds, Nick
Johnson, Paul Anning, Adrian Lifely, Tom Ellis, Kevin Barrow,
Mathias Loertscher and Thomas Colmer, the firm said.  Clifford Chance Asks Its Female Lawyers to Stop Giggling  Clifford Chance  LLP is one of the largest law firms in the
world. It has 3,400 legal advisers spread across 35 offices
everywhere from New York to Casablanca,  Morocco . Last year it
made $1.9 billion in revenue. Needless to say, it’s a fancy
place to work and expects its employees to retain an air of
professionalism and dignity at all times.  Especially its women. Its giggling, fidgeting women, Claire Suddath reports in Bloomberg Businessweek.  A member of the law firm’s Women’s Committee sent a memo
recently to every female associate in the U.S. with a list of
advice on how women should give a proper presentation at work,
according to the website Above the Law, which leaked the memo.
Clifford Chance didn’t respond to a request for comment.  Some tips in the leaked memo are actually pretty helpful:
“Use [PowerPoint] as a guide, not as your speech.” (Duh)
“Don’t take your purse up to the podium.” (Does anybody
actually do that?) “Make sure your cellphone is turned off.”  But interspersed among these were suggestions that make
Clifford Chance sound as if it were staffed by a gaggle of Elle
Woods clones. Or worse yet, that leaders of a big law firm just
have that opinion of their staff. Advice included in the
“Presentation Tips for Women” memo:  • “Don’t giggle.”  • “Don’t squirm.”  • “Don’t wave your arms.”  • “Don’t hide behind your hair.”  • “Don’t dress like a mortician.”  • “If wearing a skirt, make sure people can’t see up it.”  • “Make sure you can stand in your heels.”  • “Your voice is higher than you hear.”  • “Wear a suit, not your party outfit.”  • “Understated jewelry, nothing jingly or clanky.”  • “Think  Lauren Bacall , not  Marilyn Monroe .”  • “No one heard Hillary the day she showed cleavage.”  The women of Clifford Chance are, apparently, giggling and
squirming in outrage.  “We have never been a very female friendly firm, but this
is beyond the pale,” Above the Law quoted its tipster as
writing in an e-mail. The post also included a response from
Clifford Chance, which wrote that “the offense caused by a
small percentage of the suggestions in the tip sheet was
entirely unintentional.”  For more, click here.  Moves  Paul C. Gibbons to Join Robins, Kaplan’s IP Litigation Group  Robins, Kaplan, Miller & Ciresi LLP announced that Paul C.
Gibbons joined the firm’s  Boston  office as a partner in the
intellectual property litigation group. Gibbons was previously a
shareholder at Niro, Haller & Niro.  Gibbons focuses primarily on patent litigation, along with
copyright, trademark, trade secret and trade dress litigation,
the firm said. He also counsels and helps his clients enforce
their intellectual property rights through negotiation,
mediation and licensing, according to the firm.  Robins, Kaplan has more than 230 lawyers in Atlanta,
Boston,  Los Angeles ,  Minneapolis , New York and Naples,  Florida .  WTO Official Joins Akin Gump’s International Trade Practice  Alan Yanovich, who spent the past 12 years at the World
Trade Organization Appellate Body Secretariat, joined Akin Gump
Strauss Hauer & Feld LLP and will be a senior counsel in the
firm’s Geneva office.  Yanovich had been counselor at the WTO Appellate Body
Secretariat since 2004, where he was responsible for supervising
all case management aspects of an appeal before the body, the
firm said.  He has experience on international trade matters at the
multilateral, regional and bilateral levels. In his most recent
position he co-led the Airbus SAS and Boeing Co. appeals, claims
worth more than $15 billion and $6 billion, respectively, the
firm said. He also handled specialized training activities on
the WTO’s rules and dispute settlement procedures for government
officials around the globe.  “Our trade practice is as broad and deep as any in the
business,” Hal Shapiro, the head of  Akin Gump ’s international
trade practice, said in a statement. “Alan’s arrival
strengthens it by bringing extraordinary experience inside the
WTO and a presence in Geneva that will be of direct and
immediate benefit for our clients.”  Akin Gump has more than 850 attorneys in offices in the
U.S.,  Europe ,  Asia  and the Middle East.  Litigation  Ex-Slaughter, Linklaters Lawyers Fail to Dismiss Insider Lawsuit  A former Slaughter & May lawyer and her boyfriend who
worked for Linklaters LLP lost a bid to dismiss a  Hong Kong 
Securities and Futures Commission lawsuit alleging they used
inside information to trade shares.  Young Bik Fung, Lee Kwok Wa and his two sisters made HK$2.9
million ($374,000) trading shares of Hsinchu International Bank
ahead of a takeover offer by  Standard Chartered Plc  and of Asia
Satellite Telecommunications Ltd. before a privatization offer,
the SFC said.  Hong Kong High Court Judge Anthony Chan yesterday dismissed
an application to strike out the SFC’s lawsuit on grounds
including that the regulator lacked jurisdiction as the trading
of Hsinchu shares took place in  Taiwan . The four said they
bought the shares of the two companies in 2006 and 2007 without
any inside information.  Maurice Lee, a lawyer for the four, didn’t immediately
respond to an e-mail requesting comment. Neil Hyman, a partner
at Slaughter & May in Hong Kong, declined to comment on the
case.  Lee Kwok Wa “left this firm in 2007,” Amanda Clarke, a
spokeswoman for Linklaters in Hong Kong, said by e-mail. “We
have no comment to make on his personal legal proceedings.”  The SFC, which is asking the court to order the four to
disgorge any profits and pay damages, won confirmation of its
power to independently sue parties suspected of market
misconduct at Hong Kong’s top court this year.  The regulator said in a statement yesterday that its
allegation in the Hsinchu case is for fraud rather than  insider
trading  because the trades took place in Taiwan. The case was
delayed by the appeal to Hong Kong’s top court, it said.  The case is Securities & Futures Commission v. Young Bik
Fung. HCMP2575/2010 in Hong Kong’s Court of First Instance.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  