-- IAC Shares Drop as Revenue Misses Analysts’ Estimates
-- B y   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n
-- 2013-10-30T13:37:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-29/iac-shares-plummet-as-third-quarter-revenue-misses-estimates.html
IAC/InterActiveCorp (IACI) , owner of
websites such as About.com and Match.com, slid the most in a
year after reporting third-quarter sales that missed analyst
estimates on lower-than-forecast search-advertising revenue.  Total sales in the period were $756.9 million, the New
York-based company said in a statement yesterday. That fell
short of the $803.3 million average  estimate  of 16 analysts,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The shares dropped 12
percent to $50.99 at 9:36 a.m. in New York after earlier
slipping as much as 13 percent, the biggest intraday decline
since October 2012.  While the search-and-applications business, IAC’s biggest
division, grew 10 percent from a year earlier, that was mostly
due to the acquisition of About.com and the transfer of CityGrid
Media from another unit. IAC spent $300 million on About.com
last year to make a bigger bet on advertising for Internet
searches.  IAC had said in July that it expected the search-and-applications unit to have only “modestly lower” growth than
the 23 percent expansion it had in the second quarter.  The company had assumed that search-advertising prices from
Google Inc. would remain constant, Chief Executive Officer  Greg Blatt  said on a conference call yesterday.  “That didn’t happen,” he said. “We’re confident we’ll
grow the business from here. The rollout from this change ended
in early October, and as we’ve rapidly adjusted our systems to
the new pricing model, we’ve already seen growth resuming.”  Third-quarter adjusted earnings per share of $1.29 beat the
average estimate of 93 cents. Net income more than doubled to
$96.9 million, or $1.13 a share, from a year earlier.  Newsweek Shutdown  The company shut down its Newsweek magazine’s print edition
last year and then sold the digital version this year to IBT
Media. That left IAC’s media division with revenue of $51
million in the third quarter, down 3.2 percent from a year
earlier.  Revenue of Match.com, the dating website that’s IAC’s
second-biggest division, gained 13 percent to $201.1 million.
Fourth-quarter sales will grow at a similar pace for the unit,
Chief Financial Officer Jeff Kip said on the conference call.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Crayton Harrison in  New York  at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  