-- IBM Adds $15 Billion Buyback After Six-Quarter Sales Slump
-- B y   S a r a h   F r i e r
-- 2013-10-29T20:12:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-29/ibm-adds-15-billion-to-buybacks-after-six-quarter-sales-slump.html
International Business Machines
Corp. (IBM)  added $15 billion to its buyback plan as it reduces stock
in circulation to increase earnings per share with sales
continuing to decline.  The board authorized the funding today along with its
quarterly dividend, according to a statement from the world’s
largest computer-services provider. With the addition, the
company now has $20.6 billion in its repurchase program, and it
will request more next October, it said. IBM’s market value is
about $199 billion.  Chief Executive Officer Ginni Rometty is rewarding
shareholders who held on as the stock fell 7.4 percent this year
through yesterday, compared with the 24 percent gain in the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index. With sales dropping, the company is
counting on the buyback to help reach its goal of $20 in
adjusted earnings a share by 2015, up from $15.25 last year.  “This is one of the biggest tools they have to increase
earnings per share if their growth rate is flat,” said Ivan Feinseth, chief investment officer at Tigress Financial
Partners, who doesn’t own IBM shares. “If they’re not growing,
they can reduce their share count.”  Sales have fallen for six straight quarters, and IBM’s
hardware unit reported a loss for the three months that ended in
September. At the same time, earnings have continued to climb.
In addition to buying back shares, IBM has sold less-profitable
businesses, acquired more lucrative software companies and
lowered its  tax rate .  Shares Jump  IBM, based in Armonk, New York, jumped 2.7 percent to
$182.12, the biggest gain since Jan. 23.  The funding addition is the biggest IBM has authorized in
five years, in proportion to its year-end market value,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. At almost 8 percent of
its market value, it’s the second-highest percentage since at
least 1995.  The new funding puts IBM on pace to surpass a pledge by  Sam
Palmisano , Rometty’s predecessor, to spend $50 billion on
buybacks from 2011 to 2015. IBM has acquired almost $35 billion
worth of shares since the end of 2010, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  IBM is the worst-performing of billionaire  Warren Buffett ’s
top investments at  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  Buffett wrote last
year in a letter to shareholders that long-term investors like
Omaha, Nebraska-based Berkshire should cheer for IBM shares to
languish in the short term. A lower price means IBM can
repurchase more of its stock, increasing Berkshire’s ownership
stake in the company.  Buffett didn’t respond to a request for comment sent to an
assistant today. In an interview last week on the “Charlie
Rose” show, Buffett said he’s confident in IBM’s prospects.  “They will have record per-share earnings this year,” he
said. “That can be disappointing if you expected more. But it
is not a bad record, believe me.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Frier in  New York  at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  