-- Michigan Governor Says He Focused on Detroit Woes in 2011
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h   a n d   S t e v e n   R a p h a e l
-- 2013-10-29T16:30:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-29/michigan-governor-says-he-focused-on-detroit-woes-in-2011.html
Michigan Governor Rick Snyder
defended  Detroit ’s record municipal bankruptcy filing as a
necessary last resort, telling a federal judge that he spent two
and a half years trying to resolve the city’s fiscal crisis.  Snyder, 55, took the witness stand in Detroit yesterday as
part of a trial to decide whether the $18 billion case should be
thrown out. City unions demanded that Snyder testify, making him
the first governor to take the witness stand in a municipal
bankruptcy, according to lawyers who specialize in government
insolvency cases.  “I worked very hard to avoid this process in good faith,”
said Snyder. “People are suffering, the 700,000 citizens of
Detroit.”  Attorneys for retired city employees and municipal unions
want U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Steven Rhodes to dismiss Detroit from
bankruptcy, where it’s protected from lawsuits and other actions
that may threaten restructuring efforts.  To remain in bankruptcy, the city must show that it’s
insolvent, that it’s entitled under state law to file for
bankruptcy, that it tried to negotiate with creditors or was
unable to do so, and that it intends to file a plan to adjust
its debts.  Retirees and unions argue that the emergency manager named
by Snyder, Kevyn Orr, never tried to negotiate with them and
that the governor violated the Michigan constitution by
authorizing a bankruptcy that could cut payments to the city’s
pension system.  Corporate Litigator  Orr, a former corporate litigator and Democratic political
appointee, agreed to run the city at the request of Snyder, a
Republican. In June, Orr released a plan that proposed
addressing the city’s financial woes in part by cutting payments
to the system that funds retiree pensions.  Both men testified yesterday. Orr returned to the stand
today, and Rhodes at least twice formally rebuked him for not
giving simple yes-or-no answers to questions from union and
retiree lawyers.  Rhodes interrupted questioning by Peter D. DeChiara, a
lawyer for the  United Auto Workers , to tell Orr “we’re going to
be here a really, really long time if you insist on going on and
on.”  Later, just before the trial broke for lunch, Orr
apologized.  ‘My Advice’  “I will accept your apology if you will accept my
advice,” Rhodes said.  Yesterday, the governor declined to answer some questions,
citing his right to not reveal information he received in
meetings during which legal strategy may have been discussed.
Rhodes has ruled that such meetings are covered by the attorney-client privilege.  Orr and Snyder have both invoked the privilege to avoid
providing details of what they may have discussed related to
cutting pensions, the decision to file bankruptcy or changes to
the emergency manager law made last year.  William A. Wertheimer, an attorney representing retired
city workers, and DeChiara both asked in several different ways
whether Snyder talked to Orr about how much payments to the
city’s pension system would have to be cut.  ‘Attorney-Client Privilege’  “That may be subject to attorney-client privilege,”
Snyder said. In one six-minute period, the governor invoked the
privilege four times.  The  Michigan  assistant attorney general representing
Snyder, Matthew Schneider, twice referred to the governor as
“your honor,” drawing laughter from the courtroom. An attorney
for the objectors made the same mistake.  Before Snyder took the stand about 1 p.m. yesterday,
protesters marched and chanted in front of the courthouse, armed
with signs that showed his face with horns and bright red eyes.  Ashley Vance, 27, a hairdresser in Brighton, about 40 miles
(64 kilometers) north of Detroit, said the law creating the
emergency financial manager “stripped away peoples’ rights.”  “This is not the way the government should be run,” she
said.  Objectors have claimed state officials worked with Jones
Day, the  law firm  that Orr, 55, hired to file the bankruptcy, to
create a new emergency financial manager law and use it to file
for bankruptcy, giving Detroit leverage over unions and
retirees. Orr was a partner at  Jones Day  before taking the
Detroit job.  Every Week  Under questioning by Wertheimer, Snyder said he has been
focused on Detroit since he took office in 2011. He said he has
spoken with Orr about the city either by phone or in person
weekly since appointing him in March.  “I describe it as the largest issue in our country,”
Snyder said. “This has been a large issue for 60 years.”  Snyder said he hasn’t offered Detroit any state money to
avoid cuts to pension obligations.  Orr testified that before he put Detroit into bankruptcy,
he fought a “running gun battle” with Syncora Guarantee Inc.
to protect its best source of cash from the bond insurer.  That dispute, other court fights and tough negotiations
with unions and additional creditors persuaded Orr to choose
bankruptcy, he testified yesterday.  “The situation seemed to be growing more and more
precarious and somewhat out of control,” Orr told Rhodes.  James Spiotto , a bankruptcy lawyer who has studied the
history of Chapter 9 of the U.S.  Bankruptcy Code , which covers
municipalities, said Snyder’s testimony “may be unique to
Michigan and Detroit.”  “In virtually all other situations, the governor is not
part of the approval process for filing,” Spiotto said in an
interview. “So his testimony evolves from his appointment of
the EFM and his required approval of the Chapter 9 filing.”  The case is In re City of Detroit, 13-bk-53846,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Eastern District of Michigan (Detroit).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steven Church in federal court in Detroit at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net ;
Steven Raphael in federal court in Detroit at 
 sraphael5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net  