-- In Iowa, Ted Cruz Shoots Ducks in a Barrel
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C a r l s o n
-- 2013-10-29T15:04:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-29/in-iowa-ted-cruz-shoots-ducks-in-a-barrel.html
Senator  Ted Cruz  was in Iowa last
weekend to hunt pheasant, and activists. He found both.  He didn’t fire into anyone’s face ( Dick Cheney ), wear
freshly pressed camouflage ( John Kerry ) or boast of shooting
varmints ( Mitt Romney ). He had his own shotgun flown in by
 United Airlines  as checked baggage and tramped through brush as
if that’s how he spent all his weekends. Cruz even managed a
little “Duck Dynasty” humor (“Someone make a pillow,” he
shouted as a bird tumbled out the sky, or “just turn them
straight into McNuggets”).  Iowa  is a shallow place, at least politically. Candidates
put themselves through various rites of passage to prove they’re
sufficiently conservative for the state’s Republican base. The
one who fakes it best wins. The straw poll and caucuses
sometimes make a presidential candidate. More often they are a
killing field for ambition. Representative  Michele Bachmann  of
Minnesota, with her air-conditioned tent, country music star
Randy Travis and hot-fudge sundaes won the straw poll in 2011.
That dried up money and enthusiasm for former Minnesota Governor
 Tim Pawlenty , who had a better chance of becoming president than
the eventual nominee. Thanks, Hawkeyes.  If Iowa could put together a candidate from spare parts,
the result would be Cruz, a rabid conservative who loathes
elites and cares so little about the Republican establishment
that he dragged the party down to new lows with the government
shutdown.  Evangelical Kingmaker  This was Cruz’s third trip to the state in the past three
months, making him the only noncandidate running harder than
 Hillary Clinton . The Texas senator has kissed the ring of Bob
Vander Plaats, the evangelical kingmaker who wrote the Marriage
Pledge in 2011 -- which even thrice-married  Newt Gingrich  signed
-- met with county leaders and visited with Becky Beach, a Sarah Palin and Tea Party devotee.  Addressing a sold-out crowd of 600 at the Ronald Reagan
Dinner on Oct. 25 in Des Moines, Cruz served up the red meat the
base hungers for. He roamed the stage Oprah-like and, without
giving away any cars, earned a standing ovation. He checked off
traditional conservative principles of lower taxes, less
 spending  and smaller government, and he questioned the
commitment to those beliefs of everyone who isn’t him.  He’s the self-anointed real deal. About his filibuster and
fight against the  Affordable Care Act , he said, “Had we stood
together, I’m convinced the outcome of this fight would be very,
very different.”  Cruz is that rare politician who can live without a friend,
but not without an enemy. He wears with pride the badge “wacko
bird,” bestowed upon him by Senator  John McCain . He loves to
say he didn’t come to Washington to make 99 new friends. He may
not have any pals in Washington, but he is a hero outside. Cruz
is able to cling to his grievances as well as any unemployed
tool-and-die man in the audience, even though he left any reason
for resentment far behind by sailing through  Princeton
University ,  Harvard Law School  and high office in Texas before
landing in the  U.S. Senate .  He reprised the same speech the next day in the town of  Le
Mars  at a fundraiser for Representative Steve King, his host for
the hunt. Dressed in a flannel shirt, bluejeans and cowboy
boots, Cruz told the moving tale of his father, an immigrant
from Cuba who hit it big in the oil boom in  Canada , lost it all
and ended up as an itinerant pastor in Dallas. The father poured
everything into his son, enrolling him in not just Bible-study
but also Constitution-study classes, so that he became a world-class debater.  Costly Shutdown  The business world is running away from the Cruz wing
because its antics have cost money; by one estimate, the economy
took a $24 billion hit from the shutdown. But those aren’t the
people a Republican needs to win the nomination, especially now
that the activists are weary of giving mainstream losers such as
Romney a twirl around the dance floor.  Like many a man in a hurry, Cruz could self-destruct. But
social conservatives, especially those with a mean streak like
King, are disproportionately influential in the early polling.
They are happy to go out on a snowy night to listen to long
speeches in steamy church basements while drinking burnt coffee.
In their eyes, even Senator Rand Paul is too much of a
libertarian and too soft on social issues. Unless the field gets
seriously overcrowded with everyone, past and present, on the
right jumping in ( Mike Huckabee  is toying with another run) and
dividing the ultraconservative vote, the early money is on Cruz.
I’m taking bets at Bloomberg.com.  ( Margaret Carlson  is a Bloomberg View columnist.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Margaret Carlson at   mcarlson3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 