-- India Rupee Drops a Second Day Before RBI Interest-Rate Decision
-- B y   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s
-- 2013-10-29T04:38:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-29/india-rupee-drops-a-second-day-before-rbi-interest-rate-decision.html
India ’s rupee fell for a second day
on speculation faster inflation will prompt the central bank to
boost borrowing costs for the second time in two months, setting
back efforts to arrest an economic  slowdown .  The  Reserve Bank  of India will raise its repurchase rate to
7.75 percent from 7.50 percent today, according to 32 of 42
economists in a Bloomberg  survey . One forecasts a move to 8
percent and nine see no change. Policy must tackle elevated
inflation amid “tepid” growth, the RBI said in a report
yesterday. The rupee has rebounded almost 12 percent from a
record low of 68.845 per dollar in August, helping cut the cost
of imports and aiding the RBI’s efforts to curb price gains.  “The stance and recent action by the new governor suggest
the odds of a rate hike have increased significantly,”
strategists at Credit Agricole CIB, including  Frances Cheung  in
 Hong Kong , wrote in a research report today. “However, the
recovery of the rupee since September suggests the RBI could be
tempted to keep rates unchanged in order not to add to the
Indian economic soft patch and buy time to gauge where inflation
goes looking forward.”  The rupee fell 0.2 percent to 61.66 per dollar as of 9:51
a.m. in Mumbai, according to prices from local banks compiled by
Bloomberg. One-month implied volatility, a gauge of expected
moves in the  exchange rate  used to price options, dropped 59
basis points, or 0.59 percentage point, to 10.8 percent.  India’s gross domestic product rose 5 percent in the year
ended March 2013, the slowest pace since 2003. Wholesale price
 inflation  accelerated to 6.46 percent in September, the most in
seven months, official data show.  Emergency Measures  The RBI may further scale back emergency steps that were
unveiled last quarter to stem the rupee’s slide, according to
 Kotak Mahindra Bank Ltd. (KMB)  The measures included curbs on cash-supply and special foreign-exchange swaps for banks and oil
refiners.  Governor  Raghuram Rajan  will cut the  marginal standing
facility rate  by 25 basis points to 8.75 percent today, said
 Indranil Pan , an economist at Kotak Mahindra Bank. The monetary
authority will announce its decisions at 11 a.m. in Mumbai.  The RBI has attracted $10.1 billion through concessional
swaps for dollars raised by banks, the central bank said in an
Oct. 23 statement. It is also supplying about $5 billion a month
to refiners, Pan estimates.  Three-month onshore rupee forwards fell 0.3 percent to
63.02 per dollar, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Offshore non-deliverable contracts dropped 0.2 percent to 63.07. Forwards are
agreements to buy or sell assets at a set price and date. Non-deliverable contracts are settled in dollars.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanette Rodrigues in Mumbai at 
 jrodrigues26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  