-- India 10-Year Bond Yield Climbs to 3-Week High Before RBI Review
-- B y   S h i k h a r   B a l w a n i
-- 2013-10-29T04:07:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-29/india-10-year-bond-yield-climbs-to-3-week-high-before-rbi-review.html
India ’s 10-year government bonds
dropped, pushing the yield to a three-week high, as economists
forecast the central bank will boost borrowing costs for the
second time in two months to rein in inflation.  Reserve Bank of India Governor Raghuram Rajan will raise
the benchmark repurchase rate by 25 basis points to 7.75 percent
today, according to 32 of 42 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.
Nine predict no change and one a 50 basis point increase.
Monetary policy must tackle elevated inflation even as growth
remains “tepid,” the RBI wrote in a report released after
trading hours yesterday.  The yield on the 7.16 percent notes due May 2023 climbed
two basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 8.68 percent as
of 9:26 a.m. in Mumbai, the highest level since Oct. 7, prices
from the central bank’s trading system show. It jumped eight
basis points yesterday.  The RBI’s “commentary affirmed that price stability and
the need to anchor inflation expectations remain the
cornerstones for the policy decision,” DBS Bank Ltd.’s
Singapore-based economist Radhika Rao wrote in a research note.
“This affirms expectations that the benchmark repo rate will be
raised today.”  Swaps Rise  Wholesale prices  rose 6.46 percent in September, the most
in seven months, while consumer-price gains quickened to 9.84
percent, official data showed this month.  Rajan, who increased the repo rate by 25 basis points on
Sept. 20, has said containing inflation is his top priority.
Wholesale prices are still above the comfort level and the
persistence of high consumer-price inflation remains a concern,
the RBI said yesterday.  Increased price pressures will prompt the RBI to raise the
benchmark rate by 50 basis points this month, Taimur Baig,
Singapore-based director of Asia economics at Deutsche Bank AG,
which took part in the survey, wrote in an Oct. 16 report.  The one-year interest-rate swap, a derivative contract used
to guard against fluctuations in funding costs, jumped four
basis points to 8.48 percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shikhar Balwani in Mumbai at 
 sbalwani@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  