-- Rajan Raises India Benchmark Rate Again to Fight Inflation
-- B y   K a r t i k   G o y a l
-- 2013-10-29T11:10:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-29/india-s-rajan-raises-key-rate-to-fight-inflation-as-curbs-eased.html
India’s central bank raised its
 benchmark interest rate  for the second straight month to fight
accelerating inflation, while further easing emergency liquidity
curbs that were imposed in July to support the rupee.  Governor Raghuram Rajan boosted the  repurchase rate  to 7.75
percent from 7.5 percent, the Reserve Bank of India said today,
as 32 of 42 analysts in a Bloomberg News  survey  predicted. He
cut the marginal standing facility rate to 8.75 percent from 9
percent, making short-term funds cheaper for banks following a
July cap on borrowing at the repurchase rate.  Consumer prices are climbing almost 10 percent even as
economic growth slows, hurting the roughly 800 million Indians
living on less than $2 per day as the cost of everything from
onions to clothing surges. The rupee pared losses after today’s
decision, which Rajan said seeks to quell inflation pressures.
Pramerica Asset Managers Pvt. and Crisil Ltd. expect another
increase in borrowing costs at the next meeting in December.  “Rajan has made it clear he will not play to the gallery
and his priority is inflation,” said Mahendra Jajoo, Mumbai-based chief investment officer at Pramerica. “He’ll continue to
raise rates until price pressures come down.”  The rupee, down 12 percent against the dollar over the past
year, erased losses after the decision and was 0.2 percent
stronger at 61.385 per dollar as of 4:08 p.m. in Mumbai. The S&P
BSE Sensex rose 1.7 percent. The yield on the 10-year government
bond fell to 8.57 percent from 8.66 percent yesterday.  More Increases  “We can’t live with close to double-digit CPI for an
extended period of time,” Rajan said in a briefing in Mumbai,
referring to consumer-price inflation. The index’s climb is set
to moderate to a pace below 9 percent by the end of March next
year following the RBI’s rate actions, he said.  The central bank may increase the repo rate to 8 percent at
the policy review due Dec. 18, according to Pramerica and
Crisil, the local unit of Standard & Poor’s.  Rajan could boost the benchmark as much as 50 basis points
by the end of March 2014, said U.R. Bhat, Mumbai-based managing
director of Dalton Capital Advisors  India  Pvt., a unit of U.K.-
based Dalton Strategic Partnership LLP that has about $2 billion
in assets globally.  “It is important to break the spiral of rising price
pressures in order to curb the erosion of financial saving and
strengthen the foundations of growth,” Rajan said in today’s
statement.  Inflation Focus  The policy stance seeks to manage inflation expectations in
a situation of weak expansion, and the central bank will
“closely monitor inflation risk while being mindful of the
evolving growth dynamics,” he said.  The RBI today also increased some liquidity provided to the
banking system.  The rupee has appreciated 9.3 percent since Sept. 4, when
Rajan announced concessional swaps windows for banks to attract
dollars. The RBI has garnered $12.1 billion so far from that
step, he said in the briefing. The currency’s climb in the
period is the biggest gain in the world.  “Rajan is clearly focused on getting inflation firmly
under control and maintaining the rupee’s stability,” said
 Gaurav Kapur , a senior economist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc in Mumbai. “With interest rates going up since July, growth
will be negatively affected.”  The central bank said  wholesale-price inflation  is expected
to remain higher than current levels through most of the
remaining part of the year, with consumer inflation probably
remaining around or above 9 percent.  Slowing Growth  The projection for economic growth in the 12 months that
began April 1 was lowered to 5 percent from 5.5 percent.  Consumer prices  advanced 9.84 percent in September from a
year earlier, the most in a basket of 17 Asia-Pacific economies
tracked by Bloomberg. Wholesale inflation was 6.46 percent.
Food, fuel and import costs have fanned price pressures.  Rajan, 50, unexpectedly raised the repo rate by a quarter
point in his first policy review on Sept. 20. He’s lowered the
marginal standing facility rate from 10.25 percent, the level
reached when his predecessor boosted it 200 basis points on July
15 to curb the supply of rupees.  Banks borrow in the marginal standing facility window when
they exhaust the amount they can access at the repo rate.  One respondent in Bloomberg’s repo rate survey expected an
increase to 8 percent today and the rest saw no change.  Exports, Investment  Rajan reiterated that India’s expansion may be set to
accelerate, helped by farm output, exports and Prime Minister
Manmohan Singh’s efforts to speed up implementation of major
investment projects. Singh faces a general election by May.  Economic expansion will slow to 4.7 percent this fiscal
year, from 5 percent in the previous 12-month period, according
to the median estimate in a Bloomberg survey of 28 analysts from
Sept. 27 through Oct. 3. That would be the slowest since 2003.  For now, Indian companies such as carmakers are grappling
with conditions akin to stagflation.  “Any increase in the repo rate obviously is not good for
the car industry,” said Ajay Seth, chief financial officer at
Maruti Suzuki India Ltd., the nation’s largest carmaker.
Inflation seems to be the bigger concern for officials, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kartik Goyal in Mumbai at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Ten Kate at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net  