-- Mining CEO Pay Attacked by South African Fund Managers
-- B y   K e v i n   C r o w l e y
-- 2013-10-30T09:56:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-29/mining-ceo-pay-attacked-by-south-african-fund-managers.html
South African fund managers
overseeing almost $180 billion in assets said they are stepping
up pressure on mining companies to curb executive pay as returns
to shareholders dwindle.  “Costs are going up double-digit, money is not coming in,
yet we are seeing a big, big rise in executive pay,” Fidelis Madavo, who helps manage about 1.4 trillion rand ($140 billion)
at  Public Investment Corp. , South Africa’s state pension fund,
said at a conference in Johannesburg. “We have been talking to
CEOs individually on this.”  Pay for chief executive officers at South African mining
companies increased 12-fold in the decade to 2012 while
dividends per share dropped 25 percent, according to a
presentation at the conference by Michael Schroder, a fund
manager at  Old Mutual Plc (OML) , who helps manage the equivalent of
$4.1 billion of assets.  “We are not happy,” said Schroder. “Something clearly
has gone wrong here.” He criticized  Gold Fields Ltd. (GFI) ’s decision
to give CEO  Nick Holland  a 39 percent pay rise to 45.3 million
rand in 2012, when the shares fell 17 percent. Holland’s pay
included salary, bonuses and long-term incentives accumulated in
previous years.  Holland’s 9.3 million-rand salary is 144 times higher than
the annual wage, excluding bonuses and benefits, paid to entry-level underground workers at Gold Fields, who receive 5,400 rand
a month. Management have taken a pay freeze for the 2012-2013
financial year, spokesman Sven Lunsche said in an e-mail,
declining to comment further.  Pay Freeze  CEOs of companies on the  Johannesburg Stock Exchange  are
paid an average 54 times more than the lowest-earning worker at
their companies, according to a  study  published this year by
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP. The ratio is 20 times in China, 12
times in  Switzerland  and 204 times in the U.S., the study shows.  Investors are starting to be heard by mining companies’
boards on the question of pay, according to Sandy McGregor, a
fund manager at Allan Gray Ltd., which manages about $35 billion
of assets.  “The system is evolving,” he said in an interview. “I
don’t think you’re going to see such huge packages in the
future.” The firm has hired a person to work full-time to talk
to companies about executive pay, he said.  ‘Major Issue’  “It has become a major issue,” McGregor said. “There are
a lot of executives in the  mining industry  who are getting more
than they should. We don’t mind people getting very large
remuneration packages, but they must have done something to
deserve it.”  State-run PIC, which manages public workers’ pensions,
rejected pay plans at  Anglo American Platinum Ltd. (AMS) , Gold Fields
Ltd.,  AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. (ANG) ,  Sibanye Gold Ltd. (SGL)  and  Royal
Bafokeng Platinum Ltd. (RBP) , it said in August. PIC voted at the
companies’ annual general meetings in April and May. The
industry “is going through a very, very hard period,” Madavo
said.  The Chamber of Mines, which represents South African mining
companies, didn’t immediately respond to a request for comment.  “My advice to the CEOs is this,” said Old Mutual’s
Schroder. “Your personal greed is the biggest obstacle for the
turn of this trend.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Crowley in Johannesburg at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  