-- Iran Offers UN Monitors Measures to Boost Trust in Atomic Work
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   T i r o n e
-- 2013-10-29T13:26:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-29/iran-offers-un-monitors-measures-to-boost-trust-in-atomic-work.html
Iran  and United Nations nuclear
monitors came closer to compromising on measures intended to
build international trust that the Persian Gulf nation isn’t
harboring a clandestine nuclear-weapons program.  International Atomic Energy Agency officials will travel to
Tehran for a Nov. 11 meeting, where both sides will attempt to
finalize an accord, chief inspector Tero Varjoranta said today
in a joint statement in Vienna with Iranian envoy Reza Najafi.  “Iran presented a new proposal with practical measures as
a constructive contribution to strengthen our cooperation,
Varjoranta said. The Tehran meeting will be used “to take this
cooperation forward,” he said.  The IAEA talks, aimed at winning wider access to people and
places in Iran, are part of a flurry of diplomatic activity
surrounding the country’s nuclear work. Concurrent negotiations
between Iran and the so-called P5+1 powers -- the U.S.,  France ,
the U.K.,  Russia ,  China  and  Germany  -- are seeking a settlement
to a conflict which has raised the specter of war for a decade.  “We will not succumb to fear tactics” against holding
talks with Iran, U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry said last
night in remarks at the United States Institute of Peace, a
congressionally funded, nonpartisan policy group in  Washington .
While Kerry didn’t elaborate, Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has faulted the administration’s willingness to engage
with Iran.  Iran wants “a new chapter in cooperation with the ultimate
goal being the resolution of all outstanding issues,” Najafi
said. Iran’s Deputy Foreign Minister Abbas Araghchi said
yesterday he was “hopeful of a good result” after flying to
Vienna for a meeting with IAEA Director General Yukiya Amano.  Confidence Building  Meeting world powers earlier this month in Geneva, Araghchi
said Iran was willing to permit more stringent inspections as
part of confidence-building measures intended to defuse the
decade-long standoff. Topping the IAEA’s list of sites it would
like to visit is the Parchin military base 20 kilometers (12
miles) southeast of Tehran, where Iran allegedly experimented on
triggers for a nuclear device.  “We had a very productive meeting about the past and
present issues,” Varjoranta said. ‘Parchin is of course one of
those issues.”  Both sides agreed to keep details of Iran’s proposal
secret. Iran has resisted granting access to Parchin and accused
the IAEA of relying on fake intelligence.  Iran, with the world’s No. 4 proven oil reserves, denies
that it is seeking nuclear weapons and insists its program is
peaceful.  While investigators regularly enter Iran’s declared nuclear
facilities, including its two enrichment plants, they say they
still need to determine the extent of alleged hidden nuclear-weapons work by Iran.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Tirone in Geneva at 
 jtirone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  