-- IRS Cited Caesars for Bank Secrecy Act Breach
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2013-10-30T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-29/irs-cited-caesars-for-bank-secrecy-act-breach.html
Caesars Entertainment Corp. (CZR)  was
cited by the  Internal Revenue Service  for Bank Secrecy Act
violations, according to a letter from U.S. investigators
notifying the company of a money-laundering probe.  The action against the company’s flagship hotel was
disclosed in an Oct. 10 letter from the Treasury’s Department’s
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network. It was posted yesterday on
the  website  of the Massachusetts Gaming Commission, where the
staff recommended denying Caesars a license in the state.  The IRS handles casino compliance examinations for FinCen,
according to the letter. Stephen Hudak, a spokesman for FinCen,
declined to comment on the letter, citing agency policy, as did
Jose Vejarano, a spokesman for the IRS in  Washington .  The 1970 Bank Secrecy Act requires financial institutions
to assist government agencies in detecting and preventing  money
laundering , such as reporting cash transactions above $10,000.  Caesars, the largest owner of casinos in the U.S., said in
an Oct. 21  filing  that FinCen is investigating whether to assess
a civil penalty and take enforcement action against the company.
The company also disclosed that a grand jury is investigating
alleged Bank Secrecy Act violations at Caesars Palace in  Las
Vegas .  Caesars “intends to cooperate fully with both the FinCen
and grand jury investigations,” according to the filing. The
company said it was “currently unable to determine the
probability of the outcome of these matters or the range of
reasonably possible loss, if any.”  The company declined to comment on the letter that says
Caesars was cited for Bank Secrecy Act violations, according to
an outside spokesman,  Stephen Cohen .  ‘Not Leader’  Jennifer Shasky Calvery, the director of FinCen, said in an
Oct. 28 interview that casinos aren’t effectively sharing
information across their business units and that executives in
charge of regulatory compliance are being overruled by officials
in other departments. Casinos also need to pay more attention to
their customers’ sources of funds, she said.  “Think of it as the compliance versus business showdown,”
Shasky Calvery said. “Compliance notes a problem, the business
side has the ability to say that’s not important. The business
needs overrule the compliance needs.”  Shasky Calvery said she couldn’t comment specifically on
the Caesars investigation.  ‘Appropriate Policies’  “We believe that we have appropriate policies in place to
ensure anti-money laundering compliance,” Caesars Chairman and
Chief Executive Officer Gary Loveman said in an Oct. 13 letter
to the Massachusetts Gaming Commission, which was considering
the company for a gaming license. “High-end play, which we
believe to be the main focus of the government’s investigation,
is a small part of our company’s business and we are not a
leader in this part of the industry.”  In the Oct. 10 letter, FinCen said that after a 2012-2013
examination, the IRS “cited Caesars Palace for a range of BSA
violations.”  The casino responded to the IRS’s findings on Aug. 12,
according to the FinCen letter.  Caesars, based in Las Vegas, fell 0.9 percent to $18.40
yesterday in  New York . Shares of the company, which reported a
$761.4 million third-quarter loss after markets closed, have
more than doubled this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in  Los Angeles  at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  