-- Italian Bank Foundations Under Siege on Overhaul Push
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2013-10-30T15:31:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-29/italian-bank-foundations-under-siege-as-visco-seeks-overhaul.html
Italy ’s banking foundations, the
biggest shareholders in the country’s financial industry, are
under siege as their leaders gather in Rome today.  Bank of Italy Governor Ignazio Visco wants them to loosen
their grip on management. The  International Monetary Fund  has
urged an overhaul of an ownership structure vulnerable to
cronyism. In the last 12 months, their appointees at the banks
were ousted in Genoa and probed by prosecutors in Siena.  “In Italy, to understand the banks you don’t have to be a
financial analyst, you have to be a political analyst,”
Francesco Galietti, founder of Rome-based research firm Policy
Sonar, said in an interview.  Banking foundations are a particularly Italian institution.
The 88 non-profit groups, some of which trace their origins back
more than 400 years, were entrusted with the ownership of
Italy’s banks when they were sold by governments in the 1990s.
Their mandate was to support the lenders as they consolidated
and gradually opened to new investors. Banks’ dividends funded
foundations’ charitable activities.  The near failure of  Banca Monte dei Paschi di Siena SpA ,
the world’s oldest bank, highlighted shortcomings of the system.  “The MPS situation made it explicit to everyone that this
is something that can’t last forever,” Antonio Guglielmi, a
London-based analyst with  Mediobanca SpA (MB) , said in an e-mail.
“Things will hopefully start moving now because denial is not
justified by what happened.”  Bank Holdings  Leaders of the foundations, which together own about 20
billion euros ($27 billion) of bank stock, according to their
association, ACRI, met today in Rome for their 2013 convention.
The annual event is typically a moment to celebrate achievements
in their twin roles of providing stable ownership to banks and
supporting communities.  This year, as Visco applies pressure, was a little
different.  The 63-year-old central banker called on foundations in a
July 10 speech to loosen their grip on management and diversify
their holdings away from the financial sector. He praised the
foundations for their capital support during the financial
crisis, while saying their influence may interfere with business
decisions and deter hiring the most qualified managers.  ‘Must Comply’  “Significant progress on these issues must be made in a
timely way,” Visco said in today’s speech. “The foundations
should have diversified their portfolios to reduce their
dependence on their banks. Some haven’t done this. All must
comply.”  The central banker reiterated foundations must not
interfere with bank business decisions or stand in the way of
competent personnel. Visco, a member of the  European Central
Bank ’s governing council, also urged the government to maintain
budget rigor and said the Italian banking industry doesn’t have
large capital needs.  The push for governance reform comes at a crucial time for
a hobbled banking industry. The country’s two-year recession has
hampered  UniCredit SpA (UCG) ,  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP)  and smaller rivals
just as the European Central Bank prepares to administer asset
reviews.  Raising Capital  The foundations have helped the banks through the downturn,
underwriting 7.3 billion euros in capital increases from 2008
through 2012, according to ACRI. Still, the IMF suggested in a
report last month that their sway on lending has a dark side.  “Foundations are subject to strong political influence,”
the IMF said in a Sept. 6  report . Non-performing loan ratios are
2 percentage points above the industry average at the 14 banks
that are at least 50 percent held by foundations, the IMF said.  ACRI is asking its members to bring their statutes into
line with guidelines it published in April 2012 aimed at cutting
down on potential conflicts of interest. ACRI Chairman Giuseppe Guzzetti said in his speech today that he agrees foundations
should diversify their holdings and refrain from influencing
bank business decisions. Still, he was defiant against their
roles as investors.  “We will not allow anyone to take away our rights as
shareholders,” Guzzetti said.  The boards at foundations are mainly selected by
representatives of politics, business and social groups in the
communities where they are situated. At Turin-based Compagnia di
San Paolo, the city picks two board members and the local
chamber of commerce picks two. The board is  rounded out  with
selections by regional authorities, local academies and
institutions in neighboring Genoa and Milan as well as  Rome .  San Paolo  Compagnia di San Paolo, the biggest investor in Milan-based
Intesa, teamed with another foundation stockholder to renew 80-year-old Giovanni Bazoli’s mandate as chairman of the bank in
April. Intesa, the product of mergers combining banks from Turin
to Milan to Florence, is Italy’s No. 2 and has more than 23
percent of  its stock  held by five foundations.  Prosecutors are  investigating  Sergio Chiamparino, chairman
of Compagnia, the second-biggest foundation, for concessions
given to bars on the Po River when he was mayor of Turin from
2001 to 2011. The probe didn’t faze 450-year-old Compagnia,
which owns almost 10 percent of Intesa. It  rejected 
Chiamparino’s resignation this week.  Chiamparino, 65, denied any wrongdoing and said he will
cooperate with prosecutors.  Monte Paschi  Three foundations together own about 9 percent of
UniCredit, the largest Italian bank, which broadened its
shareholder base by buying  Germany ’s HVB in 2005. At Siena-based
Monte Paschi, one foundation owns 38 percent of the bank and has
been criticized for its oversight. Giuseppe Mussari, the former
chairman who went on trial last month for obstructing
regulators, was head of the Monte Paschi Foundation before
taking his role at the lender.  In Genoa, where the local foundation owns 49 percent of
 Banca Carige SpA (CRG) , Chairman Giovanni Berneschi was replaced on
Sept. 30 after poor results.  “Foundations have in many cases spurred Italian banks to
expand and modernize,” the IMF said. “More effective corporate
governance will ensure that banks can play a supportive role to
the economy and contribute to broader financial stability.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Frye in Rome at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  