-- Italy’s Slump Persists in Setback for Letta Government
-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 2013-10-29T13:44:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-29/italy-recession-persisted-through-september-in-setback-for-letta.html
Italy’s economy shrank in the three
months through September, the head of the statistics office
said, prolonging a record recession and signaling that the euro
area’s recovery is bypassing its third-biggest economy.  Antonio Golini, acting chairman of Istat, the country’s
national statistics office, also told a hearing in Parliament in
Rome that  gross domestic product  will fall 1.8 percent this
year. That’s more than the 1.4 percent contraction Rome-based
Istat projected in May.  The estimate contradicts the forecast of Prime Minister
Enrico Letta’s government that the economy would stop
contracting in the third quarter before returning to growth in
the final three months of the year. As the wider euro region
 emerged from a recession  in the second quarter, the Italian
economy shrank 0.3 percent as export growth failed to offset the
impact of rising unemployment on domestic demand.  “The economy is expected to have stabilized in the third
quarter -- I’m aware that Istat said otherwise,” Finance
Minister Fabrizio Saccomanni told Parliament after Golini’s
hearing. “Economic activity is set for a gradual recovery.”  Saccomanni also estimated that GDP will fall 1.8 percent in
2013. That compares with the Treasury’s Sept. 20 forecast for a
1.7 contraction.  Italy’s 10-year bond yield dropped 6 basis points to 4.13
percent as of 2:40 p.m.  Rome  time, leaving the difference with
comparable German bunds at 238 basis points.  Euro ’Laggard’  Economists predict that Italian GDP stagnated in the three
months through September and see it declining 1.7 percent in
2013, according to Bloomberg’s monthly economic survey published
Oct. 10.  The country’s economy has been shrinking since the third
quarter of 2011. Istat will publish its first estimate for GDP
in the quarter through September on Nov. 14.  “A further GDP contraction in the third quarter would
confirm our assessment that despite the improvements of the last
two quarters, the Italian economy is a laggard in the euro
area,” said  Silvio Peruzzo , an economist at Nomura Holdings
Inc. in  London . “Political and fiscal uncertainty is likely
taking a toll on the economy constraining the recovery.”  Berlusconi’s Woes  Measures to revive the economy passed under Letta’s
government have so far failed to succeed against a backdrop of a
fragmented coalition jeopardized by the legal woes of former
premier  Silvio Berlusconi .  Most Italians are optimistic about the outlook for the
European economy, though are concerned Italy won’t fully join
the rest of the area in a recovery, savings-bank association
ACRI said in a survey released today. Almost six out of 10 are
very or quite unhappy about their personal economic situation
and 41 percent are pessimistic about an economic recovery this
year, the survey showed.  Industrial output unexpectedly fell for a second month in
August, Istat said this month in a first indication that the
country may have fallen further behind the rest of the euro
area.  Italy will “critically determine the fate of the euro
area” and the region won’t prosper if that country can’t
restore economic growth, European Central Bank Executive Board
member Joerg Asmussen said on Oct. 25.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  