-- Japan Regulator Widens Probe Into Crime Loans by Big Banks
-- B y   S h i n g o   K a w a m o t o ,   M o n a m i   Y u i   a n d   T a k a k o   T a n i g u c h i
-- 2013-10-30T07:42:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-29/japanese-regulator-to-inspect-offices-of-three-largest-lenders.html
Japan’s financial regulator plans to
inspect the nation’s three largest lenders, widening a probe
into credit given to gangsters to include  Mitsubishi UFJ
Financial Group Inc. (8306)  and  Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group Inc. (8316)   The inspections are to determine whether their banking
units are complying with rules including those meant to curb
transactions with criminal organizations, Hiroki Kato, an
official at the Financial Services Agency, said by telephone
yesterday. The reviews will start Nov. 5, another FSA official
said, declining to be identified because of the agency’s policy.  The probe follows Mizuho Financial Group Inc.’s plan to
improve internal controls and penalize executives including
President Yasuhiro Sato after the Tokyo-based bank was
reprimanded for ignoring 200 million yen ($2 million) in loans
made to members of criminal groups. The FSA will look closely at
Mizuho and its report, Kato said.  “Megabanks clearly need to take responsibility for a wider
array of issues ranging from management to compliance as they
have many companies under their umbrellas,” said  Takehito Yamanaka , an analyst at Credit Suisse Group AG in Tokyo. “The
FSA’s inspection is likely to check if the banks’ top managers
are handling things in a responsible manner.”  Spokesmen for Mizuho,  Sumitomo Mitsui  and Mitsubishi UFJ
declined to comment yesterday.  Pay Cuts  Sato will give up six months’ pay for failing to stop the
loans, Mizuho said after submitting the report on Oct. 28.
Takashi Tsukamoto will resign as chairman of Mizuho Bank Ltd.,
while keeping the post at the parent company, and take a similar
pay cut. A total of 52 other current and former executives will
also be penalized, the lender said.  The bank’s business improvement report outlined measures
such as database sharing and the addition of an outside director
to prevent further transactions with yakuza crime syndicates.
Lawyers commissioned by Mizuho to investigate the loans said the
bank’s shortcomings stemmed from lax internal controls rather
than attempts to mislead regulators.  Financial Services Minister Taro Aso said on Oct. 28 that
his agency will examine Mizuho’s plan and determine any
punishment after taking the lawyers’ findings into account.  Shares (8411)  of Mizuho, Japan’s third-largest bank by market
value, rose 1 percent to 209 yen at the close of trading in
Tokyo. They have dropped 5.9 percent since the bank was
reprimanded by the regulator on Sept. 27.  Mitsubishi UFJ, the nation’s biggest lender, gained 1.1
percent and Sumitomo Mitsui added 1.4 percent. The benchmark
 Topix Index (TPX)  rose 0.9 percent.  Auto Loans  The FSA’s order to Mizuho last month was based on 230
transactions, mostly automobile loans made through its  Orient
Corp. (8585)  consumer credit affiliate. Mizuho said it will share its
database of crime groups with Orient and help it improve its
system for verifying customers applying for loans.  Orient submitted a report to  Japan ’s trade ministry earlier
this month to clarify the Tokyo-based company’s role in lending
to yakuza gang members with Mizuho, its biggest  shareholder .  Masayuki Saito, Orient’s president, apologized in a press
conference today and said an internal investigation is ongoing.
It will decide on penalties for employees after reviewing
results of the probe, he said.  ‘Limited Resources’  Sato has said he was in a position to have found out about
the loans as early as July 2011, when reports mentioning them
were circulated at executive meetings. He said this week he
doesn’t recall seeing the issue highlighted in the reports.  Lawmakers have been seeking to scrutinize Sato and the
FSA’s handling of the investigation. Yuzuru Takeuchi, a member
of the ruling coalition’s New Komeito party, yesterday said Sato
should be summoned to Parliament. Isshu Sugawara, chairman of
the ruling  Liberal Democratic Party ’s finance committee, said
Oct. 18 he wants Sato to appear before his panel as it examines
whether the FSA’s supervision of Mizuho was adequate.  The FSA “has limited time, limited resources and limited
staff, so we need efficiency” in inspecting and supervising
financial institutions, Financial Services Minister Aso said
yesterday.  Mizuho has been penalized for lapses ranging from computer
failures to trading errors since its creation in 2000 through
the merger of Dai-Ichi Kangyo Bank Ltd., Fuji Bank Ltd. and
Industrial Bank of Japan Ltd. In May 2011, the FSA ordered
Mizuho to improve operations and repair its “corporate
culture” following system malfunctions that delayed
transactions after the March 2011 earthquake and tsunami.  In 2007, the FSA found that a Mitsubishi UFJ branch did
business with an “antisocial institution” for more than 30
years. The agency penalized the company by ordering it to halt
new lending to corporate clients for a week and barred it from
opening branches for six months. Mitsubishi UFJ cut executive
pay and established an anti-money laundering office.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shingo Kawamoto in  Tokyo  at 
 skawamoto2@bloomberg.net ;
Monami Yui in Tokyo at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net ;
Takako Taniguchi in Tokyo at 
 ttaniguchi4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  