-- Japan Inc. Poised to Boost Forecasts in Vote on Abenomics
-- B y   A n n a   M u k a i   a n d   D a v e   M c C o m b s
-- 2013-10-29T08:55:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-29/japan-inc-poised-to-boost-profit-forecasts-in-vote-on-abenomics.html
Japanese companies from  Toyota Motor
Corp. (7203)  to  Sony Corp. (6758)  are poised to report earnings that will
provide evidence on whether Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s  policies 
are leading to a sustained economic recovery.  Second-quarter profit is set to surge an average of 95
percent, after the yen’s biggest quarterly drop in 17 years,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Companies are also
expected to raise their full-year forecasts even as currency-related gains start to taper.  Japan ’s stock  rally , the developed world’s biggest this
year, has investors seeking evidence that the monetary easing
and fiscal stimulus dubbed Abenomics have done more than weaken
the yen. The economy expanded an estimated 2.45 percent
annualized pace in the three months through September, the
fastest among the Group of Seven industrialized countries.  “There’s plenty of room for companies to raise their full-year forecasts,” said Satoshi Yuzaki, general manager at Takagi
Securities Co. in  Tokyo . He said the yen’s weakness relative to
companies’ exchange-rate assumptions is driving expectations for
forecast revisions.  Net income for more than 400 members of the broader Topix
index probably increased 95 percent to an aggregate 4.80
trillion yen ($49 billion) in the three months ended September,
from 2.46 trillion yen a year ago, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Revising Estimates  Investors are accustomed to market-moving forecast
revisions in Japanese companies’ interim earnings reports.  Panasonic Corp. (6752)  a year ago stunned the market by projecting
a record 765 billion yen annual loss. Japan’s biggest consumer
electronics maker forecasts net income of 50 billion yen for the
current fiscal year, aided by the weaker yen, job cuts and a
reorganization. Still, that’s lower than the 69 billion yen
average of 15 analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Sony two years ago revised its guidance to an annual net
loss of 90 billion yen, from a projection of 60 billion yen
profit. For the year ending March 2014, the Xperia and
PlayStation maker expects net income of 50 billion yen, in line
with analyst estimates.  Earnings Surprises  Second-quarter profit rose 33 percent in aggregate for more
than 100 Topix members that reported earnings yesterday and
today, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Among 29
companies that surprised the market, 19 beat analyst estimates
and 10 missed them, the data show.  Recurring profit for companies in the Russell/Nomura Large
Cap, excluding those in the finance industry, will probably grow
50 percent to 60 percent in the second quarter, compared with
the firms’ own forecasts for an aggregate 16 percent increase,
Nomura Securities Co. estimated.  “On average, I expect companies to raise their annual
profit forecasts about 20 percent,” said  Yuuki Sakurai , chief
executive officer of Fukoku Capital Management Inc. “That
should be doable, and is also good enough to keep investors from
worrying too much. Maintaining forecasts will be taken as
negative.”  Sumco Corp. (3436) , a silicon wafer maker; machinery manufacturers
including Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Ltd.; electronic device
maker Seiko Epson Corp. and  Japan Airlines Co. (9201)  are among
companies that will probably outperform their full-year
guidance, said Kenji Abe, strategist at Citigroup in Tokyo.  Structural Reforms  “Corporate earnings will drive the market,” Abe wrote in
a report that listed 12 companies with annual profit forecasts
at least 20 percent less than Citigroup’s estimate.  Fujitsu Ltd. (6702) , a computer services and hardware producer;
machinery maker  Fuji Electric Co. (6504)  and watch and musical
instrument manufacturer  Casio Computer Co. (6952)  are also among
companies expected to beat analyst estimates, according to
Nomura analysts led by Hiromichi Tamura.  Conversely, earnings disappointments would underscore
concerns that Abe has yet to implement structural reforms,
including streamlining  labor laws , cutting corporate taxes and
improving corporate governance.  Coutts & Co. (RBS) , the wealth management unit of Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc, earlier this month said it was cutting
holdings of Japanese shares on concerns Abe won’t win passage of
the necessary reforms.  ‘Conservative’ Forecasts  Komatsu Ltd. (6301) , the world’s second-largest maker of
construction equipment, cut its full-year profit forecast
yesterday, citing slumping demand for mining gear in  Latin
America ,  Indonesia  and  Australia . Sales outside Japan and  China 
plunged 30 percent, while domestic revenue rose 13 percent.  Japanese companies tend to be “conservative” and so are
unlikely to raise their forecasts for annual earnings to match
the consensus of analysts’ estimates, said  Koji Endo , a Tokyo-based auto analyst at Advanced Research Japan in Tokyo.
“There’s still another half year to go and there are many
things that are unclear, such as the yen’s movement, stability
of the U.S. market, and demand within Japan.”  Toyota will probably report quarterly profit grew 72
percent to 445 billion yen, according to the average of six
 analyst estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. The world’s largest
automaker projects a 62 percent jump in full-year profit to a
record 1.48 trillion yen, compared with the 1.8 trillion yen
average of 22 analyst estimates.  Tankan Index  “If Toyota raises their net income forecast to about 1.6
trillion yen, that would show that the company is feeling firm
about its recovery, not simply on the currency-exchange rate,
and that would be taken as a good sign by the markets,” said
Satoru Takada, an auto analyst at Toward the Infinite World Inc.  The carmaker’s annual operating profit is boosted by about
40 billion yen for for each 1-yen weakening of the Japanese
currency against the dollar, according to the company.  The yen’s decline versus the dollar also undergirds
confidence among large manufacturers, which rose last month to
the highest since the early stages of the 2007 global credit
crisis. The Bank of Japan’s quarterly  Tankan (JNTSMFG)  index of sentiment
tripled to 12 in September from 4 one quarter earlier.  Machinery orders jumped to the highest since the Lehman
collapse, a report released earlier this month showed, while
consumer prices advanced the most since 2008 in August on higher
energy costs.  Sales Tax  The effect of a stronger dollar, which makes Japanese
 exports  more competitive, was the largest in 17 years in the
three months through September, when the U.S. currency averaged
99.14 yen, 26 percent stronger than a year earlier.  Abe, who took office in December vowing to do “whatever it
takes” to end declines in consumer prices, has promised a 5
trillion yen stimulus program to cushion the effect of a planned
 sales tax  increase, the nation’s first since 1997, which takes
effect in April.  Japan’s currency plunged starting in mid-November last
year, when Abe’s campaign pledges to end deflation spurred
speculation the central bank would dramatically increase its
asset-buying program.  Executives at Toyota and other manufacturers had clamored
for a weaker currency after seeing profit eroded by the yen’s
climb to as high as 75.82 to the dollar in October 2011, 39
percent stronger than the 123 yen level set in June 2007.  “Markets are improving on Abenomics and the weaker yen,”
said  Mitsushige Akino , chief  fund manager  at Ichiyoshi Asset
Management Co. “We should see a good number of companies
raising their profit forecasts.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna Mukai in Tokyo at 
 amukai1@bloomberg.net ;
Dave McCombs in Tokyo at 
 dmccombs@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net  