-- Japan’s Kirin Buys Warrnambool Stake Amid Dairy Bidding War
-- B y   D a v i d   S t r i n g e r   a n d   B r e t t   F o l e y
-- 2013-10-29T08:37:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-29/japan-s-kirin-takes-stake-in-warrnambool-amid-dairy-bidding-war.html
Kirin Holdings Co. (2503) , Japan’s largest
beverage maker, bought a 9.99 percent blocking stake in
Warrnambool Cheese & Butter Factory Co., the Australian dairy
producer that’s the target of three takeover offers.  Warrnambool shares rose to a record today in Sydney trading
before Kirin’s Australian unit disclosed the purchase in a
statement. Canada’s  Saputo Inc. (SAP) , Murray Goulburn Cooperative Co.
and  Bega Cheese Ltd. (BGA)  made bids seeking to add the company’s
production and export infrastructure to meet demand in Asia.  Kirin’s “immediate thought will be to prevent Saputo from
getting Warrnambool,” said Mark Topy, a Melbourne-based analyst
with Canaccord Genuity Group Inc. “Kirin may have their own
ambitions in terms of the dairy sector and further consolidation
and being a player in that.”  Warrnambool (WCB)  closed up 5.3 percent in Sydney trading today
at A$8.80, giving it a market value of A$493 million ($469
million). The producer, which supplies milk to make Philadelphia
cream cheese, relies on exports for most of its sales and last
year made 143,000 metric tons of dairy produce including cheese,
milk powder and  infant-formula  ingredients.  Asia Demand  Competition for Warrnambool, which also makes brands
including Sungold milk and Great Ocean Road cheese, comes as
dairy demand rises in India, Indonesia and  Vietnam .  China , the
world’s most populous nation, is setting records for milk-powder
imports to fill its milk production deficit.  Warrnambool signed an agreement to negotiate with Toong
Yeuan Enterprise Co. to act as sole distributor of its infant
formula and other lactoferrin products in China,  Hong Kong  and
Taiwan, the Victoria state-based company said in a statement
today after the market closed.  The 125-year-old company sees prices for exports rising
this year on demand in Asia, forecasting exported milk powder
will advance 33 percent, butter climb 16 percent and cheese rise
12 percent, it said in an Oct. 9 presentation.  Bega Cheese  holds 18 percent  of Warrnambool and Murray
Goulburn holds 17 percent, according to  data  compiled by
Bloomberg.  Saputo’s offer needs approval of the holders of 50 percent
of Warrnambool’s shares, the Canadian producer said in an Oct.
25 statement. Kirin’s Australian unit, Lion, may be betting that
other holders will join it to block the deal, Canaccord’s Topy
said. “It seems a little aggressive, but makes some sense,” he
said.  Warrnambool supplies as much as 20,000 tonnes of cheddar
cheese a year for Lion’s Coon and Cracker Barrel brands and
leases cutting and wrapping facilities to the Kirin unit, the
dairy producer said in an April 11 presentation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Stringer in Melbourne at 
 dstringer3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  