-- Japan Tobacco Cuts 1,600 Jobs in Buyouts, Closes 4 Factories
-- B y   Y u k i   Y a m a g u c h i
-- 2013-10-30T08:04:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-29/japan-tobacco-to-cut-workers-and-shut-four-plants-nhk-reports.html
Japan Tobacco Inc. (2914)  is cutting 1,600
 jobs  and closing four factories in the country as part of its
plan to boost domestic competitiveness and profitability.  The job cuts, or about 18 percent of the company’s
workforce, will be made through a voluntary retirement program
that will be offered to eligible employees in the Japanese
domestic tobacco business and corporate functions, it  said  in a
statement today. Most of these staff will leave the company at
the end of March 2015 with more expected the year after.  “Our Japanese domestic tobacco business operates in an
increasingly challenging environment, mainly due to consecutive
tobacco tax increases, tightening of smoking related
regulations, growing health consciousness and an aging
society,” the Tokyo-based company in a statement to the  Tokyo 
Stock Exchange today.  Japan  Tobacco,  Asia ’s largest listed tobacco maker, faces
declining demand in its home market amid a shrinking population
and has been expanding its overseas business to offset the
weakening domestic market. The ratio of smokers in Japan fell 4
percentage points to 20.9 percent over the last four years,
according to company’s website.  The Tokyo-based company is seeking to boost profitability
because it expects “future industry contraction in the mid to
long term,” it said in today’s statement. It plans to begin
discussions with labor unions, it said.  The cost cuts will start having effect from as early as
April 2015, Akira Saeki, an executive deputy president who heads
the tobacco business, said at a press conference in Tokyo today.  Share Gain  Japan Tobacco shares climbed 3.65 percent to close at 3,550
yen, the most since Aug. 14. The job cuts and factory closures
were first reported by NHK earlier today.  The seller of the Mevius brand is shutting two cigarette
manufacturing factories, two tobacco-related plants and a
division that makes and sells tobacco vending machines as early
as March 2015, it said. The company will also stop leaf
processing operations at its business in Fukushima, it said.  “It will improve the production efficiency,” said  Hiroshi
Saji , an analyst at Mizuho Securities Co. “Domestic production
had been on a decline, and reported measures are along the lines
of the falling demand.” He expects the job cuts will boost the
company’s operating profit by 17 billion yen ($173 million) per
year.  First-Half Results  The most recent voluntary retirement program was in the
year ended March 2005 and 5,796 employees accepted that plan,
spokesman Hisashi Sekiguchi said before the announcement. The
company cut jobs at that time to increase its competitiveness,
he said.  The company is scheduled to announce its first-half results
tomorrow. It has 8,925 employees as of March, excluding group
companies.  In April, Japan Tobacco forecast net income will climb 21
percent to 415 billion yen ($4.2 billion) while sales will gain
12 percent to 2.37 trillion yen in the year ending March 31. A
weaker yen is boosting the value of revenue from tobacco
operations overseas.  Sales Tax  Japan’s government plans to raise the  sales tax  to 8
percent in April from 5 percent at present. The company, which
plans to pass on the increase to customers, will decide on the
price hike for its products by early next year, Saeki said in an
interview this month.  The company plans to expand its range of smokeless tobacco
products as the proportion of cigarette users declines in Japan,
its biggest market, Saeki said then. Stiffer laws on the sale
and consumption of cigarettes overseas have contributed to this
trend, the company said.  Japan Tobacco is looking at tie-ups or acquisitions as
regulations tightened worldwide and consumers demand
alternatives because “cigarettes’ appeal may be diminishing”
as more people are bothered by smoke, he said.  Japan Tobacco sees more growth opportunities in regions
such as  Africa ,  South America  and some parts of Asia and plans
to expand in  Indonesia ,  Southeast Asia ’s most-populous nation,
possibly through acquisitions or ventures with local companies,
the executive said, without giving specific details.  Overseas revenue  accounts for about half of Japan Tobacco’s
sales, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yuki Yamaguchi in Tokyo at 
 yyamaguchi10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net ;
Teo Chian Wei at 
 cwteo@bloomberg.net  