-- Japanese Traders to Start Myanmar Economic Zone Within Two Years
-- B y   Y u r i y   H u m b e r
-- 2013-10-29T08:30:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-29/japanese-traders-to-start-myanmar-economic-zone-within-two-years.html
Three of Japan’s biggest trading
houses agreed to form a venture with Myanmar that will build an
industrial hub in the Southeast nation within two years, aiming
to export electronics parts and clothes across Asia.  Mitsubishi Corp. (8058) ,  Sumitomo Corp. (8053)  and  Marubeni Corp. (8002)  will
own 49 percent and Myanmar’s government and local enterprises
the rest in the venture near the commercial capital of Yangon,
the companies said today in a joint statement. The partners may
spend about 17 billion yen ($174 million) on power, water and
transport infrastructure at the site.  “This project has a very high potential” both to supply
domestic demand for auto and construction materials and to set
up production for export to Japan, China and other nations in
Asia, Toru Kabeya, Marubeni’s deputy chief of the transport
infrastructure project department, said in a briefing in Tokyo.  The recent opening up of Myanmar to international trade
after five decades of military dictatorship is providing Japan
with a chance to establish another low-cost manufacturing base
similar to that of Thailand, home to factories of  Nissan Motor (7201) 
Co.,  Canon Inc. (7751)  and  Hitachi Ltd. (6501)  among others. Myanmar, which
has $11 billion in overdue debt from decades of military rule,
owes the most to Japan.  Japan has sought closer ties since the 2010 election that
brought President  Thein Sein  to power, hosting him in Tokyo last
year and having Prime Minister Shinzo Abe travel to Myanmar in
May in the first visit by a Japanese leader for 36 years. During
the visit, Abe offered new loans to Myanmar and approved plans
made last year to settle the nation’s $6.6 billion debt to
Japan.  Thilawa Hub  The Thilawa hub will initially occupy 400 hectares (988
acres). The space may be enough to house 50 firms to 100 firms
spanning a wide range of light manufacturing, Kabeya said.  A feasibility study on a further 2,000 hectares of space at
the Thilawa site is ongoing, Tomoya Sato, a director at the
trade and economic cooperation bureau of Japan’s ministry of
industry, said today at the briefing in Tokyo.  Japan will approach the development 23 kilometers (14
miles) south of Yangon as a “national project,” Sato said. The
Thilawa site needs roads, power and sewage infrastructure, he
said.  Japanese trading houses, whose businesses span commodity
procurement, manufacture and retail, began studying Myanmar for
the development of industrial parks early last year.  President Sein’s moves to modernize Myanmar’s financial and
physical infrastructure after years of neglect have lured
private equity funds and companies such as  General Electric Co. (GE) 
and Norway’s  Telenor ASA. (TEL)   Myanmar has also inquired about Japanese participation in
other industrial projects in the nation, Sato said, without
providing details.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yuriy Humber in Tokyo at 
 yhumber@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  