-- JPMorgan Mortgage Accord Said to Meet U.S. Resistance
-- B y   L a u r i e   A s s e o ,   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g   a n d   D a w n   K o p e c k i
-- 2013-10-30T04:00:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-29/jpmorgan-drops-after-mortgage-accord-said-to-meet-resistance.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s proposed
terms to settle state and federal probes of the bank’s mortgage-bond sales were rejected by the Department of Justice this week,
said two people familiar with the negotiations.  The  Justice Department  told JPMorgan it won’t agree to
language the firm submitted Oct. 27, said the people, who asked
not to be named because the talks are private. The government
would bar JPMorgan from trying to recover part of the costs from
the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. and opposed the company’s
bid to avoid criminal liability in  cases  that don’t involve
residential mortgage-backed securities, one person said.  JPMorgan, led by Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon , is
trying to complete a $13 billion settlement outlined in talks
earlier this month. Part of the deal was finished with the
 Federal Housing Finance Agency  last week, as the New York-based
bank agreed to pay $4 billion to settle claims it sold faulty
mortgage bonds to Fannie Mae and  Freddie Mac. (FMCC)   The Justice Department and JPMorgan, the biggest  U.S. bank ,
also differ on whether to include an additional $1.1 billion
payment in the FHFA pact as part of the total settlement, one
person said.  Shares of JPMorgan advanced 5 cents to $52.73 in New York.
 Brian Marchiony , a company spokesman, declined to comment on the
talks. Dow Jones reported elements of the disagreements
yesterday.  Holder’s Position  Attorney General Eric Holder told the bank the department
wouldn’t let JPMorgan seek reimbursement from the FDIC after
resolving liability stemming from the failure of Washington
Mutual Inc., the person said. Washington Mutual, which ranked
among the biggest subprime mortgage lenders, collapsed during
the 2008 credit crisis and JPMorgan acquired the Seattle-based
company’s banking assets.  JPMorgan has said the FDIC agreed to cover some of the
resulting losses, a claim the agency rejects. The bank estimates
its liabilities from WaMu at about $4 billion, the person said.  While discussions remain open, an agreement may not be
reached this week, one person said.  Last week’s deal with the FHFA included $1.1 billion to
settle claims that the lender sold  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac 
defective mortgages that they packaged into their own
securities. JPMorgan contends that amount is part of the broader
$13 billion pact, one person said on the day that agreement was
announced, while the government believes it would be in addition
to the $13 billion, another person said.  WaMu Status  The FHFA deal is “an important step towards a broader
resolution of the firm’s MBS-related matters with governmental
entities,” the bank said in a statement last week.  In contrast to the Justice Department’s position, the FHFA
agreement allows JPMorgan to seek reimbursement from the FDIC-managed Washington Mutual receivership for FHFA claims stemming
from Washington Mutual.  JPMorgan still faces investigations into its hiring
practices in Asia, its energy-trading business and financial
services provided to Ponzi scheme operator  Bernard Madoff .  Dimon, 57, was personally involved in negotiations with the
Justice Department last month and visited Holder in Washington
to discuss the settlement, a person familiar with the meeting
said at the time. Dimon discussed broad outlines of the deal in
a phone call with Holder on Oct. 18, one person said.  The FHFA case is Federal Housing Finance Agency v. JPMorgan
Chase & Co., 11-06188, U.S. District Court, Southern District of
New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laurie Asseo in Washington at 
 lasseo1@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net ;
Dawn Kopecki in New York at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Christine Harper  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  