-- Kerry Urges Pursuing Diplomacy on Iran’s Nuclear Program
-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2013-10-29T05:14:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-29/kerry-urges-pursuing-diplomacy-on-iran-s-nuclear-program.html
U.S. Secretary of State  John Kerry 
said that failing to pursue diplomacy on Iran’s disputed nuclear
program would be irresponsible and urged Congress to become more
involved in efforts to halt the spread of nuclear weapons.  Kerry addressed the Obama administration’s nonproliferation
efforts as the U.S. and partners prepare to meet again on Iran’s
nuclear program in Geneva and a U.S. research institute said
 North Korea  has renewed construction at its main missile site.  “We will not succumb to fear tactics” against holding
talks with Iran, Kerry said last night in remarks at the United
States Institute of Peace, a congressionally funded, nonpartisan
policy group in Washington. While Kerry didn’t elaborate,
Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  has faulted the
administration’s willingness to engage with Iran.  President  Barack Obama  made nuclear nonproliferation a
priority for his administration early in his first term, signing
an arms-reduction treaty with  Russia . Negotiations with Iran now
represent an opportunity to stem the spread of nuclear weapons
in the Persian Gulf, where Iran’s enemies could start their own
nuclear programs should talks fail.  “Iran is so crucial in the health of the whole
nonproliferation regime and policy, it’s kind of the
centerpiece,” said  Robert Einhorn , a senior fellow at the
 Brookings Institution , a Washington policy group.  Iran’s Deputy Foreign Minister Abbas Araghchi said earlier
yesterday that his country was “hopeful of a good result” in
talks with International Atomic Energy Agency inspectors that
continue today. Araghchi met for an hour yesterday with IAEA
Director General Yukiya Amano. The IAEA’s nuclear inspectors are
seeking wider access to people and places suspected of
conducting undeclared nuclear activities.  Iran Offer  Iran will be offering a “new approach” in higher level
talks with the U.S., U.K.,  France ,  Germany , Russia and  China 
that take place Nov. 7-8 in Geneva, Araghchi said. Iran insists
its program is for civilian purposes, such as medical research,
a claim that countries including the U.S. and  Israel  dispute.  The prospect for a negotiated solution to the standoff over
 Iran’s nuclear program  has sharpened differences between Israel
and the U.S. on what, if any, atomic activities Iran should be
allowed to continue under tighter restrictions. Netanyahu last
week said it would be a “tragic mistake” to ease pressure
before Iran agrees to dismantle its nuclear program.  Abandoning the diplomatic process now under way with Iran
“would be the height of irresponsibility,” Kerry said last
night. Even so, he said, “no deal is better than a bad deal.”  Not ‘Cheap’  The secretary also expressed concern that partisanship in
Congress risked undermining non-proliferation efforts. He cited
the arms-reduction accord reached with Russia, known as the New
START Treaty, which passed the Senate in December 2010 over the
objections of some Republican lawmakers who favored delaying its
approval and reopening talks with the Russian government.  “As the nation that ushered in the nuclear age, we have an
obligation to usher it out,” Kerry said. He warned budget-minded lawmakers that containing the spread of nuclear weapons
“does not come cheap.”  Michael O’Hanlon , a senior fellow with the Center for 21st
Century Security and Intelligence at Brookings, said the
“progress on Iran is extraordinary, though it’s also
bipartisan, dating back to the Bush years.” With talks
continuing, O’Hanlon said it’s so far an “incomplete success.”  “There has been little to no headway with North Korea or
 Pakistan , unfortunately, but the road was very difficult with
both, in different ways,” he said.  North Korea  Efforts to restart international disarmament talks with
North Korea remain stalled as President Kim Jong Un refuses U.S.
and South Korean demands that the country first show signs of
rolling back its weapons development.  North Korea is instead building a possible new launch pad
for mobile missiles that could be complete by mid-2014,
according to a report issued yesterday by the U.S.-Korea
Institute at the Johns Hopkins School of Advanced International
Studies.  The institute reported Oct. 24 that North Korea has also
built two new tunnel entrances at its atomic test site in a sign
the regime is preparing future underground blasts to bolster its
nuclear arsenal.  Pyongyang stepped up its arms program this year, holding
its third nuclear test in February followed by a threat in March
of first strikes against the U.S. and South Korea. South Korea’s
intelligence chief confirmed this month the North had restarted
its main nuclear reactor.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in  Washington  at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  