-- Nasdaq Promotes Executive Hired Following Facebook IPO Error
-- B y   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r
-- 2013-10-29T14:01:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-29/nasdaq-promotes-executive-hired-in-aftermath-of-facebook-errors.html
Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ) , which just
lost Twitter Inc.’s listing after mishandling  Facebook Inc. (FB) ’s
initial public offering last year, said its global chief
information officer will now report to Chief Executive Officer
Bob Greifeld.  Bradley Peterson joined the New York-based exchange
operator from Charles Schwab Corp. in February and originally
worked for Anna Ewing at Nasdaq OMX. Peterson now reports
directly to Greifeld instead of Ewing, according to an internal
memo.  Peterson “will continue to ensure our technology systems
and processes are industry leading,” according to the memo,
which Jeremy Skule, a spokesman, confirmed was authentic. Ewing
still oversees Nasdaq OMX’s Market Technology and Corporate
Solutions units.  The change reflects further evolution in the role of Ewing,
who was chief information officer before Peterson was hired this
year. She, along with Greifeld, had her compensation reduced
after the  Facebook IPO  in May 2012. A software error at Nasdaq
OMX delayed Facebook trading, leading to a $10 million
Securities and Exchange Commission fine and $41.6 million in
claims from firms with losses.  The exchange lost the IPO of Twitter to  NYSE Euronext (NYX)  this
month, missing out on what is set to be the largest U.S.
technology debut since Facebook.  Reliable Systems  Peterson was hired to “drive the design and development of
scalable and reliable solutions to further the growth and
expansion of Nasdaq OMX’s core products and services and the
underlying tools and technologies used by Nasdaq OMX
customers,” according to a statement earlier this year.  In the memo announcing that Peterson now reports to
Greifeld, Nasdaq OMX said Ewing would still oversee two areas: a
business that develops technology used by exchanges around the
world, and another that provides investor and public relations
services to corporations.  Greifeld and Ewing had their 2012 cash compensation reduced
49 percent and 37 percent, respectively, following the Facebook
errors.  Nasdaq OMX shares climbed 0.6 percent to $35.94 at 10 a.m.
 New York  time, extending their 2013 rally to 44 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nandini Sukumar in London at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  