-- Nasdaq Says Human Error Caused Hourlong Halt in Data Feed
-- B y   S a m   M a m u d i   a n d   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t
-- 2013-10-29T20:13:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-29/nasdaq-says-human-error-caused-hour-long-halt-in-data-feed-1-.html
A data feed interruption that
prevented prices for Nasdaq OMX Group Inc.’s benchmark U.S.
stock indexes from being disseminated for almost an hour was
caused by human error, the company said.  The Nasdaq Composite Index and Nasdaq-100 Index were among
the measures that stopped updating at 11:53 a.m. New York time,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. They started moving
again at 12:45 p.m., the data show. Nasdaq said the system that
distributes data was fixed at 12:37 p.m. Individual stocks
listed by Nasdaq OMX, such as  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and  Google Inc. (GOOG) ,
continued to trade during the outage.  “The disruption was caused by a human error performing an
operational function which resulted in the incorrect delivery of
data to the index distribution system,” Ryan Wells, Nasdaq
spokesman, said in an e-mailed statement.  While today’s mishap was confined to data dissemination and
didn’t affect any stocks, it’s the latest in a series of high-profile breakdowns that have plagued the second-largest U.S.
exchange operator for more than a year. A software malfunction
at another Nasdaq OMX data feed halted trading for thousands of
U.S. stocks on Aug. 22. In May 2012, a software error at Nasdaq
OMX delayed  Facebook Inc .’s first day of trading.  ‘Big Deal’  “Every one of these malfunctions is a big deal,” said
Yousef Abbasi, market strategist at JonesTrading Institutional
Services LLC, a Westlake, California-based broker. “They speak
to the integrity or lack thereof of the technology on which we
rely upon to maintain the overall integrity of our market
structure.”  During today’s disruption, Nasdaq OMX exchanges  stopped
trading  options on products including the Nasdaq-100 Index.  Nasdaq OMX index values are compiled and disseminated in
real time by the exchange operator via more than 100 vendors,
including Bloomberg News parent Bloomberg LP, according to the
Nasdaq Trader  website . Gauges such as the Nasdaq Composite and
Nasdaq-100 are used by investors as guides to how stocks listed
on the exchange are moving throughout the day.  There are 33 exchange-traded funds that track Nasdaq U.S.
stock market indexes, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The largest of these ETFs is the Powershares QQQ Nasdaq 100 ETF,
which has $38 billion in assets under management.  Nasdaq OMX shares rose 0.8 percent to $36.01 today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sam Mamudi in  New York  at 
 smamudi@bloomberg.net ;
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  