-- Natalie Portman Browses FIAC, $6 Million Sculpture Sells
-- B y   S c o t t   R e y b u r n
-- 2013-10-29T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-29/natalie-portman-browses-fiac-6-million-sculpture-sells.html
Steve Cohen’s art adviser and
actress Natalie Portman browsed  France ’s biggest contemporary
art fair as the event battled its London rivals for sales.  The London-based dealers Waddington Custot, which opted to
exhibit in Paris rather than the U.K.’s Frieze Masters, placed a
Jean Dubuffet sculpture outside the Petit Palais, opposite FIAC.
It sold for about $6 million just before the fair.  Portman and her husband Benjamin Millepied, a choreographer
and co-star of the movie “Black Swan,” were seen at the Foire
Internationale d’Art Contemporain. Separately, Sandy Heller, art
adviser to Cohen, was also seen there, without the SAC Capital
founder himself.  They were among 73,543 visitors to Paris’s FIAC. The figure
released yesterday beat some 70,000 reported at Frieze the week
before.  “They’re now comparable in quality and newness,” Matthew Armstrong, curator of the Lightyear Capital art collection in
New York, said in an interview. “FIAC is getting better, Frieze
is getting a bit more predictable.”  Dubuffet’s posthumous and monumental painted-polyurethane
work “Welcome Parade,” consisting of five multicolored dancers,
was originally intended for the  National Gallery of Art  in
 Washington , D.C. The sculpture had been made from the artist’s
original models by Waddington in collaboration with  Pace Gallery 
in 2008.  Further sales of works by artists such as Picasso and
Pierre Soulages saw Waddington Custot take about $9 million at
FIAC, according to gallery founder Leslie Waddington.  International Collectors  Uli Sigg (Switzerland), Francois Odermatt ( Canada ), David
Roberts (U.K.) and Henry Kravis (U.S.) were among the
international collectors spotted at FIAC, whose 40th edition
featured 180 galleries from 25 countries.  “This year they were choosing between London and Paris,”
Susan Dunne, president of the New York branch of Pace, which
exhibited at both fairs, said in an interview. “Frieze started
as a fair for inexpensive emerging talent. That formula has
slightly fallen by the wayside.”  Dunne said Pace sold more by value at FIAC, in the Grand
Palais, than during the previous week at Frieze in  London ’s
Regent’s Park. The 2011 Kiki Smith colored bronze sculpture
“Harmonies II,” priced at $200,000, was among the gallery’s
sales.  Unlike its London rivals, FIAC shows 20th-century classics
as well as works by living artists under the same roof. Younger
dealers exhibit in the upper galleries of the Grand Palais.  Totemic Sculpture  Montreal-based Odermatt snapped up a 2013 totemic dyed-plaster-and-fur sculpture by the 33-year-old Gavin Kenyon,
priced at $12,000 with the New York dealer  Ramiken Crucible ,
which sold all its Kenyon pieces within hours of the opening.  Auction prices for contemporary art have risen 34 percent
over the last 10 years, according to a report published on Oct.
21 by the French database Artprice. With resale prices rising,
collectors are keen to buy works from source at dealer
gatherings such as art fairs.  One of them was lucky enough to be at the front of the list
of collectors waiting to buy paintings by Oscar Murillo. The
young Colombian-born artist’s 2013 abstract, “0 + X = 145,” was
hanging on the booth of the New York- and London-based dealer
David Zwirner at FIAC. Auction prices for Murillo soared to
$401,000 in September.  Zwirner  was charging $120,000.  Crowded Calendar  After their obligatory visit to Art Basel in Switzerland in
June, collectors are having to select which events to attend in
an increasingly crowded art calendar.  While FIAC has become increasingly contemporary, 11 year-old Frieze has entered the market for pre-21st century works
with its sister fair  Frieze Masters , now in its second year.  “The fair looked good, though some thought it was a little
too big,” said James Roundell, founding director of Masters
first-time exhibitors Dickinson, who sold the 1969 painting
“Shirt Collar 14 ½" by the Italian Arte Povera artist Domenico
Gnoli, priced at 2.5 million pounds ($4 million).  “The location is a slight problem and there is just too
much going on in Frieze Week,” Roundell said.  The Frieze organizers said in an e-mailed release that to
improve the “visitor experience” at Frieze London, “capacity was
reduced this year and for the first time tickets sold out every
day.”  Muse highlights include  Catherine Hickley  on German art,
 Greg Evans  on television and  Stephanie Green’s  D.C. Scene.  To contact the writer on the story:
Scott Reyburn in Paris at  sreyburn@hotmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 