-- Nazi Plunder Condemns Heir to Jail in Bizarre Fraud Case
-- B y   P e t e r   S .   G r e e n
-- 2013-10-29T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-29/nazi-plunder-condemns-heir-to-jail-in-bizarre-fraud-case.html
In a bizarre case stirring up
 Austria ’s Nazi past, architectural historian Stephan Templ has
been sentenced to three years in prison for “defrauding the
Austrian Republic.”  Templ, 53, has been an outspoken critic of Austria’s poor
post-war record of returning Aryanized properties to their
rightful Jewish owners.  His 2001 book “Unser Wien” (Our Vienna), co-written with
Tina Walzer, lists several hundred of the most prominent Jewish-owned businesses and properties seized by Austrian Nazis after
the 1938 Anschluss and never returned.  A 2000 treaty between the U.S. and Austria pledged the
return of Nazi-looted property to owners and their heirs, but
the process remains slow.  Templ is accused of having defrauded the Republic by
failing to name an aunt in the restitution of a private hospital
near Vienna’s elegant Ringstrasse.  The conviction, which is being appealed, has perplexed
observers while shedding fresh light on Austria’s uneasy efforts
to face its Nazi past.  Three years ago, a state panel returned the sanatorium to
39 heirs of Lothar Furth.  Shameful Death  Furth and his wife had been forced to clean the sidewalk in
front of the clinic, according to official records. The couple
stole back into the operating room and injected themselves with
poison. “We have had enough,” Dr. Furth wrote in a suicide note.  The Furths died childless. After the war’s end, Austria’s
minimal restitution laws prevented their heirs from reclaiming
the building. (Curiously, in August 2000, just months before the
restitution treaty was signed, Austria’s ministry of Economy
advertised the sanatorium for sale in Vienna’s Standard
newspaper.)  “Austria, unlike  Germany , only belatedly came to terms with
the Holocaust,” said Stuart E. Eizenstat, the U.S. diplomat who
negotiated the 2000 restitution treaty.  “They have come light years from where they once were,”
he said, speaking from his law offices in Washington, D.C.  Austrian Control  For decades property, art works and bank accounts that had
been confiscated by the Nazis remained under Austrian control.  The purpose of the treaty, said Eizenstat, “was to provide
imperfect justice to the survivors or the families of victims.”  Just how imperfect became clear to Templ in 2005, when he
learned that a local lawyer and genealogist were seeking Furth’s
heirs. The search was funded by Hoerner Bank, which finances
inquiries for missing heirs and takes a piece of the recovered
inheritance as its fee.  Templ presented a claim on behalf of his mother, Helene, a
Holocaust survivor who traces her lineage to Furth’s
grandparents. In 2009, a state panel returned the building to
the heirs, who eventually sold it.  Helene Templ received about 1.1 million Euros for her
claim. Today the property is being developed into luxury
apartments.  That might have been the end of the affair. But in 2011 a
notary working for the bank informed Helene’s sister, Elisabeth
Kretschmer, that she’d missed her chance to apply for a share in
the property.  Estranged Sister  Estranged from Helene for a quarter century, Kretschmer
complained to a Vienna prosecutor that she’d been denied her
stake.  Prosecutor Kurt Hankiewicz indicted Templ for defrauding
the Republic because, he charged, the aunt could potentially
have renounced her share in favor of the state.  In fact, there is no indication that Kretschmer, now 84,
would have done so. She has told the court that had she known
about the inheritance in time, she would “immediately” have
filed a claim and not let the state collect her share.  Judge Sonja Weis said Templ should have known his aunt was
an heir and that he’d illegally left her out of his claim.  Templ responded that he was required only to demonstrate to
the restitution panel that his mother’s claim was legitimate.
Since he had no legal responsibility to name other heirs, he
said, he has been found guilty of a crime that could not have
been committed.  Not Charged  “Why should I be responsible for naming all the heirs?”
he said in an interview, adding that Hoerner Bank and its
lawyer, notary and genealogist had not mentioned his mother and
aunt in the claims they prepared, and had not been charged.  “I don’t think the burden should be on the claimant to
find all the heirs,” Eizenstat said.  “Once an heir brings a claim, the government should
publish it and say we have heirs, are there any more out
there?”  Eva Blimlinger, who directed the Austrian Historical
Commission’s search for confiscated property, agrees, calling
Templ’s case “crazy.”  “It’s the duty of the Arbitration Panel of the General
Settlement Fund to prove these things,” she said, “not of the
people who make the application for restitution.”  Templ is now waiting for Austria’s  Supreme Court  to rule on
his appeal.  “There are people who want to make this right, but then
the Austrian Republic hands over this historic task to a
machinery of bureaucrats and to notaries working on
commission,” Templ said by telephone from Vienna.  “They forget why they are doing this and you end up with
not with imperfect justice, but with perfect injustice.”  Muse highlights include  Ryan Sutton  on dining and  Scene .  To contact the writer of this column:
Peter S. Green in  New York  at 
 psgreen@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 