-- New York Times Struggles to Replace Print Ads With Digital Sales
-- B y   E d m u n d   L e e
-- 2013-10-29T16:57:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-29/new-york-times-struggles-to-replace-print-ads-with-digital-sales.html
The New York Times Co.’s advertising
department is struggling to replace its once-lucrative print ads
with digital sales, as  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and Facebook Inc. gobble up
increasingly large chunks of marketers’ budgets.  Both print and digital advertising at the newspaper
decreased about 3 percent in the third quarter, the company said
last month, signaling that the total amount fell below $140
million. That’s the lowest level since at least 1998, when the
Times began reporting the ad revenue of its individual papers.  While the entire newspaper business is suffering
advertising woes, the Times’ prestige and elite readership
should be giving it a leg up over other publications, said Rick Edmonds, a media analyst with the Poynter Institute. Instead,
the paper hasn’t yet capitalized on its surging online audience.
The slump also has led to  management  turnover and budget cuts,
hampering the ad department’s ability to attract new clients,
people familiar with the situation said.  “The Times’ ad business reflects what’s happening in the
industry, which is down altogether,” Edmonds said. “And if the
Times is making deep cuts in the ad department, that could be
affecting the quality of their ad sales.”  Cost reductions and low morale have led to the departure of
as many as a dozen sales executives at the division, said the
people, who asked not to be identified because the matter is
private. In some cases, budgets have kept sales reps from
offering free  Times  subscriptions to clients -- once seen as a
standard part of doing business, the people said.  Comeback Effort  Chief Executive Officer  Mark Thompson  said in an e-mailed
statement last week that the ad sales force is setting the stage
for a turnaround. While last quarter’s 3 percent decline
represents the 12th straight decrease in ad revenue, he noted
that it’s the best performance in three years. The company will
report its official results on Oct. 31.  “The Times has performed well in what has been a very
difficult advertising climate over the past several years,
however, I believe we have the opportunity to make further
improvements,” said Thompson, who took the helm at the Times
last year after a career at the British Broadcasting Corp. “We
will invest new funds in our sales force, both in personnel and
in the technology we need to succeed.”  Turnover among the Times’ sales executives is hampering
that recovery, the people said, though the company recently
filled some key positions. Brendan Monaghan, an associate
publisher at GQ, was named publisher of T, the  Times’ luxury
magazine , last week. Meanwhile, the company is offering an
early-retirement buyout to account managers and sales staff,
creating uncertainty among employees, one of the people said.  Circulation Gains  The 162-year-old publisher is racing to increase revenue
from online subscriptions fast enough to make up for falling ad
sales. Most of its revenue now  comes from  readers, not
advertisers -- a reversal from historical patterns.  The company also has fewer levers to pull with its
financial results, since it has sold off assets unrelated to its
New York Times media brand. The paper has lost more than half a
billion dollars in ad sales since 2000, when it generated $1.3
billion. The figure stood at $711 million last year. The company
also hasn’t adequately invested in the sales staff, making it
harder to compete at a time when print media is losing ad
dollars to the Internet, the people said.  Expense Budgets  The ad department is grappling with smaller expense
budgets, making it more difficult to woo clients, according to
the people with knowledge of the company’s workings. While
different sales departments have different policies, some teams
now have expense budgets of as little as a 10th of 1 percent of
their annual sales, two of the people said. That means a group
bringing in $60 million in annual advertising could have an
expense budget of less than $60,000.  Some sales reps have taken to buying client lunches out of
pocket as a way to maintain appearances, the people said. In
other cases, they’ve ordered pizza to the office, rather than
paying for a customer lunch at a restaurant. Travel to meet
clients outside of  New York  also has been scaled back, according
to the people.  For ad clients requesting free subscriptions to the Times,
the sales staff has to find room on a fixed list of available
spots. In a few cases, salespeople couldn’t offer a
complimentary subscription after hitting the limit on their
expense spending, the people said. The Times’ online version is
free to all clients.  Salary Levels  Managers also have faced difficulty recruiting new sales
executives with experience and contacts because the Times pays a
less competitive salary, according to three of the people. On
average, an account manager at the Times makes about $90,000 a
year without bonuses, a fixed salary as set by the Times’ union.
Potential recruits, however, are requesting the industry
standard of $125,000 as a base salary, according to the people.  The Times also has made it harder to meet bonus
requirements as managers are now setting bonus goals as late as
halfway through the quarter, according to the people.  The upheaval has increased the paper’s challenges in an era
when marketers can get their message across in an ever-widening
array of websites for less money. Advertisers’ appetite for
newsprint has diminished and they’re relying on a programmatic
approach online, meaning they want to reach many different sites
using targeting software.  Savvy Customers  “The New York Times has had some struggles internally and
they’re also getting caught up in programmatic ad buying,” said
 Ken Doctor , a media analyst with Burlingame, California-based
Outsell Inc. Unlike most U.S. papers, the Times relies more
heavily on national advertisers, which have adapted to digital
buying more quickly than regional marketers, he said.  Edmonds sees the Wall Street Journal, published by  News
Corp ., as the Times’ closest competitor for ad dollars. The
Journal doesn’t break out individual results, though News
Corp.’s total revenue has held up better than that of Times Co.
Its sales climbed 2.7 percent to $8.9 billion in the most recent
fiscal year, while Times Co.’s revenue rose 1.9 percent.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of  Bloomberg News , also competes
with the New York Times.  In July, Thompson picked a new head sales executive,
Meredith Kopit Levien, to help lead the company back to
advertising growth. Thompson said in his e-mail that Levien is
already helping turn around the organization.  ‘Real Impact’  “Meredith has been in her role for two months and in that
time, has begun to make a real impact by reimagining the
structure, organization and processes of our sales operation,”
he said. “She has also added to our already strong team by
recruiting bright new talent to the Times including sales
executives from GQ, Vogue, Forbes and Politico, among others.”  The prestige of the Times, known as the Gray Lady, once
made it easier for salespeople to hawk ad space. As competition
for advertising dollars stiffened following the recession, the
staff has had to work harder to persuade marketers to stick with
the paper, the people familiar said.  To catch up with online rivals, the Times has started to
invest in new advertising platforms, such as online video, which
generally fetches higher rates than banner ads. The company also
has opened up more of the videos to nonpaying subscribers,
giving it a bigger audience to sell against. Still, the
initiative is in its early stages and the Times hasn’t generated
enough content to make it attractive to advertisers, according
to one media buyer.  “The Times just has too many things going against them
right now,” Doctor said. “When it comes to advertising, no one
at that level seems to have come up with an answer.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edmund Lee in New York at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at   nturner7@bloomberg.net  