-- N.Y. Thruway Agency Rating Cut by S&P on Tappan Zee Cost
-- B y   F r e e m a n   K l o p o t t
-- 2013-10-30T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-29/new-york-thruway-authority-rating-cut-by-s-p-on-tappan-zee-costs.html
The New York State Thruway
Authority, which operates the longest U.S. toll-road system, had
its  credit rating  cut one step to A by  Standard & Poor’s  because
the $3.9 billion Tappan Zee Bridge replacement may overload the
agency with debt.  The authority’s reliance on frequent toll increases was
also cited by S&P as it dropped the agency’s debt to its sixth-highest grade from A+, in a statement released yesterday. The
new span across the Hudson River north of  New York City  is
projected to take six years. Before completing a financing plan,
the state is waiting to see if the U.S. will provide a loan.  “The combination of the lack of a specific tolling plan
and the potential for lower traffic levels at a time when the
NYSTA will increase its leverage significantly led to the
downgrade,” Joseph Pezzimenti, an S&P analyst, said in the
statement. The agency has debts of about $3.7 billion. S&P
changed its outlook on those bonds to stable from negative.  The rating cut is bad timing for Governor  Andrew Cuomo , a
Democrat who has made the span a priority, comparing it in scope
to the 19th century construction of the Erie Canal. The lower
credit grade may raise borrowing costs as the authority begins
building the biggest project in its 63-year history.  Construction started this month. The state has already
borrowed $700 million to help finance the work, which Cuomo has
said will be funded by tolls and bonds.  Toll Revenue  Tappan Zee tolls provided almost 20 percent of the
authority’s 2012 revenue, S&P said. The agency operates 570
miles (920 kilometers) of highway, according to its website.  “We are confident that the Thruway Authority’s credit will
remain stable or improve,” Thomas Madison, the agency’s
executive director, said in a statement. “Throughout the past
two years, the Thruway Authority has streamlined operations and
cut more than $100 million in expenses.”  New York  has applied for a U.S. Transportation
Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Act loan of more than $1
billion, which would be the biggest awarded under the program.
Cuomo, 55, is banking on low-cost federal funds to keep tolls
from almost tripling on the new bridge, when it opens.  The loan has taken more than a year to process by the U.S.
Transportation Department. Terms will be based in part on the
authority’s credit quality, according to federal guidelines.  Tappan Zee  The Tappan Zee Bridge, a 3-mile span that connects Rockland
County and Westchester County about 20 miles north of  Manhattan ,
was designed to last 50 years. It opened in December 1955 and
carries 138,000 vehicles each day, 40 percent more than
intended.  Transportation Secretary Anthony Foxx said at a U.S. Senate
hearing in July that the project is “of national significance”
and that he expects the loan to be approved.  Matt Wing, a Cuomo spokesman, didn’t respond to a request
for comment.  Even with concern over financing the new bridge, investors
have been demanding less yield to buy the agency’s debt.
Authority bonds maturing in January 2026 sold yesterday with a
yield of 3.245 percent, the lowest since February, data compiled
by Bloomberg show.  -- With assistance from Sarah Kopit and Michelle Kaske in New
York. Editors: Mark Schoifet, Ted Bunker,  Pete Young .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Freeman Klopott in Albany, New York, at 
 fklopott@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  