-- Nextdoor Said to Raise Capital at $500 Million Valuation
-- B y   S a r a h   F r i e r
-- 2013-10-29T13:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-29/nextdoor-said-to-raise-capital-at-500-million-valuation.html
Nextdoor.com Inc. , a social-networking site for neighborhoods, raised $60 million in a
funding round led by Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers and Tiger
Global Management to hire more engineers and expand overseas.  The investment values the San Francisco-based company at
more than $500 million, according to people with knowledge of
the matter, who asked not to be identified because the valuation
isn’t public.  John Doerr , an early backer of Amazon.com Inc. and
Google Inc., led the investment for Kleiner Perkins, Nextdoor
said today in a statement.  Nextdoor Chief Executive Officer Nirav Tolia is betting
that in keeping neighborhood networks private and by verifying
residents, the company will fare better than other hyper-local
sites that have shuttered or scaled back. AOL Inc. has cut jobs
at its local Patch blogs, while Comcast Corp. shut down its
EveryBlock local project earlier this year.  “This has a viral component,” Doerr said in an interview.
“The more neighbors on in your neighborhood, the more useful it
is and the more you post.”  Doerr said that in his  Palo Alto , California neighborhood,
one resident asked for a recommendation for a landscape designer
and someone else posted a Stanford University crime report.  While Nextdoor hosts networks for 22,500 neighborhoods on
its site, a five-fold increase in the past year, the company
hasn’t yet settled on a business model. Nextdoor has raised $100
million since mid-2012 from investors including Benchmark,
 Greylock Partners  and Shasta Ventures. Comcast Ventures also
joined this round of financing, the statement said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Frier in  New York  at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  