-- Nightmare Marriages, No Nobel Never Stopped Philip Roth
-- B y   J e f f r e y   B u r k e
-- 2013-10-29T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-29/nightmare-marriages-no-nobel-never-stopped-philip-roth.html
Over the course of 51 years and 31
books,  Philip Roth  has awed, amused and ticked off many readers.  Claudia Roth Pierpont  (no relation) presents a smart
anatomy of his rich corpus in “ Roth Unbound: A Writer and His
Books .” It mixes literary criticism and biographical details
with inside information and comments drawn from Pierpont’s
conversations with the novelist, who has retired from writing.  Her analysis and insights reflect a deep admiration for
much of Roth’s work, yet she comfortably registers
disappointment when the master falls short.  Born in 1933, Roth published his first book, “ Goodbye,
Columbus ,” in 1959, winning the National Book Award.  Within months he would enter what Pierpont describes as
“the most painfully destructive and lastingly influential
literary marriage since Scott and Zelda.” The long novel
“ Letting Go ” (1962) and “ When She Was Good ” (1967) emerged
during these years of wedded unbliss and costly divorce before
his ex-wife, Maggie Williams, died in a car crash in 1968. The
critical and commercial receptions for both were poor.  In 1969 Life magazine announced “a major event in American
culture.” “ Portnoy’s Complaint ” saved Roth’s bacon, beating
“ The Godfather ” for the year’s No. 1 bestseller. One month
Roth was $8,000 in debt; the next he received a publisher’s
check for $250,000.  Pierpont includes a fun excursion through the history of
the Jewish mother that cites Freud, the Fugs and Nichols and
May, inter alia. Success sent Roth fleeing fame and into a trio
of so-so efforts.  ‘Zuckerman Bound’  Like many, my Roth exposure dates from the book and movie
version of “Goodbye, Columbus.” I added the “Zuckerman
Bound” tetralogy (1979-85) that starts with “ The Ghost
Writer ” after going overseas in 1984 to work for 15 years,
during which English books and pleasure-reading time were
equally scarce.  While I’ve read a few more Roths since repatriating, I have
a lot of catching up to do, for which Pierpont has been a
helpful spur. I recently read “ The Breast ” (1972), whose
metamorphosis of a literature professor named David Kepesh from
man to mammary gland seemed like a perfect fit for a writer who
helped birth the Jewish mother. Alas, it’s labored, though
short.  Uncertain Future  “ My Life as a Man ” (1974), Roth’s long-sought bad-marriage catharsis, was a “particularly dismal flop,” and it
earned him the “misogynist” label that stuck for years. “ The
Professor of Desire ” (1977) reflected a newfound interest in
East Europe and its writers. Pierpont deems the book
“encouraging,” but “for all his fame and evident talent ...
Roth’s literary future was at best uncertain.”  Two years later he published “The Ghost Writer,” in which
a young author named Nathan Zuckerman (who resembles Roth -- as
so many of his protagonists do) seeks validation on a visit to
an older novelist. The novella explores art, paternity and
history in what Pierpont, comparing it to “The Great Gatsby,”
calls “one of our literature’s rare, inevitably brief,
inscrutably musical, and nearly perfect books.”  I found it a joy to reread, and perhaps it marks the real
start of the writer who would become a Nobel Prize contender,
whom Harold Bloom would anoint as “our foremost novelist since
Faulkner.”  Claire Bloom  The book was influenced, Pierpont suggests, by English
actress Claire Bloom, “with whom Roth was sharing his life”
when he began the book. They married in 1990 and divorced three
years later. For their 16 years together he produced 10 books,
but many may remember the couple best for the written blows they
exchanged in her memoir, “ Leaving a Doll’s House ” (1996), and
his fictional response, “ I Married a Communist ” (1998).  Pierpont spends a lot of time on “ The Counterlife ” (1986)
-- “a masterwork of craft and wit” -- right after delivering a
truly daunting plot summary I won’t try to encapsulate. It shall
be my next Roth, along with “ Sabbath’s Theater ,” which she
calls “a masterpiece of 20th-century American literature.”  In a few years, I hope, Blake Bailey will deliver his
authorized biography of Roth, and I’ll need to be done with all
the books to give the life, the work, the man their due. In the
meantime, maybe Pierpont’s publisher can ship a few copies of
her book over to the Nobel Prize judges in Oslo. Like chicken
soup, it can’t hurt.  “Roth Unbound: A Writer and His Books” is published by
Farrar, Straus & Giroux (353 pages, $27). To buy this book in
 North America , click  here .  (Jeffrey Burke is an editor with Muse, the arts and leisure
section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Greg Evans  on TV and  Scott Reyburn 
on art sales.  To contact the writer on the story:
Jeffrey Burke in  New York  at 
 jburke21@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for the story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 