-- Nomura Profit Gains Seen Cooling as Japan Stock Rally Wanes
-- B y   T a k a h i k o   H y u g a
-- 2013-10-30T01:18:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-29/nomura-profit-gains-seen-faltering-as-japan-s-equity-rally-wanes.html
Japan ’s largest brokerages, whose
first-half profits soared more than 10-fold as Prime Minister
Shinzo Abe’s economic-stimulus program bolstered investors’
appetite for local stocks, may find the magic to be waning.  Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604) , the nation’s largest securities firm,
yesterday reported second-quarter  net income  rose to 38.1
billion yen ($391 million) from 2.8 billion yen a year earlier.
Profit at  Daiwa Securities Group Inc. (8601)  climbed to 35.5 billion
yen for the three months ended Sept. 30, from 7.4 billion yen.
Profit at both firms declined from the first quarter.  Those earnings windfalls may become more elusive in the
second half as investors’ growing skepticism toward so-called
Abenomics trigger a drop in trading  volumes  and brokerage
commissions. Nomura’s quarterly results missed analysts’
estimates as demand for Japanese stocks eased and the benchmark
equities gauge dropped from its May peak.  “We need to see whether Abenomics will really feed into
the macro economy and lead to growth,” said Azuma Ohno, a
Tokyo-based analyst at Barclays Plc. “Without a rebound in
stocks, it’s difficult to expect good sales for investment
trusts or a pickup in brokerages’ earnings.”  Japan’s  Topix Index (TPX) , the best performer among major
developed markets this year, has lost more than 5 percent from
its May 22 peak as investors examine whether Abe will
successfully implement business deregulation policies to augment
the fiscal spending and monetary easing already under way. The
Topix rose 0.7 percent at 10:06 a.m. in Tokyo.  Daiwa Dividend  Shares of Nomura gained 0.1 percent to 738 yen. Daiwa
climbed 3.1 percent to 902 yen after the company raised its
half-year dividend yesterday from 3 yen to 17 yen, the highest
since it began interim payouts nine years ago.  While an  index  of securities firms was the best performer
on the Topix in the year ended Sept. 30, it has since declined
1.4 percent. The average daily volume of shares traded on the
first section of the  Tokyo  Stock Exchange dropped 37 percent
last quarter from the previous three months, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Nomura Chief Financial Officer Shigesuke Kashiwagi said
yesterday that he anticipates investment banking operations,
such as managing stock and convertible bond sales, will maintain
their momentum, along with merger-advisory services.  “Demand for cross-border acquisitions from Japanese firms
is still high and they have enough cash,” he said on a
conference call with analysts.  Top Underwriter  Nomura was Japan’s top equity underwriter last quarter,
data compiled by Bloomberg show, as the Tokyo-based firm
arranged transactions including a 125 billion-yen share sale by
Dentsu Inc.,  Asia ’s biggest advertising company. The company was
also the No. 1 arranger of bond sales, the data show.  Daiwa CFO Mikita Komatsu said the market will react
negatively if the prime minister’s policies falter. Still, he’s
optimistic that won’t be the case.  “When I actually meet overseas investors, they don’t worry
too much,” he said at a news briefing yesterday. “There are
still many foreign investors who think they need to add Japanese
stocks to their portfolios.”  The reduced activity in the market during the fiscal second
quarter caused a slowdown in sales of  investment trusts , which
generate commissions for the brokerages, said Shinichi Ina, an
analyst at UBS AG in Tokyo.  “There’s a lot of uncertainty going into the year end,”
Ina said. “We’re in the phase where we are testing whether
Abenomics will have a lasting effect.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Takahiko Hyuga in Tokyo at 
 thyuga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  