-- Nomura Profit Rises Less Than Estimated on Stock Demand Drop
-- B y   T a k a h i k o   H y u g a
-- 2013-10-29T09:04:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-29/nomura-profit-climbs-as-stock-rally-spurs-retail-broking-income.html
Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604) ’s quarterly
profit rose less than analysts estimated as demand for Japanese
stocks waned, signaling an earnings boom stemming from Prime
Minister Shinzo Abe’s economic stimulus may be losing momentum.  Net income  climbed to 38.1 billion yen ($391 million) for
the three months ended Sept. 30 from 2.8 billion yen a year
earlier,  Japan ’s biggest securities firm said in a statement
today. The result missed the 42 billion-yen average estimate of
nine analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  From the previous quarter, earnings fell for the second
straight period as stock trading  volumes  declined. Nomura and
 Daiwa Securities Group Inc. (8601) , which posted an increase in
quarterly profit today, have been benefiting from demand for
domestic equities and company share sales spurred by Abe’s
fiscal and monetary stimulus.  “Market activity decreased in the second quarter, causing
a slowdown in investment trust sales,” said Shinichi Ina, an
analyst at UBS AG in Tokyo. “There’s a lot of uncertainty going
into the year-end. We’re in the phase where we are testing
whether Abenomics will have a lasting effect.”  Revenue for the second quarter fell 7.1 percent from a year
earlier to 428.4 billion yen, reflecting the sale of a stake in
 Nomura Real Estate Holdings Inc. (3231) , the bank said. Brokerage
commissions jumped 46 percent to 105.6 billion yen and trading
profit climbed 24 percent to 110.2 billion yen. Investment
banking fees rose 35 percent to 23 billion yen.  Stocks Peak  Net income fell from 65.9 billion yen in the April-June
period. Nomura attributed the slowdown to the impact of market
uncertainty and declining client activity in Japan, according to
presentation materials posted on its website.  Japan’s Nikkei 225 Stock Average has gained 38 percent this
year, making it the best performer among major developed
markets. Still, it has lost 8.3 percent from a May 22 peak and
dropped 0.5 percent today as investors examine whether Abe will
successfully implement deregulation policies to augment
 government spending  and monetary easing.  The average daily volume of shares traded on the first
section of the Tokyo Stock Exchange dropped 37 percent last
quarter from the previous three months, according to  data 
compiled by Bloomberg.  Shares of Nomura closed 0.7 percent lower at 737 yen before
the earnings release, paring this year’s gain to 47 percent.
Daiwa, Japan’s second-biggest brokerage, slid 0.9 percent to 875
yen today and has jumped 84 percent in 2013.  Daiwa Profit  Net income at Daiwa climbed to 35.5 billion yen for the
three months ended Sept. 30 from 7.4 billion yen a year earlier,
led by gains in brokerage commissions and trading profit, the
Tokyo-based company said. That was in line with the 36 billion-yen average estimate of five analysts.  Daiwa increased its half-year dividend from 3 yen to 17
yen, the highest since it began paying it on an interim basis
nine years ago, the bank said.  Nomura was Japan’s top equity underwriter last
quarter, arranging transactions valued at 320 billion yen, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. Nomura’s deals included a 125
billion yen share sale by Dentsu Inc.,  Asia ’s biggest
advertising company. The brokerage ranked No. 2 a year earlier.  Nomura was first in Japan bond underwriting and 17th in
merger and acquisition advising in the three months, according
to the data.  “Nomura is performing solidly,” Koichi Niwa, a senior
analyst at SMBC Nikko Securities Inc., said before the results.
“We expect more deals coming from the equity capital and merger
and acquisition markets.”  Cost Cutting  Chief Executive Officer Koji Nagai is cutting $1 billion in
costs that mounted after Nomura’s 2008  acquisition  of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc.’s European and Asian operations. Nagai
took the reins in August 2012 after Kenichi Watanabe quit to
take responsibility for client information leaks used for
 insider trading .  Nomura’s pretax loss from overseas operations narrowed 37
percent to 18.7 billion yen from 29.6 billion yen, today’s
statement showed.  Daiwa CEO Takashi Hibino is also trimming costs, while
adding retail staff and branches in anticipation that Japanese
households will shift their savings to equities. He targets cost
savings of 70 billion yen by March 2015.  Brokerage commissions at Daiwa more than doubled from a
year earlier to 18.6 billion yen, the bank said. Trading profit
gained 50 percent to 34.1 billion yen, while underwriting fees
slipped 15 percent to 7.8 billion yen.  In contrast with the profit gains at Daiwa and Nomura,
 Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ,  Europe ’s largest investment bank by revenue,
today said third-quarter profit tumbled 94 percent to 41 million
euros ($56 million) as income from debt trading slumped.  UBS AG,  Switzerland ’s biggest bank, said it probably won’t
be able to reach its targeted 15 percent return on equity in
2015 after the nation’s regulator demanded the company hold more
capital.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Takahiko Hyuga in  Tokyo  at 
 thyuga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  