-- North Korea Expanding Long-Range Rocket Site, Institute Says
-- B y   S a m   K i m
-- 2013-10-29T01:36:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-29/north-korea-expanding-long-range-rocket-site-institute-says.html
North Korea  is expanding its long-range rocket launch site, the latest sign Kim Jong Un’s regime
is advancing its weapons program in defiance of United Nations
sanctions, a U.S. institute said.  Satellite imagery from Oct. 9 indicates that the launch
gantry at the Sohae site on the North Korea’s west coast is
being upgraded, while a new mobile launchpad may be under
construction, the  U.S.-Korea Institute  at Johns Hopkins
University’s School of Advanced International Studies said in a
posting yesterday on its blog, 38 North. A road linking the pad
with a missile assembly building and a railhead is also being
built, the Washington, D.C.-based institute said.  “There is growing evidence to suggest that the projects
under way are related to preparing for future tests of larger
space launch vehicles and mobile missiles systems,”  38 North 
said.  Signs of expansion at the site may further complicate
efforts to restart disarmament talks. The report comes weeks
after South Korea’s intelligence chief confirmed the North had
restarted its main nuclear reactor capable of producing weapons-grade plutonium. The North has so far refused U.S. and South
Korean demands to begin rolling back its weapons program before
restarting the talks that offered it aid.  The regime launched a long-range rocket from the Sohae site
in December last year to put a satellite into orbit. The U.S.
and South Korea called it a test of ballistic missile technology
and the UN tightened sanctions against North Korea in January.
The North followed with its third nuclear test in February and
threats to carry out first strikes against  South Korea  and the
U.S.  The U.S. administration contends the North hasn’t mastered
the technology to deliver nuclear bombs on long-range missiles.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sam Kim in Seoul at 
 skim609@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  