-- Top Central Banker in Norway Prefers Housing Slump to Gains
-- B y   S a l e h a   M o h s i n
-- 2013-10-30T11:36:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-29/norway-central-bank-chief-says-house-price-drop-safer-than-gains.html
Norway ’s central bank is comfortable
with house price deflation and will avoid policies that drive up
the property market of Scandinavia’s richest economy, Governor
Oeystein Olsen said.  The economy can withstand house price declines “over a
longer period,” Olsen said yesterday in an interview at his
office in Oslo. “We’ll be concerned if housing prices and debt
levels continue to grow. It doesn’t have to be a concern with a
moderate downward reaction in housing prices.  The housing market is showing signs it may be retreating
from a half decade of increases during which record-low interest
rates drove real estate prices to all-time highs. The central
bank this month kept its main rate unchanged for a 10th meeting
and predicted tightening will start in the ‘‘summer” as the
economy picks up.  Though Norway’s government has no net debt, thanks to its
$810 billion sovereign-wealth fund, consumer borrowing has
ballooned to a record 200 percent of disposable income.  Norway’s two-year note yield rose four basis points today
to 1.72 percent. The krone rose as much as 0.5 percent against
the euro to 8.069, the strongest level since Sept. 27. It was
the biggest gainer against the dollar and the euro of 16 major
currencies tracked by Bloomberg after the South African rand.  In an effort to cool the development, Norway has introduced
a number of measures, including capping loans at 85 percent of a
property’s value, raising bank capital requirements and
increasing the risk weights that lenders assign to their assets.  Public Prepared  House price growth slowed to 2.6 percent in September, the
smallest increase since June 2009, according to a monthly report
by real estate brokers. A central bank survey released this
month showed banks saw less credit demand from households in the
third quarter with demand even seen dropping this quarter.  Olsen signaled the bank is ready to tolerate sustained
house price declines in response to Norway’s financial
imbalances. The  public  should be “prepared” for a “downward
reaction” in house prices, he said.  “It’s important to realize, especially for households,
there could be a reaction downwards in prices over a longer
period without the economy entering into a recession,” Olsen
said. “Even a drop on a yearly basis on house prices doesn’t
have to spur any chain of negative impulses throughout the
Norwegian economy.”  Policy makers have sought to calibrate policy to avoid
fueling krone gains while at the same time preventing a build-up
in debt and a potential housing bubble. As the euro area
struggled through its debt crisis, western Europe’s largest oil
exporter emerged as an investor haven. While that helped keep
unemployment below 4 percent, it also fueled the risk of
overheating.  Measures Lacking?  Olsen said he’s for now “satisfied” with the measures put
in place, which also will include counter-cyclical buffers for
banks.  “I have, on a couple of occasions, warned on having too
high ambitions in what you could achieve, whether you could
avoid financial crisis in this area, and that has to do with
difficult to define, impossible to measure, enormous
complexity,” he said. “I will not exclude that you could have
new measures, but I’m not able to point at any specific measure
that’s lacking.”  The central bank’s two most recent rate cuts -- in March
last year and in December the previous year -- were in part
driven by monetary policy abroad and by a need to prevent a
krone appreciation that was threatening exporters.  Krone Policy  Olsen as recently as June signaled the bank could cut rates
again. The krone has weakened almost 6 percent since then. He
said yesterday the krone was the “main argument” for cutting
rates in March 2012, and was also “one of several factors” for
the rate cut signals in June.  “We did that specifically in my time as governor in March
2012,” Olsen said. It was “a main argument influencing the
decision on the interest rate. That was in a situation where the
krone was strong and tended to be even stronger with the danger
of pushing inflation, which was low on the outset, even lower.”  He said the krone will probably play a part in future
policy.  “The krone has been volatile for some time, it was a trend
upwards, but if you compare our volatility with some others --
 Australia , New Zealand, raw material producers other than Norway
-- I think you can see much stronger fluctuations than we have
had,” Olsen said. “There will be fluctuations in the krone
going forward, I’m quite sure.”  Olsen’s Forecast  At the bank’s latest meeting, the deposit rate was kept at
 1.5 percent , after the krone sank and the housing market cooled.
Underlying inflation, which adjusts for the effect of taxes and
energy, reached the bank’s 2.5 percent target in August for the
first time in four years, though price growth slowed to 1.7
percent last month.  Growth in Norway’s $500 billion economy is slowing as
record household debt burdens curb demand and after persistent
krone appreciation last year hurt exports. Mainland gross
domestic product, which excludes oil and gas production, will
expand 1.75 percent this year, the bank forecast in September.
In 2012, GDP by that measure grew by 3.4 percent.  Olsen, who didn’t provide an official forecast with his
October rate decision, said indicators since the bank’s
September report “broadly” confirm the same economic picture.  “If you take a perspective over some years ahead, our
forecast now is that growth will remain in the range of 2
percent to 2.75 percent and unemployment will remain low,” he
said. “As we see it now, there will be no dramatic shift in the
pace of growth and the overall economic situation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Saleha Mohsin in Oslo  at 
 smohsin2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  