-- NQ Mobile Halts Muddy Waters-Led Rout: China Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2013-10-29T21:16:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-29/nq-mobile-halts-muddy-waters-led-rout-china-overnight.html
NQ Mobile Inc. (NQ)  jumped 25 percent,
leading gains in Chinese equities traded in New York, after
taking further steps to refute allegations by  Muddy Waters LLC 
that sank the stock by 62 percent in the previous three days.  American depositary receipts of NQ Mobile, a mobile-services provider, surged to $11.01 yesterday, advancing for the
first time since Oct. 18.  Muddy Waters , the research firm
founded by short seller  Carson Block , said in an Oct. 24 report
that the company inflated revenue and misrepresented cash
balances. NQ Mobile denied the allegations. The Bloomberg China-US Index of the most traded Chinese stocks in the U.S. climbed
1.7 percent to 102.6, set for a fourth monthly gain.  NQ Mobile transferred 100 million  yuan  ($16.4 million) of
deposits to Standard Chartered Plc and authorized it to
independently verify the deposits as well as make details
available to investors. The Beijing-based company also posted a
 90-page document  to refute accusations mentioned in Muddy
Waters’ note, disclosing details including top 100 mobile
devices that have activated its security software. NQ said it’s
suing Muddy Waters in court in China, without providing details.  “NQ’s detailed information can provide comfort to
investors as they gave the real names of third-party handsets,
which is good because investors then know where to look for
confirmation,” Michael Ding, lead manager of the  China Region
Fund (USCOX)  at U.S. Global Investors, which oversees $2.2 billion, said
by phone from  San Antonio , Texas yesterday. “Information on
actual users and handsets is important to confirm that the
business is real, while cash is important to confirm asset
safety and, by extension, that the business makes money.”  ‘Complete Update’  Block wrote in the Oct. 24 report that investors should
sell NQ Mobile, saying its cash balances were “highly likely to
not be real.” Tianjin Yidatong, NQ’s largest trade debtor, is
controlled by NQ Mobile and not an independent company, Block
wrote. NQ’s market share in China is about 1.5 percent, not the
55 percent it reports, and the company’s paying user base in
China is fewer than 250,000, versus the 6 million it claims,
Block said.  NQ Mobile “will provide a complete update on the balance
sheet totals in its regular third-quarter earnings release,”
the company said in a statement yesterday. The remaining portion
of a planned $100 million transfer to  Standard Chartered  will be
processed soon, NQ Mobile said.   The company was sued by an investor seeking to represent a
group of shareholders who allegedly lost money after Muddy
Waters’ accusations. Phuong Ho, a stockholder, filed the
complaint in federal court in Manhattan on behalf of all
investors who bought NQ Mobile securities from a May 5, 2011,
initial public offering to Oct. 24.  China Lawsuit  Ephraim Cohen, NQ Mobile’s external public relations
manager at MWW Group, said the  software company  is suing Muddy
Waters in a Chinese court. Muddy Waters’ spokesman Zachery Kouwe
said he saw the Chinese media report on the lawsuit and had no
direct knowledge of the case.  China Petroleum & Chemical Corp. (SNP) , Asia’s largest refiner,
surged 4.7 percent to $80.25, the biggest gain in eight weeks.
It posted a 20 percent increase in third-quarter profit, beating
the median estimate of eight analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Sinopec traded at 7.3 times estimated profit, which
compares with a multiple of 11.5 for Exxon Mobil Corp. and 8.7
for refiner  Valero Energy Corp. (VLO)  President Xi Jinping is expected
to push forward more detailed economic reforms during the
Communist Party meeting in November.  YY Inc. (YY) , a social entertainment platform, jumped 15 percent
to $49.78, the most in five months.  Baidu reported third-quarter net income of $1.48 per ADR,
beating an average $1.46 estimate of 14 analyst compiled by
Bloomberg, it said in a statement after market close yesterday.
Sales jumped 42 percent to $1.45 billion. The ADRs climbed 6.8
percent in after hours to $170.30 in New York after gaining 3.4
percent earlier.  ETF Advances  The iShares China Large-Cap  ETF (FXI) , the largest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., added 1.3 percent to $37.03 in
New York, the biggest gain in three weeks. The Standard & Poor’s
500 Index added 0.6 percent as data showing lower retail sales
and  consumer confidence  fueled bets the  Federal Reserve  will
maintain stimulus as it starts a policy meeting.  The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index in Hong Kong advanced
1.3 percent yesterday to 10,390.56, rising for a second day. The
 Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  slipped 0.2 percent to 2,128.86
yesterday, the lowest level since Sept. 5.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  