-- Obama Said to Choose Powell for Another Fed Governor Term
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n   a n d   C r a i g   T o r r e s
-- 2013-10-29T19:54:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-29/obama-said-to-plan-choosing-powell-for-another-fed-governor-term.html
President  Barack Obama  plans to
nominate Jerome Powell, a former partner at  Carlyle Group  LP, to
serve another term on the Federal Reserve Board, according to a
government official briefed on the matter.  Powell’s reappointment, coinciding with record Fed
stimulus, would provide some continuity during a transition of
leadership and membership on the Board of Governors. Obama has
nominated Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen  to succeed  Ben S. Bernanke ,
whose term as chairman ends Jan. 31, and has three other
governor vacancies to fill on the board.  Fed policy makers today began a two-day meeting to discuss
efforts to fuel economic growth and combat 7.2 percent
unemployment by holding the main interest rate at a record low
and buying $85 billion in bonds each month. The purchases have
expanded the Fed  balance sheet  to $3.84 trillion.  Since taking office in May 2012, Powell has supported
Bernanke’s policy, never dissenting from a Federal Open Market
Committee decision. Still, he has voiced caution about the
ballooning balance sheet, and taken interest in board staff
studies on costs and benefits of so-called quantitative easing.  The  asset purchases  are an “innovative, unconventional
policy,” Powell said in a June 27 speech in Washington. The
“likely benefits may be accompanied by costs and risks, the
nature and size of which remain uncertain.”  Powell said on Oct. 11 that the FOMC’s unexpected move in
September to refrain from tapering the pace of bond buying was
“a reasonable exercise in risk management.” He also called the
decision a close call.  ‘Small Reduction’  “I would have been comfortable with a small reduction in
purchases,” he said in the speech in Washington.  “Given his business background, I think he is looking at
quantitative easing as maybe not as effective” as some of his
colleagues consider it to be, said  Joseph LaVorgna , chief U.S.
economist for Deutsche Bank in New York. “He certainly isn’t a
dove. I would put him in the middle of the road” in terms of
monetary policy.  The Standard and Poor’s 500  stock index  was 0.4 percent
higher at 1769.65 as of 3:44 p.m. in New York on expectations
the Fed will continue record monetary stimulus. The benchmark
stock index is up 24 percent year-to-date. Yields on U.S. 10-year government bonds were 2 basis points lower at 2.5 percent.  Powell’s appointment in 2012 filled an unexpired governor
term ending Jan. 31, 2014. The 60-year-old Republican was put
forward along with Fed Governor  Jeremy Stein  as part of a
package of nominees designed to win bipartisan support. He was
confirmed in a 74-21 vote by the  U.S. Senate .  Powell’s renomination could also be combined with a
Democrat, said  Sarah Binder , a senior fellow at the Brookings
Institution, a Washington-based public policy research
organization.  “His value to Obama here is the ability to package a set
of nominations -- Democrat and Republican -- to cajole
Republican votes,” said Binder. “Like most governors, Powell’s
tenure has been pretty quiet.”  Elizabeth Duke , a Virginia banker, resigned as a Fed
governor on Aug. 31, and Obama has nominated  Sarah Bloom Raskin ,
another governor, to be the  U.S. Treasury ’s first female deputy
secretary. The changes open up two more vacancies besides
Bernanke’s governorship.  In addition, Obama could appoint a Fed vice chairman and a
vice chairman for supervision, a new office established by the
Dodd-Frank Act. Those positions could be filled from current
governors or new appointments. When fully staffed, the Fed has
seven board members.  Bank Supervision  As a governor, Powell sits on the bank supervision
committee and leads the committee on payments, clearing and
settlement. He also serves on two committees that oversee
administrative matters at the board and the 12 regional Fed
banks.  He spent his career as an attorney and an investment banker
and, from 1997 to 2005, was a partner at the Carlyle Group, a
private-equity firm.  Powell is the wealthiest Fed governor, with assets
exceeding $20 million, according to financial disclosures from
when he joined the board. He served at the U.S. Treasury under
President  George H.W. Bush  as an undersecretary responsible for
domestic finance from 1990 until 1993.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Torres in Washington at 
 ctorres3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  