-- Obama Presses Cybersecurity Standards With Company Chiefs
-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 2013-10-29T18:54:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-29/obama-presses-cybersecurity-standards-with-company-chiefs.html
President  Barack Obama  conferred
with Brian Moynihan, chief executive officer of  Bank of America
Corp. (BAC) , along with corporate leaders from consumer, utility and
defense companies as the administration prepares standards
intended to enhance U.S. computer-network security.  Amid reports of widespread hacking traced to China, Obama
in February ordered development of voluntary cybersecurity
standards for companies operating vital national infrastructure
such as power grids and air-traffic control systems.  The initial plan developed by the National Institute of
Standards and Technology was published in the federal register
today. Final guidelines are due by February 2014  Obama and the executives “discussed the implementation of
the president’s order,” Jay Carney, the White House press
secretary, said after the meeting concluded. The group
represented companies that worked most closely with the
government on the framework.  Others attending the meeting in the White House Situation
Room were Ajay Banga, chief executive officer of  MasterCard
Inc. (MA) , Charles Scharf, CEO of  Visa Inc. (V) , Steve Bennett, CEO of
Symantec Corp., Wes Bush, CEO of  Northrop Grumman Corp. (NOC) ,
Marillyn Hewson,  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  CEO, Renee James,
president of Intel Corp., and Joseph Rigby, CEO of  Pepco
Holdings Inc. (POM)   Information Sharing  The administration has been pressing for legislation to
encourage companies to share cyberthreat information with the
government.  A White House-backed measure failed in the Senate amid
opposition from businesses. The administration threatened to
veto legislation passed by the House of Representatives in
April, saying it had inadequate privacy protections.  U.S. intelligence officials have warned that electronic
attacks could disrupt the nation’s banks, utilities,
telecommunications and other essential services. Former Homeland
Security Secretary  Janet Napolitano  said in a farewell speech in
August that the U.S. will face sometime in the future “a major
cyber-event that will have a serious effect on our lives, our
economy, and the everyday functioning of our society.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  