-- OGX Can Keep Oil Blocks Under Bankruptcy With Funds, Brazil Says
-- B y   P e t e r   M i l l a r d   a n d   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o
-- 2013-10-29T19:15:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-29/ogx-can-keep-oil-blocks-under-bankruptcy-with-funds-brazil-says.html
OGX Petroleo & Gas Participacoes SA (OGXP3) ,
former billionaire  Eike Batista ’s oil company, would be allowed
to keep its blocks if it files for bankruptcy protection
provided it has the funds to operate them, Brazil’s oil
regulator said.  If OGX fails to meet obligations including exploration,
development and production investments and the financial
capability to deal with spills or accidents, the Rio de Janeiro-based company would be stripped of its concession licenses the
regulator, known as ANP, said today. OGX would be the first
producer to seek bankruptcy protection in Brazil since ANP was
formed in 1998 if the company requests that option, the
regulator said in an e-mailed reply to questions.  OGX said today it failed to reach an agreement with holders
of dollar-denominated bonds as the venture that once helped
Batista become the world’s eighth-richest person heads toward
 Latin America ’s biggest corporate debt default. Earlier this
month, two people with direct knowledge said OGX was considering
filing for bankruptcy protection late October or early November.
If the company files it would have 60 days to submit a
restructuring plan after a judge accepts its filing.  “OGX, like other concessionaires acting in Brazil, can
only continue with its current exploration and production
programs if they demonstrate that they have the financial
qualification to exercise the activity,” the ANP said.  Officials at OGX have declined to comment on a possible
bankruptcy filing.  Unchartered Territory  The regulator would probably allow OGX to keep operating
its concessions as Brazil is trying to increase oil production,
Leonardo Theon de Moraes, a bankruptcy lawyer at Sao Paulo-based
Mussi, Sandri & Pimenta Advogados, said by telephone.  This is unchartered territory for  Brazil ’s oil regulators,
said Nelson Narciso Filho, who was an ANP director for four
years through 2010.  “As a regulator, I’ve never seen anything like this,” he
said in a telephone interview from Rio. “This is something
totally new. Certainly it’s not business as usual.”  Shares of OGX, which Batista founded in 2007, lost 95
 percent  in the past 12 months, the  worst-performing  stock among
73 members of the Brazilian benchmark Ibovespa Index, after a
series of missed output targets. The stock dropped 21 percent to
23 centavos at the close in  Sao Paulo  today, the most since
Sept. 30.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Peter Millard in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 pmillard1@bloomberg.net ;
Juan Pablo Spinetto in Rio de Janeiro at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  