-- Olive-Oil Production Rebound Seen Weighing on Prices in Spain
-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 2013-10-29T13:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-29/olive-oil-production-rebound-seen-weighing-on-prices-in-spain.html
Global production of olive oil is
set to rebound 29 percent from last year, sending prices in
Spain to a 10-month low, Oil World said.  Output may gain to 3.38 million metric tons in the 2013-14
season from the prior year’s “unusually low” 2.63 million
tons, the Hamburg-based researcher said today in an e-mailed
report. Prices for the extra-virgin variety in Spain, the
world’s biggest producer, fell to a low of $3.25 a kilogram (2.2
pounds) in the past week, down 13 percent since June, it said.  Spanish  output  may be 1.5 million tons, more than double
last year, when dry weather hurt crops, the report showed.
Production in the southern province of Jaen exceeds  Greece ’s
entire national output, according to the Olive Oil From Spain
 website , set up by groups including Asoliva, which represents
Spanish exporters of the oil.  “Olive-oil prices have been under pressure in recent weeks
in response to the clear-cut recovery of production in the
Mediterranean region,” Oil World said. “In Spain, the much-improved weather conditions will result in a significant
recovery of yields and production.”  Rising output in Italy and Portugal may make up for
declines in Greece and Tunisia, the researcher said. Some olive
trees in Argentina and  Chile  were damaged by frost, though “the
impact on the world market will be relatively small,” according
to the report.  Global inventories of olive oil may be 790,000 tons by the
end of the season on Sept. 30, up from 650,000 tons a year
earlier, when supplies reached a four-year low, Oil World said.
Demand in the European Union may gain 2.9 percent this season to
1.8 million tons, rebounding from a 13 percent slump caused by
concern about the economy and higher prices for the oil,
according to the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney McFerron in London at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  