-- Tom Friedman Is Too Optimistic About China’s Schools
-- B y   A d a m   M i n t e r
-- 2013-10-29T22:12:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-29/tom-friedman-is-too-optimistic-about-china-s-schools.html
The  New York  Times recently
published “ The Shanghai Secret ,” a column by  Thomas Friedman 
that explained how Shanghai’s students received the world’s top
scores on the 2009  Program for International Student Assessment 
exams. Administered every three years (the 2012 results will be
released Dec. 3), PISA is designed to assess how well 15-year-olds  worldwide  are prepared to apply their educations to real-world situations.  For some, the fact that students from Shanghai did
particularly well on the 2009 assessment says a lot about the
trajectories of the U.S. and Chinese economies and the two
nations’ abilities to innovate. As Chester E. Finn Jr., a member
of President  Ronald Reagan ’s Department of Education, said in a
2010 New York Times  article  about the Shanghai scores: “Wow, I’m
kind of stunned, I’m thinking Sputnik.”  In his column, published Oct. 22, Friedman suggested that
Chinese schools are succeeding because of “a relentless focus on
all the basics that we know make for high-performing schools but
that are difficult to pull off consistently across an entire
school system.” The unspoken extension of that statement is that
U.S. schools -- American students finished behind Shanghai ones
on the 2009 assessment -- might not be focusing on these basics
enough, even though educators know they should be.  This is a simple, seductive view of  China , tuned to unnerve
an American public afraid of falling behind an Asian competitor
that, by most accounts, is pulling up alongside the U.S., if not
ahead of it. Yet for all its merits, Friedman’s view of
Shanghai’s education system (not to mention his previously
proclaimed affection for China’s “ reasonably enlightened ”
autocrats) is out of sync with the Chinese public’s own
skepticism of its test-focused educational system.  It was particularly ironic that Friedman’s Sino-utopian
column was published the same day that a national discussion
emerged in China about implementing reforms that could begin to
move schools away from a focus on test success. The discussion,
which occurred primarily in some of the most important
government-owned newspapers, was ignited by  an announcement  that
the city of Beijing was proposing to reduce the importance of
English in its version of the national college entrance
examination, known as the gaokao. (Each city and province has
its own edition of the test.) The changes, if they’re eventually
implemented, would occur in 2016.  The proposal  suggests  reducing the value of the English
portion of the multisubject test and increasing the value of the
Chinese and social or natural sciences (students can choose)
parts. Perhaps even more significant, the English section would
also put a stronger emphasis on practical listening skills,
rather than grammar and reading. Though the proposal is local,
the fact that it’s happening in China’s capital is a signal that
other schools can -- and probably should -- consider similar
reforms. (Jiangsu province  was apparently  already thinking about
diminishing the English requirement before Beijing’s
announcement.)  For outsiders, this might sound like a relatively innocuous
change, but in China, where the gaokao is a  national obsession 
that determines the fates of millions of young people every
year, such a modification would alter curriculums -- and
potentially lives. China’s entire educational system is
structured to prepare students for the  multiday examination .
 Cram schools  are a popular means of supplementing government-provided education with private coaching.  This type of education has many benefits, as anyone who
visits a Chinese school can attest. But, as Chinese educators
have long known, such a system doesn’t necessarily produce
students capable of excelling in settings beyond the testing
room -- precisely, and perhaps ironically, what PISA is supposed
to be measuring.  The emphasis on rote learning may ultimately even  impede
the development  of real skills and creativity. “What is the real
purpose of learning English?” Cai Jigang, a professor at
Shanghai’s elite Fudan University,  asked  in a 2012 interview
with the Global Times. Cai, who is director of a program to
reform English-language instruction at the city’s colleges,
answered his own question with force. “Frankly, up till now our
students have just been studying English to pass exams.”  Indeed, in China, it’s not unusual to meet high school and
college students who have, say, mastered the intricacy of the
English past participle but can’t order in English at
McDonald’s. This phenomenon, widely known as “ dumb English ,” was
described and assailed in a  2002 paper  by Lin Lin, then an
associate professor at the Foreign Language College of the
Chinese University of Political Science and Law in Beijing:
“It’s high time we remedied the phenomenon of ‘deaf English’ and
‘dumb English’ (when students can read, but cannot speak English
fluently, or understand what people say). Some students said
their vocabulary was probably larger than that of some native
speakers, but they could not express themselves in English.
After ten years’ English learning, they were still ‘deaf and
dumb.’”  More than a decade after Lin’s declarations, the situation
hasn’t improved much. It’s arguably grown worse as the
competition for admission to Chinese colleges has increased, the
benefits of education have become more obvious, and
the desire to find a test-taking edge has grown more powerful.
The irony -- that China’s pursuit of educational excellence may
actually be damaging its educational institutions -- has not
been lost on senior government officials.  “We do not want students to devote too much time to the
repetitive learning of English grammar,” a spokesman for
Beijing’s Municipal Education Commission  told  China’s official
Xinhua News Agency. “This kind of learning process makes
students weaker in their spoken and listening ability. That
means the English education method and the entire structure of
assessment programs needs systematic reforms.”  Beijing’s call for reform has been warmly embraced, at
least in principle, by  some  of China’s most important newspapers
and  editorialists . ( Some  remained wary of de-emphasizing English
at a time when China is emerging on the international stage.)
Feng Shouyan,  writing  for  Shanghai ’s Liberation Daily, went so
far as to heretically suggest that language for language’s sake
doesn’t require a decade of grammar drills and cram sessions:
“As long as there are specific situations where people need to
communicate with each other, people with an average IQ or even
the foolish can and will master language with diligent practice.
But when the aim of learning English is earning high exam
scores, it becomes like talking about military strategy in an
armchair.”  China’s educational system isn’t likely to undergo drastic
reforms in the near term. The country simply has too many
students seeking too few places in its institutions of higher
education. But there is little question that top educators know
they need to begin a shift away from the current exam-oriented
approach. It’s impossible to say what a new system will look
like, but it will certainly affect the master test-takers who so
enchant Friedman.  (Adam Minter, the Shanghai correspondent for the World View
blog, is the author of “Junkyard Planet,” a book on the global
recycling industry that will be published in November.)  To contact the author of this article: Adam Minter
at  ShanghaiScrap@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article: Zara Kessler
at  zkessler@bloomberg.net . 