-- Thomson Reuters to Cut 3,000 Jobs to Focus on Growth Markets
-- B y   E d m u n d   L e e
-- 2013-10-29T15:42:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-29/thomson-reuters-to-cut-3-000-jobs-to-refocus-on-growth-markets.html
Thomson Reuters Corp. (TRI) , a provider of
news and information services, plans to cut 3,000 positions, or
about 5 percent of the workforce, in a bid to focus on growth
markets and boost profitability.  The announcement followed higher-than-projected  earnings  at
Thomson Reuters, which is trying to rebound from a lingering
slump on  Wall Street  brought on by the financial crisis and
recession. Excluding some items, the company posted profit of 48
cents a share for the third quarter. That beat the 44 cents
estimated by analysts, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The job cuts will mainly affect the financial and risk
division, the company’s biggest unit, and follow a move to
eliminate 2,500 positions earlier this year.  Thomson Reuters 
Chief Executive Officer Jim Smith, who took the top job in
January 2012, has been increasingly relying on cost cutting to
improve profitability. The previous round of firings, announced
in February, trimmed about 4 percent of the workforce.  “We will pick up the pace of efforts to simplify and
streamline our organization, to shift resources behind the most
promising growth opportunities,” Smith said today in a
statement.  Thomson Reuters competes with Bloomberg News parent
Bloomberg LP in selling financial data and news services.  The New York-based company also announced plans to buy back
as much as $1 billion of its stock by the end of 2014.  Stock Climbs  Thomson Reuters  shares  rose as much as 3.2 percent to
$36.88 in New York, the biggest intraday increase in more than
seven months. The stock had already climbed 23 percent this year
through yesterday.  Third-quarter net income attributable to common
shareholders fell 39 percent to $271 million, or 33 cents a
share, from $441 million, or 53 cents, a year earlier. Operating
profit, which excludes one-time items and businesses that have
closed, declined 15 percent to $316 million in the period.  The company said it has now installed more than 100,000
Eikon desktop terminals, which customers use to access market
analysis and trading software. Thomson Reuters also has shifted
clients away from its Bridge Data Network, allowing it to close
its third legacy platform this year.  Revenue from ongoing businesses rose 2 percent to $3.07
billion. The company expects percentage growth in the low single
digits this year, unchanged from an earlier estimate.  “Though we continue to expect challenging conditions in
the coming quarters -- particularly with the largest global
banks -- these are significant steps in returning our financial
business to a growth footing,” Smith said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edmund Lee in  New York  at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at   nturner7@bloomberg.net  