-- U.K. Travel Delays Persist as Storm Kills a Dozen Across Europe
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l   a n d   P e t e r   L e v r i n g
-- 2013-10-29T14:46:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-29/london-commuters-face-disruptions-after-worst-storm-in-5-years.html
London commuters faced a second day
of travel disruption and thousands of homes were without power
in the wake of a storm that killed four people in southern
 England  and at least a dozen across northern Europe.  Greater Anglia, which serves Liverpool Street station in
London’s financial district, advised people not to travel and
the Stansted Express airport link remained shut for the morning
as Network Rail Ltd. worked to fix tracks and wires damaged by
falling trees.  Germany ’s Deutsche Bahn AG offered a restricted
service, with routes from Hamburg in the north worst affected.  Hurricane-force winds and driving rain swept through
Britain before reaching continental Europe and Scandinavia. Two
people were crushed by trees yesterday in southeast England,
with two more dying in a glass explosion linked to falling
debris, and almost 58,000 homes remained without electricity
today. Two died in  Denmark , where winds accelerated to 120 miles
per hour, making the storm that country’s worst since 1999.  “Despite working throughout the night on Monday, Network
Rail have found further trees on the lines and damage to
overhead wires,” Greater Anglia said on its website, listing six
of 13 routes out of Liverpool Street as suffering major
disruption and three others as impacted to a lesser degree.  About 48,000 properties in eastern England, where the storm
raged before heading out over the North Sea, had no electricity
this morning, together with 9,000 in the southeast, after more
than 550,000 were initially cut off, U.K. Power Networks said.  Signaling  Some 900 engineers have been deployed to restore power, six
times the usual number on duty, and helicopters are continuing
checks on remote cables, according to the company’s website.  Train operators to the south of  London , where services are
generally powered by a third electric rail rather than overhead
cables, were generally less disrupted today, with Southern Rail
and the Gatwick Express airport shuttle running normally.  Still,  Stagecoach Plc (SGC) ’s South West Trains, the top operator
at London Waterloo station, the busiest in Britain, was affected
by damage to signaling equipment caused by falling timber, and
 Go-Ahead Group Plc (GOG) ’s Southeastern also warned of morning delays.  More than 100 trees were blown down across lines or wires,
according to infrastructure owner Network Rail, where Robin Gisby, managing director for operations, said yesterday that the
impact of the storm had been “more severe than expected.”  Atomic Shutdown  Transport for London, which runs the city’s subway or Tube,
reported a good service across all its lines, including the
Overground network which was largely shut yesterday.  Electricite de France SA (EDF) ’s Dungeness B nuclear plant on
England’s south coast remains closed after its two reactors
automatically shut down when power supplies were cut off by
falling debris, and could take a week to restart.  The Met Office said the storm was southern England’s worst
since 2008 and the most severe in the autumn for 11 years. Winds
hit 99 miles per hour on the Isle of Wight and 50 millimeters (2
inches) of rain fell overnight in nearby Hampshire.  In Germany, fatalities included four people killed when
trees fell on cars in Gelsenkirchen in the Ruhr and in towns in
the northern states of Schleswig-Holstein and Lower Saxony, the
DPA news service reported.  Some 27,000 of EON AG’s Swedish customers were without
electricity as of 1:49 p.m. Stockholm time, with power restored
to almost 99,000 households, according to the utility’s website.
Train tracks have now reopened, together with the Oeresund
crossing -- Europe’s longest combined rail and road bridge --
between Malmoe in  Sweden  and Danish capital Copenhagen.  In the Netherlands, where one person died, the Dutch
Association of Insurers calculated that local storm damage
amounted to 95 million euros ($130 million), excluding
agricultural and government businesses.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Levring in Copenhagen at 
 plevring1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net  