-- Long Island Power Authority Seeks $2.5 Billion Bond Buyback
-- B y   M a r t i n   Z .   B r a u n
-- 2013-10-29T17:37:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-29/long-island-power-authority-seeks-2-5-billion-bond-buyback-1-.html
New York’s Long Island Power
Authority is offering to buy back as much as $2.5 billion of
debt as part of a plan to restructure the utility, which was
widely criticized after Hurricane Sandy left almost a million of
its customers in the dark for weeks.  The offer was disclosed in  filing  with the Municipal
Securities Rulemaking Board. It expires Nov. 18.  Governor  Andrew Cuomo  and lawmakers struck a deal in June
for Newark, New Jersey-based  Public Service Enterprise Group (PEG)  to
take over operations of the state-owned authority on Jan 1.  As part of the plan, as much as half of the utility’s $7
billion of debt would be refinanced. The new bonds, backed by a
new customer charge, will be structured to get higher credit
ratings than current LIPA debt, which would lower borrow costs.  LIPA will select the debt it intends to purchase by Dec. 13
and pay bondholders on Dec. 17 with proceeds from the new sale,
according to the filing.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  Morgan
Stanley (MS)  are managing the purchase, the filing said.  LIPA’s current debt is rated Baa1 by Moody’s Investors
Service, three levels above junk. Standard & Poor’s and Fitch
Ratings rate the debt one level higher, at A-.  About $160 million of LIPA’s tax-exempt bonds callable in
nine years and targeted by the authority traded on Oct. 24 at an
average yield of about 2.2 percentage points above top-rated
bonds, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Hurricane Sandy  struck the region a year ago today,
knocking out power to 90 percent of LIPA’s customers as falling
trees downed  power lines  and substations were flooded.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Martin Z. Braun in New York at 
 mbraun6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net . 