-- Monitoring of Aging U.S. Nuclear-Plant Parts Unfocused
-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 2013-10-29T19:46:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-29/monitoring-of-aging-u-s-nuclear-plant-parts-unfocused.html
The U.S. Nuclear Regulatory
Commission’s monitoring of aging components in nuclear  power
plants  is “not focused or coordinated,” raising concern that
the some safety risks may go undiscovered, according to a
watchdog report.  The Oct. 28 report from Stephen Dingbaum, the NRC’s
assistant inspector general for audits, comes as some nuclear
power plants seek extensions on their operating licenses beyond
40 years.  “Despite concerns of component aging in nuclear power
plants that are growing older, the agency does not routinely
collect and monitor instances of active component failures due
to aging,” Dingbaum wrote.  The NRC “cannot be fully assured that it is effectively
overseeing licensees’  management of aging active components,”
Dingbaum said in the report.  So-called active components include power supplies, motors,
diesel generators, cooling fans, batteries and switches,
according to the report.  The NRC disputed the findings almost in their entirety,
saying while there isn’t a program specifically directed at
monitoring aging active components, any potential safety risks
would be discovered in the broader monitoring program.  NRC Response  “Active component aging issues are effectively addressed
through various aspects of the regulations and oversight
programs,” said  Michael Johnson , deputy executive director for
reactor and preparedness programs at the NRC, in a written
response included with the report.  Regulators, for example, require nuclear operators to
report performance issues relating to aging equipment, Johnson
said.  Dingbaum said the lack of information on aging equipment
means regulators don’t know whether they’re effectively
overseeing aging components.  The report points to an instance in 2012 when a failed
switch that had been in  service  for more than 40 years led to an
unexpected reactor power change and an automatic reactor
shutdown.  “Components degraded due to aging have caused reactor
shutdowns, failure of safety-related equipment, and reduction in
the safety margin of operating nuclear power plants,” the
report said. “Therefore, effective and proactive management of
aging of components is a key element for safe and reliable
nuclear power plant operation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  