-- Moody’s Says Swedish Bank Capital Buffers Mitigate Housing Risks
-- B y   N i k l a s   M a g n u s s o n
-- 2013-10-29T11:00:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-29/moody-s-says-swedish-bank-capital-buffers-mitigate-housing-risks.html
Sweden’s measures to address record
consumer debt levels and soaring property prices have mitigated
housing markets risks, Moody’s Investors Service said.  “While Sweden’s elevated housing prices and the
significant levels of  household debt  are a source of
vulnerability for banks’ balance sheets, these risks are
mitigated by Swedish banks’ adequate capital levels and
policymakers’ track record of providing liquidity support to the
banks when needed,” Moody’s said in a report today.  Regulators have taken a number of steps to try to stem
growth in household borrowing and to cool  house prices  amid
concern a bubble is developing. Measures have included capping
mortgages at 85 percent of home values and tripling risk weights
on  mortgage loans . The government has also imposed some of the
strictest capital rules in the world for Swedish banks to
protect taxpayers from financial industry losses.  Nordea Bank AB,  Svenska Handelsbanken AB (SHBA) , Swedbank AB and
SEB AB are required to have core Tier 1 ratios of at least 12
percent of their risk-weighted assets by 2015 and all already
exceed that level. Handelsbanken’s and Swedbank’s ratios stood
at 19.3 percent and 18.8 percent, respectively, at the end of
September -- the highest among all major European banks. Nordea
was at 14.4 percent and  SEB (SEBA)  was at 17.4 percent.  Swedish apartment prices, which more than doubled since
2000, increased 16 percent in the 12 months through September,
according to  Svensk Maeklarstatistik , which publishes monthly
data. The price of single-family houses rose 4 percent since
September last year, it said. State-owned mortgage bank SBAB
warned on Oct. 18 that prices are likely to continue rising and
that there is a risk of overheating.  Apart from the banks’ capital buffers and state liquidity
support, there are also other factors that mitigate risks from
household debt levels and house price increases, Moody’s said.  “These risks are also offset by Sweden’s relative economic
stability, its low interest-rate environment, the generous
Swedish benefits system and the household sector’s significant
financial assets,” the credit rating company said.  Moody’s said  Sweden ’s Aaa government bond rating and stable
outlook “are predominantly supported by the country’s high
wealth levels and the healthy growth prospects of its resilient
and diversified economy in 2013-2014.” These “are bolstered by
the anticipated recovery in domestic demand and continued growth
in merchandise and services exports,” it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Niklas Magnusson in Stockholm at 
 nmagnusson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  