-- How the Alger Hiss Case Explains the Tea Party
-- B y   C a s s   R .   S u n s t e i n
-- 2013-10-29T14:13:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-29/how-the-alger-hiss-case-explains-the-tea-party.html
Many Americans have forgotten, or
never learned about, the  Alger Hiss case . One of the most
dramatic trials of the 20th century, it helps explain not only
the rise of McCarthyism in the early 1950s and the presidencies
of  Richard Nixon  and  Ronald Reagan , but also the contemporary
roles of  Rush Limbaugh ,  Ted Cruz  and the Tea Party.  The Hiss case casts light on why conservatives and liberals
are suspicious of each other, on their different attitudes
toward elitism, on their understandings of patriotism and on the
parallel universes in which they seem to live.  In his 1948  testimony  before the House Committee on Un-American Activities, Whittaker Chambers, a writer and editor for
Time magazine and a former Communist, identified Hiss as a
Communist. Hiss adamantly denied the charge. He said he didn’t
know anyone named Whittaker Chambers.  Encountering  his accuser
in person, Hiss spoke directly to him: “May I say for the
record at this point that I would like to invite Mr. Whittaker
Chambers to make those same statements out of the presence of
this committee without their being privileged for suit for
libel?”  Chambers took Hiss’s bait. In an interview on national
television, Chambers repeated his charges. In response to the
libel suit, he produced stolen State Department documents and
notes that seemed to establish not merely that Hiss was a
Communist, but that he had spied for the  Soviet Union . Hiss was
 convicted  of perjury.  The conviction was stunning, for Hiss had been a member of
the nation’s liberal elite. A graduate of  Harvard Law School  and
a law clerk for the revered Supreme Court Justice Oliver Wendell Holmes, he held positions of authority in the Agriculture,
Justice and State departments. He was tall, handsome, elegant,
gracious, even dashing.  Liberal Support  At his 1949 perjury trial, an extraordinary number of
liberal icons served as character witnesses for Hiss, including
two Supreme Court justices (Stanley Reed and Felix Frankfurter);
John W. Davis, who was the Democratic presidential nominee in
1924; and Adlai Stevenson, who was to become the Democratic
nominee for the presidency in 1952 and 1956.  By contrast,  Chambers  was short, plump and badly dressed.
He was a college dropout. After abandoning Communism, he became
a conservative and a Christian, and he saw the 20th century as a
great battle between Communism on one hand and religious
devotion on the other.  When Chambers initially made his charges, many people,
especially on the left, thought he must have been motivated by
some personal grievance against Hiss. Chambers responded: “Mr.
Hiss represents the concealed enemy against which we are all
fighting and I am fighting. I have testified against him with
remorse and pity, but in a moment of history in which the nation
now stands, so help me God, I could not do otherwise.”  As Chambers detailed his relationship with Hiss and their
joint work with the Communist Party in the mid-1930s, the sheer
accumulation of personal details threw Hiss’s denials into
serious doubt. Chambers knew a lot about Hiss’s son and wife,
his hobbies, his various apartments, his automobiles and more.
In explaining his relationship with Chambers (whom he ultimately
acknowledged knowing), Hiss spoke with apparent conviction, but
he also seemed to offer an odd brew of evasions and concoctions.  The  Hiss case  split the country. Many liberals thought that
Chambers was a liar and perhaps a madman. Chambers explained
their reaction in a way that fit with, and helped spur, a
widespread view on the right: “The simple fact is that when I
took up my little sling and aimed at Communism, I also hit
something else. What I hit was the forces of that great
socialist revolution, which, in the name of liberalism,
spasmodically, incompletely, somewhat formlessly, but always in
the same direction, has been inching its ice cap over the nation
for two decades.”  Conservative Hero  From the beginning, Hiss contended that Chambers intended
“to discredit recent great achievements of this country in
which I was privileged to participate,” including the New Deal.
Among conservatives, Chambers became a hero, and his 1952
autobiography, “Witness,” (moving, poetic, an unforgettable
mixture of pessimism, spirituality and hope) was an instant
classic.  Most of those who have carefully studied the case, and who
have explored evidence emerging long after the trial itself,
have concluded that Chambers was telling the truth and that Hiss
did indeed  perjure himself . But the legacy of the case extends
well beyond the issue of Hiss’s guilt.  Chambers’ broader charge -- that liberalism was a species
of socialism, “inching its ice cap over the nation” --
polarized the nation. His attack on the patriotism of the Ivy
League elite reflected an important strand in American culture,
and it helped to initiate suspicions that persist to this day.  Liberals are no longer much interested in Hiss’s
conviction, yet they are puzzled, and rightly object, when they
are accused of holding positions that they abhor. We can’t
easily understand those accusations, contemporary conservative
thought or the influence of the  Tea Party  without appreciating
the enduring impact of the Hiss case.  (Cass R. Sunstein, the Robert Walmsley University professor
at Harvard Law School, is a Bloomberg View columnist. He is the
former administrator of the White House Office of Information
and Regulatory Affairs, the co-author of “Nudge” and author of
“Simpler: The Future of Government.”)  To contact the writer of this article:
Cass R. Sunstein at  csunstei@law.harvard.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 