-- Lloyds Loss Widens After Loan Insurance Provisions
-- B y   G a v i n   F i n c h
-- 2013-10-29T16:47:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-29/lloyds-posts-gain-in-third-quarter-profit-as-bad-loans-dwindle.html
Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY) , Britain’s
biggest mortgage lender, posted a wider third-quarter loss after
setting aside an additional 750 million pounds ($1.2 billion) to
compensate clients wrongly sold loan insurance.  The  net loss  was about 1.3 billion pounds in the three
months to the end of September from 390 million pounds in the
year-earlier period, the London-based bank said in a statement
today. It reported 626 million pounds of losses on asset sales.  Lloyds’s recovery, which saw the government sell 3.2
billion pounds of shares in the lender at a profit last month,
has been blighted by past regulatory mistakes. The provision
brings the total it has earmarked to redress customers sold
payment protection insurance that didn’t cover them or they
didn’t need to about 8.1 billion pounds, the most among the
U.K.’s banks.  Some of the “reported numbers for Lloyds are pretty
awful,”  Ian Gordon , an analyst at  Investec Plc (INVP)  in London with a
hold rating on the stock, said by telephone. “An otherwise
positive set of results were offset by one-off items that were a
lot larger than had been anticipated.”  Pretax profit before one-time items climbed to 1.52 billion
pounds from 831 million pounds in the year-earlier period,
Lloyds said. That beat the 1.46 billion-pound median  estimate  of
eight analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Impairments for souring
loans fell 47 percent to 670 million pounds.  The stock fell 2 percent to 78.01 pence in  London trading ,
above the 61 pence the government says it will break even after
providing a 20 billion-pound rescue almost five years ago.
Lloyds has gained about 63 percent this year, the  best-performing  stock among its U.K. peers.  The bank, which is 33 percent government owned, has started
discussions with the U.K. regulator about resuming dividend
payments and will provide an update on timing at the year-end
results, Chief Executive Officer Antonio Horta-Osorio, 49, said.
Lloyds last paid a cash dividend in 2008, before its takeover of
HBOS Plc led to its bailout by the government.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gavin Finch in  London  at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  