-- Palm Oil Rallies to Eight-Month High as Output Slows in Malaysia
-- B y   R a n j e e t h a   P a k i a m
-- 2013-10-29T10:32:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-29/palm-swings-as-weather-threatens-harvest-crude-prices-drop.html
Palm oil  rallied to the highest
level in eight months on speculation that wet weather will
disrupt harvests in Malaysia, keeping stockpiles in the second-largest producer below levels a year ago.  The contract for delivery in January advanced 1.4 percent
to 2,497 ringgit ($794) a metric ton on the Bursa Malaysia
Derivatives, the highest close for futures since Feb. 22. Palm
for physical delivery in November was at 2,475 ringgit, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Isolated showers and thunderstorms are predicted over
Sabah, Sarawak and Johor, the biggest palm oil producing states,
according to a seven-day outlook on the Malaysian Meteorological
Department’s  website . While palm oil is produced year-round,
output peaks from July to October. The monsoon in  Malaysia 
usually begins in November.  “The wet season would result in lower harvests, but it is
past the peak production cycle anyway,” said Arhnue Tan, an
analyst at Alliance Investment Bank Bhd.  Output gained 10 percent to 1.91 million tons in September
from a month earlier, while stockpiles climbed 7 percent to 1.78
million tons, according to the Malaysian Palm Oil Board.
Inventories are 28 percent below a year ago.  Traders are concerned that the weather could reduce output
and extraction rates, said Paramalingam Supramaniam, director at
brokerage Pelindung Bestari Sdn. in Selangor.  “The production is not increasing with the expected speed
and the stocks are much lower than what they were last year at
this time,” said Sandeep Bajoria, chief executive officer of
Mumbai-based broker Sunvin Group.  Refined palm oil for May delivery gained 0.3 percent to
close at 6,104  yuan  ($1,002) a ton on the  Dalian Commodity
Exchange  and  soybean oil  fell 1 percent to end at 7,056 yuan.  Soybeans for delivery in January climbed 0.2 percent to
$12.7075 a bushel on the Chicago Board of Trade, while soybean
oil for December gained 0.6 percent to 40.60 cents a pound.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ranjeetha Pakiam in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 rpakiam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  