-- Petrobras’s Board Agreed to Create Fuel Price Mechanism
-- B y   R o d r i g o   O r i h u e l a
-- 2013-10-29T18:07:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-29/petrobras-s-board-agreed-to-create-fuel-price-mechanism.html
The board of  Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4) ,
the world’s most indebted publicly traded oil company, agreed to
approve a new mechanism to adjust fuel prices, a board member
said.  “It’s only the details that are being discussed now,”
board member Sergio Quintella told reporters in Rio de Janeiro
today. The oil producer known as Petrobras said Oct. 25 that it
presented a fuel price model to the board and will present a
revised model on Nov. 22.  “There are a lot of variables included in the model,”
Quintella said, when asked if production would be included. He
declined to elaborate.  Petrobras said Oct. 25 that   net income  dropped 40 percent
to 3.39 billion reais ($1.55 billion) in the third quarter from
a year earlier on higher fuel imports and refining losses. Fuel
prices are capped by the government as anti-inflationary
measures and prevent Petrobras from adjusting them in line with
global prices. While Petrobras exports crude, it imports
gasoline and diesel.  Fuel imports climbed to 493,000 barrels a day in the third
quarter, an increase of 89 percent from the prior quarter, the
company said in the report.  Under the proposal, fuel prices would be automatically
adjusted without requiring board approval, as now is required,
Petrobras Chief Financial Officer Almir Barbassa told reporters
yesterday. The government holds the majority  stake  in Petrobras.
Finance Minister Guido Mantega is chairman of the Rio de
Janeiro-based company.  Stronger Currency  Petrobras has increased prices for gasoline 15 percent and
diesel 22 percent since June 2012 to reduce the discount with
international prices. The gap narrowed to about 10 percent in
the fourth quarter after  Brazil ’s currency rebounded and
international crude prices fell, making imported gasoline
cheaper, according to Banco Bradesco SA estimates.  The real weakened to the lowest level in more than four
years in August, prompting the the central bank to announce a
$60 billion program of currency swaps and credit line auctions.  Since Aug. 22 Brazil’s real appreciated more than all
currencies tracked by Bloomberg and reached 2.1523 per dollar on
Oct. 17, the highest level since June 14.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rodrigo Orihuela in Rio de Janeiro at 
 rorihuela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  