-- PetroChina Third-Quarter Profit Rises on Refining Margins
-- B y   B e n j a m i n   H a a s   a n d   A i b i n g   G u o
-- 2013-10-29T10:17:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-29/petrochina-third-quarter-profit-rises-on-wider-refining-margins.html
PetroChina Co. (857) , the target of a
government corruption probe that has ensnared a former chairman,
posted a 19 percent increase in third-quarter profit as retail
fuel pricing reforms reduced refining losses.  Net income rose to 29.8 billion  yuan  ($4.89 billion), or
0.16 yuan a share, in the three months ended Sept. 30, from 24.9
billion yuan, or 0.14 yuan, a year earlier, the Beijing-based
company said in a  statement  to the Hong Kong stock exchange
today. That compares with a 30.5 billion yuan mean estimate from
a survey of eight analysts  compiled  by Bloomberg.  “After 10 quarters of consecutive losses in refining we
see the first operating profit in the third quarter,” Simon Powell, head of oil and gas research at CLSA Ltd., said in a
phone interview from Hong Kong. “That’s pretty eventful and
comes as a result of price reforms.”  China uses its big three  oil companies , of which PetroChina
is the largest, to control domestic fuel prices and secure
energy supplies from overseas to meet the burgeoning needs of
the world’s second-biggest economy. The government shortened its
price adjustment window to 10 days in March from 22 days to
allow retail rates to reflect movements in global crude markets
more closely.  PetroChina reduced refining losses by 17 billion yuan in
the first nine months, compared with the same period a year
earlier “as a result of taking advantage of the newly
promulgated pricing mechanism for refined products,” the
Beijing-based company said in the statement.  The shares rose 1.6 percent to HK$8.91 at the close in Hong
Kong before the statement was released. The stock has declined
19 percent this  year , compared with 0.8 percent increase in the
benchmark  Hang Seng  index.  Corruption Probe  Four senior managers were removed from their posts in
August after allegations of corruption. Former chairman  Jiang Jiemin  was dismissed from his post as head of the state assets
regulator and is under investigation, the official Xinhua News
Agency said Sept. 2.  The probe highlights President  Xi Jinping ’s willingness to
tackle graft, which he has said threatens the communist party’s
64-year grip on power.  “The corruption investigation makes PetroChina a safer bet
since the government will be watching the company more
closely,” said Powell, who rates the stock a buy.  Oil and natural gas output rose 4.3 percent to 1.04 billion
barrels in the first nine months, of which 101.4 million barrels
were from overseas projects, according to the statement. Average
realized crude price declined 3.6 percent to $99.85 in the nine
months.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Benjamin Haas in  Hong Kong  at 
 bhaas7@bloomberg.net ;
Aibing Guo in Hong Kong at 
 aguo10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  