-- Pfizer Tops Estimates as Investors Await Possible Breakup
-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2013-10-29T20:08:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-29/pfizer-beats-estimates-as-investors-await-potential-breakup.html
Pfizer Inc., the world’s biggest
drugmaker, reported third-quarter profit that beat analysts’
estimates as the company cut costs and sales of its top vaccine
and pain drugs increased.  Earnings (PFE)  excluding one-time items were 58 cents a share, 2
cents more than the average of 16 analysts’ estimates compiled
by Bloomberg. New York-based Pfizer raised the lower end of its
full-year  forecast  range, excluding certain items, narrowing it
to $2.15 to $2.20 a share from $2.10 to $2.20 per share.  Pfizer is pushing to expand sales of Prevnar, a
pneumococcal vaccine and its second-biggest product, since
losing marketing exclusivity for Lipitor, once the world’s top-selling drug. It also used proceeds from the divestiture of
units to buy back stock and boost earnings per share. Investors
are now looking for detail on whether Chief Executive Officer
Ian Read will break the company into two or three pieces, keep
them separately in-house or sell part.  “Right now, we’re focused on setting up the new
organizational model,” Read said today on a conference call
with investors. “It’s too early to speculate on the future
developments of those businesses.”  Pfizer rose 1.7 percent to $31.25 at 4 p.m. New York time,
its highest price since October 2004. The shares have  gained 23
percent  in the last 12 months.  Sales Decline  Sales fell 2.5 percent to $12.6 billion, from $13 billion a
year earlier, or $14 billion including a now-divested animal
health business, Pfizer said today in a statement. The drugmaker
has been among the hardest hit by products losing patent
protection. Lipitor began facing competition from generic
copycats in 2011. Pfizer also faces patent expirations that will
hurt sales there through 2016, Read said.  Net income declined 19 percent to $2.59 billion, or 39
cents per share, from $3.21 billion, or 43 cents. Third-quarter
results include the loss of profit from Zoetis, the animal
health business Pfizer divested in an initial public offering
this year.  Costs, including expenses for research and development and
sales and administrative expenses, fell 4.5 percent, or $341
million, the company said.  The company in July reorganized its operations into a
generic-drug and off-patent business, and two brand-name units
and may begin reporting the profits and losses of each business
separately next year. Read has portrayed the move as a way to
further focus Pfizer’s businesses, and help the company
successfully develop and introduce new drugs to replace lost
revenue.  Separate Results  The three units will begin reporting separate financial
results next year. Read said the unit that has vaccines,
oncology and consumer products will likely be a faster growing
business, with higher R&D spending and lower product-introduction costs. The second brand-drugs unit will have
Pfizer’s drugs in inflammation and immunology, cardiovascular
disease, rare disease, men’s and women’s health, pain and
neurosciences, and rare diseases.  That unit will have “a lot more infrastructure, a bigger
medical audience to go to, more field forces, lower growth
rate,” Read said today in an interview.  The CEO said the generics business could still be
competitive inside Pfizer, or as a U.S.-based stand-alone. Some
generic drug rivals such as Actavis Plc, have moved their
headquarters from the U.S. to overseas as a way of lowering
their tax rates. Read cited  Mylan Inc. (MYL)  as a counter-example.  Business Focus  “Mylan is a very, very good generic business that runs out
of the United States and under U.S. tax regime,” Read said. “I
feel like tax is a second-order issue. The first is to get the
operations right, the business development right, the supply
chains right.”  The drugmaker has been pushing ahead with palbociclib, an
experimental breast cancer treatment that may be among its
biggest future products if approved for use. Data released last
year showed that the drug stopped disease progression for more
than two years in 165 patients.  Pfizer also plans to restart development of tanezumab, an
experimental drug for osteoarthritis that was put on hold by
U.S. regulators. It will join as a partner with Eli Lilly & Co.,
splitting costs and sales. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration
still has a partial hold on the drug’s development, which Pfizer
said could be lifted after it gives the FDA data next year.  Heart Drug  The company is also starting final stage trials of
bococizumab, a cardiovascular drug aimed at patients who can’t
get their cholesterol under control on statins. Pfizer said it
plans to test the drug in 22,000 people, focusing on high-risk
patients.  The blood thinner Eliquis, which was cleared in December,
was initially projected by analysts to generate more than $1
billion. Sales have been lackluster, however, and weren’t listed
separately in the third-quarter results. Pfizer splits the drug
with  Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. (BMY)  Xeljanz, also approved last year,
sold $35 million.  “Initial Xeljanz and Eliquis launches have been off to a
slow start,” said  Jami Rubin , an analyst with Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. “Long-term we continue to think these assets will
contribute to growth.”  Judson Clark, an analyst with Edward Jones & Co., is
skeptical that the drug will turn into a mega-blockbuster.  “Estimates keep coming down and pushing out and they still
keep coming in a little light,” he said last week, after
Bristol-Myers reported revenue of $41 million from Eliquis.  “We’re getting to the point where Eliquis may be a solid
drug, it may not be the resounding success everyone thought.”  Sales of Lyrica, the pain medicine that’s now the company’s
biggest drug, rose 9.6 percent to $1.14 billion from a year
before. Prevnar revenue rose 1.1 percent to $959 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Drew Armstrong in  New York  at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  