-- Polish Central Bank Joins Pension-Revamp Criticism on Legal Risk
-- B y   P i o t r   S k o l i m o w s k i
-- 2013-10-29T13:45:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-29/polish-central-bank-joins-pension-revamp-criticism-on-legal-risk.html
Poland ’s central bank said a planned
revamp of the country’s privately managed pension system may
carry “legal risk,” adding to criticism from state lawyers.  The government should “reconsider” banning retirement
funds from investing in state bonds and forcing them to keep 75
percent of assets in stocks in the next two years, according to
a central bank opinion published today on the Labor Ministry’s
 website . The State Treasury Solicitors’ Office, which represents
the government in legal disputes, said yesterday the plan may be
“unconstitutional” and is a “classic form of expropriation.”  Poland plans to take over 51.5 percent of private pension
assets, mostly government bonds, to reduce public debt and ease
fiscal pressure as the economy recovers from its steepest
slowdown in a decade. The government is gathering views on the
pension bill before it’s sent to parliament in mid-November.  There’s no risk the revamp will be deemed unconstitutional,
Jan Krzysztof Bielecki, who heads Prime Minister Donald Tusk’s
council of economic advisers, told reporters today. “It has to
be established what the grounds are for such an opinion.”  By tapping 13 funds, which invest mandatory contributions
from 16.2 million members and control $94 billion of assets, the
government is seeking more leeway to boost spending. Tusk faces
general elections in 2015 and his party lags behind the
opposition in opinion polls.  The revamp will trim the public debt ratio by 9.2
percentage points next year and bring the  budget  into a surplus
of 4.5 percent of economic output from a 4.8 percent deficit
projected for 2013, according to the  Finance Ministry .  The owners of the companies running the funds include  Aegon
NV (AGN) ,  Allianz SE (ALV) ,  MetLife Inc. (MET) ,  Aviva Plc (AV/) ,  Axa SA (CS) ,  Assicurazioni
Generali SpA (G) ,  ING Groep NV (INGA)  and Nordea Bank AB.  Axa’s Chief Executive Officer Henri de Castries said last
month that his company will become “very aggressive from a
legal standpoint” if the law is introduced. The Polish Chamber
of Pension Funds asked European Commission President Jose Barroso in a letter to “closely analyze” the plan and “take
appropriate actions.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Piotr Skolimowski in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  