-- Poloz Says He Dropped Rates Rise Bias on Inflation Risks
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2013-10-29T19:10:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-29/poloz-says-canada-monetary-stimulus-remains-appropriate.html
Bank of  Canada  Governor Stephen Poloz said he dropped the central bank’s language about raising
 interest rates  last week because there is a higher risk of
 inflation (CACPIYOY)  lagging the 2 percent target.  “Inflation has persistently been below target,” Poloz,
58, told lawmakers today during a House of Commons Finance
Committee session in Ottawa. “Any negative inflation shock
would bring us even further away from target, as opposed to
getting closer, and in that context we decided that we should no
longer have an explicit bias towards higher interest rates.”  Canada’s dollar reached a seven-week low after his
testimony. The currency dropped the most in four months after
Poloz’s Oct. 23 decision, when he removed language about higher
rates that had been in place for more than a year. Poloz today
reiterated that stimulus provided by the 1 percent  policy
interest rate  is “appropriate” given “significant slack” in
the world’s 11th-largest economy.  Concern about the pace of global demand is delaying growth
in exports and investment, and Canada’s economic output is less
than policy makers had expected, Poloz said. Inflation will
accelerate to the bank’s 2 percent target by the end of 2015, he
said, reiterating a forecast he gave at the Oct. 23 decision.  Lawmakers asked Poloz several rounds of questions about
quantitative easing -- the U.S. Federal Reserve policy of
purchasing assets to support growth. The  Bank of Canada  laid out
the option of using quantitative easing in a 2009 paper during
the global financial crisis and was “fortunate” it wasn’t
used, Poloz said.  Speaking  in Winnipeg, Manitoba, Deputy Governor Agathe Cote
said the bank would consider the tapering of quantitative easing
by the Fed as “something that’s very positive,” because it
would be a sign that the economy is strengthening.  Answering questions from the audience, Cote said the bank
remains optimistic because improving U.S. demand should lead to
higher Canadian investment and productivity.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  