-- Portugal Bets on Technology, Hires Inspectors to Fight Evasion
-- B y   H e n r i q u e   A l m e i d a
-- 2013-10-29T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-29/portugal-bets-on-technology-hires-inspectors-to-fight-evasion.html
Portugal ’s government is stepping up
its fight against tax evasion, investing in new technology and
almost doubling the number of tax inspectors even as it tries to
cut costs with state workers.  Paulo Nuncio, secretary of state for fiscal affairs, is
betting on a mandatory electronic invoicing system for all
businesses and expanding the ranks of tax inspectors to 3,000 by
year-end from 1,700 to ensure companies, wealthy individuals and
hard-to-tax enterprises such as hairdressers pay all their
taxes. Tax revenue increased 15 percent in September from the
same month last year, Portugal’s  Finance Ministry  said Oct. 24.  “Portugal’s tax revenue would not be rising this way
without the efficiency gains from the fight against  tax evasion 
and the parallel economy,” Nuncio said in an interview on Oct.
25. The hiring of tax inspectors is “a special case” at a time
when the government is cutting state spending, he said.  The government plans to reduce expenses by as much as 3.2
billion euros ($4.4 billion) next year, including 1.3 billion
euros in personnel cost-cuts. It’s shifting its deficit-reduction strategy toward expenses instead of revenue in 2014,
holding personal income-tax rates steady and cutting corporate
rates. Portugal raised taxes every year since requesting
emergency aid from the European Union and the  International
Monetary Fund  in 2011. It targets a deficit of 5.5 percent of
gross domestic product this year and 4 percent in 2014.  Underground Economy  The Portuguese underground economy will drop to 19 percent
of gross domestic product this year from 19.4 percent in 2012,
according to  Friedrich Schneider , a professor at the Johannes
Kepler University in Linz,  Austria , who specializes in the
shadow economy.  While Portugal’s economy has shown signs of an
“improvement” in recent months, a special surcharge on
personal income tax rates and on banks is likely to remain in
place in 2014, said Nuncio. The government on Oct. 4 announced
plans to charge a special tax on energy producers to help narrow
the  budget deficit . A final vote on the 2014 budget proposal is
scheduled for next month.  The government predicts it may recover as much as 500
million euros from exceptional rules that let companies and
individuals settle tax debts before harsher penalties for  tax
fraud  and evasion come into force next year.  “The state now has a greater capacity to monitor taxes as
it toughens the regime related to tax crimes in a very
significant way,” said Nuncio. “The paradigm has changed.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henrique Almeida in Lisbon at 
 halmeida5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  