-- Pound Forecasts Soar as BOE’s Carney Signals Shift: Currencies
-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a   a n d   E m m a   C h a r l t o n
-- 2013-10-29T16:12:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-29/pound-forecasts-soar-as-boe-s-carney-signals-shift-currencies.html
Strategists are raising their
forecasts for the pound more than for any other currency versus
the euro on speculation an improving U.K. economy is making the
central bank more tolerant of a stronger exchange rate.  The median of more than 60 analyst estimates in a Bloomberg
survey is for the pound to end the first quarter of 2014 at 83
pence per euro, 1.2 percent stronger than their outlook when
Bank of England Governor Mark Carney started on July 1 and up
from 85.73 today. That’s the biggest gain among 12 currencies
tracked versus the euro.  Britain’s economy grew at the  fastest pace  in three years
in the third quarter, causing traders to boost bets that the BOE
will raise interest rates sooner than anticipated, even at the
risk of letting the currency appreciate further. That would
contrast with former Governor Mervyn King, who credited a weak
pound with helping the U.K. avoid a deeper economic slump.  “As long as the economy continues improving, we’re
unlikely to get any moaning about the strength of the pound,”
Steve Barrow, the head of Group-of-10 research at Standard Bank
Plc in London, said in an Oct. 25 phone interview. “When the
economy was weak,” policy makers “including ex-Governor King,
seemed to implore the markets to weaken the pound,” he said.  Beating Peers  Barrow forecasts the pound will strengthen to 82 pence per
euro in three months and to 80 pence by the end of April.
Against the dollar, he sees it gaining to $1.71 and $1.69 in the
same periods, from $1.6054 at 12:09 p.m. in New York.  Sterling jumped 3.1 percent against nine developed market
peers in the past three months, the biggest advance in the
group, Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes show.  The pound has gained 2.5 percent from a five-month low of
87.69 pence per euro on Aug. 1, and has risen from a three-year
low of $1.4814 on July 9, about a week after Carney took office.  Carney, the 48-year-old former governor of the Bank of
Canada, pledged in August to keep the  main interest rate  at 0.5
percent at least until U.K. unemployment falls to 7 percent,
subject to caveats on inflation and financial stability.  While policy makers projected that would occur at the end
of 2016, the  jobless rate  declined to 7.7 percent in the three
months through July, surprising economists in a Bloomberg survey
who saw it staying unchanged at 7.8 percent.  ‘Credibility’ Loss  Andrew Sentance, who until 2011 was a member of the BOE’s
Monetary Policy Committee, told Bloomberg Television on Oct. 25
that policy makers may revise their forecasts to say
unemployment will drop to the 7 percent threshold by late-2015.
Officials should be preparing for a rate increase before then,
to prevent a loss of “credibility” on inflation, he said.  Gross domestic product rose 0.8 percent in the third
quarter, up from 0.7 percent growth from April to June and the
most since 2010, a government report showed Oct. 25. That’s
adding to signs that Britain’s slowest recovery in a century, in
which it has recouped only two thirds of the output lost during
the financial crisis, is starting to gather pace.  “With every release the U.K. credentials are reinforced,
the economy is picking up, as seen in the GDP figures,” Neil Mellor, a foreign-exchange strategist at Bank of New York Mellon
in London, said in a phone interview on Oct. 25. “There’s a
probability that the BOE will have to rein in its forward
guidance more quickly than many had expected. That would push
sterling higher,” he said, forecasting $1.65 and 84 pence per
euro by year-end.  Inflation Mandate  Carney, who a day before the GDP report said there was
“traction” in the economy, presents new quarterly forecasts on
Nov. 13. Investors will be watching for any sign of a switch in
focus from boosting growth back to controlling  inflation , which
has been above the BOE’s 2 percent target since 2009 and held at
2.7 percent last month.  “The rise in the sterling exchange rate would reduce the
extent to which imported prices were squeezing households’ real
incomes,” according to minutes of this month’s meeting of the
BOE’s Monetary Policy Committee, published Oct. 23.  Analysts boosted their first-quarter estimates for the
Swiss franc versus the euro by 0.8 percent since July 1 to 1.25,
left the outlook for Poland’s zloty unchanged at 4.15 and
revised down their forecasts for the 10 other currencies tracked
versus Europe’s shared tender.  Money Printing  Sterling’s gains versus the dollar have been even greater
than those against the euro, spurred by a  plunge  in the
greenback on investor expectations for the Federal Reserve to
keep printing money to buy bonds into 2014.  While analysts are struggling to keep pace with the pound’s
jump versus the U.S. currency, seeing it ending this year at
$1.58, that’s still a 5.3 percent improvement in outlook since
July 1. That’s the biggest increase among 56 currency pairs in
Bloomberg’s strategist surveys. By the end of the first quarter
of 2014, they see sterling at $1.57.  The improvement in the U.K. economy is now priced into the
pound and further strength will be limited, according to Ian Stannard, the head of European foreign-exchange strategy at
Morgan Stanley in  London .  The pound’s gains “fully reflect some of the more positive
news we’ve had coming from the U.K., especially some of the
positive data surprises,” Stannard said in an Oct. 25 interview
with Bloomberg’s Niki O’Callaghan. “Much of that now is now
fully priced-in, so I think it’s going to be difficult for
sterling to maintain those gains.”  Seeing Weakness  Morgan Stanley estimated Oct. 18 that the pound would
appreciate to 81 pence euro and weaken to $1.57 by the end of
the first quarter, according to Bloomberg analyst surveys.  The pound is down 16 percent versus its peers on a trade-weighted basis since the end of 2007, according to a BOE index.
The gauge has slipped 23 percent to 81.88, from 106.46 in
January 2007. The index measures sterling against currencies of
the U.K.’s biggest trading partners.  King, who served for 10 years as BOE governor before
Carney, said at a news conference in London on Feb. 16 that
sterling’s depreciation in the financial crisis was necessary to
“rebalance” the economy toward exports, and Britain would have
had a “much deeper recession” without it. He told ITV News in
March that policy makers weren’t trying to talk down the pound,
while acknowledging that its slide helped exports.  U.K. growth will outpace that of the euro area by almost
four percentage points through 2015, according to Bloomberg
economist estimates, fueling the pound’s gains.  After expanding by 1.4 percent in 2013, Britain’s $2.4
trillion economy will grow 2.2 percent and 2.4 percent in the
following two years, the surveys show. The euro area will shrink
0.3 percent this year before growing by 1 percent and 1.4
percent, according to economists.  “The outperformance of the U.K. economy against Europe
will continue,” Alvin Tan, a London-based director of foreign-exchange strategy at Societe Generale SA, said in an Oct. 24
phone interview. The French lender estimates the pound will be
at 81 pence per euro and $1.54 by March. “We expect sterling to
outperform.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net ;
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Dobson at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  