-- Pound Slides for Third Day Amid Bets Economy Can’t Sustain Gains
-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n
-- 2013-10-29T16:13:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-29/pound-falls-for-third-day-before-u-k-mortgage-approvals-report.html
The pound slipped for a third day
versus the dollar amid speculation U.K. economic data due this
week won’t be strong enough to sustain gains that propelled it
to a one-month high.  Sterling weakened to a two-month low versus the euro before
data economists said will show house-price growth and
manufacturing expansion slowed this month. A gauge of whether
economic data is beating forecasts dropped to the lowest level
in two weeks. Britain’s gross domestic product grew 0.8 percent
in the third quarter, the most since 2010, the government said
last week. Ten-year gilt yields were about one basis point from
the lowest level since August.  “The economy is recovering but we would be getting ahead
of ourselves to suggest there’s an explosion in growth,” said
Jane Foley, a senior currency strategist at Rabobank
International in  London . “There’s a lot of good news already in
the price of the pound and it will take something significant to
push it higher.”  The pound fell 0.6 percent to $1.6050 at 4:11 p.m. London
time after rising to $1.6257 on Oct. 23, the highest level since
Oct. 1. Sterling depreciated 0.4 percent to 85.74 pence per euro
after reaching 85.85 pence, the weakest since Aug. 29.  A gauge of U.K.  home prices  rose 0.7 percent in October
after increasing 0.9 percent a month earlier,  Nationwide
Building Society  will say, according to a Bloomberg News survey
of economists before the data is released on Thursday.  Manufacturing Index  An index based on a survey of purchasing managers in the
 manufacturing  industry fell to 56.4 this month from 56.7 in
September, a separate Bloomberg survey showed before London-based Markit Economics releases the data on Friday. A reading
above 50 indicates expansion.  The pound extended its losses against the euro after
European Central Bank Governing Council member Ewald Nowotny was
reported to say it’s unlikely the central bank will lower
 interest rates , underpinning demand for the shared currency.  “I do not think that having a negative deposit rate is a
realistic perspective, but I also do not see a realistic
perspective of lowering the main policy rate,” Nowotny said,
according to a report from Market News International. Policy
makers “have to live with” a strengthening euro, he said.  The pound gained 3 percent in the past three months, the
best performer among 10 developed-nation currencies tracked by
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The euro rose 2 percent,
while the dollar fell 2.1 percent.  Mortgage Lending  U.K. lenders  granted  66,735 mortgages, the most since
February 2008, compared with a revised 63,396 the previous
month, the  Bank of England  said in London. Annual house-price
inflation accelerated to 3.1 percent in October, the  most  since
November 2007, London-based property researcher Hometrack said
yesterday.  “The economic data is looking firmer again, but it seems
that the market is looking for something more than that before
it really starts to pay attention,” said Lee McDarby, executive
director of U.K. corporate foreign-exchange sales at Nomura
International Plc in London. The pound “remains stable just
above $1.60. Sterling at the end of the first week of November
should give us a better idea of what winter has in store.”  The Citigroup U.K. Economic Surprise Index slid nine
percentage points to 30.7 yesterday, the lowest level since Oct.
15. The gauge, which shows whether data beat or fell short of
economists’ forecasts, dropped to 20.9 on Oct. 14, the lowest
level since June 19.  Islamic Bonds  Benchmark 10-year gilt yields were little changed at 2.60
percent after declining to 2.59 percent, the lowest level since
Aug. 27. The price of the 2.25 percent bond maturing in
September 2023 was at 96.965.  Prime Minister  David Cameron  said today the U.K. plans to
become the first country outside the Muslim world to sell a
Shariah-compliant security. The Islamic bonds, known as sukuk,
may be sold as soon as next year and would be valued at about
200 million pounds, Cameron said at the World Islamic Economic
Forum in London.  “For years people have been talking about creating an
Islamic bond -- or sukuk -- outside the Islamic world, but it’s
never quite happened,” the prime minister said. “Changing that
is a question of pragmatism and political will. And here in
Britain we have got both. This government wants Britain to
become the first sovereign outside the Islamic world to issue an
Islamic bond.”  The Debt Management Office plans to auction 1.25 billion
pounds of inflation-linked bonds maturing in March 2052 on Nov.
5, it said in a statement today.  Gilts lost 2.1 percent this year through yesterday,
according to Bloomberg World Bond Indexes. Treasuries fell 1.8
percent and German securities declined 1.4 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  