-- Pricey Bonds Deter Goldman as Ireland Exits Bailout
-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n   a n d   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a
-- 2013-10-29T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-29/pricey-bonds-deter-goldman-as-ireland-exits-bailout.html
Ireland’s longest bond rally since
2005 is making the securities too expensive for some investors
just as the nation begins to rely on their money again.  The extra yield, or spread, over German bunds slid to a
three-year low this month as Ireland moved closer to exiting the
67.5 billion-euro ($93 billion) emergency aid program it took in
November 2010. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and BlueBay Asset
Management are among the financial companies judging that the
yields are now too low for a country that’s barely growing and
still with a debt load bigger than its economy.  “With the spreads where they are now, we think there are
better stories, better places to invest,” said Russel Matthews,
a  fund manager  at BlueBay in  London , which oversees $56 billion
and has been putting money into Portuguese and Slovenian bonds.
“We are positive on the story, but from a valuation perspective
we don’t think it’s that exciting.”  Ireland’s  10-year borrowing costs  tumbled to 3.54 percent
from a euro-era high of more than 14 percent in July 2011. That
compares with 6.71 percent for Slovenian bonds and 6.18 percent
 Portugal , whose government is aiming to follow Ireland and leave
its own bailout program next year.  Goldman View  Deutsche Asset & Wealth Management, which oversees $1.24
trillion, reduced its Irish holdings after the rally, Oliver Eichmann, head of euro fixed income at the company in  Frankfurt ,
said in an e-mail yesterday.  The spread on Irish securities over bunds narrowed to 1.69
percentage points on Oct. 17, the lowest since April 2010,
according to closing-price data compiled by Bloomberg. The rally
has also pushed Irish yields below those of Italy and  Spain .  “We currently view Irish bonds as expensive,” London-based Goldman Sachs analysts Francesco Garzarelli and Silvia Ardagna wrote in a note to clients on Oct. 21. “The market has
taken a constructive view on upcoming developments” regarding
the nation’s return to bond markets, they wrote.  Technical analysis based on how Irish bonds have performed
compared with peers supports that view.  The 14-day relative strength index for 10-year Irish
securities reached 83.9 last week, the most since April. It has
been above 70, a level that signals it has climbed too much, for
19 consecutive days. The gauge was above 70 for 10 consecutive
days ending May 10, before the yields climbed more than 50 basis
points in the following two months.  Cash Cushion  The outlook for Irish bonds may hinge on whether the
country decides it needs to negotiate an additional  credit line 
from its international partners to provide a safety net as it
exits the bailout program on Dec. 15.  The government has suggested a 25 billion-euro cash pile
amassed by the nation’s debt agency will be enough of a
backstop. The agency in Dublin raised 7.5 billion euros from two
bond sales via banks in the first quarter of 2013.  “Sentiment toward Irish debt has improved considerably,”
said Axel Botte, a Paris-based strategist at Natixis Asset
Management, which oversees $783 billion worldwide. “The rally
is justified as Ireland’s Treasury has pre-funded its borrowing
needs for 2014 and part of 2015.”  Finance Minister  Michael Noonan  met with International
Monetary Fund officials in  Washington  yesterday after visiting
Frankfurt and Strasbourg this month to hash out the details of
the bailout exit. The options are “finely balanced,” Prime
Minister  Enda Kenny  said in a letter to European Union President
 Herman Van Rompuy  dated Oct. 22.  Bonds Gain  Natixis holds more Irish bonds than the benchmark it uses
to track performance, Botte said. BlueBay, which began buying
the securities in mid-2011, holds the same amount as represented
in the index it follows, money manager Matthews said.  Irish bond yields dropped for a third consecutive quarter
in the three months ended September, the longest streak of
declines since June 2005. The bonds returned 10.2 percent this
year after soaring 30 percent in 2012, even as the economy
spluttered, the  Bloomberg Ireland Sovereign Bond Index (BIRE)  shows.  Gross domestic product rose in the three months to June 30,
ending a second recession since 2008. It gained  0.4 percent  from
the previous three months, when it fell 0.6 percent, the  Central
Statistics Office  said on Sept. 19.  The  budget deficit  will narrow to 4.8 percent of GDP next
year from 7.3 percent this year as Noonan implements 2.5 billion
euros of tax increases and spending cuts. After peaking this
year, national debt will drop to 120 percent of GDP by the end
of 2014, Noonan said in his Oct. 15 presentation.  “It all hinges on sentiment remaining in their favor,”
said Robin Marshall, director of fixed income at Smith &
Williamson Investment Management in London. He doesn’t own
Irish debt and has no plan to buy it. “You’ve got to ask how
much more juice you can squeeze out of it when spreads have come
in this far. There’s a lot priced into yields.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net ;
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  