-- Qatar Readies More Orders as Al Baker Studies Boeing’s 777X
-- B y   D e e n a   K a m e l
-- 2013-10-29T15:46:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-29/qatar-readies-more-dreamliner-orders-as-al-baker-studies-new-777.html
Qatar Airways Ltd. Chief Executive
Officer Akbar Al Baker said he plans to announce aircraft
purchases at the Dubai Air Show next month while awaiting more
information on the  Boeing Co. (BA)  777X before committing to the jet.  Qatar Air intends to announce further contracts at the
Dubai expo, which starts Nov. 17, Al Baker said today at Hamad
International Airport in Doha. He declined to reveal the
potential size of planned orders, or the aircraft involved.  The  Middle East ’s third-biggest carrier is the initial
customer for Airbus SAS’s A350 wide-body model, which made its
first test flight this year and is set for commercial service
entry at the end of 2014. The jet competes both with Boeing’s
787 Dreamliner and the larger 777, of which the manufacturer is
preparing an upgrade that it will likely announce in Dubai.  “We cannot just start declaring that we’re interested in
an airplane which is really not properly defined,”  Al Baker 
said of the 777X, as the follow-up version of the popular wide-body is known. “Once defined, once we receive a proposal, then
we will see what fits our requirements. Does the A350 or 777X
fit for our future growth and future replacement program?”  787 Reliability  Qatar Airways has 52 Dreamliners on order in total and
already operates the all-composite aircraft. While the model was
grounded with battery glitches earlier this year and has
suffered a number of other technical setbacks, the Gulf carrier
has achieved the highest dispatch reliability -- a measure of
on-time departures -- for the 787 fleet, Al Baker said.  Qatar Air, which has 250 aircraft on order, including A350s
due from the second half of next year, has no plans to issue
sukuk or bonds to finance deliveries for the time being, Al
Baker said, with the fleet expansion to be paid for with the
carrier’s own funds or through  capital markets  when required.  The CEO said he would assess any stretch model of the A350
model beyond the -1000 he is already buying, but has no interest
in the 787-10X, which is too close in size to the A350-900, a
variant that the carrier is also purchasing.  The carrier also has no interest in additional Airbus A380
double-deckers, of which it will receive the first example early
next year, he said.  Qatar Airways expects to move its entire operations to the
delayed Hamad International Airport soon, Al Baker said. The
$15.5 billion hub will have capacity for 50 million passengers
annually in three years, he said.  The delayed airport will open early next year, according to
the executive. The facility is one-third the size of all of
Doha, Qatar’s capital city. There remains some final work on
lounges before the airport is set to open, Al Baker said.  Asked whether he’ll continue at the helm of state-owned
 Qatar Airways , Al Baker said he plans to remain in the job for
as long as the government wants him.  “The decision for me to stay or leave is dependent on my
ruler,” he told reporters.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Deena Kamel Yousef in Dubai at 
 dhussein1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net  