-- Rabobank Fined $1.1 Billion Over Libor, Euribor Rigging
-- B y   M a u d   v a n   G a a l   a n d   S u z i   R i n g
-- 2013-10-29T16:17:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-29/rabobank-fined-1-1-billion-over-libor-euribor-rigging.html
Rabobank Groep, the co-operative
formed in 1898 to lend to Dutch farmers, was fined 774 million
euros ($1.1 billion) and the chairman resigned as the scandal
over the rigging of benchmark  interest rates  ensnared a fifth
firm.  The fines by the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission,
the  Department of Justice , the U.K. Financial Conduct Authority
and the Dutch public prosecutor’s office bring the total
settlements in the rate-rigging probe to $3.7 billion.  The Utrecht, Netherlands-based lender entered into an
agreement with the  Justice Department  to accept responsibility
for manipulation of Libor and Euribor to avoid prosecution, the
DOJ said. The FCA called the misconduct “serious, prolonged and
widespread.”  The fines are the largest-ever against the bank and second-largest over manipulation of the London interbank offered rate.
Global investigations into banks’ attempts to manipulate the
benchmarks for profit have led to fines and settlements for
Barclays Plc, Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc, UBS AG and ICAP
Plc.  “The size of the settlement was pretty scary given the
size of Rabobank’s profits,”  Christian Hamann , a banking
analyst with  Hamburger Sparkasse , said in an interview. “There
are a lot of banks that still need to settle. The concern is
that those banks that come later will have to pay more.”  ‘Most Serious’  Rabobank derivatives and money-market traders influenced
the lender’s submissions to benefit their positions linked to
Libor and conspired with employees of other banks to rig rates
from May 2005 to January 2011, the London-based FCA said. More
than 500 attempts were made by Rabobank to manipulate Libor,
according to the regulator.  “Rabobank’s misconduct is among the most serious we have
identified on Libor,” Tracey McDermott, the FCA’s head of
enforcement, said in a statement. “Traders and submitters
treated Libor submissions as a potential way to make money, with
no regard for the integrity of the market.”  In e-mails disclosed by the FCA that didn’t identify anyone
by name, a Rabobank trader asked a colleague if anyone would
notice if they submitted a lower yen Libor rate.  “Don’t worry mate -- there’s bigger crooks in the market
than us guys!” the submitter responded.  Bonus Clawback  In another exchange, a trader told a submitter that people
were talking with each other to change the rates. The submitter
responded, “yes deffinite manipulation - always is tho to be
honest mate... i always used to ask if anyone needed a favour
and vise versa... a little unethical but always helps to have
friends in mrkt.”  Thirty current and former employees of the Dutch lender
were involved, Rabobank executive board member Sipko Schat said
today. Five of them were fired, he said, while 14 are still
working for the bank. The lender is also clawing back 4.2
million euros in bonuses, Rabobank said in a statement.  Piet Moerland, the bank’s chairman, isn’t the first top
executive to resign because of Libor.  Robert Diamond  stepped
down as chief executive officer of Barclays Plc after the
London-based bank was fined 290 million pounds ($466 million)
for manipulating Libor last year.  Moerland, 64, said in June he would retire next year after
more than 30 years at the biggest Dutch mortgage lender. He will
be temporarily replaced by Rinus Minderhoud, 67, a member of the
bank’s supervisory board since 2002, the bank said in a
statement.  Crude Oil, Biofuels  “The use of such large fines is a wake-up call to senior
management in these financial institutions that have the power
to manipulate markets,” said  David Gold , a U.K. lawyer and
member of the House of Lords.  Deutsche Bank AG,  Europe ’s largest investment bank by
revenue, is among the companies still waiting to settle with
regulators. The lender today said third-quarter profit fell 94
percent as it set aside 1.2 billion euros to cover potential
legal costs. Rate-rigging probes may result in “significant”
fines, the company said.  Regulators around the world are examining alleged abuses of
financial benchmarks by companies that play a central role in
setting them. European watchdogs are reviewing possible
collusion in  crude oil  and biofuels markets, while the U.S. CFTC
and Britain’s FCA are probing the potential manipulation of
ISDAfix, a benchmark for  interest-rate swaps . Regulators in
 Switzerland  and the U.K. are also investigating a foreign-exchange benchmark.  Image Dented  “You are vulnerable in all other indexes which are set
subjectively,” Schat said. “We are investigating all of these,
including interest-rate indexes, not because we have indications
of any issues there but to get comfort.”  Rabobank, the only one of the four largest Dutch lenders
that didn’t take state aid during the financial crisis, has seen
its image as one of Europe’s safest banks dented. It lost its
AAA rating at  Standard & Poor’s  in 2011 and has been subpoenaed
or asked for information in the rate-rigging probe in the
European Union,  Japan ,  Hong Kong ,  Singapore , Switzerland and the
Netherlands.  “We were startled by the amounts, which were higher than
we had anticipated, taking into account regulators found no
involvement from the bank’s management board or senior
managers,” Schat said. “Regulators also hold against us that
our internal organization wasn’t set up adequately, with Libor
policies lacking.”  ‘Deliberate Harm’  Rabobank’s Tokyo branch was also penalized by the Japanese
Financial Services Agency, which ordered the bank to submit a
plan to improve its compliance and internal controls, the
regulator said in a statement today. Today’s settlements don’t
mean the investigations are over, Schat said, as several
regulators haven’t completed their probes yet.  The manipulation “directly affected the rates referenced
by financial products held by and on behalf of companies and
investors around the world,” Valerie Parlave, Assistant
Director in Charge of the FBI’s Washington field office, said in
a statement. “Rabobank’s actions resulted in the deliberate
harm to counterparties holding products referencing the
manipulated rates.”  The bank took a provision for the settlements in the first
half of the year, without disclosing the amount. First half net-income dropped 14 percent to 1.11 billion euros from a year
earlier, hurt by the charge and impaired land prices, Rabobank
said in August.  “The provision we took in the first half was considerable
and seems to be almost sufficient to cover the settlements
announced today,” Schat said. “We haven’t seen reasons to
amend our full-year profit expectations.”  Second-half earnings will be bolstered by a 1.5 billion-euro book gain on the sale of its asset-management unit Robeco,
and bad loan provisions are stabilizing, and possibly declining,
Schat said today.  The level of today’s settlement fits in a trend of
“intensifying supervision,” Schat said. “Other parties will
be preparing for high fines as well.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maud van Gaal in Amsterdam at 
 mvangaal@bloomberg.net ;
Suzi Ring in London at 
 sring5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net ;
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  