-- Tradeweb Applies With CFTC to Offer First Credit-Swap Trading
-- B y   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g
-- 2013-10-29T13:54:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-29/tradeweb-applies-with-cftc-to-offer-first-credit-swap-trading.html
Tradeweb Markets LLC asked U.S.
regulators to make it mandatory to trade credit-default swaps on
its new government-mandated platform.  Tradeweb’s is the first application to the U.S. Commodity
Futures Trading Commission to cover credit swaps. The bond- and
derivatives-trading network, whose owners include Wall Street’s
biggest banks and  Thomson Reuters Corp. (TRI) , said it applied to
offer contracts based on the Markit iTraxx Europe Index and the
Markit CDX indexes tied to coporate debt in the U.S. and Canada.
The New York-based company also applied to offer  interest-rate
swaps , according to today’s statement.  The step is part of a process that eventually will move
trillions of dollars of derivatives to government-mandated
platforms under the Dodd Frank Act. While swap execution
facilities were required by the CFTC to be ready for business by
Oct. 1, trading on them is still voluntary. Once approval is
granted for an application such as Tradeweb’s, swap users will
be forced to buy or sell contracts on the new systems.  Javelin Capital Markets LLC and  TrueEX  Group LLC became the
first SEFs to file a request with the CFTC earlier this month,
both to offer interest-rate swap trading.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, has received
approval to become a SEF from the CFTC and competes with
Tradeweb, TrueEX and Javelin for swaps-trading business.
Bloomberg LP also competes with  Thomson Reuters  in financial
news and data.  Banks, which historically won wide profit margins from
negotiating swaps transactions, have fought the shift to trading
the contracts on SEFs. Amid industry lobbying, Congress revised
the rules governing the platforms at least five times while the
legislation was being written.  Tradeweb’s owners include  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ,  Citigroup
Inc. (C) ,  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , Goldman Sachs Group Inc.,  JPMorgan Chase
& Co. (JPM)  and  Morgan Stanley. (MS)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Leising in New York at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  