-- Treasury 5-Year Note Yields at Almost 4-Month Low Before Sale
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r   a n d   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a
-- 2013-10-29T15:49:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-29/treasury-5-year-butterfly-yield-at-four-month-low-before-sale.html
Treasury five-year note yields fell
to almost the lowest level since June amid speculation demand at
a $35 billion sale of the securities will be boosted on bets the
Federal Reserve will maintain stimulus.  Benchmark 10-year notes erased earlier losses after
 consumer confidence  declined to the lowest level since April,
wholesale prices unexpectedly fell and retail sales declined.
Fed policy makers start a two-day meeting today at which they
are expected to maintain the central bank’s monthly $85 billion
debt purchase program. The government will conclude this week’s
auctions with $29 billion of  seven-year notes  tomorrow.  “What they are hoping for is to spur some type of
inflation -- we’re not getting it, and that’s very bad for the
tapering crowd,” said Michael Franzese, senior vice president
of fixed-income trading at ED&F Man Capital Markets in New York.
“It keeps pushing us off further into later months.”  The five-year  yield  fell two basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, to 1.27 percent at 11:47 a.m. New York time,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 1.375 percent
note due in September 2018 rose 2/32, or 63 cents per $1,000
face amount, to 100 15/32. Yields dropped to 1.25 percent on
Oct. 23, the  least  since June 19.  Yields on  10-year notes  were at 2.52 percent.  Notes Auction  The five-year notes scheduled for sale today yielded 1.30
percent in pre-auction trading, compared with 1.436 percent at
the previous sale of the securities on Sept. 25. Investors bid
for 2.67 times the amount of available debt last month, up from
2.38 times in August.  “It’s going to go well,” Franzese said. “We have a nice
concession. It’s a good buy-level.”  The price gains on the five-year note made the securities
the most expensive in four months relative to two- and 10-year
debt. The  butterfly spread , which measures differences between
the yields, was at negative 29.6 basis points, a level not seen
since June 18 based on closing prices.  The two-year yield was little changed at 0.32 percent.
Prices of longer-dated securities tend to rise or fall more than
shorter-maturity debt when interest rates shift.  The difference between the yields reflects increased demand
for the middle security over the outliers. Five-year notes offer
more yield than shorter-maturity Treasuries, while 10-year debt
is susceptible to the risk that inflation will quicken over the
coming decade.  Investor ‘Appetite’  “With the tapering postponed until maybe spring of next
year, this means there is more appetite for this five-year than
maybe there was a few months ago,” said Piet Lammens, head of
research at KBC Bank NV in Brussels. “The market will not move
very far away from current levels” as investors await the
result of the Fed meeting, he said.  The Treasury sold $32 billion of two-year securities
yesterday. The  bid-to-cover  ratio, which gauges demand by
comparing total bids with the amount of securities offered,
climbed to 3.32, the highest level since April.  Investors in Treasuries were  short  for the first time since
Sept. 9, betting that the prices of the securities will drop,
according to a survey by JPMorgan Chase & Co.  The proportion of net shorts rose to four percentage points
in the week ending yesterday, according to JPMorgan. The survey
had been net long for six straight weeks.  The percent of outright shorts, or bets the securities will
fall in value, rose to 23 percent as of yesterday, from 15
percent the previous week, the survey said. The percent of
outright longs dropped to 19 percent, from 23 percent. Investors
cut neutral bets to 58 percent, the lowest level since June 3,
from 62 percent the previous week.  Volatility Drops  Price swings of Treasuries indicate most bondholders aren’t
anticipating a sudden jump in borrowing costs. Bank of America
Merrill Lynch’s MOVE Index, a measure of volatility, was at
58.54 yesterday, the least since May 16. It has fallen from this
year’s high of 117.89 in July.  The Conference Board’s  index  of consumer confidence fell to
71.2 in October from 80.2 the month prior, the New York-based
private research group said. The median forecast in a Bloomberg
survey of economists called for a reading of 75. Estimates of 74
economists ranged from 70 to 82. The Conference Board’s index
averaged 53.7 in the recession that ended in June 2009.  The 0.1 percent decrease in the producer price index
followed a 0.3 percent gain the prior month, a Labor Department
report showed. The median estimate in a Bloomberg survey of 80
economists called for a 0.2 percent advance. The so-called core
measure, which strips out volatile food and fuel, increased 0.1
percent after being unchanged in August.  Retail sales  dropped 0.1 percent, Commerce Department
figures showed, restrained by the biggest decrease at auto
dealers since October 2012, as purchases early in the month were
included in the August data.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net ;
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  