-- Rebuilding Reserves Means U-Turn on Treasuries: Southeast Asia
-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m   a n d   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 2013-10-30T01:28:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-29/rebuilding-reserves-means-u-turn-on-treasuries-southeast-asia.html
Southeast Asian central banks are
rebuilding their foreign-currency reserves, raising the prospect
they will boost holdings of U.S. Treasuries for the first time
since February.  Singapore ,  Thailand , Indonesia,  Malaysia  and the
 Philippines  reported increases of about 1 percent to 3 percent
in their international foreign-exchange holdings in September
from the previous month, paring the combined decline this year
to 2.6 percent. Monetary authorities in  Asia  are among the most
aggressive sellers of  U.S. debt  in 2013 as Malaysia, Thailand
and Singapore each reduced ownership by between 20 percent and
28 percent through August, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Policy makers may resume Treasury purchases in the coming
months as reserves rise, said  Todd Elmer , head of Group-of-10
strategy for Asia ex-Japan at Citigroup Inc. in Singapore. Asian
exchange rates rebounded in October after the  Federal Reserve 
unexpectedly maintained stimulus last month, helping revive
overseas investment and lessening the need for central banks to
intervene to support their currencies.  “Shifts in Treasury holdings are more reflective of ups
and downs in reserves holdings, more so than changes in
appetite,” Elmer said in an Oct. 23 e-mail interview.
“Investors are responding to expectations for delayed Fed
tapering, with expansive liquidity arguing for dollar
depreciation and inflows into Asian currencies.”  Singapore, Thailand, Malaysia and the Philippines cut their
U.S. debt holdings by a total of 26 percent to a combined $172
billion in the six months to the end of August, U.S. Treasury
Department data show.  Better Fortunes  Some Asian central banks had drawn on their foreign-exchange reserves to rein in losses in their currencies this
year. Those declines were partly triggered by the Fed’s signal
on May 22 that it may reduce its $85 billion a month of bond
purchases. Prior to the unexpected delay in tapering on Sept.
18, all of Southeast Asia’s most-active currencies had slumped
in 2013, led by Indonesia’s rupiah and the Philippine peso.  Fortunes have since reversed, with the rupiah and
Malaysia’s ringgit leading a rally over the past month with
gains of 3.3 percent and 2.4 percent, respectively. Equities in
emerging Asia attracted about $2 billion of investment in the
week ended Oct. 23, more than double the inflows the previous
week, according to Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd.,
citing data from U.S.-based research firm EPFR Global.  The reserves of the 12 biggest  developing countries ,
excluding  China  and those with managed currencies such as Saudi
Arabia, rose by $38 billion since the start of September to
$2.93 trillion, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Marginal Shifts  “Given that reserves are building up again, I would expect
there to be some renewed buying” of  Treasuries (BUSY)  by Asian central
banks, Citigroup’s Elmer said. “Even if there is a desire to
reduce the proportion of U.S. dollar holdings in their
portfolios, this will probably only come with marginal shifts
over a long period of time.”  Asian monetary authorities seeking to buy Treasuries are
facing lower  returns . Ten-year U.S. notes yielded 2.50 percent
in Asia today, down from 2.85 percent on Sept. 17 before the Fed
announced it would stick with its debt-purchase program. That’s
up from 2.04 percent on May 22.  Treasuries returned 0.7 percent this month through Oct. 29,
limiting the loss for 2013 to 1.7 percent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. That compares with a 2 percent gain for
all of 2012. The  Bloomberg USD Emerging Market Sovereign Bond
Index (BEMS)   climbed  2.9 percent this month and is down 4.4 percent
this year.  Asian Debt  Chua Hak Bin, an economist at Bank of America Corp. in
Singapore, said Southeast Asian central banks may still reduce
their holdings of Treasuries, with many more comfortable
investing in investment-grade bonds of their regional
counterparts.  A U.S. government shutdown ended this month after Congress
agreed to raise the debt ceiling and avoid a default amid
wrangling among political parties over the nation’s finances.
The Fed will now delay a reduction in bond purchases until
March, according to the median estimate of 40 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg, compared with a December prediction
previously.  “The recent U.S. fiscal debacle has shaken confidence on
the status of the dollar as the predominant reserve currency,”
Chua said in an Oct. 24 e-mail interview. “Southeast Asian
central banks are diversifying their reserve holdings and
reducing the concentration risk in  U.S. Treasuries .”  Bond Benchmark  The Philippines is diversifying its reserves, central bank
Deputy Governor Diwa Guinigundo told lawmakers in  Manila  on Oct.
21. Governor Amando Tetangco said in a text message to Bloomberg
two days later that a benchmark it uses to manage reserves
includes Treasuries and other  government bonds .  The Monetary Authority of Singapore’s reserve holdings are
“diversified across a basket of currencies and assets, which
include U.S. Treasuries,” according to a central bank e-mail
sent on Oct. 11. Singapore’s official foreign reserves of $268
billion at the end of September, compared with $259.3 billion at
the end of 2012, MAS said.  Thailand’s foreign-exchange  reserves  climbed 2.4 percent in
September from a month earlier to $163 billion, while the
Philippines  holdings  advanced 0.7 percent to $83.5 billion,
central bank figures shows. Indonesia’s  reserves  rose 2.9
percent to $95.7 billion, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg, and in Malaysia they increased 1.1 percent to $132
billion, according to the  International Monetary Fund .  Active Decision  “In the case of Singapore, given that their reserves have
risen this year, their reduction of U.S. Treasury holdings
reflects an active decision to reduce their reserve exposure to
the U.S.,” Khoon Goh, a senior currency strategist at Australia
& New Zealand Banking in Singapore, said in an Oct. 23 e-mail.  Singapore held about $79.4 billion of U.S. Treasuries as of
end-August, a 27 percent drop from a record $109.5 billion in
February, U.S. Treasury Department data show. Thailand lowered
its holdings by 25 percent in the first eight months of 2013 to
$40.1 billion, while Malaysia’s fell 28 percent to $13.9
billion.  The  Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia Dollar Index (ADXY) , which tracks the
region’s 10 most-active currencies excluding the yen, is headed
for a second monthly gain before the U.S. Treasury Department
issues September data for foreign debt holdings on Nov. 18. The
gauge climbed 1 percent, building on a 1.3 percent rally in
September that ended four months of losses.  While efforts to boost reserves may leave Southeast Asian
central banks with little choice other than to buy U.S. dollars
again, the scale may be different, said  Sacha Tihanyi , senior
currency strategist at Scotiabank in  Hong Kong .  “They are essentially forced to be U.S. dollar buyers
given the dynamics of managing large foreign-exchange
reserves,” Tihanyi said in an Oct. 23 e-mail interview. “They
are going to have to be buying U.S. dollars to some degree;
however, it may be to a lesser degree than in previous periods
of build, given the debt-limit concern.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net ;
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net ;
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  