-- Red Sox Go Home a Win From World Series Title After 3-1 Victory
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-10-29T04:46:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-29/red-sox-go-home-a-win-from-world-series-title-after-3-1-victory.html
The  Boston  Red Sox can clinch their
first World Series title at home in 95 years following a 3-1
Game 5 victory against the St. Louis Cardinals and ace pitcher
Adam Wainwright.  Red Sox pitcher Jon Lester allowed one run over 7 2/3
innings last night at Busch Stadium in St. Louis, where David
Ross snapped a 1-1 tie with a run-scoring double in the seventh
inning. Jacoby Ellsbury also drove in a run during the inning
with a single off Wainwright, who hadn’t lost in four previous
postseason home starts while logging a 1.26 earned run average.  Koji Uehara got the final four outs for his record-tying
seventh save this postseason as the Red Sox seized a three-games-to-two lead in Major League Baseball’s best-of-seven
championship contest. The World Series shifts back to Boston for
Game 6 tomorrow night and a decisive seventh game, if necessary,
is scheduled for Oct. 31 at Fenway Park.  “The fact is we’re going home, going back to a place where
the guys love to play,” Red Sox manager John Farrell said at a
postgame news conference. “And we’re more excited about going
home in the position we are.”  The Red Sox, who in 2012 finished in last place in the
American League East division, can capture their eighth World
Series title and third in 10 years with a win tomorrow.  The 1991 Minnesota Twins are the only team in MLB history
to win a World Series the season after a last-place finish.  Boston hasn’t clinched a World Series at home since 1918.
The Red Sox won their last title in 2007 in Denver against the
Colorado Rockies, three years after ending an 86-year
championship drought in St. Louis.  Tough Road  The Cardinals head to Boston with a challenging road to a
12th World Series title. Of the previous 19 teams that lost Game
5 at home in a best-of-seven MLB playoff series that was tied
2-2, the only one to come back and win the final two games on
the road was the Atlanta Braves in the 1991 National League
Championship Series against the Pittsburgh Pirates.  St. Louis, which had the second-best home record in the
majors this season, lost the past two games at Busch Stadium
after opening a 2-1 series lead.  “Our guys have been backed up against the wall before,”
Cardinals manager Mike Matheny said. “This isn’t foreign to
them. They know what they have to do. It starts with the
mentality that it’s a great challenge.”  The Red Sox, after a 4-2 win in Game 4 to tie the series,
jumped out to a 1-0 lead last night on David Ortiz’s run-scoring
double in the first inning. Ortiz went 3-for-4 and is hitting
.733 in the World Series with six runs batted in.  Tying Run  St. Louis tied it in the fourth inning on a solo home run
by Matt Holliday, ending Lester’s run of 16 2/3 scoreless
innings in the World Series. It was the only run allowed by
Lester, who lowered his ERA in 11 postseason starts to 1.97.  Boston went ahead in the seventh when Xander Bogaerts
singled and Stephen Drew, who had one hit in his previous 14
World Series at-bats, walked. Wainwright’s lone walk of the game
was a costly one, as Ross followed with a ground-rule double
into the left-field corner to put the Red Sox ahead 2-1.
Ellsbury added a two-out single to score Drew.  “We thought this was going to be a classic pitchers’ duel,
it was shaping up that way and fortunately we were able to break
through in the seventh inning,” Farrell said.  The Cardinals managed only one hit over the final three
innings against Lester and Uehara. The seven saves recorded by
Uehara this postseason tie the record set by John Wetteland in
1996 and matched by Troy Percival and Robb Nen in 2002, and
again by Brad Lidge in 2008.  Lester joined Babe Ruth as the second left-handed pitcher
in Red Sox history to win three World Series games in a career.
Lester’s performance came five days after he pitched 7 2/3
scoreless innings in Boston’s Game 1 win and then faced
questions about a foreign substance on his glove.  “There was a lot of hoopla after my last start,” said
Lester, who had told reporters he put rosin in his glove to help
dry sweat from his pitching hand. “If you go out and don’t
pitch very well, people are going to immediately go back to
that. So that was the biggest thing, making sure I proved to
people that that’s what it was and I’m a good pitcher.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  