-- Redskins Cheerleaders Asked to Promote Vets Agency Events
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   M i l l e r
-- 2013-10-29T21:29:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-29/redskins-cheerleaders-asked-to-promote-vets-agency-events.html
A U.S. Department of Veterans
Affairs marketing consultant asked whether Washington Redskins
cheerleaders were available to promote agency conferences in
2011, according a congressional report.  The request is an example of how the VA lost sight of its
mission of caring for veterans as it planned extravagant events,
according to a House committee report obtained by Bloomberg News
in advance of a hearing tomorrow on the agency’s conference
spending.  The two agency events were held in Orlando,  Florida , near
Walt Disney World, and cost taxpayers a minimum of $6.1 million,
according to the VA inspector general. The expenses included
$50,000 for a 15-minute video spoofing the Oscar-winning movie
“Patton.” Eleven employees accepted gifts such as Rockettes
tickets, massages and helicopter rides, from vendors while
planning the events, the watchdog office said last year.  “E-mails obtained by the committee show that the
department’s conference planners unapologetically and recklessly
wasted taxpayer dollars,” according to a  House Oversight and
Government Reform Committee  staff report. “Taxpayers deserve
better. And even more so, veterans deserve to know that the VA
is doing everything it can to provide crucial services.”  Conference Oversight  Victoria Dillon, an agency spokeswoman, didn’t respond to
an e-mail and phone call seeking comment on the committee’s
report.  The VA has revised its conference policies since last year
to “strengthen oversight, improve accountability and safeguard
taxpayer dollars,” Gina Farrisee, the department’s assistant
secretary for human resources and administration, said in
prepared testimony. The changes include requiring approval from
senior department officials depending on an event’s cost.  VA Secretary Eric Shinseki has also ordered oversight
changes such as removing purchasing authority from some
employees and requiring ethics training for staff involved in
conference planning, Farrisee said in her written remarks.  According to the committee’s report, Annie Spiczak,
identified as an associate deputy assistant secretary in the
VA’s Office of Human Resources Management, suggested that the
department let other agencies attend the events and pay for
their own travel and hotel costs. A colleague responded that he
would discuss the idea with other conference planners.  “We are a large agency with deep pockets,” Spiczak said
in an e-mail exchange, according to the committee report.  Weeklong ‘Party’  A department employee who helped plan the conferences
pressed Mary Santiago, identified in the report as deputy to the
dean of the VA Learning University, about how certain items
would be funded.  “You don’t have a thing to worry about,” Santiago said in
her reply e-mail, according to the committee report.  Another employee told a colleague via e-mail that “the
whole week will be a party,” the report said.  Conference planners also spent months organizing a pre-event “kick-off” to boost “employees’ excitement about the
conferences,” the committee report said.  The VA marketing consultant asked a representative of the
Redskins cheerleaders in May 2011 if the squad could appear at
the kickoff event to promote the conferences, the report said.
The representative replied that the cheerleaders for the
football team would be outside the U.S. at the time and offered
to send “ambassadors” instead, according to the report.  “Could you please explain a little about them?” the VA
consultant said a reply e-mail included in the report. “As in
do they wear uniforms? Have pom-poms etc.?”  IRS Spending  The hearing is the latest effort by Representative Darrell Issa, a  California  Republican who is chairman of the committee,
to expose wasteful spending on conferences by federal agencies.
His committee has also reviewed similar spending by the General
Services Administration and the Internal Revenue Service as the
government seeks to cut costs.  At the two VA human-resources events, the agency incurred
$762,000 in unauthorized and wasteful expenses, according to the
inspector general’s 2012 findings.  The department last year announced the resignation of John Sepulveda, the VA’s assistant secretary for human resources,
before the report on the Florida training events was published.  Sepulveda, who is scheduled to testify before Issa’s
committee tomorrow, was on a list of speakers at the Orlando
conferences.  Patton Video  The former VA assistant secretary told investigators he
hadn’t viewed the Patton video before the conferences, according
to the report. He later said he “did not accurately recollect”
that his staff had arranged for him to “briefly preview” the
videos, according to his sworn statement accompanying the
inspector general’s report.  The watchdog office referred the matter to the Justice
Department, according to written testimony from Richard Griffin,
the VA’s deputy inspector general, for tomorrow’s hearing. The
Justice Department declined to prosecute Sepulveda and an event
planner who sought a lodging gift “to enrich his and his
family’s stay” at the  Marriott International Inc. (MAR)  resort in
Orlando, according to the prepared testimony.  Issa’s committee also investigated IRS spending on
conferences earlier this year. The tax agency spent $17,000 to
hire a speaker who painted pictures of Michael Jordan and U2
singer Bono to motivate employees at a 2010 conference in
California, the agency’s inspector general said in a June
report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen Miller in Washington at 
 kmiller01@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Stoughton at 
 sstoughton@bloomberg.net  