-- Republicans Blocked on Keystone Focus on Permit Approval Process
-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 2013-10-29T15:33:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-29/republicans-blocked-on-keystone-focus-on-permit-approval-process.html
U.S.  House Republicans , unsuccessful
in trying to force approval of the Keystone XL pipeline, are
trying a new tack by pushing changes to speed reviews of other
cross-border energy projects.  The proposed measure wouldn’t affect Keystone, the $5.3
billion plan to link  Alberta ’s oil sands to U.S. refineries that
has sparked a debate over oil pipelines and the environment,
because it applies only to future projects.  Democrats led by Representative Henry Waxman objected at a
House Energy and Commerce Committee’s Energy and Power
Subcommittee hearing on the legislation today. Waxman, a
California Democrat, said it would “rubber stamp”
applications, including those, like Keystone, that would carry
heavy crude from Alberta to the U.S. Republicans said the bill
would bring clarity to a process that can drag on for years.  “Keystone is not, is not, the issue today,” said
Representative  Fred Upton , a Michigan Republican and chairman of
the House Energy and Commerce Committee. “There are many other
upcoming cross border projects, large and small, that may be
subject to similar delays.”  Oil and gas pipelines and electric transmission lines now
must get a presidential permit when they cross either the
northern or southern borders of the U.S.  Bill Details  Under the bill, the Commerce Department would be required
to approve an oil pipeline application within 120 days unless
the commerce secretary found the project would not be in the
U.S. national security interest.  The  Federal Energy Regulatory Commission  would retain
responsibility for natural gas lines, and the Energy Department
would continue to review electric transmission projects. The
bill would set the same 120-day deadline for approval.  Republicans said environmental reviews mandated by other
federal and state laws would be sufficient to weigh the risks of
pipeline and electric power line construction.  The State Department now oversees the environmental
analysis for liquid pipelines like Keystone. It then weighs
other factors including a project’s effect on the economy,
foreign relations, and national security to determine whether
it’s in the national interest.  TransCanada Corp. (TRP)  first applied to build Keystone XL more
than five years ago.Obama rejected the first route, citing
objections from  Nebraska  state officials over its environmental
risks. TransCanada, based in Calgary, submitted a new
application in May 2012 for a northern leg that pushes further
east in Nebraska.  TransCanada says it expects the administration to decide on
the project during the first three months of 2014.  Seven Applications  There are seven  applications  for cross-border oil pipelines
under review at the State Department, including Keystone.  Enbridge Inc. (ENB)  has applied to double the capacity of its
Alberta Clipper line Alberta to  Wisconsin . The change would mean
that 880,000 barrels of heavy crude could be transported on the
link, more than the 830,000 that Keystone XL could carry.  The State Department is considering the scope of its
environmental review for the clipper expansion.  The department has approved two cross-border pipelines to
carry liquid ethane from the U.S. to  Canada  in the past four
months.  Vantage Pipeline US LP got the go-ahead in June to build a
pipeline from Tioga,  North Dakota , to Alberta that could
eventually carry 60,000 barrels a day of ethane. The U.S.
portion would traverse 80 miles. Vantage applied for a permit in
January 2011.  In August, the department issued a presidential permit to
NOVA Chemicals Corp. to transport ethane produced from the
Marcellus Shale to a petrochemical facility Corunna, Ontario.
The line was constructed in 1986 to transport natural gas. Nova
applied for the permit in August 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  