-- Republicans Get Smart on Obamacare
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-10-29T21:46:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-29/republicans-get-smart-on-obamacare.html
When  House Republicans  direct their
opposition to Obamacare toward aggressive oversight rather than
apocalyptic budget shenanigans, they can do themselves and the
country a lot of good.  That was obvious when the House Ways and Means Committee
posed some smart, tough questions about HealthCare.gov to
 Marilyn Tavenner , who, as the administrator of the Centers for
Medicare and Medicaid Services, is perhaps the person most
directly responsible for the fiasco. Yes, there were a few
“gotcha” questions meant to showcase individual
representatives’ hatred of the health-care law. But for the most
part, the queries seemed designed to find a path toward more
competent management of the Patient Protection and Affordable
Care Act.  Many of them went unanswered, unfortunately, but House
members will get another chance when Health and Human Services
Secretary  Kathleen Sebelius  testifies before the Energy and
Commerce Committee. Here are some important questions they
should press again:  -- What happened to President  Barack Obama ’s promise that
Americans would be able to keep their doctors and their
insurance plans?  Tavenner failed to even acknowledge the frustration felt by
people whose plans are now being canceled, and whose insurers
are blaming it on the law. She said the government can’t stop
doctors from leaving a given insurer or insurers from changing
their plans. In that case, the president had no business making
the pledge in the first place.  -- How big is the gap between current enrollment and the
level that’s needed to make the exchanges work?  Republicans pressed Tavenner not only to provide the raw
numbers but also to say how many of those who sign up are
eligible for Medicaid, how many are young and healthy, and how
many are in fact covered by their employers, making them
ineligible. To be transparent, CMS will have to include that
data in its first enrollment report next month. If it does,
Republicans can share some of the credit.  -- How can the administration prevent a premium spike for
exchange-based plans in 2015 if too few young and healthy people
sign up this year?  That’s a concern not just for the 13 million Americans
projected to buy exchange plans in 2015 but also for all
taxpayers, who will be on the hook for higher subsidies if
coverage under the exchanges gets more expensive. Tavenner
deflected the question, noting only that 2014 premiums for
exchange plans were lower than originally projected -- a fact
that has no bearing on 2015.  -- If HealthCare.gov isn’t fixed by the Nov. 30 target
date, what happens to the people whose current plans expire at
the end of the year?  The administration has already announced that Americans now
will have until the end of March to buy coverage without having
to pay a tax penalty. But that doesn’t provide health insurance
starting Jan. 1 for the increasing number of citizens whose
current plans are being canceled on that date. Tavenner said
those people could use the  call centers  to buy insurance on the
exchanges. But with 2 million people already being told they
can’t keep their coverage, it’s unclear how many in that group
the call centers can handle.  -- How will the government prevent people from
inadvertently getting subsidies they’re not entitled to?  Tavenner suggested that the responsibility for presenting
accurate information about subsidy eligibility will rest with
those who apply, but it’s easy enough to imagine people being
confused or uninformed about the coverage offered by their
employer or a parent’s plan. CMS needs a strategy to help people
avoid making a mistake, thereby risking a tax penalty.  -- Can CMS claw back some of the money it has paid to the
contractors most responsible for the website’s problems?  Tavenner said only that she would provide information after
the hearing, not that she intended to get some of the
government’s money back.  Asking hard, practical questions aimed at steering
Obamacare back on course may not be as satisfying as endlessly
voting to repeal the law, or obsessing over what the president
knew and when he knew it. But it’s far more enlightening, and it
may end up making the health-care law work better.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 