-- Retail Sales in U.S. Climb Excluding Auto Dealers
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a   a n d   V i c t o r i a   S t i l w e l l
-- 2013-10-29T20:11:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-29/retail-sales-in-u-s-climb-excluding-auto-dealers.html
Sales at most types of retailers,
from electronics stores to restaurants, climbed in September,
indicating households were sustaining the U.S. economic
expansion before the government shutdown shook confidence.  Purchases (RSTAXMOM)  excluding auto dealers rose 0.4 percent following
a 0.1 percent gain the prior month, matching the median forecast
of economists surveyed by Bloomberg, Commerce Department figures
showed today in  Washington .  Total sales  dropped 0.1 percent
because car purchases over the Labor Day holiday weekend were
counted in the figures for August.  Americans snapped up the newest mobile phones and video
games in October, buoyed by low borrowing costs and rising
household wealth backed by improving home and stock prices.
Another report today showed consumer confidence sank this month
by the most in two years on concern the world’s largest economy
will be set back by the fiscal gridlock in Washington.  Sales “ended the third quarter on a pretty solid note,”
said Kevin Cummins, an economist at UBS Securities LLC in
 Stamford ,  Connecticut , and the top-ranked forecaster of consumer
confidence. “That may not be sustained going into the fourth
quarter.”  The Conference Board’s  consumer confidence   index  slumped to
71.2 in October, a six-month low and weaker than the median
forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg, the New York-based
private research group’s data showed today. The 9-point drop
from September’s revised 80.2 was the biggest slump since August
2011, when a prior political standoff over the budget prompted
 Standard & Poor’s  to cut the country’s debt rating.  Stocks Rise  Stocks rose, with benchmark indexes climbing to records, as
earnings beat estimates and data indicating slower growth fueled
bets  Federal Reserve  policy, who began a two-day meeting, will
maintain stimulus. The  S&P 500  climbed 0.6 percent to 1,771.95
at the close in  New York , its third straight all-time high.  Figures from abroad showed other economies are gaining
traction. U.K. mortgage approvals rose in September to the
highest level in more than five years, adding to signs of a
strengthening property market that’s being stoked by government
incentives.  The housing market in the U.S. is also making progress.
 Home prices  in 20 U.S. cities rose in August from a year ago by
the most since February 2006 as stronger demand boosted values,
another report showed today. The S&P/Case-Shiller  index 
increased 12.8 percent from August 2012, more than forecast,
after a 12.3 percent gain in the year ended in July.  An improving housing market is probably contributing to the
gains in spending. Nine of 13 major retail categories showed
increases last month, led by a 0.7 percent advance at
electronics dealers, the biggest since April, and 0.9 percent
gains at both grocery stores and restaurants, the Commerce
Department report showed.  New iPhones  Purchases of electronics probably got a boost from the
Sept. 20 release of  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s two new iPhones models. The
company sold a record 9 million iPhones in the weekend debut
that included  China  among overseas markets.  Retailers may have also benefited from the surge in
purchases of video games, whose 27 percent jump last month was
driven by Take-Two Interactive Inc.’s “Grand Theft Auto V.”  Today’s report also showed sales dropped 2.2 percent at
automobile dealers, after a 0.7 percent increase the prior
month.  Vehicle demand remains a bright spot even though a quirk in
the industry calendar hurt sales last month, data show.  Cars and
light trucks  sold in September at a 15.2 million annual pace,
down from an almost six-year high of 16 million the prior month,
according to data from Ward’s Automotive Group. Deliveries for
the first two days of September, including the Labor Day
holiday, didn’t contribute toward automakers’ tallies because
they were counted in August figures.  August Surge  Toyota Motor Corp., Honda Motor Co. and Nissan Motor Co.
reported U.S. sales declines last month, with fewer weekend
selling days and tight supplies of some models after August’s
surge. General Motors Co. and Ford Motor Co. said earlier this
month that the government shutdown posed a threat to an already
slow economic recovery.  The budget battle pushed consumer expectations to a seven-month low, today’s Conference Board figures showed. The gauge
measuring Americans’ six-month outlook dropped to 71.5 in
October from 84.7.  “What we’re seeing is more hesitancy among consumers given
the fiscal policy uncertainty and the absence of confidence
about future employment prospects,” said  Michael Brown , an
economist at  Wells Fargo & Co . in  Charlotte ,  North Carolina , who
projected an overall confidence reading of 71.5. “It’s very
clear that consumers are going into this holiday season more
restrained than last year in terms of the pace of spending.”  Jobs, Incomes  The share of Americans who expected their incomes to
decline rose to a six-month high of 15.4 percent from a previous
reading of 13.9 percent. Fewer respondents said jobs would
become more plentiful in the next six months.  Limited employment opportunities help explain why Fed
policy makers will probably delay a tapering of monthly asset
purchases until their meeting in March, according to the median
of 40 responses in a Bloomberg survey this month. The Fed’s
decision to pare bond-buying depends on how it judges the
strength of the U.S. expansion.  Fewer Americans said in today’s confidence survey that they
plan to buy homes and cars in the next six months.  Holiday Shopping  Some companies project demand will pick up in the November-December holiday shopping season after a lull this month.  United
Parcel Service Inc. (UPS) , the world’s largest-package delivery
company, said it expects daily shipping volumes to rise 8
percent during the peak shipping period between the Thanksgiving
holiday on Nov. 28 and Christmas, led by growth in online
shopping, according to an Oct. 25 statement.  “Looking to the fourth quarter, although some major
retailers have expressed caution about holiday spending, they
still expect robust online sales,” Kurt Kuehn, chief financial
officer at UPS, said on the Atlanta-based company’s earnings
call.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  