-- Ribery Heads Six Bayern Munich Players on FIFA Award Shortlist
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-10-29T04:43:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-29/ribery-heads-six-bayern-munich-players-on-fifa-award-shortlist.html
Bayern Munich players dominated
FIFA’s 2013 Ballon d’Or award shortlist, which included  Lionel Messi  as the Barcelona and Argentina forward bids to be crowned
soccer’s best player for a record-extending fifth straight time.  French winger Franck Ribery, selected as the best player in
Europe by regional governing body UEFA in August, was among six
Bayern players on FIFA’s 23-man list published today. The club
won an unprecedented sweep of  Champions League , Bundesliga and
German Cup titles last season.  Bayern captain Philipp Lahm and German national teammates
Thomas Mueller,  Manuel Neuer  and Bastian Schweinsteiger also
made the shortlist along with Netherlands forward  Arjen Robben ,
whose last-minute winning goal in May’s Champions League final
secured the Bavarian club’s fifth European Cup.  The list was drawn up by members of FIFA’s football
committee and France Football magazine staff and the three
finalists will be selected by national team captains, coaches
and international media and announced in early December. The
winner will be announced Jan. 13 at a ceremony in Zurich.  Jupp Heynckes, who retired after guiding Bayern to last
season’s treble, was included on the 10-man list for FIFA’s
men’s coach of the year award. Soccer’s governing body and
France Football merged their annual accolades in 2010.  FIFA BALLON D’OR SHORTLIST: Gareth Bale (Wales), Edinson Cavani (Uruguay), Radamel Falcao (Colombia), Eden Hazard
(Belgium), Zlatan Ibrahimovic (Sweden), Andres Iniesta (Spain),
Philipp Lahm (Germany), Robert Lewandowski (Poland), Lionel
Messi (Argentina),  Thomas Mueller  (Germany), Manuel Neuer
(Germany), Neymar (Brazil), Mesut Ozil (Germany), Andrea Pirlo
(Italy), Franck Ribery (France), Arjen Robben (Netherlands),
Cristiano Ronaldo (Portugal), Bastian Schweinsteiger (Germany),
Luis Suarez (Uruguay), Thiago Silva (Brazil), Yaya Toure (Ivory
Coast), Robin Van Persie (Netherlands), Xavi (Spain).  FIFA MEN’S WORLD COACH OF THE YEAR SHORTLIST:  Carlo Ancelotti  (Paris Saint-Germain/Real Madrid), Rafael Benitez
(Chelsea/Napoli), Antonio Conte (Juventus), Vicente Del Bosque
(Spain national team), Alex Ferguson ( Manchester United (MANU)  former
coach), Jupp Heynckes (Bayern Munich former coach), Juergen Klopp (Borussia Dortmund), Jose Mourinho (Real Madrid/Chelsea),
Luiz Felipe Scolari (Brazil national team), Arsene Wenger
(Arsenal).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  