-- Rosneft Sale of TNK-BP Stake Raises Concerns of Squeeze Out Plan
-- B y   J a k e   R u d n i t s k y
-- 2013-10-29T22:00:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-29/rosneft-sale-of-tnk-bp-stake-raises-concerns-of-squeeze-out-plan.html
OAO Rosneft sold almost 10 percent
of RN Holding to unrelated parties, after acquiring the oil unit
as part of its $55 billion acquisition of TNK-BP this year,
sparking concerns that it may squeeze out minority shareholders.  Rosneft sold the stake in the third quarter for 97 billion
rubles ($3 billion), according to a financial report yesterday.
Analysts from RN Holding shareholder Prosperity Capital
Management, VTB Capital and JPMorgan Chase & Co. asked Rosneft
executives on a public call to explain the deal. The stake was
sold at a lower average price than Rosneft paid for  Russia ’s
third-largest oil producer or offered to minority investors in
the traded unit, which holds most of TNK-BP’s assets.  President  Vladimir Putin  urged Rosneft this month to pay RN
Holding shareholders market price. His government is seeking to
counter accusations of poor corporate governance at state
companies and attract investment into the economy, which has
slumped to its weakest pace since 2009. Prosperity and Templeton
 Emerging Markets  Group have said Rosneft’s offer is too low.  “This is one of the reasons why Russian-listed equities
trade at a large discount to other markets,” Jack Arnoff, a
partner at Elbrus Capital Partners in  London , which used to own
TNK-BP shares, said by phone.  Rosneft Chief Executive Officer  Igor Sechin  said last year
and has reiterated since that the company has no obligation to
buy out minority shareholders, who held about 5.3 percent of RN
Holding, given the structure of the deal.  Buyout Loophole  The oil company’s board approved an offer to minority
shareholders of 67 rubles ($2.09) a common share and 55 rubles a
preferred share last month, a discount to the price it paid
London-based  BP Plc (BP/)  and a group of Russian billionaires under
the TNK-BP deal, while higher than the average price per share
for the 10 percent sold to undisclosed parties.  On Oct. 18, Rosneft applied to the regulator to make a
voluntary offer for as much as 15.3 percent of RN Holding,
including preferred stock, according to a regulator filing.  Rosneft reversed gains of as much as 1.5 percent and closed
little changed at 253.70 rubles in Moscow. RN Holding was
unchanged at 64.17 rubles at the close in Moscow yesterda  The sale may allow Rosneft to exploit a loophole in Russian
law to force a mandatory buyout offer, according to Alexander Shevchuk, deputy executive director of the Moscow-based Investor
Protection Association. Companies have the right to make such an
offer if they buy more than 10 percent of a target to
consolidate a stake of more than 95 percent. If Rosneft buys
back the shares it sold, it could make a mandatory offering for
any outstanding shares, Shevchuk said.  ‘Squeeze Out’  “They appear to strive to squeeze out minority
shareholders,” Shevchuk said by phone from Moscow. “It doesn’t
look good from a state-owned giant.”  Svyatoslav Slavinskiy, Rosneft’s vice president for
finance, fended off questions about the sale and the possibility
of a squeeze out on the analyst call, saying the company hasn’t
received any offers to buy back stock.  “We sold at a price we found attractive at the time of
sale,” Slavinskiy said. He declined to discuss Rosneft’s
voluntary offer to RN Holding shareholders, citing regulatory
restrictions.  Sechin declined to comment on the sale of the 10 percent
stake yesterday, saying he “didn’t remember” anything about
the topic.  Rosneft’s third-quarter profit jumped to 280 billion
rubles, including a gain from TNK-BP after it was valued at $5.2
billion more than the acquisition price, the Moscow-based
company said in a statement on its website. Excluding that, net
income attributable to shareholders fell about 25 percent to 141
billion rubles from a year earlier.  Rosneft will boost dividends for 2013 by 3.94 rubles a
share after it recorded the revaluation gain, according to a
presentation on its website. Dividends are calculated as 25
percent of net income.  “We made significant progress in delivering our strategic
goals,” Sechin said in the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jake Rudnitsky in Moscow at 
 jrudnitsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  