-- Russia May Require Ukraine to Prepay for Gas as EU Summit Nears
-- B y   D a r y n a   K r a s n o l u t s k a   a n d   J a k e   R u d n i t s k y
-- 2013-10-29T15:20:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-29/russia-may-require-ukraine-to-prepay-for-gas-as-eu-summit-nears.html
Russia may require  Ukraine  to pre-pay for natural gas imports amid heightening tensions between
the two countries over the former Soviet republic’s aspiration
to join the European Union.  Ukraine owes Russia $882 million for gas supplied in August
after missing the Oct. 1 deadline, OAO Gazprom’s Chief Executive
Office Alexey Miller said today.  “The situation with Ukraine’s payments is escalating,”
Miller said today at a meeting with Russian Prime Minister
 Dmitry Medvedev . “We need to consider shifting Ukraine to
prepayment.”  Olena Yuriyeva, a spokeswoman for state-run energy company
NAK Naftogaz Ukrainy, wasn’t immediately able to comment when
contacted by  Bloomberg News .  Ukraine is due to sign an association agreement which
includes a free trade pact with the 28-member EU next month.
Russia wants it to join an economic bloc in the former  Soviet
Union  instead and has imposed more stringent checks on its
neighbor’s exports after claiming it found carcinogens in
Ukrainian chocolates.  Russia has cut gas supplies to Ukraine over pricing
disputes twice since the 2004 Orange Revolution led the former
Soviet republic to change its foreign policy and seek membership
in the EU.  “Both those two crises were provoked by Ukraine,” said
 Alexander Medvedev , deputy chief executive Officer at Gazprom,
adding that the company will decide today on whether Ukraine
will be required to prepay.  A Gazprom spokesman said it was unclear when a decision
would be made when reached by phone in Moscow.  Diversifying Supply  “I’d be very surprised if there were a physical
interruption, but there will be continuing disputes in this
area,” Chris Le Fevre, senior visiting research fellow at the
Oxford Institute for Energy Studies, said in an interview in
Amsterdam, adding that he doesn’t expect a quick resolution.  Ukraine, which depends on Russia for more than 60 percent
of its gas needs, is trying to diversify, seeking to extract
shale gas and importing from  Europe . The country’s largest
private energy company, DTEK, said today it plans test
deliveries of gas Oct. 28-31 from  Poland ’s Polskie Gornictwo
Naftowe i Gazownictwo SA, with maximum daily volume of 3.5
million cubic meters.  Russia will maintain a ban on Roshen products after
inspectors visited the Ukrainian chocolate maker’s factories
Oct. 22-24, according to a statement on the website of the
Federal Service on Customers Rights Protection. The chocolates
“are produced using old standards and do not meet Russian
sanitary requirements,” it said yesterday.  Kazakhstan, Tajikistan and Moldova inspected Roshen
products in August and said they found no dangerous ingredients.  Trade with Russia has plunged by a quarter this year,
denting Ukrainian industry and exports.  Russia  is threatening to
impose sanctions on its neighbor if it proceeds with the EU deal
at a Nov. 27-28 summit in the Lithuanian capital of Vilnius,
saying it needs to protect its market.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daryna Krasnolutska in Kiev at 
 dkrasnolutsk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  