-- Russia Leads BRICS at Improving Business Rules, World Bank Says
-- B y   O l g a   T a n a s
-- 2013-10-29T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-29/russia-leads-brics-at-improving-business-rules-world-bank-says.html
Russia made the most progress among
the biggest emerging economies in implementing policies to
improve its business environment, according to an annual World
Bank study.  Russia ranked 92th of 189 countries, between Barbados and
Serbia, in the Washington-based lender’s 2014 Doing Business
Report. Its ranking improved from 112th in last year’s report,
the biggest gain among the BRICS nations, which include  Brazil ,
China,  India  and  South Africa .  President  Vladimir Putin , who returned to the Kremlin for
the third term last year, is facing the slowest economic
expansion since 2009. As part of a long-term growth plan
unveiled hours after his May 2012 inauguration, Putin ordered
the government to boost Russia’s standing in the ranking to 20th
by 2018, as well as increase labor productivity and add 25
million high-quality jobs.  “Improving the investment climate is a top policy priority
for the Russian authorities,” Augusto Lopez-Claros, director of
Global Indicators and Analysis at World Bank, said in a
statement accompanying the report. “The local entrepreneurs are
seeing the results.”  The world’s biggest energy exporter showed the most
improvement globally in easing access to electricity, the  World
Bank  said. Russia reduced the time needed to get a new
connection to the  power grid  by more than 40 percent and cut the
cost of doing so by almost 80 percent, according to the World
Bank’s statement.  Russia also made it easier to deal with construction
permits, eliminating some requirements for project approval and
reducing the time to register a new building, according to the
statement.  The study, published together with the International
Finance Corp., tracked indicators such as the time it takes to
start a business, submit tax returns and export or import goods,
measured from June 2012 to June 2013.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Olga Tanas in Moscow at 
 otanas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  