-- TSA Changes After Knife-Ban Reversal Voted by House Panel
-- B y   J e f f   P l u n g i s
-- 2013-10-29T16:15:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-29/tsa-changes-after-knife-ban-reversal-voted-by-house-panel.html
The  Transportation Security
Administration  will have to consult with industry groups on
decisions like its short-lived move to end the ban on knives
aboard airplanes, under a bill the House advanced today.  The chamber’s Homeland Security Committee, on a voice vote
today, approved legislation to make the TSA’s Aviation Security
Advisory Committee permanent. The agency would have to talk with
the group as it develops policies, regulations and security
directives.  Representative Richard Hudson, chairman of the
transportation security subcommittee, said the legislation is a
response to the TSA’s attempt earlier this year to relax the ban
on carrying small knives onto commercial flights. The agency
reversed itself in June after protests by flight attendants,
airline executives and TSA employees.  “One day  Harvard Business School  will teach a seminar on
how not to roll out a new rule,” Hudson, a North Carolina
Republican, said in an interview. “This will be the textbook
example.”  The bill, along with another measure approved today to
force changes in the TSA’s contracting practices, provides the
second example within a week of bipartisan support for a
transportation issue, following the 16-day partial government
shutdown. The full House on Oct. 23 passed a multiyear waterways
infrastructure bill on a 417-3 vote.  The TSA measures were supported by Hudson, who stresses
support for reducing  government spending , and Bennie Thompson of
 Mississippi , the panel’s senior Democrat.  ‘Broken’ Process  Ideas such as relaxing the knives ban should be discussed
with industry groups like airlines, airports and unions before
they’re announced, Hudson said. He said he supported the policy
change while criticizing the way TSA Administrator  John Pistole 
went about it.  Republicans and Democrats on the committee agreed the
agency’s methods for acquiring equipment, such as screening
machines, are inefficient and unnecessarily complex, Hudson
said.  The agency has a warehouse full of equipment it bought and
never used, while companies have put time and money into
developing technology TSA asked for before deciding it was no
longer interested, he said.  “Everyone I talked to said the process is broken,” Hudson
said. “If you look at the amount of money involved, this is a
place we could save significant money for the taxpayer.”  David Castelveter , a TSA spokesman, said the agency doesn’t
comment on pending legislation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Plungis in Washington at 
 jplungis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  