-- Scene Last Night: Ed Norton, Loeb, Tilson, John Griffin
-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 2013-10-29T18:29:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-29/scene-last-night-ed-norton-loeb-tilson-john-griffin.html
The best mentoring advice Ed Norton
ever received was “don’t chase money,” he said last night
within earshot of  Third Point ’s Dan Loeb, T2 Partners’ Whitney Tilson and Blue Ridge Capital’s John Griffin.  Norton was the lone celebrity in a room full of hedge-fund
managers at the iMentor Benefit Dinner at the Mandarin Oriental.  The stories of the student-and-mentor pairs created by
iMentor led the evening. Griffin who co-founded iMentor, served
as master of ceremonies.  Oladoyin Oladeru, a graduate student at Yale’s School of
 Public Health , appeared with his former mentor, Alphonso Diaz, a
financial adviser, whom he met when he was a junior in high
school in the South Bronx.  Kevin Wade, a freshman at Medgar Evers College, was with
his mentor, Adam Jacobs, who works in  wealth management  at
Morgan Stanley. Wade received the first Caroline Kim Oh
Scholarship, giving him $2,000 for college.  On SAT day, Jacobs arrived at Wade’s home early in the
morning to take him to breakfast and drop him off at the test
site in a good frame of mind.  “So much of succeeding at life is relationship building,”
Jacobs said.  “I learned to be dedicated and motivated,” Wade said.  Bart Rosenthal, a natural-gas trader at Hess Energy Trading
Co LLC, mentored Kevin Hidalgo, starting in his junior year at
KIPP NYC College Prep. Two years later, Rosenthal took a day off
from work, rented a minivan and drove Hidalgo and his parents to
Philadelphia to help him get settled at  Wharton .  Sense of Humor  “I thought it would be 99 percent academic, but it was
much more than that,” Hidalgo said. “We found we have a lot of
things in common including our sense of humor. We’re both
sarcastic.”  “We’re optimistically sarcastic,” Rosenthal said. “Kevin
has re-instilled a lot of optimism in me.”  Mark Bezos, a senior vice president at  Robin Hood
Foundation , and half-brother of Amazon’s  Jeff Bezos , is a board
member of iMentor.  “We work with schools, so every child in a school gets a
mentor and the mentoring is built into the school day,” Bezos
said. “It changes the ratio of kids to college counselors.”  Bezos brought his mom and dad to the event. “We’re still
mentoring them,” Mike Bezos joked of his kids.  The event raised almost $2 million and drew 400 guests,
said Mike O’Brien, chief executive officer of iMentor.  NURTUREart Benefit  Cesar Beltre and David Ortega, students at Juan Morel
Campos Secondary School in South Williamsburg,  Brooklyn , were
featured artists at  NURTUREart’s  benefit last night, having
worked with a curator brought to their school by the Bushwick-based nonprofit.  Beltre said his piece depicted a mystical creature who
processes bad things while always looking forward, while Ortega
said his work celebrated his Mexican culture.  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include Scott Reyburn on the art market,
 Greg Evans  on television and  Stephanie Green ’s D.C. Scene.  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon in  New York  at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter at @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 