-- Schroder Sees Rajan Steps Ending Record Fund Exit: India Credit
-- B y   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s ,   F i o n   L i   a n d   K y o u n g w h a   K i m
-- 2013-10-29T18:31:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-29/schroder-sees-rajan-steps-ending-record-fund-exit-india-credit.html
Reserve Bank  of  India  Governor
Raghuram Rajan’s twin-pronged action to curb inflation and
support economic growth is regaining the confidence of global
investors after an unprecedented capital flight.  Schroder Investment Management says investors will return
to  Asia ’s highest-yielding investment-grade debt following $12
billion of outflows since May, after the RBI raised its main
rate and simultaneously acted to ease cash supply yesterday.
Mirae Asset Global Investments Group sees more optimism on
Indian assets and Fischer Francis Trees & Watts is betting on
gains in the rupee, saying Rajan has done a “wonderful” job.  India’s central bank is stepping up efforts to rein in
consumer-price  inflation  that has stayed close to 10 percent
even as the economy grows at near the slowest pace in a decade.
The yield on the nation’s  10-year (GIND10YR)  government bonds fell 12 basis
points yesterday to 8.54 percent, the biggest decline in three
weeks. A  similar  rate is 4.21 percent in  China .  “We’ve already bought some in the last couple of months
and we will continue to be positive and look for opportunities
to buy,” Rajeev De Mello, who manages $10 billion as Singapore-based head of Asian fixed income at Schroder, said in an
interview yesterday. “The policy decision is consistent with
the focus they’ve been placing on the CPI and this will continue
to give more credibility to the RBI, so I take it as good news.
The yield level is high and that too will draw demand.”  Rajan’s Measures  Rajan, a former International Monetary Fund chief economist
who took charge of the RBI last month, increased the  repurchase
rate  by 25 basis points, or 0.25 percentage point, yesterday to
7.75 percent, the second increase in two months. Simultaneously,
he cut the marginal standing facility, or MSF, and bank rates by
25 basis points to 8.75 percent each to make cash more easily
available in the financial system.  The RBI will lift the repo rate to 8.5 percent by March to
contain price pressures, according to Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
India’s consumer-price  inflation  quickened to 9.8 percent in
September, compared with 5.9 percent in  Brazil , 3.1 percent in
China and 6.1 percent in  Russia .  Ten-year sovereign bond yields have retreated 70 basis
points from a 2008 high of 9.24 percent in August as the RBI
scaled back emergency cash-tightening measures introduced in
July to stem a slide in the rupee. The central bank has pared
the MSF and bank rates by 1.5 percentage points each in the past
six weeks as the rupee rebounded to 61.3225 per dollar from a
record low of 68.845 on Aug. 28.  ‘Wonderful Selection’  Rajan is “a wonderful selection for the central bank,”
 John Morton , Boston-based head of  emerging markets  at Fischer
Francis, a unit of BNP Paribas Investment Partners that manages
about $54 billion, said in an Oct. 28 interview in  Hong Kong .
Policy makers in India “know what needs to be done and the
question is whether the political system is capable of
delivering it. We do see the recovery of the rupee.”  Fischer Francis will wait to see whether the government
opens wider to foreign direct investment before making longer-term investments in the Indian  bond market , he added.  Three-month interbank borrowing rates have fallen to 9.22
percent from a five-year high of 11.59 percent in September as
the RBI acted to boost funding availability, data from the
National Stock Exchange of India Ltd. show. Rates on similar-maturity  commercial paper  dropped to 9.21 percent from a peak of
12.69 percent in August, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  India’s economy  grew 5 percent in the year ended
March 31, the least since 2002-2003, government data show.  Rajan’s steps to ease cash supply and the rupee’s rebound
will boost confidence in India’s bond market, bolstering demand
for fixed-income notes, Barclays Plc said in an Oct. 10 report.  ‘Vulnerable Environment’  International holdings of rupee securities may not see an
immediate rebound amid India’s economic  slowdown  and as the
prospect of the U.S. cutting monetary stimulus has damped
appetite for emerging-market assets, according to Raiffeisen
Capital Management.  “It will be a bit difficult to hold on with Indian assets
considering the vulnerable domestic macro-economic environment
and low risk appetite for emerging markets,” Juergen Maier,
 fund manager  at Raiffeisen Capital Management in Vienna, who
oversees about $1.1 billion in emerging-market assets, said in
an interview yesterday. “We believe there are no reasons for
flows to the emerging markets to accelerate in the short term as
we don’t anticipate too many opportunities.”  Yield Curve  A record inversion in India’s bond yield curve is reversing
as short-term rates drop faster after the central bank’s move to
ease funding curbs. Ten-year government notes now pay 21 basis
points  more than  two-year debt, compared with an unprecedented
minus 272 basis points in July. A steep curve is often seen as a
sign of confidence an economy will grow and generate inflation.  The reversal of the yield-curve inversion signals local
markets’ are returning to normalcy after last quarter’s rupee
tumble forced policy makers to adopt emergency measures to
restore stability, Maneesh Dangi, Mumbai-based co-chief
investment officer at Birla Sun Life Asset Management Co., said
in an interview last week.  Sales of Indian bonds by foreigners will decline as Rajan’s
policies buoy investor sentiment, according to Mirae Asset,
which managed $56.25 billion worldwide as of July 31.  “The new governor brought to markets some optimism that
India could change for the better,” Kim Jin Ha, the Seoul-based
head of global fixed income at Mirae Asset, said in an interview
yesterday. “The rupee has had a relief rally. The additional
selling pressure from foreign investors won’t be large.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeanette Rodrigues in Mumbai at 
 jrodrigues26@bloomberg.net ;
Fion Li in Hong Kong at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net ;
Kyoungwha Kim in Singapore at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  