-- Seahawks Beat Rams 14-9 With Defensive Stand to Improve to 7-1
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-10-29T04:15:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-29/seahawks-beat-rams-14-9-with-defensive-stand-to-improve-to-7-1.html
The  Seattle  Seahawks needed a goal-line stand from their defense to pull out a 14-9 win over the
St. Louis Rams in a “Monday Night Football” game in which they
were held to a season-low 135 yards of offense.  Russell Wilson threw two touchdown passes to Golden Tate
for Seattle last night in St. Louis, where the Rams were twice
denied the go-ahead touchdown from the Seahawks’ 1-yard line in
the closing seconds.  The Seahawks improved to 7-1 on the National Football
League season, extending the best start in team history, while
the Rams fell to 3-5 in their first game after losing starting
quarterback Sam Bradford to a season-ending knee injury.  Bradford’s replacement, Kellen Clemens, threw two
interceptions, including one that was returned to the Rams’ 26-yard line in the second quarter. It helped set up Seattle’s
first touchdown, a two-yard pass from Wilson to Tate.  After the Rams pulled within 7-6 during the third quarter
on the second of Greg Zuerlein’s three field goals, Wilson and
Tate hooked up for an 80-yard score. Outside of that play, which
came with three minutes, 45 seconds left in the third quarter,
the Seahawks’ offense was held to 55 total yards.  The Rams outgained Seattle 339 to 135 for the game, which
was played in St. Louis on the same night as Game 5 of the World
Series between the Cardinals and Boston Red Sox.  The Rams drove 96 yards on the final possession, moving
from their 3-yard line to the Seahawks’ 1. Daryl Richardson was
stopped on a third-down run with four seconds left and Clemens
threw incomplete on fourth down as time expired.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  