-- Seasonal Temperatures Seen in U.S. East to Mid-November
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2013-10-29T12:31:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-29/seasonal-temperatures-seen-in-u-s-east-to-mid-november.html
The chances are waning that more
cold air will seep into the eastern U.S. through mid-November,
boosting energy demand, said  Matt Rogers , president of Commodity
Weather Group LLC.  Temperatures in the U.S. East and Canada will probably
remain seasonal from Nov. 3 to Nov. 12, with any cold air
confined to the western parts of both countries, said Rogers,
who’s based in Bethesda,  Maryland .  “Gone is the stronger cooling of late October, but it’s
not yet being replaced by the stronger warm anomaly pattern of
early October,” Rogers said in his forecast.  Below-normal temperatures, especially in Eastern and
Midwestern cities, tend to increase energy consumption as more
utility customers heat homes and businesses. November marks the
start of the U.S. heating season, when natural gas demand peaks.  Power generation accounts for 32 percent of U.S. gas use,
according to the Energy Information Administration, the Energy
Department’s statistical arm. About 49 percent of all homes use
the fuel for heating.  Low temperatures in  Chicago  have been in the 20s and 30s
Fahrenheit since Oct. 20, according to the  National Weather
Service . In New York, readings have dipped to the low- to
mid-40s (about 4 to 7 Celsius) for the past week.  Computer forecast models show that short periods of cold
are possible through mid-November, with the general outlook for
“a mostly benign temperature pattern,” Rogers said.  The normal average temperature in New York for Nov. 6 is
about 52 degrees, said MDA Weather Systems in Gaithersburg,
Maryland. In  Boston , it’s 48; in  St. Louis , 52; Dallas, 60;
Chicago, 45; in Burbank, California, 63; and in Calgary, it’s
32.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  