-- Senate Rejects Republican Plan Tied to Borrowing Limits
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r
-- 2013-10-30T15:37:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-29/senate-rejects-republican-plan-tied-to-borrowing-limits.html
(Corrects name of  Mississippi  senator facing 2014
challenge in fifth, six paragraphs of story published Oct. 29.)  The U.S. Congress is taking up
legislation on federal borrowing authority this week that won’t
prevail because of the political split between the chambers,
leaving in place the  debt-ceiling  suspension passed Oct. 16.  The Senate voted 54-45 along party lines against advancing
the measure, offered by the chamber’s top Republican,  Mitch McConnell  of Kentucky. The Republican-controlled House began
debate today on similar legislation and is set to vote on it
tomorrow. The House probably will adopt the resolution, though
it won’t become law because the Senate turned it down.  “I look forward to quickly dispensing with this Republican
resolution,” Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada
Democrat, said today on the Senate floor.  The mechanism letting Congress vote to disapprove of the
increase in U.S. borrowing authority was in the law that ended a
16-day government shutdown and suspended the debt cap until Feb.
7. The approach, pioneered by McConnell in 2011 legislation
raising the debt ceiling, is designed to give Republicans a
chance to go on the record opposing an increase in federal
borrowing authority.  Twenty-seven Senate Republicans joined 54 Democrats on Oct.
16 to raise the federal debt limit, opening the door to the
disapproval votes. Four Republicans facing Tea Party-backed
primary challenges --  McConnell,  Lamar Alexander  of Tennessee,
 Lindsey Graham  of South Carolina and  Thad Cochran  of Mississippi
-- voted for the legislation.  Republican Primaries  Since then, Tea Party-aligned groups criticized the votes.
The Senate Conservatives Fund -- a political action committee
founded by former South Carolina Republican Jim DeMint that’s
helped elect Tea Party-backed senators -- endorsed challengers
to McConnell and Cochran.  Senator  Charles Schumer  of New York, the chamber’s third-ranking Democrat, today joined Democrats  Barbara Boxer  of
California and Mazie Hirono of Hawaii to introduce legislation
that would grant the president permanent authority to raise the
debt ceiling unless Congress disapproves.  “The way it works now, the debt ceiling is a ticking time
bomb, which threatens huge economic destruction,” Schumer told
reporters today. “This bill would defuse it.”  Republicans called the proposal a political gimmick.
McConnell said Democrats were “not going to find any dance
partners” among Republicans to back the measure.  “It’s outrageous,” he said. “Especially when you
consider that our debt is now about $17 trillion, which makes us
look a lot like a European country. We have to get our debt
under control before we move any further down the road to Greece
and  Spain . And time is not on our side.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  