-- Senate Confirms Wheeler as FCC Chief After Cruz Ends Hold
-- B y   T o d d   S h i e l d s
-- 2013-10-30T02:18:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-29/senate-confirms-wheeler-as-fcc-chief-after-cruz-ends-hold.html
The U.S. Senate today confirmed Tom Wheeler, a former cable and wireless trade association
executive, as chairman of the Federal Communications Commission
after a Republican lawmaker ended his hold on the nomination.  Wheeler replaces  Julius Genachowski , a Democrat, who
stepped down as FCC chairman in May. The Senate also confirmed
Michael O’Rielly, a Republican, as a member of the commission.
He replaces Robert McDowell who also left the agency in May. All
vacancies on the five-member commission have been filled.  Senator  Ted Cruz  on Oct. 17 pledged to stall Wheeler’s
nomination. The Texas Republican had asked during a hearing in
June whether Wheeler would use the agency to force broader
disclosures of who pays for political advertisements. Wheeler
didn’t give specific answers to Cruz’s followup questions, Sean
Rushton, a spokesman for the senator, said in an Oct. 17 e-mail.  Wheeler, in a meeting today, said that crafting rules to
expand disclosure of who pays for political advertisements
wasn’t a priority, Cruz said in an e-mailed  statement .  “Based on those representations, I have lifted my hold on
his nomination,” Cruz said in the statement.  Wheeler, a 67-year-old venture capitalist, was nominated in
May by President  Barack Obama . In a statement tonight, Wheeler
said he was humbled by the Senate’s confirmation and singled out
the Internet as a key focus for the agency as he takes the helm.  “We must all dedicate ourselves to encouraging its growth,
expanding what it enables, and assuring its users’ rights are
respected,” Wheeler said in the e-mailed statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Todd Shields in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  