-- Sinopec Profit Precedes Li’s Plan to Reduce State Role
-- B y   B e n j a m i n   H a a s   a n d   A i b i n g   G u o
-- 2013-10-30T03:56:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-29/sinopec-profit-precedes-li-s-plan-to-reduce-state-role.html
PetroChina Co. (857)  and  China Petroleum (386)  &
Chemical Corp., the country’s largest energy companies,
increased profit in the third quarter as a new policy helped
them raise fuel prices, foreshadowing Premier  Li Keqiang ’s plan
to reduce state intervention in the economy.  China  Petroleum, known as Sinopec, reported a 20 percent
jump in net income to 22 billion yuan ($3.6 billion), while
PetroChina posted a 19 percent gain in profit to 29.8 billion
yuan yesterday. The government in March mandated that domestic
prices track increasing costs on global markets more closely to
provide refiners reasonable margins.  The move is a precursor to Li’s pledge to cut the state’s
role, change financial and fiscal systems and overhaul land and
household registration rules at a Communist Party meeting next
month in a bid to sustain growth. China has traditionally used
its big three  oil companies , of which PetroChina is the largest,
to control domestic fuel prices and secure energy supplies from
overseas.  “The proposed reforms in terms of opening oil and gas
sectors wider to private investment in China will benefit big
state-owned companies in the long term,” Shi Yan, an analyst at
UOB-Kay Hian Ltd. in Shanghai, said by phone yesterday.
“Competition will force the giant firms to improve their
efficiency in order to survive in the market.”  Sinopec advanced 1.7 percent to HK$6.16 as at 11:37 a.m. in
 Hong Kong , while PetroChina declined 0.6 percent to HK$8.86. The
city’s benchmark  Hang Seng Index  gained 0.8 percent.  Refining Losses  PetroChina, the country’s biggest oil and gas producer,
reduced refining losses by 17 billion  yuan  in the first nine
months, compared with the same period a year earlier “as a
result of taking advantage of the newly promulgated pricing
mechanism for refined products,” it said in a  statement  to the
Hong Kong stock exchange yesterday.  Operating profit from the refining business at Sinopec,
 Asia ’s biggest refiner, was 6.7 billion yuan in the first nine
months, compared with a loss a year earlier. The government
shortened its price adjustment window to 10 days in March from
22 days to allow retail fuel prices to link more closely to
international crude price changes.  Four senior managers at PetroChina were removed from their
posts in August after allegations of corruption. Former Chairman
 Jiang Jiemin  was dismissed from his post as head of the state
assets regulator and is under investigation, the official Xinhua
News Agency said Sept. 2. The probe has hurt the explorer’s
shares, which have  declined  19 percent this year in Hong Kong.  The investigation highlights President  Xi Jinping ’s
willingness to tackle graft, which he has said threatens the
communist party’s 64-year grip on power.  ‘Safer Bet’  “The corruption investigation makes PetroChina a safer bet
since the government will be watching the company more
closely,” said Simon Powell, head of oil and gas research as
CLSA Ltd., who rates the stock a buy.  PetroChina’s oil and natural gas output rose 4.3 percent to
1.04 billion barrels in the first nine months, of which 101.4
million barrels were from overseas projects, according to the
statement. Average realized crude price declined 3.6 percent to
$99.85 in the nine months.  Crude and natural gas production at Sinopec rose 4 percent
in the first nine months to 331 million barrels, according to
the statement.  Cnooc Ltd. (883) , China’s biggest offshore oil and gas producer,
posted a 16 percent increase in third-quarter sales on Oct. 24,
after output was boosted by the acquisition of Canada’s Nexen
Inc. The company doesn’t report quarterly profit.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Benjamin Haas in Hong Kong at 
 bhaas7@bloomberg.net ;
Aibing Guo in Hong Kong at 
 aguo10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  