-- Some Britons Don’t Know They’re in EU, Referendum Probe Finds
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2013-10-29T12:08:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-29/some-britons-don-t-know-they-re-in-eu-referendum-probe-finds.html
Some British voters aren’t aware the
U.K. is a member of the European Union, and this should be taken
into account in any referendum on withdrawal from the bloc, the
independent election watchdog said.  Prime Minister David Cameron will campaign in national
elections in 2015 on a Conservative Party platform that includes
a referendum on pulling out of the 28-nation EU. The premier
can’t introduce government legislation now on a plebiscite
because his Liberal Democrat coalition partners oppose it.
Instead, the Tories have published a draft bill to guarantee a
vote by end-2017.  As that makes its way through Parliament, the  Electoral
Commission  looked at the simplest way to present the question of
whether Britain should stay in. The research threw up the
finding that, when faced with the question “Do you think that
the United Kingdom should be a member of the European Union,”
some people are unaware Britain already is.  “We found that a few people did not understand whether or
not the U.K. was a member of the EU,” Jenny Watson, the
commission’s chairman, said in an  e-mailed statement  today.
“Providing enough information to make this clear to people
creates a risk of a perception of bias for any question which
offers ‘Yes’ and ‘No’ options.”  She said the commission will instead present two possible
questions to Parliament: one reading “Should the  United Kingdom 
remain a member of the European Union?” and the other “Should
the United Kingdom remain a member of the European Union or
leave the European Union?”  The Tories, whose bill is being steered through Parliament
by lawmaker James Wharton, will need to discuss which approach
to take.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  