-- Standard Chartered Said to Put Currency Dealer on Leave
-- B y   G a v i n   F i n c h ,   J u l i a   V e r l a i n e   a n d   L i a m   V a u g h a n
-- 2013-10-29T12:29:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-29/standard-chartered-said-to-suspend-currency-dealer-amid-probe.html
Standard Chartered  Plc put Matt Gardiner, one of its most senior foreign-exchange dealers, on
leave as regulators probe possible manipulation in  currency
markets , a person with knowledge of the matter said.  The allegations don’t relate to his work at Standard
Chartered, said the person, who asked not to be identified
because the move hasn’t been made public. He previously worked
at  Barclays Plc (BARC)  and  UBS AG (UBSN)  and moved to Standard Chartered in
September as assistant chief dealer of currencies in London.  Regulators are scrutinizing an instant message group used
by senior dealers at firms including Barclays, Citigroup,  Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc  and UBS to outline details of their
positions and client orders, as well as make trades before key
benchmarks were set, two more people with knowledge of the
discussions said. Traders in the group included Gardiner and
Richard Usher, then a senior trader at RBS and now JPMorgan
Chase & Co.’s chief dealer in London, the people said.  Investigators are weighing whether those talks amounted to
attempts to manipulate the market, two people said. None of the
traders involved have been accused of any wrongdoing.  Gardiner didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail and a
message left on his mobile telephone. Officials at Standard
Chartered, Barclays, JPMorgan and RBS declined to comment. Usher
didn’t respond to an e-mail sent to his work address.  Deutsche Bank  Regulators including the  Department of Justice , Britain’s
Financial Conduct Authority and the Swiss Financial Market
Supervisory Authority are probing the $5.3 trillion-a-day market
for the possible manipulation of foreign-exchange rates.  UBS, Switzerland’s biggest bank, said today it’s taking
measures against employees, while Germany’s Deutsche Bank AG
said regulators have asked it for information. Zurich-based UBS
didn’t identify or quantify the number of employees involved, or
say what actions it took. Both firms said they’re co-operating
with regulators.  UBS started an internal review of its currencies unit after
 Bloomberg News  reported in June that traders at some banks said
they shared information about their positions through instant
messages, executed their own trades before client orders and
sought to manipulate the benchmark WM/Reuters rates.  WM/Reuters Rates  The WM/Reuters rates determine what many pension funds and
money managers pay for their foreign exchange and are used by
index providers such as  FTSE Group  and  MSCI Inc. (MSCI)  to calculate
daily valuations of indexes that span multiple currencies. Even
small movements could affect the value of what  Morningstar Inc. (MORN) 
estimates is $3.6 trillion in funds including pension and
savings accounts that track global indexes.  The rates are published hourly for 160 currencies and half-hourly for the 21 most-traded. They are the median of all trades
in a minute-long period starting 30 seconds before the beginning
of each half-hour. Rates for less-widely traded currencies are
based on quotes during a two-minute window.  The data are collected and distributed by World Markets
Co., a unit of Boston-based  State Street Corp. (STT) , and Thomson
Reuters Corp. Bloomberg LP, the parent company of Bloomberg
News, competes with  Thomson Reuters  in providing news and
information as well as currency-trading systems.  Index funds  typically buy and sell currencies at the 4 p.m.
WM/Reuters rates, known as the London close. Money managers
place their orders with banks in the hour or so before the
close, giving dealers a picture of their complete order book in
advance of the so-called fix. Banks agree with clients to trade
at that price, regardless of later moves, leaving dealers at
risk of losses if the market moves against them.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gavin Finch in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net ;
Julia Verlaine in London at 
 jverlaine2@bloomberg.net ;
Liam Vaughan in London at 
 lvaughan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  