-- Standard Chartered Says Revenue Declined in Third Quarter
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   T o n g   a n d   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 2013-10-29T16:41:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-29/standard-chartered-says-quarterly-revenue-down-from-year-earlier.html
Standard Chartered Plc (STAN) , the U.K.
lender that makes three-quarters of its profit in  Asia , said
third-quarter  revenue (2888)  fell, hurt by its corporate-banking units.  Revenue in the three months to Sept. 30 dropped by a “low
single-digit percentage” from the year-earlier period, the
lender said in a statement today. Operating profit for the third
quarter was “slightly” lower, Finance Director Richard Meddings said on a conference call. Revenue from the asset and
liability management unit, which manages funding for the lender,
fell 20 percent in the first nine months of the year, dragging
down wholesale banking.  Standard Chartered gets about three-quarters of its profit
from  corporate banking , which includes trade finance, payment
processing and some investment-banking activities such as merger
advisory and equities. The lender has said it doesn’t expect to
hit its target of at least 10 percent revenue growth this year.  “There’s no meaningful growth being generated,” said
Jason Napier, a Deutsche Bank AG analyst in  London  who rates the
lender a hold. “Though costs are being flexed in line with top
line performance, forecasts must be for higher loan losses next
year, which will crimp profit growth even if the top line
improves.”  Loan impairments at the consumer banking unit overseen by
Steve Bertamini remained at “elevated levels,” the bank said.
Total impairments in the third quarter were “some tens of
millions of dollars” more than a year earlier, the firm said.  The  shares  closed at 1,543.50 pence in London, up 0.6
percent on the day. They have dropped 1.8 percent this year,
making it the only of Britain’s five biggest banks to decline.  Compliance Costs  Costs in the quarter were “broadly” the same as last year
even as the regulatory and compliance expenses increased, the
lender said.  Standard Chartered  was fined $667 million by U.S.
regulators last year for breaches of U.S sanctions on  Iran .  The bank has added 2,000 workers in compliance and legal
over the last three years, Meddings said. Even so, the company
has about 2,000 fewer employees than a year ago, he said. The
firm had about 89,000 staff at the end of 2012.  “The key question for management is whether they can adapt
their growth-orientated model to a more returns-driven one --
i.e. cost-cutting --  in markets or segments where top-line
income growth has faltered,” Sandy Chen, an analyst at Cenkos
Securities in London who rates the bank a buy, said in a note to
clients today.  Singapore Revenue  Revenue and profit growth at Standard Chartered’s  Hong Kong 
and African businesses in the first nine months increased by at
least 10 percent. By contrast, revenue in  Singapore  fell
following government measures to cool the housing market.  “Looking forward, we are concerned if the consumer banking
business in Singapore will remain a drag and when the Korea
business can be turned around,” Steven Chan, a Hong Kong-based
analyst at Maybank Kim Eng Securities Pte with a hold rating on
the stock, said by telephone today.  In August, the lender posted a 24 percent drop in first-half profit to $2.18 billion after writing down the value of its
Korean business by $1 billion. The bank at the time said the
country’s personal debt rehabilitation program had spurred a
jump in loan impairments.  Korean revenue has fallen less than 10 percent this year
and Standard Chartered expects to book a one-time tax-related
cost of about $60 million in that nation for the full year, the
lender said today.  “Our clear stance is to manage to a smaller-scale business
in  Korea ,” Meddings said. Getting the Korean business “into
shape” will take two to three years, he added.  Currency Hit  Weakness in emerging-market currencies including the Indian
rupee and  Indonesia ’s rupiah since the bank reported its first-half earnings will hurt full-year revenue by about $200 million
and profit by $70 million, Standard Chartered said.  Revenue and operating profit expanded at a “low single
digit rate” in the first nine months of this year, the lender
said. Operating profit for consumer banking dropped by a “mid
single digit” percentage, while corporate banking increased by
a “low single digit” pace.  “Full-year pretax profit is unlikely to meet the market
consensus,” Maybank’s Chan said. The firm may post a full-year
pretax profit of $7.56 billion, according to the median estimate
of 30 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  In separate reports today, Deutsche Bank AG said third-quarter profit fell 94 percent as income from debt trading
slumped, while  UBS AG (UBSN) ,  Switzerland ’s largest lender, said it
probably won’t be able to reach its 2015 profitability goal
after its regulator demanded the lender hold more capital.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephanie Tong in Hong Kong at 
 stong17@bloomberg.net ;
Howard Mustoe in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net ;
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  