-- Stevens Record Shows Bets RBA on Hold Due for Surprise
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2013-10-30T05:04:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-29/stevens-record-shows-market-bet-rba-on-hold-due-for-surprise-1-.html
Money markets predict central bank
Governor  Glenn Stevens  will hold  Australia ’s cash rate steady
for at least a year. History suggests he’ll spring a surprise.  Stevens, 55, has either raised or cut the  benchmark rate  26
times since his tenure began in September 2006, the most among
major developed-world peers, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. His activism puts him closer to central bankers in
commodity-rich developing nations like  Brazil  than wealthier
countries in  Europe  and  North America .  Traders are pricing in no chance of an increase in the
Reserve Bank of Australia’s cash rate in the next 12 months,
according to a Credit Suisse Group AG index, as a waning mining-investment boom, forecast rise in unemployment and renewed
currency strength prompted the authority to keep its easing bias
intact after cutting the benchmark to a record-low 2.5 percent.
Working against that bet are accelerating home price gains in
one of the developed-world’s costliest property markets.  “You can quite often find that the RBA does surprise the
markets,” said Paul Bloxham, chief Australia economist at HSBC
Holdings Plc in Sydney who is also on the RBA shadow board of
economists, which assigns probabilities to future cash-rate
moves. “The RBA has had previous experience at using its
monetary policy settings to lean against the wind when asset
prices are inflating.”  The central bank wrong-footed markets in October 2009, when
it began its last tightening cycle as  house prices  accelerated
and  China ’s resource demand rebounded, and again with its most
recent rate increase in November 2010.  Rates Controversy  Stevens faced criticism in 2008 when he tightened policy in
March as a worldwide credit crunch began to unfold.  Rupert
Murdoch ’s Sydney tabloid the  Daily Telegraph  led its front page
with a picture of Stevens and the headline: “Is This The Most
Useless Man in Australia?” after he raised rates to a then 12-year high of 7.25 percent. Markets and economists had expected
that move.  The RBA is currently balancing low rates that are driving
up housing prices against renewed strength in the local dollar -
- among the best performers amid the group of 10 currencies
tracked by Bloomberg since late August -- that is constraining
industries exposed to exports.  The RBA will keep rates steady when it announces its
decision in Sydney on Nov. 5, according to all 31 economists
surveyed by  Bloomberg News .  Stevens, in a  speech  yesterday, urged banks and borrowers
to be realistic about future property price gains in Australia
and noted growth was increasing “quite quickly in some
pockets” of the country.  Housing Market  “Investor participation in housing in Sydney, in
particular, is becoming noticeably stronger,” Stevens said. He
added that given credit growth is between 4 percent and 5
percent per annum at the moment, it is “a little too early to
signal great concern” over price gains.  Su-Lin Ong, Sydney-based head of Australian economic and
fixed-income strategy at Royal Bank of  Canada , said she detected
“a little more concern” over the strength and concentration of
investors in the housing market. His speech was “a reminder
that the RBA was keeping an eye on credit growth,” she said.  A key factor that could keep Stevens on the policy
sidelines is the strength of the Australian dollar, which has
risen more than 6 percent since Aug. 30. It has been supported
by the  Federal Reserve ’s decision to delay unwinding its bond
buying program. The Australian dollar traded at 94.81 U.S. cents
at 4 p.m. in Sydney.  ‘Materially Lower’  “These levels of the  exchange rate  are not supported by
Australia’s relative levels of costs and productivity,” Stevens
said yesterday. “Moreover, the terms of trade are likely to
fall, not rise, from here. So it seems quite likely that at some
point in the future the Australian dollar will be materially
lower than it is today.”  Australian  new-home sales  jumped 6.4 percent in September
from a month earlier, the biggest gain in 17 months, a Housing
Industry Association report showed today. The increase was led
by apartments.  Elsewhere,  Japan ’s outlook for industrial production
improved on strength in domestic demand, the trade ministry
said, adding to signs that Prime Minister Shinzo Abe can drive a
sustained pick-up in the world’s third-biggest economy.  Spain’s economy probably expanded 0.1 percent in the third
quarter from three months earlier, according to the median
estimate in a Bloomberg survey.  Germany ’s unemployment rate
probably held at 6.9 percent in October, a separate survey
showed.  U.S. Data  In the U.S., consumer prices probably rose 0.2 percent in
September from a month earlier, according to economists surveyed
by Bloomberg, while a private report may show companies added
fewer workers in October than a month earlier.  Since September 2006, when Stevens took the helm, the RBA
has shifted rates 26 times, compared to eight moves by the Fed,
18 by the  European Central Bank  and 13 for Canada. That is the
most moves among major developed economies.  Israel , with a gross
domestic product of about $260 billion, has adjusted policy more
than Australia.  Stevens has run two tightening cycles and two easing cycles
in his seven years, raising rates to a peak of 7.25 percent in
March 2008, and then slashing them to a then 50-year low of 3
percent in April 2009. He was the first Group of 20 central
banker to raise in October 2009, bumping rates up six times to
4.5 percent by May 2010, with one more quarter-point increase in
November 2010 to 4.75 percent, the highest level in the
developed world at that time.  Fed Signaling  “You could say there was an underestimation at the time of
the persistence and the effects of the global crisis on
Australia,” said James Morley, professor of economics at the
University of New South Wales and also a member of the shadow
RBA board and a former research fellow at the Federal  Reserve
Bank  of  St. Louis . “The Fed was certainly signaling they were
beginning their forward guidance policies.”  Stevens stood pat from November 2010 until November 2011,
when he began the current easing cycle that reduced borrowing
costs by 2.25 percentage points through August. The central bank
repeated in minutes of last month’s meeting released Oct. 15
that it retains the option of reducing rates again as it gauges
the impact of “substantial” stimulus on the economy.  “Australia is very subject to global forces that move a
lot and so the RBA is more active than other central banks,”
said Bloxham, a former RBA economist. “It’s a reflection of the
fact that we are a small open economy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  