-- Stocks Rally Most in 3 Years on China Economic Bounce
-- B y   E r i c   L a m
-- 2013-10-29T21:19:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-29/stocks-rally-most-in-3-years-on-china-economic-bounce.html
Canadian  stocks  are rallying the
most in three years as accelerating economic growth in  China  and
central bank stimulus boost prices for the nation’s oil and
mining companies.  The  Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Index (SPTSX)  has jumped 11
percent since June 28, on track for the biggest six-month
advance since 2010. Energy and mining companies make up eight of
the 10 biggest  gains  since June, with oil explorer
 Petrominerales Ltd. (PMG)  surging 98 percent through yesterday. The
nation’s lenders, including  Royal Bank of Canada  and Toronto-Dominion Bank, have reached records as housing data firmed.  The advance in Canadian shares represents a turnaround for
one of the world’s worst-performing equity markets this year
amid brighter prospects for China, the world’s largest consumer
of copper and the second-largest of crude after the U.S. The
prospect for extended monetary stimulus from the U.S. Federal
Reserve and the Bank of  Canada  has stoked gold shares.  “China’s numbers are looking better, which is helping the
base-metals complex,” said  John Stephenson , a  fund manager  with
First Asset Investment Management Inc. in Toronto. The firm
manages about C$2.7 billion ($2.58 billion). “Banks haven’t
disappointed, in fact they’ve been strong as the housing slump
hasn’t materialized.”  Gross domestic product in China  expanded  7.8 percent in the
July to September period, the biggest quarterly gain since the
fourth quarter of 2012, as Premier  Li Keqiang  implemented
railway spending and tax cuts to jump start the economy.  Copper, Lumber  The moves helped push copper futures 8.7 percent higher in
the third quarter after three straight quarters of declines. The
S&P/TSX Materials Index has rallied 9 percent since June 28.  “I don’t think this is a fleeting trend,” said  Craig Fehr , Canadian market strategist with Edward Jones & Co., in a
phone interview from  St. Louis . “We’d seen the TSX lag since
the latter part of 2011 as commodity interest has waned, and
we’re seeing a little bit of a reversal of that now.”  The S&P/TSX gained 0.5 percent to 13,440.61 at 4 p.m. in
Toronto for the highest close in two years. The index is on
track to match an 11 percent gain in the four-month period
ending Nov. 30, 2010, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Teck Resources Ltd. (TCK/B) , Canada’s largest diversified miner,
has climbed 32 percent since June 28 while forestry company
Canfor Corp. has rallied 15 percent.  Beyond Keystone  Energy companies have advanced 8.6 percent over the same
period amid the growing perception they are finding ways around
the delay in  TransCanada Corp. (TRP) ’s proposed Keystone XL pipeline,
First Asset’s Stephenson said. The $5.3 billion pipeline,
connecting  Alberta ’s oil sands to the U.S. Gulf Coast, is
awaiting a final environment impact statement from the U.S.
State Department.  “We’re not just Keystone XL and nothing else now,”
Stephenson said. “It’s starting to look like a better story.
Energy has turned the corner, so that’s a huge plus.”  The mining and oil and gas industries account for about a
combined 8 percent of Canada’s gross domestic product.  Producers have begun to move crude by rail. The capacity of
rail terminals to load crude oil in Alberta and Saskatchewan
will quadruple by the end of next year to 905,000 barrels a day,
according to an Aug. 26 report by Calgary investment bank Peters
& Co.  Petrominerales has soared 98 percent, the top energy stock
in the benchmark equity gauge since June 28. The company agreed
to sell itself to Pacific Rubiales Energy Corp. in September for
C$935 million in cash. Petrominerales explores for and produces
oil in  South America , including Colombia and  Peru .  Housing Boost  Legacy Oil & Gas Inc. and TransGlobe Energy Corp., which
have jumped 47 percent and 49 percent, respectively, since June
28, are  among  the best-performing energy stocks in the period.  Bank shares are also surging with the S&P/TSX Banks Index
advancing 14 percent since June 28 to a record and on track for
the best six-month performance since 2009.  Canadian home sales  rose  0.8 percent in September for a
seventh month of gains, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The  Bank of Canada  on Oct. 23 dropped language about the
need for future interest rate increases, a move that will
encourage more consumer borrowing in the near-term, said Sadiq Adatia, chief investment officer with Sun Life Global
Investments in an interview from Toronto. His firm manages C$6.4
billion ($6.13 billion).  Gold Rebound  “The pressure on housing has been diminished a little bit,
and even though consumers have high debt they’re not likely to
see their rates go up any time soon either,” Adatia said. “It
gives Canada a bit more room to maneuver.”  Royal Bank of Canada , the nation’s largest lender, exceeded
C$100 billion in market value for the first time on Oct. 18
while peers including Toronto-Dominion Bank and Bank of  Nova
Scotia  touched record highs on the same day.  Bob Decker , fund manager with Aurion Capital Management in
Toronto, said the banks remain a stable, dividend-yielding
investment. The firm manages C$6 billion ($5.74 billion).  “Canadian banks had been dismissed as a no-growth group
vulnerable to a housing bubble collapse,” Decker said. “That
story had become so pervasive it scared all the retail investors
away. Now they’re coming back, saying ’where else am I going to
put my money?’”  Gold producers  Semafo Inc. (SMF)  and Osisko Mining Corp. have
rallied 90 percent and 56 percent, respectively, since June 28
as the likelihood of the U.S. Fed extending stimulus beyond 2013
has increased, Sun Life’s Adatia said. The metal is sometimes
seen as an alternative store of value to equities and bonds
during inflationary times.  “When we saw the Fed take tapering off the table, that’s
when things really took off,” Adatia said.  ‘Economic Headwinds’  Philip Petursson, director of institutional equities with
Manulife Asset Management Ltd., said he prefers investing in
U.S. and international equities, and is underweight in Canadian
stocks. His firm manages about C$248 billion.  “This could just be a relief rally for Canada, given how
far behind Canada has been,” Petursson said. “Some people
believe Canada is oversold and cheap. I don’t share that belief,
given the economic headwinds here.”  Stocks in the S&P/TSX are the most expensive on an annual
basis since 2010, at 17.9 times earnings, the  data  show.  The Bank of Canada lowered its economic growth forecasts
for 2013, 2014 and 2015 on Oct. 23, while maintaining warnings
that Canadians are carrying too great a debt burden.  Top Stock  Brian Belski , chief investment strategist with BMO Capital
Markets, on Oct. 1 raised his 2013 year-end price target for the
S&P/TSX to 13,100 from 12,900 due to improving oil price
forecasts. His 2013 target is the second-highest among six
analysts’ estimates for the S&P/TSX, according to a Bloomberg
survey. He sees the S&P/TSX ending 2014 at 13,575.  The top stock in the S&P/TSX since June 28 is  Air Canada (AC/B) ,
the nation’s largest airline, with a 121 percent return after
cutting costs and reporting better-than-forecast earnings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Lam in Toronto at 
 elam87@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  