-- Stop-and-Frisk Ruling ‘Deeply Flawed,’ N.Y. Tells Judges
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2013-10-30T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-29/stop-and-frisk-ruling-argued-in-echo-of-new-york-mayoral-race.html
New York City  said a U.S. judge’s
decision declaring the police department’s stop-and-frisk search
practices unconstitutional will jeopardize safety, echoing a
debate that has been a focal point in the campaign to succeed
Mayor  Michael Bloomberg .  The city yesterday asked a three-judge panel of the  U.S.
Court of Appeals  in Manhattan to delay implementation of the
September ruling by U.S. District Judge Shira Scheindlin during
the appeal. Celeste Koeleveld, a lawyer for the city, argued
that the city and the public will suffer “irreparable harm”
without a delay.  In a 2 1/2-hour argument, the judges frequently questioned
lawyers about the effect of next week’s election on the stop-and-frisk case. The panel is also considering arguments
submitted by current and former officials, including Democrat
Bill de Blasio, the city’s public advocate, who’s leading in
polls in the mayor’s race, and former Republican Mayor  Rudolph Giuliani .  “There is indeed a specter haunting this application and
that is the specter of the mayoral campaign,” Circuit Judge
Jose Cabranes said, questioning whether city lawyers have
delayed the case to “kick the can down the road” until a new
mayor takes office.  Campaign Commercial  De Blasio, who won his party’s nomination for mayor after
opposing stop-and-frisk, aired a campaign commercial in which
his 15-year-old mixed-race son, Dante, praised his father as the
candidate most likely to curb stop-and-frisk, before revealing
that the candidate is his dad.  “Bill’s position is clear: he believes the overuse and
abuse of stop-and-frisk is driving police and communities apart
when we should be bringing them together to fight crime,” Lis
Smith, his campaign spokeswoman, said in a statement. “He
opposes the city’s decision to appeal the federal court’s ruling
and would drop it as mayor.”  “Facts, not fear, must guide us,” de Blasio said in a
brief against the “baseless claims” that Sheindlin’s ruling
has undermined the ability of  New York  police to prevent crime.  Joe Lhota, the Republican nominee, ran a campaign ad
warning that de Blasio’s “recklessly dangerous agenda on
crime” would reverse gains in safety and return the city to its
crime-ridden past.  ‘Reckless Path’  “Early on, I urged the mayor to take action to block
implementation of these dangerous policies that will threaten
the city’s ability to fight crime,” Lhota said in a statement
yesterday opposing Scheindlin’s ruling. “Mr. de Blasio wants to
handcuff our police and will drop the city’s appeal, putting us
on a reckless path back to the days of rampant violent crime.”  The lawsuit, known as Floyd v. City of New York, was filed
in 2008 by David Floyd and three other black men who claimed
they had been stopped and questioned or frisked by police
without reasonable suspicion in violation of their
constitutional rights.  The judges yesterday also considered whether to delay
Scheindlin’s ruling in a related case, Ligon v. City of New
York. In the Ligon case, Scheindlin ruled that the NYPD violated
the rights of residents and visitors stopped outside buildings
enrolled in the city’s Trespass Affidavit Program, formerly
known as “Operation Clean Halls,” in the Bronx.  Pilot Program  Scheindlin issued her stop-and-frisk ruling after
overseeing a nine-week trial that ended May 20. The judge found
that police unlawfully targeted black and Latino men. She
appointed an independent monitor and a panel of outside academic
advisers to oversee police reforms.  Scheindlin also ordered the police department to change its
training and policies on stop-and-frisk to bring the tactic in
line with constitutional requirements. She said she would order
a pilot program in which officers from five police precincts are
to wear body cameras to record their interactions with people.  The city asked the appeals court to put Scheindlin’s ruling
on hold after Scheindlin denied its request for a stay. The city
claims the judge’s ruling improperly limits the authority of the
police department and city officials to dictate police policy.  Mayor Bloomberg said after the rulings Aug. 12 that  New
Yorkers  benefited from stop-and-frisk and that the judge had
“ignored the real-world realities of crime.”  The mayor is the founder and majority owner of Bloomberg
LP, the parent of  Bloomberg News .  “We strongly believe that the court erred in its
finding,” Corporation Counsel Michael Cardozo said in a
statement.  Yesterday at  Brown University  in Providence,  Rhode Island ,
a lecture by NYPD Police Commissioner Ray Kelly was stopped by a
student protest over the city’s policies, the university said in
a statement.  The cases are Floyd v. City of New York, 08-cv-01034; Ligon
v. City of New York 12-cv-02274, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in  Manhattan  federal court at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  