-- Sugar Falling as Brazil Blaze Seen No Bar to Glut: Commodities
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2013-10-29T15:19:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-29/sugar-falling-as-brazil-blaze-seen-no-bar-to-glut-commodities.html
Sugar is retreating from a one-year
high as traders judge that record stockpiles in China and
accelerating exports from  India  will more than offset lost
supplies from a warehouse fire in  Brazil .  Raw-sugar futures fell 8 percent in  New York  since the Oct.
18 blaze damaged Brazil’s biggest port. Prices will drop another
7 percent to average 17.25 cents a pound in the second quarter,
Deutsche Bank AG says. While Brazil’s center south, the largest
producing region, may ship 500,000 metric tons less at the peak
of its production cycle in the third quarter, that will still
leave a global export glut of 1.5 million tons, according to
Kingsman SA, a Lausanne, Switzerland-based research company.  The fire that damaged Copersucar SA’s warehouses drove
futures out of the  bear market  that started in September 2012 as
supply beat demand for a second year. China, the second-biggest
user, will have reserves of 5.48 million tons by September and
Indian exports will gain at least 10-fold, the  U.S. Department
of Agriculture  and ED&F Man Commodities India Pvt. say. The drop
in prices is cutting costs for  Krispy Kreme Doughnuts Inc. (KKD)  and
Grupo Bimbo SAB, the biggest bread maker.  “The world won’t need all those Brazilian exports because
we expect primarily the Chinese import demand to slow a little
bit because of the stocks they have,” said  Jonathan Kingsman ,
the founder of Kingsman, a unit of McGraw Hill Financial Inc.’s
Platts. After the Brazilian fire, “people went through all the
numbers and looked at it again and said even if it is
restricted, it won’t have much of an effect.”  Prices Retreat  Futures jumped as much as 6.1 percent to 20.16 cents on ICE
Futures U.S. in New York on Oct. 18 and trading volumes rose to
the highest since 2008. Prices retreated in three of the five
following trading sessions. The July contract is at a 0.17-cent
discount to October, from a 0.03-cent premium on Oct. 21,
signaling easing concern about supply.  Raw sugar is now 4.9 percent lower since the start of
January at 18.55 cents. Futures slumped for five consecutive
quarters through June, the longest losing streak since 1991, as
prices that reached a record 36.08 cents in February 2011
spurred farmers from Brazil to  Thailand  to increase supply.  Global sugar demand will rise 2.3 percent to a record 167.3
million tons in 2013-14, as production expands 0.2 percent to
174.9 million tons, the USDA estimates.  Six Warehouses  The fire at the Port of Santos damaged six warehouses
belonging to Copersucar, Brazil’s biggest sugar and ethanol
exporter, and destroyed 180,000 tons of raw sweetener. The
terminal accounted for about 25 percent of sugar shipments from
Santos, which serves the center south, a region that accounts
for about 90 percent of national production.  Brazil is the biggest sugar producer and its shipments were
valued at $12.65 billion last year, equal to about 5 percent of
the nation’s exports, according to ITC TradeMap, a venture
between the  World Trade Organization  and the  United Nations . The
damage at Santos may exacerbate strains on a transport network
already contending with a record soybean crop.  While prices are retreating from the one-year high reached
Oct. 18, they’re still 17 percent higher than the low reached in
July. Futures had climbed because of concern that wet weather
would disrupt Brazilian harvesting. The center south processed
18 percent less cane in the first half of October than a year
earlier, Unica, an industry group, said Oct. 21.  The Santos warehouses could be rebuilt in eight to 12
months, according to Archer Consulting, an industry adviser in
Sao Paulo. Shipments may be resumed as early as June, Eduardo
Sia, a sugar trader at Sucres et Denrees SA, said by phone from
 Sao Paulo . The conveyor belts and ship loaders weren’t damaged,
Paulo Roberto de Souza, chief executive officer of Copersucar,
said in a speech in Sao Paulo on Oct. 22. The company has yet to
determine the full extent of the damage, he said.  Loading Cargo  Brazil’s sugar harvest is past its peak this season, which
means there is enough capacity at other ports to handle diverted
cargoes. A vessel that was originally scheduled to call at two
terminals in Santos instead went to one and was due to load the
remaining sugar at the Port of Paranagua, according to Williams
Servicos Maritimos Ltda., a shipping agent.  When Brazil’s sugar harvest peaks again next year, the
biggest buyers may not need the cargoes.  China  will import 2.5
million tons in 2013-14, 43 percent less than a year earlier,
Kingsman estimates. The nation may buy as little as 1.4 million
tons, said Robin Shaw, an analyst at Marex Spectron Group in
 London . China was the second-biggest importer of raw sugar last
season, after  Indonesia .  Third Quarter  Krispy Kreme, based in Winston-Salem,  North Carolina , is
locking in lower prices by making forward purchases, CEO James
H. Morgan said at a conference in New York on Sept. 11. Grupo
Bimbo, based in Mexico City, benefited from lower sugar costs in
the third quarter, CEO Daniel Servitje Montull said on a
conference call with analysts Oct. 24. Sweeteners are among the
company’s most important raw materials and it hedges four to
nine months into the future, he said.  India,  Pakistan  and Thailand, which combined produce 23
percent of the world’s sugar, typically start their harvests
from September through November. Thailand, the second-biggest
exporter, will ship a record 8.5 million tons in 2013-14, the
country’s Office of the Cane and Sugar Board forecasts. India
will send as much as 3 million tons overseas, from no more than
300,000 tons a year earlier, ED&F Man India, a unit of the 
London-based raw-materials trader, said on Sept. 16.  “You have India, you have Thailand and you have Pakistan,
so it’s not a complete disaster because these three main markets
all have surpluses,” said Paul Baksh, the head of sugar and
ethanol at ICAP Energy Suisse SA in Geneva. “Anyone who might
need something isn’t that fussed.”  Biggest Refinery  Al Khaleej , the world’s biggest sugar refinery, bought
25,000 tons of raw sweetener from India last week, said Cyrus
Raja, a general manager at the Dubai-based company. Al Khaleej
usually buys sugar from Copersucar, he said. The company had
already bought 50,000 tons from India before the fire, with
sugar from the Asian nation $10 to $15 a ton cheaper than
Brazilian supply, according to ICAP.  “The whole Copersucar affair is a non-event,” said Shaw
of Marex Spectron. “It hasn’t destroyed much sugar, it
destroyed 180,000 tons, we know that, and it’s going to make it
complicated and more expensive for buyers to receive their sugar
next year. But I don’t think it changes a thing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  