-- Swiss Prosecutor Opens Criminal Probe Into F1 Bribery Case
-- B y   A n d y   H o f f m a n
-- 2013-10-29T14:52:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-29/swiss-prosecutor-opens-criminal-probe-into-f1-bribery-case.html
Swiss prosecutors opened an
investigation into allegations that Formula One Chief Executive
Officer  Bernie Ecclestone  paid a bribe to facilitate a sale of
F1 shares.  Authorities in Geneva are examining a $44 million payment
made by Ecclestone and his family trust, called Bambino, to
German banker Gerhard Gribkowsky, a spokesman for the Geneva
prosecutor’s office said today. Ecclestone was charged in May by
German prosecutors over his alleged role.  “A criminal investigation has been launched,” Henri Della
Casa, the spokesman, said in an interview. “We have to
establish the veracity of the facts and whether these would
constitute a criminal violation.”  Gribkowsky helped facilitate the sale of Bayerische
Landesbank’s 47 percent stake in F1 to CVC Capital Partners Ltd.
in 2005. The banker was arrested in  Germany  in 2011 and later
convicted of taking bribes.  The Swiss investigation began after a complaint by
 Constantin Medien AG. (EV4)  The German media company is also suing
Ecclestone for more than $100 million in a U.K. court case,
alleging that the F1 stake was sold to CVC too cheaply because
of a bribe the F1 chief paid to Gribkowsky.  Ecclestone’s lawyer in Germany, Sven Thomas, said he had no
knowledge of the Swiss probe when reached by phone today.
Ecclestone has repeatedly said the payments were made because
Gribkowsky threatened to tell U.K. tax authorities about the
family trust.  The Swiss criminal investigation was reported earlier by
the Financial Times.  The civil trial in  London  began today with a lawyer for
Constantin saying Ecclestone made a “corrupt bargain” to
ensure the controlling stake in F1 was sold to CVC.  Ecclestone, 83, may testify in the trial as soon as next
week. A German court is deciding whether prosecutors have enough
evidence to try Ecclestone for bribery and breach of trust.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Hoffman in Geneva at 
 ahoffman31@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  