-- Swiss Banks See Future in Yuan Financing: Association
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   B o s l e y
-- 2013-10-29T10:57:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-29/swiss-banks-see-future-in-yuan-financing-association.html
Switzerland  should push to allow its
banks to increase yuan financing for companies, according to the
head of the Association of Foreign Banks in Switzerland.  The nation signed a free trade agreement with  China  in
July, becoming the first European country to do so. The two
states have also entered into a memorandum of understanding on
financial market dialogue Swiss banks are interested in Zurich
becoming a center for yuan trading as China seeks to take its
currency global and their traditional business of  wealth
management  faces an uncertain future due to a global crackdown
on  tax evasion .  “A free trade deal without a tradable currency doesn’t
make sense,” Martin Maurer, secretary general of the
association, told journalists in a briefing today. “Corporate
finance in  yuan  is an area Swiss banks can really leave their
mark.”  The move would entail negotiating a swap agreement between
the two countries’ central banks and establishing clearing
mechanisms, Maurer said. Trade-finance services include
guarantees from an importer’s bank that a buyer will pay the
seller on time, as well as short-term loans.  “This would be very important for Geneva trade finance,”
said Maurer, whose association represents banks in Switzerland
with majority shareholders domiciled abroad. Members include
subsidiaries of Barclays Plc, HSBC Holdings Plc and Commerzbank
AG.  Market Opening  People’s Bank of China  Governor  Zhou Xiaochuan  is opening
up the nation’s capital markets as he seeks a greater role for
the yuan in global trade and investment. Shanghai inaugurated a
pilot free-trade zone last month that will allow trials of yuan
convertibility under the capital account and permit overseas
companies to sell debt denominated in the local currency.  In June, China’s central bank signed a three-year swap
agreement for 200 billion yuan ($32.6 billion) with the  Bank of
England  to foster trading in London. Two weeks ago, the U.K.
joined  Hong Kong  and  Taiwan  in being allowed by China to take
part in a program allowing offshore yuan to be invested in
Chinese securities.  Switzerland is basing its push for the yuan business on the
country’s ties with China, one of the nation’s biggest trading
partners. About 4 percent of Swiss exports went to China in
2012, making the country the sixth most important destination
for foreign trade behind countries including Germany, the U.S.,
and Italy, according to the Swiss customs office.  Almost 80 percent of offshore yuan trading is currently
settled in Hong Kong. By 2015, a third of China’s cross-border
trade will be settled in yuan, making the currency one of the
three most used in global trading along with the dollar and
euro, according to a HSBC Holdings Plc.  Yuan transactions account for less than 1 percent of global
trades, compared with about 84 percent combined for the  U.S.
dollar , euro, pound and yen, according to the Belgium-based
Society for Worldwide Interbank Financial Telecommunication, or
Swift, which provides messaging services to banks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catherine Bosley in Zurich at 
 cbosley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  