-- Middle East Endangered by Polio Outbreak in Syria
-- B y   S a n g w o n   Y o o n
-- 2013-10-29T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-29/syria-s-first-virus-outbreak-in-14-years-endangers-middle-east.html
Countries across the Middle East
face a threat of polio, the  World Health Organization  said after
confirming  Syria ’s first outbreak of the crippling infectious
virus since 1999.  Twenty-two children in northeastern Deir Ezzour province,
near Syria’s border with  Iraq , were reported on Oct. 17 to have
become paralyzed and traces of the wild polio virus were found
in samples taken from 10 victims, WHO spokesman Oliver Rosenbauer told reporters yesterday in Geneva.  Polio is a scourge that was recorded in ancient Egyptian
paintings and carvings, and it paralyzed  Franklin D. Roosevelt ,
the U.S. president from 1933 to 1945.  It’s a “communicable disease and with population movements
it could travel to other areas,” Rosenbauer said, warning of
the high risk of a regional spread. The virus invades the
nervous system to cause irreversible paralysis within hours.  More than 4,000 Syrians surge daily into neighboring
countries to flee the 2 1/2-year civil war, according to the
United Nations refugee agency. The outbreak in Syria adds to
recent discoveries of the polio virus in Israeli sewage systems,
setting back the World Health Organization’s $5.5 billion
initiative to make the world polio-free by 2018.  While global cases of polio had dropped to 223 in 2012 from
350,000 in 1988, they rose this year to 301, according to the UN
 agency’s data . Although Nigeria, Pakistan and  Afghanistan 
remained the only countries where polio is endemic, discovery of
the virus in  Israel  earlier this year raised concerns of a
possible spread in the Mideast and  Europe .  Immunization Declines  Most of the 22 children in Syria were younger than 2 years
old and weren’t immunized against the disease or lacked the full
dosage of vaccine. Immunization rates in Syria dropped to 68
percent in 2012 from 91 percent in 2010, as violence weakened
the nation’s infrastructure and health systems, Glenn Thomas,
also a WHO spokesman, said in an e-mail.  There’s no cure for polio, and it can be prevented only
through immunization. It’s transmitted through contaminated food
and water and mainly affects children younger than 5 years old.
Syria has more than 3 million children in that age group,
according to the UN.  Investigation of samples from the remaining 12 victims and
on the origin of the outbreak continues at a WHO lab in Tunis,
and results are expected this week or soon after, Thomas said.  A large-scale immunization campaign started on Oct. 24 in
Syrian government-controlled and contested areas, to vaccinate
1.6 million children against polio, measles, mumps and rubella,
according to a separate  statement  yesterday on the WHO website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sangwon Yoon in  United Nations  at 
 syoon32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  