-- Regulator Stifles Risky Lending That Fueled Dubai Bubble
-- B y   Z a i n a b   F a t t a h   a n d   A l a a   S h a h i n e
-- 2013-10-30T09:40:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-29/u-a-e-banking-regulator-caps-mortgages-to-cool-property-market.html
The United Arab Emirates central
bank capped the size of mortgages that banks in the country can
offer as it moves to avoid a repeat of a property bubble that
caused values to plummet after 2008.  Foreigners can borrow 75 percent of the value of a first
home priced at 5 million dirhams ($1.36 million) or less and
U.A.E. nationals can get 80 percent, according to a document
circulated by the bank yesterday and seen by Bloomberg. The
limits are 65 percent and 70 percent, respectively, for homes
worth more than 5 million dirhams.  Dubai, the second-largest of seven sheikhdoms that make up
the U.A.E., saw  home prices  surge at the fastest pace in the
world in the second quarter, stoking concern that another
property bubble may be growing. That prompted the emirate’s
government to double real estate transaction fees to rein in
speculation. Dubai suffered one of the world’s worst property
crashes in 2008 when speculators fled the market and saddled
banks with unpaid loans.  The regulator capped mortgages for second homes and
investment properties at 60 percent of the value for expatriates
and 65 percent for nationals regardless of the price. Buyers of
properties before they are built can borrow no more than 50
percent of the value “given the long-term nature of the
development process and the higher level of risk to
completion,” the regulator said. Advance sales, known as off-plan, were seen as a main cause of the previous property bubble.  ‘Right Direction’  “This is an important step in the right direction,”
Sultan Bin Mejren, director general of Dubai’s Land Department,
said in an e-mailed statement. “Setting the highest and the
lowest ceiling for lending contributes to protecting the market
from falling into the errors of uncontrolled lending.”  In another measure to clamp down on practices that inflated
Dubai’s property market in the past, the central bank banned
down payments financed by personal loans and credit cards.  “The central bank expects mortgage loan providers to be
explicit in this regard to ensure the borrower has an
appropriate level of financial interest in the collateral,” the
bank said in the document.  The central bank shocked lenders on Dec. 30 when it
circulated a notice saying the loan-to-value ratio on mortgages
to expatriates would be capped at 50 percent for first
properties. Banks resisted restrictions, prompting the regulator
to agree to negotiate the limit with lenders.  Wrong Target  “Whilst the regulation is clearly good for the market, it
is unlikely to have a fundamental impact on current price
growth,”  Matthew Green , head of United Arab Emirates research
at CBRE Group Inc. said in an e-mail yesterday. The controls may
hurt demand from people who buy homes to live in themselves even
though those buyers “should be encouraged,” he said.  The majority of transactions on completed properties in
Dubai are done with cash, limiting the regulator’s ability to
halt average price growth. The new limits may slow the recent
rise of advance, or off-plan, transactions.  “Further regulation of the off-plan market is still
required to help reduce price volatility and reduce the negative
impacts of speculation,” CBRE’s Green wrote.  The regulator also set the maximum length of a mortgage at
25 years and prohibited lenders from using end-of-service
benefits when calculating the borrower’s income. The value of a
mortgage shouldn’t exceed eight years annual salary for an
expatriate borrower and seven years for a U.A.E. national,
according to the regulations.  Penalizing Buyers  “The tools being used to cool the market are not the right
ones and will only penalize end users and help raise the prices
at the lower end of the market,” said Warren Philliskirk,
associate director at Mortgage International, a Dubai-based
broker. “It may also push banks out of the mortgage business if
price is all they can compete on.”  A more effective weapon against speculation would be fees
or taxes that vary depending on how quickly a property is sold,
he said.  Emaar Properties PJSC (EMAAR) , the country’s largest publicly
traded developer, fell 0.2 percent to 6.08 dirham at 1:08 p.m.
in Dubai.  Aldar Properties PJSC (ALDAR) ,  Abu Dhabi ’s biggest developer
which acquired its smaller rival in June, gained 1.1 percent.  The mortgage rules are a “tad tighter than we expected”
though the effect on loan growth will be limited, Jaap Meijer,
the Dubai-based director of equity research at Arqaam Capital
Ltd., said by phone today. No banks “will get out of the
mortgage business” due to the new limits because the loans are
comparatively low risk.  Arqaam expects mortgage lending in the U.A.E. to grow
around 10 percent annually for the next few years, Meijer said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
{Zainab Fattah} in Dubai at 
 zfattah@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ross Larsen at 
 rlarsen2@bloomberg.net  