-- U.A.E.’s GEMS Plans Perpetual Bond Sale for School Expansion
-- B y   A r i f   S h a r i f
-- 2013-10-29T08:21:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-29/u-a-e-s-gems-plans-perpetual-bond-sale-to-fund-school-expansion.html
GEMS Education Ltd., the world’s
biggest privately-owned operator of schools, plans to raise
about $500 million from a debut sale of perpetual Islamic bonds
to fund expansion and tap demand for Shariah-compliant assets.  Morgan Stanley (MS) , Abu Dhabi Islamic Bank PJSC and Credit
Suisse Group Inc. will help Dubai-based GEMS manage the sale of
the bonds without a maturity date, Chief Financial Officer
Nicholas Guest said in a phone interview. The company will begin
meetings with fixed-income investors this week, he said.  GEMS will seek to raise between $650 million to $1 billion
from different sources as part of a plan to build 21 new
schools, including in the U.S. and U.K., over the next three
years and boost capacity at 10 existing institutions, Chief
Operating Officer Dino Varkey said in March. About 130,000
students attend its network of 100 schools in 11 countries.  The planned sukuk is “off the back of very strong
underlying education demand in the U.A.E.” and Persian Gulf
region and part of GEMS’ long-term investment plan, Guest said.
“In the current market conditions there is good demand in the
property and real estate sector for education assets,” he said.  GEMS will hold investor meetings from Oct. 28 to Nov. 8 in
the  United Arab Emirates ,  Asia  and  Europe , two people familiar
with the plan said. An offering of Regulation S only,
subordinated perpetual callable dollar sukuk may follow, said
the people, asking not to be identified because the information
is private. The SEC regulation, known as Reg S, exempts overseas
offerings from the registration requirements under the
 Securities Act  of 1933.  Perpetual Bonds  Other Dubai-based companies have sold perpetual bonds this
year. Majid Al Futtaim Holding LLC, operator of  Carrefour SA (CA) 
supermarkets in the Middle East, last week raised $500 million
from such a sale. The securities were priced at 7.125 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg, and received more than
$4 billion in orders, people familiar with the sale said.  GEMS obtained a 2 billion-dirham ($545 million) loan in
April to refinance investments and fund expansion in the Middle
East and North Africa. The six-year Islamic and conventional
facility was arranged by  Abu Dhabi Islamic Bank PJSC (ADIB) ,
 Mashreqbank PSC (MASQ) ,  Dubai Islamic Bank PJSC (DIB)  and Noor Islamic Bank.  “Having gone to the sukuk market for our bank refinance in
March we found good interest and liquidity from the Islamic
funding sector for education,” Guest said. “So we decided that
it was appropriate to go to a structure that allowed Islamic
funding institutions to participate as well.”  Sukuk Sales  Sales of Islamic bonds this year in the six-nation Gulf
Cooperation Council, which includes  Saudi Arabia , the United
Arab Emirates and Qatar, have dropped 15 percent from the same
period a year ago to $16.4 billion, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. Saudi Arabia’s General Authority of Civil Aviation
raised $4.06 billion in September in the biggest sale of Islamic
bonds in the region this year, the data show.  GEMS may also seek to sell up to 25 percent of its equity
through a private placement as part of its fundraising and has
hired Credit Suisse to help with the plan, Varkey said Sept. 16.  The company continues to look at various sources of capital
from real estate funding, senior debt, sukuk and equity and
continually reviews its  capital structure , Guest said.  GEMS repaid a loan to Abraaj Capital Ltd., the  Middle
East ’s biggest private equity company, this month, Guest said.  Abraaj bought a 25 percent stake in GEMS Education in 2007
and in 2012 restructured its stake into a three-year convertible
loan instrument, according to Abraaj’s 2011 annual report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Arif Sharif in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net ;
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  