-- U.K. Regulator Examined Britannia Before Co-Op Deal, Ex-CEO Says
-- B y   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 2013-10-29T14:02:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-29/u-k-regulator-examined-britannia-before-co-op-deal-ex-ceo-says.html
The U.K. financial regulator
examined Britannia Building Society about three months before
Co-Operative Bank Ltd.’s adviser studied the company ahead of
its 2009 acquisition, a former chief executive officer said.  The Financial Services Authority, the regulator at the
time, found Britannia needed between 30 million pounds ($48
million) and 40 million pounds of extra capital, ex-Co-operative
Bank CEO Barry Tootell told lawmakers in Parliament today. This
review, and one by the firm’s advisers,  KPMG  LLP, gave him
“comfort” in the transaction, he said.  “The FSA conducted a supervisory review of Britannia and
reaffirmed, give or take a 30 to 40 million pounds increase in
their capital requirement” three or four months before KPMG
assessed Britannia, Tootell said.  The Co-Operative Group Ltd. this month agreed to cede
control of its banking unit to creditors after 141 years, as
part of a deal to allow the lender to plug a 1.5 billion-pound
capital shortfall. Souring corporate loans it acquired with
Britannia and repayments made to customers wrongly sold loans
insurance made the biggest impact on that shortfall, Tootell
said today.  One group board member, who Tootell didn’t name, “noted
perhaps Britannia need this a little more than we do,” based on
the capital strength of Britannia, Tootell, 52, said. The FSA
was “encouraging” Britannia to hold back more capital before
the merger, he said. “This was never ever discussed as a
rescue,” he said.  The bank set aside 700 million pounds for bad loans from
Britannia when the deal was agreed, Tootell said, when asked by
lawmaker Andy Love whether shortcomings in Britannia’s loan
books were known.  -- Editors: Jon Menon,  Keith Campbell   To contact the reporter on this story:
Howard Mustoe in  London  at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  