-- U.K. Utilities Accused by Ovo of Overcharging Customers
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2013-10-30T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-29/u-k-utilities-said-to-charge-what-they-can-get-away-with.html
Britain’s biggest utilities are
charging as much “as they can get away with,” the leader of a
smaller supplier said in testimony to Parliament that broke
ranks with the rest of the industry.  Facing questions from lawmakers about why the cost of
energy has outpaced inflation since the recession in 2008, Ovo
Energy Ltd. Managing Director Stephen Fitzpatrick said he could
see no reason that the biggest six utilities have boosted bills
for consumers as much as they have.  “I can’t explain any of these price rises other than they
are not the rises we see in the liquid wholesale market,”
Fitzpatrick said at a hearing of the Energy and Climate Change
Committee in the House of Commons in London yesterday. “It
looks to me that a number of energy companies are charging the
maximum they can get away with. Npower is the worst offender.”  The comments fed anger within Parliament about the cost of
energy, which has risen 30 percent in real terms since 2007.
Lawmakers from the main parties on the panel probed executives
about whether the industry should be broken up or subjected to a
probe by anti-trust regulators.  Big Six  Executives from the so-called Big Six utilities --  Centrica
Plc (CNA) ,  SSE Plc (SSE) , EDF Energy Plc, EON SE,  Iberdrola SA (IBE) ’s Scottish
Power Ltd. and  RWE AG (RWE) ’s Npower unit -- denied suggestions that
they’re profiting unfairly. They blamed the gains on increases
in natural gas costs, rises in levies to pay for clean energy
and regulations requiring they reduce carbon emissions. They
rejected suggestions they’re raising bills while they can before
the next election, when the Labour opposition might take power.  “We are one of the companies that put prices up, and we
did so because of external cost pressures,” said Guy Johnson,
external affairs director at RWE Npower. “We’re not raising
them in anticipation of a price freeze.”  Prime Minister David Cameron’s government is studying
measures it could take to rein in costs, and the Labour
opposition has pledged to freeze bills. The energy committee
including lawmakers from the three main parties summoned
executives from a number of companies to explain the increases.  Gas Costs  Ofgem, the industry regulator, said last night the cost of
wholesale gas and electricity for a typical dual fuel customer
during the last year would have risen by 10 pounds to 610
pounds. It could be higher depending on the company’s hedging
strategy for buying the fuels in forward markets.  Ovo’s Fitzpatrick said the most his company paid for
wholesale gas was 74 pence ($1.19) a therm in May 2011. It’s
since been below 72 pence a therm, he said. Ovo, which increased
prices 5.8 percent for its fixed rate energy tariff in April
citing wholesale costs, buys in the wholesale market, he said.  Debate about what to do with the industry spilled into
television studios, with ministers and opposition lawmakers
challenging the industry to find a way to make electricity
cheaper.  “We don’t need more excuses or reviews,” Labour leader Ed Miliband said on Sky News. “We need action. We need to restore
a proper market. I will accept nothing less than a price freeze.
Labour’s price freeze will happen.”  Government View  Michael Fallon, the Conservative-led government’s energy
minister, said he’s pressing the utilities to make their
finances more transparent and to bring greater competition to
the industry.  “Nobody believes a price freeze would work,” Fallon said
on Sky News.  William Morris, managing director at SSE, said costs of
social and environmental programs account for about 10 percent
of a typical dual fuel bill. They rose 13 percent from a year
ago. Initiatives such as the Energy Companies Obligation should
be paid for through general taxation, rather than consumer
bills, he said.  Possible Savings  He said the utility would pass on savings to customers if
government pared green levies. Cameron said Oct. 23 there is a
need to roll back green levies, which suppliers say contribute
to higher costs. Npower’s Johnson said ECO is an “uncapped
cost.”  Environmental group Greenpeace said energy companies should
stop using green taxes as a “fig leaf.”  “Gas prices, not renewable energy, have pushed bills up.
Green taxes remain a fraction of household bills, and are one of
the best investments that can be made today to reduce costs for
consumers over time,” Policy Director Doug Parr said by e-mail.  Competition Commission  The biggest problem in the industry is lack of competition,
according to Fitzpatrick from Ovo.  “If you don’t have effective competition in the retail
market you’re always going to be trying to find out where the
money is going,” he said. “That is the best way to keep
everyone on their toes.”  Tony Cocker, chief executive officer at EON U.K. Plc, said
he’d written to Cameron and Energy Secretary  Ed Davey  calling
for a competition commission inquiry to help “depoliticize the
debate,” he said.  “I fundamentally believe this market is competitive,” he
said. “But we are not trusted,” so the industry needs the
inquiry supported by Ofgem, he said.  The Labour Party would also split up Britain’s six largest
gas and electricity companies and force them to trade all their
power on the open market. Cocker said he didn’t see
“advantages” to vertical integration, where business units are
managed by a common owner.  Ofgem’s interim Chief Executive Officer Andrew Wright said
the regulator will publish an annual review of the state of the
market in Spring, focusing on reforms in the retail segment it
proposed last year to help get customers on the lowest tariffs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sally Bakewell in  London  at 
 sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  