-- U.K. Stocks Rise as BP Profit Exceeds Analysts’ Estimates
-- B y   I n y o u n g   H w a n g
-- 2013-10-29T17:10:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-29/u-k-stocks-rise-as-bp-profit-exceeds-analysts-estimates.html
U.K. stocks  climbed for a fourth
day, extending a five-month high, as  BP (BP/)  Plc posted earnings that
exceeded analysts’ estimates, while Federal Reserve policy
makers began a two-day meeting.  BP rallied the most since January 2011 after Europe’s
third-largest oil company also increased its dividend.  Royal
Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) , the region’s biggest crude producer, rose 1.5
percent.  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  lost 2 percent after reporting
that its loss widened in the third quarter.  The  FTSE 100 Index (UKX)  added 48.91 points, or 0.7 percent, to
6,774.73 at the close in London, its highest level since May 22.
The equity benchmark has rallied 4.8 percent in October as U.S.
lawmakers reached a last-minute deal to increase their
government’s borrowing authority. The broader FTSE All-Share
Index also advanced 0.7 percent today, while Ireland’s ISEQ
Index decreased less than 0.1 percent.  “Investor sentiment is geared towards central-bank action
and where we’re seeing tapering going,”  Keith Bowman , an equity
analyst at Hargreaves Lansdown Plc in London, said by telephone.
“We’ve had a positive combination of earnings generally
exceeding expectations while any central-bank action has been
deferred. That’s providing a positive backdrop for equities.”  BP rose 5.6 percent to 477.5 pence. Third-quarter profit
adjusted for one-off items and inventory changes dropped to $3.7
billion from $5 billion a year earlier, the London-based company
said in a statement. That still beat the $3.4 billion  average
estimate  of 13 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. The oil producer
raised its dividend by 5.6 percent to 9.5 cents a share.  Energy Companies  Oil and gas companies posted the biggest gain of the 19
industry groups in the Stoxx Europe 600 Index, rising 1.9
percent. Shell added 1.5 percent to 2,168.5 pence.  The  Federal Open Market Committee  starts a two-day meeting
today to discuss whether to reduce its $85 billion of monthly
asset purchases. The policy makers will not opt for less bond
buying until they meet on March 18-19, according to economists
surveyed by  Bloomberg News  earlier this month.  A Commerce Department report in Washington showed that  U.S.
retail sales  unexpectedly fell 0.1 percent in September. The
median forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg had called
for no change. A separate release showed that the Conference
Board’s measure of  consumer confidence  declined to 71.2 this
month from 80.2 in September, a bigger slide than economists had
forecast.  Bovis Homes  Bovis Homes Group Plc (BVS)  climbed 4 percent to 790 pence.
Liberum Capital Ltd. raised its rating on the housebuilder to
buy from hold.  Persimmon Plc (PSN) , the U.K.’s largest residential
property developer, gained 2.5 percent to 1,255 pence.  “U.K. house prices are likely to continue to rise because
of government help, subdued interest rates and good
affordability, but there are enough checks and balances to
ensure that price rises do not get out of hand,”  Charlie Campbell , a London-based analyst at Liberum wrote in a note.  Lloyds slid 2 percent to 78 pence after Britain’s biggest
mortgage lender posted a net loss of 1.3 billion pounds ($2.1
billion) for the three months through September. The bank said
it set aside an additional 750 million pounds to compensate
people wrongly sold loan insurance. Lloyds also reported better-than-expected pretax profit for the period.  Royal Bank of Scotland  Group Plc, which is majority owned
by the state, decreased 1 percent to 364.8 pence.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Inyoung Hwang in London at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  