-- U.S. Agencies Hacked, ISDA, SGX High-Speed: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2013-10-29T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-29/u-s-agencies-hacked-isda-sgx-high-speed-compliance.html
A U.K. hacker stole “massive
amounts” of confidential data from the U.S. Army and the U.S.
 Missile Defense Agency , including service members’ personal
information, the U.S. said.  Lauri Love, 28, and others also breached computer systems
at the Environmental Protection Agency and the  National
Aeronautics and Space Administration , according to Paul Fishman,
the U.S. attorney in New Jersey. Love was arrested Oct. 25 at
home in Stradishall, England, said Fishman yesterday.  The conduct “endangers the security of our country,”
Fishman said.  Love stole identifying information of workers at  NASA , the
 Missile Defense Agency  and the  Army Network Enterprise
Technology Command , according an indictment unsealed yesterday
in federal court in Newark, New Jersey. Criminal complaints also
were unsealed in Newark and Alexandria, Virginia.  The hackers also stole data on the demolition and disposal
of military facilities, natural-resource management, defense
program budgeting data and nonpublic competitive acquisition bid
data, according to Fishman.  Love also hacked into computers at the  U.S. Department of
Health  and Human Services, Energy Department, Sentencing
Commission and Regional Computer Forensics Laboratory, according
to a complaint unsealed in Alexandria. He stole personal
information about employees of the computer forensics laboratory
and the  Federal Bureau  of Investigation, according to an arrest
complaint filed by the FBI.  Love’s arrest came in connection with an investigation by
the U.K.’s National Crime Agency, according to Fishman. He faces
as long as five years in prison on the  New Jersey  charges.  Love conspired with two people in Australia and a resident
of Sweden from October 2012 to this month, prosecutors said.
They communicated using secure Internet chat rooms, where they
frequently changed online monikers, prosecutors said.  The indictment is U.S. v. Love, U.S. District Court,
District of New Jersey (Newark). The FBI complaint is U.S. v.
Love, 13-mj-00657, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of
Virginia (Alexandria).  Compliance Policy  G-30 Pushes for Tight Cooperation Between Banks, Watchdogs  Finance regulators and boards of directors at banks need
closer relations to help limit potential crises, the  Group of
Thirty , a financial policy group, said in a report.  Boards of large banks and their supervisors should agree to
“adopt the principle of no avoidable surprises” when
interacting, the G-30, led by former European Central Bank
President  Jean-Claude Trichet , said in the report, published
yesterday.  “Since the financial crisis, much attention has been on
new regulations in areas such as risk-based capital, liquidity,
resolution, and risk management,” the group said. “Not enough
attention has been placed on ‘softer’ issues that rules alone
cannot address.”  Global bank regulators are trying to improve the culture of
financial firms to prevent a repeat of scandals such as
manipulation of the London interbank offered rate, or Libor.  Singapore Exchange Seeks High-Frequency Traders for More Volume  Singapore Exchange Ltd. (SGX) , Southeast Asia’s biggest bourse
operator, wants to lure more high-speed traders on to its stock
market as it grapples with lower volume.  Computerized trading firms, which execute transactions in
fractions of a second, account for a negligible share of volume
on  Singapore Exchange ’s cash equities market, according to
bourse spokeswoman Loh Wei Ling, while they contribute 30
percent of revenue from derivatives.  Singapore  Exchange will
seek to change that once it introduces safeguards, Chief
Executive Officer  Magnus Bocker  said at a briefing this month.  High-frequency traders facilitate the majority of U.S.
equity transactions, where computerized firms have ample
opportunity to profit from fleeting price discrepancies because
transactions take place on more than 50 venues. Singapore isn’t
as fragmented, which keeps computer traders away.  Credit Suisse
Group AG (CSGN)  and Tabb Group LLC said the city’s relatively high
trading and clearing fees also deter those firms.  Bocker’s been building the infrastructure and regulatory
framework to attract high-speed traders. The bourse rolled out a
S$250 million trading platform in August 2011 that can execute
transactions in 90 microseconds.  Australia,  Hong Kong  and Singapore have considered the
extent to which trading strategies that rely on speedy placement
of bids and offers should be regulated amid concern that they
can be used to manipulate prices. Germany was the first
developed market to legislate the practice, and the European
Parliament is pushing for tougher rules.  For more, click here.  Separately, Singapore’s second minister for trade and
industry, S. Iswaran, spoke at Singapore Energy Summit
yesterday, saying the Singapore Exchange expects to run a trial
of electricity futures in the second half of 2014. Singapore
doesn’t want the market to be an object of speculative activity,
and intends to ensure futures complement its existing spot
market. It will “carefully structure” participation to help
avoid speculation, Iswaran said.  Six generation companies indicated interest in
collaborating with SGX to develop an electricity futures market:
Keppel Merlimau Cogen, Sembcorp Cogen, Senoko Energy, Tuas Power
Generation, Tuaspring and YTL PowerSeraya.  Singapore also is seeing “some evolution in gas
contracts,” Iswaran said at the press briefing.  Bank-Structure Overhaul Dealt Blow as EU Lawmaker Says No Time  The  European Parliament ’s top financial lawmaker said time
has run out for the assembly to deal with proposals to regulate
the structure of banks in a bid to prevent lenders from becoming
too big to fail.  Michel Barnier , the European Union’s internal market
commissioner, has left it too late ahead of parliamentary
elections to submit promised proposals to prevent banks being
too internally complex,  Sharon Bowles , chairwoman of the
parliament’s economic and monetary affairs committee, told
reporters in London yesterday.  Delays in unveiling the blueprint mean there is “no
chance” of his plans becoming law before the assembly adjourns
in preparation for elections next year, Bowles said. “Whatever
he does is likely to be controversial, and secondly we’ve got
other issues in the pipeline that we would really have to finish
and would take priority.”  Regulators are seeking ways to overhaul banks’ operations
so that riskier activities are separated from core lending and
backed by capital reserves. The U.K., France and Germany are
already putting national plans in place for internal firewalls
at their lenders.  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and  Credit Agricole SA (ACA)  are among EU banks
to have lobbied publicly against proposals by a high-level group
to force lenders to separate their trading activities.  The Parliament is set to adjourn in mid-April for May
elections. A new team of EU commissioners is set to take office
in November. The fate of existing legislative proposals after
that is uncertain, as the parliament and commission are free to
redefine their priorities.  Compliance Action  Citigroup Currency Staff Work Into Night in London on Dodd-Frank  The foreign-exchange sales team in  Citigroup Inc. (C) ’s London
office has been putting in long hours to help clients comply
with the Dodd-Frank law.  At least two members of staff have been staying until after
9 p.m. because some clients are no longer allowed to deal with
Citigroup colleagues in New York, Alex Jackson, head of European
investor sales, foreign exchange and local markets, said in a
phone interview on Oct. 25. That’s because the Dodd-Frank Act
prevents people in the U.S. from trading with counterparts who
haven’t agreed to  International Swaps & Derivatives Association 
rules, Jackson said. European money managers and Brazilian  hedge
funds  are among customers relying on the arrangements, he said.  Non-compliant investors or clients are not able to trade
with U.S.-based salepeople or traders physically located in the
U.S., according to Jackson, who cited a footnote to the
regulations on swaps trading. Clients who have “not signed the
ISDA protocol” fall under this, he said.  Citigroup is among banks around the world that are adapting
to regulatory initiatives introduced to curb financial-market
risks following the 2008 credit crisis and subsequent recession.
Of the dozens of derivatives rules being completed, the most
contentious have involved how to oversee swaps traded across
borders.  To provide customers with round-the-clock trading, foreign-exchange dealers typically cooperate among staff in Asia, London
and the U.S., sharing online instant-message chats and
redirecting phone lines.  Citigroup will probably review in the future whether to
continue offering the service as more clients sign up to the
ISDA rules, Jackson said.  Courts  Ex-Slaughter, Linklaters Lawyers Fail to Toss Trading Suit  A former  Slaughter and May  lawyer and her boyfriend who
worked for Linklaters LLP lost a bid to dismiss a  Hong Kong
Securities and Futures Commission  lawsuit alleging they used
inside information to trade shares.  Young Bik Fung, Lee Kwok Wa and his two sisters made HK$2.9
million ($374,000) trading shares of Hsinchu International Bank
ahead of a takeover offer by  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN)  and of  Asia
Satellite Telecommunications Ltd. (1135)  before a privatization offer,
the SFC says.  Hong Kong High Court Judge Anthony Chan yesterday dismissed
their application to strike out the SFC’s lawsuit on grounds
including that the regulator lacked jurisdiction as the trading
of Hsinchu shares took place in Taiwan. The four said they
bought the shares of the two companies in 2006 and 2007 without
any inside information.  Maurice Lee, a lawyer for the four, didn’t immediately
respond to an e-mail requesting comment. Neil Hyman, a partner
at Slaughter and May in Hong Kong, declined to comment on the
case.  Lee Kwok Wa “left this firm in 2007,” Amanda Clarke, a
spokeswoman for Linklaters in Hong Kong, said by e-mail. “We
have no comment to make on his personal legal proceedings.”  The case is Securities & Futures Commission v. Young Bik
Fung, HCMP2575/2010, Hong Kong’s Court of First Instance.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey
at   cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 