-- U.S. Must Tighten Privacy Laws to Boost Trust, EU’s Reding Says
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 2013-10-29T14:18:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-29/u-s-must-tighten-privacy-laws-to-boost-trust-eu-s-reding-says.html
The U.S. must tighten its privacy
rules or risk harming relations with the European Union, the
EU’s justice chief said in the wake of a scandal over reports
America hacked German  Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s mobile phone.  The U.S. “will have to show that they treat  Europe  as a
real partner” and that they take the 28-nation EU’s concerns
about privacy and data protection seriously, EU Justice
Commissioner  Viviane Reding  said in prepared remarks for a
Washington speech.  “The revelations about the activities of American
intelligence agencies in Europe and the damage this has caused
have brought renewed attention to this issue,” Reding said
today. “The concept of national security does not mean that
‘anything goes’ -- states do not enjoy an unlimited right of
secret surveillance.”  European leaders last week condemned the reported U.S.
hacking of Merkel’s cellphone and said they will seek trans-Atlantic accords on espionage practices. Still, they rejected
calls from some European politicians for a suspension of trans-Atlantic trade talks that have export-oriented  Germany  as a
prime backer.  The EU is debating an overhaul of its data protection rules
dating back to 1995. A proposal put forward last year by the
European Commission, the EU’s regulator, would also hold U.S.
companies such as  Google Inc. (GOOG) ,  Facebook Inc. (FB)  and  Apple Inc. (AAPL) 
liable for violations such as unauthorized transfers of data on
EU citizens to non-EU countries. Fines could be as high as 100
million euros ($138 million), according to draft rules backed
last week by a European Parliament committee.  Coherent Rules  “Once a single, coherent set of rules is in place in
Europe, we will expect the same from the U.S.,” said Reding.
“Control of every movement, every word or every e-mail made for
private purposes is not compatible with Europe’s fundamental
values or our common understanding of a free society.”  The EU and U.S. began negotiations earlier this year on a
free-trade agreement, which would expand the world’s biggest
economic relationship by removing tariffs, easing regulatory
barriers and increasing access in investment, services and
public procurement.  Reding warned the U.S. that the privacy concerns may derail
the trade talks.  “Including a legal provision on judicial redress for EU
citizens, regardless of their residence, in the forthcoming U.S.
Privacy Act is an essential step towards restoring trust among
partners,” said Reding. “Restoring such trust will be very
much needed if we want to successfully conclude” the trade
negotiations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Bodoni in Luxembourg at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  