-- U.S. Toughens Conditions to Back Development Coal Loans
-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 2013-10-29T21:46:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-29/u-s-toughens-conditions-to-back-development-coal-loans.html
Development banks such as the World
Bank or the African Development Bank will need to meet more
stringent criteria to obtain U.S. support for coal-fired power
plants abroad under new guidelines released today.  Only projects in very poor nations that have no
economically feasible alternatives, or in  emerging markets  that
use carbon capture technologies, will get U.S. backing under the
new criteria. The conditions aim to implement an aspect of
President  Barack Obama ’s climate action plan released in June.  “By encouraging the use of clean energy in multilateral
development bank projects, we are furthering U.S. efforts to
address the urgent challenges of climate change,” Treasury
Undersecretary for International Affairs Lael Brainard said in a
statement released today.  While the U.S. can’t stop such projects on its own, it
vowed in the statement to work on getting allies among other
development banks’ member countries. A first test may come in
Kosovo, where the World Bank is studying whether to offer
partial guarantees for a lignite-fired plant.  The  Kosovo  plant would be the first major coal project to
receive World Bank support since 2010. The Washington-based
lender has also decided to restrict coal-fired power plants to
“rare circumstances.”  Awaiting Evaluation  The U.S. isn’t in a position to evaluate the proposal yet
because the bank’s management hasn’t presented all documentation
to the board of directors, according to a Treasury official who
spoke on condition of anonymity to discuss specifics of the
policy.  The Treasury uses as a guide to determine a country’s
poverty level the list of borrowers from the International
Development Association, or IDA, the World Bank unit that lends
at zero to very low interest rates.  Kosovo, the Balkan country that declared its independence
from  Serbia  in 2008, straddles that line between a very poor and
 emerging  nation: according to the bank’s website, it can access
financing from IDA, though on different borrowing terms that
others.  “Kosovo doesn’t meet the test of the president’s action
plan,” said Nezir Sinani, a climate change coordinator at the
Bank Information Center, a Washington-based non-profit group
that advocates for economic justice and ecological
sustainability at development banks. “This is the test case and
all eyes are on the U.S. government to see if they are
serious.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  