-- U.S. House Votes to Delay Rules on Retirement Investment Advice
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C o l l i n s
-- 2013-10-30T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-29/u-s-house-votes-to-delay-rules-on-retirement-investment-advice.html
The U.S House voted to delay a Labor
Department effort to expand investor protections for more than
$13 trillion worth of private retirement accounts, including
401(k)s and IRAs.  The legislation, which passed 254-166 yesterday, would stop
the department from issuing a proposal to prevent conflicts of
interest in retirement-investment advice until 60 days after the
Securities and Exchange Commission finalizes a similar rule. The
bill also would make the SEC rule-writing task harder by
requiring the agency to show that investors have been harmed by
existing rules governing brokers’ advice.  The agencies have been working on regulations to require
more investment professionals to give advice that is in their
clients’ best interests, meeting a standard known as fiduciary
duty. The Labor Department proposal would expand that standard
to more providers of retirement accounts while the SEC rule
would apply to sales of securities. The White House opposed the
bill, which now goes to the Democrat-controlled Senate.  “It only got 30 Democratic votes. That in our view is a
very good result,”  Barbara Roper , director of investor
protection for the  Consumer Federation of America , said in an
interview after the House vote. “We needed to avoid a sense of
overwhelming bipartisan support that would have created pressure
on the Senate to act.”  The Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association,
a lobbying group for banks and brokerages, said in 2011 that
Labor Department efforts might increase costs and limit products
for investors, especially those with small balances.  Fiduciary Standard  “Congress must step in to ensure that federal agencies do
not harm the very people they are trying to protect,”
Representative Ann Wagner, a Missouri Republican who wrote the
bill, said in a June statement. Representative Patrick Murphy, a
Florida Democrat, is a co-sponsor on the legislation.  President  Barack Obama ’s advisers would recommend a veto of
the bill because it would derail rulemakings “critical to
protecting Americans’ hard-earned savings and preserving their
retirement security,” the administration said in a statement on
Monday.  The Labor Department’s proposal would change the agency’s
definition of investment advice so that providers may be held to
the fiduciary duty standard even if they don’t regularly make
recommendations to workers. The agency has said it would provide
exemptions to allow for some commission-based transactions.  Mike Trupo, a spokesman for the Labor Department, declined
in an e-mail to comment on the vote.  Retirement Assets  U.S. retirement assets, not including government pensions
and annuity reserves,  totaled  about $13.8 trillion as of June
30, with $5.7 trillion in IRAs and $5.3 trillion in defined
contribution plans such as 401(k)s, according to the  Investment
Company Institute  in  Washington .  The SEC staff recommended in January 2011 that the
regulator should consider imposing a fiduciary duty on brokers
providing investment advice to retail customers. Under such a
standard, brokers would have to disclose their conflicts of
interest to customers.  An agency staff study, mandated by the 2010 Dodd-Frank Act,
found many retail investors don’t understand that investment
advisers and brokers operate under different legal standards for
dealing with customers. Under current rules, brokers have a
looser duty to recommend investments that are suitable for
customers, while investment advisers have a stricter duty to put
their clients’ best interests first.  SEC Requirement  The House bill requires the SEC to show that investors are
being hurt under the existing standard and that the new rule
would reduce investor confusion over duties of brokers versus
investment advisers. Those stipulations may cause the agency to
write a weaker rule that doesn’t trigger industry resistance,
Roper said.  Participants with 401(k) accounts may not understand that
the person educating them about their investments may have a
financial stake in the choices they make, a 2011 U.S. Government
Accountability Office  report  said. Such conflicts of interest
could lead 401(k) participants who change jobs to move money to
IRAs, which may have higher fees, the GAO said.  Because they are not subject to the fiduciary standard,
financial services firms that administer 401(k) plans for
employers may recommend funds in which they have a financial
interest rather than products better suited to the investor, the
report said.  In the Senate, 10 Democrats including Jon Tester of  Montana 
and Kirsten Gillibrand of  New York  wrote a letter to the Office
of Management and Budget in August urging a delay on the Labor
Department rule until the SEC acts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Collins in New York at 
 mcollins45@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  