-- U.S. Lost $9.7 Billion on GM So Far, Sigtarp Reports
-- B y   T i m   H i g g i n s   a n d   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e
-- 2013-10-30T04:01:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-29/u-s-has-lost-9-7-billion-so-far-on-gm-bailout-sigtarp-reports.html
The U.S. Treasury’s bailout fund has
lost about $9.7 billion on its rescue of  General Motors Co. (GM)  and
would need to sell its remaining shares in the automaker for an
average of $147.95 to break even, a report to Congress said.  The Special Inspector General for the Troubled Asset Relief
Program in a report issued yesterday estimated the realized
losses on all GM shares sold from November 2010 through Sept.
13, 2013, at $9.7 billion. At that point, the U.S. owned 101.3
million shares. If it sold those for yesterday’s closing price,
the government would lose about $760 million more, bringing the
total loss to about $10.5 billion.  The U.S. investment in GM was the biggest piece of an
industry bailout that became a centerpiece of President  Barack Obama ’s first term. The Treasury has said it will sell its
shares by early 2014. GM Chief Executive Officer Dan Akerson has
said the government may exit before this year is over.  “The auto rescue saved our economy more than a million
jobs and led to the revitalization of our nation’s domestic auto
industry,” Representative  Sander Levin , a Michigan Democrat,
said in a statement. “General Motors and Chrysler -- not to
mention Ford -- are thriving, in no small part thanks to the
commitment from the Obama administration.”  The government is exiting Detroit-based GM as investor
confidence has risen while the company introduces 18 new or
redesigned vehicles in the U.S. The product surge is
transforming its lineup into one of the freshest in the industry
from the one of the oldest.  GM rose 0.7 percent to $36.06 at the close in  New York . The
restructured company held its initial public offering in 2010 at
$33 a share. The shares gained 25 percent this year, exceeding a
24 percent gain for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  GAO Report  The automaker declined to comment directly on the report.  “General Motors’ energies are fully focused on designing,
building and selling the world’s best vehicles,” said Heather
Rosenker, a GM spokeswoman based in  Washington .  A second report to Congress yesterday, this one by the U.S.
Government Accountability Office, estimated that GM’s stock
price needs to reach $156 per share for Treasury to fully recoup
its investment as of Sept. 16.  “The price of GM’s stock is not at the level needed for
Treasury to fully recoup its investment,” the report said.  The auto rescue saved 1.14 million jobs in 2009 at
automakers and companies that depend on the industry, according
to the Center for Automotive Research. A collapse would have
reduced personal income in the U.S. in 2009 and 2010 by $96.5
billion, costing the federal government $28.6 billion in extra
jobless benefits and reduced Social Security contributions and
income taxes in those years, the center said.  “The U.S. government intervention should be seen as the
most successful intervention in the private sector in peacetime
in U.S. history,”  Sean McAlinden , the center’s chief economist,
said in an e-mail.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tim Higgins in Detroit at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net ;
Angela Greiling Keane in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  