-- U.S. Monitored World Leaders as All Nations Do: Clapper
-- B y   C h r i s   S t r o h m
-- 2013-10-29T19:41:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-29/u-s-monitored-world-leaders-as-all-nations-do-clapper.html
The U.S. spies on foreign leaders to
understand their intentions and other governments spy on
American government officials, Director of National Intelligence
James Clapper said today.  “Leadership intentions, in whatever form that’s expressed,
is kind of a basic tenant of what we collect and analyze,”
Clapper told the House intelligence committee. “It’s invaluable
for us to know where countries are coming from, what their
policies are and how that would impact us across a whole range
of issues.”  It’s important to determine “if what they’re saying gels
with what’s actually going on,” Clapper said.  Revelations about the extent of data and communications
swept up by the National Security Agency since the Sept. 11
terrorist attacks have complicated U.S. relations with allies,
particularly in  Europe  where the administration is seeking a
trans-Atlantic trade agreement. Germany and  Brazil  are testing
support at the  United Nations  for a resolution expressing deep
concern about U.S. spying.  NSA Spying  News reports in  France ’s Le Monde and  Spain ’s El Mundo that
the National Security Agency collected the communications
records of millions of European citizens “are completely
false,” NSA Director General Keith Alexander told the
committee.  “This is not information that we collected on European
citizens,” Alexander said. The reports cite data that the U.S.
and North American Treaty Organization allies have collected
“in defense of our countries and in support of our military
operations,” Alexander said.  U.S. spying objectives are established by the White House
and national security policymakers, Clapper said. Intelligence
agencies don’t initiate their own operations outside of those
parameters, Clapper said.  “We do only what the policymakers writ large have asked us
to do,” Clapper said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Strohm in Washington at 
 cstrohm1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at   bkohn2@bloomberg.net  