-- U.S. in Leading Role in Global Currency Rigging Probe
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2013-10-30T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-29/u-s-in-leading-role-in-global-currency-rigging-probe.html
The U.S. Justice Department is
taking a leading role in a global investigation into possible
manipulation of the $5.3 trillion-a-day foreign exchange market,
a department official said.  Mythili Raman, acting head of the criminal division, said
in an interview yesterday that the department’s criminal and
antitrust divisions have an “active investigation” into
possible manipulation of foreign exchange rates. She declined to
name specific institutions under scrutiny or say when the probe
began.  Bloomberg News reported Oct. 11 that the U.S. had begun a
criminal investigation of currency-market rigging, according to
a person familiar with the matter.  The U.S. is “taking a leading role” in the probe with
respect to international enforcers scrutinizing possible
exchange rate manipulation, Raman said.  European Union antitrust regulators, the U.K. Financial
Conduct Authority, Switzerland’s Financial Market Supervisory
Authority, or Finma, and the Swiss Competition Commission are
also probing the foreign exchange market.  The regulators are reviewing alleged abuse of benchmarks
used in markets from oil to  interest-rate swaps  by the firms
that play a central role in setting them.  Instant Messages  In the currency probe, regulators are examining an instant
message group used by senior dealers at firms including  Barclays
Plc (BARC) ,  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  and  UBS AG (UBSN) 
to outline details of their positions and client orders, as well
as make trades before key benchmarks were set, two people with
knowledge of the discussions have said.  The FCA said in June it was reviewing potential
manipulation of exchange rates. That month, allegations that
dealers at banks pooled information through instant messages and
used client orders to move benchmark currency rates were
reported by Bloomberg News.  Swiss regulators said earlier this month they were
“coordinating closely with authorities in other countries as
multiple banks around the world are potentially implicated.”
The probes include alleged manipulation of ISDAfix, a benchmark
in the $379 trillion market for interest-rate swaps.  Earlier yesterday,  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN)  was said to have
put Matt Gardiner, one of its most senior foreign-exchange
dealers, on leave as regulators probe possible manipulation in
currency markets, according to a person with knowledge of the
matter.  The allegations don’t relate to his work at Standard
Chartered, said the person, who asked not to be identified
because the move hasn’t been made public. He previously worked
at Barclays and Zurich-based UBS and moved to Standard Chartered
in September as assistant chief dealer of currencies in  London .  Internal Reviews  Gardiner didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail and a
message left on his mobile telephone and officials at London-based Standard Chartered declined to comment.  Frankfurt-based  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and UBS have said they are
conducting internal reviews of their foreign exchange practices
and cooperating with authorities. Deutsche Bank has declined to
comment on the U.S. probe. RBS, based in Edinburgh, said Oct. 16
it is cooperating with the FCA. Officials at London-based
Barclays and Citigroup, based in New York, have declined to
comment on discussions among traders.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  