-- UBS Profitability Goal Delayed by Capital Demands
-- B y   E l e n a   L o g u t e n k o v a
-- 2013-10-29T08:23:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-29/ubs-profitability-goal-delayed-by-capital-demands.html
UBS AG (UBSN) ,  Switzerland ’s biggest bank,
said it probably won’t be able to reach its profitability goal
in 2015 after the Swiss regulator demanded the company hold more
capital for risks related to litigation.  The bank’s ambition to reach its 15 percent return on
equity target in 2015 will be delayed by at least a year unless
the regulator removes its demand, the Zurich-based company said
in a statement today. UBS  dropped  as much as 6.9 percent in
Swiss trading, the biggest intraday decline since July 2012.  “There is no single item that we can point to that brought
this decision,” Chief Executive Officer  Sergio Ermotti  said in
an interview with Bloomberg Television, referring to the order
to increase capital for operational risks. “It’s a variety of
reasons and it’s a temporary measure. We will work hard to take
this add-on away.”  UBS reported third-quarter net income of 577 million Swiss
francs ($644 million) compared with the 561 million-franc
average estimate of 12 analysts  surveyed  by Bloomberg. A 222
million-franc tax benefit helped cushion 586 million francs in
provisions for litigation and regulatory matters. UBS said today
it has received requests for information from various
authorities investigating foreign exchange matters.  The Swiss regulator’s demand for more capital is a setback
for Ermotti, who decided to exit most debt-trading businesses at
the investment bank last year to boost returns. The bank, which
paid about 3 billion francs in fines and settlements for
litigation in the past year, said it expects “elevated
charges” for legal and regulatory matters through 2014.  Capital Goal  UBS fell 6.3 percent to 17.97 francs by 9:14 a.m. in
Zurich, trimming its gain this year to 26 percent. That compares
with a 31 percent increase for  Credit Suisse (CSGN)  Group AG and a 17
percent advance in the  Bloomberg Europe Banks and Financial
Services Index , which tracks 44 companies.  “We see some pressure on the share price in the short term
with ongoing litigation expenses to come,”  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) 
analysts Kian Abouhossein and Amit Ranjan said in a note today,
adding that the delay in reaching UBS’s profitability target
doesn’t change their forecasts. “Overall, the restructuring is
well ahead of track both in terms of cost savings, staff
reductions, and asset and risk-weighted assets reductions.”  UBS still expects to be able to boost its Basel III common
equity ratio to more than 13 percent in 2014. The regulator’s
demands for higher risk weightings to be assigned to litigation
and compliance matters will be partially offset by the boost in
capital the bank will get from repurchasing a fund from the
 Swiss National Bank .  SNB Fund  Reaching that capital target is at top of the bank’s agenda
for next year, Ermotti said. UBS plans to start paying out more
than 50 percent of profits as dividends after it reaches the
capital target.  The Swiss Financial Market Supervisory Authority’s demand
adds about 28 billion francs to UBS’s risk-weighted assets and
reduces the Basel III common equity ratio by 130 basis points as
of Oct. 1 from 11.9 percent at the end of September, UBS said.  The bank’s plan to buy back the SNB’s fund, which was used
to wind down UBS’s toxic assets from the subprime crisis, will
add 100 basis points to the capital ratio, more than the company
previously estimated, as the fund’s assets have shrunk to 1
million francs. A basis point is equivalent to one hundredth of
a percentage point.  FX Probes  The regulator’s decision was based on a comparison of
recent loss history with the capital underpinning operational
risks, UBS said. Finma will review the situation periodically,
considering provisions that the bank has made and developments
in relevant legal matters. UBS had 1.74 billion francs in
provisions for litigation and regulatory matters as of Sept. 30,
down from 2.19 billion francs at the end of June.  Finma is among regulators worldwide probing banks for
potential manipulation of  currency markets . UBS has taken and
will take appropriate personnel measures as it conducts an
internal probe of the currency business.  UBS agreed this year to pay $885 million to settle claims
that it improperly sold mortgage-backed securities to  Fannie Mae 
and  Freddie Mac . The bank was fined about 1.4 billion francs
last year by the Swiss, U.S. and U.K. regulators for attempting
to manipulate benchmark  interest rates . It was fined last year
29.7 million pounds ($47.9 million) by the U.K. regulator for
weaknesses in management systems and internal controls that were
revealed as a result of Kweku Adoboli’s $2.3 billion loss in
2011 from unauthorized trading.  The Swiss regulator said at the time that it may ask UBS to
increase capital levels for operational risks.  Cutting Assets  Third quarter results were “disappointing,” said  Tim Dawson , a Geneva-based analyst at Helvea SA. “It’s hard to
imagine  investment banking  and private banking results for the
next few quarters being spectacularly good. But it’s important
not to lose sight of how far UBS has traveled.”  Since deciding a year ago to exit most debt trading
businesses, UBS has sped up its asset-reduction plan, cutting 82
billion francs, or 27 percent, of risk-weighted assets over the
past 12 months.  “One year into the acceleration of our strategy, we are
ahead of plan on execution,” Ermotti, 53, said in the
statement.  UBS’s investment bank posted a pretax profit of 251 million
francs compared with 92 million francs a year earlier. The unit
is less vulnerable to swings in the debt markets that hurt the
revenue of rivals including Credit Suisse in the third quarter.
UBS’s revenue from equities trading rose 23 percent to 890
million francs, while revenue from foreign exchange, rates and
credit fell 25 percent to 312 million francs.  Credit Suisse  Credit Suisse, the second-biggest Swiss bank, last week
reported third-quarter earnings that missed analysts’ estimates
as profit at the investment bank fell on a 42 percent drop in
revenue from fixed-income sales and trading. The bank said it
would shrink its rates business, part of the fixed-income unit,
by more than 40 percent by the end of 2015 to boost returns.  JPMorgan, Goldman Sachs Group Inc., Citigroup Inc., Bank of
America Corp. and  Morgan Stanley (MS)  reported a 25 percent decline
in cumulative third-quarter revenue from fixed income and a 9.7
percent gain in equities, compared with a year earlier, data
compiled by Bloomberg Industries show. The figures exclude
valuation adjustments.  Wealth Management  UBS’s  wealth management  unit saw earnings fall 4.6 percent
to 555 million francs from 582 million francs a year earlier, as
the business’s gross margin, which measures how much revenue it
makes on assets under management, fell 5 basis points from the
second quarter to 85 basis points.  Clients’ risk appetite was “very low” in the quarter as
geopolitical and macroeconomic issues escalated, Ermotti said.
Increasing that risk appetite is “going to take time, it’s
going to take a long time and it’s going to take a resolution
for good of those matters.”  Wealth management Americas reported a 28 percent increase
in pretax profit to 202 million francs, and the retail and
corporate unit saw earnings increase 1.8 percent to 402 million
francs, UBS said. Asset-management profit fell 6.4 percent to
118 million francs, the bank said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elena Logutenkova in Zurich at 
 elogutenkova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  