-- UBS Reports Slowdown in Emerging Market Wealth Inflows
-- B y   G i l e s   B r o o m
-- 2013-10-29T13:03:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-29/ubs-reports-slowdown-in-emerging-market-wealth-inflows.html
UBS AG (UBSN) , the world’s largest private
bank for the rich, said net inflows from wealthy clients in
 emerging markets  slowed in the third quarter.  Net new money growth in the three months through September
for Zurich-based UBS’s emerging markets division, defined as
including  Russia , eastern Europe, the  Middle East ,  Africa  and
 India , was 1.8 percent, down from 8.1 percent a year earlier,
the bank  reported today . Net inflows from clients in the Asia-Pacific division grew at less than half the pace of the prior-year period.  UBS is focusing on affluent clients in developing economies
as government debt loads and a crackdown on offshore tax evasion
cloud prospects in Europe. Switzerland’s largest bank, ranked
No. 1 globally by client assets by Scorpio Partnership, is also
boosting business with ultra-wealthy families with at least 50
million Swiss francs ($56 million) of investable assets.  The slowdown in net new money was primarily a result of
“deleveraging,” with lower demand for Lombard loans, Chief
Financial Officer Tom Naratil told investors and reporters on a
conference call today. A Lombard loan is usually defined as
credit granted against securities pledged as collateral.  UBS defines net new money growth as net client inflows over
the quarter as a percentage of assets under management reported
at the end of the previous quarter.  Customers became more cautious about borrowing and making
transactions due to the debate over whether the  Federal Reserve 
would reduce the pace of its monthly securities buying during
the quarter, Naratil said.  Tapering Concern  “It’s more than just seasonal,” Naratil said, referring
to a “traditional summer slowdown” in wealth management
clients’ activity.  The Fed decided in September it wouldn’t taper bond
purchases designed to support the  U.S. economy . The central bank
also revised down its projection for growth in U.S. gross
domestic product. Private banking clients will remain reluctant
to invest “over the coming quarters,” UBS Chief Executive
Officer  Sergio Ermotti  said on Sept. 19.  UBS reported 600 million francs of net new money from
emerging markets, compared with 2.4 billion francs in the third
quarter of 2012. Net inflows from Asia-Pacific were 2.4 billion
francs, down from 3.8 billion francs a year earlier.  Inflows from emerging markets and Asia accounted for about
three-fifths of the 5 billion francs of net new money reported
for the whole of UBS’s wealth management unit, which doesn’t
include the Americas, the bank said today. Invested assets
climbed to 871 billion francs as of Sept. 30, from 862 billion
francs at the end of June, at the unit.  “We expect that our wealth management business will
continue to attract net new money, reflecting new and existing
clients’ steadfast trust in the firm,” Ermotti and UBS Chairman
 Axel Weber  said in a letter to shareholders published in the
 financial report  today.  Wealth management earnings fell 4.6 percent to 555 million
francs from 582 million francs a year earlier, as the business’s
gross margin, which measures how much revenue it makes on assets
under management, dropped 4 basis points to 85 basis points. A
basis point is one hundredth of a percentage point.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Giles Broom in Geneva at 
 gbroom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  