-- Huishang Bank Lures Wealthy Individuals Back to Hong Kong IPOs
-- B y   F o x   H u
-- 2013-10-29T16:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-29/huishang-bank-lures-wealthy-individuals-back-to-hong-kong-ipos.html
Huishang Bank Corp. (0886140D) , a lender in
China’s eastern province of Anhui, secured as much as $102
million of investments from billionaire  Cheng Yu-tung  and other
wealthy individuals in its Hong Kong initial public offering.  Cheng, Asia’s fourth-richest man, agreed to buy 57.6
million shares valued at as much as $29 million at the top end
of a marketed price range, according to a term sheet obtained by
 Bloomberg News  yesterday. Huishang is the first major Hong Kong
IPO in more than two years to attract wealthy individuals as
cornerstone investors, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Companies that went public in Hong Kong this year have
gained an average 10 percent from their offer prices after
adjusting for deal size, data compiled by Bloomberg show. In
2012, IPO stocks gained 3 percent, the data show. Hong Kong’s
benchmark  Hang Seng Index (HSI)  has advanced 6.2 percent this year.  “There seems to be a bit more momentum for primary issues
in Hong Kong right now,” said Philippe Espinasse, former head
of  equity capital markets  for Asia at Nomura Holdings Inc. and
author of “IPO: a Global Guide.”  The last Hong Kong IPO of more than $500 million that
attracted cornerstone commitments from wealthy individuals was
the May 2011 offering of casino operator MGM China Holdings Ltd.
Billionaire hedge-fund manager  John Paulson  and  Kirk Kerkorian ,
the founder of MGM Resorts International, invested in that
offering.  Cornerstone investors receive a guaranteed stock in an IPO
in return for agreeing to hold the shares for at least six
months. Huishang and some shareholders are seeking as much as
$1.3 billion in the IPO, the terms show.  Hongqiao Investment  China Vanke Co., the country’s biggest developer, plans to
buy as much as $442 million of stock as a cornerstone investor
for Huishang, the terms show. Individuals named Xu Ping and Kan
Hung Chih, as well as machinery makers Jiangsu Huijin and China
General Technology (Group) Holdings Co., will also buy shares as
cornerstone investors, according to the terms.  Cheng, who controls the world’s largest listed jewelry
chain, has a net worth of $20.7 billion, according to the
Bloomberg Billionaire Index. In March 2011, he bought $100
million of stock in the  Hong Kong  IPO of aluminum producer China
Hongqiao Group Ltd., according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fox Hu in Hong Kong at 
 fhu7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  