-- Forint Weakens Most in Month on Hungary Rate Cut: Budapest Mover
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y   a n d   M a r t o n   E d e r
-- 2013-10-29T16:05:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-29/hungary-3-year-yield-drops-to-record-on-rate-bet-budapest-mover.html
The forint weakened the most in more
than a month after the central bank lowered  interest rates  for
the 15th straight month and said it may continue cutting
borrowing costs to boost the economy.  The currency depreciated 0.5 percent to 294.03 per euro by
4:20 p.m. in Budapest, paring this month’s advance to 1.2
percent, the second-best performance among 24 emerging-market
currencies tracked by Bloomberg. Hungary’s three-year bond
yields dropped three basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to
4.2 percent, an all-time low, as rates fell at an auction today.  The Magyar Nemzeti Bank reduced its two-week deposit rate
to 3.4 percent from 3.6 percent after reductions in household
utility prices helped curb inflation and the U.S. Federal
Reserve maintained its stimulus program. The move was in line
with all but one of 22 estimates in a Bloomberg survey of
economists. “Further cautious easing of monetary conditions may
follow,” the Monetary Council said in a statement.  The central bank may reduce the policy rate to 3 percent by
the end of this year, Budapest-based analysts at Erste Group
Bank AG including Gergely Gabler wrote in a report after the
rate decision. “Possible negative changes in  risk assessment 
may bring the need of rate hikes” from that level, they said.  The government sold a planned 40 billion forint ($188
million) in three-month Treasury bills at its weekly auction.
The average yield was 3.25 percent, the  lowest  on record,
according to data from the Debt Management Agency on Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net ;
Marton Eder in Budapest at 
 meder4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  