-- Hungary Cuts Main Rate to Record as Utility Costs Curb Inflation
-- B y   E d i t h   B a l a z s
-- 2013-10-29T13:05:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-29/hungary-cuts-main-rate-to-record-as-utility-costs-curb-inflation.html
Hungary ’s central bank cut its
benchmark  interest rate  to a record low as state-mandated
reductions in household electricity prices helped keep inflation
below the bank’s target.  The Magyar Nemzeti Bank reduced the two-week deposit rate
to 3.4 percent from 3.6 percent at a meeting today, matching the
forecasts of 21 of 22 economists in a Bloomberg survey. One
predicted a cut to 3.45 percent. The central bank will release a
statement on the decision at 3 p.m. in Budapest.  Monetary-policy makers have lowered borrowing costs for 15
straight months, slashing the benchmark by more than half to
buoy recovery from a recession last year. “Subdued” inflation
may let policy makers trim the rate to near 3 percent, central
bank President Gyorgy Matolcsy said last month. To help tame
prices, the government has imposed a one-fifth reduction in
utility costs in 2013.  “The Monetary Council may justify its dovish stance by the
soft headline inflation,”  Eszter Gargyan , a Budapest-based
economist at Citigroup Inc., said yesterday by e-mail. Price
growth “may move even lower in December 2013 because of the
impact of the next round of regulative utility-price cuts.”  The forint, which has gained 1.8 percent in the last month,
the best performance among 24 emerging-market currencies tracked
by Bloomberg, traded at 293.33 per euro as of 1:38 p.m. in
Budapest. The yield on the benchmark government bond due 2023
dropped to 5.35 percent from 5.9 percent a month ago.  More Easing  Forward-rate agreements used to wager on three-month
interest rates in three months rose 2 basis points to 3.12
percent. That compares with the 3.54 percent Budapest interbank
offered rate, indicating bets for about 40 basis points of rate
cuts in the next three months.  Rates will bottom at 3 percent to 3.2 percent in the last
quarter before rising in the second half of next year as the
inflation outlook worsens, according to Citigroup’s Gargyan.  Eastern European central banks are diverging as their
economies show varying degrees of health. Poland left borrowing
costs at a record low for a second meeting this month as policy
makers assess recovery from a slowdown, while  Romania  cut its
benchmark for a third month on Sept. 30 to bolster growth.  Hungarian policy makers were split last month on how much
to trim interest rates, with six Council members supporting the
20 basis-point reduction and one voting for a 10 basis-point
cut, according to the minutes of the meeting, published Oct. 9.  Growth, Inflation  Rate-setters cited subdued economic growth and the slowest
inflation in almost 40 years as driving rate cuts.  Gross domestic product  rose 0.1 percent from the previous
three months in the second quarter after a 0.6 percent advance
in the January-March period. The  inflation rate , which increased
to 1.4 percent in September from 1.3 percent the previous month,
has remained below the central bank’s 3 percent medium-term
target since February.  The government, which faces elections in 2014, ordered an
11.1 percent cut in utility charges starting next month, adding
to a 10 reduction at the start of this year.  In addition to rate cuts, the central bank is providing
2.75 trillion forint ($13 billion) of interest-free funds to
commercial lenders to boost credit to small and medium-size
companies. The two policies in tandem risk endangering the
forint, according to  Daniel Hewitt , an economist at Barclays Plc
in  London .  The “double monetary-policy loosening” consisting of rate
cuts and the Funding for Growth plan carries risks as the
central bank may “go too far” with rate cuts, leaving the
forint vulnerable to a turn in global sentiment, he said
yesterday by e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edith Balazs in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  