-- Vietnam Convicts Facebook Blogger Who Criticized Government
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-10-30T03:33:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-29/vietnam-convicts-facebook-blogger-who-criticized-government.html
A blogger who posted criticism of
the Vietnamese government on  Facebook (FB)  was handed a suspended 15-month prison sentence by a court in the southern province of
Long An.  Dinh Nhat Uy, 30, said he was convicted of abusing
democratic freedoms to infringe on the interests of the state.
He used Facebook to campaign for the release of his younger
brother, imprisoned for using social media for political
commentary, according to Human Rights Watch. Uy, who was
arrested June 15, faced a three-year prison sentence.  Vietnam ’s Communist government has jailed bloggers and
activists it accuses of spreading anti-government propaganda
while passing an Internet decree that has drawn international
criticism for stifling online expression. In August a coalition
of 21 governments said the Internet law may threaten the
country’s push to develop its technology industry.  Uy said he will appeal the conviction. “I am not happy
about the verdict,” he said in a phone interview yesterday
after being released from jail. “They said what I posted on
Facebook is not the truth and hurt the rights of some party
members and some big companies.”  The U.S. Embassy in  Hanoi  is “encouraged” that Uy’s
sentence was suspended, while the verdict is a “politically
motivated conviction,” it said in a statement today. “We call
on the government to release unconditionally all prisoners of
conscience and allow all Vietnamese to express their political
views,” it said.  This is the first time Facebook has specifically been
mentioned in such charges, said  Phil Robertson , deputy Asia
director for Human Rights Watch.  “It is a bit of a challenge
to Facebook,” he said by phone from Bangkok. “Freedom of
expression was in the dock.”  Civil Society  Facebook Inc. did not respond to a request for comment sent
in an e-mail to company headquarters in  Menlo Park ,  California .
Officials of the court in Long An province could not be
immediately reached for comment.  Prime Minister Nguyen Tan Dung last year ordered a
crackdown on blogs that have attacked his leadership at a time
of sluggish economic growth and banks weighed down by bad debt
tied to state-owned enterprises.  Vietnam has imprisoned 62 bloggers and activists on charges
of violating national security laws so far this year, according
to  Human Rights Watch . In 2012, there were 40 such cases in
Vietnam that Human Rights Watch could confirm, Robertson said.  “Part of this is a reaction to the greater use of the
Internet and social media by Vietnam’s civil society to express
views,” he said. “People are organizing online.”  ‘Not Scared’  Uy said he is “willing to do whatever I can for the
nation. If I don’t do anything wrong, I’m not afraid if the
government is watching. Of course, I’m under a suspended jail
term so I’m still worried. But I have many friends and other
people fighting for the right reason, so I’m not scared
anymore.”  Uy, who is free to move around, must report regularly to
authorities, said Ha Huy Son, his lawyer. If he commits another
violation, the suspension will be canceled and Uy will face 15
months in jail, Son said by phone yesterday.  The conviction follows the sentencing in early October of
dissident lawyer and blogger Le Quoc Quan to 30 months in jail
on tax evasion charges. The U.S. Embassy called the conviction
“disturbing” and said he was imprisoned for expressing
political views.  Internet Decree  Vietnam’s government has also been criticized by the U.S.,
other countries and international technology companies for
implementing a law Sept. 1 that restricts blogging and social
networking and raises concerns that websites may have to provide
the government access to users’ data.  The decree prohibits the use of the Internet to harm
national security, incite ethnic or religious violence and
disclose “secrets” related to the government, army and
economy.  John Ure, executive director of the Asia Internet
Coalition, which represents Google Inc., Facebook, Yahoo Inc.,
 eBay Inc. (EBAY)  and  Salesforce.com Inc. (CRM) , said his group would not
comment directly on Uy’s case.  “We believe firmly in the rights of people to use the
Internet for legitimate reasons, to express their opinions,” he
said by phone from  Singapore . “Anything that unduly restricts
the use of the Internet we think is self-defeating.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
John Boudreau in Hanoi at 
 jboudreau3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  