-- Volkswagen Catches Caterpillar’s Ruble Bond Bug: Russia Credit
-- B y   Y u l i y a   F e d o r i n o v a
-- 2013-10-30T10:06:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-29/volkswagen-catches-caterpillar-s-ruble-bond-bug-russia-credit.html
Volkswagen AG (VOW)  plans to issue its
debut bond in rubles, almost a year after  Caterpillar Inc. (CAT) 
became the first foreign blue chip to sell debt in the currency,
as  Europe ’s largest automaker seeks to expand in  Russia .  Volkswagen Bank RUS LLC, a unit of Volkswagen Financial
Services AG, hired Raiffeisen Bank Russia and Rosbank-SG CIB to
arrange the sale,  Rosbank (ROSB)  said in an e-mailed statement Oct. 28.
The yield on a two-year note may range from 7.75 percent to 8.25
percent, said Egor Fedorov an analyst at ING Groep NV in Moscow.  The German carmaker has spent about $1 billion in Russia
and started production in the Kaluga region near Moscow six
years ago as foreign competitors including Ford Motor Co. and
Toyota Motor Corp. sought inroads into a market once dominated
by domestic producers. Volkswagen boosted market share to 10.9
percent in the first nine months from 10.7 percent a year
earlier, according Russia’s Association of European Businesses.  “It makes sense for Volkswagen Bank Rus to diversify
funding sources and be more independent from the parent,” ING’s
Fedorov said by e-mail on Oct. 28. “The unit gives retail loans
to buy cars in rubles, while if it takes funding from the
parent, it will be in euros.”  Volkswagen is the largest auto group in Russia after
Renault-Nissan, which controls Lada-maker  OAO AvtoVAZ (AVAZ) , and No. 2
Hyundai-Kia. Investor meetings will be held from Nov. 6 to Nov.
8, according to the bond organizers. Volkswagen will probably
try to sell 3 billion rubles to 5 billion ($94 million to $156
million) rubles of notes to test demand, according to ING.  Caterpillar Yields  Caterpillar sold 5 billion rubles of notes maturing in 2015
last December. The yield was little changed at 7.20 percent
today, 141 basis points above a low of 5.79 percent on April 11,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The share of cars bought in Russia using loans increased to
44 percent in the first half from 34 percent a year earlier,
with credit totaling 1.2 trillion rubles, according to a July
report from the Avtostat researcher and National Bureau of
Credit History.  The VW bond will be guaranteed under an irrevocable offer
by Volkswagen Financial Services AG, which is rated A3 by
Moody’s and A- by  Standard & Poor’s , according to the Oct. 28
statement. Caterpillar International Finance Ltd. sold its ruble
bonds guaranteed by Caterpillar Financial Services Corp., ranked
A2 at Moody’s at the time of the issue.  Ruble Issuers  “There is good liquidity in the ruble market at the
moment,” Konstantin Nemnov, who helps oversee the equivalent of
about $3 billion as a  fund manager  at TKB BNP Paribas in  St.
Petersburg , said by e-mail yesterday. “But there will only be
demand for this particular issue if the Russian unit or the
issue itself gets a proper rating.”  Marc Siedler, a spokesman for Volkswagen Financial
Services, declined to comment on the details of the issue. The
Russian unit registered 13 tranches of bonds for a total of 50
billion rubles in August, regulatory filings show.  Volkswagen would join issuers including OAO Transaero,
Russia’s second-biggest airliner, and retailer  X5 Retail Group
NV (FIVE)  selling ruble debt after the  Federal Reserve ’s decision to
delay a reduction in stimulus saw emerging-market yields drop.
The rate on Russia’s government bond due January 2023 fell 15
basis points, or 0.15 percentage point, since Sept. 18 to 7.23
percent on Oct. 29.  The yield on Russia’s dollar bonds maturing in March 2030
fell five basis points to 3.78 percent by 2:04 p.m. in Moscow
today. The extra yield on Russia’s dollar debt over Treasuries
dropped three basis points to 216 basis points, according to
JPMorgan Chase & Co. indexes.  Strong Brand  Volkswagen’s plant in Kaluga can produce 150,000 cars a
year, while the German company also has models assembled at
billionaire Oleg Deripaska’s GAZ Group plant in  Nizhny Novgorod .
Russia’s car market will probably amount to about 2.8 million
vehicles this year, versus projections exceeding 3 million units
at the beginning of the year, according to Ford.  “The Volkswagen brand is strong, that’s why its sales are
relatively stable even as the whole car market in Russia is
declining this year,” Vladimir Bespalov, a VTB Capital analyst
in Moscow, said by phone on Oct. 28.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yuliya Fedorinova in Moscow at 
 yfedorinova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net ;
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  