-- Warren Backs Firmer Mortgage Rules to Bar Return to Lax Lending
-- B y   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s
-- 2013-10-29T16:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-29/warren-backs-firmer-mortgage-rules-to-bar-return-to-lax-lending.html
The U.S. Congress should consider
strengthening mortgage-servicing standards to ensure banks don’t
return to higher-risk lending in a future housing boom, Senator
 Elizabeth Warren  said in a speech today.  The qualified mortgage rule, which requires lenders to
verify a borrower’s ability to repay by confirming income and
assets, needs to be bolstered because the version taking effect
Jan. 10 has insufficient penalties for noncompliance, Warren
said at a Mortgage Bankers Association conference in Washington.  “The potential liability associated with writing non-QM
loans is relatively small, and in good times, lenders can
compensate for those possible losses with higher rates or
fees,” said Warren, a Massachusetts Democrat who was elected
last year. “We need to consider strengthening or supplementing
the QM rule so that it provides an adequate check on overly
risky lending even during housing booms.”  Congress directed the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau,
formed as part of the Dodd-Frank Act, to create the qualified
mortgage rule after banks were faulted for helping spark the
2008 credit crisis by making loans to people who couldn’t afford
them. The rule approved by the agency this year gives some legal
protection to lenders who meet its standards.  Warren, who shaped the consumer bureau before running for
office, used the speech to lay out her housing-finance
priorities. The Senate is writing legislation to replace  Fannie
Mae (FNMA)  and  Freddie Mac (FMCC) , the U.S.-owned mortgage-finance companies
that were sustained by $187.5 billion in taxpayer aid before
they returned to profitability this year.  Senate Legislation  Senator  Tim Johnson , the South Dakota Democrat who leads
the banking committee, and Senator  Mike Crapo  of Idaho, the
panel’s top Republican, are drafting a bill that Johnson is
looking to introduce by the end of the year. The measure is
likely to include elements of a proposal submitted by Senator
 Bob Corker , a Tennessee Republican, and  Mark Warner , a Virginia
Democrat, that would wind down the government-sponsored
enterprises in five years.  “I don’t think it’s a perfect bill, but I applaud them and
their co-sponsors for the work they’ve put into this,” Warren
said of the Corker-Warner bill.  Any housing-finance legislation should include an explicit
government guarantee and solve servicer and trustee problems for
modifying mortgages, Warren said. The new system shouldn’t
increase advantages for large banks, which would exacerbate the
problem of lenders being deemed too big to fail, and the U.S.
guarantee must serve the entire primary market, she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cheyenne Hopkins in  Washington  at 
 chopkins19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  