-- Washington Borrowing Least Shows Shutdown Dismissed: Muni Credit
-- B y   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y   a n d   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 2013-10-29T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-29/washington-borrowing-least-shows-shutdown-dismissed-muni-credit.html
Washington  is set to offer its
smallest note sale since 2008, a sign of improving fiscal health
that helped the nation’s capital weather the 16-day federal-government shutdown.  The city is issuing $405 million of one-year obligations
today, 40 percent less than a year ago, to provide cash in
months when tax revenue is insufficient. Treasurer Jeffrey Barnette said in an interview that he expects investors will
demand as little as 0.2 percent to hold the tax-free securities,
about 25 percent less than the interest rate on  benchmark 
municipal debt, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Washington didn’t suffer as much as other cities during the
longest recession since the 1930s because its economy relies on
U.S. government spending, which continued to flow. The city’s
population grew at triple the U.S. rate from 2010 to 2012, and
its median household income is almost 20 percent higher than the
national average, Census Bureau data show.  “Washington has been enjoying stability while other cities
around the country saw a shrinkage in their economic activity,”
said  Richard Ciccarone , chief research officer in Oak Brook,
 Illinois , for McDonnell Investment Management, which holds about
$8 billion in munis. “The overall impact is reflected not only
in its economy, but in its financials as well.”  Urban Rebound  The city of 632,000 is among localities whose finances are
reviving with the growing U.S. economy, stock market gains and
rising home values. Cities project increased revenue this year
for the first time since 2006, according to the National League
of Cities in Washington. Municipalities have taken longer to
rebound from the 18-month recession that ended in 2009 than
states, where tax collections have risen for 15 consecutive
quarters, Census data show.  Washington’s revenue grew 11 percent in the year through
September 2012, and 3.4 percent during the year ended last
month. The city drew on reserves to stay open during the federal
shutdown, when it couldn’t spend much of its cash because its
budget needs congressional approval.  The “reserves have allowed us to reduce the overall
borrowing we need to do,” Barnette said.  Federal Flow  The decline in short-term borrowing from $675 million last
year demonstrates a stronger cash position, said Eric Kim, who
monitors the city for Fitch Ratings in New York.  Today’s issue is the smallest such note sale since a
similarly sized offer in November 2008, data from the city show.
Those securities, with a September 2009 maturity, were priced to
yield 1.09 percent, according to Bloomberg data.  “During the recession, the district was able to maintain a
stable economy, partly because of the federal government,” Kim
said. “As a result, they were able to build up a reserve while
other cities were drawing on theirs.”  The city’s budget was authorized by legislation reopening
the federal government. The municipality may benefit from demand
for short-term securities as investors bet the Federal Reserve
will curb its bond-buying program, causing interest rates to
rise.  Short-term munis have gained 0.9 percent this year through
Oct. 25, compared with a 2.3 percent loss for the entire $3.7
trillion municipal market, Standard & Poor’s data show. The
return is better than any maturity segment tracked by S&P.  Maturity Demand  “There’s strong demand at the short end of the curve and
not a lot of supply,” said Daniel Solender, director of munis
in Jersey City, New Jersey, for Lord Abbett & Co., which manages
$16.5 billion of local bonds. “We’ve seen some people concerned
about where rates might be headed,” which should draw interest
to Washington’s deal, he said.  The city’s notes carry the highest credit rating from Fitch
and S&P. The size of the sale is less than half the $820 million
it borrowed two years ago.  Some city securities have been rallying. Tax-exempt general
obligations maturing in June 2017 traded last week at yields
about 0.2 percentage point more than benchmark munis, Bloomberg
data show. That compares with an average spread of about 0.3
percentage point from May through September.  The relative gains may signal little blowback for the city
after the U.S. government’s first shutdown since 1996. The
impasse idled hundreds of thousands of federal workers and
closed museums and monuments.  Lost Revenue  Mayor Vincent Gray said the city, with annual revenue of
more than $6 billion, lost $12 million in tax revenue from the
closures. Employment growth slowed in the three months through
July as the number of federal jobs dropped by about 5,900 from a
year earlier, according to a report from Natwar Gandhi,
Washington’s chief financial officer.  The federal government cushioned the city from the worst of
the recession and will remain central to its economy, Gandhi
said. At the same time, “it can no longer be counted on to be a
source of significant growth,” he said.  Federal spending cuts pose a challenge to the district’s
finances, Moody’s Investors Service said this month. About 25
percent of employed residents work for the U.S. government,
according to the city.  The metropolitan region’s jobless rate was 5.5 percent in
August, compared with 7.3 percent nationwide. The city’s median
household income of $61,835 compares with the national average
of $52,762, Census Bureau data show.  “The effects of the shutdown are very manageable for the
district,” said Kim, the analyst at Fitch, which has a stable
outlook on the city. When the shutdown ended, Congress agreed to
pay furloughed workers, easing the influence on residents’
incomes.  Market Week  In the market for long-term debt, issuers from  Florida  to
 Alaska  are set to offer about $4.6 billion this week with
benchmark yields at a four-month low.  The interest rate on AAA 10-year munis is  2.68 percent ,
Bloomberg data show. That compares with a  2.52 percent  yield on
similar-maturity Treasuries.  The ratio of the yields, a gauge of relative value, is
about 106 percent, compared with an average of 94 percent since
2001. It has remained above 100 percent since June 24. The
higher the figure, the cheaper munis are compared with federal
securities.  Following is a pending sale:  New Jersey's Economic Development Authority is borrowing 
about $457 million the week of Nov. 4 to help finance the 
Goethals Bridge replacement. The span connects Staten Island 
to New Jersey, and the project will cost an estimated 
$1.5 billion.   To contact the reporters on this story:
William Selway in Washington at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Chappatta in New York at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  