-- Indian Wheat Exports Seen at Record on Government Price Cut
-- B y   P r a t i k   P a r i j a   a n d   P r a b h u d a t t a   M i s h r a
-- 2013-10-30T13:44:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-29/wheat-shipments-by-india-seen-at-record-on-government-price-cut.html
Wheat shipments from  India , the
second-largest grower, may climb to a record as the government
cuts the price for overseas sales, adding to supplies in a year
when farmers are reaping the biggest global harvest ever.  Shipments are set to jump 32 percent to 7 million metric
tons in the 12 months starting April 1 from 5.3 million tons a
year earlier, said Agrocorp International Pte, a Singapore-based trader. The cabinet today approved a cut in the minimum
price to $260 a ton from $300 to reduce state reserves that are
more than double normal needs, said Food Minister K.V. Thomas.  Futures in  Chicago  rebounded 6 percent since reaching a 14-month low in August on speculation dry weather in Argentina and
rains in  Russia  would hurt crops, even as the U.S. government
predicts the global harvest will jump 8.2 percent to 708.9
million tons. The rally could fade should India ship more wheat
than expected, according to Rabobank International.  “Exports from India are likely to be bearish or put a cap
on where wheat prices are able to rally to,” Graydon Chong, a
grains and oilseeds analyst at Rabobank, said in a phone
interview from Sydney yesterday. “It will relieve some of the
pressure that we’re seeing build up in the wheat complex.”  Wheat declined 12 percent to $6.81 a bushel on the Chicago
Board of Trade this year and reached a low of $6.355 on Aug. 14.
Corn plunged 38 percent and the Standard & Poor’s GSCI  index  of
eight agricultural commodities fell 18 percent.  Black Sea  “It’s a good time for India to increase sales,” said
Vijay Iyengar, managing director at Agrocorp, who has traded
commodities for more than two decades. “India should seize the
opportunity to export in a big way.”  Supplies from India compete with Black Sea milling wheat
that contains 11.5 percent protein, said Tejinder Narang, an
adviser with  Emmsons International Ltd. (EMSI) , a New Delhi-based
exporter. Prices of this variety increased about 11 percent to
as much as $277 a ton from $250 in August, while grain with 12.5
percent protein climbed 9.6 percent to $285, said Narang.  In Russia, planting of winter grain may be 4 million
hectares (9.9 million acres) less than intended, with the most
impact on wheat, Oil World said Oct. 15. The worst drought in 50
years in areas of Argentina, South America’s biggest exporter,
resulted in “irreversible damage” to the crop, the Hamburg-based researcher said Oct. 22.  Wheat from India can fetch about $275 a ton free on board
ship in Middle East, African and Asian markets and has a
“natural geographical advantage” because of lower freight
costs to those buyers, said Narang.  ‘Bearish Risk’  Imports by  China , the top consumer, may more than triple to
9.5 million tons and tie with  Egypt  as the world’s biggest,
according to the U.S. Department of Agriculture. Buying by
Brazil and China to replenish inventories helped spur a 3.7
percent advance in prices last month, the most since April.  The “bearish risk is if India tries to capture more market
share by lowering the threshold for selling wheat,” Rabobank
analysts including Luke Chandler wrote in a report e-mailed Oct.
25. Wheat will average $7 a bushel this quarter and $6.75 in the
first three months of 2014, the bank estimates.  State  stockpiles  in India totaled 36.1 million tons at the
start of this month compared with a normal requirement of 14
million tons, according to Food Corp. of India. The government
buys about 30 percent of rice and wheat production from farmers
at prices set by the state.  The harvest is estimated at 92.5 million tons in the year
ended June, near the record 94.9 million tons a year earlier,
according to the farm ministry. Shipments totaled 2.65 million
tons between April 1 and Sept. 20 including 1.3 million tons
from state reserves, government data show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Pratik Parija in New Delhi at 
 pparija@bloomberg.net ;
Prabhudatta Mishra in New Delhi at 
 pmishra8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  