-- Twitter Roadshow Reflects Low-Key Approach After Facebook
-- B y   L e s l i e   P i c k e r   a n d   L e e   S p e a r s
-- 2013-10-29T18:55:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-29/twitter-road-show-reflects-low-key-approach-after-facebook-crush.html
Twitter Inc. (TWTR)  kicked off the roadshow
for its initial public offering yesterday at a meeting room in
the Philadelphia Ritz-Carlton with capacity for about 25 people,
a low-key affair compared with Facebook Inc.’s, where attendees
queued through a hotel lobby and out the door.  Chief Executive Officer  Dick Costolo  and Chief Financial
Officer Mike Gupta were seen meeting money managers at the
invitation-only event, the start of an eight-day marketing tour
to stoke appetite for the IPO scheduled to price Nov. 6.
Meetings will be held in  New York  today and tomorrow, with
Boston and  Chicago  later this week, according to a schedule
obtained by  Bloomberg News .  The kickoff reflected Twitter’s quieter approach to the IPO
process, underscored by its decisions to file confidentially and
limit private trading of its shares. It also gave executives
time to practice their pitch for the IPO -- poised to be the
largest for an Internet company since  Facebook’s (FB)  -- before
meeting larger groups.  “Most of the people that went to it said there was
absolutely nothing that was any different from what management
said in the past,” said Jeff Sica, president and chief
investment officer of Sica Wealth Management LLC, who didn’t
attend. “There wasn’t any sense of excitement that they’re
going to open up any different revenue channels.”  Attendees in Philadelphia arrived at the hotel before 2:45
p.m. and filed into a room where a projector screen and several
round tables draped in white could be seen. Coffee and soda were
served. A representative for Twitter didn’t respond to a request
for comment on the roadshow.  New York Crowd  San Francisco-based Twitter is seeking as much as $1.4
billion in its offering, compared with the $16 billion Facebook
raised in its record sale for an  Internet company  in May 2012,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. At the top of the proposed
price range, Twitter -- which has yet to post a profit -- would
be valued at $10.9 billion.  Twitter’s meetings in New York may draw more of a crowd. On
the first day of Facebook’s pre-IPO roadshow at the Sheraton
hotel in midtown New York, potential investors waited in a line
that snaked through the lobby and around the side of the
building for a meeting that started about an hour late.  In the U.S., companies typically spend one to two weeks
before an IPO traveling to different cities to drum up demand
for their stock by meeting with investors face to face.
Investment bankers take orders for shares during the period,
which culminates in a final pricing before the shares start
trading publicly.  Shrinking Losses  Twitter has emphasized its plans to shrink losses in
materials prepared ahead of the roadshow. In an accompanying
video, Gupta has said the company, which has lost almost $500
million since it was founded in 2007, has room to
“significantly expand”  margins .  “Most of the questions are going to be about how they see
their growth, because that’s what people are investing in
Twitter for,” said Tim Keating, president of  Keating Capital
Inc. (KIPO) , which specializes in pre-IPO financing. “They’re also
going to press about mobile users, monetization and, down the
line, profitability.” Keating said Twitter’s valuation is high.  Twitter is offering 70 million shares for $17 to $20 each.
Companies may raise or lower the final offering terms if final
demand falls outside the initial range. Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
is leading the offering, working with Morgan Stanley and
JPMorgan Chase & Co.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leslie Picker in New York at 
 lpicker2@bloomberg.net ;
Lee Spears in New York at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  