-- WTI Drops From 1-Week High; Goldman Cuts OPEC Outlook
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2013-10-29T12:44:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-29/wti-oil-drops-from-one-week-high-as-crude-supplies-seen-rising.html
West Texas Intermediate fell from
the highest level in a week before U.S. government data forecast
to show crude inventories rose to the most in four months in the
world’s biggest oil consumer.  Futures dropped as much as 0.8 percent in New York,
declining for the first time in four days. U.S.  crude stockpiles 
climbed for a sixth week, according to a Bloomberg News survey
before a report from the Energy Information Administration
tomorrow. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. cut its 2013 estimate for
production from the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries, citing supply constraints in Libya.  “Yet another inventory increase is expected,” said  Eugen Weinberg , head of commodities research at Commerzbank AG in
 Frankfurt . “The reasons for the WTI weakness and increasing
inventories include low refinery utilization due to maintenance
and yet another strong increase in shale oil production.”  WTI for December delivery slid as much as 82 cents to
$97.86 a barrel in electronic trading on the New York Mercantile
Exchange and was at $98.14 at 12:42 p.m. London time. The
contract advanced 0.9 percent to $98.68 yesterday, the highest
close since Oct. 21. The volume of all futures traded was about
50 percent less than the 100-day average. Prices are 4.1 percent
lower so far in October, poised for a second monthly loss.  Brent for December settlement was down 60 cents at $109.01
a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. The
European benchmark crude was at a premium of $10.87 to WTI,
compared with $10.93 yesterday.  Libyan Output  Brent rallied 2.5 percent yesterday, the most since Oct.
10, as Libya’s crude production was cut by half amid protests.
Output from the country, which holds  Africa ’s largest oil
reserves, fell last month to the lowest among OPEC’s 12 members,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Production nationwide dropped to about 250,000 to 300,000
barrels a day as Tuareg nomads seeking greater political
recognition halted crude flows from the Sharara field, the
state-run National Oil Corp. said yesterday. Oil Minister
Abdulbari Al-Arusi visited the field late yesterday, pledging to
establish a refinery and oil company in the local region, the
Libya News Agency reported. He was unable to reach an accord
with protesters, according to a statement on NOC’s website.  Goldman reduced its projection for OPEC supply by 190,000
barrels a day and maintained its Brent prediction at an average
of $110 a barrel for the “near-term.” Libyan output will be
constrained at about 650,000 barrels a day through the end of
the year, according to  Jeffrey Currie , the head of commodity
research in New York.  U.S. Supplies  WTI capped its biggest weekly decline in more than a month
on Oct. 25 amid rising U.S. stockpiles. The country will account
for about 21 percent of global oil demand this year, almost
double the estimate for  China , the second-biggest consumer,
according to forecasts from the International Energy Agency.  Crude inventories are projected to have gained by 2.7
million barrels last week to 382.5 million, the  highest level 
since June, according to the median estimate of eight analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg.  Gasoline stockpiles  probably shrank by 550,000 barrels last
week, the survey shows. Distillates, including heating oil and
diesel, are expected to have decreased by 950,000 barrels.  The American Petroleum Institute in  Washington  is scheduled
to release separate inventory data later today. The industry
group collects supply information on a voluntary basis from
operators of refineries, bulk terminals and pipelines. The
government requires that reports be filed with the EIA, the
Energy Department’s statistical unit.  WTI’s advance is stalling as futures approach technical
resistance along the 200-day moving average, at $98.70 a barrel
today, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Sell orders tend
to be clustered around chart-resistance levels.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  