-- Xylem Rises Most Since ITT Spinoff on Profit Forecast
-- B y   T h o m a s   B l a c k   a n d   R a c h e l   L a y n e
-- 2013-10-29T21:38:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-29/xylem-rises-most-since-itt-spinoff-after-raising-profit-forecast.html
Xylem Inc. (XYL) , the water company whose
pumps helped clean tunnels in New York flooded by  Hurricane
Sandy , surged the most since being spun off from  ITT Corp. (ITT)  two
years ago after raising annual earnings and sales forecasts.  Xylem  jumped  12 percent to $32.53 at the close in New York,
the biggest gain and highest price since October 2011, when ITT
split under the leadership of Steve Loranger, now Xylem’s
interim chief executive officer.  The search for a new CEO is “well under way” after
Loranger took over on Sept. 9 when Gretchen McClain left, he
said on a call with analysts and investors. Cuts under McClain
and a 6 percent rise in orders such as an ozone project in  China 
buoyed results. Cash for share buybacks as well as acquisitions
will be available over the next quarter, he said.  “We think the very best acquisition we have in front of us
is Xylem stock,” Loranger said on the call. “We have had some
operating concerns. We thought it prudent to take a pause on
some of the actual acquisitions.”  Sales have picked up, particularly in northern and central
Europe, White Plains, New York-based Xylem said in a statement
today. Xylem raised its 2013 adjusted earnings per share
forecast to $1.60 to $1.65 from $1.40 to $1.50. Analysts
projected $1.37 on average.  The outlook, “anticipated restructuring benefits and
stabilized, improving end-market conditions should allow for
Xylem to finally begin delivering on its spin-out expectations
of higher growth as a stand-alone company,” Brean Capital
analyst Michael Gaugler wrote in a note to clients today. He
raised his rating on the stock to buy from hold.  Xylem’s third-quarter earnings per share of 49 cents,
excluding some items, topped the 35-cent estimate.  The stock has risen 34 percent since the spinoff, lagging
ITT, which has more than doubled, and a 45 percent gain for
Exelis Inc., the defense unit also carved out two years ago.
Xylem has  advanced  20 percent this year, trailing a 24 percent
climb by the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Thomas Black in Dallas at 
 tblack@bloomberg.net ;
Rachel Layne in Boston at 
 rlayne@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  