-- Yahoo, Facebook Lobbying on NSA Pays Off in Legislation
-- B y   C h r i s   S t r o h m
-- 2013-10-29T15:33:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-29/yahoo-to-facebook-lobbying-on-nsa-pays-off-in-legislation.html
A lobbying push by  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ,
 Facebook Inc. (FB)  and other companies has won bipartisan support for
legislation to let them say how they handle sensitive requests
for surveillance data from the National Security Agency.  A bill introduced today by U.S. Representative James Sensenbrenner, a Wisconsin Republican, and Senator  Patrick Leahy , a Vermont Democrat, would allow companies to disclose how
often they turn over customer data to the U.S. government.  “It is time for serious and meaningful reforms so we can
restore confidence in our intelligence community,” Leahy,
chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee, said in a statement
today. The bill also would bar NSA from collecting bulk phone
records on millions of Americans and place additional privacy
controls on surveillance programs, according to the  text .  Facebook,  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO) , Twitter Inc. and  LinkedIn Corp. (LNKD)  all
listed lobbying expenses on legislation related to NSA demands
for data for the first time in third-quarter reports submitted
to Congress.  Those companies, as well as  Google Inc. (GOOG) , have been lobbying
lawmakers and President  Barack Obama ’s administration  since
former NSA contractor Edward Snowden, who is now in Russia on
temporary asylum, revealed classified intelligence-gathering
programs that collect user information from technology and phone
companies. The programs, involving surveillance of American
citizens and allies such as German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ,
have been criticized by some world leaders and led to efforts in
Congress to rein in NSA activities.  Lobbying Efforts  Facebook, the biggest social network and based in  Menlo
Park , California, spent  $1.4 million  lobbying from July 1 to
Sept. 30, compared with $980,000 during the  same period  in 2012.  Technology companies lobbied on a range of issues related
to privacy, taxes and cybersecurity. Exact amounts aren’t
provided for NSA surveillance lobbying in the reports.  For Apple, based in Cupertino, California, 2013’s third
quarter marked the first time it lobbied on government data
requests. The company spent  $970,000  in the period, compared to
$460,000 in the timeframe last year, the company’s  filing  said.  Google and  LinkedIn , both based in  Mountain View ,
California, spent $3.37 million and $30,000, respectively,
lobbying last quarter, while  Yahoo , based in Sunnyvale,
California, spent $630,000. Google and Yahoo spent more in 2012
and LinkedIn’s expenditures stayed the same.  ‘Informed Debate’  “There’s been a false impression that companies have been
overly cooperative with surveillance requests,”  Ed Black ,
president of the Computer & Communications Industry Association,
a Washington nonprofit, said in a phone interview. More
transparency “will allow companies to show what they have been
doing is more limited than some have assumed and, that when
appropriate, they have challenged and pushed back.”  Snowden revealed a classified program called Prism under
which the NSA uses court orders to compel companies to turn over
user and account data to support counterterrorism operations.  The companies are forbidden from revealing what they do and
don’t give the agency, and some European government officials
are proposing new restrictions on how data about their citizens
can be used and shared with the U.S.  Jodi Seth, a Facebook spokeswoman, said the company is
“seeking to be as transparent as possible about government data
requests we receive to foster an informed debate about whether
government security programs adequately balance privacy
interests and public safety.”  Spokesmen Kristin Huguet of Apple, Niki Fenwick of Google
and Doug Madey of LinkedIn referred to previous comments made by
their companies. Sarah Meron, a Yahoo spokeswoman, declined to
comment.  Business Impact  U.S. technology companies are concerned they could lose
business at home and abroad after revelations that they provide
the NSA data about their users, according to an Oct. 24 letter
from five trade groups.  “Companies should be permitted to disclose the number of
government orders for information made under specific legal
authorities,” said the letter signed by such groups as TechNet,
a Washington-based association that represents Apple, Facebook
and Google, and the Software & Information Industry Association,
also based in  Washington .  The letter, which was sent to a citizens’ advisory board
reviewing the U.S. surveillance programs, said companies should
also be able to disclose “the number of individuals or
accounts, including accounts of business customers, impacted by
the orders received as well as the type of information that is
sought by such orders.”  Congressional Action  The companies would be allowed to report an estimate of
government orders they receive under the bill from Sensenbrenner
and Leahy, according to  a summary  from Sensenbrenner’s office.  The bill would permit them to report the number of orders
they have complied with and the number of users or accounts
affected by government demands.  The legislation has more than 70 co-sponsors so far in the
House, including those with politics as diverse as
Representatives  Darrell Issa , a California Republican, and  John Conyers , a Michigan Democrat. It has 16 co-sponsors in the
Senate, including Republican  Mike Lee  of Utah, a favorite of Tea
Party activists, and Democrat  Richard Durbin  of  Illinois , who
serves in the leadership.  Obama’s administration opposes allowing the companies to
reveal data about government orders. The  Department of Justice 
said in a Sept. 30  court filing  that allowing the companies to
publish statistics on surveillance orders “would be invaluable
to our adversaries.”  “If our adversaries know which platforms the government
does not surveil, they can communicate over those platforms
when, for example, planning a terrorist attack or the theft of
state secrets,” the Justice filing said.  It also isn’t clear if the companies have support of senior
lawmakers such as Senator  Dianne Feinstein , a California
Democrat and chairman of the Senate intelligence committee.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Strohm in Washington at 
 cstrohm1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at   bkohn2@bloomberg.net  