-- Zambia Considering $1 Billion Eurobond After Rating Cut
-- B y   M a t t h e w   H i l l
-- 2013-10-29T15:43:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-29/zambia-considering-1-billion-eurobond-after-rating-cut.html
Zambia, which 13 months ago issued
its first international debt, is considering the sale of a
record $1 billion Eurobond to plug a  budget deficit  that
contributed to a credit downgrade.  Africa’s biggest copper producer will try to contain some
spending to reduce the fiscal shortfall to below the forecast of
8.5 percent of gross domestic product for this year, Treasury
Secretary Fredson Yamba said in a phone interview from Lusaka,
the capital, today. The government this month raised its
estimate for the gap from 4.3 percent and is finalizing as much
as $250 million in syndicated loans as funding needs are pushed
higher by  government spending  on wages and subsidies.  Yields on Zambia’s $750 million of bonds have climbed 161
basis points since being issued in September 2012 compared with
an average 123 basis-point increase for dollar-denominated
African  debt  tracked by JPMorgan Chase & Co. Fitch Ratings
yesterday lowered Zambia one step to B, five levels below
investment grade.  Standard & Poor’s  downgraded its outlook to
negative on Oct. 25, while retaining its B+ rating.  The sale of a second Eurobond “is one of the avenues
available,” Yamba said. “We are looking at various options. We
have to go out there and see which is the cheapest source.”  While the southern African country would be able to sell a
$1 billion Eurobond, it will be more expensive than its debut
securities,  Chris Becker , a market strategist at Johannesburg-based ETM Analytics, said by phone. A sale would follow record
issuances by African nations, including debut bonds from  Rwanda 
and sales by  Ghana ,  South Africa  and  Nigeria , with plans by
Tanzania, Kenya and  Senegal  to tap international markets.  Issuance Rush  “At the moment things are looking quite good and there’s a
rush of issuances coming through,” Becker said by phone. “It’s
sort of a sweet spot for African Eurobond issuances.”  Fiscal stimulus from the  Federal Reserve  will probably
continue until next year, providing a window for new bond sales
from African countries, he said. Zambia’s Eurobonds may
underperform others from the continent because of its aggressive
issuance, while the Fitch downgrade will also push yields
higher, Becker said.  Zambia’s kwacha weakened 1 percent to 5.45 per dollar as of
5:28 p.m. in Lusaka, the worst level on a closing basis since
Aug. 9. Yields on the Eurobonds due September 2022 rose 5 basis
points, or 0.05 percentage point, to 6.77 percent, the highest
in a week.  The government, which is one of the biggest employers in
Zambia, plans a two-year freeze on the pay of government workers
and a halt to hiring, after increasing salaries by as much as 50
percent in September. The public-wage bill will account for 53
percent of government revenue in 2014.  ‘Upward Pressure’  “Spending will over-run again in 2014, reflecting the cost
of the wage increase and higher debt service costs,”  Carmen Altenkirch , an analyst at Fitch, said in yesterday’s report.
“Wider deficits will place upward pressure on key debt
ratios.”  The government plans to raise 7 billion kwacha ($1.3
billion) in foreign financing, including 5.5 billion kwacha in
program loans, to fund 16.4 percent of the 2014 budget, Finance
Minister Alexander Chikwanda said in his Oct. 11 budget speech.  The economy will probably expand at least 7 percent next
year, while the inflation rate will be 6.5 percent or less by
December 2014, Chikwanda said. GDP growth this year is forecast
at 6 percent by the  International Monetary Fund . Inflation eased
for a second consecutive month in September to 7 percent.  “We are cautious that as a government we really need to
move in a much more predictable manner and make sure that
resources are also managed in a very rational manner,” Yamba
said. Zambia’s external debt was $3.1 billion at the end of
September, according to Chikwanda. The country will spend 4.7
billion kwacha repaying domestic and foreign debt next year, he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Hill in Lusaka at 
 mhill58@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net ;
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  