-- M&S Squeezed by U.K. Lingerie War as Grocers Sell Satin: Retail
-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 2013-02-06T23:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/m-s-squeezed-by-u-k-lingerie-war-as-grocers-sell-satin-retail.html
For Valentine’s Day, shoppers at
British supermarkets are putting an extra something into their
basket along with candy hearts: luxury lingerie.  J Sainsbury Plc  is selling a 22-pound ($35) satin underwear
set in coral and cream as the third-biggest U.K. grocer goes
upscale in unmentionables in an attack on  Marks & Spencer Group
Plc ’s grip on Britain’s underwear drawers. Wal-Mart Stores
International Plc’s Asda chain is adding wider ranges in bigger
sizes alongside novelty pajamas and onesies.  “Sainsbury has taken the upmarket route and Asda has
clearly done a good job improving quality and perception,” said
 Bryan Roberts , an  analyst  at Kantar Retail, which provide retail
analysis. “With their improved ranges, they are establishing
credibility in an area previously dominated by M&S,” the
biggest seller of undergarments in the country.  Intimates have been synonymous with  Marks & Spencer  since
the retailer first started offering them in the 1920s, so ceding
ground makes a turnaround of the whole company more challenging.
Chief Executive Officer  Marc Bolland  has posted six straight
quarterly declines of general merchandise sales as he fails to
lure fashion-seeking customers.  Since Bolland’s arrival at the company, the stock has
trailed behind peers,  advancing  2.5 percent, while the FTSE All-
Share General Retailers Index increased 12 percent. The U.K.
market for lingerie, pajamas and hosiery is worth $6.9 billion,
according to Verdict Research, which estimates the division
accounts for 32.9 percent of  Marks & Spencer’s  clothing sales,
and 12.4 percent of its overall U.K. revenue.  Lost Loyalty  “This highlights the importance of the sector and how the
retailer continues to rely on underwear sales,” said Honor
Westnedge, a retail analyst at Verdict. “It has come under
increasing pressure from the grocers.”  Given the importance of undergarments, Bolland can scant
afford to keep losing shoppers like Magdalena Zawadazka. After
buying discount clothing for her nieces and nephews at her local
Asda, the 26-year-old waitress has been cheating on  Marks &
Spencer  for quick top-ups of her lingerie drawer at the
supermarket.  “The quality is really good, it has my size and it really
lasts,” she said, flicking through the racks to choose between
a plunge bra and a black t-shirt bra, both priced at 8 pounds.
She used to buy her “basics” at M&S.  Sales Slippage  The defection is already having an impact on  Marks &
Spencer , whose market share slipped 0.5 percentage point to 30.9
percent of the womenswear lingerie market by value, a bigger
share than its total stake in the clothing market, according to
Kantar Worldpanel data for the 52 weeks ended Dec. 23 seen by
Bloomberg News. Asda’s been among the biggest gainers,
increasing 0.6 percentage point to 6.7 percent, while Sainsbury
has added 0.2 point to 1.8 percent.  Sainsbury has increased the amount of selling space
dedicated to underwear by 20 percent in more than a third of its
outlets in the past two years after identifying it as a key part
of its growth. Indeed, spending on clothing as a whole at
grocers rose twice as fast as at dedicated clothing retailers in
the six months ended Nov. 12, according to Kantar Worldpanel, a
market analyst and data provider.  “Our mantra is high-street quality at supermarket
prices,” James Brown, Sainsbury’s director of its clothing
unit, said in an interview.  Lingerie has grown from 5 percent of Sainsbury’s clothing
sales to 8 percent, with the company expecting it to account for
10 percent in the medium-term. The grocer’s general merchandise
business, which includes apparel, is growing three times faster
than  Sainsbury ’s food business, the retailer has said, though it
doesn’t disclose total revenue for clothing.  ‘Halo Effect’  “Lingerie is a core, regular purchase, much like fruit and
vegetables in Spanish supermarkets,” said  Dan Murphy , managing
director at Alvarez & Marsal, a business advisory firm. “Women
come in to buy new lingerie and whilst they are there they will
take a look at other categories and browse the store. So it’s
critical to get the lingerie offer dead right.”  For Asda, whose core customers are mothers doing their
weekly shop, the focus is on offering a wide range, having
availability in all its sizes from A to G cup, and building on
its nightwear range with onesies and 9-pound novelty pajamas.  Asda  customers come in to “buy our childrenswear and we do
see a halo effect” on lingerie, Helen Connolly, head of Asda’s
buying for womenswear and lingerie, said in an interview.  At Asda, bras cost between 4 pounds and 14 pounds, with its
6-pound range being the best-selling. Marks’  cheapest  non-
discounted bra on its website is a padded plunge t-shirt bra for
9 pounds in cup sizes A to D.  “We want to be big for smalls, whether it’s mens, kids or
childrens,” Connolly said, using a British word for lingerie.  Victoria’s Secret  Bolland isn’t taking the renewed push lying down. M&S hired
Janie Schaffer, the former chief creative officer of  Victoria’s
Secret , known for its televised fashion shows where models
parade down catwalks while serenaded by pop stars such as  Justin Bieber  and Rihanna. She started last month, M&S said.  It has also boasted of the success of its Autograph
lingerie range designed by supermodel Rosie Huntington-Whiteley,
which sold more than 100,000 pieces since the end of August,
making it one of the fastest-selling ever. Marks & Spencer
declined to comment further.  “When there were only two or three retailers, one of them
was M&S and that’s where you got your lingerie,,” said  Simon Irwin , a retail  analyst  at Credit Suisse in London.
“Supermarkets have given a lot of time, energy and space to
clothing and it works very well for them, so they will be taking
market share.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Shannon in London at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  