-- Fake SpongeBobs, Dangerous Spider-Men Spur U.S. Charges
-- B y   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e
-- 2013-02-07T00:23:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/5-firms-individuals-charged-with-importing-illegal-toys.html
Five people accused of importing
hazardous and counterfeit toys into the U.S. from China pleaded
not guilty to federal charges in a New York court.  Chenglan Hu, 51, Hua Fei Zhang, 52, Xiu Lan Zhang, 60, Guan
Jun Zhang, 29, and Jun Wu Zhang, 28, entered their pleas before
U.S. Magistrate Judge  Ramon E. Reyes Jr.  in Brooklyn, New York.  The individuals, all residents of Queens, New York,
imported knockoff toys featuring Spider-Man, SpongeBob
SquarePants, Dora the Explorer and other popular characters as
well as toy cars, planes, accordions and dolls that violated
U.S. consumer safety laws, according to the government.  The group, which sold merchandise from a Ridgewood, New
York warehouse, had toys seized by U.S. customs officials on 33
occasions between July 2005 and January, according to an
indictment unsealed today.  They are charged in the filing with 24 separate counts
including conspiracy, smuggling, illegal importation and
distribution of goods, trafficking in counterfeit goods and
criminal copyright infringement.  “For years, the defendants sought to enrich themselves by
importing and selling dangerous and counterfeit children’s toys
without regard for the law or the health of our children,”
Brooklyn U.S. Attorney  Loretta E. Lynch  said in a statement.
“We stand committed to protecting the residents of our
communities from those who would engage in such conduct.”  Several Companies  The defendants had several companies including Family
Product USA Inc., H.M. Import USA Corp. and ZCY Trading Corp.,
which they used at various times in order to continue to the
scheme, according to prosecutors.  They were arrested today and each was released on $100,000
bail following a brief hearing this afternoon. The government
also took custody of six bank accounts and three luxury vehicles
from the group, including a Porsche and a Lexus, according to
prosecutors.  Seventeen of the previous seizures of products from the
group involved toys that were prohibited under Consumer Product
Safety Commission regulations because of high lead content,
excessive levels of the plastics additive phthalate, small parts
that present choking hazards or other issues, according to the
government. Those allegedly included toy ponies, dolls, and
bubble guns, among other items.  In 16 of the incidents, customs officials found products
that violated intellectual property rights, including fake
Winnie the Pooh bubble blowers, Hello Kitty wall clocks, Mickey
Mouse beach balls and WrestleMania figurines, according to the
indictment.  The defendants are related to one another and two of them,
Guan Jun Zhang and Jun Wu Zhang, are naturalized U.S. citizens,
according to the government.  The case is U.S. v. Hu, 13-cr-68, U.S. District Court,
Eastern District of New York (Brooklyn).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christie Smythe in federal court in Brooklyn, New York, at  csmythe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  