-- A Small Budget Fix Aids U.S. Economy and Cuts Deficit
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-02-06T23:30:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/a-small-budget-fix-aids-u-s-economy-and-cuts-deficit.html
Calling on Congress to  pass  a limited
package of spending cuts and tax changes, U.S. President  Barack Obama  gave lawmakers license this week to go small and leave the
big, bad kahuna of deficit reduction for another day.  He’s right. Congress should move quickly to come up with
$85 billion to offset the first installment of the $1.2 trillion
in mandatory  across-the-board  budget cuts, which will go into
effect March 1.  Kicking the can isn’t generally the best policy. And though
$85 billion might not seem like much, it would be another in a
series of payments  steadily  chipping away at a projected $845
billion federal budget deficit. More important, it would limit
the economic pain and slapdash policy choices that would
inevitably accompany the cuts required under the so-called
 sequester  -- $55 billion from the Pentagon budget and $30
billion from other government programs. That scheduled fiscal
tightening is projected to slow economic growth, keeping the
 jobless rate  near 8 percent through 2013,  according  to the
Congressional Budget Office.  So how do we get there? The soundest approach would aim for
a mix of spending cuts and tax increases, perhaps $2 in cuts for
every $1 of tax increases.  Closing the carried-interest loophole would be a good place
to start and would raise about $14 billion over 10 years.
 Charging  the hard-rock mining industry cleanup fees and
royalties could raise $3 billion more. Eliminating special  tax
breaks  for the oil and gas industry could bring in $35 billion,
and limiting farm subsidies, many of which flow to agribusiness,
could generate as much as $25 billion. The government could also
limit additional tax deductions for wealthier earners, either by
capping the amount they can deduct or converting some deductions
into flat tax credits.  There are other places to look for savings. Obama’s  budget 
presents more than $360 billion in savings from Medicare, and,
as we’ve outlined, the Defense Department could withstand as
much as $500 billion in fat-trimming -- provided the cuts are,
unlike the sequester, carefully targeted. Other cost-cutting
measures include allowing the  Pension Benefit Guarantee Corp.  to
raise the premiums it charges employers to protect their
pensions, a move the Simpson-Bowles fiscal commission  estimates 
would save the nation $16 billion through 2020.  It’s worth remembering that this won’t be the end of it. An
additional $1.1 trillion in across-the-board cuts are scheduled
to kick in starting next year. Lawmakers will ultimately have to
decide whether -- or how -- to offset them. As the Congressional
Budget Office reported, even the sequestration’s full $1.2
trillion in deficit reduction won’t be enough to fix the
nation’s debt woes. Over the next 10 years,  debt  held by the
public is projected to be “significantly greater” relative to
gross domestic product than at any time since just after World
War II, ballooning to 77 percent in 2023.  The real culprit is the unsustainable rate of spending on
Medicare, Medicaid and Social Security. Shoring up those safety-
net programs is a task that Congress must eventually embrace.
But there’s little chance of a grand solution before the
sequester begins wreaking havoc on the budget.  Despite the theatrics, lawmakers have found ways to work
together to reduce spending. In fact, in the past two years,
Congress has found more than $2 trillion in deficit reductions
over the next decade. The deal in January to avert the fiscal
cliff increased taxes on wealthy Americans. Meanwhile, the CBO’s
recent deficit report shows  spending  will remain relatively
stable, at about 22 percent of GDP, over the next decade.  Congress has increasingly relied on short-term fixes for
fiscal messes of their own creation. That’s no way to run a
country. But neither, as Obama put it, is subjecting a weary
nation to more “self-inflicted wounds.” Lawmakers can surely
find $85 billion in cuts without goring the economy in the
process.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 