-- ABB Wins Dismissal of Suit Over Hussein Oil-Food Program
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2013-02-06T21:47:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/abb-wins-dismissal-of-suit-over-hussein-oil-food-program.html
ABB Ltd.  won dismissal of a
racketeering suit brought by Iraq that alleged a unit of the
world’s biggest electricity-networks builder conspired with
 Saddam Hussein ’s regime over an oil-for-food program.  The Republic of Iraq sued the unit, ABB AG, in federal
court in New York in 2008, alleging that its people lost more
than $7 billion worth of humanitarian goods as a result of the
Hussein government’s corruption of the United Nations Oil-for-
Food program.  The UN set up the oil-for-food program in 1996, five years
after coalition forces ousted Iraqi troops from Kuwait, enabling
Hussein’s government to sell oil to raise cash for humanitarian
needs.  U.S. District Judge  Sidney Stein  in New York today
dismissed the suit saying that while Iraqi people had seen their
natural resources “plundered and sold at fire-sale prices” and
had legal standing to attempt to recover damages, Iraq couldn’t
recover for wrongdoing and actions that occurred outside the
U.S.  “The grave allegations of the complaint paint a picture of
a people oppressed and of a repressive government resolved to
frustrate the international community’s efforts to intervene to
assist the Iraqi people,” Stein said.  RICO Violations  The judge said that the suit’s claims, which included
violations of the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organization
Act, or RICO, as well as violations of the Foreign Corrupt
Practices Act, had to be dismissed.  The acts of the Hussein regime as alleged by the plaintiffs
in their suit, describe a pattern of racketeering that was
“concentrated abroad,” Stein said. The UN, which operated the
program, wasn’t a place which the U.S. “has sovereignty or has
some measure of legislative control.”  “The scheme described by Iraq is primarily foreign,
focused on a multinational organization, engineered by a foreign
government, and concerned with Iraqi oil, goods and contracts,”
Stein said.  “Applying the RICO statute to these allegations would be
applying the statute to extraterritorial conduct, which is not
permitted.”  Separate Settlements  In 2010, ABB agreed to pay about $58.3 million to resolve
claims by U.S. prosecutors and regulators that its units made
corrupt payments to win business in Mexico and Iraq and violated
the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, which bars companies from
paying foreign officials to gain a business advantage.  In separate settlements, the company agreed to pay criminal
penalties of $19 million and U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission civil penalties of more than $39.3 million.  “ABB is very pleased that Judge Stein has followed the
arguments presented in the defendants’ papers closely and ruled,
we think appropriately, to dismiss the action,” said  James Gillespie , a lawyer for the company.  Christian Siebott, a lawyer for Iraq, didn’t immediately
return a voice-mail message seeking comment about the ruling.
 Antonio Ligi , a spokesman for ABB, didn’t immediately return an
e-mail sent to his office after business hours seeking comment
about the ruling.  The case is Republic of Iraq v. ABB AG, 08-cv-5951, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in federal court in New York at   pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  