-- Acciona Revenue Seen Reduced as Law Cuts $1.1 Billion From Value
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   L a y a
-- 2013-02-06T12:52:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/acciona-revenue-seen-reduced-as-law-cuts-1-1-billion-from-value.html
Spain’s new pricing method for
renewable energy threatens to cut to revenue for Acciona SA, the
country’s second-largest wind park operator, and has led
analysts to lower its valuation by as much as 14 percent.  Acciona   tumbled 24 percent  in four days through yesterday,
the biggest four-session drop since October 2008, erasing about
850 million euros ($1.1 billion) from its market value. The
shares climbed today in Madrid by 1.6 percent to 48.25 euros as
of 1:16 p.m. local time. The new rules were published as  law  on
Feb. 2.  Wind power generators will now have to choose between a
fixed tariff or the market price for power, instead of choosing
between a fixed tariff or a market price plus a subsidy, the
government said in a statement Feb. 1. It was the latest in a
series of moves to cut consumer costs for clean power.  The subsidized rate, or feed-in tariff, was also revised to
rise annually based on a reduced inflation index. The new
benchmark reflects Spain’s retail price index excluding the
effects of tax increases, food, or energy products.  The new measures, meant to save as much as 800 million
euros this year, follow a 7 percent tax on generation approved
in December and are part of Industry Minister Jose Manuel
Soria’s plan to eliminate the power system’s deficit this year.  “There needs to be a strategy adjustment” at Acciona,
because the government may alter regulations again, said Nuria
Alvarez, an analyst at Renta 4 brokerage in Madrid. The company
“should continue to diversify internationally and reduce
investments in Spain to compensate for the loss in Ebitda.”  Ebitda Forecast  Projected earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and
amortization, or Ebitda, for 2014 were lowered 4.2 percent in
the past four weeks, according to estimates from 15 analysts
compiled by Bloomberg. Representatives for Acciona declined to
comment.  Spain’s other large wind farm owners were also hit.
Iberdrola SA tumbled 7.1 percent during the same four-day
period. Endesa SA and EDP Renovaveis SA, dropped 5 percent and
7.3 percent, respectively.  Acciona is the most penalized utility due to its higher
relative exposure to Spain, according to a BPI report on Spanish
utilities published Feb. 1. About 70 percent of Acciona’s
portfolio is in Spain, according to the report.  Analysts at Sabadell downgraded the company from buy to
sell and lowered the price objective 14 percent to 60.3 euros,
according to a report published Feb. 4. Based in the Madrid
suburb of Alcobendas, Acciona now faces investor doubts over its
future dividend payments, the report says.  Renewable energy subsidies last year were responsible for
about 24 percent of the tariff deficit, or the gap between
regulated income and costs in Spain’s electricity industry,
lobby group  Asociacion de Productores de Energias Renovables 
said last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Laya in Madrid at 
 playa2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  