-- Aer Lingus CEO Says Flybe a ‘Tool’ in Ryanair Takeover Game
-- B y   F i n b a r r   F l y n n   a n d   K a r i   L u n d g r e n
-- 2013-02-06T13:24:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/aer-lingus-ceo-says-flybe-is-a-tool-in-ryanair-s-takeover-game.html
Aer Lingus Group Plc  Chief Executive
Officer Christoph Mueller said Ryanair Holdings Plc’s plan to
transfer part of the Irish flag carrier’s business to  Flybe
Group Plc  as part of a takeover bid can’t be taken seriously.  “It seems so far-fetched, this proposition, that we don’t
waste our time in basing things on that,” Mueller said today on
a call with reporters. “The entire bid, starting from the price
to the construction of the deal, I cannot take really serious.”  Flybe stock rose 30 percent today after it said agreement
had been reached with Ryanair on transferring 43 routes and at
least nine jets as part of concessions submitted to the European
Commission to help win antitrust approval for a deal.  Ryanair 
has also held talks that could see British Airways add Irish
routes in an accord aimed at later transferring Aer Lingus slots
at London Heathrow, people familiar with the matter have said.  “Only the motivation seems to be clear,” Mueller said of
the plans being discussed. “We have taken market share from
Ryanair, British Airways and Flybe and since they cannot beat us
in the market place this seems to be a trick in front of the
Commission. We see Flybe only being a tool in that game.”  BA Success  Piaras Kelly, a spokesman for Dublin-based Ryanair, which
has grown to become Europe’s biggest discount airline under CEO
 Michael O’Leary , declined to comment.  Flybe said today it could implement the Irish expansion
with next winter’s timetable, contingent on Ryanair -- which
already owns about 30 percent of Aer Lingus -- gaining European
Union approval for the remedies and going ahead with a deal.  “The reason Michael O’Leary approached us is because they
saw how successfully we turned around British Airways,” Flybe
CEO  Jim French  said on a separate call, referring to the 2006
acquisition of the BA Connect business, a deal that turned his
carrier into the largest in Europe in the regional sector.  Shares of Exeter, England-based Flybe jumped the most since
the company’s listing in December, 2010, and traded 21 percent
higher at 54.25 pence as of 12:40 p.m. in London, valuing the
company at 40.8 million pounds ($64 million).  ‘Upside Down’  Under the scenario mapped out by Flybe, the U.K. carrier
would acquire a new business, Flybe Ireland, for 1 million euros
from Ryanair. The low-cost carrier would inject 100 million
euros of cash into the unit, contribute 50 million euros of
forward sales and assume sufficient costs to ensure Flybe makes
a 20 million-euro pretax profit in the first year, French said.  “We question very much that Flybe will be an independent
competitor to Ryanair,” Mueller said. “We generally agree that
weak airlines should disappear but this proposition turns this
entire thing upside down.”  Mueller is trying to “divert the focus away” from Aer
Lingus’s own operations, French said, adding that Flybe would
boost frequencies and integrate Irish routes into its network as
a “long-term business opportunity.” The airline would pay a
penalty if it dropped services in the next three years, he said.  BA previously paid Flybe about 130 million pounds to cover
restructuring when gave up its regional arm, French added.  The proposed deal with Ryanair is in keeping with Flybe’s
strategy of expanding in a low-risk fashion, Investec analyst
 Andrew Fitchie  said in a note to investors.  Monopoly Concern  The EU blocked a Ryanair bid for Aer Lingus five years ago,
saying it would create a monopoly over Irish flights. O’Leary’s
plans have also drawn opposition from the Irish government,
which holds a 25 percent stake.  Aer Lingus stock rose above the value of Ryanair’s 1.30
euros-a-share bid for the first time as an increase in long-haul
traffic boosted full-year revenue, gaining 4.1 percent to 1.34
euros before trading 0.4 percent higher at 1.29 euros.  Pretax profit before one-time items of 67.1 million euros
was “marginally ahead” of the 64.9 million euros expected,
 James Hollins , another Investec analyst, said. Sales rose 8.2
percent to 1.4 billion euros and the passenger total increased
1.5 percent to 9.65 million, Aer Lingus said.  Aer Lingus will lift its full-year dividend 33 percent to 4
cents a share, it said in a statement. The company said it
cannot provide an earnings outlook for 2013 while takeover
proceedings are outstanding, though Mueller said he was “very
optimistic” about prospects for the year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Finbarr Flynn  at   fflynn3@bloomberg.net ;
 Robert Wall  in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net ;
Douglas Lytle at   dlytle@bloomberg.net  