-- Hagel Nomination Backed by Firefighter Union Ad Campaign
-- B y   K a t e   C a i s o n
-- 2013-02-07T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/hagel-nomination-backed-by-firefighter-union-ad-campaign.html
Chuck Hagel , President  Barack Obama ’s
nominee for defense secretary, is getting public support from
the national firefighters’ union, which is buying print and
television advertisements urging the Senate to confirm him.  “Chuck Hagel supported firefighters when he was in the
Senate, and our mantra has always been that we support those who
support us,”  Harold Schaitberger , general president of the
International Association of Fire Fighters, said in a statement.  The union, which claims more than 300,000 members, is
running ads in the Washington area on cable television shows
such as MSNBC’s “Morning Joe,” Fox News’s “Hannity,” and
“The Situation Room” on CNN, Schaitberger said yesterday by
telephone. The group also will place ads on the Politico website
and in The Hill newspaper.  While Hagel, 66, is a Republican and former Nebraska
senator, he has drawn sharp criticism from members of his party
on issues ranging from his past opposition to unilateral
sanctions against Iran to his comments about the influence of
what he once called “the Jewish lobby.”  Democrats control 55 of the 100 votes in the Senate, and
 Carl Levin , the Michigan Democrat who heads the Senate Armed
Services Committee, predicted last week that all of them will
back Hagel. In addition, at least five Republicans have said
they would help muster the supermajority of 60 votes that would
be needed to overcome an attempt to block a confirmation vote.  Vote Delayed  Levin said yesterday the nomination won’t come up for a
vote by his panel this week.  “The committee’s review of the nomination is not yet
complete,” Levin said in a statement. He said he will schedule
a vote “as soon as possible.”  In supporting Hagel, Schaitberger cited the nominee’s
support for firefighters’ work on the “domestic frontline” as
well as his championing of the Homeland Security Department.
Hagel, who served in the Senate from 1997 to 2009, received two
Purple Hearts as an Army enlisted man in the Vietnam War.  “Hagel always recognized the importance of maintaining the
home front,” said Schaitberger. “He represents what our
membership is.”  Among his union’s members, 30 percent to 40 percent are
veterans, Schaitberger said. “They have a keen awareness and
connection with someone that has served.”  Strong Feelings  “We feel very strongly about this senator and his
record,” said Schaitberger, calling Hagel “a man of
conviction” who’s been willing “to take the tough stance.”  Schaitberger said his group would make a “significant
investment” on ads and gave no specifics.  While concentrating for now on the Washington area, the
union may consider advertising on a state-by-state basis, said
Schaitberger.  The union’s endorsement of Hagel “is the latest in the
line of public discourse about Senator Hagel’s qualifications,”
said Marie Harf, a White House spokeswoman. “This has been a
very public confirmation.”  Schaitberger’s organization backed Obama’s 2008 and 2012
presidential campaigns. The union also endorsed Democrats  John Kerry , the 2004 nominee, and  Al Gore , the 2000 standard-bearer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kate Caison in Washington at 
 kcaison@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net . 