-- Ahmadinejad Associate Freed Amid Iranian Political Infighting
-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i
-- 2013-02-06T10:33:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/ahmadinejad-associate-freed-amid-iranian-political-infighting.html
A former Iranian prosecutor and
associate of President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad was freed without
explanation after two days of detention, state-run media
reported.  Saeed Mortazavi was arrested by judicial officials on Feb.
4 after a dispute between Ahmadinejad and long-term rival
Parliamentary Speaker Ali Larijani exploded in public, with the
two trading accusations of wrongdoing and improper conduct in
the presence of lawmakers.  During the parliamentary session, Ahmadinejad showed a
 video  apparently featuring Mortazavi and which the president
maintained, implicated Fazel Larijani, the speaker’s brother, in
fraudulent business dealings.  Mortazavi had been held on unspecified charges and no
details were given on why he was released from Evin prison at
dawn today, according to  Fars  and  Mehr  news agencies reports.  With tightening sanctions over Iran’s nuclear program
restricting the country’s crude exports and its access to oil
revenue, Ahmadinejad has been made the scapegoat in recent
months by fellow politicians for his management of the economy.
The president has in turn threatened to unveil documents that,
he says, show some officials are corrupt.  Tensions among establishment leaders have escalated before
a June 14 presidential election in which Ahmadinejad isn’t
eligible to run. The nation’s Supreme Leader, Ayatollah Ali
Khamenei, has ordered officials to stop the bickering.  Larijani, the son of a senior cleric and one of five
brothers who have held public office, lost the 2005 presidential
election, when Ahmadinejad won his first term. Larijani later
quit as Iran’s nuclear negotiator over differences with
Ahmadinejad.  Mortazavi was suspended in 2010 after the deaths of three
men arrested during the country’s protests that followed the
contested 2009 election. He was subsequently appointed head of
the Social Security Organization by Labor Minister Abdolreza
Sheikholeslami.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ladane Nasseri  in Dubai at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  