-- Ahmadinejad Says Iran Isn’t Looking to Attack Israel, Ahram Says
-- B y   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y
-- 2013-02-06T13:26:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/ahmadinejad-says-iran-isn-t-looking-to-attack-israel-ahram-says.html
Iranian President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad 
said his nation has no interest in attacking Israel and reached
out to Egypt with an offer of aid amid that nation’s economic
troubles, the state-run al-Ahram newspaper reported today.  Ahmadinejad, who arrived yesterday in Cairo for an Islamic
summit in a trip marking the first to Egypt by an Iranian leader
since 1979, said “Zionists,” his standard reference to Israel,
“very much want to strike Iran, and we haven’t until now given,
and will not give, them this chance,” the newspaper cited him
as saying. “They are well aware of our Iranian defensive
capabilities.”  The Iranian president said his nation had now become a
state with nuclear technology despite western nations’ best
efforts to prevent that, according to al-Ahram. Iran is under
international sanctions for its nuclear program, an effort which
the United States and its allies maintain is aimed at developing
weapons. Iran says its nuclear program is for purely peaceful
purposes.  Ahmadinejad said Iran’s economy is able to withstand the
impact of the sanctions regime currently in place, arguing the
nation’s domestic production will take the place of imports, al-
Ahram reported.  Reaching out to Egypt, a traditional rival under President
 Mohamed Mursi ’s predecessors, Ahmadinejad said Iran was ready to
offer aid and stressed that cooperation between the two
countries was key to cementing their strength in the world, the
newspaper reported.  While Egyptian-Iranian relations have thawed slightly since
Mursi’s June election, the Arab state’s foreign minister said
earlier that a full normalization of ties would be left to
circumstances and the Iranian president was in Cairo, like other
leaders, for an Islamic summit that started today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tarek El-Tablawy in Cairo at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  