-- Akamai Shares Plunge After Revenue, Forecast Miss Estimates
-- B y   S a r a h   F r i e r
-- 2013-02-07T21:27:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/akamai-tumbles-after-fourth-quarter-sales-miss-analyst-estimates.html
Akamai Technologies Inc ., a company
that helps customers speed the delivery of online content,
tumbled the most in a year and a half after its quarterly
revenue and forecast missed estimates.  Akamai shares fell 15 percent to $35.26 at the close in New
York, the biggest decline since July 2011. The stock has slipped
14 percent this year.  Fourth-quarter sales climbed 17 percent to $378 million,
the Cambridge, Massachusetts-based company said yesterday in a
statement. That trailed the $381.4 million predicted by analysts
on average, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. For the
first quarter, the company forecast revenue of $352 million to
$362 million, short of the $369.8 million estimate.  The results showed signs of softening demand for Akamai’s
services, which help customers such as news sites and Web
retailers speed up their online offerings, said  Chad Bartley , an
analyst at Portland, Oregon-based Pacific Crest Securities.  “Revenue was definitely lighter than expectations,” he
said. “Growth decelerated quite a bit in the fourth quarter.”  The results marked the first quarterly earnings report for
 Tom Leighton , a company co-founder who took the chief executive
officer job on Jan. 1. He was named to the post in December
after an eight-month search.  Even with the sales shortfall, earnings topped analysts’
projections last quarter. Akamai posted an adjusted profit of 54
cents a share, compared with an average estimate of 50 cents.
Still, the company said margins will remain in the low 40
percent range for the next few quarters. At a time when margins
are improving for competitors, that was disappointing,  Gray Powell , an analyst at Wells Fargo & Co. in New York, said in a
note to investors.  “Due to the soft Q1 revenue guidance and margin pressure
near term, we think Akamai shares will be in the penalty box
with investors over the next few months,” said Powell, who has
the equivalent of a buy rating on the stock.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah Frier  in New York at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at   nturner7@bloomberg.net  