-- Malaysian Stocks Tumble as Volatility Rises: Kuala Lumpur Mover
-- B y   G a n   Y e n   K u a n
-- 2013-02-06T04:25:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/malaysian-stocks-tumble-as-volatility-rises-kuala-lumpur-mover.html
Malaysian  stocks  fell to a two-month
low and a gauge of price swings climbed to an 11-month high on
speculation the government will dissolve parliament after the
Lunar New Year for an election.  The  FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI Index  lost 0.9 percent to
1,618.87 at 11:59 a.m. local time, poised for its lowest close
since Dec. 7. It was the worst performer among benchmark indexes
in Asia today. The KLCI’s 50-day  volatility  rose to 8.95, the
highest level since Feb. 23. Volumes were 28 percent above the
30-day average at this time of day. Telekom Malaysia Bhd. sank
3.3 percent, leading declines in the stock gauge.  “My peers have received text messages that said the
parliament will be dissolved after Chinese New Year,”  Bharat Joshi , who helps oversee the equivalent of $1.7 billion at
Aberdeen Asset Management Sdn. in Kuala Lumpur, said by phone.
“Sentiment is poor, investors are being cautious.”  The  KLCI index , the world’s third-worst performer among
benchmark indexes this year, has fallen 4.5 percent since
hitting a record high on Jan. 7. Political risks heightened amid
speculation the general election may result in the ruling
coalition losing seats.  Prime Minister  Najib Razak , who must dissolve parliament by
April 28, is having his weekly Cabinet meeting and couldn’t
comment on the election timing, a government spokeswoman said
today. The Lunar New Year starts from Feb. 10.  Approval Rating  Najib said in December the Barisan Nasional or National
Front coalition, which has ruled the nation for 55 years, aims
to restore a two-thirds parliamentary majority it lost in 2008.
At stake are programs Najib unveiled to boost economic growth,
such as a $444 billion program of private sector-led projects
announced in 2010.  His approval rating fell to the lowest level in 16 months
in December, the Merdeka Center for Opinion Research said in a
statement on Jan. 10.  “Most people expect elections to be called post the Lunar
New Year and be held between the third week of March and second
week of April,” according to a note by Barclays Plc dated Feb.
1. “Even though an election has been anticipated for a while,
domestic asset managers are reacting cautiously as the likely
dates approach, and expect volatility to persist.”  The KLCI trades at 14.5 times  estimated earnings , the
lowest level since May 28, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. That compares with the MSCI Emerging Markets Index’s
multiple of 11 times.  Telekom Malaysia , the national fixed-line and Internet
service provider, headed for its lowest close since May 23,
while palm oil producer  Kuala Lumpur Kepong Bhd.  dropped 2.4
percent to a two-month low. Axiata Group Bhd. and YTL Corp.
slipped 2.4 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Gan Yen Kuan  in Kuala Lumpur at 
 ykgan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  