-- Allstate Profit Beats Analysts’ Estimates
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2013-02-06T21:48:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/allstate-profit-falls-45-to-394-million-on-claims-from-sandy.html
Allstate Corp. , the largest publicly
traded U.S. auto and home insurer, reported fourth-quarter
profit that beat analysts’ estimates after superstorm Sandy.
Shares gained in extended trading.  Net income fell to $394 million, or 81 cents a share, from
$712 million, or $1.40, a year earlier, the Northbrook,
Illinois-based insurer said today in a statement. Operating
income, which excludes some investment results, was 59 cents a
share, beating by 62 cents the  average estimate  of 24 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg.  Property insurers faced a surge in claims from Sandy, the
October storm that lashed New Jersey, New York and Connecticut,
damaging homes, businesses and public infrastructure. Allstate
has been buying reinsurance, raising prices and limiting sales
of homeowners’ coverage in vulnerable areas to cushion losses
from the costliest natural disasters.  “They have done a lot with their risk-management program
over the last several years,”  Mark Dwelle , an analyst at RBC
Capital Markets, said in an interview before results were
announced. That helped the company come through Sandy “pretty
well,” he said.  Allstate climbed 2.7 percent to $45.50 at 4:31 p.m. in New
York, after the close of normal trading. It had gained 45
percent in the 12 months through today, before results were
announced. That compares with the 18 percent advance in the 22-
company Standard & Poor’s 500 Insurance Index.  Sandy’s Impact  Catastrophes led by Sandy cost Allstate $1.1 billion in the
quarter, compared with $66 million a year earlier. The insurer
spent $1.02 for every premium dollar in its property and
liability insurance unit compared with a profit of 9.1 cents on
each dollar a year earlier. Excluding the cost of catastrophes,
margins in the business improved by 4 cents per dollar from a
year earlier.  Sandy may cost the insurance industry as much as $25
billion, according to an estimate from catastrophe modeling firm
Risk Management Solutions Inc. Companies including Travelers
Cos. and Chubb Corp. posted lower fourth-quarter profit because
of the storm.  Premium revenue in Allstate’s property and liability
business rose to $6.74 billion from $6.61 billion a year
earlier. Full-year profit climbed to $2.31 billion from $787
million in 2011.  Chief Executive Officer  Tom Wilson , 55, is seeking to boost
shareholder returns as low interest rates put pressure on income
from the company’s bond portfolio and severe weather increases
claims costs. Allstate said in December that it will issue
subordinated debt to fund as much as $1 billion in share
buybacks as it aims for a 13 percent return on equity by 2014.  Seeking Investments  Wilson is also selling some longer-term bonds from the
investment portfolio to lock in gains. The company is looking to
invest in hotels, toll roads and other assets that can help
hedge against a rise in interest rates, he said.  The Federal Reserve has held borrowing costs near zero and
expanded its balance sheet through bond purchases to help
stimulate the economy after the deepest financial crisis since
the Great Depression. That’s punished savers and spurred
businesses that rely on higher interest rates to take longer-
term risks and settle for lower-quality investments, Wilson said
in a Nov. 30 interview at Allstate’s headquarters.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Noah Buhayar  in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  