-- Alstom Wins $1.35 Billion Turbine Deal as Renova Drops GE
-- B y   S t e p h a n   N i e l s e n
-- 2013-02-06T19:35:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/alstom-in-1-35-billion-turbine-deal-with-brazil-s-renova.html
Alstom SA , the biggest maker of
hydropower equipment, will provide  Renova Energia SA  with more
than 1 billion euros ($1.35 billion) of wind turbines in South
America’s largest order as the Brazil-based developer drops
current supplier  General Electric Co.   Alstom will provide Renova Energia with 440 onshore
turbines with 1,200 megawatts of capacity starting in 2015, the
companies said in a joint statement today. Delivery will take
three to four years.  Alstom is usurping GE as Renova’s principal supplier as
demand for wind power surges in Brazil. It’s the region’s
biggest turbine deal to date and will let the Levallois-Perret,
France-based power-equipment maker invest in its South America
supply chain to achieve economies of scale, according to Renova
Energia Chief Financial Officer Pedro Pileggi.  “The deal put on the table by Alstom was better” than
Renova’s contract with GE, Pileggi said in a telephone interview
today. “Price is always important. By providing manufacturers
with long-term planning capabilities they’re able to reduce
costs.”  Renova Energia agreed to buy 230 GE turbines for wind farms
that won contracts to sell power in government-organized
auctions in 2010 and 2011, Pileggi said.  The developer will use Alstom turbines for 400 megawatts of
wind farms it will build in partnership with the Brazilian
utility  Light SA  by September 2016, and for a 22-megawatt
project that received a contract to sell power in a government-
organized auction last year.  Renova also expects to sign contracts to sell power from
122 megawatts of wind capacity to factories and other large
energy consumers by June. Alstom will provide turbines for those
projects and about 650 megawatts of other wind farms that Renova
will build by 2019, Pileggi said.  Emerging Markets  Alstom will double production at its factory in the
northeastern city of Camacari to fulfill the order, he said. GE
didn’t immediately reply to calls and an e-mail from Bloomberg
News seeking comment.  Alstom’s energy business is focusing on emerging markets
where economic growth is fueling demand for new power plants,
 Lionel Pellicer , an analyst at Paris-based equity research
company AlphaValue SAS, said today in a telephone interview.  “The hotspots for Alstom are in Asia and Latin America
because these countries are growing at high speed,” he said.
“This is a very big deal” for its energy business.  Demand Doubling  Demand for wind turbines in Brazil will more than double
this year to 2,024 megawatts from 732 megawatts in 2012,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Wind farms account for
about 1.5 percent of Brazil’s  installed capacity , according to
the country’s power regulator.  “Two years ago, virtually all of our onshore wind turbine
sales were in Europe,”  Jerome Pecresse , president of Alstom’s
renewable power unit, said in an interview today in Sao Paulo.
“Now, more than half are in Latin America.”  Brazil will add about 2,000 megawatts of wind farms to its
grid every year and is on track to get as much as 10 percent of
its power from wind by the end of the decade, Pecresse said.  “This partnership is very ambitious,” Pecresse said. It
“provides for a significant amount of volume.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephan Nielsen in Sao Paulo at 
 snielsen8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  