-- Ambienta Plans 300 Million-Euro Fund for Energy-Saving Products
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2013-02-06T18:02:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/ambienta-plans-300-million-euro-fund-for-energy-saving-products.html
Ambienta SGR SpA, an investor in
resource and energy efficiency, plans a 300 million-euro ($406
million) fund to tap demand for energy-saving natural-gas
burners and generators as U.S. output of the fuel grows.  The Ambienta II fund will invest in European companies that
could market their gas technologies abroad as well as those that
curb water waste and control pollution, said  Nino Tronchetti Provera , chief executive officer of the Milan-based firm.  Ambienta, like peers Wheb Group and Ludgate Investments
Ltd., is seeking to benefit from growing use of energy-efficient
products as burgeoning populations use up finite resources. The
U.S. has become the biggest natural-gas producer after expanding
shale drilling, boosting demand for gas-consuming products such
as boilers and pumps that were first developed in Europe.  “The continent that has pioneered utilization of natural
gas for applications such as automotives, heating and cooling,
is Europe,” Tronchetti Provera said in an interview in London.
“Given the Americas don’t have these technologies, it’s going
to be a big area of potential growth for European companies.”  The fund is targeting 100 million euros by June in a first
phase, and plans investments of about 20 million euros in each
company. The businesses targeted by the earlier Ambienta I fund
recorded an average 26 percent gain in sales last year and added
460 jobs in the past four years, Tronchetti Provera said.  “Companies are growing because what they have been doing
for years is now enabling continents around the world to become
as efficient as Europe has been,” he said.  As well as the energy-efficiency industry, Ambienta II will
also study European companies that reduce water waste with pipe
upgrades, recycling and filtration, and producers of electronics
equipment such as adaptors, inverters and transformers, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  