-- Amend Texas Constitution to Hogtie Public Spending
-- B y   W .   M i c h a e l   C o x   a n d   R i c h a r d   A l m
-- 2013-02-06T16:16:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/amend-texas-constitution-to-hogtie-public-spending.html
Good times fill public coffers with
new revenue, at least some of it unanticipated. Seeing the
windfall, U.S. state legislatures usually proceed to  spend it .
After all, that’s what politicians love to do. And so
governments grow bigger and bigger.  In his State of the State address last week, Republican
Governor  Rick Perry  of Texas proposed breaking this cycle. He
wants Texas to return unspent money to the taxpayers.  “When we do bring in more than we need,” he said, “we’ll
have the option of returning tax money directly to the people
who paid it.” Simple enough; yet in Texas, such an arrangement
would require a long, difficult slog through the process of
amending the state constitution.  Give Perry credit for recognizing a plain fact that too
many politicians  ignore : The money we earn belongs to us, not
the government. Rebate plans, however, have the same fatal flaw
as requirements to balance budgets -- they don’t impose enough
restraint on the size of government. Governments cut spending
only when tax revenue falls.  Take Texas, for example. Balanced budgets are mandated;
even so, spending rose from $23 billion in 1990 to $96 billion
in 2011, a 300 percent increase. Adjust for inflation and
population growth, and Texas’s  state-spending  increase still
totals more than 100 percent.  And this under Republican governors and legislators.  Surpluses Galore  As the legislature convened this year, the state
comptroller’s office  reported  that Texas enters the next two-
year budget cycle with a surplus of $8.8 billion, a bonus from a
growing economy and energy boom. Lawmakers are chin-deep in
proposals on how to spend it, which tells you  why Perry  is
floating his tax-rebate plan right now.  Even with a requirement to rebate excess tax revenue, state
politicians can spend as much as they like, subject to the
obligation to raise enough revenue to avoid deficits. Every once
in a while, they will miscalculate and end up sending some cash
back to where it came from. The incentive will be for
politicians to shoot for spending at levels that ensure rebates
will be as rare and small as possible.  Occasional tax-revenue rebates don’t alter the basic
calculus that leads to higher spending and bigger government.
Interest groups will continue to  advocate  for spending that
benefits them a great deal, financed by general taxes. They gain
a lot and pay a little. In contrast, rebates are likely to be
small for most individual taxpayers, giving them very little
incentive to lobby for reduced spending.  Politicians know how to play this game. They will continue
to seek votes and campaign cash by delivering the concentrated
benefits to interest groups, such as employee unions or
advocates of alternative energy. Holding out the possibility of
tax rebates sometime in the future won’t be a winning campaign
strategy.  The spending cycle will roll on. If tax revenue rises in
good times, politicians will still spend more, perhaps not in
the first budget cycle but in the next one. So the rebate plan
won’t put a cap on spending or the size of government.  At the same time,  future rebates  don’t lessen the burdens
that taxes impose on work and the economy. Individuals and
companies will still pay the piper this year, with no clue about
whether they can plan on a rebate next year. And there is the
messy issue of redistribution. How do we know the rebates will
go into the pockets of those who paid taxes, dollar for dollar?
If it is a political decision, some Texans will, no doubt, vote
to gain at the expense of others.  Amend Constitution  Amending constitutions is hard work. In Texas, it takes a
two-thirds vote of both houses of the legislature, plus approval
in a statewide referendum. If he’s going to invest all that
time, energy and political capital, Perry ought to shoot for a
broader constitutional provision that will impose genuine
constraint on the size of government.  A formula might tie public spending to growth in
population, personal income or gross state product, or maybe
some combination. Better yet, maybe spending should grow at some
percentage of the increases, so it will be shrinking as a share
of the state economy. Because balanced budgets tie spending to
revenue, constitutional caps on taxes might accomplish the same
ends.  Economists could recommend the type of limit and its level.
The goal should be spending levels that promote economic growth
and keep Texas as an attractive place for migrants from other
states.  Recessions would be tough, but that’s how it is already. In
good years, extra revenue would flow into the state’s coffers,
but with a crucial difference. Politicians would be barred from
spending it. It would be best to put that money into a rainy-day
fund to ease the blow of hard times. But Texas could give it
back to the taxpayers, just as Perry wants.  Constitutional limits on spending blunt the political
incentives to spend more. They’re the only long-term way to
restrain the size of government.  ( W. Michael Cox  is director of the O’Neil Center for Global
Markets and Freedom at Southern Methodist University’s Cox
School of Business.  Richard Alm  is a writer-in-residence at the
center. The opinions expressed are their own.)  To contact the writers of this article:
W. Michael Cox at  wmcox@cox.smu.edu  and Richard Alm at
 ralm@cox.smu.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 