-- ArcelorMittal Sees 2013 Earnings Gain as Steel Sales Revive
-- B y   T h o m a s   B i e s h e u v e l
-- 2013-02-06T16:56:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/arcelormittal-reports-lowest-quarterly-profit-in-three-years.html
ArcelorMittal , the world’s biggest
steelmaker, said it expects an earnings recovery in 2013 after
posting the lowest quarterly profit in three years as the
European debt crisis eroded demand for the metal.  Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization fell to $1.32 billion in the fourth quarter from
$1.71 billion a year earlier, ArcelorMittal said today in a
statement. That beat the $1.25 billion median estimate of 18
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. The company said 2013 Ebitda
will exceed last year’s $7.1 billion as it ships more steel.  “Although we expect the challenges to continue in 2013,
largely due to the fragility of the European economy, we have
recently seen some more positive indicators,”  Lakshmi Mittal ,
chief executive officer of the Luxembourg-based company, said in
the statement. These will “support an improvement in the
profitability of our steel business this year.”  ArcelorMittal will report 2013 Ebitda of $8 billion,
according to the mean estimate of 30 analysts.  Aditya Mittal ,
chief financial officer, wouldn’t comment on those projections
on a call with reporters.  Steel-industry earnings have slumped as Europe’s economic
crisis saps demand and slower Chinese growth weighs on commodity
prices. European steelmakers are grappling with excess capacity
that’s pushing down prices as operating costs climb. The region
has capacity to make about 210 million metric tons of steel a
year, while demand in a “normal market” is 150 million to 160
million tons, according to industry lobby group  Eurofer .  Optimistic Signs  ArcelorMittal rose 1.1 percent to 12.56 euros at the close
in Amsterdam.  “There is some cause for optimism, things are certainly
moving in the right direction,” said  Tim Cahill , an analyst at
J&E Davy Holdings Ltd. in Dublin. “Short term, there is
momentum for the mining business, but by the second quarter we
need to see the steel price moving, it’s going to be tricky as
demand isn’t really there at the moment.”  The European steel market will remain “stuck in reverse
gear” for the time being, Eurofer said yesterday. “We do
expect a more supportive economic environment towards the end of
the year. But it will take most of 2013 before our customers in
industry and the steel distribution chain will notice any
improvement in business conditions.”  European steel demand will probably drop by 1 percent this
year, compared with a 9 percent decline in 2012, Aditya Mittal
said on the call.  “We are seeing improvements in terms of shipments in all
markets compared to the fourth quarter,” he said. “The first
quarter is stronger than the fourth quarter.”  Increased Output  ArcelorMittal produced 88.2 million tons of steel in 2012.
Output will increase by 2 percent to 3 percent this year, while
global steel use will climb by 3 percent, the company said.
Marketable iron ore shipments  are expected to increase by about
20 percent, the company said.  Iron ore  prices gained 39 percent in the fourth quarter and
reached $158.50 a ton in January, the highest since 2011.
European hot-rolled coil, a benchmark steel product, fell to the
lowest in more than two years in the fourth quarter.  The producer reported a full-year  net loss  of $3.7 billion
after taking a $4.3 billion non-cash impairment on its European
businesses as the region’s weakening economy eroded demand.
Sales slipped 10 percent to $84.2 billion.  ArcelorMittal’s net debt fell by $1.4 billion to $21.8
billion by the end of the fourth quarter. The company is seeking
to reduce borrowings after its credit rating was cut to junk by
Moody’s Investors Service, Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings.
The steelmaker said Jan. 9 it would raise about $3.5 billion in
a sale of shares and bonds to lower debt.  South Africa  The company has scaled back its dividend and sold assets,
including a $1.1 billion stake in its Canadian mining business.
It’s also moving output to cheaper sites to pare debt to $17
billion by the end of June.  ArcelorMittal South Africa Ltd. also reported results
today. Africa’s biggest steelmaker forecast it would “break
even” in the first quarter as steel prices and domestic demand
increase. The company posted a 462 million-rand ($52.3 million)
loss in the fourth quarter.  ArcelorMittal South Africa dropped 0.6 percent in
Johannesburg to 36.45 rand.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Biesheuvel in London at 
 tbiesheuvel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  