-- Hardware Billionaires Emerge at Grainger on Housing Gains
-- B y   D a v i d   d e   J o n g
-- 2013-02-06T02:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/hardware-billionaires-emerge-at-grainger-on-housing-gains.html
W.W. Grainger Inc ., a Lake Forest,
Illinois-based hardware supply distributor whose shares reached
a record high Friday, has manufactured two new billionaires.  David W. Grainger, 85, is the company’s largest individual
shareholder and has a net worth of about $1.2 billion, according
to the Bloomberg Billionaires Index. Grainger owns about 6.4
percent of the operation, or 4.4 million shares, according to a
regulatory filing with the U.S Securities and Exchange
Commission. The shares, which he owns directly and through
various family trusts, are valued at more than $950 million.  He also controls another 980,000 shares held by The
Grainger Foundation Inc., which are not included in his net
worth calculation, according to the Bloomberg ranking. The
octogenarian has collected more than $200 million in  dividends 
and proceeds from stocks sales since 1980.  “They’re one of the largest players in the general
industrial distribution business,”  Derek Jose , an equity
analyst at Longbow Research LLC said in a phone interview from
his office in Cleveland, Ohio. “Grainger picked up the market
share of smaller competitors in a slowing environment.”  The company’s shares have doubled since September 2010,
amid a resurgent housing market in the U.S. Grainger generated
$9 billion in revenue last year, up 11 percent from 2011,
selling lighting and electrical products, power and hand tools,
and pumps and plumbing supplies at 368 branches in the U.S.,
according to the company’s annual report. It employs 20,000
workers worldwide.  Engineering Donation  James Slavik, a Grainger director since 1987, is also a
billionaire. The 60-year-old chairman of Newport Beach,
California-based Mark IV Capital Inc. controls 4.2 million
shares directly and through trusts valued at $910 million. He
has also collected about $110 million in stock sales and
dividends since 1988.  In the fall of 2010, David Grainger donated about 1 million
shares to his foundation. Last week, the charitable group
pledged $100 million to the University of Illinois at Urbana-
Champaign to support the school’s College of Engineering.  The gift was made in memory of William W. Grainger, the
company’s founder and billionaire’s father, the school’s
chancellor said in a statement. The elder Grainger graduated
from the university in 1919.  Part of the gift will create an endowment for chairs and
professorships at the engineering school, which has more than
10,700 enrolled undergraduate and graduate students. The
foundation had more than $200 million in assets in 2011,
according to a U.S. Internal Revenue Service filing.  Excessive Pay  The company agreed to pay $70 million in December to
resolve U.S. allegations it submitted false claims under
contracts with the General Services Administration and the U.S.
Postal Service.  The GSA discovered through an audit that Grainger hadn’t
given accurate or complete information to government purchasers,
causing the U.S. to pay excessive amounts for the company’s
products, the Justice Department said Dec. 26 in an e-mailed
statement.  “Grainger maintains it complied with the disclosure
requirements and the contracts in all material respects, and the
settlement does not contain any admission of wrongdoing by the
company,” the company said in the statement.  Joseph Micucci, a company spokesman, said the billionaire
declined to comment on his net worth. A call to Slavik’s
California office seeking comment wasn’t immediately returned.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David De Jong in New York at 
 ddejong3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew G. Miller at 
 mmiller144@bloomberg.net  