-- Argentina’s YPF Sued by U.S. Investor Over Share Offering
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2013-02-06T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/argentina-s-ypf-sued-by-u-s-investor-over-share-offering-3-.html
YPF SA , the crude-oil producer that
was seized by the Argentine government last year, was sued by an
investor who accused the company of making false statements
before its March 2011 public offering.  The company, its directors and the offering’s underwriters
made misleading and untrue statements in a prospectus and in
documents filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission, according to a complaint filed yesterday by
Michigan’s Monroe County Employees Retirement System in federal
court in Manhattan. The underwriters include  Morgan Stanley ,
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Credit Suisse Group AG.  The registration didn’t disclose that the company faced a
risk of nationalization by the Argentine government, which had
increased because of the failure to “adequately produce oil and
gas within Argentina” and reinvest a “substantial portion” of
profits into operations, according to the complaint.  The Michigan pension fund also said YPF failed to disclose
that it was in breach of its concession contracts with provinces
in Argentina and that nationalization “would likely have a
severe adverse effect on shareholders and ‘‘on the company’s
market value.’’  Argentina Seizure  Argentina’s President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner ’s
administration seized YPF, the country’s biggest producer of
crude, in April from Madrid-based  Repsol SA , which was also
named as a defendant in the suit.  Pablo Dorfman, a spokesman for YPF, declined to comment in
an e-mailed response to questions, saying the company hadn’t
been officially notified of the suit.  Mary Claire Delaney , a spokeswoman for Morgan Stanley,
declined to comment on the lawsuit.  Credit Suisse  spokesman  Drew Benson  didn’t immediately comment on the complaint.  Goldman Sachs spokesman  Michael DuVally  didn’t immediately
respond to an e-mail yesterday seeking comment on the lawsuit.
 Begona Elices Garcia , a Repsol spokeswoman, didn’t immediately
respond yesterday after regular business hours to an e-mail
seeking comment.  The case is Monroe County Employees Retirement System, 13-
cv-0842, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York State Supreme Court in Manhattan at
   cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  