-- Arrium Writes Down A$474 Million on Strong Currency, Weak Market
-- B y   S o r a y a   P e r m a t a s a r i
-- 2013-02-06T06:37:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/arrium-writes-down-a-474-million-on-strong-currency-weak-market.html
Arrium Ltd. , which rebuffed a A$1.2
billion ($1.24 billion) takeover offer from a Noble Group Ltd.-
led consortium in October, will write down $474 million on its
steel assets due to weak demand and a stronger Australian
dollar.  The writedown includes A$431 million in the company’s
manufacturing unit and A$43 million on its distribution
business, Sydney-based Arrium said today in a statement.  Arrium said the expectation of a stronger dollar and “a
forecast continuation of the difficult external environment and
generally weak construction markets,” prompted the writedown.  Australian steelmakers have struggled in the past two years
as a stronger local currency hurts their competitiveness against
imported steel, and lower steel prices reduce profit.  BlueScope
Steel Ltd. , the nation’s largest steelmaker said in January it
will cut output and eliminate jobs at its Western Port facility
to reduce costs.  While the writedown will increase Arrium’s gearing ratio by
about 2.6 percentage points the company is “comfortable with
its banking covenants,” it said. Arrium has net debt of A$2.14
billion as of June 30, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Its total assets as of June 30 were A$8.93 billion, according to
the data.  The manufacturing writedown includes all the goodwill on
the value of its Australian Tube Mills unit, as the company
“does not expect to realise this value on a sale of the
business,” it said in the statement. The writedown in the
distribution unit is related to the ARC steel reinforcing brand.  “These impairments are non-cash in nature and have no
impact on operations,” it said. Further details will be
disclosed at its half-year financial results later this month.  Arrium, which changed its name from OneSteel Ltd. in July
to reflect its increasing focus on iron ore, relied on the
steelmaking commodity for more than half its earnings in the
year ended June 30 last year.  The stock rose 0.5 percent to 94 cents at the close of
Sydney trading, while the benchmark index added 0.8 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Soraya Permatasari in Melbourne at 
 soraya@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  