-- Asian Stocks Advance as Toyota Raises Profit Forecast
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2013-02-06T09:13:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/asian-stocks-rise-as-toyota-raises-profit-forecast.html
Asian  stocks  rose, with Japan’s
Nikkei 225 Stock Average closing at the highest in four years,
as Toyota Motor Corp. raised its forecast and the yen weakened,
boosting the earnings outlook for exporters.  Toyota, the world’s largest carmaker, jumped 6.1 percent
after increasing its profit outlook to a five-year high.  Mizuho
Financial Group Inc.  paced gains among lenders after Bank of
Japan Governor Masaaki Shirakawa said he was stepping down
before his term is up, raising optimism his replacement will be
more aggressive fighting deflation.  Galaxy Entertainment Group
Ltd.  led Macau casino operators lower after the U.K.’s Times
newspaper said China will crack down on junket operators.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index  gained 1.1 percent to 133.08 as
of 6 p.m. in Tokyo, with about two stocks rising for each that
fell. The Nikkei 225 climbed 3.8 percent to the highest close
since Sept. 29, 2008, two weeks before Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc. filed for the biggest bankruptcy in U.S. history.  “Japan’s recent strong equity market performance has
substantially further to run as the market further discounts the
positive impact” of Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s policies,
 Jonathan Garner , chief Asia and emerging-market strategist at
Morgan Stanley in Hong Kong, wrote in a report to clients
advising investors to favor Japanese stocks. “We expect the
market to trade more on positive earnings revisions, rather than
purely tracking yen weakness.”  BOJ Governor  The Bank of Japan’s Shirakawa  yesterday said he will step
down on March 19, three weeks early, accelerating a leadership
transition that may aid  Abe’s  campaign for aggressive easing
that has helped the yen weaken against all other currencies
since mid-November, driving the broader  Topix Index  up 30
percent through yesterday since elections were announced on Nov.
14. The yen touched 93.80 per dollar, the lowest level since May
2010.  Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index rose 0.5 percent, while the
Shanghai Composite added 0.1 percent. Taiwan’s Taiex Index rose
0.3 percent. Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index advanced 0.8 percent
even after the nation’s retail sales unexpectedly fell for a
third month in December, the longest stretch of declines in 13
years. South Korea’s Kospi Index slid 0.1 percent.  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index futures rose 0.2 percent. The
gauge advanced 1 percent yesterday, rebounding from the biggest
loss of the year for benchmark indexes, as earnings topped
forecasts and Dell Inc. agreed to be taken private in the
largest leveraged buyout since the financial crisis.  Earnings Outlook  “In terms of earnings outlooks, we’re starting to see some
positive momentum coming back,” said  Tai Hui , Hong Kong-based
chief market strategist for Asia at JPMorgan Asset Management,
which has about $2.1 trillion under management. “The global
macro environment has become more stable and the growth
environment in Asia is starting to pick up. Combined with
relatively attractive valuations, it gives us confidence that
equities will perform well in 2013,” he told Bloomberg
Television.  Toyota advanced 6.1 percent to 4,815 yen after Japan’s
biggest manufacturer raised its forecast for net income in the
year ending March by 10 percent to 860 billion yen ($9.2
billion).  Nomura Holdings Inc.  increased its share-price
estimate for Toyota by 21 percent to 5,800 yen following the
earnings announcement.  Japanese banks advanced. Mizuho Financial surged 5.2
percent to 202 yen.  Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group, Inc. , the
nation’s biggest lender by market value, gained 2.5 percent to
533 yen. Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group Inc., Japan’s No. 2
bank by market value, climbed 1.9 percent to 3,830 yen.  Ibiden Gains  Ibiden Co. jumped 22 percent to 1,511 yen in Tokyo, the
largest advance among companies on the benchmark Asian index.
The ceramic maker’s shares soared after it maintained its full-
year  profit forecast . The stock had fallen recently on
expectations it would cut its outlook, according to Bank of
America Corp. analyst  Masashi Kubota .  DBS Group Holdings Ltd. sank 1.6 percent to S$14.96 in
Singapore as Southeast Asia’s largest bank said fourth-quarter
profit rose 4 percent, excluding a gain from the sale of a
Philippine bank, missing analysts’ estimates as loan margins
narrowed.  Of the 237 companies on the MSCI Asia Pacific index that
have reported earnings so far this quarter and for which
Bloomberg has estimates, 52 percent have  exceeded profit
expectations . About half missed sales projections, the data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Casino-operators Galaxy Entertainment slid 5.4 percent to
HK$33 and Sands China Ltd. dropped 5.2 percent to HK$36.30 in
Hong Kong. China’s government will start taking action later
this month to clamp down on junket operators that bring gamblers
from the mainland to Macau,  the Times reported  on its website,
citing unidentified people in law enforcement.  Money-Laundering  By acting as middlemen and moneylenders, junket operators
help drive the high-stakes, or VIP, business that accounts for
about two-thirds of casino revenues in the world’s largest
gambling hub.  Soho China Ltd., the biggest developer in Beijing’s central
business district, slumped 8 percent to HK$6.32, the most since
March 2009, after a Beijing Times report linked the company to
money-laundering.  “We emphasize again that any accusations about us
colluding in money laundering or kickbacks is rumor,” Soho
Chief Executive Officer Zhang Xin said yesterday in a statement
on her microblog which was confirmed by the company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  