-- ANZ Offers First Dollar Debt in Four Days as Bond Risk Declines
-- B y   R a c h e l   E v a n s
-- 2013-02-06T05:03:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/asia-pacific-bond-risk-decreases-credit-default-swaps-show.html
Australia & New Zealand Banking Group
Ltd.  is marketing a sale of U.S. dollar-denominated bonds,
ending a three-day pause in Asia-Pacific issuance in the
currency. Bond risk fell.  ANZ, Australia’s third-largest lender by market value,
plans to sell as much as $750 million of three-year notes as
soon as today, a person familiar with the matter said, asking
not to be identified because terms aren’t set. The bank is the
first borrower from the region to sell dollar debt since Global
A&T Electronics Ltd., Westpac Banking Corp. and Hainan Airlines
Co. issued notes on Jan. 31, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Offerings from Asia have slowed after a record January as
Lunar New Year holidays approach and a Treasuries sell-off
pushes up yields. Average U.S. currency premiums for the
region’s non-investment grade borrowers  surged  to 396 basis
points yesterday, the most in five months, according to HSBC
Holdings Plc indexes.  “The recent deluge of high-yield new issues are the weak
spot in the market,” said  Owen Gallimore , a Singapore-based
credit analyst at ANZ. “As rates move quickly, it will be
difficult for any but the best primary deals to issue
immediately after the Chinese New Year holiday.”  The cost of insuring corporate and sovereign bonds in Asia
is on track to close at the lowest level since the beginning of
the month after rising four basis points this year, according to
traders of credit-default swaps. Yields on 10-year U.S.
government debt increased close to the highest level since April
yesterday. Treasuries are often used as a pricing benchmark on
Asian deals in the currency.  IBRD Deal  The World Bank’s International Bank for Reconstruction &
Development, a top-rated supranational borrower, plans to sell
three- and 10-year bonds, according to a person familiar with
the matter.  The Markit iTraxx Asia index of 40 investment-grade
borrowers outside Japan declined two basis points to 116.5 basis
points as of 8:39 a.m. in Hong Kong, Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc prices show. The gauge is set for its lowest close
since Feb. 1, according to data provider CMA.  The Markit iTraxx Australia index decreased three basis
points to 119 as of 11:39 a.m. in Sydney, according to Westpac
prices. The benchmark has fallen 8.5 basis points so far this
year, after a 53 basis-point drop in 2012, according to CMA,
which is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles prices quoted by
dealers in the private market.  The Markit iTraxx Japan index fell two basis points to 127
basis points as of 9:39 a.m. in Tokyo, according to Citigroup
Inc. prices.  Credit-default swap indexes are benchmarks for insuring
bonds against default and traders use them to speculate on
credit quality. A drop signals improving perceptions of
creditworthiness, while an increase suggests the opposite.  The swap contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities if a borrower fails to meet its debt
agreements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rachel Evans in Hong Kong at 
 revans43@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shelley Smith at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  