-- Euro Falls, Stocks Little Changed as Treasuries Advance
-- B y   S t e p h e n   K i r k l a n d   a n d   I n y o u n g   H w a n g
-- 2013-02-06T21:17:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/asian-stocks-rebound-on-earnings-optimism-yen-near-3-year-lows.html
The euro weakened as European Central
Bank policy makers prepared to meet tomorrow amid renewed
concern the debt crisis will worsen. U.S. stocks closed little
changed while Treasuries advanced.  The euro depreciated 0.5 percent to $1.3519 at 4:10 p.m. in
New York, while the dollar gained versus 14 of 16 major peers.
The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  closed less than 0.1 percent
higher after falling 0.4 percent. Ten-year Treasury yields fell
four basis points to 1.96 percent and rates on German  bunds  lost
two points to 1.63 percent. Russia’s 2027 ruble bonds snapped a
seven-day slide on plans to open the market to foreign
investors. Oil erased an early 1.7 percent drop.  ECB President Mario Draghi will head a meeting of policy
makers meet tomorrow in Frankfurt as euro-area leaders gather
for a summit in Brussels. The euro has retreated from a 14-month
high against the dollar reached on Feb. 1 as Spain’s premier
faced opposition calls to resign. Stocks and U.S. equity-index
futures gained earlier today as company earnings from
ArcelorMittal to Walt Disney Co. beat estimates.  “It feels like we’re starting a rotation of worry back to
Europe again,”  Sandy Lincoln , the Chicago-based chief market
strategist in the U.S. with BMO Global Asset Management, which
oversees about $120 billion, said in a telephone interview.
“This is a very fragile environment so whenever you have glass
that’s out there that can break easily, people get themselves
concerned.”  ‘Still Struggling’  The euro slipped against 12 of its 16 major counterparts,
losing 0.6 percent versus the yen. Australia’s dollar slid
against 15 of 16 peers after retail sales unexpectedly dropped
for a third month. The JPMorgan G7 Volatility  Index , calculated
based on premiums on currency options, climbed as high as 9.6
percent, the most since July 25.  The 17-nation euro also slid as Spain’s premier resisted
opposition calls to resign and Italy’s Banca Monte dei Paschi di
Siena SpA faced criminal probes over losses it hid in 2008 and
2009 using derivatives, while Greece’s finance minister said the
shared currency’s strength is a concern. The euro last week
reached the strongest level since November 2011.  The ECB “is not only governing a region which is still
struggling to achieve growth but also has to cope with a
currency which is at risk of becoming too strong,”  Adrian van Tiggelen , senior investment specialist in The Hague at ING
Investment Management, which oversees more than $400 billion,
said in a note today. “If this trend continues the ECB may be
forced to lower interest rates even further and, or, make a less
conservative use of the printing press.”  Market Leaders  The  S&P 500  swung between gains and losses today after
climbing 1 percent yesterday, its best rally in more than a
month. Telephone, utility and consumer-discretionary shares led
gains among the 10 main groups in the S&P 500 today, with only
technology and health-care companies retreating.  Walt Disney Co., the largest entertainment company,
advanced 0.4 percent as earnings topped estimates and the
interactive unit reported its first profit while new theme-park
attractions drew more tourists. Zynga Inc. rallied 9 percent
after the biggest maker of online social games reported fourth-
quarter profit and sales that surpassed projections as it cut
costs. Time Warner Inc. gained 4.1 percent after earnings beat
estimates on gains in fees paid by satellite and cable
companies.  Earnings Season  Twenty-four companies in the S&P 500 are due to  release
results  today. Earnings per share have topped the average
analyst estimate at about 74 percent of companies in the index
that have posted results so far in the reporting season,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Royal Imtech NV, the Dutch provider of infrastructure for
stadiums whose shares sank 48 percent on Feb. 4 after predicting
writedowns exceeding 100 million euros ($136 million), dropped
9.5 percent as the chief executive officer and chief financial
officer of Imtech Deutschland left.  ArcelorMittal, the world’s biggest steelmaker, rose 1
percent after earnings beat estimates. Hargreaves Lansdown Plc
rallied 11 percent as earnings at the U.K.’s largest retail
broker also topped estimates. ICAP Plc, the world’s biggest
broker of transactions between banks, surged 5.3 percent.  Japan’s Nikkei 225 Stock Average climbed 3.8 percent to the
highest level since September 2008 as Toyota Motor Corp. raised
its profit forecast.  Emerging Markets  The yield on Russia’s ruble bonds maturing in February 2027
declined three basis points to 7.06 percent. Euroclear Bank SA
said it will start direct settlement of ruble-denominated
government debt tomorrow, opening the $100 billion so-called OFZ
market to foreign investors.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index  slipped 0.4 percent for a
third straight loss. Malaysia’s benchmark gauge dropped 1.2
percent as speculation mounted the government will dissolve
parliament for elections. The Shanghai Composite Index added
less than 0.1 percent, while Brazil’s Bovespa gauge slipped 0.8
percent, Russia’s Micex Index lost 0.6 percent and India’s
Sensex fell 0.1 percent.  Oil settled down 2 cents at $96.62 a barrel, trimming an
earlier 1.7 percent slump.. Platinum rose as much as 1.7 percent
to $1,739.37 an ounce, the highest price since September 2001 on
a closing basis.  U.S. natural gas futures rose as much as 1.8 as forecasters
including Commodity Weather Group LLC said below-normal
temperatures will sweep into parts of the U.S. Midwest in the
next 11 to 15 days. Lumber climbed to a one-month high in
Chicago, rising the one-day limit of $10, on mounting
speculation that new construction in China is boosting demand
for imported wood.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Kirkland in London at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net ;
Glenys Sim in Singapore at 
 gsim4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  