-- Aussie Declines Versus U.S. Dollar on Interest-Rate Cut Wagers
-- B y   T a y l o r   T e p p e r
-- 2013-02-06T21:36:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/aussie-declines-versus-u-s-dollar-on-interest-rate-cut-wagers.html
The Australian dollar fell to its
lowest in 12 weeks versus its U.S. counterpart before the
release of data forecast to show rising unemployment, boosting
prospects the Reserve Bank will cut interest rates next month.  The Aussie declined against the majority of its major peers
after the central bank left the cash-rate at a half-century low
Feb. 4 and said the inflation outlook “would afford scope to
ease policy further.” New Zealand’s dollar fell versus the
dollar and yen before the government issues employment data.  “The Aussie’s move has been driven by rising expectations
that the Reserve Bank of Australia will deliver on more rate
cuts down the line,”  Shahab Jalinoos,  a senior currency
strategist at UBS AG in Stamford, Connecticut, said in a
telephone interview. “The market is looking ahead to the
unemployment data. If we get a weak number, it might be a big
catalyst for a rate cut.”  The Aussie fell 0.6 percent to $1.0324 yesterday in New
York, after falling below the 200-day moving average to $1.0297,
the lowest since Nov. 16. It declined 0.8 to 96.55 yen.  The New Zealand dollar, nicknamed the kiwi, weakened 0.3
percent to 84.27 cents per U.S. dollar. The kiwi fell 0.3
percent to 78.79 yen.  Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index of 24 raw materials was little
changed.  Jobless Rate  The Aussie declined as Australia’s unemployment rate in
January was forecast to increase to 5.5 percent from 5.4
percent, according to median forecast of 25 economists polled by
Bloomberg News.  Retail sales in Australia fell 0.2 percent in December from
the previous month, capping their longest stretch of declines in
13 years, the statistics bureau said in Sydney yesterday. The
median estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News was for
0.3 percent growth.  RBA Governor  Glenn Stevens  and his board left the overnight
cash rate target at 3 percent Tuesday, in line with economists
forecasts. Interest-rate swaps data compiled by Bloomberg show
traders see a 55 percent chance the RBA will lower the benchmark
on March 5.  New Zealand’s unemployment rate was forecast to decline by
0.2 percentage point to 7.1 percent, according to a median
forecast by eight economists polled by Bloomberg.  The Aussie fell 2.1 percent during the past month among the
10 developed-nation currencies monitored by the Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The kiwi gained 1.1 percent. The
the greenback dropped 0.4 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Taylor Tepper in New York at 
 ttepper2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  