-- Australia’s Indigenous Face Job, Education Hurdles, Gillard Says
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2013-02-06T01:10:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/australia-s-indigenous-face-job-education-hurdles-gillard-says.html
Australia’s indigenous people face a
“massive and unacceptable gap” in employment rates compared
with the rest of the nation, while health and education
standards also lag behind, Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  said.  While the number of Aborigines in mainstream employment
rose to 44.7 percent in 2011 from 42.4 percent in 2006, the
disparity with the remainder of the population at 72 percent is
still too wide, Gillard told parliament today as she presented
the fifth annual  Closing the Gap  report. Government targets to
improve primary- and high-school education for the indigenous
community are slipping, she said.  “I cannot conceal that these literacy and numeracy results
are a source of personal disappointment,” Gillard told
lawmakers. “Last year’s optimism gives way this year to a
starker realism.”  Australia’s 400,000 Aborigines remain the poorest and most
disadvantaged group in society more than 200 years after
Europeans settled in 1788. Indigenous Australians populated the
continent at least 50,000 years ago and now make up about 2.5
percent of the population. The Closing the Gap program aims to
erase the difference in standards between the indigenous and
non-indigenous in health care, education, job opportunities and
community services by 2031.  Gillard said the first of the government’s five pledges
made in 2008 had been fulfilled -- delivering access to early
childhood education to all four-year-olds in remote communities
by 2013.  Child Mortality  In primary- and high-school education, three of eight
indicators in reading and numeracy were tracking as expected and
the other five needed “considerable work,” she said.  While child mortality rates improved, indigenous health
standards were threatened by alcohol-related accidents and abuse
in remote areas of the Northern Territory, which under its
newly-elected Country Liberal Party government in August revoked
laws that banned some indigenous people from buying alcohol.  “I have a real fear that the rivers of grog that wreaked
such havoc among indigenous communities are starting to flow
once again,” Gillard said, calling on the territory’s
government to reinstate the Banned Drinkers Register. Grog is
Australian slang for alcohol.  Gillard’s predecessor,  Kevin Rudd , offered the nation’s
first apology in 2008 to Aborigines taken from their families
for assimilation with the white community, saying the policy was
a “blemished chapter” in the nation’s history. Rudd’s
government initiated the Closing the Gap project.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Scott in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  