-- Australian Retail Sales Fall in Longest Decline for 13 Years
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2013-02-06T02:02:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/australia-s-retail-sales-fall-in-longest-decline-for-13-years.html
Australian retail sales unexpectedly
fell for a third month in December, the longest stretch of
declines in 13 years, as consumers spent less dining out amid a
deteriorating employment outlook. The local currency dropped.  Sales slipped 0.2 percent to A$21.4 billion ($22.2 billion)
from a month earlier, when they declined a revised 0.2 percent,
the Bureau of Statistics said in Sydney today. The result
compares with the median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of
24 economists for a 0.3 percent gain. Only one economist
forecast a decline.  The weak holiday shopping result underscores Reserve Bank
of Australia Governor  Glenn Stevens ’s decision to make six
interest-rate reductions -- totaling 1.75 percentage points --
from November 2011 to December last year to buttress a slowing
economy. The benchmark rate is at 3 percent, matching a half-
century low, as policy makers aim to stimulate industries
outside of mining and encourage hiring.  Weakness “is fairly broad-based,” said David de Garis, a
senior economist at National Australia Bank Ltd. in Melbourne,
which predicted the result and expects the RBA to cut the cash
rate to a record 2.25 percent in the third quarter. “For the
time being, retail is making no contribution to growth in the
economy.”  Currency Drops  The yield on three-year Australian notes was 2.86 percent
as of 12:55 p.m. in Sydney compared with 2.91 percent before the
data were released. The so-called Aussie fell to $1.0355, the
weakest level since Dec. 27.  Spending on other retailing, a category that includes
pharmaceutical goods and book retailing, dropped 2.8 percent,
and consumers spent 1.1 percent less at cafes and restaurants,
today’s report showed. They spent 2.1 percent more on clothing
and footwear, and 0.8 percent more at department stores, it
showed.  Retail sales, adjusted to remove inflation, rose 0.1
percent in the three months through December from the previous
quarter. Economists had forecast a 0.3 percent increase.  Australia’s jobless rate probably rose to 5.5 percent in
January, matching the highest since April 2010, according to the
median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey ahead of the
government’s monthly employment report tomorrow.  Consumers Unpersuaded  Australian consumer confidence was little changed last
month as households concerned about their finances shrugged off
rate reductions, a private report showed Jan. 16.  Woolworths Ltd. Chief Executive Officer  Grant O’Brien  said
last week that cost of living pressures are “top of mind” for
consumers, who remain cautious.  “I don’t think that consumers have suddenly woken up in
December and suddenly felt completely confident again,” he said
in a media call Jan. 30. “There still is a lack of confidence
in consumers and I think that will continue to be the case for
some time.”  The central bank lowered borrowing costs by a total of 50
basis points late in 2011 and a further 125 basis points in May,
June, October and December to help stimulate the economy.
Stevens said yesterday after leaving the benchmark unchanged
that there is room to cut further as a weaker labor market
contains inflation.  Rate Bets  Traders are pricing in a 54 percent chance of a quarter
percentage point rate cut next month that would take the
benchmark borrowing costs to a record-low 2.75 percent, swaps
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “During 2012, there was a significant easing in monetary
policy,” Stevens said in a statement yesterday. “Though the
full impact of this will still take further time to become
apparent, there are signs that the easier conditions are having
some of the expected effects: the demand for some categories of
consumer durables has picked up.”  Metcash Ltd., Australia’s largest grocery wholesaler, in
November cut its full-year earnings forecast amid a price war
with larger supermarket chains.  Metcash has been squeezed as competition between
Australia’s two largest supermarket chains,  Woolworths  and
Wesfarmers Ltd.-owned Coles, has driven grocery discounts. A
push to sell milk at A$1 a liter contributed to a 27 percent
profit fall at the dairy and drinks division of Kirin Holdings
Co.’s Lion unit, the company said in August.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Heath in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  