-- Mazda Raises Profit Forecast on Yen and Fuel-Cutting Models
-- B y   M a   J i e   a n d   Y u k i   H a g i w a r a
-- 2013-02-06T06:38:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/mazda-raises-profit-forecast-on-weaker-yen-fuel-cutting-models.html
Mazda Motor Corp. , the best performer
on the Nikkei 225 Stock Average in the past three months, more
than doubled its full-year profit forecast on a weaker yen and
demand for its fuel-efficient vehicles.  Net income will probably reach 26 billion yen ($277
million) in the year ending March, compared with the carmaker’s
previous projection of 10 billion yen, the Hiroshima, Japan-
based company said in a statement today. That compares with the
16.3 billion yen average of 19 analyst estimates compiled by
Bloomberg. The company also raised its  forecasts  for operating
income and revenue.  Mazda, whose shares nearly  tripled  since it last announced
financial results Oct. 31, benefits from a weaker Japanese
currency because it exported about 80 percent of the cars it
made in the country last year.  “They have a really big sensitivity from one yen change,
so the weakening of yen will be purely positive for Mazda,”
said  Kota Yuzawa , an auto analyst at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. in
Tokyo.  The carmaker benefited from demand for fuel efficient
vehicles such as the CX-5 sport utility vehicles and Mazda 6
sedan and wagon. By March 2016, Mazda plans to equip 80 percent
of its vehicles with its so-called SkyActiv technology to meet
demand for cars that consume less fuel.  Mazda shares rose 4.4 percent to 283 yen at the close of
trading in Tokyo, before the company announced its forecasts.
The stock has gained 63 percent this year.  Weaker Yen  The yen has weakened about 14 percent against the dollar
the past three months, the biggest decline among 10 developed-
nation currencies tracked by Bloomberg. Mazda revised its
outlook for the yen against the dollar to 81 from 80, and 104
from 100 versus the euro.  The carmaker raised its full-year operating profit forecast
to 45 billion yen from a previous estimate of 25 billion yen.
The
company boosted its full year revenue outlook to 2.19 trillion
yen from 2.17 trillion.  Mazda is seeking alliances with other carmakers in product
development and production to boost its lineup and increase
utilization of plants.  It will build a sub-compact based on the Mazda2 for  Toyota
Motor Corp . at a Mexico plant currently under construction.
Production of the vehicle will begin in mid-2015 at a rate of
50,000 units per year, the companies said in November. The
agreement will help Toyota strengthen its lineup in North
America and increase production efficiency at Mazda, the
companies said at the time.  The carmaker will also produce with  Fiat SpA  a new Alfa
Romeo roadster that will be based on the next-generation Mazda
MX-5, at its factory in Hiroshima from 2015, the companies said
last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ma Jie in Tokyo at 
 jma124@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  