-- Bangladeshis Rally in Dhaka to Protest War Tribunal Jail Verdict
-- B y   A r u n   D e v n a t h
-- 2013-02-06T13:13:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/bangladeshis-rally-in-dhaka-to-protest-war-tribunal-jail-verdict.html
At least 14,000 Bangladeshis gathered
in central Dhaka today to demand the death penalty for an
Islamist leader sentenced to jail by a war crimes tribunal.  “The crowd may grow bigger,” Sirajul Islam, the police
officer in charge of the area around the capital’s Shahbag
Square, said in a telephone interview.  Abdul Quader Mollah, assistant secretary general of Jamaat-
e-Islami, Bangladesh’s biggest Islamic party, was imprisoned for
life yesterday after being found guilty of murder, rape and
torture during the country’s independence struggle four decades
ago. The verdict sparked both demonstrations for his release and
counter-protests by people angered he avoided capital
punishment.  Television channel ATN Bangla broadcast footage of violent
clashes today between police and Jamaat activists in Dhaka,
Chittagong, Khulna and Narayanganj.  In its first ruling, the government’s International Crimes
Tribunal last month sentenced a former Jamaat official to death
in absentia.  As British colonial rule ended in South Asia in 1947, East
and West Pakistan were separated by 2,000 kilometers (1,241
miles) of Indian territory. Pakistani troops in 1971 attempted
to quell a nationalist uprising in the east that was triggered
by the jailing of  Sheikh Mujibur Rahman , who had led his Awami
League to victory in elections.  The war ended nine months later with the creation of
 Bangladesh  after Indian forces helped defeat Pakistan’s army.
Jamaat-e-Islami supported staying with Pakistan during the war
and several of its leaders are among 10 people being
investigated by the tribunal on charges they collaborated with
Pakistani forces.  Opposition Critics  The tribunal was set up in 2010 by the government led by
Sheikh Mujib’s daughter,  Sheikh Hasina Wajed , after it began to
investigate alleged war criminals from the conflict that killed
three million people. Opposition parties have called it
politically motivated.  New York-based Human Rights Watch has expressed concern
over  some aspects  of the tribunal’s working, including the
harassment of defense counsel, the need for clearer definitions
of war crimes and better protection for witnesses.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Arun Devnath in Dhaka at 
 adevnath@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at 
 dmerritt1@bloomberg.net  