-- Bank Indonesia Calls for Onshore Rupiah Fixing Amid Probe
-- B y   N o v r i d a   M a n u r u n g   a n d   Y u d i t h   H o
-- 2013-02-06T07:37:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/bank-indonesia-calls-for-onshore-rupiah-fixing-amid-probe-1-.html
Indonesia’s central bank will tell
local lenders to create an onshore reference rate to settle
rupiah forward transactions domestically as rates set by the
Association of Banks in Singapore are investigated.  The fixing will be set by a group of local lenders and can
be used as a benchmark to settle foreign-exchange forwards
transactions within the country, Bank Indonesia Deputy Governor
 Halim Alamsyah  said in a mobile-phone message today.  It follows a similar move by Bank Negara Malaysia requiring
the nation’s lenders to use a ringgit benchmark rate set onshore,
a person familiar with the matter said on Jan. 29. The Monetary
Authority of Singapore began a probe of the Association of Banks
in Singapore in September to ascertain whether there was any
manipulation of benchmarks, including daily fixings that are
used to settle non-deliverable forwards.  “The central bank’s room to move in responding to the NDF
issue is limited,” said Mirza Adityaswara, an economist at the
 Indonesian Banks Association  in Jakarta. “What Bank Indonesia
can do is to make sure that dollars are not used for speculative
purposes but provided for parties who need it for export and
import needs.”  The Indonesian central bank  prohibited  local lenders from
conducting non-deliverable forward transactions domestically in
2005. The Association of Banks in Singapore provides offshore
reference rates that are used to settle forward contracts
involving the currencies of Singapore, Indonesia, Malaysia,
Thailand and Vietnam.  Gain Reversed  The rupiah’s one-month non-deliverable forwards reversed an
earlier gain to drop 0.3 percent to 9,708 per dollar as of 2:22
p.m. in Jakarta, data compiled by Bloomberg show. That is 0.2
percent weaker than the spot rate, which declined 0.1 percent to
9,684, according to prices from local banks.  The daily  fixing  used to settle the derivative contracts
was set at 9,684 today by the Association of Banks in Singapore,
the strongest level since Dec. 7.  The difference between the onshore spot rate and the
offshore fixing widened to as much as 2.6 percent on Jan. 11,
before converging for the first time in six weeks on Feb. 1.
That’s after the central bank stepped up intervention to narrow
the gap and improve investor confidence, Hendar, executive
director of monetary policy at Bank Indonesia, said in a Jan. 28
interview in Jakarta.  Traders Suspended  The Monetary Authority of Singapore asked lenders who are
members of the rates-setting panel to review the process for
non-deliverable currency contracts and to immediately report
irregularities as well as to take disciplinary action against
any staff involved, it said in a statement in September. Banks
including UBS AG and Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc have
suspended some traders in Singapore, where the central bank has
expanded its investigation to include more than money-market
benchmarks.  NDF contracts, unlike foreign-exchange forwards, are
settled in dollars. Who pays and how much is paid at the end of
the contract is determined by reference to a fixing, which in
some jurisdictions is set by a survey of lenders.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Novrida Manurung in Jakarta at 
 nmanurung@bloomberg.net ;
Yudith Ho in Jakarta at 
 yho35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  