-- Barclays Said to Dismiss Traders Amid 275 Job Cuts in New York
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e ,   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r   a n d   L i s a   A b r a m o w i c z
-- 2013-02-07T00:10:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/barclays-said-to-dismiss-traders-amid-275-job-cuts-in-manhattan.html
Barclays Plc, the  second-largest  U.K.
lender by assets, dismissed trading-division employees this week
as it notified regulators its investment bank is cutting 275
jobs in New York City.  Reductions so far include credit trader  Kevin Gribben ,
distressed debt salesman  Kevin King , and  John Wilson , an
investment-grade credit salesman, said people briefed on the
departures.  John Connor  in rates sales and  Bill Martinez  in
financing were also let go, said the people, who requested
anonymity because the departures weren’t public. The London-
based bank yesterday disclosed cuts planned through May at three
Manhattan locations in a filing with state regulators.  Antony Jenkins , 51, named chief executive officer last year
after the bank agreed to pay a then-record 290 million pound
($454.3 million) fine for attempting to manipulate benchmark
interest rates, will update investors next week on the bank’s
review of its strategy. The lender said this week it will cut
its bonus pool as it sets aside an additional 1 billion pounds
to cover mis-selling of payment-protection insurance and other
products.  The bank, which started job cuts in the U.K. last month,
began alerting some U.S. employees of their dismissal Feb. 5,
the people said. Barclays hasn’t announced a global total for
the positions it’s eliminating.  Brandon Ashcraft,  a Barclays spokesman in New York,
declined to comment on the departures.  King, a managing director who worked at Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. before it was taken over by Barclays, said he left
the firm this week. He said his departure was “amicable” and
that he hadn’t made any decisions on what to do next.  Gribben, Wilson and Connor declined to comment. Martinez
couldn’t be reached.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael J. Moore in New York at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net ;
Christine Harper in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net ;
Lisa Abramowicz in New York at 
 labramowicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  