-- Berlusconi Narrows Bersani Gap to Error Margin, Poll Shows
-- B y   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i   a n d   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 2013-02-06T13:15:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/berlusconi-closes-bersani-s-lead-within-error-margin-poll-shows.html
Former Italian Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  narrowed the lead of front-runner  Pier Luigi Bersani 
to within the margin of error of an opinion poll for the first
time before Feb. 24-25 elections.  The gap between the two narrowed 0.3 percentage points from
yesterday to 3.7 points, according to a daily tracking poll by
Tecne institute for SkyTG24. The survey has a margin error of 4
percentage points. Tecne had Bersani leading by 14 percentage
points on Jan. 2.  Berlusconi has been gaining on Bersani as he steps up his
promises to cuts taxes and end a reviled levy on first homes
implemented by the government of Prime Minister  Mario Monti  that
he sustained in power. Monti has accused Berlusconi of trying to
buy the election.  Support for the 76-year billionaire’s coalition, including
his People of Liberty Party and the Northern League, rose 0.1
percentage points to 29.4 percent, while backing of Bersani’s
center-left coalition fell 0.2 percentage points to 33.1
percent, Tecne also said.  “The main risk could come from a combination of a hung
Parliament in Italy and a worsening in the political situation
in Spain because of recent political scandals,” Barclays
economists including  Fabio Fois  said in a note yesterday.  Losing Ground  Bersani’s bloc is losing ground amid Berlusconi’s media
blitz and a derivatives scandal at lender Banca Monte dei Paschi
di Siena SpA, which traditionally has strong links with the
Democratic Party. The signing of  Mario Balotelli  to his AC Milan
soccer club may have also helped Berlusconi, who is appealing a
tax fraud conviction he received in October.  A separate poll by Ipsos for RAI3’s “Ballaro” television
program released late yesterday said the gap between the two
blocs narrowed to 8.7 percentage points from last week, when it
was 10.8 points.  The anti-establishment Five Star Movement led by comedian
 Beppe Grillo  is also gaining ground as he organizes rallies
around Italy, appealing to voters weary of austerity and
government corruption. Support for his movement rose 0.2 points
to 16.3 percent, while backing for Monti has dropped 0.4 points
to 12.6 percent and former prosecutor  Antonio Ingroia ’s Civil
Revolution party is now at 5.2 percent. Tecne reported 33.5
percent of respondents as undecided or planning to abstain in
the vote.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chiara Vasarri in Rome at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net 
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net 
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  