-- Biogen to Pay Elan $3.25 Billion for Full Tysabri Rights
-- B y   M e g   T i r r e l l   a n d   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a
-- 2013-02-06T21:13:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/biogen-to-pay-elan-3-25-billion-for-full-tysabri-rights.html
Biogen Idec Inc . rose to its highest
value ever after the drugmaker agreed to buy partner  Elan
Corp. ’s stake in the Tysabri multiple sclerosis medicine for
$3.25 billion in cash plus future royalties.  Biogen gained 2.3 percent to $160.98 at 4 p.m. New York
time, its highest price since the company began trading in 1991.
The shares of the Weston, Massachusetts-based drugmaker have
gained 32 percent in the last 12 months.  The agreement gives Biogen all rights to the product, the
companies said in separate statements today, and leaves Dublin-
based Elan to hunt for possible acquisitions with the proceeds.
The companies had been splitting profit equally on Tysabri,
which generated $1.6 billion in sales in 2012 and is Biogen’s
second-best selling drug.  “The deal puts Tysabri marketing rights 100 percent in
Biogen hands and accordingly we see incremental medium- to long-
term upside potential to revenues,”  Ravi Mehrotra , an analyst
with Credit Suisse, wrote in a research note today, calling the
purchase a “significant positive” for Biogen. He recommends
buying Biogen shares.  The move ends speculation that Biogen would buy Elan and
transforms the Irish company into an investment vehicle in
search of health-care assets. Elan’s experimental drug for
Alzheimer’s disease failed in late-stage trials last year,
leaving Tysabri as the company’s single major product.  Elan’s Shares  Elan’s American depositary receipts, each representing one
ordinary share, declined 10 percent to $9.40, their biggest one-
day decline since July 24. The stock’s drop may reflect selling
by investors who had been speculating on an acquisition by
Biogen,  Corey Davis , an analyst with Jefferies & Co. in New
York, said in an e-mail.  Investors also may be skeptical that Elan can create more
value through acquisitions than it would by repurchasing shares
or paying dividends, said Richard Parkes of Deutsche Bank AG in
London.  “This move gives us a chance to reinvest a fair amount of
capital across a whole host of assets and helps us redefine and
reposition the whole company,” Elan Chief Executive Officer
 Kelly Martin  said in an interview. The company seeks a
“balanced portfolio of assets” that would include products
already on the market and experimental medicines, he said.  Under the terms of the deal, Biogen will pay Elan 12
percent of global net sales of Tysabri for the first year. After
the first year, the payments will be 18 percent on annual sales
of as much as $2 billion and 25 percent on sales of more than $2
billion. Elan has said Tysabri sales may reach $2.5 billion to
$3 billion by 2016,  Eric Schmidt , an analyst with Cowen & Co.,
wrote in a research note. He  estimated  $1.9 billion by 2017.  Companies’ Advisers  Centerview Partners LLC acted as exclusive financial
adviser to Biogen, while Ropes & Gray LLP was legal counsel.
Citigroup Inc. and Ondra Partners are acting as financial
advisers to Elan, who had Cadwalader, Wickersham & Taft LLP and
A&L Goodbody as legal counsels.  Tysabri was left as Elan’s single major product after the
experimental Alzheimer’s drug bapineuzumab failed to improve
cognitive or functional ability in patients in late-stage
studies.  Future actions will be guided by Elan’s “assessment of
business opportunities,” Martin said in the statement. “We are
enthusiastic about the market opportunities around the globe and
remain flexible and creative about the manner in which we would
participate in those opportunities.”  Seeking Assets  Elan isn’t in talks to sell the company and has been
negotiating for months to acquire assets, Martin, 53, said in
the interview. The first investment could happen shortly after
the deal closes, he said.  “Elan has no track record of running a fully integrated
specialty pharma company, so a lot of uncertainty remains,”
 Guillaume van Renterghem , an analyst at UBS AG in London, said
in a telephone interview. “Investors would probably appreciate
getting their cash back instead of seeing the company diversify
through the acquisition of assets.” He recommends buying Elan
shares.  Martin, a former Merrill Lynch & Co. investment banker who
joined Elan in 2003, planned to leave the company by May 1 last
year. The board asked him to stay until the bapineuzumab trial
results, and once the drug failed, efforts to find a new CEO
ended. After the failure, Elan said it wouldn’t discourage
suitors that approached it about an acquisition, and announced
the  spinoff  of its drug discovery unit into a company called
Prothena Corp., completed in December.  Earnings Impact  Elan didn’t consider winding down the company and returning
the proceeds to shareholders, Martin told reporters today. He
said he plans to stay involved as the Tysabri deal closes and as
the company reviews possible acquisitions and licensing
opportunities.  Elan plans to return a portion of the capital to
shareholders though the amount and timing would depend on
investment opportunities, he said. The $3.25 billion in cash
that Biogen will pay equals more than half of Elan’s $6.23
billion market value.  For Biogen, purchasing full control of Tysabri will add
about 20 cents to 30 cents a share to 2013  earnings , or 50 cents
to 60 cents when adjusted for some items, the company said in a
statement. Biogen said it anticipates the deal will continue to
add to profit depending on how well Tysabri sells. The purchase
has been approved by both companies’ boards and is expected to
close by the end of the second quarter, Biogen said.  Next Step  “This is a natural next step for Biogen Idec and Tysabri,
and it underscores our deep, long-term commitment to improving
the lives of MS patients around the world,” Biogen Chief
Executive Officer  George Scangos  said in the statement. “Full
ownership will improve our ability to navigate its role as part
of our leadership in MS.”  Tysabri is  Biogen ’s second-best-seller after the MS
medicine Avonex. The company also is awaiting regulatory
approval for another drug for MS, BG-12, now known as Tecfidera.  “Biogen has three sales forces, one for each product,”
Credit Suisse’s Mehrotra wrote today. “However, over time, we
see an obvious consolidation into one sales force with a central
message that could effectively state, ‘We are THE MS Company.
What approach to treatment would you or your patient like? We
have the best drug in each segment.”’  Biogen told analysts in response to questions on a
conference call today that it had no current plans to reorganize
its sales strategy, though it wouldn’t rule out future changes.  Biogen also said it plans to open a $500 million to $750
million line of credit to fund working capital needs. The
company had $3.7 billion in  cash , equivalents and marketable
securities at the end of 2012, according to a Jan. 28 statement.  Tysabri is a once-monthly infusion for relapsing forms of
multiple sclerosis, a disease that affects more than 2.1 million
people worldwide, according to the National Multiple Sclerosis
Society.  Higher Efficacy  The drug has shown higher efficacy in staving off the
neurological attacks that characterize relapsing MS. It is
generally recommended for patients who have already tried other
therapies because it’s associated with a rare brain infection
called progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy, or PML.
Biogen has developed a test to help determine patients’ risk.  Biogen also is testing Tysabri in secondary-progressive MS,
a form of the disease that follows relapsing-remitting in which
the disease progresses more steadily. The drug is in the third
and final stage of clinical trials generally required for
approval, with data expected in 2015.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Meg Tirrell in New York at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net ;
Makiko Kitamura in London at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net ;
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  