-- Bizarre ‘Eugene Onegin’; Crude ‘Traviata’: London Opera
-- B y   W a r w i c k   T h o m p s o n
-- 2013-02-06T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/bizarre-eugene-onegin-crude-traviata-london-opera.html
The hero and heroine of a new
production of “Eugene Onegin” are split in two. It’s as
painful as it sounds.  This is the first staging at  Covent Garden  by Kaspar
Holten, who has been director of opera since autumn 2011. It’s a
novel situation, since the job title refers to an administrative
post. Holten actually happens to direct operas too.  His big idea here is to present the hero and heroine of
Tchaikovsky’s opera simultaneously with their younger selves,
performed by dancers.  One Tatyana, matronly and solid, sings about writing an
audacious love letter, while another young and bouncy Tatyana
flings herself about the stage with a pen in her hand.  One Onegin prepares to fight a duel with his former best
friend, while an older Onegin looks on gloomily.  It’s about memory, you see. The story is constantly in a
state of flashback.  Maybe in spoken theater, this distancing device could work.
In opera, which hits all its buttons when character, song,
drama, gesture and passion make a glorious synthesis, it’s very
odd to parcel the constituent parts out, a bit here, a bit
there.  Needs Glasses  It’s strangely amusing when Tatyana’s beloved Nanny talks
to a slip of a girl one moment and then to a mature woman,
without seeming to notice the difference. Time to get the
glasses checked, Nanny.  There’s not visual coherence either. Mia Stensgaard’s set
is a row of four high doors which run the width of the stage,
leaving a narrow ribbon of space near the front for the action.
The Act 3 Polonaise is a squished affair.  The costumes are based on various 19th-century fashions,
stylized with odd variants. Madame Larina wears mutton-sleeves
and a corset: so far, so 1830s. Then her full skirt is gathered
in at the bottom into a kind of upside-down puffball, and then
twisted to one side.  Anyone found wearing that particular look in the 1830s
would probably have been carted off to the madhouse.  At least the singing is world class. Krassimira Stoyanova
(Tatyana) has a rich melting sound, beautiful through and
through, and  Simon Keenlyside  (Onegin) invests every note with
warmth and passion. Pavol Breslik (Lensky) and Elena Maximova
(Olga) provide superb support.  Conductor Robin Ticciati sometimes hits his stride,
sometimes falters. Rating: **1/2.  La Traviata  Things are even worse at “La Traviata” over at English
National Opera. If you’re going to punch a sweet child in the
face, at least do it properly.  When Germont Pere slaps a pigtailed moppet (his daughter, a
non-singing role added by the director) right across the kisser,
it looks unconvincing to the point of parody.  It’s the least of the problems of Peter Konwitschny’s
production, first seen in Graz in 2011. That Germont biffs the
girl at all is a clue to the mess.  Konwitschny presents Germont as a sneering, leering, crude,
sarcastic, violent boor. His son Alfredo is a nerdy bookworm,
dressed in a bad cardigan.  Verdi gives these characters light and shade. Konwitschny
reduces them to cardboard cut-outs in his modern-dress
production, which arrogantly trims the score down to 1 hour 50
minutes with no interval.  Why does Violetta fall in love with this nincompoop
Alfredo, and crave affection from this unconvincing Germont?
Beats me.  Corinne Winters sings up a storm as the tubercular
courtesan -- her voice is both rich and agile -- and is by far
the best thing in the production.  Since the set is a series of pairs of red curtains, each
opening to reveal yet another pair, there’s not much to take
one’s mind off Michael Hofstetter’s harum-scarum conducting.
Rating: **.  “Eugene Onegin” is in repertory at the Royal Opera.
Information:  http://www.roh.org.uk  or +44-20-7304-4000  “La Traviata” is in repertory at ENO. Information:
 http://www.eno.org  or +44-20-7845-9300  Muse highlights include  Scott Reyburn  on the art market and
 Ryan Sutton  on food.  (Warwick Thompson is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
 Warwick Thompson , in London, at  warwicktho@aol.com  or
https://twitter.com/ThompsonWarwick.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 