-- Japan Official Says BOJ Tools Sufficient as Shake-Up Looms
-- B y   M a y u m i   O t s u m a   a n d   K y o k o   S h i m o d o i
-- 2013-02-06T09:16:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/boj-policy-tools-sufficient-for-now-deputy-finance-chief-says.html
A Japanese finance official said the
Bank of Japan’s policy tools are sufficient for now as a central
bank board member said a new level of action is needed to
counter deflation.  “The BOJ, for the time being, should stick to policy
measures it has taken so far,” Vice Finance Minister  Shunichi Yamaguchi  said in an interview yesterday in Tokyo. Board member
 Takehiro Sato  said in a speech today that reaching a 2 percent
inflation goal will be difficult without new initiatives.  Prime Minister  Shinzo Abe  may seek to sweep away policy
divisions as the early exit of Governor  Masaaki Shirakawa 
accelerates the reshaping of the central bank’s leadership.
Shirakawa’s announcement yesterday that he’ll step down next
month heightened investors’ expectations for aggressive steps to
tackle entrenched deflation. The Nikkei 225 Stock Average surged
by the most since March 2011 today as the yen slid.  “Abe will only gain momentum and public support as the yen
weakens and stocks rise,” said  Hiroshi Miyazaki , chief
economist at Shinkin Asset Management Co. in Tokyo. “The next
big focal point is the BOJ’s April meeting, when it will be
important for the bank’s new leadership to show they are able to
live up to Abe’s expectations.”  The yen fell to its weakest level in almost three years
against the dollar and euro today, while the Nikkei closed at
the highest since September 2008. At 5:53 p.m. in Tokyo the yen
was at 93.74 per dollar, after earlier touching 94.06, and the
Nikkei closed up 3.8 percent.  Yen ‘Correcting’  Yamaguchi, 62, who was interviewed before Shirakawa made
his announcement, declined to comment on an appropriate level
for the yen, repeating government statements that the currency
is correcting after excessive gains. In a Jan. 24 interview,
Deputy Economy Minister  Yasutoshi Nishimura  said that a level of
100 per dollar would be no problem.  Yamaguchi’s comments on monetary policy suggest no quick
push for the foreign bond purchases previously suggested by the
ruling party. Abe’s Liberal Democratic Party proposed a fund run
by the BOJ, the Ministry of Finance, and private investors to
buy foreign bonds, a move that could further weigh on the
currency.  “If it became necessary to do more, then that is something
to be considered at that time,” Yamaguchi said.  The BOJ’s Sato, who was speaking to business leaders in
Gunma, north of Tokyo, said that achieving the 2 percent price
target will be difficult “merely by enhancing ongoing policy
initiatives.”  “Both the government and the central bank must tackle this
issue with much greater vigor,” Sato said.  Inflation Target  As one of two deputy finance ministers, Yamaguchi has
represented the ministry at the central bank’s policy board
meetings. The BOJ last month adopted a 2 percent inflation
target without a deadline and said it would wait until 2014 to
start open-ended asset purchases.  Consumer prices  excluding
fresh food, the key inflation measure, fell for the seventh time
in eight months in December.  Yamaguchi highlighted the likely importance of April-to-
June economic data in shaping any debate over plans to raise the
sales tax from 2014 as part of efforts to rein in swelling
government debt.  “As Prime Minister Abe said, it would become difficult to
raise the sales tax should the economy slip into a bad shape,”
Yamaguchi said. At the same time, he said, “if we forgo a
sales-tax hike, that would run the risk of losing the financial
market’s trust.”  He said that he expected “discussions to develop in the
direction of enacting a tax increase.”  On the issue of central bank independence, Yamaguchi said
that he sees no need for now to change the law governing the
Bank of Japan. He said that while some lawmakers within his
party take the opposite view, he believes that the majority
share his opinion.  Shirakawa told reporters yesterday that he will step down
on March 19, almost three weeks before his term was due.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mayumi Otsuma in Tokyo at 
 motsuma@bloomberg.net ;
Kyoko Shimodoi in Tokyo at 
 kshimodoi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  