-- Bovespa Drops to Two-Month Low on Brazil Interest Rate Outlook
-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i
-- 2013-02-06T20:33:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/bovespa-futures-fall-as-commodities-drop-dim-producer-prospects.html
The Bovespa index fell to a two-month
low as homebuilder  Brookfield Incorporacoes SA  led losses by
companies linked to domestic demand amid speculation that policy
makers may raise borrowing costs to curb inflation.  Petroleo Brasileiro SA, Brazil’s state-controlled oil
company known as Petrobras, retreated after Jefferies & Co. cut
its recommendation to hold from buy. Iron-ore producer  MMX
Mineracao & Metalicos SA  followed metals lower. Mining company
 Vale SA  jumped after it agreed to sell gold mined in Brazil and
Canada to Silver Wheaton Corp. for $1.9 billion.  The Bovespa fell 0.8 percent to 58,951.07 at the close of
trading in Sao Paulo, the lowest since Dec. 7. Forty-seven
stocks declined on the gauge while 19 advanced. Most shorter-
term Brazilian swap rates rose after Finance Minister Guido
Mantega said the government will monitor the price of oil so
that state-controlled domestic gasoline prices don’t create
losses for Petrobras.  “The market reacted pretty badly to Petrobras’s latest
financial statements, which puts pressure on the government so
it changes its policy for fuel prices,”  Joao Pedro Brugger , who
helps oversee 220 million reais at Leme Investimentos in
Florianopolis, Brazil, said in a phone interview. “The outlook
for inflation is worrisome, and the central bank may end up
raising the benchmark rate sooner rather than later.”  ‘Not Appropriate’  Petrobras was cleared to raise gasoline prices at
refineries by 6.6 percent and diesel by 5.4 percent, according
to a regulatory filing last week. The increase trailed analyst
estimates. While saying that the government will monitor oil
prices so Petrobras “doesn’t incur any loss,” Mantega told
reporters in Brasilia yesterday that a second increase in
gasoline prices is “not appropriate” right now. Shares fell
2.7 percent today to 17.60 reais.  MMX , the iron-ore producer controlled by billionaire Eike
Batista, fell 0.6 percent to 3.25 reais as the Bloomberg Base
Metals 3-Month Price Commodity Index sank 0.8 percent amid
concern political turmoil in Spain and Italy may hamper
governments in responding to the euro-area debt crisis that
threatens growth and demand.  “It’s still time to be very cautious with commodities
stocks, because those are the companies that have the strongest
links with what happens in the global market, where things are
still very uncertain,”  Fernando Goes , an analyst at Sao Paulo-
based brokerage Clear Corretora, said in a phone interview.  Retailer  B2W Cia. Global do Varejo  lost 3.3 percent to
14.95 reais. Brookfield sank 4.7 percent to 3.47 reais. The
 BM&FBovespa Real Estate Index  declined 0.3 percent.  The real weakened 0.3 percent to 1.9911 per dollar.  Vale Deal  Vale added 1 percent to 38.50 reais. The gold deal
announced by the Rio de Janeiro-based producer “will improve
the company’s cash flow and reduce the need to increase leverage
in 2013,” according to a research note from Banco Itau BBA SA’s
analysts Marcos Assumpcao and Andre Pinheiro.  The  Bovespa  entered a bull market on Jan. 3 after rising 21
percent from last year’s low on June 5 as stimulus from central
banks around the world eased concern that economic growth might
miss expectations while borrowing costs at a record low in
Brazil boosted equity demand. The index has since pared its
advance to 12 percent.  Brazil’s benchmark equity gauge trades at 10.9 times
analysts’ earnings estimates for the next four quarters,
compared with 9.7 for MSCI’s measure of 21 developing nations’
equities, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Trading volume for stocks in Sao Paulo was 7.2 billion
reais today, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That
compares with a daily average of 7.3 billion reais this year
through Feb. 4, according to data compiled by the  exchange .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ney Hayashi in Sao Paulo at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  