-- BP Headed for Trial as U.S. Gulf States Claim $34 Billion
-- B y   B r i a n   S w i n t
-- 2013-02-06T17:00:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/bp-headed-for-trial-as-gulf-states-claim-34-billion-for-spill.html
BP Plc  may not reach a settlement
over civil claims from the 2010 Gulf of Mexico oil spill before
a trial this month, analysts said, as U.S. states demand an
additional $34 billion in damages.  Louisiana, Alabama, Mississippi and Florida are suing for
economic and property damage under the Oil Pollution Act as a
result of the spill, the worst in U.S. history, BP said in an
earnings statement yesterday. While Chief Executive Officer  Bob Dudley  declined to comment on the state of negotiations with the
federal government for civil fines, he said there wasn’t much
time left before the start of the trial on Feb. 25.  The new claims from the Gulf states over the leak at the
Macondo well exceed the amount BP provisioned for in its $42.2
billion estimate of the spill’s cost. In the New Orleans trial
later this month, the Department of Justice is seeking fines
under the Clean Water Act that could reach as much as $20
billion. The states’ claims aren’t included in the trial.  “The CEO gave the clear impression that the company did
not now believe it would agree to a settlement before the
Macondo trial re-commences,” said  Iain Reid , an analyst at
Jefferies & Co. in London. “The key risk for the stock remains
the magnitude and timing of the final Macondo settlement.”  BP’s credit default swaps rose the most since 2011 today,
climbing 10.5 basis points to 74. The rate to insure BP bonds
against default is the highest since Nov. 30. BP fell 0.6
percent to 465.75 pence in London. The stock slid 7.8 percent
last year.  Seriously Flawed  “The additional $34 billion of claims filed against BP by
four U.S. states provides another hurdle,” Fitch Ratings said
today. Still, the final cost probably won’t “be enough to
interfere with BP’s positive medium-term credit trajectory.”  BP said the states’ claims are based on “seriously
flawed” methodologies and that if they proceed to trial, “BP
will defend vigorously against them.”  “It doesn’t look like there will be a settlement” before
the Feb. 25 trial, said  Christine Tiscareno , an equity analyst
at S&P Capital IQ in London. “The $34 billion figure seems to
be a complete fabrication, but even if it’s less than that it
could raise the cost of the spill by billions. The states would
try to delay a settlement until after the Clean Water Act fines
are settled to gain more leverage.”  The London-based company yesterday raised its estimate of
the cost of its settlement a year ago with individuals and
businesses from the states affected to $8.5 billion. In
November, it reached a deal with the U.S. over criminal claims
for about $4.5 billion.  Trust Fund  BP last year completed its contributions to the $20 billion
trust fund demanded by President  Barack Obama  in the wake of the
spill, and about $10 billion of that has been paid out in
claims. The company has spent about $33 billion in the aftermath
of the spill so far.  For remaining claims, “we’ve said we would settle but it
would have to be on reasonable terms,” Dudley said in a
Bloomberg Television interview yesterday. “Our team is very
prepared, we’re assuming the trial will go ahead.”  BP reported yesterday that fourth-quarter profit declined
from a year earlier as it completed a $38 billion asset disposal
program and production of oil and gas slipped.  The company raised its estimate of the cost of a settlement
with most private claimants from $7.8 billion. The settlement,
reached in March, resolves claims by most non-government parties
for economic and environmental loss and physical injuries caused
by the spill or cleanup.  “People will be perplexed as to why the states or the
government wouldn’t be able to settle whereas individuals have
been able to,” said  Stuart Joyner , an analyst at Investec
Securities Ltd. in London. “I still think it’s in everyone’s
interest to settle before Feb. 25, for a reasonable amount.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Swint in London at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  