-- BP Investors Allowed to Add More Statements to Fraud Case
-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s   a n d   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 2013-02-07T06:14:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/bp-investors-allowed-to-add-more-statements-to-fraud-case.html
BP Plc ’s investors can add more
claims to a multibillion-dollar lawsuit accusing the company of
lying before and after the 2010 Gulf of Mexico oil spill, a U.S.
judge ruled.  U.S. District Judge  Keith P. Ellison  in Houston allowed
holders of BP American depositary receipts to expand claims
alleging violations of U.S. securities laws. The new claims
involve statements by ex-Chief Executive Officer  Tony Hayward  on
how fully BP had implemented safety improvements in the Gulf of
Mexico prior to the rig explosion that caused the spill.  “Hayward did not make one or two stray comments about the
scope” of the safety program, Ellison said yesterday in a 62-
page opinion. “He repeatedly emphasized its expansiveness in
his most important presentations to investors.”  The investors, led by Ohio and New York pension plans, said
BP publicly declared its commitment to and implementation of
expanded safety measures while the company internally cut
budgets and personnel and rejected employees’ safety warnings.  Ellison previously allowed investor allegations that BP
initially hid the true size of the oil-well blowout to limit the
impact on its stock price to proceed to trial. He limited
participation in the securities-fraud litigation to investors
who bought shares on the U.S. stock exchange.  Safety Program  “We believe the evidence will show that BP made
substantial misrepresentations with respect to the adequacy of
its safety program and spill-response program, and that these
misrepresentations caused significant harm to the
shareholders,” Richard Mithoff, a lawyer representing
individual investors in the case, said yesterday in a phone
interview.  Scott Dean , BP’s spokesman, declined to comment on the
ruling.  BP has denied fraud or any lack of attention to safety in
court filings. Investors are seeking to “transform a matter
involving allegedly negligent processes into an action for
securities fraud,” the company said in court papers. “A
commitment to safety is not a guarantee that no future accidents
will occur.”  Hayward made public statements that were “verbatim and
consistent” with company safety progress reports supplied to
top executives,  Richard Pepperman , BP’s attorney, told Ellison
during a November hearing on the claims.  ‘Granular’ Detail  “People at the apex of an organization are entitled to
rely on the reports they received,” Pepperman said. “They
cannot be expected to know in granular detail what’s going on at
every drill site everywhere in the world.”  Hayward said in a post-spill deposition that he personally
knew the company’s promised operational safety program wasn’t
fully implemented in the Gulf of Mexico at the time of the
Deepwater Horizon incident, as he’d told investors it was,
Mithoff said at the hearing.  “Hayward was the key individual tracking that progress,”
Mithoff told Ellison. “BP was not obligated to talk about the
program, and yet it did. It was disconcerting to investors to
find that ‘all’ didn’t mean all operations of BP.”  Economic Loss  Investor securities-fraud suits are among hundreds of
claims filed in U.S. courts after the explosion and sinking of
the Deepwater Horizon drilling rig in the Gulf of Mexico in
April 2010. Eleven people were killed in the blast and hundreds
of miles of coastline were soiled in what became the largest
offshore spill in U.S. history.  Injury, economic loss and environmental suits are combined
before a federal judge in New Orleans. The investor suit, which
seeks unspecified billions of dollars in lost share value, is
combined with other shareholder actions before Ellison in
federal court in Houston.  Ellison previously dismissed shareholders’ claims against
several executives, including Chief Executive Officer  Robert Dudley  and BP America Inc.’s chairman and president,  Lamar McKay . Ellison yesterday threw out claims against Andy Inglis,
BP’s former global head of exploration and production, while
allowing claims against Hayward and Doug Suttles, former chief
operating officer for exploration and production, to continue.  BP shares fell about 40 percent in the weeks after the
explosion, investors said in their complaint. The drop
eliminated billions of dollars in the company’s market value,
shareholders said.  The pension plans leading the litigation are suing on
behalf of investors in BP ADRs from Jan. 16, 2007, to May 28,
2010.  The case is In re BP Plc Securities Litigation, 4:10-
md-2185, U.S. District Court, Southern District of Texas
(Houston).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Laurel Brubaker Calkins  in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com ;
 Margaret Cronin Fisk  in Southfield, Michigan, at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 