-- Braun, Cervelli Acknowledge Consulting With Accused Miami Clinic
-- B y   R o b   G l o s t e r
-- 2013-02-06T05:12:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/braun-cervelli-acknowledge-consulting-with-accused-miami-clinic.html
Former National League Most Valuable
Player  Ryan Braun  said he consulted with a Miami clinic operator
accused of supplying banned drugs to Major League Baseball
players while defending himself against doping charges last year.  The Milwaukee Brewers outfielder released a statement last
night after Yahoo Sports said it had obtained three records from
the Biogenesis of America clinic run by Anthony Bosch that
showed Braun’s name. Braun’s name was not listed next to any
specific performance-enhancing drug, Yahoo reported.  Braun, 29, the NL MVP in 2011, avoided a 50-game drug
suspension last season when he won an appeal against MLB by
arguing his urine test sample had been mishandled.  “During the course of preparing for my successful appeal
last year, my attorneys, who were previously familiar with Tony
Bosch, used him as a consultant,” Braun said in the statement.
“I have nothing to hide and have never had any other
relationship with Bosch.”  Braun’s statement comes a week after the Miami New Times
newspaper reported that major leaguers  Alex Rodriguez  of the New
York Yankees,  Gio Gonzalez  of the Washington Nationals and
 Nelson Cruz  of the Texas Rangers had ties to Bosch’s anti-aging
clinic. ESPN later reported that Rodriguez received injections
from Bosch at the player’s Florida home.  Melky Cabrera  and  Bartolo Colon , both of whom served 50-
game drug suspensions last season, also were among the major
leaguers cited by the New Times as having connections to the
clinic.  Rodriguez Denial  Rodriguez, 37, said in a statement following the Jan. 29
New Times report that he wasn’t a patient of Bosch and was never
treated or advised by him.  Terry Fahn , a spokesman for Rodriguez,
said Feb. 1 in a telephone interview that the ESPN story wasn’t
true.  Bosch’s attorney, Susy Ribero-Ayala, said in a Jan. 29
statement that “Mr. Bosch vehemently denies the assertions that
MLB players such as Alex Rodriguez and Gio Gonzalez were treated
by or associated with him.”  MLB said following the Miami New Times report that it is
investigating the situation and declined further comment.  The Yahoo report yesterday said Braun’s name appeared on a
list under the heading “Baseball” that also included Rodriguez,
Cabrera and Yankees catcher  Francisco Cervelli , who released a
statement last night saying he consulted with Biogenesis
following a foot injury in March 2011 “for legal ways to aid my
rehab and recovery.”  “I purchased supplements that I am certain were not
prohibited by MLB,” Cervelli said in his statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Gloster in San Francisco at 
 rgloster@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  