-- Brazil Swap Rates Increase on Inflation Concern; Real Declines
-- B y   B l a k e   S c h m i d t   a n d   M a r i s a   C a s t e l l a n i
-- 2013-02-06T20:48:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/brazil-swap-rates-rise-after-mantega-oil-comment-real-declines.html
Brazil’s swap rates climbed on
speculation higher crude costs will prompt the government to
raise domestic fuel prices, stoking concern that policy makers
will increase borrowing costs to tame inflation.  Swap rates due in January 2015 rose seven basis points, or
0.07 percentage point, to 8.09 percent at the close in Sao
Paulo, the highest level since Oct. 4. The real depreciated 0.3
percent to 1.9911 per dollar.  The government will “closely” monitor the price of oil so
it doesn’t get too distant from domestic gasoline prices and
cause losses for state-controlled  Petroleo Brasileiro SA ,
Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  said yesterday. Petrobras was
cleared to raise gas prices at refineries by 6.6 percent and
diesel by 5.4 percent, according to a filing last week.  “Mantega talking about oil prices is more fuel on the
fire” for inflation, said  Joao Junior , a fixed-income trader at
Icap Brasil DTVM, in a phone interview from Sao Paulo.  Crude oil has risen 12 percent in the past two months to
$96.62 today in New York.  Inflation is getting worse in the “short term,” the
central bank said in the minutes of its Jan. 15-16 meeting.
Policy makers held the target lending rate at a record low 7.25
percent for a second meeting as they sought to revive growth
after the slowest two years of economic expansion in a decade.  Brazil will be able to count as much as 20 billion reais of
tax cuts as part of its primary surplus, allowing the government
to save less and still legally meet its saving target, O Estado
de S. Paulo reported, without saying where it got the
information. The Finance Ministry’s press office didn’t respond
to a request for comment.  Grain Surplus  Conab, as the government’s crop forecasting agency is
known, informed Chief of Staff  Gleisi Hoffmann  in a meeting last
week that there isn’t enough grain in storage to stem inflation
by selling grain inventories, a move the government had been
considering, Valor Economico reported, without saying how it
obtained the information.  President  Dilma Rousseff  said yesterday the government
plans to scrap federal taxes on food staples to control
inflation.  “The initiatives of the government to try to use different
means to influence inflation in the short term are creating
exhaustion in the market,” said  Vladimir Caramaschi , the chief
strategist for  Credit Agricole  do Brasil, in a phone interview
from Sao Paulo. “The impact is one-off and inflation returns
afterwards. This shows the trap the government stepped into when
it transformed the interest rates into a political flag.”  Vehicle Production  Vehicle production rose 8 percent in January from the month
before to 279,332, while sales fell 13 percent from the December
to 311,453, according to the National Vehicle Manufacturer
Association.  Brazil’s industrial capacity utilization fell to 80.9
percent in December, from 81.4 percent the month before,
according to the National Confederation of Industry in Brasilia.  Policy makers swung in 2012 between selling currency swaps
to prevent the real from falling too quickly and offering
reverse currency swaps to protect exporters by keeping the real
from strengthening beyond 2 per dollar.  The central bank last week renewed $1.85 billion of
foreign-exchange swaps set to expire Feb. 1, refraining from
buying dollars to settle the contracts, and offered dollar-
denominated credit lines on Jan. 30. The government also
exempted foreigners from a tax on real-estate funds on Jan. 31
to attract overseas investments.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Blake Schmidt in Sao Paulo at 
 bschmidt16@bloomberg.net ;
Marisa Castellani in Sao Paulo at 
 mcastellani7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  