-- Brazil May Deduct Tax Cuts From Fiscal Target, Mantega Says
-- B y   M a r i a   L u i z a   R a b e l l o   a n d   M a t t h e w   M a l i n o w s k i
-- 2013-02-06T20:00:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/brazil-may-deduct-tax-cuts-from-fiscal-target-mantega-says-1-.html
Brazil may discount 20 billion reais
($10 billion) in tax cuts this year from its primary surplus
target of 3.1 percent of gross domestic product, Finance
Minister  Guido Mantega  said.  The country may also abate as much as 25 billion reais in
infrastructure investments lowering its budget surplus before
interest payment to 2.3 percent to 2.4 percent of GDP, Mantega
told reporters in Brasilia today. Brazil will still pursue
fulfilling the 3.1 percent target this year, he said.  With the economy recovering at a slower than expected pace,
President  Dilma Rousseff ’s administration is seeking alternative
measures to rein in consumer prices, instead of raising the
benchmark interest rate that is at a record low 7.25 percent.
While the central bank estimates Latin America’s biggest economy
expanded in 2012 at the slowest pace in three years, inflation
quickened to 6.02 percent in mid-January, the fastest pace in a
year.  Mantega said the government will reduce levies on food
staples and extend payroll tax cuts to other industries.  “We have to continue reducing taxes,” Mantega said. “It
is a very good way to lower costs for the population and also to
reduce the cost of investment.”  Brazil’s central bank on Dec. 20 cut its 2012 GDP growth
forecast to 1 percent. Growth in the world’s sixth-largest
economy will rebound to between 3 percent and 4 percent this
year, Mantega said in December.  The government withdrew 12.4 billion reais from its wealth
fund and discounted 34.9 billion reais in infrastructure
investments from its primary surplus goal to meet its 2012
fiscal target.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Luiza Rabello in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 mrabello@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Malinowski in Brasilia at 
 mmalinowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  