-- Brennan Hearing Opens White House to Scrutiny on Drones
-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e   a n d   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 2013-02-06T21:43:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/brennan-hearing-opens-white-house-to-scrutiny-on-drones.html
A Senate hearing on  John Brennan ’s
nomination as CIA director will give U.S. lawmakers a chance to
challenge a member of the White House national security team
over policies including the targeted killings of suspected
terrorists overseas.  The Obama administration’s drone program, pursued without
the oversight of Congress or the judiciary, has angered
lawmakers who haven’t been able to question the White House
about it. Their opportunity comes tomorrow during a confirmation
hearing on Brennan, President  Barack Obama ’s counterterrorism
adviser and an architect of the drone policy.  Brennan, 57, will face questions about a Justice Department
white paper outlining the administration’s legal basis for
targeting suspected terrorists who are U.S. citizens without due
process.  “If the checks and balances in our Constitution mean
anything, the courts and Congress should have the power to check
and balance the executive’s decisions about whether to kill U.S.
citizens without a trial,” said Marjorie Cohn, a professor of
human rights at the Thomas Jefferson School of Law in San Diego
and a critic of the targeted assassination program.  Interrogation Techniques  During the hearing before the Senate Select Committee on
Intelligence, Brennan will also be queried about U.S. policies
on interrogating terror suspects and launching cyber attacks, as
well as about leaks of classified information. Still, the issue
of the drone program is likely to take center stage as lawmakers
weigh the nomination of Brennan, a 25-year veteran of the CIA.  White House spokesman  Jay Carney  yesterday defended the
policy on targeted killings on foreign soil, including of U.S.
citizens, as “legal,” “ethical” and “wise.”  Asked today about civilian deaths in drone attacks, Carney
said, “Our counterterrorism attacks are designed, including our
targeted efforts, to limit civilian casualties.”  “It’s fair to say that fewer civilians lose their lives in
an effort to go after senior leadership in al-Qaeda along the
lines that we are discussing here, as opposed to an effort to
invade a country with hundreds and thousands of troops and take
cities and towns,” he said.  Lawmakers and human rights lawyers say the 16-page Justice
Department  memo , obtained by NBC News, doesn’t provide the
transparency Obama promised when he vowed in May 2009 that
whenever his administration couldn’t release information for
national security reasons, he would “insist that there is
oversight of my actions -- by Congress or by the courts.”  Seeking Specifics  Senators led by  Ron Wyden , an Oregon Democrat, have pressed
the administration to explain its basis for using lethal force
against Americans abroad and renewed their request in a letter
on Feb. 4. Senator  Mark Udall , a Colorado Democrat on the
intelligence panel, said yesterday that the Justice Department
white paper doesn’t provide the disclosure lawmakers seek.  “What the white paper does not do is answer specific
questions regarding the scope of the authority and the threshold
for evidence of terrorist activity,” Udall said in an
interview.  Udall said he and his colleagues are asking for the legal
opinions on which the white paper is based. “Congress, at a
minimum, should be privy to the actual opinions that authorize
lethal action,” he said.  The senators implied in their letter that foot-dragging
might hurt Brennan’s confirmation. “The executive branch’s
cooperation on this matter will help avoid an unnecessary
confrontation that could affect the Senate’s consideration of
nominees for national security positions,” they wrote.  Answering Questions  Brennan has publicly acknowledged and detailed some aspects
of the policies and “will answer senators’ questions ably,”
Carney said. “We believe that he will be confirmed.”  In the past four years, the Obama administration conducted
six times as many drone strikes in Pakistan, the country where
the CIA has conducted most of its targeted killings, as
President  George W. Bush ’s administration did in the previous
four years, according to the London-based Bureau of
Investigative Journalism. The nonprofit organization tracks
drone strikes and civilian casualties.  The paper obtained by NBC News detailed circumstances under
which the U.S. is justified in ordering the killing of a U.S.
citizen in al-Qaeda or an affiliated terrorist group. The
unclassified document was prepared for members of Congress,
Carney said.  ‘Defined Circumstances’  “In defined circumstances, a targeted killing of a U.S.
citizen who has joined al-Qaeda or its associated forces would
be lawful under U.S. and international law,” the memo says.
Those circumstances include killing a U.S. al-Qaeda leader
actively engaged in “planning operations to kill Americans.”  Such killings are legal, the document said, if an
“informed, high-level official of the U.S. government”
determines the citizen poses an “imminent” threat of violent
attack, if capture is “infeasible,” and if the operation can
be carried out “in a manner consistent with applicable law-of-
war principles.”  Some lawyers questioned the way the administration defines
“imminence.” The white paper says that the U.S. isn’t required
“to have clear evidence that a specific attack on U.S. persons
and interests will take place in the immediate future.”  That definition doesn’t comport with established
international law, said  Christopher Swift , a lawyer and an
adjunct professor of national security studies at Georgetown
University in Washington.  International Law  “In the international context, the preconditions are
having no time for deliberation and no other means of
response,” Swift said. “The difficulty with administration’s
argument is that the imminence argument is really, really
subjective and doesn’t comport with established practice in our
law or international law.”  Charles Dunlap, a retired Air Force major general who
teaches law at Duke University in Durham, North Carolina,
questions whether it’s even necessary to resolve what
‘imminence’’ means.  “It is not a legal requirement once an armed conflict is
under way,” Dunlap said in an e-mail. “And both the U.S. and
al-Qaeda seem to agree that they are in an armed conflict with
each other. In an armed conflict, bona fide combatants such as
U.S. forces can attack their enemy wherever and whenever they
find them.”  Some lawmakers agreed that they had no trouble with the
administration’s policy of targeting American citizens who join
a terrorist group such as al-Qaeda.  ‘Constantly Plotting’  “They are part of an organization that is constantly
plotting and planning to kill Americans, and so they have joined
the enemy,” Representative  Mike Rogers , a Michigan Republican
and chairman of the House Permanent Select Committee on
Intelligence, said today on “Andrea Mitchell Reports” on
MSNBC.  Brennan, who performed clandestine and analytical work with
the CIA and held a senior post in President  George W. Bush’s 
administration, has had a central role in both administrations’
use of unmanned aircraft to attack suspected terrorists.  In 2009, Brennan withdrew from consideration as Obama’s
first CIA chief after human-rights groups and some Democrats
raised concerns that he had supported the use of harsh
interrogation techniques on terror suspects. Obama instead named
Brennan a White House adviser, bypassing Senate confirmation.  Kidnapping, Torture  Ahead of the Brennan hearing, the Open Society Justice
Initiative released a 216-page report on the CIA’s secret
detention programs since the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks, stating
that more than 50 countries are implicated in “kidnapping,
detention and torture as part of the CIA’s secret detention and
extraordinary rendition programs.”  The group, founded by billionaire investor  George Soros ,
says its mission is to fight human-rights violations linked to
counterterrorism operations.  Brennan said the CIA’s program of sending suspected
terrorists to other countries -- including some that practice
torture -- for questioning was an “absolutely vital tool”
during a 2005 interview with PBS’s “NewsHour.” In a 2007
interview on CBS Corp.’s “The Early Show,” Brennan said
“enhanced interrogation tactics” saved lives while saying
waterboarding, or simulated drowning, should be prohibited.  Waterboarding Position  Vincent Cannistraro , a former CIA officer and National
Security Council official who once worked for Brennan, said his
former boss was never in favor of waterboarding or other extreme
measures, never pushed for them and argued internally that they
were prone to producing inaccurate intelligence.  Udall said he will ask about the CIA’s detention and
interrogation program, adding that a Senate study based on more
than 6 million pages of CIA and other records raises questions
about intelligence operations and oversight.  Some Republicans will push Brennan to explain leaks to
reporters that they say were intended to burnish Obama’s
national security credentials during last year’s campaign --from
the president’s role in choosing targets for drone attacks to
the disclosure that the U.S. and Israel developed the Stuxnet
computer virus that damaged Iran’s nuclear centrifuges.  “John Brennan has not been absolved of responsibility for
the slew of high-level security leaks that have characterized
this White House,” Senator  John Cornyn  of Texas, the No. 2
Republican leader in the Senate, said last month. “This
investigation needs to be resolved before his nomination can
move forward.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net ;
Margaret Talev in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net ;
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  