-- Brennan Defends Use of Drones, Says Civilian Deaths Rare
-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2013-02-07T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/brennan-defends-use-of-drones-says-civilian-deaths-rare.html
John Brennan , President Barack
Obama’s nominee for CIA director, defended the use of targeted
killings against members of al-Qaeda and said civilian
casualties from drone strikes are “much rarer than many
allege.”  In written answers to the Senate intelligence committee,
which holds a hearing on his nomination today, Brennan said the
Central Intelligence Agency wouldn’t use so-called enhanced
interrogation techniques if he is confirmed.  “A lot of information, accurate and inaccurate, came out
of interrogation sessions,” Brennan wrote in the document
released yesterday. While the Justice Department said at the
time that the techniques didn’t violate the law, Brennan said
they were “counterproductive to our overall efforts” against
al-Qaeda and other terrorists.  Brennan, 57, Obama’s counterterrorism adviser and an
architect of the administration’s drone policy, will face
questions today about the program, which the White House has
pursued with limited oversight by Congress or the judiciary.  The 25-year veteran of the CIA acknowledged that
“civilians have been killed” in drone strikes, adding that
“it is exceedingly rare, and much, much rarer than many
allege.” He wrote that “extraordinary care” is taken to
ensure drone strikes are conducted “in full compliance with the
law.”  Waterboarding Technique  Brennan performed clandestine and analytical work with the
CIA and held a senior post in President George W. Bush’s
administration. In 2009, he withdrew from consideration as
Obama’s first CIA chief after human-rights groups and some
Democrats raised concerns that he had supported the use of harsh
interrogation techniques that critics consider torture,
including waterboarding, which simulates drowning.  In the written answers, he said that as a senior CIA
officer he was aware of the interrogation program, though he
wasn’t responsible for its creation, execution or oversight. In
2007, Brennan told CBS Corp.’s “The Early Show” that the
“enhanced interrogation tactics” saved lives, though
waterboarding should be prohibited.  Senators have been pressing the administration to explain
the legal basis for its use of drone strikes, particularly
against U.S. citizens who are members of al-Qaeda.  Critics such as  Marjorie Cohn , professor of human rights at
the Thomas Jefferson School of Law in San Diego, also question
the administration’s interpretation of the legal conditions for
a lethal drone strike.  ‘Have Authority’  Brennan wrote that he doesn’t think legislation is needed
because “we currently have the authority to take action in such
circumstances against al-Qaeda and associated forces.”  In addition to drones, lawmakers may question Brennan about
U.S. policies on launching cyber attacks and about leaks of
classified information.  Republicans want explanations for newspaper stories during
last year’s presidential election campaign based on anonymous
administration sources that they say were meant to burnish
Obama’s national security credentials. Among the reports were
those disclosing the U.S. role in a cyber attack on Iran’s
nuclear program and describing Obama as personally selecting the
targets of drone attacks.  Brennan said in his answers to the senators that he is
vigilant in protecting classified information when speaking with
journalists. “In exceptional circumstances, however, it may be
necessary to acknowledge classified information to a member of
the media,” he said.  Disclosure Investigations  Brennan said he has been interviewed by the U.S. Attorney’s
Office in Maryland about “possible unauthorized disclosures of
information to reporters about cyber attacks against Iran.” He
said he also has been questioned by the U.S. Attorney’s Office
for the District of Columbia about leaks to reporters concerning
a foiled bomb plot tied to al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula.  The idea of targeting a U.S. citizen who belongs to a group
such as al-Qaeda or its affiliates may be a particular focus of
debate at today’s hearing. It has been a stumbling block for
Democrats who say doing so conflicts with due-process rights
guaranteed in the Constitution. In 2011, a drone strike in Yemen
killed  Anwar al-Awlaki , a U.S. citizen who had become a leader
of al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula.  A bipartisan group of senators, led by  Ron Wyden , an Oregon
Democrat, has been pushing the administration to release the
classified legal opinions used as the basis of the
administration’s authority to conduct those strikes.  Obama yesterday directed the Justice Department to give the
congressional intelligence committees access to the classified
information, according to an administration official who asked
not to be identified discussing the decision.  Actively Engaged  An unclassified Justice Department white paper obtained by
NBC News this week outlines the administration’s legal
arguments.  The memo said that “in defined circumstances, a targeted
killing of a U.S. citizen who has joined al-Qaeda or its
associated forces would be lawful under U.S. and international
law.” Those circumstances include killing a U.S. al-Qaeda
leader actively engaged in “planning operations to kill
Americans.”  The use of lethal force is legal, the document said, if an
“informed, high-level official of the U.S. government”
determines the citizen poses an “imminent” threat of violent
attack, if capture is “infeasible,” and if the operation can
be carried out “in a manner consistent with applicable law-of-
war principles.”  Some lawyers say the way the administration defines
imminence doesn’t fit established international law. The white
paper says that the U.S. is not required “to have clear
evidence that a specific attack on U.S. persons and interests
will take place in the immediate future.”  Cohn said “the Obama administration is expanding the
concept of imminence so it’s not even necessary to show there
will be an attack in the near future.”  The memo “leaves extremely broad latitude for the
president, the executive branch to take out anyone they want,”
she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  