-- Cable Says RBS Sell-Off ‘Now Looks a Distant Dream’
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2013-02-06T10:58:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/cable-says-rbs-sell-off-now-looks-a-distant-dream-.html
U.K. Business Secretary  Vince Cable 
said that privatizing  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  “now
looks a distant dream” and again urged that the stock be given
away to taxpayers.  Cable made the point as he attacked banks for still failing
to lend enough money to small and medium-sized businesses and
urged them to publish lending data broken down by local area. He
has also written to the Bank of England asking it to look at why
its Funding for Lending program is better at getting money to
mortgage borrowers than companies.  On RBS, which the previous Labour government paid 45.5
billion pounds ($71 billion) to rescue in 2008, Cable said the
coalition administration of which he’s a part has inherited
“responsibility without control.” The government paid the
equivalent of 502 pence a share for about 81 percent of the
lender, meaning taxpayers are sitting on a paper loss of 14.5
billion pounds. The shares were 0.6 percent higher at 339.60
pounds as of 10:45 p.m. in London today.  “The early hope of reprivatization, however, now looks a
distant dream, unless at an unacceptable loss,” Cable said in a
speech at Bloomberg’s European headquarters in London.
“Recapitalization may be the best solution, but it is currently
impractical; full nationalization would cost the taxpayer
billions.”  Instead, Cable repeated an idea first floated in 2011 by
the leader of his Liberal Democrat party, Deputy Prime Minister
 Nick Clegg , of giving RBS stock away to registered voters.  ‘Eventual Recovery’  Under this plan, Cable said, the public “can benefit from
the upside of eventual recovery in share prices, while
professional managers run the bank with a long-term mandate
which includes a commitment to assist national recovery through
expanded small and medium-sized enterprise lending.”  In an interview with  Francine Lacqua  and  Guy Johnson  on
Bloomberg Television, the business secretary conceded that his
Conservative Party coalition partners were not “enthusiastic”
about the idea. “We think widely, and don’t close off
options,” he told reporters earlier.  With the U.K. economy having barely grown since the
coalition took office in May 2010, the government is putting
increasing emphasis on the difficulty small companies face in
borrowing money. In September, Cable said previous efforts had
failed, and he announced the setting-up of a Business Bank to
provide long-term finance. Prime Minister  David Cameron  called
38 large companies in the following month to ask them to look at
ways to help firms in their supply chains get finance.  RBS is set to pay 400 million to 500 million pounds in
fines for manipulating interest rates, the second-largest
penalty imposed in a global regulatory probe, two people with
knowledge of the matter said. The announcement may come as soon
as today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  