-- Canada Stocks Advance on Corporate Earnings; Suncor Falls
-- B y   S a r a h   P r i n g l e
-- 2013-02-06T21:31:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/canada-stocks-advance-on-corporate-earnings-suncor-falls.html
Canadian stocks advanced as earnings
from companies including TMX Group Ltd. and Genworth MI
Financial Inc. offset a slump in  Suncor Energy Inc.  after it
posted disappointing results.  TMX , the owner of the Toronto Stock Exchange, and Genworth
rose at least 2.3 percent after beating analysts’ earnings
estimates. Raw-material shares rallied as Silver Wheaton Corp.
climbed 1.4 percent after agreeing to buy gold from Vale SA
mines in Brazil and Canada. Suncor Energy, Canada’s largest
energy company by market value, dropped 5.4 percent for the
worst performance in the benchmark index, after reporting the
biggest loss in at least two decades.  The  Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Index  added 15.94
points, or 0.1 percent, to 12,761.59 at 4 p.m. in Toronto. Seven
of 10 industries advanced. About 738 million shares traded hands
on Canadian exchanges today, or 3 percent below the three-month
average. The benchmark gauge has gained 2.6 percent this year.  “Earnings season in Canada is just starting to ramp up,”
 Jeffrey Bradacs , who helps oversee about C$1.5 billion ($1.5
billion) as a fund manager with Toronto-based Manulife Asset
Management Ltd., said in a phone interview. “That will be the
key catalyst now going forward.”  Financial shares  contributed most to gains in the benchmark
index, as Royal Bank of Canada rose 1 percent to C$62.67,
reaching a record high.  TMX, Genworth  TMX Group rallied 2.3 percent to C$56.73. The company
benefited from an increase in revenue from its trading, clearing
and depository business, after adding contributions from the
Canadian Depository for Securities Ltd. clearinghouse and Alpha
Group. The businesses were acquired as part of TMX’s C$3.73
billion takeover in September by a group of banks and pension
funds.  Genworth , a residential mortgage insurance provider,
advanced 4 percent to C$24.63, the most in four months. The
company, based in Oakville, Ontario, reported a surge in new
business and a drop in its loan loss ratio that led to better-
than-expected earnings.  Silver Wheaton, which resells precious metals bought from
mining companies, rose 44 Canadian cents to C$36.57. The
Vancouver-based company agreed to acquire gold mined by Vale in
Brazil and Canada for $1.9 billion in cash and 10 million share
warrants. Silver Wheaton typically offers upfront payments to
help mining companies fund their projects in exchange for a
discount on the silver and gold output that it buys.  Suncor Slumps  Energy producers had the worst performance among S&P/TSX
groups, slipping 0.5 percent.  Suncor,  the oil-sands producer, slumped C$1.85 to C$32.53,
the biggest decline since June. The Calgary-based company
reported its first quarterly loss in 3 1/2 years. Suncor’s
results were hurt by a charge of C$1.49 billion related to its
Voyageur oil project in the province of Alberta, which may face
cancellation. The company also said late yesterday in a
statement it faces a possible C$1.2 billion tax bill.  Husky Energy Inc., the Canadian oil company controlled by
Asia’s richest man, Li Ka-shing, fell 1 percent to C$31.06. The
Calgary-based company reported fourth-quarter profit and sales
that missed analysts’ estimates on lower-than-expected refining
margins.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Pringle in New York at 
 springle1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  