-- Capcom Says Better Smartphones Raise Game-Development Costs
-- B y   N a o k o   F u j i m u r a   a n d   T a k a s h i   A m a n o
-- 2013-02-07T13:41:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/capcom-says-improved-smartphones-make-game-development-costlier.html
Capcom Co ., the creator of the
“Resident Evil” and “Street Fighter” video games, said
improvements in smartphones are making it more expensive to
develop games.  Creating a multiplayer game for mobile devices now costs at
least 100 million yen ($1.1 million) because of the need for
greater complexity, such as better graphics, and rising labor
costs, Chief Operating Officer  Haruhiro Tsujimoto  said in an
interview in Tokyo yesterday. That compares with “a few tens of
million” yen for games on basic mobile phones, he said.  Capcom is racing to catch up in mobile gaming as users
increasingly shun consoles in favor of playing cheaper online
games using Apple Inc. iPhones and Samsung Electronics Co.
devices. The Osaka-based company generated 12 percent of sales
from mobile content in the nine months ended Dec. 31, compared
with 45 percent from packaged software.  “We were a bit late in mobile games,” said Tsujimoto, the
48-year-old son of Capcom founder  Kenzo Tsujimoto . “We have to
show some achievement this year.”  The company is hiring more programmers after unifying
development for online and console titles to support its mobile-
gaming push. Its games are also offered on  Nintendo Co .’s Wii U,
 Sony Corp .’s PlayStation and  Microsoft Corp. ’s Xbox 360.  Smurfs, Ghostbusters  Capcom’s sales of online content including games for mobile
devices and personal computers surged 53 percent to 16.7 billion
yen in the nine months ended Dec. 31. Packaged-software sales
rose 33 percent to 33 billion yen.  The company plans to prioritize in-house development of
mobile games, rather than acquiring other companies, Haruhiro
Tsujimoto said. It already has more than 7.2 million registered
online users in Japan for its Capcom brand. The company also
owns the Beeline Interactive Inc. studio, which offers “Smurfs’
Village” and “Ghostbusters.”  Japan’s mobile-game market may expand 37 percent to 387
billion yen in the year ending March and grow 10 percent next
fiscal year, Yano Research Institute Ltd. said last month.
Global smartphone sales will probably rise 28 percent this year
to 836 million units, according to IHS Inc.’s iSuppli.  Capcom  fell 1.9 percent to 1,570 yen on the Tokyo Stock
Exchange today. It has jumped 19 percent this year, compared
with a 9.3 percent gain for the benchmark Nikkei 225 Stock
Average.  The company plans to begin promoting its new “Monster
Hunter 4” for Nintendo’s 3DS handheld with the Kyoto, Japan-
based device-maker this spring before the planned summer release,
Tsujimoto said. A delay in the development of the game prompted
Capcom to cut its net income forecast for the year to March by
34 percent in December.  “Monster Hunter 3 Ultimate” for Nintendo’s Wii U console
and 3DS will also be introduced in North America and Europe next
month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Naoko Fujimura in Tokyo at 
 nfujimura@bloomberg.net ;
Takashi Amano in Tokyo at 
 tamano6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  