-- Cargill Wins Arbitration Case Filed by Alabama Cotton Coop
-- B y   S h r u t i   D a t e   S i n g h
-- 2013-02-06T18:04:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/cargill-wins-arbitration-case-filed-by-alabama-cotton-coop.html
Cargill Inc., one of the world’s
biggest cotton traders, didn’t breach a contract when it sold
the commodity on behalf of an Alabama cooperative in 2011 and
2012, Memphis Cotton Exchange arbitrators ruled.  The arbitration committee denied a $27 million claim from
the Autauga Quality Cotton Association, which alleged Cargill
failed to fulfill its obligations under a December 2010
contract.  The arbitrators found that Minneapolis-based Cargill
marketed the cooperative’s cotton as best it could with the
information it had at the time, according to a copy of the
 ruling  on the cooperative’s website.  Cargill didn’t leave Autauga’s cotton “unprotected or
unhedged” as cotton prices fluctuated wildly, and at the time
believed it was “acting in the best interest of” its client,
according to the decision.  Most-active cotton futures in New York rose to a record on
March 7, 2011, on speculation global supplies may not satisfy
demand in China and from then tumbled 57 percent as demand fell.  The Prattville, Alabama-based cooperative initially sought
$35 million, but reduced its claim after reviewing futures
account statements from Cargill, Autauga manager Jeff Thompson
said in an e-mail today.  “We are sadly disappointed and vehemently disagree with
their decision,” he said in a statement on the group’s website.
The cooperative’s board will determine the future course of
action in the next few weeks, he said by phone.  “We are pleased to have the arbitration completed and are
fully focused on our ongoing work with cotton suppliers and
customers around the world,”  Mark Klein , a spokesman for
Cargill, said in an e-mail today. “The arbitrators found that
Cargill did not act arbitrarily or engage in any conduct for
which it could or should be held accountable.”  A voicemail left for Bobby Walton, the dispute resolution
officer of the Memphis Cotton Exchange, to confirm the decision
was not immediately returned.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shruti Date Singh in Chicago at 
 ssingh28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  