-- Chavez Enacts Cuts He Once Slammed to Delay Devaluing
-- B y   J o s h u a   G o o d m a n   a n d   C h a r l i e   D e v e r e u x
-- 2013-02-06T15:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/chavez-enacts-cuts-he-once-slammed-to-delay-devaluing-economy.html
Hugo Chavez coasted to re-election
last year warning Venezuelans that a victory for the opposition
would lead to a “giant package” of spending cuts. Now his
government is being forced to adopt the same strategy to stave
off a budget crisis and devaluation.  Last week the government cut by $2.9 billion  Petroleos de
Venezuela SA ’s share of oil revenue it contributes to an off-
budget fund that’s the second-biggest source of public spending.
Central government outlays, which surged 26 percent in real
terms in the year prior to the Oct. 7 vote, have declined 7
percent since then, according to Bank of America Corp. At the
same time,  consumer prices  jumped by the most in more than two
years in December, pushing inflation to 20.1 percent.  The austerity drive taking place as Chavez recovers from
cancer surgery in Cuba should help narrow a budget deficit
larger than that of the U.S. as a share of gross domestic
product and delay a devaluation that analysts say is overdue.
With elections possibly looming because of Chavez’s health, the
government wants to avoid further price increases fueled by a
weaker bolivar that would erode its base of support among low-
income voters, said Francisco Rodriguez, a Bank of America
economist.  “The government wants to avoid anything that looks like a
devaluation,” Rodriguez said in a phone interview from New
York. “Instead, we’re seeing the same effects as with a
straight devaluation, but the impact on incomes will be somewhat
delayed.”  Chavez’s fragile health has triggered a 38 percent rally in
Venezuelan bonds in the past year as investors bet that he’ll be
forced to cede power, ushering in a new government that will
retreat from policies that curtailed oil production in the
country that holds the world’s largest reserves.  Chavez’s Words  During last year’s campaign, Chavez railed against
opposition candidate Henrique Capriles Radonski’s economic
plans, saying they risked sparking the sort of deadly riots that
followed an end to oil subsidies in 1989.  Capriles “doesn’t talk about suspending contributions from
PDVSA to Fonden as is written here,” Chavez said Sept. 11,
reading from what he said was a secret plan formulated by his
rival’s economic team that included cuts to the development
fund. “They’re hiding all of that, or trying to hide it.”  Now his own administration is doing the cutting.  Funding Cuts  On Jan. 28, the government raised the tax threshold charged
to PDVSA on windfall profits, which will have the effect of
reducing by 19 percent, to $12.6 billion, the state company’s
annual contribution to  Fonden . The central bank will also reduce
its contribution to Fonden’s 121.5 billion bolivar ($28.3
billion) 2013 budget by 12.5 percent, according to a copy of the
plan obtained by Bloomberg.  Off-budget funds, of which Fonden is the largest, comprise
39 percent of government spending, according to Bank of America.
The money is used to finance infrastructure projects and social
spending, including Chavez’s low-income housing program.  Oil fell in New York today after the biggest gain in a
week, widening its discount to Brent crude to the most this
year. U.S. crude and gasoline stockpiles rose last week, an
industry report showed. The U.S. is the biggest importer of
Venezuelan oil.  The tax changes in Venezuela  also aim to attack another
economic scourge: a shortage of staple goods, from toilet paper
to sugar, exacerbated by a lack of dollars following Chavez’s
pre-election splurge. A central bank index measuring the
scarcity of goods jumped to a record in December.  Under the plan, PDVSA will sell the central bank an
additional $2.5 billion in oil export earnings to fund purchases
abroad, receiving bolivars in return. The government, which
imposed currency controls in 2003, cut dollar supplies to
importers 46 percent, to $34 million a day, in January from the
same month a year ago, according to estimates by Ecoanalitica.  Black Market  The lack of access to official exchange rates of 4.3
bolivars and 5.3 bolivars per dollar is driving more Venezuelans
to the black market, where the currency has plunged 33 percent
since the election to 18.41 bolivars per dollar. The central
bank may expand the purchase of dollars at the 5.3 rate to
persuade companies to bring more greenbacks into the country.  There are other signs of austerity. A previously free
public bus system in Caracas will begin this week to charge 1.5
bolivars for a single fare. The National Assembly’s finance
committee has also begun studying a bill to cut spending and
increase tax collection.  Venezuela’s Information Ministry didn’t reply to an e-mail
seeking comment about whether the government is applying an
austerity package.  Chavez Absence  Venezuelans haven’t seen or heard from their president
since state television broadcast images of him arriving in
Havana Dec. 10 to undergo his fourth cancer-related surgery in
18 months. Before departing, the self-declared socialist urged
his followers to vote for Vice President Nicolas Maduro should
he have to cede power.  “The thinking is any measure other than a devaluation,”
said Asdrubal Oliveros, director of Ecoanalitica. “In a country
that imports so much, a devaluation implies significant price
increases and a decline in purchasing power.”  Much deeper cuts or a devaluation are still needed to
sustain the level of spending that’s been Chavez’s formula for
economic growth and electoral success over the past decade, said
Bret Rosen, a Latin America strategist at Standard Chartered
Bank. A devaluation would increase the amount of local currency
the government receives from its tax on oil dollars.  Fiscal Distortions  “The fiscal distortions are so great that you have to
devalue at some point,” Rosen said in a phone interview from
New York. “I suspect it would already have happened if it
weren’t for the confusing situation in terms of the president.”  Morgan Stanley estimates that the country’s deficit has
ballooned to at least 12 percent of GDP. That hasn’t stopped
investors from snapping up bonds issued by South America’s
biggest oil producer, which have returned an average annual 14.7
percent since Chavez took office in 1999.  The cost of protecting Venezuelan debt against non-payment
for five years with credit-default swaps fell 10 basis points to
625, according to prices in London compiled by Bloomberg. Yields
on Venezuela’s benchmark 9.25 percent dollar-denominated bonds
due in 2027 fell 2 basis points to 8.9 percent at 8:21 a.m. in
Caracas, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The budget imbalances could worsen if growth stalls amid
the political uncertainty. While the central bank is forecasting
growth this year of 5 percent, the median estimate among
economists surveyed by Bloomberg is for 2 percent growth. Bank
of America forecasts a contraction of 3.6 percent.  Devaluation  Analysts surveyed by Bloomberg this month predicted that
Venezuela will weaken the bolivar rate 33 percent, to 6.4 per
dollar, in the second quarter. In July, they forecast a similar-
sized devaluation would take place in the first quarter.  Still, the spending cuts are only temporary since the
government will need to renew public expenditure once the
political panorama clears up and elections are scheduled, said
Hernan Yellati, head of research at BancTrust & Co. in Miami.  “The fiscal adjustment will only truly come once a new
government has consolidated power,” Yellati said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Goodman in Rio de Janeiro at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net ;
Charlie Devereux in Caracas at 
 cdevereux3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  