-- Chelsea Considers New Move for Dortmund’s Klopp: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-02-06T06:27:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/chelsea-considers-new-move-for-dortmund-s-klopp-soccer-roundup.html
 The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers with clickable Internet links.  Chelsea Considers Klopp  Chelsea is considering a new approach for Borussia Dortmund
coach  Jurgen Klopp  as the Premier League club searches for its
next permanent manager, the  Daily Telegraph reported .  The Blues are taking advice about the 45-year-old Klopp’s
suitability for the job and also whether he would want to be
considered as a candidate after rebuffing Chelsea’s tentative
interest last season, the newspaper added.  Everton’s  David Moyes  and  Manuel Pellegrini  of Malaga are
the two other strongest possibilities, while ex-Chelsea manager
 Jose Mourinho  is pushing to be considered, the Telegraph said.  Neymar’s Next Move  Brazil striker  Neymar , who’s scored 130 goals in 212 games
for Santos, wants to move to England or Spain after the 2014
World Cup, the  Daily Star reported .  Chelsea’s Brazilian players Oscar,  David Luiz  and Ramires
have been trying to persuade Neymar, 21, to join them at the
west London club, the newspaper added.  Liverpool Target  Liverpool will consider a move for Newcastle midfielder
 Hatem Ben Arfa  in the off-season, the  Guardian reported .  Although France international Ben Arfa would command a
sizable fee, Newcastle’s interest in re-signing  Andy Carroll ,
who’s currently on-loan at West Ham, could work to Liverpool’s
advantage and a possible exchange deal, the newspaper added.  Carroll’s Replacement?  West Ham is lining up Ivory Coast striker Wilfried Bony to
replace Carroll when his loan expires at the end of the season,
the  Sun reported .  Bony, who’s valued at 12 million pounds and was linked with
Liverpool and Newcastle during last month’s transfer window, has
scored 16 goals in 18 league games for Dutch club Vitesse Arnhem
this campaign, the newspaper added.  Begovic Expects Move  Stoke goalkeeper Asmir Begovic said he expects to be sold
at the end of the season amid reports that he’s a target of
Manchester United, the  Daily Express reported .  “I read in the papers that I said no to Manchester City
and yes to United but the truth is I haven’t decided on
anything,” the Express cited Begovic as saying. “I think I’m
going to be sold in the summer. I can’t move to a smaller club
and I also know that some top clubs are interested in me.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  