-- Chez Sardine Sells Fine Sushi at Moderate Price: Review
-- B y   R y a n   S u t t o n
-- 2013-02-06T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/chez-sardine-sells-fine-sushi-at-moderate-price-review.html
Good sushi tends to be expensive
sushi. The elite venues are quiet, omakase-heavy, and spicy
tuna-free.  Not Chez Sardine, which plays lots of Michael Jackson,
doesn’t offer omakase and proudly offers spicy tuna. The chefs
stop and clap in unison when Hall and Oates comes over the sound
system. Take that, Masa.  The only revered thing at this quirky Manhattan spot is a
giant photo behind the bar of the Karate Kid’s “Mr. Miyagi,”
equipped with his famous fly-catching chopsticks.  Against all odds, most of it works (though you should
probably skip that spicy tuna roll ($8), bland and mushy as a
 Taylor Swift  ballad).  This is all the creation of Gabe Stulman, the young West
Village restaurateur whose four other packed venues -- Perla,
Joseph Leonard, Jeffrey’s Grocery, and Fedora -- are devoid of
pretention and apparently immune to economic downturns.  Free Sweet  Chez Sardine has no pre-theater prix-fixe, no tasting menu
and, oddly, no sardines (at least on the regular menu; sometimes
they’re offered as a special). Also no dishes over $22.  The only dessert is maple pudding with syrup and rice
crisps. It’s free and it’s awesome, courtesy of Fedora’s Mehdi
Brunet-Benkritly, who now presides over Chez Sardine.  This chef hails from Montreal’s foie gras-heavy Au Pied de
Cochon, which explains the duck liver grilled cheese sandwich
($18) but not its mealy execution.  Your amuse bouche is a bowl of sour daikon topped with
togarashi, scallions and umami-fueled bonito.  Cod fritters ($6) pack a chewy punch. And stellar chicken
nuggets, loaded with flavor, are destined for dunking in kimchee
puree. This should all be consumed with a fragrant Alsatian
Gewurztraminer ($14.50) or a musky Savoie ($11.50).  Sushi is easy here: Order everything. There are only nine
or so selections, and one is simply an excellent oyster on the
half shell, with the tartness of apple foam giving way to a
clean taste of the sea.  Meaty Slab  Nigiri ($4-$7) are better than any I’ve had at Blue Ribbon
or other mid-range raw fish restaurants. No need for messy
dipping at the table. Sardine sends out perfectly sauced slices
of fish, served at the optimum temperature for each one.  There’s no overfished blue fin tuna. Instead we get more
sustainable, full flavored alternatives like Spanish mackerel
(with leeks), arctic char (smoked), fatty Hamachi (with ginger)
and beef tongue (with ponzu and jalapeno).  My only gripe is with the rice, which isn’t as sublime as
the fish; you don’t get the warm rice/cool flesh contrast that
makes for transcendental tastings. Then again, a surf-and-turf
hand roll of cold urchin and cool beef wrapped in seaweed is a
$7 ticket to nirvana.  Thanks to a gentle pass through the deep fryer, avocado,
shrimp and tuna in a maki roll retain their clear, clean
flavors. The $17 entree easily feeds three; so does a silky,
meaty slab of pork belly for $21  The mushy three-bite Grinnell caviar toast ($17) lacks
texture and flavor. The one-note egg should be replaced with a
better sturgeon variety.  Briny Bliss  An order of “breakfast pancakes” sets the fish-egg
equation right. A stack of yogurt-drizzled griddle cakes offset
the briny bliss of salmon roe, as well as a soft mash of fish
tartar. The $13 dish is a brilliant low-brow riff on caviar
blini.  Want a proper filet? Sorry, there’s only miso-maple salmon
heads ($12). It’s a sweet, succulent exercise in using
chopsticks to pry away fatty, oily flesh.  The bill: About $150 for two. That’s half the cost of a
date at Gari or 15 East, both better venues, neither affordable
on a weekly basis. That’s why we have Chez Sardine.  Rating: **  The Bloomberg Questions  Price: By Masa standards, cheap.  Sound Level: Anywhere from 70-80; usually reasonable.  Date Place: Yes.  Special Feature: Solid $22 braised beef curry for meat
eaters.  Inside Tip: Stellar pork-unagi hand roll tastes like a good
tuna fish sandwich.  Back on My Own Dime: Often for the uni and beef hand roll.  Chez Sardine is at 183 W. 10th Street. Information: +1-646-
360-3705 or  http://chezsardine.com .  
Sound-Level (in decibels): 51 to 55: Quiet enough to converse.
56 to 60: Speak up. 61 to 65: Lean in if you want to hear your
date. 66 to 70: You’re reading one another’s lips. 71 to 75:
You’re yelling. 76 to 85: Ear-splitting din.  ( Ryan Sutton  writes about New York City restaurants for
Muse, the arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The
opinions expressed are his own. Follow him on Tumblr at
www.thepricehike.com or www.thebaddeal.com)  Muse highlights include hot  art ,  theater .  To contact the writer of this column:
Ryan Sutton in New York at  rsutton1@bloomberg.net  or
qualityrye on  http://twitter.com/qualityrye   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 