-- Chief Executives’ Confidence in U.S. Economy Improves in Survey
-- B y   J e a n n a   S m i a l e k
-- 2013-02-06T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/chief-executives-confidence-in-u-s-economy-improves-in-survey.html
Confidence among U.S. chief
executives increased in January as more business leaders said
economic conditions are better than they were six months
earlier, a private survey showed.  The Young Presidents’ Organization index of sentiment
climbed to 61.0 from 59.1 in the previous three months. Readings
greater than 50 show the outlook was more positive than
negative. The gauge eased in the previous two quarterly surveys,
before U.S. lawmakers in January reached a compromise to avert
tax increases for most workers that would have kicked in
automatically at the start of the year.  “The latest survey results represent a collective sigh of
relief that the worst-case scenario has been avoided,”  Stephen Slifer , economic adviser for the survey and chief economist at
NumberNomics LLC, said in a statement. “But business confidence
still has not regained all the ground it lost in the second half
of 2012.”  Thirty-nine percent of respondents said the economy has
improved from six months earlier, up from 33 percent who said so
in the previous survey. Sixteen percent thought conditions had
deteriorated, compared with 25 percent in the previous quarter.  Gross domestic product, the value of all goods and services
produced, fell at a 0.1 percent annual rate in the fourth
quarter as military spending slumped, according to Commerce
Department data.  Household purchases , which account for about 70
percent of the economy, rose at a 2.2 percent pace in the
period, the most since the first three months of 2012.  Improvement Seen  Forty-two percent said the economy will improve in the next
six months, up from 36 percent in October’s survey. Executives’
outlooks for sales and hiring also showed gains.  Companies hired 157,000 workers January, a Labor Department
report last week showed, following a revised 196,000 advance in
the prior month.  The YPO’s global confidence index increased 2.3 points to
61.3. While sentiment among executives in the European Union
remains lowest among all regions, the measure climbed 4 points
to 55.4.  The nonprofit service organization’s findings were based on
responses from 2,458 global chief executives, including 977 in
the U.S., to an electronic survey conducted during the first two
weeks of January.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeanna Smialek  in Washington at 
 Jsmialek1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  