-- China Southern Air, Taigang Stainless Steel: China Bond Alert
-- B y   R a c h e l   E v a n s
-- 2013-02-06T03:40:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/china-southern-air-taigang-stainless-steel-china-bond-alert.html
China Southern Airlines Co., Shanxi
Taigang Stainless Steel Co. and Shandong Gold Mining Co. are
among issuers that may sell bonds in the nation’s debt markets.  Domestic Bonds  CHINA SOUTHERN AIRLINES CO.: The company plans to sell 500
million yuan ($80 million) of 180-day bills tomorrow, according
to a statement posted on the Shanghai Clearing House website.
(Added Feb. 6)  SHANXI TAIGANG STAINLESS STEEL CO.: The company plans to
sell 2.5 billion yuan of 365-day securities on Feb. 18,
according to a statement posted on Chinamoney.com.cn, a website
of the China Foreign Exchange Trade System. (Added Feb. 6)  SHANDONG GOLD MINING CO.: The company plans to sell 2
billion yuan of 365-day securities on Feb. 17, according to a
statement posted on Chinamoney.com.cn. (Added Feb. 5)  CSR CORP.: The company may sell as much as 5 billion yuan
of medium-term notes after the board approved a plan to issue
debt with maturities of five to 10 years to replenish working
capital, according to a statement to the Shanghai stock exchange.
(Added Feb. 4)  NEW CHINA LIFE INSURANCE CO. : The company plans to sell as
much as 5 billion yuan of bonds this year with maturities of
more than five years, according to a statement to the Hong Kong
stock exchange. (Added Feb. 4)  CITIC DAMENG HOLDINGS LTD.: The company plans to sell 1
billion yuan of bonds, according to a Hong Kong stock exchange
announcement. (Added Feb. 1)  BANK OF NINGBO CO.: The lender won approval from the China
Banking Regulatory Commission to issue 8 billion yuan of bonds,
according to a statement to the Shenzhen Stock Exchange. (Added
Jan. 24)  GUANGZHOU AUTOMOBILE GROUP CO.: The company won approval to
sell up to 6 billion yuan of bonds in multiple tranches, the
first of which can be no more than 50 percent of the total
amount, according to a statement to the HK stock exchange.
(Added Jan. 23)  HEBEI IRON & STEEL CO.: The company has regulatory approval
to sell 5 billion yuan of bonds, according to a statement posted
to the Shenzhen Stock Exchange. (Added Jan. 9)  Dim Sum Bonds  CITIC SECURITIES CO.:  The company is seeking approval to
issue up to 40 billion of yuan-denominated debt in onshore and
offshore markets, according to a filing to Hong Kong’s stock
exchange. (Added Jan. 22)  KEPPEL CORP.: The world’s biggest oil-rig builder may sell
yuan-denominated bonds offshore, according to its chief
financial officer Loh Chin Hua in a Jan. 15 interview in
Singapore. (Added Jan. 16)  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
 Rachel Evans  in Hong Kong at 
 revans43@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shelley Smith at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  