-- PBOC Signals Inflation Concern as Economy Rebounds
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-02-07T03:57:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/china-s-growth-momentum-to-remain-strong-.html
China’s central bank signaled concern
that inflation risks will increase and said that monetary easing
by nations, including the U.S. and Japan, may push up commodity
prices and make global capital flows more volatile.  China must be alert to changes in price-gain expectations
and to imported inflation, the People’s Bank of China said
yesterday in its fourth-quarter monetary policy  report . The
costs of labor-intensive products, services and agricultural
goods may rise persistently on slowing labor-supply growth, the
PBOC said.  “An economic recovery and demand expansion may pass into
CPI in a relatively fast manner,” the central bank said.  Chinese officials are trying to sustain a rebound in growth
without spurring a pickup in consumer or home prices as the
Communist Party completes a once-a-decade power handover.
Expansion in gross domestic product accelerated in the final
three months of last year for the first time in two years.  “The central bank is signaling that room for further
monetary easing is quite limited,” said  Chang Jian , a Hong
Kong-based economist at Barclays Plc who formerly worked for the
World Bank. “But it will remain flexible to accommodate the
expected crackdown on shadow banking and stricter regulation of
local government financing to produce a liquidity situation that
is supportive of growth.”  The Shanghai Composite Index, the nation’s benchmark stock
gauge, dropped 1.3 percent at the 11:30 a.m. local-time break,
headed for the first decline in nine days.  Easing Pause  The central bank has refrained from easing monetary policy
since July, after two interest-rate cuts and three reductions in
the reserve-requirement ratio for lenders, on concern that any
loosening may fuel inflation and drive up property prices.  The PBOC injected a record 860 billion yuan ($138 billion)
into the financial system using reverse-repurchase agreements
this week to meet rising demand for cash before a weeklong
holiday starts.  The statistics bureau may report a 2 percent inflation rate
for January, a pace distorted by the timing of a Lunar New Year
holiday, according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg News
survey of analysts. The data are due tomorrow. In December, the
figure was 2.5 percent.  Monetary easing in major economies including the U.S. and
Japan “may make global capital flows more volatile, push up
commodity prices and generate a greater spillover effect on
emerging economies,” the central bank said in the report,
echoing comments made by PBOC Deputy Governor  Yi Gang .  Growth Momentum  On the domestic outlook, the central bank said growth
momentum in the world’s second-biggest economy is “relatively
strong.”  “With the help of macro-economic policies, the country is
expected to keep stable and relatively fast growth,” it said.
The PBOC reiterated it will maintain a “prudent” monetary
policy as it sees forces that may drive up inflation, according
to the report yesterday on its website.  The report shows the central bank is “very vigilant”
about inflation risks against a backdrop of a growth recovery
and the “flood of global liquidity,” said  Sun Junwei , a
Beijing-based economist with HSBC Holdings Plc.  The central bank also said it will use home-loan policies
to curb speculative real-estate purchases, while encouraging
moderate growth in credit and financing. It will support the use
of the yuan in cross-border trade and investment and broaden
channels for inflows and outflows of the currency, according to
the report.  A government survey showed last week that manufacturing
expanded in January for a fourth month.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Helen Sun in Shanghai at 
 hsun30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  