-- China’s Stocks Rise for 8th Day, Longest Winning Streak in Year
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-02-06T08:22:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/china-technology-stocks-rise-energy-companies-halt-7-day-rally.html
China’s stocks rose for an eighth
day, driving the benchmark index to its longest stretch of gains
in almost a year. Technology and financial companies climbed,
overshadowing losses by energy producers.  Software maker  Neusoft Corp.  jumped to a nine-month high on
a subsidiary’s plan to buy a stake in a joint venture from Royal
Philips Electronics NV. Haitong Securities Co. led a rally for
brokerages, climbing 3.5 percent on speculation increased demand
for A shares will boost profits. China Coal Energy Co. and
Datong Coal Industry Co. declined after a seven-day advance
drove  valuations  to the highest level since November 2011.  The  Shanghai Composite Index  added 0.1 percent to 2,434.48
at the close, the highest since May 8. The eight-day win streak
is the longest since the period ended Feb. 28. The index has
risen 24 percent from a three-year low on Dec. 3 on signs
economic growth is accelerating.  “Economic fundamentals are sound,” said  Wu Kan , a
Shanghai-based fund manager at Dazhong Insurance Co., which
oversees $285 million. “Investors who have missed out on the
rally are taking advantage of any dips to jump on to the bull-
market run.”  The Shanghai gauge is valued at 13.4 times reported profit,
the highest level since September 2011, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. Chinese companies traded on the mainland were
priced yesterday at the biggest premium to Hong Kong-listed
counterparts since Oct. 9, according to an index from Hang Seng
Bank Ltd.  The  CSI 300 Index  gained 0.2 percent to 2,775.84. The  Hang
Seng China Enterprises Index  of Chinese companies traded in Hong
Kong climbed 0.4 percent after plunging 2.8 percent yesterday.
The  Bloomberg China-US 55 Index  fell 0.2 percent in New York
yesterday. Hong Kong’s markets will be shut the first three days
of next week for the Lunar New Year holiday, while mainland
bourses will be closed for the entire week.  A-H Premium  The statistics bureau is due release January data on
consumer prices and producer prices on Feb. 8. Consumer prices
probably rose 2 percent from a year earlier, decelerating from a
2.5 percent gain a month earlier, according to the median
estimate of 30 analysts in a Bloomberg survey.  A shares will widen their premium over H shares, spurred by
the new government’s economic and stock-market reforms including
boosting foreign investor quotas for mainland equities,
according to  Hao Hong , Hong Kong-based head of China research at
Bank of Communications Co.  “With the enlarged QFII and RQFII, the government is
making it easier to bet on the A-share market,” Hong said in a
phone interview today, referring to the Qualified Foreign
Institutional Investors program. Investors should buy A shares
over H shares given prospects of supportive measures by the
government between now and March, Hong said.  Income Plan  Trading volumes in the Shanghai Composite were 29 percent
higher than the 100-day average today, according to Bloomberg
data. The 100-day  volatility  was 17.8, compared with 17.5 over
the past year.  Haitong Securities, the country’s second-largest listed
brokerage by market value, advanced 3.5 percent to 12.75 yuan.
GF Securities Co. gained 5.3 percent to 16.59 yuan.  Brokerages have surged since last week after the Shanghai
and Shenzhen stock exchanges expanded to 500 the number of
stocks available for margin financing and short selling.  A measure of technology stocks advanced 1 percent today,
the second most among the CSI 300’s 10 industry groups. Neusoft
surged 3 percent to 8.85 yuan after saying its subsidiary
Neusoft Medical plans to buy a stake in a venture from Philips.  The State Council approved an income-distribution plan
intended to tackle the nation’s wealth gap. The blueprint
targets boosting minimum wages to at least 40 percent of average
salaries, loosening controls on lending and deposit  rates  and
increasing spending on education and affordable housing. The
plan includes expanding property-tax trials.  Property Tax  The property tax “is indeed a very important way to
redistribute from the wealthier to low income families,” said
 Shen Jianguang , chief Asia economist at Mizuho Securities Asia
Ltd. in Hong Kong. At the same time, “the resistance to this
new property tax is furious, so how it will be designed and
implemented is a big question mark.”  A gauge of property stocks in the Shanghai index dropped
1.8 percent, the most among the five groups, after the
government reiterated plans to expand a property-tax trial as
part of income-distribution reform.  China Vanke Co. slid 1.4 percent to 12.16 yuan while Poly
Real Estate Group Cop. slumped 2.1 percent to 13.14 yuan.  A  gauge  of energy stocks slumped 0.9 percent. The sub-index
was valued at 15.3 times earnings yesterday, the highest level
since Nov. 2011, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  China Coal, the nation’s second-largest coal producer, fell
l.9 percent to 8.20 yuan. Datong Coal, the third biggest, fell
1.3 percent to 10.86 yuan.  The 14-day relative strength measure for the Shanghai
index, measuring how rapidly prices have advanced or dropped
during a specified time period, was at 75 yesterday. Readings
above 70 indicate a price may be poised to fall.  -- Zhang Shidong . Editors: Allen Wan, Richard Frost  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
 Zhang Shidong  in Shanghai at 
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  