-- Chrysler Forms Auto-Financing Unit With Santander
-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l   a n d   M a r k   C l o t h i e r
-- 2013-02-07T00:03:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/chrysler-makes-santander-preferred-lender-in-u-s-.html
Chrysler Group LLC, the automaker
controlled by  Fiat SpA , agreed to make a U.S. unit of  Banco
Santander SA  its preferred provider for auto loans, replacing
 Ally Financial Inc.   Santander Consumer USA Inc. will form Chrysler Capital to
provide customers with financing to purchase and lease vehicles,
Auburn Hills, Michigan-based Chrysler said yesterday in a
statement. Chrysler Capital, which will begin operating May 1,
will also provide dealers with wholesale loans for buying
vehicles from the manufacturer.  Sergio Marchionne , chief executive officer of Chrysler and
Fiat, sought a new lending partner in the U.S. after Chrysler
said in April 2012 that it would let an agreement with Ally
expire this April. Chrysler, the No. 3 U.S. automaker, generates
more than $25 billion in auto loans annually, people familiar
with the matter said a year ago.  “We expect Chrysler Capital to help Chrysler Group
continue its sales growth by offering consumers the most
competitive and innovative retail purchase and lease
financing,”  Peter Grady , Chrysler Group’s vice president of
network development and fleet, said in the statement.  Santander, Spain’s biggest bank, sold a stake in its U.S.
auto-loans unit to a partnership of private-equity firms Warburg
Pincus LLC, KKR & Co. and Centerbridge Capital Partners LLC in
2011’s fourth quarter. Sponsor Auto Finance Holding Series, a
company owned by funds affiliated with the firms, bought a 25
percent stake for $1 billion, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Chrysler Capital  Chrysler said its agreement with Santander is for 10 years.
Santander will create a separate business unit as part of the
deal that also will finance for dealership construction, real
estate, working capital and revolving lines of credit. Santander
will provide Chrysler with a nonrefundable upfront payment and a
quarterly share of revenue, according to the statement, which
doesn’t give specifics.  Chrysler’s agreement with Ally required the automaker to
notify the Detroit-based lender a year in advance if it intended
to let their deal expire. In March 2012, a month before Chrysler
had to decide, Ally was one of four lenders that failed to meet
minimum capital standards in Federal Reserve stress tests.  The Federal Reserve’s tests evaluated the nation’s biggest
lenders on how they would fare in a severe economic slump.
Residential Capital LLC, Ally’s mortgage unit that generated
losses tied to subprime loans, filed for bankruptcy last May.  Ally Stabilizing  Ally,  74 percent  owned by the U.S., now appears to be
gaining a more-stable footing as it seeks to repay the
government for its $17.2 billion rescue. Ally on Feb. 5 reported
$1.45 billion net income for the fourth quarter, compared with a
loss of $206 million a year earlier. Income at Ally’s automotive
finance unit rose to $371 million from $285 million a year
earlier, aided by a 60 percent rise in lease originations.  “Ally has been a good business partner for Chrysler and
has forged strong relationships with many of our dealers,”
Grady said in the statement. “Chrysler Group expects that Ally
will continue to do a good job for our dealers and retail
customers beyond the April 30 expiration of our current
agreement.”  Subsidized-rate, or subvented, loans from GM and Chrysler
dealers were 20 percent of Ally’s originations last year, down
from 58 percent in 2009, according to a  slideshow presentation .
The lender is diversifying by expanding its used and leasing
business, which totaled 46 percent of originations last year, up
from 14 percent in 2009.  “We’ve known the subvented loan contracts with the
manufacturers were set to expire and we’ve successfully
positioned the company to thrive whether we have a contract or
not,”  Jeffrey Brown , Ally’s senior executive vice president for
finance and corporate planning, said on a conference call.  Risks Shared  Santander will get the right to specified minimum
percentages of Chrysler’s subsidized-rate financing programs,
the automaker said yesterday in a regulatory filing. In return,
the lender will commit to certain approval and penetration
rates.  Santander will shoulder the risk of losses on loans covered
by the agreement and the two parties will share in any residual
gains or losses with respect to consumer leases, according to
Chrysler’s filing.  Separately, Volkswagen AG said yesterday that it expanded
its U.S. auto-loan unit’s main customer-service office to
increase the workforce 28 percent as part of a push by Europe’s
biggest carmaker to reach the top spot in global vehicle sales.  The company spent $10 million upgrading the VW Credit Inc.
branch in Libertyville, Illinois, north of Chicago, and plans to
create 150 jobs there through 2018, according to a statement
from Wolfsburg, Germany-based Volkswagen.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Craig Trudell  in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net ;
 Mark Clothier  in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 mclothier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net  