-- Cisco, Motorola Patent Owner Racketeering Claims Rejected
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2013-02-06T00:04:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/cisco-motorola-patent-owner-racketeering-claims-rejected.html
Claims by  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO)  and
 Motorola Solutions Inc. (MSI)  that an owner of wireless networking
equipment patents is engaging in racketeering by unlawfully
demanding licensing fees from hotels, cafes and other businesses
was thrown out by a federal judge.  U.S. District Judge James Holderman in Chicago yesterday
dismissed the allegations filed last year against Innovatio IP
Ventures LLC by Cisco, Motorola Solutions and a third company,
 Netgear Inc. (NTGR)   The companies’ claims, even if taken as true, “do not
establish that Innovatio’s licensing campaign alleging
infringement of the Innovatio patents is a sham,” Holderman
said in a 34-page ruling tossing the racketeering allegation
along with claims of civil conspiracy and unfair competition.  Innovatio, a Chicago-based business, has sued about 20
businesses, claiming their use of local WiFi networking
technology infringes its patents and demanding licensing fees.
The cases were later consolidated for pretrial proceedings
before Holderman in  Chicago .  Netgear, Cisco and Motorola Solutions in October filed a
combined amended complaint against Innovatio, accusing the
company of targeting businesses that have been their clients.  Holderman said the companies can continue to pursue claims
against Innovatio for breach of contract and those claiming it
is bound by promises of its predecessor patent holders that it
wouldn’t be unreasonable in the licensing of those technologies.  350 Claims  “Innovatio is pleased with, but not surprised by, the
court’s ruling,” Matthew McAndrews, Innovatio’s lead counsel,
said in an e-mailed statement. “Now that Cisco’s legal
misdirection has hit a dead end, it will have to turn its
attention to the real merits of this dispute: the defendants’
infringement of more than 350 of Innovatio’s patent claims and
the appropriate measure of damages for that infringement.”  Kristin Carvell, a spokeswoman for San Jose, California-
based Cisco, said that while company is pleased the court
allowed some claims to go forward, it is disappointed that
Holderman’s ruling gave immunity to Innovatio statements she
said are meant to force “thousands of U.S. businesses to pay
money that they do not owe.”  Tama McWhinney, a spokesman for Schaumburg, Illinois-based
Motorola Solutions, said he couldn’t immediately comment on the
court’s ruling. Jeff Norris, an outside spokesman for San Jose-
based Netgear, said he couldn’t immediately comment on the
decision. Norris is affiliated with New York-based Weber
Shandwick.  The case is In re Innovatio IP Ventures LLC, 11-cv-09308,
in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of  Illinois 
(Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in the Chicago federal courthouse at  aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  