-- Citigroup Names $6.8 Billion Fund-Unit Spinout Napier Park
-- B y   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 2013-02-06T15:54:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/citigroup-names-6-8-billion-fund-unit-spinout-napier-park-1-.html
Citigroup Inc ., the third-biggest
U.S. bank, renamed an internal hedge-fund unit Napier Park
Global Capital as it spins out the business with about $6.8
billion in holdings under management.  Regulators have granted key approvals for the move, and the
firm is almost done gathering consent from investors and
counterparties, the New York-based lender said today in a
statement. The business will contain hedge funds that have been
managed by the bank’s  Citi Capital Advisors  unit.  Former Citigroup Chief Executive Officer  Vikram Pandit , 56,
oversaw the plan to spin out internal hedge funds in response to
the Volcker rule, which restricts banks from making wagers with
their own money. The lender is giving about 75 percent of the
fund unit to managers for free, people with knowledge of the
matter said in December.  “We are very pleased with the progress we have made as we
prepare to officially launch Napier Park as an independent
asset-management firm in the coming months,” said  James O’Brien , co-head of CCA. “The support of our investors has been
overwhelmingly positive and we are grateful for their
partnership.”  The new name was inspired by the 16th-century Scottish
mathematician and physicist, John Napier, known for his
groundbreaking work on logarithms, Citigroup said.  Managers’ Stakes  O’Brien and CCA co-head  Jonathan Dorfman  will share about
25 percent of the new fund, said the people familiar with the
deal in December. Fund managers and employees will control 50
percent while Citigroup will retain a 25 percent stake, said the
people, who requested anonymity because the matter isn’t public.
Granting managers a stake in the new firm may provide incentive
to improve returns and maximize the bank’s stake.  CCA’s hedge funds make bets on assets including risky
European loans, complex credit instruments, municipal bonds,
mortgage-backed securities and the debts of struggling
companies. Citigroup had as much as $2.5 billion invested in the
funds, according to the people.  The Volcker Rule, named for former Federal Reserve Chairman
 Paul Volcker , seeks to restrict banks that accept deposits from
owning more than 3 percent of a hedge fund’s assets or investing
more than 3 percent of Tier 1 capital in the funds. Citigroup is
going to gradually pull out assets to comply with the rule, the
people said.  Danielle Romero-Apsilos , a spokeswoman for the bank,
declined to comment on how much Citigroup has invested in the
funds.  The Napier Park unit has about $2.4 billion under
management through collateralized loan obligations, according to
the statement. CLOs pool high-yield, high-risk loans and slice
them into securities of varying risk and return.  “Significant progress has been made towards the
separation,” the hedge-fund business said in the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donal Griffin in New York at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  