-- Colorado After Aurora Shows Hurdles to Gunbuyer Checks
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   O l d h a m
-- 2013-02-06T03:19:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/colorado-after-aurora-shows-hurdles-to-gunbuyer-checks.html
Even as they unveiled a long-awaited
 slate  of gun-control measures, Colorado Democrats acknowledged
they will face a tough road to passage in this firearm-friendly
state.  Lawmakers plan to introduce the eight bills as early as
today, including measures that would require background checks
for all gun purchases; ban new high-capacity magazines; hold
manufacturers, sellers and owners of assault weapons liable for
their use; and strengthen mental-health services.  “The legislation we’re talking about today will be a
fight, it will be an uphill challenge,” state Representative
 Rhonda Fields  said yesterday, flanked by relatives of massacre
victims from a Newtown, Connecticut, school and an Aurora,
Colorado, movie theater. “But I believe in my heart it is a
fight we can and we will win.”  The campaign in Colorado, where mass shootings at Columbine
High School and the Aurora theater were among the worst in U.S.
history, previews a national battle over firearms restrictions,
as advocates including President Barack Obama push Congress for
new laws.  “If it were to pass in Colorado first, it might be taken
as a barometer for support in the U.S.,” said  Robert Spitzer ,
author of “The Politics of Gun Control” and a political
science professor at the State University of New York at
Cortland. “Colorado is a competitive state and viewed as a
bellwether for the nation politically.”  Supportive Polls  While Democrats control the Colorado House and Senate, and
polls show a majority of residents support universal background
checks for firearms purchases, lawmakers championing gun control
acknowledge there are obstacles to passing tighter laws.  Republicans and Democrats alike in this Western state are
avid sport shooters. Governor John Hickenlooper and Senator
 Michael Bennet , both Democrats, go pheasant hunting together.
Commissioners in several counties and sheriffs across Colorado
recently vowed they won’t support more state gun restrictions,
saying such measures would violate their Second Amendment right
to bear arms.  “None of these ideas make anyone safer,” said Senator
 Greg Brophy , a Republican farmer from Wray, about 170 miles (274
kilometers) east of Denver, following the Democrats’ briefing
with reporters yesterday. “I think they’re going to try to
railroad these bills right through.”  Democrats hope to capitalize on anti-gun sentiment that
followed the July 20 bloodbath at an Aurora cinema where 12 were
killed and 58 wounded, and the Dec. 14 shooting in Newtown where
26 died, including 20 children.  Hickenlooper  suggested in his
state-of-the-state  speech  last month that legislators discuss
expanding background checks.  Reluctant Barometer  Colorado’s role as a reluctant barometer for gun-control
legislation -- residents passed a ballot initiative requiring
background checks for all sales at gun shows following the 1999
shootings at Columbine, where 15 died -- is already evident
behind the scenes at the state legislature.  Messages from firearms’ rights supporters who live outside
the state denouncing Fields’ plans for gun-control legislation
started stacking up on her voice mail and e-mail last month.  “At this point, I’m getting more noise from people who
don’t want to see common-sense reform,” said Fields, whose
district includes the Aurora theater and whose son and his
fiancée were killed in a 2005 shooting.  Gun-control supporters are also marshaling in Denver, the
state capital.  Mayors Against Illegal Guns , a national
organization affiliated with New York Mayor  Michael Bloomberg ,
hired a Denver-based firm to lobby in support of Democrats’
efforts for gun reform. Bloomberg is founder and majority owner
of Bloomberg News parent Bloomberg LP.  Shooting Victims  At the news briefing yesterday, Colorado Democrats employed
relatives of the shooting victims to press their case, including
Jessica Watts, cousin of Jonathan Blunk, a Navy veteran killed
in the Aurora theater shooting, and Jane Dougherty, a Colorado
resident whose sister, Mary Sherlach, was a school psychologist
killed in Newtown.  “I’m 28 years old and I have seen in my life and been
touched by not one, or two, but four, gun violence instances,”
Watts told reporters. Her husband was a student at Columbine
High School who escaped the shooting; she babysat Emily Keyes, a
Platte Canyon High School student shot dead in 2006; she lost
her cousin, Blunk, in the Aurora shooting; and sitting next to
him in the theater was a former school classmate.  Colorado  voters , an almost equal mix of Republicans,
Democrats and independents, chose Obama last year, yet are far
from united on how to curb gun violence. Views differ widely
from downtown Denver to farmland on the Eastern plains.  Rallying Supporters  Advocates on both sides of the debate are rallying
supporters to lobby residents and lawmakers. Groups that formed
in the aftermath of the Columbine shooting came together again
after the Aurora killings to make their voices heard.  “We are all hunters and cherish the privilege of being
able to use firearms to pursue recreation and food for our
families,” reads a petition signed by members of Hunters
Against Gun Violence. “Nevertheless, we do not support the
proliferation of guns that have no relationship to, or utility
for, lawful hunting of game animals and varmints.”  The group supports a ban on “the sale of large-magazine,
semi-automatic weapons” as well as universal background checks
for gun purchases, the petition said.  “There is a middle ground to this, not everyone who has a
gun and is a hunter is a gun fanatic and holds the position of
the NRA,” said Don Macalady, who heads the group, referring to
the National Rifle Association. The Golden resident and retired
chemistry professor hunts with his wife and four children.  Election Threat  Gun-rights groups said they would work tirelessly to oust
state legislators who vote for additional firearms laws.  “I think the question for the Democratic caucus is, ‘Are
you really going to stake the 2014 elections on the gun
issue?’” said Dudley Brown, executive director of  Rocky
Mountain Gun Owners , a Windsor, Colorado-based pro-gun group.
“The Democratic party has done that before and they paid the
price. They are going to pay the price again.”  Like their lawmakers, state residents are divided about
whether there should be more freedom to possess guns in public
places, or whether restrictions on firearms ownership would make
people safer.  An association representing Colorado’s school districts
didn’t take a position on a Republican-sponsored measure that
would have allowed teachers to carry guns in classrooms because
its urban members didn’t like it, while its rural ones did. The
bill died in a Senate committee last month.  Conflicting Values  “There’s definitely two sides to this,” said Jane
Urschel, deputy executive director of the  Colorado Association
of School Boards . “The values are conflicting, you have those
who say guns are the total problem and others who say they might
like to have a policy that would keep our children safer.”  After the armed-teacher measure was defeated on a party-
line vote, several hundred teachers and educators attended a
firearms training class sponsored by Rocky Mountain Gun Owners.  As teachers learned to shoot, an association representing
Colorado’s 62 sheriffs distributed a  position paper  delineating
their views on possible gun-control legislation in the state
capital.  “The County Sheriffs of Colorado know firsthand that
strict gun-control laws do not deter criminals from getting
firearms illegally and committing crimes,” the paper reads.
“Rather, they hurt law-abiding citizens who may be left
unprotected because law enforcement cannot arrive in time to
stop a criminal’s bullet once he has pulled the trigger.”  -- Editors: Jeffrey Taylor, Pete Young  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Oldham in Denver at 
 Joldham1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey Taylor at 
Jtaylor48@bloomberg 