-- Colombian Inflation Unexpectedly Slows to Near 3-Year Low
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w
-- 2013-02-06T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/colombia-consumer-prices-rose-2-0-in-january-vs-year-ago.html
Colombia’s annual  inflation  rate
unexpectedly fell to a near three-year low in January, as food
prices rose less than expected and transport and communications
costs fell.  Annual consumer price increases eased to 2.0 percent last
month, from 2.44 percent in December, the national statistics
agency said yesterday, the slowest pace since April 2010. The
result was lower than all 25 forecasts in a Bloomberg survey,
whose median estimate was for inflation of 2.22 percent, and
takes inflation to the lower bound of its 2 percent to 4 percent
target range.  The surprise result will probably cause a rally in local
peso bonds, known as TES, as higher real, or inflation-adjusted,
yields make the securities more attractive, said  Daniel Lozano ,
head analyst at brokerage Serfinco SA. The central bank has cut
its  benchmark rate  at five of its last seven meetings, citing
below-potential growth and a slowing inflation outlook. Colombia
has the lowest inflation rate among major Latin American
economies after Chile.  “Inflation is an important surprise for the market,”
Lozano said in a telephone interview from Bogota yesterday.
“This could generate an important demand for TES.”  Market Outlook  Serfinco estimates that the yield on the benchmark peso
bonds due 2024 could fall to a record low of between 5.08
percent and 5.15 percent, from 5.19 percent yesterday.  Consumer prices rose 0.30 percent from a month earlier,
lower than the 0.50 percent median forecast by analysts. Food
costs rose 0.48 percent, compared to a 1.29 percent increase in
January 2012. In July, central bank Governor  Jose Dario Uribe 
said that the El Nino weather phenomenon posed a risk of a
temporary spike in inflation at the start of 2013.  The cost of transport fell 0.19 percent, after the
government cut a tax on gasoline, while communications costs
fell 0.12 percent, the statistics agency said in its report.  The economy expanded 2.1 percent in the third quarter from
a year earlier, slower than the 4.8 percent annual rate that
Finance Minister  Mauricio Cardenas  says the economy can grow
without stoking inflation.  The central bank cut its  benchmark interest  rate by a
quarter point to 4 percent at its January meeting, the lowest
rate among major Latin American economies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Bristow in Bogota at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  