-- Cosan Climbs to Highest Since 2006 as Profit Beats Forecasts
-- B y   R o d r i g o   O r i h u e l a   a n d   L u c i a   K a s s a i
-- 2013-02-07T21:52:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/cosan-profit-beats-estimates-as-comgas-acquisition-boosts-sales.html
Cosan SA Industria & Comercio  rose to
the highest in more than six years after the Brazilian sugar
producer’s expansion into energy helped push up profit more than
 analysts  forecast.  The shares advanced 3.2 percent to 47.85 reais at the close
in Sao Paulo, the highest since August 2006. Brazil’s benchmark
index dropped 1 percent.  Net income  rose to 342.3 million reais ($174 million) in
the quarter ended Dec. 31, from 93.8 million reais a year
earlier, according to a statement filed after the close of
trading yesterday. That beat the 227.2 million-real average of
six estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  “Cosan’s strong results across the board should have a
positive impact on shares,”  Christian Audi  and  Vicente Falanga Neto , analysts for Banco Santander SA, wrote in a note to
clients today.  Cosan, which shares control of the world’s biggest sugar-
cane processor with  Royal Dutch Shell Plc , has expanded into
fuel distribution and logistics after several acquisitions in
the past five years. The company, based in Sao Paulo, completed
the 3.4 billion-real purchase of a 60.1 percent stake in  Cia. de
Gas de Sao Paulo , known as Comgas, in November.  Cosan benefited from “good margins” across all businesses
after fuel sales rose and mills stepped up production of sugar
and ethanol in the quarter,  Auro Rozenbaum , an analyst at Banco
Bradesco SA who has a recommendation equivalent to buy on the
stock, wrote in a Jan. 30 client note.  Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization, or Ebitda, represented 14 percent of sales,
compared to 7.8 percent a year ago.  Once purely focused on sugar and ethanol production, the
company founded by billionaire  Rubens Ometto  bought  Exxon Mobil
Corp.’s  Brazilian assets in 2008 and partnered with Shell three
years later to become Brazil’s third-largest fuel distributor
after  Petroleo Brasileiro SA  and  Ultrapar Participacoes SA .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lucia Kassai in Sao Paulo at 
 lkassai@bloomberg.net ;
Rodrigo Orihuela in Rio de Janeiro at 
 rorihuela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  