-- Dell Sets Nov. 5 Deadline to Complete Leveraged Buyout
-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a   a n d   Z a c h a r y   R .   M i d e r
-- 2013-02-07T21:50:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/dell-says-in-filing-leveraged-buyout-deal-deadline-is-nov-5.html
Michael Dell  and Silver Lake
Management LLC can walk away from their proposed $24.4 billion
leveraged buyout of  Dell Inc.  if the deal isn’t completed by
Nov. 5.  A regulatory document sheds new light on the amounts paid
by parties in the buyout agreement, and on its termination
rules. Private-equity firm Silver Lake has committed as much as
$1.4 billion in equity financing, and Michael Dell is investing
$500 million cash in the deal, according to a  filing  yesterday
with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  After six months of negotiations, Chief Executive Officer
Dell and Silver Lake agreed this week to buy the computer
company in the biggest leveraged buyout in technology since
2007. Dell is struggling to keep up with a new generation of
competitors in mobile and cloud computing, after years of trying
to diversify from personal computers, which make up about half
of sales.  Dell has also agreed to use his shares in the company to
take back majority control, and  Microsoft Corp. , the world’s
largest software maker, made a $2 billion loan as part of the
deal. Michael Dell’s investment company is also contributing
$250 million in cash.  Under the terms of the agreement, Dell has to pay either
$180 million or $450 million to the buyer group if it accepts an
offer from another bidder. In certain circumstances, Dell can
take the buyers to court to force them to complete the
transaction, or force them to pay a $750 million fee instead.  A date for a shareholder vote on the deal hasn’t been set.  ‘Good-Faith Shopping’  Michael Dell and Silver Lake are paying $13.65 a share, the
companies said Feb. 5 in a statement, 25 percent more than the
closing price of $10.88 on Jan. 11, the last trading day before
Bloomberg News reported the discussions.  Michael Dell has also agreed that he would “explore in
good faith the possibility of working with any third parties
regarding alternative acquisition proposals” if the board or
its four-member special committee on the buyout requests it, the
filing said.  If the U.S. Congress changes the tax law that allows
Michael Dell to roll over his  stake  in the company without
incurring a tax bill, the buyers may be able to back out of the
transaction by paying a $250 million termination fee, according
to the filing.  Dell has set a 45-day so-called go-shop period in which the
special committee and its adviser, Evercore Partners Inc., can
solicit other potential offers. A successful counter-suitor
would have to pay a termination fee of $180 million during that
period, or $450 million after it ends.  Debt Structure  Dell is also seeking $13.8 billion in loans to support the
leveraged buyout, according to the filing. Bank of America
Corp., Barclays Plc, Credit Suisse Group AG, and Royal Bank of
Canada are arranging the financing.  The loans include a $4 billion term B portion, a $1.5
billion C slice, a $2 billion asset-backed piece, and $3.25
billion of bridge facilities, according to the filing. There’s
also a $1.9 billion commercial receivables portion and a $1.1
billion revolving consumer receivables facility.  The filing also said that Dell is preparing to sell
securities and other liquid assets to contribute a targeted $7.4
billion in cash to the buyout. The maximum amount Dell is
obligated to contribute is $8.1 billion, “taking into account
the working capital requirements” of Dell’s subsidiaries, the
filing said.  Dell shares gained less than 1 percent at $13.53 at the
close in New York.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in San Francisco at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net ;
Zachary R. Mider in New York at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  