-- Dell’s Talks Said to Break Up a Few Times Over Pricing
-- B y   S e r e n a   S a i t t o   a n d   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n
-- 2013-02-06T16:13:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/dell-s-mr-denali-talks-said-to-break-up-a-few-times-over-price.html
Last August  Michael Dell  approached
the board of the computer company he had founded in 1984. He had
a proposition: He wanted to take  Dell Inc.  private and told the
board he was the right person to do so, according to people
familiar with the matter.  Soon after, serious talks began, moving from Round Rock,
Texas, where Dell is based, to California to New York. The code
name for the potential deal: Mr. Denali. The discussions broke
up several times over price, especially in the final weeks of
the deal, according to the people. The price ranged from an
initial offer of $12 a share to the final price of $13.65.  After six months of negotiations, Dell and private-equity
firm Silver Lake Management LLC agreed yesterday to buy the
computer company for $24.4 billion in the biggest leveraged
buyout since 2007. While other leveraged buyouts are often
initiated by LBO firms, this was Michael Dell’s deal from the
start, an effort to ensure his legacy and reinvent the
struggling company he founded in a University of Texas dormitory
almost three decades ago.  Michael Dell is committed to his job as chairman and chief
executive officer, said Dell Chief Financial Officer  Brian Gladden .  “Financially, he’s putting a lot of capital into this
process,” Gladden said.  Dell advanced 0.1 percent to $13.43 at 10:45 a.m. in New
York trading. In the last 52 weeks the stock traded between
$8.69 and $18.36, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Under the deal, Dell will contribute his 14 percent  stake ,
valued at about $3.4 billion, as well as $700 million, a person
familiar with the matter said, giving him a majority stake in
the company. Silver Lake will invest about $1.4 billion in the
buyout and Microsoft Corp. will invest about $2 billion, one of
the people said. Another $13 billion will be financed by banks.  Industry Shift  Going private will enable CEO Dell, 47, to reposition the
company amid shrinking personal computer sales and the
industry’s shift to mobile and cloud computing without the
scrutiny and stock fluctuations that come with being publicly
traded.  The deal took several twists as board members tried to
ensure that shareholders were protected in a buyout that was
being led by management. Dell recused himself from the board to
let it work independently on the potential deal, according to
people familiar with the situation.  Alex Mandl , the board’s lead director, formed a special
committee with three directors,  Laura Conigliaro ,  Ken Duberstein 
and  Janet Clark . The committee hired as financial advisers three
of JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s top dealmakers --  James B. Lee , vice
chairman,  Jim Woolery , co-head of North America M&A, and  Kurt Simon , head of technology, media & telecommunications. Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. also advised Dell.  ‘Independent’ Bank  JPMorgan didn’t advise Dell on any of its recent deals,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg, avoiding a potential
conflict of interest with management.  “The independent directors will usually pick a bank that
is independent, which means it didn’t have a great deal of
contact with the management that is participating in the
buyout,”  Mort Pierce , partner in the M&A group of law firm
White & Case LLP in New York.  Jennifer Zuccarelli , a spokeswoman for JPMorgan, and  David Frink , a spokesman for Dell, declined to comment.  One of the first moves by the board was to make Dell agree
he would work with any and all potential partners, said one of
these people. Whether it was Silver Lake or TPG Capital or
another private-equity firm, Michael Dell would have to
negotiate with them in good faith if they made the best offer,
said this person.  Possible Alternatives  Meanwhile, the board had hired Boston Consulting Group Inc.
to consider alternatives, according to people familiar with the
matter. One idea discussed by BCG and Dell executives: Break the
company in two, splitting off the personal computer business
from units that focused on data-center hardware and software,
the people said.  The board and advisers at JPMorgan also explored a dividend
recapitalization as a way to boost shareholder value. The board
decided a buyout of the entire company was the best deal for
investors, said the people.  The special committee later invited Silver Lake to join the
buyout talks, said the people. Silver Lake, the world’s largest
private equity fund focused on technology investment, was a
natural candidate to be Dell’s financial partner.  Egon Durban , a managing partner at Menlo Park, California-
based Silver Lake who led the deal, is a neighbor of Michael
Dell’s in Hawaii, and Dell was an early investor in Silver Lake.
A spokesman for Silver Lake declined to comment.  The special committee and its advisers also invited other
funds, such as TPG and KKR & Co., which later dropped out of the
talks, according to the same people.  Microsoft Ties  There was also a tie between Durban and Microsoft. Durban,
who joined Silver Lake in 1999, had led the firm’s buyout of
Skype Technologies SA, which Microsoft later bought. Microsoft
joined the Dell talks and agreed to contribute a $2 billion loan
to help finance the deal.  That loan was discussed by Dell and Microsoft CEO  Steve Ballmer , according to two people familiar with the negotiations.
The loan is intended to bolster one of the largest makers of
computers using Windows software.  Microsoft opted for a loan rather than an equity investment
to avoid rankling other PC that use Windows, said one of the
people, who asked not to be named because the matter isn’t
public.  With the financing lined up, the two sides were still
debating price as recently as last week, said a person familiar
with the matter.  Price Talk  When Bloomberg News broke news of Dell going private on
Jan. 14, the parties were considering a deal priced at around
$12 to $12.50 a share, said one person. Dell shares, which
traded around $10.99 at the time of the story, jumped 18 percent
to $12.83 that day, before closing at $12.29. The final price
was $13.65, representing a 25 percent premium to Dell’s closing
price Jan. 11, the last trading day before the talks were
reported.  Dell’s board and Silver Lake also battled over restrictions
Dell wanted to place on the firm, such as a larger-than-normal
fee of $750 million if Silver Lake tried to back out and the
ability to sue Silver Lake to follow through on the deal if it
got cold feet, said one of these people.  Dell’s board and its advisers also wanted to limit the
ability of Silver Lake to match any new bid to just once, said
these people. The restrictions, intended to protect shareholder
interests, were later included in the deal’s terms, according to
people familiar with the matter.  Evercore Partners Inc., which is advising the special
committee, has 45 days to seek higher bids, known as a go-shop
period. The task might be impossible, said Pierce of White &
Case.  “Go-shops are very infrequently successful because other
private equity firms are reluctant to compete against each
other,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Serena Saitto  in New York at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  