-- Dell’s LBO May Lower Bondholder Priority, Moody’s Analyst Says
-- B y   D a v i d   H o l l e y
-- 2013-02-06T16:28:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/dell-s-lbo-may-lower-bondholder-priority-moody-s-analyst-says.html
Debt issued by  Dell Inc.  to fund its
$24.4 billion leveraged buyout will probably take priority over
the company’s existing bonds in a bankruptcy or restructuring,
according to Moody’s Investors Service.  Dell’s bonds only protect against adding liens for newly
issued debt on about 2 percent of the company’s $45.4 billion of
total assets, according to  Matthew Musicaro , a New York-based
credit analyst at Moody’s. Dell may issue a “significant
amount” of secured debt that would structurally subordinate
existing bondholders, he said.  Dell’s $600 million of 5.875 percent unsecured notes due
June 2019 traded at 99.75 cents on the dollar at 10:06 a.m. in
New York, falling 18.8 cents since Jan. 11, before the buyout
talks, according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of
the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  David Frink , a spokesman at Round Rock, Texas-based Dell,
didn’t respond to a request for comment on potential bondholder
subordination.  The notes also lack change-of-control provisions, which
allow bondholders to force repayment of the debt at a specified
price if a company is sold,  Alexander Diaz-Matos , an analyst at
independent credit research firm Covenant Review LLC, said in a
telephone interview. These types of protections didn’t become
standard until investors lost money in large LBOs, he said.  “Investors in the market thought that Dell was too big for
an LBO and had a relaxed attitude when they were selling these
bonds in the last couple years without change-of-control
protection,” Diaz-Matos said. “Portfolio managers do have a
fiduciary duty to figure out LBO risk again so their investors
don’t lose money on LBOs like they did in 2005-2007.”  Moody’s lowered Dell’s senior unsecured rating to Baa1 from
A2 yesterday and put the grade under review for downgrade,
saying it would “likely result in a multi-notch downgrade of
the long-term rating to below investment grade.”  Fitch Ratings lowered its rating on Dell to BB+ from A
yesterday and Standard & Poor’s put its A- grade on review with
negative implications. The computer maker has $5.9 billion in
 bonds  outstanding, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Holley in New York at 
 dholley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  