-- Denim Corsets at Macy’s Push Fashion Craze to Next Level: Retail
-- B y   C o t t e n   T i m b e r l a k e
-- 2013-02-06T21:32:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/denim-corsets-at-macy-s-push-fashion-craze-to-next-level-retail.html
When New York  Fashion Week  kicks off
tomorrow, fashionistas will get an eyeful of ladies’ garments
made from laser-cut leather, vibrant magenta tweed and -- denim.  Eight years after skinny jeans became de rigeur for
millions of women, denim is showing up in garments as varied as
corsets and pencil skirts. Designers and retailers such as
 Macy’s Inc.  and  Ralph Lauren Corp.  have ample reason to cash in
on premium-priced versions of an American classic: women’s jeans
are selling at almost twice the pace of women’s apparel and
typically generate fatter margins.  Denim’s infiltration of women’s wardrobes will help boost
apparel sales, said Roseanne Morrison, fashion director at
Doneger Group, a New York-based trend forecasting firm.  “It’s growing exponentially and will follow into fall and
winter,” she said.  Women’s denim jeans sales grew 8 percent to $8.24 billion
in the 12 months ended in November, according to the Consumer
Tracking Service of  NPD  Group Inc., a Port Washington, New York-
based market research firm. Women’s apparel sales grew 4.2
percent to $198.2 billion in the same period.  Gap Inc. ’s denim helped the biggest U.S. specialty apparel
retailer go from a 1 percent sales decline in 2011 to an
estimated increase of 7 percent in 2012, propelling its share
price up 67 percent last year, compared with a 25 percent gain
for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Retail Index.  The sturdy twilled cotton cloth, said to get its name from
the French city of Nimes -- de Nimes -- has been integral to
U.S. fashion since the 1950s. Vogue in this month’s issue calls
it “the classic American fabric” that “runs like a blue
thread through our fashion history.”  Spandex Smidgen  Style updates by designers and constantly evolving denim
treatments help it retain a “nothing is more modern” feel, and
give consumers new reasons to buy it, said Ken Downing, Neiman
Marcus Group Inc.’s fashion director. To wit, a smidgen of
spandex made skinny jeans more comfortable and helped drive
sales, says Marie Driscoll, a retail consultant.  Because denim is less likely to fall out of fashion,
retailers feel empowered to hold the line on discounts. The
average markdown is 20 percent, or half the 40 percent of
dresses, estimates Driscoll, the founder of Driscoll Associates
in New York. Luxury denim is even more profitable because
consumers will pay premiums for certain brand names, Driscoll
said in a phone interview. The sheer volume of the overall denim
business also makes it hugely profitable, she said.  Downing says he expects to see denim on the New York
runways Feb. 7 to Feb. 14 partly because women of all
generations and lifestyles are demanding casual clothes that are
more chic.  Polished Look  “The customer is saying this loud and clear,” Downing
said in a phone interview. “She is looking for a polished look
with comfort.”  The denim trend is endorsed by Vogue, which featured “our
first ever denim guide” in its February issue. “Git along,
skinny jeans,” a caption read, “Think Georgia O’Keeffe. Think
circle skirts, higher waists and Navajo jewelry.”  To get women to fill their closets with blue and black
denim, the fashion industry is offering fresh takes on classic
looks: jackets with leather sleeves and faux-fur collars;
patchwork skirts; pinafores and corsets.  For fall, designer Trina Turk is showing an elongated
single-button jacket with peaked lapels that she pairs with
matching skinny pants; an extra-long pencil skirt with a full-
length zipper in the back; and high-waist flared trousers, all
made with what she calls “luxe denim” -- a textured, medium-
blue version.  Casual Luxury  “We are making it a more sophisticated than five-pocket
jeans,” said the Los Angeles-based designer, who is known for
her colorfully patterned contemporary sportswear.  “It’s that
feeling of luxurious yet casual.”  Phillip Lim, who is known for his 3.1 Phillip Lim
collection, produced multiple pieces in acid blue denim with
metal chain patchwork embroidery for his 2013 resort line.  Cincinnati-based  Macy’s  is flooding the chain with a wide
variety of denim garments from different brands, said Julie
Strider, a spokeswoman.  “Based on the popularity of denim, we are integrating the
fabric into jackets, vests, skirts and shirts in everything from
washed-down denim to rigid, structured denim,” she said.  Ralph Lauren, whose love affair with the American West has
inspired him to repeatedly send cowgirl-ish denim down his
runways, is expanding his Denim &  Supply  “lifestyle” brand
that revolves around denim and that was first introduced in the
fall of 2011.  Edgy Bohemian  The brand, which its New York-based parent says captures
the heritage of denim with an edgy Bohemian feel, with denim
corsets and patched denim maxi skirts, is rolling out to more
Macy’s stores, to Hudson’s Bay Co. in Canada and to free-
standing stores in Asia and Europe.  Macy’s, the No. 2 U.S.  department store  chain, fell 0.9
percent to $39.48 at the close in New York, while  Ralph Lauren 
rose 5.9 percent to $174.63 after its fiscal third-quarter
profit topped analysts’ estimates.  Turk says including denim in her collection is a no-brainer
because shoppers easily relate to the fabric.  “Everyone loves jeans,” she says. “They feel comfortable
with denim. It’s not a big leap for people, because they have
been wearing it since they were kids.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cotten Timberlake in Washington at 
 ctimberlake@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  