-- Deutsche Banker Mulligan Sues L.A.P.D. for Civil Rights
-- B y   S e r e n a   S a i t t o   a n d   M i c h a e l   W h i t e
-- 2013-02-07T05:05:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/deutsche-banker-mulligan-sues-l-a-p-d-over-alleged-beating-1-.html
Former  Deutsche Bank AG  Hollywood
banker  Brian Mulligan  sued the Los Angeles Police Department,
alleging he was severely beaten, illegally detained and
wrongfully accused of using a drug known as bath salts.  The lawsuit, filed yesterday in federal court in Los
Angeles, seeks at least $20 million in damages from the May 2012
confrontation with two police officers in the city’s Highland
Park neighborhood. The police department, the city and officers
James Nichols and John Miller were named as defendants, as well
as the Los Angeles Police Protective League.  Mulligan alleged in the lawsuit that he was beaten so badly
that he needed emergency surgery. He claimed he was falsely 
imprisoned in a motel and defamed in a press release. The 
lawsuit follows an administrative claim filed by Mulligan 
seeking as much as $50 million in damages for injuries that 
include 15 nasal fractures, a broken shoulder blade and post-
traumatic stress.  “Brian Mulligan was brutally beaten by a predator wearing
a badge and a uniform and then he was attacked and vilified in
the press,”  Skip Miller , his attorney, said in an interview.
“He did nothing wrong and he has been devastated.” Mulligan’s
administrative claim was rejected, he said.  Sandy Cooney, a spokesman for the Los Angeles City
Attorney, said yesterday the office hadn’t received the lawsuit
and couldn’t comment.  Officer Christopher No, a spokesman for the police
department, said he couldn’t comment on pending litigation and
wasn’t allowed to provide contact information for the officers.  Eric Rose, a spokesman for the police protective league,
also said the organization hadn’t seen a copy of the complaint.  ‘Thrust Himself’  “What we can tell you is that Mr. Mulligan thrust himself
into the public eye by holding a press conference to discuss his
wild and lurid allegations against LAPD officers,” Rose said in
an e-mailed statement. “The unedited, complete version of
Mulligan’s tape recorded conversation with another law
enforcement agency is at odds with the tale he wove, but the
tape speaks for itself.”  Police said Mulligan, 53, was forcibly subdued after he
took a fighting stance and charged officers who saw him
attempting to enter moving vehicles late on May 15, 2012, or
early the next day.  Local television reports at the time said Mulligan told
officers he had used bath salts, the street name for synthetic,
paranoia-inducing stimulants, according to the Drug Enforcement
Agency website.  Amphetamines, LSD  The drugs produce effects similar to amphetamines and LSD,
according to the DEA site, and their primary ingredients were
declared  controlled substances  by the agency on Oct. 21, 2011.  Mulligan is now unemployed, according to his lawyer. The
banker specialized in financing for Hollywood film and TV
studios and has participated in deals including  Metro-Goldwyn-
Mayer Inc. ’s $500 million credit facility announced in last
February.  “We very much look forward to our day in court and putting
this all in front of a jury,” Skip Miller said.  Mulligan joined Frankfurt-based Deutsche Bank in 2009 and
previously was chairman of Brooknol Advisors LLC, an
entertainment adviser and investment firm. He also held
management positions at Fox Television Studios Inc., Seagram Co.
and Universal Pictures Ltd.  Violent History  Mulligan said in his complaint that that the police
department knew that Nichols had a history of violence,
including abusing his authority by wrongfully detaining women in
the Hollywood Division, where he was assigned, to demand sex
under the threat of arrest.  The Los Angeles Times reported in January that Nichols was
under  investigation  for using the threat of arrest to force
female informants to have sex with him.  Mulligan accused the police protective league and its
president of retaliation and a smear campaign that he said cost
him his job at Deutsche Bank, according to the complaint.  In October, the police protective league publicly released
a recording of a conversation in which Mulligan acknowledged to
a Glendale police officer that he had used bath salts about 20
times in previous weeks. On Nov. 5, Deutsche Bank fired
Mulligan, citing “concerns about publicized disclosures related
to a personal matter,” according to the complaint.  The case is Mulligan v. Nichols, 13-cv-00836, U.S. District
Court, Central District of California (Los Angeles).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael White in Los Angeles at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  