-- Building a Better Drone War
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-02-06T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/drone-war-needs-clear-rules-instead-of-more-leaks.html
Well, isn’t it remarkable that the
White House’s legal justification for its drone war against
terrorists was leaked just days before the Senate hearing of
John O. Brennan as director of the Central Intelligence Agency?  Whether or not the passing to  NBC News  of the  16-page 
“white paper” -- based on a still-unreleased memo from the
 Justice Department  on the September 2011 killing of the U.S.
citizen Anwar al-Awlaki in Yemen -- was intended to help or hurt
Brennan, it will certainly make for a more informed discussion
of the U.S. drone war. It also helps answer some big questions
about who in the government should run the program; what the
scope of the attacks should be; and what alternatives President
 Barack Obama  might consider.  The U.S. is, in effect, waging two different drone wars.
One targets al-Qaeda and its allies in the Afghanistan theater,
primarily in  Pakistan . As estimated from news reports by the  New
America Foundation  and the  Long War Journal , there have been 350
or so of these strikes since 2004, killing about 2,500 people,
including 150 to 300 civilians. They are carried out by the CIA.
Although such strikes are officially covert, they are such a
 well-known secret  that Obama felt free to  discuss them  last
month in a Google Plus “hangout.”  The second drone war is being waged by the Defense
Department, which carries out strikes elsewhere, such as  Yemen 
and Somalia. Operated by military professionals, trained in and
bound by international and U.S. military law, this effort is
much more appropriate.  Controlling Drones  In fact, the Pentagon’s Joint Special Operations Command
should take control of the entire drone offensive. Limiting the
CIA’s role to intelligence sharing and putting the program under
Title 10 of the U.S. Code, which lays out the role of the
military, would increase congressional oversight and
transparency while still allowing necessary secrecy. And it
would get the U.S. out of the ridiculous situation in which the
only way for the administration to be honest with the public is
to leak information about supposedly covert operations.  Then there is the question of how targets are chosen. Here
again there are two basic types of strikes: those against people
on the government’s “kill list,” and so-called signature
strikes, which target unknown individuals because ground
intelligence or aerial surveillance shows they are aiding an
imminent terrorist threat. On the former, while many details of
the kill list were already  known , the leaked document shows how
vague the criteria are for placing a U.S. citizen on it: that
“an informed, high-level official” determines the American is a
“continuing” threat. The Senate should push Brennan to be more
specific.  Signature strikes present a more complicated issue. The
reality of war is that one rarely knows the name, rank and
serial number of the person on the receiving end of the bullet.
In this war, the enemy frequently has no rank or serial number
and an infinite supply of pseudonyms.  If critics of such strikes want to limit the number of
mistaken attacks and civilian casualties, a far better idea is
to find alternatives to drones. The leaked document holds that
drone strikes are carried out when assaults by ground forces are
“infeasible,” but that term is so malleable as to be
meaningless. And if the goal is always to kill, that makes a
drone strike all the more likely. Why risk boots on the ground?  The equation changes, however, if the goal is to capture
and interrogate terrorists. At the moment, the government has no
place to put them. Obama has sworn not to bring any more
detainees into Guantanamo Bay, Cuba; Congress forbids the
detainees from being brought into U.S. territory; and the
administration has largely stopped sending suspects to third-
party countries for interrogation.  Unfinished Job  Here is a question for the president, who swore on his
first day in office to close the Cuban prison but has expended
little political capital fighting Congress to get the job done:
If suspected terrorists can’t be brought into the domestic U.S.,
why is reopening Guantanamo to new detainees worse than killing
them?  The Brennan hearings and document leak should also bring a
new focus to some underdiscussed aspects of the drone war. One
is whether it increases the risk of retaliatory attacks against
U.S. interests, and whether such strikes hurt U.S. soft-power
and diplomatic efforts in the Muslim world.  To some extent these concerns are overblown; terrorists
aren’t lacking for reasons to hurt the U.S., and public response
to the drone war in those countries is  hardly uniform . But by
bringing the programs out from the CIA’s shadow, the U.S. could
make the case for them more openly to the governments involved
and to their citizens -- in the vernacular Urdu or Arabic.  The U.S. must also reckon with the inevitability of rival
powers and nonstate actors developing their own drones. Given
its global head start and leverage on the issue, the U.S. has an
interest in leading an effort to codify the use of drones in the
laws of war, as it did with nuclear weapons in the  Cold War .
Otherwise, reflexively anti-American international bodies such
as the United Nations Human Rights Council, which last week
announced a nine-month  investigation  into the drone campaign,
will step into the vacuum.  Yes, the terrorists would ignore any global regime, and
rogue states would try to buck the rules. Nevertheless, a
framework for the use of drones would be better than a flying-
robot free-for-all and would allow the U.S. to stake out the
high moral ground.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 