-- Drummer’s $500,000 ‘Genius’ Grant Leaves Him Debt-Free
-- B y   P a t r i c k   C o l e
-- 2013-02-06T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/drummer-s-500-000-genius-grant-leaves-him-debt-free.html
When jazz drummer  Dafnis Prieto  got
the first $25,000 slice of his $500,000 “genius” grant last
year, he paid off all his debts and started making plans for the
next 19 installments.  He also bought a camera to begin making a film, and he’s
writing a book about drumming.  The grants come with no strings attached from the  John D.
and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation . The feeling of artistic
freedom is priceless, Prieto says.  “I’m the kind of musician who suffers when I have to play
music that I don’t like,” the Cuba-born drummer, 38, said by
phone last week from a cruise ship in the Caribbean, where he
performed with pianist Eddie Palmieri. “I don’t like to play
music just to pay the bills. I’m not mercenary.”  Prieto, who begins a five-night engagement at New York’s
 Jazz Standard  tonight, will play some original compositions in
one of his favorite musical formations, the sextet.  The group includes trumpeter Ralph Alessi; Roman Filiu on
alto saxophone; tenor and soprano saxophonist Felipe Lamoglia;
pianist and fellow countryman Osmany Paredes; and bassist Ben
Street.  “The sextet gives me a range of sound with the three
horns, something you don’t get with a trio or a quartet,”
Prieto said.  After he left Cuba to perform in other countries, he lived
for a time in Spain and then settled in New York, where he
struggled to make a living.  Latin Rhythms  Today he’s sought-after for his mastery of Latin rhythms
and time signatures, and the MacArthur grant has helped put his
record label,  Dafnison Music , on a solid financial footing. He
has had original works commissioned by chamber ensembles and
dance groups. In 2007, his CD “Absolute Quintet” was nominated
for a Grammy for Best Latin Jazz Album.  Growing up in musically rich Cuba helped propel his rapid
rise on the New York jazz scene, Prieto said. He started playing
the bongos at age 6 and entered the conservatory four years
later.  “Music is part of the idiosyncrasy and culture of the
country,” said the native of Santa Clara, Cuba, who studied at
Havana’s National School of Music. “It’s a very powerful place
culturally. You can breathe the music, you can feel the rhythm
just by seeing a woman walking by.”  Last Album  Prieto lost a friend, Cuban bass player  Charles Flores ,
who died of throat cancer last August at age 41. He released
Flores’s last CD, “Impressions of Graffiti.”  “I promised him that I would put out his record,” said
Prieto, who performed with Flores as part of jazz pianist Michel
Camilo’s trio. “I miss him very much.”  The Dafnis Prieto Sextet performs at 7:30 and 9:30 p.m.
tonight through Sunday (with an additional set at 11:30 p.m. on
Friday and Saturday) at the Jazz Standard, 116 E. 27th St. in
Manhattan. Information: +1-212-576-2232 or
 http://www.jazzstandard.net .  ( Patrick Cole  is a reporter for Bloomberg News. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
 Patrick Cole  in New York at 
 pcole3@Bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 