-- SNS Could  Be Saved Only by the Government, Dijsselbloem Says
-- B y   C o r i n a   R u h e   a n d   F r e d   P a l s
-- 2013-02-06T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/dutch-parliament-wants-to-claw-back-bonuses-paid-to-sns-board.html
SNS Reaal NV , the Dutch bank
nationalized Feb. 1 at a cost of 3.7 billion euros ($5 billion),
could not have been saved by anyone other than the government
and any other option probably would have cost the taxpayers
more, the finance minister said.  “There was no party that was willing to fill a gap of 2.4
billion euros,”  Jeroen Dijsselbloem  told lawmakers yesterday in
the first debate in parliament after the nationalization. The
2.4 billion euros is the cost of SNS’s property finance
writedown, he said. “I wish I could have struck a deal with a
private party, but the risks would have been too high,”
Dijsselbloem said.  The Finance Ministry took control of Utrecht-based SNS
Reaal, the fourth-largest Dutch lender, after real-estate losses
brought the company to the brink of collapse. The intervention
raised questions over whether the Dutch central bank and the
government had sufficient tools to prevent this from happening.
The decision to nationalize the bank was made at 2 a.m. Feb. 1
after the central bank told the minister all options were off
the table, he said.  Lawmakers urged Dijsselbloem to do everything legally
possible to hold former SNS management liable. They also
questioned the central bank’s failings in regulating SNS and
urged an investigation into its role in the events leading up to
the nationalization. Parliament also asked for a hearing that
has yet to be set, while a proposed clawback law for variable
bonuses is pending in the Dutch Senate. SNS Reaal amended its
governance rules in 2010 to allow bonuses for members of the
executive board to be recovered.  Loans, Guarantees  The government is providing 6.1 billion euros in loans and
guarantees. The expropriation of subordinated creditors reduced
the rescue costs for the state by about 1 billion euros,
Dijsselbloem said on Feb. 1. Dijsselbloem’s actions rattled
European investors by wiping out SNS Reaal equity and some
subordinated debt holders, while forcing other banks to
contribute 1 billion euros in a one-time levy.  “This was acceptable for the central bank given the impact
a levy has on banks that make credit available,” Dijsselbloem
said. “Had I the opportunity of a levy of 3 billion euros,
believe me, I would have done it,” he said. Dijsselbloem
reiterated he wants to introduce European-Union-wide rules
requiring all bondholders, including senior debt investors, to
share in losses when a bank fails. “We need a deeper bail-in,”
Dijsselbloem said.  Appealed Decision  The Netherlands’ top administrative court said at least 25
SNS investors appealed the government’s decision to take control
of the nation’s fourth-largest bank and expropriate the
securities they owned.  As of Feb. 5, 25 investors had filed an appeal to the
Council of State, Wendy van der Sluijs, a spokeswoman for the
court in The Hague said yesterday. The deadline for appeals is
Feb. 11, 10 days after the SNS nationalization decree. The court
will subsequently organize a hearing and present its ruling
before the end of the month, she said.  “The court will rule and I am looking at this with
confidence,” Dijsselbloem said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corina Ruhe in Amsterdam at 
 cruhe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Ludden at 
 jludden@bloomberg.net  