-- EADS Renews Board With Directors Giving Enders Political Freedom
-- B y   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n
-- 2013-02-06T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/eads-renews-board-with-directors-giving-enders-political-freedom.html
European Aeronautic, Defence & Space
Co. (EAD)  named the members of its future board following an overhaul
of its shareholder structure, as Chief Executive Officer Tom
Enders seeks greater freedom from political meddling.  The proposed directors including French nationals Denis Ranque and Anne Lauvergeon, both possible candidates to head the
board of the parent of planemaker Airbus SAS. Germans Manfred Bischoff, a former co-chairman of EADS, and Hans-Peter Keitel,
ex-chief executive officer of builder  Hochtief AG (HOT) , are also
joining, according to a statement by EADS yesterday.  EADS, which will confirm the appointments at an
extraordinary general meeting, didn’t specify who will replace
Arnaud Lagardere as chairman following an investor shuffle last
year. The job is regarded as certain go to a French person in
order to preserve a delicate national balance at the company,
whose CEO is Tom Enders, himself a German national.  “The new board of directors, once it is voted upon by the
EGM, will determine whom it wishes to elect as chairman at its
inaugural meeting,” EADS said today in a statement.  Lagardere, whose namesake French publishing company is a
long-time EADS shareholder, held the post only since last year,
after taking over from Bodo Uebber, the finance chief of  Daimler
AG (DAI) , another EADS stakeholder. Enders has said he wants to turn
EADS into a company unrestrained by government involvement, a
desire highlighted by Germany’s refusal to back Enders’s planned
merger with  BAE Systems Plc (BA/)  last year.  Positioning Candidates  While the French government has been pushing Lauvergeon, a
former CEO of nuclear-reactor maker  Areva SA (AREVA) , Enders has been
keen to rid EADS of government meddling, suggesting he would be
unlikely to encourage directors to pick someone promoted by
President Francois Hollande. That may leave Ranque, the ex-CEO
of defense-electronics specialist  Thales SA (HO) , as favorite.  An investor shuffle last year followed EADS’s failed bid to
merge with BAE in October. Germany joined France and Spain as a
government shareholder, getting a 12 percent stake to match the
French side. Carmaker Daimler AG and Paris-based publisher
 Lagardere SCA (MMB)  have been reducing their stakes.  The full slate of directors proposed today is Bischoff,
Enders, Keitel, Lauvergeon and Ranque plus retained members
Hermann-Josef Lamberti,  Lakshmi Mittal , John Parker, Michel Pebereau, Josep Pique Camps and Jean-Claude Trichet, together
with Ralph D. Crosby, who has served on the EADS board before.  Directors leaving are Dominique D’Hinnin, Wilfried Porth
and Juan Manuel Eguiagaray Ucelay.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Rothman in Toulouse, France, at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net  