-- Heavier Bunker-Buster Bomb Ready for Combat, General Says
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2013-02-06T16:28:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/heavier-bunker-buster-bomb-ready-for-combat-general-says.html
Crews for U.S. Air Force B-2 stealth
bombers have been trained to drop the Pentagon’s 30,000-pound
“bunker-buster” bomb, making it ready for combat, according to
the commander of the service’s long-range strike command.  “We’re qualified” for using the weapon on the B-2 “and
we have sufficient inventory to meet requirements,” Lieutenant
General  James Kowalski , head of the Air Force Global Strike
Command, said today at a breakfast meeting with reporters in
Washington.  The Massive Ordnance Penetrator made by  Boeing Co . is six
times bigger than the 5,000-pound bunker-buster that the U.S.
Air Force and the Israeli Air Force have in their arsenals to
attack deeply buried nuclear, biological or chemical sites.  Pentagon officials have said the 30,000-pound (13,600-
kilogram) bomb could be used if the U.S. decides to attack
Iran’s nuclear program, with its deeply buried and hardened
Fordo facility, which holds a stockpile of enriched uranium.  The bomb “is an extremely capable weapon against
hardened” and deeply buried targets, said Kowalski, who is in
charge of ensuring the U.S bomber fleet and crews are trained
and equipped for any missions directed by U.S. regional
commanders. He declined to discuss how the weapon may be used.  Tests last year demonstrated the redesigned bomb “is
capable of effectively prosecuting selected hardened, deeply
buried targets,”  Michael Gilmore , the Pentagon’s director of
operational testing, said in a report to Congress last month.  The bomb has a hardened-steel casing and can reach targets
as far as 200 feet underground before exploding, according to a
December 2007 statement by the Air Force News Service.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  