-- ECB Dashes Irish Hopes of Quick Decision on Bank Plan
-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n   a n d   D a r a   D o y l e
-- 2013-02-07T09:07:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/ecb-dashes-irish-hopes-of-quick-decision-on-banking-debt-plan.html
European Central Bank policy makers
sought more time to weigh a proposal presented by Ireland
yesterday to restructure the cost of bailing out former Anglo
Irish Bank Corp., prolonging a saga that began four years ago
with the near-collapse of the lender.  The ECB governing council is unlikely to make a decision at
a governing council meeting today, as some members want to
discuss it with their own central banks first, according to
people familiar with the situation, who asked not to be
identified as the negotiations are private.  Brian Hayes , a
junior Irish finance minister, said he is confident of a deal,
according to an interview with state-owned RTE Radio today.  “While the Irish government is in a very tricky situation,
the ECB is too and anything that looks questionable on their
part would have ramifications far beyond the immediate Irish
debt issue,” said  Austin Hughes , chief economist at KBC Bank
Ireland Plc in Dublin. “All the parties to this particular deal
have a great deal to lose by getting it wrong.”  Irish officials are trying to find agreement with the ECB
over an issue that has dogged the country’s attempts to work its
way out of an international bailout agreed to in 2010.  Eamon Gilmore , now deputy prime minister, has called the ill-fated
lender the worst bank in the world as loan losses led to a 30
billion-euro ($40.6 billion) bailout.  Irish Precedent  Some policy makers are concerned that the Irish proposal
could set a precedent in the euro area, as officials grapple
with banking crises in other countries such as Spain, the person
said.  A spokeswoman for the ECB in Frankfurt said that the talks
are ongoing, and declined to comment further. Irish Finance
Minister  Michael Noonan  said in a midnight session of parliament
that he “understands” the ECB will continue to consider the
government’s proposal today, as he introduced emergency
legislation to start the process with the liquidation of the
failed lender.  The broader plan, which needs ECB approval, will see the
state swap so-called promissory notes used to rescue Anglo Irish
for long-term sovereign bonds, according to people with
knowledge of the matter.  Bank Nationalization  The Irish state nationalized Anglo Irish in 2009 after a
real-estate bust, and issued 30 billion euros of promissory
notes, a form of IOU, to the lender a year later to avoid having
to raise the money in the capital markets as its borrowing costs
soared.  With the imprimatur of the ECB, the Irish central bank
currently holds the promissory notes in exchange for funding
Anglo Irish through emergency lending. Under the current
contract, the government is due to give Anglo Irish 3.1 billion
euros ($4.2 billion) a year for at least the next decade to pay
down the central bank loan.  Closing the bank and replacing the promissory note with a
long-term bond would help the state sidestep those payments.
That would lower Ireland’s financing needs as it seeks to exit
its international bailout, though it wouldn’t make a big dent in
the nation’s debt levels.  Funding Needs  “Anything that would alleviate the government’s near-term
funding requirement would be viewed as being very positive,”
said  Philip O’Sullivan , an economist at NCB Stockbrokers, with
an accord “giving more comfort to the markets.  Yields on the country’s benchmark October 2020 bond were
unchanged at 4.11 percent, down from 7.4 percent at the start of
June and from as high as 14 percent in July 2011.  Nicola Faulkner, a spokeswoman for the Irish central bank,
declined to comment on the plan.  Anglo Irish was merged with Irish Nationwide Building
Society and renamed Irish Bank Resolution Corp. in 2011, and
ordered to wind down by the end of the decade.  Lawmakers passed laws in the early hours of this morning to
liquidate IBRC as a first step of the broader blueprint. The
liquidators, from KPMG in Dublin, will initially transfer IBRC’s
assets to the  National Asset Management Agency , the state’s so-
called bad bank, according to Noonan. NAMA will also buy IBRC’s
net debt to the Irish central bank under the transaction, using
government-backed bonds as payment.  ‘‘I would have preferred to be introducing this bill in
tandem with a finalized agreement with the European Central
Bank,” Noonan said. “However, I understand that the ECB will
continue to consider the proposals made by the Irish
government” today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joe Brennan in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net ;
Dara Doyle in Dublin at 
 ddoyle1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  