-- ECB Said to Be Ready for New Honohan Pitch on Anglo
-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 2013-02-06T09:02:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/ecb-said-to-be-ready-to-hear-new-honohan-pitch-on-anglo-irish.html
European Central Bank officials may
consider as soon as today which concessions they are prepared to
grant Ireland to lower the cost of the nation’s bank bailout,
according to two people with knowledge of the matter.  Irish Central Bank Governor  Patrick Honohan  will meet his
European counterparts for the first time since they rebuffed an
initial bid to cut the burden of  Anglo Irish Bank Corp. ’s rescue
two weeks ago. He will likely pitch a new proposal during an
unofficial dinner preceding the ECB’s Governing Council meeting
tomorrow, according to the people, who asked not to be
identified because the matter is private.  While Honohan’s plan will continue to include the
replacement of the so-called promissory note the government
issued in 2010 with a long-term bond, he’ll drop a proposed
guarantee that the Irish central bank would hold the security
for at least 15 years, the people said. A decision may be made
as soon as tomorrow, one of the people said.  Irish officials are trying to find agreement with the ECB
over an issue that has dogged the country’s attempts to work its
way out of a bailout agreed in 2010. In Dublin, labor unions are
preparing to hold the biggest demonstration in two years on Feb.
9 as they press for a deal.  ‘Monetary Financing’  “We are optimistic that an arrangement, agreeable by all
parties, can be found in the context of the current
discussions,”  Brian Hayes , a junior minister in Ireland’s
finance ministry, said late yesterday in parliament, without
giving details of the blueprint.  Paul Bolger, a spokesman for the Irish Finance Ministry,
and Nicola Faulkner, a spokeswoman for the Irish central bank,
declined to comment on the plan. A spokeswoman for the ECB in
Frankfurt said that talks on the matter are ongoing and any
conclusions on the outcome are premature.  “There are a few preconditions on which any rescheduling
of the notes has to be based -- it has to meet the test of no
monetary financing, which is a bedrock of ECB policy,” said
 Philip Lane , an economics professor at Trinity College Dublin.
“There are many ways to come up with something.”  Irish newspapers are reporting that the Labour Party, the
junior member of the ruling coalition, is raising the specter of
a government collapse if a deal to relieve bank debt flounders.
Prime Minister  Enda Kenny  said yesterday he expects an accord to
be reached with the ECB by the end of next month.  Bank Support  The collapse of a real estate bubble in 2008 forced the
state to inject or pledge 63 billion euros ($85.5 billion) into
the banking system. That included about 30 billion euros of so-
called promissory notes used to rescue  Anglo Irish  in 2010.  With the ECB’s imprimatur, the Irish central bank holds the
notes in exchange for emergency funding for Anglo, which must be
refinanced every second week. The state is currently due to pay
the central bank 3.1 billion euros a year for at least the next
decade to pay down the bailout of Anglo, now renamed Irish Bank
Resolution Corp.  “As a non-standard funding instrument, the IBRC promissory
notes are inadequate, require biweekly approval for collateral
purposes for IBRC from the ECB,” said Hayes. “All parties to
the current discussions could gain from an agreed approach to
this issue. And it is in this context that the Irish Government
has been working extremely hard to secure an agreement.”  Sidestep Payment  The government wants to replace the promissory note with a
long-term bond, allowing it to sidestep the annual payment.
Honohan proposed to ECB colleagues last month that the Irish
central bank would hold such a bond for 15 years, people with
knowledge of the matter said at the time. That would give the
state the guaranteed medium-term financing it has sought for
Anglo’s plan in the past.  The ECB rejected the proposal and now Ireland is preparing
to drop the 15-year plan. Honohan may propose instead that the
Irish central bank will remain mindful of safeguarding financial
stability before it sells the bond, one person said yesterday.  “The ECB don’t want the Irish central bank to be tied to a
specified holding period so this could be sufficient fudge for a
deal on the notes,” said  Conall Mac Coille , chief economist at
Dublin-based securities firm Davy. “I expect they’ll end up
holding the notes for at least four to five years.”  The government and Honohan need to find a way to
restructure the notes in a way that leaves the net impact on the
money supply at zero. Otherwise Ireland’s central bank could be
accused of printing money, a policy opposed by the ECB.  A central bank commitment to hold Irish government bonds
for 15 years “in this case would be for fiscal policy reasons,
which makes it monetary financing, which is a no-no,” said
Lorcan Roche Kelly, chief Europe strategist at Trend Macrolytics
LLC.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Brennan in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  