-- Hedge Funds Rose 0.9% Last Month on U.S. Budget Agreement
-- B y   K e l l y   B i t
-- 2013-02-07T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/hedge-funds-rose-0-9-last-month-on-u-s-budget-agreement.html
Hedge funds  climbed 0.9 percent last
month, posting their best gain since September while trailing
global equities, as markets rallied in the wake of a U.S. budget
agreement and correlation between stocks diminished.  Steven A. Cohen ,  John Paulson ,  Boaz Weinstein  and  John Burbank  posted advances. Long-short and multistrategy managers
rose and macro funds declined.  The MSCI All-Country World Index, which has beaten the
$2.25 trillion hedge-fund industry in five of the past seven
years, returned 4.6 percent in January with dividends. The
market’s biggest gains came on Jan. 2, when the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index jumped the most in more than a year as U.S.
lawmakers passed a bill averting more than $600 billion in
spending cuts and tax increases threatening a recovery in the
world’s biggest economy.  “January was a very positive month for the hedge-fund
industry,” said  Don Steinbrugge , managing partner of Agecroft
Partners LLC, a Richmond, Virginia-based firm that advises hedge
funds and investors. “It was primarily driven by the passing of
a budget agreement that averted a fiscal cliff, which would have
significantly increased the probability of a recession. This
fueled a relief rally in the equity markets and also gave fixed-
income investors confidence.”  The Bloomberg Hedge Funds Aggregate Index is down 8.3
percent from its July 2007 peak. The main Bloomberg hedge fund
index is weighted by market capitalization and tracks 2,764
funds, 1,287 of which have reported returns for January. The
index, with annual data dating to 2006, has fallen short of the
MSCI benchmark each year except for 2008 and 2011.  Bullish Views  Managers from  David Tepper  to  Ray Dalio  have started 2013
expressing bullish sentiment about U.S. stocks and global
economies.  Tepper, who runs the $15 billion Appaloosa Management LP,
said last month he’s bullish on U.S. stocks as the economy is
set to grow by as much as 3 percent this year. Investors should
own stocks because they’re historically inexpensive, U.S.
companies have little debt, interest rates are low, credit is
fully valued and the major risks to the global economy, such as
the debt crisis in Europe, have diminished, he said in a Jan.22
interview on Bloomberg Television.  Dalio, founder of Bridgewater Associates LP, the world’s
biggest hedge fund, said 2013 will be a “game changer” for the
economy as investors reallocate money after risks such as
Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis receded.  “There’s a lot of money in a place that’s getting a very
bad return and in this particular year there’s going to be, in
my opinion, a shift,” Dalio, whose firm oversaw $81.3 billion
in hedge-fund assets as of Oct. 31, said last month at the World
Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland. “The complexion of the
world will change as that money goes from cash into other
things.”  Lower Correlations  The lockstep moves in global stocks that dominated markets
for the past six years are breaking down at the fastest rate on
record, another sign investor confidence is returning after the
2008 financial crisis.  A measure of how much the 2,073 companies in the  FTSE All-
World Developed Index  swing in unison dropped 31 percent in the
six months through Jan. 25, the biggest retreat since at least
1993, according to data compiled by Societe Generale SA and
Bloomberg. The indicator ended December at the lowest level
since 2007.  Diminishing correlation was a buy signal in  1998 and 2003 
and has coincided this year with the strongest January rally for
the S&P 500 Index since 1997, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  ‘Diverse’ Drivers  Long-short equity funds, whose managers can bet on and
against stocks, rose 1.3 percent in January. Multistrategy funds
climbed 0.5 percent and macro funds, whose managers make
investment decisions based on their reading of economic and
political events, fell 0.1 percent.  “We are encouraged by the fact that return drivers were
diverse in January -- not just long equities,”  Anthony Lawler ,
portfolio manager at GAM in London, said this week in a
commentary. “Several global macro managers held on to the short
Japanese yen trade, and also profited from the selloff in safe-
haven rates. Relative-value managers delivered strong
performance from long residential mortgage positions and other
credit longs even as safe-haven bonds sold off.”  Cohen’s SAC Capital International increased 2.5 percent
last month, said a person with knowledge of the matter who asked
not to be identified because the fund isn’t public. The fund is
run by SAC Capital Advisors LP, the $14 billion Stamford,
Connecticut-based firm that was notified in November by the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission that it may be sued for
insider-trading fraud.  Jana, Paulson  Jana Partners LLC’s Jana Partners fund rose an estimated
5.1 percent last month, according to a performance update to
investors, a copy of which was obtained by Bloomberg News. The
$4 billion New York-based firm’s Jana Nirvana fund returned an
estimated 7.5 percent in January, Jana said in the update.  Barry Rosenstein  is the firm’s managing partner and co-portfolio
manager, along with  David DiDomenico .  Paulson, the billionaire recovering from two years of
losses in some of his strategies, posted gains in most of his
funds in January, according to two people familiar with the
matter. Paulson & Co.’s Advantage Plus fund, an event-driven
strategy that seeks to profit from corporate events such as
takeovers and bankruptcies and uses leverage to amplify returns,
rose 1.4 percent last month, while the firm’s Gold Fund fell 9.7
percent, the people said. The Paulson Enhanced fund advanced 6.5
percent.  Saba, Tudor  Weinstein ’s Saba Capital Management LP rose 3.9 percent
last month in its Saba Capital Offshore Fund, said a person
briefed on the performance. The long-short credit fund has $5.3
billion under management. Weinstein, former co-head of global
credit trading at Deutsche Bank AG, started New York-based Saba
in April 2009.  Tudor Investment Corp., the $11.6 billion firm run by Paul
Tudor Jones, rose 4.3 percent last month in its Tudor BVI Fund,
according to a person familiar with the matter. The firm is
based in Greenwich, Connecticut.  Kingdon Capital Management LLC, the $2.4 billion firm run
by  Mark Kingdon  in New York, last month climbed 5.5 percent in
its flagship Kingdon Associates fund, said a person with
knowledge of the matter. The fund is managed by Kingdon.  Mike Pohly ’s Kingdon Credit fund gained 1.9 percent in January, the
person said.  Passport Capital LLC’s $1.3 billion Passport Global fund
rose an estimated 3.4 percent in January, according to a
performance update to investors obtained by Bloomberg. The $3.7
billion San Francisco-based firm is run by Burbank.  Hedge-fund assets grew 2.8 percent to a record $2.25
trillion in the fourth quarter, according to Chicago-based Hedge
Fund Research Inc. Investors deposited $3.4 billion during the
period, the firm said in January.  Spokesmen for the firms declined to comment on the returns.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kelly Bit in New York at 
 kbit@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  