-- Edith Lauterbach, United Stewardess Who Formed Union, Dies at 91
-- B y   L a u r e n c e   A r n o l d
-- 2013-02-07T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/edith-lauterbach-united-stewardess-who-formed-union-dies-at-91.html
Edith Lauterbach, the last survivor
among the quintet of female flight attendants who in the 1940s
organized the first union to fight for equal rights in the sky,
has died. She was 91.  She died on Feb. 4,  according  to the Washington-based
Association of Flight Attendants-CWA, the successor of that
early union. She lived in San Francisco.  A United Airlines flight attendant for more than four
decades until her retirement in 1986, Lauterbach saw her
profession evolve from one emphasizing youth and beauty to one
recognized for its grueling schedule and emergency preparedness.  “I had planned to fly one year and quit,” Lauterbach
recalled, according to a 1985 article by Knight-Ridder News
Service. “They wanted you to come and go fast. It was a male-
dominated industry and they weren’t anxious to have women hang
around.”  When Lauterbach joined  United  in 1944, female flight
attendants were called “coeds” and were subject to dismissal
if they got married, were deemed overweight or reached their
early to mid-30s. With a monthly salary of $125 -- about $1,630
today, or less than $20,000 a year -- Lauterbach roomed with
other “stewardesses” to get by, she told Knight-Ridder.  United, which hired the first “sky girl,” Ellen Church,
in 1930, was the first to be challenged on its labor policies
toward women, according to Kathleen Barry’s 2007 book,
“Femininity in Flight: A History of Flight Attendants.”  Founding Treasurer  Lauterbach and three colleagues -- Frances Hall, Sally
Thometz and Sally Watt -- backed  Ada Brown , United’s chief
stewardess, when she began organizing in 1944. The world’s first
union for flight attendants, the Air Line Stewardesses
Association, was founded on Aug. 22, 1945, with Lauterbach as
treasurer.  It grew into today’s Association of Flight Attendants-CWA,
the world’s largest union “organized by flight attendants for
flight attendants,” according to its  website . The group, part
of the Communications Workers of America, represents almost
60,000 cabin-service personnel at 21 airlines.  Lauterbach “remembered her fellow stewardesses as mostly
anti-union by upbringing,” Barry wrote. Ultimately,
“organizers succeeded in mobilizing stewardesses’ investment in
their mystique, as well as their discontent with the low pay and
working conditions that accompanied it.”  New Title  Over the next few decades, airlines dropped their
employment restrictions based on age, marital status and, except
in rare circumstances, weight. Lauterbach played an
“instrumental” role in ending United’s standard retirement age
of 32 for stewardesses, according to a union statement Feb. 5.  Even the word “stewardess” gave way to the gender-neutral
“flight attendant,” and high heels disappeared as part of the
uniform.  “On behalf of the entire United family, we are deeply
saddened by the loss of our former co-worker Edith Lauterbach,”
 Sam Risoli , United’s senior vice president of inflight services,
said yesterday in an e-mail. “Edith was a pioneer at United and
for the entire flight attendant industry. Edith leaves us with a
lasting legacy that we are proud to carry on.”  Lauterbach was involved in negotiating five contracts for
flight attendants during her career and was chosen to help test
evacuation procedures in 1952 in a cooperative effort among
United, the U.S. Civil Aeronautics Board and Cornell University
in Ithaca, New York.  ‘Our Friend’  “The evolution of the flight attendant profession and the
legacy of Edith Lauterbach go hand in hand,” the union said.
“Today, as we do every day, we pay tribute to our friend whose
fearlessness and devotion to advancing rights at work paved the
way for thousands of flight attendants.”  Edith Edna Lauterbach was born on Oct. 1, 1921, in Oxnard,
California, according to a biography by the union’s historian,
Georgia Nielsen. She grew up on a five-acre farm overseen by her
father, a high school chemistry teacher, and her mother, who
grew flowers and peanuts, according to a  profile  of her posted
online last year by the residents’ association of her San
Francisco neighborhood, Glen Park.  She graduated in 1942 from the University of California at
Berkeley with a degree in political science. United, now the
world’s largest airline and a unit of Chicago-based  United
Continental Holdings Inc ., hired her on May 11, 1944.  A career that lasted into the jet age spanned the arc of
airlines’ evolution from unpressurized, piston-engine planes
that had to stop every few hours to refuel.  Hard Duty  “After we flew for a while, we realized it wasn’t as
glamorous as we thought,” Lauterbach recalled in 1995, upon the
union’s 50th anniversary, according to a news release at the
time. “We had to crawl on our hands and knees during rough
weather and deliver meals in the turbulence, clean up after the
passengers when they got sick and hold their hands when they
were apprehensive. Those little planes were all over the sky in
bad weather.”  In the interview with her neighborhood association,
Lauterbach recalled her early years based in Denver and working
bumpy routes on DC-3 propeller planes over the Rocky Mountains
to destinations including Salt Lake City; Boise, Idaho; and
Walla Walla, Washington.  “We learned and practiced how to handle cups of coffee and
tea, that’s for sure,” she said.  She was based in New York City in the 1950s, then in San
Francisco until the end of her career.  According to the interview, the final route she worked,
between San Francisco and Monterey, California, was a benefit
based on her seniority, a policy the union had won in its
collective bargaining with United.  “The easy route was called the ‘grandma’s schedule,’” she
said. “It was a flight for old ladies.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Laurence Arnold  in Washington at 
 larnold4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Charles W. Stevens at 
 cstevens@bloomberg.net  