-- Egypt Shares Snap Longest Rally in Month on Dwindling Reserves
-- B y   A h m e d   A .   N a m a t a l l a
-- 2013-02-06T11:27:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/egypt-shares-snap-longest-rally-in-month-on-dwindling-reserves.html
Egyptian stocks snapped the longest
winning streak in a month, after the nation’s foreign-currency
reserves fell to the lowest level in more than 15 years,
threatening further weakening of the local currency.  Commercial International Bank Egypt SAE , the country’s
biggest publicly traded lender, headed for its lowest close this
year.  Talaat Moustafa Group  Holding, the biggest publicly traded
property developer, was poised for its steepest decline in
almost three weeks. The benchmark  EGX 30 Index  broke a five-day
string of gains, losing 1.7 percent to 5,698.79 at 12:43 p.m. in
Cairo.  Egypt’s  net foreign reserves  slumped in January to $13.6
billion from a month earlier after the country paid-down debt
and investment inflows remained weak amid political instability.
The Egyptian pound has lost 5 percent this year, making it the
worst-performing currency in the Middle East after the central
bank eased its support.  The reserves data “was very ugly,”  Tamer Nigm , head of
sales trading at Cairo-based Watheeqa Securities, said by phone.
“This has the potential to further weaken the pound as
investors took notice from the drop that there’s still more to
come.”  The pound weakened 0.2 percent to 6.7119 a dollar as of
12:23 p.m. in Cairo today after the central bank held its 18th
auction of the American currency since the practice was started
in December. That brings the currency’s decline over that period
to 7.8 percent, the biggest since the 2003 devaluation.  CIB dropped 4.7 percent to 35 pounds. The lender was cut by
Fitch Ratings this week to B with a negative outlook, on par
with Egypt’s rating five levels below investment grade.  Talaat Moustafa fell 3.2 percent to 4.27 pounds. The
company said yesterday a judicial panel issued a non-binding
recommendation that the Egyptian government take back a three-
million square meter plot sold to one of its units. A court will
hear the case beginning Feb. 12.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ahmed A. Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  