-- Egypt’s Mursi Calls for Palestinian Rights at Islamic Summit
-- B y   S a l m a   E l   W a r d a n y   a n d   t a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y
-- 2013-02-06T15:36:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/egypt-s-mursi-calls-for-palestinian-rights-at-islamic-summit.html
Egyptian President  Mohamed Mursi 
pressed the plight of Palestinians and criticized Syria’s
leaders, as fellow Muslim leaders called for unity at an Islamic
summit grouping nations often at loggerheads.  Mursi’s calls, echoed by Saudi Arabia’s crown prince and
Iraq’s prime minister, marked a renewed push by Egypt’s Islamist
president to regain international influence for his nation after
the 2011 uprising that ousted his predecessor. The summit also
marked a historic visit by Iranian President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad , who offered aid to cash-strapped Egypt.  “Egypt is clearly and firmly committed to supporting the
Palestinian people until they gain their freedom in an
independent state,” Mursi said. “The international community
has a responsibility to stop settlement activity on Palestinian
land, which stabs the peace process in the heart,” he said,
referring to Israeli settlements.  The Egyptian leader has been facing mounting domestic
pressures, with secularist and youth-activist opponents claiming
he and his Muslim Brotherhood backers have hijacked the revolt
against  Hosni Mubarak . Near daily protests have erupted into
violent clashes that have battered the economy, leaving it
growing for the past two years at its slowest pace in two
decades. Foreign reserves have fallen by 62 percent, to $13.6
billion, since the uprising.  Islamic World  Mursi told Muslim leaders the country was working to build
a new era based on justice, and said the Islamic world must step
up and develop concrete mechanisms for growth to boost its
lacklustre standing in the global economy.  The fractious political issues that have plagued the Arab
and Muslim world were again on show at the two-day summit of
Muslim nations’ leaders.  Saudi Crown Prince Salman bin Abdulaziz said the
international community must assume its responsibility to stop
the suffering of the Syrian people while Palestinian Authority
President  Mahmoud Abbas , whose party controls the West Bank,
said his people needed action, not words to resolve their
status. Palestinians wouldn’t accept visits or policies that
undermine unity efforts, he said in a reference to attempts by
some leaders to score political points with visits to the Gaza
Strip.  Minutes earlier, Abbas tripped up while thanking Mursi,
referring to him as “Mohamed Hosni” -- the first names of the
ousted Egyptian president -- before quickly correcting himself.  Syrian Conflict  Mursi and other leaders spoke out harshly against the
violence in Syria, which is mired in a civil war.  “Our hearts continue to bleed over what’s happening in
Syria,” he said. The “Syrian regime should learn the lessons
of history” that tell of how “people remain” while those who
put their interest first fall, he said.  Egypt, Turkey and Iran were to hold a meeting today to
discuss the situation in Syria, the state-run Middle East News
Agency reported. Egypt had launched an initiative including
Iran, whose support for the government of  Bashar al-Assad  has
outraged many Arab nations.  Ahmadinejad received a public rebuke yesterday from the top
cleric at al-Azhar, the Sunni Muslim world’s preeminent
religious institution, over Syria and what Arabs say is Iran’s
interference in Sunni Muslim nations’ affairs. During his trip
to the institution, he was greeted by a group of
ultraconservative Salafis who raised their shoes at him in a
sign of contempt while another man tried and failed to thump him
with his footwear outside a mosque.  Muslim Rifts  The incidents and the cleric’s comments, which also focused
on centuries-old rifts between Shiite and Sunni Muslims, cast a
pall on Ahmadinejad’s efforts to thaw what have been frosty
relations between Iran and Egypt for more than 30 years.  The Iranian president offered to provide Egypt with a cash
lifeline, the state-run Al-Ahram reported today. He also said
that through closer cooperation and relations the two nations
could fare better against outside pressure, it said.  The leaders stressed the need to combat Islamophobia, with
Saudi Arabia calling on the United Nations to issue a
declaration condemning nations that insult religions and Mursi
saying the Islamic world shouldered some of the blame.  Chronic rifts that have befuddled efforts to forge a
broader Muslim consensus reappeared at the summit which had
begun days earlier with a ministerial gathering pressed the need
to combat Islamophobia, the again appeared.  Senegal’s president, Macky Sall, gave a nod to France for
its military intervention in Mali as part of a push to rout
Islamist militants.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Salma El Wardany in Cairo at 
 selwardany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  