-- Eight Dead in Solomon Islands After Quake, Agency Says
-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 2013-02-07T06:45:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/eight-dead-in-solomon-islands-after-quake-agency-says.html
Eight people were killed when a
tsunami triggered by a magnitude 8.0 off-shore earthquake hit
the Solomon Islands yesterday, according to the aid organization
 World Vision .  More than 70 aftershocks, including a magnitude 7.0 quake,
followed the main temblor which struck yesterday at 12:12 p.m.
local time, 81 kilometers (50 miles) west of Lata, at a depth of
5.8 kilometers, according to the  U.S. Geological Survey .  There’s still “a little bit of nervousness,” among the
4,000 residents of Lata, some of whom spent the night in the
hills, or in emergency shelters set up at a school and a local
church, Andrew Catford, World Vision’s country coordinator in
the Solomon Islands, said in a phone interview today from the
capital, Honiara. The organization has 20 people in Lata.  “Is this a lead up to something else?” is the main
concern of the residents, he said.  The airport at Lata, the provincial capital, remained
closed today after being flooded, preventing aid organizations
from bringing in supplies. There is currently no running water
and no power in Lata, Catford said.  “We hope to reach some of the most remote communities by
boat,” he said.  A wave measuring 91 centimeters (3 feet) in height was
recorded at Lata Wharf, near the epicenter, and an 11-centimeter
wave was recorded in Luganville, Vanuatu, the Pacific Tsunami
Warning Center reported yesterday. Tsunami warnings for several
nations in the region, including Nauru, Fiji and New Caledonia
were later canceled.  Homes Destroyed  The sea surge destroyed, or severely damaged, more than 100
homes, according to World Vision. Government and aid officials
haven’t been able to contact people on low-lying, heavily
populated, atolls that may have been in the path of the tsunami,
Catford said.  The surge also washed up deep-sea fish and killed livestock
on shore and the area needs to be cleaned up for health reasons,
Catford said.  The Solomon Islands archipelago, about 2,500 kilometers
east of Australia, lies in the Pacific “Ring of Fire” and
experiences frequent seismic tremors. About 50 people were
killed and more than 5,000 left homeless there after an 8.1-
magnitude earthquake triggered a tsunami in April 2007.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Johnson at 
 ejohnson28@bloomberg.net  