-- Melco Crown Net Unchanged; Shares Fall on Junket Report
-- B y   V i n i c y   C h a n
-- 2013-02-06T18:17:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/melco-crown-profit-little-changed-on-philippines-costs.html
Melco Crown Entertainment Ltd. , the
casino venture of billionaire  James Packer  and a son of mogul
 Stanley Ho , said profit was little changed in the fourth
quarter, hurt by costs for a Philippines project.  An article in the British newspaper  The Times  yesterday
said the Chinese government was planning a crackdown on junket
operators who bring high-rollers to Macau casinos and may also
be linked to money-laundering. Gambling stocks, including Melco,
fell on the report.  “We haven’t heard anything like that,”  Lawrence Ho ,
Melco’s co-chairman and chief executive officer, said on a
conference call today. “We continue to be very positive about
this year. I think this year is definitely going to be better
than last year.”  Melco Crown American depositary receipts fell 6.6 percent
to $19.28 at 1:07 p.m. in New York after losing as much as 9.2
percent intraday. The stock has risen 20 percent this year in
Hong Kong, outperforming Sands China’s 6.9 percent and Galaxy’s
8.7 percent gains. The benchmark Hang Seng Index climbed 2.7
percent in the period.  Fourth-quarter net income rose to $108 million from $107.5
million a year earlier, according to a statement to the Hong
Kong Stock Exchange. Revenue increased 9.3 percent to $1.1
billion, compared with the $1.06 billion average of estimates
compiled by Bloomberg.  Cotai Strip  The gain shows Melco’s flagship City of Dreams casino and
rivals on the city’s Cotai strip are drawing mass-market
gamblers to the more recently developed part of Macau.  Sands
China Ltd.  last week reported a 52 percent jump in quarterly
profit, driven by its Sands Cotai Central resort, which opened
in April on the strip of reclaimed land.  Galaxy Entertainment Group Ltd.  is also competing on the
strip for China’s middle-class bettors, while higher-stakes
gambling, also known as the VIP business, rebounds.  Adjusted property earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization, or Ebitda, climbed 6.9 percent to
$247.5 million, Melco Crown said. That compares with a median
estimate of $250.5 million from six analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg News.  Melco last week completed a $1.4 billion syndicated loan to
help finance the planned Studio City project on Macau’s Cotai
strip. The company also raised $825 million in a bond sale in
November.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vinicy Chan in Hong Kong at 
 vchan91@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anjali Cordeiro at 
 acordeiro2@bloomberg.net  