-- Melco Leads ADR Drop on Europe Concerns: China Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2013-02-06T20:30:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/melco-leads-adr-drop-on-europe-concerns-china-overnight.html
Chinese equities  fell in New York for
a third day, led by Melco Crown Entertainment Ltd., on concern
political turmoil in Europe will derail the recovery of China’s
biggest trading partner from its debt crisis.  The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index  of the most-traded
Chinese shares in the U.S. dropped 0.2 percent to 97.49 by 2:59
p.m., set for the lowest close this year.  Melco , a Macau casino
operator, slid the most in two months on a report China will
crack down on junkets bringing gamblers to the city.  Spreadtrum
Communications Inc.  retreated after jumping the most in nine
months Feb. 5, while Aluminum Corp. of China erased a  premium  to
Hong Kong shares as it will be removed from the Hang Seng Index.  Chinese stocks in the U.S. have slipped 3.5 percent this
week to the lowest average valuation in a month. Spanish Prime
Minister  Mariano Rajoy  is facing calls to resign and former
Italian Premier Silvio Berlusconi, who opposes austerity
measures aimed at helping the nation emerge from its economic
contraction, is leading in polls before elections this month.  “The retreat in Chinese equities is mainly caused by
negative sentiment from Europe,”  Tony Hann , who oversees $400
million of assets as head of emerging-market equities at
Blackfriars Asset Management Ltd., said by phone from London
yesterday.  “Concerns about Europe are coming back again as the
underlying situation hasn’t changed much. So we’re seeing a bit
of negative news flow.”  The iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund, the largest Chinese
 exchange-traded fund  in the U.S., dropped 0.6 percent to a five-
week low of $40.36. The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  retreated
0.2 percent to 1,507.93.  Export Market  The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index  gained 0.3 percent to
11,849.25 yesterday, capping a 3.6 percent jump in 2013. The
 Shanghai Composite Index  of domestic Chinese shares advanced 0.1
percent to 2,434.48, climbing for an eighth day in the longest
stretch of gains since February last year.  Europe is China’s biggest export market, taking 19 percent
of Chinese shipments in 2011, according to International
Monetary Fund data  collated  by the European Commission.  Companies on the China-US gauge traded at an average 13
times estimated forward earnings, the lowest level since Jan. 1,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Melco’s American depositary receipts tumbled 6.6 percent to
$19.29, the steepest slide since Dec. 4. The ADRs, each
representing three underlying shares in the casino operator,
traded 3 percent below its Hong Kong stock, the largest discount
since Jan. 11.  Attract Gamblers  The Chinese government will start taking action later this
month against operator of junkets that attract gamblers to
Macau, the Times reported on its website yesterday, citing
unidentified people in law enforcement. The action will involve
police operations in six Chinese cities and is part of an anti-
corruption campaign led by  Xi Jinping , the Communist Party
general secretary, according to the report.  Melco’s fourth-quarter profit was little changed from the
previous year, according to a filing yesterday. Sales for the
quarter increased 9.3 percent to $1.1 billion, compared with the
$1.06 billion average of nine estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Melco’s peers traded in Hong Kong from Galaxy Entertainment
Group Ltd. to Sands China Ltd. and Wynn Macau Ltd. retreated
yesterday.  The casino shares overreacted to the Times report,  Daisy Lu , a Hong Kong-based analyst at JPMorgan Chase & Co., wrote in
a note yesterday.  David Bain , an Woodland Hills, California-
based analyst at Stern Agee & Leech Inc., recommended buying the
stocks, saying the decline provides an opportunity.  Chalco, Dangdang  Aluminum Corp., China’s biggest producer of the metal, also
known as Chalco, slid 2.2 percent to $11.6. Its ADRs traded 0.9
percent below Hong Kong shares, from a 1.3 percent premium the
previous day. One ADR equals 25 ordinary shares.  Hang Seng Indexes Co., the compiler of the Hang Seng Index,
said yesterday Chalco will be removed from the benchmark and
Lenovo Group Ltd. will be added.  Chalco was unchanged at HK$3.63 in Hong Kong trading
yesterday while Lenovo climbed 4.7 percent.  Spreadtrum, a Shanghai-based chipmaker for mobile devices,
lost 5.6 percent to $16.23 in New York, sliding the most since
Dec. 10. Its ADRs surged 11 percent on Feb. 5, the largest rally
since May.  E-Commerce China Dangdang Inc ., China’s biggest online book
retailer, advanced 4.7 percent to $4.22, poised for the biggest
one-day gain since Jan. 14.  The company is among the first online retailers that will
partner with the shopping website of Baidu Inc., the biggest
search engine in China, according to a report yesterday on the
website of Tencent Holdings Ltd.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  