-- Telstra First-Half Profit Rises 8.8% on Mobile Customers
-- B y   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g
-- 2013-02-07T08:38:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/telstra-first-half-profit-rises-8-8-on-mobile-customers.html
Telstra Corp., Australia’s largest
phone company, posted first-half profit that matched analyst
estimates as 607,000 new mobile customers limited the impact of
an 11 percent jump in the cost of smartphones and hardware.  Net income increased 8.8 percent to A$1.6 billion ($1.7
billion) in the six months ended December from A$1.47 billion a
year earlier, Melbourne-based Telstra said in a statement today.
That matched the A$1.6 billion median estimate of eight analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Telstra’s fourth-generation mobile network, the biggest in
Australia, is winning customers and limiting the impact of
shrinking demand for traditional fixed-line services. Smaller
rivals controlled by Vodafone Group Plc and Singapore
Telecommunications Ltd. are revamping their businesses in the
country to try and regain market share.  “Telstra continues to take market share in the high growth
mobile category,” Michael Wu, an analyst at Morningstar Inc.,
said in an e-mailed statement today. “Subscribers remain
attracted to Telstra’s superior network coverage and speed.”  First-half revenue rose 1 percent to A$12.5 billion, while
earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization
increased 5 percent to A$4.99 billion, Telstra said.  IPhone 5  Domestic mobile-phone customer numbers increased by 607,000
in the six months through December, Telstra said, giving it 14.4
million subscribers, equivalent to 63 percent of Australia’s
 population .  Telstra  shares rose 1.3 percent to close at A$4.64 in
Sydney, increasing its advance in the past year to 35 percent.
Telstra has the fourth-best total return over the past 12 months
of any Australian company with sales of more than A$10 billion,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The cost of goods, including mobile handsets such as  Apple
Inc. ’s iPhone 5 and Samsung Electronics Co.’s Galaxy S3 and
other wireless devices, rose 11 percent to A$1.43 billion and
outstripped the amount spent on tax and interest payments.  Revenue from mobiles, which overtook the fixed-line unit in
2011, rose 4.6 percent to A$4.56 billion even as the average
revenue per user fell 8.5 percent for mobile broadband and 7.1
percent for those on phone contracts.  Mobile Devices  The A$1.43 billion spent on buying electronic devices for
customer contracts compares with the A$1 billion Telstra spent
on the activity during its 2010 financial year, before it ramped
up a push for more mobile subscribers. It outstripped the A$1.22
billion the company spent on tax and interest payments during
the most recent period, the accounts show.  “We’ve seen good take-up of the higher-end plans on the
iPhone 5,”  David Thodey , chief executive officer, told an
investor call after the announcement. “The actual returns on
the plans, even though there’s a bigger cash cost up-front, are
very strong.”  The addition of mobile customers was “another strong
performance” in a total mobile market that’s slowing, Chief
Financial Officer  Andy Penn  said in a phone interview today.
“I’m very optimistic about the long term future for the mobiles
business. You don’t see any shortage of innovation about how to
use mobile technology.”  Fixed Lines  Total revenues in Australia’s mobile telecommunications
industry shrank 1.5 percent during the year through June 2012
and will stagnate after accounting for inflation this year,
before a “modest recovery” in the year starting July 1,
Deloitte Access Economics said in a report released today.  “The medium-term outlook for the industry is unusually
uncertain,” the report said. “Carriers will invest more in
infrastructure to support data usage growth but not receive as
high revenue growth.”  Capital spending  rose 10 percent to A$1.9 billion, Telstra
said in a presentation accompanying the results, while free cash
flow -- money not dedicated to capital expenditure or interest
payments -- fell 17 percent after stripping out a one-time
benefit from the sale of its New Zealand division, TelstraClear.  “It’s going to get harder for them to win market share”
over the next year,  Fraser McLeish , an analyst with CIMB Group
Holdings Bhd. in Sydney, said by phone.  Vodafone Australia and Singapore Telecom’s Optus division
will improve their networks over the next year, making it harder
for Telstra to take advantage of its superior product to push up
prices.  “The revenue growth slowed, and that’s going to be the
issue going forward when the competitive environment gets
tougher,” McLeish said.  Highest Profit  The result was the company’s highest first-half profit
since the 2010 financial year, according to  data  compiled by
Bloomberg. Telstra recorded an average of about 45 percent of
annual earnings in its first half over the past five years.  The company affirmed its forecast for “low single digit”
growth in Ebitda and total income. On the basis at which it
accounts for those measures, total income rose 2.5 percent and
Ebitda by 8.7 percent, it said.  Fixed-line sales dropped 4 percent to A$3.66 billion, while
revenue at the Data and IP unit, which provides Internet
services, edged down 0.1 percent to A$1.55 billion.  Telstra’s digital media division, which includes the Sensis
phone directories business and a 50 percent stake in pay-TV
provider Foxtel, saw revenues slump 7 percent to A$909 million,
the company said.  The company received A$176 million from the government in
the half as it starts getting an A$11 billion compensation
package for giving up control of its copper-wire network as the
state-backed NBN Co. builds a national fiber platform.  Spectrum Auction  Telstra plans to bid for mobile spectrum in an April state
auction and may face changes to the NBN plan if Australia’s
Labor government loses an election set for Sept. 14.  The company may have to spend A$800 million renewing its
digital spectrum this year and another A$1.1 billion buying new
spectrum for its mobile services next year,  Sameer Chopra , an
analyst at Bank of America Corp.’s Merrill Lynch unit, wrote in
a Jan. 23 note to clients.  Telstra’s profit margins are the second-highest among phone
companies operating primarily in developed countries with
revenues greater than $10 billion, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Handing over the fixed-line network will see the business
shift toward its less profitable mobile business, where  revenue
per customer  has been declining for two years. Telstra’s margin
on earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization
is 39 percent in mobile compared to 60 percent for fixed-line
phones and 64 percent for its data and IP services, the company
said in August, when it reported annual results.  Founded as part of Australia’s state-owned postal services,
Telstra had a legal monopoly on phone services until 1991 and
was majority-owned by the government until 2006.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  