-- Emerging Stocks Drop Amid Low Volatility and Energy Slump
-- B y   A n u c h i t   N g u y e n   a n d   V i c t o r i a   S t i l w e l l
-- 2013-02-06T21:43:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/emerging-stocks-snap-two-day-decline-as-chinese-shares-rebound.html
Emerging-market stocks fell and price
swings in the benchmark index sank to the lowest level since
1997 as Malaysia’s benchmark index declined and energy companies
slumped.  UEM Land Holdings Bhd. led losses in Malaysia, where the
FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI Index retreated to a two-month low, on
speculation the government will dissolve parliament after the
Lunar New Year. Sappi Ltd. slid the most since December 2011 in
Johannesburg after profit slumped. Brazil’s Bovespa fell to a
two-month low and  B2W Cia. Global do Varejo  tumbled amid concern
that policy makers may increase borrowing costs to curb
inflation. Developing-nation energy stocks dropped 0.8 percent.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index  lost 0.4 percent to
1,063.75 in New York, as the 821-member gauge’s 100-day
volatility slumped to 8.9, the lowest level since August 1997.
The developing-nations measure has added 0.8 percent this year,
trailing a 5.2 percent increase by the  MSCI World Index . The
emerging-markets index trades at 10.3 times estimated 12-month
profit, compared with the MSCI World’s 13.7 times, data compiled
by Bloomberg show.  “There’s a lot of angst out there now because emerging
markets have been underperforming developed markets so far this
year,”  Geoffrey Dennis , global emerging-markets strategist at
Citigroup Inc., said by phone from New York today. “Earlier
this year it was a bit of profit taking, but the other thing
that’s going on here is that each of the major developed market
blocks have had reasons to do well this year.”  Brazil, Poland  The  iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index  exchange-traded
fund, the ETF tracking developing-nation shares, lost 0.1
percent to 43.92. The  Chicago Board Options Exchange Emerging
Markets ETF Volatility Index , a measure of options prices on the
fund and expectations of price swings, climbed 1.9 percent to
18.75.  Brazil’s  Bovespa  dropped 0.8 percent to the lowest close in
two months as B2W declined 3.3 percent.  Petroleo Brasileiro SA ,
Brazil’s state-controlled oil company known as Petrobras,
retreated 2.7 percent after Jefferies & Co. cut its
recommendation on the shares from hold from buy.  Preferred shares of Eletropaulo Metropolitana Eletricidade
de Sao Paulo SA, Brazil’s largest electricity distributor, added
1.3 percent and earlier climbed as much as 14 percent after
lending for short selling reached a limit.  Poland’s  WIG 20  Index fell 1.2 percent, reversing
yesterday’s gains, while  Grupa Lotos SA , Poland’s second-largest
oil company, declined 5.3 percent to lead declines among
emerging energy companies. The nation’s central bank cut its
main interest rate for a fourth month today to avert the biggest
economic slowdown in more than a decade.  ‘Mood Is Cautious’  The Czech Republic kept interest rates unchanged today, in
line with the forecasts of all 17 analysts in a Bloomberg
survey, as policy makers debate whether the risks of a record-
long recession warrant more easing through koruna sales. The
koruna weakened 1.1 percent versus the euro while the PX Index
slipped 0.5 percent to the lowest level in almost two months.  Investors are wary of taking positions in emerging markets
before European Central Bank policy makers meet in Frankfurt
tomorrow, Nordea Bank AB’s  Aurelija Augulyte  said.  “The mood is cautious,” Augulyte, an emerging-market
strategist at Nordea in Copenhagen, said by e-mail. “Everyone
is on the sidelines ahead of the ECB.”  Hungary’s BUX Index slipped 0.1 percent, while the forint
pared losses after weakening as much as 1.3 percent against the
euro earlier today. Hungary’s ruling party denied a report in
Vilaggazdasag late yesterday the government has picked Economy
Minister Gyorgy Matolcsy as president of the central bank.  Deal Delay  Turkey’s ISE National 100 gauge retreated 0.3 percent,
while Russia’s Micex Index dropped 0.6 percent.  OAO Sberbank ,
Russia’s largest lender, surged as much as 2.2 percent before
falling 0.8 percent in Moscow after reaching its depositary
receipt conversion limit. The Bank of New York Mellon Corp.
issued a statement halting its depositary receipt program.  RusPetro Plc, a producer of oil in Siberia, slumped 16
percent in London to a record low after saying it was postponing
a bond sale designed to strengthen its finances.  A  gauge  of energy stocks on the MSCI Emerging Markets Index
fell 0.9 percent, the most among 10 industry groups.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries rose one basis point, or 0.01
percentage point, to 275 basis points, according to JPMorgan
Chase’s EMBI Global Index.  Sappi, the world’s biggest maker of glossy paper, fell 5.7
percent in Johannesburg, the most since December 2011, after the
company said fiscal first-quarter profit slumped 62 percent
because of lower paper and pulp prices.  Currency Reserves  Commercial International Bank Egypt SAE, the nation’s
biggest publicly-traded lender, fell 3.7 percent, the biggest
drop since Jan. 29. Egypt’s benchmark stock index lost 1.8
percent, the first  drop  in six days after the nation’s foreign-
currency reserves dropped to a 15-year low.  The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index  of the most-traded
Chinese shares in the U.S. climbed 0.1 percent as Semiconductor
Manufacturing International Corp. rallied 7.7 percent after
reporting record sales for the fourth quarter.  Melco Crown
Entertainment Ltd. , a Macau casino operator, slid the most in
two months on a report China will crack down on junkets bringing
gamblers to the city.  The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index  rose 0.3 percent,
snapping a two-day, 3.3 percent slide. The Philippine Stock
Exchange Index slid 0.6 percent and Thailand’s SET Index
declined 0.4 percent. Vietnam’s  VN Index  jumped 2.3 percent to
the highest level in nearly two years. The won and baht slipped
on concern the nations’ governments will intervene to protect
exports.  Election Timing  The FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI Index lost 1.2 percent and the
gauge’s 50-day volatility rose to 9.13, the highest level since
Feb. 21, on speculation the government will dissolve parliament
soon for an election. UEM Land, a property developer, sank 7.4
percent.  Prime Minister  Najib Razak , who must dissolve parliament by
April 28, is having his weekly Cabinet meeting and couldn’t
comment on the election timing, a government spokeswoman said
today. The Lunar New Year starts on Feb. 10.  The BSE India Sensitive Index dropped 0.1 percent, falling
for a fifth day, the longest losing streak since Dec. 13.
India’s central bank should leave interest rates unchanged until
inflation is contained even as the nation faces a subdued
economic recovery, the International Monetary Fund said in a
statement released today.  Jubilant Foodworks Ltd. surged 9.1 percent in Mumbai, the
biggest gain since October 2011. The stock was upgraded to buy
by Deutsche Bank AG and to hold by Jefferies.  Warren Buffett  Gome Electrical Appliances Holding Ltd.  rose the most in
two weeks in Hong Kong after China approved a plan to tackle the
wealth gap and increase minimum wages.  BYD Co., the Chinese carmaker partly owned by Warren
Buffett’s Berkshire Hathaway Inc., rose 5.2 percent in Hong
Kong, the most since Jan. 9. China’s government spending curbs
may boost domestic car sales, China Daily reported, citing Cui
Dongshu, deputy secretary general of the Passenger Car
Association.  Soho China Ltd., the biggest developer in Beijing’s central
business district, tumbled 8 percent in Hong Kong after a
Beijing Times report linked the company to money laundering.
Soho denied the claim.  Cathay Financial Holding Co. Ltd.  climbed to a 17-month
high in Taipei after posting a profit in January. Cathay
Financial, Taiwan’s largest financial services company, jumped
4.4 percent. The company reported net income of NT$3.04 billion
($103 million) in January, compared with a loss in the same
month a year earlier.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anuchit Nguyen in Bangkok at 
 anguyen@bloomberg.net ;
Victoria Stilwell in New York at 
 vstilwell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net ;
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  