-- Hengdeli
-- B y   A n j a l i   C o r d e i r o
-- 2013-02-07T10:23:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/hengdeli-responds-to-allegations-it-lost-big-watch-brands.html
Hengdeli Holdings Ltd.  said its
relationships with global luxury brands remain close and its
financial policies are prudent after a Next Magazine report
fueled concerns about the watchseller’s China operations.  The company has a “good relationship” with  Swatch Group
AG  and  LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA  and remains the
largest retailer for the Omega and Rado brands in China,
Hengdeli said in a statement yesterday. Hengdeli  dropped  3.4
percent to close at HK$2.54.  The magazine last week said the company lost exclusive
distribution licenses for Omega, Rado, Longines and Fendi in
China, and had negative  cash flow  and high inventory.
“Operating cash outflow’ was caused by faster expansion and the
increased inventory reflected ‘‘strategic’’ building of
international-brand stock, the watch retailer said in
yesterday’s statement.  Hengdeli said it has been focusing more on retail since
2002 and the Omega, Rado and Longines wholesale business moved
to a joint venture with Swatch in 2003.  Nick Hayek , chief executive officer of Swatch, which owns
the Omega, Longines and Rado brands, in a phone interview last
week forecast continued growth in mainland China and said he’s
‘‘very happy” about his company’s arrangement with its Chinese
partner.  Kelly Fung, at Porda Havas International Finance
Communications Group, a public relations firm representing
Hengdeli, said she had no comment beyond the statement. LVMH,
through an external spokesman, declined to comment.  Swatch Group owns 9.1 percent of Hengdeli, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA,
whose brands include Fendi, holds 5.9 percent, the data show.  “We are shareholders and it’s going very well --- there is
no change,” Hayek said of Swatch’s relationship with Hengdeli
last week. “The development is very good. There is no
irritation in our collaboration.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anjali Cordeiro in Hong Kong at 
 acordeiro2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anjali Cordeiro at 
 acordeiro2@bloomberg.net  