-- Merkel Backs Education Minister Buffeted by Plagiarism Charge
-- B y   J o s e p h   d e   W e c k
-- 2013-02-06T14:29:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/merkel-s-education-minister-stripped-of-doctorate-on-plagiarism.html
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel 
rallied to the side of her education and research minister after
she was stripped of her doctorate amid allegations of
plagiarism.  Annette Schavan  said that she was challenging the decision
by the Heinrich Heine University Dusseldorf after it concluded
yesterday that she had “systematically” copied parts of her
1980 doctoral thesis on philosophy. Schavan, 57, who is on an
official trip to South Africa, said she didn’t plan to resign,
Deutsche Presse-Agentur reported.  The chancellor “values her work as a minister and has full
confidence in her,”  Steffen Seibert , Merkel’s chief spokesman,
said at a regular government press conference in Berlin today.
Once Schavan returns to Germany, “it will be possible to talk
calmly, and the minister will explain her position in more
detail,” he said.  The opposition called on Schavan to quit, seeking to put
Merkel under pressure eight months before federal elections.
Schavan, a member of Merkel’s Christian Democratic Union, is a
confidante of the Chancellor and the  only Cabinet minister  to
have served in the same post since Merkel was elected in 2005.  The allegations “are baseless,” Schavan said today on her
Twitter Inc. account. “Having received the decision, I will
file a challenge against it.”  She is the second German  Cabinet minister  in two years
accused of plagiarizing a PhD thesis. Defense Minister  Karl- Theodor zu Guttenberg  stepped down in March 2011, two weeks
after he was stripped of his doctorate.  ‘Cheating Is Cheating’  The three opposition parties in parliament said Schavan,
who is also science minister, could no longer serve as a role
model for young academics and had to go. She “didn’t bluff as
boldly as Guttenberg,” Thomas Oppermann, the chief whip for the
main opposition Social Democratic Party, said in an e-mailed
statement. “But cheating is cheating.”  While the affair is a distraction for Merkel as she bids
for a third term in September’s vote, it is unlikely to hurt her
approval ratings in the long run. Guttenberg had a higher
profile than Schavan as the most popular politician in Germany
at the time, yet his decision to quit failed to taint Merkel
even after she publicly backed him. Support for her party rose
in an opinion poll published today.  The allegations surrounding Schavan’s dissertation surfaced
on the Internet in May 2012 and the minister herself asked her
former university to investigate.  ‘Not Her Own’  After a meeting lasting more than five hours yesterday, the
university concluded Schavan’s thesis contained “significant
amounts of non-identified passages taken word for word from
other texts,” Professor Bruno Bleckmann, dean of the philosophy
department, said in  an e-mailed statement . The faculty council
found that Schavan had “systematically and knowingly” advanced
“intellectual thoughts that in reality were not her own.”  The decision “was based on a flawed procedure” and was
illegal, Schavan’s law firm, Redeker Sellner Dahs, said in a
 statement  posted on her website. “There was no deception” on
Schavan’s part, according to the statement.  The plagiarism scandal comes as Merkel’s Social Democratic
challenger  Peer Steinbrueck  attempts to put her on the backfoot
over banks, her policy on the debt crisis and what he says is a
growing gap between rich and poor in Germany. The Cabinet today
set the election date for Sept. 22.  Support for Merkel’s CDU/CSU bloc rose one percentage point
to 41 percent while Steinbrueck’s SPD held at 25 percent in a
weekly Forsa poll for Stern magazine released today. Backing for
the SPD’s Green Party allies was also unchanged at 15 percent,
while Merkel’s Free Democratic Party coalition partner held at 4
percent, below the 5 percent threshold to win parliament seats.
Forsa polled 2,500 voters on Jan. 28-Feb. 1. The margin of error
was 2.5 percentage points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joseph de Weck  in Berlin at 
 jdeweck@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  