-- German Banking Bill May Affect Up to 12 Lenders, Schaeuble Says
-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n   a n d   T o n y   C z u c z k a
-- 2013-02-06T12:20:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/merkel-cabinet-backs-jail-terms-for-rule-flouting-bank-managers.html
As many as 12 banks based in Germany
will be affected by government legislation to force some large
retail banks to spin off proprietary trading, Finance Minister
 Wolfgang Schaeuble  said.  Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s Cabinet approved a draft bill
today that would force deposit banks to separate proprietary
trading, lending and guarantees to hedge funds as well as high-
frequency trading when associated activities exceed 100 billion
euros ($136 billion), or 20 percent of the balance sheet. The
BaFin financial regulator would get discretionary powers that
affect lenders not covered by the limits.  “Based on the figures for 2011, around 10-12 banks in
Germany will be affected” by the legislation, Schaeuble told
reporters in Berlin today. “We’re empowering BaFin to go beyond
the general rule in individual cases when necessary.”  Deutsche
Bank AG , Landesbank Baden-Wuerttemberg and Commerzbank AG were
named by the so-called Liikanen group as being affected.  The bill is the latest measure taken by Merkel to regulate
financial markets after curbing manager pay, banning some short-
selling and making banks pay into a resolution fund. Banking
legislation is at the forefront of policy making as lawmakers
prepare to contest federal elections slated for Sept. 22.  Under the bill, top managers at banks face prison sentences
of up to five years or a penalty of as much as 11 million euros
if they intentionally violate rules and the banks that employ
them get into trouble as a result.  Punishing financial-market participants with jail terms is
not “draconian, but proper,” Deputy Finance Minister  Steffen Kampeter  said yesterday in an interview. Legal solutions
shouldn’t be restricted to limiting bonuses, he said.  Market Stability  There is no evidence that a split of trading business from
other parts of banks improves stability on financial markets,
according to the BdB Association of German Banks.  “The package on financial market regulation passed by
Cabinet today follows the wrong path,”  Andreas Schmitz , BdB
president, said in an e-mailed statement. “The draft law
weakens Germany as a financial center and the proven universal
banking model in several ways. It is primarily the product of
electioneering.”  The government aims to pass the draft in the lower house of
parliament and gain upper-house approval before the summer.  Kampeter said that he’s confident the opposition-controlled
upper house, or Bundesrat, will back the measures because
there’s “consensus not only among German legislators but among
the German population that we should not wait for the rest of
the world to regulate and address these problems, but to step
forward.”  Commission Proposals  The European Commission will wait until September before
presenting draft rules for an overhaul of bank structures in a
bid to curb risk and prevent lenders being too-big-to-fail, a
spokesman for European Union financial services chief  Michel Barnier  said Jan. 30.  Merkel’s Social Democratic challenger,  Peer Steinbrueck ,
first proposed that German banks split their investment-banking
operations from consumer units to protect depositors and has
said the government’s draft law is insufficient.  Germany is also pushing for the commission to bring forward
a bank restructuring directive to 2015 from a planned 2018 start
date. The directive would set Europe-wide rules for so-called
bail-ins at failing banks, compelling senior bondholders to
accept losses.  “We have a majority of countries who love bailouts, but
bailouts should be the exception,” Kampeter said. “It’s not
the bailout by the taxpayers which should be the regular case,
it should be a proper bail-in structure so that everybody who
invests in a business or takes a share knows it’s not the tax-
payer who takes the risk, but he himself.”  The package of German laws would go into effect in 2014 and
banks would have until July 2015 to complete the separation of
proprietary trading activities. Trading activities necessary to
prepare for client business, such as market-making, don’t have
to be separated automatically because of the law.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net ;
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  