-- Merrill Wins Dismissal of Woori Bank Suit Over CDO Losses
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2013-02-07T05:30:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/merrill-wins-dismissal-of-woori-bank-suit-over-cdo-losses.html
Bank of America Corp. ’s  Merrill Lynch 
unit won dismissal of a lawsuit by  Woori Bank  over losses on
$143 million of collateralized debt obligations because the
South Korean company filed too late.  U.S. District Judge  Victor Marrero  in Manhattan ruled in a
written decision made public yesterday that Seoul-based Woori
failed to sue within three years as required by a South Korean
statute of limitations. Marrero rejected Woori’s argument that
the three-year period didn’t begin to run until the Financial
Crisis Inquiry Commission published a Jan. 27, 2011, report.  “The overall controversy surrounding Merrill Lynch’s CDO
investments and relationship with the ratings agencies, numerous
government investigations into Merrill Lynch, and private
lawsuits against Merrill Lynch relating to the specific CDOs at
issue in Woori’s claims in this case, were sufficient to put
Woori on notice of a putative claim” more than three years
before the case was filed, Marrero said.  Woori claimed in a complaint filed in May that it was
defrauded by Merrill in 2005 and 2006 when the bank sold
interests in seven collateralized debt obligations, or CDOs,
designed to move toxic mortgage assets off Merrill’s books.  Merrill used misleading credit ratings to hide the risks of
mortgages underlying its CDOs and residential mortgage-backed
securities, or RMBS, Woori alleged.  Christopher Lebsock, a lawyer for Woori, didn’t immediately
return a voice-mail message seeking comment on the ruling.  In December, a different federal judge in Manhattan
dismissed a suit by Woori against Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc over claimed losses on $80 million of CDOs tied to the
housing market. Woori has asked the judge to reopen the case.  The Merrill case is Woori Bank v. Merrill Lynch, Pierce,
Fenner & Smith Inc., 12-cv-3993, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  