-- ETNs Would Lose Tax Edge in House Republican Proposal
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n   a n d   K e v i n   D u g a n
-- 2013-02-06T15:32:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/etns-would-lose-tax-edge-in-house-republican-proposal.html
Exchange-traded notes, which mimic
investments in securities without an annual tax bite, would lose
that edge under a proposal from the top Republican tax writer in
Congress.  Representative  Dave Camp , a Michigan Republican, wants to
require mark-to-market taxation of derivatives. Through that
system, ETN holders would determine the products’ value each
year and pay taxes at ordinary income rates on any change, even
if they haven’t sold the securities.  “Structured notes are really a creature of the current tax
code,” said  Daniel Crowley , a partner at  K&L Gates LLP  in
Washington and a former lobbyist for the Investment Company
Institute, which represents mutual funds. “Otherwise, there
would be no reason for them to exist.”  Camp is incorporating a draft of his  plan  into a broader
overhaul of the U.S. tax code. His proposal on derivatives would
have wide-ranging effects in the financial world. The change
would sap enthusiasm for exchange-traded notes, which have
attracted about $17 billion from U.S. investors, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Lawyers, accountants, investors and market participants
have been trying to determine the probable winners and losers
under Camp’s plan since he released it Jan. 24. Sage Eastman, a
spokesman for Camp, said there is no estimate as to whether the
proposal would increase or reduce tax revenue.  Proposal’s Purpose  Camp  said  he’s proposing the tax-code modernization to keep
up with changes in financial products and make the rules simpler
and more fair. He has also said his bill would curb Wall
Street’s ability to hide and disguise risk by using derivatives.  Lawyers are still parsing the potential effects on
convertible debt, straddles and futures markets. So far, the
financial industry’s representatives in Washington have been
relatively quiet about the proposal.  Scott Talbott  of the Financial Services Roundtable,  Will Acworth  of the Futures Industry Association and Lauren Dobbs of
the International Swaps and Derivatives Association declined to
comment on Camp’s plan.  The Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association
has been gathering input from its members and plans to provide
feedback to Camp that emphasizes potential unintended
consequences, said Payson Peabody, managing director and tax
counsel at the Washington-based group.  ‘Larger Project’  “We understand that this is part of a larger project, tax
reform project, which we generally support,” he said. “We know
there are other pieces of this, so we don’t want to lose the
forest for the trees.”  The largest U.S. banks would be unaffected, at least when
it comes to their own holdings. Current tax law already requires
them to mark their derivative portfolios to market annually.  Among the most straightforward calculations is the effect
on exchange-traded notes. The securities, issued by companies
such as  Barclays Plc  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. , are derivatives
whose value is tied to another investment, such as a stock
market index.  Holders of assets that generate dividends and capital gains
must pay taxes in the year those are received. By contrast, an
ETN doesn’t generate such income, and holders don’t have to pay
taxes until they sell the note.  Establishing Parity  Camp, a Michigan Republican and chairman of the Ways and
Means Committee in the House of Representatives, wants to change
that and establish parity between derivatives and other
investments.  A 2011 report from Congress’s Joint Committee on Taxation
showed how investors can take advantage of the variable tax
treatment of different financial instruments to obtain the
lowest tax rates on gains and the greatest benefit from losses.  Camp’s plan would reduce the alternatives for investors,
said David Shapiro, a principal at PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP in
Washington. They could own ordinary assets, which would mean
taxes only upon the sale and capital gains rates. Or they could
own derivatives, which would mean mark-to-market accounting and
ordinary income taxation each year.  “This proposal is essentially taking some of those choices
off the menu,” said Shapiro, who was senior counsel for
financial products at the Treasury Department from 2007 to 2009.
“But it’s also keeping the fundamental choice there.”  Capital Gains  The top tax rate for ordinary income is 39.6 percent,
compared with a 20 percent top rate for capital gains. The
investment income of top earners is also subject to a 3.8
percent additional tax, which would apply to capital or profits
from derivatives.  Camp’s broader tax overhaul would lower individual rates
and perhaps change capital gains rates. He hasn’t said what the
new top rates would be.  The plan may make tax receipts more volatile in a crisis
with falling asset prices, as in 2008. That’s because investors
with losing positions could subtract their paper losses from
their other income, Shapiro said.  Camp’s proposed change may cause difficulty for holders of
exchange-traded notes that aren’t tied to underlying securities,
because tougher tax rules would apply and investors wouldn’t
have another alternative.  Volatility Index  One use of the notes is to provide a chance to profit from
volatility, usually by investing in securities that replicate
the Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility Index, commonly
known as the  VIX .  The benchmark is sometimes referred to by investors as the
Fear Index because it surges during periods of economic
uncertainty, such as when Standard & Poor’s cut the U.S.’s
sovereign debt rating to AA+ from AAA in August 2011.  There is no way to invest in volatility with non-derivative
instruments, said  Samuel Lee , an analyst at  Morningstar Inc . in
Chicago. Exchange-traded funds tied to the VIX rely on
investments such as options or futures, he said.  “We would consider that a change for the worse,”  Jerry Miccolis , chief investment officer of the Madison, New Jersey-
based Brinton Eaton Associates Inc., said about Camp’s proposal.  While Miccolis used to invest in volatility through
exchange-traded and structured notes, now he uses swaps, he
said. Less than half of his $230 million fund invests in
volatility.  “You ought to be able to control when it is you have to
claim a gain or loss for tax purposes,” he said, a choice
denied to derivatives owners under the Camp proposal. “That
control shouldn’t be taken out of your hands.”  Short Term  The iPath  S&P 500 VIX Short-Term Futures ETN  is the largest
VIX-tied exchange-traded note, with $1.17 billion under
management, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Because the proposal would tax derivatives in a similar way
to mutual funds, investors probably won’t stop buying the notes,
said  Dan Besse , managing director at Pacilio Wealth Management
in Westport, Connecticut.  “I don’t think this proposed tax change would have a
radical effect on the use of ETNs,” he said. “Although a lot
of wealth managers, including us, are aware of tax
ramifications, we’re trying to make the best and most suitable
investments for our clients.”  Investors would adjust and shift money to other
investments, K&L Gates’s Crowley said. That’s especially true
because the proposal would apply only prospectively to
investments made starting in 2014.  ‘Some Dislocations’  “I see all of this as causing some dislocations in the
short term, but ultimately people will get used to complying
with the new rules,” he said. “It will undoubtedly cause some
squawking in the near term.”  The market’s relatively small size means that most
investors won’t be affected by tax changes, Lee said. The $17
billion in investor-owned ETNs amounts to less than 1 percent of
the $1.93 trillion exchange-traded product market, according to
a  December report  by  BlackRock Inc ., which promotes iPath notes.  “I think it would hurt more speculators and other types of
investors who have a reliance on this, but the average Joe Schmo
is not going to really notice any changes,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net ;
Kevin Dugan in New York at 
 kdugan4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  