-- EU Investment Spending Seen Sacrificed in Budget Clash
-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r
-- 2013-02-06T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/eu-investment-spending-seen-sacrificed-in-clash-over-bloc-budget.html
A promised European Union investment
budget to modernize the recession-hit economy is set to be
scaled back in a bonfire of competing national demands.  Spending on cross-border transport, energy and research
projects was chopped in a first round of talks in November and
faces further cuts when leaders meet in Brussels today in what
all call the last chance to set the 27-nation bloc’s budget for
2014-2020.  “We like to talk often about more Europe, but when we talk
about the budget we seem to be delivering less Europe,” Prime
Minister  Valdis Dombrovskis  of Latvia, which relative to the
size of the economy was the second-biggest EU aid recipient in
2011, said in an interview in Riga yesterday.  The euro-area debt crisis leaves less money for the EU-wide
budget, in talks haunted by echoes of the financial nationalism
of France’s  Charles De Gaulle  in the 1960s and Britain’s
 Margaret Thatcher  in the 1980s.  A July 2012  European Commission  proposal for a seven-year
package of 1.047 trillion euros ($1.4 trillion) was shaved to
973 billion euros in November. The wealthier countries that
provide the financing want to shear off another 20 billion
euros. The seven-year budget expiring this year totaled 994
billion euros.  A deadlock would hobble subsidy programs, force the EU to
fall back to annual budget extensions and add to concerns about
Europe’s political cohesion that have been inflamed by the
financial turmoil.  ‘Negative Message’  “Further delays would send out a very negative message at
this time of fragile economic recovery,”  Jose Barroso , the
commission’s president, said yesterday in a  European Parliament 
budget debate in Strasbourg, France.  Whatever the outcome, subsidies from the central budget --
worth barely 1 percent of EU-wide gross domestic product,
compared to national spending averaging 50 percent -- will drop
in real terms for the first time in EU history.  “If the budget is to help Europe get stronger
economically, it’s too small to do it anyway,” said Jorge
Nunez, a researcher at the  Centre for European Policy Studies  in
Brussels. “The budget is completely and utterly out of sync
with the challenges.”  The leaders’ first stab at a deal, on Nov. 22-23, shuffled
money from cross-border infrastructure projects to farming to
placate France and to regional development to accommodate poorer
economies, especially in eastern Europe.  In the process, only 31 billion euros was left from the
commission’s call for spending of 40 billion euros on
international transport, energy and digital networks -- promoted
as a driver of future  growth .  Cuts Planned  Leaders as ideologically opposed as French President
 Francois Hollande  and U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  connived
to wield that knife, in a foretaste of the haggling.  Hollande’s insistence on farm subsidies, a mainly French
perk dating to the early days of the EU, belied the pro-growth
mantra with which he entered the EU arena after his election in
May 2012.  The outcome echoed the  “weeping and gnashing of teeth” 
that De Gaulle in 1965 said he encountered after pushing through
demands for the then-embryonic union to subsidize French
agriculture in addition to opening markets for German industry.  Britain’s Cameron has even less room to maneuver after
vowing to let U.K. voters decide whether to stay in the EU,
assuming they re-elect him in 2015. His lodestar is Thatcher,
who won a permanent annual rebate in 1984 to offset the U.K.’s
small share of farm aid.  Rebates Sought  Germany, the Netherlands and Sweden have since been granted
temporary rebates, and Denmark wants a money-back guarantee as
well, sowing divisions among the net payers. In turn, France
wants a cap on its contribution to the U.K.’s refund, and Italy
-- the biggest net payer in 2011, relative to economic size --
wants a better deal too.  At the November summit, the political contortions
culminated with Cameron bowing to the restoration of some farm
aid so he could take aim at another target: the salaries and
pensions of the EU bureaucracy’s 55,000 employees, which make up
6.4 percent of the total budget.  “Brussels continues to exist as if it is in a parallel
universe,” Cameron said after that summit. “More than 200
commission staff earn more than I do.” The prime minister earns
142,500 pounds ($223,241) a year.  Fighting Unemployment  EU President  Herman Van Rompuy , who will shepherd the
talks, also called for fresh money to combat youth unemployment,
without saying how much or where it would come from. Southern
countries battling the debt crisis such as Spain, with a youth
jobless rate of 55.6 percent, would be the main beneficiaries.  A Brussels official preparing the summit predicted talks
that could stretch into the weekend. Briefing reporters on
condition of anonymity, the official called it the last chance
for an accord before the mid-2014 elections to the EU
parliament.  Leaders would need to sell a deal to the parliament, which
gained greater powers over spending in a 2009 overhaul of the
EU. Legislators of all political stripes served up threats and
curses during this week’s session in Strasbourg.  Guy Verhofstadt  of Belgium, the Liberals’ floor leader,
denounced a “budgetary swindle.” The parliament’s president,
 Martin Schulz , a German Social Democrat, said the assembly won’t
rubber stamp whatever comes out of the summit.  Alain Lamassoure ,
a French conservative, lamented that “no one is defending
Europe. Everyone only speaks of himself.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  