-- EU Seeks to Advance U.S. Trade Deal as China’s Role Grows
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e   a n d   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 2013-02-06T10:02:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/eu-seeks-to-advance-u-s-trade-deal-as-china-s-role-grows.html
The U.S. and the European Union may
make progress this week on a trade report aimed at encouraging
talks to remove trans-Atlantic commercial barriers, the latest
step toward expanding the world’s largest economic relationship.  EU Trade Commissioner  Karel De Gucht  is scheduled to meet
with U.S. officials including outgoing Trade Representative  Ron Kirk  in Washington today in a bid to set the stage for the
preparation of negotiations on a free-trade deal. Work on the
report may conclude this week, EU spokesman  Olivier Bailly  told
reporters in Brussels yesterday, saying he didn’t know when it
may be made public.  An accord between the trading partners would provide a
boost to the 27-nation EU as it recovers from a sovereign-debt
crisis and serve as a counterweight to China’s role in global
trade.  Investment and trade  between the U.S. and bloc was valued
at $4.5 trillion in 2011, according to Bloomberg Government.  “The EU’s economic relationship with the U.S. is its most
important, unrivaled in scope and intensity,” the Brussels-
based European Commission said in a report released yesterday.
“A far-reaching agreement between the two biggest economies in
the world would indeed give a strong boost to economic growth
and send a strong signal of leadership to other countries.”  European leaders will have a chance to add momentum to the
trade talks at a summit in Brussels later this week. The
prospect of a deal is gaining support as the U.S. and the EU
seek to realign themselves to balance China’s growing economic
prominence, an EU diplomat told reporters in Brussels yesterday.  Chinese Disruption  “China has emerged and could potentially disrupt the
global economic system,” Tyson Barker, director of
transatlantic relations for the Bertelsmann Foundation in
Washington, said by telephone. “The U.S. and Europe have an
opportunity to reset the economic system on terms that favors
their economic outlook.”  Once the report is completed, it will pave the way for work
on formal trade talks. The EU may aim to agree by June on a
mandate to start negotiations, the diplomat said. Any deal among
trade negotiators would then need political backing and
ratification by both sides -- a process that can take more than
a year.  The U.S. wants the EU leaders to show that the bloc has the
determination to complete a trade deal in a reasonable time
period, according to a senior U.S. official with knowledge of
the discussions.  Progress on a trade agreement between the U.S. and EU has
been hampered for years by disputes over issues including
agricultural aid, regulatory standards and health protections. A
transatlantic trade deal is “within our reach,” Vice President
 Joe Biden  said in Munich on Feb. 2.  Political Will  “If we go down that road, we should try to do it on one
tank of gas and avoid protracted rounds of negotiations,” he
said. “The question now is whether the political will exists to
resolve those longstanding differences.”  The EU on Feb. 4 announced changes in rules concerning the
trade of live pigs and lactic acid used to clean bovine
carcasses in an effort to win U.S. support for an agreement. The
changes take effect Feb. 25.  Two-way trade in goods between the U.S. and the EU was
worth $637 billion in 2011 and $594 billion through November
2012, the latest period for which data are available.
Washington-based groups including the U.S. Chamber of Commerce
and the Business Roundtable -- whose members include the heads
of  Citigroup Inc . of New York,  Exxon Mobil Corp . of Irving,
Texas, and  Wal-Mart Stores Inc . of Bentonville, Arkansas -- have
pushed for an accord.  The officials working on the report released an interim
review in June that set a goal of eliminating “all duties on
bilateral trade.”  An agreement to remove tariffs on U.S. and EU goods would
cut $6.4 billion a year in costs for American exporters,
according to a Bloomberg Government study in November. Chemical
manufacturers such as  Dow Chemical Co . of Midland, Michigan,
would pay about $1 billion less a year in duties, it said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net ;
Rebecca Christie in Brussels at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  