-- EU Says G-20 Debt Restructuring Talks Could Roil Markets
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 2013-02-06T18:42:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/eu-says-g-20-debt-restructuring-talks-could-roil-markets.html
The Group of 20 nations should take
care not to spook markets if they decide to discuss sovereign
debt restructuring when finance ministers and central bankers
meet next week in Moscow, the European Union said in a planning
document prepared for the Feb. 14-16 meeting.  Russia has proposed adding the topic to the meeting’s
agenda via talks on the Institute of International Finance’s
proposed best practices. IIF, the Washington-based trade group
that represented creditors in Greece’s landmark restructuring
last year, drew up the guidelines in order to prevent future
strains from triggering a sovereign debt crisis like the one
facing the euro area for the past three years.  “The EU does not oppose discussing this issue, but we
should be aware that it could be market sensitive, in particular
in light of the recent legal case on Argentinian debt,” the EU
said in its G-20 planning document, dated Feb. 5.  Argentina, which defaulted on $95 billion of bonds in 2001,
has been appealing an Oct. 26 U.S. court ruling that said the
country can’t treat holders of its restructured debt more
favorably than so-called holdout creditors who didn’t take part
in writedowns.  The EU document also calls on the U.S. to reach a
“credible” medium-term budget plan and tackle high
unemployment. Japan needs to meet its medium-term fiscal
commitments and China needs to accelerate structural reforms and
move “more rapidly” toward a market-based currency system.  The EU assessed its own prospects as much improved, saying
“tail risks have significantly receded in the euro area thanks
to strong policy actions.” It also said it remains committed to
a “timely and consistent implementation” of the Basel III
capital accords, which have been delayed in Europe and the U.S.
as discussions continue on how to implement the standards.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rebecca Christie in Brussels at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  