-- EU to Discuss Adding Hezbollah to Terror List
-- B y   J o n e s   H a y d e n
-- 2013-02-06T16:32:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/eu-to-discuss-adding-hezbollah-to-terror-list-after-bus-attack.html
The European Union said it will
discuss designating Hezbollah as a terrorist group after
Bulgaria implicated the Lebanon-based organization in the 2012
bombing of a tourist bus.  “The European Union and the member states will look into
several options; this is one of them, but not the only one,”
Maja Kocijancic, a spokeswoman for EU foreign-affairs chief
 Catherine Ashton , told reporters today in Brussels. Persons and
organizations placed on the terrorist list are subject to
stepped-up police and judicial surveillance and can face other
restrictions including an asset freeze, according to the EU’s
website.  An investigation by Bulgaria found “evidence of links and
financing” from Hezbollah based on information about the
suspected conspirators in the attack, Bulgarian Interior
Minister  Tsvetan Tsvetanov  said yesterday. That prompted Israel
and the U.S. to renew calls for the EU to follow them in
designating Hezbollah as a terrorist group.  The EU has declined to label Hezbollah a terrorist group,
which would block its fundraising and other activities in
Europe, because some Europeans governments see it as a
legitimate political organization and a powerful influence in
Lebanon.  Lebanese Economy  Placing Hezbollah on the EU terrorist list would have a
“negative impact on the commercial relationship between Lebanon
Europe, which is the first commercial partner of Lebanon,”  Sami Nader , an economist and a professor of international relations
at Beirut’s St. Joseph University, said in a telephone
interview. “That would shake the trust in the Lebanese economy
and banking system at a time when we need to increase our
relationship with the rest of the world.”  The EU is reviewing the findings of the investigation by
Bulgaria into the July 18 attack near Burgas, a holiday spot on
the Black Sea, Kocijancic said.  “We will look into the outcomes of this investigation and
discuss the appropriate response,” Kocijancic said. In addition
to the terrorist list, “there are also actions that can be
taken through various channels,” she said, citing “judicial
action, political and diplomatic measures,” and the EU’s
police-coordination arm, Europol.  Two-Day Summit  It is unclear whether EU leaders will discuss the issue at
a two-day summit that starts tomorrow in Brussels, an EU
official told reporters today. A formal decision would rest with
the 27-nation bloc’s foreign ministers, who won’t be at this
week’s meeting, the official said on condition of anonymity. The
next scheduled meeting of the foreign ministers is Feb. 18 in
Brussels.  “Various options are under consideration,” Philippe
Lalliot, spokesman for France’s Foreign Ministry, told reporters
today in Paris. “We will draw the consequences in coordination
with our European partners.”  Tsvetanov said two of the suspects in the attack are
holders of an Australian and a Canadian passport who have lived
in Lebanon since 2006. Bulgarian authorities have a “well-
grounded assumption” that they were members of Hezbollah’s
military wing, Tsvetanov told reporters in Sofia yesterday. The
third suspect is still unidentified, he said.  Bulgarian and Israeli experts cooperated to identify the
suspects in coordination with the U.S. Federal Bureau of
Investigation and the Central Intelligence Agency, Tsvetanov
said. Bulgaria has requested assistance in the investigation
from law-enforcement authorities in Lebanon, Canada and
Australia, he said.  Lebanonese Prime Minister  Najib Mikati  stressed his
government’s “readiness to cooperate with the Bulgarian state
in clarifying the circumstances of this matter,” according to a
statement yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jones Hayden in Brussels at 
 jhayden1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  