-- Euroclear Opens Ruble Debt to Foreigners, OFZs Pare Gains
-- B y   V l a d i m i r   K u z n e t s o v
-- 2013-02-06T16:33:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/euroclear-opens-russian-bond-market-to-foreigners-from-tomorrow.html
Euroclear Bank SA said it will start
direct settlement of Russia’s ruble-denominated government debt
tomorrow, opening the $100 billion market to foreign investors.
The so-called OFZs rallied the most in almost a month on the
announcement before paring gains.  The liberalization, part of a plan to boost financial
markets in the world’s largest energy supplier, will spur demand
for OFZs and lower yields, making it more “comfortable” for
the nation to borrow, First Deputy Central Bank chairman  Alexei Ulyukayev  told reporters in Moscow today after the announcement.  “Industry experts are predicting new foreign capital
inflows to Russia in the region of $20 billion,” Euroclear
Chairman  Frederic Hannequart  said in the statement. The company
will start with over-the-counter operations and plans to offer
exchange-traded transactions for the debt in March.  OFZ bonds maturing in February 2027 snapped seven days of
declines, lowering the yield one basis point, or 0.01 percentage
point, to 7.08 percent. The yield fell as low as 6.94 percent
after the announcement and has declined 195 basis points in the
last eight months in anticipation of the liberalization,
initially expected by mid-2012.  “The Euroclear launch will boost liquidity, bring more
investors to the market and improve Russia’s image,”  Evgeny Shilenkov , head of debt sales at  Veles Capital  in Moscow, said
by phone today. “We’re going to see a rally in OFZs.”  ‘Artifical Fence’  Foreign investors will now have direct access to buying and
selling the debt by opening accounts in Euroclear and
sidestepping brokers and their fees. Access to municipal and
corporate debt markets is set to follow “in the coming
months,” according to today’s statement.  Russia’s debt market has been “behind an artificial fence
that now will be dismantled,”  Andrey Lifchits , who manages
about $50 million of bonds at Spectrum Partners, said by phone
from Cyprus on Jan. 30.  Clearstream International SA is at an “advanced stage” in
establishing a direct link with Russia’s Central Settlement
Depositary, spokeswoman Jessica Sicre said by e-mail today.  The ruble rebounded against the dollar after the
announcement, climbing as much as 0.1 percent, before trading
down 0.4 percent at 30.0800 by 7 p.m. in Moscow.  Foreign Holdings  Russia’s OFZ market, which was valued at 3.2 trillion
rubles ($107 billion) at the end of 2012 by the Finance
Ministry, is currently dominated by local banks. Non-residents
hold about 6.5 percent of the debt, a fraction of the 17.6
percent foreigners hold in Turkey and 29.7 percent in Mexico,
according to Finance Ministry and International Monetary Fund
data. Non-residents held 36 percent of Polish domestic
government bonds at the end of December, according to Finance
Ministry data.  “Overall non-resident holdings of OFZ remained
disproportionately low in comparison to other major emerging
markets,” said  Gintaras Shlizhyus , an analyst at  Raiffeisen
International , said in an e-mailed note Jan. 25 from Vienna.
Shlizhyus said he expects net inflow into OFZs this year at
about $15 billion.  “The most sophisticated investors” bought $5 billion to
$7 billion of  OFZs last year and the “residual” net inflow
this year will probably be $10 billion to $13 billion, Sberbank
CIB said in a research note Jan. 31.  Lifchits is more optimistic, saying inflows could reach $25
billion in the 12 months from the start of Euroclear operations.
“By degree, this is comparable to the capital outflow from the
country,” Lifchits said. Last year net capital outflow reached
$56.8 billion.  Hotter Inflows  Sberbank CIB analysts led by  Alexander Kudrin  said
Euroclear’s entry may cut the “fair-value yield” of OFZs by as
much as 1 percentage point, according to the report.  That “could help the Finance Ministry place new paper more
cheaply and save funds for debt servicing in the future,”
Sberbank CIB said.  The flip side of Euroclear’s entry is that it opens the
Russian market to more speculative, “hotter” inflows that can
increase volatility, said  Ruslan Tongiev , head of financial
markets operations at Promsvyazbank in Moscow.  “For me, as a trader, that’s good,” Tongiev said. Western
investors are very sensitive to any changes in the investment
climate and tend to leave the market “all at once, rushing out
the same door,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vladimir Kuznetsov in Moscow at 
 vkuznetsov2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  