-- Euro Falls Toward One-Week Low Versus Dollar Before ECB
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i   a n d   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2013-02-06T22:14:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/euro-weakens-against-dollar-yen-amid-spanish-political-turmoil.html
The euro fell toward a one-week low
versus the dollar as European Central Bank policy makers
prepared to meet tomorrow amid political and banking turmoil
that threatens to renew the region’s sovereign-debt crisis.  The 17-nation currency slid against most of its 16 major
peers as Spain’s premier resisted opposition calls to resign and
Italy’s  Banca Monte dei Paschi di Siena SpA  faces criminal
probes over losses it hid in 2008 and 2009 using derivatives.
The euro declined as Greece’s finance minister said its strength
is a concern. The yen weakened to a 32-month low against the
dollar on speculation Japan will select a new central-bank chief
committed to boosting monetary easing.  “The euro is reacting to all the political issues coming
out of Italy and Spain,”  Charles St-Arnaud , a foreign-exchange
strategist at Nomura Holdings Inc. in New York, said in a
telephone interview. “We’ve seen tensions in the euro zone
decrease meaningfully so far this year, so it’s normal that at
some point investors would realize things are better, but still
not that good.”  The  euro  fell 0.4 percent to $1.3523 at 5 p.m. New York
time, after declining to $1.3459 yesterday, the lowest since
Jan. 29. It slipped 0.4 percent to 126.63 yen after climbing to
127.71, the strongest since April 2010. The yen was little
changed at 93.64 per dollar after depreciating to 94.06, the
weakest level since May 2010.  The shared currency may decline as low as $1.3180, its
weakest level since Jan. 10, if it fails to break through a key
level of resistance at $1.3711 to $1.3727,  Cilline Bain , a
London-based technical analyst at Credit Suisse, wrote in a
client note. It has support at $1.3310, he said.  Koruna, Zloty  The Czech koruna gained 0.7 percent to the dollar as the
central bank kept interest rates at effectively zero for a
second meeting. The koruna appreciated for a second day to
18.7530.  Poland’s currency declined as much as 0.9 percent against
the greenback as monetary policy makers at Narodowy Bank Polski
cut its main interest rate for a fourth month to avert the
biggest economic slowdown in more than a decade. The zloty
weakened to 3.0896.  Australia’s dollar declined against most of its major peers
as  retail sales  fell 0.2 percent in December, adding to signs
the Reserve Bank may cut interest rates next month. The Aussie
slid 0.7 percent to $1.0320, after dropping to $1.0297, the
lowest since Nov. 16. It dropped 0.7 percent to 96.63 yen.  Rajoy Allegations  Greece’s Yannis Stournaras said on Bloomberg Television
that the euro’s strength is a concern even as its current level
shows a return in confidence in the currency. French President
Francois Hollande yesterday called for government leaders to
steer the euro’s exchange rate, a suggestion rejected by the
German government today, while Luxembourg Finance Minister Luc
Frieden said the level doesn’t concern him at present.  “There is a significant risk of something happening at the
ECB meeting, and that’s why the market will sell ahead of it,”
 Sebastien Galy , a senior foreign-exchange strategist at Societe
Generale SA in New York, said in a telephone interview. “We’ve
seen the market being whipsawed, up and down, on the euro-dollar
side.”  Spain’s Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy faced calls to step
down amid contested reports of corruption in his party. He has
imposed the harshest austerity measures in Spain’s democratic
history to curb the budget deficit and lower borrowing costs.  Italian Yields  Monte Paschi, the world’s oldest lender, said on Jan. 17 it
may be forced to restate earnings after Bloomberg News reported
that it used derivatives to obscure losses. Accounting
irregularities also led to a criminal investigation targeting
former management. The bank’s board was to meet in Siena to
discuss the impact on its balance sheet.  Italian 10-year government  bond yields  climbed 25 basis
points, or 0.25 percentage point, to 4.58 percent this week amid
concern about the possible success of former premier Silvio
Berlusconi at this month’s parliamentary election.  Berlusconi, who is appealing a four-year sentence for tax
fraud while standing trial in an unrelated case on charges of
paying a minor for sex and abusing his office, has narrowed the
gap to the bloc led by Democratic Party leader Pier Luigi
Bersani to within the margin of error of an opinion poll for the
first time before Feb. 24-25 elections.  The euro has strengthened 2.9 percent this year, the
biggest advance among 10 developed-nation currencies tracked by
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The dollar increased 0.1
percent and the yen tumbled 8 percent, the largest decline.  Japan’s Prime Minister Shinzo Abe will present his
candidate for the next BOJ governor to opposition parties after
a visit to the U.S. this month, public broadcaster NHK reported
today, without saying where it got the information. Abe’s
government has defined ending deflation as central to efforts to
revive the world’s third-biggest economy.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net ;
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  