-- Europe Yield Backup Signals Complacency Bringing New Crisis
-- B y   B e n   S i l l s   a n d   S i m o n   K e n n e d y
-- 2013-02-06T12:07:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/europe-yield-backup-signaling-complacency-bringing-a-new-crisis.html
European leaders lulled into
complacency by  Mario Draghi ’s pledge to buy their bonds may be
stumbling toward the next euro-region emergency.  Policy makers are squandering the decline in borrowing
costs triggered by the  European Central Bank  president’s
commitment to defend the single currency, leaving the 17-nation
bloc’s economy and financial systems vulnerable, according to
economists  Charles Wyplosz  and  Paul De Grauwe .  “I don’t see how we avoid having another acute crisis now
that governments are so pleased with themselves,” Wyplosz,
director of the International Center for Money and Banking
Studies in Geneva, said in a telephone interview. “The wave of
optimism we had was unjustified. Key elements of the crisis
aren’t being dealt with.”  Concern that political turbulence would deepen backsliding
has rattled markets. Ten-year bond yields in  Spain  and  Italy 
rose this week to their highest of 2013 as Spanish Premier
 Mariano Rajoy  faced opposition calls to resign amid contested
reports of corruption in his party and Italy’s  Silvio Berlusconi 
narrowed the front-runner’s lead before elections in three
weeks.  Italian government bonds slid today with the yield on 10-
year notes rising 1 basis point to 4.47 percent at 12:56 p.m. in
Rome. Spain’s benchmark stock index fell 0.3 percent while the
country’s 10-year bonds rose.  “The crisis has never been over,” said de Grauwe, a
professor at the London School of Economics and a two-time
candidate for a seat on the ECB’s Executive Board. “If this
reversal goes on we’ll get a new stage and the ECB will have to
act or it will lose credibility.”  Draghi’s Pledge  Triggered by  Greece  in late 2009, the turmoil that has
required 486 billion euros of bailout commitments was brought to
heel by Draghi in July 2012. He pledged to do “whatever it
takes” to save the euro. In September, he spelled out a program
that amounts to an as yet untapped promise to buy the bonds of
governments that agree to austerity goals. It worked.  Ten-year yields in Spain and Italy have declined more than
2 percentage points from July. Bets on intrade.com now imply a
13.5 percent chance of a euro breakup by the end of this year,
down from 39 percent a year ago.  “The worst, probably, is over,” Luxembourg Prime Minister
 Jean-Claude Juncker , who had been head of the group of euro-area
finance ministers since 2005 before he stepped down last month,
said Jan. 10.  Investors have shown they agreed with that assessment.
 Portugal  sold 2.5 billion euros of junk-rated five-year notes
last month in the country’s first bond sale since its 2011
bailout. Spain drew record demand for a 7 billion-euro sale of
10-year notes on Jan. 22. Ireland raised fresh funds from
investors on Jan. 8.  Greek Sale  Even a Greek company was able to borrow.  Hellenic
Telecommunications Organization SA  sold 700 million euros ($948
million) of five-year bonds paying 7.875 percent on Jan. 30,
hailing the transaction as “a vote of confidence”.  As markets advanced, the pressure to enact promised
policies eased.  Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti  watered down labor-
market reforms in the face of resistance the country’s biggest
union. His Spanish counterpart,  Mariano Rajoy , last month
extended emergency aid for the jobless and postponed a plan to
shrink local governments. Germany and Austria are blocking
progress towards banking union by objecting to direct
recapitalization through the European Stability Mechanism for
struggling lenders.  Mounting Debts  “Many in Berlin view direct bank recaps through the ESM as
a back-door for joint liability and resist them forcefully,”
 Joachim Fels , chief economist at Morgan Stanley in London, said
in a Feb. 3 report to clients. “Politically, this is
understandable, but economically it means the negative feedback
loop between troubled sovereigns and weak banks won’t be
broken.”  Meantime, debts are mounting. Government debt in Ireland,
Italy and Portugal will peak this year and in Spain in 2014,
according to European Commission forecasts.  Rajoy added more than 3 billion euros to Spain’s debt load
in the closing hours of 2012 with a New Year’s Eve order
removing a cap on utilities’ government-guaranteed losses.  Spain’s  budget deficit  probably exceeded 9 percent for a
fourth year in 2012 as record unemployment, shrinking output and
the bank bailout costs offset almost all of the government’s 62
billion euros of austerity, according to economists at  Societe
Generale SA  and the Madrid-based Applied Economic Research
Foundation.  Portuguese revenue is shrinking even as the government
increases levies on companies and workers. Tax income dropped
6.1 percent in 2012, the Finance Ministry said Jan. 24.  Deja Vu  With a sense of deja vu, International Monetary Fund
Managing Director  Christine Lagarde  has also urged leaders to
recognize they’ll have to forgive part of the 240 billion euros
pledged to Greece in two aid packages if the country’s finances
are to stabilize.  The Washington-based lender also last month cut its outlook
for the euro-region economy, forecasting a 0.2 percent
contraction this year instead of the 0.1 percent growth it
foresaw in October. The IMF also cut its estimates for Germany
and France as the recession ravaging peripheral Europe weighs on
demand and generates losses for banks.  For  Gary Cohn , president of Goldman Sachs Group Inc., the
lack of a recipe for renewed growth means Europe still faces
“fundamental problems.” Unemployment in Spain and Greece is
above 25 percent.  Bank Losses  “No one has solved the European economic issue for me
yet,” Cohn said in an interview with Bloomberg Television’s
 Susan Li  in Hong Kong yesterday. “No one’s given me an
explanation of how we’re really going to create growth in
Greece, or in Spain, or in other peripheral countries.”  Credit Agricole SA , France’s third-largest bank by market
value, took a 2.7 billion-euro writedown in the fourth quarter
to reflect losses on its stake in a Portuguese lender and
 Deutsche Bank AG  took a 1.9 billion-euro charge. Credit Agricole
already booked losses from a 2.2 billion euro acquisition of
Athens-based Emporiki in 2006.  As losses from the first euro members sucked into the
crisis emerge on the balance sheets of the bloc’s most powerful
members, Cyprus is trying to persuade German Finance Minister
 Wolfgang Schaeuble  it is large enough to merit the fifth bailout
of the crisis. The German government may stall for as long as
three months, Fels said.  “Many in Berlin don’t believe that Cyprus is a systemic
risk,” he said. “I worry about a resurfacing of worries about
bail-ins for bank creditors in Cyprus and even about euro exit
which could easily lead to another bout of the euro crisis.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ben Sills  in Madrid at 
 bsills@bloomberg.net ;
 Simon Kennedy  in London at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  