-- Evercore Said to Put Bollinger Up for Sale
-- B y   M a t t h e w   M o n k s   a n d   D a v i d   C a r e y
-- 2013-02-06T20:29:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/evercore-said-to-put-bollinger-up-for-sale.html
Evercore Partners Inc., the boutique
investment bank founded by  Roger Altman , is exploring a sale of
insurance broker Bollinger Inc. that may fetch as much as $400
million, said people with knowledge of the matter.  The firm began working last year with Bank of America Corp.
to find bids for Short Hills, New Jersey-based Bollinger, said
the people, who asked to not be named because the process is
private. AssuredPartners Inc., owned by Chicago buyout firm GTCR
LLC, is one of the top suitors, two of the people said.  Bollinger offers insurance to colleges, amateur sports
leagues and country clubs. Last year was the busiest for
takeovers of U.S. insurance brokers since 2007, with the bulk
undertaken by private-equity firms, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. Onex Corp. and KKR & Co. were among the private-
equity firms that bought insurance brokers in 2012, attracted by
the industry’s reliable cash flows and minimal use of capital.  Spokesmen at Evercore and Bank of America declined to
comment, while representatives at GTCR and Bollinger didn’t
immediately return calls seeking comment.  AssuredPartners, based in Lake Mary, Florida, is the 15th-
largest U.S. broker by annual revenue, while Bollinger is the
22nd, according to the latest industry survey from Business
Insurance, a trade magazine. Together the firms had about $300
million in 2011 revenue, the data from Business Insurance shows.  Bollinger has made more than a dozen acquisitions since
selling a majority stake to Evercore in 2008, according to the
company’s website. AssuredPartners states on its website that it
has made more than two dozen acquisitions.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Monks in New York at 
 mmonks1@bloomberg.net ;
David Carey in New York at 
 dcarey13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  