-- Hagel’s Senate Confirmation Vote Won’t Happen This Week
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2013-02-07T03:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/levin-says-hagel-confirmation-vote-won-t-happen-this-week-1-.html
Chuck Hagel’ s nomination to be
defense secretary won’t be voted on by the U.S. Senate Armed
Services Committee this week, according to the panel’s chairman.  “I had hoped to hold a vote on the nomination this week,
but the committee’s review of the nomination is not yet
complete,” Senator  Carl Levin , the Michigan Democrat who heads
the panel, said yesterday in an e-mailed statement. “I intend
to schedule a vote on the nomination as soon as possible.”  President Barack Obama’s nomination of Hagel, a former
Republican senator from Nebraska, to succeed the retiring
Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta , has been criticized by
Republicans on matters such as his past opposition to unilateral
sanctions against Iran and his comments about the influence of
what he once called “the Jewish lobby.”  Republicans said yesterday that they weren’t ready for a
vote because they weren’t satisfied by information provided by
Hagel. They said he refused to answer their questions about
payments he received to give speeches and whether other sources
from abroad provided funds to companies and organizations with
which he has been associated.  “This committee, and the American people, have a right to
know if a nominee for secretary of defense has received
compensation, directly or indirectly, from foreign sources,”
Senator  Ted Cruz  of Texas and 25 colleagues said in a letter to
Hagel yesterday.  Democratic Unity  At his confirmation hearing before the Armed Services panel
on Jan. 31, Hagel said that he supports the current,
multinational sanctions against Iran and that he should have
referred to “the pro-Israel lobby” instead of the “Jewish
lobby.”  Democrats control 55 of the 100 seats in the Senate, and
Levin predicted last week that all of them will back Hagel once
the nomination gets to the Senate floor. In addition, at least
five Republicans have said they would help muster the
supermajority of 60 votes that would be needed to overcome an
attempt to block a vote on him.  Today, the Senate panel will hear testimony from Panetta
and General  Martin Dempsey , chairman of the Joint Chiefs of
Staff, on the September attack on the U.S. mission in Benghazi,
Libya. Senator  Lindsey Graham , a South Carolina Republican, had
demanded that they answer questions about the military’s
inability to respond quickly to the deadly attack before action
on Hagel’s nomination.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  