-- Levitt Says McGraw-Hill ‘Foolish’ to Not Settle S&P Lawsuit
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   D e x h e i m e r
-- 2013-02-06T17:09:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/levitt-says-mcgraw-hill-foolish-to-not-settle-s-p-lawsuit-1-.html
The U.S. government will prevail in
its lawsuit accusing  McGraw-Hill Cos . and its Standard & Poor’s
unit of fraud, former Securities and Exchange Commission
Chairman  Arthur Levitt  said.  “The government is going to win,” Levitt said in an
interview today with Tom Keene on Bloomberg Radio. “McGraw-Hill
was foolish not to have made a settlement.”  The Justice Department this week sued McGraw-Hill, claiming
that S&P deliberately understated the risk of bonds backed by
mortgages made to the riskiest borrowers to win business from
Wall Street banks. S&P rated more than $2.8 trillion of
residential mortgage-backed securities and about $1.2 trillion
of collateralized-debt obligations from September 2004 through
October 2007, according to the complaint.  Levitt said any settlement, while “substantial,” will
“come south” of the $5 billion that the U.S. is seeking. The
penalties are based on losses suffered by federally insured
financial institutions, according to acting U.S. Associate
Attorney General Tony West. The department considered that
number “fairly conservative,” West said.  McGraw-Hill had been in “extensive discussions” with the
government over the accusations for at least four months,  Floyd Abrams , a lawyer representing the company, said yesterday.
Settlement talks broke down after the government sought a fine
of more than $1 billion and an admission of wrongdoing from S&P,
the New York Times reported.  Edward Sweeney , a spokesman for New York-based McGraw-Hill,
declined to comment on Levitt’s predictions.  McGraw-Hill  fell  0.8 percent to $44.57 at 11:14 a.m. in New
York. The shares have slipped 24 percent since the company said
Feb. 4 that it expected the lawsuit.  Levitt is a board member of Bloomberg LP and an adviser to
Goldman Sachs Group Inc.,  Carlyle Group LP  and Promontory
Financial Group LLC.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Dexheimer in New York at 
 edexheimer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  