-- ExxonMobil Disputes New Hampshire Well Count With MTBE
-- B y   S a r a h   E a r l e   a n d   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 2013-02-06T19:04:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/exxonmobil-disputes-new-hampshire-well-count-with-mtbe.html
ExxonMobil Corp.  told a jury that the
number of New Hampshire wells contaminated with a gasoline
additive is less than one-fifteenth as many as the state has
contended in its trial seeking damages from the oil company.  David Lender , a lawyer for ExxonMobil, cross-examined a
witness who is a state expert on oil spills today in Concord.
New Hampshire has said that as many as 5,590 wells may have more
than 13 parts of the additive methyl tertiary butyl ether, or
MTBE, per billion parts of water, a level the state has
determined makes it unfit for drinking.  “We know and you know that the state has only found 349
wells with contamination above 13 parts per billion in 30 years,
isn’t that right?” Lender said to the state’s witness, Gary
Lynn, a manager of its  petroleum mediation section .  “Every fifth or sixth well has detectable levels of MTBE
in it,” Lynn replied. “How much more widespread can it be?”  New Hampshire might be seeking more than $200 million from
ExxonMobil, the last defendant on trial in the $816 million
state-court lawsuit filed in 2003. The number of wells found to
be contaminated with MTBE is one factor in determining damages
if ExxonMobil is found liable. The trial began Jan. 14.  Oil Refiners  This is one of scores of cases involving MTBE filed since
2000 against oil refiners, fuel distributors and chemical
makers.  Lynn, questioned yesterday by the state, testified that
MTBE still shows up in wells six years after it was banned. He
said the chemical moves through water quickly and unpredictably.  “It’s widespread in drinking water wells, and it shows up
frequently in places that we don’t expect it,” Lynn said,
mentioning a daycare center’s water supply.  ExxonMobil, based in Irving, Texas, has argued in court
that it isn’t liable for damage because it added MTBE to
gasoline to comply with federal regulations that pre-empt state
law. Oil companies added MTBE to make gasoline burn more
thoroughly in order to reduce air pollution, as required under
the 1990  Clean Air Act .  Kent Colburn, who once worked for New Hampshire’s
Department of Environmental Services, testified Jan. 28 that the
state wouldn’t have participated in a federal clean-air program
called Reformulated Gasoline, or RFG, if Exxon had warned of the
the additive’s risks.  RFG Program  ExxonMobil said in court that the state was aware of MTBE’s
risks when it opted into the RFG program in 1991 because there
had been studies of the additive for several years.  The additive was banned in New Hampshire as of January
2007.  MTBE, which is highly soluble in water and thus can be
carried great distances from where it leaked, is a “toxic
chemical that does not belong in the state’s drinking water,”
 Jessica Grant , an attorney for New Hampshire, said in opening
remarks to the jury. It leaked from gas stations, vehicle
junkyards, underground storage tanks and pipe fittings, the
state said.  Lender raised questions today about who was responsible for
the leaks that put MTBE into the groundwater. He cited a state
DES memo that said serious violations by the owners of a
junkyard in Chester had resulted in contaminating the water.  ‘All the Things’  “If the owners had done all the things they were supposed
to do, we wouldn’t have had MTBE in the groundwater, right?”
Lender asked Lynn during cross-examination.  “Even if you do everything you’re supposed to do, there’s
a potential for MTBE to get into the groundwater,” Lynn
replied.  The number of contaminated wells is one element in the
determination of monetary damages if ExxonMobil is found liable.
The state is also seeking damages from the companies based on
their market share of gasoline sales in New Hampshire during the
period covered by the lawsuit.  ExxonMobil’s share was about 30 percent, the state said.
Based on an estimated cost of $816 million to test for, monitor
and clean up the groundwater, New Hampshire could be seeking
about $245 million from the company.  Citgo Petroleum  On Jan. 15, New Hampshire Superior Court Judge Peter Fauver
agreed to dismiss  Citgo Petroleum Corp. , the other defendant,
from the trial while the company and the state work to complete
a settlement. Citgo is the Houston-based unit of  Petroleos de
Venezuela SA , the country’s state-owned oil company.  Citgo’s market share ranged from 3.1 percent to 8.7
percent, New Hampshire said. Based on those figures, the state
could be seeking $25 million to $71 million from Citgo. If an
accord isn’t reached by Feb. 15 and no extension is approved,
Citgo would be reinstated to the trial.  Besides ExxonMobil and Citgo, New Hampshire also sued  Shell
Oil Co. ,  Sunoco Inc. , ConocoPhillips, Irving Oil Ltd., Vitol SA
and  Hess Corp.  All settled before the trial began except
ExxonMobil and Citgo.  New Hampshire has received more than $100 million in
settlements from defendants so far, according to court papers.  MTBE lawsuits have also been consolidated in federal court
in New York for pretrial evidence-gathering and motions. In
2009, a federal jury ordered ExxonMobil to pay New York City
$104.7 million after finding it liable for polluting wells in
the city. ExxonMobil has appealed.  New Hampshire’s lawyers said last week they hoped to
conclude their case by Feb. 21. ExxonMobil would then begin
presenting its case.  The case is New Hampshire v. Hess Corp., 03-C-0550, New
Hampshire Superior Court, Merrimack County (Concord).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Don Jeffrey in New York at 
 djeffrey1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  