-- Boeing 787 Gets FAA Approval for Ferry Flight Today
-- B y   S u s a n n a   R a y   a n d   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 2013-02-07T01:36:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/faa-approves-single-ferry-flight-for-boeing-s-grounded-787-1-.html
Boeing Co. ’s grounded 787 Dreamliner
will fly today for the first time in three weeks after U.S.
officials approved a one-time permit to ferry a plane to
Washington state from Texas.  The trip isn’t a commercial flight, and the only people
aboard will be those needed for operation, the Federal Aviation
Administration said in a statement. The plane must fly directly
to Boeing’s widebody-jet plant in Everett, just north of
Seattle, from Fort Worth, where it was being painted for China
Southern Airlines.  Investigators are still “weeks away” from determining
what caused battery failures on the 787, the head of the U.S.
National Transportation Safety Board said yesterday. The jets
have been grounded since Jan. 16 after a fire on one and an
emergency landing by another, and Transportation Secretary  Ray LaHood  declined to give a timetable yesterday for deciding on
Boeing’s request to resume test flights.  “There is an increasing concern that this could take
longer than earlier anticipated,” said  Michel Merluzeau , a
consultant with G2 Solutions in Kirkland, Washington.  “Boeing’s proposed solution to build a containment around
the battery should certainly help, and adds an extra layer of
safety in the unlikely event of another battery malfunction,”
he said. “It however is only part of the solution which should
include permanently resolving the root cause of the problems
experienced by the 787 electrical system.”  For today’s ferry flight, the crew will have to perform “a
number of inspections to verify that the batteries and cables
show no signs of damage,” the FAA said. They will also be
required to check for specific status messages that could
indicate problems, both before and during the flight, and will
have to land immediately if one occurs, the agency said.  ‘Top Priority’  “While our work to determine the cause of the recent
battery incidents continues in coordination with appropriate
regulatory authorities and investigation agencies, we are
confident - as is the FAA - that the 787 is safe to operate for
this activity,” said  Marc Birtel , a spokesman at Boeing’s
commercial headquarters in Seattle. “Safety of the crew on
board is our top priority.”  The grounding order won’t be lifted until the plane is
proven to be safe, the FAA has said. Boeing has said it has
hundreds of engineers working around the clock to resolve the
issue as quickly as possible.  All Nippon  Japan’s All Nippon Airways Co. -- the first customer for
the Dreamliner and the largest operator of the plane so far --
said today it canceled all domestic and international flights
scheduled to use the new model through March 30. That means
1,887 flights are being canceled between the Jan. 16 grounding
and March 30, affecting more than 126,000 thousand passengers,
the Tokyo-based carrier said.  Investigators are looking at each of the cells used in the
787’s lithium-ion battery, the three windings in each of the
cells and the component parts, NTSB Chairman  Deborah Hersman 
said yesterday. That includes tests on examples of the batteries
used in the jet.  The safety board is looking at “the macro level to the
microscopic level on this battery,” Hersman said. The board has
evidence of short circuits in cells of the battery, “thermal
runaway” and an uncontrolled chain reaction, she said.  “Those features are not what we would have expected to see
in a brand-new battery on a brand-new airplane,” Hersman said.
“We want to make sure the design is robust and the oversight of
the manufacturing process is adequate.”  Boeing said last week it’s continuing to produce 787s at a
rate of five a month, ramping up to 10 a month by year-end, and
is still working on the development of two bigger versions of
the jet.  The plane is the world’s first composite-plastic airliner
and the first to use new electrical systems to help save on
fuel. It was three and a half years behind when it entered
service with ANA in late 2011, after Boeing struggled with the
new materials and manufacturing processes. The company has
delivered 50 of the planes so far to eight airlines around the
world and has orders for another 800.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susanna Ray in Seattle at 
 sray7@bloomberg.net ;
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  