-- Fast-Food Buildings Beating Bonds Spurs Deal Surge
-- B y   B r i a n   L o u i s
-- 2013-02-06T16:43:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/fast-food-buildings-beating-bonds-spurs-surge-in-property-deals.html
Sales of single-tenant retail
properties -- buildings leased to fast-food joints, pharmacies
and other store operators -- have soared to a six-year high as
investors seek real estate that performs better than bonds.  Acquisitions of companies that own single-tenant buildings
also are rising as landlords seek a more diverse mix of renters
and lower risk.  Spirit Realty Capital Inc. , for example, agreed
last month to a merger with Cole Credit Property Trust II Inc.
in a deal valued at a record $3.66 billion, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  So-called triple-net-lease  landlords  rent to pharmacy
chains including CVS Caremark Corp. and Walgreen Co. and such
food outlets as Chick-fil-A and Red Robin Gourmet Burgers under
multiyear agreements, with tenants paying property expenses. The
leases often have rent increases built in over their lifespans,
providing steady cash flow and protection against rising costs,
much like investing in an inflation-adjusted bond.  “It’s very stable and very predictable,”  Ryan Severino ,
senior economist at New York-based research firm Reis Inc., said
in a telephone interview. “That’s what’s been drawing a lot of
interest to it.”  Some targets of company takeovers have been public, non-
traded real estate investment trusts such as Corporate Property
Associates 15 Inc., bought by its manager, New York-based WP
Carey Inc., for $3.1 billion. American Realty Capital Trust
Inc., which had been a non-traded REIT before its public listing
in March, was sold to Escondido, California-based  Realty Income
Corp.  last month for about $3 billion.  Transactions Climb  Sales of single-tenant retail properties totaled $3.1
billion in the fourth quarter, the highest for any three-month
period since the fourth quarter of 2006, according to data from
New York-based real estate research company Real Capital
Analytics Inc.  Tenants in triple-net leases are responsible for paying all
of a property’s costs, which minimizes expenses for the owner.
Triple-net leases get their name from tenants paying the net
amount of three types of costs: real estate taxes, building
insurance and common-area maintenance.  The average capitalization rate for single-tenant retail
properties in the fourth quarter was 7.1 percent, the lowest
since the second quarter of 2009, Real Capital data show. Cap
rates, a measure of yield for the real estate industry, is net
operating income divided by purchase price. Cap rates decline as
prices rise.  Drugstore Bonds  Still, those yields are luring investors because they’re
higher than returns offered by such alternatives as corporate
bonds, said  Dan Fasulo , managing director at Real Capital.  “That’s why people are interested,” he said.  Walgreen’s $1.2 billion of 3.1 percent bonds due 2022
yielded 3.18 percent as of yesterday, according to Trace, the
bond-price reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority. CVS’s $1.25 billion of 2.75 percent bonds due 2022
yielded 2.97 percent.  An  index  of five publicly traded single-tenant REITs rose
16 percent in the 12 months through yesterday, compared with a
9.1 percent gain for the 124-member  Bloomberg REIT Index .  The deal for Phoenix-based Cole Credit allowed Spirit
Realty to diversify its tenants and reduce its cost of raising
capital, the Scottsdale, Arizona-based company said in a
statement Jan. 22. With the merger, Shopko, a discount retailer
based in Green Bay, Wisconsin, and Pamida, now part of the same
company as Shopko, will account for almost 16 percent of
Spirit’s portfolio after its merger, down from about 29 percent
at the end of the third quarter for Spirit alone, according to a
regulatory filing.  Tenant Improvement  Shopko, which operates almost 350 stores in 22 states, is
owned by private-equity firm Sun Capital Partners Inc., based in
Boca Raton, Florida. Annual rent from Shopko and Pamida totals
$83 million, or about 30 percent of Spirit’s annual rental
revenue, according to the  filing  by Spirit.  “The big thing for them was reducing that Shopko
exposure,”  Jason Lail , manager of the real estate research team
at Charlottesville, Virginia-based SNL Financial LC, said in a
telephone interview. “It was an improvement on who their
tenants are.”  The diversification may help lead to a credit-rating
upgrade from Standard & Poor’s, the New York-based company said
in a report on Jan. 28. Higher credit ratings help cut borrowing
costs because investors view the risk as lower.  ‘Big’ Focus  Institutional-investor demand for single-tenant retail is
rising as well. Buyers such as pension funds, money managers and
insurance companies were involved in 10 percent of deals last
year, up from 9 percent in 2011 and 5 percent the year before,
according to Real Capital.  Rich Moore , an analyst at RBC Capital Markets in Solon,
Ohio, said he expects additional non-traded REITs to either list
their shares on stock exchanges or sell themselves.  “The private REITs are big on these things,” Moore said
of triple-net-lease landlords. “There will be these private
companies that come to market.”  Leasing a property to a single tenant does have risks,
Severino said. An occupant may go out of business or break the
lease, and not all tenants are created equal, he said.  “You do ideally like to lease to high-quality tenants,”
Severino said. “There’s no certainty in the world.”  As interest in the sector increases, additional investors
are likely to enter the market for single-tenant real estate
amid a search for higher-yielding investments, said  Joshua Barber , an analyst at Stifel Nicolaus & Co. in Baltimore.  “For a long time, it was just a niche property type,” he
said. “You’ll see more and more people coming to that
particular sector over the next couple of years.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Louis in Chicago at 
 blouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  