-- FDIC’s Norton Wants to Revise Basel III Leverage for Banks
-- B y   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n
-- 2013-02-06T21:31:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/fdic-s-norton-wants-to-revise-basel-iii-leverage-for-u-s-banks.html
U.S. banks should have to meet a
stricter leverage ratio than that outlined in the Basel III
international agreement, said  Jeremiah Norton , a board member of
the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.  The regulatory agencies considering capital rules,
including the FDIC, Office of the Comptroller of the Currency
and Federal Reserve, should consider minimum leverage ratios
based on tangible common equity against bank assets not weighted
for risk, Norton said in a  speech  today in Orlando, Florida. The
ratio should be higher than the earlier Basel III proposal for
the Tier 1 capital ratio, he said.  “There is growing empirical evidence that a leverage ratio
based on total assets is a better predictor of bank distress
than a risk-based capital ratio,” as outlined in the Basel
proposal, Norton said.  Fellow Republican board member  Thomas Hoenig  had previously
advocated scrapping the Basel approach and simplifying the
banks’ leverage ratios, calling for a rule based on the ratio of
tangible equity to tangible assets.  A Basel III rule proposed by the U.S. regulators in June
called for U.S. banks to maintain a core capital buffer of at
least 7 percent of bank assets adjusted by their potential
risks.  Unfinished Rules  As the U.S. banking regulators continue working to finish
the Basel III rules, two of the five FDIC board members are now
on the record against the fundamental approach adopted by the
27-nation Basel Committee on Banking Supervision. The rules are
meant to to strengthen banks enough that they’ll more easily
weather threats such as those faced during the 2008 global
credit crisis.  “We should learn from past experience and turn our
attention from using a capital rule that gives what in the end
is a false sense of security to one that is effective because of
its simplicity, clarity, and enforceability,” Hoenig said in a
November speech in New York.  Most of the countries signing on to the accord missed the
Jan. 1 implementation date, including the U.S., whose banking
regulators said in November that U.S. institutions wouldn’t have
to meet that deadline. The agencies didn’t offer a replacement
date, saying in a statement that they are working “as
expeditiously as possible.”  Norton, who has worked as a banker at  JPMorgan Chase & Co. 
and in the Treasury Department under  Henry Paulson , said that
because “other countries may not follow” if the U.S. saddles
its banks with a different regime, the effect of such a change
on the banks’ competitiveness should be “considered
carefully.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jesse Hamilton  in Washington at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at   mreynolds34@bloomberg.net . 