-- Five Forty Aviation Pulls FastJet License in Fee Dispute
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-02-06T13:46:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/five-forty-aviation-pulls-fastjet-license-in-fee-dispute.html
Five Forty Aviation Ltd. said it
withdrew  Fastjet Plc ’s rights to use the Fly540 brand in a
dispute over licensing fees and has notified airline regulators
in Tanzania, Angola, and Ghana of the change.  Five Forty Aviation is owed $7.7 million in payments from
Fastjet, which also hasn’t provided required safety information,
the Nairobi-based company said in a statement today. Fastjet
said in an e-mail that the claims are “unsubstantiated” and
that it has responded “through the appropriate channels.”  Fastjet, which has its registered headquarters in London,
is developing an African low-fare airline network after an
agreement was reached in June that included rights to the Fly540
brand through a license from Five Forty Aviation. Fastjet
started commercial service in November, and has been looking to
expand into markets such as South Africa.  Five Forty Aviation said today that it’s demanding that
Fastjet remove Fly540 logos and brand literature and that units
in Angola and Ghana repaint planes in a “neutral color.”  “We had no choice but to take this action because the most
worrying aspect of non-compliance with the licensing agreement
is that we have no way of assuring that the planes are safe to
fly,” Five Forty Aviation Chief Executive Officer Don Smith
said in the statement. Amid a lack of safety reports for three
months, “we believe that one plane, which flew with defects
from Tanzania and landed in Nairobi on Dec. 14, should not have
flown.”  Maintenance Flight  A Fly540 regional jet, without passengers, undertook a
flight to undergo maintenance, and none of Fastjet’s  Airbus SAS 
A319 airliners was involved on the date in question, the U.K.
company said today in an e-mail. “Fastjet takes safety very
seriously and will investigate any claims relating to defects,”
it said.  In addition to the licensing fees, Fastjet has failed to
issue shares to Five Forty Aviation promised under last year’s
agreement, said  Harry Chathli , a London-based spokesman for the
Kenyan company.  Fastjet said it paid Smith and partners more than $6
million for their Fly540 interests and “will now aggressively
seek to have our purchase contracts enforced.” Five Forty
Aviation “is powerless to terminate purported brand license
agreements for any Fly540 operations,” the U.K. company said.  The dispute affects principally Fastjet operations in Ghana
and Angola, where the Fly540 brand is used, while Tanzanian
flights are operated under Fastjet’s own name.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  