-- Flagstar Ordered to Pay $90.1 Million to Bond Insurer
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2013-02-06T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/flagstar-must-pay-90-1-million-to-bond-insurer-judge-rules.html
Flagstar Bancorp Inc.  must reimburse
Assured Guaranty Municipal Corp. $90.1 million the bond insurer
paid when home-equity loans underlying two Flagstar mortgage-
backed securities defaulted, a federal judge ruled.  U.S. District Judge  Jed Rakoff , who presided over a 12-day
non-jury trial in Manhattan, found that Flagstar violated
agreements with Assured by failing to follow its own
underwriting guidelines in making home-equity line of credit
loans to homeowners. As a result, Assured was forced to pay the
money to holders of the securities, Rakoff said.  “The court finds that the loans underlying the trusts here
at issue pervasively breached Flagstar’s contractual
representations and warranties,” Rakoff said yesterday in a
103-page opinion.  Rakoff also awarded interest and attorneys’ fees and costs
to be determined, Troy, Michigan-based Flagstar said yesterday
in a statement. “Flagstar strongly disagrees with the court’s
ruling and intends to vigorously contest the outcome on
appeal,” the company said.  Assured said yesterday in a statement that the ruling sets
a strong precedent in support of its rights in these cases
involving breaches of representations and warranties.  “The court recognized and clearly articulated the
responsibility of an R&W provider to honor its contractual
obligations to purchase defective mortgage loans,” Assured said
in the statement.  “This ruling is a significant milestone in forcing the
banks to honor the contractual commitments they made and have
long sought to avoid,” said Jacob Buchdahl, a lawyer for
Assured.  Rakoff’s opinion, a copy of which was provided by Buchdahl,
couldn’t immediately be confirmed in court records. Rakoff
sometimes provides rulings to attorneys representing litigants
before they are made publicly available.  The case is Assured Guaranty Municipal Corp. v. Flagstar
Bank, 11-cv-02375, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New
York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bob Van Voris  in Manhattan federal court at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  