-- Forest Wins Denial of Drug Lawsuit Class Certification
-- B y   J a n e l l e   L a w r e n c e   a n d   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 2013-02-06T16:28:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/forest-wins-denial-of-drug-lawesuit-class-certification.html
Drugmaker  Forest Laboratories Inc. 
won a ruling that it doesn’t have to defend a group lawsuit
claiming the company illegally marketed the antidepressants
Celexa and Lexapro to patients under the age of 18.  U.S. District Judge  Nathaniel Gorton  in Boston yesterday
denied class certification to plaintiffs who claim Forest
marketed to children without approval of the U.S. Food and Drug
Administration.  Gorton ruled that patients who sued under California law
failed to show that Forest was “likely to deceive” doctors,
and that the company’s sales staff misled each of them. Such
claims require “individual, plaintiff-specific
determinations,” and the patients lack common proof, he wrote.  Patients who sued must show that each physician who
prescribed  Celexa  “was actually exposed to the allegedly false
statements made by Forest’s representatives,” Gorton ruled.
“It is not sufficient simply to presume all doctors who
prescribed Celexa were recipients of those misrepresentations.”  Sealed Document  A spokesman for New York-based Forest,  Frank Murdolo ,
didn’t immediately return a call seeking comment. Forest filed
its opposition to class certification under court seal.  A Forest unit agreed in September 2010 to plead guilty and
pay $313 million to resolve criminal charges and civil False
Claims Act allegations related to Celexa,  Lexapro  and its
 Levothroid  thyroid drug. The allegations also involved illegal
promotion of Celexa for use in treating children and adolescents
suffering from depression.  An attorney who sued on behalf of children who received
Lexapro and Celexa said plaintiffs were disappointed with the
ruling and will pursue the cases state by state.  “The evidence we have obtained through this litigation
makes clear that the plaintiffs have a very strong case on the
merits, and we intend to pursue that,” said the lawyer,
 Christopher L. Coffin  of New Orleans-based Pendley, Baudin &
Coffin LLP.  “The evidence we have developed makes clear that Forest
committed fraud and promoted a drug for use in children that had
not been shown to be effective,” Coffin said.  The case is Celexa and Lexapro Marketing and Sales
Practices Litigation, 09-md-2067, U.S. District Court, District
of Massachusetts (Boston).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Janelle Lawrence  in Boston
at  jmlawrence@mac.com .
 David Voreacos  in Newark, New Jersey,
at   dvoreacos@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 