-- Forint Pares Plunge as Ruling Party Denies Central Bank Report
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2013-02-06T10:57:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/forint-pares-plunge-as-ruling-party-denies-central-bank-report.html
The forint pared its plunge after
Hungary’s ruling party denied a report in Vilaggazdasag late
yesterday the government has picked Economy Minister Gyorgy
Matolcsy as president of the central bank.  The forint depreciated as much as 1.3 percent after the
online edition of Vilaggazdasag newspaper said Matolcsy’s
appointment to replace Magyar Nemzeti Bank President Andras
Simor, whose term ends next month, was “decided” in the
evening. That report is “false” and a meeting of Fidesz party
lawmakers this week isn’t planning to discuss the nomination,
state-run news service MTI reported yesterday, citing Fidesz
spokesman Mate Kocsis.  “It is now pretty clear a ’Matolcsy event’ is not fully
priced in as many investors out there claim,”  Luis Costa , a
London-based strategist at Citigroup Inc., wrote by e-mail
today.  Hungary’s currency weakened 0.7 percent to 293.81 by 10:51
a.m. in Budapest, its steepest drop in more than a week. Yields
on the government’s 10-year forint bonds were little changed at
6.499 percent.  The forint tumbled as much as 3 percent after Matolcsy said
in December the bank should “bravely” use unorthodox methods
to boost the economy. Hungary’s currency rebounded 1.7 percent
last week, the biggest jump in six months, after Matolcsy and
the central bank’s rate-setting Monetary Council each urged
caution on using “unconventional” monetary tools.  Shock Therapy  The central bank should avoid “shock therapy” and
“absolutely not” engage in “monetary financing” of Hungary’s
deficit, the Wall Street Journal reported Economy Minister
Gyorgy Matolcsy saying in an  interview  published on Jan. 30. The
minister was also named as the most likely successor to Simor by
other media including the Index news website.  Prime Minister Viktor Orban last week said in Brussels he
will wait until March before he announces his decision.  Hungary completed investor meetings yesterday for a
possible sale of Eurobonds, its first international offering in
almost two years.  The government may sell as much as 2.5 billion euros ($3.4
billion) in debt as early as this week, according to Royal Bank
of Scotland Group Plc and Nomura Holdings Inc. The bonds may be
in dollars, with a maturity of 10 years and a yield in the “low
5 percent” area, according to the fund management unit of Erste
Group Bank AG. The yield on Hungary’s dollar bond due March 2021
fell two basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 4.94
percent, compared with a record low of 4.1 percent in October.  Bond Sale  “Markets expect a bond deal soon after the end of the
roadshow,” Citigroup’s Costa said.  The government sold a record $3.75 billion of foreign bonds
in March 2011 and 1 billion euros in May 2011. It scrapped plans
for a foreign debt sale last year on anticipation of a loan from
the International Monetary Fund.  While the IMF declined to provide the flexible credit line
the government requested, Hungary doesn’t need a bailout and
will tap the market, Orban said in Brussels on Jan. 30.  The denial of Matolcsy’s appointment may help sustain the
bond sale effort,  Peter Attard Montalto , a London-based
strategist at Nomura, wrote in an e-mail late yesterday.  “The priority remains short term bond issuance end this
week start next and hence we are likely to see a major PR
exercise to keep that on track,” Montalto wrote. “Matolcsy is
probably the preferred candidate but it is actually quite
currency dependent.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  