-- Former MSG President O’Neil Joins ScoreBig.com’s Advisory Board
-- B y   S c o t t   S o s h n i c k
-- 2013-02-06T19:49:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/former-msg-president-o-neil-joins-scorebig-com-s-advisory-board.html
Former Madison Square  Garden  Sports
President  Scott O’Neil  joined the advisory board of
ScoreBig.com, a closely held company that sells unused tickets
for sports teams and entertainment venues.  O’Neil, who left MSG in September, joins a board that
includes  Gideon Yu , president of the San Francisco 49ers and
former chief financial officer of  Facebook  Inc. and YouTube
Inc., and  Shari Redstone , vice chairman of the board of  Viacom 
Inc. and  CBS  Corp.  Prior to running business operations for basketball’s
Knicks and hockey’s Rangers at MSG, O’Neil worked for the
National Football League’s Philadelphia Eagles and the National
Basketball Association, where he headed team marketing and
business operations.  “The guy is at the pinnacle of everything we do,”  Adam Kanner , ScoreBig.com’s chief executive officer, said in a
telephone interview. “He understands the problem from the
property side.”  Kanner said the Los Angeles-based company has agreements
with more than 25 percent of the four major U.S. sports leagues.
There are no fees for the customer, he said, and every ticket is
guaranteed to sell for less than face value. Customers make an
offer and the bid is accepted or rejected.  Kanner said live entertainment is a $20 billion-a-year
industry, and O’Neil said that 40 percent of tickets to live
events go unsold. That problem will probably get worse, he said.  “If you have an opportunity that can create a marketplace
and bring casual fans into the building, that will be a big
business very quickly and be around for a very long time,” said
O’Neil, who joined MSG in 2008.  Kanner wouldn’t disclose the company’s revenue.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Scott Soshnick  in New York at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  