-- France Maps Out Mali Exit as UN Plans for Peacekeepers
-- B y   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i   a n d   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n
-- 2013-02-06T19:40:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/france-plans-to-start-reducing-forces-in-mali.html
France is mapping out its exit
strategy for Mali as the United Nations solidifies plans to turn
African forces into UN peacekeepers securing towns recaptured
from Islamist militants.  Backed by Malian and African forces, French soldiers have
seized the cities of Gao, Timbuktu and Kidal. France plans to
start withdrawing some of its 4,000 troops “in a few weeks,”
Defense Minister  Jean-Yves Le Drian  told Europe1 radio.  “French forces won’t stay in Mali and there should be a
transition in the coming weeks,” French Ambassador to the UN
 Gerard Araud  said today in New York after presenting the request
for the peacekeeping mission to the UN Security Council.
“Security conditions must naturally be in place” before a UN
peacekeeping force takes over.  France intervened in Mali on Jan. 11 to help Mali restore
state control over a nation that vies with Tanzania as Africa’s
third-biggest gold producer. About 3,800 African troops have
arrived to bolster the drive against insurgents who occupied
almost two-thirds of the landlocked West African nation.  France hasn’t indicated what role it wants to play in
peacekeeping and whether it will leave behind a military
contingent.  “We are already working on different possible scenarios,”
UN peacekeeping chief  Herve Ladsous  told reporters today in New
York.  While President  Francois Hollande  got a boost in public
opinion ratings from intervening militarily to drive Islamists
rebels out of Mali, his debt-laden government doesn’t want to
bear the cost and burden of keeping the land-locked African
country stable.  So far France’s “Operation Serval” has cost “several
tens of millions of euros,” Foreign Minister  Laurent Fabius 
said in an interview with the Metro newspaper.  Mali’s $10.6 billion economy contracted 1.5 percent in
2012, according to the International Monetary Fund. It’s
expected to expand 4.5 percent this year, the IMF said on Jan.
28, as gold mining in the government-held south continued during
the conflict.  AngloGold Ashanti Ltd.  and  Randgold Resources Ltd. 
are among the miners in Mali.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gregory Viscusi in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net ;
Flavia Krause-Jackson in United Nations at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  