-- Macau Casinos Decline After Report on Junket Crackdown
-- B y   V i n i c y   C h a n
-- 2013-02-06T09:28:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/galaxy-leads-macau-casino-drop-on-report-of-junket-curbs.html
Wynn Macau Ltd.  slumped the most in
more than a year in Hong Kong trading, leading declines among
Macau casino companies after the U.K.’s Times said China plans
to crack down on junket operators.  The Hong Kong-listed unit of billionaire Steve Wynn’s Las
Vegas-based company  plunged  6.8 percent to HK$19.44 in Hong
Kong, the biggest drop since October 2011.  SJM Holdings Ltd. ,
Asia’s biggest listed gambling company by sales, retreated 6.4
percent. The four other Macau casino operators also fell.  China’s government will start taking action this month to
clamp down on junket operators that bring gamblers from the
mainland to Macau, the Times  reported  on its website, citing
unidentified people in law enforcement. By acting as middlemen
and moneylenders, junket operators help drive the high-stakes,
or VIP, business estimated to account for about two-thirds of
casino revenue in the world’s largest gambling hub.  “The report is rather speculative -- we don’t think that’s
happening right now,” said  Grant Govertsen , a Macau-based
analyst at Union Gaming Research. “Beijing’s liaison office in
Macau had said measures against corruption in the mainland are a
completely different matter. There would not be any changes in
policy on Macau.”  Press representatives at the  Hong Kong and Macao Affairs
Office of The State Council  in Beijing didn’t respond to five
phone calls seeking comment on the Times report.  Junket Reports  The action will involve police operations in six Chinese
cities and is part of an anti-corruption campaign led by Xi
Jinping, the Communist Party general secretary, the U.K.
newspaper reported.  MGM China Holdings Ltd . dropped 0.3 percent,  Galaxy
Entertainment Group Ltd.  fell 5.4 percent, billionaire  Sheldon Adelson ’s  Sands China Ltd.  fell 5.2 percent and  Melco Crown
Entertainment Ltd.  was down 5 percent.  Spokeswomen at Sands China, Wynn Macau and MGM China
declined to comment and calls made to SJM, Melco Crown and
Galaxy weren’t answered.  Macau casino stocks fell Dec. 4 after the Wall Street
Journal reported that police in mainland China and Macau had
detained people from at least three of the biggest junket
operators in earlier weeks.  Casino industry revenue in the gambling hub  climbed  14
percent to a record 304 billion patacas ($38 billion) last year.
Operators are building new resorts on the city’s Cotai strip to
draw more gamblers.  Sands China  posted a 52 percent jump in
fourth-quarter profit by pulling in visitors to its newest
resort.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vinicy Chan in Hong Kong at 
 vchan91@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anjali Cordeiro at 
 acordeiro2@bloomberg.net  