-- Gay-Marriage Holdout Hobbles R.I. Economy, Chafee Says
-- B y   A n n i e   L i n s k e y
-- 2013-02-06T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/gay-marriage-to-help-economy-says-ri-governor.html
When most politicians push same-sex
marriage, they talk about equal rights.  Rhode Island  Governor
 Lincoln Chafee  has a different selling point: competitiveness.  The Ocean State’s refusal to allow gay marriage sends a
message of intolerance to technology and life-science companies
he’d like to attract and puts the state at odds with the younger
generation of innovators he wants to retain, Chafee said in an
interview. He’s pressing the state Senate to follow the lower
chamber, which on Jan. 24 approved a same-sex marriage bill.  “We are in intense competition with Connecticut, New York
and Massachusetts,” said Chafee, a 59-year-old Republican-
turned-independent, ticking off three nearby states where gays
can wed. “We are all in the same economy. We have to have the
same welcome mat at our door that our neighbors have.”  Every New England state except Rhode Island allows gay
marriage, as do Iowa, Maryland, Washington and the District of
Columbia. Gay-rights advocates in five others, including New
Jersey and Delaware, are pushing similar legislation this year.  The notion that state gay marriage laws could be as
important as more traditional selling points like housing and
public transportation underscores growing levels of acceptance,
according to the Washington-based National Gay and Lesbian
Chamber of Commerce.  ‘Brain Drain’  The group points to 13 companies -- including  EBay Inc .,
operator of the world’s largest online marketplace;  Aetna Inc .,
the third-biggest U.S. health insurer; and Massachusetts Mutual
Life Insurance Co. -- that joined a business coalition aimed at
overturning a federal law defining marriage as between a man and
a woman. The U.S. Supreme Court is scheduled to rule on the
constitutionality of that law, the Defense of Marriage Act, in
the term that ends in June.  “Top talent might not want to work in a state where they
are not wanted,” said Justin Nelson, the president of the
National Gay and Lesbian Chamber of Commerce. “You can see a
brain drain.”  The economic argument is “vastly overblown,” said Frank
Schubert, the national political director for the National
Organization for Marriage, a Washington-based group that fights
same-sex marriage laws around the country.  “There is no substantive basis that I can see to suggest
that enacting gay marriage is a true economic engine,” Schubert
said in an interview.  Senate Chances  North Carolina , Schubert said, is a prime example of a
technology and innovation-driven economy that has developed
without gay nuptials. In May, the voters amended the state
constitution to define marriage as between a man and a woman.
The margin was 61 percent to 39 percent.  In Rhode Island this year, the same-sex marriage measure
passed 51 to 19 in the House of Representatives. The chamber is
led by  Gordon D. Fox , a Democrat and the country’s first openly
gay House speaker, according to his office.  The legislation faces longer odds in the 38-member Senate,
where 11 lawmakers have co-signed the bill, according to the
state General Assembly website. Though the chamber is controlled
by Democrats, Senate President  Teresa Paiva-Weed  of Newport
opposes it. Even so, she has pledged to allow a hearing on the
bill.  “The economy is our No. 1 focus,” said Greg Pare, a
spokesman for Paiva-Weed. He declined to comment on Chafee’s
initiative.  ‘Innovative Ideas’  Rhode Island’s economy could use a boost, according to the
Bloomberg Economic Evaluation of States. From the end of the
recession in the third quarter of 2009 through the third quarter
of 2012, Rhode Island ranked 23rd in economic health among U.S.
states, according to BEES. It was outranked by Massachusetts, at
No. 11, and New York, which ranked 20th.  Two years ago, the Rhode Island legislature pulled back a
gay-marriage bill and instead approved civil unions. The state
has granted fewer than 100 of them since then, according to the
Health Department. The low participation is due in part to Rhode
Island’s proximity to states that allows same-sex marriage, said
Ray Sullivan, the campaign director of Rhode Islanders United
for Marriage, a gay-rights group. In May, Chafee signed an
executive order recognizing out-of-state gay marriages.  Chafee, who served as a Republican U.S. senator from 1999
to 2007, said his economic argument isn’t based on direct
conversations with executives or chief executive officers.  “It is more of a sense that I have,” the governor said.
“Innovative ideas spring out of certain atmospheres.”  Newport Weddings  The governor’s thinking is in line with research conducted
by  Richard Florida , author of the 2002 book “The Rise of the
Creative Class,” who has written that there is a correlation
between gay communities and innovation.  “Gay-friendly places, because they are gay-friendly, are
open to smart people who might be gay or straight,” Florida
said in an interview. “They are generally more open-minded.
With restrictive laws, you are hanging out a sign saying ‘geeks
and entrepreneurs not welcome here.’”  Lifting the ban could be a direct boon to state’s famous
wedding industry, particularly in Newport, where couples come
from all over New England to rent robber-baron-era mansions on
seaside bluffs to celebrate, according to Nelson of the National
Gay and Lesbian Chamber of Commerce.  New York City saw $259 million in new wedding spending --
and $16 million in city revenue -- one year after the state
allowed gay marriage, according to an economic-impact survey
conducted by NYC & Company, the city’s marketing and tourism
arm, and the City Clerk’s Office.  Last year in Rhode Island, straight couples and their
families spent $300 million on weddings, according to the
state’s Economic Development Corp.  “Regardless of what anyone’s personal feelings are, there
is a positive economic impact projected” if gay marriage is
legalized, said Mark Brodeur, the state director of tourism.
“It does spark whole new industries.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Annie Linskey in Boston at 
 alinskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  