-- Gazit-Globe to Combat Web Shopping With Doctor Tenants, CEO Says
-- B y   S h a r o n   W r o b e l
-- 2013-02-06T18:51:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/gazit-globe-to-combat-web-shopping-with-doctor-tenants-ceo-says.html
Gazit-Globe Ltd. ’s focus on tenants
such as doctors and supermarkets will help Israel’s largest real
estate company weather growth in online shopping, according to
Chief Executive Officer  Roni Soffer .  “We are a little more immune - not resistant - because we
are selling necessities,” said  Roni Soffer  in an interview at
Bloomberg’s Tel Aviv office. “Most of our shopping centers have
doctor offices and other activities that people need to do on
their own and that is helping make it more e-commerce immune.”  Gazit-Globe , based in Tel Aviv, manages real estate assets
valued at about $20 billion and rents the space to supermarkets,
pharmacies, doctors and daycare centers. Online shopping
accounted for 10.6 percent of all U.K. retail sales in December
compared with 9.4 percent a year earlier, the Office for
National Statistics said on Jan. 18.  The company owns real estate in 20 countries through its
subsidiaries, including Helsinki-based Citycon Oyj and Equity
One Inc. of North Miami Beach, Florida. Canada, the company’s
biggest market, accounted for 2 billion shekels ($542 million)
of its 6.5 billion-shekel  revenue  in 2011. Europe accounted for
1.6 billion shekels and the U.S. represented 1.3 billion shekels
of revenues, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Gazit-Globe  shares  have added 27 percent in the past year,
compared with a 6 percent gain in the  Tel-Aviv 100 Index  and a
16 percent increase in the  Bloomberg Real Estate Investment
Trust Retail Index . Its shares fell 1.1 percent to 48.27 shekels
in Tel Aviv today. The company’s shares in New York slipped 1.9
percent to $13.15 at 1:06 p.m.  The company’s unit completed last month the purchase of the
Prado shopping center in Campinas, Brazil for about $20 million.  “Our main focus for now is to build critical mass in
Brazil,” said Soffer. “We are very liquid and we are able to
take advantage of opportunities in big capital cities.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sharon Wrobel in Tel Aviv at 
 swrobel4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  