-- George Lucas Plans to Keep $2.02 Billion in Disney Stock
-- B y   R o b   G o l u m
-- 2013-02-07T22:24:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/george-lucas-files-to-sell-entire-2-01-billion-of-disney-stake.html
George Lucas  has no plans to sell his
$2.02 billion stake in  Walt Disney Co. , his spokeswoman said,
following a regulatory filing by the company that allows the
“Star Wars” creator to divest the stock at his discretion.  Lucas, 68, holds 37.1 million shares of Burbank,
California-based Disney, a 2.1 percent stake, according to a
registration yesterday by the film, TV and theme-park company.
Disney agreed to register the stock as part of its accord to
purchase the filmmaker’s Lucasfilm Ltd. The deal was completed
on Dec. 21.  “George Lucas currently has no plans to sell his Disney
stock,” Lynne Hale, a spokeswoman for Lucasfilm, said in an e-
mail. “This was a required filing in conjunction with the sale
of Lucasfilm to Disney.”  Lucas plans to donate most of the proceeds from the sale of
his company to education, the Hollywood Reporter  said  at the
time of the deal, without mentioning a specific school or group.  Disney fell 0.3 percent to $54.36 at the close in New York.
The stock has  advanced  9.2 percent this year, while the Standard
& Poor’s 500 Index has gained 5.8 percent.  The company bought Lucas’s “Star Wars” empire for stock
and a cash payment of $2.21 billion to develop a new film series
based on the sci-fi adventure movies.  Robert Iger , Disney’s
chairman and chief executive officer, said this week the world’s
largest entertainment company also planned two films based on
characters from the series.  With the sale of his company, Lucas became the second-
largest non-institutional shareholder in Disney, behind the
trust of late Apple Inc. co-founder  Steve Jobs , who sold Pixar
to Disney in 2006.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Golum in Los Angeles at 
 rgolum@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  