-- Germany Dismisses Hollande’s Call to Steer Euro’s Rate
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2013-02-06T14:13:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/germany-dismisses-hollande-s-call-to-steer-euro-s-rate.html
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s
government dismissed calls by French President  Francois Hollande 
to steer the euro’s exchange rate, saying currencies should be
determined by the market and not managed.  As Merkel travels to Paris today to meet with Hollande on
the eve of European Union budget talks, German government
spokesman  Steffen Seibert  didn’t rule out a discussion over the
French president’s warning about a rising euro. Hollande said
yesterday that euro leaders can’t allow the single currency to
fluctuate “according to the mood of the market.”  “Exchange-rate policy isn’t an appropriate instrument to
boost competitiveness; it relies on short-term stimulus through
targeted depreciation,” Seibert told journalists in Berlin.
“Sustained competitiveness can’t be achieved in this way.”  The clash comes as investors shake off concern about the
European debt crisis, with the euro climbing 10 percent in the
last six months to as high as $1.37 on Feb. 1. Hollande broke
with Germany’s market-based approach to say the 17-member
currency area must use the currency as an export-promoting tool,
as the U.S. and China do.  “We have to act at the international level to assert our
interests,” Hollande told reporters at the European Parliament
in Strasbourg yesterday.  Confidence Returning  Seibert warned against overestimating “historical
comparisons” and said the single currency’s recent gain
compensated for a “massive” depreciation during the crisis.
The euro’s ascent in the past few months reflects a return of
investor confidence in the currency, he said.  “That’s not such a bad thing,” Seibert said, adding that
the Group of Eight and the Group of 20 were committed to
allowing markets to determine currency levels.  The euro, which fell as low as $1.1923 in June 2010, about
eight months into the sovereign-debt crisis, has lost about 1
percent this week against the greenback. It traded at $1.3512 as
of 3:04 p.m. in Frankfurt.  The euro’s climb to a 14-month peak against the dollar and
the highest in almost three years against the Japanese yen makes
it harder for exporters to compete internationally at a time
when the economy is struggling to shake off the crisis.  “I’ve heard that France wants to raise this issue -- there
will certain be a discussion,” Seibert said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  