-- Bunds Advance Before ECB Meeting as Spanish Notes Rise
-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a   a n d   D a v i d   G o o d m a n
-- 2013-02-06T16:24:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/german-bonds-little-changed-before-factory-orders-report.html
Germany’s bonds rose, with 10-year
yields approaching the  lowest level  in a week, as investors
sought safer assets amid concern the region’s debt-crisis will
intensify amid widening political divisions.  Italian 10-year yields climbed to the highest this year as
former Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  narrowed  Pier Luigi Bersani ’s lead to within the margin of error of an opinion poll
before this month’s election. The extra yield investors demand
to hold French 10-year bonds instead of  bunds  approached the
widest in a month as Germany dismissed calls by French President
 Francois Hollande  to steer the euro’s exchange rate. A German
report today showed factory orders expanded in December.  While sentiment in Europe has improved “the divergence
between Germany and the rest of the euro zone is becoming more
and more apparent,” said  Marius Daheim , a senior fixed-income
strategist at Bayerische Landesbank in Munich. “We have the
political, the economic situation and all of that will keep
bunds high in demand, at least for the next couple of months.”  Germany’s 10-year yield fell two basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, to 1.63 percent at 4:17 p.m. London time after
dropping to 1.59 percent yesterday, the lowest level since Jan.
25. The 1.5 percent bond due in February 2023 rose 0.16, or 1.60
euros per 1,000-euro ($1,354) face amount, to 98.775.  Merkel, Hollande  As German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  travels to Paris today
to meet Hollande on the eve of European Union budget talks,
German government spokesman  Steffen Seibert  told reporters in
Berlin that exchange-rate policy “isn’t an appropriate
instrument” to boost competitiveness.  Hollande broke with Germany’s market-based approach
yesterday to say the euro area must use the currency as an
export-promoting tool, as the U.S. and China do.  “The level of the euro is eating away all the efforts”
France is making to improve its competitiveness, Industry
Minister  Arnaud Montebourg  said at a conference today in Paris.  The  extra yield  of French 10-year bonds over those of
Germany increased two basis points to 65 basis points after
expanding to 66 basis points yesterday, the widest since Jan. 3.  German factory orders climbed 0.8 from November, when they
fell 1.8 percent, the Economy Ministry said in Berlin. The
median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of economists was for
a 0.7 percent gain.  Italian Bonds  Italian bonds declined as a daily tracking poll by Tecne
institute for SkyTG24 showed Berlusconi reduce Bersani’s lead to
3.7 percentage points from 4 percentage points yesterday. That’s
the first time he’s moved within the margin of error of an
opinion poll before the Feb. 24-25 elections. Bersani led by 14
percentage points on Jan. 2.  Italy’s  10-year yield  climbed 10 basis points to 4.56, the
highest since Dec. 28. Two-year yields increased six basis
points to 1.69 percent.  The European Central Bank will tomorrow keep its main
refinancing  rate  at 0.75 percent, according to all 60 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg. President  Mario Draghi  may discuss the
shrinking of the central bank’s balance sheet after financial
institutions last month started repaying funds borrowed through
its longer-term refinancing operations.  “The highlight for the rest of the week should be the ECB
meeting,” said  Christian Reicherter , an analyst at DZ Bank AG
in Frankfurt. “We can expect some comments on the LTRO.”  Dutch Rating  The Dutch  10-year yield  was little changed at 1.84 percent
after Fitch Ratings yesterday cut the outlook on the country’s
AAA debt rating to negative from stable.  About half the time, government bond yields move in the
opposite direction suggested by new ratings, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg in June on 314 upgrades, downgrades and
outlook changes going back to 1974.  Germany sold 3.72 billion euros of five-year notes today at
an average yield of 0.68 percent. It last auctioned the
securities on Jan. 9 at 0.53 percent.  German government bonds have gained 3.4 percent during the
past year through yesterday, according to indexes compiled by
Bloomberg and the European Federation of Financial Analysts
Societies. Italian securities returned 13 percent and Spain’s
gained 4.7 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net ;
David Goodman in London at 
 dgoodman28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Dobson at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  