-- Google Said in Talks to Invest $50 Million in Vevo Site
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r   a n d   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2013-02-06T18:30:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/google-said-in-talks-to-invest-50-million-in-vevo-site.html
Google Inc. ’s YouTube is negotiating
a $50 million equity investment in music video service Vevo LLC,
according to two people with knowledge of the situation.  Google would own less than 10 percent of the company,
giving Vevo a valuation of at least $500 million, said the
people, who asked for anonymity because negotiations are still
early and an agreement may not be reached.  The investment would be part of a broader contract to keep
Vevo’s music videos on YouTube, the people said. Vevo, formed in
2009 by  Vivendi SA ’s Universal Music and  Sony Corp. ’s Sony Music
Entertainment, and Google last year extended their existing
contract until April.  “While we don’t comment on individual negotiations, we
always hope to renew our relationships with valuable partners so
we can continue to provide YouTube users with the best possible
music experience,”  Chris Dale , spokesman for Google, said in an
e-mailed statement.  Jennifer Press, a spokeswoman for Vevo in New York,
declined to comment.  Vevo, which shows videos from artists signed to labels
owned by Sony Music and Universal Music, drew 51.6 million
unique U.S. viewers in December, according to  ComScore Inc. , the
Reston, Virginia-based researcher. By comparison, Google’s
websites including YouTube had an audience of about 181.7
million.  Google, based in Mountain View, California, gained 0.3
percent to $767.98 at 1:28 p.m. in New York.  The stock  has
climbed 8.3 percent this year through yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andy Fixmer in Los Angeles at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Womack in San Francisco at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  