-- Google Updates Advertising Service to Boost Mobile Campaigns
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2013-02-07T01:58:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/google-upgrades-advertising-service-to-boost-mobile-campaigns.html
Google Inc. , operator of the world’s
most popular search engine, is upgrading its online advertising
service to make it easier for marketers to reach users on
different devices.  The revamped AdWords service will also help companies
manage bids for ads running at different locations and times,
according to a  blog post  today. Using an auction system, Google
sells advertising keywords that are displayed alongside search
results.  Google is aiming to boost mobile advertising as users
increasingly rely on smartphones and tablets for their computing
and communication needs. Google’s mobile revenue from search-
based advertising more than tripled in the fourth quarter from a
year earlier, according to analysts at Stifel Nicolaus & Co.
Over the past year,  Facebook Inc.  has built up mobile
advertising, which makes up 23 percent of its total ad revenue.  “This is a first step to help you more simply and smartly
manage your ad campaigns in today’s multidevice world,” Sridhar
Ramaswamy, senior vice president of engineering, wrote in the
blog post.  The overhaul will also let companies track the performance
of their advertising campaigns, with tools that measure what
happens after users see ads.  Average Prices  While there may be new tools for marketers, some of the
changes also mean Google’s average ad price will rise, according
to Bill Mungovan, a director of product marketing and strategy
for media and advertising solutions at  Adobe Systems Inc. 
Mungovan said advertisers will no longer be able to separately
purchase tablet spots, which cost less than those for desktops
-- a change that will boost average prices.  “This, presumably, will address Google’s mobile
monetization gap as an increasing share of searches is coming
from tablets and smartphones,” Mungovan wrote today in a  blog 
post.  Last month, Google  said  the average price of its ads
dropped 6 percent in the fourth quarter from a year earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in San Francisco at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  