-- Google Ads in Australia Weren’t Misleading, Court Says
-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 2013-02-06T04:31:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/google-ads-in-australia-weren-t-misleading-court-says.html
Google Inc. , owner of the world’s
most-popular Internet search engine, didn’t mislead Australian
consumers with sponsored ads that showed up during Web searches,
Australia’s top court ruled.  The High Court of Australia today overturned a lower court
ruling, saying  Google  didn’t create the sponsored links that
were displayed and accordingly didn’t engage in misleading or
deceptive conduct.  “This is a benchmark case in both Australia and
internationally in respect to online advertising practices and
the responsibility of website hosts for third-party content,”
 Colleen Platford  of Gilbert + Tobin Laywers, Google’s attorneys,
wrote in an e-mailed statement following the ruling.  The  Australian Competition & Consumer Commission , the
nation’s antitrust regulator, sued Google in 2007. The case was
the first claim of its kind in the world that sought to make the
search-engine company responsible for the content of  ads , the
regulator said. Australian law had relied on a 1978 decision in
Universal Telecasters (Qld) v. Guthrie where a television
broadcaster was held liable for a misleading ad.  “Ordinary and reasonable users of the Google search engine
would have understood that the representations conveyed by the
sponsored links were those of the advertisers,” the High Court
said in a summary of the  ruling  posted on its website. Those
users “would not have concluded that Google adopted or endorsed
those representations” it said.  Paid Ad  The ACCC cited four advertisements, including a paid ad for
STA Travel that showed up in a search for  Harvey World Travel .
STA Travel competes with Harvey World Travel for business.  The regulator will review the judgment to determine whether
it has broader ramifications for Australian consumer law, the
ACCC said in an e-mailed statement today.  “The ACCC took these proceedings to clarify the law
relating to advertising practices in the Internet age,”  Rod Sims , chairman of the ACCC, said in the statement.  The case is Google Inc. v. Australian Competition and
Consumer Commission. 2013 HCA1. High Court of Australia
(Canberra).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  