-- Grantham Says Assets ‘Brutally Overpriced’ on Fed Policy
-- B y   C h a r l e s   S t e i n
-- 2013-02-06T23:14:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/grantham-says-assets-brutally-overpriced-on-fed-policy.html
Jeremy Grantham , chief investment
strategist at Grantham Mayo Van Otterloo & Co., said global
asset prices have climbed too high because of the U.S. Federal
Reserve’s expansive monetary policy.  “All global asset assets are once again becoming
overpriced,” Grantham wrote in a quarterly letter released
today. U.S. companies, other than “quality” stocks with stable
earnings and low debt, and most global growth equities, are
“brutally overpriced,” Grantham wrote.  Grantham, who is best known for his bearish call on U.S.
stocks in 2000, is a long-time critic of both Federal Reserve
Chairman  Ben Bernanke  and his predecessor  Alan Greenspan . In a
series of his regular letters he has blamed them for creating
asset bubbles by holding interest rates at artificially low
levels.  Bernanke has kept  interest rates  near zero since 2008 to
help the U.S. economy recover from the financial crisis, and has
conducted three rounds of unprecedented asset purchases to drive
investors into riskier assets. The central bank has indicated it
will keep rates unchanged as long as joblessness is above 6.5
percent, inflation is projected to be no more than 2.5 percent
and long-term price expectations are well-anchored.  Greenspan-Bernanke  The Fed, wrote Grantham in the letter, is trying to
“badger” people into making riskier investments in order to
push up equity prices. He said the strategy will be seen as
typical of the “Greenspan-Bernanke era.”  The gambit can drive up asset prices for a time, wrote
Grantham, and will ultimately result in “exciting crashes.” He
described emerging-market stocks, Japanese stocks and European
stocks as “only a little expensive.”  “As for fixed income -- fugetaboutit,” he wrote.  In 2000, Grantham, 74, correctly predicted that U.S. stocks
would lose money in the next decade. The S&P 500 Index declined
an average of 1 percent a year in the 10 years ended Dec. 31,
2009.  GMO now forecasts  that U.S. large-cap stocks, excluding
quality stocks, will lose 0.8 percent per year for the next
seven years, adjusted for inflation, according to data on the
Boston-based firm’s website. GMO expects U.S. bonds to lose 1.6
percent annually.  The firm managed $106 billion as of Dec. 31.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Stein in Boston at 
 cstein@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  