-- Greece’s Stournaras Says Euro’s High Level Is a Concern
-- B y   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s   a n d   C h r i s t o s   Z i o t i s
-- 2013-02-06T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/greece-s-stournaras-says-euro-s-high-level-is-a-concern.html
Greek Finance Minister  Yannis Stournaras  said the strength of the euro is a concern even as
its current level shows a return in confidence in the 17-nation
currency.  “I’m concerned about the high level of the euro,”
Stournaras told Bloomberg Television’s  David Tweed  in an
interview in Athens yesterday. “The other side of the coin is
that there’s confidence in the euro, despite what’s been said
about Grexit, the collapse of the euro zone.”  French President  Francois Hollande  on Feb. 5 called for
government leaders to steer the euro’s exchange rate. The
currency rose to a 14-month peak against the dollar this month
and the highest in almost three years against the yen, making it
harder for exporters to sell goods abroad.  The high euro won’t be an issue “so much for Greece
because most of our exports are within the euro zone,”
Stournaras said. “But yes, overall there’s a problem with the
level of the euro.”  Stournaras’s opinion contrasts with that of Luxembourg
Finance Minister  Luc Frieden , who said Feb. 5 that the euro’s
level doesn’t concern him at present and its strength follows
the economic reality of the euro zone. The two are due to meet
at a gathering of euro-area finance ministers in Brussels on
Feb. 11.  ‘Assert Inerests’  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s government yesterday
dismissed calls by French President Francois Hollande to steer
the euro’s exchange rate, saying currencies should be determined
by the market and not managed.  “Exchange-rate policy isn’t an appropriate instrument to
boost competitiveness; it relies on short-term stimulus through
targeted depreciation,” German government spokesman  Steffen Seibert  told journalists in Berlin. “Sustained competitiveness
can’t be achieved in this way.”  Euro leaders can’t allow the single currency to fluctuate
“according to the mood of the market,” Hollande said on Feb.
5. “We have to act at the international level to assert our
interests.”  Other political figures have also been warning about the
euro’s ascent. Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker 
called the exchange rate “dangerously high” on Jan. 15 and
Belgian Finance Minister  Steven Vanackere  on Jan. 28 said “the
risk is real” of a “currency war” with Japan.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Petrakis in Athens at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net ;
Christos Ziotis in Athens at 
 cziotis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  