-- Greece Said to Set $35 Million Minimum for London Home Sale
-- B y   S h a r o n   S m y t h
-- 2013-02-07T11:07:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/greece-said-to-set-35-million-minimum-price-in-london-home-sale.html
Greece set a minimum bid price of 22
million pounds ($35 million) for a London townhouse, one of six
 overseas properties  the government is selling to help pay its
debts, two people with knowledge of the matter said.  The Greek consul’s residence in Holland Park will be sold
along with real estate in cities including Brussels and
Belgrade, said the people, who asked not to be identified
because the plan is private. They will be the first outright
sales of foreign properties by the Greek government since the
onset of the global financial crisis. Bidding for the properties
will close on March 19, the people said.  Greece, which has pledged to generate 11.1 billion euros
($15 billion) from asset deals by 2016, has so far raised about
1.8 billion euros, sparking criticism from European officials.
Property transactions rather than budget cuts should be used to
improve Greece’s balance sheet, Finance Minister  Yannis Stournaras  said last month. Real estate makes up about 75
percent of the state’s assets.  A spokesman for the country’s state privatization fund
confirmed the pricing of the London home while declining to
comment further.  The fund last week chose NCH Capital Inc. to develop a
strip of land on the Greek Island of Corfu under a 99-year
concession. NCH, a private-equity firm, pledged to invest 100
million euros as part of the deal.  Cyprus Land  Other properties for sale by the fund include an 8,000
square-meter strip of land in Nicosia, Cyprus, for a minimum of
5 million euros; an eight-story office building in Brussels with
a minimum bid price of 3.3 million euros; and a four-story
building in Belgrade for a minimum of 2 million euros, according
to the people.  Sales were delayed by months of negotiations over the
country’s debt restructuring last year and two general elections
that threatened Greece’s membership in the euro.  The London property is a 115-year-old Victorian townhouse
with 947 square meters (10,000 square feet) of space, according
to the fund. Holland Park is in Kensington & Chelsea, one of the
U.K.’s most-expensive boroughs. Residents include Virgin Group
Ltd. founder  Richard Branson  and TV-show host  Simon Cowell .  ‘Italianate Villa’  Savills Plc, a London-based broker, is handling the sale of
the 120-year-old property, according to the Greek fund’s
website. The home, which the fund describes as an unmodernized
Italianate villa, has a garden that backs into Holland Park and
has one underground level.  The average price of a Holland Park home with five bedrooms
or more has doubled to 7.27 million pounds since 2009, when
values slumped during the financial crisis, according to data
compiled by lonres.com. Values peaked at 8.11 million pounds in
2007, the research firm estimates.  Marsh & Parsons Ltd. recently sold a 7,000-square-foot
property in the area for about 20 million pounds, according to
Keith Gorny, a director for the broker.  “We have several strong buyers interested in properties of
this type,” Gorny said. “They are mainly from the Middle and
Far East and from Eastern Europe.”  London’s most expensive homes, which increased in value by
6.9 percent last year as buyers competed for fewer properties,
will outperform the rest of the U.K. residential real estate
market in 2013, according to Knight Frank LLP. Prices in the
super-prime market of houses and apartments costing 10 million
pounds or more will climb as much as 5 percent this year, the
London-based broker estimates.  The fund has also selected London & Regional, Elbit Cochin
Island Ltd. and Lamda Development SA for the second round of
bidding to buy a majority stake in Hellenikon SA, which will
develop the site of the former Athens International Airport. At
6.2 million square meters, the site is more than three times the
size of Monaco.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sharon Smyth  in Athens at 
 ssmyth2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net . 