-- TIAA-CREF Takes 5.2% Billabong Stake Amid Private-Equity Offers
-- B y   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g
-- 2013-02-06T01:01:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/tiaa-cref-takes-5-2-billabong-stake-amid-private-equity-offers.html
TIAA-CREF, owner of the fourth-
largest U.S. life and health insurer, took a 5.2 percent stake
in surfwear maker  Billabong International Ltd.  amid rival A$527
million ($548 million) bids for the company.  The group’s TIAA-CREF Investment Management LLC unit and
Teachers Advisors Inc. bought about 25 million shares on Feb. 4,
it said in a statement today.  TIAA-CREF , a group of companies
whose full name is the Teachers Insurance and Annuity
Association -- College Retirement Equities Fund, manages about
$502 billion in retirement funds for about  3.7 million  teachers
and other public service workers, according to its website.  No external stockholder has announced buying more than
375,000 shares in Billabong since the company recorded its first
annual loss in August, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.
The acquisition makes TIAA-CREF the fifth-biggest shareholders
in Australia’s largest surf company, as private equity-backed
groups led by former Bain & Co. alumni examine competing A$1.10-
a-share indicative offers.  “Our assumption is there’s a better-than-50-50 chance that
one of the deals goes ahead,”  Grant Saligari , a Melbourne-based
analyst at Credit Suisse Group AG, said by phone.  Billabong shares  rose 1.1 percent to 96.5 Australian cents
at 11:34 a.m. in Sydney, their highest level since Jan. 25.  The funds bought stock in a series of transactions between
October and February from about 84 Australian cents to A$1.05 a
share, according to the filing.  Altamont Capital Partners has tied up with Lee jeans maker
VF Corp., while Sycamore Partners Management is working with
 Billabong ’s Americas head Paul Naude on competing bids for the
Gold Coast, Australia-based company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anjali Cordeiro at 
 acordeiro2@bloomberg.net  