-- Mickelsonian Reality Has Top Earners Weighing Relocation
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C o l l i n s
-- 2013-02-07T16:53:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/mickelsonian-reality-has-top-earners-weighing-relocation.html
JD Montgomery , a California
investment adviser whose clients have an average net worth of
$75 million, was popular in the days after the November
election, receiving about a dozen calls from clients about taxes
and whether to leave the Golden State.  The reason for their desire to exit? Multiple higher
federal  taxes  combined with rising levies in states including
California. The bigger tax bite is pushing some top earners to
buy properties across state lines, move businesses, change the
jurisdiction of trusts and reduce gifts to charity.  “It’s a double whammy,” Montgomery, managing director at
Newport, California-based Canterbury Consulting, said of
increased federal and state taxes facing some top earners. “We
are at a tipping point.”  California and New Jersey along with the U.S. government
and France have turned to tax increases on high-income residents
to plug budget holes. While higher rates haven’t caused a mass
exodus historically, the current rates are leading golfer  Phil Mickelson  to say he’s thinking about making drastic changes and
have caused French actor  Gerard Depardieu  to cross the border.
Other top earners have already made moves or are calculating
with their advisers whether they should.  Taxpayer Frustration  The groundswell of frustration that is turning into action
so far is most apparent in California, where voters in November
approved a tax increase retroactive to Jan. 1, 2012. The tax
rate on income exceeding $1 million jumped to 13.3 percent, the
highest of any state, from 10.3 percent.  That means wage earners in California will pay a top
marginal rate of more than 50 percent when adding in federal tax
increases that lawmakers passed Jan. 1, and those taking effect
as a result of the 2010 health-care law.  Congress increased the top income-tax bracket to 39.6
percent from 35 percent and applied it to taxable income
exceeding $450,000 for married couples or more than $400,000 for
individuals. High earners also face limits on the value of their
deductions and exemptions, pushing up their rates, and an added
0.9 percent health-care surtax on wages.  “The cumulative effect of multiple increases, summing up
to be significant, should concern policy makers,” said  Joseph Seneca , an economics professor at Rutgers University’s Edward J.
Bloustein School of Planning and Public Policy in New Brunswick,
New Jersey.  Phil Mickelson  Golf champion Mickelson, who lives in California, said last
month that he would make some “drastic changes” because of
higher taxes.  “I happen to be in that zone that has been targeted
federally and by the state,” Mickelson said. “It doesn’t work
for me right now, so I’m going to have to make some changes.”  While it’s not a frenzy, top earners are making moves and
being more proactive, said Teresa Ridge, senior director of
planning in California at  Wells Fargo & Co. ’s unit that caters
to those with at least $1 million invested with the bank.  “These are people with the means and resources” to act,
she said.  Ridge said one Wells Fargo Private Bank client, who lives
in California, bought a home in Nevada, which has no  state
income tax , just after the election. The San Francisco-based
firm also is helping a chief executive officer in his mid-40s,
who resides in California, buy a second home in Nevada, where he
plans to be a resident by the time he sells his business within
five years, she said.  Significant Savings  The savings could be significant, Ridge said. A millionaire
with $100 million in gains from the sale of a business might
save as much as $13.3 million in state income taxes if the firm
and family resided in Nevada compared with California based on
current rates, she said.  “Nevada seems to pop up quite a bit, especially because
 housing prices  are very attractive and inventory bountiful,”
Ridge said.  Texas is drawing top earners as well, said Montgomery of
Canterbury Consulting, which advises families with an average of
$75 million in net worth. One client who lived in California
moved to the  no-income-tax  state at the end of 2012 for tax
purposes, he said.  Other California families with businesses held in trusts
have moved them to South Dakota to take advantage of that
state’s favorable tax and trust laws including rules allowing
the entities to last for multiple generations, Ridge said.
Restructuring such accounts is complex and people must make sure
they don’t violate state or federal tax rules when doing so, she
said.  Moving Decisions  Research is mixed as to how much tax policy influences
behavior, Seneca said. Other factors influence moving decisions
such as weather, employment opportunities, children’s education
and being closer to family and friends, he said.  A 2011 paper by Cristobal Young of Stanford University and
Charles Varner at Princeton University found that New Jersey’s
higher taxes for top earners had little effect on migration.  A report the next year co-authored by  Charles Steindel , the
chief economist of the state’s Treasury Department, had
different results. It estimated the state lost 18,000 taxpayers
and $2.4 billion in annual income from 2003 through 2010 after
tax increases for top earners.  “If you raise taxes you’re likely to lose some people,”
Steindel said. “It’s something that adds up over time.”  France to Russia  While most people won’t go as far as the actor Depardieu --
who got citizenship in Russia last month to avoid higher taxes
in France -- more people may make changes because of the
multiple increases targeting high earners, said Montgomery of
Canterbury Consulting.  John Franson, a 42-year-old financial analyst in Boston,
said he and his wife wouldn’t mind paying a little bit more if
they saw lawmakers put a constructive plan in place to reduce
the budget deficit.  “We don’t see that,” he said. “We see class warfare. We
see the finger pointing that the top 1 percent caused all the
problems.”  The couple will pay a top marginal rate of more than 51
percent this year, with federal and state taxes combined,
Franson said. He said he’s going to cut back on donations
because he’ll have less disposable income and he expects more
increases.  Massachusetts Governor  Deval Patrick  called last month for
an increase in the state’s flat income-tax rate to 6.25 percent
from 5.25 percent. President  Barack Obama  and congressional
Democrats want to raise more revenue by curbing tax breaks.  ‘Keeping It’  “Instead of giving a couple grand to charity, I’m keeping
it,” Franson said. “A good portion of our income and any
increase in our income will be taxed at the 39.6 percent federal
rate, which doesn’t make us want to work much more.”  Those who want to change residency to another state must be
able to prove that they are physically there a majority of the
time, said Steve Henley, national tax practice leader at the
accounting provider CBIZ MHM LLC. They would want to buy a home,
register to vote and get a driver’s license, he said.  Top earners can use less dramatic planning strategies such
as maximizing their contributions to retirement plans to reduce
their tax bite, Henley said.  Review of investment portfolios is critical, said Alfred
Peguero, a tax partner in the private company services practice
at PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP. People may want to consider tax-
exempt municipal bonds of the state in which they reside, said
Peguero, who is based in San Francisco.  Keeping up-to-date records of income, expenses, home
improvements and charitable donations will be more important
this year for high earners, he said.  That’s partly because the higher federal income taxes apply
to taxable income exceeding $450,000 or $400,000, which
taxpayers can reduce through itemized deductions, said Michael
Eisenberg, a certified public accountant and financial planner
at Eisenberg Financial Advisors in Los Angeles.  “Some of these increases are not going to be outrageous”
at the federal and state level for couples making $500,000 or
$600,000, he said. “Run the numbers before you panic.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Margaret Collins  in New York at 
 mcollins45@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 Jschneider50@bloomberg.net  