-- Microsoft Makes Real PC That’s No IPad: Rich Jaroslovsky
-- B y   R i c h   J a r o s l o v s k y
-- 2013-02-06T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/microsoft-makes-real-pc-that-s-no-ipad-rich-jaroslovsky.html
Someday, the Surface Pro will deserve
a spot in a technology museum. Nearly four decades after
 Microsoft  was founded, it has finally delivered its first full-
fledged, honest-to-God personal computer.  And it’s all right, with an innovative if occasionally
impractical design, solid construction and a bright, beautiful
screen that fulfills the company’s stated goal of providing a
showcase for its Windows 8 operating system.  It’s just that the Surface Pro, which goes on sale Feb. 9,
wants to be more. With its tablet form factor, detachable
keyboard and touch screen, it wants to be an iPad too. And it
just isn’t.  Sure it has flash memory, like an iPad, and a store where
you can choose and download applications, like an iPad.  But it’s heavier, slower -- it takes about three seconds to
wake from sleep -- and doesn’t have nearly the battery life.
Even its mini-brick power adapter screams “PC.”  Both in design and use, the Pro resembles the Surface RT
computer Microsoft released late last year: same size screen
(10.6 inches) and same kickstand design so you can prop it up on
a desktop or airline tray (but not your lap).  The screen, though, is almost twice the resolution of the
RT’s. It’s also ever so slightly thicker, and weighs about 2
pounds to the RT’s 1.5 pounds.  Price, Storage  The biggest differences are price and the amount of
software available for it.  The Pro starts at $899 for a model with four gigabytes of
memory and 64 gigabytes of storage. That’s $300 more than the
cheapest 32-gigabyte RT and $200 more than a 64 GB iPad.  The RT, which uses the kind of microprocessor found in
mobile devices, can’t run any of the millions of programs
written for previous versions of Windows. No Microsoft Outlook,
no  Adobe  Photoshop, no  Intuit  TurboTax.  The Pro, by contrast, is built around an  Intel  Core i5
“Ivy Bridge” chip, the same sort found in more traditional PCs
(and  Apple ’s Macs, for that matter). I installed fully-featured
versions of the Microsoft Office productivity suite, including
Outlook and the Access database, as well as the  Verizon  Wireless
software needed to run a Pantech 4G LTE wireless modem.  PC Performance  All performed exactly as they would on any other PC, as did
the modem itself when plugged into the Surface Pro’s single USB
3.0 port. (A second USB port, thoughtfully included on the power
adapter, allows for recharging mobile devices.)  The biggest drawback is the limited amount of space
available for your programs and data, especially when you
subtract the amount used by Windows 8 itself. A more usable 128-
gigabyte model costs $999, $200 more than Apple’s just-
introduced 128 GB iPad.  As with little-brother RT, you’ll almost certainly need one
of Microsoft’s combination cover-keyboards. They’re sold
separately and aren’t cheap: $120 for the Touch Cover, which has
pressure-sensitive keys, and $130 for the Type Cover, with
physical keys that actually move.  With a little practice, I could type faster on the Touch
Cover than I could straight onto the glass. But I vastly
preferred the Type Cover, where I could pound away at much the
same speed as on a standard laptop.  Still, the keyboard is cramped, and there isn’t a clear
enough demarcation between the halves of the track pad, which
meant I was often left-clicking when I meant to right-click.  Jumpy Cursor  I noticed other quirks as well. Using the Type Cover, I
found that the cursor would sometimes inexplicably jump to
another spot. And the screen was often slow to reorient itself
from portrait to landscape mode, even though I had snapped on
the keyboard and was ready to begin working.  Microsoft says I may have caused the jumpiness by
inadvertently brushing the track pad, though I don’t think I
did, and that the orientation problem is a known Windows 8
issue.  As part of its I’m-a-tablet-too effort, the Surface Pro
includes a pen, as do  Samsung ’s Galaxy Note products. But unlike
Samsung, Microsoft doesn’t give you a dedicated place to store
it. When the Surface isn’t charging, the pen magnetically snaps
into place where the power connector normally attaches. But when
you need to recharge the Surface, you’ll have to find somewhere
else. (It does have a pocket clip; nerd pack not included.)  Microsoft says it has improved the magnetic connector from
the RT, but I still found myself frequently fumbling with it.
And the battery life isn’t great. I was sometimes able to coax
as much as six hours on a charge -- long enough to survive a
cross-country flight, but far short of the iPad’s nine-to-10-
hour life.  If there’s any Apple product the Surface Pro could take on,
perhaps it’s the $999 MacBook Air. But an iPad? No way. At best,
the Surface Pro is a second Windows PC in an era where having
two PCs is less and less common.  ( Rich Jaroslovsky  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include Ryan Sutton on  dining  and Katya
Kazakina on  art .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rich Jaroslovsky in San Francisco at 
 rjaroslovsky@bloomberg.net . Follow on Twitter @RichJaro.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 