-- Ted Ligety Beats Favorite Svindal to Clinch Super-G Gold
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2013-02-06T11:51:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/ligety-beats-olympic-champion-svindal-to-clinch-super-g-ski-gold.html
U.S. skier  Ted Ligety  clinched his
first world super-G ski title after Olympic champion and pre-
race favorite  Aksel Lund Svindal  made a mistake in the final
turns of the race.  Ligety finished in 1 minute, 23.96 seconds on the 1,348-
meter-long Planai slope at the alpine world championships in
Schladming, Austria. Gauthier de Tessieres, a 31-year-old only
brought into the French team after Johan Clarey sustained an
injury last weekend, was 0.20 second behind for silver while
Super-G World Cup leader Svindal of Norway took bronze at 0.22
second behind the American.  “That was nerve-wracking,” Ligety, 28, told broadcaster
Eurosport. “I was trying to push as hard as I could, the light
was pretty flat.”  Svindal, the winner of three out of four Super-G races on
the World Cup circuit this season, had been ahead of Ligety
until his body twisted two gates from the finish line, dropping
him into third.  Ligety, who leads the giant slalom standings on the World
Cup tour, is the first American man to win a world title in the
discipline since  Bode Miller  in 2005. Until today, his best
super-G performance at the world championships was a 31st spot
in 2007 in Are, Sweden.  Poor Light  Just like during yesterday’s women’s Super-G race, today’s
event was held in poor light conditions, making it harder for
the skiers to see the race line.  The women’s event, delayed by 3 ½ hours because of fog, was
won by Slovenia’s  Tina Maze  as Olympic downhill champion  Lindsey Vonn  suffered a season-ending crash. Vonn, who tore two
ligaments in her knee and broke a bone in her leg, will undergo
surgery next week in her hometown of Vail, Colorado, the
Associated Press reported today.  The Super-G is a single-run Alpine event combining the
speed of downhill with the more precise turns of giant slalom.  The world championships continue on Feb. 8 with the super-
combined race for the women.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Danielle Rossingh  at the sports desk in London at 
3628 or  drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at   celser@bloomberg.net . 