-- India Predicts Decade-Low Growth Amid Inflation Risks
-- B y   U n n i   K r i s h n a n
-- 2013-02-07T08:29:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/imf-says-india-should-hold-rates-until-inflation-is-contained.html
India forecast the weakest economic
growth in a decade as subdued investment and elevated inflation
add pressure on Prime Minister Manmohan Singh to extend policy
changes and revive his development agenda.  Gross domestic product  will rise 5 percent in the 12 months
through March 2013, below last year’s 6.2 percent and the least
since 4 percent in 2002-2003, a Central Statistical Office
statement showed in New Delhi today. The median of 34 estimates
in a Bloomberg News survey was 5.5 percent.  India faces  inflation  of more than 7 percent, one of the
fastest levels in major emerging nations, limiting the extent
the central bank can cut interest rates to spur expansion. The
government has vowed spending curbs to damp price gains as it
prepares to unveil the annual budget, part of a wider policy
overhaul since September to lure capital inflows and ease
bottlenecks by speeding up infrastructure projects.  “Putting out a number like this says that we need to get
our act together,” said  Vishnu Varathan , an economist at Mizuho
Corporate Bank Ltd. in Singapore. India faces a modest recovery
and the government needs to maintain the push to spur the
economy, he said.  The rupee is up about 4 percent against the dollar since
the policy changes began Sept. 13, while the  BSE India Sensitive
Index  has risen 9 percent. The currency weakened 0.1 percent to
53.24 per dollar as of 1:47 p.m. in Mumbai. The stock index fell
0.3 percent. The yield on the 10-year bond maturing June 2022
dropped to 7.86 percent from 7.91 percent yesterday.  Policy Changes  The government has opened industries including retail and
aviation to more foreign participation, and aims to loosen
limits on investment into the pensions and insurance industries.  It has also set up a panel to accelerate stalled road, port
and power projects, eased caps on capital inflows and allowed
higher diesel tariffs to curb fuel subsidies.  Finance Minister  Palaniappan Chidambaram , who is due to
present the budget on Feb. 28, has pledged to contain the fiscal
deficit at 5.3 percent of GDP in 2012-2013 and pare it to 4.8
percent the following year.  The Reserve Bank of India lowered  rates  to 7.75 percent
from 8 percent last month, the first reduction since April. At
the same time, Governor Duvvuri Subbarao signaled there’s
limited space for further easing because of lingering price
pressures and risks such as a record current-account deficit.  Fiscal Consolidation  “We have taken note of the roadmap for fiscal consolidation
put out by the finance minister,” Subbarao said today in
Guwahati in eastern Assam state. “We are also looking forward to
the budget to get a better understanding of how fiscal
consolidation will be done.”  Inflation, based on wholesale prices, decelerated to a
three-year low of 7.18 percent in December.  Consumer prices  rose
10.56 percent in December from a year earlier, the fastest in
the BRIC group, which also includes Brazil, Russia and China.  Singh, facing a general election by May 2014, snapped two
years of policy paralysis with the recent changes. Allegations
of graft against officials contributed to the earlier logjam and
deterred spending on infrastructure.  The government is trying to narrow budget and trade
deficits to avert a credit-rating downgrade. The current-account
gap was $22.31 billion in the quarter ended Sept. 30.  Companies such as motorcycle maker Hero MotoCorp Ltd. have
reported declining profits, while higher costs led mobile-phone
operator Bharti Airtel Ltd. to increase prices in January.  IMF Forecast  The International Monetary Fund predicted 6 percent Indian
GDP growth in 2013-2014 in a statement released yesterday, after
so-called Article IV talks with officials in the country.  It flagged declining corporate and infrastructure
investment and said borrowing costs should be left unchanged
until inflation is contained, adding the  budget deficit  will
probably be above target at 5.6 percent of GDP this fiscal year.  The lender also said that while India’s expansion remains
one of the highest in the world, risks are on the downside.  “The IMF is highlighting a similar stance as what the
Reserve Bank of India governor has been saying, that room for
easing is limited because of the twin deficits and high
inflation,” said  Rohit Arora , a fixed-income strategist at
Barclays Plc in Singapore. “The possibility of easing in March
is getting lower and may be delayed.”  Indian authorities, in discussions with IMF staff, said
they plan to continue to focus on liberalizing capital inflows,
according to a report released along with the statement.  Liquidity Ratio  The Indian officials also said the statutory liquidity
ratio, or the proportion of deposits lenders must keep in
government bonds, may be “further recalibrated in accordance
with evolving monetary and fiscal conditions.”  The Reserve Bank cut the ratio to 23 percent from 24
percent, effective Aug. 11 last year, the first such reduction
since 2010.  The IMF’s growth forecast compares with average expansion
of about 8 percent in the past decade. More than two-thirds of
India’s population live on less than $2 per day, according to
 World Bank  data, adding pressure for faster development.  India will continue to take steps to revive economic
expansion, the Finance Ministry said after the GDP release.  Elsewhere in Asia today, Taiwan said its exports rose 21.8
percent in January from a year earlier. Australian employers
added part-time jobs in January and fewer people hunted for work,
helping keep the unemployment rate unchanged, a report showed
today, as interest rates at a half-century low support hiring.  The European Central Bank will probably keep its benchmark
interest rate unchanged at a record low of 0.75 percent,
according to a Bloomberg survey. The Bank of England will also
hold its benchmark interest rate at 0.5 percent, a separate
survey showed.  The U.K. and Germany will probably report declines in
industrial production in December compared with a year earlier,
according to the median estimates in Bloomberg surveys. Spain’s
non-adjusted industrial output slid 8.5 percent.  Initial jobless claims  in the U.S. probably fell to 360,000
in the week ended Feb. 2 from 368,000 the previous week, a
separate survey showed before a report today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Unni Krishnan  in New Delhi at 
 ukrishnan2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  