-- Indian Curbs on Solar Imports Spark U.S. Coplaint at WTO
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   M .   F r e e d m a n
-- 2013-02-06T20:33:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/indian-curbs-on-solar-imports-spark-u-s-coplaint-at-wto.html
The U.S. lodged a complaint at the
World Trade Organization against India’s restrictions on imports
of solar equipment, saying domestic-content requirements violate
global commerce rules.  India compels solar-energy producers to use domestically
manufactured solar cells and modules and gives subsidies to
developers who use domestic equipment rather than imports, the
U.S. Trade Representative’s office said today in an e-mailed
statement from Washington. These requirements restrict India’s
market to U.S. imports, the USTR said.  The U.S. “strongly supports the rapid deployment of solar
energy around the world, including with India,” outgoing trade
chief  Ron Kirk  said in the statement. “Unfortunately, India’s
discriminatory policies in its national solar program detract
from that successful cooperation, raise the cost of clean energy
and undermine progress toward our shared objective.”  The administration of President  Barack Obama  already has
confronted China on its solar-energy policies as competition in
Asia increases amid  price plunges . The U.S. said it has
discussed its concerns with Indian officials for the past three
years, including at the U.S.-India Trade Policy Forum and the
U.S.-India Energy Dialogue, as well as in WTO committees.  Lawmakers React  “India isn’t playing by the rules, and USTR is right to go
to the WTO to hold it accountable,” Representative  Dave Camp  of
Michigan, the Republican chairman of the House Ways and Means
Committee, said in a statement.  Other Republicans including Representative  Devin Nunes  of
California, head of the committee’s trade panel, and Senator
 Orrin Hatch  of Utah, the ranking member on the Finance
Committee, supported the complaint.  The Solar Energy Industries Association, based in
Washington, said India’s “use of discriminatory localization
barriers” is a growing trend that must be reversed. In a
statement,  Rhone Resch , the group’s president, said the U.S. was
right to challenge India’s trade practices.  Since January 2010, Indian developers of solar photovoltaic
projects using crystalline silicon technology must use solar
modules manufactured domestically, according to the USTR. The
domestic-sourcing requirement was later expanded to include
crystalline silicon solar cells.  Expansion Possible  India has said it may further expand the scope of the
domestic-content requirements to include thin-film technologies,
which comprise the bulk of U.S. solar exports to India, the USTR
said. India also guarantees solar-energy developers that the
government will buy a certain amount of solar power at a
subsidized tariff rate, provided they use domestic solar
equipment rather than imports.  Today’s request for consultations is the first step in WTO
dispute proceedings and means the two governments must hold
talks for at least two months in a bid to resolve the matter. If
the discussions fail, the U.S. can ask WTO judges in Geneva to
rule.  The U.S. has now lodged six complaints against India at the
WTO. India has challenged the U.S. eight times at the trade
arbiter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer M. Freedman in Geneva at 
 jfreedman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  