-- India Must Recycle Gold Scrap to Curb Imports, Bank Panel Says
-- B y   S w a n s y   A f o n s o
-- 2013-02-06T10:44:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/india-must-recycle-gold-scrap-to-curb-imports-bank-panel-says.html
India, the world’s biggest bullion
buyer, should recycle gold scrap and impose export obligation on
bulk purchasers to reduce imports and narrow a widening current-
account deficit, a central bank panel said.  “A combination of demand reduction measures, supply
management measures and measures to increase monetization of
idle stocks of gold need to be put in place,” the panel set up
by the Reserve Bank of India to study issues related to imports
and companies lending against the metal said in a report.  India has tripled the tax on gold imports in the past year,
raising it to 6 percent on Jan. 21, after the current-account
gap widened to a record and rupee slumped to an all-time low.
About 80 percent of the nation’s current-account shortfall, the
widest among the biggest emerging economies, is due to gold
imports, according to the central bank.  The panel recommended “fiscal measures” to curb demand
and introduction of inflation-indexed bonds for investors. It
also said bank finance for purchase of the precious metal be
prohibited and a gold bank be set up to lure idle stockpiles and
provide refinancing.  The government may also consider limiting gold imports by
banks in extreme situations, said the panel, which was headed by
K.U.B. Rao, an adviser to the central bank. The bank will
examine the recommendations and take a view, RBI said.  India’s gold imports were estimated at $38 billion in the
nine months through December, compared with $56.5 billion in
2011-2012, the finance ministry said on Jan. 21. Higher taxes
may cut demand, trimming imports to as low as 750 tons in the
financial year starting April 1 from 855 tons estimated for this
year, Nomura Holdings Inc. said Jan. 22.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Swansy Afonso in Mumbai at 
 safonso2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  