-- India Won’t Punish Congress for Policy Logjam, Minister Says
-- B y   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n   a n d   A n d r e w   M a c A s k i l l
-- 2013-02-07T06:06:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/indians-won-t-punish-congress-for-policy-logjam-minister-says.html
A logjam in Indian policy making that
lasted two years won’t determine whether the ruling Congress
party forms the next government after an election that’s just
over a year away, a cabinet minister said.  Voters have more everyday concerns, Rural Development
Minister  Jairam Ramesh  said in an interview in New Delhi
yesterday. “As long as people are getting food at the right
prices, they are getting electricity, roads are being built,
they don’t have to face corruption with the local forest guard
or police official -- policy paralysis be damned,” he said.  Graft charges involving a cabinet minister and coalition
infighting stalled Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s agenda from
late 2010, delaying decisions to further open the economy to
foreign investment and cut subsidies. The deadlock weighed on an
economy poised to grow at its slowest pace in a decade this
financial year and left India at risk of becoming the first BRIC
nation to lose its investment-grade credit rating.  Ramesh may be right that the majority of the electorate
won’t judge Singh’s second term on its delivery of major policy
reforms when they vote in a ballot scheduled for next May, said
 N. Bhaskara Rao , chairman of the New Delhi-based Centre for
Media Studies. “But voters are angry about the failure to
improve basic services and they are going to hold Congress
responsible because they have been in power for almost 10
years,” he said.  The Indian government has missed every annual target to add
electricity production capacity since 2004, and the roads agency
has so far failed to meet a goal of building 20 kilometers of
highways a day. India’s consumer-price inflation accelerated to
10.56 percent in December, the second-highest level among the
Group of 20 major economies, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Policy Push  Having parted ways with his biggest governing ally, Singh
in September began his biggest policy push in a decade, relaxing
rules on foreign investment in the retail and aviation
industries, raising diesel prices and cutting tax on Indian
companies borrowing abroad. He followed that up in October with
proposals which must be approved by parliament to allow greater
overseas holdings in the pensions and insurance industries, and
an overhaul of his cabinet.  The biggest challenge facing Congress leaders is recovering
from a series of scandals -- that included the hosting of the
2010 Commonwealth Games, a sale of mobile-phone permits and the
allocation of licenses to mine coal -- according to 31.3 percent
of people polled last month.  ‘Niche Role’  In the Jan. 22-24 survey of 800 voters in eight cities for
Outlook Magazine, 41 percent said they would vote for a Congress
party headed by its new vice-president,  Rahul Gandhi . Meanwhile
38 percent said they would support the main opposition block if
it was led by current Gujarat Chief Minister  Narendra Modi , who
is pitching for the leadership of his party. The poll had a
margin of error of 3.46 percent.  “Policy paralysis may not be an issue that resonates with
the electorate, you are talking of issues that affect a tiny
sliver of investors,” Ramesh said in an hour-long meeting in
his ministry.  Foreign investment is not a “locomotive of growth” and
plays only a “niche role,” bringing skills, markets and
technology to India, he said.  “To make out that India’s growth is crucially dependent on
foreign investment is a gross exaggeration,” Ramesh said. The
government’s recent decision to allow foreign companies to raise
their stake in domestic insurance companies, “is not an issue
that is going to set India on fire,” he said.  Rupee Prop  The Indian government today announced a lower-than-expected
forecast that the economy will grow 5 percent in the year ending
March. The median of 34 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey was
5.5 percent.  India needs foreign investment to narrow a record current-
account deficit, and prop up the rupee, which is the worst
performing currency among the biggest Asian economies over the
last two years, hurting efforts to reduce inflation.  In an effort to woo more foreign investment, Finance
Minister  Palaniappan Chidambaram  toured Asia and Europe last
month pledging more policies to boost growth and rein in the
budget gap.  Ahead of next year’s voting, the government is set to
extend a $13 billion subsidized food program, change laws on the
way land is acquired for industry, and has started a system of
direct cash benefit transfers for the poorest in a bid to curb
graft. Ramesh’s ministry runs one of the world’s biggest jobs
programs.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bibhudatta Pradhan in New Delhi at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew MacAskill in New Delhi at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  