-- India Expects First Rafale Delivery 3 Years After Deal Reached
-- B y   K a r t h i k e y a n   S u n d a r a m
-- 2013-02-07T09:30:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/india-panel-evaluating-dassault-s-126-fighter-jets-supply-deal.html
India’s air force expects to take
delivery of the first of 126  Dassault Aviation SA  fighter jets
three years after a final deal is signed, its chief N.A.K.
Browne told reporters at an air show in Bangalore.  India chose Dassault, the French maker of combat planes and
business jets, for exclusive negotiations for the fighter
aircraft order last year. The acquisition of the Rafale fighter
jets would strengthen India’s efforts to upgrade and modernize
its military, both to thwart its traditional rival Pakistan as
well as counter China’s growing power.  The closing agreement to buy the planes “must be decided
this year, then only deliveries will happen on time,” Browne
said today, referring to the next financial year starting April
1. “If the contract is signed this year, the first squadron
will arrive by 2016.”  The proposal to buy the Rafale is being evaluated by a
government cost negotiation panel before it goes to the finance
ministry and the cabinet for approval, Defense Minister  A.K. Antony  said yesterday.  “Issues including arrangement of defense offset
obligations and transfer of technology seems still to be
resolved,” said Deba Ranjan Mohanty, chairman of the  Indicia
Research & Advisory , a New Delhi-based defense research
organization. The contract could have an estimated value of
between $18 billion and $20 billion, Mohanty said.  The delay in completion of the deal is because the
government wants to ensure there is no “malpractice,” Antony
said yesterday, without providing a timeframe.  The Rafale contract isn’t ready to be signed during
President  Francois Hollande ’s Feb. 14-15 state visit to India, a
French official said in Paris yesterday, on the condition he
wasn’t identified. Talks are “progressing well” on the key
remaining issue of how to transfer production to India after the
first 18 aircraft, which will be manufactured in France, he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karthikeyan Sundaram in New Delhi at 
 kmeenakshisu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  