-- India to Reduce Defense Budget, Boost Local Weapons Production
-- B y   K a r t h i k e y a n   S u n d a r a m
-- 2013-02-06T18:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/india-to-reduce-defense-budget-boost-local-weapons-production.html
India, the world’s  seventh-largest
defense spender  in 2011, will reduce its military budget and
boost domestic weapons production as the government tightens its
spending, Defense Minister  A.K. Antony  said.  “The government is passing through difficult days,”
Antony told a press conference yesterday in Bangalore at the
Aero India 2013. “But there won’t be any cut that will affect
the operational preparedness of our ground forces.”  The plan to cut spending comes as defense equipment makers
including  Boeing Co.  and MiG Russian Aircraft Corp. compete in a
market where weapon purchases were estimated to increase. KPMG
International last year had estimated India over five years will
seek bids for $42 billion of military hardware.  “This is essentially being targeted to reduce the revenue
expenditure such as pay and allowance, while not hurting the
capital expenditures and won’t affect the acquisitions and
military modernization programs,” said Deba Ranjan Mohanty,
chairman of  Indicia Research & Advisory , a New Delhi-based
defense researcher. “This temporary reduction comes because of
political compulsions keeping a view on the next general
elections.”  India’s central bank last month said the country’s economy
will expand 5.5 percent, the slowest since 2002-2003. The
 current-account deficit  is expected to have widened in the
quarter ended December, the central bank said, from a record
$22.4 billion in the previous three-month period.  Pakistan Tension  Finance Minister  Palaniappan Chidambaram  said in an
interview last month that he plans to stick to a budget deficit
target of 4.8 percent of  gross domestic product  in the year
through March 2014 from 5.3 percent in the previous year.
Government spending and a drop in the rupee have contributed to
an  inflation rate  exceeding 7 percent, even as economic growth
slows.  The South Asian nation tripled its military outlay over the
last decade. India has ramped up its defense budget and made
changes in policy to procure weapons to upgrade and modernize
its military, both to thwart its traditional rival Pakistan as
well as counter China’s rising power.  Last month, India and Pakistan traded accusations of deadly
violations of their border truce in the disputed Himalayan
region of Kashmir, casting a shadow over moves to improve ties
between the rivals. The two nations have fought three wars since
their independence from British colonial rule in 1947, two of
them over claims to Kashmir.  Local Production  Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s government seeks to raise
the proportion of defense equipment produced at home to 75
percent from about 30 percent in the next 10 years. The country
depends on imports for about 70 percent of its 1.93 trillion
rupees ($36 billion) annual defense budget.  The government aims to increase local production of weapons
and reduce imports, Antony said today.  “We are very serious about indigenization,” said Antony.
“I don’t believe that there can be zero imports in defense, but
we want to substantially reduce imports.”  In 2011, the government revised its policy on military
procurement, further encouraging private-sector companies to
expand into a new market. The new procedures added a “buy and
make Indian” provision. For contracts that require certain
expertise, only local companies, including joint ventures with
overseas companies, can enter bids.  ‘Fine-Tune Policy’  India also tweaked rules governing local purchase
requirements. Foreign suppliers were required to source at least
30 percent of a defense contract from local companies, a rule
known as offset policy. The scope of that had been expanded to
allow foreign arms makers to purchase civil aerospace
components, and offer weapons and services for homeland
security, to meet the obligation.  “We’re fine-tuning our policy on procurement and we’ll
have a new defense procurement policy and offsets,” said
Antony. “For every procurement, transfer of technology is a
must.”  In November, China achieved a military milestone when a
homegrown fighter jet landed on its new aircraft carrier, in its
modernization bid that’s recorded advances in submarines, cyber
warfare and in outer space.  China, the biggest spender on defense after the U.S., has
doubled its defense budget since 2006. The country’s military
spending last year was estimated at 670 billion yuan ($107
billion).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karthikeyan Sundaram in New Delhi at 
 kmeenakshisu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  