-- Insiders Sell a Third of Turkey’s Mango Before Stock Plunge
-- B y   T a y l a n   B i l g i c
-- 2013-02-06T10:27:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/insiders-sell-a-third-of-turkey-s-mango-before-creditor-demands.html
The owners and managers of  Mango Gida
Sanayi & Ticaret AS , a Turkish food processor, sold more than a
third of the company’s shares in the months before announcing
creditor demands that sent the stock tumbling.  Chairman  Ayhan Karak  and Vice Chairman  Mehmet Yayla  sold
13.3 million shares since Oct. 1, or 34 percent of the company’s
equity, according to data compiled by Bloomberg on insider and
major shareholder  transactions . That included 3.5 million shares
they divested on Jan. 28, two days before the company said in a
statement to the Istanbul Stock Exchange that it was facing
creditor demands against its assets, sending the stock plunging
47 percent since.  The share sales reduced Karak and Yayla’s combined holdings
to 3.4 percent in a stock exchange  filing  on Jan. 30 from 20
percent in a filing at the end of 2011, according to company
statements to the Istanbul Stock Exchange and  data  compiled by
Bloomberg. The shares were sold for about 10.5 million liras
($5.9 million), according to the data.  Mango Gida said in announcements to the stock exchange on
Jan. 30 it was seeking to sell assets, meet potential buyers,
cut its workforce and stop packaging activities after creditors
sent the company seizure and payment orders totaling 38.3
million liras. The Istanbul-based company’s  market value  was
12.7 million liras at 11 a.m. in Istanbul, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “There currently is no new development that we haven’t
announced through the Istanbul Stock Exchange,” Karak said in a
phone interview yesterday. “We were selling our shares, but
then using the proceeds to lend to the company. Talks are
ongoing” to resolve the company’s financial difficulties, he
said. The two partners are owed about 7 million liras to 8
million liras by the company, making them effectively
“creditors,” Karak said.  The Capital Markets Board said it wouldn’t comment on
individual companies, according to a spokesman who asked not to
be identified in accordance with the regulator’s policies.  “The company could apply for a suspension of bankruptcy,
or may seek financing,” Can Ozcelik, an analyst at BGC Partners
in Istanbul, said in a phone interview yesterday. “But the
small investor has already been hit.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Taylan Bilgic in Istanbul at 
 tbilgic2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  