-- Intercontinental Exchange Profit Rises 2 Percent on Cuts
-- B y   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g
-- 2013-02-06T16:22:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/intercontinental-exchange-profit-rises-2-percent-on-expense-cuts.html
Intercontinental Exchange Inc ., which
agreed in December to acquire NYSE Euronext, said fourth-quarter
profit rose 2 percent as it cut expenses to boost earnings.  Net income increased to $129 million, or $1.76 a share,
from $127 million, or $1.73, a year earlier, the Atlanta-based
company said in a statement today. Excluding costs related to
its purchase of NYSE Euronext and other items, profit was $1.84,
beating the average analyst estimates of $1.74 per share,
according to a  survey  conducted by Bloomberg.  Average daily volume at Intercontinental’s exchanges
dropped 1 percent in the fourth quarter compared with the year-
earlier period, it said in a statement last month. Offsetting
that slowdown in trading was a 1 percent reduction in expenses
to $131 million in the quarter, the company said today.  The 12-year-old energy and commodity futures bourse agreed
on Dec. 20 to  acquire  NYSE Euronext for cash and stock worth
about $8.2 billion, moving to take control of the world’s
biggest equities market. If the deal is completed,  Jeffrey Sprecher , chief executive officer of Intercontinental, will have
expanded an oil exchange he bought in London in 2001 into the
world’s second-biggest futures market by volume, according to
data from the Futures Industry Association.  Revenue fell 1.2 percent to $323.4 million in the quarter
from $327.2 million. Intercontinental shares fell 1 percent to
$142.10 as of 9:49 a.m. in New York. They have gained 17 percent
in the past year through yesterday.  Rate Futures  Intercontinental offers trading in futures based on crude
oil, natural gas, electricity, sugar, cocoa and financial
products such as currencies and equity indexes. It owns the
world’s largest clearinghouse for credit-default swaps.  The NYSE purchase would give Intercontinental futures based
on interest rates that trade on the Liffe exchange in London.
The company will also pursue opportunities to offer clearing for
interest-rate swaps, the biggest part of the $639 trillion over-
the-counter derivatives market, Sprecher said today on a
conference call with analysts.  Intercontinental has suggested it may spin off the European
stock-trading business of the Euronext division. Sprecher said
today no decision on that would be made until after the deal
closes.  Sprecher, 57, said the purchase of the 220-year-old New
York Stock Exchange gave him and NYSE executives “a pulpit” to
“point out problems and try to be creative” in solving issues
related to equity-market structure. Sprecher said the listing
and data businesses at the stock exchange were impressive,
though he pointed out what he considered to be some flaws in how
equity markets charge customers.  ‘Absurd’ Model  The equities exchange fee model known as maker-taker
pricing in which providers of bids and offers get a rebate while
those trading against them pay for executions is “patently
absurd,” Sprecher said. It’s unclear why an exchange would give
away shareholder value, he said. The pricing regime developed
during the last dozen years as a way to encourage market makers
and other providers of liquidity to post orders on exchanges.  Sprecher made similar comments in 2011 at a Futures
Industry Association conference in Chicago.  Intercontinental’s competitor CME Group Inc., the world’s
largest futures exchange, yesterday said fourth-quarter profit
fell as its average daily volume in the quarter slumped 13
percent, compared with the year-ago period.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matthew Leising  in New York at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  