-- Linx Raising as Much as 527.9 Million Reais in IPO
-- B y   D e n y s e   G o d o y
-- 2013-02-08T17:32:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/linx-raises-527-9-million-reais-in-brazil-s-first-ipo-this-year.html
(Corrects first and third paragraphs in story published
Feb. 6 to say previous Brazil IPO happened in April.)  Linx SA, a Brazilian information
technology company, is raising as much as 527.9 million reais
($265.1 million) in an initial public offering that is the
country’s first in nine months.  The voting shares are being sold at 27 reais each, the Sao
Paulo-based company said today in a statement. Linx, which
provides communications technology and management software for
retailers, had expected to price the shares in a range of 23
reais to 27 reais, according to a Jan. 18 prospectus. The
company is selling 12.7 million of new shares and previous
shareholders including Brazil’s development bank BNDES are
selling a further 6.84 million.  Linx’s IPO is Brazil’s first since furniture-maker  Unicasa
Industria de Moveis SA  raised 425.6 million reais in April.
 Edemir Pinto , chief executive officer of exchange operator
 BM&FBovespa SA , has said he expects 2013 to bring an increase
from the three IPOs held in 2012. There were 27 offerings in the
three previous years.  “The environment is definitely not of euphoria like a
couple of years ago,”  Lucas Brendler , who helps manage about 6
billion reais ($3 billion) of assets at Banco Geracao Futuro de
Investimentos, said by phone from Porto Alegre, Brazil.
“Investors are much more selective and paying attention to
details of the businesses and the risk they offer.”  Policy makers led by central bank President  Alexandre Tombini  kept the target interest rate unchanged at 7.25 percent
for a second straight meeting on Jan. 16. Brazil will hold the
benchmark Selic steady for a “sufficiently prolonged” period,
the monetary authority said in minutes to that meeting released
on its website on Jan. 24.  Postponed Offerings  Six Brazilian companies withdrew or postponed IPOs last
year as Latin America’s largest economy struggled to boost its
recovery, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Gross domestic
product probably expanded 1 percent in 2012, about half the pace
of the U.S. and Japan, according to economists surveyed by
Bloomberg.  Estacio Participacoes SA , Brazil’s second-largest publicly
traded university operator by revenue, raised 768.7 million
reais in a share offering on Jan. 23. The company was planning
to raise as much as 623 million reais in the share sale, it said
in a Dec. 3 prospectus.  Linx had announced plans for the IPO in a regulatory filing
in December. The stock will be listed in Bovespa’s Novo Mercado
section, in which only voting shares may trade and at least 25
percent of a company’s stock must be available for trading. The
stock starts trading on Feb. 8.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Denyse Godoy in Sao Paulo at 
 dgodoy2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  