-- Iran’s Ahmadinejad Finds Shoes Instead of Warming in Egypt Visit
-- B y   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y   a n d   A h m e d   E l - S a y e d
-- 2013-02-06T07:53:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/iran-s-ahmadinejad-finds-shoes-instead-of-warming-in-egypt-visit.html
Egyptian authorities have released on
bail four conservative Salafis arrested after brandishing their
footwear at  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad  shortly after another man
attempted to use a shoe to strike the Iranian president.  The four Sunni Muslims were part of a group protesting
Ahmadinejad’s visit at al-Azhar, the Sunni world’s preeminent
religious institution, the prosecutor general’s office said in a
faxed statement yesterday. A Salafi group and a rights
organization have appointed representation for the four,
according to a statement from the groups.  Pointing a shoe in someone’s direction is considered a
grave insult in the Arab world, and is seen as likening them to
the dirt on its sole.  The incident followed an attempt by another man to hit
Ahmadinejad with a shoe as he walked near a centuries-old mosque
near al-Azhar, which the Iranian leader had visited. Video
footage of the incident showed a man reaching over security and
attempting to flog Ahmadinejad on the head before the president
was ferried away.  Ahmadinejad had earlier yesterday received a public rebuke
from al-Azhar’s top cleric over his government’s intervention in
the affairs of Sunni nations, while an adviser to the cleric
chided Iran for seeking to spread Shiite Islam in Sunni Muslim
nations.  He had arrived yesterday in Cairo for an Islamic nations
summit, a trip that marked the first to Egypt by an Iranian
leader since the 1979 Islamic Revolution. The trip is partly
aimed at further warming relations with the Arab world’s most
populous nation following the election of Islamist President
 Mohamed Mursi  in June.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tarek El-Tablawy in Cairo at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  