-- Japan Stocks Poised to Fall From Four-Year High; Nikon ADRs Drop
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2013-02-06T23:21:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/japan-stocks-poised-to-fall-from-four-year-high-nikon-adrs-drop.html
Japanese stock futures fell,
indicating the Nikkei 225 Stock Average will decline from its
highest level in four years, amid concern equities rallied too
far, too fast. Australian shares were little changed.  American Depositary Receipts of Nikon Corp. slumped 12
percent after saying falling camera prices that prompted it to
cut its annual profit forecast will probably continue this
quarter amid slowing demand in Europe and China. ADRs of Mazda
Motor Corp., the best performer on the Nikkei 225 Stock Average
in the past three months, soared 9 percent as the carmaker more
than doubled its full-year profit forecast. National Australia
Bank Ltd. gained 1.1 percent in Sydney as the lender reported an
increase in first-quarter profit.  Futures on Japan’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average  expiring in
March closed at 11,415 in Chicago yesterday, down from 11,430 at
the close in Osaka, Japan. They were bid in the pre-market at
11,400 in Osaka at 8:05 a.m. local time. Australia’s S&P/ASX 200
Index and New Zealand’s NZX 50 Index both rose less than 0.1
percent.  “We don’t think a correction will be long and sustained,”
said  Nader Naeimi , Sydney-based head of dynamic asset allocation
at AMP Capital Investors Ltd., which has about $126 billion
under management. “But we have had a strong rally in a short
space of time, so a correction isn’t unexpected. We are holding
on to our position. We have some fundamental support and now
we’re seeing some genuinely good earnings numbers.”  Asia Rally  Japanese shares have paced a rally among developed markets
in Asia. Bank of Japan Governor Masaaki Shirakawa’s earlier than
expected departure from the job has accelerated a leadership
transition that may aid Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s campaign for
aggressive easing that has helped the yen weaken against all
major currencies since mid-November, driving the broader Topix
Index up 34 percent through yesterday since elections were
announced Nov. 14.  Japan’s Cabinet Office is due to report machinery orders
for December before equity markets open today. Orders are an
indicator of capital spending.  Futures on the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  were little
changed. The gauge rose 0.1 percent yesterday as better-than-
estimated earnings overshadowed concern over Europe’s debt
crisis before a gathering of euro-area leaders.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index, the benchmark Asian equities
gauge, traded at 14.8 times average estimated earnings compared
with 13.7 for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and a multiple of
12.2 for the Stoxx Europe 600 Index, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Sony Earnings  Sony is among companies due to report earnings today. Of
the 252 companies on the MSCI Asia Pacific index that have
reported  earnings  so far this quarter and for which Bloomberg
has estimates, 52 percent have exceeded profit expectations.
Some 53 percent have missed sales projections, the data compiled
by Bloomberg show.  The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index  of the most-traded
Chinese shares in the U.S. climbed 0.1 percent to 97.79 in New
York yesterday.  Tom DeMark, the creator of indicators to show turning
points in securities, said China’s Shanghai Composite Index will
retreat about 8 percent before resuming gains as a surge in
Chinese stocks has exhausted buyers. The gauge of domestic
Chinese equities climbed 24 percent through yesterday from an
almost four-year low reached in December.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  