-- JPMorgan Said to Cut Trader Pay, Asset Managers Get Raise
-- B y   D a w n   K o p e c k i   a n d   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n
-- 2013-02-06T14:13:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/jpmorgan-said-to-cut-investment-bank-pay-3-asset-managers-gain.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co . paid investment
bankers and traders about 3 percent less in 2012 as shaky
economies in the U.S. and Europe put a damper on deals, said two
people with knowledge of the firm’s compensation.  Portfolio managers and other executives in asset management
received an average 6 percent increase in salary and bonuses,
according to two other people briefed on pay at New York-based
JPMorgan, the largest U.S. lender by assets.  Senior investment bankers and traders had braced for
steeper reductions exceeding 10 percent, one person said, after
global deals slid 13 percent to $2.67 trillion in 2012. Net
income at JPMorgan’s investment bank for the first nine months
of 2012, before it was merged with the corporate bank and
treasury services divisions, dropped 15 percent to $5.2 billion.  The cuts pale next to those inflicted on JPMorgan Chief
Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon  and on some peers at rival banks.
Dimon’s pay was halved after the bank suffered its worst-ever
trading loss in the so-called London Whale episode. Top
employees at  UBS AG , Switzerland’s biggest lender, will take a 7
percent reduction in their bonus pool and get paid with bonds
whose value could be wiped out.  Senior executives at JPMorgan bore a heavier share of bonus
cuts in the investment bank to insulate junior and mid-level
staff from harsher reductions, said one of the people, who
requested anonymity because pay discussions are private.  Joe Evangelisti , a company spokesman, said the firm had no comment.
JPMorgan paid the approximately 26,000 employees in its
investment bank an average of $314,980 for the 12 months ended
Sept. 30, the most recent data available.  Pay Levels  Average pay per worker doesn’t reflect the amount of money
employees actually receive. Top executives and revenue producers
sometimes get multimillion-dollar awards, while clerical workers
are paid smaller salaries.  JPMorgan’s U.S.-based employees received the cash portion
of their 2012 bonuses on Jan. 22, according to two people. The
highest-paid executives receive about 50 percent of their bonus
in cash and the rest in deferred stock awards and stock options,
one of the people said. Most  senior officers , senior vice
presidents in the retail bank and managing directors on the
broker-dealer side receive at least 35 percent in equity.  Employees whose total compensation fell by 10 percent or
more are generally among the weakest performers and at the
highest risk of  losing their jobs , said one person.  Performance Pay  Fee revenue from mergers and acquisitions fell 17 percent
for the year while equity underwriting fees tumbled 13 percent.
The company stopped reporting profit for investment banking
activities after the division was  combined  with corporate
lending and cash management services in the fourth quarter.  Record-low corporate financing rates and a resurgence in
investor confidence late in the year helped propel debt deals
and trading to record highs. That saved JPMorgan bankers and
traders from more drastic bonus cuts and boosted debt
underwriting fees 13 percent for 2012 to $3.3 billion. Fixed-
income trading rose 4.3 percent to $15.4 billion.  The firm rewards employees based on performance of the
entire company, followed by their division, their unit and then
their own personal results, said three executives. JPMorgan’s
2012  profit  rose 12 percent to a record $21.3 billion.  The asset-management division, which includes private
banking, mutual funds and Highbridge Capital Management,
produced a 7 percent gain in net income to $1.7 billion. That
helped boost bonuses and wages by about 6 percent for portfolio
managers, private bankers and traders in asset management, said
two people with knowledge of the matter.  Price Paid  JPMorgan’s corporate division, which includes the unit that
produced the bank’s record trading setback last year, lost $2.1
billion, falling from a profit of $822 million in 2011. The
chief investment office lost more than $6.2 billion on
derivatives in the first nine months of 2012, and most of the
traders and managers involved were fired or left. The lead
trader responsible was nicknamed the London Whale because his
positions were so large.  Other employees in the division were not necessarily
penalized for the loss, said one person familiar with their pay.  Total compensation expense in the broader division, which
includes corporate functions like human resources and public
relations, was up 13 percent for the year to $2.6 billion while
the workforce expanded by a little more than half that rate to
22,747 people, the company said when it  reported earnings  Jan.
16. Total compensation costs include wages, bonuses, retirement
costs and other benefits.  CEO Pay  JPMorgan’s board of directors sliced Dimon’s 2012 pay to
$11.5 million, citing the 56-year-old CEO’s failure to properly
supervise the chief investment office and for allowing lax risk
management practices.  Companywide compensation expenses increased 5 percent to $7
billion last year, the bank said last month. Headcount slipped
to 258,965 employees from 260,157. The firm’s stock, which
closed at $48.79 yesterday, posted a 36 percent gain last year
including dividends, beating the 33 percent total return for the
24-company KBW Bank Index.  Pay reductions at competitors include Morgan Stanley’s 7.6
percent cut in total compensation for investment bank employees
last year. The New York-based firm is also deferring bonuses for
employees who have both total pay of more than $350,000 and
incentive compensation of at least $50,000, a person briefed on
the matter said last month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dawn Kopecki in New York at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  