-- Korean Stocks Drop Most in Asia as Pioneer Sells on Won Rise
-- B y   W e i y i   L i m   a n d   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n
-- 2013-02-06T02:01:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/korean-stocks-drop-most-in-asia-as-pioneer-sells-on-won-strength.html
South Korean  stocks  are tumbling at
the fastest pace in Asia as the strengthening won curbs profits
at the nation’s biggest exporters, causing international
investors to sell the most shares since July.  The Kospi Index fell 3.7 percent in the month to yesterday
as the MSCI Asia Pacific Index lost 0.2 percent.  Samsung
Electronics Co.  was the biggest drag on the Kospi as the won
reached a four-year high versus the yen, making the company’s
mobile phones and televisions more expensive versus Japanese
rivals such as Sony Corp. Foreigners withdrew a net $2 billion
from South Korea since Jan. 4, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  While the Kospi’s retreat has dragged its valuation to the
 lowest level  since June 2010 against the MSCI Asia Pacific
Index, Pioneer Investments is selling. The manager of about $215
billion has turned bearish as Samsung predicted the stronger
currency may cut operating profit by $2.8 billion this year and
Hyundai Motor Co. reported a decline in fourth-quarter earnings
because of the won’s appreciation.  “Foreign investors flocked out of Korea because of
currency strength, especially against the yen,”  Angelo Corbetta , the London-based head of Asian equity at Pioneer,
wrote in an e-mail on Jan. 31. “This will result in a loss of
market share.” Pioneer cut South Korean holdings to below their
weighting in benchmark indexes at the end of 2012 and is still
reducing positions, according to Corbetta.  Currency Impact  Bank Julius Baer & Co., which oversees $296 billion of
client assets, may downgrade  Korean shares  to neutral, or equal
to their weight in benchmark gauges,  Pearlyn Wong , a Singapore-
based investment analyst with the Swiss bank, said by phone on
Jan. 29.  “We are looking at the impact of currency on
performance,” Wong said.  The 30-day correlation between the won and the Kospi fell
to a two-year low of 0.02 last month from as high as 0.76 in
July, data compiled by Bloomberg show. A reading of 1 means
prices are moving in tandem while zero indicates no relationship
and minus 1 means they move in opposite directions.  The Korean currency has strengthened 24 percent against the
yen in the past six months and appreciated 3.7 percent versus
the dollar. The Kospi gained 2.9 percent in that time. The stock
gauge added 0.1 percent to 1,940.26 as of 10:54 a.m. in Seoul
today.  Investors may be shifting money to Japan from South Korea,
Wong said. Japanese stocks lured $9.56 billion in net  foreign
purchases  this year through Jan. 25, the most among 10 Asian
markets tracked by Bloomberg, as Prime Minister Shinzo Abe
pushed for a weaker currency and an increase in fiscal stimulus.  ‘Large Crossover’  The Topix Index added 5.8 percent in the month to
yesterday, while Sony climbed 50 percent amid optimism
restructuring efforts and the yen’s depreciation will help end
four years of losses for the electronics maker.  Toyota Motor
Corp. , Japan’s biggest auto company, advanced 6.6 percent.  “The largest crossover between export nations in Asia is
Korea versus Japan,”  Markus Rosgen , Citigroup Inc.’s Hong Kong-
based chief Asian strategist, said in a Jan. 31 interview.
“With the yen now weaker, investors are concerned that Korean
exporters may lose market share to the Japanese.”  Hyundai, South Korea’s biggest automaker, has declined 6.9
percent this year and  Kia Motors Corp.  slumped 9.7 percent.
Hyundai said on Jan. 24 fourth-quarter net income sank 5.5
percent, while Kia reported a 51 percent slump in operating
profit the next day.  Weak Recovery  Hyundai Motor Group, the group to which both automakers are
affiliated, expects the won to strengthen more this year, Kia
said in a Jan. 4 e-mail.  Samsung  forecast on Jan. 25 a slowdown
in smartphone demand in developed markets in the first quarter.  Aberdeen Asset Management Plc, which manages $314.3 billion
in client assets, is keeping its investment in Samsung shares,
which have a 19 percent weighting in the  Kospi  index.  “Even with the won strength, Samsung has been able to
continue growing sales,”  Yoojeong Oh , a money manager at
Aberdeen, wrote in an e-mail on Feb. 4.  Samsung will probably boost revenue by 14 percent this year
and increase earnings by 18 percent, according to the average of
more than 40 analysts’  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. That
compares with projected profit growth of about 13 percent for
the MSCI Asia Pacific index.  The company is valued at 7.5 times estimated 12-month
earnings, down from a three-year  average  of 10 times, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. The Kospi trades for 9.8 times
projected profits, a 33 percent discount versus the MSCI gauge.  Vanguard ETF  A decision by Vanguard Group Inc. to drop South Korean
stocks from its emerging markets exchange-traded fund could lead
to $9 billion of outflows from equities in the first quarter,
Barclays Plc said in a Feb. 4 note. Vanguard said Oct. 2 its $61
billion ETF would track an index compiled by FTSE Group, which
classifies South Korea as a developed market, instead of MSCI
Inc.’s gauge.  The International Monetary Fund is likely to pare its
forecast for South Korea’s economic growth for 2013, following
reduced estimates by the nation’s central bank on Jan. 11. The
full-year expansion may be about 3 percent, compared with a 3.9
percent estimate in September last year, country mission chief
 Hoe Ee Khor  said in an interview in Seoul last month.  “Korea is facing a more competitive environment,”  Adrian Mowat , the chief Asian and emerging-market strategist at
JPMorgan Chase & Co., said at a briefing in Manila on Feb. 1.
“I am nervous about the exports sector.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Patterson in Hong Kong at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  