-- N.Z. Employers Unexpectedly Cut Jobs Last Quarter; Kiwi Slumps
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2013-02-06T22:11:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/n-z-employers-unexpectedly-cut-jobs-last-quarter-kiwi-slumps.html
New Zealand employers unexpectedly
cut payrolls for a third straight quarter, the longest slump
since the 2009 global recession, sending the local currency and
bond yields lower as job seekers gave up searching for work.  Employment slumped 1 percent, or 23,000 jobs, from the
third quarter, Statistics New Zealand said in a report today in
Wellington. The median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of
eight economists was for a 0.4 percent gain in employment. The
jobless rate fell to 6.9 percent from 7.3 percent as the
participation rate reached the lowest in about eight years.  The nation’s currency headed for its first weekly fall this
year as a deteriorating labor market underscored weak domestic
demand that may prompt Reserve Bank of New Zealand Governor
 Graeme Wheeler  to extend a period of record-low borrowing costs.
Last week, he said the exchange rate’s strength was affecting
the nation’s exporters and manufacturers, some of which have
elected to shutter plants and fire workers.  “The continued sluggish recovery of the labor market is
likely to encourage the RBNZ to remain on the sidelines,” Mark
Smith, senior economist at ANZ Bank New Zealand Ltd. in
Wellington, said in a Feb. 5 note.  The kiwi dollar extended declines, falling as low as 83.83
U.S. cents, the least since Jan. 31, poised for its first weekly
decline this year. New Zealand’s two-year swap rate, a fixed
payment made to receive floating rates which is sensitive to
interest-rate expectations, fell 3 basis points to 2.90
percent.  Employment fell for three straight quarters for the first
time since the January-September period in 2009, today’s report
showed. From a year earlier, employment declined 1.4 percent,
the first year-on-year decline since the first quarter of 2010.  The report showed the largest drop in the labor force
participation rate since the series began. It slumped to 67.2
percent from 68.4 percent in the third quarter, reaching the
lowest since the third quarter of 2004.  The central bank has kept borrowing costs at a record-low
2.5 percent since March 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  