-- Nasdaq Moves to Fix Facebook IPO Mishap Amid SEC Talks
-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 2013-02-06T17:05:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/nasdaq-in-talks-with-sec-over-computer-errors-in-facebook-ipo.html
Nasdaq OMX Group Inc.  is moving to
put its role in Facebook Inc.’s botched public debut behind it
as talks with federal regulators progress and the firm awaits a
decision on a settlement with brokers.  The second-biggest U.S. exchange operator and Securities
and Exchange Commission officials are examining Nasdaq Stock
Market’s technology controls in discussions spurred by the
botched initial public offering, according to a person with
knowledge of the matter who asked not to be named because the
talks are private. Nasdaq and the SEC are in preliminary
negotiations toward a settlement that may include a $5 million
fine, the Wall Street Journal reported yesterday.  The SEC is still gathering information from Nasdaq, the
person said. The exchange operator mishandled Facebook’s IPO on
May 18 when its auction to set the first traded price for the
shares failed. Its systems were overwhelmed before the stock
began trading, causing the market operator to make technology
changes that prevented data from being disseminated for hours,
leading to confusion among investors, brokers and market makers.  “We’re working closely with the SEC to resolve the issues
that arose from the events on May 18,”  Joseph Christinat , a
spokesman for Nasdaq OMX, said in a statement. “We continue to
believe we acted appropriately and in the best interest of
investors under challenging circumstances and we have
volunteered an accommodation plan supported by many members.”  SEC Investigation  John Nester , an SEC spokesman, declined to comment on
discussions between the agency and Nasdaq.  The New York regional office of the SEC’s division of
enforcement is conducting an investigation of Nasdaq related to
the  Facebook  IPO, the company said in a regulatory filing in
November. The regulator is collecting information, documents and
witness interview and Nasdaq is cooperating with the
investigation, it said.  Four brokerage firms say they lost a combined half-billion
dollars after  Nasdaq  mishandled Facebook’s offering on May 18.
Nasdaq, enjoying legal protection afforded by its status as a
self-regulatory organization, has proposed a voluntary
compensation of $62 million instead of the $3 million cap its
rules allow for technical problems it causes.  The SEC’s deadline to review the payout plan is March 29.
Citigroup Inc. asked the commission to reject it, saying the
exchange’s decisions resulted from “high-risk, profit-oriented
behavior” by Nasdaq and not actions that are part of its
regulatory oversight, according to an August letter.  UBS AG, which says it lost more than $350 million related
to technical problems with the Facebook IPO, told the SEC that
brokers should be made whole. Market-maker  Knight Capital Group
Inc. , which nearly went bankrupt after its own trading mishap in
August, recommended the SEC approve Nasdaq’s proposal.  The payout proposal covers what’s “directly attributable
to the system issues experienced by Nasdaq,” the exchange
operator told the SEC in a Dec. 7 letter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nina Mehta in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  