-- New York City, U.S. Northeast May Get Snowfall Later This Week
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2013-02-06T03:06:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/new-york-city-u-s-northeast-may-get-snowfall-later-this-week.html
New York City and the U.S. Northeast
may get some snow later this week from a storm that will develop
off the East Coast.  The exact amount of precipitation will depend on the track
the storm takes and how fast it grows as a second system weakens
over the Great Lakes, said Dan Hoffman, a  National Weather
Service  meteorologist in Upton, New York. It should arrive late
on Feb. 7 and end sometime before daybreak on Feb. 9.  “New York City itself, the five boroughs, definitely bears
the potential of seeing an accumulating snow fall at the end of
this week,” Hoffman said by telephone. “Some forecast models,
the vast majority of them, started hinting at a significant
coastal storm later this week.”  The weather service has issued a hazardous weather outlook
for the coast from Delaware to Massachusetts warning of flooding
and heavy rain and snow. While snowfall accumulations aren’t
posted yet for New York and areas south of the city, residents
in Massachusetts are being warned as much as 12 inches (30
centimeters) may fall in some places.  As of Feb. 4, 7 inches of snow has fallen in New York’s
Central Park or about 6.4 inches less than normal, according to
the weather service. Boston is also lagging behind its seasonal
pace for snow, receiving 9 inches since Dec. 1, or about 14.5
inches less than normal.  The Great Lakes storm is a factor for the snowfall amount
because if that system falls apart quickly more cold air will be
available to a nor’easter coming up the coast, said Hoffman. It
could mean the difference between a few extra hours of snow
versus rain in some areas along the shoreline, he said.  The weather service will have a better estimate of how much
snow will fall as the week progresses, Hoffman said. The weather
service forecasts a 60 percent chance of snow on Feb. 7 and a 70
percent chance of rain or snow on Feb. 8 in New York City.  Boston has a 90 percent chance of snow and Philadelphia has
a 70 percent chance of rain on Feb. 8, according to the weather
service.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Brian K. Sullivan  in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  