-- Burkina Faso, Nigeria Reach Africa Cup of Nations Soccer Final
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2013-02-07T01:03:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/nigeria-defeats-mali-4-1-to-reach-africa-cup-of-nations-final.html
Burkina Faso defeated Ghana 3-2 in a
penalty shootout to advance to its first Africa Cup of Nations
soccer final, where it will face two-time champion Nigeria.  Isaac Vorsah and Emmanuel Clottey sent penalty attempts
wide for Ghana before Burkina Faso goalkeeper Daouda Diakite
saved a third effort last night in Nelspruit, South Africa. The
game went to the shootout after finishing 1-1.  Burkina Faso, ranked 92nd by world governing body FIFA, had
entered the 16-nation event without a win in the tournament
since 1998, a run of 17 matches. The winner of the Feb. 10 final
in Johannesburg will join world champion Spain, Copa America
winner Uruguay and Oceania champion Tahiti in Group B at this
year’s eight-team  Confederations Cup  in Brazil.  “We are looking forward to doing well in our first ever
final because I believe in my players and I have seen so much
commitment from them,” Burkina Faso coach Paul Put said on the
tournament’s website.  In yesterday’s opening semifinal in Durban, Nigeria beat
Mali 4-1 to reach the continental championship match for the
first time in 13 years.  “Nigerians have waited a long time for this moment,”
coach Stephen Keshi said on the tournament website. “Nigerians
have missed out a great deal in the last few years, my goal was
to put smile on Nigerians.”  Burkina Faso had only once previously reached the
semifinals when it hosted the tournament in 1998. Four-time
champion Ghana was in the final four for the 13th time.  Mubarak Wakaso’s 13th-minute penalty gave Ghana the lead
and Aristide Bance made it 1-1 in the second half. After 30
minutes of extra time, in which Burkina Faso had a goal
disallowed and a man sent off, the game went to penalties.  Shots Wide  Vorsah’s first bobbled well wide of the goal. The shootout
was tied 2-2 when Ghana goalkeeper Fatau Dauda dived to make a
save against Paul Koulibaly.  Clottey sent Ghana’s next spot kick wide and, after Bance
converted, Diakite saved Emmanuel Agyemang Badu’s shot to send
Burkina Faso to the final.  Burkina Faso’s Prejuce Nakoulma had a goal disallowed in
extra time after being called for a foul for having his foot up
too high. Teammate Jonathan Pitroipa was then sent off after
being shown a second yellow card for diving by Tunisian referee
Slim Jedidi, though he appeared to have been tripped in the area
by John Boye. Pitroipa will miss the final.  In Durban, Nigeria moves into the championship match for
the seventh time after scoring three first half goals against
Mali. The Super Eagles won the Cup of Nations in 1980 and 1994.  Elderson Echiejile gave Nigeria the lead when he stooped to
head  Victor Moses ’s cross in the 25th minute. Brown Ideye beat a
defender to tap in five minutes later and Emmanuel Emenike’s
free kick deflected in off  Mohamed Sissoko  for an own goal just
before halftime.  Ahmed Musa beat an offside trap to make it 4-0 on the hour
before Mali’s Cheick Diarra closed the scoring with 15 minutes
remaining.  Ghana and Mali will meet in the third-place playoff July 9
in Port Elizabeth.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bob Bensch  in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at   celser@bloomberg.net . 