-- Nordic Power Price Rises With Carbon Amid Cold Weather Forecasts
-- B y   T o r s t e n   F a g e r h o l m
-- 2013-02-06T14:32:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/nordic-power-climbs-to-two-week-high-on-colder-weather-forecast.html
Nordic electricity for next quarter
advanced to the highest price in two weeks after carbon
emissions climbed and weather forecasts indicated higher power
demand.  The April through June contract rose as much as 1.1 percent
to 36.55 euros ($49.38) a megawatt-hour, the highest since Jan.
23, and traded at 36.30 euros as of 3 p.m. on Nasdaq OMX Group
Inc.’s energy exchange in Oslo.  EU carbon permits for December gained as much as 7.7
percent to 4.76 euros a metric ton before retreating to 4.34
euros on the ICE Futures Europe exchange in London. Emission
prices can influence generating costs at coal and gas-fed
plants.  Power use in the Nordic region can surge as colder weather
boosts the use of electric heating. Temperatures in Oslo will
drop as low as minus 21 degrees Celsius (minus 6 Fahrenheit) on
Feb. 8 from minus 2 today, according to CustomWeather Inc. data
on Bloomberg. That compares with a 10-year average minimum
temperature of minus 6 degrees.  The Nordic region gets half of its power by running water
though turbines. The amount of water and snow available to
generate electricity in the region may be 15.8 terawatt-hours
below normal for the time of year in two weeks, Markedskraft AS
data on Bloomberg show. That’s 58 percent more than today’s
deficit of 10 terawatt-hours.  German Support  A surge in German wind power output last week depressed
local prices and triggered Nordic net electricity imports of 48
gigawatt-hours, with Norway alone buying 172 gigawatt-hours, the
Norwegian Water and Energy directorate said today in an e-mailed
report.  German power for next quarter gained as much as 0.8 percent
to 37.65 euros, according to broker data compiled by Bloomberg.
Electricity usually flows from the cheaper area to the more
expensive one, which means a rise in German power can underpin
the equivalent Nordic contract.  “The German uptrend is pulling the Nordic power markets
towards higher prices” with further gains possible in the next
two weeks, Danish energy trading company Energi Danmark A/S said
today on its website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Torsten Fagerholm8 in Helsinki at 
 tfagerholm@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  