-- North Korea May Test Several Nuclear Devices at Once, South Says
-- B y   S a n g w o n   Y o o n
-- 2013-02-06T09:36:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/north-korea-may-test-several-nuclear-devices-at-once-south-says.html
North Korea’s next nuclear test may
involve several detonations to showcase its improved capability,
the chairman of South Korea’s Joint Chiefs of Staff said.  North Korea may simultaneously explode an upgraded
plutonium bomb and another of highly-enriched uranium, General
Jung Seung Jo told lawmakers today in Seoul at a meeting of the
parliamentary defense committee.  “Because they’ve already used plutonium twice, they will
want to experiment with a warhead that has better performance
and power,” he said. “They could showcase technological
advances with highly-enriched uranium or by testing both types
at once.”  South Korea earlier this week said arrangements for a North
Korea detonation are nearly complete, and it is pushing for an
internationally coordinated effort to deter the totalitarian
regime. United Nations diplomats are weighing how much
opposition may come to further sanctions from China, the North’s
biggest ally, should the regime follow through.  South Korea’s military is not considering a preemptive
attack on the testing location in Punggye-ri to prevent an
experiment, Jung said. The North seems ready to carry out the
blast at “any time,” based on leader  Kim Jong Un ’s decision,
he added.  Experimenting with both types of fissile material gives the
North “a political advantage,” Siegfried Hecker, senior fellow
at Stanford University’s Center for International Security and
Cooperation, said yesterday at a forum in Seoul. “You
essentially get two for the condemnation of one.”  Small Warheads  North Korea has twice conducted nuclear tests, in 2006 and
2009, and both were plutonium-based. Plutonium is considered
better for building small warheads, which North Korea is
believed to be attempting to procure so it can threaten the U.S.
with long-range nuclear-tipped missiles, said Hecker, the last
foreigner to have toured the North’s nuclear facilities.  The regime may prefer to make nuclear weapons out of
highly-enriched uranium because its production is easier to hide
and requires smaller amounts of fissile material than a
plutonium bomb, he said.  Hecker visited a light-water reactor and nuclear-material
enrichment plant during a November 2010 trip to Yongbyon, about
90 kilometers (55 miles) north of the capital Pyongyang. North
Korea has 2,000 centrifuges already installed and running at the
Yongbyon facility, and making low-enriched uranium, Hecker said
he was told on what was his fourth visit to the facility since
January 2004.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sangwon Yoon in Seoul at 
 syoon32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net ;
John Brinsley at 
 jbrinsley@bloomberg.net  