-- Notre Dame Title Game Trip to Yield Football Signing Day Bonanza
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-02-06T05:00:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/notre-dame-title-game-trip-to-yield-football-signing-day-bonanza.html
The University of Notre Dame is
making a recruiting splash following a season that began with
the Fighting Irish outside college football’s national rankings
and ended with an appearance in the championship game.  Today is the first chance for high school football players
to make an official written commitment to a college under
National Collegiate Athletic Association rules. Recruits
previously could make only non-binding verbal commitments.  Notre Dame is poised to bring one of its best groups of
recruits in years to South Bend, Indiana, buoyed by a season in
which the Fighting Irish started 12-0. Notre Dame, which earned
its first appearance in the championship game since 1988 before
losing to Alabama 42-14, has an incoming class that’s ranked
among the four best in college football by recruiting analysts
at  Scout.com ,  Rivals.com  and  ESPN .  “Now they have the tangible proof that Notre Dame is
essentially back,” said Brandon Huffman, a national recruiting
analyst for Scout.com. “Yes, they no-showed for the BCS
championship game, but the fact is that nobody expected them to
get there. Guys are seeing that coach Brian Kelly is turning
this program around. They’ve got the players, they’ve got the
talent and have done a great job on this class.”  Alabama, after winning its third Bowl Championship Series
title in four years, is set to land another top recruiting class,
with a group that’s currently No. 1 in the Rivals.com team
rankings. The Crimson Tide had Rivals’ top-ranked classes in
2008, 2009, 2011 and 2012.  Michigan’s Class  Tom Luginbill, ESPN’s national recruiting director, said
Alabama has excelled at recruiting in anticipation of players
entering the National Football League draft as underclassmen.
Alabama’s prospective class is currently ranked No. 2 by ESPN,
behind the University of Florida.  “They can go into any home now and say this is what we’ve
developed,” Luginbill said on a media conference call.
“They’re continually bringing in waves where one player leaves,
the player coming on the field is not a drop off.”  The University of Michigan has Scout.com’s No. 1-ranked
class heading into signing day. Ohio State, Louisiana State,
Texas A&M, Georgia, the University of California at Los Angeles
and the University of Southern California are also projected to
have top recruiting classes.  Like Notre Dame, Texas A&M is enjoying a recruiting boon
after a season that began with the Aggies outside the top 25 in
the Associated Press poll. After finishing their debut season in
the Southeastern Conference with an 11-2 record as quarterback
 Johnny Manziel  became the first freshman to win the Heisman
Trophy, Texas A&M has gotten verbal commitments from 32 high
school players. The group includes seven wide receivers,
including Ricky Seals-Jones of Sealy, Texas, who’s regarded as
the nation’s top wideout prospect.  ‘Perfect Storm’  “They’ve had a perfect storm,” Huffman said of the Aggies
in a phone interview. “They had an incredible season, a win at
Alabama, joining the SEC and the Heisman Trophy winner. They’ve
got so much momentum that they have this gigantic class, but
it’s a good problem to have. You got so much talent and you can
figure out how they’re going to fit later.”  Robert Nkemdiche, a 6-foot-4, 282-pound defensive end from
Loganville, Georgia, and the nation’s consensus No. 1 recruit,
will announce his college of choice today on national television.
Nkemdiche is said to be considering the University of
Mississippi, Florida and LSU.  The top offensive line recruit, Laremy Tunsil of Lake City,
Florida, is also considering Mississippi along with Alabama and
Georgia. Eddie Vanderdoes of Placer, California, the No. 2
defensive tackle prospect, will decide between Notre Dame,
Alabama, USC and UCLA.  Official Signings  While many high school football standouts have already
given verbal commitments, they’re not official until the players
sign a letter of intent today and fax it to the school.  The nation’s top linebacker prospect, Reuben Foster of
Auburn, Alabama, originally committed to Alabama in July of 2011.
After transferring to another high school, the 6-foot-1, 240-
pounder held a news conference last April to say he was changing
his commitment to rival Auburn University. Two days ago, Foster
said in a televised announcement that he’s instead decided to
sign with Alabama.  “It’s not all about emotion now, it’s a business
decision,” Foster said on Fox Sports South. “I know they can
put me at the next level.”  Scout.com’s Huffman said he’s never seen more high school
players waver on their verbal commitments.  “Twenty years ago you never knew where a kid was going
until a press release was delivered by the school,” he said.
“The way these kids bounce back and forth is more than it’s
ever been. Social media plays a big role. You’ll see guys who
say, ‘If I get 20,000 Twitter followers, I’ll go to Michigan.”’  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  