-- NTSB ‘Weeks Away’ on Boeing Battery Investigation
-- B y   J e f f   P l u n g i s
-- 2013-02-06T20:48:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/ntsb-weeks-away-on-boeing-battery-investigation.html
Investigators are “weeks away” from
determining what caused battery failures on  Boeing Co .’s
grounded 787 Dreamliner jet, the head of the U.S. National
Transportation Safety Board said.  “We are going to have some information tomorrow, but I
think we are probably weeks away from being able to tell people
‘here’s what exactly happened and what needs to change,’”
Chairman  Deborah Hersman  said at a breakfast today with
reporters in Washington.  Hersman’s comments underscore the views of U.S. regulators
that a lifting of the grounding order isn’t imminent.
Transportation Secretary  Ray LaHood  said this week that any
resumption of production flights or ferry flights would wait
until “the investigation is done.”  Boeing asked the U.S. Federal Aviation Administration for
approval to resume test flights with the 787 while grounding
orders from the agency and regulators worldwide remain in place
for airlines operating Dreamliners in commercial service.  LaHood, in remarks to reporters in Washington today,
declined to give a timetable for making a decision on Boeing’s
request or to predict a likely outcome.  Investigators are looking at each of the cells, the three
windings in each of the cells and the component parts that make
up the battery, Hersman said, including tests on examples of the
batteries used in the jet.  The safety board is looking at “the macro level to the
microscopic level on this battery,” Hersman said.  Thermal Runaway  The board has evidence of short circuits in cells of the
battery, “thermal runaway” and an uncontrolled chain reaction,
Hersman said.  “Those features are not what we would have expected to see
in a brand-new battery on a brand-new airplane,” Hersman said.
“We want to make sure the design is robust and the oversight of
the manufacturing process is adequate.”  Hersman declined to comment on reports she will be
nominated by President  Barack Obama  to replace LaHood, who has
said he’ll leave his position once a successor is confirmed.  Regulators and Boeing are still trying to determine what
caused a battery fire on one jet and a cockpit warning that
spurred an emergency landing by another, which in turn triggered
grounding orders worldwide on Jan. 16.  There are inherent risks in any new technology, including
lithium-ion batteries, Hersman said. That doesn’t mean the
batteries are unsafe, she said.  The safety board understands that industry is going to come
up with new materials, equipment and designs, Hersman said. At
the same time, it wants to make sure manufacturers understand
how the technology can fail and how to minimize any potential
dangers, she said.  “That’s never more important than aviation,” Hersman
said. “They don’t have the opportunity to pull over if there’s
a fire.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Plungis in Washington at 
 jplungis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  