-- Republican Governors Finding Sense in Medicaid Expansion
-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 2013-02-07T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/obama-medicaid-plan-gains-republican-support-with-snyder.html
Six Republican governors have agreed
to expand Medicaid, the second-largest piece of President Barack
Obama’s U.S. health-care overhaul, accepting federal money to
ensure their state’s residents have access to medical coverage.  Michigan Governor  Rick Snyder , an Affordable Care Act
opponent, said yesterday it makes sense for the “physical and
fiscal health” of his state to participate in the law’s
expansion of Medicaid, the state-federal health plan for the
poor. He became the sixth Republican governor to jump on board,
following  John Kasich  of Ohio’s announcement three days ago.  Snyder, Kasich and the rest of nation’s 30 Republican
governors generally oppose the $1.2 trillion health law as too
costly. Five Republican governors have  agreed  to participate in
the core provision of the law, building new marketplaces called
exchanges to sell health insurance.  Kasich said while he remains opposed to the individual
mandate and other provisions of the law, the Medicaid expansion
is different.  “This is not an endorsement of Obamacare,” he said. “I
think it’s something to be considered separately from some
people’s strong feelings -- including mine -- about Obamacare.”  Kasich’s willingness to participate  may help “break the
logjam” among Republican governors opposing the Medicaid
expansion,  Ron Pollack , executive director of Families USA, said
in a statement. Families USA is a Washington-based consumer
advocacy group that supports the health-care overhaul.  Hospital Burden  Obama’s health law, which passed Congress in 2010 without a
single Republican vote, may extend insurance over the next
decade to about 27 million people who are currently uninsured.
The Congressional Budget Office estimates that 8 million more
people will enroll in Medicaid programs next year because of the
expansion, which raises the income eligibility limits.  Hospitals also have been pushing governors nationwide to
participate in the expansion as they look to erase bad debt
piled up from treating uninsured patients. In Michigan, Snyder
said an expanded Medicaid program will cover 46 percent of the
state’s 450,000 uninsured adults and supplant the use of costly
emergency rooms for primary care.  “Expansion will create more access to primary care
providers, reduce the burden on hospitals and small businesses,
and save precious tax dollars,” Snyder, the Michigan governor,
said in a  statement .  Republican governors in Arizona, Nevada, North Dakota and
New Mexico have also agreed to participate in the Medicaid
expansion, according to a  tally  by Advisory Board Co., a
research and consulting company based in Washington. Including
Democratic governors, 21 states will expand the number of people
eligible for the health program.  $638 Billion  The  Medicaid  expansion is particularly alluring because of
the federal money behind it. Until 2017, the U.S. government
will pay the entire cost of covering people made newly eligible
for the program. Thereafter, states don’t have to pay more than
10 percent of the cost. The Congressional Budget Office
 estimates  the expansion will cost the federal government about
$638 billion through 2023, and states about $63 billion.  While ruling the health law constitutional in June, the
Supreme Court said states could choose not to participate in the
Medicaid expansion.  Pennsylvania’s  Tom Corbett , a Republican, said this week he
wouldn’t participate.  In states that accept it, the Medicaid expansion will make
the program available starting next year to any American earning
as much as a third more than the federal poverty level, or about
$31,800 for a family of four. Eligibility for Medicaid varies by
state now, and the program is generally closed to adults who
don’t have children.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Wayne in Washington at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  