-- Mobile-Network Traffic Growth Falls Short Amid Carrier Use Caps
-- B y   O l g a   K h a r i f
-- 2013-02-06T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/mobile-network-traffic-growth-falls-short-amid-carrier-use-caps.html
Mobile-network traffic growth was
hampered in North America and Western Europe last year as
companies including  AT&T Inc.  and Vodafone Group Plc adopted
pricing policies that discouraged heavy use, according to
research by  Cisco Systems Inc.   Mobile traffic in North America rose 64 percent in 2012,
shy of the 70 percent projected a year ago by Cisco, according
to a report released today. Western European traffic increased
44 percent, about half the 81 percent predicted pace, Arielle
Sumits, a senior analyst at Cisco, said in an interview.  Traffic in these regions was affected after carriers
imposed caps on usage and offered tiered pricing, charging more
for large amounts of data. Slowing growth and reduced consumer
spending in Europe also played a role there, according to Cisco.  “We see a little bit more regional variation this year,”
Sumits said.  Mobile-service providers are using new price structures to
help them better manage demands placed on wireless networks amid
a surge in use of tablets and smartphones, said Thomas Barnett,
Cisco’s director of service-provider thought leadership.  “The carriers are definitely looking for ways to maximize
and optimize their infrastructure investment,” Barnett said in
an interview.  Japan topped Cisco’s expectations. Its mobile traffic more
than doubled, compared with 89 percent growth Cisco projected.  Wireless carriers’ capital expenditures will  contract  7
percent to $98.6 billion this year, amid economic tumult and
maturing network technology in Western Europe, according to  ABI
Research .  Mideast, Africa  Reduced spending on telecommunications gear has
implications for equipment makers including Cisco,  Alcatel-
Lucent SA  and Ericsson AB.  Western European mobile traffic will recover to a 50
percent annual growth rate through 2017, Cisco predicted.
Driving the recovery will be the continued growth in the number
of mobile devices used and the introduction of shared data
plans, which make owning multiple mobile devices more
convenient, Sumits said.  North America’s compound annual growth rate will continue
to decelerate, to about 56 percent, Sumits said.  The Middle East and Africa will see compound annual traffic
growth of 77 percent through 2017, Cisco said. The Asia-Pacific
region will continue to enjoy mobile traffic growth averaging 76
percent annually, Cisco said.  Total worldwide mobile traffic will increase 13-fold in the
next five years through 2017, at a compound annual rate of 66
percent, Cisco estimated.  The Cisco study used outside analyst reports as well as
internal data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Olga Kharif in Portland at 
 okharif@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  