-- Ocado’s Elusive Profit Chase May Put Brake on Share Rally
-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 2013-02-06T09:54:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/ocado-s-elusive-profit-chase-may-put-brake-on-share-price-rally.html
Ocado Group Plc , the U.K.’s largest
Internet-only grocer, may fail to break into profit this year as
sales growth trails the online businesses of the main
supermarket chains, putting a share price rally at risk.  Analysts estimate that tomorrow’s full-year results from
the Hatfield, England-based company will show a widening loss
and don’t anticipate an improvement in 2013. Such an outcome
would provide little comfort for investors who have pushed the
 stock  up 21 percent this year, adding to 2012’s 59 percent gain.  “The recent share price increase is setting Ocado up for a
fall if it doesn’t deliver the expected growth,” said  Clive Black , an analyst at Shore Capital in Liverpool.  While last month’s appointment of former Marks & Spencer
Group Plc boss  Stuart Rose  as chairman and an extension of its
main debt facility in November have boosted investor sentiment,
doubts over future prospects persist. Ocado is seeking to
overcome a shortage of capacity by opening a second distribution
center in central England this year as revenue advances at a
slower pace than the company previously predicted.  “We’re very pleased to see Stuart back, but he’s not
Merlin the Magician,” said Black, who rates the shares sell.
“We may change our mind when they deliver a profit.”  Loss Estimate  Sales gained 14 percent in the six weeks ended Jan. 6, the
online retailer said Jan. 15, trailing the 25 percent growth for
U.K. Internet food sales in December, according to  data  from the
Office for National Statistics. That was less than the 20
percent growth that Ocado Chief Executive Officer  Tim Steiner 
predicted at the beginning of last year.  Online food sales rose 18 percent over the Christmas period
at  Tesco Plc,  the U.K.’s biggest supermarket company, and more
than 15 percent at J Sainsbury Plc, the third-largest grocer.  Ocado may tomorrow report a pretax loss of 3.9 million
pounds ($6.1 million) for the year ended Dec. 2, up from a loss
of 2.42 million pounds the prior year, according to the average
of nine  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. Analysts expect a loss
of the same scale this financial year, the estimates show,
followed by earnings of about 7 million pounds the year after.  “It’s an important year for them to show investors how the
long-term story is coming together,” said  Andrew Gwynn , an
analyst at Exane BNP Paribas. “We’re not going to see profits
this year though and some investors may get a bit impatient.”  Price Perception  Even after the recent share price gains, Ocado stock still
trades below the 180 pence at which it was sold in a 2010
initial public offering. Five out of 11 analysts that cover the
shares have a sell  recommendation  with only two buys. Ocado rose
0.7 pence to 104.6 pence at 9:46 a.m. in London trading.  Gwynn raised his price estimate to 140 pence last month and
kept an outperform recommendation on the stock, seeing the
company as a beneficiary of 15 percent annual growth in Internet
grocery retailing while avoiding the dilemma faced by Tesco,
Sainsbury, Wal-Mart Stores Inc.’s Asda and Waitrose Ltd. of
gaining online customers at the expense of supermarket shoppers.  The online grocer will be “heading in the right direction
of profitability,” by the end of this year, said  Bryan Roberts ,
a director at Kantar Retail in London.  “It’s basically an Internet start-up,” Roberts said.
“Look at how long it took Amazon to become profitable. If you
look at it in Tesco years, Ocado is probably six months old.”  Detractors say the online retailer needs to address a
perception among shoppers that its prices are expensive compared
with the big supermarkets. Acknowledging this, Ocado has pledged
to beat the price of Tesco on comparable baskets of shopping.  Price Promise  Under the company’s Low Price Promise, a basket of
groceries is compared to an equivalent order at Tesco.com and if
Tesco is cheaper Ocado will give shoppers a money-off voucher
for the difference “plus a little bit more,” the company said
Oct. 1.  It will also honor any promotions or special offers.  “The price perception was a bit of an issue in the past,”
Exane’s Gwynn said. “However, if you give enough money off and
with the capacity constraints removed, longer term we think it
can survive and flourish.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  