-- Modigliani’s Doomed Lover Portrait Tops $214 Million Sale
-- B y   S c o t t   R e y b u r n
-- 2013-02-07T00:43:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/modigliani-doomed-lover-portrait-sells-for-42-1-million.html
A Modigliani painting of his lover
topped works by Picasso and Renoir at a $214 million auction
that showed increasing demand for big-ticket Impressionist,
modern and Surrealist art.  The 1919 Modigliani sold last night for 26.9 million pounds
($42.1 million), the most highly valued of 74 lots at  Christie’s
International  in London.  “The stock market is up,” New York-based dealer  Christophe van de Weghe  said. “People are more confident and they want to
spend money on art. They feel secure with the big names.”  The market for Impressionist and modern art, the biggest
earner for the auction houses in the 1980s and 1990s, is now
recovering, thanks to more fresh material coming on the market,
especially by famous artists. Sellers had been holding back
because of a shift of fashion to contemporary art, dealers said.  “ Jeanne Hebuterne  (au chapeau),” showed the common-law
wife of  Amedeo Modigliani . The Italian painter died destitute,
at the age of 35, in 1920. A grief-stricken Hebuterne committed
suicide the following day, killing their unborn child.  The work was estimated at 16 million pounds to 22 million
pounds. Its New York-based seller paid 16.4 million pounds at
 Sotheby’s , London, in June 2006. Last night it was bought by
Christie’s Russian-speaking client services representative,
Sandra Nedvetskaia, bidding on the telephone on behalf of a
client, against opposition from at least three others.  Active Russians  “It looks as though some of the quieter countries have been
buying,” the London-based dealer  Simon Theobald  said. “Russians
have been less active during the last 18 months. Everything
seems to have come back.”  Ksenia Apukhtina , another Christie’s Russian speaker who
represents private clients on the telephone, gave 1.6 million
pounds for the 1950  Rene Magritte  painting “A la rencontre du
plaisir (Towards Pleasure),” showing two bowler-hatted figures
in a landscape, and underbid the 1940 Magritte landscape “Le
plagiat (Plagiary),” which fetched 5.2 million pounds, more than
doubling its low estimate.  The Magrittes were included in a 38-lot Surrealist section
that raised 38.2 million pounds.  Joan Miro ’s 1939 painting
“L’Echelle de l’evasion (The Ladder of Escape)” had been
estimated at 5 million pounds to 8 million pounds. While it had
not been seen in public for more than 50 years, it failed to
sell. Potential buyers were not enticed by its agitated figures
on a coarse canvas, dealers said.  Women Record  Earlier in the evening, the most intense bidding was
reserved for the decorative 1881  Berthe Morisot  painting “Apres
le dejeuner,” showing a young woman sitting lost in thought at a
dining table. The work had last appeared at auction in 1997,
when it fetched $3.6 million.  Here it attracted more than six bidders before being bought
by Christie’s New York-based specialist David Kleiweg de Zwaan,
bidding for a client on the telephone, for 7 million pounds. The
price beat an upper estimate of 2.5 million pounds and was an
auction record for Morisot and a work by any woman artist at
auction, Christie’s said.  De Zwaan, using the same paddle number, also gave 7.3
million pounds for  Pablo Picasso ’s muscular nude “Nu accroupi,”
painted on Valentine’s Day, 1960, estimated at 3 million pounds
to 5 million pounds. The painting failed to sell when offered at
auction for $2.5 million to $3 million in 1998.  Renoir’s Parasol  Pierre-Auguste Renoir’s  1878 painting of a girl under a
parasol, “L’ombrelle,” had been bought at auction for $6.6
million in 1988 at the height of the Impressionist art boom.
Even though the tastes of many collectors have now changed, this
sold for 9.7 million pounds to another telephone bidder against
a high estimate of 7 million pounds.  Henri Matisse ’s 1938 gouache “La danse,” related to the
famous 1910 painting now in the State Hermitage Museum in St.
Petersburg, was priced at 2.2 million pounds to 3.4 million
pounds. This same work on paper sold for 2.3 million pounds at
the company’s London salesroom in February 2007. Resold too
quickly for the comfort of some bidders, this fetched 2.7
million pounds with fees -- or about the same price it fetched
in 2007, minus auction house extras.  In November in New York, sales of works by living and
postwar artists raised a record $1.1 billion, almost three times
the $401.4 million achieved for Impressionists and moderns. This
time, Christie’s raised 136.5 million pounds with fees, beating
a high estimate of 132.8 million pounds, based on hammer prices.  This was a record for a sale in this category held by the
company in February in the U.K. capital and 89 percent of the
lots were successful. The equivalent sale last year raised 135
million pounds.  Like Sotheby’s the previous evening -- where 61 lots raised
121.1 million pounds -- about two-thirds of the works had not
appeared in the salesroom before.  “These were better sales,” the London-based dealer  Stephen
Ongpin  said in an interview. “The auction houses have been
careful. They’ve left out things that in the past would have
been offered in the evening and there were a lot of come-hither
estimates.”  ( Scott Reyburn  writes about the art market for Muse, the
arts and culture section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed
are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Jason Harper  on cars,  Martin
Gayford  on European art,  Lance Esplund  on U.S. art and  Catherine
Hickley  on German film.  To contact the writer on the story:
 Scott Reyburn  in London at  sreyburn@hotmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 