-- OECD Backs U.K. Fiscal Strategy Amid ‘Slow, Uneven’ Recovery
-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 2013-02-06T15:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/oecd-backs-u-k-fiscal-strategy-amid-slow-uneven-recovery.html
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  should allow Britain’s public finances to deteriorate
further if unemployment increases and the economy remains weak,
the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development said.  Britain faces a “slow and uneven” recovery from
recession, with the economy forecast to expand by 0.9 percent
this year and by 1.6 percent in 2014, the Paris-based group 
said in a report published today. The projections are unchanged
from its last report in November. Osborne should not seek to
counter the impact of weak growth by raising taxes or cutting
spending and the central bank should continue to loosen monetary
policy if needed, it said.  “The fiscal stance remains appropriate,” it said.
“However, if growth significantly underperforms expectations
over the coming months, the flexibility of the fiscal framework
should be utilized.”  The forecaster is sticking with its endorsement of
Osborne’s budget plans after the International Monetary Fund
urged him last month to consider easing the pace of austerity if
the recovery falters. Two years ago, OECD General Secretary
 Angel Gurria  said investors would target Britain like a “heat-
seeking missile” if there was any letup.  Osborne’s plan has been attacked by the opposition Labour
Party for sapping economic growth as the U.K. teeters on the
brink of its first ever triple-dip recession. Osborne, who said
in December that austerity will continue until 2018, three years
later than planned when the Conservative-led government came to
power in 2010, will present his new budget to Parliament on
March 20.  Wage Squeeze  Unemployment will increase to 8.3 percent this year, while
inflation-adjusted wages will grow just 0.5 percent, the OECD
said. Government consumption will shrink by 3 percent after
growing for the last three years, it said. Private consumption
will grow by 1.6 percent.  Amid such conditions, the OECD said monetary policy should
remain the main lever of growth for the economy.  “Sustained monetary stimulus through expanded quantitative
easing, liquidity provision by the Bank of England and
government-backed funding schemes need to continue to support
the economy,” the OECD said. Options such as cutting the
benchmark rate to zero and buying private securities “do not
appear to have clear advantages over expanding QE” right now,
it said.  The government may need to increase taxes after the next
election or risk culling more than a million public-sector jobs
by 2018, a separate research group said in a report today.  The  Institute for Fiscal Studies  said current spending
plans imply an average cut of one third in unprotected
government departments. If the squeeze on the wage bill
continues after the 2015 election, the total number of jobs lost
might reach 1.2 million by the 2017-2018 fiscal year, compared
with the Office for Budget Responsibility’s current forecast of
900,000. There is also more than a 50 percent chance that the
government will have to increase borrowing this year, it said.  The OECD said Osborne was right to let his debt target slip
in his autumn statement rather than risk the recovery by
tightening fiscal policy in a bid to keep it on track.  --~Editors:  Andrew Atkinson ,  Eddie Buckle   To contact the reporter on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  