-- Of Deer Antlers and Imaginary Steroid Scandals
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   M a h l e r
-- 2013-02-06T23:47:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/of-deer-antlers-and-imaginary-steroid-scandals.html
     Feb. 7 (Bloomberg) - As you may know, the latest sports
doping “scandal” involves a banned performance-enhancing drug
derived from -- I am not making this up -- deer antlers.  Among the high-profile professional athletes who have used
deer-antler spray, according to  a recent story in  Sports
Illustrated, are Baltimore Ravens linebacker  Ray Lewis  and the
golfer  Vijay Singh . Needless to say, this “revelation”
prompted the usual PED hysteria, followed by the usual
sanctimonious, ill-informed condemnations.  “I know that it’s obviously illegal, whatever it is,”
said golfer  Bubba Watson , presumably without comic intent. “I
love this sport. I would never do that.”  Singh, for his part, issued one of the most memorable
confessions in the history of sports: “I’ve used deer-antler
spray,” he admitted. But he didn’t know, he continued, that it
may have contained a substance that is banned by the
Professional Golfers Association.  Don’t worry, Vijay. What we have here, in the words of
Millard Baker, who has been studying PEDs for more than a decade
and runs the website  thinksteroids.com , is “an imaginary
steroid scandal.”  The banned substance that the Sports Illustrated story
identified is known as insulin-like growth factor 1, or IGF-1.
It’s an anabolic hormone that stimulates muscle growth. It is
manufactured synthetically, but it apparently can also be found
in microscopic quantities in the velvet of immature deer
antlers.  Milk Abuse  Does deer-antler spray, in turn, contain trace amounts of
IGF-1? Quite possibly. But so do other animal-food products.
Sports Illustrated might just as well have rattled off a list of
athletes who drink milk. After all, cows are often given  bovine
growth hormone , which increases the production of IGF-1. For
that matter, the FDA allows livestock farmers to inject cattle
with synthetic steroids such as trenbolone, a favorite among
bodybuilders who are looking to mass up quickly before a
competition.  As it happens, the deer-antler controversy is not new. In
2009, the National Football League suspended  David Vobora  of the
St. Louis Rams, who tested positive for a steroid called
methyltesterone after using a form of deer antler called The
Ultimate Spray. Vobora subsequently had the spray tested, and
discovered that it had somehow been contaminated with
methyltesterone. (He later successfully sued Sports With
Alternatives to Steroids, the company that makes the spray, for
$5.4 million.)  But what does this have to do with IGF-1, the banned
substance at the center of our deer-antler uproar? Not a whole
lot.  You can probably find deer antler at your local natural
products store. (That is, if it hasn’t already sold out. The
Sports Illustrated story evidently  created a run  on the stuff.)
It isn’t considered a drug, though it has long been used in
Chinese medicine and has more recently become a popular dietary
supplement, with aggressive marketing claims that it can help
consumers not only build muscle but also slow down the aging
process.  The supporting research isn’t exactly unequivocal.
According to the nonprofit organization Anti-Doping Research,
deer antler has been shown in animal tests to increase oxygen
uptake, as well as red and white blood cell production. But when
it comes to human beings -- let alone elite athletes -- it
hasn’t demonstrated much value as a performance-enhancer.  In other words, you’re better off getting your IGF-1
elsewhere. And anyway, IGF-1  isn’t effectively delivered  by pill
or spray. It has to be injected.  Yet here we are, in the midst of another steroid scandal,
talking about whether it was deer-antler spray that enabled
Lewis to come back so quickly from his triceps tear in mid-
October and calling Singh “a doper.” There’s no reason to
believe that either of these men benefited from spraying a weird
mist under their tongue, just as there’s no reason to think
there was anything scandalous about them doing so.  Antler Coverage  Sports Illustrated has been on the PED beat longer than
just about anyone. Its first big story on the subject --
“Drugs: A Threat to Sport,” published in 1969 -- set the tone
for decades of coverage to come. The magazine exposed the
widespread use of steroids in college and pro football,
“busted” Olympic sprinter  Ben Johnson , and published the
deathbed claim by former NFL defensive end  Lyle Alzado  that PEDs
had caused his inoperable brain cancer. And I haven’t even
gotten to  Lance Armstrong , let alone baseball’s steroid era and
Sports Illustrated’s all-time favorite villain,  Barry Bonds .  The magazine has named names, vilified users and shamed
leagues. It has broken more than its share of stories. But along
the way Sports Illustrated has often lurched toward a kind of
biochemical McCarthyism -- whipping up a “Reefer Madness”
frenzy over the startling disclosure that some athletes take
substances of dubious merit, while enforcing a garrison
mentality about drugs in sports that makes it impossible to have
an honest, dispassionate conversation about them. With its deer
antler story, reason has certainly been impaled.  Meanwhile, all of the important questions remain
unexplored. Are we drawing arbitrary distinctions between
substances that are OK and substances that aren’t? Would our
energy be better spent regulating the use of PEDs in sports,
rather than pushing for prohibition, which drives athletes into
the arms of fly-by-night operations like Sports With
Alternatives to Steroids?  Should we try to learn more about the long-term health
risks associated with PED use and abuse -- which aren’t the same
thing -- rather than developing expensive testing regimes that
are rendered obsolete almost the minute they’re put into use? Is
there a good reason not to celebrate a drug that can shorten an
athlete’s recovery from a serious injury, rather than demonizing
it as unethical? How is an aging athlete using human growth
hormone to extend his career any different from any one of us
taking a blood-pressure lowering drug to extend our life?  Instead of answers, we have another steroid scandal with
all of the usual histrionics, this one more inexplicable than
the last. As Bubba might say: It’s obviously stupid, whatever it
is.  ( Jonathan Mahler  is a sports columnist for Bloomberg View.
A contributing writer to the New York Times Magazine, he is the
author of the best-selling “Ladies and Gentlemen, the Bronx Is
Burning” and “Death Comes to Happy Valley.” The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
 Jonathan Mahler  at  jmahler11@bloomberg.net  or  @jonathanmahler  on
Twitter.  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Michael Newman at   mnewman43@bloomberg.net . 