-- WTI Crude Slips, Discount to Brent Widens
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2013-02-06T13:18:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/oil-fluctuates-after-crude-inventories-gain-distillates-shrink.html
Oil fell to its lowest in 13 days in
New York, widening its discount to Brent crude to the most this
year. U.S. crude and gasoline stockpiles rose last week, an
industry report showed.  West Texas Intermediate futures declined as much as 1.5
percent. WTI’s  discount  to London-traded Brent widened for a
sixth day as limits on the Seaway pipeline cut flows to Gulf
Coast refineries. U.S. crude supplies rose by 3.63 million
barrels, the American Petroleum Institute said. Energy
Department data due today will probably show oil inventories
rose to a seven-week high. The U.S. will tighten sanctions on
Iran today with measures blocking the exporter from repatriating
oil payments in dollars, euros and other hard currencies.  “We’re moving into the refinery maintenance season so that
could affect crude stock builds, at the end of this quarter
demand should go lower,” said  Thina Saltvedt , an analyst at
Nordea Bank AG, who predicts that prices will remain supported
at current levels by geopolitical concern and improved demand
for riskier assets.  Crude for March delivery dropped as much as $1.45 to $95.19
a barrel in electronic trading on the New York Mercantile
Exchange, the lowest since Jan. 24, and was at $95.37 at 1:16
p.m. London time. The contract rose 0.5 percent yesterday, the
biggest gain since Jan. 29. Prices slid 1.6 percent on Feb. 4,
the most since Dec. 6.  Brent for March settlement fell 62 cents to $115.90 a
barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. The
volume of all WTI contracts traded at that time was 66 percent
above the 100-day average, while Brent was 35 percent higher.  Iran Sanctions  The European benchmark grade was at a premium of as much as
$20.49 to WTI, the widest spread on an intraday basis since Dec.
26. The gap has grown since Enterprise Product Partners LP said
Jan. 31 that capacity on the Seaway pipeline to the Gulf Coast
from Cushing, Oklahoma, will be limited until late 2013.  The U.S. imposes new restrictions on Iran this week as part
of sanctions over that country’s nuclear program. Crude buyers
such as China, Japan and India must use their own currencies to
pay Iran and keep the payments in escrow accounts, or else risk
expulsion from the U.S. banking system. Iran will be able to use
the funds only for locally sourced goods and services, in what
will amount to barter arrangements.  WTI’s rebound in New York stalled yesterday along the
bottom of an uptrend channel that was breached the previous day,
signaling technical resistance, where sell orders may be
clustered. This indicator is around $97.50 a barrel today,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Fuel Supplies  Distillate inventories, including heating oil and diesel,
dropped 1.45 million barrels while gasoline supplies added 1.56
million, API data showed. The API collects stockpile information
on a voluntary basis from operators of refineries, bulk
terminals and pipelines. The government requires that reports be
filed with the Energy Department for its weekly survey.  Crude supplies rose  2.65 million barrels  last week,
according to the median estimate of eight analysts in a
Bloomberg News survey before the government report. Gasoline
stockpiles gained 900,000 barrels and distillate inventories
declined 625,000 barrels in the survey. The department is
scheduled to release its inventory report at 10:30 a.m. today in
Washington.  U.S. gasoline demand fell 1.6 percent last week to 8.5
million barrels a day for the seven days to Feb. 1, MasterCard
Inc. said yesterday in its SpendingPulse report. The API data
showed motor fuel consumption climbed 3.7 percent to 9.2 million
barrels daily, the most since the week of Dec. 21.  Operating companies have announced most of the March
loading programs for North Sea crude oils. Of those, the most
important are Brent, Forties, Oseberg and Ekofisk, which
together comprise the Dated Brent benchmark. Combined daily
exports of those four, known as BFOE, will decrease by 12
percent in March from this month, loading programs obtained by
Bloomberg on Feb. 4 show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  