-- Oil-Tanker Hire Costs Fall for Second Session as Demand Weakens
-- B y   R o b   S h e r i d a n
-- 2013-02-06T17:23:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/oil-tanker-hire-costs-fall-for-second-session-as-demand-weakens.html
Hire costs for the largest oil
tankers fell for a second session as demand slowed to charter
ships to haul cargoes of Middle East crude to Asia, the
industry’s busiest trade route.  Booking  rates  for very large crude carriers on the
benchmark Saudi Arabia-to-Japan voyage slipped 0.2 percent to
31.74 industry-standard Worldscale points, figures from the
London-based Baltic Exchange showed today. Rates are up 4.3
percent from this year’s low on Jan. 28.  Earnings for VLCCs bound for Asia from the Middle East
continue to drop “as the market has yet to see significant
activity thus far this year,” analyst  Sam Margolin  at
investment bank Dahlman Rose & Co. in New York said in an e-
mailed report. Returns slid to about $9,800 a day from about
$10,200, he said. There are 111 ships available in the Persian
Gulf over the next 30 days, Marex Spectron Group data showed.  “With the upcoming Chinese New Year, less activity is
expected in the Middle East Gulf,” the consulting unit of Oslo-
based shipping-services and investment-banking company Astrup
Fearnley said in an e-mailed report. “More tonnage may be added
to an already more-than-ample position list, giving no reason
for owners to celebrate.”  Financial markets in China, the world’s second-biggest
crude buyer after the U.S., will be closed next week for the
Lunar New Year holiday.  2 Million Barrels  Daily losses for VLCCs on the benchmark voyage as
determined by the exchange narrowed to $5,355 from $5,382
yesterday. The ships, each able to hold 2 million barrels of
oil, earned money in only four sessions in the third quarter on
the journey.  The exchange’s assessments fail to account for owners’
efforts to improve returns by securing cargoes for a voyage’s
return leg or reducing speed to burn less fuel, known as slow-
steaming. The  price  of fuel, or bunkers, the industry’s main
expense, slipped 0.1 percent to $642.91 a metric ton yesterday,
figures compiled by Bloomberg from 25 ports showed.  The combined carrying capacity of the world VLCC fleet will
expand 5.3 percent this year, below demand growth of 5.9
percent, according to  Clarkson Plc , the biggest shipbroker.  The Worldscale system is a method for pricing oil cargoes
on thousands of trade routes. Each individual voyage’s flat
rate, expressed in dollars a ton, is set once a year. Today’s
level means hire costs on the benchmark route are 31.74 percent
of the nominal Worldscale rate for that voyage.  The Baltic Dirty Tanker Index, a broader measure of oil-
shipping costs that includes vessels smaller than VLCCs, added
0.6 percent to 636, according to the exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Sheridan in London at 
 rsheridan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  