-- Olam’s Two Envelopes Hold Names of CEO Successor: Southeast Asia
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   Y u n
-- 2013-02-07T10:03:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/olam-s-two-envelopes-hold-names-of-ceo-successor-southeast-asia.html
Sunny Verghese , chief executive
officer of  Olam International Ltd. , the commodity trader short-
seller Carson Block said will fail, meets with the board every
six months to review the company’s succession plans in detail.  “My board has two envelopes,” said Verghese, who founded
the Singapore-based company more than two decades ago. “There
is an emergency succession plan if something happens to me that
has not been anticipated. But there’s a systematic and more
long-term plan as well.”  Verghese, 53, has been under pressure since November when
Block and his research firm Muddy Waters LLC first made the
claims against the world’s second-largest rice trader, prompting
a drop in the stock. Olam’s CEO, today delivered his first
earnings report since the short-seller’s attack, has expanded
with acquisitions and set a target of lifting annual profit to
$1 billion by 2016, more than triple last year’s.  “Most importantly, he has to shore up investor confidence
in the company’s expansion plan,” said Vincent Fernando, an
analyst at Religare Capital Markets in Singapore, who rates the
stock a sell. “That’s what has been impacted the most.”  The  stock  is down 6 percent since Block, 36, first
questioned Olam’s accounts in London on Nov. 19 and said the
company will fail. He also said he was betting against the
stock. Muddy Waters later released a  report  likening Olam to
failed energy trader Enron Corp., questioning its acquisitions
and accounting, and rating the stock a strong sell. It rose 0.6
percent to S$1.635  at the close of trade in Singapore.  Family Birthday  Olam slumped 27 percent in 2012, the  second-worst performer 
on Singapore’s benchmark Straits Times index. Its profit in the
year ended June 30 fell for the first time since its initial
public share sale in 2005. The company said today net income
jumped 20 percent to S$154.1 million ($124.5 million) in the
three months ended Dec. 31, the highest since the second quarter
of fiscal 2010, as volumes of grains, nuts and industrial raw
materials increased.  Verghese first heard of Block’s accusations at Singapore
airport after celebrating his birthday on Nov. 19 with his wife
and two children. After midnight while waiting to board a
Singapore Airlines Ltd. flight to Zurich, his mobile phone rang
-- it was a reporter asking if he had seen Block’s London
comments.  “I said, ’It’s 12:45 a.m., I haven’t seen anything,’”
Verghese recalled in a November interview. A second reporter
called, saying Muddy Waters was going to release an 80-page
report on Olam before the stock began trading in Singapore.
Block’s comments were “baseless assertions” intended to panic
shareholders, Verghese said Nov. 20 on a conference call.  Nestle, Kraft  Since then, the company, which supplies products from cocoa
to coffee to Nestle SA and Kraft Foods Group Inc., has rejected
the claims and sued Block and Muddy Waters for defamation.
Verghese, who has said none of his customers had pared
commitments with Olam, stayed calm amid Block’s allegations and
told employees to get on with business, according to Olam
executive Bob Dall’Alba.  “It was handled the way Sunny handled most other things,”
Dall’Alba, who joined Olam in 2007 when it bought Queensland
Cotton Holdings Ltd., said from Brisbane, Australia. “He states
the facts, tells us we’re staying true, we’re going to stay the
course and we’re going to stay true to the strategy.”  Olam, one of the world’s top six cotton traders, traces its
history back to Nigeria. Bangalore-born Verghese, a cricket and
soccer fan, was hired by Kewalram Chanrai Group, still its
largest  shareholder , according to data compiled by Bloomberg, in
1986 to establish a cotton plantation in the African country.  Milk, Vegetables  By 1989, he wanted to return to India to start his own
business. Kewalram’s chairman at the time offered Verghese,
whose grandparents were involved in farming, the chance to start
his business with the group and Olam, which means “transcending
boundaries” in Hebrew, was founded.  “A lot of the agriculture in India was very fragmented and
I thought there was quite a lot of prospect in trying to
professionalize the agriculture sector,” he said.  Olam has announced $910 million of acquisitions since April
2011, according to data compiled by Bloomberg, adding assets
including a dehydrated vegetable business, milk producer NZ
Farming Systems Uruguay Ltd. and a Nigerian manufacturer of
biscuits and candy. It had S$6.99 billion of utilized  net debt 
and S$3.42 billion of equity as of Sept. 30, Olam said Jan. 2.  “Since some of these investments involve gestation
periods, time will tell if they can successfully execute the
strategy,” said  Vijay Iyengar , chairman of Singapore-based
commodity trader Agrocorp International Pte., who first met
Verghese in 1996 when the Olam founder moved its headquarters to
Singapore from London.  Thin Margins  Olam’s peers, including  Noble Group Ltd. , Asia’s biggest
publicly traded commodity supplier, have also invested in fixed
assets such as sugar mills and oil palm plantations to secure
supply and increase the traditionally thin margins traders earn.  Olam’s biggest shareholders, Kewalram and Singapore’s state
investment firm Temasek Holdings Pte, have backed Verghese. The
commodity trader last month raised $712.5 million from a bond
offering, first announced in December to help ease concern
raised by Muddy Waters, with Kewalram and Temasek taking up all
of their entitlements in the sale.  Olam’s 5.75 percent bonds due September 2017 fell to a
record low of 83.2 cents on Nov. 30, from 97 cents on Nov. 19
when Block first made his allegations, Bloomberg prices show.
The bonds traded at 92 cents as of 5:53 p.m. in Singapore.  Since November,  brokers  including Macquarie Group and
Citigroup Inc., have raised concerns about Olam’s pace of
spending and the uncertainty of new investment.  ‘Growth Slowdown’  “Management has issued prompt and satisfactory responses
to some of the issues raised, while we await management clarity
on others,” UBS AG analysts Andreas Bokkenheuser and Anubhav
Gupta said last month in a report. “We continue to keep an eye
on Olam’s declining earnings quality and a slowdown in growth.”  Olam plans to spend as much as S$3.7 billion in the three
years through fiscal 2015, compared with S$3.3 billion from 2010
to 2012, the first part of the six-year program that will bring
the company’s  profit  to $1 billion, Verghese said in November.
Free cash flow will remain negative until about 2015 as the
company is in an “investment ramp-up phase,” he also said that
month.  Verghese said succession planning began “a long way back”
and  the board  considers both internal and external candidates.
The founder, who holds a 4.67 percent stake, isn’t talking yet
about life beyond Olam.  “There are several things I’m interested in doing, but I
wouldn’t want to discuss that at this stage,” he said. “I have
all my net worth in the business. If I leave the company, I
would still be willing to keep all my investments in the
business.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Yun in Hong Kong at 
 myun11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  