-- Money Laundering, Bail-in Powers, German Pay: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2013-02-06T13:30:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/money-laundering-bail-in-powers-german-pay-compliance.html
The European Union may target banks
with fines as high as 10 percent of their annual revenue if they
fail to combat money laundering and terrorist financing.  Bank staff may also face penalties as high as 5 million
euros ($6.8 million) under proposals adopted yesterday by the
European Commission. The rules would extend requirements for
businesses to check the identity of clients and monitor their
transactions, according to an e-mailed copy of the measures.
They would also apply to lawyers, accountants, dealers in
precious stones and gambling firms.  Current EU rules suffer from “inadequacies and
loopholes,” according to the draft law. The commission warned
last year that the EU faces “evolving threats” that required
an upgrading of its rules against financial crime. The  Financial
Action Task Force , an international organization tasked with co-
ordinating the fight against money laundering, has also called
on governments to toughen their laws.  The draft EU rules would force companies such as banks and
law firms to carry out checks on their customers if they carry
out transactions worth at least 7,500 euros, compared with a
15,000-euro threshold under existing EU law.  The commission plans must be approved by national
governments and by lawmakers in the  European Parliament  before
they can take effect.  Compliance Policy  German Push to Speed Bank Bondholder-Loss Plan Gains Support  Germany, the Netherlands and Finland want to speed up
European Union plans to force losses on senior bondholders of
failing banks, three European government officials said.  The three AAA rated euro-area states last week called for
regulators across the EU to gain so-called bail-in powers as
soon as 2015, rather than in 2018 as currently proposed, said
the officials, who declined to be identified because the talks
are private. The European Central Bank has warned that 2018 is
“far too far away” for the new rules, which seek to insulate
taxpayers and the euro area’s firewall fund from rescue costs.  The bail-in push from the Germans, Dutch and Finns was made
during Jan. 29-30 technical meetings in Brussels, the same week
that the Dutch government shielded senior bondholders of
nationalized lender SNS Reaal NV. Dutch Finance Minister Jeroen
Dijsselbloem said that step was needed to prevent a spike in
funding costs for SNS Reaal and other lenders in the country.  Accelerating the loss-sharing rules would give the euro
zone more tools to avoid taxpayer rescues like those provided to
Greece, Ireland, Portugal and Spain and sought by Cyprus. It
also could ease concerns about financial liability within the
euro zone once the ECB takes over financial supervision within
the 17-nation currency bloc.  Senior bank bondholders so far have mostly avoided losses,
while European governments and the International Monetary Fund
have committed to 486 billion euros of aid since 2010.  Under the EU plans, drawn up by the  European Commission ,
regulators would be given the power to impose losses on holders
of senior unsecured debt, as well as derivatives counterparties,
once a lender’s capital and subordinated debt are wiped out.
Regulators could also force debt to convert into common shares,
so shoring up a struggling bank’s equity.  For more, click here.  German Banking Bill May Affect Up to 12 Lenders, Schaeuble Says  As many as 12 banks based in Germany will be affected by
government legislation to force some large retail banks to spin
off proprietary trading, Finance Minister Wolfgang Schaeuble
said.  Chancellor Angela Merkel’s Cabinet approved a draft bill
today that would force deposit banks to separate proprietary
trading, lending and guarantees to hedge funds as well as high-
frequency trading when associated activities exceed 100 billion
euros ($136 billion), or 20 percent of the balance sheet. The
BaFin financial regulator would get discretionary powers that
affect lenders not covered by the limits.  The bill is the latest measure taken by Merkel to regulate
financial markets after curbing manager pay, banning some short-
selling and making banks pay into a resolution fund. Banking
legislation is at the forefront of policy making as lawmakers
prepare to contest federal elections slated for Sept. 22.  Under the bill, top managers at banks face prison sentences
of as long as five years or a penalty of as much as 11 million
euros if they intentionally violate rules and the banks that
employ them get into trouble as a result.  There is no evidence that a split of trading business from
other parts of banks improves stability on financial markets,
according to the BdB Association of German Banks.  Andreas Schmitz, BdB president, said in an e-mailed
statement that the package on financial market regulation
“follows the wrong path” and “is primarily the product of
electioneering.”  The government aims to pass the draft in the lower house of
parliament and gain upper-house approval before the summer.  S&P Lawsuit Undermined by SEC Rules That Impede Competition  The U.S. lawsuit against Standard & Poor’s raises pressure
to accelerate competition in the ratings industry while the
government itself has adopted rules that left the business
dominated by the same companies whose flawed grades sparked the
worst financial crisis since the Great Depression.  The Justice Department accuses  McGraw-Hill Cos.  and its S&P
unit of deliberately understating the risk of bonds backed by
mortgages made to the riskiest borrowers to win business from
Wall Street banks. S&P, Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch
Ratings provided 96 percent of all ratings for governments and
companies in the $42 trillion debt market in 2011, versus 97
percent in 2008.  The lawsuit is unlikely to change the relationship because
a 2006 law intended to open the field to new entrants has
instead insulated the top three. Startups have struggled to
obtain the designation that lets them sell rankings because of
everything from a missing recommendation letter to prohibitive
compliance costs to being able to provide years of ratings
performance.  Judith Burns, a spokeswoman in Washington for the
Securities and Exchange Commission, which oversees applications
for ratings firms, declined to comment on the process.  Lawmakers targeted the credit-grading business in the 2010
Dodd-Frank Act after the collapse of top-ranked mortgage-backed
securities contributed to $2.1 trillion in losses at the world’s
largest banks. Reports from the U.S. Senate Permanent
Subcommittee on Investigations and the Financial Crisis Inquiry
Commission cited failures by the companies as a cause of the
financial crisis, which began in August 2007.  For more, click here.  Compliance Action  RBS Fined $612 Million by Regulators for Manipulating Libor  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc , Britain’s biggest
publicly owned lender, will pay about $612 million in fines for
manipulating interest rates, the second-largest penalty imposed
in a global regulatory probe.  The lender will pay $325 million to the U.S. Commodity
Futures Trading Commission, $150 million to the Department of
Justice and 87.5 million pounds ($137 million) to the U.K.’s
Financial Services Authority, the CFTC said in a statement
today. RBS’s Japanese unit agreed to plead guilty to wire fraud
as part of a deal with the Justice Department, the CFTC said.  “The public is deprived of an honest benchmark interest
rate when a group of traders sits around a desk for years
falsely spinning their bank’s Libor submissions, trying to
manufacture winning trades,” said  David Meister , the CFTC’s
Director of Enforcement. “That’s what happened at RBS.”  The penalty is the biggest blow to Chief Executive Officer
Stephen Hester’s attempt to overhaul the lender after it took
45.5 billion pounds from taxpayers in the largest bank bailout
in history in 2008. The fine, the third to result from the
global probe so far, exceeds the 290 million pounds Barclays Plc
paid in June, and is second only to the $1.5 billion
Switzerland’s UBS AG paid in December.  From at least 2006, more than a dozen RBS traders made
“hundreds” of attempts to rig yen and Swiss franc Libor to
benefit their positions, the regulator said. At times, the RBS
employees succeeded in rigging the benchmark, the CFTC said.  Britain’s largest publicly owned bank  rose 0.4 percent to
338.8 pence as of 1:09 p.m. in London. The shares have gained 17
percent over the past year. The U.K. paid the equivalent of 502
pence for the shares as part of the government rescue and
British taxpayers own about 81 percent of the firm.  MF Global Customer Funds Rules Will Get Another Hearing at CFTC  The top U.S. derivatives regulator will discuss with
futures industry  participants  a proposal to bolster protections
for customer funds following the collapse of  MF Global Holdings
Ltd . and Peregrine Financial Group Inc.  The Commodity Futures Trading Commission held a roundtable
meeting in Washington yesterday following a proposal to increase
auditing standards and disclosure. The roundtable was expected
to discuss efforts to oversee self-regulatory organizations,
including  CME Group  Inc., and their duties to monitor futures
brokers.  The meeting, the third roundtable in the past year on the
topic, was scheduled 15 months after MF Global filed for
bankruptcy and reported a $1.6 billion shortfall in customer
funds. The shortfall and the collapse of Peregrine less than a
year later prompted scrutiny of the CFTC and self-regulatory
organizations in Congress and the futures industry.  The CFTC on Oct. 23 proposed a series of disclosure
requirements for futures brokers to give customers greater
accounting of their funds. The proposals also would require
heightened disclosure by brokers about how client collateral is
held at custodial banks such as  JPMorgan Chase & Co .,  State
Street Corp . and  Bank of New York Mellon  Corp. Standards for
auditors of brokerages would also be increased under the rule.  James W. Giddens, the trustee overseeing the bankruptcy of
the brokerage subsidiary of MF Global, has been working to
narrow the shortfall in customer funds.  MF Global Inc., the U.S. brokerage subsidiary, won approval
from a bankruptcy judge on Jan. 31 for a settlement with U.K.
affiliate MF Global UK Ltd. Including a settlement with the
broker’s parent, MF Global Holdings Ltd., domestic futures
customers can expect a 93 percent recovery of funds, Giddens
said in a court filing.  States Lose $39.8 Billion to Offshore Tax Games, Study Says  State governments in the U.S. lost $39.8 billion in 2011
because of offshore tax avoidance, according to a study released
yesterday.  About two-thirds of the lost revenue is from corporations,
which can shift profits to low-tax jurisdictions outside the
U.S. and avoid paying taxes until they bring the money home. The
report was issued by the  U.S. Public Interest Research Group , a
Washington-based consumer group that often opposes banks and
insurance companies.  California, New York and New Jersey, all of which have
income taxes, lost a combined $15 billion, the report said. The
report suggested that states “decouple” from the federal tax
system so corporate maneuvers to reduce U.S. taxable income
don’t automatically affect states.  President Barack Obama has called for limits on companies’
ability to defer U.S. taxes on profits they earn outside the
country. Those proposals haven’t advanced in Congress.  Brazil May Cut Taxes for Small-Cap Stock Buyers, CVM Says  Brazil may cut taxes for buyers of so-called small-cap
stocks, the regulator known as CVM said in an e-mailed
statement.  The nation is also studying tax cuts for small- and mid-
sized companies that decide to do an IPO, CVM said in the
statement.  Initiatives are being discussed by a task force that
includes CVM,  BMF & Bovespa , capital markets association  Anbima ,
Brazil’s  Finance Ministry , national development bank  BNDES  and
some brokerages.  Interviews  Maughan Says RBS Fine May Hurt Ability to Retain Talent  Simon Maughan, a financial industry strategist at  Olivetree
Securities , discussed banker remuneration and  Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc ’s pending fine for manipulating interest
rates.  He talked with Francine Lacqua on Bloomberg Television’s
“On the Move.”  For the video, click here.  Barofsky Calls Ratings Firms’ Business Model ‘Corrupt’  Neil Barofsky, former special inspector for the U.S.
Treasury’s Troubled Asset Relief Program and a Bloomberg
Television contributing editor, talked about the U.S. Justice
Department lawsuit against  McGraw-Hill Cos.  and its Standard &
Poor’s unit over claims S&P knowingly understated the credit
risks of bonds and derivatives that were central to the worst
financial crisis since the Great Depression.  Barofsky spoke with Erik Schatzker and Stephanie Ruhle on
Bloomberg Television’s “Market Makers.”  For the video, click here.  Comings and Goings/Executive Pay  German-Listed Companies Should Cap Executive Payouts, Panel Says  German-listed companies should limit pay and bonuses for
top executives, according to a panel set up by the government in
2001 to promote transparency for investors.  “The recommendations are primarily intended to increase
transparency and to make the information already available today
easier to compare, without impacting on the systems of
management-board remuneration,” the Corporate Governance Code
Commission said in a  statement  yesterday on how its  rules  for
corporations should be amended.  When defining compensation structures, supervisory boards
should take into account the relationship between what executive
board members and senior managers make, as well as the pay of
the company’s staff, the commission said. The panel didn’t say
it would set a limit on what executives should be allowed to
earn, leaving that to company boards.  The panel also proposed amending rules regarding
extraordinary shareholder meetings and acquisition bids.  The panel will take comments to yesterday’s proposals until
mid-March and deliberate on how to change the current code at a
meeting in May.  Goldman Republican Lobbyist Malan Departing for Rio Tinto Job  A senior Republican lobbyist at  Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  is
leaving the bank for a job with  Rio Tinto Group , the world’s
second-biggest mining company.  Todd Malan, 46, will be vice president of external affairs
for the U.S. and South America at the mining company. He will
handle regulatory and legislative issues, and work with
institutions like the World Bank and the International Finance
Corp.  Malan joined  Goldman Sachs  in 2008 and was part of a new
lobbying team brought in to deal with the fallout from the
financial crisis. Along with running Goldman Sachs’s Political
Action Committee, Malan lobbied on the 2010 Dodd-Frank Act that
overhauled U.S. financial regulation. He also worked on the
bank’s defense of subprime loan investigations by the Senate
Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations and the Securities and
Exchange Commission. Goldman Sachs settled the SEC case in July
2010 for $550 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New York at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  