-- Mongolia Debt Costs Rise as Government Battles Rio Tinto
-- B y   Y u r i y   H u m b e r   a n d   M i c h a e l   K o h n
-- 2013-02-06T09:57:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/mongolia-debt-costs-hit-record-high-as-government-takes-on-rio.html
The yield on Mongolia’s global
sovereign notes rose to the highest since the debt was sold in
November as the government battles for control over a mining
contract with  Rio Tinto Group , the nation’s biggest investor.  The yield on the 5.125 percent dollar-denominated notes due
2022 climbed 20 basis points this month to 5.85 percent, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. The rate has jumped 41 basis points,
or 0.41 percentage point, in 2013.  President  Tsakhia Elbegdorj  last week called for Mongolia
to have greater control of the Rio-operated Oyu Tolgoi copper
and gold project, which will account for almost a third of the
nation’s economy once in full production. Rio Tinto has rebuffed
at least two attempts in the past 18 months by Mongolia to
redraw the investment agreement, which gives the world’s second-
largest miner a 64 percent stake in the mine, with the
government holding the rest. The North Asian nation is due to
hold presidential elections in June.  “The bonds are reflecting investors’ shrinking confidence
in the direction of the current administration,”  Travis Hamilton , founder of Singapore-based Khan Investment Management
Ltd., which focuses on Mongolian assets, said in a telephone
interview. “There appears to be no real cohesion, the
leadership is questionable and there’s a huge amount of
political uncertainty” ahead of this year’s election, he said.  Dollar Bonds  Mongolia raised about $1.5 billion from the November debt
sale that was managed by Bank of America Corp., Deutsche Bank AG,
HSBC Holdings Plc and JPMorgan Chase & Co. The notes are rated
BB- by Standard & Poor’s, or three steps below investment grade.
The yield on state-controlled Development Bank of Mongolia LLC’s
5.75 percent bonds due 2017 increased 26 basis points this month
to 5.13 percent.  Since the bond sales, Mongolia has introduced a draft
mining law that would more strictly regulate the industry and
increase pressure on Rio Tinto for more domestic control on the
Oyu Tolgoi mine. In addition, the biggest state-owned coal miner
Erdenes Tavan Tolgoi has let go of two foreign top executives
and stopped contracted deliveries to China, citing a lack of
funds.  The value of the bonds has dropped by $90 million since the
issuance, which could push up borrowing costs for Mongolia in
the future, said Dale Choi, an Ulan Bator-based associate with
private equity investment firm Origo Partners MGL.  “It’s time for Mongolia to have Mongolian representation
on the management team,” President Elbegdorj said at a
parliament session on Feb. 1, according to his website. “It’s
important that the government takes the Oyu Tolgoi matter into
its own hands.”  ‘Rude Surprise’  Oyu Tolgoi will hold a shareholder meeting in Mongolia
today, where it expects to address concerns held by the
government. Rio is considering a temporary halt to work to
protest government demands for a greater share of profit, two
people familiar with the plans said last week.  “It’s going to be extremely important to see the outcome
of today’s meeting with Rio Tinto on Oyu Tolgoi,” said Khan
Investment’s Hamilton, who doesn’t own Mongolia’s 2022 debt.
Favorable pricing at its last bond sale “gave the government
the impression that they could walk on water. But I think
they’ll get a rude surprise the next time they go to the market
unless they get their act together.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yuriy Humber in Tokyo at 
 yhumber@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Kohn in Singapore at 
 mkohn5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  