-- How Wall Street Sleaze Led to Roosevelt’s Famed Corollary
-- B y   C y r u s   V e e s e r
-- 2013-02-06T15:29:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/how-wall-street-sleaze-led-to-roosevelt-s-famed-corollary.html
United Fruit Co. in Guatemala. Aramco
in Saudi Arabia. Blackwater in Iraq. We are familiar with a few
private American companies that decisively shaped foreign
policy. One of the first and ultimately most influential,
however, is also the least known.  In December 1892, a group of Wall Street businessmen
arrived by ship in the Dominican Republic. Earlier that year,
the group had created the San Domingo Improvement Co. and bought
all of the country’s foreign debt from a European financial
company. Now the men came to Santo Domingo on a delicate mission
-- coming to terms with Ulises Heureaux, the Caribbean
republic’s fearsome dictator.  Early signs weren’t good. On paper, the company controlled
the republic’s custom houses, which were the source of almost
all Dominican government revenue and served to guarantee the
debt. But the finance minister told the Americans that his
government considered their purchase of the foreign debt “null
and void.”  After the first meetings with Heureaux, the company’s
lawyer, Frederick William Holls, wrote with astonishment that
the Dominican president, “a coal black negro,” was “one of the
most remarkable men I have ever met.” Heureaux had come to power
through “a series of atrocious massacres and revolutions,” but
now governed “with a very enlightened purpose.” When it came to
bare-knuckled negotiation over the company’s contracts, Holls
marveled that not even a “first-class New York lawyer” could
have “seen through our own schemes & given us more trouble, than
did this remarkable man.” Heureaux soon came to see the
Improvement Co. as a useful instrument to borrow money and stay
in power.  Political Connections  On the surface, the company’s venture had nothing to do
with U.S. foreign policy. But the firm’s president, Smith M.
Weed, was a prominent New York Democrat with connections all the
way to the White House. Weed and his partners had consulted the
State Department before buying the Dominican debt. After a
meeting in Washington, the company’s lawyer reported happily
that the “Government is now committed to support the claims of
our company energetically and promptly.”  The Improvement Co.’s very name trumpeted a commitment to
progress, which in Latin America at the time meant the
production of cash crops for export. Together, the company and
Heureaux completed a railroad that opened some of the republic’s
interior to export agriculture, but at an astronomical cost
(much of the money found its way into Heureaux’s pocket). The
company also pushed the dictator to put his nation on the gold
standard. (Silver depreciated rapidly in the 1890s, reducing the
company’s revenue.) They even brought to Santo Domingo an
economics professor from the newly founded University of Chicago
to promote hard money.  Most problematically, Heureaux changed grazing laws to
require pig farmers to fence in their animals, which invaded and
destroyed sugar and cacao plantations. The law clearly benefited
farmers -- both local and foreign -- at the expense of landless
peasants, who duly rose up in rebellion. Heureaux suspended the
law and put down the uprising.  By 1897, it was clear that genuine modernization had failed
to transform the nation’s economy, and Heureaux and the American
financiers settled on fraud as a way to stay afloat.  Dominican bonds issued after the arrival of the Improvement
Co. had been sold across Europe, but after the country defaulted
on interest payments in 1897, blocs of outraged bondholders
formed pressure groups in Brussels, Paris, London and elsewhere.
To keep the depreciated bonds from losing all their value, the
Improvement Co. did everything it could to keep Heureaux in
power -- the dictator had assured his Wall Street allies that he
would “make sure that no political disturbance damages the
confidence that peace brings to the foreign bondholders.”  Last Straw  Heureaux needed money to stay in power, but all sources of
new credit had run dry, both at home and abroad. He still had
one card to play, however. The New Yorkers owned the National
Bank of Santo Domingo, which had an exclusive right to issue
currency. Soon worthless bills flooded the country, followed by
“silver” coins of dubious value. For the long-suffering
Dominican people, this was the last straw. In July 1899,
Heureaux was shot and killed by the son of a businessman whom he
had executed years earlier.  Heureaux was gone, but the company remained. Now, however,
Dominicans could speak out openly. An American naval officer
noted that locals referred to the company “as the American
Destruction Company.” Even American sugar planters on the island
complained that their compatriots had come to the country
“simply to finance for profit and increase the national debt.”
The company’s vice president was forced to admit that “the
people would be glad to be rid of us.”  Nevertheless, U.S. officials stood by the Improvement Co.,
pressuring the new Dominican government to pay $4.5 million to
liquidate the company’s assets -- the railroad, national bank
and a quantity of bonds. That sum represented almost a whole
year’s revenue for the impoverished nation.  For several years, the U.S. held fast to the idea that the
company’s grip on Dominican finances served American interests
in the Caribbean. By 1904, however, it was becoming clear that
the company created more problems than it solved. The country
was bankrupt and in a state of near-constant revolution.
Payments to the Improvement Co. spurred protests by European
governments, whose citizens had claims that the Dominicans
ignored in order to pay the American firm.  By early 1905, President  Theodore Roosevelt  had finally had
enough. He elbowed aside the Improvement Co. and put U.S.
officials in charge of Dominican customs houses. American
creditors would get paid back by the new U.S. customs
receivership, but so would Europeans. And no longer would a
private company handle American foreign policy.  The intervention helped give rise to the Roosevelt
Corollary to the Monroe Doctrine, which committed the U.S. to
intervene wherever “wrongdoing or impotence” kept Latin American
nations from fulfilling their international obligations. Few
Americans, at the time or since, knew that the disreputable
actions of a Wall Street firm had led to a landmark in U.S.
foreign policy.  ( Cyrus Veeser  is an associate professor of history at
Bentley University. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more from Echoes  online .  To contact the writer of this post:
Cyrus Veeser at  cveeser@bentley.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this post:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net  