-- Pabst Would Consider Bid for Michelob
-- B y   D u a n e   D .   S t a n f o r d
-- 2013-02-06T19:26:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/pabst-would-consider-bid-for-michelob.html
Pabst Brewing Co. would look into
buying Michelob from  Anheuser-Busch InBev NV  should the brand be
divested to settle a U.S. antitrust lawsuit to block the $20.1
billion takeover of the rest of  Grupo Modelo SAB .  “We would consider the opportunity if it became
available,”  Daren Metropoulos , chief executive officer of Los
Angeles-based Pabst, said today in an e-mail. “It’s premature
to reach out” to AB InBev “right now. But we certainly like
the Michelob brand.”  The U.S. Department of Justice argued in a lawsuit filed in
federal court in Washington last week that AB InBev’s Modelo
transaction would violate antitrust law by eliminating the
“substantial head-to-head competition” between the companies.  AB InBev  may have to divest brands, including Michelob, in
the U.S. to avoid a court fight over a proposed full takeover of
Mexico City-based Modelo,  Anthony Bucalo , an analyst for Banco
Santander SA in London, said in an October note.  Marianne Amssoms, a spokeswoman for Leuven, Belgium, AB
InBev, didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail and telephone
call seeking comment.  Michelob accounted for about 3 percent of the U.S. beer
market and 6 percent of AB InBev’s U.S. volume sales in 2011,
Bucalo said. Michelob’s sales volume is about 9.5 million
hectoliters, generating about $1.1 billion in revenue.  Pabst “has created a successful business model of buying
the orphaned brands of defunct beer companies such as Schlitz,
Stroh, Rainer, Heileman, Olympia, etc.,” Bucalo said in
October.  Metropoulos said Pabst isn’t interested in AB InBev’s
Natural Light, which Bucalo also speculated was a potential
divestiture candidate.  Pabst is owned by private-equity firm C. Dean Metropoulos &
Co., of which Daren Metropoulos is a principal. The firm is also
the lead bidder with Apollo Global Management LLC for Hostess
Brands Inc.’s cake brands, including Twinkies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Duane D. Stanford in Atlanta at 
 dstanford2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  