-- Pakistan Ambassador Says Drone Hits Violate Sovereignty
-- B y   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n
-- 2013-02-06T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/pakistan-ambassador-says-drone-strikes-counterproductive.html
U.S. drone strikes in Pakistan are
illegal and counterproductive, producing more militants than
they eliminate, according to Pakistan’s Washington envoy.  Ambassador  Sherry Rehman  called the targeted killings a
“direct violation of our sovereignty” and international law as
well as a red line that Pakistani authorities are constantly
urging the U.S. not to cross. While saying that her country has
done all it can to eradicate terrorists and their havens, she
said more strikes by the U.S. Central Intelligence Agency’s
remotely piloted planes may hamper security cooperation.  “We need to drain this swamp,” Rehman said yesterday,
referring to pockets of violent extremism in her country. Still,
U.S. strikes stir deep resentment and radicalize some, Rehman
told journalists hosted by the Christian Science Monitor.  Her critique of the drone campaign was made two days before
 John Brennan  is set to testify at a Senate confirmation hearing
on his nomination as CIA director. Brennan, President  Barack Obama ’s chief counterterrorism adviser, is regarded as a leading
proponent of ramping up targeted killings of suspected
terrorists in Pakistan, Afghanistan, Yemen and Somalia.  Pakistan’s opposition to the drone strikes is the sorest
point in its relationship with the U.S., which is critical to
the future of neighboring Afghanistan. The U.S. is withdrawing
combat forces from Afghanistan by the end of 2014, and has urged
Pakistan to crack down on militants taking shelter inside its
borders and to promote a negotiated end to the conflict next
door by supporting Afghan peace talks.  ‘Same Page’  Rehman dismissed the view among some in the U.S. that
Pakistan’s elected leaders and security services publicly oppose
the strikes because they are politically unpopular, while
supporting their use against anti-government militants such as
Tehrik-i-Taliban, the Pakistani branch of the Taliban.  Her country’s military and civilian leaders are “all on
the same page” that Pakistan “has to take ownership of all
anti-terrorism operations” for the nation’s populace to regard
them as legitimate, Rehman said.  In the past four years, the Obama administration conducted
six times as many drone strikes in Pakistan as President  George W. Bush ’s administration did in the previous four years,
according to the London-based Bureau of Investigative
Journalism, a nonprofit news organization. The CIA has used
unmanned aerial vehicles in 362 strikes in Pakistan since 2004,
310 under Obama, in which as many as 3,461 people -- including
as many as 891 civilians -- have been killed, the group says.  Drone Memo  A confidential Justice Department memo that sets out a
legal basis for the Obama administration’s targeted killings was
published Feb. 4 by NBC News. The document describes the grounds
for using drones overseas against terror suspects, including
U.S. citizens who are believed to be senior operational leaders
of al-Qaeda or related groups.  Rehman today declined to answer when asked if Pakistan’s
military would attempt to shoot down the American aircraft.  Still, she made clear that the drone issue is the main
sticking point in a relationship that remains delicate after a
series of shocks in 2011 -- the diplomatic fracas over the
shooting of two Pakistanis by a CIA employee; ire over the U.S.
operation against  Osama bin Laden  without alerting Pakistan; and
the accidental killing of 24 Pakistani soldiers in a U.S.
airstrike along the Afghan-Pakistan border.  Rehman said Pakistan is committed to assisting the Afghan
government in peace talks and is continuing to release Taliban
prisoners from Pakistani custody whom the Afghan government
believes may serve as intermediaries with insurgents.  Tribal Belt  “We cannot sit there and pose as guarantors of the
process,” Rehman said, even as her government supports
Afghanistan in the talks. Nor does Pakistan have the sway to
force the Taliban to make peace, she said.  Chafing at the oft-repeated criticism by some in the U.S.
that Pakistan hasn’t done enough to rein in militants and
eradicate their border havens, Rehman said that there is no
active sanctuary for terrorists in Pakistan. She said her
country brought 86 percent of its tribal region, where
insurgents have sought shelter, under government control by the
end of last year, up from 37 percent in 2009.  Pakistani officials have often complained that the U.S. and
Afghanistan have failed to secure their side of the border,
allowing Pakistani militants to operate from eastern
Afghanistan. Rehman said her government operates 800 checkpoints
on the Afghan border.  Rehman urged the U.S. to have more sympathy for Pakistan’s
sacrifices in the struggle against terrorism, which she said has
cost her country 46,000 lives and $78 billion in lost economic
opportunity and investment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in Washington at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  