-- Palm Reserves in Malaysia Set to Drop From Record on Output
-- B y   R a n j e e t h a   P a k i a m
-- 2013-02-06T11:36:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/palm-stockpiles-in-malaysia-seen-dropping-from-record-on-output.html
Palm oil reserves in Malaysia, the
biggest producer after Indonesia, probably fell for the first
time since June as output plunged by the most in two years,
according to a Bloomberg survey.  Stockpiles  of the oil used in food and biofuels decreased
3.8 percent to 2.53 million metric tons in January from a record
2.63 million tons a month earlier, according to the median of
estimates from four analysts and two plantation companies.
Production slumped 15 percent, the most since December 2010, to
1.51 million tons, while  exports  dropped 7.9 percent to 1.52
million tons, the median of five estimates shows. The Malaysian
Palm Oil Board is due to release the data on Feb. 13.  Inventories in Malaysia and Indonesia climbed last year as
production outpaced demand, pushing down prices by 23 percent,
the most since 2008. While stockpiles may have peaked, the price
may not advance much, according to Rabobank International.  Dorab Mistry , who has traded the oil for three decades, says prices
probably already passed their highs and will decline in the
second half as supplies expand.  “We’re not looking at any big jump in prices for the
moment,” Pawan Kumar, Rabobank’s associate director of food and
agribusiness research and advisory, said by phone from
Singapore. Futures may trade in a range of 2,500 ringgit ($807)
to 2,600 ringgit a ton next month, which will help cut reserves,
he said.  Three-Year Low  Palm for April delivery ended at 2,547 ringgit on the
Malaysia Derivatives Exchange, the lowest price at close for the
most-active contract since Jan. 30. Futures have recovered 15
percent after slumping to 2,217 ringgit on Dec. 13, the lowest
level since November 2009.  Malaysia announced export tax changes last year to reduce
inventories, resulting in a zero tariff for January. The same
rate was extended to February and may remain the same in March
if prices stay below the threshold of 2,250 ringgit, according
to Plantation Industries & Commodities Minister  Bernard Dompok .  Indonesia raised export taxes to 9 percent in February from
7.5 percent. The country’s reserves probably rose to 3.5 million
tons in January from 3.25 million tons in December, according to
a Bloomberg survey last month.  The median estimate for Malaysian output in the latest
survey was 17 percent higher than 1.29 million tons produced in
January 2012, board data show. That should keep the inventory
level above 2 million tons through the first quarter, which will
“limit the upside,”  Alan Lim Seong Chun , an analyst at Kenanga
Investment Bank Bhd., wrote in a report yesterday.  High Stockpiles  Production  in February should decline further, Kumar said.
Lower output will draw down inventories, with steeper falls seen
in February and March,  Sebastian Tobing , an analyst at UBS AG in
Indonesia, said Jan. 31. Production is typically lowest in the
first two months of the year.  Standard Chartered Plc cut the average price forecast for
2013 to 2,688 ringgit from 2,825 ringgit, analyst Abah Ofon
wrote in a report this week, citing “large” stockpiles.  Palm will drop below 2,200 ringgit in August or earlier,
amid a worldwide glut of edible oils, according to Mistry,
director at Godrej International Ltd. Global production of nine
oils tracked by the U.S. Department of Agriculture including
palm, peanut and soy will expand to a record 157 million tons
this year, the agency estimates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ranjeetha Pakiam in Kuala Lumpur at 
 rpakiam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  