-- Pemex Workers Return With Source of Gas Buildup Still Unknown
-- B y   E r i c   M a r t i n   a n d   C a r l o s   M a n u e l   R o d r i g u e z
-- 2013-02-06T06:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/pemex-workers-return-with-source-of-gas-buildup-still-unknown.html
Petroleos Mexicanos employees return
today to their Mexico City headquarters where 37 people died
last week as authorities search for the source of a gas buildup
that caused the nation’s deadliest explosion since 2006.  The gas buildup “isn’t there anymore,” the state owned
oil company known as Pemex said on its Twitter page.
“Conditions are safe to resume work.”  Activities at the headquarters will resume, with the
exception of buildings B1 and B2, the company said in a post
yesterday that was confirmed by its press department.  Mexican authorities said on Feb. 4 that a buildup of gas,
possibly methane, led to the blast, the first official
hypothesis to explain the Jan. 31 explosion. Deputy Attorney
General Alfredo Castillo said yesterday that investigators are
still looking for the cause of the gas accumulation and
inspecting potential corrosion from pipelines in a Pemex cooling
facility across the street from explosion site. The Attorney
General’s office requested that Pemex postpone the reopening of
its headquarters until today as evidence was recovered.  Investigators are still probing whether the blast was an
accident or an intentional act, Attorney General  Jesus Murillo 
told reporters at a press conference in the nation’s capital on
Feb. 4.  “We still need to go through a lot of steps in order to
determine the precise gas that generated the explosion, its
exact point of origin and the analysis of whether there are
people responsible for this,” he said.  Castillo said that his team of detectives is trying to
figure out whether the gas came from a leak caused by bad
maintenance or if the inert gas was naturally produced from
underground residuals.  Engineers Review  Engineers from Mexico’s National Autonomous University,
 Empresas ICA SAB  and Pemex reviewed the physical condition of
the buildings that are reopening today, including the main
tower, which is the country’s second-tallest, Pemex said in a
statement yesterday.  The buildings were declared safe after a comprehensive
security inspection, Chief Executive Officer  Emilio Lozoya  said
at the Feb. 4 press conference.  National Action Party Senator  Javier Lozano , a labor
minister under former President  Felipe Calderon , said reopening
the complex is premature.  “What kind of guarantee is there that in that area there
won’t be a similar problem in the coming days?” Lozano said
yesterday, according to a recording posted on his website. “No
worker should return until there’s absolute clarity where the
gas came from.”  Energy Overhaul  Pemex’s second deadly explosion in five months came as
President  Enrique Pena Nieto , who took office Dec. 1, planned to
submit a bill to increase private investment in the energy
industry and lower taxes on Pemex, as the company is known. The
initiative would be the biggest energy-industry overhaul since
the nation seized oil fields from British and U.S. companies 75
years ago.  Pemex Chief Financial Officer  Mario Beauregard  said the
blast was an “unfortunate accident” that won’t affect the
company’s investment plans this year.  The energy overhaul is on track to be sent to Congress in
the coming months, Beauregard said yesterday in a conference
call with analysts. The explosion and the energy bill “are
totally independent events,” he said.  Budgetary Autonomy  While the exact details of Pena Nieto’s energy proposal
have yet to be announced, his modernization push should at least
offer more budgetary autonomy to Pemex, said  Homero Nino de Rivera , a PAN congressman and a former executive at the company.  Opponents to an energy overhaul “may become sensible to
the idea of changing the limits on how Pemex spends its money,”
he said.  The investigation has ruled out liquefied petroleum gas due
to the lack of an odor before the explosion, and whatever gas
was involved may have been accidentally detonated by contractors
who were working in the basement, Murillo said.  Forensic, chemical and explosive experts from the attorney
general’s office, the Defense Ministry, the Navy, the U.S.
Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives and Spain’s
National Police took part in the initial stage of the inquiry.  The blast left shattered windows and gaping holes in walls
on several floors in the building adjacent to the company’s main
office.  Safety Measures  Nino de Rivera said Pemex needs more control over its
revenue so it can take needed safety measures.  “How is it possible that a company as profitable as Pemex
cannot reinvest on its own maintenance without asking the
Finance Ministry for an approval?” Nino de Rivera said.  Methane has been the cause of Mexican industrial accidents
in the past, with the gas being determined as the most likely
cause in two deadly blasts in coal mines in northern Mexico last
year, as well as a 2006 disaster at a Grupo Mexico SAB mine that
killed 65 workers.  The cost to protect Pemex debt against non-payment for five
years with credit-default swaps fell one basis point to 117
basis points yesterday in New York, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value if
the issuer fails to comply with debt agreements.  The  extra yield , or spread, investors demand to buy Pemex’s
dollar bonds due in 2023 instead of similar-maturity U.S.
Treasuries narrowed four basis points to 172 basis points
yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eric Martin in Mexico City at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net ;
Carlos Manuel Rodriguez in Mexico City at 
 carlosmr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net ;
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  