-- Pepper Hamilton, Debevoise, Simpson: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2013-02-06T05:00:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/pepper-hamilton-debevoise-simpson-business-of-law.html
Former FBI Director  Louis Freeh , who
is supervising the wind-down of bankrupt MF Global Holdings Ltd.
and oversaw a probe of Pennsylvania State University’s child
sex-abuse scandal, was named chairman of his law firm, Pepper
Hamilton LLP.  He replaces  Nina M. Gussack , who is completing her second
three-year term. She will continue her practice and her role as
chairwoman of Pepper’s health-effects litigation practice.  “The goal is to continue implementing our strategic
plan,” Freeh said in an interview. “We have a good strong
executive and administrative leadership. We want to keep the
firm robust, keep it competitive and to strengthen all of our
practice areas.”  The 122-year-old Philadelphia-based firm last year hired a
non-lawyer chief executive officer,  Scott Green , and elected
partner  Tom Cole  as managing partner. In addition to Freeh, the
executive committee elected two vice chairs: Julia D. Corelli, a
corporate and securities lawyer and co-chairwoman of the
commercial department, and Thomas M. Gallagher, a litigator and
chairman of the firm’s white-collar litigation and
investigations practice group.  Freeh said the firm will probably continue its growth in
practices including white collar, health effects, intellectual
property and financial services. Geographically, he expects the
firm’s New York and Washington offices to expand, with a group
of partners soon to join the New York office.  “Most of our growth, as you can note through the last
decade, has been through lateral hires,” Freeh said. “It
doesn’t mean we wouldn’t entertain something larger, but organic
growth has served us well.”  Freeh, a former federal judge, led the Federal Bureau of
Investigation under President  Bill Clinton  from 1993 to 2001. He
was then general counsel at MBNA America Bank NA until 2006. The
white-collar and investigations law firm he formed in 2007,
Freeh Sporkin & Sullivan LLP, joined with Pepper in September.  Pepper has more than 500 lawyers in 12 U.S. offices.  Deals  Six Law Firms Were Involved in Dell’s $24.4 Billion LBO  Debevoise & Plimpton LLP ; Hogan Lovells; Wachtell, Lipton,
Rosen & Katz and Simpson Thacher & Bartlett LLP were among the
firms which advised on personal-computer maker  Dell Inc. ’s plan
to go private in a deal valued at $24.4 billion. It’s the
biggest leveraged buyout since the financial crisis.  Chief Executive Officer  Michael Dell  and Silver Lake
Management LLC will pay $13.65 a share, the companies said
yesterday in a statement. That’s 25 percent more than the
closing price of $10.88 on Jan. 11, the last trading day before
Bloomberg News reported the discussions. Michael Dell is taking
back majority control of the company he started almost three
decades ago.  Debevoise is advising the special committee of Dell’s
board. The Debevoise team is led by partners  Jeffrey J. Rosen ,
 William D. Regner  and  Michael A. Diz  and includes partners
 Lawrence K. Cagney ,  Peter A. Furci ,  Gary W. Kubek , Pierre Maugue
and  Jeffrey E. Ross .  Hogan’s team advised Dell. It was led by securities
partners Richard J. Parrino and Kevin K. Greenslade. Additional
partners include Joseph G. Connolly Jr., securities;  Bruce W. Gilchrist ,  Eve N. Howard  and Peter S. Humphreys, finance;
 Margaret de Lisser , employee benefits; Carine S. Stoick and J.
Brent Singley, corporate; Todd Overman, government contracts;
and Dominique Mendy, labor (Europe).  Wachtell Lipton is serving as legal adviser to Michael
Dell. Its team is led by corporate partners Martin Lipton and
Steven A. Rosenblum and consists of partners Andrew J. Nussbaum
and Gordon S. Moodie, corporate; Joseph D. Larson, antitrust;
Michael J. Segal, executive compensation and benefits; John F.
Savarese and William Savitt, litigation; Joshua A. Feltman,
restructuring and finance; and T. Eiko Stange, tax.  Simpson Thacher is representing Silver Lake. The team is
being led by corporate partner  Rich Capelouto . Additional
partners include Chad Skinner, M&A;  Bill Brentani ,  Michael Nathan  and  John Lobrano , capital markets; Jennifer Hobbs,
credit;  Laura Palma , structured finance;  John Creed  and
Katharine Moir, tax; Tristan Brown, employee benefits;  Joe Tringali , antitrust;  Jeff Ostrow , IP;  Stacie McGinn , regulatory;
and Laura Twomey, personal planning.  Weil, Gotshal & Manges LLP represents Evercore Partners,
the financial adviser to the Dell board’s special committee.
Weil’s team was led by New York corporate partner  Michael Aiello 
and includes corporate partner  Matthew Gilroy .  Sullivan & Cromwell LLP represents Microsoft Corp. as
provider of a $2 billion loan to the group that proposed to take
Dell private. The firm’s corporate team in Los Angeles includes
partner  Alison Ressler . In New York, partner  David Spitzer  is
advising on tax matters.  Davis Polk & Wardwell LLP is advising J.P. Morgan
Securities LLC as financial adviser to Dell’s special committee
of independent directors. The Davis Polk corporate team includes
partner  Alan F. Denenberg . Partner  Neal A. Potischman  is
providing litigation advice, partner  Sartaj Gill  is providing
credit advice and partner  Neil Barr  is providing tax advice.  Dell stock has lost more than half its value since January
2007, when Michael Dell resumed his role as CEO, amid investor
dismay with management’s failure to cope with competitors in
mobile and cloud computing. By going private after a quarter-
century as a publicly traded company, Dell is seeking more
leeway to cut jobs and adopt strategy shifts needed to court
high-margin customers spending billions on data centers.  Even as being private shields Round Rock, Texas-based Dell
from answering to public shareholders on a quarter-by-quarter
basis, it subjects the company to new constraints, including the
addition of debt. Following the transaction, Michael Dell will
be chairman and chief executive, maintaining “significant
equity,” according to the statement.  For more, click here.  Praxair to Buy NuCO2 for $1.1 Billion to Add Carbonation  Sullivan & Cromwell LLP represents  Praxair Inc. , the
biggest U.S. industrial-gases company, which agreed to pay
$1.1 billion for NuCO2 Inc. to acquire the nation’s largest
supplier of beverage carbonation to restaurants.  Gibson Dunn & Crutcher LLP is advising NuCO2 and owner
Aurora Capital Group, a Los Angeles-based private-equity firm.
The deal is expected to be completed this quarter and to be
neutral or add “slightly” to 2013 earnings, Danbury,
Connecticut-based Praxair said yesterday in a statement.  S&C’s New York-based team includes corporate/M&A partners
 Keith Pagnani , co-head of the health-care and life sciences
group, and  Krishna Veeraraghavan . Partner  Matthew Friestedt 
assisted on executive compensation and benefits. Partner  Ronald Creamer Jr . advised on tax.  The Gibson Dunn team is led by Ari Lanin, co-chairman of
the private-equity practice group, and Peter Wardle, co-chairman
of the capital markets practice group. Both are in Los Angeles.
The team includes partners Dora Arash, tax; Sean Feller,
employee benefits/executive compensation; and Andrew Cheng,
finance.  Chairman  Stephen Angel  is making his biggest acquisition in
more than five years leading Praxair. NuCO2, which provides
carbon dioxide for soft drink dispensers and nitrogen for
draught beer, will have earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization this year of about $115 million on
sales of $250 million, Praxair said.  For more, click here.  Buffett Takes Cigna Death-Benefit Risk in $2.2 Billion Deal  Warren Buffett ’s Berkshire Hathaway Inc. is taking on as
much as $4 billion in liabilities from Cigna Corp. as the third-
biggest U.S. health insurer seeks to reduce risk from death-
benefits and retirement products.  Cigna’s legal adviser was  Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher &
Flom LLP . Bank of America Corp. provided financial advice.  The Skadden Arps team includes partners  Robert Sullivan  and
J.  Stephanie Nam , insurance;  Todd Freed , financial institutions;
 Gregory Fernicola , corporate; and  Jessica Hough , tax.  Cigna will pay $2.2 billion to Omaha, Nebraska-based
Berkshire, according to a statement Feb. 4 from the Bloomfield,
Connecticut-based health insurer. The transaction will be funded
with $1.8 billion in investment assets, $100 million in cash and
an estimated $300 million tax benefit.  Buffett and his reinsurance chief,  Ajit Jain , have assumed
obligations from insurers seeking to cut risk or narrow their
focus. The contracts give Berkshire’s billionaire chairman and
chief executive officer more funds to invest and make
acquisitions at the firm he’s built from a failing textile maker
into a company with more than 70  operating units .  Cigna investors have been “waiting on this for a long
time, so I imagine the reaction to it will be positive,”  David Windley , a Jefferies & Co. analyst in Nashville, Tennessee, said
in a phone interview.  For more, click here.  Firm News  Eversheds Announces New Asia Management Team  Eversheds LLP announced the appointment of a new management
team in Asia, part of a planned restructuring of the firm’s
operations in the region that includes the opening of a new
office in Beijing this year.  Stephen Kitts, a corporate finance partner who specializes
in mergers and acquisitions, was appointed Asia managing
partner. Stephen Mok was named Asia head of corporate. Ivan Ng,
who focuses on contractual claims, banking litigation,
insolvency and commercial fraud, will head the Asia litigation
and dispute management team. Banking lawyer King Tak Fung, a
former vice president at Bank of America Corp., was appointed
Asia head of finance.  “The next stage of our journey in Asia is to drive closer
integration with the rest of our global business and to continue
to invest in high-caliber front line practitioners, in
particular in corporate, finance and litigation,” managing
partner  Lee Ranson  said in a statement.  The four new appointments are based in Eversheds’s Hong
Kong office. The firm’s 44 offices in 27 countries include sites
in Shanghai, Singapore, Japan and India.  Moves  Hughes Hubbard Expands Aviation Practice with Greenberg Lawyers  Hughes Hubbard & Reed LLP said aviation partner  Jeffrey S. Tenen  and a counsel joined the firm’s Miami office from
Greenberg Traurig PA.  Tenen focuses his practice on aviation industry matters. He
represents carriers, leasing companies and lenders on issues
including aircraft acquisitions, sales, leasing and financings.  Hughes Hubbard has lawyers at eight offices in the U.S.,
Paris and Tokyo.  Cozen O’Connor Hires Health-Care Lawyer and Strategist  Cozen O’Connor  hired  Colin Roskey  in the Philadelphia and
Washington offices as a member of its health-care group and a
member of the government-relations firm Cozen O’Connor Public
Strategies.  Before joining Cozen, Roskey was a partner in the health-
care legislative and public policy group in the Washington
office of  Alston & Bird LLP .  Roskey was an adviser and counsel for the Senate Finance
Committee on health-care issues from 2001 to 2004, working on a
team responsible for the 2003 Medicare prescription drug benefit
law, or Medicare Part D, Cozen said in a statement.  Roskey’s practice at Cozen will focus on advising health
care clients on the regulatory process within the new health
insurance system, the firm said.  Cozen has 575 attorneys at 21 offices in the U.S., Toronto
and London.  Video  Abrams Says ‘There Wasn’t Any Fraud’ With S&P Ratings  Floyd Abrams , a partner at Cahill Gordon & Reindel LLP,
talks about a U.S. Justice Department lawsuit against McGraw-
Hill Cos. and its Standard & Poor’s unit. The government alleges
that S&P knowingly understated the credit risks of bonds and
derivatives that were central to the worst financial crisis
since the Great Depression.  Abrams is an attorney representing S&P in the lawsuit. He
speaks with  Sara Eisen  on Bloomberg Television’s “Lunch
Money.”  To see the interview, click here.  To read a related new story, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in New York
at   eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 