-- Petrobras Record Spend Defies Ballooning Debt: Corporate Brazil
-- B y   P e t e r   M i l l a r d
-- 2013-02-06T20:19:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/petrobras-record-spend-defies-ballooning-debt-corporate-brazil.html
Petroleo Brasileiro SA’s  record
spending and deteriorating production are fueling concern that
debt is nearing unsustainable levels at the state-run oil
company, already the world’s most indebted major producer.  A 2.8 ratio of debt to earnings before items in the fourth
quarter exceeded an internally set limit because of all-time
high capital expenditures, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Announcing a 16 percent capex increase this year,
Chief Executive Officer  Maria das Gracas Foster  reminded
investors yesterday of the company’s role in driving the economy
and creating jobs.  The biggest producer in waters deeper than 1,000 feet (305
meters) is struggling with the dual priorities of extracting
crude from miles below the Atlantic seabed and keeping debt low
enough to maintain its investment-grade rating. Petrobras also
subsidizes imported gasoline and diesel as part of the
government’s policy to rein in inflation.  “They spend big amounts to bring production up, but at
some point you will have to see that reflected in the numbers,”
 Oliver Leyland , who helps manage about 1 billion reais ($504
million) in stocks including Petrobras at Mirae Asset Global
Investments, said by phone from Sao Paulo. “It’s testing
everyone’s patience.”  Voting shares slumped to the lowest since 2005 yesterday
after the company announced different dividend payments for
preferred and ordinary shares for the first time in more than a
decade. While Chief Financial Officer  Almir Barbassa  said the
dividend measure will help protect cash, Itau Unibanco Holding
SA analysts said that’s not supported by the spending increase.  The stock fell 2.7 percent to 17.60 reais in Sao Paulo,
more than the 0.8 percent drop in the benchmark stock index.  Debt Jumps  Petrobras increased total debt 26 percent last year, while
posting the first annual output decline since 2004. For every
$100 of revenue in the fourth quarter, Petrobras had a gross
profit of $23, down from $26 a year earlier and $38 in the same
period of 2009, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Debt could reach a level that forces the company to trim
investments, Cornel Bruhin, who helps manage $3.9 billion at
MainFirst, said by phone before quarterly results were released.  Petrobras, whose debt-to-equity ratio rose to the highest
since 2010 in the fourth quarter, has lost stock investors 36
percent in the past year in U.S. dollar terms, the worst
performance among oil producers with a market value of at least
$50 billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Pre-salt   The 2013 investment plan “doesn’t seem sustainable”
considering stagnant oil output and lower spending would
encourage investors, UBS AG analyst  Lilyanna Yang  said in a
research report yesterday. Petrobras will stick with its
announced investments and won’t reduce outlays, Foster said
yesterday in a conference call to discuss quarterly results.  “How are they going to deal with these levels of
investments with the drop in profitability?” Bradesco SA
analyst  Auro Rozenbaum  said by phone from Sao Paulo. “With
these gaps in fuel prices, there’s a concern with the debt
level.”  Petrobras’ leverage has increased because the company is
going through a “difficult period” where production isn’t
growing, Barbassa told analysts on yesterday’s call.  “We are investing steadily to deliver on our projects and
believe we will reverse this situation in time,” he said.  Brazil has had more oil discoveries over the past decade
than any other country and Petrobras has accelerated output from
the so-called pre-salt region that holds the country’s largest
deposits. Pre-salt output jumped 7.5 percent in December to
292,500 barrels a day after Petrobras added new wells, the
National Petroleum Agency said Feb. 5.  ‘Good Geology’  “When you look at what else is going on in the industry,
they are sitting on some very good geology,”  Gianna Bern ,
president of Brookshire Advisory & Research Inc. in Chicago,
said in a telephone interview. “In the longer term I think the
stock will rebound.”  Annual output may drop for a second time in 2013 as the
company grapples with another “difficult” year of shutting
offshore platforms for scheduled maintenance and having natural
decline rates at fields where it has been producing since the
1970s, Foster said yesterday. Petrobras expects domestic crude
output to be 2 percent above or below last year’s level.
Production won’t start increasing until the second half of the
year, Foster said.  ‘Enormous Reluctance’  “The biggest concern for the market right now is that
production isn’t rising and there aren’t any more  gasoline 
adjustments,”  Dany Rappaport , who helps manage 250 million
reais at Investport in Sao Paulo, including Petrobras shares,
said by phone. “There is an enormous reluctance to buy
Petrobras.”  Petrobras went through three “intense” debates with the
government before the last three fuel price increases, and still
sells fuel below international prices, Foster said. Still, the
company doesn’t have any plans to reduce investments this year,
she said.  “We have a fundamental role in creating and maintaining
jobs in Brazil,” Foster said. “Brazil needs us to grow. We
have an important participation in economic growth.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Millard in Rio de Janeiro at 
 pmillard1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  