-- Petroplus Administrators Reject All Bids for Normandy Refinery
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2013-02-06T17:41:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/petroplus-administrators-reject-all-bids-for-normandy-refinery.html
The administrators of Petroplus
Holding AG’s  Petit-Couronne  oil refinery in Normandy rejected
all five bids for the site and started proceedings to fire
workers before closing the plant for good.  The bidders failed to provide proof of their ability to pay
for crude, refinery operations, investment to modernize the site
and job security for workers, according to a statement from the
administrators and management of Petit-Couronne.  The bids were from Terrae International SA of Switzerland,
Murzuk Oil of Libya, Arabiyya Lel Istithmaraat of Egypt, FJ
Energy Group of Cyprus and Damanapol International, a French
company, the statement said.  The administrators examined the bids today to decide
whether any were worthy of transferring to a court in Rouen
that’s been charged with deciding the 154,000-barrel-a-day
refinery’s future after Zug, Switzerland-based Petroplus filed
for insolvency in January 2012.  Yesterday, Industry Minister Arnaud Montebourg said offers
from Terrae and Arabiyya Lel Istithmaraat “appear serious and
financed.” The government has worked with the potential
acquirers to “save jobs and refining capacity,” he said.  The plant was the fourth French crude processor to halt
operations in about two years as European refining profits
dwindled.  Come Forward  France’s refining industry lobby Union Francaise des
Industries Petrolieres, or UFIP, said earlier today it was
“surprised” by the number of offers for the refinery and
questioned why large integrated oil companies or refining
specialists haven’t come forward to take over the plant.  “Every name that has manifested an interest has some type
of link to the Middle East, to oil producing countries,”  Jean- Louis Schilansky , head of UFIP, said at a press conference. “I
don’t know their motivation.”  The lobby represents refiners including Total SA and Exxon
Mobil Corp. with plants operating in France that would benefit
from lower domestic capacity. France now has eight operating
refineries compared with 12 in 2009 and 24 in 1977.  “It’s a risky business. Any group that takes over the
refinery has to be sufficiently solid from a financial point of
view to see the plant through bad times,” Schilansky said. “It
would be catastrophic for an investor to have to shut the plant
back down.”  The government may take a minority stake in Petit-Couronne
to help keep the “money-losing” site running, Montebourg had
said.  French unions have fought to keep the plant open. It
employs about 470 workers.  “The government has made jobs a priority, we’re going to
hold them to it,” Yvon Scornet, a union representative, said in
a statement yesterday.  The Rouen court last year rejected offers from Dubai-based
Netoil Inc. and Alafandi Petroleum Group for Petit-Couronne,
saying the bidders didn’t respond to questions about their
technical and financial capacities. The refinery ran for about
six months last year under an agreement with Royal Dutch Shell
Plc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  