-- Poland Cuts Main Rate for Fourth Month as Economy Slows
-- B y   D o r o t a   B a r t y z e l
-- 2013-02-06T15:54:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/poland-cuts-main-rate-for-fourth-month-as-economy-slows.html
Poland’s central bank cut its main
 interest rate  for a fourth month to avert the biggest economic
slowdown in more than a decade after consumer spending plunged
amid Europe’s debt crisis.  The Narodowy Bank Polski lowered the benchmark seven-day
reference rate a quarter-point to 3.75 percent, matching all 34
forecasts in a Bloomberg survey. At the same time, the bank
dropped language from its post-meeting  statement  that further
cuts can’t be ruled out. Governor  Marek Belka  later clarified
that doesn’t mean the bank has abandoned its easing bias.  “Before we make another move, we need to take stock of
what we’ve done so far, what signals are coming from the
economy, what the projection will tell us,” Belka said at a
news conference in Warsaw after today’s decision. “It doesn’t
mean that we’re suggesting there won’t be a cut in March; it
means that all options are open.”  Policy makers have reduced borrowing costs by 1 percentage
point since November as growth in the European Union’s biggest
eastern  economy  slowed to 2 percent last year, less than half
the pace in 2011. Individual consumption, which makes up 62
percent of gross domestic product, added 0.5 percent to GDP in
2012, the least since comparable data were introduced almost two
decades ago.  The zloty, which has weakened 2 percent to the euro since
the start of the year, strengthened 0.2 percent to 4.1668 at
4:23 p.m. in Warsaw. The government’s 10-year bond yield was
3.969 percent, up four basis points from yesterday.  Bucking Trend  Poland was the only EU nation to raise interest rates in
2012 as policy makers focused on elevated  inflation . It began
cutting rates a year after the European Central Bank, five
months after the Czech Republic and three months after Hungary.
Romania held borrowing costs unchanged at a record-low 5.25
percent yesterday, while Serbia unexpectedly raised borrowing
costs for a second time this year amid surging price growth.  Belka said after the last rate meeting on Jan. 9 that a
“certain round” of monetary-policy easing may be ending, even
as the central bank predicts 1.5 percent growth this year, the
weakest since 2002. The governor modified that position today,
telling reporters he’d prefer to wait until after the March rate
meeting, when more data and the bank’s new inflation and growth
projections are available, before saying whether easing is
nearing an end.  Another Cut  The economy “won’t improve in coming months,”  Piotr Lysienia , an economist at Bank Pocztowy in Warsaw, said in an e-
mailed comment after the announcement. “We’re expecting one
more rate cut to 3.5 percent and then the Council will end the
easing cycle.”  In December,  retail sales  dropped the most since 2005 and
the jobless rate rose to 13.4 percent, the highest in almost a
year, after exports increased 4.1 percent in the 11 months
through November compared with 13.3 percent a year earlier.
Exports to the crisis-hit euro area were 52 percent of total
foreign sales compared with 54.3 percent a year earlier.  Fiat SpA , Italy’s biggest manufacturer, announced on Dec. 7
it will dismiss 1,500 Polish workers as Europe’s car market
heads toward a 17-year low. Tauron SA, Poland’s second-biggest
utility, said last month it will seek to trim 3,180 jobs by
2015. TPSA, the largest telecommunications company in Poland,
plans to cut 760 jobs, according to a Jan. 15 report on website
Telepolis.pl.  Weak consumer demand, “the main disappointment” in last
month’s GDP report, may force policy makers to abandon plans to
suspend rate cuts, according to  Piotr Kalisz , an economist at
Citigroup in Warsaw.  Inflation had exceeded the central bank’s 2.5 percent
target for more than two years until December, when it slowed to
2.4 percent, the lowest since August 2010. Even with further
rate cuts, there won’t be “any inflationary impulses” this
year, MPC member  Andrzej Bratkowski  said in a Jan. 21 interview.  Further Easing  Should the economy’s performance in the first quarter this
year prove “as bad as December,” when industrial production
plunged the most in almost four years, the benchmark rate may
need to be cut to 2 percent, Bratkowski said, adding that he
doesn’t expect such a scenario.  Following today’s reduction, derivatives traders predict
two quarter-point reductions to the main rate by July, based on
the spread between six-month forward-rate agreements and the
Warsaw Interbank Offered Rate, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Belka told Parliament on Jan. 30 that monetary easing will
continue. His comments came after Finance Minister  Jacek Rostowski  said policy makers had made “mistakes” and been
“too late” to start cutting rates.  The central bank may “stick to its signal for a pause in
March,”  Caroline Grady , an economist at Deutsche Bank in
London, said in a Jan. 29 report. “But the risks are
increasingly skewed toward a deeper easing cycle than the
additional 75 basis points we have in our forecast.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dorota Bartyzel in Warsaw 
 dbartyzel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  