-- Powerful Storm May Cover Southern New England With Snow
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2013-02-06T18:29:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/powerful-storm-may-cover-southern-new-england-with-snow.html
A powerful storm may sock southern
New England, including Boston, with more than 14 inches (36
centimeters) of snow later this week and 6 inches or more in New
York City.  Revised estimates indicate as much as 18 inches of snow may
cover Boston and central Massachusetts by 7 p.m. on Feb. 9, the
National Weather Service said. Earlier, 8 to 10 inches were
predicted for Boston.  Those totals may go up,  Rob Carolan , a meteorologist and
founder of Hometown Forecast Services Inc. in Nashua, New
Hampshire, said by telephone.  “It has the potential to be a big one,” Carolan said.  The  weather service  posted a winter storm watch from Maine
to Connecticut. A hazardous weather alert is in effect from New
York City to Cape Cod. Snow may begin falling in New York
tomorrow night and then spread into New England early Feb. 8.  “We have come to the consensus that eastern New England
will be experiencing blizzard conditions late Friday into
Saturday morning,” said Paul Walker, an expert senior
meteorologist with AccuWeather Inc. in State College,
Pennsylvania.  Large amounts of snow will depend on the near-perfect
timing of an influx of cold air mixing with moisture coming up
from the South, Carolan said. Most computer models don’t see
that happening yet, although one used by the  European Center for
Medium-range Weather Forecasts  does.  Watching Models  Commonly known as “the European model,” it predicts all
the components will come together as the storm passes Long
Island and Cape Cod, which may mean 2 feet of snow in Boston and
a foot in New York City, he said.  “The European model has been on it, off and on, for over a
week,” Carolan said. “When the European forecasts a historic
storm, it usually happens. We have a saying around here: ‘You
ignore the Euro at your peril.’”  The model accurately predicted Hurricane Sandy’s unusual
westward turn into the U.S. East Coast in October.  Carolan said other forecasting models don’t expect the same
large snowfall because they don’t see the pieces of the storm
coming together as perfectly. If those models are right, the
system won’t get the dose of cold air it needs to bring hours of
heavy snowfall to New England and  New York .  Models Diverge  “The other models are keeping the best moisture offshore,
so it’s a snowstorm but it’s not a historic snowstorm,” Carolan
said.  The lack of agreement between the forecasting models makes
predictions complicated, said  Tim Morrin , a weather service
meteorologist in Upton, New York. On the low end, New York may
receive about 2 inches of snow to cap off a day of cold rain on
Feb. 8, Morrin said.  “The computer models are spread out and that doesn’t lend
a lot of confidence,” Morrin said. “I think the timing is
pretty confident, but the type of precipitation and the amount
is a little sketchy. The folks should prepare for a little
snow.”  Also complicating matters is that some of the energy that
will drive the event is still off the West Coast, Walker said.  Rain Forecast  South of New York City, the storm is expected to be mainly
rain. There is an 80 percent chance of rain in Philadelphia and
Trenton, New Jersey, for Feb. 8, the weather service said.  One component of the possible storm is spreading 5 to 6
inches of snow over eastern Wisconsin today, according to the
agency. A winter storm warning and advisory extend along the
Wisconsin coastline of Lake Michigan.  Another part is bringing rain and thunderstorms to Texas
and Louisiana.  Snow has been  relatively rare  in the Northeast this season.
Since Oct. 1, 7.4 inches have fallen in New York’s Central Park,
6.4 inches fewer than normal.  In Boston, 9.6 inches have fallen since Dec. 1, 14.3 inches
below normal, according to the weather service.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Brian K. Sullivan  in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  