-- Prasarn Seen Resisting Thai Rate Cut as Kittiratt Renews Call
-- B y   S u t t i n e e   Y u v e j w a t t a n a
-- 2013-02-06T08:10:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/prasarn-seen-resisting-thai-rate-cut-as-kittiratt-renews-call.html
Bank of Thailand Governor  Prasarn Trairatvorakul  said the central bank is under “no pressure” to
cut interest rates even after Finance Minister Kittiratt Na-
Ranong renewed pressure for monetary easing to cool baht gains.  Kittiratt, who has repeatedly urged Prasarn to cut
 borrowing costs  in recent months, said late yesterday he wrote a
letter to Bank of Thailand Chairman Virabongsa Ramangkura,
reiterating his view that the Thai rate is luring capital
inflows. The governor said today the missive hasn’t put pressure
on the central bank and the monetary policy committee will make
a decision based on economic data.  “The pressure on the central bank might be sufficient for
it to postpone rate hikes but not enough to induce rate cuts,”
said  Santitarn Sathirathai , a Singapore-based economist at
Credit Suisse Group AG. “I still think the chance of a rate cut
is quite low,” he said, citing an improving growth and export
outlook and the risk of faster-than-expected inflation.  The finance minister has pushed for lower rates as a means
of taming inflows as monetary easing from the U.S. to Japan
spurs demand for higher-yielding assets, making the baht Asia’s
biggest gainer in the past six months. He said in January the
central bank should avoid fighting market forces to stem
currency gains, heeding a lesson from the 1997 Asian financial
crisis when Thailand tried and failed to defend the baht.  Bank Losses?  Kittiratt said yesterday the central bank has made losses
from its baht intervention. Thai Rath newspaper earlier cited
the minister as saying that the Bank of Thailand had accumulated
400 billion baht ($13.4 billion) in losses from issuing bonds to
absorb excess funds from the capital inflows. The central bank
pays 2.75 percent on the bonds, less than the below-1 percent
return from its foreign reserves, he was cited as saying.  Recent inflows into Thai bonds “won’t be sustained,”
Kittiratt told reporters after the Thai Rath report. “We have
to be careful about the baht volatility. It may strengthen in
the short term and that’s not good for exports.”  The finance minister is signaling a preference for lower
rates instead of market intervention as the prospect of looser
monetary policies helped cool the currency of one of Thailand’s
main trade partners, Japan.  Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s campaign to expand
monetary easing and revive his nation’s economy is driving down
the yen, which fell to a 2 1/2 year low on Feb. 1. At the same
time, the risk of a currency war has surfaced as Russia warned
last month that Abe’s currency-weakening policies may lead to
reciprocal action as nations try to protect their exports.  Voicing Opinion  “The finance minister is authorized to look after the
central bank, so it’s my duty to voice my opinion,” Kittiratt
said yesterday. He said while the central bank’s management
should take responsibility for its losses, the burden may
eventually fall to the government.  Neither the finance minister nor central bank governor
elaborated on the contents of the letter. Prasarn said today the
Bank of Thailand chairman read the letter to all board members
at a meeting last week, including the governor.  “No, no pressure,” he said when asked whether the letter
has put pressure on the central bank. “We are still working as
normal.”  Thailand’s next  policy decision  is due Feb. 20, two days
after the country reports its fourth-quarter and 2012 gross
domestic product numbers. The central bank last month kept its
benchmark interest rate unchanged at 2.75 percent for a second
straight meeting.  Baht Falls  The baht snapped a three-day rally today on concern the
central bank will intervene to slow an appreciation that hurts
exports. It fell 0.2 percent to 29.78 per dollar as of 3:09 p.m.
in Bangkok, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It has
gained more than 5 percent in the past six months, the most
among 11 Asian currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  In 1997, Thailand devalued the baht to shore up a faltering
economy, abandoning its policy of pegging the currency to the
U.S. dollar, a move that left a legacy debt of $35 billion from
bailing out financial companies. International reserves fell by
31 percent to $27 billion in 1997, according to  data  compiled by
Bloomberg.  Reserves  have increased more than sixfold since then
to about $182 billion.  The Southeast Asian nation joins developing economies
grappling with surging inflows, with Banco de Mexico Governor
Agustin Carstens saying yesterday a “perfect storm” may be
forming in the world economy as signs of a recovery spur capital
flows to emerging markets and some advanced nations that may
lead to asset bubbles.  Philippine central bank Governor Amando Tetangco said last
month he’s studying more measures to counter excessive capital
inflows lured by growth. South Korea should consider taxes on
currency trading and bonds to help limit “speculative” inflows
of capital, Deputy Finance Minister Choi Jong Ku said Jan. 30.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Suttinee Yuvejwattana in Bangkok at 
 suttinee1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  