-- Providence’s Du Bey, Nsouli Leave as Firm Seeks New Fund
-- B y   S a b r i n a   W i l l m e r
-- 2013-02-06T19:02:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/providence-s-du-bey-nsouli-leave-as-firm-seeks-new-fund.html
Providence Equity Partners Inc. is
losing two managing directors, adding to at least three top
departures last year, as the buyout firm struggles to raise a
new fund less than half the size of its predecessor.  Jesse Du Bey  and  Nadim Nsouli  are leaving the Providence,
Rhode Island-based firm to pursue other opportunities, according
to an investor letter, a copy of which was obtained by Bloomberg
News. Providence last year parted with managing directors  Mark Masiello  and  Gustavo Schwed , while  Julie Richardson , who helped
start the firm’s New York office, stepped back to become a
senior adviser.  Providence, which oversees $27 billion, said it’s adjusting
for “departures that often occur at the start of a new fund’s
investment period,” according to the letter. The average tenure
of managing directors at the firm is 12 years, according to a
person familiar with the firm.  Providence, which started raising money in the first half
of 2011, is looking to wrap up Providence Equity Partners VII LP
by June after receiving a six-month extension to accommodate
several investors. The firm has closed on about $4.5 billion and
expects to finish at $5 billion, below its original $6 billion
target, said the person, who asked not to be named because the
information is private. Providence’s previous fund brought in
$12.1 billion.  Media Focus  The firm is among a number of buyout firms that have sought
smaller pools of capital than for prior funds as the capital-
raising market has become more competitive and investors pare
back their relationships with managers. KKR & Co. has been
working to wrap up it latest main buyout fund at about half the
size of its 2006 pool. Nordic Capital, a Swedish private-equity
firm, is seeking 25 percent less than the 4 billion euros it
initially targeted for its latest buyout fund, said two people
with knowledge of the talks in October.  Providence is focusing more closely on industries that have
driven past performance, such as media, communication and
education, according to the letter, while stepping back from
other areas. The firm is best known for deals including the 2007
buyout of Univision Communications Inc. and the cable-television
network of the New York Yankees.  Andrew Cole , a spokesman at Sard Verbinnen & Co. based in
New York, said he couldn’t comment on behalf of Providence.  Portfolio Companies  Du Bey, a managing director in the firm’s New York office,
is a director at several Providence portfolio companies
including ikaSystems Corp., a provider of business process
management technology to health insurers, and World Triathlon
Corp.  Nsouli, who was a managing director in the firm’s London
office, declined to comment on his departure and Du Bey didn’t
return an e-mailed request for comment.  Masiello, a managing director in the firm’s Providence
office and a director at several Providence portfolio companies,
among them Freedom Communications and Univision Communications
Inc., left last year, according to an investor.  Schwed, who made European investments out of the firm’s
London office, decided to retire last year.  ‘Great Firm’  “I decided to retire after a 25 year career in private
equity, a career I was fortunate to end at a great firm like
Providence,” he said in an e-mailed statement.  Richardson  last year stepped back to spend more time with
her family, according to a person familiar with the situation.
Richardson, who focused mostly on information services, was a
director at Providence portfolio companies that included
Altegrity Inc.,  SunGard Data Systems Inc.  and SRA International
Inc.  Masiello didn’t return calls for comment. Cole declined to
comment on behalf of Richardson.  Providence has responded to recent departures by promoting
Dany Rammal, a member of the London team, to managing director,
according to the letter.  Al Dobron , a managing director in the
firm’s Providence office, will join the business development
team to focus on investor-related matters. There are now 17
managing directors that lead the firm’s 56 person private-equity
investment team, according to the letter.  Providence is also changing its investment committee to
reflect its focus on media, communications and education with
more emphasis on growth-oriented, smaller investments. The
investment committee will now include the sector heads for
media, communications, and education and information,  Michael Dominguez ,  Alex Evans  and  Peter Wilde .  Biswajit Subramanian , who
represents the Asia team, will be part of the committee as well,
according to the letter.  Fund Performance  The four managing directors join a committee that includes
Chief Executive Officer Jonathan Nelson, senior managing
directors Glenn Creamer and Paul Salem and managing director
John Hahn. Previously, managing directors held rotating two-year
seats on the investment committee.  Investments that have helped drive performance in the
firm’s prior fund from 2007 include Autotrader.com, New Asurion
Corp., a provider of technology protection services and ZeniMax
Media Inc., an interactive entertainment provider. Fund VI held
eight investments below cost out of a portfolio of 36 as of
year-end, including Univision Communications; ikaSystems; ITT
Educational Services Inc., an online post-secondary education
provider; and Altegrity.  Providence Equity Partners Fund VI, was producing an 8
percent internal rate of return and a 1.3 times multiple as of
Sept. 30, according to an executive summary. The firm expects
Providence VI to be up 1 percent from the third quarter when
year-end valuations are finalized, according to the year-end
letter.  Stronger Returns  Investments in Archipelago Learning, Kabel Deutschland and
Mobileserv helped drive performance in the firm’s  2004 fund ,
according to the executive summary. That fund was producing a 5
percent IRR and 1.3 times multiple as of the end of September
and is expected to be up 4 percent from Sept. 30 when year-end
valuations come out. It held eight investments below cost at the
end of the year, including Affinity Direct, an Internet
marketing service company and Education Management Corp., a
provider of private post-secondary education.  The firm has generated stronger returns in its $2.8 billion
fund from 2000 compared to the two larger successor vehicles.
Providence Equity Partners IV LP was generating a 39 percent IRR
and 2.6 times multiple as of Sept. 30, according to the
executive summary. The firm’s fund from 1998, Providence Equity
Partners III LP, was producing a 21 percent IRR and 1.8 times
multiple as of the same date.  Based on year-end estimates, Providence generated $2.9
billion of realized proceeds and $1.5 billion of gains, driven
by investments in Archipelago Learning, AutoTrader, YES Network,
Hulu and several others, according to the letter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sabrina Willmer in New York at 
 swillmer2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  