-- Prudential Financial Posts Loss on Costs Tied to Yen
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2013-02-06T22:53:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/prudential-financial-posts-loss-on-costs-tied-to-yen.html
Prudential Financial Inc. , the No. 2
U.S. life insurer, posted a fourth-quarter loss on costs tied to
fluctuation of currencies including the yen, which tumbled
versus the dollar in the fourth quarter.  The net loss of $232 million compares with net income of
$604 million a year earlier, the Newark, New Jersey-based
insurer said yesterday in a statement. Operating profit, which
excludes the results of policies sold before the firm went
public and some investments, was $1.69 a share, missing by 5
cents the  average estimate  of 19 analysts in a Bloomberg survey.  Chief Executive Officer  John Strangfeld , 59, is counting on
nations outside the U.S., led by Japan, to boost Prudential’s
profitability as low interest rates weigh on results. The
insurer uses derivatives to guard against market risks such as
interest-rate drops and currency fluctuations.  “Almost all of its non-U.S. business is centered on the
low-growth nation of Japan,”  Sean Dargan , an analyst at
Macquarie Group Ltd., wrote in a Jan. 16 research note. “In
quarters where the yen weakened versus other currencies there
has been some noise” in results.  The results include a $1.53 billion pretax cost tied to
foreign exchange, primarily from fluctuations in the value of
the yen, Prudential said. The Japanese currency weakened 10
percent in the fourth quarter against the dollar. Prudential
said losses tied to currencies were cushioned by adjustments to
its financial strength that aren’t included in the net loss.  The weakening yen also hurt fourth-quarter results at U.S.
insurers Aflac Inc. and Hartford Financial Services Group Inc.  Share Decline  Prudential slipped 2 percent to $57.35 at 5:02 p.m. in
extended trading yesterday in New York. The company dropped 2.5
percent in the 12 months ended yesterday, trailing the 12
percent gain of the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  MetLife Inc. ,
the largest U.S. life insurer, fell 0.3 percent in that period.  Full-year profit tumbled to $469 million in 2012 from $3.57
billion in 2011. Prudential was unprofitable in three quarters
last year amid losses linked to currency fluctuations and
derivatives.  At the international insurance unit, adjusted operating
income jumped to $647 million from $502 million a year earlier.  Return on equity, a measure of profitability, may rise to
19 percent this year from 17.5 percent in 2011 in the
international business as Strangfeld integrates Star Life
Insurance Co. and Edison Life Insurance Co., bought from
American International Group Inc. in 2011, according to a
company presentation in September.  “Our international insurance business continues to perform
well, with results benefiting from growth in multiple
distribution channels and our achievement of cost synergies
consistent with our goals,” Strangfeld said in the statement.  Verizon, GM  Prudential has turned to deals and buybacks to help boost
results. The insurer bought Hartford Financial Services Group
Inc.’s individual life business for $615 million in a
transaction completed last month.  Prudential completed deals to assume pension obligations
from General Motors Co. and Verizon Communications Inc. in the
fourth quarter. The insurer received about $25 billion from GM
for a group annuity contract, it said in November.  Prudential was the largest seller of the retirement
products known as variable annuities in the first nine months of
2012, while MetLife scaled back, according to data from industry
group Limra. Low interest rates and stock-market volatility can
weigh on profits from the savings products.  Gross annuity sales fell to $3.8 billion, from $4.4 billion
in the fourth quarter of 2011. Profit from the retirement
products dropped to $304 million from $373 million a year
earlier.  Book value declined to $79.19 a share at Prudential’s main
business as of Dec. 31. The measure of assets minus liabilities
was $79.63 three months earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Zachary Tracer  in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  