-- Public Bank Reports Record Profit After Overtaking CIMB by Value
-- B y   C h o n g   P o o i   K o o n
-- 2013-02-06T06:31:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/public-bank-reports-record-profit-after-overtaking-cimb-by-value.html
Public Bank Bhd.  reported record
quarterly earnings after overtaking CIMB Group Holdings Bhd. to
become Malaysia’s second-largest lender by  market value .  Net income  climbed 8.7 percent to 992.5 million ringgit
($321 million), or 28.34 sen a share, in the three months ended
Dec. 31, from a restated 913.4 million ringgit, or 26.08 sen a
share, a year earlier, the lender said in a stock exchange
filing today. The lender increased its fourth-quarter dividend
by 2 sen to 30 sen per share.  Public Bank has benefited from Malaysia’s expanding economy,
which has grown by more than 5 percent for five straight
quarters through September. Prime Minister  Najib Razak , who must
dissolve parliament by April 28 for polls, has extended handouts
for the poor as part of a 251.6 billion-ringgit proposed budget
this year, supporting local demand for goods and services.  “The group is expected to maintain its earnings momentum
and record satisfactory performance in 2013,” Public Bank
Chairman  Teh Hong Piow  said in a separate statement. “We are
optimistic that the domestic economy, in which the group largely
operates, will continue to be stable and supportive of growth.”  The lender’s net interest income, or revenue from borrowers
after deducting interest paid to depositors, climbed 5.2 percent
last quarter to 1.34 billion ringgit, according to today’s
statement.  Net income from Islamic banking dropped 2.8 percent to 206
million ringgit, the filing showed. Allowances for impairment on
loans fell 21 percent to 84.2 million ringgit, it said.  Buy Calls  The Kuala Lumpur-based lender has  climbed  14 percent over
the past year, pushing its market value to 54.7 billion ringgit,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  CIMB , which has more
assets, has gained 2.3 percent over the same period and has a
market capitalization of 53.2 billion ringgit.  Malayan Banking
Bhd.  remains the country’s largest bank by both value and assets.  Eleven out of 22 analyst ratings compiled by Bloomberg have
the equivalent of  buy calls  on Public Bank, with one
recommending sell. There are 10 hold ratings. The stock has
fallen 4.1 percent this year, tracking a similar decline in the
 FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI Index . Some risk-averse investors have
cut exposure to the nation’s biggest stocks ahead of the
Southeast Asian nation’s general election after its benchmark
gauge closed at a record on Jan. 7.  Short-term gains in Public Bank shares may be limited as
its “resilient” fundamentals have been priced in,  Lim Sue Lin 
and  Hon Seow Mee , analysts at HwangDBS Vickers Research Sdn.,
wrote in a Jan. 30 report. The stock’s price target was cut to
16.60 ringgit from 17 ringgit at HwangDBS, which maintained its
hold rating.  CIMB has fallen 6.2 percent this year, with 13 out of 30
 analysts  having the equivalent of buy ratings and seven saying
sell, according to Bloomberg data.  Nazir Razak , the bank’s chief
executive officer, is a brother of the prime minister.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chong Pooi Koon  in Kuala Lumpur at 
 pchong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji in Hong Kong at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  