-- Puerto Rico Climbs Most in Year as Redemptions Rise: Muni Credit
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e
-- 2013-02-06T01:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/puerto-rico-climbs-most-in-year-as-redemptions-rise-muni-credit.html
Puerto Rico  debt, rated one step
above junk, is rallying the most in a year as a strengthening
national economy helps lure investors to bet on the
commonwealth.  The gains in the island’s bonds, which are tax-exempt in
all U.S. states, greeted Governor  Alejandro Garcia Padilla  as he
took office Jan. 2. The 41-year-old Democrat faces a pension
system that’s able to meet less than 7 percent of promised
obligations and a history of borrowing to balance budgets, a
scenario that led Moody’s Investors Service to downgrade Puerto
Rico in December.  Still, debt of commonwealth issuers earned 2.8 percent in
January, the best in a year, Barclays Plc data show. The
island’s bonds, which yield more than any state, attracted some
of the $32 billion of principal and interest distributed to muni
debt-holders last month for reinvestment. It was one of the
year’s four busiest redemption months, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch.  “People were putting money to work in January, and there
were new buyers or buyers who could still own these downgraded
credits,” said  Mark Paris , who helps oversee about $7.4 billion
of munis, including Puerto Rico bonds, at Invesco Ltd. in New
York.  Island Comeback  Demand for commonwealth securities is rebounding after a
selloff sparked by the Dec. 13 Moody’s rating cut. The gain is
getting added impetus as signs of an improving U.S. economy
bolster investor confidence in riskier, higher-yielding debt as
municipal interest rates remain close to 47-year lows.  Nationwide, hiring rose in January after gaining more than
previously estimated at the end of 2012, Labor Department data
showed last week. Payrolls rose by 157,000 after a revised
196,000 jump in December and a 247,000 surge in November.  Investors should brace for volatility in the commonwealth’s
debt this year as the new governor works to repair the island’s
finances, Paris said. The commonwealth still has a negative
outlook from Moody’s.  The administration plans to file legislation by early March
to strengthen the pension,  Javier Ferrer , president of the
Government Development Bank for Puerto Rico, said in an
interview from San Juan. The bank is the commonwealth’s fiscal
agent. He declined to give specifics.  Confronting Challenges  “We understand the challenges that need to be tackled
swiftly,” said Ferrer, 51, a former corporate lawyer. “Those
include addressing the retirement-system situation, addressing
the general fund structural imbalance and creating sustainable
economic activity in Puerto Rico.”  As Puerto Rico rallied this month, general obligations
maturing in July 2041 traded yesterday with an average yield of
about 5.1 percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show. That was
about 2.2 percentage points above a benchmark index, down from
2.6 percentage points Dec. 14.  Invesco’s Paris said he bought Puerto Rico Aqueduct & Sewer
Authority debt below par in late December and sold other bonds
of the agency at a profit. BlackRock Inc., the world’s largest
money manager, also bought and sold Puerto Rico credits in
December and January as yield spreads widened after the
downgrade, said  Jim Schwartz , head of the firm’s muni research
in Princeton, New Jersey.  ‘Attractive’ Destination  Nuveen Investments Inc. and Lord Abbett & Co. are also
watching for buying opportunities.  “We see Puerto Rico as very attractive,” particularly in
seven- to 10-year maturities, said  Tom Spalding , who helps
manage $10 billion of munis, including Puerto Rico debt, at
Nuveen in Chicago.  Puerto Rico’s pension assets were 6.8 percent of what it
owes in retirement payments as of June 30, 2011, according to
the commonwealth. In comparison, Illinois had a funding ratio of
about 43 percent, lowest among U.S. states, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  The commonwealth also had $51.9 billion of net tax-
supported debt last year, or $14,004 per capita, about 10 times
the U.S. average, according to Moody’s.  The budget for this fiscal year relies on selling about
$775 million of debt by June 30 to push principal and interest
payments to future years, Ferrer said. Ferrer said he will move
forward with that transaction after the administration announces
its pension changes.  Credit Risk  “This governor quickly has to come to terms with some
pension-reform package that is viable and realistic or you could
see continual downgrades,” said  Joseph Pangallozzi , a managing
director at BlackRock in Princeton.  Garcia Padilla is working to raise revenue for the
commonwealth’s general fund. The administration this week filed
legislation to increase the excise tax on manufacturers not
based in the commonwealth to 4 percent through Dec. 31, 2017,
Ferrer said. The levy is currently 2.75 percent.  The governor, a member of the Popular Democratic Party, is
set to release his budget for the fiscal year starting July 1 in
April or May, Ferrer said. While the administration will try to
avoid borrowing to help balance that spending plan, such deficit
financing “is a possibility,” he said.  In trading yesterday, yields on benchmark munis due in 10
years were little changed at 1.84 percent, close to the highest
since August, Bloomberg Valuation data show.  Following is a pending sale:  SAN FRANCISCO’S  PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSION  plans to issue
about $335 million of wastewater revenue bonds as soon as Feb.
12 through competitive bid, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
Proceeds will finance capital projects, according to bond
documents. (Added Feb. 6)  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michelle Kaske  in New York at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  