-- TransCanada Expects Approval ‘Very Soon’ for Keystone XL
-- B y   J i m   P o l s o n   a n d   R e b e c c a   P e n t y
-- 2013-02-06T16:22:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/transcanada-expects-approval-very-soon-for-keystone-xl.html
TransCanada Corp . Chief Executive
Officer  Russ Girling  expects approval “very soon” for the $5.3
billion portion of the Keystone XL oil pipeline that crosses the
U.S.-Canada border.  “I suspect we’re looking at anything from a few weeks to a
couple of months,” Girling said in an interview at Bloomberg
headquarters in New York today. The U.S., which rejected a
permit last year, is reviewing the project again after the route
through Nebraska was changed.  Keystone XL would deliver 830,000 barrels a day from
Canadian oil sands and North Dakota shale fields to U.S. Gulf
Coast refineries. Calgary-based TransCanada split the project
into two parts after the permit was rejected. Last month,
Nebraska’s governor signed off on a revised route through his
state. Federal officials are completing a supplemental
environmental impact statement, a step toward presidential
approval, Girling said.  The company will have the southern section of the pipeline,
which doesn’t require a presidential permit to operate and is
known as the Gulf Coast project, in service by the end of the
year, Girling said. About 45 percent of the southern portion of
the pipeline is complete, he said.  “We’ll start moving crude oil into the system probably by
the end of the summer, commissioning those pump stations, and
then we’ll sort of be ramping up toward the end of the year,”
he said.  Oil flow may begin at “100,000 a day and it will ramp up
fairly quickly,” Girling said. “We’re not going to be at
800,000 barrels a day overnight.”  TransCanada rose 0.7 percent to C$48.56 at 10:59 a.m. in
Toronto. The shares have gained 3.3 percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Polson in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net ;
Rebecca Penty in New York at 
 rpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  