-- RBS’s Coutts Says Emerging Stocks Will Beat Bonds in 2013
-- B y   A r i f   S h a r i f
-- 2013-02-06T13:56:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/rbs-unit-says-emerging-market-stocks-to-top-bond-returns-in-2013.html
Emerging-market equities will offer
better returns than bonds this year, handing investors as much
as 15 percent, as economic growth boosts risk appetite,  Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc ’s wealth management unit said.  Economic growth of more than 5.5 percent in emerging
markets, China’s recovery and the availability of cash globally
will support equities this year, Gary Dugan, Coutts & Co.’s
chief investment officer for Asia and the Middle East, said at a
news conference in Dubai today. A bond price rally, which gave
the best returns last year, is set to fade as the prospect of
higher long-term interest rates trims returns, he said.  There is a “much more consistent growth story now
developing around the world and it is a much better foundation
for people to take risks,” Dugan said. “Equities are preferred
over bonds and it is emerging that are preferred” within that
category, he said, adding stocks will probably be the best-
performing asset class this year.  Emerging-market bonds rallied last year, with the JPMorgan
Chase & Co. Emerging Markets Bond Index  returning 19 percent ,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The MSCI Emerging
Markets Index of equities gained 15 percent in 2012, having lost
20 percent a year earlier, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  China, Japan  Chinese shares and Japanese technology and pharmaceutical
industries will probably provide the best returns this year,
Dugan said. China’s gross domestic product grew 7.9 percent in
the final three months of 2012, the first acceleration in eight
quarters, while U.S. companies expanded headcount by 157,000 in
January as the job market made further strides.  Risks to equity-market performance include Iran’s nuclear
program, the debt crisis in Italy, Spain and Greece, and U.S.
budget negotiations, Dugan said.  Equity markets may be considered expensive now, but they
are cheap relative to bonds and will be supported by government
cash injections globally, Dugan said. The S&P 500 Index in the
U.S. trades at 13.7 times estimated 2013 earnings, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Global banks are expanding their presence in the Middle
East to tap a growing number of wealthy clients. The number of
millionaires in the Middle East rose 2.7 percent in 2011 to
450,000, according to a Capgemini SA and RBC Wealth Management
report in June.  Coutts, which has regional offices in Abu Dhabi and Dubai
in the United Arab Emirates, as well as in Doha, Qatar, has
hired 20 more bankers for its Middle East business and plans to
add another 11 this year, Amir Sadr, co-head for Coutts in the
Middle East, said at today’s conference.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Arif Sharif in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaa Shahine at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net  