-- Regulatory Austerity Hindering Growth, Legal & General to Say
-- B y   K e v i n   C r o w l e y
-- 2013-02-06T13:39:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/regulatory-austerity-hindering-growth-legal-general-to-say.html
U.K. and European regulators are
hindering economic growth through “regulatory austerity,”
according to  Legal & General Group Plc , the biggest investor in
the British stock market.  Rules that force insurers to hold extra capital, prevent
gender-based pricing and require mark-to-market accounting are
stopping firms from investing for the long term, according to an
advance copy of Chief Executive Officer  Nigel Wilson ’s lecture
at London’s  Insurance Institute  tonight.  “There is regulation which helps deliver growth and
regulation which hinders it,” Wilson, 56, is expected to say.
“There is little point, to my mind, of creating regulatory
austerity and calling it resilience.”  The  Financial Stability Board , an international panel of
regulators that set global standards, plans to determine which
insurers are too big to fail in April before stricter
supervision is enacted. Insurers, including London-based Legal &
General, say they weren’t responsible for and survived the
financial crisis well, in contrast to banks, meaning they
shouldn’t be subject to tougher regulation and capital
requirements.  The U.K. economy shrank in the fourth quarter of last year,
raising the specter of an unprecedented triple-dip recession.
Wilson is expected to say the prospect of new rules is
preventing Legal & General from making more long-term
investments that would boost growth.  “We have a desperate need for growth but we face what I
call the ‘triangle of austerity’ -- fiscal austerity as
government tries to balance the books, bank austerity as balance
sheets are shrunk and regulatory austerity as macro-prudential
policy bears down on risk,” Wilson will say.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Crowley in London at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  