-- Renault’s Europe Fix in Danger as Russia Car Growth Slows
-- B y   M a t h i e u   R o s e m a i n ,   Y u l i y a   F e d o r i n o v a   a n d   A n a t o l y   T e m k i n
-- 2013-02-06T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/renault-s-europe-fix-in-danger-as-russia-car-growth-slows.html
Russia’s car market is forecast to
slow and possibly decline this year, ending a three-year streak
of gains of more than 10 percent and damping market leader
 Renault SA ’s efforts to offset slumping demand in Europe.  Renault, which controls Russian brand Lada, was banking on
growth in the country after suffering the worst sales decline in
Europe last year. With  inflation  reaching 6.6 percent in 2012
and interest rates rising, those plans may be dashed.  The Russian car market, which is projected to surpass
Germany in volume by 2014, has risen to prominence as a
developing middle class and vast expanses promise growth. The
prospects prompted Renault,  Volkswagen AG ,  Ford Motor Co.  and
other carmakers to expand capacity.  General Motors Co.  and
Russian partner GAZ Group started ramping up production this
week of 30,000 Chevrolet Aveos a year, adding more cars jostling
for share.  “It’s a very competitive market,” said GAZ Chief
Executive Officer  Bo Andersson . “There are more than 500 models
you can buy. Swedish people like station wagons; in the U.S.,
people like pickups, SUVs or sedans. Here, people like
everything.”  The country was once a backwater for the auto industry.
Lada’s parent  OAO AvtoVAZ  was kept afloat by government handouts
in the early 1990s after communism’s collapse. Production was
maintained by trading finished cars for parts from suppliers or
food and clothing for workers.  By 2008, AvtoVAZ was a prized asset, with Renault beating
out GM and  Fiat SpA  for a 25 percent stake. The French carmaker
and alliance partner  Nissan Motor Co.  have since agreed to a
deal that will give them control of 74.5 percent of the Lada
maker.  Volatile Market  VW and Ford each run factories capable of producing more
than 100,000 vehicles and signed agreements in 2011 to expand.  Still, the market is volatile, suffering a 49 percent
plunge in 2009 before rebounding over the past three years.
Russian car sales this year are forecast to edge up 2.3 percent
after an 11 percent increase to 2.98 million cars and light
commercial vehicles in 2012, according to IHS Automotive. A
survey by Russia’s Association of European Businesses resulted
in a range of expectations between a decline of 5 percent and a
gain of 5 percent.  “The outlook for the market in 2013 holds little promise
for a quick return to growth at the double-digit rates enjoyed
in recent years,” said Joerg Schreiber, chairman of AEB’s auto
manufacturers committee.  Russia Push  The Renault-Nissan-Lada group increased 2012 sales 1
percent to 890,433 vehicles as the  Renault  brand’s 23 percent
surge helped offset a 7 percent decline for Lada. The French
carmaker’s sales of 189,852 cars in Russia last year amounted to
7.3 percent of its global deliveries.  The performance in Russia contrasted with Renault’s 19
percent plunge to 1.05 million cars in Europe, where
industrywide sales fell 7.8 percent. Renault CEO  Carlos Ghosn 
has said the European market may fall 3 percent in 2013 in its
sixth straight annual decline.  “Russia is among Renault’s top markets in terms of
profitability,” with margins in the 5 percent to 7 percent
range, said  Florent Couvreur , an analyst at CM-CIC Securities.
“A slowdown of the market would have an impact on its activity
there.”  Renault is forecast to have posted an operating profit
margin of 1.7 percent for 2012, according to analyst  estimates 
compiled by Bloomberg. The Boulogne-Billancourt-based company is
scheduled to report 2012 earnings on Feb. 14.  Shares Surge  The positive results from Russia helped Renault shares
surge 52 percent in 2012, the  third-best performance  on the
Stoxx 600 autos and parts index. Renault is up 8 percent this
year, valuing the company at 13 billion euros ($17.6 billion).  The demand drop led Nissan to announce plans to suspend
production at its factory in St. Petersburg tomorrow. The
Japanese carmaker said last month it may shift to a four-day
work week until mid-March. That could take the Renault-Nissan
alliance further away from its goal of raising combined market
share in Russia to 40 percent by 2015 after falling to 30
percent last year from 33 percent.  The economy’s growth dipped to 3.4 percent last year from
4.3 percent in 2011, its slowest pace since 2009 and missing
government targets. Weighing on growth, loan rates have surged
to about 10 percent, squeezing average consumers.  “If I cannot give my people competitive interest rates,
they cannot buy houses, they cannot buy my products,” said
 Siegfried Wolf , chairman of OAO Russian Machines, which controls
GM partner GAZ.  Squeezing Consumers  Eugene Moiseev can attest to that.  “I’m considering using public transport instead of my
car” to save money and avoid overcrowded streets, said Moiseev,
a 32-year-old newspaper editor from the Moscow region, who owns
a 2011 Audi Q5. “Gasoline prices rose too far. In addition, new
cars became groundlessly too expensive. A new car purchase is
not on the agenda.”  Renault said it is taking the downturn in stride.
“We’re still very confident that the Russian market is
structurally on an upward trend,”  Bruno Ancelin , head of
Renault’s Russian operations, said in an interview. “The
purchasing power of Russian households is still improving.”  Renault plans to proceed with the start of production of
one of its models at AvtoVAZ’s factory in Togliatti in the
second half of 2013, the automaker said.  Growth Potential  There’s still plenty of potential for growth in Russia.
Ownership rates were 233 vehicles per 1,000 inhabitants in 2009,
compared with 500 in Germany and 600 in the U.S., according to
the World Bank. The car fleet is also aging, with vehicles
averaging more than 10 years on the road, said Tatyana
Lukhovetskaya, chief managing director of Rolf, one of Russia’s
largest auto dealers.  Still, the allure of cars isn’t quite what it was.  “Cars in Russia were long regarded as an investment
opportunity,” said  Vladimir Bespalov , an analyst at Moscow-
based VTB Capital. “Now, given the stabilized bank system,
people tend to switch their savings to banks rather than
spending it on a new car.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mathieu Rosemain in Paris at 
 mrosemain@bloomberg.net ;
Yuliya Fedorinova in Moscow at 
 yfedorinova@bloomberg.net ;
Anatoly Temkin in St. Petersburg at 
 atemkin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  