-- Renewable Energy Sees ‘Big Potential’ in German Wind Farm Market
-- B y   S t e f a n   N i c o l a
-- 2013-02-06T15:56:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/renewable-energy-sees-big-potential-in-german-wind-farm-market.html
Renewable Energy Systems Ltd., a U.K.
company that’s built about 7 gigawatts of clean-energy projects
in parts of Europe and North America, plans to expand its reach
to Germany, the continent’s biggest market for the industry.  RES may develop as early as this year onshore wind farms in
Germany and is talking to potential partners as it defines its
expansion plans there, said  Jean-Marc Armitano , chief executive
officer of the developer’s RES Mediterranean unit.  “For so many years, people were saying it’s too late to
enter the German market,” Armitano said in an interview at a
wind-power conference in Vienna. “The market has been steadily
growing and there’s still a big potential.”  Germany is investing in clean energy as it phases out
nuclear power. It plans to build offshore wind farms covering an
area as much as six times the size of New York City and raise
renewable-energy production to about 40 percent of total power
output by the end of the decade, from about 25 percent now.  RES is also in “advanced discussions” with a Turkish
construction company to develop a 120-megawatt wind plant in
Kirklareli, he said. RES wants to start building early next year
a 48-megawatt plant in Havza in Turkey’s Black Sea region as the
company plans to grow its portfolio in the country by as much as
100 megawatts a year in the next decade.  Turkey has lured international investors including General
Electric Co. and Siemens AG to its power industry as the
regulator forecasts annual demand growth of 6.3 percent in the
next two decades. The country is bucking the trend of most
emerging European nations, where retail electricity consumption
is trailing growth in incomes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  