-- Republicans Seek FHA Changes as Prelude to Housing Overhaul
-- B y   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s   a n d   C l e a   B e n s o n
-- 2013-02-06T18:20:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/republicans-seek-fha-changes-as-prelude-to-u-s-housing-overhaul.html
Republican lawmakers say they will
seek changes at the financially troubled Federal Housing
Administration as a first step toward a broader overhaul of the
U.S. government role in housing finance.  The House Financial Services Committee held a hearing today
on the role of the FHA, the first in a series of panels that may
lead to legislation that would shrink the government mortgage
insurer’s market share and shore up its bottom line. That is a
more urgent priority than winding down government-owned  Fannie
Mae  and  Freddie Mac , which buy mortgages from lenders and
securitize them, lawmakers said.  “It is going to be a priority of this committee to forge a
sustainable housing finance system in this country,”
Representative  Jeb Hensarling , the Texas Republican who leads
the Financial Services panel, said at today’s hearing.  “Given their high loan to value, low credit score policies
and high rates of default, it’s an open question whether FHA has
now morphed into Countrywide,” Hensarling said, referring to
the troubled mortgage bank that was purchased by  Bank of America
Corp.  during the financial crisis. “Arguably the FHA has now
become the largest subprime lender all with the blessings of the
administration.”  President  Barack Obama ’s 2013-2014 budget is expected to
reflect that FHA will require a Treasury subsidy for the first
time since it was founded in the 1930s, largely due to defaults
on loans it insured as the housing market crashed. The FHA could
fall as much as $16.3 billion short of the cash it is required
to keep on hand to cover all projected future losses, according
to an independent actuary.  Democratic Support  To become law, any legislation that emerges from the House
must eventually win support from Democrats who control the
Senate and are also scrutinizing the agency. Democrats said
today that they are eager to preserve FHA’s countercyclical role
of shoring up the housing market when private financing isn’t
available.  “All the members here today are deeply concerned about the
health of the FHA’s mutual mortgage insurance fund,” said
Representative  Maxine Waters  of California, the senior Democrat
on the committee.  “Along with that concern, I think it is
important to recognize FHA’s crucial role in the housing finance
system.”  Representative  Brad Sherman , a Democrat from California,
said a previously passed bill in the House on FHA would
strengthen the agency. He said his current concern is with their
underwriting standards.  ‘Nudge Them’  “We certainly want FHA to be guaranteeing loans to
creditworthy borrowers but they certainly themselves can make
those changes,” Sherman said in an interview. “If we need to
nudge them, we’ll nudge them.”  Together, FHA, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac own or guarantee
more than 90 percent of home loans. Lawmakers from both parties
and President Obama have called for an overhaul of housing
finance that shrinks the government footprint.  At the same time, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac have begun to
post quarterly profits after drawing $190 billion in taxpayer
aid, shifting lawmakers’ focus to the more immediate financial
shortfall at the FHA.  Legislation now under consideration by Republican lawmakers
could set off a debate over whether the FHA needs fundamental
changes to shrink its traditional role supporting home lending
to low- and moderate-income families. The agency insures $1.1
trillion worth of mortgages, almost quadrupling its share of
insured loans from 4 percent in 2007 to more than 15 percent.  ‘Trapping’ Borrowers  “Instead of ensuring our housing market is put on a more
sustainable path forward, FHA decided to help thousands of
borrowers get into homes that they couldn’t afford and that
wound up going down in value, trapping them underwater,” said
Representative  Scott Garrett , a Republican from New Jersey.  The FHA has already taken some steps to shore up its
finances. It raised the annual premiums that borrowers pay to
insure their mortgages against default, boosted down payment
requirements and premiums for loans greater than $625,500, and
required more scrutiny of loan applications for buyers with weak
credit or high debt loads.  ‘100-Year Flood’  Supporters of the agency say that should be enough. “FHA
has contributed to broadly shared prosperity in this country,”
 Julia Gordon , director of housing finance and policy at the
Center for American Progress, a research group aligned with
Democrats, said in testimony at today’s hearing. “The finances
are not a reflection of a flawed business model but instead are
consequences of the 100-year flood of the Great Recession.”  Gordon said the recovery in the housing market would also
help FHA’s bottom line. The S&P/Case-Shiller  index  of property
values in 20 U.S. cities increased 5.5 percent in the year
through November, the biggest gain since August 2006, according
to data released on Jan. 29.  Democrats and Republicans agree that the FHA needs more
authority to weed out bad actors among the lenders who issue
loans it insures. That and other changes were written into a
bill that passed the House with bipartisan support last year.  Still, Republicans say they want to go further, perhaps
changing the agency’s accounting methods and requiring higher
down payments on FHA-insured loans. The agency currently insures
mortgages with down payments as low as 3.5 percent for certain
borrowers.  Sharing Risk  The FHA also takes 100 percent of the losses on the
defaulted loans it insures. Lawmakers are investigating whether
private interests should take on some of that risk.  “Reducing coverage levels will effectively cap the
severity of loss on FHA loans and improve their underwriting by
putting the lender at risk,”  Basil Petrou , managing partner of
Washington-based Federal Financial Analytics, which tracks
housing policy, said in testimony at today’s hearing.  Senate Democrats probably won’t support all of the changes
proposed by House Republicans. Still, they’re also scrutinizing
the agency.  South Dakota Democrat  Tim Johnson , chairman of the Senate
Banking Committee, said at a hearing in December that he would
seek legislation to restore FHA’s fiscal health “if the
administration’s actions and proposals will not be sufficient.”  The Senate panel is expected to hold a hearing on the FHA
later this month, allowing the panel to “identify necessary
legislative actions to address its troubling financial
situation,” Sam Gilford, spokesman for the Banking Committee,
said in an e-mail.  Johnson is looking forward to working with Republicans
“toward a bipartisan agreement that protects taxpayers and
restores the financial health of this critical piece of the
nation’s housing finance system.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Clea Benson in Washington at 
 cbenson20@bloomberg.net 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.net ;
 Cheyenne Hopkins  in Washington at 
 chopkins19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  