-- Republicans Revive an Alternative to Defense Budget Cuts
-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 2013-02-06T21:17:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/republicans-revive-an-alternative-to-defense-budget-cuts.html
Republican members of the House and
Senate Armed Services committees revived a proposal to avert
automatic spending cuts by reducing the federal workforce
through attrition and freezing congressional salaries.  The legislation would save $85 billion through Sept. 30,
the same amount as the across-the-board cuts that would be
divided between defense and domestic programs, said Senator
 Kelly Ayotte  of New Hampshire. She was among lawmakers
presenting the plan at a news conference today in Washington.  Similar Republican proposals to halt federal hiring didn’t
advance in Congress last year.  The automatic cuts, called sequestration, will take effect
March 1 unless Congress and President Barack Obama agree on an
alternative. Yesterday, Obama urged lawmakers to propose a
short-term package of reductions and tax-code changes, such as
limiting tax breaks, to delay the reductions.  “The president gave us a proposal that cuts defense
spending once again,” Representative  Howard “Buck” McKeon  of
California, chairman of the House Armed Services Committee, said
at the news conference. He called Obama’s plan “irresponsible,
unacceptable.”  “I’m sure Iran is very supportive of sequestration,” said
Senator  Lindsey Graham  of South Carolina. Unless Obama leads the
way to prevent the defense cuts, he’ll be remembered “as one of
the most irresponsible commanders in chief in the history of the
country,” Graham said.  ‘Readiness Crisis’  Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  said today that the
reductions risk producing “the most serious readiness crisis in
over a decade.”  Urging Congress to accept Obama’s proposal, Panetta told an
audience at Georgetown University in Washington, “My fear is
that there is a dangerous and callous attitude that is
developing among some Republicans and some Democrats that these
dangerous cuts can be allowed to take place in order to blame
the other party for the consequences.”  The Senate Armed Services Committee has scheduled a Feb. 12
hearing to take testimony from General  Martin Dempsey , chairman
of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, and other military-service leaders
on the potential effects of automatic spending cuts on the
Defense Department.  “Our defense should not be used as a bargaining chip
because of other policy aspirations,” Ayotte said today. She
said the Republican proposal wouldn’t raise taxes.  Congress created the automatic cuts in August 2011 as part
of a plan to raise the U.S. debt ceiling. While the spending
reductions were set to take effect in January, lawmakers delayed
them for two months as part of a Jan. 1 measure that included
tax increases on top incomes.  Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat, has
said he wants to pare back the automatic reductions, perhaps
several months at a time, with a combination of tax revenue
increases and spending curbs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Timothy R. Homan  in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katherine Rizzo at   krizzo5@bloomberg.net  