-- Rio Tinto, Vale Should Share Mozambican Rail Link, Minister Says
-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 2013-02-06T15:20:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/rio-tinto-vale-should-share-mozambican-rail-link-minister-says.html
Rio Tinto Plc  and  Vale SA  should
consider jointly developing a rail link to haul coal from
Mozambique’s northwestern Tete province to the eastern port of
Nacala, Mineral Resources Minister  Esperanca Bias  said.  “It is our desire, and we believe that the companies will
share information and will share capacity that will be
available,” she said at the Investing in African Mining Indaba
in Cape Town today. That includes “Nacala and other railways
that will be built. It’s in our strategy that lines for any
product are for free access for other products. It wouldn’t make
sense to have a line dedicated only to one product.”  Rio, the world’s second-largest mining company, said Jan.
17 it is  writing down  the value of Mozambican coal assets
acquired from Riversdale Mining Ltd. for A$3.9 billion ($4
billion), less than two years after completing the deal. The
southeast African nation has blocked a plan put forward by
London-based Rio to move coal shipments by barge along the
Zambezi river for export. The company and the government are
discussing alternative transport options.  “Various studies have been done about the navigability of
the Zambezi river,” Bias told reporters. “The studies done
don’t recommend that the river be navigated. There are other
alternatives that should be explored. The alternative that’s
most efficient is rail.”  Vale, the world’s largest iron-ore producer, is investing
$4.4 billion upgrading the Nacala port and building a 912-
kilometer (567-mile) railway line linking it to its mines in the
Moatize basin in Tete,  Rafael Benke , head of corporate affairs,
told the conference earlier today.  Mozambique’s government will take a stake in all rail
projects in the country and will grant approval quickly if they
meet its requirements, Bias said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Cohen in Cape Town at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  