-- Russian Billionaire Usmanov Links Fortune to Partnership
-- B y   A l e x   S a z o n o v   a n d   Y u l i y a   F e d o r i n o v a
-- 2013-02-06T21:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/russian-billionaire-usmanov-links-fortune-to-partnership.html
Alisher Usmanov , Russia’s richest
man, and two of his long-time billionaire investment partners
have joined all of their assets in USM Holdings, a limited
liability company based in the British Virgin Islands.  Conceived in early 2012 and completed in December, the new
formation holds the trio’s assets in mining, technology,
telecommunications and media, and carries a value of more than
$29 billion, according to the Bloomberg Billionaires Index.  “We have completed the process of consolidating assets
into USM Holdings,” Usmanov, 59, said by e-mail Feb. 5. “The
formation of a single holding company enables us to optimize
business processes, enhance the efficiency of managing
subsidiary companies, and provide more opportunities to access
international capital markets.”  According to the company’s  website , which went live late
last month, USM was established to consolidate the holdings
Usmanov has built up during the last 30 years, including closely
held Metalloinvest Holding Co., Russia’s largest iron ore
producer, publicly-traded mobile phone company MegaFon OAO and
Internet company Mail.Ru Group Ltd., as well as the technology
investments he has made through the DST investment funds.  USM shareholders include Usmanov, who holds 60 percent;
Vladimir Skoch, who holds 30 percent on behalf of his son,
Russian Duma deputy  Andrey Skoch ; and  Ardavan Farhad Moshiri , an
Usmanov adviser of 23 years, who owns 10 percent.  Usmanov and Moshiri continue to hold their shared 29.9
percent stake in London-based Arsenal Football Club Plc
separately. Usmanov owns all of newspaper Kommersant outside of
USM.  ‘One Roof’  Usmanov controls all of USM’s voting rights and also has
the ability to block his partners from selling any assets it
holds without his consent. He first disclosed his plans for the
holding company in April 2012, and released further details of
its formation in MegaFon’s preliminary prospectus, which was
released in November.  Ivan Streshinskiy , who has helped manage Usmanov’s
investments since 2006, was appointed to the USM Holdings board
and named chief executive officer of USM Advisors, an affiliated
company that will provide advisory services to the holding
entity.  “Having all of the assets under one roof makes it easier
to manage them and value them,”  Kirill Chuyko , head of equity
research at BCS Financial Group said by phone Jan. 21,
explaining the possible reasons for structure.  Longtime Allies  The two minority partners acquired their stakes in USM by
swapping their existing equity in holding companies controlled
by Usmanov and making a cash investment. After the transaction,
Usmanov has a net worth of $21.4 billion, according to the
Bloomberg Billionaires Index, while Moshiri controls a $1.7
billion fortune. Skoch is valued at $6.2 billion.  Rollo Head, a spokesman for Moshiri at London-based RLM
Finsbury, said Moshiri declined to comment on his net worth.
Albert Istomin, a spokesman for Skoch, declined to comment on
the net worth calculation. Usmanov also declined to comment.  Usmanov first met Andrey Skoch in 1992, when he was
importing cigarettes to Russia and Skoch was working as an oil
trader. At the time, the country was suffering from a deficit of
consumer goods, which enabled Usmanov to build a thriving trade
business.  He and Skoch purchased metal and mining assets during and
after the country’s chaotic privatization years, including a
steel plant in the Belgorod region, central Russia, and iron ore
producer Lebedinsky GOK. In 2006, after buying Mikhailovsky GOK
from Georgia’s current prime minister, billionaire  Bidzina Ivanishvili , they created Metalloinvest, now Usmanov’s most
valuable asset.  Government Ally  Usmanov’s rise to prominence was boosted in the early
2000s, when he proved to be an ally to the new government led by
Russian President  Vladimir Putin . As head of
Gazprominvestholding, the investment arm of Russia’s gas
monopoly  OAO Gazprom , Usmanov helped negotiate the return of
assets to state-run Gazprom that had been moved out of the
company under previous management.  In 1999, Skoch was elected as a deputy of the State Duma,
Russia’s main legislative body, representing the Belgorod
region. He later transferred the fortune he had built to his
father, Vladimir, shielding himself from public criticism. He
was re-elected to the Duma four times.  Iranian Emigrant  Moshiri, an Iranian emigrate to London who now resides in
Monaco, first met Usmanov in 1989, and has served as Usmanov’s
financial consultant ever since. Through the years, he earned
shares in some of Usmanov’s most important assets, including
Metalloinvest, MegaFon and Arsenal.  The former accountant, who is a British citizen, resisted
Usmanov’s diversification into technology investments, which
began in 2008, using billionaire  Yuri Milner ’s DST funds.  “Moshiri also didn’t believe in the prospects for
investments in Facebook and Groupon,” said Usmanov in an April
2012 phone interview with Bloomberg News.  His hesitation did not prevent Usmanov from allowing him
the chance to participate, which has given Moshiri holdings
through DST in publicly-traded  Facebook  Inc.,  Zynga Inc.  and
Groupon Inc., as well as other investments in a number of
closely-held technology companies, including Twitter Inc.  USM did not disclose how much Moshiri and Skoch may have
paid to make those investments, or their exact stakes.  New Valuation  The new holding company requires a revised method for the
Bloomberg ranking to calculate the net worth for Usmanov and
Moshiri, and established a valuation for Skoch’s fortune.  Prior to the transaction, Usmanov and Moshiri controlled
half of Metalloinvest through Cyprus-based Gallagher Holdings
Ltd., which has since been renamed USM Steel & Mining Group Ltd.
That stake was combined with the 30 percent held by Skoch. The
remaining 20 percent of Metalloinvest was bought back by the
company from Moscow-based OAO  VTB Bank  at the end of 2012
through debt financing, consolidating all of the company under
the control of USM.  Further details on the debt financing will be provided when
Metalloinvest releases its earnings in April, the company said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Sazonov in Moscow at 
 asazonov@bloomberg.net ;
Yuliya Fedorinova in Moscow at 
 yfedorinova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew G. Miller at 
 mmiller144@bloomberg.net  