-- Saudi Hires World Bank Executive to Head Market Regulator
-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r   a n d   D e e m a   A l m a s h a b i
-- 2013-02-06T13:06:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/saudi-arabia-hires-world-bank-executive-to-head-market-regulator.html
Saudi Arabia replaced the head of its
stock market regulator with a World Bank executive amid
speculation the kingdom, home to the largest Arab bourse, will
move toward opening its equities market to foreign investors.  Mohammad Al al-Sheikh, a World Bank executive representing
Saudi Arabia, replaces  Abdulrahman A Al Tuwaijri  as chairman of
the Capital Market Authority, the Saudi Press Agency reported.
Al Tuwaijri was relieved of his duties by royal decree, SPA
said, without giving a reason. The benchmark  Tadawul All Share
Index  dropped 0.1 percent at the 3:30 p.m. close in Riyadh.  “The financial market needs to develop larger
restructuring plans that help it in attracting investments,”
Fadhel Albuainain, who previously was a director at  Saudi
Hollandi Bank ’s operations in Jubail and is currently setting up
his own consultancy business, said by phone today. “I expect
Al-Sheikh will form a vision for foreign investment in the Saudi
market and set a date to open it.”  Saudi Arabia, the largest Arab economy, operates a stock
exchange with a market capitalization of 1.43 trillion riyals
($381 billion), compared with $120 billion for gauges in the
United Arab Emirates and $314 billion for Turkey, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The kingdom, which allows non-
resident foreigners to invest in shares via equity swaps and
exchange-traded funds, will open the market only gradually, Al
Tuwaijri said in April.  M&A Specialist  Morgan Stanley, the sixth-largest U.S. bank by assets, and
Credit Suisse AG are shifting their Middle East and North Africa
equities business to Riyadh from Dubai. VTB Capital Plc, the
investment banking unit of Russia’s second-largest lender, is
considering an equities business in the kingdom.  Saudi Arabia, the world’s biggest oil exporter, is
embarking on a spending plan valued at more than $500 billion to
build infrastructure and industry as well as combat
unemployment. MSCI Inc. reintroduced coverage of the stock
market last year, stoking bets the nation may get emerging-
market status at the index provider.  Al al-Sheikh, who holds a Harvard Law degree, was appointed
to the board of the World Bank representing Saudi Arabia in
September, according to the website of U.S. law company  Latham &
Watkins . Latham practices in the kingdom in association with Al-
Sheikh’s law office, its website shows. Al al-Sheikh also
specializes in mergers and acquisitions, capital markets and
project finance, according to Latham.  New Regulations  The appointment follows some reshuffling of government
positions in the kingdom since 2011.  Fahad al-Mubarak ,
previously a managing director at Morgan Stanley, took over as
the kingdom’s central bank governor in December that year.  Al al-Sheikh served as a legal adviser at the World Bank in
Washington from 1998 to 2001, according to the Capital Market
Authority. He moved to Saudi Arabia in 2003 to work as a lawyer
and legal adviser before his appointment at the World Bank, the
regulator said.  “I suspect that he will start regulating the Saudi
financial market with new laws and regulations,” said Mohammed
al-Omran, a financial analyst and president of the Gulf Center
for Financial Consultancy in Riyadh.  “Al-Sheikh is well-suited
for the position as his experience of securities and financial
markets combined with his legal background would be just what
CMA needs at the moment.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net ;
Deema Almashabi in Riyadh at 
 dalmashabi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  