-- Self-Driving Cars More Jetsons Than Reality for Google Designers
-- B y   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e
-- 2013-02-06T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/self-driving-cars-more-jetsons-than-reality-for-google-designers.html
Google Inc.  sees self-driving cars
being available to consumers in three to five years. Regulators
and the insurance industry aren’t so sure it can happen that
quickly.  Software and electronic sensors couldn’t fail and would
have to anticipate and react like a human. States may have to
decide how to license machines rather than people. Insurance
companies have to reassess how to assign fault after accidents.
Safety standards have to be rewritten to focus on electronics
along with mechanics.  “The improvement can be such that we can make cars that
drive safer than people do,” Anthony Levandowski, product
manager for Google’s self-driving car technology, told a Society
of Automotive Engineers meeting in Washington last week. “I
can’t tell you you’ll be able to have a Google car in your
garage next year. We expect to release the technology in the
next five years. In what form it gets released is still to be
determined.”  U.S. auto-safety regulators are eager to reap the safety
benefits that may come from taking human error out of driving.
About 33,000 people die annually in traffic crashes in the U.S.,
with that number falling yet killing almost as many people each
year as suicide.  David Strickland , head of the U.S. National Highway Traffic
Safety Administration, used an analogy to “The Jetsons,” a
1960s animated television comedy featuring gadgets including a
flying car that folded into a briefcase.  “It’s going to make a huge difference in reducing crashes
overall,” Stickland said in an interview.  Road Tests  While crash-avoidance systems that can alert a driver or
apply brakes in advance of a wreck are coming to cars now,
autonomous vehicles “are a long way off,” he said.  The self-driving car is among projects stemming from
Google’s practice of letting employees develop ideas not
necessarily tied to online search and digital advertising. The
car is allowed on public roads for testing purposes in Nevada,
California and Florida.  Google hasn’t indicated interest in producing the cars for
sale. “Our focus is on the technology itself,” Jay Nancarrow,
a spokesman, said in an e-mail.  The company has demonstrated it on the streets of
Washington and other cities where it might need to win favor for
such a car to be considered road-worthy. Google also established
a connection with regulators by hiring  Ronald Medford , NHTSA’s
deputy director under Strickland, as of last month as director
of safety for the self-driving car.  Foolproof Software  Levandowski, who helped design the self-driving car, says
Google’s biggest challenge is ensuring reliability of the
software that makes the car drive, because a failure would mean
nothing is controlling the vehicle.  “We’re really focusing on building in the reliability so
we can trust and understand the system will perform safely in
all conditions,” Levandowski said. “How can you trust the
system? How do you know how it can perform? How do you design it
with proper processes in order to understand and minimize
failure? How do you bake into a car redundant braking?”  In a car driven by a person, if the power steering fails or
a light goes off, a person would be in control to figure out
what to do. A self-driving car would need to be taught how to
respond to all sorts of scenarios that may occur with little to
no room for error.  Such cars would also need to acquire the sort of judgment a
person would have to know that a ball rolling into a street may
be followed by a small child running after it.  ‘Massive Challenge’  NHTSA enforces vehicle safety  standards  that govern the
minimum performance everything from the design of windshield
wipers to internal trunk releases. Some of the standards date to
the agency’s creation in the 1970s.  The agency would need to create standards for electronics
of a self-driving car and figure out how to test them, said Dan
Smith, associate administrator for vehicle safety.  “It gets to be a massive challenge to figure out how will
the government come up with a performance standard that is
objective and testable for so many different scenarios where
failure could possibly occur,” Smith said at the SAE panel.
“Part of that has to do with if we should be looking at the
underlying electronics.”  The National Academy of Sciences, in a report a year ago,
said NHTSA must “become more familiar with and engaged in”
setting automotive-electronics standards in existing cars,
without mentioning the potential of self-driving technology.  Deciding Fault  The insurance industry, which has given drivers discounts
on premiums for new auto technologies such as air bags, says it
would similarly promote safety advances from self-driving cars.
Still, it would have to decide whether it can assign liability
to a company, or a piece of software, after an accident.  “It’s a legal morass right now, and unfortunately it will
take court decisions to work this out,”  Robert Hartwig ,
president of the Insurance Information Institute, a New York-
based industry group, said on the SAE panel.  “Right behind the first autonomous vehicle is the first
autonomous vehicle ambulance chaser,” he said. “They will be
there faster than you can imagine looking for any sort of
accident that might be attributable to a deep pocket.”  Hartwig predicts it will take 15 to 20 years for truly
autonomous vehicles to populate U.S. roads.  Chuck Gulash , senior
executive engineer of Toyota Motor Corp.’s technical center in
Ann Arbor, Michigan, said the industry may not get all the way
there. The driver may need to retain control even if the car can
make most of the decisions, he said.  While Google envisions a car that will let drivers in
California save on a hotel stay while driving the back roads to
ski at Lake Tahoe from their homes in the Bay Area, Toyota
foresees a car that will be so smart it will react before a
driver can to prevent a crash.  “For us, autonomous is not synonymous with driverless,”
Gulash said on the SAE panel. “The driver needs to be in
control. We’re developing technologies on a continuous basis to
provide more assistance to the driver.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angela Greiling Keane in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  