-- Slovenia, Croatia Close to Ending Dispute Before EU Entry
-- B y   B o r i s   C e r n i   a n d   J a s m i n a   K u z m a n o v i c
-- 2013-02-07T13:52:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/slovenia-croatia-close-to-ending-dispute-before-eu-entry.html
Croatia and Slovenia took a step
toward solving a 270 million-euro ($365 million) dispute dating
back to the split-up of Yugoslav bank assets, easing the risk
Croatia’s European Union entry will be blocked by its neighbor.  “We have cleared all the obstacles on the expert level,
and now we need to find a political solution from our
governments,” Slovenian Foreign Minister  Karl Erjavec  told
reporters after meeting his Croatian counterpart,  Vesna Pusic ,
yesterday in Otocec ob Krki, 70 kilometers (43.5 miles) east of
the Slovenian capital Ljubljana. No details were disclosed.  Slovenia and Croatia have been haggling for years over
claims of former deposits owed to Croatian savers by the
Yugoslav predecessor of Nova Ljubljanska Banka d.d. Slovenia, an
EU member that controls NLB, has threatened to veto Croatia’s
accession if the claims are not withdrawn, while Croatia counts
on 10 billion euros in EU grants through 2020 to help it pull
out of a two-year economic slump.  “I cannot say at this stage if we will withdraw lawsuits
at our courts on the bank matter,” Pusic said. “We need a
solution that isn’t harmful to any party and its acceptable for
both sides.”  Follow-up Meeting  It was the third time the two held talks as Slovenia
considers ratification of Croatia’s membership, set for July 1.
They will meet again Feb. 19, Pusic said.  “It’s a promising framework, while the final version of
the solution has yet to be formed and I expect some additional
explanation from the meeting with the Croatian Premier  Zoran Milanovic  that will determine the timeline of our approval,”
Slovenian Prime Minister  Janez Jansa  told reporters in Brussels
today ahead of an EU summit. “Croatia’s membership is in our
interest and everybody will benefit from it, but there are still
some hurdles which I hope can be overcome.”  Of the 27 current EU members, 22 have ratified Croatia’s
accession, while Germany, Denmark, Belgium and the Netherlands
have started procedures, according to the Foreign Ministry in
Zagreb. That leaves only Slovenia, Croatia’s former Yugoslav
federal partner. to begin ratification, which may take as long
as two months to complete, Rok Srakar, a Slovenian diplomat in
Zagreb, said.  Upper Hand  Slovenian party leaders will meet at the end of next week
to discuss how to approve Croatia’s EU entry, President  Borut Pahor  said in an e-mailed statement today. Erjavec said
yesterday he expects lawmakers to pass the move in March. A two-
thirds majority in Parliament is needed for consent.  “Both countries need to reach a solution, each for its own
reasons, with Slovenia having a slight upper hand,” Viseslav
Raos, analyst at  Political Science Research Center  in Zagreb,
said. “They need to reach a compromise, and neither side will
be completely happy with it.”  The row over ratification comes as Slovenia’s government is
crumbling under corruption allegations against Prime Minister
 Janez Jansa .  Political Turmoil  Erjavec said Feb. 5 he will step down as foreign minister
on Feb. 22, after his Pensioners Party decided to leave the
government, the second coalition member to do so. The Citizens
List stepped down on Jan. 24, leaving Jansa with a minority
Cabinet short of the 46 votes needed to pass legislation in
Parliament.  Slovenia needs to approve laws that would strengthen the
economy and the banking system, including a 4 billion-euro  bank
recapitalization plan, to avoid being the sixth euro-area member
to require a bailout.  “This may be a difficult negotiating time for Slovenia’s
politicians, who are already seeking to strengthen their
positions in case of early elections,” Branko Caratan, a
political scientist at the University of Zagreb, said.  An agreement would allow NLB, Slovenia’s largest bank, to
start operating in Croatia, after being banned over the issue.  Another 130,000 Croat savers, who after the breakup of
former Yugoslavia chose not to transfer their claims to the
Croatian government, are separately seeking about $204 million
from the Ljubljana-based bank.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jasmina Kuzmanovic in Zagreb at 
 jkuzmanovic@bloomberg.net ;
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  