-- SNS Investors Challenge Dutch-Ordered Wipeout at Highest Court
-- B y   M a u d   v a n   G a a l
-- 2013-02-06T11:46:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/sns-investors-challenge-dutch-ordered-wipeout-at-highest-court.html
The Netherlands’ top administrative
court said at least 25  SNS Reaal NV  investors appealed the
government’s decision to take control of the nation’s fourth-
largest bank and expropriate the securities they owned.  As of yesterday, 25 investors, mostly not institutions, had
filed an appeal to the  Council of State , said Wendy van der
Sluijs, a spokeswoman for the court in The Hague. The deadline
for appeals is Feb. 11, 10 days after the SNS nationalization
decree. The court will subsequently organize a hearing and
present its ruling before the end of the month, she said.  Finance Minister  Jeroen Dijsselbloem  took control of SNS
Reaal on Feb. 1 after real-estate losses brought the bank to the
brink of collapse. The nationalization included issued shares
and subordinated bonds. It’s the first time European authorities
have immediately wiped out holders of subordinated debt of a
bailed-out bank, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “I expect many legal actions to come against the Dutch
government, although the actions themselves are irreversible
under the law,” said  Sweder van Wijnbergen , a professor of
economics at the University of Amsterdam.  The appeals so far came from investors in countries
including the Italy, Germany, Belgium, Andorra and Indonesia, as
well as the Netherlands, Van der Sluijs said. Dutch newspaper
Het Financieele Dagblad reported the appeals earlier today.  Bailout Costs  After the financial crisis led to the nationalization of
the Dutch parts of Fortis and ABN Amro Holding NV in 2008 and
the bankruptcy of DSB Bank NV, the Netherlands adopted
legislation allowing the state to take control of banks’ assets,
liabilities or stock.  The Dutch state says the bailout of SNS Reaal will cost
taxpayers 3.7 billion euros ($5 billion) in write-offs and
capital injections, and the government is also providing 6.1
billion euros in loans and guarantees. The expropriation of
subordinated creditors reduced the rescue costs for the state by
about 1 billion euros, Dijsselbloem said on Feb. 1.  Several other court procedures may follow. The Enterprise
Chamber of the Amsterdam Court of Appeal will set the
compensation the Dutch state must pay to expropriated investors.
Such compensation should be zero for shares and loans, according
to Dijsselbloem. Investors who object to the compensation offer
can appeal to the Enterprise Chamber.  VEB , a Dutch investor group, will be considering all legal
options, Chairman  Jan Maarten Slagter  said in an interview.
Besides an appeal, VEB has asked Dijsselbloem to enable the
Enterprise Court to order a probe into SNS Reaal’s management
since its 2006 stock-market listing, according to a statement on
the group’s website.  SNS Reaal suffered problems as a result of “mismanagement
at a bank where wrong choices were made,” Dutch Prime Minister
 Mark Rutte  told reporters on Feb. 1. “Big blunders and big
mistakes have been made.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maud van Gaal in Amsterdam at 
 mvangaal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  