-- Soccer Needs NBA-Style Luxury Tax for Richest Teams, Report Says
-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 2013-02-06T11:26:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/soccer-needs-nba-style-luxury-tax-for-richest-teams-report-says.html
Soccer’s richest clubs such as Real
Madrid and Manchester United should pay a levy on bigger
transfer fees to address a revenue-sharing system in the sport
that’s “skewed” in their favor, according to a report
commissioned by the European Commission.  Europe ruling body UEFA adds to “existing supremacies” in
the sport by redistributing less than 6 percent of revenue from
the elite Champions League to teams that don’t qualify,
according to a copy of the report by Brussels-based policy
consultancy KEA European Affairs. The U.S.’s National Basketball
Association has a so-called luxury tax for teams above a certain
payroll, the report says.  European soccer may be “slowly embracing a system of
closed leagues,” the  KEA  report says. The 261-page report is
scheduled to be published tomorrow by the European Union’s
regulatory arm.  The European Commission, which helped rewrite transfer
rules with  soccer ruling body FIFA  in 2001, is seeking to
encourage a review by soccer authorities of the 3 billion-euro
($4.1 billion) player-trading market after a boom in spending,
according to EU sports policy officials. The biggest clubs would
fight a luxury tax,  Simon Chadwick , a professor of sports
business strategy at Coventry University, said.  “Manchester United would go straight to court,” Chadwick
said. “They would say BMW isn’t subject to a luxury tax, why
should we be?”  United and other English Premier League teams already
pay a 4 percent levy on transfer fees, with that money going to
a player pension fund.  Real Madrid’s press office said the team had no comment on
the report. Manchester United spokesman  Philip Townsend  didn’t
immediately return a call and e-mail seeking comment.  Record Sales  The European player transfer market has increased sevenfold
in value since 1995, the report says. Real Madrid, the world’s
biggest soccer club by sales, broke the spending record when it
paid Manchester United 80 million pounds ($126 million) to sign
 Cristiano Ronaldo  in 2009.  A few clubs such as Real and United dominate domestic
competition: In England, Spain, Portugal and Italy, 92 percent
or more of league titles were won by the three most successful
teams between 2001 and 2012, the report says.  “The current transfer rules do not fight effectively
against competitive imbalance,” the report says.  Under rules introduced under the supervision of then
European Competition Commissioner  Mario Monti  in 2001, teams who
developed a player between the ages of 12 and 23 share 5 percent
of a transfer fee when he is traded. That amount should be
raised to 8 percent, with a higher percentage for fees above a
certain threshold, the KEA report says.  Teams’ Rights  The report also recommends that, in an effort to counter
transfer inflation, fees should be capped at 70 percent of the
gross salary owed by a club to a player over the term of his
contract.  The European Commission should supervise FIFA as it reviews
rules on investors acquiring stakes in the transfer value of
players, the report says. The practice is banned in the English
Premier League and France’s Ligue 1.  “The rules should not disproportionally hinder financial
investment in sport and should be compatible with the EU rules
on free movement of capital,” the report says.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Alex Duff  in Madrid  at
 aduff4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  