-- Softbank to Sell $3.2 Billion Bonds to Fund Sprint Deal
-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u   a n d   Y u s u k e   M i y a z a w a
-- 2013-02-07T03:29:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/softbank-said-to-plan-selling-bonds-to-finance-sprint-takeover.html
(Corrects to remove erroneous reference to reason for
review in 11th paragraph of story published Feb. 6.)  Softbank Corp. , the Japanese carrier
that agreed to buy a $20 billion stake in  Sprint Nextel Corp. ,
will sell 300 billion yen ($3.2 billion) in bonds to help
finance the acquisition.  Softbank will offer  bonds  maturing in four years to
Japanese individual investors this month, the Tokyo-based
company said today in a finance ministry filing.  Billionaire  Masayoshi Son ’s mobile phone carrier offered in
October to buy a 70 percent stake in Sprint Nextel to expand
into the U.S. wireless market. Softbank, which boosted profit by
drawing users with Apple Inc.’s smartphones and tablets, has
climbed 21 percent in Tokyo trading since the Sprint deal plans
were first reported.  “Softbank is well-known and popular among individuals,”
said  Mana Nakazora , chief credit analyst at BNP Paribas
Securities Japan in Tokyo. “There isn’t concern about the bonds
remaining unsold.”  Standard & Poor’s and Moody’s Investors Service have put
the Japanese company’s  credit ratings  under review for possible
downgrade on concern the acquisition may undermine its financial
strength. A downgrade of one step would bring the rating to a
speculative, or junk, ranking at Moody’s.  Surging Profit  Softbank doubled  third-quarter  net income to 65.9 billion
yen as it gained customers with Apple’s smartphones and tablet
computers. Sales gained 7.1 percent to 923.7 billion yen during
the three months ended Dec. 31, the company said Jan. 31.  The  carrier  rose 4.1 percent to 3,520 yen as of 2:17 p.m.
in Tokyo trading, headed for the highest close since April 2006.
The stock is up 12 percent this year, compared with the 10
percent gain by the benchmark Nikkei 225 Stock Average.  The Sprint announcement came two weeks after Softbank
agreed to acquire a stake in rival Japanese wireless provider
eAccess Ltd. to help meet bandwidth demand from iPhone users.
Sales of Apple phones and tablets have helped Softbank boost
earnings more than sevenfold during the past four years.  The arrangers of the bonds include  Nomura Holdings Inc. ,
Daiwa Securities Group Inc., Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley
Securities Co., Mizuho Financial Group Inc. and SMBC Nikko
Securities Inc.  The bonds, whose coupon will be set on Feb. 22 at between
1.25 percent and 1.85 percent, will be offered from Feb. 25 to
March 11, according to the filing.  Regulatory Review  The U.S. Department of Justice has asked the Federal
Communications Commission to delay a review.  The acquisition of Overland Park, Kansas-based Sprint’s
56.4 million mobile subscribers would increase Softbank’s
customer base to 96 million in the U.S. and Japan, the Japanese
company said in October. The company’s biggest Japanese rival
NTT DoCoMo Inc. has about 60.8 million subscriptions.  Softbank is getting a bridge loan of as much as 1.65
trillion yen from banks to finance the Sprint purchase, it said
last year.  The mobile-phone operator has more than 188 billion yen of
 bonds  maturing this year, including a 130 billion yen bond due
Sept. 17, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net ;
Yusuke Miyazawa in Tokyo at 
 ymiyazawa3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  