-- Soybeans, Corn Drop as Rain May Boost South America Crops
-- B y   J e f f   W i l s o n
-- 2013-02-06T21:11:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/soybeans-corn-drop-as-rain-may-boost-south-america-crops.html
Soybeans fell for the first time in
four sessions and corn posted the longest slump in almost seven
weeks on speculation that rain will boost yields in Argentina
and Brazil, easing global supply concerns.  About 85 percent of the fields in  Argentina  will get as
much as 0.9 inch (2.3 centimeters) of rain starting Feb. 13 with
another storm expected on Feb. 17, boosting crop conditions,
World Weather Inc. in Overland Park, Kansas, said in a report.
Showers may aid plants in parts of southern Brazil, and harvests
in northern fields might accelerate because of dry weather, the
forecaster said.  “The markets are falling with a better chance of rains in
Argentina and continued beneficial weather in Brazil,”  Mark Schultz , the chief analyst at Northstar Commodity Investment Co.
in Minneapolis, said in a telephone interview. “The crops are
getting closer to harvest without significant weather
problems.”  Soybean futures for March delivery dropped 0.5 percent to
close at $14.875 a bushel at 2 p.m. on the Chicago Board of
Trade. The price climbed 1.8 percent in the previous three
sessions. On Feb. 4, the oilseed reached $14.98, the highest for
a most-active contract since Dec. 17.  In Chicago, corn futures for March delivery fell 0.9
percent to $7.225 a bushel. The price dropped for the fourth
straight session, the longest slump Dec. 20. On Feb. 1, the
grain reached an eight-week high of $7.4625 on speculation that
dry weather would damage crops in South America.  Corn also fell as livestock producers may shift to wheat
for feed following a price slump, Schultz said.  Rain and snow in the southern U.S. Great Plains in the next
week may boost soil moisture for dormant wheat plants, Schultz
said.        Yesterday, the premium for cash-wheat prices in Kansas
City to corn fell to 0.5 cent a bushel, the lowest since June,
government data show. On Nov. 8, the amount was $1.32.  Corn is the biggest U.S. crop, followed by soybeans, hay
and wheat.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeff Wilson  in Chicago at 
 jwilson29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  