-- Spanish Home Prices Stop Dropping for First Time in 3 Years
-- B y   T o d d   W h i t e
-- 2013-02-06T16:42:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/spain-home-prices-halt-decline-after-dropping-36-straight-months.html
Existing home prices in Spain were
little changed in January, the first month without a decline in
three years, according to  Fotocasa.es  and IESE Business School.  The average asking price was 1,890 euros ($2,550) a square
meter compared with 1,891 euros in December, Fotocasa, a Spanish
real estate website, said in a survey published today. The
annual decline was 9.9 percent. Homes in Madrid, Spain’s capital
and financial center, rose in January 0.3 percent to 2,965 euros
a square meter, 57 percent more than the national mean.  Spanish property developers have waited years for signs of
recovery in a market that ravaged their business for new homes
and led to writedowns and a restructuring of the nation’s
banking industry. Average home prices had fallen for 36
consecutive months, losing more than a third of value from an
April 2007 peak, Fotocasa said. Investors urged caution about
calling the end of the down cycle.  “It’s still a very illiquid market, and there aren’t many
deals going forward at these prices,” said  Hugo Navarro , a
money manager at BPA Global Funds in Madrid, which invests 4
billion euros. “The real price, where sales can happen and that
would be reflected in official valuations, is still about 20 to
25 percent below these levels.”  Mortgage Changes  The government said in July it would scrap a tax rebate and
raise value-added tax on new home purchases to 10 percent from 4
percent as of January, prompting buyers to make purchases before
the rates went up.  The state’s efforts to revive the housing market would be
threatend by proposed regulations governing mortgage lenders,
Moody’s Investors Service said last week.  Economy Minister  Luis de Guindos  said on Jan. 30 he wants
to prevent banks from using mortgages of more than 30 years as
collateral in covered bonds that package the loans. With the
longer-maturity debt making up 10 percent of the mortgage
market, the rules would restrict home financing and hurt
existing covered bonds, Moody’s said.  Loan delinquencies in the mortgage market rose to 3.5
percent at the end of September, the highest in at least six
years, according to the Spanish Mortgage Association.  The Murcia region had the biggest price gain at 1 percent
and the largest drop was 0.9 percent in Cantabria. San Sebastian
in the north, Spain’s most expensive city, saw values decline by
0.4 percent in the month and 12 percent in the past year to
4,588 euros a square meter.  The data released by Fotocasa is analyzed by IESE Business
School, according to the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Todd White  in Madrid at 
 twhite@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Timothy Coulter at 
 tcoulter@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net . 