-- St. Petersburg City Court Sides With Madonna in Lawsuit
-- B y   A n a t o l y   T e m k i n
-- 2013-02-06T14:36:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/st-petersburg-city-court-sides-with-madonna-in-lawsuit.html
The St. Petersburg City Court upheld
the rejection of an 333 million-ruble ($11 million) suit against
Madonna for violating a local law banning homosexual
“propaganda” as lawmakers debate similar federal legislation.  The court in St. Petersburg, the second-biggest Russian
city and the hometown of President  Vladimir Putin , affirmed a
Nov. 22 district court decision, said Daria Dedova, one of the
suit’s plaintiffs, in a phone interview today. The court reduced
the court fees for each plaintiff from 60,000 rubles ($2,000) to
7,500 rubles, according to a court spokesman.  “We don’t agree with the court’s decision and plan to
appeal to Russia’s Supreme Court,” said Dedova. “The State
Duma is discussing legislation to prohibit anti-family
propaganda on the national level and we are on the right path.”  Dedova is among nine city residents who filed the lawsuit
against  Louise Veronica Ciccone , Madonna’s real name, concert
organizer PMI Corp. and the Peterburgsky Sports and Concert
Complex, where the event took place.  They accused the defendants of violating cultural
traditions and promulgating homosexuality during Madonna’s Aug.
9 concert. Gays and lesbians should be treated with dignity and
tolerance, the pop singer said during the gig to about 10,000
concertgoers.  The law, signed on March 7 by St. Petersburg Governor
 Georgy Poltavchenko , bans lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender
“propaganda.” Similar bills are already in force in 12 of the
country’s 83 regions.  Russian lawmakers gave preliminary approval to a bill that
would ban such “propaganda” on Jan. 25 in the first of three
readings.  People found guilty of creating “false perceptions of the
social equality of traditional and nontraditional sexual
relations” face fines of as much as 500,000 rubles, according
to draft passed by a vote of majority of State Duma members.  Fines for violating the St. Petersburg law total 5,000
rubles ($156) for private individuals, 50,000 rubles for
government officials and 500,000 rubles for organizations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anatoly Temkin in St. Petersburg at 
 atemkin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  