-- S&P Lawyer Keker Brings ‘Slashing and Smashing’ Tactics
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2013-02-07T23:10:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/standard-poor-s-to-be-defended-by-floyd-abrams-company-says.html
San Francisco lawyer  John Keker , the
Vietnam War platoon leader who later prosecuted  Oliver North  and
represented clients from  Eldridge Cleaver  to  Lance Armstrong ,
may deploy his “slashing and smashing” approach to defend
Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC.  The securities rating company and parent  McGraw-Hill Cos. 
were sued by the U.S. Justice Department on Feb. 4 for allegedly
inflating rankings mortgaged-backed securities and downplaying
their risks to maximize their own profits.  The federal government seeks as much as $5 billion in
penalties. Standard & Poor’s, which faces similar allegations in
lawsuits by about 16 states including California, Missouri and
Illinois, has denied wrongdoing.  Keker will work with the company’s New York law firm  Cahill
Gordon & Reindel LLP  and its partner  Floyd Abrams . Keker, 69, a
founding partner of  Keker & Van Nest LLP , was once voted by 100
of his California colleagues as the first lawyer they’d hire if
charged with a serious crime.  “His name was mentioned more often than any other when our
surveyed lawyers were asked who they’d turn to,” California
Lawyer magazine  reported in 2001 .  ‘Slashing and Smashing’  In a 2003 Bloomberg News profile, Keker said he honed his
“slashing and smashing” defense tactics in white-collar crime
trials and corporate litigation. He didn’t respond to an e-
mailed request seeking comment on his hiring by S&P.  Lawyers from both firms will be in court for any trial,
Abrams said today in a phone interview.  “John Keker will have a central role in the trial of this
case if there is a trial,” Abrams said.  “Cahill Gordon and I
will be working with him.”  Abrams said the precise division of labor among the lawyers
hasn’t been determined.  Cristina Arguedas , a criminal defense lawyer who has known
Keker since 1980, said the two have represented co-defendants in
at least 30 cases.  “He’s not afraid of anything,” she said.  “He’s not your typical big firm, white-collar lawyer. He’s
a real fighter. He lives to try cases,” said Arguedas of
Arguedas Cassman & Headley in Berkeley, California. Her clients
have included former San Francisco Giants outfielder  Barry Bonds , who was convicted of obstructing a federal probe of
performance-enhancing drugs, and former Atheros Communications
Inc. Vice President  Ali Hariri , who pleaded guilty in the
Galleon Group LLC insider-trading probe.  Keker’s Strength  Keker’s greatest strength, she said, is his ability to
“see defenses that other people maybe don’t see and make them
simple to understand.”  “He is a criminal defense lawyer,” Arguedas said of
Keker. “You can see that in all the ways in which he approaches
the case. He’s not a government guy. He never was a government
guy.”  Cahill Gordon has defended Standard & Poor’s from
allegations of bond ratings hype leveled by attorneys general in
Ohio and Illinois.  “Cahill is our firm,”  Edward Sweeney , a Standard & Poor’s
spokesman, said yesterday in a phone interview.  Last year, Abrams successfully argued against an appeal by
Ohio, which in 2011 lost a case claiming five public employee
pension funds were misled by securities’ ratings assigned by S&P
and two other firms.  Illinois Case  In November, Abrams’s firm failed to win dismissal of a
year-old case against Standard & Poor’s brought by Illinois
Attorney General  Lisa Madigan .  A state court judge in Chicago rejected defense arguments
that the alleged misrepresentations by Standard & Poor’s were
opinions, making them speech protected by the U.S.
Constitution’s First Amendment.  “I don’t have any magic First Amendment wand in my pocket
for this one,” Abrams, 76, said Feb. 5 of the U.S. allegations
in a Bloomberg Television interview.  ‘S‘It’s not a First Amendment case because the government
is alleging that S&P didn’t believe what it said,’’ Abrams said.
“The First Amendment doesn’t protect against that.”  Abrams denied Standard & Poor’s had committed any fraud in
rating collateralized debt obligations from 2004 to 2007.  “The ratings were independent,” he said. “The ratings
were the best judgment by S&P at the time about what the future
would bring.”  ‘Unwarranted Claims’  Catherine Mathis , a Standard & Poor’s spokeswoman, said in
an e-mailed statement after the Justice Department sued that the
company would defend itself against “these unwarranted
claims.”  “Claims that we deliberately kept ratings high when we
knew they should be lower are simply not true,” she said.  The federal case was assigned to U.S. District Judge  David O. Carter  in Santa Ana, California.  Carter, 68, was nominated by President  Bill Clinton  in
1998. Before becoming a federal judge, he was an Orange County
homicide prosecutor and a California state court judge. He
earned a Bronze Star and a Purple Heart during his service with
the U.S. Marine Corps in Vietnam.  Keker graduated in 1965 from Princeton University in New
Jersey and served as a U.S. Marine Corps infantry platoon leader
in Vietnam, according to a  biography  on his law firm’s website.
After being wounded and retiring from the corps in 1967, he
graduated from Yale Law School in 1970 and clerked for Supreme
Court Chief Justice  Earl Warren  from 1970 to 1971, according to
the website.  Keker’s clients included Cleaver , the Black Panther Party
leader. He was part of the special prosecution team in the case
against North, the U.S. Marine Corps lieutenant colonel enmeshed
in the Iran-Contra scandal that enveloped the later years of
President  Ronald Reagan ’s second term as president.  Quattrone E-Mails  White-collar defendants represented by Keker have included
former  Enron Corp.  Chief Financial Officer  Andrew Fastow  and
investment banker  Frank Quattrone ,  He defended Quattrone in successive trials on charges of
obstruction of justice and witness tampering. The case against
Quattrone was based partly on e-mails in which the Credit Suisse
banker allegedly told subordinates to “clean up” their files
after learning of a pending grand jury investigation into the
firm’s allocation of shares in initial public offerings.  While the first jury deadlocked in 2003, the second
convicted Quattrone on the obstruction charge in 2004. Keker
sparred with U.S. District Judge  Richard Owen  at both trials,
accusing him of interfering with the defense.  During the first trial, Owen likened Keker to “a fire
hydrant on the corner of somewhere in New York City in the
summer and I can’t turn you off.”  Prosecutors dropped the case after the U.S. Court of
Appeals in New York threw out the conviction in 2006 and ordered
a new judge be assigned.  Lay, Skilling  Later that year, Keker won leniency for Fastow, who had
pleaded guilty to separate counts of conspiracy to commit wire
fraud and securities fraud, then testified against Enron founder
 Kenneth Lay  and Chief Executive Officer  Jeffrey Skilling .  While Fastow’s plea agreement called for a 10-year prison
term, Keker cited his client’s cooperation with prosecutors and
got a reduction to six years.  Keker also represented class action attorney  William Lerach , who had recovered more than $7 billion for investors who
sued Enron. Lerach pleaded guilty to paying client kickbacks and
agreed to forfeit $7.75 million.  Representing Armstrong, the competitive cyclist who
admitted in January to doping during his career, Keker and his
firm spoke with federal investigators in 2011 about Armstrong’s
belief that information from a grand jury probe had been leaked
to the media.  Leak Accusation  “The leaker(s) have made it abundantly clear that these
leaks come from the investigation’s inner circle,” Keker said
in a court filing in July 2011. The leaking was similar to what
happened in a federal investigation of steroid use among Major
League Baseball players, he said.  Keker’s firm asked for a court order directing
investigators to show why they shouldn’t be held in contempt for
violating grand jury secrecy rules.  The U.S. Attorney’s office in Los Angeles announced Feb. 3,
2012, that a criminal investigation of Armstrong’s team was
closing without charges being brought.  Abrams said today that his new co-counsel was “retained
for his extraordinary skill as a trial lawyer.” The free speech
advocate said his own role in the litigation, while it will be
active, has not yet been defined.  The case is U.S. v. McGraw-Hill Cos., 13-00779, U.S.
District Court, Central District of California (Los Angeles).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in the Chicago federal courthouse at  aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  