-- Stryker, Kraft, Bridgestone: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2013-02-06T11:56:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/stryker-kraft-bridgestone-intellectual-property.html
Zimmer Holdings Inc. was told to pay
$70 million to Stryker Corp. for infringing patents related to a
device that removes damaged tissue and cleans bones during
joint-replacement surgery.  Zimmer infringed three Stryker patents, a federal jury in
Stryker’s hometown of Kalamazoo, Michigan, said yesterday. The
jurors found that a 25 percent royalty rate should apply to
covered sales of infringing Zimmer products.  The jury also found the infringement was willful, meaning
the U.S. District Judge Robert Jonker can further increase the
award.  Stryker sued Zimmer in December 2010, claiming its patents
were infringed by Zimmer’s  Pulsavac Plus  wound debridement
system.  The case is Stryker Corp. v. Zimmer Inc., 1:10-cv-01223,
U.S. District Court, Western District of Michigan.  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  ‘IPhone’ Owner in Brazil ‘Open’ to Selling Rights to Name  The owner of the iPhone trademark in Brazil,  IGB Eletronica
SA , said it would consider selling the naming rights to Apple
Inc.  “We’re open to a dialogue for anything, anytime,” Eugenio
Emilio Staub, chairman of IGB, said in an interview in Sao
Paulo, adding that the company hasn’t been contacted by Apple.
“We’re not radicals.”  IGB’s Gradiente brand filed to register the trademark in
2000 and was awarded the rights in 2008. While  Apple  has sold
its globally known mobile phone in Brazil for several years,
Gradiente started selling its iPhone in December.  Folha de S.Paulo newspaper reported yesterday that the
institute responsible for granting trademarks in Brazil
confirmed that the exclusive rights to the name for mobile
phones still belong to Gradiente, without saying where it got
the information. The decision, originally set to be published
yesterday, will be announced on Feb. 13. Staub said he hasn’t
been informed of any decisions regarding the trademark.  Marcelo Chimento, the spokesman for the institute known as
INPI, confirmed in a telephone interview that a ruling had been
made, though he declined to disclose the decision. He said it’s
“difficult” to grant approval to Apple’s request to use the
trademark.  Apple spokesman Steve Dowling declined to comment.  Google Faces New EU Antitrust Complaint From Technology Group  Google Inc.  faces another antitrust complaint from a group
of rivals as it seeks to settle the European Commission’s two-
year probe into claims its search results discriminate against
competitors.  ICOMP , a coalition including  Microsoft Corp. , said it
submitted a new dossier to the European Commission on Jan. 30,
alleging that the world’s largest search engine obtained its
dominance through unfair agreements with other companies in the
Internet and advertising industry.  “By creating an illegal network of exclusive relationships
with these important partners, Google achieved its key
objective: gaining scale for itself while preventing its rivals
from doing the same,” ICOMP said in a statement on its website.  Google last week submitted an offer to regulators to settle
the antitrust probe after Joaquin Almunia asked the Mountain
View, California-based company to January to address allegations
that the company promotes its own specialist search-services,
copies rivals’ travel and restaurant reviews, and has agreements
with websites and software developers that stifle competition in
the advertising industry. He first told Google in May that he
wanted to settle the case.  If regulators decide that the company’s concessions could
allay antitrust concerns, they can send it to rivals and
customers for comments. If this market test is successful, the
EU can make the commitments legally binding. Such a settlement
would avoid possible fines against Google.  Microsoft is among ICOMP members that already complained to
the EU about Google’s behavior. The Brussels-based commission
confirmed today it received the ICOMP complaint last week.  “We continue to work co-operatively with the commission,”
said Al Verney, a spokesman for Google in Brussels, on the new
complaint.  ICOMP members Foundem, Hot-Map.com and Streetmap.co.uk
previously asked regulators to investigate whether Google’s
search results unfairly shut out rival products.  Kraft Sues Cracker Barrel Old Country Store for Infringement  Kraft Foods Group Inc. , producer of Jello, Cheez Whiz and
Planters Peanuts, sued a Tennessee restaurant chain for
trademark infringement.  The suit is related to a licensing agreement  Cracker Barrel
Old Country Store Inc.  signed with  Smithfield Foods Inc. ’s John
Morrell Food unit in November 2012.  Kraft, based in Northfield, Illinois, objects to the
license agreement, saying that the sale of ready-to-eat food
products under the restaurant chain’s “Cracker Barrel” mark
will encroach on its business and cause customer confusion.  Kraft has used its Cracker Barrel brand for cheese since
1954, and said in its complaint that until now, the restaurant
chain has “maintained a distance from Kraft both with respect
to goods sold and channels of trade used.”  The company seeks a court declaration that any use by the
restaurant chain of the “Cracker Barrel” mark in connection
with food products sold through third-party retail food channels
would constitute trademark infringement.  Lebanon, Tennessee-based Cracker Barrel Old Country Store
is “reviewing and evaluating” the court papers and “may
comment in the future,” company spokeswoman Jeanne Ludington
said in an e-mail yesterday.  Kraft said that over the past six decades, it has sold more
than $1 billion worth of cheese products under the Cracker
Barrel mark, and that the products are sold in all 50 states.  The company did license its brand to  Frito Lay Inc.  for
cheese-flavored potato chips and pretzels. Kraft claims its
“Cracker Barrel” mark is “vital” to the company and that it
would suffer irreparable harm if the restaurant chain is able to
go ahead with the license arrangement.  Kraft contends that because the restaurant chain has never
sold any products under the “Cracker Barrel” brand anywhere
other than its combination restaurant/country store properties,
it has never established the right to the mark for use in retail
sales.  Smithfield and Morrell aren’t parties to the suit.  In addition to a court order barring the use of its
“Cracker Barrel” mark for sale of food products, Kraft also
asked for awards of litigation costs and attorney fees. Kraft
also requested a court order mandating that the restaurant chain
conduct national advertising that will prominently disavow a
connection with Kraft.  The case is Kraft Foods Group Brands LLC v. Cracker Barrel
Old Country Store Inc., 1:13-cv-00780, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of Illinois (Chicago).  Bridgestone Trademark Infringement Win Upheld by Chinese Court  Bridgestone Corp.  said in a  statement  that it has won a
trademark suit against a Chinese competitor.  The tire maker said it successfully sued  Guangzhou Bolex
Tyre Ltd.  in the Tianjin Binhai New Area People’s Court in March
2011. Tokyo-based Bridgestone had objected to Bolex’s sale of
tires under the “Gemstone” trademark, saying it was too
familiar to “Bridgestone.”  Bolex filed an appeal to the Tianjin No. 2 Intermediate
People’s Court, which upheld the lower court’s ruling,
Bridgestone said.  The Japanese tire company said Bolex was ordered to quit
making and selling Gemstone tires and to pay damages to
Bridgestone.  Bolex didn’t respond immediately to an e-mailed request for
comment.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Tetris Wins Order Barring Competitor Infringing Computer Game  Tetris Holding Co., which holds the rights to the popular
computer game Tetris, won a copyright case against a New Jersey-
based game company.  The suit was filed in federal court in Trenton, New Jersey,
in December 2009 against Xio Interactive Inc. Tetris objected to
Xio’s Mino game, which it said was “brazenly” copied by the
New Jersey company’s game.  In her Jan. 30 order, U.S. District Judge Freda L. Wolfson
barred the production, sale and licensing of Xio’s Mino. She
dismissed trade-dress infringement, and unfair competition
charges against Xio.  In May 2012 Judge Wolfson found that Xio had infringed the
Tetris copyrights. Although Xio had acknowledged copying
elements of the Tetris game, the company had argued that the
elements it copied were functional and not entitled to
protection under U.S. copyright law.  The judge disagreed. In that ruling she said Xio had
“infringed a substantial amount of the overall copyrighted
work.” Elements that Xio had argued were functional were,
instead, “aesthetic choices designers of Tetris made to show or
express game play.”  The case is Tetris Holding LLLC v. Xio Interactive
Inc., 3:09-cv-06115, U.S. District Court, District of New Jersey
(Trenton).  For more copyright news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industry Espionage  Sentence in Goodyear Trade-Secret Case Too Lenient, Court Rules  A federal appeals court affirmed the convictions of two men
accused of stealing trade secrets from Akron, Ohio’s  Goodyear
Tire & Rubber Co.  plant and said the trial court gave them too
lenient a sentence.  Sean Edward Howley and Clark Alan Roberts were convicted of
trade secret theft in federal court in Knoxville, Tennessee.
They were found to have taken trade secrets related to the
production of large steel-reinforced tires used on earthmoving
machines.  The two men worked for a company that supplied some parts
for Goodyear’s tire-assembly machine, according to court papers.
When they came to repair some Goodyear machines in May 2007,
they brought an unauthorized camera and took photos of some
proprietary technology with the aim of passing them to a Chinese
competitor of the tire company.  In December, the two were convicted of trade secret theft
and wire fraud, and each was sentenced to four months of home
confinement, 150 hours of community service and four years of
probation.  Howley and Roberts appealed. Yesterday, the appeals court
affirmed the conviction and agreed with government prosecutors
that the sentences the two received were “procedurally
unreasonable.”  The trial court had found that the government failed to
establish any real loss suffered by Goodyear. The appeals court
said this finding “seemed at odds with the defendants’
convictions for stealing property that had ‘independent economic
value.’”  In returning the case to the trial court for resentencing,
the appeals court said that while “an estimate of a substantial
loss necessarily will increase” the range of the sentence, it
wouldn’t override the court’s duty “to exercise discretion in
deciding what sentences to impose on the defendants.”  The lower-court case is U.S.A. v. Roberts, 3:08-cv-00175,
U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Tennessee (Knoxville).
The appeal is U.S.A. v. Roberts 11-6194, U.S. Court of Appeals
for the Sixth Circuit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Victoria Slind-Flor  in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 