-- Suncor Posts First Quarterly Loss in 3 1/2 Years
-- B y   J e r e m y   v a n   L o o n   a n d   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 2013-02-06T21:08:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/suncor-posts-net-loss-on-c-1-49-billion-voyageur-project-charge.html
Suncor Energy Inc. , Canada’s largest
energy company by market value, reported its first quarterly
loss in 3 1/2 years after a charge of C$1.49 billion ($1.5
billion) related to its Voyageur oil project in the province of
Alberta, which may face cancellation.  The  net loss  in the fourth quarter was C$562 million, or 37
cents a share, the biggest in at least two decades, compared
with net income of C$1.43 billion, or 91 cents, a year ago, the
Calgary-based company said yesterday in a statement that also
disclosed it faces a possible C$1.2 billion tax bill. Operating
earnings fell 30 percent to C$1 billion.  “The market has substantially changed as we’ve been
developing the Voyageur project,” said Chief Executive Officer
 Steve Williams  during a conference call today. “We’re working
diligently with joint venture partner” to determine the
project’s future. A decision will be made on the project before
the end of the first quarter, he said.  The Voyageur upgrader project, being built by Suncor and
France’s  Total SA , will process about 269,000 barrels a day of
bitumen from the Fort Hills and Joslyn mines, according to Total
E&P Canada Ltd.’s  website . The plant will use the heavy bitumen
to produce 218,000 barrels a day of synthetic crude oil.
Construction of the plant began in January 2012, according to
the website.  Suncor’s Williams has been evaluating expansion plans since
taking over from predecessor  Rick George  last year. The company
is looking to reduce costs amid an expansion, including its oil-
sands operations that may boost output to 1 million barrels a
day by 2020.  Higher Costs  The shares fell 5.2 percent to C$32.60 at the close in
Toronto.  “Financial results were short of expectations,” said
 Randy Ollenberger , an analyst at BMO Capital Markets, in a note.
Profit from the refining operations was held back by higher
costs while oil sands operations were affected by upgrader
operational constraints, he said.  The newer of two units at Suncor’s Fort McMurray upgrader
in Alberta is operating unreliably, Williams said in the
conference call. A “minor event” related to hardware at Unit 2
caused shut-downs for unplanned maintenance in December, he
said.  Voyageur Prospects  Suncor plans to delay development of its Fort Hills oil-
sands project north of Fort McMurray in Alberta and was still
evaluating costs for the planned Voyageur upgrader project,
Williams said in November.  The Voyageur project “is likely to struggle to generate
economic returns,”  George Toriola , a UBS analyst, said in a
note before the earnings.  Voyageur partners have been considering options for the
project, including the implications of cancellation or
indefinite deferral, the company said. The partners may decide
on the project by March 31, according to the statement.  Suncor in December reduced its annual capital spending plan
to C$7.3 billion for 2013 from an estimate of C$7.5 billion on
Nov. 1.  Cenovus Energy Inc. , which is also an oil-sands
developer, said on Dec. 12 that cash flow this year will be as
low as C$3.1 billion, compared with 2012 guidance of C$3.7
billion, because of lower prices.  The price of Canadian heavy crude, produced at oil-sands
operations such as Suncor’s Millennium mining site, declined 25
percent to an average of $61.32 a barrel in the fourth quarter
from a year ago, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Tax Letter  Suncor received a letter last month related to income tax
treatment of realized losses in 2007 “on the settlement of the
Buzzard derivative contracts,” the company said. The Canada
Revenue Agency may issue a notice of reassessment to increase
the amount payable by about C$1.2 billion, Suncor said, adding
that it disagrees with the agency and plans a response.  Suncor operates four refineries in North America in
Alberta, Ontario, Quebec and Colorado that produce fuels,
solvents and petrochemicals, according to the company’s website.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeremy van Loon in Calgary at 
 jvanloon@bloomberg.net ;
James Paton in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  