-- Svenska Handelsbanken Increases Dividend 10% After Profit Soars
-- B y   N i k l a s   M a g n u s s o n
-- 2013-02-06T07:34:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/svenska-handelsbanken-increases-dividend-10-after-profit-soars.html
Svenska Handelsbanken AB , Sweden’s
second-largest bank by market value, proposed paying
shareholders 10 percent more in dividends after profit last
quarter soared.  The Stockholm-based bank, which today unveiled plans to
expand further in western Europe, proposed a dividend of 10.75
kronor ($1.7) a share for 2012, compared with 9.75 kronor a year
earlier, according to a  statement  today. Profit in the three
months through December jumped 49 percent to 4.54 billion
kronor, beating the average 4.51 billion-krona estimate of 16
analysts survey by Bloomberg.  Handelsbanken and Swedish rivals Swedbank AB and SEB AB are
the three best capitalized major lenders in the European Union,
giving them scope to distribute more to shareholders at a time
when other banks in Europe are trying to preserve cash to meet
stricter capital rules.  Handelsbanken’s capital strength is also giving the lender
scope to fund an expansion in Europe. The bank announced today
the purchase of U.K. investment manager Heartwood, and named the
Netherlands as one of its home markets as part of an expansion.  “We see major opportunities for continued growth here in
the Netherlands,” Mikael Soerensen, head of the bank’s Dutch
unit, said in a statement. “The market is similar to the U.K.,
with a few large, centralised banks. We’re opening branches and
working close to the customer in a decentralised manner.”  Strictest Rules  Handelsbanken is expanding even as it faces some of
Europe’s strictest regulatory standards. Sweden’s government is
pushing through tougher capital rules than those set elsewhere.
The country’s four largest banks, including Nordea Bank AB,
already fulfill this year’s 10 percent core Tier 1 capital
requirement of risk-weighted assets, and also top a 12 percent
minimum rule that becomes effective from 2015.  Handelsbanken’s core Tier 1 ratio rose to 18.4 percent in
the fourth quarter, from 17.9 percent in the third. The Swedish
lender’s net interest income increased 2 percent to 6.48 billion
kronor in the fourth quarter, while net fee and commission
income rose 1.8 percent to 1.91 billion kronor in the period.  To contact the reporter on this story:  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  