-- Swatch to Stick With Swiss Accounting Decision Amid SMI Doubt
-- B y   D e r m o t   D o h e r t y   a n d   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 2013-02-06T10:27:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/swatch-to-stick-with-swiss-accounting-decision-amid-smi-doubt.html
Swatch Group AG  said it will stand by
its decision to switch to Swiss accounting standards even if
exchange regulators make the use of international accounting a
requirement for inclusion in the Swiss Market Index.  Comments attributed to Chief Executive Officer  Nick Hayek 
today by  Finanz & Wirtschaft  newspaper are accurate, Swatch
spokeswoman  Beatrice Howald  said by phone. The CEO was cited as
saying that the Biel, Switzerland-based watchmaker won’t change
its stance whether that means it drops out of the SMI or not.  Swatch said in October it would switch back this year to
Swiss GAAP ARR accounting from international financial reporting
standards. The company said the Swiss standard would be “more
practical and less theoretical.” Hayek said in a September
interview with Finanz & Wirtschaft that “over regulation”
under IFRS was becoming a “catastrophe.”  Alain Bichsel , a spokesman for SIX Exchange Regulation,
said the background for suggesting stricter rules for SMI-listed
companies was that the Swiss GAAP ARR accounting standard was
originally meant for small- to mid-sized companies to provide
them with an easier procedure.  “No decisions have been made yet,” Bichsel said by phone
today. “At this point, it’s simply a suggestion that can be
discussed by the public until Feb. 18. After we receive all the
opinions, we’ll see if and when any changes would take place.”  Bichsel also said Swatch is the only company that would be
affected by the new rules.  Swatch fell 1.1 percent to 535 Swiss francs at 11:08 a.m.
in Zurich trading. The stock has gained 16 percent this year.  As much as 10 percent of Swatch’s bearer shares may be held
by SMI tracker funds, “so it if falls out of the SMI there will
be some impact,” said  Jon Cox , head of Swiss research at Kepler
Capital Markets in Zurich. “What it will do is underscore the
fact that Swatch Group is very much a family-run company.”  Swatch said Feb. 4 that full-year profit rose to 1.6
billion francs, exceeding the 1.49 billion-franc average of 15
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dermot Doherty in Geneva  at 
 ddoherty9@bloomberg.net ;
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  