-- Sweden Wants Tougher European Rules to Curb Banker Bonuses
-- B y   J o h a n   C a r l s t r o m
-- 2013-02-06T13:32:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/sweden-wants-tougher-european-rules-to-curb-banker-bonuses-1-.html
Sweden will push the European Union
to enforce stricter banker pay rules amid signs the financial
industry is stepping up bonuses even as the economic crisis
continues, Financial Markets Minister  Peter Norman  said.  “I assume that the banks carefully check that things are
handled in the right way according to the existing regulatory
framework,” Norman said to reporters in Stockholm today.
“We’re pushing hard in the EU area for a tougher decision on
the bonus issue and we’ll continue to do that.”  Norman last month told Sweden’s banks they’re free to
increase dividends to shareholders after  Nordea Bank AB ,
Swedbank AB, Svenska Handelsbanken AB and SEB AB built up
capital that exceeded regulatory rules. Sweden has set a 10
percent core Tier 1 requirement of risk-weighted assets for this
year, with the minimum rising to 12 percent in 2015. The Basel
Committee on Banking Supervision targets 7 percent by 2019.  Handelsbanken, Sweden’s second-largest bank, said today it
would raise dividends by 10 percent, while Swedbank earlier
announced it will raise its payouts by 87 percent, SEB by 57
percent and Nordea by 31 percent. Handelsbanken, Swedbank and
SEB are the best capitalized major lenders in the EU, giving
them scope to pay more to shareholders at a time when other
banks in Europe are trying to preserve cash.  “It’s important that banks continue to build capital”
because the debt crisis in Europe is “far from over” Norman
said. “It’s good if they have a big buffer in relation to the
existing regulatory framework.”  Though Sweden’s banks now are in “very good shape,” the
industry should do more to reduce its use of foreign currency
borrowing, Norman said. Reliance on international funding
markets poses a “big risk” to Sweden’s banks, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Johan Carlstrom  in Stockholm at 
 jcarlstrom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  