-- U.K. Natural Gas Rises as Demand Climbs to Highest in 10 Days
-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 2013-02-06T18:13:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/u-k-natural-gas-rises-as-demand-climbs-to-highest-in-10-days.html
U.K. natural gas for  within-day 
delivery advanced as demand rose to the highest since Jan. 25.
Inter-dealer brokers agreed to start indexes for U.K. and
European gas hubs.  Within-day gas increased 0.2 percent to 67.6 pence a therm
at 6 p.m. London time, according to data from brokers. The March
contract slid 0.8 percent to 66.05 pence a therm on ICE Futures
Europe in London. That’s equivalent to $10.33 per million
British thermal units and compares with $3.45 per million Btu of
front-month U.S. gas.  Demand in the 24 hours through 6 a.m. London time tomorrow
will be 328 million cubic meters, according to data from
National Grid Plc. Withdrawals from the  Rough  gas storage site
were cut by 50 percent for one hour from 3 p.m. London time
today, Centrica Plc said on its website.  The so-called “ Tankard ” indexes will cover the National
Balancing Point in U.K., the Title Transfer Facility in
Netherlands, Netconnect Germany and Gaspool in Germany,
according to a joint statement from ICAP Plc, Marex Spectron
Group Ltd. and Tullett Prebon Plc. They will be calculated using
transaction prices for contracts for physical delivery at each
hub, the brokers said.  The U.K.’s $480 billion gas market has come under the
spotlight after a journalist at the ICIS price agency reported
deals he suspected were being done below “prevailing” levels.
Seth Freedman notified his managers of what he suspected was an
attempt to manipulate assessments on Sept. 28. ICIS reported the
case to the Office of the Gas and Electricity Markets, which
said in a Nov. 13 statement it’s “looking into the issue.” The
Financial Services Authority said Nov. 12 it had received the
information.  ‘Transparent Indexes’  “Providing robust and transparent indexes based on actual
trades will go a long way toward increasing the level of
transparency in the European natural gas market,”  Richard Frape , director of market services at Marex Spectron, said in
today’s statement. “This collaboration between the three
largest brokers in the over-the-counter market for European
natural gas is likely to provide a sound foundation for related
physical activity.”  The three brokers arranged an estimated 450 billion euros
of physically settled gas forwards last year, they said. The
group plans to publish day-ahead and month-ahead indexes for
NBP, TTF, NCG and Gaspool every day and weekend indexes on the
last working day of the week at 6 p.m. London time. They will
also release a “Tankard 15:30” index for NBP at 4 p.m. after
an assessment window from 3:25 p.m. to 3:30 p.m., according to
the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  