-- U.K. House Prices Decline as Halifax Says Prospects Uncertain
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2013-02-06T08:20:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/u-k-house-prices-decline-as-halifax-says-prospects-uncertain.html
U.K.  house prices  slipped in January,
according to Halifax, which said the outlook for the property
market remains unclear.  Home values  fell 0.2 percent from the previous month to an
average 162,932 pounds ($255,000), the mortgage unit of Lloyds
Banking Group Plc said in a statement in London today. From a
year earlier, values rose 1.1 percent.  “The outlook for the U.K. economy and house prices,
however, is more unclear than usual,” said  Martin Ellis , a
Halifax economist. “Subdued economic growth and pressures on
household finances are expected to constrain housing demand.”  While the British economy, weighed down by fiscal austerity
at home and a contraction in the euro area, faces the risk of a
triple-dip recession, there is some evidence credit conditions
are easing. Bank of England Governor  Mervyn King  said last month
that access to loans should improve further thanks to the bank’s
credit boosting plan, and data last week showed mortgage
approvals rose more than expected in December.  In the three months through January, home prices rose 1.9
percent compared with the previous three months, today’s  report
showed. From a year earlier, values were up 1.3 percent. Ellis
said the signs of improvement in the housing market seen toward
the end of last year continued in January.  Britain’s  economy shrank  0.3 percent in the final quarter
of 2012. The National Institute of Economic and Social Research
cut its 2013 growth forecast yesterday to 0.7 percent from 1.1
percent and said stagnation may persist.  Recent house-price data have been mixed. Nationwide
Building Society said last week that values rose in January,
while Hometrack said on Jan. 28 that prices stagnated after
declining for the previous six months.  The  BOE will probably  keep the size of its  bond-purchase
program  unchanged and leave its  key interest rate  at a record-
low 0.5 percent tomorrow, according to two surveys of
economists.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Svenja O’Donnell in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  