-- U.K. Stocks Rise for Second Day as ENRC, Lonmin Advance
-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 2013-02-06T16:55:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/u-k-stocks-advance-for-second-day-as-enrc-shares-climb.html
U.K. stocks  advanced for a second
day, led by a rally in mining companies, as Eurasian Natural
Resources Corp. reported higher production and Lonmin Plc
climbed amid falling platinum supplies.  ENRC gained the most in 4 1/2 months after posting iron-ore
and ferrochrome output that beat some analysts’ estimates.
Lonmin added 3 percent as Deutsche Bank AG raised its
recommendation for the world’s third-largest platinum producer.
Hargreaves Lansdown Plc surged to a record after reporting
first-half profit that exceeded analysts’ forecasts.  The  FTSE 100  Index rose 12.58 points, or 0.2 percent, to
6,295.34 at the close in London, paring an earlier rally of as
much as 0.6 percent. The gauge sank 1.6 percent on Feb. 4 after
Spanish and Italian bond yields climbed on signs of political
uncertainty in the euro area’s weakest economies.  “Markets are obviously still nervous and that is not
surprising given where we’ve come from,”  Richard Jeffrey , chief
investment officer at Cazenove Capital Management Ltd. told
Francine Lacqua on Bloomberg Television in London. “What is
driving markets at the moment are prospects of stronger growth
later on this year. That is the key.”  The FTSE All-Share Index gained 0.3 percent today, while
Ireland’s ISEQ Index slid 0.2 percent in Dublin as Elan Corp.
erased an earlier rally. The volume of shares changing hands on
FTSE 100 companies was 12 percent greater than the average of
the last 30 days, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Italian Debt  The FTSE 100 briefly declined as Italian  10-year bond
yields  climbed to as much as 4.56 percent, their highest level
since Dec. 28., as former Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi, who
is appealing a four-year sentence for tax fraud, narrowed the
gap in polls before elections on Feb. 24 and 25. Borrowing costs
in Spain and Portugal also increased today.  German Chancellor Angela Merkel meets French President
Francois Hollande in Paris today before attending tomorrow’s
European Union summit in Brussels.  The shares of BP Plc, Vodafone Group Plc and Royal Dutch
Shell Plc, three of the four largest stocks in the  FTSE 100 by
weight , fell in London trading, limiting gains.  ENRC surged 9.1 percent to 375.6 pence after the Kazakh
company said that iron-ore and ferrochrome production increased
4.4 percent and 6.8 percent, respectively, beating analyst
forecasts at brokerages including Credit Suisse Group AG.  “We think downside risks are limited with potential re-
rating catalysts in 2013,”  Liam Fitzpatrick , an analyst at
Credit Suisse wrote in a note to clients today. “Earnings
expectations are now more realistic and the shares offer
significant optionality on earnings growth.”  ENRC, Lonmin  The stock gained 4.5 percent yesterday in advance of
today’s production report. U.K. newspapers from the Guardian to
the Telegraph and the Times cited takeover speculation as a
reason for the shares’ rally.  Lonmin increased 11.1 pence to 378.9 pence as Barclays Plc
forecast platinum supplies will fall to a 13-year low as mines
in South Africa close and automobile sales climb.  Production will drop 2.7 percent to 5.68 million ounces,
the least since 2000, according to the bank, which raised its
shortage estimate for 2013 sixfold last month. Carmakers, the
biggest consumers, will increase their demand for the metal by
0.5 percent in 2013, Barclays said. Deutsche Bank upgraded
 Lonmin ’s shares to hold from sell.  Hargreaves Lansdown surged 11 percent to 817 pence, the
highest price since its initial public offering in 2007. The
U.K.’s largest retail broker reported first-half pretax profit
and revenue that beat analysts’ estimates and a 42 percent jump
in net inflows to 1.65 billion pounds ($2.6 billion). The
 company  also increased its dividend by 24 percent.  ICAP Plc rallied 5.3 percent to 356.9 pence.  Schroders, Man  Schroders Plc  climbed 2.9 percent to 1,999 pence after
Morgan Stanley upgraded the firm to overweight, the equivalent
of a buy rating. The brokerage also raised its earnings
estimates for European asset managers by 5 to 10 percent. The
analysts cited improved markets and increased flows.  Man Group Plc  rose 4.8 percent to 95.1 pence. UBS AG added
the world’s largest publicly traded hedge-fund manager to the
list of its most preferred stocks, saying the company could
announce “material strategic changes” when it releases its
full-year results on Feb. 28.  In Ireland, Elan tumbled 6.3 percent to 7.23 euros after
the drugmaker held a conference call with analysts. The shares
had surged as much as 11 percent after Biogen Idec Inc. agreed
to buy its stake in the Tysabri multiple-sclerosis drug for
$3.25 billion in cash plus future royalties.  ‘Uncertain Investors’  “Investors are uncertain what the company will do going
forward and what the return to shareholders will be,”  Olav Zilian , an analyst at Helvea SA in Geneva, said in a phone
interview. “The question is where the cash will be spent.”  Chief Executive Officer  Kelly Martin  told analysts that the
company will begin deploying cash as soon as the deal is closed
and would look at share buybacks. Chief Financial Officer  Nigel Clerkin  said the drugmaker did not plan to do anything with
Elan’s current debt level.  DCC Plc added 3.8 percent to 25.69 euros after the company
said third-quarter revenue and operating profit have increased
from a year earlier. DCC forecast that full-year operating
profit on continuing activities will increase 17.5 percent.  Smurfit Kappa Group Plc advanced 2.7 percent to 10.32 euros
after reporting full-year sales and earnings that were in line
with analysts’ estimates. Chief Financial Officer  Ian Curley 
said the company has seen stable demand since the end of the
fourth quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  