-- U.S. Halts Drilling on Gulf Wells With Flawed Bolts
-- B y   J o e   C a r r o l l ,   T i m   C a t t s   a n d   D a v i d   W e t h e
-- 2013-02-07T21:15:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/u-s-halts-drilling-on-gulf-wells-with-flawed-ge-bolts.html
Deep-water oil exploration has been
disrupted from the Gulf of Mexico to Brazil by the discovery of
faulty bolts used in safety equipment less than three years
after the worst-ever U.S. maritime crude spill.  Energy explorers such as  Chevron Corp .,  Royal Dutch Shell
Plc  and  Transocean Ltd . said they have been directed by U.S.
regulators to suspend work aboard rigs that employ  General
Electric Co . devices connecting drilling tubes to safety gear
and the seafloor. The equipment must be retrieved so defective
bolts can be replaced, the U.S. Bureau of Safety and
Environmental Enforcement said in an  alert  issued on Jan. 29.  Installing new bolts and resuming drilling may take as long
as three weeks for each rig, Credit Suisse Group AG said. For
oil companies paying upwards of $600,000 a day to rent the most-
sophisticated deep-water vessels and another $500,000 a day to
staff and supply each of them, the delays may be significant,
said  Craig Pirrong , director of the University of Houston’s
Global Energy Management Institute.  “This certainly will be costly for the industry,” Pirrong
said in a telephone interview yesterday. “This is a result of
increasing government scrutiny of deep-water activities. The
question is, will the increased costs be so onerous that they
discourage some companies” from searching the deep oceans for
crude.  Lower earnings from the Gulf may be a consequence for
service companies due to potential for longer downtime than
expected,  Bill Herbert , an analyst at Simmons & Co. in Houston,
wrote today in a note to investors.  “GE bolt revelations yesterday galvanized the market as
Macondo scar tissue sensitivity remains acute,” he wrote.
“Think of this as a modest tropical storm, albeit in January.”  Defect Discovery  The defect was discovered last month after a leak of
drilling fluid was linked to bolts that failed because of stress
corrosion, according to the Jan. 29 alert. The regulator didn’t
identify the owner of the rig or which oil company was leasing
it.  GE  declined to identify the manufacturer of the bolts.  Nations with active offshore crude exploration have been
alerted to the bolt defects, said  Sean Gannon , a spokesman for
Fairfield, Connecticut-based GE. In the Gulf of Mexico, 24 of
the 83 rigs actively drilling wells at the time of the alert
carried connectors that may have flawed bolts, the bureau said.
Of those, six rigs have so far been cleared to return to
drilling operations.  Global Regulators  “Everyone in the industry is aware of it,”  Gannon  said in
an interview yesterday. “We’ve contacted every customer, global
regulators. There’s a whole overlapping set of layers where
active drilling rigs in particular have been apprised and
they’re on top of it.”  About 30 to 40 GE customers are potentially affected,
Gannon said in an e-mail.  Anadarko Petroleum Corp. , the second-largest U.S.
independent oil and natural gas producer by market value, said
it will be swapping out bolts at its Phobos well and a
Caesar/Tonga development well.  “We will be able to replace the bolts at the next
available stopping point with minimal downtime and no impacts on
production,”  John Christiansen , a spokesman, said today in an
e-mail.  Weeks of Downtime  Deep-water oil exploration involves extending steel tubes
from floating rigs more than a mile to the seafloor and
inserting a drill bit through the tube to carve a hole in the
Earth. Five-story stacks of valves and pressure-control gear
known as blowout preventers, or BOPs, are planted atop the well
to snuff out unpredictable surges of gas and crude that pose a
danger to rig crews on the surface.  It was just such a surge that exploded onto the deck of
Transocean’s Deepwater Horizon rig in April 2010, killing 11
workers, injuring 17 and triggering an 87-day oil spill that
fouled thousands of square miles and shut much of the Gulf to
fishing and exploration for months. The $365 million rig that
sank during the disaster still rests on the seafloor.  “We expect rig downtime to be 2-3 weeks” including time
to bring equipment up, replace the bolts and return to the
seafloor,  Gregory Lewis , a New York-based analyst for  Credit
Suisse , said in a note to clients yesterday. While the
government order affects only drilling in the U.S. Gulf,
“discussions with one driller lead us to believe it will be up
to each operator whether to pull the BOP and replace the bolt
outside the U.S. Gulf,” he wrote.  Everyone ‘Aware’  Oil production from wells in federal waters of the Gulf
accounted for 20 percent of total U.S. crude output as of the
end of November, according to the Energy Information
Administration. The region produced about 7 percent of the
nation’s gas.  The defective bolts are part of a GE product known as an
H-4 Connector, an 18.75-inch (47.62 centimeters) clamp that
attaches blowout preventers to the well below it and to the
pipes that lead to the rig on the surface.  GE rose 0.2 percent to $22.48 at the close in New York.
 Transocean Ltd ., the world’s largest offshore rig operator, fell
0.5 percent to $56.23. Transocean said it doesn’t expect the
issue to have “significant impact” on its business.  Transocean has the greatest exposure, with 55 of its rigs
around the world outfitted with GE’s connectors, including a
dozen in the Gulf of Mexico,  Luke Lemoine  and Joseph Gibney,
analysts at Capital One Southcoast in New Orleans, wrote today
in a note to investors.  400 Tons  The Deepwater Horizon catastrophe prompted U.S. regulators
to increase scrutiny and testing of subsea equipment and call
for upgrades. BOPs cost about $45 million and weigh as much as
400 tons. Some rig operators have begun using multiple BOPs at a
drilling site to speed the inspection process and bolster
safety.  Statoil ASA  delayed the plugging and abandonment of its
Krakatoa well in the Gulf by one week to allow new bolts to be
installed,  Ola Morten Aanestad , a company spokesman, said in a
phone interview yesterday. Transocean owned the rig in use at
the site.  Aanestad declined to say if there was any added cost to
Statoil due to the delay. In general, downtime because of an
issue that’s a rig owner’s responsibility, such as one related
to a blowout preventer, would mean that an operator isn’t
required to pay the day rate, he said.  Shell is assessing whether the bolt corrosion matter is
applicable to two of its rigs in the Gulf and found it doesn’t
apply to a third rig, Kelly Op De Weegh, a spokeswoman for The
Hague-based company, said yesterday in an e-mail.  Global Impact  “If needed, we will take the appropriate safety steps,”
she said. “Currently, our operations have not been impacted.”  Diamond Offshore Drilling Inc . is replacing bolts for
connectors on about 30 of its blowout-preventer packages around
the world, including two in the Gulf of Mexico,  John Vecchio ,
executive vice president for the Houston-based company, said in
a phone interview yesterday.  The “vast bulk” of the bolt replacements should be done
in the next six weeks,  Gary Krenek , chief financial officer for
 Diamond Offshore  said in the interview.  Replacing all bolts on all blowout preventers would have a
“significant impact” on the offshore drilling industry,  Matt Ralls , chief executive officer of  Rowan Companies Plc , told
investors yesterday at a conference in Vail, Colorado.  Industry Backlog  “Everything these days is on significant back order,”
Ralls said. “Deliveries have been pushed out on everything and
I’m sure if they have to replace all those bolts, it will take a
while to get through the whole fleet.”  The bolts targeted by regulators are used “in every major
producing region of the world, and in every type of offshore
environment,” according to GE’s website.  Sales at GE’s oil and gas division totaled $15.2 billion
last year, more than double the amount five years earlier,
according to filings with the Securities and Exchange
Commission.  Corrosion caused by hydrogen in the liquids in the drilling
pipe occurs frequently and can be prevented if operators use the
right kind of steel in their equipment, according to Les Ply, a
retired drilling engineer who has worked for  ConocoPhillips  and
other operators.  “This concern adds to numerous transitory risks facing the
offshore drillers as the new rig delivery cycle unfolds and
investor focus shifts to delivery execution, potential cost
overruns and unplanned downtime on recently delivered units,”
James West, an analyst at Barclays Plc in New York, wrote
yesterday in a note to investors.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joe Carroll in Chicago at 
 jcarroll8@bloomberg.net ;
Tim Catts in New York at 
 tcatts1@bloomberg.net ;
David Wethe in Houston at 
 dwethe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net ;
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  