-- U.S. Treasury Sees Floating-Rate Note Sale Within Next Year
-- B y   M e e r a   L o u i s
-- 2013-02-06T17:05:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/u-s-treasury-plans-72-billion-debt-sale-sees-frn-auction.html
The U.S. Treasury Department said it
plans a floating-rate note auction within the next year and
urged Congress to reach a long-term  debt-limit  solution.  The Treasury will auction $72 billion of coupon securities
next week, comprised of $32 billion in  three-year notes  on Feb.
12; $24 billion in 10-year notes on Feb. 13; and $16 billion in
30-year bonds on Feb. 14. The Treasury has kept its quarterly
refunding auctions unchanged at $72 billion since November 2010.  “We plan to issue a final rule on floating-rate notes in
the coming months, with the first FRN auction still expected to
occur within the next year,” the Treasury said in a statement
in Washington. “Failure by Congress to pass a timely increase
in the  debt limit  when the temporary suspension expires would
require Treasury take certain extraordinary measures in order to
provide Congress more time to act and to protect the
creditworthiness of the country.”  President  Barack Obama  on Feb. 4 signed legislation
temporarily suspending the $16.4 trillion debt limit through May
18.  Debt Limit  After that date, “extraordinary measures will be available
to” Treasury, “which will allow us to continue to finance
ourselves for a period of time that’s longer than that,”
 Matthew Rutherford , Treasury’s assistant secretary for financial
markets, said in a press conference. “I don’t think I’m
prepared to give you an estimate on how long that would last.”  The statement also said the Treasury expects to gradually
increase the issuance of Treasury Inflation-Protected Securities
in 2013.  The Treasury Borrowing Advisory Committee, the bond dealers
and investors who meet quarterly with department officials,
discussed potential changes in coupon auction sizes yesterday.  “It was the consensus view of the committee that coupon
sizes should remain unchanged and that any residual funding
needs could be met with adjustments to bill issuance,”
according to minutes of the meeting released by the Treasury.  Next Offer  The floating-rate notes would be the first added U.S.
government debt security since the Treasury Inflation-Protected
Securities, known as TIPS, were introduced in 1997. With a
budget deficit of more than $1 trillion last year, the Treasury
needs to expand its base of investors, and floaters may appeal
to those who are seeking to protect themselves from a possible
increase in interest rates or faster inflation stemming from the
Federal Reserve’s unprecedented monetary stimulus.  Floating-rate notes linked to a Treasury bill rate
“isn’t really offering anything too new or different to
investors,” said  Stephen Stanley , chief economist at Pierpont
Securities LLC in Stamford, Connecticut. “I don’t really think
the convenience of not having to roll over the debt is a big
deal. So to the extent the Treasury is coalescing around using
some sort of bill rate as an index choice, I suspect that is
probably being met with some disappointment among the investor
community.”  Treasury hasn’t chosen the index to use for pricing
floating-rate notes. Possibilities include the Treasury 13-week
bill auction high rate or a Treasury general collateral
overnight repurchase agreement rate.  Not Leaning  “I’m not prepared to say we are leaning one way or the
other,” Rutherford said. “I think there are benefits to each
index, but ultimately our job is to finance the government at
the lowest cost over time.”  The group also discussed “hypothetical” debt issuance
strategies, including a 50-year bond and a 20-year bond.  “They explored different scenarios under which we could
more aggressively extend the average maturity of the debt and it
was in that context a 50-year bond was mentioned,” Rutherford
said. “However, I don’t think there was any consensus on that
and I think the committee definitely recommended that further
study would be required before anything like that would be
implemented.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Meera Louis  in Washington at 
 Mlouis17@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kevin Costelloe at 
 kcostelloe@bloomberg.net ; 