-- U.S. Cattle Feedlots May Face Losses on High Feed Costs
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   C a m p b e l l
-- 2013-02-06T22:24:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/u-s-cattle-feedlots-may-face-losses-on-high-feed-costs.html
U.S. cattle feedlots will have
“slightly negative margins” this year amid high costs for
livestock feed, said  Michael Swanson , an agricultural economist
at Wells Fargo & Co.  The U.S. herd as of Jan. 1 shrank to a 61-year low after
the most-severe drought since the 1930s, the government said
last week. Midwest corn output withered, sending the price of
the main ingredient in feed to an all-time high in August, and
cattle futures rose to a record in January.  “Economically, we use price to ration or to increase
supply,” Swanson said in an interview today after his
presentation at a cattle-industry conference in Tampa, Florida.
“Our supply is that much more constrained.”  The cost of wholesale and retail beef and cattle futures
will extend rallies to records amid constrained supplies,
Minneapolis-based Swanson said. Feedlots still have made
“aggressive” bids for animals, squeezing margins, he said.  Cattle prices rose to a record $1.35175 a pound on the
Chicago Mercantile Exchange on Jan. 11. In 2012, futures climbed
8.9 percent, the fourth straight increase.  Higher animal weights tempered the decline in the size of
the herd, supporting beef production, Swanson said. Average
steer  weights  were 1,503 pounds (682 kilograms) in the first two
days of this week, up 1 percent from a year earlier, USDA data
show.  It’s unclear whether meatpackers will allow weights to go
up, Swanson said. Heavier animals yield more fat that can’t be
sold, and high corn costs make raising beefier cattle less
attractive, he said.  If corn prices “drop like a stone,” there will be “a
swing to profitability,” Swanson said.  Wells Fargo, based in San Francisco, is the biggest U.S.
agricultural lender.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Campbell in Tampa at 
 ecampbell14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  