-- U.S. Post Office Plans to Stop Saturday Mail Deliveries
-- B y   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e
-- 2013-02-07T15:25:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/u-s-postal-service-says-it-plans-to-end-saturday-mail-service.html
The U.S. Postal Service,
demonstrating the depth of its financial abyss, set up a
possible showdown with Congress by saying it will stop mail
service on Saturdays regardless of whether lawmakers approve.  The Postal Service has called for cutting a day of delivery
since 2009, when it was coming off a $2.8 billion loss the
previous year. After waiting three years for Congress to pass
postal reform legislation, and seeing losses rise to $15.9
billion last year, Postmaster General  Patrick Donahoe  is relying
on a new interpretation of the law to declare he doesn’t need
Congress’s permission.  While three top Republicans on postal oversight panels said
they support the move, Representative  Jose Serrano , a New York
Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, said it would be
illegal.  Frank Lautenberg , a New Jersey Democrat who heads the
Senate appropriations subcommittee with jurisdiction over the
agency, said it “circumvents the will of Congress” and the
National Association of Letter Carriers union’s president said
Donahoe should resign.  “It’s an assertion of leadership on the postmaster
general’s part: ‘We’ve got to do this or we risk destroying the
enterprise,’” said  Rob Atkinson , president of the Information
Technology and Innovation Foundation.  Donahoe yesterday said the service plans to stop Saturday
mail the week of Aug. 5, to avoid running out of cash in October
as it previously projected.  Appropriations Language  He said the service decided it can ignore language, first
placed in appropriations law in 1981, requiring it to deliver
mail six days a week, because it receives its money from
Congress differently than other U.S. agencies do. The Postal
Service is supposed to support itself through postage sales and
other services while Congress provides less than 0.1 percent of
the postal budget.  The post office’s losses have widened and are estimated at
$25 million a day. Mail volume is down 26 percent from its 2006
peak as individuals and businesses have shifted toward e-mail
and e-billing. The service, which has 521,000 career employees,
exhausted its $15 billion borrowing authority last September and
has defaulted on more than $11 billion in required payments to
prefund future retirees’ health care.  The service said it would continue six-day package
delivery, deliver mail to post-office boxes and keep open retail
locations that now operate on Saturdays.  Job Cuts  The change would lead to the elimination of 22,500 full-
time equivalent jobs and reduce costs by as much as $2 billion a
year, Donahoe said. Job cuts can be made by attrition and
buyouts, he said at a news conference in Washington.  Lawmakers have called on the service to cut costs while
prohibiting an elimination of Saturday mail and pressuring the
service to drop a plan to close thousands of post offices.
Congress also hasn’t acted on the service’s pleas to relieve it
of the retiree health-care funding mandate.  Opponents of Donahoe’s move would have to show why Saturday
mail delivery is needed, said  Gene Del Polito , president of the
Association for Postal Commerce, whose members include JPMorgan
Chase & Co. and Conde Nast Inc.  “Are you really going to sit home on Saturday and wait for
a bill?”  he said in an interview. “Are you going to sit home
on a Saturday and wait for a catalog? No, you’re going to sit
home on Saturday and wait for a package.”  Large postal customers such as  EBay Inc.  and Amazon.com
Inc. won’t be hurt by the change because they mostly ship
packages, said  Gil Luria , an analyst at Wedbush Securities Inc.  Package Delivery  “I think this could actually increase the opportunity for
EBay and Amazon to expand their same-day delivery pilots,”
Luria said in an e-mail.  Magazine publishers may have to close work on magazines
earlier to get them to subscribers before the end of the week,
which could increase costs, said  Jerry Cerasale , senior vice
president of government affairs for the Direct Marketing
Association, based in New York.  “We’ve been anticipating these changes for a while and we
will make adjustments in our operations to minimize the impact
to our customers,” said  Teri Everett , a spokeswoman for Time
Inc., the largest U.S. magazine publisher. “Our all-access and
digital subscribers can already get our magazine content on
tablets as early as Thursday.”  While opponents have cited a need for prompt delivery of
mail-order prescription drugs as another reason to keep Saturday
delivery,  Jonathan C. Roberts , CVS Caremark Corp. executive vice
president, said on a conference call yesterday that the change
would have “a small impact overall, maybe an extra day.” CVS
is the largest U.S. provider of prescription drugs.  Netflix Transition  Netflix Inc. , the video delivery service with 8 million
paying U.S. subscribers, got 50 percent of its fourth-quarter
operating profit from its DVD-by-mail business while Chief
Executive Officer  Reed Hastings  tries to speed a transition to
distribution by online streaming.  This year, DVD service will account for 20 percent of
revenue, with the figure dwindling to 10 percent by 2015, said
 Michael Olson , an analyst with Piper Jaffray Cos. in
Minneapolis.  “In other words, in two years DVD by mail will be even
more of an afterthought than it has already become,” he said in
an e-mail.  Regulatory Review  The Postal Regulatory Commission, the service’s regulator,
may review the change, Chairman  Ruth Goldway  said in an
interview yesterday.  Goldway, in a 2011 interview, said the revenue lost from
cutting Saturday delivery wouldn’t be worth the savings. A
commission review that year estimated cutting Saturday delivery
would save $1.7 billion a year, not the $3.1 billion the Postal
Service estimated at the time.  Congress has limited leverage against Donahoe’s move
because the Postal Service largely funds itself,  Norman Ornstein , resident scholar at the American Enterprise Institute,
a policy research organization in Washington, said in an
interview.  Lawmakers probably won’t succeed if they ask a court to bar
it, he said.  “It sure seems to me the fiduciary duty of the Postal
Service is to protect its financial viability,” he said.  House Speaker  John Boehner  said lawmakers need to have
bipartisan conversations about the Postal Service’s future and
take action.  “Trying to act in this postal area is pretty difficult,”
the Ohio Republican told reporters yesterday. “Congress has
tied their hands every which way.”  Issa, Carper  Representative  Darrell Issa , a California Republican who
leads the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee, which
oversees post office operations, backed Donahoe’s proposal
yesterday. Issa included elimination of Saturday delivery in a
postal bill that didn’t come to a vote last year.  Issa and Oklahoma Republican Senator  Tom Coburn , his
party’s senior member on the Senate Homeland Security and
Governmental Affairs Committee, sent a letter to Congress
calling the change to five-day delivery “worthy of bipartisan
support.”  Senator  Tom Carper , a Delaware Democrat who heads the
governmental affairs committee, said he’s “disappointed” by
the Postal Service’s move. A Senate measure approved last year
would have required the service to study Saturday delivery
changes for two years.  Avoiding Insolvency  “Despite my disappointment, it’s hard to condemn the
Postmaster General for moving aggressively to do what he
believes he can and must do to keep the lights on at the Postal
Service, which may be only months away from insolvency,” Carper
said in a statement.  The degree to which lawmakers object to the Postal
Service’s move will probably depend on how many older citizens
live in their states or districts, said  John Pitney , a political
scientist and professor at Claremont McKenna College in
Claremont, California, in a telephone interview.  “For a lot of constituents, this is a big shoulder
shrug,” he said. ‘The question is: Are they going to be hearing
from older voters who look forward to the mail delivery?’’  President  Barack Obama ’s budget proposal last year called
for cutting one day of mail delivery each week. The White House
still supports changes including cutting a day of delivery that
it released in late 2011, White House spokesman  Jay Carney  said
yesterday.  Public Support  Six-day delivery hasn’t been universal around the globe.
Canada delivers five days a week, Australia delivers five days a
week in most areas and as little as twice weekly in some, and
New Zealand announced a three-day delivery schedule this year.  Americans, by an almost 4-1 majority, supported ending
Saturday mail delivery in a 2011 national poll of registered
voters by Quinnipiac University in Hamden, Connecticut.  Cutting Saturday delivery doesn’t eliminate the need for
Congress to act to cut more costs, said James O’Rourke, a
University of Notre Dame management professor.  “This is the first salvo in what will be a long and
repeated series of exchanges between the Postal Service and the
Congress,” he said in an interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angela Greiling Keane in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  