-- U.S. Feb. NAHB/First American Improving Markets Index (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r :   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 2013-02-06T15:09:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/u-s-feb-nahb-first-american-improving-markets-index-text-.html
Following is the text of the
Housing Opportunity Index from the National Association
of Home Builders.
The number of improving housing markets continued to expand for a sixth
consecutive month to a total of 259 metropolitan areas on the National
Association of Home Builders/First American Improving Markets Index (IMI)
for February, released today. This is up from 242 markets listed as improving
in January, and includes entrants from all 50 states and the District of the
Columbia.
The IMI identifies metro areas that have shown improvement from their
respective troughs in housing permits, employment and house prices for at least
six consecutive months. A total of 20 new metros were added to the list and
three were dropped from it this month. Newly added metros include such
geographically diverse locations as Rome, Ga.; Fort Wayne, Ind.; Myrtle Beach,
S.C.; Albuquerque, N.M.; and Racine, Wis.
“The fact that all 50 states now have at least one metro on the improving list
shows that the housing recovery has substantial momentum and continues to
expand from one market to the next,” said 2013 NAHB Chairman Rick Judson, a
home builder from Charlotte, N.C. “Of course, there is still much room for
improvement in metros that have not yet been listed as well as those that have,
and we know that a key factor slowing this progress is today’s overly
stringent mortgage standards that are keeping qualified buyers on the
sidelines.”
“Just over 70 percent of the 361 metros covered by the IMI are listed as
improving this month,” said NAHB Chief Economist David Crowe. “That’s a far
cry from when we initiated this index with just 12 improving metros in
September of 2011 for the purpose of highlighting places that didn’t fit the
mold of the national headlines. Today, the story is about how widespread the
recovery has become as conditions steadily improve in markets nationwide.”
“The continued expansion of improving housing markets in February should
help convince those who have been considering a home purchase that now is the
time to go forward with those plans,” said Kurt Pfotenhauer, vice chairman of
First American Title Insurance Company.
The IMI is designed to track housing markets throughout the country that are
showing signs of improving economic health. The index measures three sets of
independent monthly data to get a mark on the top improving Metropolitan
Statistical Areas. The three indicators that are analyzed are employment
growth from the Bureau of Labor Statistics, house price appreciation from
Freddie Mac and single-family housing permit growth from the U.S. Census
Bureau. NAHB uses the latest available data from these sources to generate
a list of improving markets. A metropolitan area must see improvement in all
three measures for at least six consecutive months following those measures’
respective troughs before being included on the improving markets list.
A complete list of all 259 metropolitan areas currently on the IMI, and
separate breakouts of metros newly added to or dropped from the list in
February, is available at nahb.org/imi.
Editor’s Note: Next month’s NAHB/First American Improving Markets Index
(IMI) will be not be released until March 21 due to revision delays to one
of the data sets. The IMI is usually released on the fourth business day of
each month at 10:00 a.m., ET, unless that day falls on a Friday - in which
case, the index will be released on the following business day. A full
calendar of future release dates can be found at nahb.org/imi.  Source: National Association of Home Builders
 http://www.nahb.com/facts/economics/housingopindex.html 
 