-- HudBay Sees Buyers’ Market for Mining Projects
-- B y   L i e z e l   H i l l
-- 2013-02-06T21:19:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/hudbay-sees-buyers-market-for-mining-projects.html
HudBay Minerals Inc. , the third-best-
performing Canadian mining stock this year, is willing to spend
about C$400 million ($402 million) on deals to replenish its
development pipeline.  The copper and zinc producer, which expects to more than
 quadruple  copper output by 2015, will capitalize on a “buyers’
market” for mining assets as small companies struggle to raise
funds and larger competitors consider sales, Chief Executive
Officer  David Garofalo  said yesterday. HudBay would be
comfortable spending about 20 percent of its C$1.99 billion
market value, he said.  “We’re looking at a lot of things and I’m hoping that we
can tuck something in this year,” Garofalo, 47, said in an
interview at Bloomberg’s office in Toronto, where HudBay is
based. “We’ve never been busier looking at opportunities.”  Exploration and development companies face funding
shortfalls after mining-industry equity sales dropped for a
third straight year as valuations declined and bank lending
fell. At the same time, mining companies including  BHP Billiton
Ltd.  and Rio Tinto Group, the two largest, have been looking to
sell less-profitable assets.  The majors are very interested in simplifying their balance
sheets, said  John Hughes , an analyst at Desjardins Securities
Inc. in Toronto.  ‘Material’ Assets  “Any asset that is not deemed material could be available
to a smaller company where it could be material,” Hughes, who
rates HudBay a buy, said yesterday in a phone interview. “The
process is really just getting under way.”  There are opportunities across the mining industry, from
new projects to fully developed assets, Garofalo said.  HudBay, which rose 2.3 percent to C$11.57 at the close in
Toronto, is the best-performing mining stock in the  Standard &
Poor’s/TSX Composite Index  this year after Aurizon Mines Ltd.
and Uranium One Inc., which both received takeover offers last
month. Thirteen analysts have a buy rating on HudBay and four
recommend holding the shares, according to  data  compiled by
Bloomberg.  Lundin Mining Corp. , another Canadian metals producer, also
is studying copper acquisitions and can fund a deal of as much
as $700 million, Chief Executive Officer  Paul Conibear  said
yesterday in an interview in Cape Town. Lundin has looked at
assets in Eastern Europe, he said.  HudBay acquired the Constancia project in Peru when it
bought Norsemont Mining Inc. in 2011 for C$305 million. The
mine, which is expected to cost $1.5 billion, is scheduled to
start production next year.  Copper Deficit  The Norsemont acquisition was “just under 20 percent of
our market cap and that’s a level that I’m pretty comfortable
with, give or take,” Garofalo said. “We prefer to focus on
smaller deals, we don’t want to bet the farm on any one
acquisition.”  HudBay will consider assets in “investment-grade”
countries in the Americas, including Peru, Mexico, Colombia and
Brazil, Garofalo said. There must be potential at a project to
increase the estimated size of the deposit through exploration,
he said, and it’s “unlikely” that the company will buy a
producing mine.  HudBay , which owns the 777 zinc and copper mine and
processing operations in Manitoba, is developing the Lalor mine
and a second, smaller project called Reed in the Canadian
province, in addition to Constancia. Reed will begin output this
year and Lalor’s production shaft and new concentrator is
scheduled to be completed in late 2014.  Copper Supply  “We’re looking for that next generation of growth
opportunities at HudBay beyond Lalor and Constancia,” Garofalo
said. “We have to start looking at beyond 2015, 2016.”  Global supply of copper, used in pipes and wires, will
probably remain in deficit this year and then move into surplus
during 2014 and 2015 as new projects start up, Garofalo said.
The market will probably return to deficit by 2016, as demand is
supported by consumption from China and other developing
countries and declining mine grades curtail output.  Copper for March delivery fell 0.8 percent in New York to
close at $3.7405 a pound on the Comex. Copper futures gained 6.3
percent last year.  HudBay expects to conclude agreements this year with
smelter owners to buy the metal concentrates to be produced at
Constancia, Garofalo said. Some of the groups are also
interested in becoming minority partners in the project, he
said.  ‘Due Diligence’  “There’s a couple of them that are doing due diligence on
the project and we’ll see where that goes,” Garofalo said.
“We’re not going to sell ourselves short and there’s no
pressing need to do a deal like that.”  Garofalo, the former chief financial officer at  Agnico-
Eagle Mines Ltd.  who joined HudBay in July 2010, said he’s wary
of large deals.  While big mergers and acquisitions create critical mass,
which can be attractive to investors, “I think it’s been
demonstrated that it tends to be value destructive over the long
term,” Garofalo said.  There have been three takeovers of copper companies bigger
than $1 billion in the past three years, for a total of $11.34
billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The total
jumps to $22.5 billion if First Quantum Minerals Ltd.’s hostile
bid for Inmet Mining Corp. that expires Feb. 14 and Sesa Goa
Ltd.’s pending offer for Sterlite Industries India Ltd. are
included.  HudBay abandoned a C$780.7 million agreement to buy
Toronto-based Lundin in 2009 after HudBay investors said the
proposed deal undervalued their company.  ‘Us and Lundin’  Inmet, Lundin and HudBay are the only three independent
Canadian copper miners valued at $1 billion to $5 billion after
producers including Equinox Minerals Ltd. and Quadra FNX Mining
Ltd. were acquired in 2011.  “When I started in the job in July 2010 there were about
six mid-tier companies in the North American space, and if Inmet
disappears four of them will be gone,” Garofalo said. “It will
be ironically just us and Lundin.”  He expects smaller companies, or so-called juniors, may
merge to create new midsized producers.  “I wouldn’t be surprised if you look down at the junior
producer level to see some of those junior producers trying to
consolidate to create a bit of critical mass and try to fill
that void,” Garofalo said. “I think that will happen.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liezel Hill in Toronto at 
 lhill30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  