-- Ukraine to Solve Tymoshenko Issue With EU Soon, Yanukovych Says
-- B y   B r y a n   B r a d l e y
-- 2013-02-06T14:18:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/ukraine-to-solve-tymoshenko-issue-with-eu-soon-yanukovych-says.html
President  Viktor Yanukovych  said
Ukraine will soon resolve friction with the European Union over
jailed former Prime Minister  Yulia Tymoshenko  even as
prosecutors threaten to imprison her for life for alleged
murder.  “We can’t fail to react to the EU’s constant criticism on
this question,” Yanukovych said today in Vilnius, Lithuania’s
capital, before a Feb. 25 summit in Brussels with the 27-member
bloc. “It’s taking time to ensure the solutions we adopt in the
near future are in accordance with our legal and judicial
framework.”  The EU will keep plans to bolster ties with the former
Soviet republic on hold until the government ends concerns over
selective justice with regard to Tymoshenko, Lithuanian
President  Dalia Grybauskaite  told the same news conference.  Opposition leader Tymoshenko says her 2011 conviction for
abuse of office while premier was engineered by Yanukovych to
keep her out of last October’s parliamentary elections. The EU
has postponed indefinitely the signing of an Association
Agreement with Ukraine, calling the case politically motivated.  Ukraine aims to sign that accord at an EU summit in Vilnius
in November, according to Yanukovych, who said this month’s
meeting in Brussels, an annual event that wasn’t held in 2012,
is spurring the country to address criticism of its court and
electoral systems. Failure to tackle EU concerns may cause
Ukraine to miss its chance of European integration, Grybauskaite
said.  While Tymoshenko, a leader of the Orange Revolution that
helped overturn Yanukovych’s 2004 presidential win, is already
serving a seven-year sentence, prosecutors said Jan. 18 that she
may also face charges of helping arrange the 1996 murder of
lawmaker and businessman Evhen Scherban. Her lawyer called the
accusation “absurd.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bryan Bradley in Vilnius at 
 bbradley13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  