-- UMC Sees Surprise Operating Loss After Falling Behind in Chips
-- B y   T i m   C u l p a n
-- 2013-02-06T09:55:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/umc-sees-surprise-operating-loss-after-falling-behind-in-chips.html
United Microelectronics Corp. , the
world’s second-largest contract maker of chips, unexpectedly
predicted a first-quarter operating loss of about NT$1 billion
($34 million) after failing to keep pace in mobile-phone chips.  The main chip-making operations will about break even in
the period, while the New Business segment making solar cells
and light-emitting diodes will lose NT$1 billion, Chief
Financial Officer  Liu Chitung  said today in Taipei.  Fourth-quarter  net income  also trailed  estimates  after
UMC’s later introduction of 28-nanometer production hindered
competition with  Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co.  in
making chips for mobile phones and tablets. Excess inventory at
customers also hit earnings, Hsinchu, Taiwan-based UMC said.  “You can’t afford to be a few quarters behind or you’ll
miss out on orders,” said  Randy Abrams , a Credit Suisse Group
AG analyst in Taipei, who  rates  UMC neutral. “Their 28-
nanometer is disappointing.”  Net income rose 20 percent to NT$1.17 billion in the
quarter ended December. That missed the NT$1.6 billion average
of 15 analyst  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. The company was
expected to post an operating profit of NT$1 billion in the
current quarter, based on the average of 10 estimates.  Research Spending  UMC  doesn’t expect to see a “significant” contribution
from 28-nanometer processes in the first half, Chief Executive
Officer  Yen Po-wen  told investors. Yen, who became CEO in
November, said he plans to boost research spending.  “Our 28 nanometer has not ramped as expected,” he said.  The chipmaker  fell  0.4 percent to NT$11.35 at the close of
trading in Taipei. It has  slumped  26 percent in the past year,
compared with a 36 percent surge for Hsinchu, Taiwan-based TSMC,
the world’s largest custom chipmaker.  Average prices will fall by about 6 percent this quarter,
from the prior three months, while shipments will increase by
about 6 percent,  UMC  said. Its spending on equipment will fall
to $1.5 billion this year from $1.7 billion last year. It had
predicted $2 billion for 2012.  TSMC last month forecast first-quarter sales that exceeded
analysts’ estimates. The company said demand for its 28
nanometer technology was a “resounding success.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tim Culpan  in Taipei at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at   mtighe4@bloomberg.net . 