-- Tunisia Clashes After Opposition Leader Beleid Shot Dead
-- B y   J i h e n   L a g h m a r i
-- 2013-02-06T19:19:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/tunisians-rally-after-opposition-leader-is-shot-dead.html
Tunisian police fired tear gas amid
clashes triggered by the killing of a senior opposition leader,
the first such assassination in the country since President  Zine El Abidine Ben Ali  was ousted two years ago.  Democratic Patriots leader Chukri Beleid was pronounced
dead at a local hospital after an attack outside his home early
today, Ziad Lakhdar, a senior party official, said by phone. He
was shot once in the neck and once in the head, Lakhdar said.
There has been no claim of responsibility.  Prime Minister Hamade Jbeli said he was forming a caretaker
unity government and called on Tunisians to unite and stop
strikes for the sake of the country. Earlier, protesters took to
the streets of Tunis and the city of Sidi Bouzid, where
demonstrators burned tires and threw stones at police. The
offices of the ruling moderate Islamist Ennahda party were
torched around the country, Al Arabiya television said.  The opposition said it holds the government and Interior
Ministry responsible for the killing, and called a general
strike to mark the day of Beleid’s funeral. The unrest heaps
pressure on the coalition government as it struggles to bridge
economic and political rifts and contain outbursts of violence
by Salafis, Islamists seeking a strict interpretation of Shariah
law in the traditionally secular nation.  Radical Islamists  “Those who killed Beleid wanted to silence his voice and
kill the hopes of Tunisians,” Jbeli  told Mosaique FM radio. He
said those responsible for the assassination would be found and
held responsible. In later televised comments, he said he was
forming a cross-party government ahead of elections.  Tunisia’s  benchmark Tunis SE index  tumbled 3.7 percent to 
4,573 points, the most since Ben Ali was toppled in January 2011.  The killing of Beleid, a critic of the ruling Ennahda,
radical Islamists and the former president, follows a Feb. 3
arson attack on the secular Nidaa Tounes opposition party
headquarters in Kebili province, and clashes between opposition
groups and government supporters in the cities of El Kef and
Kairouan on Feb. 1 and Feb. 2.  Beleid had received death threats, Paris-based France 24
television said, without providing details. His wife holds
Ennahda responsible, the broadcaster reported, a charge it
denied.  The government is “aware of the enormity of the challenges
encountered by our country,” the office of President  Moncef Marzouki  said in a statement. It called on Tunisians to avoid
being dragged into a cycle of violence, saying “we invite
everyone to use reason, self-restraint and prudence.”  Marzouki cut short a visit abroad to return to Tunisia, Al
Arabiya reported.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jihen Laghmari in Cairo at 
 jlaghmari@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  