-- Tunisian Opposition Party Head Assassinated
-- B y   J i h e n   L a g h m a r i
-- 2013-02-06T12:05:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/tunisian-opposition-party-head-assassinated-official-says.html
The head of Tunisia’s opposition
Democratic Patriots party was assassinated today, sending
thousands into the streets in protest after a killing that
presents the ruling coalition with one of its biggest political
tests since assuming power.  Chukri Beleid was pronounced dead at a local hospital after
the early morning attack outside his home, Ziad Lakhdar, a
senior party official, said by phone. He was shot once in the
neck and once in the head, Lakhdar said. So far there has been
no claim of responsibility for the attack, the first targeted
assassination in Tunisia since the uprising that toppled former
President  Zine El Abidine Ben Ali  on Jan. 14, 2011.  “Those who killed Beleid wanted to silence his voice and
kill the hopes of Tunisians,” Prime Minister  Hamadi Jbeli  told
the local Mosaique FM radio station. He urged people to avoid
“falling into the trap of violence and counter-violence.”  The moderate Islamist Ennahda Party has been struggling to
bridge broad economic and political rifts as it grapples with
the outburst of violence by Salafis, Islamists intent on
implementing a strict interpretation of Shariah law in the
traditionally secular nation.  Tunisia’s benchmark Tunis SE index tumbled 3.3%, the most
since the eve of Ben Ali’s departure, to 4,591.20 at 12:16 p.m.
in Tunis. The decline is the worst among more than 90 indexes
tracked by Bloomberg.  Tunis Protests  As news of Beleid’s death broke, protesters gathered on the
central Avenue Habib Bourguiba outside the Interior Ministry,
shouting “Shame, shame, Chukri died by fire.” and “where are
you government? The people want to topple the government.”  Several incidents of arson, vandalism and violence have
been reported in Tunisia in recent days, including the torching
of the secular Nidaa Tounes opposition party headquarters in
Kebili province on Feb. 3, and clashes between opposition groups
and government supporters in the cities of El Kef and Kairouan
on Feb. 1 and Feb. 2.  Beleid was a lawyer who criticized Ennahda for not doing
enough to end violence by Salafists.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jihen Laghmari in Cairo at 
 jlaghmari@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  