-- Hustler’s Flynt Weighs Sale of Beverly Hills Headquarters
-- B y   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n   a n d   N a d j a   B r a n d t
-- 2013-02-07T18:33:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/hustler-s-flynt-weighs-sale-of-beverly-hills-headquarters.html
Larry Flynt , publisher of Hustler
magazine, is considering selling his company’s 10-story
headquarters building in Beverly Hills, California, according to
his spokesman.  Three finalists have put in bids of about $85 million for
the building, said a person familiar with the offers. The
bidders are Tishman Speyer Properties LP, owner of New York’s
Rockefeller Center;  Douglas Emmett Inc. , a real estate
investment trust based in Santa Monica, California; and Los
Angeles-based REIT  Kilroy Realty Corp. , said the person, who
asked not to be identified because the bids are private.  “We’re exploring the possibility of selling the
building,” Arthur Sando, vice president of communications for
Flynt Management Group LLC, said in an e-mail yesterday. “It’s
a valuable asset, whose equity we believe could be used more
productively in other areas. At this point, however, no decision
has been made.”  Flynt’s headquarters, at the intersection of Wilshire and
La Cienega boulevards, was built in 1972 for a bank, Great
Western Savings. Tenants include the consulates of Brazil and
Ecuador, in addition to Flynt’s publishing businesses. The
black, oval-shaped tower has a bronze sculpture of actor  John Wayne  riding a horse in front and “Flynt Productions” in white
lettering on the roof. Flynt bought the 208,000-square-foot
(19,300-square-meter) property in 1984.  Tishman Properties  The offers of about $400 a square foot for the Flynt
building are comparable to prices paid for similar office
properties in the area, according to real estate research firm
Real Capital Analytics Inc. Tishman Speyer paid $422.5 million,
or $424 a square foot, in December for the Wilshire Courtyard
complex, and Northwood Properties paid $150.4 million, or $388 a
square foot, in October for the Trident Center on Olympic
Boulevard, New York-based Real Capital said.  Brad Sevier, principal with Highland Realty Capital Inc.,
who represents Flynt, declined to comment. Tom Keaney, a Tishman
spokesman with Rubenstein Communications Inc., also declined to
comment, as did Kilroy Executive Vice President  David Simon  and
Stuart McElhinney, vice president of investor relations at
Douglas Emmett.  Tishman Speyer has five Beverly Hills properties, including
UTA Plaza, headquarters of Playboy Enterprises Inc. since last
year. Douglas Emmett has a portfolio of 14.7 million square feet
in 58 office buildings, seven of which are in Beverly Hills,
including 8383 Wilshire Blvd., according to the company’s
website.  Hollywood Property  Kilroy owned about 13.2 million rentable square feet of
commercial office space as of Dec. 31, according to the
company’s year-end filing. In October, Kilroy paid $65 million
for the 96,000-square-foot former home of the CBS network’s Los
Angeles radio and television operations in Hollywood, and $73
million for a 151,000-square-foot office complex in West Los
Angeles.  Hustler’s 10th-floor offices continue to reflect the
bordello aesthetic of the 70-year-old Flynt, with thick carpets,
heavy drapes, rococo furniture and Tiffany lamps, Bloomberg
Businessweek said in June. A receptionist sits behind an over-
sized desk with fanned-out copies of Hustler, Hustler’s Taboo
and Barely Legal, the magazine said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Gittelsohn in Los Angeles at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net ;
Nadja Brandt in Los Angeles at 
 nbrandt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  