-- Vinci Targets Further Airport Stakes on Construction Unit Woes
-- B y   F r a n c o i s   d e   B e a u p u y
-- 2013-02-06T15:28:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/vinci-targets-further-airport-stakes-on-construction-unit-woes.html
Vinci SA , Europe’s biggest builder,
is looking to buy stakes in more airports to benefit from
growing travel traffic and counter a slowdown at its French
highways and eastern Europe construction units.  “We will show interest in other airports, though probably
not through a full consolidation as we must pay attention to our
debt,” Chief Executive Officer  Xavier Huillard  said at a press
conference in Paris today. “We may share the burden” with
partners, he said.  The French builder, which manages highways in its home
market, is seeking to expand in railroads and airports to
generate more predictable revenue streams, use its engineering
and renovation capabilities, and reduce dependence on its
domestic construction businesses. In December, Vinci agreed to
buy Portuguese airport operator ANA-Aeroportos de Portugal SA
for 3.1 billion euros ($4.2 billion) as travel to Latin America
and some African destinations is rising.  Vinci’s sales may stagnate this year, the company said
yesterday after the market closed. There may be lower traffic
for its French highways because of rising unemployment, while
infrastructure orders from cash-strapped European governments
and utilities may fall, it said.  The stock dropped 3.3 percent to 35.36 euros at 3:51 p.m.
in Paris trading, giving the company at market value of
20.4 billion euros, and bringing its drop to 5 percent in 12
months. The French benchmark CAC 40 Index gained 6.1 percent in
the same period.  ‘Active Phase’  Huillard today predicted there will be acquisition
opportunities as “the airport world is in a very active
phase.”  Manchester Airports Group, owner of Britain’s busiest
airport outside London, last month agreed to buy London’s
Stansted Airport for 1.5 billion pounds ($2.35 billion) in cash
to add Europe’s premiere low-cost hub.  Hochtief AG , Germany’s largest construction company, has
said it will sell its airport business, which has stakes in six
airports serving cities including Hamburg, Sydney and Budapest.  Traffic at Vinci’s airports unit climbed by 12 percent in
2012, led by an 18 percent gain at its Cambodian airports.
Traffic at Vinci’s airport in Nantes, western France, climbed by
12 percent as the company lured a new airline, Huillard said.  Vinci is also looking at Brazilian airports among others,
 Louis-Roch Burgard , CEO of Vinci Concessions, told journalists
today. The French company won’t have time to bid for them if
sales processes start too early this year because Vinci will be
dealing with the purchase of ANA, he said.  Higher Fees  The Portuguese airport operator had about 206 million euros
in earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization in 2012, according to a Vinci presentation.  The increases in airline fees paid to ANA are “set in
stone for the next 15 years in a very clear manner,” Burgard
said. Traffic at Portuguese airports has resisted “very well to
the severe crisis that has struck Portugal in the past four
years,” Huillard said.  The signing of the 50-year concession contract for ANA
should occur in coming weeks, and the closing should take place
in the middle of 2013, the Vinci CEO said. Portuguese airports
require “relatively modest investments over the next 15
years,” he added.  Vinci wouldn’t have bought ANA if it had endangered the
company’s credit rating, the CEO said.  Vinci’s net income rose 0.7 percent last year to 1.92
billion euros, the company said yesterday. Fourth-quarter sales
climbed 3.6 percent. Excluding  acquisitions  and currency swings,
revenue dropped 0.3 percent.  “The group is expecting business to be flat in 2013,
before taking ANA or any other new acquisitions into account,”
Huillard said. He said margins at Vinci’s highways may rise
“slightly” and declined to make a profitability forecast for
the whole company because there are “too many uncertainties.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Francois de Beaupuy in Paris at 
 fdebeaupuy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  