-- Virgin-Tiger Air Deal Poses Antitrust Risks, Agency Says
-- B y   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g
-- 2013-02-07T06:40:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/virgin-australia-tiger-deal-poses-risks-antitrust-agency-says.html
Virgin Australia Holdings Ltd.  may
harm competition for air travel if it’s allowed to take control
of  Tiger Airways Holdings Ltd. ’s local arm, the country’s
antitrust agency said.  The deal risks “muted competition” if Australia’s second-
largest carrier is allowed to buy third-ranked Tiger, the
Australian Competition and Consumer Commission said in a
statement. Virgin was preparing a response and “strongly
believes” the deal will increase competition, the company said
in a regulatory statement.  At stake in the Tiger deal are Virgin’s growth plans that
challenge  Qantas Airways Ltd. ’s control of about 65 percent of
Australia’s domestic aviation market. The regulator said it
would consider whether Tiger would otherwise quit the market
without a deal and plans by the proposed merged group to
increase capacity from 11 aircraft to 35 aircraft.  “A number of people in the marketplace have questioned
whether buying Tiger is a great strategy for Virgin,”  John O’Shea , an analyst at Bell Potter Securities Ltd., said by phone
from Melbourne before today’s announcement. “If they’re not
able to do this they can focus on competing in their core
activities” of serving more profitable business and non-budget
passengers, he said.  The regulator has called for further submissions and will
issue a final ruling on March 14, it said.  Singapore-based Tiger has already backed Virgin’s A$35
million ($36 million) offer for a 60 percent stake in the budget
carrier’s Australian unit.  Shares Fall  Virgin  shares  fell 3.3 percent to 43.5 Australian cents at
the close in Sydney, its biggest drop since Nov. 21. The stock
has gained 23 percent over the past year, compared with a 15
percent advance in the benchmark S&P/ASX 200 index.  The company announced the Tiger acquisition on Oct. 30,
when it made a simultaneous bid for regional carrier  Skywest
Airlines Ltd.  and the placement of a 10 percent stake with
 Singapore Airlines Ltd .  The regulator last week cleared the Skywest deal, worth
about A$96 million in cash and shares.  The Tiger acquisition would attract “much more scrutiny,”
 Matthew Spence , an analyst at Bank of America Corp.’s Merrill
Lynch, wrote in a Feb. 4 note to clients.  The regulator had previously signaled skepticism about
whether the deal could go ahead without harming competition.  “Having a third player in there like Tiger does discipline
the other two players,” Chairman  Rod Sims  said in an Oct. 30
interview. “If you have that taken out you do lose that
discipline.”  Airlines can increase profitability by making sure that
capacity increases fall short of rising passenger demand, a
process that can backfire if rivals undercut them to increase
their share of the market.  Analysts at UBS AG and Merrill Lynch expect yields, a
measure of ticket prices, to have fallen by about 1 percent in
the six months through December as Virgin, Qantas and Tiger add
capacity in a fight for market share.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  