-- Vonn Says Olympics Are Her Goal as Knee Surgery Set After Crash
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2013-02-06T16:55:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/vonn-says-olympics-are-her-goal-as-knee-surgery-set-after-crash.html
Olympic downhill champion  Lindsey Vonn  said she will do everything she can to compete in the 2014
Winter Games after tearing two knee ligaments and breaking her
leg in a crash at skiing’s world championships.  Vonn was evaluated and released yesterday from a hospital
in Schladming, Austria, where she fell during the super-G race,
the U.S. Ski Team said today in an e-mailed statement.  She plans to return to the U.S. for surgery, according to
the statement, and will rehabilitate the injury with the goal of
returning for the Olympics, which start a year from tomorrow in
Sochi, Russia.  “I am also grateful to my fans for the outpouring of
support, which has really helped me stay positive,” Vonn said
in the statement. “I can assure you that I will work as hard as
humanly possible to be ready to represent my country next year
in Sochi.”  The 28-year-old American tore the anterior cruciate and
medial collateral ligaments in her right knee and fractured a
bone just below the joint, U.S. Ski Team Medical Director Kyle
Wilkens said yesterday. She was airlifted to a local hospital.  Vonn probably will have surgery to repair just the ACL,
according to Alexis Chiang Colvin, an orthopedic surgeon
specializing in sports medicine at the Icahn School of Medicine
at Mount Sinai in New York City. She said that while Vonn could
return to skiing in as little as six months, a full ACL recovery
is critical.  “You need it for the cutting and pivoting motions,”
Colvin said in a telephone interview yesterday. “If the ACL
doesn’t heal properly, she won’t be able to return to skiing.”  Jump Landing  Yesterday’s super-G race began 3 1/2 hours late because of
fog. Vonn was in third place when she crashed while landing off
a jump halfway through her run, and tumbled as she lost her ski.  The crash ended a difficult season for Vonn. She’s the most
successful ski racer of her generation, and is three World Cup
victories shy of tying the women’s record of 62 held by
Austria’s Annemarie Moser-Proell.  A four-time World Cup overall champion and two-time Olympic
medalist, Vonn was hospitalized by an intestinal illness in
November. At the end of 2012, she took a month-long break from
skiing to recover and regain her stamina.  She’s third in this season’s World Cup overall standings,
trailing leader  Tina Maze  of Slovenia by almost 1,000 points.  -- With assistance from  Danielle Rossingh  and  Chris Elser  in
London. Editors:  Larry Siddons ,  Christopher Elser   To contact the reporter on this story:
 Eben Novy-Williams  in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  