-- VW Chairman Suggests Not Done Adding Brands After Porsche
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h   R a u w a l d
-- 2013-02-06T13:16:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/vw-chairman-suggests-not-done-adding-brands-after-porsche.html
Volkswagen AG  Chairman  Ferdinand Piech  indicated Europe’s largest automaker plans to add at least
one brand to the current lineup as part of a strategy to claim
the industry’s top spot by 2018.  Piech said in an interview with German monthly magazine
ADAC Motorwelt that his children 10 years from now will drive
one of the automaker’s “at least 13 brands.” VW currently has
12 marques. VW representatives declined to comment.  The Wolfsburg, Germany-based company for now has enough
work on its hands leading the divisions it already owns, Chief
Executive Officer  Martin Winterkorn  said in August. VW has eight
passenger car nameplates, a light commercial-vehicle unit, two
heavy-truck makers and one motorbike brand.  Piech did not say how the carmaker might add any additional
nameplates. The automaker is looking at starting a budget brand 
for emerging markets and a decision could be made on that this 
year, VW said last month at the Detroit auto show.  Volkswagen  has been on a shopping spree in recent years.
The most recent additions to its stable were German truckmaker
 MAN SE , Italian motorbike producer Ducati SpA and sports-car
brand Porsche AG. Volkswagen’s net liquidity fell 57 percent to
9.22 billion euros ($12.5 billion) at the end of the third
quarter 2012 due to spending for the acquisitions.  Piech and other Volkswagen executives have also voiced
interest in buying  Fiat SpA ’s Alfa Romeo, which Fiat CEO  Sergio Marchionne  reiterated last week isn’t for sale. Piech described
Alfa Romeo as a “cult brand” in the ADAC Motorwelt interview.  VW tried to establish deeper ties with  Suzuki Motor Corp .,
taking a 19.9 percent stake in the Japanese automaker in 2009
for about 1.7 billion euros. The talks collapsed and a lawsuit
at a London arbitration court is now pending because Suzuki
wants VW to return the shares it bought.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christoph Rauwald in Frankfurt at 
 crauwald@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  