-- Waldorf in Israel Shows Hotel Investors Defying Security Threats
-- B y   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d
-- 2013-02-06T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/waldorf-in-israel-shows-hotel-investors-defying-security-threats.html
In downtown Jerusalem, a new  hotel 
managed by Hilton International under its premiere Waldorf
Astoria brand is finishing construction just months after air
raid sirens warned residents of rocket attacks from Gaza.  The $150 million Waldorf Astoria Jerusalem, scheduled to
open in summer 2013, is among several new hotel investments
gambling that Israel’s potential as a prime tourist destination
won’t be damaged in the coming years by more outbursts of
political unrest and violence. Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  has called 2013 a year of decision over Iran’s nuclear
program, and hasn’t ruled out military action to prevent it
developing atomic weapons.  “We know the tourism market in Israel, especially in
Jerusalem, is very cyclical, is very sensitive to the security
situation,” said  Dov Meyer , chief executive officer of Toronto-
based  Terra Firma Capital Corp.  and a partner in the Waldorf
project. “Developing in Israel is a long-term project, you
don’t make decisions on a dime, and when the market is good here
it’s very, very good.”  Tourism is a key Israeli industry, contributing 7 percent
to annual gross domestic product, and directly employing about
80,000 workers, according to the Tourism Ministry. Revenue from
tourism this year totaled $4.6 billion.  With an abundance of historic and archaeological
attractions and its Mediterranean and Red Sea beaches, the
country attracts religious pilgrims to holy sites in Jerusalem
and Galilee, as well as leisure seekers to Tel Aviv and Eilat.
Yet while Israel scored a record high of 3.5 million visitors in
2012, it lagged far behind neighboring countries with comparable
attractions such as Turkey, which had an estimated 32 million
tourists, and Greece, which recorded 17 million.  Higher Costs  While that gap is in part due to Israel’s higher travel and
accommodation costs, tourism was hurt in the previous decade by
the Palestinian Second Intifada, or uprising, that was
accompanied by years of terror attacks, the conflict with
Hezbollah in Lebanon in 2006 and the first major Gaza operation
in 2008.  Last year ended on a sour note in November and December
when Israel again fought with Palestinian militants in the Gaza
Strip and rockets were fired for the first time in decades at
Tel Aviv and Jerusalem. The number of tourists visiting Israel
in those months declined 11 percent compared with the same
period in 2011.  To boost long-term investment in the tourism industry, the
Israeli government has begun giving grants to new projects, this
year totaling about 200 million shekels ($52.9 million),
allocated for the construction, renovation or expansion of 37
hotels.  Sensitive Environment  “It’s understood by the government that tourism here is
very sensitive to the political and geopolitical environment,
and if we want investors to build big hotels for hundreds of
millions of shekels, we have to help them,” said Eran Nitzan,
the ministry’s senior deputy director for infrastructure
development and investments.  In 2012, 1,750 new hotel rooms were approved for
construction, and a total of 6,000 are being built or are in the
planning stage, according to the ministry. The occupancy rate
stands at about 76 percent, relatively high by international
standards, Nitzan said. The European Union rate in 2012 was 49.2
percent, according to  Eurostat .  Those figures don’t satisfy  Ami Federman , vice chairman of
Dan Hotels Corp. and president of the Israel Hotels Association.
At the association’s annual conference in December, Federman
said the ministry’s hotel development plans fall far short of
accommodating the five million visitors targeted for 2015.  Lost Revenue  The hoteliers called on Netanyahu to immediately invest
$100 million in a marketing campaign to rehabilitate Israel’s
image following the Gaza conflict as an attractive tourist
destination. “It is about time to place tourism in a position
in our national priorities where it can realize its fantastic
economic and social potential,” said Federman.  The ministry is giving preference to hotel grants for areas
with unrealized potential, especially Jerusalem and Tiberius,
where projects can get a fixed grant as much as 28 percent of
investment compared with 20 percent elsewhere. The single
biggest award in 2012, 50 million shekels, went to a 250-room
hotel planned for Jerusalem’s German Colony neighborhood by
Israel’s  Isrotel Ltd.  Other grants went to projects in Nazareth,
Ashkelon, Acre, Haifa and Nahariya.  Waldorf Astoria  The Waldorf Astoria Jerusalem, a hotel-apartment complex
which got under way before the grant program began, marks a
return to the city for Hilton, which manages the Waldorf brand
and hasn’t had a hotel there for more than a decade. The prime
investor is Canada’s  Paul Reichmann , who led global developer
Olympia & York when it built London’s Canary Wharf project.  The Waldorf also marks the revival of a historic building
that began life in 1929 as the Palace Hotel, originally
constructed under the supervision of Jerusalem’s Supreme Muslim
Council, and used in recent decades to house the Industry and
Trade Ministry. The building’s blend of Roman, Moorish and Arab
architecture has been restored, down to the plaque with stone-
engraved Koranic quotations adorning the roof-top facade.  Existing hotels have also attracted new buyers, including
Jerusalem’s former 185-room Leonardo Inn, purchased last summer
by Australian investor  Kevin Bermeister  and partners for $17.5
million, and reopened as the Jerusalem Gardens Hotel and Spa.  “Hotel investment in Jerusalem has lagged behind the
growth in tourism locally and globally, largely because the
impact of the Second Intifada,” says Bermeister, who was a
founding investor in Skype Inc. “Most of the other wars had
relatively short recovery periods for tourism, and they’ve
become increasingly shorter over time, so that’s provided a more
attractive environment for investment.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Calev Ben-David in Jerusalem at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  