-- Water Leaks Strain Commodity Value as Web Campaign Begins
-- B y   R a n d a l l   H a c k l e y
-- 2013-02-06T16:45:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/water-leaks-show-commodity-s-value-as-web-campaign-begins.html
Leaks and investment delays threaten
the U.S. water system, exposing the value of a commodity that in
short supply disrupts businesses, according to a web campaign.  The  “Water is Your Business”  site went live today,
sponsored by the National Association of Water Companies and
U.S. Chamber of Commerce. It urges companies to stop neglecting
infrastructure upgrades as water use for energy and electricity
production doubles worldwide in the next 25 years, according to
International Atomic Energy Agency forecasts.  “The water leaked across the nation every day could supply
California,” the campaign says, describing a supply network
that’s 30 times the length of the U.S. national highway system
as “outdated, overused and underserviced.”  In the U.S., most of the water infrastructure dates from
the first half of the 20th century. Some pipes go back to Civil
War days. The average age of a broken water main is 47 years,
with almost a quarter of all water mains more than 50 years old,
according to the website.  Maintenance delays mean 45 percent of all pipes were
described as in “poor shape” in 2010, up from 10 percent in
1980, according to the campaign, which said the country has
“outgrown” the system.  Water Index  Last month,  International Business Machines Corp.  and New
York-based Waterfund LLC agreed to develop a water cost index to
help businesses calculate the unsubsidized expense of freshwater
production using IBM Research analytics.  Water use has increased at more than twice the rate of
population growth in the past century as urban expansion and
changing weather put pressure on supplies. About 41 percent of
the Earth’s population now live in water-stressed areas,
according to the United Nations.  The UN defines a water-scarce region as one where
freshwater withdrawals exceed 40 percent of renewable supplies.
Agriculture accounts for 70 percent of the freshwater
consumption worldwide.  Water demand is inextricably linked to the global increase
in food and energy consumption, according to food and drink
manufacturer Nestle SA, which owns more than 60 water brands.  “Water needs to move up governments’ priority lists,”
Nestle Chairman  Peter Brabeck-Letmathe  wrote last month in his
 Water Challenge  blog. “Governments should aim to build
comprehensive water-resource management strategies that also
take into account the water-food-energy nexus.”  Texas Bank  Lawmakers in Texas, which is enduring a drought that has
cost farmers billions of dollars and forced communities to limit
water use, are considering a water infrastructure bank to help
fund projects.  SunPower Corp. , majority-owned by Total SA, last month
began operating a water-treatment plant powered by almost 23,000
solar panels in Phoenix to cut electrical needs and help save
about $4 million in a city that gets 300 days of sun a year.  A state away, “population growth is straining California’s
water infrastructure,” according to the campaign website. “The
story is the same all over the country. Investment isn’t keeping
pace.”  Waiting means higher repair and replacement costs, more
flooding, loss of service and business disruptions, with
billions of dollars wasted from water and energy losses, the
site shows. It’s even caused sinkholes in such places as
Pennsylvania’s capital, according to NAWC Executive Director
Michael Deane and the Chamber of Commerce, the world’s largest
business organization.  Failing System  The warning isn’t new: The American Society of Civil
Engineers’ report card from 2009 gave the U.S.’s  drinking-water 
infrastructure an almost-failing D- grade. New grades are due
next month, the Chamber of Commerce said in an interview.  Xylem Inc ., whose pumps helped clear Hurricane Sandy
floodwaters from New York tunnels, published a nationwide survey
in November on the value of water, which showed heightened
concern among Americans that water systems were inadequate.  Almost 90 percent of those polled said U.S. water pipes and
networks need modernization, compared with 80 percent two years
earlier. The survey showed more Americans are willing to pay for
system upgrades even with rate increases. The majority thought
they used 50 gallons (189 liters) of water a day at most, when
it’s almost double that.  Triple Bills  Leaking pipes lose about 7 billion gallons of clean
drinking water a day, according to the ASCE. The U.S. needs as
much as $1 trillion to pay for water and wastewater
infrastructure upgrades in the next 20 years, which may triple
some household bills, according to the Environmental Protection
Agency.  Grundfos, the biggest maker of circulator pumps, has
suggested water companies dealing with growing repair needs and
shortages craft a campaign similar to the dairy industry’s  “Got
Milk?”  advertisements.  The campaign could be called “Got Water?”, Jes Munk
Hansen, president of Grundfos North America, said at an American
Water Intelligence conference last November in Chicago.  Business leaders are starting to understand the need for
water investment and water management, Nestle’s Brabeck and
Anders Berntell, executive director of the 2030 Water Resources
Group, said last month:  “CEOs of many companies have begun to realize that water
underpins all economic activities, including their own.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Randall Hackley in London at 
 rhackley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  