-- Weill, Don McLean, Debra Lee, Rocco Landesman: D.C. Scene
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   G r e e n
-- 2013-02-06T16:30:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/weill-don-mclean-debra-lee-rocco-landesman-d-c-scene.html
Congresswoman  Debbie Wasserman Schultz  said her 9-year-old ballerina daughter lured the Florida
Democrat to the world of dance.  That’s partly why she found herself at last night’s  Alvin
Ailey American Dance Theater  Opening Night Gala Benefit at the
Kennedy Center.  Tonya Williams, director of legislative affairs in the
office of the vice president, got even more involved, as the
dancers shanghaied her and other audience members to join them
onstage for an improvisational number known as “Minus 16.”  At dinner afterwards Wasserman Schultz sat with Citigroup
Inc. Chairman Emeritus  Sanford Weill .  A few tables away she could see Congresswoman  Terri Sewell ,
Alabama Democrat, with whom she shares a Capitol Hill townhouse
-- sometimes referred to as the “sorority house.” Their other
housemate is Congresswoman Carolyn Maloney, the New York
Democrat.  Also present were presidential adviser  Valerie Jarrett ;
freshman lawmaker  Marc Veasey , a Texas Democrat; lobbyist
 Heather Podesta ; Joyce Brayboy from  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. ;
BET Networks Chairman Debra Lee; and  Robert Lynch , president of
Americans for the Arts.  Lyndon Boozer from  AT&T Inc.  and Gina Adams of FedEx Corp.
were two of the event’s chairmen.  Long Kilt  Renaldo Gardner, a dancer with the New York-based company,
wore a floor-length kilt with an orange-and-green tartan to the
dinner.  “I just like to be different,” he said. After the three-
course meal, guests danced to  Stevie Wonder  and  Tina Turner 
tunes performed by a live band.  The event raised about $700,000, which is primarily used as
scholarship money for local students in Washington. The Alvin
Ailey American Dance Theater will hold auditions for the Alvin
Ailey School on Feb. 10.  Southern Co. and the Weill Family Foundation were among the
evening’s leading sponsors.  ‘American Pie’  Musician Don McLean pursues a quiet life in Maine with his
family these days, but the world invades now and then.  Last night the  Motion Picture Association of America  held a
reception for McLean in honor of the new documentary about his
career titled “American Troubadour.”  One guest was Republican Senator  Susan Collins  of Maine who
had the iconic “American Pie” played at her wedding rehearsal
dinner last year.  Also attending were  William Cohen , the former secretary of
defense and now the chairman and chief executive officer of the
Cohen Group, and Pine Creek Partners Managing Director  Rick Rickertsen , a fan since his youth, who asked McLean to entertain
his guests at his annual Christmas party.  McLean lamented the state of music these days. “Spectacle
rock,” he called it. “The music is secondary to the
spectacle.”  Thornton Wilder  Senator  Tom Udall , New Mexico Democrat, presented former
National Endowment for the Arts chairman  Rocco Landesman  with
the Thornton Wilder Prize at Ford’s Theatre Monday night for his
lifetime commitment to drama and letters.  Prior to joining the NEA, Landesman was a successful
private investor and Broadway producer whose credits include
“Angels in America.”  During his acceptance, Landesman mentioned that he and
Udall’s wife,  Jill Cooper , lived on the same street and went to
the same school as youngsters in Missouri.  The evening marked the 75th anniversary of the Broadway
premiere of Wilder’s “Our Town.” Ford’s Theatre is staging the
Pulitzer Prize-winning play in honor of the milestone.  Nephew Tappan Wilder and other enthusiasts read from the
writer’s interviews and letters before convening at Bistro D’oc
for a reception. There the attendees included Linda Stern, widow
of musician Isaac Stern, and Landesman’s wife, Debby, a
corporate philanthropic adviser.  ( Stephanie Green  is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include Rich Jaroslovsky on  technology ,
Ryan Sutton on  dining .  To contact the writer on this story:
Stephanie Green in Washington at  sgreen57@bloomberg.net 
or on Twitter @stephlgreen.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 