-- WestJet Seeks Cost Savings Amid Air Canada Challenge
-- B y   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o
-- 2013-02-06T21:14:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/westjet-beats-earnings-estimates-as-planes-fly-fuller.html
WestJet Airlines Ltd. , the discount
carrier stepping up its challenge to Air Canada, said it plans
to cut costs by C$100 million ($100 million) over three years
with steps such as boosting the flying done by each plane.  The program won’t result in any layoffs, and any changes to
WestJet’s employment levels would be voluntary, Chief Executive
Officer  Gregg Saretsky  said today on a conference call. Managers
recently met with employees of the Calgary-based airline to
brief them on the plan, he said.  WestJet estimates its costs are 10 percent to 15 percent
lower than those of  Air Canada , and it wants to widen the gap,
Saretsky said. The airline’s Encore regional unit will debut in
mid-2013 to compete with Air Canada and seek part of a C$2
billion market for short-haul Canadian and trans-border flights.  “As an airline ages, there are a lot of legacy costs that
start to creep into the business model,” Saretsky said. “We’re
just taking a bit of a pause and saying: ’Let’s take a long look
at all the costs that have come into the model and see how much
of that we can actually work in the opposite direction.’”  Potential changes may include increases in so-called fleet
utilization, or the amount of time each plane flies. Other
shifts may be to replace contractors with full-time employees at
lower rates of pay, and increased automation to replace manual
processes, Saretsky said.  Call-center employees are now being assigned to work from
home, which will free up square footage and eliminate the need
to construct an office building, he said.  ‘Ripping Out’  WestJet wants to be “smart and pensive about where this
money comes from, as opposed to ripping things out for the sake
of getting that benefit in 2013,” Saretsky said. He said he
doesn’t expect much savings this year. Capital expenditures will
probably be  C$430 million to C$450 million , WestJet said.  WestJet fell 0.9 percent to C$22.34 at the close of trading
in Toronto. The shares have  gained  67 percent in the past 12
months, outpacing a 1.6 percent advance by the benchmark S&P
Toronto Stock Exchange Composite Index.  Saretsky commented today after WestJet posted higher
fourth-quarter earnings than analysts estimated and boosted its
dividend 25 percent after operating fuller flights.  Profit of 46 cents a share compared with an  average
projection  of 43 cents from analysts in a Bloomberg survey. Net
income at Canada’s second-largest carrier rose 71 percent to
C$60.9 million ($61 million), from C$35.6 million, or 26 cents a
share, a year earlier, the company said.  ‘Good Indications’  WestJet declared a  dividend  of 10 cents a share, up from 8
cents, payable on March 28 to shareholders of record as of March
13. The company said it plans to buy back as much as 5 percent
of its outstanding shares.  The dividend increase and announcement that WestJet will
continue a share-buyback program “are good indications that
management is confident in their ability to generate strong free
cash flow growth,”  Walter Spracklin , an analyst at RBC Capital
Markets in Toronto, said in a note to clients. He  rates  the
shares outperform.  WestJet agreed last year to purchase 20 Bombardier Inc.
Q400 aircraft for its regional unit through 2016, with options
for 25 more. Encore plans to take delivery of seven turboprops
each this year and next, Chief Financial Officer  Vito Culmone 
said.  Full Flights  The airline said today it signed an C$820 million
commitment with Export Development Canada, which will provide
financing support for the  Bombardier  planes. The company plans
to announce an initial schedule for Encore on Feb. 11.  WestJet is in discussions with  Boeing Co.  about the 737 Max
and “how it might fit in our fleet, and whether or not we want
to go forward with an order for Max, but there’s nothing
definitive to report right now,” Saretsky said.  In the fourth quarter, WestJet filled 81.9 percent of its
seats, an improvement of 3.2 percentage points from a year
earlier. Through January, the carrier had posted occupancy
records for each of the past seven months.  To boost revenue, WestJet is preparing to introduce so-
called premium economy seating aimed at business travelers who
want extra legroom. The reconfiguration, which involves the
installation of four rows of seats with 36 inches of legroom,
will be fully completed by the end of the first quarter, WestJet
said in a regulatory  filing  today.  The airline plans to introduce three bundles with varying
fares and additional services, starting in the first half of
this year, to take advantage of the new seating. The bundles
will generate additional revenue of C$50 million to C$80 million
annually, the company said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frederic Tomesco in Montreal at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  