-- White House Woos Business and Labor on Immigration Revamp
-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r   a n d   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 2013-02-06T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/white-house-woos-business-and-labor-on-immigration-revamp.html
Corporate leaders urged President
 Barack Obama  to swiftly overhaul U.S. immigration laws,
positioning the business community for a confrontation with
House Republicans seeking to slow legislative action.  In a meeting yesterday with the president, a dozen chief
executive officers stressed the economic importance of passing a
comprehensive bill that includes more visas for highly-skilled
and seasonal immigrant workers.  “The business community is not necessarily monolithic,”
said  Arne Sorenson , chief executive officer of Marriott
International Inc., the biggest U.S. hotel chain. “But I think
there are many aspects of the business community where we see
immigration reform as being positive for our economy.”  The meeting, attended by executives including Goldman Sachs
Group Inc.’s  Lloyd Blankfein  and Yahoo! Inc.’s  Marissa Mayer , is
part of a White House effort to enlist the business community as
an ally in its fight to get an immigration measure through
Congress by mid-year and to isolate congressional Republicans
who oppose pieces of the legislation.  Administration officials say public backing from business
leaders for Obama’s immigration proposals will give the
president leverage in negotiations with lawmakers.  Obama also is pressing to unify business and labor on an
issue that has split them before.  “We are all on the same page,” said  Richard Trumka ,
president of the AFL-CIO, the nation’s largest labor federation.  Bridging Differences  Trumka and other labor leaders are working with the U.S.
Chamber of Commerce to find common ground. Differences between
unions and industry over a guest-worker program for future
immigrants helped kill an attempt to revamp the law in 2007.  In a sign of the hurdles still ahead, Representative  Bob Goodlatte , chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, warned
yesterday against a “rush to judgment” on the issue, saying
that there are questions about how a legalization program would
work.  “Are there options we should consider between the extremes
of mass deportation and the path to citizenship for those not
lawfully present in the United States?” asked Goodlatte, a
Virginia Republican.  His question underscored the philosophical differences
between the parties on immigration, particularly when it comes
to granting citizenship to those in the country illegally.  Security Link  Legislative principles released by a group of four
Democratic and four Republican senators last month attempted to
bridge the divide by making the legalization process for
undocumented workers contingent on tighter border security and
better tracking of people in the U.S. on visas. A commission of
governors, community members and attorneys general from
Southwest border states would make a recommendation when the
security measures are completed.  Proposals released by the White House don’t link
citizenship to border security. Administration officials have
said they are concerned that a longer process may make it
effectively impossible for those immigrants to get legal status.  In his morning meeting, Obama told advocates he wouldn’t
accept a “contingent, conditional” path to citizenship, said
 Marshall Fitz , of the Center for American Progress, a Democratic
policy research group in Washington.  Business leaders, too, backed creating a path to
citizenship for undocumented workers, saying that it would
improve U.S. economic competitiveness and increase the ranks of
workers.  U.S. Competitiveness  “I couldn’t think of a better topic that will galvanize a
lot of the resources necessary in the country to improve the
competitive effectiveness of U.S. business,” Motorola Solutions
Inc. Chief Executive Officer  Greg Brown  said as he headed into
the meeting.  The intensified outreach to the business community repeats
a strategy the administration used during the fiscal debate at
the end of last year. White House officials including the
president held dozens of meetings with top executives seeking
their support for a bipartisan deal to reduce the budget
deficit.  Some of those same chief executives attended yesterday’s
meeting, including  Joe Echevarria  of Deloitte LLP and  Muhtar Kent  of Coca-Cola Co. They were joined by Qualcomm Inc.’s  Paul Jacobs , Alcoa Inc.’s  Klaus Kleinfeld , Cargill Corp.’s  Greg Page ,
Impremedia LLC’s  Monica Lozano , and  Jeff Smisek  of United
Continental Holdings Inc.  The November presidential election emboldened immigrant
advocacy groups to push for granting citizenship for
undocumented U.S. residents after Hispanics gave Obama more than
70 percent of their votes, helping him win a second term.  Political Strength  “We turned a corner after the November elections and we
are building from a position of strength,” said  Janet Murguia ,
president of the National Council of La Raza.  The growing clout of Hispanic voters has prompted some
Republican leaders to soften their stance on immigration issues.  In a speech yesterday, House Majority Leader  Eric Cantor , a
Virginia Republican, praised congressional efforts to draft
immigration legislation, singling out proposals to grant a
separate path to citizenship for immigrants brought to the
country illegally as children.  “One of the great founding principles of our country was
that children would not be punished for the mistakes of their
parents,” Cantor said, in remarks at the American Enterprise
Institute, a Washington group that favors smaller government.  Senator  Marco Rubio , a Florida Republican who helped write
the blueprint issued by lawmakers, said yesterday that
insistence on equal treatment for same-sex couples risks
scuttling the effort to revamp immigration law if it becomes a
central issue in the debate.  “If that issue becomes a central issue in the debate, it’s
just going to make it harder to get done,” Rubio said at an
event in Washington sponsored by BuzzFeed Inc. “There’s going
to be a lot of strong feelings about it on both sides.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lisa Lerer in Washington at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net ;
James Rowley in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  