-- Whitehaven Falls After Maules Creek Permit Delay: Sydney Mover
-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n   a n d   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2013-02-07T06:14:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/whitehaven-falls-after-maules-creek-permit-delay-sydney-mover.html
Whitehaven Coal Ltd. , Australia’s
second-biggest independent producer, fell to a two-month low
after the federal government delayed a decision to  grant 
environmental approval for the development of two mines.  Whitehaven  fell 5.3 percent to A$3.02, its lowest since
Dec. 7, at the close of trading in Sydney. The stock has
declined 44 percent over the past year.  A decision to grant approval for the A$766 million ($791
million) Maules Creek project in New South Wales state was
delayed by three months to April 30, the government said
yesterday. The project, in the Gunnedah Basin agricultural
region, is being opposed by environmental and farming groups.  “Whitehaven is not aware of any substantive issues with
the environmental evaluations or process which has been
followed,”  Tony Haggarty , managing director of the Sydney-based
company, said today in a statement. “We are extremely
disappointed at this further delay to this important project.”  The government also delayed approval until April 30 for
Whitehaven’s  Boggabri  coal project, also in the Gunnedah Basin.  The environment department delayed the decision “to seek
clarification on potential impacts to matters of national
environmental significance,” the department said in an e-mail.
Given the close proximity of the projects “it is appropriate
that their respective impacts are assessed in parallel, to look
at their cumulative impacts as a whole, and to ensure they
deliver long-term environmental sustainability for the region.”  Whitehaven plans to produce first coal at Maules Creek in
mid-2014, the company said last month. It last week flagged that
first-half  earnings  will drop on lower prices and the high
Australian dollar.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Scott in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  