-- Twitter Acquires Bluefin Labs to Add Social TV Tools
-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 2013-02-06T01:01:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/twitter-acquires-bluefin-labs-to-add-social-tv-tools.html
Twitter Inc., the microblogging
service that features 140-character status updates, is paying
about $100 million to  acquire  startup Bluefin Labs, according to
a person familiar with the matter.  San Francisco-based Twitter announced the deal today in a
blog posting. The person asked not to be identified because the
price isn’t being disclosed.  Bluefin Labs , based in Cambridge,
Massachusetts, makes software that lets advertisers, agencies
and networks monitor and analyze social-media comments about TV
shows and commercials.  Twitter, which plans to boost sales to a projected $1
billion in 2014, is building relationships in TV, where the bulk
of advertising budgets are spent. Bluefin’s technology may help
Twitter expand a partnership formed in December with television-
ratings provider Nielsen Holdings NV to measure the amount of
Web discussion generated by TV programs.  “As millions of people around the world experienced during
Sunday’s Super Bowl broadcast, Twitter is an amazing complement
to live television viewing,”  Ali Rowghani , Twitter’s chief
operating officer, wrote in a blog posting about the Bluefin
purchase today. “We look forward to working with Bluefin and
our partners in the television industry to make the experience
of Twitter and television even better.”  Jim Prosser , a spokesman for Twitter, declined to comment
on the terms of the deal.  TV Link  In June, a third of active Twitter users posted on the site
about something they watched on TV, up from 26 percent of
Twitter users at the beginning of the year, Nielsen said in a
 report  on social media last year. Adults aged 35 to 44 are the
most likely to discuss TV shows on social sites, the report
found.  Twitter bolstered its entertainment ties in November by
naming  Peter Chernin , a former News Corp. president, to its
board. The appointment was intended to help the company navigate
the media industry, Twitter Chief Executive Officer  Dick Costolo 
said at the time.  Technology blog Business Insider  reported  earlier that the
price for Bluefin Labs was probably $50 million to $100 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Douglas MacMillan in San Francisco at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  