-- WMS Industries, Scientific Games Sued Over $1.5 Bln Offer
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 2013-02-06T16:52:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/wms-industries-scientific-games-sued-over-1-5-bln-offer.html
WMS Industries Inc. , the maker of
gaming and video-lottery machines, was sued by a shareholder
over claims the company’s proposed $1.5 billion acquisition by
 Scientific Games Corp.  is unfair.  The proposed deal is the product of an “opportunistic
process” in which WMS directors “unreasonably” agreed to an
unfair price, lawyers for WMS investor  David Shaev  said in a
complaint made public today in  Delaware Chancery Court . The
complaint, which seeks to bar the transaction, also names
Scientific Games as a defendant.  “There is no indication that the purchase price adequately
reflects the many synergies that would result from the merger of
the two companies,” lawyers for Shaev said in the complaint.
“The structure of the proposed acquisition does not provide for
adequate value for the company.”  Scientific Games, which is 38 percent owned by billionaire
 Ron Perelman , announced Jan. 31 that it would pay $26 a share to
acquire WMS to expand its offerings for casinos. The deal is the
biggest announced in leisure and recreational products in almost
two years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
combination would create a global supplier of lottery equipment
and slot machines.  Shaev accused WMS directors of failing to reject the
inadequate offer and failing to seek other potential bidders for
the company. Those actions artificially depressed the value of
WMS stock, according to the complaint.  Shaev is seeking to represent all WMS shareholders in his
bid for a court order blocking the deal.  Aimee Remey , a Scientific Games spokeswoman, and  Mollie Cole , a spokeswoman for WMS, didn’t immediately return phone and
e-mail messages seeking comment on the complaint.  The case is Shaev v. WMS Industries Inc., CA8279, Delaware
Chancery Court (Wilmington.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  