-- Oil Steady After Cushing Supplies Drop to One-Month Low
-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2013-02-06T20:21:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/wti-crude-slips-discount-to-brent-widens.html
West Texas Intermediate oil was
little changed as an Energy Information Administration report
showed supplies dropped at Cushing, Oklahoma, the biggest U.S.
storage hub and delivery point for the New York-traded crude.  Futures slipped 2 cents after  stockpiles  declined 315,000
barrels last week at Cushing to 51.4 million, a one-month low.
Nationwide inventories gained 2.62 million barrels to 371.7
million. WTI’s  discount  to Brent oil widened to the most this
year on concern that flow limits on the Seaway pipeline would
bolster a glut at Cushing.  “It looks like a lot of buyers are using railcars to avoid
the bottleneck at Cushing,” said  Richard Soultanian , co-
president of NUS Consulting Group, a Park Ridge, New Jersey-
based energy procurement adviser. “Anyone that can avoid
Cushing is going to.”  Crude oil for March delivery settled at $96.62 a barrel on
the New York Mercantile Exchange. It touched a two-week low of
$95.04 in intraday trading. Volume was 57 percent above the 100-
day average at 3:20 p.m. Futures are up 5.2 percent this year.  Brent oil for March settlement climbed 21 cents to end the
session at $116.73 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe exchange. Volume was 28 percent above the 100-day
average.  The European benchmark grade traded at as much as a $20.11-
a-barrel premium to WTI, the widest spread since Dec. 24, based
on settlement prices. The gap has grown since  Enterprise
Products Partners LP  said Jan. 31 that capacity on the Seaway
pipeline to the Gulf Coast from Cushing will be limited until
late 2013.  Record Inventories  Increasing output in the U.S. and Canada and the lack of
pipeline capacity bolstered stockpiles at Cushing to a record
51.9 million barrels in the week ended Jan. 11.  “U.S. inventories are extremely robust,” said  Adam Wise ,
who helps manage a $6 billion oil and gas bond portfolio as a
managing director at Manulife Asset Management in Boston.  PBF Energy Inc . said on Feb. 4 that it expects to receive
its first rail shipment from North Dakota at its Delaware
refinery. PBF finished construction on the second train-
unloading terminal at its 182,800-barrel-a-day Delaware City
refinery, the company said in a statement. PBF plans to unload
its first unit train of Bakken oil this week, with 17 more
scheduled to arrive in the next two weeks.  The oil-supply gain left U.S. stockpiles at the highest
level since the week ended Dec. 7, the report from the EIA, the
Energy Department’s statistical arm, showed.  Crude production 
advanced 4,000 barrels a day to 7 million in the week ended Feb.
1.  Imports  dropped 499,000 barrels a day to 7.57 million last
week, the second-lowest level in the past year.  WTI Discount  “WTI should continue to trade at a discount to Brent for a
while because we’re producing a heck of a lot more oil here,
global demand is rising and we’re using less in the U.S.,”
Soultanian said.  TransCanada Corp . Chief Executive Officer  Russ Girling 
expects approval “very soon” for the $5.3 billion portion of
the Keystone XL oil pipeline that crosses the U.S.-Canada
border. Keystone XL would deliver 830,000 barrels a day from
Canada and North Dakota shale fields to the Gulf Coast.  Magellan Midstream Partners LP  expects its reversed
Longhorn pipeline to begin moving 75,000 barrels of crude a day
in the first quarter or early in the second quarter to Houston-
area refiners from western Texas, the company said Feb. 4.
That’s scheduled to increase to 225,000 by mid-2013.  “The spread between WTI and Brent should widen until we
get additional pipeline capacity later this year,” Wise said.
“Pipelines won’t have a material impact on the supply situation
for a while. The Seaway pipeline won’t be up to full capacity
for months, Magellan’s Longhorn will be up to 225,000 barrels a
day during the second half of the year and the Keystone should
be running by year’s end.”  Iranian Sanctions  The U.S. will tighten sanctions on Iran today with measures
blocking the exporter from repatriating oil payments in dollars,
euros and other hard currencies. The new restrictions are aimed
at stopping that country’s nuclear program.  Crude buyers such as China, Japan and India must use their
own currencies to pay Iran and keep the payments in escrow
accounts, or else risk expulsion from the U.S. banking system.
Iran will be able to use the funds only for locally sourced
goods and services, in what will amount to barter arrangements.  WTI’s rebound in New York stalled yesterday along the
bottom of an uptrend channel that was breached the previous day,
signaling technical resistance, where sell orders may be
clustered. This indicator is around $97.50 a barrel today,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 714,785
contracts as of 3:20 p.m. It totaled 578,766 contracts
yesterday, 13 percent above the three-month average. Open
interest was 1.6 million, the highest level since Nov. 12.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Shenk  in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  