-- Yahoo Links Up With Google to Put Ads on Finance, News Sites
-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 2013-02-07T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/yahoo-signs-agreement-to-use-google-s-services-for-display-ads.html
Yahoo! Inc. , the biggest U.S. Web
portal, said it will begin using Google Inc.’s AdSense and AdMob
services as it seeks to boost sales from the content on its
pages.  The Sunnyvale, California-based company signed a global,
non-exclusive agreement with Google for so-called contextual
advertisements, according to a  blog  posting yesterday. The ads
will appear on Yahoo’s sites for finance, news, sports and
autos, Sara Gorman, a spokeswoman for the company, said in an e-
mail.  Yahoo Chief Executive Officer  Marissa Mayer  plans to get
users spending more time on a dozen of its top sites, she said
during a call with analysts last month. The partnership with
Google, her former employer, could help Yahoo boost revenue from
those pages, said  Mark Mahaney , managing director at RBC Capital
Markets in San Francisco.  “I assume they wouldn’t be doing this is if they didn’t
think they can better monetize their traffic,” Mahaney, who
rates Yahoo shares outperform, said in an interview. “There
should be a near-term positive.”  Yahoo jumped as much as 6.3 percent to $21.10 in extended
trading following the announcement of a Google partnership.
Earlier  the shares  rose 1 percent to $19.85 at yesterday’s close
in New York.  Market Share  Google will retain its lead in the $17.7 billion U.S.
market for display ads this year, with an 18 percent share,
while Facebook Inc. will have 15 percent and Yahoo will slip to
8 percent, EMarketer Inc. estimates.  Users of Yahoo’s sites won’t see any noticeable difference
in ads, the company said. The agreement covers Yahoo’s own sites
and certain co-branded Web properties.  “By adding Google to our list of world-class contextual
ads partners, we’ll be able to expand our network, which means
we can serve users with ads that are even more meaningful,”
Yahoo said on the blog.  During an interview last month at the World Economic Forum
in Davos, Switzerland, Mayer said she prefers to work with large
companies like Google, Apple Inc. and Facebook rather than build
expensive new products such as smartphones and social networks.  “We are able to work with some of these players, who have
a lot of strength, in order to really bolster our user
experiences that we offer on the Yahoo site,” Mayer said.  The CEO joined Yahoo last July after a 13-year career at
Google. The Web-search leader’s 20th employee and its first
female engineer, Mayer is credited with maintaining the
company’s uncluttered home page for a decade and overseeing such
products as Gmail, Google News, and image, book and product
search.  In 2008, Google scrapped an agreement to place ads on
Yahoo’s site after the U.S. government threatened to challenge
the venture.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Douglas MacMillan in San Francisco at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jillian Ward at 
 jward56@bloomberg.net  