-- Myanmar May Allow Foreign Bank Joint Ventures as Early as April
-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e   a n d   K y a w   T h u
-- 2013-02-06T02:23:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/myanmar-may-allow-foreign-bank-joint-ventures-as-early-as-april.html
Myanmar’s  central bank  may allow
foreign lenders to form joint ventures with local banks as early
as April in a further step to overhaul the financial system,
according to an official who oversees regulatory issues.  The central bank will set regulations for joint ventures in
the financial year starting April 1, said Khin Saw Oo, head of
the Financial Institutions Regulation and Anti-Money Laundering
Department. Officials are considering a requirement that local
banks own at least 20 percent of the venture, she said.  “We will allow them at least two years’ time to form the
joint ventures,” Khin Saw Oo said in an interview in the
central bank’s headquarters in Naypyidaw yesterday. “After that
we will allow the establishment of the subsidiary.”  The rule change would allow lenders such as  Standard
Chartered Plc  and Japan’s Mizuho Corporate Bank Ltd. to expand
in the Southeast Asian nation of 64 million people as it
welcomes new investment. President  Thein Sein ’s moves to
dismantle a fixed exchange rate and modernize the banking system
are starting to boost the economy, the International Monetary
Fund said in a report last month.  Joint ventures for foreign banks will eventually be
followed by wholly owned subsidiaries and then full branches,
Khin Saw Oo said. The central bank will look for “reputable
banks” to engage in partnerships, checking for financial
soundness and setting capital requirements, she said.  “Those who are interested to form joint ventures, I told
them that it depends on you,” she said. “This is not a forced
marriage and you can try your best partners. And then you engage
and after that you can get married.”  Visa, MasterCard  Myanmar has 19 domestic banks, which recently started
building ATM networks and establishing relationships with Visa
Inc. and MasterCard Inc. to ease money transfers. Co-operative
Bank plans to sign a “business alliance” next month with Bank
of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. for training and assistance,
managing director Pe Myint said Jan. 22.  Japan, Myanmar’s largest creditor, agreed last year to
settle $6.6 billion in arrears. Japanese banks are seeking
assets in Vietnam and other Southeast Asian nations to diversify
as falling interest rates squeeze loan profitability at home.  About 20 foreign banks have set up representative offices
in Myanmar since 1992, including  Oversea-Chinese Banking Corp. ,
Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corp. and  Bangkok Bank Pcl . Most
recently, Standard Chartered opened an office in Yangon.  Myanmar’s parliament is considering a law that would give
the central bank greater autonomy. The regulatory and licensing
structure for foreign banks remains unclear, according to Anoop
Singh, who heads the IMF’s Asia and Pacific Department.  “There’s certainly no lack of interest from foreign banks
coming in,” Singh said yesterday in Naypyidaw, where he was
visiting government leaders to discuss recent reforms.  “In terms of the speed of the reforms, and the breadth of
reforms, it really is quite remarkable,” Singh said. “Asia has
quite a few frontiers, and I would hope it would be in that
category, yes. They certainly have that potential.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net ;
Kyaw Thu in Bangkok at 
 kthu1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  