-- Hydro Tasmania Plans Remote Power Projects, Broader China Links
-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 2013-02-06T03:24:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/hydro-tasmania-plans-remote-power-projects-broader-china-links.html
Hydro Tasmania is considering
developing Australian renewable energy projects outside the
nation’s island state as the company looks at expanding a
partnership with a unit of China’s  Shenhua Group Corp .  The Tasmanian state-owned energy company is assessing new
wind farms and projects to supply power to remote areas that
aren’t connected to the main electricity grid, Chief Executive
Officer Roy Adair said yesterday in a phone interview.  Hobart-based Hydro Tasmania, which completed a deal
yesterday to sell 75 percent of its Musselroe wind farm to
Guohua Energy Investment Co., plans further projects as
Australia moves toward a goal of getting at least 20 percent of
its power from renewable energy by the end of the decade.  Is the Shenhua unit “keen to participate with us in other
deals?” Adair said. “The answer is yes. We have a trusted
relationship. We’ll wait to see what projects appeal to both.”  The Australian company is also studying a proposal to build
a  600-megawatt wind project  on Tasmania’s King Island estimated
to cost about A$2 billion ($2.07 billion). The company needs to
gain community support for the TasWind venture before talking
with potential partners and making funding decisions, Adair
said.  Hydro Tasmania’s deal for the A$394 million, 168-megawatt
Musselroe wind farm in the northeast of the state follows a 2011
agreement to sell 75 percent of the Bluff Point and Studland Bay
wind farms in Tasmania to the Shenhua unit. The company also has
30 hydro-power stations operating in Tasmania.  More Cooperation  “The strategic cooperation between us will create
significant long-term value,” Guohua Chairman  Xie Jianning  said
yesterday in a statement released by Hydro Tasmania. “We look
forward to continuing to expand our relationship.”  The Tasmanian company is evaluating options on the
Australian mainland and views remote area power supply as “very
attractive from an economic perspective,” Adair said, declining
to discuss any specific projects being considered.  Mining companies are investing in renewable energy faster
than other industries to supply power to projects off the grid.
Explorers were expected to invest about $5 billion in remote
alternative-power projects last year and at least $8.4 billion
by 2016, compared with $1.88 billion in 2010, Ernst & Young LLP
estimated, based on Pike Research data.  “That’s certainly an area we’re looking at,” the Hydro
Tasmania CEO said. “Fundamentally there’s a strong business
case there that would attract, I’m sure, potential partners.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Paton in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  