-- Yuan Falls as PBOC Sets Fixing at One-Month Low Amid Yen Concern
-- B y   F i o n   L i
-- 2013-02-06T08:50:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/yuan-falls-as-pboc-sets-fixing-at-one-month-low-amid-yen-concern.html
The yuan fell toward this year’s
weakest level after the central bank set the currency’s daily
reference rate at a one-month low amid concern a sliding yen
will hurt China’s exports.  The People’s Bank of China reduced the  fixing  by 0.05
percent to 6.2881 per dollar today. The yuan is allowed to
diverge a maximum 1 percent from the reference rate. The yen
approached a three-year low after Bank of Japan Governor  Masaaki Shirakawa  said yesterday he will step down on March 19, allowing
the government to hasten the selection of a replacement who will
tackle deflation.  “China is monitoring the impact of a weak yen on its
export growth,” said  Stella Lee,  president at Success Wealth
Management Ltd. in Hong Kong. “Keeping the yuan from being too
strong will help small and medium companies to recover quicker
as the global economy starts improving.”  The yuan fell 0.04 percent to 6.2317 per dollar in
Shanghai, prices from the China Foreign Exchange Trade System
show. It touched 6.2337 earlier, approaching a Feb. 4 level of
6.2342 that was the weakest since Dec. 28. One-month implied
volatility in the yuan, a measure of expected moves in the
exchange rate used to price options, declined five basis points,
or 0.05 percetange point, to 1.25 percent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Offshore Markets  Taiwan will start offshore interbank trading of yuan today,
Bank of China Ltd.’s Taipei branch said yesterday. Chinatrust
Commercial Bank, a unit of Taipei-based Chinatrust Financial
Holdings Co., will raise about $169 million selling yuan notes
with maturities from two to five years that will be traded
locally, the island’s Financial Supervisory Commission said
yesterday.  In Hong Kong’s offshore market, the yuan was steady at
6.2158 per dollar, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Twelve-month non-deliverable forwards dropped 0.07 percent to
6.3225 per dollar, trading at a 1.4 percent discount to the
onshore spot rate.  The yuan has “appreciated significantly” against the
dollar in the past several years and the U.S. wants continued,
faster gains, Gary Locke, American ambassador to China, said
yesterday in an interview with Bloomberg Television.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fion Li in Hong Kong at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  