-- Yucca Must Be Part of Nuclear-Waste Bill, Shimkus Says
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 2013-02-06T16:52:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/yucca-must-be-part-of-nuclear-waste-bill-shimkus-says.html
Legislation for U.S. disposal of
nuclear waste must provide for storage at Yucca Mountain, the
head of a House panel overseeing environmental issues said,
renewing the debate over the abandoned Nevada site.  “We will not move on any nuclear-waste provision without a
Yucca Mountain component,” Representative  John Shimkus , an
Illinois Republican, said today at a Bloomberg Government
conference in Washington.  The U.S. is weighing options for more than 65,000 metric
tons of waste, primarily stored at the nation’s atomic power
plants. President  Barack Obama ’s administration in 2010 ended
funding for the Yucca site as lawmakers including Senate
Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat, objected to the
proposed site.  “Yucca Mountain will be there long after Senator Reid is
gone,” said Shimkus, chairman of the House Energy and Commerce
Committee panel on environment and the economy.  Industry and government have spent about $15 billion on the
abandoned Yucca site, about 100 miles (161 kilometers) northwest
of Las Vegas. The Energy Department collects about $750 million
a year from the nuclear-energy industry for disposal while plans
for a permanent repository are in limbo.  The U.S. needs temporary and permanent facilities to store
nuclear waste regardless of what the government decides to do
with Yucca Mountain, a panel created by Obama to study storage
options said in a report a year ago. Republicans in Congress
have said the panel’s findings support using the Nevada site.  Carol Browner , a former Environmental Protection Agency
administrator, said at the conference that she expects the
administration to propose regulating greenhouse gases from
existing power plants.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  