-- Zambia Central Bank to Intervene to Bolster Kwacha
-- B y   M a t t h e w   H i l l
-- 2013-02-06T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-06/zambia-central-bank-to-intervene-to-bolster-kwacha.html
Zambia’s central bank plans to sell
more dollars to bolster the second worst-performing currency in
Africa and curb inflation, officials said.  The kwacha, which has slumped 9.6 percent against the
dollar in the past six months, needs to be at a “more
realistic” level, Governor Michael Gondwe said in an interview
at his office in the capital, Lusaka, on Feb. 5. The Bank of
Zambia has already reduced foreign-currency  reserves  by $36
million this year to support the local unit, its economic
director, Emmanuel Pamu, said in an interview.  Policy makers in Africa’s biggest copper producer are
struggling to halt the kwacha’s slide after foreign investment
declined and the currency was rebased on Jan. 1. Rising food and
import costs prompted the Bank of Zambia to raise  interest rates 
and increase the reserve ratios for commercial banks in the past
four months, undermining economic growth.  “The exchange rate needs to be right, because if it gets
out of hand it has an impact on inflation,” Gondwe said.
President  Michael Sata  has “legitimate concerns” because of
the weaker currency and rising costs in the economy.  The kwacha’s slide is the worst after Malawi’s currency in
the past six months. The unit was at 5.345 against the dollar at
6:30 p.m. in Lusaka yesterday.  Finance Minister  Alexander Chikwanda  said on Feb. 5 the
weaker currency may lead to an inflation spiral and boost the
government’s debt costs. The kwacha should trade at 5 to 5.10 a
the dollar to hold back inflation, he said.  ‘Small Advantage’  The depreciation has “a small advantage to the exporters
but a huge disadvantage to the economy as we import and service
external commitments,” Chikwanda told reporters in Solwezi,
near the border with Democratic Republic of Congo.  Zambia’s intervention in the foreign exchange market comes
at a time when governments around the world raise concerns about
currency wars driven by central banks moving to weaken their
currencies to bolster economic growth.  Inflation in Zambia slowed for the first time in six months
in January to 7 percent as the government sold stocks of corn,
the staple food, to millers at a lower price that it was bought.
The inflation rate will probably continue to ease from February
to May, Pamu said.  “We are employing some measures to bring the kwacha down
to where it should be,” he said. “Dealing with the liquidity
levels should bring it back to a more realistic number.”  Dollar Shortage  The kwacha’s slide is mainly due to a lack of liquidity in
the foreign-currency market, Pamu said. Zambia’s current-account
deficit of $211 million last year, compared with surpluses in
the previous three years, has contributed to the weaker kwacha,
he said.  The shortage of foreign-currency may be due to mining
companies, which account for about 75 percent of Zambia’s export
earnings, withholding dollars,  Stanley Tamele , head of global
markets at  Standard Chartered Plc ’s Zambian unit, said on Jan.
30.  The central bank plans to meet with mining companies to
question them over this, Gondwe said.  “We are a free market,” he said. “It’s not that we are
controlling them, but we need to understand” the reasons for
the dollar shortage.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Hill in Lusaka at 
 mhill58@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  