-- Adebolajo Is Second Man Charged in Murder of London Soldier
-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o
-- 2013-06-01T18:31:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-01/adebolajo-is-second-man-charged-in-murder-of-london-soldier.html
Michael Adebolajo, one of the two
suspects in the deadly attack of U.K. soldier Lee Rigby in
 London , was charged with murder.  Adebolajo, 28, also was charged with the attempted murder
of two police officers and the possession of a firearm, London’s
Metropolitan Police said in an e-mailed statement today. He was
remanded in custody and is scheduled to appear in London’s
Westminster Magistrates’ Court on Monday, June 3.  Adebolajo and 22-year-old Michael Adebowale were shot,
wounded and arrested by police on May 22 at the scene of the
crime. Both were taken to London hospitals. Adebowale was
released from medical care and taken into police custody on May
28. He was charged with murder the following day. Adebolajo was
discharged from a separate hospital on Friday, May 31.  Rigby, a 25-year old father, was hit with a car and
attacked by two men with knives outside a military barracks in
Woolwich, southeast London. Police are treating the case as an
act of terrorism.  Rigby, who has a 2-year-old son, was a drummer in the 2nd
Battalion of the Royal Regiment of Fusiliers. A fan of the
Manchester United soccer team, he served as a machine gunner in
Cyprus and then in 2009 as a member of a fire support group in
Helmand province,  Afghanistan .  London police have arrested 12 people in the probe into
Rigby’s death, including Adebolajo and Adebowale. Two people
were arrested May 31 on suspicion of being involved in the
supply of illegal firearms in the case. A 42-year-old man was
arrested in north London and a 46-year-old man was detained in
the eastern section of the British capital after police searched
residential addresses. Today, both of those men were released on
bail and told to return to a south London police station later
this month.  The eight others who were arrested have been released, six
on bail pending further inquiries and two were let go without
charges.  A coroner’s inquest into Rigby’s death was adjourned on May
31 to give police more time to conclude their investigation.
Autopsy results showed that he died from multiple stab wounds,
police said.  About 500 police officers and other investigators,
including members of counterterrorism units from forces around
the country, are working on the case, U.K. Home Secretary
Theresa May has said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lindsay Fortado in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  