-- Hagel Blames China for Cyber Attacks While Pushing Talks
-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n   a n d   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e
-- 2013-06-01T06:57:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-01/hagel-blames-china-for-cyber-attacks-while-pushing-talks.html
U.S. Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel
accused  China  of waging cyber attacks, in comments made before a
gathering of senior Asian officials that included members of the
Chinese military.  “The  United States  has expressed our concerns about the
growing threat of cyber intrusions, some of which appear to be
tied to the Chinese government and military,” Hagel said in his
first major policy address on  Asia  today at the Shangri-La
Dialogue, an annual security conference in  Singapore .  U.S. officials and the Defense Department have blamed China
previously for cyber attacks. Hagel’s public comments today came
as Chinese officials looked on -- and one questioned the U.S.
commitment to improved relations.  While the U.S. claims its military pivot toward Asia isn’t
a move against China, “China is not convinced,” Major-General
Yao Yunzhu, director of the Center for China-America Defense
Relations at the Academy of Military Science within the  People’s
Liberation Army , said at the conference.  China’s reported attempts to obtain sensitive U.S. military
data as well as commercial intellectual property through
electronic espionage have been highlighted repeatedly by Defense
Department and White House officials. National Security Adviser
Tom Donilon said in March that China is waging a “large scale”
computer campaign to steal  trade secrets .  Pentagon Report  The Pentagon, in its latest annual report on China’s
military capabilities, said last month that China’s military has
targeted U.S. government computers with intrusions that seek
sensitive data.  The incursions “appear to be attributable directly to the
Chinese government and military,” the Pentagon said. The
information sought could be used to bolster China’s defense and
technology industries and to support military planning. It
didn’t say U.S. weapons programs have been compromised.  Chinese officials would like to exchange views with Hagel
at the meeting, particularly on cybersecurity, foreign ministry
spokesman Hong Lei told reporters in Beijing yesterday.  Cyber attacks “are not just a military threat,” said
 Catherine Ashton , the European Union’s foreign-policy chief, in
Singapore today. “They can affect our daily lives by targeting
critical infrastructure, energy grids, hospitals and so on.”  Welcome Rise  Even as he singled out China for cyber attacks, Hagel said
he welcomed China’s rise as a global power and sought closer
military-to-military relations. He said he plans to host China’s
defense minister at the Pentagon later this year.  “The United States welcomes and supports a prosperous and
successful China that contributes to regional and global problem
solving,” Hagel said.  “While the U.S. and China will have our differences -- on
human rights,  Syria  and regional security issues in Asia -- the
key is for these differences to be addressed on the basis of a
continuous and respectful dialogue,” Hagel said. “It also
requires building trust and reducing the risk of miscalculation,
particularly between our militaries.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net ;
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  