-- Masai Ujiri Returns to NBA Toronto Raptors as General Manager
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2013-06-01T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-01/masai-ujiri-returns-to-nba-toronto-raptors-as-general-manager.html
Masai Ujiri, the  National Basketball
Association ’s Executive of the Year, is returning to the  Toronto
Raptors  as general manager after three seasons with the  Denver
Nuggets .  Ujiri, who was the Nuggets’ executive vice president of
basketball operations, replaces Bryan Colangelo, now the
Raptors’ president.  During his time with the Nuggets, the team won a franchise-record 57 games and recorded an NBA-best 38-3 record at home
this past season.  “He is a proven judge of talent and we look for him to be
a big part of creating a winning atmosphere, leading us to the
playoffs and, ultimately, delivering NBA championships for
Toronto,” said Tim Leiweke, Maple Leaf Sports Entertainment’s
president and chief executive officer, in a statement.  Ujiri was employed by the Raptors for three seasons
starting in 2007 when he was director of global scouting. The
next year, he was promoted to assistant general manager.  “To come back to the Raptors, to live in such a great city,
and work in an organization that has committed all the resources
necessary to win championships was a huge factor in the
decision,” Ujiri said. “I have already developed a great
relationship with  Tim Leiweke  and I can’t wait to get back to
 Canada  to build a team that is poised to take the next step in
the NBA.”  Denver President Josh Kroenke said a search for Ujiri’s
replacement will begin immediately.  “I appreciate everything Masai has done since re-joining
the Nuggets in 2010,” Kroenke said. “He and I have spent
countless hours working together to tackle some of the toughest
challenges in franchise history.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  