-- Nadal Struggles as U.S. Women Have Best Result Since 2004
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2013-06-02T05:11:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-01/mattek-sands-stephens-join-sharapova-in-4th-round.html
Defending champion Rafael Nadal’s
slow start to the French Open continued as three women from the
U.S. reached the fourth round, giving the country its best
result in a major championship in almost a decade.  Nadal, trying to become first player to win Roland Garros
eight times, beat No. 27 Fabio Fognini yesterday in an error-strewn match, 7-6 (7-5), 6-4, 6-4 in Paris. The Spaniard will
next play  Japan ’s Kei Nishikori.  “I have to play better,” Nadal, who made 40 unforced
errors, said in a news conference. “If I want to have any
chance, I really need to play better.”  Americans Sloane Stephens, Bethanie Mattek-Sands and  Jamie
Hampton  continued their run in Paris as they joined defending
champion Maria Sharapova in the fourth round. With Serena Williams already in the last 16, it’s the best showing for
American women at Roland Garros since 2004.  The unseeded Hampton upset former Wimbledon champion Petra Kvitova of the Czech Republic, 6-1, 7-6 (9-7).  “Three different players with very unique games, it’s
cool,” said Hampton, who next plays former top-ranked Jelena Jankovic of  Serbia , who upset former U.S. Open winner Sam Stosur
of  Australia  in three sets.  Men’s top seed Novak Djokovic eased into the fourth round
by beating Bulgaria’s 26th seed Grigor Dimitrov, 6-2, 6-2, 6-3.  “I played well,” Serbia’s Djokovic said. “He’s beaten me
in  Madrid , so I was well aware of his qualities.”  Djokovic next plays German Philipp Kohlschreiber, who beat
 Romania ’s Victor Hanescu.  Today, Serena Williams takes on Italy’s Roberta Vinci while
former champion Roger Federer plays France’s Gilles Simon in
fourth-round matches.  Nadal Pressured  Just like his first two matches, Nadal was pressured in the
opening set as Fognini thumped 21 winners from the baseline.
Nadal’s play improved as he started to attack more and Fognini
made more errors. Serving for the match at 5-2 in the third set,
Nadal was broken to love. In the next game, he took advantage of
a Fognini mistake to win.  No. 12 Tommy Haas of  Germany , the oldest man left in the
draw at 35, beat John Isner, the last American remaining in
men’s singles, 7-5, 7-6 (7-4), 4-6, 6-7 (10-12), 10-8. Isner,
the No. 19 seed, saved 12 match points in the fourth set, then
lost a 4-1 lead in the decider.  Australian Open semifinalist Stephens beat New Zealand’s
Marina Erakovic, 6-4, 6-7 (5-7), 6-3, to reach the last sixteen
for the second straight year in Paris. Mattek-Sands followed up
her upset of former champion Li Na of China by beating Argentine
qualifier Paula Ormaechea, 4-6, 6-1, 6-3.  ‘It’s awesome,’’ Mattek-Sands said in a news conference.
“I’m so happy that U.S. tennis is coming on strong. There are a
lot of girls playing great.”  ‘Favorite Tournament’  Stephens had struggled to win back-to-back matches after
her Australian Open run in January, where she reached her first
Grand Slam semifinal by ousting 15-time singles champion Serena Williams.  “This is my favorite tournament, so I would really,
really, really love to win this,” 17th-seeded Stephens, who
plays Sharapova next, told reporters. “But that’s a long
shot.”  Sharapova, who beat  China ’s Zheng Jie, 6-1, 7-5, is
expecting a “tough one” against the 20-year-old American, whom
she beat in  Rome  in straight sets two weeks ago.  “It was a couple of weeks ago, but this is a Grand Slam
stage,” the second-seeded Sharapova said. “I’m sure she will
want to change a few things around and play a better match. And
you expect that at this type of tournament.”  15 Americans  There were 15 American women in the singles draw this year,
more than any other nation and the most in a major since 2005
Wimbledon. Although women from the U.S. have won more French
Open titles than any other country, none have reached the last
four since Jennifer Capriati nine years ago.  Mattek-Sands, 28, will try to reach her first Grand Slam
quarterfinal against  Russia ’s Maria Kirilenko, who beat
Switzerland’s Stefanie Voegele in straight sets.  There was controversy in two matches in the men’s draw.  The 13th-seeded Nishikori beat  France ’s Benoit Paire in
four sets to become the first Japanese man in the fourth round
since 1938. Paire was docked a point for being coached.  Janko Tipsarevic, the No. 8 seed from Serbia, clashed with
two spectators in his straight-set loss to No. 29 Mikhail Youzhny of Russia.  Heckling  He later told reporters he’d shouted “the F word” at the
men, whom he said had been heckling him whenever he tossed the
ball to serve. They were eventually removed from the stands by
the referee.  Tipsarevic apologized for swearing, saying “I just
snapped,” but that the men had shown “no respect to the
players in terms of being quiet.”  Australian Open winner Victoria Azarenka overcame 10 double
faults to hold off France’s Alize Cornet, 4-6, 6-3, 6-1. She’ll
face former champion Francesca Schiavone  of  Italy , who beat
France’s No 13 seed Marion Bartoli, 6-2, 6-1.  France’s Richard Gasquet, the No. 7 seed, beat Nikolay Davydenko in straight sets to set up a clash with Switzerland’s
No. 9 Stanislas Wawrinka, who won in four sets over Jerzy
Janowicz of  Poland .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh at Roland Garros through the London sports
desk at   drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  