-- Budget Cuts Won’t Reduce U.S. Focus on Asia, Hagel Says
-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 2013-06-01T01:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-01/budget-cuts-won-t-reduce-u-s-focus-on-asia-hagel-says.html
 Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel sought
to reassure Asian allies today that budget cuts won’t derail the
U.S. commitment to their security.  One year after the Pentagon said it would “rebalance” its
strategy to put more emphasis on the Asia-Pacific region after a
decade of wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, the Defense Department
faces as much as $500 billion in cuts over the next nine years
as part of a  deficit -reduction law.  “It is true that the  Department of Defense  will have fewer
resources than in the recent past,” Hagel said in remarks
prepared for delivery today at the  Shangri-La Dialogue , an
annual Asian security conference in Singapore. “It would be
unwise and short-sighted to conclude, however, that our
commitment to the rebalance cannot be sustained.”  The U.S. is beefing up its military resources in  Asia  as a
check against a rising China and increased tensions in the  South
China Sea . Hagel’s predecessor as Pentagon chief,  Leon Panetta ,
said last year that 60 percent of U.S. naval forces would be
based in the Pacific by 2020, compared with about 50 percent
today.  Hagel used his first major speech on Asia to emphasize that
the Obama administration is committed to a strategic shift
toward Asia even as the military shrinks.  Ground troops based in the Pacific region are returning
after deployments to Iraq and Afghanistan. A second company-sized rotation of Marines recently arrived in Darwin,  Australia ,
for what will eventually be a 2,500-member force.  Tomorrow, Hagel will visit the first vessel from the Navy’s
Littoral Combat Ship program, which is deployed in Singapore. He
said the Pentagon plans to deploy its most advanced fighter jets
-- the F-22 Raptor and F-35 Joint Strike Fighter -- to Japan,
and send a fourth attack submarine to  Guam .  Priority Posture  While the Pentagon considers ways to cut billions of
dollars from its  budget , “I can assure you that, coming out of
this review, the  United States  will continue to implement the
rebalance, and prioritize our posture, activities and
investments” in the Asia-Pacific region, he said.  At a conference that includes Chinese military officials,
Hagel pointed a finger at  China  for alleged computer attacks
that he said require international cooperation to defeat.  “The United States has expressed our concerns about the
growing threat of cyber intrusions, some of which appear to be
tied to the Chinese government and military,” Hagel said. “We
are determined to work more vigorously with China and other
partners to establish international norms of responsible
behavior in cyberspace.”  Meeting Chinese  Hagel told reporters yesterday he plans to meet informally
with the Chinese delegation at the conference, partly to discuss
cybersecurity.  President  Barack Obama  plans to host a summit with Chinese
President Xi Jinping in  California  on June 7, and Hagel said
he’s invited the Chinese defense minister to visit the Pentagon
in August.  Hagel said much of the U.S. strategy in Asia depends on
strengthening ties with its allies. Hagel this weekend is
inviting defense ministers from the  Association of Southeast
Asian Nations  to a conference next year in  Hawaii .  “I believe this first-ever U.S.-hosted meeting of ASEAN
defense ministers will provide another opportunity for us to
discuss a shared vision for a dynamic, peaceful and secure
future for the region,” he said.  The speech offered no new initiatives to increase the U.S.
military posture in the region.  The rebalance “is primarily a diplomatic, economic and
cultural strategy,” Hagel said.  Hagel reiterated U.S. concern about  North Korea ’s nuclear
weapons program.  “The United States will not stand by while North Korea
seeks to develop a nuclear-armed missile that can target the
United States,” he said, pledging to “take all necessary steps
to protect our homeland and our allies from dangerous
provocations, including significantly bolstering our missile
defense throughout the Pacific.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  