-- Canadian Dollar Hits Low for Year Amid Lagging Economic Growth
-- B y   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r
-- 2013-06-01T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-01/canadian-dollar-hits-low-for-year-amid-lagging-economic-growth.html
The Canadian dollar weakened to the
lowest level in a year against its U.S. counterpart as
speculation increased that economic growth will lag behind that
in the nation’s largest trading partner.  The currency’s first monthly decline in three came as
stronger-than-forecast U.S. economic data fueled bets the
 Federal Reserve  could pull back on stimulus. Outgoing Bank of
Canada Governor  Mark Carney  left  interest rates  unchanged and
retained his warning they could rise even as retail sales
stagnated and the rate of inflation slowed. The nation’s
 unemployment rate  is forecast to remain unchanged when the
report is released next week.  “I’m actually very cautious about the second quarter -- a
number of private-sector indicators from corporate profits to
private-sector jobs make me very cautious,” said  David Watt ,
chief economist at the Canadian unit of HSBC Holding Plc.
“Exports look like they’re fading pretty sharply in Q2.”  The loonie, as the Canadian dollar is nicknamed for the
aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, fell 3 percent in May to C$1.0375
per U.S. dollar, the biggest drop since February. The currency
touched C$1.0421 on May 29, the lowest point since June 5, 2012.
One loonie buys 96.39 U.S. cents.  Oil Declines  The loonie fell all four full weeks in May as futures on
crude oil,  Canada ’s largest export, dropped 2 percent to $91.63
per barrel in  New York  on the month. The Standard & Poor’s 500
Index of U.S. stocks gained 2.1 percent.  Canada’s  benchmark  10-year government bonds declined in
May, with yields adding 37 basis points, or 0.37 percentage
point, the most since December 2009, to 2.06 percent. Yields
touched 2.11, the highest point since April 2012. The 1.5
percent security maturing in June 2023 lost C$3.24 to C$94.96.  Canada’s 10-year security closed above 2 percent for the
first time since February on May 28, when a report showed U.S.
 consumer confidence  in May reached the strongest in more than
five years.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said the week before that the
central bank could cut the pace of asset purchases if officials
see indications of sustained improvement in economic growth. The
Fed buys $85 billion of Treasury and mortgage debt a month to
support the economy by putting downward pressure on interest
rates.  Fed Watch  “You’re starting to see the focus on what’s happening in
the  United States  -- not necessarily the  U.S. economy , but
what’s happening with the Federal Reserve, and when the Fed
might begin to curtail its asset-purchase program,” David Watt,
chief economist at the Canadian unit of HSBC Holdings Plc, said
by phone from New York. “As a result, you’re seeing in the
foreign-exchange markets currencies that have benefited from the
Fed’s liquidity injections come under pressure.”  The U.S’s April  unemployment  rate unexpectedly fell to a
four-year low of 7.5 percent on May 3 from 7.6 percent the
previous month, while retail spending bounced into positive
territory on May 13, growing 0.1 percent in April after a 0.4
percent contraction the previous month.  Canada’s dollar rose on May 29 after Carney, in his last
policy meeting before leaving to head the  Bank of England ,
reiterated the bias to raise rates he has included in every
policy statement since last April. Stephen Poloz succeeds him
June 3.  ‘Hike Rates’  Bets had increased that Carney might drop the bias as
Canadian  retail sales  were little changed in March at C$39.5
billion ($38.4 billion) and  consumer prices  rose 0.4 percent in
April from a year ago, down from a 1 percent gain the prior
month, according to  Statistics Canada .  Canada’s  jobless rate  is forecast to remain unchanged at
7.2 percent in May while 15,000 jobs were created, up from
12,500 in April, according to separate Bloomberg surveys before
the June 7 reports.  “The way things are going, the U.S. may even hike rates
before Canada -- I think people are starting to feel that way,”
Darcy Browne, managing director of currencies at Canadian
Imperial Bank of Commerce’s CIBC World Markets unit, said by
phone from Toronto on May 29.  The loonie was little changed in the past month against
nine other developed nation currencies tracked by the Bloomberg
Correlation Weighted Index. It was outstripped by the  U.S.
dollar ’s 3.3 percent rise and the euro’s 1.8 percent gain. The
Australian dollar’s 5.5 percent fall was the biggest decline,
followed by the New Zealand dollar’s 5 percent drop.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Altstedter in Toronto at 
 aaltstedter@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  