-- China Manufacturing Tops Estimates in Sign Growth Is Stabilizing
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-06-01T16:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-01/china-may-manufacturing-pmi-at-50-8-economists-est-50-0.html
China ’s  manufacturing  unexpectedly
accelerated in May, indicating that a slowdown in economic
growth in the first quarter may be stabilizing.  The  Purchasing Managers ’ Index rose to 50.8 from 50.6 in
April, the National Bureau of Statistics and China Federation of
Logistics and Purchasing said in Beijing yesterday. That was
higher than all estimates in a Bloomberg News  survey  of 30
analysts and compares with the median projection of 50, which
marks the dividing line between expansion and contraction.  The report may provide some comfort to policy makers after
the preliminary reading of a private manufacturing survey
pointed to the first contraction in seven months. Premier  Li
Keqiang  said last week that government measures to reform the
economy will be accompanied by tapered-off levels of growth and
warned last month that new stimulus would create risks.  “Given the mixed signals, I’d wait for the full set of
activity data such as industrial production and electricity
production to judge the momentum of the economy,” said Zhang Zhiwei, chief China economist at Nomura Holdings Inc. in  Hong
Kong . “The rise of the official PMI further reduces the chance
for monetary policy easing.”  The statistics bureau will release May industrial output,
retail sales, and inflation data on June 9 along with fixed-asset investment for the first five months of the year. The
customs administration will report May trade figures on June 8.  More Stable  The preliminary reading of a Purchasing Managers’ Index
released by HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics fell to 49.6
in May from 50.4 in April. The decline, if confirmed in the
final report tomorrow, will be the gauge’s first drop below 50
since October.  The federation and HSBC will also release non-manufacturing
surveys for May this week, providing a fuller picture of an
economy that’s increasingly reliant on  service industries  for
growth. Both showed slower expansion in April.  President  Xi Jinping  said the fundamentals of the Chinese
economy are “sound” and growth is on a “more stable
footing,” according to the English-language transcript of a
written interview he gave to Latin America media released by the
official  Xinhua News Agency  on May 31. “We are more interested
in the quality and efficiency of economic growth rather than the
speed of growth only,” he said, noting that employment is
stable and incomes are rising.  Xi’s comments, made ahead of his visit to  Trinidad and
Tobago ,  Costa Rica  and  Mexico , reinforce signals from policy
makers that the government is prepared to tolerate a slower pace
of expansion after annual average growth of 10.5 percent in the
past decade led to industrial overcapacity, rising financial
risks and environmental degradation.  New Risks  China’s  economy  grew 7.8 percent in 2012, the slowest pace
in 13 years and the government in March set a goal of 7.5
percent for this year. Last month, Premier Li warned that room
for stimulus policies and  government investment  to meet its
targets “is not big” and that such action would create “new
problems and risks.”  There will be no “incremental stimulus by the new
government which understands the slowing potential growth and
wishes to focus more on structural reforms,” Lu Ting, head of
Greater China economics at Bank of America Corp. in Hong Kong,
said in a research note yesterday.  Stocks in China fell 0.7 percent on May 31 on concern the
official PMI report would also show a decline. The  Shanghai
Composite Index (SHCOMP)  rose 0.5 percent for the week and has rebounded
5.8 percent from this year’s low on May 2.  Positive Reaction  “Markets’ fear of a further growth slowdown will be
alleviated and we expect a positive market reaction” tomorrow,
Lu said.  Analysts are paring forecasts for economic growth after
expansion unexpectedly slowed to 7.7 percent in the first
quarter from a year earlier. The median estimate in a Bloomberg
News survey conducted from May 16 to May 21 was for a pace of
7.8 percent in the second quarter, down from a projection of 8
percent in an April survey.  The logistics federation increased the number of companies
in its manufacturing survey to 3,000 from 820 and reclassified
the industries covered into 21 groups from 31 starting from
January’s reading. The HSBC report is based on responses from
purchasing managers at more than 420 businesses, and is weighted
toward smaller private companies.  Different Focus  Divergences in the two indexes are common given their
different focus and coverage, said  Wang Tao , chief China
economist at UBS AG in Hong Kong.  Previously released data show the federation’s PMI expanded
at a faster pace in the first three months of 2012, while the
HSBC gauge contracted over the same period.  In yesterday’s report, a PMI gauge for smaller companies
fell to 47.3 in May from 47.6 the previous month, a decline Wang
said is consistent with the HSBC index.  The increase in the main PMI reading was driven by faster
growth in output, while a measure of new export orders showed a
contraction for the fourth time in five months. The reading for
new orders rose to 51.8 from 51.7.  CSR Corp. (1766)  China’s biggest train-maker by market value,
signed contracts worth about 7.81 billion  yuan  ($1.27 billion),
according to a statement posted to  Shanghai ’s stock exchange on
May 27. The deals include supply agreements for locomotives,
subway cars and hybrid buses, the company said.  At the same time, a gauge of business activity expectations
fell to the lowest level since January and an index of
employment fell to 48.8, the 12th straight sub-50 reading.  While the deteriorating  employment  situation may suggest
weak growth, it could indicate increasing automation, a
declining labor force due to the aging population and a rising
percentage of migrant workers shifting to services, Bank of
America’s Lu said.  --Scott Lanman, Nerys Avery, Penny Peng. With assistance from
Zhang Dingmin in Beijing. Editors: Nerys Avery,  Jim McDonald   To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Nerys Avery in Beijing at 
 navery2@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Lanman in Beijing at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net 
Stanley James at 
 sjames8@bloomberg.net  