-- Dollar Climbs on Speculation Fed to Taper Stimulus; Rand Slides
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2013-06-01T04:00:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-01/dollar-climbs-on-speculation-fed-to-taper-stimulus-rand-slides.html
 The dollar gained versus all of its
16 most-traded peers for the first month since 2011 as
speculation grew that stronger U.S. economic data will spur the
Federal Reserve to reduce its unprecedented monetary stimulus.  The yen dropped against the dollar for an eighth month in
the longest losing streak since 1996 as Japanese officials
worked to end deflation. South Africa’s rand slid to a four-year
low amid labor unrest. Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said policy
makers could cut the pace of its bond buying if they see
indications of sustained economic improvement. U.S. payrolls
grew by 165,000 jobs in May, data next week is forecast to show.  “May was characterized by a fixation with the idea of the
Fed tapering bond purchases,” Shahab Jalinoos, a senior
currency strategist at UBS AG in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , said
yesterday in a phone interview. “What the market focused on
both with Bernanke and with the other speakers were any hints
that there’s discussion developing on the tapering theme. The
market is trying to be ultra-forward-looking.”  The dollar, which last gained for a month versus all of its
major peers in September 2011, advanced 1.3 percent in May
against the euro to $1.2999 in New York. The yen sank 3 percent
to 100.45 per dollar, weakening past 100 on May 9 for the first
time in four years. The Japanese currency lost 1.7 percent to
130.64 to the euro.  The yen has slumped 11 percent this year, the most among
the 10 developed-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Indexes, as Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo
Abe pledged to stem 15 years of deflation and the Bank of  Japan 
doubled monthly bond purchases. The dollar has gained the most,
5.2 percent, while the euro has increased 3.5 percent.  Net Shorts  Futures traders increased their bets that the yen will
weaken against the dollar to the most since July 2007. The
difference in the number of wagers by hedge funds and other
large speculators on a decline in Japan’s currency compared with
those on a gain, known as  net shorts , was 99,769 contracts on
May 28, versus 95,186 a week earlier, figures from the
Washington-based Commodity Futures Trading Commission show.  The rand was the biggest loser in May among the greenback’s
most-traded counterparts, followed by  Australia ’s dollar. The
Danish krone lost the least, 1.3 percent, followed by the euro.  The currency of  Africa ’s biggest economy dropped 11 percent
to 10.0915 per dollar and touched 10.2847, the weakest level
since March 2009.  Labor Unrest  Mining strikes shaved about 0.5 percentage point off the
nation’s gross domestic product last year, according to the
Treasury. GDP growth slowed to an annualized 0.9 percent in the
first quarter from 2.1 percent in the fourth, Statistics South
Africa said this week.  “The rand is really the one that’s caught the eye for us
in Group of 10” nations, Jerry Urwin, director of spot foreign-exchange in New York at Barclays Plc, said yesterday in a
telephone interview. “It’s had one heck of a move.”  Australia’s dollar had the biggest monthly drop against its
U.S. peer since September 2011 on wagers a slowdown in  China ,
the nation’s biggest trade partner, will weigh on the economy
and concern the U.S. central bank will cut back on stimulus that
has boosted global markets. The International Monetary Fund this
week lowered its growth forecasts for China to 7.75 percent this
year, from an earlier estimate of 8 percent.  The Aussie tumbled 7.7 percent to 95.71 U.S. cents.  Fed Purchases  The Fed is buying $85 billion of Treasury and mortgage
bonds each month to put downward pressure on borrowing costs
under its quantitative-easing stimulus strategy, which tends to
debase the dollar.  Bernanke told Congress on May 22 the U.S. central bank may
decide at its next few meetings to taper purchases if it’s
confident of sustained gains in the economy. At the same time,
he said a premature tightening of monetary policy might imperil
the economic recovery.  Some policy makers have signaled they favor slowing
purchases. San Francisco Fed President John Williams said May 16
the central bank may begin reducing the pace of its purchases as
early as this summer “if all goes as hoped.”  St. Louis Fed President James Bullard said May 21 the
central bank should continue the purchases because they’re the
best available option for policy makers to boost growth that is
slower than expected. The Fed next meets June 18-19.  U.S. nonfarm payrolls swelled by 165,000 jobs in April,
more than forecast, and the  unemployment rate  unexpectedly fell
to 7.5 percent, the Labor Department reported last month. It
will say June 7 that employers added the same amount of workers
in May, economists forecast in a Bloomberg survey.  ‘Mixed Data’  Government data this week also showed U.S. GDP grew less in
the first quarter than previously estimated, 2.4 percent, and
that consumer spending unexpectedly fell in April for the first
time in almost a year.  “We’ve certainly had mixed data of late, but I think
there’s still a compelling case the Fed could dial down its
stimulus at one of its summer meetings,”  Joe Manimbo , a market
analyst at Western Union Business Solutions, a unit of Western
Union Co., said yesterday in a phone interview from  Washington .
“That’s been the driving force of currency markets.”  BOJ Governor Haruhiko Kuroda told reporters in  Tokyo  last
week that the central bank will conduct its debt purchases in a
flexible manner, and that the recent volatility in government
securities isn’t yet affecting the economy.  Japanese investors were  net sellers  of foreign debt in the
week ended May 24, fanning concern the nation’s unprecedented
monetary stimulus has yet to gain traction. They sold a net 1.12
trillion yen ($11 billion) of foreign bonds.  Japan’s 10-year government bond yields climbed to a 13-month high of 1 percent on May 23, from 0.55 percent on April 3,
the day before the BOJ announced its bond-buying plans. They
slipped to 0.86 percent yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  