-- Mellanox Discount Widens on Delisting: Israel Overnight
-- B y   S h o s h a n n a   S o l o m o n   a n d   L e s l i e   P i c k e r
-- 2013-06-02T13:44:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-01/mellanox-discount-widens-on-delisting-israel-overnight.html
Mellanox Technologies Ltd. (MLNX)  slumped
the most in more than four months in Tel Aviv as  UBS AG (UBSN)  cut the
company’s rating on plans to delist in Israel.  Shares of the Yokneam Elit, Israel-based Mellanox, which
makes data transfer and storage software,  dropped  12 percent,
the most since Jan. 24, to 182.1 shekels, or the equivalent of
$49.38 at the close in Tel Aviv. That follows a similar move in
the U.S., where New York-traded shares retreated 7.3 percent to
$51.87 on May 31. The company has a 5 percent weighting on the
benchmark  TA-25 Index (TA-25) , which declined 0.8 percent today.  Mellanox Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Eyal Waldman
told a panel on market regulation on May 20 he wants to be
traded in Israel “but if it will hurt too much, we will not be
here.” Investors will tomorrow learn the twice-postponed
results of a vote on whether Waldman will remain as both
chairman and CEO for another three-year term. UBS cut its rating
on the  shares (MLNX)  to neutral from buy.  “If the company continues with its delisting plans, we are
likely to see a large supply of shares from local investors,
especially ETFs as the company exits the indices,” Adar Etzioni, head of research at Migdal Capital Markets Ltd. in Tel
Aviv said today by phone. “Some local investors like mutual
funds are not allowed to be exposed to companies traded solely
overseas.”  Mellanox has tumbled 10 percent in New York since May 20
when it postponed an annual meeting for a second time and on
growing concerns that the company wasn’t resolving whether to
split the management roles.  Delisting Trigger  The prospect of a shareholder vote was “probably the
trigger for delisting, but we just wanted to be under one set of
regulations instead of two,” Waldman said in a May 31 phone
interview from Tel Aviv.  “We are surprised by the decision to delist and expect
some price pressure,” Steven Milunovich, an analyst at UBS in
New York, wrote in a May 31 note in which he also lowered
Mellanox’s 12-month price target by 16 percent to $57. “Our
concern is that some 20 to 25 percent of the shares are held in
 Israel , which could prompt selling.”  GAM U.K. Ltd. and Oberweis Asset Management Inc. are
calling for the roles to be separated. Waldman said on May 17
that large Israeli investors support the split while large
investors in the U.S. support the dual role.  Delisting in Israel will save the company “hundreds of
thousands of dollars in operating expenses” each year, Waldman
said. The company reported total operating expenses of $224.6
million in 2012, according to a Jan. 23 statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Leslie Picker in New York at 
 lpicker2@bloomberg.net ;
Shoshanna Solomon in Tel Aviv at 
 ssolomon22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  