-- Erbitux Tops Roche’s Avastin for Colon Cancer Survival
-- B y   N a o m i   K r e s g e   a n d   R o b e r t   L a n g r e t h
-- 2013-06-01T11:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-01/erbitux-tops-roche-s-avastin-for-colon-cancer-survival.html
Merck KGaA (MRK) ’s Erbitux helped patients
live longer than  Roche Holding AG (ROG) ’s Avastin, a more commonly
prescribed treatment, in a head-to-head test of the two drugs in
patients with metastatic colon cancer.  Patients who got Erbitux together with chemotherapy as a
first-line treatment lived about four months longer than those
who got Avastin with chemotherapy, according to the 592-person
study, dubbed Fire-3, presented today at the  American Society of
Clinical Oncology ’s meeting in  Chicago . Merck, based in
Darmstadt,  Germany , sponsored the trial.  While unlikely to change doctors’ prescribing behavior
alone, the unexpected results may focus attention on a bigger
Erbitux-versus-Avastin study due next year, said Axel Grothey, a
professor of oncology at the  Mayo Clinic  in Rochester,
 Minnesota . Both drugs are approved as initial therapies in  colon
cancer  in the U.S., though Avastin is used more often, he said.  “If we see the same finding in this study, then I think
it’s real,” Grothey said, referring to next year’s follow-up
trial. “If we don’t see this result, then the Fire-3 trial is
more or less a fluke. Before I would change my standard of care
I would wait for these results.”  Patients lived about the same amount of time before their
disease worsened, 10 months compared to 10.3 months, in the
Erbitux and Avastin arms of the trial. Overall response rate, or
shrinkage of tumors, the trial’s main data endpoint, were also
the same.  Survival Results  The survival results emerged more than a year after most
patients had stopped taking either drug, as the group that got
initial treatment with Erbitux lived a median 28.7 months,
compared to 25 months for those taking Avastin. The study only
included the roughly 60 percent of colon cancer patients whose
tumors have the non-mutated KRAS gene that makes Erbitux more
likely to be effective.  Outcomes could have been influenced by differing access to
therapies once initial treatment was over, Mayo’s Grothey said.  Though he wasn’t involved with the trial itself, Grothey
will serve as chairman this weekend for a combined advisory
board on the study for Erbitux partners Merck,  Bristol-Myers
Squibb Co. (BMY)  and  Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY)   “These results are intriguing, but an unexplained positive
finding from a secondary endpoint will not influence U.S.
practice patterns,” Scott Kopetz, an associate professor of
gastrointestinal medical oncology at the University of Texas MD
Anderson Cancer Center, said in an e-mail.  Switching Treatment  About half the patients in each arm of the study switched
to the opposite medicine -- from Erbitux to Avastin, or vice
versa -- as a second treatment once their cancer had worsened,
said Volker Heinemann, a professor of medical oncology at the
 Ludwig Maximilian University  of Munich and lead author of the
study. Full data on the treatment patients got once their cancer
had worsened will be presented at the  World Congress on
Gastrointestinal Cancer  in July, Heinemann said.  The results show that doctors who treat patients with the
unmutated KRAS gene should choose Erbitux over Avastin,
Heinemann said.  “For the moment we have to remain at that conclusion,” he
said. “We are going to wait for support from the larger study.
For the moment that is a reasonable conclusion.”  Roche looks forward to seeing full details of the study
presented at the conference later today, spokesman Daniel Grotzky said in an e-mail before the results were released.
Avastin is the Basel, Switzerland-based company’s third-biggest
drug, with about $6 billion in sales last year.  Erbitux Sales  Erbitux generated sales for Merck of 887 million euros
($1.15 billion) last year, with the majority of the revenue from
initial use in metastatic colon cancer. The German company sells
the medicine outside  North America . Its U.S. partners Eli Lilly
and Bristol-Myers market the drug in North America.  The survival benefit translated to a 23 percent lower risk
of death for patients who got Erbitux, Merck said in an e-mailed
statement. The German drugmaker said it looks forward to
reviewing “emerging evidence” regarding how best to care for
patients.  Germany’s Merck isn’t related to U.S. drugmaker Merck & Co.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Naomi Kresge in Berlin at 
 nkresge@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Langreth in  New York  at 
 rlangreth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net ;
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  