-- Glaxo’s Votrient Delays Progression of Ovarian Cancer in Trial
-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a
-- 2013-06-01T11:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-01/glaxo-s-votrient-delays-progression-of-ovarian-cancer-in-trial.html
GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK) ’s Votrient
medicine, approved for kidney cancer, delayed relapse of
advanced ovarian cancer by an average 5.6 months following
initial treatment with chemotherapy.  Disease progression was delayed for a median of 17.9 months
among patients taking Votrient, compared with 12.3 months among
those on placebo, according to the study of 940 patients with
advanced ovarian, fallopian tube and primary peritoneal cancer.
The study, funded by Glaxo, was presented today at the  American
Society of Clinical Oncology ’s annual meeting in  Chicago .  Ovarian cancer is the fifth leading cause of cancer death
among women in developed countries, and 70 percent of patients
at the advanced stage relapse even after successful treatment
with surgery and chemotherapy. Votrient, also known as
pazopanib, was approved for use in the U.S. in 2009 for advanced
kidney cancer.  “Our findings show that we finally have a drug that can
maintain control over ovarian cancer growth,” lead study author
Andreas du Bois, professor of gynecologic oncology at Kliniken
Essen Mitte in Essen,  Germany , said in a statement. “If
pazopanib is approved for ovarian cancer, many patients will
experience longer disease-free and chemotherapy-free periods.”  Glaxo, based in  London , plans to seek approval of Votrient
for ovarian cancer later this year in the U.S. and Europe,
according to spokeswoman Eleanor Bunch. The drug was given
 orphan  designation on May 6 by the U.S. Food and Drug
Administration.  Votrient may reach annual sales of $779 million by 2016
from $441 million this year, according to the average of nine
analyst  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in London at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  