-- IMF Approves Greek Disbursement and Seeks Better Tax Collection
-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 2013-06-01T00:15:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-01/imf-approves-greek-disbursement-and-seeks-better-tax-collection.html
The International Monetary Fund
agreed to disburse 1.7 billion euros ($2.3 billion) to  Greece 
under its second bailout to the country after the government
took measures including a bill to dismiss public-sector
employees.  Greece now needs to focus on improving tax collection, the
Washington-based IMF said in an e-mailed statement after meeting
yesterday.  “Greece is well underway to complete its ambitious fiscal
adjustment plan, and is on track to meet its 2013 fiscal
targets,” IMF Managing Director Christine Lagarde said in the
statement. “A critical priority is to tackle tax evasion by
pressing forward rapidly with reform of the revenue
administration to improve operational independence and make the
burden of adjustment more equitable.”  More than three years after Greece revealed it had misled
its euro partners on the state of its finances, the economy of
the Mediterranean nation continues to shrink while relying on
loans from the euro area and the IMF to pay pensions and wages.  Greek lawmakers in April passed a bill including plans to
fire 15,000 workers by the end of next year as the government of
Prime Minister Antonis Samaras cleared the latest hurdle to
receiving international aid payments.  Yesterday’s approval follows the green light given by
European finance chiefs last month under the joint 130 billion-euro rescue.  Lagarde in the statement reminded euro nations that they
gave assurances “that they will consider further measures and
assistance, if necessary, to reduce debt to substantially below
110 percent” of gross domestic product by 2022.  “Their continued commitment to provide adequate financial
support to Greece during the life of the program and beyond
until it has regained market assess, provided that Greece
complies fully with the program, is also essential.”  The rescue package for Greece was approved in early 2012
after an initial 110 billion-euro bailout of the nation in 2010.
The second rescue also included the largest sovereign debt
restructuring in history.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  