-- Infosys Founder Murthy Back as Chairman Amid Investor Pressure
-- B y   K a r t i k a y   M e h r o t r a
-- 2013-06-01T09:33:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-01/infosys-founder-murthy-back-as-chairman-amid-investor-pressure.html
Infosys Ltd. (INFO) , the Indian information
technology company, will return control of its board of
directors to billionaire founder N. R. Narayana Murthy after
forecasting annual sales growth below analyst estimates.  The company’s  shares  have slumped 15 percent since May 2011
when Kundapur Vaman Kamath took over from Murthy as chairman of
the board and S.D. Shibulal was named chief executive officer.
Murthy will replace Kamath, assuming the role of executive
chairman of the board effective immediately.  Infosys, which competes with  Tata Consultancy Services Ltd. (TCS) 
and  HCL Technologies Ltd. (HCLT)  in  India , is battling to win business
from customers who are “less confident in committing long-term
investments” amid economic uncertainty, Shibulal said on May 22
in an interview. Under Murthy’s 19-year tenure as CEO until
2002, Infosys became the first Indian company to sell shares on
the  Nasdaq  and grew to become a 234 billion rupee ($4.1 billion)
enterprise, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Infosys’s fourth quarter is probably the straw that broke
the camel’s back, and after all the criticism the company’s been
facing, Murthy seems to have made a decision that he’s seen
enough,” Harit Shah, an analyst with Mumbai-based Nirmal Bang
Equities Ltd., said by phone. “It won’t happen overnight, but
investors will certainly have more confidence in Murthy to whip
the company back into shape while facing aggressive
competition.”  ‘Conservative Tack’  The Bangalore-based company  expects  revenue to rise 6
percent to 10 percent in the year ending March 2014, it said
when releasing its fourth-quarter results on April 12, less than
the industry group NASCOMM’s estimate of 10 to 14 percent. To
compete with industry rivals, the company must shed its
“conservative tack” as it competes for about $18 billion in
outsourcing contracts in the next two years,  Walter Rossini, a
Milan-based  fund manager  for Aletti Gestielle SGR Spa, said in
an interview on May 22.  “Infosys management has not been clear about the direction
of the company, while their competitors have made it very clear
they will be aggressive,” said Rossini, whose fund holds 11,000
 shares  of Infosys. “The next two years will define the next
decade for Infosys and the industry and my fear is they won’t be
able to change rapidly.”  This time around, Murthy will bring his son Rohan Murthy,
into Infosys as his executive assistant, according to the
statement.  “This calling was sudden, unexpected and most unusual,”
the chairman said in an e-mailed statement.“But, then, Infosys
is my middle child. Therefore, I have put aside my plans and
accepted this responsibility.”  Murthy has accepted a five-year term as chairman, over
which period he will earn a salary of one-rupee per year,
according to the statement. Shareholders will vote on his
appointment as an additional director at the company’s annual
general meeting on June 15.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kartikay Mehrotra in  New Delhi  at 
 kmehrotra2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stanley James at 
 sjames8@bloomberg.net  