-- Lions Overcome Barbarians, Hong Kong Heat in Rugby Tour Warmup
-- B y   S t a n   J a m e s
-- 2013-06-01T17:03:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-01/lions-beat-hong-kong-s-heat-humidity-to-rout-barbarians-59-8.html
The British and Irish Lions warmed up
for their rugby tour of  Australia  by overcoming the heat and
humidity of  Hong Kong  to rout the Barbarians 59-8.  The Lions scored eight tries at Hong Kong Stadium last
night with the temperature over 30 degrees Celsius (86
Fahrenheit) and humidity at about 73 percent. Water sprays
surrounded the field to cool the players, and there were two
enforced water breaks in each half.  “It was tough out there,” Lions coach Warren Gatland said
at a news conference. “Talking to the players, they said the
ball was like a bar of soap.”  The Lions dominated the tight phases, winning three
penalties from set scrums in the first half, and exploited the
Barbarians backline’s disorganized defense. Lions captain Paul O’Connell scored the first try in the 28th minute after his
forwards bullied their way to the Barbarians’ try line, and man-of-the-match  Mike Phillips  followed up with two more.  Barbarians replacement scrum-half Kahn Fotuali’i scored the
invitational team’s only try in the 57th minute. The Lions then
ran in five tries, two for Alex Cuthbert and one each for
 Jonathan Davies , Dan Lydiate and Alun Wyn Jones to complete the
rout.  “It was probably the most difficult conditions I’ve ever
played in anywhere,” O’Connell told reporters. “But it was
great for us to have had that game going forward.”  The match, which drew a crowd of 28,643, was the first in
Hong Kong for the Lions, a team from the U.K. and Ireland which
tours Australia, New Zealand or  South Africa  every four years.
The International Rugby Board has targeted  Asia , the world’s
most populated continent, as a growth area for the game.  The Lions travel to Perth today ahead of the opener of
their nine-match tour of Australia against the Western Force
Super Rugby team on June 9. The first of three Test matches
against Australia will be played June 22.  It was the second time the Lions have faced the Barbarians,
a squad of players from around the world renowned for their
entertaining brand of rugby. The teams met at  London ’s
Twickenham Stadium in 1977 with the Lions winning 23-14.  The Lions haven’t won a Test series since beating South
Africa in 1997. They lost 2-1 in their most recent visit to
Australia in 2001.  Hong Kong twice hosted Bledisloe Cup matches between
Australia and  New Zealand , in 2008 and 2010, and stages the
premier competition on the IRB’s seven-a-side world series
circuit each year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stanley James in Hong Kong at 
 sjames8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  