-- Jean Stapleton, Archie Bunker’s ‘Dingbat’ TV Wife, Dies
-- B y   L a u r e n c e   A r n o l d
-- 2013-06-02T04:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-01/jean-stapleton-archie-bunker-s-dingbat-tv-wife-dies-at-90.html
Jean Stapleton, who portrayed a
traditional homemaker on the front lines of social change as
Archie Bunker’s loyal and underappreciated “dingbat” wife on
the 1970s television show  “All in the Family ,” has died. She
was 90.  The New York Times, citing her agent David Shaul, said
Stapleton died May 31 at her New York City home.  As Edith, matriarch of the Bunker household of Queens, New
York, Stapleton endured the resentful, bigoted rants of Carroll O’Connor’s Archie during the nine-season run of one of
television’s most celebrated situation comedies.  She took his abuse, served his dinner, stayed off his
favorite  chair , kept peace with their daughter when he called
her liberal husband “Meathead,” and listened to his diatribes
against blacks (“spades”), Puerto Ricans (“spics”) and Jews
(“hebes”).  When Edith went through menopause in one 1972 episode,
Archie couldn’t abide her mood swings, irritability and sudden
assertiveness. His traditional cut at her -- “Now stifle
yourself, will ya?” -- sent Edith away crying, leaving him to
note with wonder, “After 23 years of ‘stifles,’ the dingbat
turns on me!”  “All in the Family” was a ratings leader for CBS from
1971 to 1979. Stapleton was nominated for Emmy Awards for eight
of the nine seasons and won three times. O’Connor, who died in
2001 at age 76, won four Emmys as Archie Bunker. The show won
four Emmys for best comedy series.  Exposing Bigotry  “It was very honest, very funny, at uncovering a lot of
bigotry and prejudice and nonsense,” Stapleton said of the show
in a 2000  interview  with the Academy of Television Arts &
Sciences Foundation. “It was real life, and it was true and it
was contemporary, and it brought up issues, too. I loved that.”  Humor, she said, takes bigotry and “reduces it to
nothing.”  Jeanne Murray was born on Jan. 19, 1923, in  Manhattan , the
daughter of Joseph Murray, an advertising salesman, and the
former Marie Stapleton, a professional singer.  Stapleton aspired to follow her older brother, Jack, into
theater, and she stayed that course after he died while she was
in high school. She worked as a secretary and took acting
classes at night, landing a part in a 1947 production of “The
Corn is Green” with New York’s Equity Library Theater.  Broadway Break  An agent who saw the play offered her a part in the road
company of “Harvey,” which became her break. She landed a role
on  Broadway  at 20 in “In the Summer House” and went on to
parts in “Damn Yankees,” “Bells are Ringing” and “Funny
Girl.”  Her television series debut came in the soap opera “Woman
With a Past” (1954), and she appeared in episodes of “Dr.
Kildare” (1961) and “The Defenders” (1962).  Television producer Norman Lear, who had seen Stapleton in
“Damn Yankees,” invited her to read for a new show he was
creating that was based on the British sitcom “Till Death Us Do
Part.” During two auditions in New York City, Stapleton said,
she voiced the role of Edith Bunker without the nasal tone that
eventually came to define the character.  She said she saw Edith as “not very bright, not well
educated,” but with “a great sense of wisdom and heart” who
loved her husband, warts and all.  Edith developed some independence during the series, taking
a part-time job to bring in some extra money to the household.  Political Activism  Thanks to her role as Edith, Stapleton -- initially not
drawn to political activism -- found herself in demand by the
women’s-liberation movement. She was appointed to the commission
that held the 1977  National Women’s Conference , which drew 2,000
delegates to Houston to write a platform for achieving equality.  “All in the Family” neared its end when the Bunkers’
daughter, Gloria (Sally Struthers), and her husband, Mike (Rob Reiner), moved West in the final episode of the 1977-1978
season.  After one final season, O’Connor steered the franchise into
a spinoff, “ Archie Bunker’s Place ,” which ran from 1979 to
1983. Stapleton declined an invitation to join him and made only
guest appearances.  At the start of the 1980-1981 season, Archie dealt with
news that Edith had died of a stroke. Stapleton said Lear was
hesitant to kill off Edith and agreed to do so only after she
assured him it would be OK.  In her post-Edith years, Stapleton was nominated for an
Emmy for portraying Eleanor Roosevelt in the TV movie “Eleanor,
First Lady of the World” (1982). She co-starred with Whoopi Goldberg in the short-lived series “Bagdad Café” (1990). She
was nominated for another Emmy for a guest appearance on “Grace
Under Fire” in 1994.  Hall of Fame  On the big screen, she played bookstore bookkeeper Birdie
Conrad in the Tom Hanks-Meg Ryan romantic comedy “ You’ve Got
Mail ” (1998), directed by Nora Ephron.  The Academy of Television Arts & Sciences  inducted  her into
its Hall of Fame in 2002.  Stapleton married William Putch, a producer and director,
in 1957. Putch, who died in 1983, spent decades running the
 Totem Pole Playhouse  in Fayetteville,  Pennsylvania , and
Stapleton performed there during summer breaks from her TV
career.  Stapleton and Putch had two children,  John Putch , an actor,
and  Pamela Putch , a TV producer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurence Arnold in Washington at 
 larnold4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Charles W. Stevens at 
 cstevens@bloomberg.net  