-- Kion, Springer Science Said Set to Start German IPOs
-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d   a n d   R u t h   D a v i d
-- 2013-06-03T13:25:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-01/kion-springer-science-said-set-to-start-german-ipos.html
Kion Group GmbH, the world’s second-largest maker of forklifts, and academic publisher Springer
Science & Business Media are set to begin their initial public
offerings in two of  Germany ’s biggest listings this year,
according to four people with knowledge of the matter.  Kion said today it will list on the Frankfurt Stock
Exchange this summer and its majority owners,  KKR & Co. (KKR)  and
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , will remain invested after the IPO.
The company may be valued at about 5 billion euros ($6.5
billion), two of the people said. Springer Science, controlled
by Swedish buyout firm EQT Partners AB, may also announce its
intention to float as early as this week, said the people, who
asked not to be identified because the matter is private. EQT is
still accepting takeover offers this month and may scrap the
IPO, they said.  The owners are seeking to tap a rally in equity markets,
with the benchmark  DAX Index (DAX)  gaining one-third in the last 12
months, as well as appetite for companies in Germany, considered
a safe-haven economy with global reach. IPOs in  Europe , the
Middle East and Africa have raised $7.4 billion this year,
compared with about $4 billion in the same period in 2012, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Weichai Stake  The Kion IPO seeks to raise about 900 million euros,
including 500 million euros from a sale of new shares and 400
million euros from Weichai Power Co., which plans to boost its
stake to 30 percent from 25 percent, the person said. Another
100 million euros will come from the conversion of a shareholder
loan, the person said. The potential valuation also reflects
rising earnings and the 2013 forecasts, the person said.  Goldman Sachs (G) , KKR Capital Markets are managing the Kion
share sale along with Deutsche Bank AG and Morgan Stanley.
Deutsche Annington Immobilien AG, Germany’s largest residential
landlord, plans to list shares by the end of the month, people
with knowledge of the matter said May 6.  Springer Science could be valued at as much as 4 billion
euros ($5.2 billion) in a sale, people with knowledge of the
matter said in March. EQT hasn’t made a final decision whether
to pursue an IPO or sell the German publisher. Buyout firms BC
Partners Ltd., which is most interested, as well as KKR and
 Providence Equity Partners  have until about June 10 to hand in
takeover offers, the people said.  EQT, the Swedish buyout firm part-owned by the Wallenberg
family, bought Heidelberg-based Springer Science jointly with
the  Government of Singapore Investment Corp.  in 2009. The
business publishes 2,000 magazines and 7,000 books every year on
subjects including science and medicine.  After Toyota  Kion, which trails  Toyota Industries Corp. (6201) , an affiliate of
Toyota Motor Corp., in the global forklift market, was part of
German industrial-gas maker  Linde AG (LIN)  before a 4 billion-euro
buyout in 2006. Owners KKR and Goldman Sachs sold 25 percent of
Kion to Weichai Power,  China ’s biggest maker of heavy-duty
trucks, in August to help trim debt. Kion also sold 70 percent
of its hydraulics unit to the Chinese firm. The moves brought
Kion 738 million euros in investment from Weichai.  Kion, based in Wiesbaden, Germany, employed more than
21,000 people and generated revenues of 4.73 billion euros in
2012, according to today’s statement. The company is present in
approximately 100 countries and has a global market share of
around 15 percent.  Spokesmen for Springer Science, EQT, KKR,  BC Partners  and
Goldman Sachs declined to comment. Representatives for
Providence couldn’t be immediately reached outside of regular
business hours.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Kirchfeld in London at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net ;
Ruth David in London at 
 rdavid9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  