-- Nigeria Rejects Jazeera Report Saying Military Kills Civilians
-- B y   M a r a m   M a z e n
-- 2013-06-01T12:32:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-01/nigeria-rejects-jazeera-report-saying-military-kills-civilians.html
Nigerian President  Goodluck Jonathan ’s office denied an  Al Jazeera   report  that civilians had
been killed in the military’s offensive against Islamist
militants.  A video, which Al Jazeera said late yesterday was taken by
a unidentified Nigerian soldier of the current military
operation, was actually of another incident on May 7 in the
northeastern town of Bama, Reuben Abati, a presidential
spokesman, said today in an e-mailed statement. On May 7, Boko
Haram militants wearing army uniforms attacked a barracks, a
prison and a police station in the town of Bama, killing at
least 42 people and freeing 105 inmates, officials said at the
time, adding that 13 militants also died.  The military of  Africa ’s largest oil producer began an air
and ground offensive against Boko Haram on May 16, after
Jonathan imposed emergency rule on May 14 in the northeastern
states of Borno, Yobe and Adamawa to step up the fight against
Islamist militants. The insurgents were taking over parts of
Borno state, according to Jonathan.  The network’s claim that the man in uniform, who didn’t
show his face, is a soldier “cannot be sustained” as Boko
Haram members are known to wear military uniforms, said Abati.
“No soldier has left the frontiers since the beginning of the
operations.”.  Boko Haram, whose name means “Western education is a sin”
in the local Hausa language, has carried out attacks across
 Nigeria ’s north and in Abuja, the capital, since police killed
its founder,  Mohammed Yusuf , while in custody for his role in
clashes with the security forces in 2009. The group says it
wants Islamic rule in Africa’s most populous country, almost
evenly split between a mainly Muslim north and a predominantly
Christian south.  Jonathan’s emergency rule declaration followed violence in
Baga, a fishing town on the shores of Lake Chad, in which as
many as 228 people were killed after security forces responded
to an attack by militants on April 16, according to local
officials.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maram Mazen in Abuja at 
 mmazen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  