-- Hong Kong’s Anti-Graft Agency Took Gift From China, Now TV Says
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   T o n g
-- 2013-06-01T09:27:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-01/hong-kong-s-anti-graft-agency-took-gift-from-china-now-tv-says.html
Hong Kong ’s anti-corruption agency
accepted a gift worth more than HK$200,000 ($25,765) from
mainland Chinese officials in 2007, Now TV reported today,
citing the body’s former head.  The  Independent Commission Against Corruption  received the
decorative screen during the opening ceremony of the agency’s
new office building, Timothy Tong, the agency’s former
commissioner, said at a hearing of the city’s legislative
council today, according to the pay TV operator. The gift was
given by representatives from China’s Supreme People’s
Procuratorate, Now TV reported Tong as saying.  The revelation comes after the ICAC said this month it will
investigate Tong amid allegations of corrupt practices and
misconduct after he spent more than $100,000 on gifts and travel
during his term as leader of the body from 2007 to 2012. Hong
Kong’s Chief Executive Leung Chun-ying has said the government
will review spending at the ICAC under Tong, who was appointed
to China’s top political advisory body this year.  Two phone calls the ICAC press office outside business
hours weren’t answered.  The ICAC’s entertainment expenses during Tong’s term had no
connection with his appointment to the  Chinese People’s
Political Consultative Conference , Tong said, according to a
separate report by  Radio Television Hong Kong  today. Tong added
that the ICAC’s acceptance of the gift didn’t affect its
operations, RTHK reported.  Tong’s comments come after the ICAC pursued a number of
high-profile investigations under his leadership, including
arresting former Chief Secretary Rafael Hui in March 2012. Hui
and the co-chairmen of  Sun Hung Kai Properties Ltd. (16) , Thomas and
 Raymond Kwok , have pleaded not guilty to corruption charges in
that case.  The Liaison Office of the Central People’s Government in
Hong Kong, which is a special administrative region of China,
requested its staff to strictly follow the central government’s
rules and not to take gifts including food and expensive items,
the office said in a statement yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Tong in Hong Kong at 
 stong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stanley James at 
 sjames8@bloomberg.net  