-- South Korea’s May Exports Unexpectedly Rise on Smartphone Sales
-- B y   E u n k y u n g   S e o
-- 2013-06-01T02:49:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-01/south-korea-s-may-exports-unexpectedly-rise-on-smartphone-sales.html
South  Korea ’s exports unexpectedly
increased in May as surging smartphone shipments and improving
demand from the U.S. and China countered a decline in the yen.  Overseas shipments  increased 3.2 percent from a year
earlier after a 0.4 percent gain in April, the Ministry of
Trade, Industry and Energy said in a statement today. The median
estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of 12 economists was for a
decline of 0.9 percent, with 10 projecting a drop.  Today’s report signals South Korea is weathering an 18
percent decline in the yen against the dollar over the past six
months amid government warnings the drop is hurting car and
electronics exporters. Finance Minister Hyun Oh Seok reiterated
yesterday that the yen’s depreciation is having “negative
impact” on Asia’s fourth-largest economy.  “The impact of a falling yen doesn’t seem to have bitten
the entire economy but this is clearly a major risk, along with
a slow global economic recovery,” said  Park Sang Hyun , a Seoul-based economist at Hi Investment and Securities Co. “The Bank
of Korea will keep interest rates low and may cut again if the
yen sees further sharp declines.”  Policy makers in South Korea have stepped up efforts to
boost the economy with fiscal stimulus and monetary easing while
giving financial support for exporters to cope with a weaker
yen. Overseas shipments account for about half the economy.  “Smartphone sales are pretty strong and demand in the U.S.
and China is picking up,” the trade ministry said in a
statement today. “Still, the weak yen is a big concern and our
exports will deteriorate if the yen’s depreciation is prolonged
and deepens.”  Imports Decline  Overseas sales of wireless telecommunication devices jumped
62.5 percent in May from a year ago, according to the statement.
By destination, exports to the U.S. rose 21.6 percent and those
to  China  gained 16.6 percent. Shipments to  Japan  fell 11.7
percent.  Imports declined 4.8 percent from a year earlier in May,
the ministry said today, the fourth straight decline. The trade
surplus was $6 billion, the most since October 2010, after a
$2.4 billion excess in April.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stanley James at 
 sjames8@bloomberg.net  