-- SoftBank’s Sprint Bid Backed by ISS; No Dish Opinion Given
-- B y   S c o t t   M o r i t z   a n d   S e r e n a   S a i t t o
-- 2013-06-01T19:59:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-01/sprint-investors-must-take-softbank-offer-to-expand-iss-report.html
Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)  investors should
accept SoftBank Corp.’s $20.1 billion takeover bid,
Institutional Shareholder Services said in a report that didn’t
offer an opinion on a counterbid from  Dish (DISH)  Network Corp.  The SoftBank proposal would provide Sprint with capital to
acquire additional spectrum and complete the transformation of
its network, said ISS, the biggest shareholder-advisory firm, in
a report dated May 31. ISS didn’t determine whether Dish’s $25.5
billion offer is superior because it hasn’t yet been presented
to shareholders.  “Given the preliminary nature of the Dish offer -- and in
particular that shareholders may not themselves affirmatively
choose that offer over the SoftBank transaction, as Dish has not
yet made its offer directly through a tender -- ISS has not
developed a view,” the firm said.  Sprint investors are scheduled to vote June 12 on the
SoftBank offer. SoftBank and Dish are competing for control of
Sprint, the third-biggest U.S. mobile-phone carrier, as they
seek to convert it into a stronger competitor against Verizon
Wireless and  AT&T Inc. (T)   “SoftBank can’t rely on an ISS recommendation to get their
deal done,” said Walt Piecyk, an analyst with BTIG LLC in New
York. He said SoftBank needs “to take control of the
situation” and sweeten “both the Sprint and Clearwire offers
soon to use the upcoming vote dates to their advantage.”  Due Diligence  Dish and Sprint, in a separate battle, are each trying to
win control of Clearwire Corp.  Cheryl Gustitus, a spokeswoman for Rockville, Maryland-based ISS, didn’t respond to a message seeking comment after
business hours. Bob Toevs, a spokesman for Dish, declined to
comment.  SoftBank is “pleased that ISS recognizes the value
proposition of our agreed transaction,” Ron Fisher,  SoftBank (9984) 
Holdings Inc. president, said in an e-mailed statement.  While Dish announced its offer for Sprint in April, it only
won access to the wireless company’s private financial data on
May 20, allowing it to build a case for the superiority of its
offer over SoftBank’s. ISS can’t develop an opinion on Dish’s
offer until the satellite carrier formally proposes a tender
offer to shareholders, the advisory firm said.  Sprint needs more investment to bulk up its long-term
evolution network to offer faster Internet speeds, helping it
lure subscribers from AT&T and Verizon, ISS said. SoftBank
offers the resources and experience to help Sprint, it said.  Egan-Jones Rejection  “From a strategic perspective, the deal addresses Sprint’s
most compelling need: capital to acquire additional spectrum and
complete the transformation of its network, enabling it to fully
compete in the U.S. market,” ISS said.  The report from ISS follows a recommendation from Egan-Jones Ratings Co. that Sprint investors reject SoftBank’s
proposal. SoftBank is probably preparing an improved offer, and
Dish remains in talks with Sprint, so it’s best to hold out for
now, Egan-Jones said May 31.  Large investors use advisory firms to help guide their
decisions on shareholder votes, though they’re not bound to
follow their guidance. Earlier this year, Deutsche Telekom AG
raised its offer for MetroPCS Communications Inc. after ISS
rejected its original bid.  Dish, the second-biggest U.S. satellite-TV provider, has
waged a separate fight with Sprint for control of  Clearwire (CLWR) , the
Bellevue, Washington-based wireless Internet company. Dish
raised its bid May 29 for Clearwire shares to $4.40, 29 percent
higher than Sprint’s offer, forcing Sprint to choose whether to
counterbid, and potentially affecting SoftBank’s plans.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stanley James in Hong Kong at 
 sjames8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stanley James in Hong Kong at 
 sjames8@bloomberg.net  