-- U.K. Says Energy Law to Bring ‘Massive’ Cut in Pollution
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2013-06-01T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-01/u-k-says-energy-law-to-bring-massive-cut-in-pollution.html
Energy Secretary  Ed Davey  urged
lawmakers to back away from immediately imposing targets for
carbon emission from U.K. power plants, saying legislation being
considered now will make a “massive” reduction.  His department estimated the law being considered in
Parliament tomorrow will stimulate 110 billion pounds ($168
billion) of investment in power stations and the electric grid.
It includes guaranteed power prices for atomic reactors and wind
farms and payments for gas plants that remain available to
smooth peaks and troughs of intermittent renewable generation.  “The  energy bill  will lead to a massive decarbonization of
the power sector by 2030, and will enable the U.K. to cut its
economy-wide emissions by 50 percent by 2030,” Davey said in a
statement e-mailed by the Department of Energy and Climate
Change. It “will make the U.K. a destination of choice for
investors in low-carbon energy,” driving growth and jobs.  The comments were aimed at heading off a rebellion by some
members of the ruling Conservatives and Liberal Democrat
parties, who along with the Labour opposition want to impose a 
target to largely eliminate carbon emissions from power 
generation by 2030. The Treasury and some utilities are
concerned that measure would boost power prices.  Davey reached an agreement last year with Chancellor of the
Exchequer  George Osborne  to postpone a decision on whether to
have a target until at least 2016. Manufacturers of low-carbon
power-generation equipment including  Vestas Wind Systems A/S (VWS)  and
 Areva SA (AREVA)  have said the lack of a target risks choking off  job
creation .  Davey’s View  “We are also legislating to set a decarbonization target
range for the power sector in 2016, something no political party
had in their manifesto,” Davey said.  Barry Gardiner, a Labour member of Parliament, has joined
with Conservative lawmaker  Tim Yeo , who leads the energy and
climate change committee, in proposing an amendment to the
energy bill that would ensure a decarbonization target is set
sooner than 2016. Labour failed to win broader backing for a
similar measure in December, and it isn’t clear whether the
rebels have enough votes to keep the matter alive this week.  The U.K.’s biggest business lobby, the  Confederation of
British Industry , said debate over the decarbonization target
shouldn’t be allowed to derail the legislation. Investment
decisions are more likely to be based on the terms of the so-called contracts for difference, guaranteeing power prices to
nuclear and renewables, and on capacity payments designed to
ensure supply when the wind isn’t blowing, it said.  ‘Vital Investments’  “Debates about the effect of including a target in the
bill should not be allowed to prevent critical policy details
being tied down,” CBI Chief Policy Director Katja Hall said in
an e-mailed statement. “Vital investment decisions are hanging
in the balance.”  The bill reforming the  electricity market  will stimulate
generation from a mix of nuclear, gas and renewables. It will
also allow for  carbon capture  and storage technology. The
government also wants to amend the bill to including payments
for measures that cut power demand within its planned capacity
market.  Lawmakers are scheduled to vote on the amendments on
Tuesday before sending the law to the House of Lords, the upper
chamber of Parliament. The government says it wants to pass the
law this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  