-- U.S. and Japan Seek Dialogue With China to Prevent Sea Clashes
-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e   a n d   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 2013-06-01T05:17:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-01/u-s-and-japan-seek-dialogue-with-china-to-prevent-sea-clashes.html
The U.S. and  Japan  called for
increased dialogue with  China  to prevent miscalculations in
waterways vital to world trade as territorial disputes raise
tensions across  Asia .  Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel told the Shangri-La Dialogue
security forum in  Singapore  today the U.S. would resist “any
coercive attempts to alter the status quo” in seas off China’s
coasts. He also sought to reassure China that moves by the U.S.
to shift military resources to Asia did not amount to a
containment policy.  “How can the U.S. assure China of our intentions -- that’s
really the whole point behind closer military to military
relationships,” Hagel said in response to a question from a
Chinese delegate at the event hosted by the International
Institute for Strategic Studies. “We don’t want miscalculations
and misunderstandings and misinterpretations, and the only way
you do that is you talk to each other.”  Hagel is aiming to balance concerns among U.S. allies about
China’s territorial ambitions against a need to cooperate with
President Xi Jinping’s government in halting North Korea’s
nuclear weapons program. President  Barack Obama  is due to meet
Xi in  California  on June 7 amid disputes over cyber-espionage,
 Iran ’s weapons program and Syria’s civil war.  Japan, a U.S. ally, is seeking to create a National
Security Council so it can respond quickly to emergencies,
Defense Minister Itsunori Onodera told the forum. He called for
neighboring countries to establish a maritime coordination
mechanism at the “earliest possible timing” to prevent crises
over incidents at sea.  ’Indispensable Presence’  “The military presence of the  United States  is
indispensable in securing peace and stability of the Asia-Pacific region,” Onodera said. That presence “serves not only
as a deterrent against unforeseen contingencies but also serves
to create opportunities for dialogue and cooperation among the
regional countries.”  Tensions over fish, oil and gas in disputed waters risk
disrupting trade among emerging Asian powers that are driving
global economic growth. Vietnam Prime Minister Nguyen Tan Dung
yesterday warned that miscalculations may disrupt the estimated
two-thirds of global trade that moves through the  South China
Sea .  “A single irresponsible action or instigation of conflict
could well lead to the interruption of such huge trade flow,
thus causing unforeseeable consequences not only to regional
economies, but also to the entire world,” he said.  Budget Cuts  Hagel sought to reassure Asian allies today that budget
cuts won’t derail the U.S. commitment to their security. A year
after the Pentagon said it would “rebalance” its strategy to
focus more on the Asia-Pacific region after a decade of wars in
Iraq and Afghanistan, the Defense Department faces as much as
$500 billion in cuts over the next nine years as part of a
deficit-reduction law.  Hagel met separately at the forum with defense ministers of
 Indonesia  and the  Philippines , a treaty ally. He cited new U.S.
defense capabilities, including using lasers to defend ships at
sea and putting remotely piloted aircraft on aircraft carriers,
while expounding on plans to shift 60 percent of naval military
assets to Asia by 2020.  Chinese officials would like to exchange views with Hagel
at the meeting, particularly on cyber-security, foreign ministry
spokesman Hong Lei told reporters in Beijing yesterday.  Hagel was challenged during a question and answer session
at the forum today by Major-General Yao Yunzhu, director of the
Center for China-America Defense Relations at the Academy of
Military Science within the  People’s Liberation Army .  “U.S. government officials have on several occasions
clarified that the rebalance is not against China,” Yao told
Hagel. “However, China is not convinced.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Singapore at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net ;
David Lerman in Singapore at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  