-- Turkish Protesters Ruin Cars as Demonstrations Continue
-- B y   S e l c a n   H a c a o g l u
-- 2013-06-02T10:31:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-01/turkish-protests-swell-as-police-violence-incites-crowds.html
Thousands of demonstrators in
Istanbul smashed and overturned police cars and other vehicles
overnight, using the wreckage to scrawl graffiti or seek shelter
as violent anti-government protests entered a fourth day.  “From now on, the people will be taken into account,”
said Cemil Ardic, 30, as he sat in the driver’s seat of a ruined
police car in Taksim square today while fellow protestors slept
inside an abandoned police minibus. “The prime minister was
asking what we want. We want justice. We want democracy. We want
our freedom.”  Protesters in Istanbul said today and yesterday that
they’re reacting to oppression by Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan ’s government, including limits on alcohol sales and
marketing last week, his refusal to allow labor unions to rally
in Taksim on May Day, and the jailing of hundreds of military
officers, academics, journalists and lawyers on charges of
attempting to overthrow the government.  The protests, which began over a government project to
redevelop a park near Taksim square in central Istanbul, have
spread to dozens of Turkish cities as police crackdowns fuel
further anger. More than 90 protests took place in 48 cities,
leaving 53 citizens and 26 police officers injured, Interior
Minister Muammer Guler told reporters late yesterday. Activists
used social media sites to organize gatherings amid muted local-media coverage.  Shopping Mall  Guler said one of 19 people hospitalized in Istanbul was in
intensive care. Erdogan ordered an investigation into use of
force by police who fired pepper-gas canisters at stone-throwing
protesters.  Robert Bosch GmbH ,  Europe ’s biggest car-parts maker, said
that an environmental event for children scheduled for today in
Istanbul was postponed over security concerns.  Thousands of protestors poured on to the streets and
reoccupied Gezi Park, the city’s central common, yesterday after
the government ordered the police to withdraw following violent
clashes. The police retreat from the park and nearby Taksim
Square came as supporters of the opposition  Republican People’s
Party  marched on the square.  A court order stopped construction of a sidewalk at the
park, where Erdogan yesterday said that a replica of an Ottoman
army barracks will be rebuilt, possibly including a shopping
mall or a city museum. The plan is among events that sparked the
revolt.  The crowds celebrated the withdrawal of police from the
area throughout the night, dancing and shouting slogans.  “Shoulder to shoulder against Tayyip,” the crowd shouted
yesterday, referring to Erdogan, as youths dragged away metal
barriers that had been erected around the park and blocked
streets near luxury hotels.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcan Hacaoglu in Ankara at 
 shacaoglu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  