-- Van Rompuy: Direction of Budget Reforms More Important
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e   a n d   J o h n   M a r t e n s
-- 2013-06-01T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-01/van-rompuy-direction-of-budget-reforms-more-important.html
European Union President Herman Van Rompuy said the pace of reform is less important than whether
nations take the right steps to overhaul their economies,
according to an interview published in De Tijd and L’Echo today.  “We are not fundamentalists,” Van Rompuy was cited as
saying. “Reforms heading in the right direction, that’s the
main thing. Not the speed.”  The European Commission this week gave France, Spain and
Slovenia two extra years to meet their budget targets, compared
to timelines set out in previous guidelines. The Netherlands and
 Portugal  got one extra year, and the commission also refrained
from fining  Belgium  for not taking strict enough measures.  Van Rompuy said citizens in EU countries face more
tradeoffs than they used to for being part of the 27-nation bloc
and the 17-nation euro zone.  “It used to be more of a win-win situation, with no
passports, no foreign exchange at the borders and more trade
with one another,” Van Rompuy said. “The euro crisis hit into
the heart of the economy and hence into people’s wallets. You
can’t get any closer to people than through their money.”  Van Rompuy, a former  Belgian prime minister , said it’s too
simple to say that the EU has wielded too much power during the
crisis at the expense of elected leaders. He noted that voters
have brought in new governments in 18 of the bloc’s 27 nations
since he took up his EU post in December 2009.  “Paternalism would mean that the measures are imposed by
people who are not elected,” Van Rompuy said. “Europe sets out
the framework, but the reform programs still need to be decided
and implemented by national governments. They must be
accountable to the voter,” he  said. “The political courage of
European governments is seriously underestimated. They reform
under pressure, but they do it anyway.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rebecca Christie in Brussels at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net ;
John Martens in Brussels at 
 jmartens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  