-- 
Balanced-Budget Amendment Sought by Republicans Falls Short in U.S. House

-- B y   B r i a n   F a l e r
-- 
2011-11-19T05:00:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-18/balanced-budget-amendment-sought-by-republicans-falls-short-in-u-s-house.html
A proposed constitutional amendment
requiring the government to balance its budget was killed in the
U.S. House yesterday, sparking an immediate effort to define the
vote as a political plus or minus for Democrats.  Opposition from most House Democrats denied the measure the
two-thirds majority required to send it to the Senate. With at
least 284 votes needed for passage, 261 lawmakers supported the
amendment and 165 voted against it.  “It’s unfortunate that Democrats still don’t recognize the
urgency of stopping Washington’s job-crushing spending binge,”
House Speaker  John Boehner , an Ohio Republican, said in a
statement after the vote.  Gerald McEntee, head of the American Federation of State,
County and Municipal Employees, lauded the amendment’s defeat as
“a win for working families.” He said in a statement that
“congressional Democrats stood their ground and rejected the
balanced-budget amendment and the deep cuts it would have made
to Social Security, Medicare and Medicaid.”  Among Democrats, 161 opposed the measure while 25 voted for
it. Among Republicans, 236 supported it while 4 voted ‘no,’
including House Budget Committee Chairman  Paul Ryan  of
 Wisconsin . He opposed the plan because it didn’t go far enough,
he said in a statement. Ryan said he wanted provisions that
would cap total  government spending .  Constitutional amendments must be approved by two-thirds
majorities in the House and the Senate, and then backed by
three-fourths of the 50 states.  Debt Accord  The House agreed to have the vote on the balanced-budget
amendment as part of the deal Congress approved in August to
raise the government’s debt limit.  Also created in that legislation was a congressional
supercommittee charged with devising a plan by Nov. 23 to carve
at least $1.2 trillion out of the budget over the next decade.
The panel remains at odds over tax increases and cuts to the
politically sensitive entitlement programs such as Medicare.  The Constitution has been amended just 27 times, though
lawmakers have offered more than 11,000 proposals to alter it,
according to congressional statistics.  Two amendments have been added in the past 40 years. A 1992
measure required that changes to lawmakers’ pay can’t take
effect until their subsequent term in office, after an
intervening election. In 1971, during the  Vietnam War , the
voting age was lowered to 18, matching the minimum age of
eligibility for the military draft.  Three-Fifths Provision  The proposal rejected yesterday didn’t mean that lawmakers
would always have to match federal spending with revenue. In an
effort to win Democratic votes needed for approval, the
chamber’s Republican majority agreed to allow deficit-financed
spending if approved by three-fifths votes.  The proposal also mandated that presidential budget
requests to Congress be balanced, and that debt-limit increases
be approved by three-fifths votes.  The bill was similar to an amendment that nearly won
congressional approval in 1995, passing the House and falling
one vote short in the Senate. Though  House Republicans  have a
bigger majority now than they did then, the number of fiscally
conservative Democrats has declined.  Spending Addiction  Republican Representative  John Fleming  of  Louisiana , in a
floor speech yesterday urging the amendment’s passage, told his
colleagues “this body is hopelessly addicted to excessive
spending and budget deficits -- hopelessly.” He added: “It’s
time that we do something” to stem that.  Representative Jerrold Nadler, a New York Democrat, led the
debate against the amendment, saying said it would require major
cuts in important programs. “This is a dagger pointed at the
heart of Social Security and Medicare and veterans’ benefits,”
he said.  Democrats backing the measure included Representative Peter DeFazio of  Oregon .  “There’s an infinite capacity in this Congress to kick the
can down the road,” he said “We’re going to have to force
people to make tough choices -- that’s the conclusion I came
to” in backing the amendment.  Though nearly all state governments must balance their
budgets, many economists are skeptical of imposing a similar
requirement on Congress. That’s because  tax revenue 
automatically falls during recessions, while spending on
unemployment assistance,  food stamps  and other benefits climbs,
which economists say helps to mitigate downturns. Economists
refer to those as “automatic stabilizers.”  ‘Less Stable’ Economy  Taking the stabilizers “away at the federal level risks
making the economy less stable, risks exacerbating the swings in
business cycles,” Congressional Budget Office Director Doug Elmendorf told a congressional panel in January.  Some Democrats opposing the amendment argued that political
will -- not a change to the Constitution -- is what is required
for a balanced federal budget.  “A constitutional amendment is not a path to a balanced
budget -- it is only an excuse for members of this body failing
to cast votes to achieve one,” said Representative Lloyd Doggett, a Texas Democrat.  The most recent fiscal plan approved by the House, crafted
by Ryan, wouldn’t erase the deficit until 2040.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Faler in  Washington  at 
 bfaler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  