-- 
Keystone XL and Other Pipelines Needed, TransCanada CEO Says

-- B y   B r a d l e y   O l s o n
-- 
2011-11-18T05:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-18/keystone-xl-and-other-pipelines-needed-transcanada-ceo-says.html
Growth in North American crude
production has created sufficient demand for both the Keystone
XL pipeline and a competing project to move oil from storage in
 Oklahoma  to the Gulf Coast, TransCanada Chief Executive Officer
 Russ Girling  said.  The plan by  Enbridge Inc. (ENB)  and  Enterprise Products Partners
LP (EPD)  to reverse the Seaway pipeline that flows from the Gulf of
Mexico to Cushing, Oklahoma, is “not a competing project” with
the Keystone XL, which would bring oil from Canada to Texas
refineries, he said.  “All that oil’s got to get to a market, and the best
market’s the Gulf Coast,” Girling said in an interview
yesterday at Bloomberg headquarters in  New York . “We’re going
to need Seaway, we’re going to need our pipe, we’re probably
going to need some more pipe down the road.”  The decision of the U.S. State Department to delay a ruling
on the Keystone XL until at least 2013 put TransCanada at a
disadvantage to its competitors and will lead  Canada  to seek
alternative markets for its crude production, including  Asia , he
said.  TransCanada, based in Calgary, may seek partners for
pipelines that reach non-U.S. markets, Girling said.  “There’s no way that our country and our leadership is
going to not develop that resource,” he said. “They’re going
to develop it responsibly, but it’s going to happen. And if it
can’t access this market, it will access other markets.”  Postponement  The State Department said Nov. 10 that it is postponing a
decision on the project until early 2013 due to concerns in
Nebraska over the pipeline’s path.  The delay represents a process that is “not necessarily a
level playing field,” Girling said. “From a competitive
standpoint, I don’t think that’s the fairest thing in the
world.”  The reversed Seaway pipeline will initially move light
crude to the  Gulf Coast  that is being produced in tight rock
formations that have been unlocked by new drilling techniques,
said John Auers, senior vice president of Turner, Mason & Co., a
Dallas-based pipeline and engineering consultancy.  “Keystone is still needed,” he said in a telephone
interview yesterday.  The two projects are not competitive because Keystone XL
would move 700,000 barrels a day from Canada to the Gulf of
Mexico, while Enbridge’s plan would not be capable of moving
that volume all the way to the Gulf.  Cushing Connection  TransCanada is weighing whether it will first build a
segment of the Keystone XL pipeline that would run from the
oversupplied oil-storage hub in Cushing to the  Gulf of Mexico ,
Girling said.  The company has yet to discuss the option with oil
producers and refiners, and it also would need permission from
the State Department, he said.  Girling said it was too soon to say what new route the
Keystone XL would ultimately follow in Nebraska.  Politicians, landowners and environmentalists in the state
feared a spill along the pipeline’s original path would pollute
the Sandhills, a wide expanse of grass-covered dunes that sits
on top of the Ogallala aquifer. The aquifer provides drinking
water to 1.5 million people in Nebraska.  The pipeline will be moved away from a region in the
Sandhills where the water table reaches the surface. The area
involves about 35 miles, including Holt County in the Northern
part of the state, he said.  As  Nebraska  lawmakers began a special legislative session
Nov. 1 seeking to reroute the pipeline away from sensitive
environmental terrain, TransCanada officials said any such law
would be unconstitutional and threatened to sue the state.
Girling said a reroute would “seriously jeopardize” the
project.  On Nov. 14, TransCanada reversed course and said it would
collaborate with Nebraska and State Department officials on a
new route.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bradley Olson in Houston  at 
 bradleyolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  