-- Asian Stocks Weaken as Fed Flags Earlier Stimulus Paring
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s   a n d   K a n a   N i s h i z a w a
-- 2013-11-23T01:27:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-23/asian-stocks-weaken-as-fed-flags-earlier-stimulus-paring.html
Asian  stocks  weakened after minutes
of a Federal Reserve meeting signaled bond purchases may be cut
sooner than expected, erasing earlier gains made after  China 
outlined its broadest economic reforms since the 1990s.  Newcrest Mining Ltd. slipped 11 percent, pacing declines
among gold producers as prices for the precious metal dropped on
Fed tapering bets. Citic Securities Co. jumped 14 percent in
 Hong Kong , leading gains among Chinese brokerages as the
government flagged policy changes that may lead to ending the
ban on mainland initial public offerings.  Honda Motor Co. (7267)  rose 5
percent, leading Japanese exporters higher as the yen headed for
its longest streak of weekly losses since February.  About five shares gained for every four that fell on the
MSCI  Asia  Pacific Index, which declined 0.2 percent to 141.23
this week. The measure advanced 9 percent this year through
yesterday on bets the Fed will maintain record stimulus, the
 Bank of Japan ’s efforts to weaken the yen and signs  China’s
economy  is improving.  “Overall the underlying sentiment is quite bullish,
especially towards Chinese companies,” said  Alex Wong , a Hong
Kong-based director at Ample Capital Ltd. “People are still
chasing China stocks as they remain bullish on sectors like
insurers, securities and coal. Positive sentiment is being
carried forward by the plenum.”  Chinese shares are on the cusp of a historic bull run,
according to a research note from Jefferies Group LLC.
Comprehensive reform decisions from the Communist Party plenum
impressed “tremendously,” with a significance rivaling that of
 Deng Xiaoping  declaring the opening of China in 1978, analysts
led by Christie Ju wrote in a note.  China Liberalization  China’s leaders pledged reforms that include allowing more
private investment in state-controlled industries and loosening
the one-child policy, according to a Communist Party statement
published by Xinhua News Agency on Nov. 15. Details of the
policy shift lifted baby product makers to insurers. The
government is liberalizing its policies in an effort to bolster
an economy that’s heading for its weakest annual expansion since
1999.  The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  advanced 7 percent
this week, the biggest weekly gain since December 2011. Hong
Kong’s benchmark Hang Seng Index advanced 2.9 percent, and the
Shanghai Composite Index added 2.8 percent.  Japan ’s Topix index climbed 0.8 percent this week as the
yen fell below 100 against the dollar for the first time since
July. Bank of Japan Governor Haruhiko Kuroda said in parliament
yesterday in  Tokyo  that the yen isn’t “excessively weak.” The
central bank this week maintained its unprecedented monetary
policy. The central bank will need to extend the timeframe for
reaching 2 percent inflation as it refrains from enlarging its
asset purchases, according to economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Fed Tapering  Other markets in Asia declined amid concern the Fed will
soon taper stimulus. Minutes of the central bank’s October
meeting released this week showed policy makers expect ongoing
improvement in the labor market to “warrant trimming the pace
of purchases in coming months.” Fed Bank of St. Louis President
 James Bullard  also told Bloomberg Television that a reduction in
the $85 billion-a-month bond-buying program was “on the table”
for next month.  The U.S. Senate Banking Committee on Nov. 21 voted 14-8 to
approve  Janet Yellen  as the next chairman of the Fed, sending
the nomination to the full Senate for approval. Yellen, a vocal
proponent of accommodative policy, has said an early exit from
stimulus would put a fragile U.S. economic recovery at risk.  Australia ’s S&P/ASX 200 Index slipped 1.2 percent, while
New Zealand’s NZX 50 Index dropped 2 percent.  South Korea ’s
Kospi index was little changed. Taiwan’s Taiex Index lost 0.7
percent.  Singapore ’s Straits Times Index declined 0.9 percent.  Relative Value  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index yesterday traded at 13.8 times
estimated earnings, compared with 16.3 on the Standard & Poor’s
500 Index and 15.1 for the Stoxx Europe 600 Index, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Chinese brokerages advanced. Policy makers will seek to
“push forward reform for a registration system” on IPOs,
according to a Nov. 15 statement posted on the Chinese
government’s website detailing decisions from a Beijing meeting
of the Communist Party’s  Central Committee  this month.  Citic Securities (6030) , the nation’s biggest brokerage, jumped 14
percent to HK$18.94 in Hong Kong. Haitong Securities Co. climbed
11 percent to HK$12.94.  Mainland infant-formula makers gained after the Communist
Party said it would ease restrictions on having two children.
China Mengniu Dairy Co. rose 3.4 percent to HK$34.65. China
Modern Dairy Holdings Ltd. climbed 7 percent to HK$4.28.  Glorious Property Holdings Ltd. surged 33 percent to
HK$1.65 after Chinese billionaire Zhang Zhirong, the company’s
largest shareholder, offered as much as HK$4.57 billion ($589
million) to take the Chinese developer private.  Japanese Exporters  Japanese exporters advanced. Honda, which gets about 83
percent of sales outside of Japan, climbed 5 percent to 4,295
yen this week in Tokyo. Sony Corp., the maker of Bravia
televisions and PlayStation game consoles, added 1.6 percent to
1,875 yen.  SoftBank Corp. jumped 5.3 percent to 8,150 yen. Third Point
LLC, the hedge fund run by activist  Daniel Loeb , has taken a
stake in the Japanese wireless carrier valued at more than $1
billion, according to a person with knowledge of the matter.  Gold producers declined as bullion sank to its lowest since
July 9. Newcrest Mining fell 11 percent to A$8.50 in Sydney.
Zijin Mining Group Co., China’s biggest gold producer, lost 2.2
percent to HK$1.80.  WorleyParsons Ltd., Australia’s largest oil and gas
engineering company, slumped 26 percent to A$16 after saying
profit will miss forecasts.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net ;
Kana Nishizawa in Hong Kong at 
 knishizawa5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah McDonald at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net  