-- Latvia Starts Three Days of Mourning as Roof Collapse Kills 52
-- B y   A a r o n   E g l i t i s
-- 2013-11-23T10:17:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-23/latvia-starts-three-days-of-mourning-as-roof-collapse-kills-52.html
Latvia  started a three-day period of
mourning after at least 52 people died when a supermarket roof
collapsed in Riga two days ago, as police probed the country’s
worst accident since it regained independence in 1991.  Rescue workers at the  Maxima XX  supermarket in the Zolitude
district of the capital continue to excavate the site, where the
roof collapsed on Nov. 21 at about 6 p.m. Police spokesman Toms
Sadovskis said by phone that 52 people had died.  Interior Minister Rihards Kozlovskis said a criminal
investigation has been opened, and police are questioning
witnesses and working with technical experts from universities.
Maxima Group, the biggest retailer in the Baltic states, said it
rents the site and construction work it wasn’t involved with was
taking place in the roof and underground parking area.  One theory “is that there was a violation in construction
regulation,” while another is that the work on the roof
prompted the collapse, Kazlovskis said on Latvian television.  The period of mourning will include three minutes of
silence on Nov. 25. Some 16 children lost at least one parent in
the disaster and three children lost both parents, Laila Rieksta
Riekstina, director of the state inspectorate of children’s
rights, said on Latvijas Radio today.  “The task of the Latvian police will be to find out who is
guilty, but at the same time I think that this field’s
specialists, obviously after this tragedy, will have to come to
a conclusion and fix the supervision,” Kazlovskis said.  The roof collapsed after an alarm designed to detect fire,
smoke and dust rang repeatedly in the basement where a parking
area was under construction, Maxima said in an e-mailed
statement yesterday. Maxima runs 499 supermarkets in  Lithuania ,
Latvia,  Estonia , Bulgaria and  Poland . It rents the premises from
SIA Tinio.  “This is a heavy day for all of Latvia,” Prime Minister
Valdis Dombrovskis said on Latvian television last night.  For Related News and Information:
Top Stories: {TOP< GO>}  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Eglitis in Riga at 
 aeglitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  