-- Abbott Seeks to Repair Indonesia Ties After Phone Tap Revelation
-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 2013-11-23T16:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-23/australian-leader-sends-letter-to-yudhoyono-after-spying-spat.html
Australian Prime Minister  Tony Abbott  wrote to Indonesian President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono as
he seeks to repair relations after claims the phones of
 Indonesia ’s leaders were tapped.  Yudhoyono called a halt to cooperation with the Abbott
government on asylum seekers and military operations after
withdrawing his ambassador from Canberra last week, as tensions
escalated to their highest level in 14 years amid claims the
phones of Indonesia’s leaders were tapped. The government is
reviewing cattle exports from Australia, Trade Minister  Gita Wirjawan  said yesterday, in the first sign the spying spat may
affect trade between the neighbors.  “One of the fundamental tasks of my government is to
ensure that our relationship with Indonesia goes from strength
to strength,” Abbott said in Sydney yesterday, according to an
e-mailed transcript. “I have written to President Yudhoyono and
the letter is now in the process of being delivered,” he said,
declining to comment on the content.  Abbott, whose government was elected two months ago, said
on Nov. 19 that “ Australia  should not be expected to apologize
for the steps we take to defend this country.” He said he
regretted any embarrassment to Yudhoyono, while defending
security measures implemented by past governments.  Yudhoyono has received Abbott’s letter and is studying it,
said Teuku Faizasyah, a spokesman for the president.  Several hundred people gathered outside the Australian
Embassy in Jakarta on Nov. 21, burning that country’s flag,
police said. Indonesians were demanding an apology from
Australia, said protester Donny Manurung, from a local youth
group, and more rallies were planned.  Cattle Exports  Indonesia, which takes more than 60 percent of Australia’s
live cattle exports, may revise rules to let it import from
other countries, Wirjawan said in Jakarta. Malaysia buys most of
its beef from  India  at half the price of Australian meat, and
Indonesia should act to follow that, Wirjawan said.  Two-way trade between Australia and Indonesia, which
includes wheat, oil and dairy products, reached A$14.6 billion
($13.4 billion) last year.  Yudhoyono’s mobile phone activity was tracked for 15 days
in August 2009, the Australian Broadcasting Corp. said on its
 website  Nov. 18, citing documents leaked by Edward Snowden, a
former U.S. intelligence contractor who is wanted in the U.S.
for releasing secret information. At least once, intelligence
agencies tried to listen to a conversation although the call
lasted less than a minute and couldn’t be tapped, it said.  “Obviously there will be good days and there will be
better days but my determination is to ensure that the
relationship is constantly improving,” Abbott said yesterday.
Yudhoyono “has been a very good friend to Australia, one of the
best friends we’ve ever had,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stanley James at 
 sjames8@bloomberg.net  