-- Boeing Warns of Ice Risks for GE-Powered Dreamliners in Storms
-- B y   C h r i s   C o o p e r
-- 2013-11-23T22:01:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-23/boeing-warns-of-ice-risks-for-ge-powered-dreamliners-in-storms.html
Boeing Co. (BA) , maker of the Dreamliner
aircraft, told customers of some makes of General Electric Co.-
powered engines to keep away from thunderstorms, which can cause
ice crystals to form and reduce the engine’s thrust.  Japan Airlines Co. (9201) , the world’s second-largest Dreamliner
operator, will replace 787 Dreamliners on flights between Tokyo
and Delhi with 777s starting tomorrow, and will also switch to
767s on its Tokyo-Singapore route, it said in a statement 
yesterday.  Boeing instructed carriers with the GEnx engines to avoid
flying within 50 nautical miles (93 kilometers) of thunderstorms
to reduce chances of ice crystals forming, the planemaker said
in an e-mailed statement. The 787 had problems with its battery
earlier this year that led to the plane being grounded for more
than three months.  “There may be cases where we wouldn’t be able to go all
the way round the cloud formation and we’d have to turn back,”
Yuichi Kitada, a general manager in JAL’s engineering
department, said yesterday in  Tokyo . “We’re at the first step
of discussing a solution to this problem with Boeing and GE.”  Boeing spokeswoman Yvonne Leach said the company alerted
carriers and freight operators of 747-8s and 787s with GE
engines, without specifying how many that was.  There have been six cases since April of planes with GEnx
engines temporarily losing thrust in high-altitude icing
conditions, according to an e-mailed statement from GE.  The Fairfield, Connecticut-based company is working on
software modifications to eliminate the problem and expects them
to be available in the first quarter of next year, the statement
said.  Boeing said it will “work closely” with GE to address the
issue.  ANA Holdings Inc. (9202) , the world’s biggest operator of 787s,
uses Rolls-Royce Holdings Plc engines on its Dreamliners and
hasn’t received any notification to avoid certain weather
conditions, Maho Ito, a spokeswoman for the carrier, said by
telephone.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chris Cooper  in Tokyo at 
 ccooper1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  