-- Businesses Wary as Obama Picks Get Edge in Senate Rules
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r   a n d   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2013-11-23T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-23/businesses-wary-as-obama-picks-get-edge-in-senate-rules.html
President  Barack Obama  will have
more leverage to regulate the energy and financial-services
industries under a Senate rule change that will let a simple
majority confirm most presidential nominees.  This week’s Senate vote means Obama won’t need Republican
support to win approval of his nominees to run federal agencies
and serve on U.S. trial and appeals courts. There are 231 Obama
nominees pending in the Senate, including 53 judges, 81
candidates for cabinet-level agencies and 13 at independent
regulatory agencies, according to the White House.  Most important, in many ways, are Obama’s picks to serve on
the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit,
which handles challenges to federal regulations and is called
the second-highest court in the country.  “Under any administration, federal agencies seek to
implement the president’s policies by developing regulations,”
said Jeff Holmstead, a Washington lawyer at Bracewell & Giuliani
LLP who has represented coal-heavy utilities. “But in most
cases, the judges on the D.C. Circuit are the people who decide
whether those regulations comply with federal law.”  Among the cases being reviewed by the court is one on the
Federal Communications Commission’s “net neutrality” rules
requiring Internet-service providers such as  Verizon
Communications Inc. (VZ)  and Comcast Corp. to treat all traffic
equally, a goal of  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and  Netflix Inc. (NFLX)   Three Vacancies  The court -- which has three vacancies and where
Republicans now have an edge -- also would probably rule on the
administration’s proposal to limit carbon-dioxide pollution from
 power plants . Those rules are under development by the
Environmental Protection Agency, and may not be ripe for a legal
challenge for more than a year.  Groups representing coal producers such as  Alpha Natural
Resources Inc. (ANR)  and  Peabody Energy Corp. (BTU)  have tried to fight off
EPA regulation of carbon dioxide emissions from power plants.
They argue the EPA’s proposed standard relies on a technology
that’s not commercially available.  The change in Senate procedure “can only result in more
bad news for the energy industry as EPA will likely be be even
more bold in attempting to run roughshod over state rights,”
Laura Sheehan, a spokeswoman for the American Coalition for
Clean Coal Electricity, said in an e-mail.  Any of the financial regulations soon to be issued could be
affected by this change to the D.C. Circuit, said  Jaret Seiberg ,
a financial services policy analyst at Guggenheim Securities
LLC’s Washington Research Group. Possible challenges, he said,
could come to the so-called Volcker Rule, which would curb
proprietary trading by banks.  Regulatory Leeway  “For the most part, liberal judges give regulators more
leeway to interpret the law,” Seiberg said in an interview.
“If the president does get more judges on the court, the
incentive would be less to” even file a legal challenge.  Nine nominations at four financial regulators, including
those implementing Dodd-Frank legislation and the Volcker rule,
are more likely to move forward with the rule change, according
to Bloomberg Government senior finance policy analyst Cady North.  It’s not necessarily the case that the political
affiliation of the president who appointed a judge will
determine how they rule in any one case. For example, unanimous
panels appointed by a mix of Republican and Democratic
presidents voted to overturn a George W. Bush-era environmental
rule on power plants, saying it wasn’t strong enough, and upheld
the ability of Obama’s EPA to regulate greenhouse gases.  Environmental Leanings  “It’s not as determinative as some people would lead you
to believe,” Scott Schang, executive vice president of the
Environmental Law Institute, said. Schang’s group did a study of
a subset of 325 environmental cases and found that judges
appointed by Democrats side with environmental groups 60 percent
of time, while Republicans do 28 percent of the time.  During almost five years in office, Obama has placed only a
single judge, Sri Srinivasan, on the D.C. Circuit. Srinivasan
was confirmed in May after Obama’s first nominee, Caitlin Halligan, was blocked by Senate Republicans. They objected to
Halligan’s work as  New York  State’s solicitor general on a
lawsuit against handgun manufacturers.  In June, Obama asked the Senate to confirm Georgetown
University Law Professor Nina Pillard and U.S. District Judge
Robert Wilkins, as well as Washington attorney Patricia Millett,
for the vacancies on the appeals court. Those nominations are
now on track to win confirmation.  ‘Anti-Business’ Regulation  “They’re going to get approved,” said Senator  Charles Grassley  of Iowa, the top Republican on the Judiciary Committee.
“And when they get approved, then you’ll have a rubber stamp
for his anti-business regulations.”  The Nov. 21 Senate vote eliminated a delaying tactic known
as a filibuster for all nominations except those to the  Supreme
Court . Republicans called it the most dangerous revision of
Senate procedures in more than two centuries.  The change enacted this week doesn’t affect the deference
given by custom to senators to sign off nominees to federal
judgeships in their home states. That custom has been
particularly important in  Arizona  and Texas, states with two
Republican senators and multiple vacancies.  Nor does it affect the Senate tradition of placing a
“hold” on a nominee. In recent years Senate Majority Leader
 Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat, has abandoned the practice of not
bringing to the floor nominees with holds on them.  Shorter Marathon  While the change will help Obama, it won’t “remake the
federal government,” said Paul Light, a professor of
presidential studies at New York University. It’s “like
reducing a marathon from 26.2 miles to 20 miles. It’s still a
hell of a marathon.”  Obama will have more latitude to make “extreme”
nominations in the future, said Curt Levey, president of the
Committee for Justice, which has opposed many of the
administration’s nominees. The threat of a filibuster had
previously constrained the administration, Levey said.  “That effect, frankly, is gone,” Levey said. “He knows
that there’s absolutely nothing that anyone on the Hill, or off
the Hill, can do.”  Interest groups allied with Obama have urged him to make
bolder choices for the judiciary, along the lines of Goodwin Liu, whose nomination for the federal appeals court in  San
Francisco  was blocked in 2011.  Republicans said Liu had activist judicial views and would
support expanded welfare, gay-marriage and privacy rights.
Democratic backers pointed to Liu’s years of scholarship as a
law professor at the  University of California . Liu now serves on
the California Supreme Court.  Liu Nomination  “Goodwin Liu was an extremely highly qualified nominee who
should have been confirmed,” said Caroline Fredrickson,
president of the American Constitution Society, a network of
progressive lawyers and law students. “If that’s the terrible
outcome, bring it on.”  Federal appeals courts now have 18 open seats, and Obama
has made nominations for 10 of those slots. In addition, some
judges may take on semi-retired senior status -- creating
additional vacancies -- now that prospects for confirmation of a
successor have improved, said  Tom Goldstein , an appellate lawyer
whose Scotusblog website tracks the Supreme Court.  “This is the most exciting moment for liberal advocacy
groups concerned with the courts ever,” Goldstein said.  Obama has said both parties share blame for the political
conflict over judicial nominees. In 2007, then-Senator Obama
joined two rivals for the 2008 Democratic presidential
nomination -- Senators  Joe Biden  and  Hillary Clinton  -- in
supporting an unsuccessful filibuster against one of Bush’s
appellate court nominations.  ‘Bitter Partisanship’  The fallout that may follow this week’s vote may undermine
prospects for a functioning government, business groups said.  “An increase in bitter partisanship would not bode well
for the business of running the country,” said Dan Stohr, a
spokesman for the Aerospace Industries Association, the
Arlington, Virginia-based trade group whose members include
 Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  and  Boeing Co. (BA)  “It’s in our country’s
best interests for members of Congress to work together on the
challenges facing our nation.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net ;
Greg Stohr in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  