-- Canadian Dollar Slides Most in Month on Outlook for Central Bank
-- B y   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r
-- 2013-11-23T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-23/canadian-dollar-slides-most-in-month-on-outlook-for-central-bank.html
Canada’s dollar weakened the most in
a month as slowing inflation and a statement from  Bank of Canada 
Governor Stephen Poloz raised the possibility the central bank
might reduce interest rates.  The currency fell versus 13 of its 16 most-traded peers
this week after Poloz said the economy still needs stimulus,
reiterating comments he made last month when he unexpectedly
scrapped policy language showing a bias for a higher rate.
Inflation last month was below the bank’s goal, while the U.S.
Federal Reserve signaled it may cut its stimulus soon. Canadian
growth slowed in September for a second month, a report next
week is forecast to say.  “There is some two-sided risk to the shift in the bias
statement, that conceivably it could be to an easing bias,”
 Greg Anderson , head of global foreign-exchange strategy at Bank
of Montreal, said by phone from Toronto. The Bank of Canada
could start to “talk about the possibility that if inflation
stays low, they could adopt an easing bias.”  The loonie, as the Canadian dollar is called because of the
image of the waterfowl on the C$1 coin, fell 0.7 percent, the
most since the five days ended Oct. 25, to C$1.0514 per U.S.
dollar this week in Toronto. It touched C$1.0569 yesterday, the
weakest since July 9. One loonie purchases 95.11 U.S. cents.  Canadian  government bonds  maturing in 10 years and longer
fell, pushing yields on benchmark 10-year  securities  up one
basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 2.57 percent. The 1.5
percent debt maturing in June 2023 lost 8 cents to C$91.01.  Higher Volatility  Implied volatility for one-month options on the  U.S. dollar 
against its Canadian peer climbed to the highest level in more
than seven weeks. It reached 6.43 percent, the most since Sept.
30. The measure is used to set option prices and gauge the
expected pace of currency swings. The average this year is 6.67
percent.  The loonie weakened as data yesterday showed the Canadian
 consumer price index  rose 0.7 percent in October from a year
earlier, lagging behind a Bloomberg survey’s forecast for a 0.8
percent inflation rate. It was 1.1 percent in September. The
central bank’s target is 1 percent to 3 percent.  “You’re always interested in CPI, given that it’s the most
direct impact on central-bank policy,” Don Mikolich, executive
director of foreign-exchange sales at Canadian Imperial Bank of
Commerce, said Nov. 21 by telephone from Toronto. “Certainly a
0.8 or 0.9 is bottom-end and normally the time when banks start
to ease conditions.”  Bank of Canada Governor Stephen Poloz told the Senate
banking committee in Ottawa on Nov. 20 that the central bank’s
current policy remains appropriate.  Dropped Language  Poloz said last month the risk of inflation falling below
policy makers’ target band led him to signal on Oct. 23 the next
move in  interest rates  wouldn’t necessarily be higher. He
dropped language about the need for higher rates that had been
in every policy statement for more than a year.  The central bank has kept its benchmark  rate  at 1 percent
since 2010 to support the economy.  Canada’s gross domestic product grew 0.2 percent in
September, economists in a Bloomberg survey forecast before the
nation’s statistics agency reports the data on Nov. 29. It
gained 0.3 percent the previous month following a 0.6 percent
increase in July, the most in two years.  Minutes of the U.S. central bank’s last meeting, on Oct.
29-30, showed policy makers said they might reduce the stimulus
that has fueled global risk appetite “in coming months” if the
economy improves as anticipated. The U.S. is  Canada ’s biggest
trade partner.  The Fed, which meets next Dec. 16-17, purchases $85 billion
of bonds each month to push down long-term yields and spur
economic growth.  Sales Jump  The loonie pared a drop to a four-month low against the
greenback yesterday as  Statistics Canada  reported that  retail
sales  increased 1 percent to a record C$40.7 billion ($38.6
billion). The gain exceeded the forecasts of all 19 economists
in a Bloomberg survey that projected a 0.3 percent increase.  The currency of  Australia , like Canada a commodity
exporter, fell to the lowest level against the U.S. dollar in
almost three months yesterday after  Reserve Bank  of Australia
Governor Glenn Stevens said he was “open-minded” about
intervention to prevent the Aussie dollar from gaining.  “It’s maybe just emblematic of central banks of commodity-producing countries who are not happy with the level of their
currency,”  David Tulk , chief macro strategist at Toronto-Dominion Bank’s TD Securities unit, said by phone from Toronto.
“Australia was quite vocal about it, and maybe some in the
market are extrapolating those sentiments to the Canadian
economy and by association the Canadian dollar.”  The loonie has dropped 2.8 percent this year against nine
other developed-nation currencies tracked by the Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Index. The Australian dollar has fallen 9.7
percent, while the U.S. dollar has gained 3.7 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Altstedter in Toronto at 
 aaltstedter@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  