-- China Air-Zone Move Expands Field of Islands Spat With Japan
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-11-25T02:51:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-23/china-declares-air-defense-zone-in-east-china-sea-on-islands-row.html
China ’s declared intent to protect
an air zone encompassing islands that are disputed with  Japan 
escalated tensions between  Asia ’s largest economies, risking
damage to a resurgence in trade.  China announced an air defense identification zone in the
East China Sea effective Nov. 23 and said its military will take
“defensive emergency measures” if aircraft enter the area
without reporting flight plans or identifying themselves. Japan
lodged a complaint as the U.S. and  South Korea  expressed concern
about China’s actions.  The move further expands to the skies a dispute that has
often played out at sea, including confrontations that have seen
Chinese vessels accused of targeting Japan’s forces with
weapons-guiding radar systems. Those frictions contrast with a
nascent recovery in business, with exports to China rising 21.3
percent in October from a year ago, and add to pressure on
Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, whose government is set to
unveil its first postwar national security strategy next month.  China’s zone is symbolic payback for Japan’s move last
September to buy some of the islands, said Kerry Brown,
executive director of the University of Sydney’s China Studies
Center and a former British diplomat in Beijing. “Things would
be much less pleasant if there was actual physical contact and
conflict, but both countries are now so economically tied to
each other I think this would be a sort of mutually assured
destruction.”  Protesting Protests  China protested to both Japan and the U.S. about their
reaction to the new air defense zone.  The Foreign Affairs office of the Chinese  Defense Ministry 
complained to the U.S. embassy’s military attache yesterday over
the U.S.’s “erroneous remarks” on the zone, according to a
statement on the Ministry’s website today.  China has engaged in “profoundly dangerous acts that
unilaterally change the status quo,” Japanese Foreign Minister
Fumio Kishida said in a statement late yesterday.  “Japan is working and consulting closely with its ally,
the  United States , and will coordinate with other relevant
countries and partners which have common interests in the
stability and safety of the region,” Kishida said.  While the U.S. doesn’t take sides in the territorial
dispute, it recognizes Japan’s administration of the islands.
The U.S. is a treaty ally of Japan and in October the two set a
road map for defense cooperation over the next 20 years.  Escalatory Action  “Escalatory action will only increase tensions in the
region and create risks of an incident,” Secretary of State
 John Kerry  said in a statement Nov. 23. Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel said in a statement it wouldn’t change how America
conducts military operations in the region.  “We view this development as a destabilizing attempt to
alter the status quo in the region,” Hagel said in the
statement. “This unilateral action increases the risk of
misunderstanding and miscalculation.”  Vice President  Joe Biden  will travel to Japan, China and
South Korea the first week of December, the White House said
earlier this month.  South Korea said part of China’s zone overlapped with its
own air defense identification zone in waters off Jeju Island.
Korea’s Ministry of National Defense will raise the matter
further with China, it said in a statement.  The islands, known as Diaoyu in Chinese and Senkaku in
Japanese, lie inside China’s new air defense zone. Both nations
claim sovereignty over the area, whose waters are rich in oil,
natural gas and fish. The dispute comes as China and Japan seek
a greater role in the region, courting nations in  Southeast
Asia , and as China adopts a more conciliatory tone over a
territorial spat with countries in the  South China Sea .  ‘Necessary Measure’  China didn’t specify what measures it might take if others
don’t cooperate with its rules. The announcement of the zone
follows a decision by Communist Party leaders earlier this
month, after a meeting led by President  Xi Jinping , to form a
state committee to coordinate security issues as China broadens
its military reach.  A map and details of the zone’s coordinates were posted on
the Chinese Defense Ministry’s website. “This is a necessary
measure taken by China in exercising its self-defense right,”
 ministry spokesman  Yang Yajun said in a separate also on the
site. “It is not directed against any specific country or
target.”  Flight Plans  The rules include reporting flight plans to China’s Foreign
Ministry or civil aviation authorities and providing radio and
logo identification of aircraft, according to the   Ministry . The
 air force  conducted its first patrol inside the zone Nov. 23,
involving two reconnaissance planes with fighter jets in
support. Japan dispatched fighter jets in response, its Defense
Ministry said in a statement, having sent jets up 306 times in
the year to March 2013 and 149 times in the April-September
period.  China defense-related stocks rose, with AVIC Aircraft Co.
gaining as much as 5.7 percent in morning trading in Shenzhen.
Xi’an Aero-Engine increased as much as 4.7 percent in  Shanghai .  Many countries, including Japan and the U.S., enforce
ADIZs, airspace where the identification, location and control
of aircraft are required in the interest of national security.
More than 20 countries since the 1950s have set up such zones,
Xinhua said yesterday in an English-language commentary.  Japan’s purchase of three of the disputed islands from a
private owner in September 2012 sparked violent anti-Japanese
demonstrations in China, where  car dealerships  were attacked and
vehicles burned. Last year, exports to China, then Japan’s
largest trading partner, slumped 11 percent, according to
 Japanese government data .  Japanese Targets  Tensions escalated again in February when Abe denounced
what he said was China’s use of fire-control radar in January
twice on Japanese targets in the  East China Sea . China’s
Ministry of Defense denied such radar was used.  Earlier this month, a retired Chinese military commander
warned that any attack by Japan on China’s drones would
represent the “first shot” of a war. Abe has approved a plan
to shoot down any drones that enter Japan’s airspace, Kyodo said
last month. China successfully conducted a test flight of its
first stealth drone, the Beijing Times reported Nov. 22.  Last month, Abe said he wouldn’t permit China to use force
to resolve territorial spats. Still, his scaling down of
Japanese nationalist proposals has helped in part to foster a
nascent recovery in business ties.  Honda Sales  Honda Motor Co.’s sales in China more than tripled in
October from the year before, while Chinese visitors to Japan
rose for the first time in a year in September. A delegation of
178 Japanese business executives visited China last week, while
the Japan-China Friendship Committee for the 21st Century held
an informal meeting last weekend in the Chinese city of
Hangzhou.  Japan is also preparing to release a new 10-year defense
plan next month that is expected to include increased security
measures for the disputed islands.  Japan will add high-speed warships to its fleet and at
least double the number of refueling planes from the current
four so aircraft can patrol for longer, the Yomiuri newspaper
reported Nov. 22.  The level of U.S. response to China will be key, and
whether it supports Japan by actions such as flying planes into
the zone alongside aircraft from  Tokyo , according to June Teufel
Dreyer, a political science professor at the  University of Miami 
in  Florida .  “It’s time for  Washington  to make the next move,” Dreyer
said. “But will it? If not, the pivot to Asia will have been
proven what many have thought all along: A sham.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Nerys Avery in Beijing at 
 navery2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  