-- Climate Talks Near Impasse as China, India Seek Changes
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s   a n d   S t e f a n   N i c o l a
-- 2013-11-23T13:38:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-23/china-india-reject-durban-platform-text-at-un-climate-talks.html
China and  India  said they want to
see revisions to one of the key texts outlining the conclusions
of the United Nations climate talks, a move that threatens to
unravel an agreement at the conference in Warsaw.  Envoys from the two countries rejected the use of the word
“commitments” to greenhouse gas emissions limits without
distinguishing between rich and poor nations. They also sought a
specific promise from industrial countries on how they will
reach a pledge to boost climate aid to $100 billion a year by
2020, saying $70 billion by 2016 would be appropriate.  “The text in general lacks balance,”  Su Wei , chief
negotiator for China at the talks, told delegates in the Polish
capital today. “We had serious concerns about the word
commitment. There are also other serious flaws in the text.”  Their suggestions crossed red lines set out by the U.S. and
European Union and added to a log-jam at the meeting involving
about 190 nations. The two weeks of discussions that were due to
finish yesterday bogged down with a rift about who is to blame
for damaging the Earth’s atmosphere and who should move first to
fix it.  Knife Edge  “Climate change talks still on knife edge after a long
night,” U.K. Secretary of State for Energy and Climate Change
Ed Davey said on his Twitter feed before  China  and India spoke.
“A few countries insisting on looking backwards. Could be a
long day.”  The demands are important because all decisions at the
conference are made by consensus, so a few countries making
objections has the potential to block a deal.  While the Warsaw meeting was never meant to be a
breakthrough in the fight against global warming, it was to put
in place the key building blocks necessary for a treaty the
delegates aim to agree in 2015 that would come into force five
years later.  Envoys Deadlocked  The envoys deadlocked on finance, with China, India
Bangladesh, Cuba, Nepal and  Nicaragua  demanding rich nations
agree to an interim milestone on the way toward their $100
billion aid pledge. Nicaragua, speaking for a group of 130
countries, sought $70 billion in aid by 2016.  “We still don’t have a roadmap on finance. We have had
proposals,” Indian envoy T.S. Tirumurti told the conference
today. “The sense of urgency is missing.”  The U.S. and EU so far have resisted making more
commitments on aid, partly because of their own economic
difficulties and partly because they want aid to flow along with
commitments from poorer nations on cutting emissions. Developing
nations have no mandatory limits under the  Kyoto Protocol , a
1997 treaty that remains the only global pact limiting global
warming pollution.  `Endgame May Derail'  “The real annoyance seems to be on the lack of progress on
financing,” said Bas Eickhout, a member of the European
Parliament’s delegation to the talks. “I have the feeling this
deadlock can be broken by some kind of concession on a sub-target on finances in 2016. If not, this entire endgame may
derail, which is the worst outcome.”  The typhoon that devastated the  Philippines  this month
amplified the anger of  developing countries  that industrial
nations are backtracking on previous pledges. Japan, Australia
and  Canada  have watered down commitments on emissions. The
Warsaw talks mark the first time since the UN started these
discussions in 1992 that ambitions have been scaled back.  Record carbon emissions have lifted the Earth’s temperature
about 0.8 degrees Celsius since the industrial revolution, and
the planet is on a path to exceed the UN-endorsed maximum of 2
degrees Celsius (3.6 degrees Fahrenheit) of warming by 2100. As
a result, sea levels are rising, oceans are acidifying and
glaciers and sea ice are melting. Scientists predict more freak
weather, droughts and stronger storms.  Draft Text  “We are going to be leading to a 3- or 4-degree world,”
said Gambian envoy Pa Ousman Jarju. “That is catastrophic for
the least island states, small island states and the African
continent.”  U.S. and European diplomats said they could live with a
draft text released last night that would set out the
conclusions of the meeting. They expressed concern that China
and India wanted to revive a division between industrial and
developing nations on how greenhouse gas cuts will be made in
the next treaty, a divide that was eliminated two years ago.  “It was somewhat astonishing to hear my good friend from
China to say commitments apply to only developed country
parties,” U.S. Special envoy on  Climate Change  Todd Stern said.
“I feel I’m going back in a timewarp.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Morales in Warsaw at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net ;
Stefan Nicola in Warsaw at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  