-- China Declares Air Defense Zone in East China Sea Amid Row
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-11-23T14:04:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-23/china-declares-air-defense-zone-in-east-china-sea-amid-japan-row.html
China  declared an air defense
identification zone in the East China Sea amid a territorial
dispute with Japan, warning its armed forces will take
“defensive emergency measures” if aircraft fail to comply.  A map, details of the zone’s coordinates and rules
governing the area were posted on the Ministry of Defense’s
website today, along with a question and answer  statement  from
Yang Yajun, a ministry spokesman. Japan’s Foreign Ministry
lodged a complaint with China over the zone.  The move risks heightening tensions between Asia’s two
biggest economies, which are in dispute over the ownership of
islets known as Diaoyu in Chinese and Senkaku in Japanese. The
islands lie inside the zone and both nations claim sovereignty
over the surrounding waters, which are rich in oil, natural gas
and fish.  “This is a necessary measure taken by China in exercising
its self-defense right,” Yang said, according to the English-language statement. “It is not directed against any specific
country or target. It does not affect the freedom of over-flight
in the related airspace.”  Junichi Ihara, the director-general for Asian and Oceanian
affairs at the Japanese Foreign Ministry, protested to the
minister at China’s embassy in  Tokyo  by phone, the ministry said
in an e-mailed statement. Ihara told the minister Japan
“absolutely cannot accept” the establishment of the zone
covering the Senkaku islands, which he said “are Japanese
territory.”  ’Unpredictable Situation’  The No. 2 at the Japanese Embassy in Beijing and the
Japanese defense attache also made protests to China’s Foreign
Ministry and Defense Ministry, an embassy official, who asked
not to be identified in line with policy, said in a telephone
interview.  They told Chinese officials that the action was dangerous,
could escalate the situation surrounding the islands and lead to
an unpredictable situation, he said.  The regulations governing the zone were effective as of 10
a.m. Beijing time today, according to the  Defense Ministry ,
which didn’t specify what measures might be taken against
aircraft that don’t cooperate with identification requirements
or follow its instructions.  The rules include reporting flight plans to China’s Foreign
Ministry or civil aviation authorities，and providing radio and
logo identification of aircraft, the Defense Ministry said.  The Chinese air force conducted its first patrol inside the
zone today, comprising two reconnaissance planes with fighter
jets and early-warning aircraft in support, the ministry said in
a separate statement.  Military Reach  The announcement of the zone follows a decision by China’s
Communist Party leaders last week to form a state committee to
better coordinate security issues as the country expands its
military reach and faces growing dissent at home.  Many countries, including  Japan  and the U.S., enforce
ADIZs, airspace where the identification, location and control
of aircraft are required in the interest of national security.
More than 20 countries, including some of China’s neighbors,
have stipulated such zones since the 1950s, Yang said, adding
that the Chinese government’s action is in line with
international laws and customs.  The easternmost point of the East China Sea zone “is so
close to China that combat aircraft can soon reach China’s
territorial airspace from the point,” Yang said. “Therefore it
is necessary for China to identify any aircraft from this point
to assess its intentions and examine its identity so as to allow
enough early-warning time for responsive measures in maintaining
air security.”  Heightened Tensions  “Normal” flights by international airlines in the zone
“will not be affected in any way,” Yang said.  The ministry published a  map  that places the disputed
islands within the identification zone, which includes airspace
within six latitude/longitude points: 3311’N and 12147’E, 3311’N
and 12500’E, 3100’N and 12820’E, 2538’N and 12500’E, 2445’N and
12300’E, 2644’N and 12058’E.  Tensions between China and Japan over the disputed islands
were heightened this month after a retired Chinese military
commander warned that any attack by Japan on China’s drones
would represent the “first shot” of a war. Prime Minister
Shinzo Abe has approved a plan to shoot down any foreign drones
that enter Japanese airspace, Kyodo News said last month.  China successfully conducted a test flight of its first
stealth combat drone, the Beijing Times reported yesterday,
citing an unidentified witness to the flight.  Trade Ties  Since the Japanese government bought three of the islands
from a private owner in September 2012，patrol boats from the
two countries have tailed one another through the area and the
row has damaged trade and tourism ties. Top-level political
contact has ground to a halt.  Last month, Abe said he wouldn’t permit China to use force
to resolve territorial spats and Japan’s Self-Defense Forces
said fighter jets were sent out after Chinese aircraft flew
between its southern islands without entering Japanese air
space.  China, the world’s second-biggest economy, is also involved
in territorial disputes in the South China Sea with the
 Philippines  and  Vietnam . Yang said China will establish more
ADIZs “at the right time after necessary preparations are
completed.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Nerys Avery in Beijing at 
 navery2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stanley James at 
 sjames8@bloomberg.net  