-- Druckenmiller Bets Against IBM as Cloud Technology Wins
-- B y   S a i j e l   K i s h a n
-- 2013-11-23T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-23/druckenmiller-bets-against-ibm-as-cloud-technology-wins.html
Stan Druckenmiller, who has one of
the best track records in the hedge-fund industry over the past
three decades, said he’s betting against shares of  International
Business Machines Corp. (IBM)  while wagering on younger technology
companies such as  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)   “IBM is old technology being replaced by cloud
technology,” Druckenmiller, 60, said in an interview with
Bloomberg TV’s  Stephanie Ruhle  at the Robin Hood Investors
Conference in  New York  yesterday. “It’s one of the more higher-probability shorts I have seen in years.”  Sales at the 102-year-old IBM have dropped for six straight
quarters as the growth of services such as cloud computing have
failed to make up for slowing demand for older businesses like
hardware. The company is selling less-profitable divisions and
is devoting cash to stock repurchases to help reach its forecast
for growth in earnings per share.  Druckenmiller said he’s betting on Amazon, and praised
Chief Executive Officer  Jeff Bezos , who founded the online
retailer in 1994. Amazon’s Web Services division, whose server
farms generate the processing power the retailer sells to heavy
corporate data users on the cheap, “is killing it,” he said.  Bezos is a “serial monopolist,” Druckenmiller said. IBM
should be investing in its business and taking on the
“challenge of the Amazons of the world” instead of doing share
 buybacks , according to Druckenmiller.  IBM fell 1.5 percent to close at $181.30 yesterday in New
York. James Sciales, a spokesman for Armonk, New York-based IBM,
didn’t respond to a phone call and e-mail requesting comment on
Druckenmiller’s wager.  Buyback Plan  IBM lost 5.4 percent  this year , compared with a 27 percent
gain for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and a 48 percent
increase for Amazon. If IBM ends the year in negative territory,
it will be its first annual decline since 2008.  IBM said last month that it added $15 billion to its
buyback plan, part of CEO Ginni Rometty’s plan to achieve $20 in
adjusted earnings a share by 2015, up from $15.25 last year. The
hardware unit, which makes servers and other devices for
business users, reported a loss last quarter.  Rometty took over
as CEO in January 2012.  IBM’s backers include billionaire  Warren Buffett , who has
said long-term investors should root for IBM shares to languish
in the short term, giving it a lower price to repurchase stock.  Druckenmiller said that while he has great respect for
Buffett, he isn’t known for tech investments.  “I don’t think technology is his area of expertise,”
Druckenmiller said. “He has often said that.”  Recommending Google  Druckenmiller described Google Inc. as the most
“innovative company on the planet,” citing the company’s web-enabled eyeglasses and self-driving cars. He said investors who
want to bet on innovation should buy shares of Google and those
who want to bet against innovation should buy IBM shares.  Druckenmiller, a former chief strategist for billionaire
 George Soros , shut his hedge-fund firm three years ago and now
manages his own wealth through his Duquesne Family Office LLC.
From 1986 through 2010, he produced average annual returns of 30
percent at his hedge fund Duquesne Capital Management LLC.  Druckenmiller said that while his returns over the last 10
years were “very subpar,” they are superior to the returns
currently in the market.  Hedge funds  have returned an average of
6.9 percent this year through October, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Druckenmiller said he doesn’t share hedge-fund manager
 David Tepper ’s view that the stock market offers a “no-brainer
opportunity” for investors. Still, Druckenmiller said he
doesn’t see anything to change the rising trend of the market.  He said in September that he had only a few small trades on
as he waited to see who might replace Federal Reserve Chairman
 Ben S. Bernanke  when he steps down at the end of January. Vice
Chairman  Janet Yellen  has since been nominated to the post and
is awaiting confirmation by the Senate.  In May, Druckenmiller said investors should bet against the
Australian dollar. The currency has since fallen about 9.8
percent against the  U.S. dollar .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Saijel Kishan in New York at 
 skishan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  