-- Merkel Ally Seehofer Says Minimum Wage Will Be Part of SPD Pact
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2013-11-23T13:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-23/merkel-ally-seehofer-says-minimum-wage-will-be-part-of-spd-pact.html
German Chancellor Angela Merkel’s
top Bavarian ally said her bloc will concede to the Social
Democrats’ demand for a minimum wage, signaling the parties will
overcome a chief hurdle in talks to form a government.  Speaking at a party conference in Munich, Christian Social
Union Chairman Horst Seehofer said negotiations had shifted from
whether the SPD wins its demand for a minimum wage of 8.50 euros
($11.50) an hour to who would be exempted and when it would be
implemented. Merkel’s bloc and the SPD begin the final rounds of
talks to form a so-called grand coalition tomorrow.  “There will be a minimum wage with a grand coalition,”
Seehofer told CSU delegates today in Munich. “But we have to
ensure that the minimum wage is introduced in such a way that as
few jobs as possible are endangered. That is our task.”  Seehofer’s concession was the latest sign that a consensus
is emerging among the main parties on one of the chief SPD
demands to join a new government with Merkel. Confronting
increased resistance in her party, Merkel has begun warning her
base that it will have to concede to the SPD on the wage.  The CSU party chief, who is also the Bavarian prime
minister, yesterday said he foresaw “difficult days” ahead as
negotiators aim to wrap up two months of talks to form a German
government by mid-week, on Nov. 27.  “We will hopefully be able to form a government and then
this government will take up its work,” Merkel told the
conference yesterday. “It certainly won’t always be easy.”  Best Result  Merkel’s Christian Democrats and the CSU had their best
result in the Sept. 22 vote since reunification. The block is
five seats short of an absolute majority in the lower house of
parliament, forcing Merkel to find a governing partner.  CSU delegates, who re-elected Seehofer as party chairman
with 95.3 percent of votes at the two-day conference, yesterday
warned the SPD to reel in spending demands.  “The SPD has to recognize that it lost the election,” CSU
General Secretary Alexander Dobrindt said yesterday in Munich.
“We can only talk on that basis.”  The SPD agreed to enter talks to forge a government after
two delegation votes and a menu of 10 “essential” demands,
including the minimum wage. The party set up a further hurdle
after it pledged to put any draft accord to a vote of its
470,000 members, a process due to take about two weeks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Munich at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  