-- Euro-Area Inflation to South African Strikes: Global Economy
-- B y   C a r l o s   T o r r e s
-- 2013-11-23T16:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-23/euro-area-inflation-to-south-african-strikes-global-economy.html
Coming up in the global economy this
week, euro-area inflation may have picked up in November from a
four-year low the prior month, demand for U.S. durable goods
excluding transportation equipment probably improved for the
first time in four months and the Brazilian central bank will
probably increase its benchmark  interest rate . Elsewhere,
strikes by auto and mine workers probably caused  South Africa ’s
economy to slow last quarter, while Sweden’s rebounded after
shrinking from April through June.  EURO-AREA INFLATION  -- Economists forecast a report on Nov. 28 will show  prices  rose
0.8 percent in November. While that’s up from an October reading
of 0.7 percent that was the weakest since November 2009, it
remains short of the  European Central Bank ’s target of just
under 2 percent. The slowdown last month prompted a surprise ECB
rate cut.  -- “We have revised down our euro area inflation projection for
2014 to average 0.9 percent,” Barclays Plc economists Antonio Garcia Pascual and Francois Cabau wrote in a research note. “We
continue to highlight downside risk to our inflation scenario --
at odds with the ECB’s balanced inflation scenario.  ‘‘Should the downside risks on both economic growth and
inflation materialize at the beginning of 2014, we think the ECB
could possibly cut rates further and launch a securities
purchase program.’’  -- ‘‘Increasingly subdued inflation on a global scale is no
accident in an environment where all major economies have
embarked on a program of aggressive debt deleveraging and
pursuit of increased competitiveness,’’ Frederic Pretet,
inflation and rates strategist at Scotiabank in Paris, wrote in
a research note. ‘‘With no leeway on the  exchange rate  for
individual countries within the  euro zone , improving
competitiveness has been achieved through labor market reforms
and job destruction. This has contributed to increased economic
slack and hence downward pressure on inflation. Indeed, compared
with other major economies, the euro zone shows the biggest gap
between the NAIRU and the  unemployment rate . With little change
expected any time soon, this is likely to exacerbate the risk of
deflation in the region.’’  U.S. DURABLE GOODS  -- Orders for long-lasting goods probably fell 1.9 percent in
October after rising 3.7 percent the prior month, reflecting a
pullback in demand for commercial aircraft, according to
economists surveyed before a Nov. 27 Commerce Department report.
Bookings for non-military  capital equipment  excluding planes,
probably climbed after falling in September.  -- ‘‘Firms may have been reluctant to order new equipment ahead
of the government shutdown given the high uncertainty of the
outcome,’’ economists at Bank of America Corp. wrote in a Nov.
21 research note. ‘‘As firms realized the worst case outcome
would not happen, we believe that they went ahead and unleashed
their ‘on hold’ orders.’’  -- Economists at Scotiabank aren’t as sanguine. ‘‘ Core capital
goods orders excluding aircraft and defense have fallen for two
of the past three months and put in a weak Q3,’’ wrote  Derek Holt  from Toronto. ‘‘Further weakness is possible not only in
response to the lagged rate effects, but also because this will
be the first investment report covering the government shutdown
period.’’  BRAZIL RATES  --  Brazil ’s central bank on Nov. 27 probably will raise its
 benchmark interest rate  by 0.5 percentage point to 10 percent,
extending the world’s largest monetary tightening cycle as
inflation hovers above its 4.5 percent target.  -- ‘‘A signal that the central bank will continue to raise rates
will increase its credibility,”  Andre Perfeito , chief economist
at Gradual Investimentos in  Sao Paulo , said by telephone.
“Rates will go all the way to 11 percent by March.”  -- “Inflation is not falling quite as fast as some had hoped,
particularly the food component,”  Neil Shearing , chief
economist for  emerging markets  at Capital Economics Ltd., said
by phone from  London . “That means the central bank will remain
squarely focused on above-target inflation.”  JAPAN INFLATION  -- A Nov. 29 report is projected to show  Japan’s inflation  gauge
accelerated to 0.2 percent in October from a year earlier,
matching a 15-year high. That’s an indication surging energy
prices in the wake of the nuclear industry’s shutdown are
feeding through to broader cost of living increases.  -- Yet stoking inflation in  Japan  will only be effective if
wages rise in response, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. “Core
wages, which have been subdued, are regarded as a key variable
to augur the success of Abenomics,”  Masamichi Adachi , a senior
economist at JPMorgan in  Tokyo , said in a research report. “In
our view, wages will rise to some extent next year, as the labor
market continues to tighten, if gradually. However, the secular
shift of workers from full-time workers, through retirement, to
part-timers, through new jobs, including the rehiring of
retirees with lower wages, that is weighing on average wages
likely will continue.”  SWEDEN’S ECONOMY  -- A Nov. 29 report will probably show Sweden’s economy expanded
0.3 percent in the third quarter after contracting 0.2 percent
in the previous three months, according to Danske Bank A/S. The
expansion will be propelled by modest growth of net exports,
consumption and investments, while inventories will have a
“big” negative effect, Danske Bank said. The bank forecast
annual growth of 0.4 percent.  -- The forecast contains “a big downside risk,”  Roger Josefsson , Danske Bank A/S Stockholm-based chief economist,
said. A faster expansion than the 0.4 percent forecast by the
central bank is unlikely to deter the regulator from cutting its
main lending rate by at least a quarter percentage point next
month because inflation is “too low,” he said.  SOUTH AFRICA’S GDP  -- South  Africa ’s economy, Africa’s biggest, slowed down in the
third quarter from 3 percent in the previous three months,
following strikes by auto and mine workers, a Nov. 26 report by
the statistics agency will probably show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Carlos Torres  in Washington at 
 ctorres2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  