-- Furniture Brands $280 Million Sale to KPS Approved
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B a t h o n
-- 2013-11-23T00:53:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-23/furniture-brands-280-million-sale-to-kps-approved.html
Furniture Brands International Inc. (FBNIQ) ,
the maker of Broyhill, Lane and Thomasville home furnishings,
won court approval to sell almost all its assets to KPS Capital
Partners LP for $280 million.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  Christopher Sontchi  granted approval
of the sale at a hearing today in Wilmington,  Delaware ,
overruling an objection from a shareholder that said a truncated
sales process prevented Samson Holding Ltd. from making a
competing bid.  The furniture maker this week canceled its bankruptcy
auction after saying it received no other qualified bids to
challenge KPS. The New York-based private-equity firm should
close the sale by Nov. 25.  Broadbill Investment Partners LLC, which owns about 4.7
percent of Furniture Brands stock, claimed that Samson was a
“very real bidder” and would have offered more than KPS if the
sale process wasn’t “cut in half,” its lawyer Tancred
Schiavoni told the judge at the hearing.  “The evidence is clear that this process was a fair and
open process,” Sontchi said. “Samson had numerous
opportunities to participate.” He said he wasn’t going to
jeopardize the sale on “a wing and a prayer.”  Sale Accelerated  The sale was accelerated at the request of the unsecured
creditors’ committee because they wanted to limit the
deterioration in Furniture Brands’ cash position, which would
have decreased their recovery.  “Nobody is more disappointed that the creditors’
committee” that there wasn’t another bidder, said Mark T. Power, a lawyer for unsecured creditors.  Furniture Brands entered bankruptcy with a deal to sell its
assets to Oaktree Capital Management LP for about $166 million.
KPS replaced Oaktree as the lead bidder after making a superior
purchase offer. The private-equity firms each submitted improved
proposals, with Oaktree stopping at $260 million, according to
court papers.  KPS said it intends to operate the entire business and
virtually all current employees will be offered jobs.  Furniture Brands was forced to seek  bankruptcy protection 
after a depressed housing industry and weak  consumer spending 
led to falling revenue, Chief Financial Officer Vance Johnston
said in a court filing. Sales decreased 7.8 percent in the six
months ended June 29 from the same period a year earlier.  The company, based in  St. Louis , listed assets of $546.7
million and debt of $550.1 million in Chapter 11 documents filed
Sept. 9.  The case is In re Furniture Brands International Inc.,
13-bk-12329,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , District of Delaware
(Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Bathon in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 mbathon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at 
 adunn8@bloomberg.net  