-- Iran Nuclear Talks Mired in Details of Enrichment, Arak
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   T i r o n e ,   K a m b i z   F o r o o h a r   a n d   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n
-- 2013-11-24T01:13:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-23/iran-talks-mired-in-nuclear-details-confront-arriving-ministers.html
Negotiations over  Iran’s nuclear
program  extended into a fifth day as foreign ministers grappled
with the same issues that blocked an accord in two previous
rounds, and there were conflicting reports of their progress in
Iranian media.  The Fars news agency said there’s no agreement yet and
talks were continuing, citing Iran’s deputy foreign minister,
Abbas Araghchi. U.S. diplomats also said the negotiations were
ongoing. Minutes earlier, the Iranian news agency ISNA said an
agreement had been reached, citing unidentified diplomats close
to the negotiations.  Araghchi earlier had told reporters that the sides were
still divided over two issues. British Foreign Secretary  William Hague  said the ministers, who joined the talks yesterday, are
“not here because things are necessarily finished. We’re here
because they’re difficult.”  The differences concern Iran’s uranium-enrichment program
and its construction of a heavy-water reactor at Arak, according
to diplomats who asked not to be identified because of the
talks’ sensitivity. Araghchi said Iran won’t sign an accord that
doesn’t recognize its right to enrich.  Negotiators are seeking to end the decade-long conflict
that has cast the specter of war over Iran’s nuclear work.
 Israel , which has denounced the proposed Geneva deal, and the
U.S. have warned they will use force to stop Iran’s nuclear
progress if diplomacy doesn’t work. The Islamic Republic, which
holds the world’s fourth-largest proven oil reserves, denies
charges it’s seeking to build nuclear weapons, and is demanding
the easing of sanctions that have crippled its economy.  Enrichment Gap  U.S. Secretary of State  John Kerry , who joined Hague and
their counterparts from Russia,  France , Germany and  China  in
Geneva, is due to leave for  London  today. Araghchi said talks
won’t extend beyond midday local time.  The accord under discussion would freeze some of Iran’s
nuclear activities in exchange for limited sanctions relief. The
offer discussed in earlier rounds would ease curbs on trade in
gold, petrochemicals, cars and aircraft parts and allow access
to some frozen assets. An interim agreement would permit six
months to seek a more comprehensive deal.  In the run-up to the current talks, there were signs that
some of the differences between the sides over enrichment may
have been narrowing.  Two Western diplomats said the issue could be addressed
without explicitly granting  Iran  enrichment rights. While
Iranian Foreign Minister Mohammad Javad Zarif said last week
there’s no need for formal recognition because the right is
self-evident in the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty, Iranian
officials yesterday said no agreement would be acceptable if
Iran’s enrichment rights weren’t included in it.  Tougher Position  The other dispute concerns the Arak reactor, which could
produce plutonium for weapons. France helped delay an accord at
the last meeting by insisting that its construction be halted.
United Nations monitors reported Nov. on 14 that Iran had
stopped adding key elements to the facility.  One of the Western diplomats said the U.S. has taken a
tougher position on Arak at this week’s meeting.  Adding to pressure for a deal this weekend is concern that
opponents of the plan in the U.S., Israel,  Saudi Arabia  and Iran
will escalate their efforts to undermine an accord if one isn’t
reached now. The current round of talks is the third in six
weeks.  Israel has warned that it’s prepared to strike unilaterally
against Iran’s nuclear facilities, and Trade and Industry
Minister Naftali Bennett said yesterday that “a bad deal
definitely increases the need for action.”  U.S. lawmakers from both parties have pledged measures to
tighten sanctions on Iran, while hardliners in the Islamic
Republic say the proposed accord involves too many concessions.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Tirone in Geneva at 
 jtirone@bloomberg.net ;
Kambiz Foroohar in Geneva at 
 kforoohar@bloomberg.net ;
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in Geneva at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  