-- Katie Couric Said Near Deal to Create Yahoo News Reports
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r   a n d   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2013-11-23T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-23/katie-couric-said-near-deal-to-create-yahoo-news-reports.html
Katie Couric  is near an agreement
with  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)  to create news programming for the Web portal,
said two people with knowledge of the talks.  A deal will probably be announced early next week, said the
people, who asked not to be named because a contract hasn’t been
signed.  Couric, who hosts a daytime talk show distributed by  Walt
Disney Co. (DIS) ’s ABC, would give Yahoo another recognizable name to
draw viewers and advertisers.  Marissa Mayer , who joined Yahoo as
chief executive officer last year, has added gadget reviewer
 David Pogue  and editor Megan Liberman from the New York Times.  To allow the talks with Yahoo, ABC let Couric out of an
agreement to produce segments exclusively for its network news
division, the people said. Couric wants to continue hosting
“Katie,” her weekday show, they said.  A decision on whether to renew “Katie” for a third season
will be made next month, Disney-ABC Domestic Television, which
distributes the program, said yesterday in an e-mailed
statement, without offering further details.  Couric, 56, will continue to work closely with ABC, which
already provides news reports to Yahoo, said one of the people.
The network would welcome her continuing to appear on ABC News,
the person said.  Carolyn Clark, a spokeswoman for Yahoo, declined to
comment.  Yahoo, based in Sunnyvale, California, gained 0.5 percent
to $36.49 yesterday in New York. Disney, based in Burbank,
California, increased 0.4 percent to $70.20.  Mayer, 38, has stepped up Yahoo’s efforts to produce
professional news content. The company hired Pogue last month to
lead an expansion of technology coverage on the largest U.S. Web
portal. Earlier this year, the company brought on Liberman as
editor-in-chief for Yahoo News. The company has partnerships to
use programming from ABC News and NBC Sports.  The Hollywood Reporter said earlier that Couric was moving
to Yahoo.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Womack in San Francisco at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  