-- Khan’s Party Blocks NATO Pakistan Supply Route Over U.S. Drones
-- B y   A u g u s t i n e   A n t h o n y
-- 2013-11-23T16:09:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-23/khan-s-party-blocks-nato-pakistan-supply-route-over-u-s-drones.html
Thousands of Pakistanis protested
U.S. drone strikes in the country’s northwest by staging a sit-in on a vital supply route for NATO forces in neighboring
Afghanistan.  The demonstrators clogged the highway in Peshawar at the
urging of  Imran Khan , the former international cricket star
whose Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf party holds power in the Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa region that borders Afghanistan. Shipments on the
route, which isn’t used on weekends, will be blocked once they
resume late tomorrow, the PTI party said.  “We will not allow the NATO supplies to pass through our
province,” Khan told protesters at the rally broadcast live by
Geo television. “Our protest will continue throughout Pakistan
until the U.S. stops the drone strikes.”  A blockade of the supply route will concern the six-month-old government of Prime Minister  Nawaz Sharif  who needs the
support of the U.S., the country’s biggest donor, to help revive
an economy plagued by an energy crisis and a Taliban insurgency.  “The central government has to ensure that the commitment
that  Pakistan  has made with its allies must not be reneged and
it’s their responsibility that supply continues,” said Raza
Rumi, director of policy and programs at the Islamabad-based
Jinnah Institute.  Party workers and their allies plan to stop supplies from
both directions into Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa for an indefinite period
of time, PTI spokeswoman Shireen Mazari said today in an e-mailed statement.  Popular Support  PTI emerged as the third-largest political party in this
year’s general elections, won by Sharif’s party. Pakistan’s
constitution gives the central government authority over
provincial administrations in defense and foreign policy.  “Khan’s party has the capacity to sustain the blockade but
I don’t think they will do it,” Rumi said. “This is an attempt
to expand the popular support for PTI using the issue of drone
strikes and anti-American sentiments in the country.”  Khan announced plans to shut the Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa supply
route after a drone strike killed the leader of the Pakistani
Taliban, Hakimullah Mehsud, on Nov. 1, disrupting peace talks
with militants.  The highway through  Peshawar  is one of two supply routes in
Pakistan used for trucking non-lethal supplies for the forces in
Afghanistan. The second runs through the southwestern province
of Baluchistan.  Supply Routes  Pakistan, where energy shortages have weighed on growth in
the country’s $231 billion economy, agreed to open supply routes
for the North Atlantic Treaty Organization last year after
closing them in 2011 following a U.S. military strike that
killed 24 Pakistani troops. The accord permits the forces to
ship non-lethal supplies until 2015 using the two routes.  NATO, which will end its combat role in Afghanistan in
2014, needs Pakistan’s routes to supply its forces and remove
equipment as they withdraw.  Government officials in Pakistan didn’t respond to
telephone calls and e-mails seeking comment on the
demonstration. Representatives of NATO forces in Kabul didn’t
answer an e-mail sent today requesting comment.  The protest comes two days after a U.S. drone attack killed
six people in the northwestern town of Hangu. Among the dead
were children, Pakistan’s Foreign Ministry said in a statement
yesterday. The strike had “deeply disturbed the people of
Pakistan,” and concerns had been conveyed to the U.S.
ambassador, it said in the statement.  Public Sentiment  The latest drone strike risks inflaming anti-U.S. public
sentiment in Pakistan, where the attacks are seen as a violation
of the country’s sovereignty and have strained ties between the
government and the Obama administration.  After the drone attack killed Hakimullah Mehsud, the
Pakistan government said it would review “every aspect” of
cooperation with the Obama administration.  While the U.S. trumpeted the death of Mehsud, indicted in
the U.S. three years ago for his alleged role in a suicide
bombing that killed seven CIA employees in  Afghanistan  in 2009,
Pakistan said the move had scuttled efforts to bring militants
to the table for negotiations aimed at ending more than a decade
of violence.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Augustine Anthony in Islamabad at 
 aanthony9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Ten Kate at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net  