-- Houston Astros Owner Sues McLane, Comcast Over Network
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B a t h o n   a n d   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 2013-11-23T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-23/houston-astros-owner-sues-mclane-comcast-over-network.html
The owner of Major League Baseball’s
Houston Astros sued former owner Drayton McLane Jr. and  Comcast
Corp. (CMCSA) , claiming he was misled about the value of the regional
sports network that televises the team’s games.  Houston Baseball Partners LLC, led by  Jim Crane , filed the
lawsuit Nov. 21 in state court in Houston. The company said it
paid $615 million for the team and its 40 percent stake in
Houston Regional Sports Network LP in November 2011 “based on
knowing misrepresentations” McLane gave him concerning the
network’s value.  “The former owner of the Houston Astros Major League
Baseball team made hundreds of millions of dollars, and his
media business partner stands to benefit by a similar amount, by
selling an asset they knew at the time to be overpriced and
broken,” Houston Baseball Partners said in the filing.  Subscription prices for the network were “falsely
inflated” and subsequently rejected by major cable and
satellite TV distributors, according to the complaint. The
network is operated by NBCUniversal, a unit of Comcast, which
are both named as defendants with McLane. The suit alleges
fraud, negligent misrepresentation and breach of contract.  McLane didn’t immediately respond to a call for comment on
the lawsuit.  Involuntary Bankruptcy  Creditors including affiliates of Philadelphia-based
Comcast filed an involuntary Chapter 11 bankruptcy petition
against the network on Sept. 27 “to avoid the destruction of
the network’s substantial value,” according to court filings.
The network is owned by Comcast, the Astros and the  National
Basketball Association ’s  Houston Rockets .  Comcast, the biggest U.S. cable operator, claimed it’s owed
more than $100 million and the network hasn’t been paying its
debts as they come due.  “Comcast/NBCUniversal vehemently rejects any claim of
wrongdoing asserted by the Astros,” the company said in a
statement. “It appears that Mr. Crane is suffering from an
extreme case of buyer’s remorse, and aiming to blame the
network’s challenges on anything but his own actions.
Comcast/NBCUniversal looks forward to vindicating itself in this
litigation and also remains committed to a reorganization of the
network in  bankruptcy court .”  ‘Transparent Attempt’  In court papers filed Oct. 7, the ball club called the
involuntary petition “a transparent attempt to acquire the
network and gain control over the Astros’ most valuable asset,
the media rights to televise their own  Major League Baseball 
games.”  Astros fans are also suffering, according to the owner’s
complaint, because the team is left with what it calls “an
impossible choice: either accept the broken network as is, and
deprive thousands of fans the ability to watch Houston Astros
games on their televisions, or distribute the games at market
rates and take massive losses out of the Houston Astros player
payroll -- thereby dooming the franchise for years to come.”  The Astros finished last in the  American League ’s Western
Division this year, with 51 wins and 111 losses, the worst
record in Major League Baseball.  The case is Houston Baseball Partners LLC v. McLane
Champions LLC, 2013-70769, 80th Judicial District of Harris
County,  Texas  (Houston). The bankruptcy case is In re Houston
Regional Sports Network LP, 13-bk-35998,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court ,
Southern District of Texas (Houston).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Bathon in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 mbathon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at 
 adunn8@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  