-- Loya Jirga Head Rejects Karzai Demand to Delay U.S. Pact Signing
-- B y   E l t a f   N a j a f i z a d a
-- 2013-11-23T23:58:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-23/loya-jirga-head-rejects-karzai-demand-to-delay-u-s-pact-signing.html
Afghan President  Hamid Karzai ’s
demand to delay the signing of a security pact with the U.S.
until after April’s presidential vote is unacceptable and will
harm the country, the head of a council of tribal elders said.  Karzai has “no right” to delay the signing of the accord
that would pave the way for a continued American presence in
Afghanistan beyond 2014, Sibghatullah Mojaddedi, chairman of the
loya jirga council called by the president, said yesterday.  “Every demand of Mr. Karzai and ours have been practiced
and accepted by them,” Mojaddedi told reporters in front of the
council’s compound in Kabul.  President  Barack Obama ’s spokesman,  Jay Carney , on Nov. 22
said the U.S. government needs the Bilateral Security Agreement
with  Afghanistan  done by the end of the year, calling action
“imperative” and the U.S. offer “final.” His comments
followed those of Karzai spokesman Aimal Faizi, who repeated the
Afghan president’s stance that the accord shouldn’t be signed
until after the country’s April presidential vote.  Karzai, who has pressed for a bar on American forces
entering Afghan homes, publicly raised another obstacle
yesterday, charging on his website that U.S. troops killed
civilians during a raid on an Afghan home.  Officials of the U.S.-led  International Security Assistance
Force  yesterday said the Nov. 19 operation in Nangarhar province
in which two Afghan brothers were killed was a joint U.S.-Afghan
mission, not one of the American special operations forces’
“night raids” the Afghan president has criticized frequently.  Recommendation Today  The loya jirga, a gathering of more than 2,500 Afghan
tribal elders, political leaders and intellectuals, is due to
make its recommendation later today on the agreement that would
let some U.S. forces remain in the country after 2014 to train
the Afghan National Security Forces and conduct counterterrorism
operations.  After that, the agreement would have to be signed by both
countries before it’s ratified by Afghanistan’s parliament and
signed into law by Karzai, according to two U.S. officials who
briefed reporters Nov. 21 on condition of not being identified
discussing the process.  Karzai’s public show of toughness is a throwback to his
stance ahead of a 2011 loya jirga to consider the U.S.-Afghan
Strategic Partnership Agreement, said Jawid Kohistani, a Kabul-based political and security analyst. The legally binding
agreement was signed in 2012.  The president’s speech ahead of the council that year was
similarly combative, Kohistani said. Karzai then backed down and
signed after that loya jirga gave him “political cover.”  “It will be interesting to see if he now allows himself to
be persuaded by the council and moderates his tone, as he did
then.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eltaf Najafizada in Kabul, Afghanistan at 
 enajafizada1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  