-- Philadelphia Inquirer Editor Marimow Reinstated by Judge
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y   a n d   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 2013-11-23T00:50:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-23/philadelphia-inquirer-editor-marimow-reinstated-by-judge.html
Ousted  Philadelphia Inquirer  editor-in-chief  Bill Marimow  was reinstated by a Pennsylvania judge
presiding over a legal battle for control of the 184-year-old
newspaper.  Marimow was improperly removed as top editor at the behest
of only some of the company’s owners, who failed to get the
consent of the full ownership group, Judge  Patricia McInerney 
ruled today in Philadelphia. She ordered the 66-year-old Marimow
“immediately reinstated.”  McInerney ruled after hearing arguments by lawyers for
Inquirer owner Interstate General Media LLC, publisher Robert
Hall and co-owner  George Norcross  that Marimow was properly
fired for failing to make ordered changes to the newspaper.
Norcross and his group said they are the paper’s majority
owners.  Lewis Katz, one of the Inquirer’s co-owners, sued Norcross
and others over the ouster in Philadelphia Common Pleas Court,
arguing that Marimow, a two-time winner of the Pulitzer Prize,
was wrongfully fired without approval of the entire partnership.  Norcross and his group will appeal McInerney’s order
reinstating Marimow, who they characterized as a “lame-duck
editor,” spokesman Daniel F. Fee said in an e-mailed statement.
Marimow didn’t immediately return an e-mail seeing comment on
his reinstatement.  ‘Risking Chaos’  The judge’s decision “will have the effect of risking
chaos” at the Inquirer and restores “an editor who
consistently resisted needed changes to the paper,” Fee said in
the statement.  Katz, the former owner of the New Jersey Nets basketball
team, and  H.F. “Gerry” Lenfest , a Pennsylvania philanthropist
who is also part of the investor group that bought the
newspaper, said they were pleased the judge recognized their
efforts to protect the newspaper’s “journalistic independence”
by resisting Norcross’s efforts to oust Marimow  “We are hopeful the reporters and staff of a truly great
newspaper can move beyond the distraction,” Dick Sprague, a
lawyer for the men, said in an e-mailed statement.  The suit is the latest chapter in the battle between Katz
and Norcross over the direction of the Inquirer, which was
ranked the 18th-largest U.S. newspaper by circulation in a 2012
study by USA Today. Both were part of an investor group that
bought the newspaper and its sister publication, the
 Philadelphia Daily News , in April 2012 for $55 million. The
papers’ parent company filed for bankruptcy in 2009.  Voting Rights  Norcross, a New Jersey insurance executive and Democratic
Party fundraiser, contends the ownership agreement gives Hall,
the Inquirer’s publisher, power to make personnel decisions.
Hall ousted Marimow Oct. 7.  Norcross’s attorneys argued the ownership group agreed not
to interfere with editorial or journalistic policies under which
Marimow’s firing fell. Norcross attended the argument before
McInerney, but didn’t testify. The owners consented to a “very
broad non-interference” provision in the agreement, Robert
Heim, one of Norcross’s lawyers, told the judge.  Katz and Lenfest said the agreement empowered the company’s
management committee to decide whether the newspaper’s editor
should be fired and Hall acted under Norcross’s orders without
their consent.  McInerney concluded that the firing was improper because
the agreement’s language said such decisions must be made by a
majority vote of the management committee, which included Katz.  ‘Irreparable Harm’  “Mr. Katz was deprived of his voting right granted to him
under the limited liability agreement and suffered irreparable
harm as a result,” the judge said.  The Inquirer, founded in 1829, is the third-oldest daily
newspaper in the U.S. and has won at least 18 Pulitzer Prizes.
The Inquirer and the Daily News had a common owner starting in
1969, when they were bought by Knight Newspapers Inc. That
newspaper chain no longer exists.  The Pennsylvania case is Intertrust GCN LP v. Interstate
General Media LLC, 131000654, Court of Common Pleas Philadelphia
County (Philadelphia).  0248577D US <Equity> CN
NI BUSINESS
NI BCY
NI CIVPRO
NI CACT
NI CORPGOV
NI CORPTRANS
NI CPR
NI COS
NI EMPLAW
NI FIN
NI INTERNET
NI LABOR
NI LAW
NI LITIGATE
NI LAWSUITS
NI MED
NI MAJOR
NI MARKETS
NI MNA
NI PA
NI PHILLY
NI PUB
NI REL
NI TEC
NI TRIALS
NI UPDATE
NI US
NI USMA
NI WNEWS
NI BBEXCLUDE  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net ;
Sophia Pearson in federal court in Philadelphia at  spearson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  