-- Sotheby’s Loses Meyer as Contemporary Art Head Amid Push
-- B y   K a t y a   K a z a k i n a
-- 2013-11-23T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-23/sotheby-s-loses-meyer-as-contemporary-art-head-amid-push.html
Tobias Meyer ,  Sotheby’s (BID)  worldwide
head of contemporary art and an auctioneer for more than two
decades, has left the company being pressured for change by
activist investors including  Daniel Loeb .  “Tobias Meyer is a respected figure and has been at the
center of signature moments in Sotheby’s history for more than
20 years and we are grateful for all of his contributions,”
Bill Ruprecht, chairman and chief executive officer, said
yesterday in a statement disclosing the exit. “With Tobias’
contract soon expiring, we all agreed it was time to part
ways.”  Sotheby’s is being pushed for new leadership and more
efficient operations by Loeb’s Third Point LLC, whose 9.24
percent stake as of Oct. 1 makes it the largest shareholder in
the New York-based auction house. Loeb last month called for
Ruprecht to step down and criticized Sotheby’s executive
compensation, international business and “deteriorating”
competitive position. Activist investor Marcato Capital
Management LLC has built a 6.6 percent stake.  Meyer’s departure may signal a broader shakeup in the
company’s executive ranks, said Sergey Skaterschikov, founder of
Skate’s Art Market Research in  New York .  “It’s not a surprise at all,” Skaterschikov said. “There
is a clear understanding that it would be difficult for Ruprecht
to retain his key executives. There is a question about
leadership at Sotheby’s. I don’t think it’s going to be an
isolated incident.”  Sotheby’s said it has no plans to fill the role of
worldwide head of contemporary art. Alex Rotter will continue as
the head of contemporary art in the Americas and Cheyenne Westphal as the head of contemporary art in  Europe .  Cohen Collection  Meyer, 50, joined Sotheby’s in 1992 as head of the
contemporary art department in  London , according to yesterday’s
statement. Five years later, he was chosen to lead the worldwide
contemporary department in New York.  “I will always cherish my time at Sotheby’s and look
forward to the next chapter in my career,” Meyer said in the
statement.    Meyer led a $380.6 million auction of postwar and
contemporary art last week in which  Andy Warhol ’s “Silver Car
Crash (Double Disaster)” fetched $105.4 million. The auction
also included at least $77 million of art from the collection of
hedge-fund billionaire  Steven A. Cohen .  The tally, while falling short of Christie’s record $691.6
million auction the night before, was the biggest in Sotheby’s
history.  ‘Phenomenal Sale’  “He did a phenomenal sale,” said Alberto Mugrabi, a New
York-based collector and dealer who regularly buys and sells at
both Sotheby’s and Christie’s. “He left when he was on top.”  The departure had nothing to do with Loeb’s campaign,
according to Mugrabi. “They are good friends,” he said.  Andrew Gully, a spokesman for Sotheby’s, declined to
comment on whether the departure had any connection to Loeb and
whether further executive exits may be coming.  Loeb also declined to comment on Meyer’s move.  Sotheby’s auction  sales  declined 7 percent to $5.4 billion
in 2012, and the company’s revenue fell 7.6 percent to $768.5
million. Sales of art and collectibles at London-based
Christie’s International rose 10 percent to 3.9 billion pounds
($6.3 billion).  Ruprecht, 57, whose contract expires in August 2014, earned
$7 million in 2011 and $6.3 million in 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katya Kazakina in New York at 
 kkazakina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  