-- Swiss Go to Polls on CEO Pay Limits as Rejection Probable
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   B o s l e y
-- 2013-11-23T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-23/swiss-go-to-polls-on-ceo-pay-limits-as-rejection-probable.html
The Swiss vote today on whether to
introduce the strictest pay limits for top managers in developed
countries. Rejection looks probable.  According to the latest poll, more than half of voters
oppose the 1:12 initiative in a referendum that would make it
illegal for executives to earn more than 12 times the lowest
paid member of their staff in  Switzerland . The country is the
home to at least five of  Europe ’s 20 best-paid chief executive
officers.  Voting will end at noon local time and results are expected
later today. Most Swiss will have cast their ballots by mail.  Opposition to exorbitant pay has stiffened among the
traditionally pro-business Swiss following the government
bailout of  UBS AG (UBSN)  in 2008 and the plan -- later scrapped -- by
 Novartis AG (NOVN)  to pay outgoing Chairman  Daniel Vasella  as much as
$78 million.  “It would be a much stricter rule than in other
countries,” said Robert Pozen, a senior lecturer of business
administration at  Harvard Business School . “More and more
countries ask for sort of disclosures like this, but I think
Switzerland is the first to impose, if this passes, a binding
ceiling on” executive pay, he said.  In March, Swiss voters approved the so-called fat-cat
initiative that gave companies’ shareholders a binding vote on
managers’ pay and blocked golden handshakes and severance
packages.  ‘No Benefit’  While polls after that vote suggested the 1:12 initiative
could pass, support for the proposal has waned, in part because
of vociferous opposition by company executives, including  Roche
Holding AG (ROG)  CEO Severin Schwan and  ABB Ltd. (ABBN)  chief Ulrich Spiesshofer, who said it would crimp competitiveness and damage
the economy.  “Swiss voters know exactly what they have in big companies
like Roche” and  Nestle SA (NESN) , according to Schwan. “They know
these companies contribute very strongly to their prosperity. I
am very confident they won’t accept an initiative like this that
won’t benefit anyone.”  The proposal was opposed by 54 percent of voters questioned
by pollster gfs.bern, with 36 percent backing it. The survey,
conducted among 1,409 voters between Nov. 1 and Nov. 8, had a
margin of error of 2.7 percentage points.  Popular initiatives are commonplace in Swiss politics, on
issues ranging from health care to European Union membership. At
least 100,000 signatures are needed for an initiative to come up
for a national ballot.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catherine Bosley in Zurich at 
 cbosley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  