-- U.S. Health Agency Adds Staff to Handle Obamacare Probes
-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 2013-11-23T00:39:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-23/u-s-health-agency-adds-staff-to-handle-obamacare-probes.html
The  Department of Health  and Human
Services is expanding its legal and communications teams as it
faces lawmakers investigating the flawed rollout of the
government-run insurance exchanges in the Affordable Care Act.  Jennifer O’Connor, who left private practice for the
 Internal Revenue Service  in May to help the agency navigate the
fallout from its scrutiny of Tea Party groups seeking tax
exemptions, has joined the department on a short-term basis,
according to a statement from HHS provided to  Bloomberg News .  O’Connor was previously a partner at WilmerHale in
Washington and will work on a “wide variety of legal and
legislative issues,” the statement said. She will be joined by
Jennifer Friedman, a veteran communicator who served in senior
roles at the Commerce and Treasury departments in the Obama
administration, according to the statement.  HHS is under pressure from lawmakers and the public over
failures at the government website designed as a portal for
consumers looking to enroll in the insurance exchanges.
President  Barack Obama  assigned Jeffrey Zients, an economic
adviser, to lead the effort to fix the website and pledged that
it would be running smoothly by the end of this month.  Republicans on at least three House committees, including
the House Oversight and Government Reform panel, have opened
investigations into different aspects of the rollout of the
health-care exchanges.  O’Connor is a veteran of previous Washington battles. While
at the IRS, she served as a counselor to Acting Director Danny Werfel, as well as William Wilkins, the agency’s chief counsel.
She was assigned to work on the agency’s review of its
activities, the IRS said in a June statement.  Before moving into private practice, O’Connor served in
President  Bill Clinton ’s administration, working as part of a
team of aides assembled to counter congressional investigations
into the administration’s activities.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Mattingly in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  