-- Global Warming Fight Advances With First Steps on Treaty
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s   a n d   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 2013-11-24T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-23/un-envoys-endorse-first-steps-toward-next-global-warming-treaty.html
Diplomats from almost 190 nations
endorsed a set of measures on global warming, laying the
groundwork for a treaty to be adopted in 2015 that would limit
pollution by all nations for the first time.  The delegates at a United Nations conference called on
those who are ready to make pledges on emissions by the first
quarter of 2015. They authorized work on a “loss and damage”
mechanism that would help the poorest cope with the impact of
climate change, took in $100 million in aid pledges to fund
adaptation programs and agreed on a forest-protection deal.  The meeting sidestepped the most thorny issues in the
debate, namely how to divide up responsibility for emissions
cuts and how richer nations will meet their promise to channel
$100 billion a year by 2020 in aid for climate projects. Those
concerns may stymie work toward a broader accord in two years.  “There are some very difficult political issues that will
need to be addressed over the next two years if we are going to
have a successful outcome,” said  Alden Meyer , an observer of
the talks for two decades at the  Union of Concerned Scientists ,
said at the meeting yesterday in Warsaw,  Poland . “We’re just at
the beginning of a long and potentially difficult journey.”  This year’s meeting of the UN Framework Convention on
Climate Change was never designed to produce a breakthrough.
Instead, it was meant to work out the technical groundwork
necessary for the 2015 deal, which will be negotiated in Paris
after an interim meeting in Lima,  Peru .  Pollution Level  Record carbon emissions have lifted the Earth’s temperature
about 0.8 degrees Celsius since the industrial revolution, and
the planet is on a path to exceed the UN-endorsed maximum of 2
degrees Celsius (3.6 degrees Fahrenheit) of warming by 2100. As
a result, sea levels are rising, oceans are acidifying and
glaciers and sea ice are melting. Scientists predict more freak
weather, droughts and stronger storms.  Humans have already emitted more than half the  greenhouse
gases  compatible with a 2-degree increase, UN scientists said
Sept. 27. The implication of that is many fossil-fuel reserves
need to remain unburned if the temperature goal is to be met.  “The coal lobby cast a shadow over the negotiations,”
said Jennifer Morgan, director of the climate and energy
program, at the World Resources Institute. “It’s increasingly
clear that unabated coal use is inconsistent with the goal of
staying within 2 degrees.”  Work Plan  When the mandate to reach a new global deal was fixed two
years ago in Durban,  South Africa , industrial nations hailed it
as breaking down the firewall that assigned mandatory targets
only to rich countries. Clashes between developed and emerging
nations in Warsaw showed the divisions remain.  The deal resulted from a last-minute compromise between
industrial and developing nations about the fossil-fuel
emissions cuts they were agreeing to.  China  and India rejected
an effort by the U.S. and European Union to lock all nations
into “commitments” on greenhouse gases. That word was swapped
for “contributions,” a sign some countries may be shying away
from explicit emissions reductions targets such as those
enshrined in the 1997  Kyoto Protocol .  Poland sparked ire from environmental activists for hosting
a coal conference at the same time as the talks, while China led
an angry backlash by developing countries against  Japan ’s
decision to water down its planned emissions target for 2020.  Typhoon Anger  The meeting began three days after Typhoon Haiyan
devastated the  Philippines . That fed animosity about who is to
blame for global warming and who should pay to fix the damage.
India and China called on industrial nations to move first on
emissions. The agreement allowed wiggle room on exactly when
their own pledges must be delivered.  The European Union and U.S. succeeded in their bid to set a
deadline for taking in emissions pledges before the Paris
meeting. They had to accept language that said it applies to
those that are ready.  Rich countries didn’t give further detail on when they’d
boost climate-related aid from the the $10 billion a year that
has flowed in the past three years.  Those issues may be more sharply defined at the next annual
conference, which will be held in December 2014 in  Lima . For
now, there was $100 million in new pledges from nations led by
Germany, Sweden and  Switzerland  for the UN’s Adaptation Fund,
which helps developing nations adapt to the impact of climate
change. The Green Climate Fund, established two years remains
un-capitalized because the way it works hasn’t been fully
defined.  Replacing Kyoto  The delegates seek to write a new climate-protection
agreement to replace the  Kyoto Protocol , the only global deal
with emissions restrictions.  It limits greenhouse pollutants in industrialized nations,
leaving poorer countries to make only voluntary commitments.
Since Canada pulled out of Kyoto and  Russia  and Japan rejected
new targets after 2012, the treaty has applied to less than 15
percent of global emissions. China has surpassed the U.S. as the
world’s biggest polluter since 1997, with  India  catching up.  “You have no chance to achieve the ambition you need
unless you have an agreement which is going to be maximally
inclusive, bringing all the players in,” U.S. Special Envoy for
Climate Change Todd Stern told reporters in Warsaw.  Richer nations have offered aid to entice poorer ones into
joining in limits on fossil-fuel emissions. Japan pledged $16
billion in aid over the next three years. Norway promised at
least $500 million a year through 2020. The U.S. said it’s
paying out $2.7 billion this year. The $100 million for the
adaptation fund will help pay for projects in  Belize , Cuba, the
Seychelles, Myanmar and Uzbekistan.  Finance Debate  The debates over long-term finance to meet the $100 billion
goal, the loss-and-damage mechanism, and the timetable of
emissions pledges leading up to the 2015 deal proved the most
touchy issues in Warsaw. Envoys say each nation must prepare for
the next session to have targets to put on the table.  “If we don’t do our homework before we meet, then we won’t
get an agreement when we meet,” Danish Environment Minister
Martin Lidegaard said in an interview.  In a victory for islands states that fear they’ll be
submerged by rising seas, delegates set up a body called the
Warsaw Mechanism to help the most vulnerable nations address the
losses and damage they suffer due to global warming.  While it falls short of a demand that it becomes a channel
for compensation, its functions may include coordinating
research into extreme weather events and so-called slow-onset
effects of  climate change . Those include the rise of sea levels,
melting glaciers and ocean acidification. It may also play a
role coordinating with aid agencies and UN bodies dealing with
health, weather and agriculture.  On forests, the conference adopted a rulebook setting out
how aid funds can go to protect woodlands, concluding eight
years of negotiations. Deforestation and land-use changes
account for 17 percent of global greenhouse-gas emissions, and
the measures known as Reducing Emissions from Deforestation and
Forest Degradation, or REDD-plus, will help nations such as
Brazil and Congo protect forests.  “With these decisions, the REDD house is built,” said
Pipa Elias, forest policy consultant at the Union of Concerned
Scientists. “Now we need to furnish it and pay for it.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Morales in Warsaw at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net ;
Ewa Krukowska in Warsaw at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  