-- UN Plan Charts Path to Climate Accord Limiting Pollution
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a   a n d   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2013-11-23T15:59:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-23/un-plan-charts-path-to-new-climate-agreement-limiting-pollution.html
Envoys from almost 190 nations
endorsed a program that sets out steps toward the next agreement
aimed at reducing global warming, after accepting a compromise
that watered down the responsibilities of developing nations
such as  India  and China.  Delegates at a United Nations conference in Warsaw today
backed a plan from India and China calling for all nations to
make “contributions” to reducing fossil-fuel emissions within
the next two years. The language was less strict than the
“commitments” suggested by the U.S. and  Europe .  The language was agreed upon in an informal huddle of
diplomats at the talks, which ran a day behind schedule amid
divisions between richer nations and poorer ones about who was
responsible for climate change and who must move first. The
decision on the timetable for future action was among the most
controversial issues at the meeting.  Envoys are still debating a number of other measures,
including a loss-and-damage measure for nations most vulnerable
to climate change, and financial aid pledges.  While the Warsaw meeting was never meant to be a
breakthrough in the fight against global warming, it was to put
in place the key building blocks necessary for a treaty the
delegates aim to agree on in 2015 and that would come into force
five years later.  Finance Debate  The envoys had locked horns on finance, with  China , India,
 Bangladesh , Cuba, Nepal and  Nicaragua  demanding rich nations
agree to an interim milestone on the way toward their $100
billion aid pledge. Nicaragua, speaking for a group of 130
countries, sought $70 billion in aid by 2016. That dispute has
yet to be resolve.  “We still don’t have a road map on finance. We have had
proposals,” Indian envoy T.S. Tirumurti told the conference
today. “The sense of urgency is missing.”  The U.S. and European Union so far have resisted making
more commitments on aid, partly because of their own economic
difficulties and partly because they want aid to flow along with
commitments from poorer nations on cutting emissions. Developing
nations have no mandatory limits under the  Kyoto Protocol , a
1997 treaty that remains the only global pact limiting global-warming pollution.  “The real annoyance seems to be on the lack of progress on
financing,” said Bas Eickhout, a member of the European
Parliament’s delegation to the talks. “I have the feeling this
deadlock can be broken by some kind of concession on a sub-target on finances in 2016. If not, this entire endgame may
derail, which is the worst outcome.”  Typhoon Impact  The typhoon that devastated the  Philippines  this month
amplified the anger of  developing countries  that industrial
nations are backtracking on previous pledges. Japan, Australia
and  Canada  have watered down commitments on emissions. The
Warsaw talks mark the first time since the UN started these
discussions in 1992 that ambitions have been scaled back.  Record carbon emissions have lifted the Earth’s temperature
about 0.8 degrees Celsius since the industrial revolution, and
the planet is on a path to exceed the UN-endorsed maximum of 2
degrees Celsius (3.6 degrees Fahrenheit) of warming by 2100. As
a result, sea levels are rising, oceans are acidifying and
glaciers and sea ice are melting. Scientists predict more freak
weather, droughts and stronger storms.  Draft Text  “We are going to be leading to a 3- or 4-degree world,”
said Gambian envoy Pa Ousman Jarju. “That is catastrophic for
the least island states, small island states and the African
continent.”  U.S. and European diplomats said they could live with a
draft text released late yesterday that would set out the
conclusions of the meeting. They expressed concern that China
and India wanted to revive a division between industrial and
developing nations on how greenhouse-gas cuts will be made in
the next treaty, a divide that was eliminated two years ago.  “It was somewhat astonishing to hear my good friend from
China to say commitments apply to only developed country
parties,” U.S. Special envoy on  Climate Change  Todd Stern said.
“I feel I’m going back in a time warp.”  For Related News and Information:
Top Stories: TOP
Top Environmental Markets News: TOP ENV  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Warsaw at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Morales in Warsaw at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  