-- Tusk Vows Family Spending, Graft Fight in New Start for Poland
-- B y   P i o t r   S k o l i m o w s k i   a n d   K o n r a d   K r a s u s k i
-- 2013-11-23T16:38:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-23/tusk-vows-family-spending-graft-fight-in-new-start-for-poland.html
Polish Prime Minister Donald Tusk
pledged to channel money to families and weed out corruption
within his ruling party in a bid for a third term in 2015.  Poland  has the chance to make “a great leap” thanks to
107 billion euros ($144 billion) it is to receive from the
European Union budget in 2014-2020, Tusk said today in a speech
to Civic Platform’s party congress in Warsaw. The funds will go
above all to ordinary Poles and small businesses, creating new
jobs and boosting wages in a country where  unemployment  stands
at 13 percent, he said.  Tusk, who in 2007 became the first Polish premier to win
re-election since the fall of communism, is seeking to bolster
his party’s standing as it has fallen behind the opposition in
the opinion polls. After announcing the replacement of seven
ministers on Nov. 20, he pledged the government will make “a
fresh start” as the economy emerges from its deepest slowdown
in more than a decade.  “The bottom line to our new opening is how money’s
supposed to work for the family,” Tusk told party delegates.
“As we end a period of gigantic reconstruction projects,
investing in infrastructure such as highway and roads, we want
the billions that went into building those foundations to start
working for Poles.”  Most Competitive  The goal is to turn Poland into  Europe ’s most competitive
economy with the next six to seven years by redirecting money to
startup businesses that create  jobs , Tusk said.  “We’re going to take careful, thought-out steps to make
sure we’re not destroying jobs while providing secure wages,”
the prime minister said.  Research and development funds will be channeled through
companies rather than research institutions to make sure they
bring commercial benefits, Regional Affairs Minister Elzbieta Bienkowska, whom Tusk nominated to become deputy prime minister
and add transport and infrastructure to her responsibilities,
told the delegates. She and the other new ministers will be
sworn in on Nov. 27.  Economic  growth  may pick up next year to 3 percent,
matching yesterday’s forecast by incoming Finance Minister
 Mateusz Szczurek , Tusk said. The 2014 budget assumes the
expansion will accelerate to 2.5 percent from an estimated 1.5
percent this year.  Szczurek, a 38-year-old ING Groep NV economist, said the
country needs a new  tax code  to “make life less onerous for
taxpayers.” The rewritten code may take more than two years to
prepare and will require support from lawmakers and President
 Bronislaw Komorowski , Szczurek said.  Power Abuse  Tusk opened his speech by warning that Civic Platform won’t
stay in power unless its leaders show “integrity.”  Abuses of power won’t be overlooked and corruption will be
rooted out with special emphasis on those in the party who may
think they have “special privileges,” the prime minister said.  Civic Platform  has been beset by allegations of vote-buying
at a regional convention last month and a probe of alleged
bribe-taking in procurement contracts valued at more than $484
million, according to estimates by Warsaw prosecutors.  Transport Minister Slawomir Nowak resigned this month after
prosecutors opened an investigation into whether he failed to
disclose an expensive watch in a mandatory property declaration
for senior officials.  Poll Drop  The scandal erupted as Civic Platform continued to founder
in the polls. Support for Law & Justice rose to 31 percent from
30 percent last month, while the ruling party’s backing fell to
22 percent from 25 percent, the PAP news service reported,
citing a Nov. 8-15 survey of 965 Poles by the polling company
TNS Polska. No margin of error was given.  “What we have in Poland could be called a state of
poverty, and its founding father is Donald Tusk,”  Jaroslaw
Kaczynski , party leader of Law & Justice, said in a speech
before Tusk spoke today.  Even the best-intended programs can be squandered by
“fixes, corruption and the old-boy network,” Kaczynski said,
while about a million Poles work for 5 zloty ($1.62) an hour.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Piotr Skolimowski in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net ;
Konrad Krasuski in Warsaw at 
 kkrasuski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  