-- Twitter Uses Forward Secrecy Technology for Encryption
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2013-11-23T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-23/twitter-uses-forward-secrecy-technology-for-encryption.html
Twitter Inc. (TWTR)  said it has stepped up
encryption of its service, in the latest effort by a technology
company to beef up security following reports of spying on
digital content by the National Security Agency.  The San Francisco-based microblogging service said in a
 blog post  yesterday that it recently enabled a technology dubbed
forward secrecy for traffic going through its websites, which
makes it more difficult for hackers to decrypt information.  “Forward secrecy is just the latest way in which Twitter
is trying to defend and protect the user’s voice,” the company
said in the post.  Amid the fallout over NSA spying on digital information,
technology companies including  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)  have
taken measures to strengthen security of their information. Many
are using harder-to-crack code to shield their networks and
online customer data from unauthorized U.S. spying. The
companies, trying to distance themselves from concerns about
user data, have said they do not provide NSA direct access to
their servers.  Earlier this week, Yahoo said it will encrypt all
information that flows between its data centers. Google has said
it was ramping up similar efforts.  Jim Prosser, a spokesman for Twitter, didn’t immediately
respond to a phone message seeking further comment.  In August, the Electronic Frontier Foundation, a nonprofit
that works for protections in the digital world, said it was
promoting the technology of  perfect forward secrecy  because it
helps make session keys that a server computer generates “truly
ephemeral,” which helps keep data from prying eyes. The
technology is “an important Web privacy protection,” the group
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  