-- Yen Slumps to Lowest in Four Years on BOJ Easing; Aussie Tumbles
-- B y   A n d r e a   W o n g
-- 2013-11-23T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-23/yen-slumps-to-lowest-in-four-years-on-boj-easing-aussie-tumbles.html
The yen fell to a four-year low
against the euro and weakened past 101 per dollar as  Japan ’s
central bank kept its pledge to expand the monetary base as part
of the government’s strategy to end 15 years of deflation.  The euro gained for a second week as a rise in German
business confidence fueled optimism the economic recovery is
gaining momentum. Australia’s dollar fell on bets the central
bank will intervene to weaken the currency. Yields on U.S. debt
rose to the highest in two months relative to Japan’s as the
Federal Reserve signaled reduced asset purchases “in coming
months.” U.S.  consumer confidence  is forecast to climb in
November after plunging last month amid the government shutdown.  “The yen was among the under-performers in the Group of 10
this week,”  Valentin Marinov , head of European G-10 currency
strategy at Citigroup Inc. in  London , said in an e-mail. “The
dollar could remain supported against the yen from the upcoming
U.S. data, as well as more signals from the Fed about the timing
of tapering.”  The yen fell 1.5 percent this week to 137.28 per euro after
touching 137.35, the weakest level since October 2009.  The
Japanese currency slipped 1.1 percent to 101.27 per dollar after
reaching 101.35, the least since July 8. The shared currency
rose 0.5 percent to $1.3558.  The Bloomberg U.S. Dollar Index, which tracks the currency
against 10 major counterparts, rose 0.2 percent to 1,018.56.  Winners, Losers  Brazil ’s real rallied the most against the greenback among
its 16 most-traded currencies tracked by Bloomberg as companies
made winning bids worth $9.1 billion to operate two of the
nation’s busiest airports, more than three times the minimum
amounts set by the government.  The real climbed 1.5 percent over the past five days to
2.2794 per U.S. dollar, its first weekly advance since Oct. 18.  The Aussie fell for a fifth week against the dollar, the
longest losing streak in more than five months, after Reserve
Bank of  Australia  Governor Glenn Stevens said in a speech on
Nov. 21 that foreign-exchange intervention can be effective as
long as it’s “judiciously used in the right circumstances.”  “The Aussie is looking very vulnerable,” said Ian Stannard, head of European foreign-exchange strategy at Morgan
Stanley in London. “The RBA has once again focused in on the
currency, citing it as overvalued. There are domestic and
international reasons to be negative and we are looking for the
move to continue.”  The Aussie fell 2 percent to 91.83 U.S. cents this week
after touching 91.44 yesterday, the weakest since Sept. 6. The
currency traded touched NZ$1.1170, the lowest versus the New
Zealand dollar since October 2008.  Argentine Peso  The Argentine peso, which is regulated by the nation’s
central bank, fell the most among emerging-market currencies in
the last five days amid cabinet changes that included the
central bank president and economy minister.  The likelihood Argentina will designate exchange rates that
differ based on the transaction has jumped with the promotion of
Axel Kicillof, who as deputy economy minister supported
President Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner’s ban on dollar
purchases for savings and import restrictions, according to HSBC
Holdings Plc.  The peso slumped 1.5 percent to 6.0827 per dollar, the
biggest weekly drop since March 2009. In a market used to wager
on future currency values, peso non-deliverable forwards tumbled
4.7 percent to 7.1300.  Central Banks  Minutes of the Fed’s Oct. 29-30 meeting showed policy
makers “generally expected” improvement in employment data
that would “warrant trimming the pace of purchases in coming
months.” The central bank buys  $85 billion  of Treasuries and
mortgage-backed securities a month. The Fed next meets on Dec.
17-18.  U.S.  consumer confidence  rose to 72.2 this month, according
to the median estimate of 58 economists in a Bloomberg survey,
from 71.2 in October, the weakest reading in six months. The
partial closure of federal agencies for half the month pushed
consumer expectations to a seven-month low.  Japan’s central bank kept its pledge to expand the monetary
base by as much as 70 trillion yen ($69 billion) a year at its
Nov. 21 meeting. Nineteen of 37 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
said policy makers will add stimulus in the second quarter of
2014 after a planned increase in sales tax, with seven saying it
will ease in the July-September period.  ‘Key Driver’  The  extra yield  that U.S. 10-year Treasuries offer over
similar-maturity Japanese bonds expanded to 2.19 percentage
points on Nov. 20, the widest level since Sept. 12 based on
closing prices. It was at 2.12 percent today.  “The yield differential is a key driver of dollar-yen,”
Brian Daingerfield, a  Stamford , Connecticut-based currency
strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc’s RBS Securities
unit, said in a phone interview. “The dollar, reacting
positively towards the possibility of an earlier taper and
yields moving higher, is pushing dollar-yen higher.”  Futures traders increased their bets that the yen will
decline against the dollar to the most since July 2007, figures
from the Washington-based Commodity Futures Trading Commission
show.  The difference in the number of wagers by hedge funds and
other large speculators on a decline in the yen compared with
those on a gain -- so-called  net shorts  -- was 112,216 on Nov.
19, compared with net shorts of 95,107 a week earlier.  German Confidence  The Ifo institute’s German business climate index, based on
a survey of 7,000 executives, increased to 109.3 from 107.4 in
October. That was the highest reading since April 2012.
Economists surveyed by Bloomberg forecast a gain to 107.7.  “This should help the euro to go higher,” said Neil Jones, head of European hedge-fund sales at Mizuho Bank Ltd. in
London, referring to the German report. “Data continues to
encourage, which is indicative of an improving economic trend
throughout the euro zone.”  The Bundesbank said this week that the German economy
remains on a “solid growth path.” Investor confidence rose to
the highest level in four years in November, unemployment
remained near a two-decade low in October and factory orders
climbed more than economists predicted in September.  The yen has tumbled 13 percent this year, the worst
performer among 10 developed-nation currencies tracked by
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The dollar strengthened
3.7 percent and the euro advanced 6.9 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Wong in  New York  at 
 awong268@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  