-- ‘Mama’ Opens as Box Office Leader Over ‘Zero Dark Thirty’
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e   a n d   D a v i d   G l o v i n
-- 2013-01-21T05:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-20/-mama-opens-as-no-1-film-to-topple-zero-dark-thirty-1-.html
The horror tale “Mama” opened as
the top weekend film in U.S. and Canadian theaters, displacing
Oscar contender “Zero Dark Thirty” as the two films starring
Jessica Chastain vied for the top spot.  “Mama,” with $28.1 million in sales for  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s
Universal Pictures, edged Kathryn Bigelow’s look at the hunt for
Osama bin Laden, which fell to second with $17.6 million,
researcher  Hollywood.com Box-Office  said yesterday in an e-
mailed statement. Arnold Schwarzenegger’s comeback film “The
Last Stand” opened in 10th place with $6 million,  The weekend sales reflected the growing box-office appeal
of Chastain. She received a best-actress Oscar nomination this
month for her portrayal in “Zero Dark Thirty” of a relentless
CIA officer who uncovers key information that leads to the
killing of bin Laden.  “It is very rare indeed for a star to boast appearing in
the top two movies,” said Paul Dergarabedian, president of
Hollywood.com’s box-office unit, in an e-mailed comment.
“Chastain’s profile, after so many great performances in
numerous movies over the past couple of years, is now hitting a
very high point.”  In “Mama,” two young girls disappear in the woods on the
day their mother is murdered. Five years later, they are
discovered living in a feral state in a remote cabin.  Oscar Buzz  Their uncle and his girlfriend, played by Chastain, take
them in. Soon after the girls arrive, the couple discovers that
a malevolent force has followed the girls into the home. Nicolaj
Coster-Waldau co-stars as the uncle.  “Zero Dark Thirty,” also nominated for best picture, is
benefiting from Oscar buzz and the political debate over the
film’s depiction of harsh interrogation techniques by the CIA.  Dianne Feinstein, who chairs the U.S. Senate Intelligence
Committee, has said the movie falsely suggests techniques such
as waterboarding provided key information. The California
Democrat has called for an investigation into whether the CIA
has been honest about the value of such methods.  “Zero Dark Thirty” follows a team of operatives who use a
variety of methods, including interrogation, satellite photos
and on-the-ground surveillance, to locate bin Laden’s compound
in Abbottabad,  Pakistan . The movie also depicts bin Laden’s 2011
death during a raid by U.S. Navy Seals.  In addition to Chastain, the film features Joel Edgerton,
Kyle Chandler and James Gandolfini.  Perfect Timing  Weinstein Co.’s “Silver Linings Playbook,” which expanded
to 2,523 theaters from 810 last week, rose to third from 10th
with sales of $11.4 million. The movie starring Bradley Cooper,
Jennifer Lawrence and Robert DeNiro tells of an adult son who
returns to his parents’ home after months in a psychiatric
hospital.  “Silver Linings” benefited from the additional theaters
and was able “to capitalize on multiple Oscar nominations,”
Dergarabedian said. “The timing could not have been more
perfect.”  “Gangster Squad,” starring Josh Brolin as the leader of a
special team of Los Angeles Police Department detectives
assigned to take on mobster Mickey Cohen, finished fourth,
taking in $9.1 million. The movie, set in 1949, features Sean Penn as Cohen and Ryan Gosling as one of the detectives.  The crime drama “Broken City,” new this past weekend, was
fifth with $9 million in receipts. The film, from  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s
Twentieth Century Fox, stars Mark Wahlberg as a former police
officer who seeks to clear his name after being framed by the
mayor, played by Russell Crowe.  Schwarzenegger’s Return  In “The Last Stand,” Schwarzenegger plays a former Los
Angeles Police Department detective who moves into semi-
retirement by becoming the sheriff of a small town on the
Mexican border. His life is disrupted when a drug kingpin
escapes from FBI custody.  The film, distributed by  Lions Gate Entertainment Corp. (LGF) ,
also features Forest Whitaker and Luis Guzman.  Weekend revenue for the top 12 films rose 6 percent to
$121.9 million from a year earlier, Hollywood.com said. Sales
for the first three weeks of the year are $631.3 million, up 14
percent from a year ago. Attendance is also up 14 percent.  The amounts below are based on actual ticket sales for Jan.
18 and Jan. 19 and estimates for yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael White in Los Angeles at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  