-- ‘Mama’ Opens as Box Office Leader to Topple ‘Zero Dark Thirty’
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e
-- 2013-01-20T17:28:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-20/-mama-opens-as-box-office-leader-to-topple-zero-dark-thirty-.html
The horror tale “Mama” opened as
the top weekend film in U.S. and Canadian theaters, displacing
Oscar contender “Zero Dark Thirty” as two films starring
Jessica Chastain vied for the top spot.  “Mama,” with $28.1 million in sales for  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s
 Universal Pictures , edged Kathryn Bigelow’s look at the hunt for
 Osama bin Laden , which fell to second with $17.6 million,
researcher  Hollywood.com Box-Office  said today in an e-mailed
statement. Arnold Schwarzenegger’s comeback film, “The Last
Stand” opened in 10th place with $6.3 million,  The weekend sales reflected the growing box-office appeal
of Chastain. She received a best-actress Oscar nomination this
month for her portrayal in “Zero Dark Thirty” of a relentless
CIA officer who uncovers key information that leads to the
killing of bin Laden  In “Mama,” two young girls disappear in the woods on the
day their mother is murdered. Five years later, they are
discovered living in a feral state in a remote cabin.  Their uncle and his girlfriend, played by Chastain, take
them in. Soon after the girls arrive, the couple discovers that
a malevolent force has followed the girls into the home. Nicolaj
Coster-Waldau co-stars as the uncle.  “Zero Dark Thirty,” also nominated for best picture, is
benefiting from Oscar buzz and the political debate over the
film’s depiction of harsh interrogation techniques by the CIA.  CIA Operatives  Dianne Feinstein , who chairs the U.S. Senate Intelligence
Committee, has said the movie falsely suggests techniques such
as waterboarding provided key information. The California
Democrat has called for an investigation into whether the CIA
has been honest about the value of such methods.  “Zero Dark Thirty” follows a team of operatives who use a
variety of methods, including interrogation, satellite photos
and on-the-ground surveillance, to locate bin Laden’s compound
in Abbottabad,  Pakistan . The movie also depicts bin Laden’s 2011
death during a raid by U.S. Navy Seals.  In addition to Chastain, the film features Joel Edgerton,
Kyle Chandler and  James Gandolfini .  In “The Last Stand,” Schwarzenegger plays a former  Los
Angeles  Police Department detective who moves into semi-
retirement by becoming the sheriff of a small town on the
Mexican border.  His quiet life is disrupted when a drug kingpin escapes
from FBI custody. The film, distributed by  Lions Gate
Entertainment Corp. (LGF) , also features Forest Whitaker and Luis Guzman.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael White in Los Angeles at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  