-- Djokovic Avoids Australian Open Upset as Sharapova Sets Record
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-01-20T15:53:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-20/makarova-upsets-kerber-to-reach-australian-open-quarterfinals.html
Top-seeded Novak Djokovic fought
back from a set and 5-2 down to beat Stanislas Wawrinka over
five sets in five hours at the Australian Open and advance to
his 15th straight tennis Grand Slam quarterfinal.  Women’s No. 2  Maria Sharapova  routed Kirsten Flipkens
yesterday to set a tournament record for fewest games lost in
reaching the last eight, while Ekaterina Makarova extended her
run of upsets in Melbourne by ousting No. 5 Angelique Kerber.  Defending champion Djokovic of  Serbia  won 1-6, 7-5, 6-4, 6-
7 (5-7), 12-10 at Rod Laver Arena after Wawrinka, the No. 15
seed from  Switzerland , had served for a two-sets-to-love lead.
The victory, secured at 1:41 a.m. local time on his third match
point, lifted Djokovic into third place for the most men’s
quarterfinal appearances in a row at the four majors behind
 Roger Federer  and  Jimmy Connors .  “I was just trying to hang in there and give every last
drop of energy,” Djokovic, who celebrated by ripping off his
shirt and bellowing into the sky, said in a televised courtside
interview. “It could really have gone either way this match.
I’m so glad to go through.”  The match lasted five hours, two minutes, with the final
set alone taking 104 minutes, as Djokovic and Wawrinka showcased
shot-making that produced a total of 120 winners. Wawrinka
committed 93 unforced errors to 66 by Djokovic, who won the
final 20-shot rally with a crosscourt backhand pass.  Berdych Next  Djokovic, seeking to become the first man since the
professional era began in 1968 to win three straight Australian
Opens, will next face Tomas Berdych. The No. 5 seed from the
 Czech Republic  outlasted  South Africa ’s Kevin Anderson 15-13 in
a third-set tiebreaker to advance in straight sets.  Men’s No. 4 seed  David Ferrer  beat Kei Nishikori to advance
to a last-eight matchup with fellow Spaniard Nicolas Almagro,
who went through when eighth-seeded Janko Tipsarevic quit their
fourth-round contest because of a heel injury.  Sharapova, the No. 2 seed from  Russia , defeated Flipkens of
Belgium 6-1, 6-0 in 68 minutes at Rod Laver Arena. She’s dropped
just five games at the season-opening major, the fewest en route
to the quarterfinals since the Australian Open moved to 128-
player draws in 1988.  “I’m certainly happy to be playing this well, but it only
gets tougher from here,” said Sharapova, who won the tournament
in 2008. “It’s really about keeping your focus, no matter what
the score is, no matter if you’re up.”  Makarova Rematch  Sharapova, 25, bettered the previous mark of eight games
allowed in reaching the quarterfinals shared by  Steffi Graf  and
 Monica Seles . The overall Grand Slam record for a 128-player
draw is held by Mary Pierce, who lost four games on her way to
the last eight of the 1994 French Open.  Sharapova will next play countrywoman Makarova, the No. 19
seed, who overcame fellow left-hander Kerber 7-5, 6-4 to match
her 2012 run to the last eight. The 24-year-old Makarova, who
ousted three seeds including five-time champion  Serena Williams 
12 months ago, has now beaten seven seeded players at the
tournament in the past three editions. She lost to Sharapova in
last year’s quarterfinals.  “Last year I was surprised to reach that stage and I had
so many thoughts in my mind,” Makarova said after her victory.
“This year I will be ready to play a good game.”  Ferrer, who tuned up for  Melbourne  Park by successfully
defending his Auckland title, defeated 16th-seeded Nishikori of
Japan 6-2, 6-1, 6-4 to reach his fifth straight Grand Slam
quarterfinal. Ferrer next faces Almagro, a player he beat in all
12 of their  previous career meetings .  Tipsarevic’s Trouble  Tenth-seeded Almagro was leading 6-2, 5-1 when Tipsarevic,
who had a medical timeout to get his left foot bandaged before
the eighth game of the first set, quit. The Serb had won back-
to-back five-set matches to reach the last 16.  Women’s No. 4 Agnieszka Radwanska extended her winning
streak to 13 matches by beating 13th-seeded Ana Ivanovic of
Serbia 6-2, 6-4 in 70 minutes to reach the quarterfinals for the
third straight year.  Radwanska, who’s yet to lose a set in 2013, will face
former French Open champion Li Na for a place in the semifinals.
The No. 6 seed from  China  saved a set point in a tiebreaker
before completing a 7-6 (8-6), 6-1 victory over No. 18 Julia
Goerges of  Germany .  “I have a lot more confidence after two titles that I won
the last two weeks,” Radwanska said. It’s been a great three
weeks so far.”  Simon’s Struggles  Men’s No. 14 seed Gilles Simon said he may struggle to stay
with U.S. Open champion  Andy Murray  in their fourth-round match
today after his five-set win over fellow Frenchman Gael Monfils
left him struggling to walk and needing about four hours of
treatment.  Simon overcame cramps to win 6-4, 6-4, 4-6, 1-6, 8-6 in a
four hour, 43-minute match that featured a 71-shot rally and
finished at 12:31 a.m. local time yesterday. He returned to
Melbourne Park later in the day to fulfill his post-match media
commitments.  “I don’t have a lot of chance to win this one,” Simon
said of his matchup against Murray. “But it’s my job to go on
the court and do the maximum to bother him, to give him a hard
time.”  Also today, No. 2 seed Federer of Switzerland faces 13th-
seeded Milos Raonic of  Canada , while defending women’s champion
 Victoria Azarenka  of Belarus takes on the unseeded Elena Vesnina
of Russia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes at Melbourne Park at  dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  