-- Algeria Attack May End Syrian Rebels’ Hope for Arms Aid
-- B y   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i
-- 2013-01-20T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-20/algeria-attack-may-end-syrian-rebels-hope-for-arms-aid.html
Any remaining hope that Syrian
rebels will receive weapons from the West may have died in a
remote gas facility in  Algeria .  Arms used or procured in Libya’s 2011 revolution have
helped to promote a rebellion across the border in  Mali  and
turned up in last week’s assault in neighboring Algeria that
left at least 23 hostages dead, French officials said.  While Qatar and  Saudi Arabia  are supplying Syria’s
opposition fighters, the U.S. and European countries have
refrained from sending offensive weapons over concern that they
will fall into the hands of radical groups among the rebels.
 France , which had been at the forefront of proposing that the
allies send more potent armaments, may now reconsider, said
Shashank Joshi, associate fellow at the  Royal United Services
Institute  in  London .  “There was already mounting skepticism about arming the
Syrian rebels, and what happened in Algeria will make them that
much more cautious,” Joshi said yesterday in a telephone
interview. “It will certainly weigh on the debate.”  Weapons from Libya have shown up in Mali,  Niger , Nigeria,
 Somalia , Syria and possibly the  Gaza Strip , the  Civil-Military
Fusion Centre , a Norfolk, Virginia-based organization that
assists in the sharing of crisis information by military and
civilian groups, said in a November report. Groups involved in
the revolution also attacked the U.S. and Italian consulates in
Benghazi, killing the U.S. ambassador to Libya in September.  Libya’s Touaregs  In Mali, Touareg separatists returning from Libya with
heavy weaponry allied themselves with Islamist groups to drive
out the Malian army in March and seize much of the country’s
desert north. Earlier this month, they began a push toward the
capital, Bamako, prompting French airstrikes. France has
airlifted 2,000 soldiers to Mali, where they are blocking the
rebel advance while awaiting the formation of an African force
to retake the north.  The group that took over the Algerian natural-gas plant had
demanded that France end its military intervention in Mali.  Algeria’s  Interior Ministry  said there were only three
Algerians among 32 gunmen who attacked the facility near In
Amenas, about 1,500 kilometers (932 miles) by road from Algiers
and 40 kilometers from the border with Libya. Hostages said they
heard Libyan, Egyptian and Tunisian accents among the militants,
while their commander came from Niger.  The Algerian army recovered six machine guns, 21 assault
rifles, two sniper rifles, two 60mm mortars, six 60mm rockets,
and two grenade launchers, as well as explosives and ammunition,
according to Interior Ministry. It didn’t say where weapons came
from.  Black Market  “The unguarded weapons caches scattered throughout Libya
have shown to be a major threat not only to  Libya  itself, but
also to the broader region,” the Civil-Military Fusion Centre
said in its report. “The weapons have consequently spread to
many surrounding countries through black-market sales to
terrorist groups, insurgents, pirates or other criminal
entities, which in turn incite profuse violent clashes in the
 Middle East , North Africa and Horn of Africa regions.”  French Foreign Minister Laurent Fabius said in an interview
on Europe1 radio yesterday that, while the intervention on
behalf of rebels in Libya was justified, “afterward we should
have paid more attention to the weapons and where they ended
up.”  On Nov. 15, Fabius said France, the U.S. and the European
Union should discuss the delivery of “defensive” weapons to
enable  Syria ’s rebels to repel attacks against areas of the
country they controlled.  Any weapons delivered to Syria could easily fuel conflicts
in Lebanon,  Turkey  and the Palestinian territories, said Eric
Denece, founder of the  French Center for Intelligence Research .  “For the French, what happened in Algeria will certainly
weigh on what they do in Syria,” he said yesterday in a
telephone interview. “What we’ve seen in Algeria was a direct
consequence of what happened in Libya.”  The events in Algeria are unlikely to dissuade the Qataris
and Saudis from arming the rebels in Syria, he said, because
they have ideological links with the Syrian opposition’s
Islamists factions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gregory Viscusi in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  