-- Ambani Said to Mull $2 Billion Venezuela Spend: Corporate India
-- B y   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y
-- 2013-01-21T11:23:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-20/ambani-said-to-mull-2-billion-venezuela-spend-corporate-india.html
Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL)  plans to
spend more than $2 billion on Venezuelan  oil fields , betting
President  Hugo Chavez ’s failing health won’t lead to political
upheaval, said a person with direct knowledge of the decision.  The operator of the world’s biggest refining complex is
jointly assessing investments in four oilfields in the South
American nation with state-run company  Petroleos de Venezuela SA ,
said the person, who asked not to be identified, citing
confidentiality terms. Reliance is waiting for data on the
blocks from PDVSA, as  Petroleos de Venezuela  is called, to start
the due diligence process, the person said.  Venezuela , which holds the world’s biggest proved oil
reserves, produces cheaper, heavier grades of crude, ideal for
processing at the two adjacent refineries run by Reliance, which
posted its first profit increase in a year last quarter. Chavez,
who was re-elected in October to a third six-year term, is
fighting cancer in a hospital in Cuba and hasn’t been seen or
heard since Dec. 10 when he reached Havana for a fourth surgery.  “It’s unlikely there will be a major change in policy
after Chavez, unless it’s accompanied by some kind of regime
change,”  Pierre Noel , a senior fellow for economic and energy
security at The International Institute for Strategic Studies,
said by phone from Singapore. “Under Chavez, Venezuela has
linked its oil policy with its broader foreign policy and this
has been supportive of Asian investments.”  Shares Gain  Reliance, controlled by billionaire  Mukesh Ambani , climbed
2.2 percent to 919.95 rupees at the close of trading in Mumbai.
The  shares  have gained 9.6 percent this year, compared with a
3.5 percent increase in the key  Sensitive Index. (SENSEX)   Tushar Pania, a spokesman for Reliance, didn’t reply to an
e-mail seeking comments on the company’s Venezuelan investments.
PDVSA spokesman Alfredo Carquez didn’t return calls to his
mobile phone or answer e-mails.  Reliance’s planned investment in Venezuela comes at a time
when the company is struggling to reverse a drop in natural gas
production from its biggest field in India. Gas production from
the KG-D6 block in the  Bay of Bengal  declined 37 percent to 275
billion cubic feet in the nine months ended Dec. 31 from a year
earlier, Reliance said Jan. 18. The drop was because of
reservoir complexity and a natural decline in output, it said.  Net income  rose 24 percent to 55 billion rupees ($1
billion), the biggest increase in two years, in the period ended
Dec. 31 compared with a year earlier, Reliance said Jan. 18 in a
filing. The company earned $9.6 for every barrel of crude it
processed in the quarter, compared with $6.8 a year earlier and
$9.5 a barrel in the previous three months.  ‘Improve Margins’  “Processing heavier grade of Venezuelan crude will allow
Reliance to improve margins at its refineries,” Ehsan Ul-Haq,
senior market consultant at KBC Energy Economics, said by phone
from London. “Reliance will depend on countries like Venezuela
for heavy crude supplies as the  Middle East  refiners use more
and more of their own heavy varieties.”  China has lent Venezuela more than $36 billion since 2007
to invest in infrastructure projects, some of which Venezuela is
repaying through crude supplies to the world’s biggest energy
consumer. China Petroleum & Chemical Corp. and China National
Oil Offshore Ltd. own stakes in Venezuelan fields.  India, Japan  Besides the Chinese, Indian and Japanese companies have
signed contracts with PDVSA. India’s biggest energy explorer  Oil
& Natural Gas Corp. (ONGC)  acquired a stake in the San Cristobal
project in 2008 and is a partner in the Carabobo 1 project that
started producing oil last month. Inpex Corp., Japan’s biggest
energy explorer, owns 70 percent of the Copa Macoya and the
Guarico Oriental fields.  India’s government said in July it planned to invest $2.2
billion in the Carabobo 1 block.  PDVSA is in investment talks with India’s state-run energy
explorer ONGC and Reliance, the Caracas-based company’s Planning
Director Fadi Kabboul said in New Delhi on Oct. 17.  Venezuela wants to increase ties with India to tap the
South Asian nation’s rising demand and capacity to process heavy
crude, Venezuelan Oil Minister  Rafael Ramirez  said on Sept. 26.
PDVSA signed a long-term supply agreement with Reliance to boost
exports of heavy crude to Asia and an accord to develop offshore
natural-gas projects -- the Boyaca 4 block and a section in the
Ayacucho area of the Orinoco belt, he said.  Essar Refinery  Essar Oil Ltd. (ESOIL) , controlled by billionaire brothers Shashi
and  Ravi Ruia , also imports  crude oil  from Venezuela for its
405,000 barrels-a-day refinery in western Gujarat state. The
plant is about 8 miles (13 kilometers) away from the Reliance
complex, which has a daily capacity of 1.24 million barrels.  “We don’t expect any disruptions because we have supply
contracts with the national  oil company ,” Essar Chief Executive
Officer Lalit Kumar Gupta said on a conference call on Jan. 15.  The average price of the  basket of crude oil  handled by
PDVSA was $99.25 a barrel in 2012, 11 percent cheaper than the
average Brent key oil price, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Venezuelan Vice President  Nicolas Maduro  said the head of
the national assembly would assume power and call elections to
be held within 30 days if Chavez dies or steps down before he is
sworn into his new term. Maduro, in an interview with the
Spanish newswire EFE published Jan. 17, said Venezuela’s
constitution is clear about the succession process.  “I don’t expect an Arab springs in Venezuela,” said
 Jagannadham Thunuguntla , head of research at New Delhi-based SMC
Global Securities Ltd., referring to a surge of protests that
began in  Egypt  against governments and spread to other parts of
the Middle East, including  Libya . “Venezuela has the oil, and
India needs it. It’s an opportunity.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rakteem Katakey in  New Delhi  at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  