-- BASF Said to Win Support for $900 Million Pronova Offer
-- B y   S h e e n a g h   M a t t h e w s
-- 2013-01-21T09:12:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-20/basf-said-to-win-enough-support-for-900-million-pronova-offer.html
BASF SE (BAS) , which raised its bid for
 Pronova BioPharma ASA (PRON)  three days before the offer expired, won
almost 98 percent support from the Norwegian drug-ingredient
maker’s shareholders, enough for the acquisition to go through.  BASF is setting up a compulsory acquisition process to
acquire the remaining shares in a so-called squeeze out and
expects to finalize the deal within the next week, the
Ludwigshafen, Germany-based company said today. BASF raised its
offer to 13.50 kroner a share on Jan. 15, valuing Pronova at
almost 5 billion kroner ($900 million) after minority
shareholders balked at a previous 12.50 kroner a share bid.  The deal marks an end to an eight-week battle on the
valuation of Pronova, which makes a top-purity fatty acid used
in blockbuster heart drugs such as  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK) ’s Lovaza.
Adding the Lysaker-based company helps BASF Chief Executive
Officer Kurt Bock boost his share in nutrition and health, a
market estimated to grow to 81 billion euros ($108 billion) by
2015 and sought after by rivals such as  Royal DSM NV (DSM)  and  Croda
International Plc. (CRDA)   “BASF raising the price definitely eased the whole
process,” said Ulle Woerner, an analyst at Landesbank Baden-
Wuerttemberg, who rates BASF shares buy. “I don’t know if the
Pronova shareholders would have gotten much more.”  Nutrition Growth  BASF’s offer values Pronova at 6.2 times earnings before
interest, tax, depreciation and amortization, compared with 9
times Ebitda that DSM paid for both Ocean Nutrition Canada and
food-additive maker Fortitech.  Shares of BASF gained as much as 1.3 percent to 74.11 euros
in Frankfurt trading and were up 0.7 percent as of 9:44 a.m.
local time. Pronova stock gained as much as 0.8 percent to 13.45
kroner in Olso.  Odin Forvaltning AS, which owned 4.7 percent of Pronova,
and Nykredit Asset Management, with about 1 percent, were among
investors that rejected BASF’s first bid. Even though the second
offer isn’t as much as it had sought, Nykredit accepted the bid
to mitigate the risk of holding onto the shares, said Rolf
Solgard, a portfolio manager at the Danish bank.  The offer “represents the full and fair value for all
shareholders, while providing the best strategic option for the
further development of Pronova’s business,” BASF said today.  All Pronova shareholders except Herkules Private Equity,
which held half of the stock, will get the higher price, BASF
said. That means that the German company, which is paying in
cash for Pronova, will have an outlay of about 3.9 billion
kroner.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sheenagh Matthews in Frankfurt at 
 smatthews6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  