-- BOJ Should Slow Easing If Yen Weakens Too Much, Hamada Says
-- B y   A n d y   S h a r p
-- 2013-01-21T04:47:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-20/boj-will-face-challenge-if-yen-weakens-too-far-abe-adviser-says.html
The  Bank of Japan (8301)  will need to slow
monetary easing if the effects on prices and the yen go too far,
said Koichi Hamada, who’s advising Prime Minister Shinzo Abe on
choosing a new central bank chief.  Policy makers are “working hard to raise prices and
influence the yen,” Hamada told reporters yesterday. “If it
goes too far, it should be stopped,” he said after appearing
with Economy Minister Akira Amari on an NHK television show in
 Tokyo .  Investors are gauging how far the government may let the
Japanese currency slide after Abe’s pledges of aggressive fiscal
and monetary action triggered a 10 percent decline against the
dollar from mid-November. They got mixed signals last week, when
Amari highlighted harmful effects of an excessive decline and
then said he had been misinterpreted, while Hamada said 110 yen
per dollar would be “too weak.”  “It will be difficult for the BOJ to slow its easing, but
those concerns are still far away,” said Tomo Kinoshita, chief
economist at Nomura Holdings Inc. in Tokyo. “They need to
concentrate on getting out of deflation, and we can worry about
inflation later.”  The yen advanced after touching a 2 1/2 year low, rising
0.6 percent to 89.59 at 1:45 p.m. in Tokyo as the Bank of Japan
begins a two-day policy meeting. Technical indicators signaled
recent losses in the currency may have been overdone. The  Nikkei
225 Stock Average (NKY)  was 0.9 percent lower after reaching a 32-
month high on Jan. 18.  ‘Not Easy’  It “won’t be easy” to slow monetary easing when it
becomes necessary, said Hamada, a retired Yale University
economics professor who taught Bank of Japan Governor Masaaki Shirakawa at Tokyo University.  The government is trying to shake off entrenched deflation
and drive a recovery in the world’s third-biggest economy. All
23 economists in a Bloomberg News survey expect the central bank
to expand asset purchases at this week’s meeting, with a median
estimate for a 10 trillion yen ($112 billion) increase. Abe
already unveiled a similar size of fiscal stimulus.  Amari told reporters in Tokyo today that the government and
BOJ are working on a joint statement on policy and that he is
considering attending this week’s central bank meeting.  The Nikkei gained 1 percent last week, while the broader
Topix Index capped its longest weekly winning streak since 1986
as the slide in the yen aided exporters.  “Abenomics has worked so far on the stock market and the
yen just through announcements,” Hamada said.  Inflation Target  Japan  last had 2 percent annual inflation -- Abe’s new
target -- in 1997, when Toyota Motor Corp. unveiled the Prius
hybrid and the yen sank as low as 130 per dollar.  Amari told
reporters yesterday that a planned joint statement from the BOJ
and the government won’t set a time period for the price goal
and won’t call it a “long-term” objective.  “The BOJ will do what it has to do to reach a price
stability target of 2 percent,” Amari said yesterday. “The
government has a responsibility to do what it has to do to
achieve growth and fiscal consolidation” to prevent a loss in
confidence in the nation’s debt, he said, adding that “both
sides are coming closer to agreement.”  Vice Finance Minister Shunichi Yamaguchi said last week
Abe’s administration anticipates the BOJ will adopt the 2
percent inflation target. Finance Minister Taro Aso said Jan. 18
the bank and the government will issue a joint statement after
the meeting.  Abe’s in the process of narrowing down a list of candidates
to replace Shirakawa, whose term ends in April, Amari said,
reiterating that “international communication skills” are a
requirement.  ‘Still Correcting’  Amari stoked a two-day gain in the yen last week after
flagging the danger of the  exchange rate  getting too weak. He
later said his comments had been misinterpreted, telling
reporters that the yen is still correcting from excessive
appreciation. Hamada said Jan. 18 that he wondered whether he
should be advising Amari on the issue.  The nation’s currency policy risks fueling trade tensions.
President  Barack Obama  should tell Japan’s new government that
the U.S. will retaliate for policies aimed at weakening the yen,
a group representing Ford Motor Co.,  General Motors Co. (GM)  and
Chrysler LLC said last week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Sharp in Tokyo at 
 asharp5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  