-- Cameron Says as Many as Six Britons Died in Algeria Siege
-- B y   E d d i e   B u c k l e
-- 2013-01-20T12:16:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-20/cameron-says-as-many-as-six-u-k-nationals-killed-in-algeria-1-.html
Prime Minister  David Cameron  said as
many as six British nationals and a U.K. resident may have been
killed at the hostage crisis at a gas plant in southeastern
 Algeria  that ended yesterday.  “Tragically, we now know that three British nationals have
been killed and a further three are believed to be dead, and a
further British resident is also believed to be dead,” Cameron
said in comments broadcast on U.K. television stations today.
The remaining 22 Britons involved are now back in the U.K.,
Foreign Secretary  William Hague  said.  The prime minister called for a “global response” to what
he called a “stark reminder” of the threat of terrorism in
North Africa. The Algerian government said 23 hostages and 32
terrorists died during the four-day standoff, while Algerian
forces freed 107 foreigners and 685 Algerian workers.  “It will require a response that is about years, even
decades, rather than months, and it requires a response that is
patient, that is painstaking, that is tough but also
intelligent, but above all has an absolutely iron resolve,”
Cameron said from his country residence at Chequers, northwest
of  London . He said he’ll use Britain’s chairmanship of the Group
of Eight leading industrialized nations this year “to make sure
this issue is right at the top of the agenda.”  ‘Ungoverned Space’  The U.K. must “work with others to defeat the terrorists
and to close down the ungoverned space where they thrive with
all the means that we have,” the premier said. “What we face
is an extremist Islamist violent al-Qaeda-linked terrorist
group, just as we have to deal with that in  Pakistan  and in
 Afghanistan .”  Cameron refused to criticize the Algerian government for
its response to the hostage-taking. He has said he was
“disappointed” that Algerian authorities started a first
military operation to end the crisis at the plant, operated by
London-based  BP Plc (BP/) , Statoil SAS of  Norway  and Algeria’s
 Sonatrach , without informing him.  Hague told  BBC television  it’s possible the dead hostages
may have been executed before the rescue attempt.  “That sort of thing is quite likely to have happened,” he
said. “I think from the nature of the terrorists involved, the
nature of the captivity they imposed on the hostages. And of
course the Algerian forces, although sometimes criticized, will
have taken every care they could to save life.”  The premier said that “no one should underestimate the
difficulties of responding to an attack on this scale with 30
terrorists absolutely determined to take lives, and we should
recognize all that the Algerians have done to work with us and
to help and coordinate with us.” He pointed out that the
Algerian forces had also suffered casualties.  “We should just say very clearly the responsibility for
loss of life lies with the terrorists,” he said. “They
launched this vicious, this cowardly attack and they wanted to
take lives.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eddie Buckle in London at 
 ebuckle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  