-- Cameron to Announce New Date Today for Delayed Speech on EU Ties
-- B y   E d d i e   B u c k l e
-- 2013-01-21T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-20/cameron-will-make-delayed-speech-on-eu-this-week-hague-says-1-.html
Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s
office will today announce a date for his delayed speech laying
out plans to renegotiate Britain’s relationship with the
European Union and hold a referendum on the outcome.  Cameron was originally due to make the speech in Amsterdam
three days ago, though he was forced to postpone it to this week
because of the hostage crisis at a gas plant in  Algeria  in which
as many as six Britons may have died.  Extracts from the speech released by the premier’s office
last week put 40 years of integration with the continent on the
line by raising the specter of a U.K. exit from the EU. “More
of the same” won’t be enough to guarantee the EU’s future
because of British dismay at a lack of consent to their alliance
within the 27-nation bloc, Cameron planned to say.  “There are changes we want in that relationship, but we
also need to see how the changes in the euro zone are affecting
the European Union, how that affects this country,” Foreign
Secretary  William Hague  said yesterday. “When we have done
those things, there is a strong case for fresh consent in this
country, for the people of this country having their say.”  Hague refused to be drawn on the details of what Cameron
will say when asked about a Sunday Telegraph newspaper report
that the prime minister would make a commitment to holding a
referendum with the option of a British exit from the bloc.  ‘Democratic Consent’  “You will have to see the speech in its entirety,” Hague
told  BBC television . “It’s about the interests of this country,
about making a success of membership of the European Union but
also with democratic consent for that in its modern form, in the
best form that we can bring about.”  Cameron is responding to pressure from lawmakers in his
 Conservative Party  for looser ties with the EU or an outright
departure from the political union. In 2011, they defied him in
record numbers in parliament with a failed bid to force a
referendum on leaving the EU.  A  YouGov Plc poll  for the Sunday Times newspaper found 40
percent of respondents saying they would vote to stay in the EU
compared with 34 percent who say they would vote to leave.
YouGov polled 1,912 adults on Jan. 17 and Jan. 18.  The company found at the start of the month that 46 percent
would vote to leave compared with 31 percent who would vote to
stay in, in line with surveys throughout 2012, YouGov’s  Anthony Wells  said on his  U.K. Polling Report website .  ‘More Likely’  “In the last fortnight some will obviously have thought a
little more about it as a referendum becomes a more likely
possibility,” Wells wrote.  Liam Fox , Cameron’s former defense secretary, told  BBC 
television he was briefed on the speech and “was broadly
satisfied with what I saw.”  Fox, who said he’d like to see British ties with the EU
reduced to “a basic economic relationship,” told the BBC that
“if that is the speech that is finally delivered, a great many
of us will think that it’s a speech that we’ve been waiting a
long time for any prime minister to deliver.”  EU President  Herman Van Rompuy  said last week that local
politics should take more of a back seat.  “European interests should always be the most important,”
the former Belgian prime minister said. “The European Union
doesn’t just mean taking account of national concerns.”  Cameron planned to say that the deepening integration of
the 17 euro countries, which don’t include Britain, and the
demands of global competition raise “fundamental questions”
about the nature of the U.K.’s relationship with the EU.  Frustration  “People are increasingly frustrated that decisions taken
further and further away from them mean their  living standards 
are slashed through enforced austerity or their taxes are used
to bail out governments on the other side of the continent,”
Cameron was due to say.  Both Cameron’s Liberal Democrat coalition partners and the
opposition  Labour Party  oppose his push to loosen ties with
 Europe , saying he risks investor confidence and  London ’s role as
a financial center.  “I do hope that they bring clarity, but I hope that they
exercise a judgment not based on party interest but the national
interest,” Labour’s foreign-affairs spokesman,  Douglas Alexander , told Sky News television yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eddie Buckle in London at 
 ebuckle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  