-- Egypt Yields Decline as Qatar Pledges Bond Purchase; Pound Falls
-- B y   A h m e d   A .   N a m a t a l l a
-- 2013-01-20T14:08:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-20/egypt-yields-decline-as-qatar-pledges-bond-purchase-pound-falls.html
Egypt met its target at a treasury-
bill auction as local borrowing costs dropped after Qatar
pledged to buy debt. The pound retreated after the central
bank’s 12th auction of dollars to banks.  The Arab country sold 3.5 billion pounds ($530 million) of
 nine-month notes  at an average yield of 13.69 percent, according
to central bank data on Bloomberg. That’s a decrease of 71 basis
points, or 0.71 of a percentage point from an auction of
similar-maturity bills last week, the most since September. The
 three-month yield  fell 56 basis points to 12.88 percent, the
data show.  Egypt’s cabinet is due to discuss this week selling $2.5
billion of treasury bonds to Qatar after the Persian Gulf
country committed the funds as part of an aid package, Egyptian
Finance Minister El-Morsi Hegazi said last week. The North
African country is looking to bolster foreign currency reserves,
which have lost almost 60 percent since the start of a popular
revolt two years ago, after the central bank started selling
dollars to banks at auction to limit their decline.  “Potential Gulf investment in Egyptian debt may be driving
yields down,” Nour Mohei-El-Din, assistant general manager for
treasury at BNP Paribas  Egypt , said by phone. “Otherwise, it
would be very odd for borrowing costs to decline even as the
pound continues to weaken.”  IMF Return  The central bank sold $74.3 million to banks today out of
the $75 million it offered at a weighted average bid price of
6.5875 a dollar, according to its data on Bloomberg. The pound
weakened to 6.6203 a dollar as of 2:37 pm in Cairo, bringing its
loss to 6.6 percent since the start of the dollar auctions
Dec. 30.  An International Monetary Fund team may return within weeks
to resume talks on a $4.8 billion loan application after Egypt
adjusts its economic plan to account for recent economic and
political developments,  Masood Ahmed , director of the lender’s
 Middle East  and Central Asia Department, said Jan. 18.  A delay in securing aid from the fund has prompted Moody’s
Investors Service to place Egypt’s B2 rating on review for
possible downgrade. The move followed last month’s  Standard &
Poor’s  cut of the country’s rating to B-, six levels below
investment grade and on par with Greece and  Pakistan .  Egypt’s benchmark 5.75 percent dollar bonds due in April
2020 advanced last week as the yield retreated one basis point
to 5.57 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ahmed A. Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaa Shahine at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net  