-- Emaar Rallies on New Project, Bigger Dividend Bets: Dubai Mover
-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r   a n d   Z a i n a b   F a t t a h
-- 2013-01-20T12:17:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-20/emaar-rallies-on-new-project-bigger-dividend-bets-dubai-mover.html
Emaar Properties PJSC (EMAAR)  rose to the
highest level in more than three years after the developer of
the world’s tallest skyscraper started a residential project in
Dubai and on bets the company will pay a higher annual dividend.  The shares climbed 4.1 percent to 4.3 dirhams, the highest
close since November 2009. Emaar, which has the  heaviest
weighting  on Dubai’s index, helped boost the  DFM General Index (DFMGI) 
up 1 percent to 1,791.73, the strongest level since April 2010.
The company’s  14-day relative strength index  climbed seven basis
points to 76 today. A level of 70 indicates to some analysts
that a security is poised to decline.  Emaar said yesterday it started developing the Address
Residence Fountain Views in Dubai, comprising 280 apartments.
Positive trends in the property sector are set to continue in
2013,  Shuaa Capital PSC (SHUAA)  said in a note today, raising Emaar’s
price estimate 23 percent to 4.94 dirhams. The company paid cash
dividends of 10 fils in each of the last two years.  “Investors expect the company to pay 15 fils to 20 fils in
dividend,” said Samer al-Jaouni, general manager of Middle East
Financial Brokerage Co in Dubai. The new project is also
“positive,” he said.  Calls to Emaar’s external communications company to discuss
the dividend proposal weren’t answered today.  Amlak Restructuring  Dubai’s property market is recovering amid a broader pick
up in the economy, which probably expanded 5 percent in 2012,
the fastest pace since 2007, according to government forecasts.
Tourism, hotel and restaurant industries grew 16 percent in the
first half, official data show. Emaar’s 2012 profit probably
grew  15 percent , according to the average estimate of 11
analysts compiled by Bloomberg.  Optimism that the developer’s 48 percent-owned mortgage
finance affiliate, Amlak Finance PJSC, would restructure $2
billion of debt also supported Emaar’s stock. The process will
probably be completed by the second quarter, the United Arab
Emirates economy minister said last week.  “The recent movement to resolve the long-standing issue
with Amlak is also reflecting positively on” Emaar shares, al- Jaouni said. Dubai-based Amlak is negotiating with a committee
of five banks representing creditors, two bankers familiar with
the matter said Jan. 15.  Twelve analysts  recommend investors buy Emaar’s shares
while three have a hold rating on the stock.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net ;
Zainab Fattah in Dubai at 
 zfattah@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaa Shahine at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net  