-- Merkel to Mask Differences With Hollande Amid Elysee Pomp
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2013-01-20T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-20/merkel-to-mask-differences-with-hollande-amid-elysee-pomp.html
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and
French President  Francois Hollande  will seek to mask tension
that’s dogged attempts to resolve the debt crisis and agree on
economic change as they embrace in Berlin amid historic pomp.  Hollande arrives in the German capital today for a 48-hour
extravaganza to celebrate the 50th anniversary of the  Elysee
Treaty , which sealed Franco-German friendship after World War
II. While lauding the two countries’ relationship, Merkel
flagged disagreement that has simmered between the two since
Hollande succeeded her ally  Nicolas Sarkozy  in May.  “On certain questions we nevertheless have differences,”
Merkel said in her  weekly podcast . “That’s what makes German-
French relations so stimulating, that we always need to discuss
why we think differently on certain subjects.”  Merkel and Hollande have yet to forge a common line of
attack as the French leader has worked to assemble a
counterweight to Merkel’s pro-austerity policies in the debt
crisis and allies of the German leader have urged Hollande to
move more quickly on overhauling  France ’s labor market. The
tension marks a challenge to the Franco-German alliance that’s
formed the backbone of European unity for the last half century.  Joint Session  The two leaders will meet in the chancellery today before
events tomorrow culminate in a joint session of parliament in
the Reichstag, the seat of the lower house. They’ll give a press
conference and speeches marking the historic embrace between
West German Chancellor Konrad Adenauer and France’s  Charles de Gaulle  in 1963.  While Merkel formed a working relationship with Sarkozy,
the one-term French president whose policies were close enough
for the duo to be dubbed “Merkozy,” she has yet to do the same
with the Socialist Hollande. Merkel said last May that her phone
call to Hollande congratulating him for his election victory was
the first time the two had spoken.  The atmosphere didn’t improve at the European Union summit
at the end of June, when Hollande joined with Spanish and
Italian leaders to mount a revolt against  Germany ’s austerity
doctrine, wringing concessions from Merkel on the terms of bank
rescues and direct recapitalization from bailout funds.  Hollande, who had campaigned against austerity in the
election, threatened to block France’s approval of a deficit-
reduction treaty that Merkel championed.  French Economy  Anxiety over the French economy and Hollande’s struggle to
bolster it has led to further tension. An ally of Merkel,  Volker Kauder , the caucus leader for her Christian Democrats in the
Bundestag, in November questioned whether Hollande’s Socialists
were committed to “real structural reform.”  Merkel and Hollande should dispense with any exaggerated
outward projection of comity, former European Commission
President Jacques Delors told  Der Spiegel  yesterday.  “Enough of the hugs, sauerkraut and rounds of beer,”
Delors told the magazine. “I’d rather that Merkel and Hollande
speak their mind to each other in public. I would hope for words
of reason from both of them -- they need to show a path on how
to do it better.”  Hollande’s government has confronted a barely growing
economy and a 10.3 percent unemployment rate that’s approaching
a euro-era record, as companies such as  PSA Peugeot Citroen (UG)  and
 Alcatel-Lucent SA (ALU)  slash jobs. Last week the French president
brokered an agreement between businesses and unions that allows
companies to cut work time and pay as demand slows, while
extending benefits and raising a tax on employers.  ‘Former Symmetry’  The French malaise contrasts with a German labor market
that’s weathered the three-year debt crisis even as the
government projects growth to slow to 0.4 percent this year.  “A fundamental problem of today’s Franco-German
relationship is that the former symmetry between the two
countries has changed thanks to the Germany’s increased economic
power,” Ulrike Guerot, a Berlin-based analyst with the European
Council on Foreign Relations, wrote in a note.  European finance ministers today will resume their crisis
fighting at a meeting in Brussels. Their initial objective to
cobble together a bailout program for Cyprus will likely be
delayed as the Mediterranean island nation holds presidential
elections next month.  Merkel will also be among euro leaders gathering at the
 World Economic Forum  this week in Davos,  Switzerland . European
Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  will deliver an address at
the event on Jan. 25.  Merkel underscored the importance of formulating a joint
strategy with France, saying it will be one of her focuses this
year ahead of German parliamentary elections in September.  “Of course we have to develop a growth strategy
together,” Merkel said in the podcast. “That will be one of
the biggest tasks for this year.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  