-- European Airports Limit Region’s Flights as Snow Spreads
-- B y   K a r i   L u n d g r e n   a n d   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-01-21T12:44:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-20/european-airports-curb-flights-as-snow-sweeps-across-continent.html
European airports from  London  to
Frankfurt suspended hundreds of flights and worked to overcome
bottlenecks from weekend cancellations as snow and ice swept
across the continent and disrupted travel for a second week.  Heathrow in London has scrapped 179 flights so far today,
about 14 percent of the total, after grounding 260 yesterday.
Visibility may deteriorate tonight at  Europe ’s busiest aviation
hub, and aircraft may need hold a bigger distance to one
another. Frankfurt canceled 424 out of 1,190 flights, and about
40 percent of traffic through Paris’s airports today is on hold.  “Because Heathrow runs at almost 100 percent capacity,
there is no slack in the system and flights unfortunately have
to be canceled,” the airport operator said in a statement.  European rules require airlines to pay for food and
accommodation for passengers stranded by cancellations.  British
Airways (IAG) , a unit of International Consolidated Airlines Group SA,
said customers scheduled to travel today will not be charged if
they choose to delay and rebook. People on canceled flights are
being offered the choice of a refund, re-booking or re-routing
on another airline, the carrier said.  BA is scrapping mostly short-haul flights and focusing on
destinations including Amsterdam, Zurich and Manchester in
northern  England . The carrier’s schedule is “under constant
review,” spokesman Tony Cane said by e-mail.  Suspending Flights  Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA)  has begun suspending flights
scheduled to fly tomorrow, boosting total cancellations for the
two first days of the week to 516, according to its website.
While all four runways in  Frankfurt  are clear, many planes
require time-consuming de-icing, further disrupting operations.  The U.K.  Met Office  issued an “amber” alert for parts of
northern England and  Scotland  today, warning that some areas
might have as much as 20 centimeters (7.9 inches) of snow. Some
light snow is expected in the same areas Tuesday, with weather
forecast to ease across Britain by Wednesday.  Gatwick  airport, London’s second-busiest hub, said on its
website that passengers should expect some delays and check with
airlines before traveling. Some services on the direct train
from the airport to the capital have also been canceled.  Stansted, the city’s No. 3 airport, said its runway is
clear and the visibility is good.  Ryanair Plc (RYA) , the No. 1
operator there, canceled 24 flights today because of a shortage
of de-icing fluid.  Eurostar  London City , in the east of the capital, said its runway is
now open after being closed earlier today. Some flights may
experience disruptions due to last night’s weather conditions,
the airport operator said on its Twitter feed.  Eurostar Group Ltd., whose trains to London from Paris and
Brussels have been brought to a halt during previous snowfalls,
pre-emptively canceled six services and warned all trains would
suffer delays because of speed restrictions.  British rail companies including Virgin Trains and
 Stagecoach Group Plc (SGC) ’s South West Trains have also amended
timetables to minimize disruption. SNCF, the French state-owned
rail operator, slowed its high-speed TGV trains while projecting
97 percent of operations would be maintained.  Transport for London, which oversees the U.K. capital’s
public transport system, said it has 89,000 metric tons of salt
stockpiled and de-icing trains are in operation. Two of the
city’s 11 Underground subway lines were delayed as of 11:35 a.m.
and some Overground commuter services are suspended.  Air France-KLM (AF)   KLM canceled about 50 European flights to and from
Amsterdam-Schiphol, according to a statement on the website of
the Dutch national carrier owned by Air France-KLM. The airport
scrapped 20 flights overall, mostly because of snow conditions
elsewhere in Europe, spokeswoman Marit Merkus said.  Air France expects to operate all its long-haul flights
today and more than 50 percent of its short- and medium-haul
network, spokesman Herve Erschler said. The bus service to
 Charles de Gaulle  as well as bus and train connections with Orly
have been suspended,  Aeroports de Paris  said.  All runways at Brussels Airport are clear and the airport
functioning normally, spokesman Jan Van der Cruysse said by
telephone today. Some flights have been canceled as result of
snow at other airports and a number of flights have been
diverted to Brussels.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kari Lundgren in London at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  