-- Explosion at Athens Shopping Center Injures Two People
-- B y   P a u l   T u g w e l l
-- 2013-01-20T14:51:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-20/explosion-at-athens-shopping-mall-injures-two-net-tv-reports.html
An explosion at a shopping center in
the northern Athens suburb of Marousi today was an attack on
democracy and was designed to threaten  Greece ’s economic
recovery, the country’s Public Order ministry said.  The improvised explosive device “didn’t only target a
specific building, it targeted democratic normality, social
peace and the prospect for economic recovery in our country,”
the ministry said in a  statement  posted on its website. “Our
democracy is neither daunted nor bullied.”  The blast was on the first floor of “ The Mall Athens ”
complex where there were only a small number of people at the
time as stores are closed on Sundays, the management of the
center, whose main shareholders are  Lamda Development SA (LAMDA)  and
HSBC Property Investments Ltd., said in an e-mailed statement
today.  Management evacuated people from all areas within six
minutes of receiving notice from the police, according to the
statement. Two members of the mall’s security service were
slightly injured and shops suffered limited material damage in
the low-density blast, management said.  The explosion at the mall, where only cafes, restaurants
and cinemas were operating, occurred at 10.45 a.m. local time,
state-run  NET TV  reported. An unidentified person made a warning
call to the Eleftherotipia newspaper and the Zougla news website
around 50 minutes before the explosion, it said.  Police cordoned off the area, after around 200 people were
evacuated, and are searching for other explosive devices,
Marousi mayor Yiorgos Patoulis said in comments broadcast live
on NET.  Terrorist Attack  Both  Eleftherotipia  and  Zougla  confirmed on their websites
that they had received the warning call. The explosive device
was made from gas cannisters and placed in a box under a
stairway near a bank branch, NET said, citing police. The caller
said a claim of responsibility for the explosion will be made,
according to Zougla.  Greek police had information of an imminent terrorist
attack in the country since November, Kathimerini newspaper
reported today, citing Public Order Minister Nikolaos Dendias.  A gunman fired shots at the headquarters of the ruling New
Democracy party of Prime Minister Antonis Samaras on Jan. 14.
That incident followed a spate of attacks on the homes of Greek
journalists on Jan. 11 and the home of the brother of the Greek
government spokesman the following day.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Tugwell in Athens at 
 ptugwell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  