-- Abe’s Japanese Stimulus Seen Boosting Southeast Asia
-- B y   K a r l   L e s t e r   M .   Y a p
-- 2013-01-21T01:54:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-20/japan-s-stimulus-seen-boosting-southeast-asia-as-korea-suffers.html
Japan ’s drive to revive growth may
boost Southeast Asian nations as rising demand in the world’s No.
3 economy spurs orders and Japanese companies take advantage of
cheap funding to invest in the region.  Indonesia , Thailand and Malaysia are identified by HSBC
Holdings Plc and Credit Suisse Group AG to be among the biggest
beneficiaries of Japanese monetary easing and a 10.3 trillion
yen ($115 billion) stimulus plan by Prime Minister Shinzo Abe,
who wrapped up a tour of Southeast  Asia  on Jan. 18. In contrast,
South  Korea  may suffer as a weakening yen makes its rival’s
automotive and electronics exports more competitive, say Credit
Suisse and Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd.  The wave of cheap funds “will drive Japanese companies and
banks to raise investments and expand in Southeast Asia,”
 Frederic Neumann , co-head of Asian economics research at HSBC in
Hong Kong, said in an interview. “This will spur asset prices,
investment, consumption and could single handedly help these
economies sustain high levels of growth in 2013.”  Abe is exerting pressure on the central bank to bolster an
economy that has had  three recessions  in five years as he seeks
to rejuvenate a nation whose investments helped spur Southeast
Asia’s boom in the early 1990s. Lower borrowing costs at home
may add momentum to plans by Japanese companies to expand
overseas, with Toyota Motor Corp. announcing in November it will
increase production in Indonesia.  Bold Policy  The nation’s seventh prime minister in six years has called
for “bold monetary policy” to defeat deflation and drive the
yen lower. The  Bank of Japan , which starts a two-day policy
meeting today, will adopt the 2 percent inflation target
advocated by Abe, doubling its current 1 percent goal, according
to people familiar with central bank officials’ discussions.  The prospect of additional policy easing has helped send
the yen down about 10 percent versus the dollar and push the
Asia excluding Japan stocks gauge up 11 percent in the two
months ended Jan. 18. It has also lifted prospects for Asian
emerging-market bonds and currencies as investors seek higher
returns.  “Not only is the U.S. implementing more quantitative
easing, but Japan has joined the party,” said Jason Mortimer, a
rates and options strategist at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in  Hong
Kong . “You’re going to have even more pressure on currencies to
appreciate especially in emerging-market Asia where currencies
are undervalued. This is a very compelling investment
opportunity.”  Winners, Losers  Commodity exporters such as Indonesia and Malaysia are best
positioned to benefit from stronger domestic demand in Japan,
according to a Jan. 16 Credit Suisse report that analyzed each
Asian economy’s exports to the country, excluding industrial
supplies and machinery parts that are less likely to be destined
for consumer demand.  “The winners would be countries which have Japan as both
their ‘suppliers’ and ‘consumers’ while the losers would be
those whose exports are similar to and compete with those from
Japan,” Santitarn Sathirathai, a Singapore-based economist at
Credit Suisse, wrote in the report.  A recovery in Japan would provide a further boost to a
region where  government spending  and rising investment have
helped support growth. The  Asian Development Bank  in December
lifted forecasts for Southeast Asian expansion even as the
global outlook faltered, after policy makers took steps to
bolster their economies, with Malaysian Prime Minister Najib Razak increasing outlays and Philippine President  Benigno Aquino 
speeding up infrastructure projects.  Importers Gain  Japan’s stimulus and a weaker currency may also bring risks.
ANZ said a declining yen will hurt overseas suppliers as
shipments become more expensive. Net exporters including
Malaysia, the  Philippines  and Indonesia may suffer while net
importers of Japanese goods such as Hong Kong, Thailand and
 Taiwan  will probably gain, Eugenia Victorino, a Singapore-based
economist at ANZ, wrote in a Jan. 10 report.  South Korea is most vulnerable to the currency effect,
according to Credit Suisse, while Daiwa  Capital Markets 
estimates the country’s technology companies, shipbuilders and
automakers including  Kia Motors Corp. (000270)  may be among the biggest
losers.  Gains in the won prompted South Korea’s central bank to
announce in November it would tighten limits on currency forward
positions at banks. The  Bank of Korea  this month lowered its
growth forecast for 2013, highlighting obstacles to a rebound
that include currency appreciation.  China Dispute  The Bank of Japan will need to slow monetary easing if the
effects on prices and the yen go too far, Koichi Hamada, who’s
advising Abe on choosing a new central bank chief, told
reporters yesterday. Asian stocks fell from a 17-month high and
the yen rebounded from its lowest level since June 2010 in the
Asian morning today.  Japan’s dispute with  China  over the sovereignty of islands
in the  East China Sea  has also helped shift Abe’s focus toward
Southeast Asia and prompted companies to add investments
elsewhere in the region.  The prime minister, who took office last month, visited
Vietnam, Thailand and Indonesia last week to strengthen bonds
with countries in the region, some of which are also involved in
territorial disputes with China.  Nissan Investment  Nissan Motor Co. (7201) , Japan’s second-largest automaker, pledged
in November to invest 11 billion baht ($370 million) in a second
Thai factory. Toyota said the same month it will more than
double vehicle production capacity and build a new engine
factory in Indonesia.  Japan’s trade ties with Southeast Asia are growing as the
dispute with China hurts sales to the mainland.  In the first 11 months of last year, shipments to the 10
members of the  Association of Southeast Asian Nations , Japan’s
third-largest export destination, accounted for 16.2 percent of
all overseas sales, a rise of 1.3 percentage points from the
full-year 2011, Japanese  customs data  show. The share of exports
to China, Japan’s biggest market, fell to 18.1 percent from 19.7
percent over the same period.  Elsewhere in Asia, Taiwan’s export orders probably rose at
a slower pace in December, according to a Bloomberg News survey
ahead of a report today. Hong Kong will release inflation data
for last month.  In  Europe , London home sellers flooded the market in
January and pushed up asking prices in the biggest new-year
increase since 2008, according to data from property website
operator Rightmove Plc. Asking prices in the capital rose 3.6
percent from the previous month to an average 480,890 pounds
($764,000), it said.  Reports on German producer prices and Swiss industrial
production are due today. U.S. markets are closed for a public
holiday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karl Lester M. Yap in Manila at 
 kyap5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  