-- Netanyahu Gets Landslide in Markets Masking No Peace Process
-- B y   S h o s h a n n a   S o l o m o n
-- 2013-01-21T15:07:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-20/netanyahu-gets-landslide-in-markets-obscuring-no-peace-process.html
Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu ’s electoral opponents say he has presided over a
deterioration of the Palestinian  peace process , heightened
tension with  Iran ,  Egypt  and  Turkey  and rising living costs.  For investors, he represents a more sanguine image: a
world-beating bond rally and the shekel’s best advance under any
government since at least 1984 as he fostered economic growth
faster than in the U.S. and  Europe .  “The world perceives  Israel  as a well-managed state that
offers investors a good deal with high returns on solid
investments,” Amir Gil, chief investment officer of Tel Aviv-
based Psagot Provident Funds and Pension Ltd., which manages $16
billion of assets, said on Jan. 14. “If the new government will
continue the existing economic policy, Israel will continue to
be a good place to invest in compared to the world.”  Polls show Netanyahu is on course to prevail in voting
tomorrow. While contender Tzipi Livni accused Netanyahu’s policy
of abandoning talks with Palestinians as “ leading to an end of
the Jewish state, ” investors say the 63-year-old deserves a
second-straight term for his record on the economy.  Israel’s local bonds have rallied 36 percent in dollar
terms since Netanyahu took office on March 31, 2009, compared
with a 22 percent increase for a global index of government
debt, data compiled by Bank of America Merrill Lynch show.  Doing Good  The shekel surged 13 percent versus the dollar, the second
best-performing currency in the Europe, Middle East and Africa
region. The benchmark  stock index  climbed 65 percent and hit a
record 1,341.89 during Netanyahu’s term, in April 2011.  “Netanyahu was good for investors and will be good for
investors,” Jerry Cutiesteanu, who helps manage 15 billion
shekels ($4 billion) at I.B.I.-Israel Brokerage and Investments
Ltd. in Tel Aviv, said in a telephone interview on Jan. 10.
“Investors see he has a multi-year systematic policy of
increasing competition in the economy.”  The returns mirror the achievements of U.S. President
 Barack Obama  during his first term. The  Dow Jones Industrial
Average (INDU)  rallied 67 percent, among the biggest gains in the
developed world, and U.S. bonds returned 27 percent, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index hit
a five year-high last week ahead of Obama’s inauguration to a
second term today.  Breaking Conglomerates  A graduate of the  Massachusetts Institute of Technology  and
a former finance minister, Netanyahu built investor confidence
by spurring competition in the telecommunications industry,
curbing unemployment and taking steps to break up Israel’s
conglomerates.  He also ensured  Stanley Fischer , invited by then-Finance
Minister Netanyahu in 2005 to take over as Bank of Israel
governor, stayed in office for a second term by pushing a new
central bank law through parliament, a condition Fischer gave
for signing on for a second term.  Fischer, a former Citigroup Inc. vice-chairman and
International Monetary Fund executive, helped Israel’s economy
recover from the global financial crisis faster than most peers
while keeping inflation in check.  Since 2009, the economy has expanded by 14.7 percent,
compared with 3.2 percent in the U.S. and a contraction of 1.5
percent in the euro region, the  Finance Ministry  in  Jerusalem 
said in a Jan. 1 report. The jobless rate in 2012 was 6.8
percent compared with 10.9 percent in the euro region, based on
an average of quarterly data, the ministry said.  Testing Time  The rewards for investors mask some of the challenges
facing Netanyahu should he win another term.  “The glare of the macroeconomic numbers instill investor
confidence but do not tell the whole story,” Yaniv Pagot, chief
strategist at the Ramat Gan-based Ayalon Group Ltd., said by
telephone on Jan. 18. “This economic success has not trickled
down to the average citizen.”  Last year’s economic growth of 3.3 percent was the slowest
since 2009, while Israel has struggled to contain its finances
because of shrinking tax revenue. Israel posted a  budget deficit 
of 4.2 percent of gross domestic product in 2012, more than
double the target, the Finance Ministry said on Jan. 13. While
advancing during his term, the shekel has weakened 16 percent
from its strongest level of 3.2268 reached in July 2008.  Foreign investment, which includes direct and portfolio
investment, is also on the wane. Funds coming into the country
slumped to $8 billion in 2011 from $18.2 billion in 2010,
according to the central bank. In the first three quarters of
2012, foreign companies and investors pulled out a net $1.3
billion, the data show.  Less Support  Hundreds of thousands of demonstrators took to the streets
in the summer of 2011 to protest the rising cost of food and
housing, setting up encampments in  Tel Aviv  and Jerusalem.  Last year, housing prices rose 5.7 percent, while food
increased by 4 percent and electricity by 9 percent, according
Jerusalem’s Central Bureau of Statistics data. Annual inflation
declined to 1.6 percent in December from 3.6 percent in March
2009, when Netanyahu took office, and after hitting a peak of
4.3 percent in March 2011, the statistics office said.  Netanyahu, who raised taxes last year to boost revenue,
called early elections for Jan. 22 after failing to reach an
agreement with coalition parties regarding spending cuts to
reduce the 2013 budget.  While he’s the frontrunner, polls show falling support for
his Likud-Beitenu parliamentary list, which would emerge with
fewer seats than it currently holds. Such an outcome would
increase his dependence on smaller groups with other priorities,
making it harder to form a coalition.  More Cutting  Netanyahu must reduce the budget deficit, cut red tape for
businesses and strive for peace in the region following the
conflict with Gaza in November, Gil at Psagot said.  “Investors believe in the economic policy and we can see
that in continued strength of the shekel against the dollar,”
Ronen Matmon, the investment chief at Excellence Nessuah Gemel
and Pension Ltd., which looks after 20 billion shekels for
clients, said by phone on Jan. 15 from  Ramat Gan . “The next
government will have to cut expenses and raise taxes.”  The last poll allowed by law before voting showed
Netanyahu’s combined Likud-Beitenu parliamentary list will win
32 seats in the 120-seat Knesset, according to the results
published in the Yediot Ahronot daily on Jan. 18. The list will
garner 35 seats, according to a survey in the Maariv daily.  Record Bonds  Yields on benchmark  10-year government bonds  were at 4.04
percent in Tel Aviv today, after reaching a record low of 3.85
percent on Dec. 31. The shekel soared 5 percent in the fourth
quarter of last year, the best performer among the 31 major
currencies tracked by Bloomberg. The cost of protecting Israeli
government debt against non-payment through five-year credit-
default swaps reached a year-low on Jan. 14, and rose two basis
points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 124 today.  Netanyahu, nicknamed “Bibi” in Israel, won over investors
when he was finance minister from 2003 to 2005, selling state-
owned companies, cutting transfer payments and undertaking to
restore the economy from the damages of the second Palestinian
uprising that started in 2000.  Under his premiership, his second after a stint in the late
1990s, Netanyahu made further changes.  An inter-ministerial committee submitted its
recommendations last year that companies should reduce cross-
holdings in financial and industrial businesses. The government
has also freed land for housing development and has taken steps
to increase competition in the banking and food industries to
meet the public’s outcry for lower living costs.  Higher Subsidies  Netanyahu’s government boosted subsidies for the high tech
industry, luring New York-based Citigroup to establish a
research center in the country and Santa Clara, California-based
 Intel Corp ., the world’s biggest maker of semiconductors, to
expand its operations in Israel.  The Finance Ministry says growth will pick up this year as
companies, including  Delek Drilling LP (DEDRL)  and  Avner Oil Exploration
LLP (AVNRL) , start extracting natural gas from Mediterranean fields and
budget cuts help the economy’s longer-term prospects. GDP will
expand 3.8 percent this year, according to the central bank.  “As investors we saw positive returns on our investments
in Israel because of his good fiscal policy,” said Matmon, the
 fund manager  at Excellence. “The elections were called on the
background of the budget deficit. As an investor I know that
things are in control.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shoshanna Solomon in Tel Aviv at 
 ssolomon22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaa Shahine at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net  