-- Netanyahu Defends West Bank Settlements Ahead of Israel Vote
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r   a n d   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d
-- 2013-01-20T20:24:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-20/netanyahu-defends-west-bank-settlements-ahead-of-israel-election.html
Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  defended building in the West Bank today as he sought
to recapture the votes of settlers who have gravitated to the
upstart Jewish Home party ahead of this week’s election.  Netanyahu went to the Ariel settlement to attend the
funeral of its longtime mayor, Ron Nachman, who died Jan. 18,
and sought to reassure residents it would not be dismantled in
any peace deal with the Palestinians.  “In the same way that  Jerusalem  will forever be the united
capital of our land, so will Ariel always be a part of  Israel ,”
Netanyahu said in his eulogy at the service attended by about
1,000 people, including members of his Cabinet, settler leaders
and Jewish Home chairman Naftali Bennett, who also spoke.  The prime minister’s support for building in the West Bank
and east Jerusalem, which were captured in the 1967 Six Day War,
has been criticized by the U.S., European Union and  United
Nations . Palestinian leaders have refused to engage in peace
talks with Netanyahu unless he ceases settlement construction.  Netanyahu raised the issue earlier in the day at his weekly
Cabinet meeting in Jerusalem, recounting a meeting over the
weekend with a group of visiting U.S. senators in which he
defended building in the settlements.  Parties that support Netanyahu remaining in office will win
a majority of seats in parliament in the Jan. 22 election,
according to a poll published Jan. 18 in the Yediot Ahronot
daily.  The survey projected that the prime minister’s own Likud-
Beitenu parliamentary list, which he formed by combining his
Likud party together with foreign minister Avigdor Liberman’s
Yisrael Beitenu faction on a single ballot, will garner 32
Knesset seats, 10 fewer than the two parties currently hold.  The Yediot survey also projected the Jewish Home party,
which strongly supports settlement building, rising to 12 seats
from its current three.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Ferziger in Ariel,  West Bank  at 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net ;
Calev Ben-David in Jerusalem at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  