-- Nigeria May Delay Interest Rate Cuts as Spending Rises
-- B y   M a r a m   M a z e n
-- 2013-01-20T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-20/nigeria-may-delay-interest-rate-cuts-as-spending-rises.html
Nigeria ’s plan to boost  government
spending  is adding to pressure on inflation, making it difficult
for the central bank to begin cutting  interest rates  in  Africa ’s
biggest oil producer, a survey of economists show.  The Monetary Policy Committee, led by Governor Lamido Sanusi, will hold its key rate at a record 12 percent for a
ninth consecutive meeting today, according to seven of the eight
economists  surveyed  by  Bloomberg News . One analyst predicts a 1
percentage-point reduction.  While Finance Minister Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala pledged to curb
spending, including on salaries, lawmakers raised the benchmark
oil price in this year’s budget by $4 to $79 a barrel, providing
more funds to the government to spend. Inflation eased to 12
percent in December, remaining above the central bank’s target
of below 10 percent.  “The MPC will probably be worried that the possibility of
fiscal consolidation doesn’t materialize at the pace that they
would like,”  Samir Gadio , an emerging-markets strategist at
Standard Bank Group Ltd., said by phone from  London . “They’ll
wait until the budget is signed by the president for more
clarity on the fiscal stance for this year.”  Sanusi is due to announce the rate decision at a press
conference at 5 p.m. local time in Abuja, the capital.  Inflation will probably ease closer to the central bank’s
target this month as higher fuel prices that took effect in
January last year falls out of the calculation, Sanusi said on
Nov. 20.  Growth Concerns  Nigeria saves revenue above the budgeted oil price, and
raising it from $75 currently would inject more liquidity into
the economy. That may force the central bank to keep interest
rates high, crimping investment, Okonjo-Iweala said on Oct. 10.
The economy expanded 6.5 percent in the third quarter, down from
7.4 percent in the same period a year earlier, according to the
statistics bureau.  The central bank’s aim is to bolster the naira to protect
price stability, Sanusi said on Dec. 5. There’s no evidence
lower interest rates will spur economic growth because power
shortages and poor infrastructure were bigger deterrents to
investment, he said.  “Although the MPC will appear concerned about growth, we
doubt the recent slowdown can be reversed with lower interest
rates,”  Alan Cameron , an economist at CSL Stockbrokers Ltd. in
London, said in an e-mailed response to questions.  The central bank may reduce its key rate by 60 to 75 basis
points later this year, Gadio said.  The naira gained 0.3 percent against the dollar since the
last MPC meeting on Nov. 20, and traded at 157.10 by 4:15 p.m.
in Abuja on Jan. 18. The yield on 16.39 percent naira debt due
January 2022 fell 486 basis points, to 11.27 percent, since the
start of August, according to Jan. 17 prices compiled by the
Lagos-based  Financial Markets Dealers Association .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maram Mazen in Abuja at 
 mmazen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  