-- Obama Takes Oath at White House to Begin Second Term
-- B y   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n
-- 2013-01-20T18:05:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-20/obama-set-to-take-oath-to-officially-begin-second-term-in-office.html
President  Barack Obama  took the oath
of office today surrounded by family in a small ceremony at the
White House that officially begins his second term.  Chief Justice  John Roberts  administered the 35-word oath at
11:55 a.m. in the Blue Room with the president using first lady
 Michelle Obama ’s family bible.  “Congratulations, Mr. President,” Roberts said as Obama
repeated the final words, “So help me God.”  “Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice. Thank you so much,” Obama
replied. As his extended family applauded, Obama embraced his
wife and daughters, with 14-year-old Malia telling her father,
“you did it, daddy.”  Today is the constitutionally required date for the U.S.
president to assume office. Because Jan. 20 fell on a Sunday,
Obama will repeat the ritual tomorrow and deliver his inaugural
address at the U.S. Capitol before a crowd of thousands gathered
on the National Mall.  Vice President  Joe Biden  was sworn in earlier in the day at
a similar ceremony at the vice presidential residence by Supreme
Court Justice Sonya Sotomayor, the first Hispanic on the court
and the first to administer the oath.  President’s Focus  Obama, 51, the nation’s first black president, has presided
over an economy that is still recovering from the worst
recession in a generation. While the world’s largest economy
grew at a 3.1 percent rate in the third quarter, this year will
bring growth of just 2 percent, according to the median estimate
of economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Over the next two months his administration will engage in
a fiscal debate with Republican lawmakers who hold the majority
in the U.S. House over raising the government’s $16.4 trillion
borrowing limit, steps to shrink the  deficit  and funding federal
operations.  As part of today’s ceremonies, the president and Biden laid
a wreath at the Tomb of the Unknowns at Arlington National
Cemetery.  Obama and his family also attended services at historic
Metropolitan African Methodist Church in Washington. The choir
and the congregation sang “ Happy Birthday ” to the first lady,
who turned 49 on Jan. 17. The sermon by the Reverend Ronald E.
Braxton included a scripture reading from Exodus and ended in a
call-and-response with the word “forward,” the slogan of
Obama’s re-election campaign.  King Holiday  Tomorrow’s public inauguration ceremony coincides with the
federal holiday marking the birth of slain civil rights leader
Martin Luther King Jr. Roberts will again administer the oath
while using King’s traveling bible and President  Abraham Lincoln ’s first inaugural bible, the same one Obama used for his
swearing in four years ago.  Obama kicked off four days of events tied to the inaugural
yesterday by volunteering with his wife and daughters on a
renovation project at a  Washington  elementary school. As he did
four years ago, Obama called for a National Day of Service on
the eve of his inauguration, saying volunteerism represents the
democratic ideals upon which the country was founded.  “This is really what America’s about, this is what we
celebrate,” Obama said to volunteers, after helping paint a
bookshelf at the school in Northeast Washington.  Today’s swearing-in took just 30 seconds. Roberts read the
oath slowly and deliberately, a light tremble in his left hand
causing the sheet of paper to shake slightly.  Redone Oath  Four years ago, the chief justice had to administer the
oath of office a second time the day after the formal Jan. 20
ceremonies because he misstated a line.  The Constitution requires presidents to take the following
oath: “I do solemnly swear (or affirm) that I will faithfully
execute the office of president of the  United States , and will
to the best of my ability preserve, protect and defend the
Constitution of the United States.”  At the swearing in at the Capitol, Roberts said “execute
the office of president of the United States faithfully” and
Obama followed suit.  Concern about a possible challenge, Obama’s lawyers advised
that the oath be re-sworn. The next day in the White House Map
Room, Roberts, wearing his judicial robe, asked the president if
he was ready to be sworn in. Obama replied: “I am, and we are
going to do it very slowly.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Julianna Goldman  in Washington at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  