-- Obama Second-Term Agenda: Everything, All at Once
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-01-20T23:33:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-20/obama-second-term-agenda-should-be-everything-all-at-once-view.html
President  Barack Obama  begins his
second term today with room to breathe. The global financial
system is not failing, the U.S. housing market is not
collapsing, and American jobs are not evaporating. Meanwhile,
after a convincing win in November, his  approval rating  is
robust, and the federal government’s fiscal condition is
fitfully, contentiously improving.  Yet any  notion  that Obama might use his second term merely
to consolidate the shaky gains of his first, particularly the
complex implementation of his landmark health-care law, was
obliterated last week when the president announced  his agenda 
for addressing gun violence. Although Obama’s time in office is
now fixed, his ambition is not similarly bounded.  The question, then, is how best to deploy it. Or, to put it
more plainly, how should he prioritize his agenda? Here’s our
suggestion: Don’t. Do everything at once.  The usual advice, we realize, is for a president to focus
on one big effort at a time. In a polarized capital with a
dysfunctional Congress, one can only accomplish so much. Better
to rally public opinion and wavering legislators to one cause at
a time.  We appreciate the logic, but we’re less sure that Congress
will. For legislation supported by the White House to pass the
Republican-majority House, a critical mass of Republicans will
have to be in favor of a vote -- whether they ultimately go on
record in support of the legislation or not.  Yet many Republicans remain committed to opposing Obama
regardless of policy. An orderly, serial succession of issues
might enable them to consolidate their opposition, rallying less
adamant colleagues to a  united front . It could be more fruitful
for the White House to pursue a multipronged agenda -- pushing
gun safety, immigration reform and fiscal retrenchment
simultaneously. That might allow individual Republicans to
camouflage rare instances of heretical agreement with the White
House amid a general trend of opposition.  Despite such scattershot means, the unifying theme of
Obama’s second-term agenda would be the continuing effort to use
government to create a more just and equitable society. That was
a crucial element of his health-care initiative, which
recognized that unequal access to health care is a matter of
social equity as well as national health. It undergirds his
preferred policies of taxation and his allocation of spending,
which are designed to mitigate  heightened inequality . It even
informs his proposals on gun safety.  In  his remarks  last week, Obama decried the imbalance that
affords maximum gun rights to some at the expense of life,
liberty and the pursuit of happiness for others. The president
has similarly called for justice for undocumented immigrants who
contribute to the national economy and culture without benefit
of the nation’s legal protections.  The premise applies abroad as at home. In his first term
Obama too often placed greater emphasis on America’s interests
than on its ideals. Pragmatism is essential. But so is
championing human rights and living up to the U.S.’s singular
role as guarantor, in spirit if not always in deed, of liberty.  That promise is redeemed, now as in the past, by American
prosperity. The sometimes noisy expansion of rights that has
defined American history has always benefited from a silent
partner: an energetic economy. Likewise the path of each of
Obama’s second-term initiatives would be smoothed by a return of
middle-class prosperity, or rendered impassable by economic
contraction. Renewed economic growth remains vital to the
nation’s -- and Obama’s -- success.  Given the volatile political environment, any White House
legislative strategy will have to be adaptable to shifting
conditions. Obama’s first term began in crisis, which afforded
its own kind of structure. He begins his second with greater
leeway but fewer imperatives. To realize his ambitions, and move
the nation forward, the president will have to be inventive in
clearing a path.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 