-- Monti Works ‘Seduction’ Among Italy’s Unwilling Candidates
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e   a n d   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i
-- 2013-01-21T07:56:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-20/monti-says-party-s-candidates-making-personal-sacrifice-to-stand.html
Caretaker Italian Prime Minister
 Mario Monti  introduced members of his Civic Choice party at a
rally and presented them as unwilling candidates who accepted
 parliamentary nominations  as personal sacrifice.  “I don’t believe I have great powers of seduction and in
particular of political seduction,” Monti said yesterday in a
speech in Bergamo, Italy, as he addressed the candidates in
attendance. “It was greatly satisfying to see how you were
ready to give way, how you were ready to waver already at my
first telephone phone call.”  Italian politicians are characterizing themselves as
reluctant as the recession-scarred country prepares for its
first general election since 2008. Voters have heaped blame for
rising joblessness and weakening output on  Italy ’s 949 senators
and representatives and turned to parties like Beppe Grillo’s 5
Star Movement in protest against career politicians.  Monti, 69, is tapping into voter frustration by filling his
list, called “Civic Choice,” with political neophytes. Monti
himself is running a national campaign for the first time as his
14-month premiership has been carried out at the head of a so-
called technocratic government of professors and bureaucrats. By
appealing directly to voters for a second term, Monti suggested
at the rally, he is giving up a chance to be Italy’s president.  ‘Give Life’  Monti said his decision was “to try to give life to this
movement rather than maybe go on for seven years in a very high-
level position that is less relevant for changing Italy.”  The new head of state will be elected by Italy’s parliament
when Italian President Giorgio Napolitano’s term ends this year.
Parliamentary elections are scheduled for Feb. 24-25.  The ranks of Italy’s self-professed unwilling candidates
include  Silvio Berlusconi , the three-time former prime minister,
who has portrayed himself as the only leader capable of saving
the country from left-leaning politicians he calls communists.
Monti, who said he needed to be persuaded to run, told the rally
he entered politics to prevent his rivals from undoing his
reforms and his legacy of budget rigor.  Monti credited Ferrari SpA Chairman Luca Cordero Di Montezemolo and International Cooperation Minister Andrea Riccardi with overcoming his initial objections.  Montezemolo and Riccardi “got the better of the argument,
and I had the worse,” Monti said. “That’s why I’m here
today,” he said, drawing applause.  Fourth Place  Monti leads a coalition with 13.7 percent public support,
according to an SWG Institute poll last week. That places him
fourth behind center-left leader Pier Luigi Bersani with 33
percent support, Berlusconi with 27.2 percent and Grillo with
16.8 percent, according to SWG.  Italy, with a population of about 60 million, has 630
representatives in the lower house of parliament, called the
 Chamber of Deputies . In the  upper house , there are 315 elected
senators and four senators with lifetime appointments. That’s
almost twice the size of the  U.S. Congress .  At Monti’s rally yesterday, Lidia Rota Vender spoke to the
crowd about her initial reluctance to accept the invitation to
become a candidate and her eventual acceptance. A doctor and
mother of four, Rota Vender said she decided she would have no
right to complain about politicians if she declined Monti’s
offer.  Monti is scheduled to meet Nguyen Phu Trong, general
secretary of the Communist Party of  Vietnam , today in  Rome .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Frye in Milan at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net ;
Chiara Vasarri in Rome at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net . 