-- Orascom Construction Sees Gates-Backed Deal Completed in 4 Weeks
-- B y   N a d i n e   M a r r o u s h i   a n d   A l a a   S h a h i n e
-- 2013-01-20T11:02:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-20/orascom-construction-sees-gates-backed-deal-completed-in-4-weeks.html
Orascom Construction  Industries
expects a transaction backed by  Bill Gates  for transferring the
company’s shares into an Amsterdam-based unit to be concluded
within four weeks, an executive said today.  OCI NV plans to absorb all local stock and global
depositary receipts of Cairo-based Orascom Construction under a
share-exchange offer that has attracted more than $2 billion in
commitments from investors. Orascom Construction shares climbed
as much as 3.7 percent to 277 Egyptian pounds before trading at
274.44 pounds as of 11:55 a.m. in Cairo. The company’s London-
listed GDRs surged 4.7 percent to $41.85 on Jan. 18.  Gates’ Cascade Investment LLC joins Southeastern Asset
Management and Davis Selected Advisers in what Orascom
Construction said is the biggest foreign investment in Egypt
since the 2011 uprising that ousted former President  Hosni Mubarak . The listing on NYSE Euronext Amsterdam will help lower
the company’s borrowing costs, Chief Executive Officer  Nassef Sawiris  said Jan. 18, after  Standard & Poor’s  cut Egypt’s credit
rating to the same junk level as  Greece .  “The first part of the transaction is an exchange offer of
GDRs into Amsterdam-listed shares, and the second part is a
tender offer to buy out the 25 percent local shares,”said  Omar Darwazah, investor relations manager at Orascom Construction.
“Both are expected to be complete in four weeks.”  ‘Re-Group’  The Sawiris family and Dubai-based Abraaj Group, which
together own a majority of shares in Orascom Construction, have
already submitted their GDRs for exchange. OCI NV will seek the
approval of  Egypt ’s markets regulator today to submit a
mandatory offer to exchange all of Orascom Construction’s Cairo-
listed shares for either for stock in the Amsterdam-based unit
or 280 Egyptian pounds each, Darwazah said.  “In four weeks, we will re-group and see where we are,”
Darwazah said. “We might need to do a secondary tender offer,
depending on how many shares are left unresponsive.” The stake
which investors including Gates will hold in OCI NV would depend
on how many local investors opt to exchange their shares for
cash, he said.  The Egyptian economy has struggled to recover from the
chaos that followed Mubarak’s ouster as foreign direct
investments tumbled. The government is in talks with the
 International Monetary Fund  for a $4.8 billion loan to help stem
the decline in foreign-currency reserves.  Gross domestic product may expand 3 percent in the fiscal
year that ends in June 2013, according to the median estimate of
11 economists on Bloomberg. The economy expanded about 5 percent
in the year preceding the uprising.  Business Split  Orascom Construction is Egypt’s biggest publicly traded
company. After exchanging their GDRs for OCI NV shares, the
Sawiris family and buyout firm Abraaj expect to maintain their
holdings proportionate to their Orascom Construction stakes,
according to a statement distributed by the Regulatory News
Service Jan. 18.  OCI NV also plans to start a U.S. depository receipts
program in  New York . The company is “committed to an active
listing in Egypt, either directly or through Egyptian depository
receipts,” Sawiris said by phone Jan. 18. Egypt’s benchmark EGX
30 Index rose 0.6 percent today.  Orascom Construction is also “still committed” to a plan
to split its construction and fertilizer businesses, Darwazah
said. The company’s third-quarter net income declined 31 percent
to $127 million after booking provisions linked to several
projects.  ‘Investor Appetite’  “The transaction underpins genuine investor appetite to
invest in Egypt,” said Sawiris. “Unlike local shareholders who
monitor events on a daily basis, sophisticated investors see the
evolution of democracy having a long-term positive impact on the
economy.”  Allen & Co, Barclays Plc,  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and Rabobank
International acted as international advisers, while Cairo-based
CI Capital Investment Banking was the exclusive local financial
adviser, according to the RNS filing.  Michael Bennett, former CEO of Terra Industries, will serve
as chairman of OCI NV. Jan Alberts Ter Wisch, former partner at
Allen & Overy LLP, and Abraaj founder Arif Naqvi will act as
non-executive independent directors. Sawiris and  Salman Butt ,
Orascom Construction’s chief finance officer, will be executive
directors.  “As you can see from the number of bankers and advisers,
this has been a process that took quite a few months,” Sawiris
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nadine Marroushi in Cairo at 
 nmarroushi@bloomberg.net ;
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tarek El-Tablawy at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net  