-- Philippines May Require Trust Product Reserves to Avert Bubbles
-- B y   M a x   E s t a y o   a n d   C l a r i s s a   B a t i n o
-- 2013-01-20T16:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-20/philippines-may-require-trust-product-reserves-to-avert-bubbles.html
The Philippine central bank is 
studying expanding  reserve requirements  on bank trust products
as it seeks to guard against asset inflation, Assistant Governor 
Cyd Amador said.  “Some trust products already have reserves, some don’t so
we need to rationalize it,” Amador told reporters during Bangko
Sentral ng Pilipinas’ annual bankers reception on Jan. 18.
“This is for inflation management, to moderate possible
formation of asset bubbles.”  Amador’s comment indicates policy makers are preparing to
ward off price pressures that may arise from the strongest
inflows to the nation’s capital markets in 10 years. Rapid
capital inflows that spurred peso gains may stoke inflation,
Governor Amando Tetangco said last week as the peso climbed to
its highest level in almost five years even after central bank
intervention and prudential measures implemented in 2012.  Domestic  trust business  was worth 3.09 trillion pesos ($76
billion) as of September, the latest available data from the
central bank show. At that time, 48 percent of the amount was
deposited in BSP’s special deposit accounts or SDA that
currently pay 3.656 percent on a one-month placement. The
nation’s 91-day Treasury bill yield fell to a record low of 0.05
percent on Jan. 7.  “This could achieve a lot of things in one shot,” said
Ricky Cebrero, head of treasury at  Philippine National Bank  in
 Manila . “It’s a good way of containing money-supply growth and
should also lessen the cost of BSP in the SDA. Bank deposit
rates that tend to compete with the SDA will drop, costs should
go down and hopefully that will spur lending.”  Money Supply  Money-supply  growth quickened to 9.8 percent in November,
the fastest since June 2011, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Lending expansion slowed.  Portfolio  inflows  reached $18.5 billion in 2012, rising 12
percent from the previous year, BSP reported on Jan. 17.  The peso, last year  Asia ’s best performer after the Korean
won, advanced to 40.55 per dollar on Jan. 14, the strongest
since March 2008. It closed at 40.575 on Jan. 18.  “Now, our challenge is dealing with the consequences of
this apparent success,” central bank Governor Amando Tetangco
said in a speech during the reception. “In particular, surges
in capital flows. The ideal scenario is to convert these surges
in capital flows into real economic assets, such as factories in
the manufacturing sector or storage facilities in the
agricultural sector.”  ‘Excessive Volatility’  The  $225 billion economy  expanded 7.1 percent from a year
earlier in the third quarter, the fastest pace in two years.
Inflation averaged 3.2 percent in 2012, within the bank’s target
range of 3 percent to 5 percent.  “We are watchful of market conduct and will implement
further macroprudential measures, including refinements to those
we have already put in place to keep excessive volatility in
market prices in check,” Tetangco said in a Jan. 14 e-mail.  The  Philippines  joined  South Korea  last month in clamping
down on currency-forward positions, imposing ceilings on non-
deliverable currency forwards at 20 percent of capital for local
lenders, and 100 percent for foreign entities. At the start of
2012, it ordered lenders to provide more funds to cover risks on
those hedges, and in July banned foreign funds from the special
accounts to limit inflows.  Banks already provide reserves for some trust products such
as common trust and unit investment trust funds, Amador said.  BSP expanded the SDA in May 2007 to accept funds from
banks’ trust units and state-owned pension funds after monetary
growth peaked at 28 percent a month earlier.  ‘Industry Setback’  Philippine banks currently set aside 18 centavos for every
deposited peso, an 18 percent  reserve ratio .  The central bank will keep its benchmark  overnight rate  at
a record low 3.5 percent on Jan. 24, according to all 19
economists in a Bloomberg News survey. It reduced the rate four
times in 2012. Tetangco said authorities have scope to keep
borrowing costs low this year as inflation is seen within target.  The BSP and Bankers Association of the Philippines are
working out the mechanics of a new loan benchmark based on the
central bank’s overnight rate, Antonio Moncupa, head of the
bankers’ Open Markets Committee told reporters on Jan. 18.  Monetary policy  should maintain stability “while not
stifling competition and growth,” Tetangco said in his speech,
noting that near-zero  interest rates  in advanced economies are
also behind the strong inflows. “Monetary policy making
requires great care and balance. As the central monetary
authority, we need to find this delicate point of policy
equilibrium.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Max Estayo in Manila at 
 mestayo@bloomberg.net ;
Clarissa Batino at   cbatino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net 
Paul Tighe at   ptighe@bloomberg.net  