-- Plouffe Predicts Passage of Gun Control, Immigration Changes
-- B y   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s
-- 2013-01-20T17:05:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-20/plouffe-predicts-passage-of-gun-control-immigration-measures.html
President  Barack Obama ’s proposed
immigration law changes and  gun control  measures should be able
to pass Congress, said  David Plouffe , Obama’s senior political
adviser.  “Newtown has changed the debate,” Plouffe said on CNN’s
“ State of the Union ” today, referring to the Connecticut town
where 20 schoolchildren and 6 educators were killed last month.
“Sadly, it took a tragedy like that, but you’re seeing a lot of
people -- by the way Democrats and Republicans -- think
differently about this issue since this tragedy.”  Obama was officially sworn in today, as required by the
Constitution, in a small ceremony at the White House. He will
take the oath a second time tomorrow in a public event on the
steps of the U.S. Capitol. Chief Justice  John Roberts  will
administer both oaths.  Vice President  Joe Biden  was also sworn in today for a
second term by Supreme Court Justice  Sonia Sotomayor  at his
residence at the Naval Observatory in  Washington . Later, Obama
and Biden laid a wreath at the Tomb of the Unknowns in Arlington
National Cemetery.  Obama has staked out a second term agenda of overhauling
immigration, gun control and the  tax code . Plouffe took an
optimistic stance, saying that the time has come for both
immigration change and gun control.  Republican Reaction  U.S. Senator  Roy Blunt , a Republican from  Missouri , said he
wants to see a detailed gun control plan from Obama.  “Let’s do things better rather than take an opportunity to
go after an old agenda,” Blunt said today on “Fox News
Sunday” program. “There has to be a plan that could possibly
work or the president won’t get it done.”  Senator  John Barrasso , a Republican from  Wyoming , said the
president’s plan won’t pass Congress and he doubts Senate
Majority Leader  Harry Reid  will bring it to the floor.  “He has six Democrats up for election in two years in
states where the president received fewer than 42 percent of the
vote,” Barrasso said on CNN’s “State of the Union.” Democrats
control the Senate with 53 seats to 45 Republican seats. The two
independent senators caucus with the Democrats.  “He doesn’t want his Democrats to have to choose between
their own constituencies and the president’s positions,”
Barrasso. He said the president is focusing too much on gun
control and ignoring mental health and violence in society.  Economic Wreckage  Obama’s first term was largely consumed by repairing
economic wreckage from the 2008 financial crisis and getting his
health care law passed. His second term is starting with efforts
to reach a compromise with Congress on raising the debt ceiling
and cutting deficit spending.  A Republican plan for a short-term debt ceiling increase,
giving the Treasury Department three more months of borrowing
capacity, is “progress,” Plouffe said on the “Fox News
Sunday” program. “We don’t think short-term is smart for the
economy” because it doesn’t offer certainty, he said on Fox.  The debt limit has been periodically raised since its
creation in 1917, when Congress and President  Woodrow Wilson 
authorized the Treasury to issue long-term securities to help
finance entry into World War I. Since 1960, Congress has raised
or revised the limit 79 times, including 49 times under
Republican presidents, according to the Treasury Department,
noting the U.S. never has defaulted on its obligations.  Three Months  “Three months is no way to run the economy or railroad or
anything else so that’s not ideal,” Plouffe said on CBS’s
“Face the Nation” program. Still, “it’s a significant moment
that the Republican party now has moved off their position that
the only way they’re going to pay their bills is if they get the
correct kind of concessions.”  The Senate will pass a budget this year, U.S. Senator
 Charles Schumer , a Democrat from New York, said on NBC’s “Meet
the Press” program.  “It’s going to have revenues in it and our Republican
colleagues better get used to that fact,” Schumer said.  House Republicans  last week said they plan to vote on a
three-month extension of U.S. borrowing authority in an effort
to force the Democratic-led Senate to adopt a budget.  Financing for government agencies is scheduled to lapse in
March. Congress faces two other fiscal deadlines in the next 90
days, and House Republicans plan to use those debates -- rather
than the struggle over the debt limit -- to try to force
spending cuts.  The last time Congress fought over the ceiling, Obama
signed an increase on Aug. 2, 2011, the day that the Treasury
warned U.S. borrowing authority would expire.  Credit Rating  Standard & Poor’s  cut the nation’s credit rating. Still,
Treasury bond investors -- who most directly bear the risk of
any government default -- haven’t shown alarm. Yields on 10-year
U.S. Treasury notes declined to 2.56 percent on Aug. 5, 2011,
the day of the S&P downgrade, and continued to fall.  Yields on 10-year Treasuries, a benchmark for everything
from mortgages to corporate borrowing costs, are down from more
than 5 percent in 2007, before the financial crisis of 2008.  Treasury 10-year notes rose last week for a second week for
the first time since November as the absence of a resolution to
the impasse the U.S. debt ceiling sustained demand for the
safest securities. The 10-year note yield fell this week three
basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 1.84 percent,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader pricing.  Plouffe said Congress has the votes to pass Obama’s agenda.  “We’re confident and that’s one reason we want to stay in
communication with the American people because I think they are
going to demand action here,” Plouffe said on CNN.  Gun Control  The Dec. 14 shooting in a Connecticut grade school thrust
gun control to the top of Obama’s second-term agenda. This past
week, he unveiled the most ambitious gun-control proposals in
decades, announcing a $500 million package of legislation and
executive actions aimed at curbing firearms violence.  The president called on Congress to require background
checks for all gun buyers, ban high-capacity ammunition clips,
and reinstate a ban on sales of assault weapons. Obama also
signed 23 executive actions aimed at circumventing congressional
opposition to new gun restrictions, including several designed
to maximize prosecution of gun crimes and improve access to
government data for background checks.  Plouffe said the president should be able to get the 60
votes in the Senate and the 219 votes in the House needed to
pass a gun control bill.  Assault Weapons  “If you look at high-capacity magazines, assault weapons,
universal background checks, progress we can make on mental
health and school safety, all of these things enjoy enormous
support of the American people, both Democrats and
Republicans,” Plouffe said on ABC’s “This Week with  George
Stephanopoulos .”  “Putting together the legislative coalition is going to be
hard, obviously, but we’re very confident. I do think things
have changed since Newtown,” Plouffe said.  Obama’s call has put him in conflict with the  National
Rifle Association , which opposes the restrictions and has called
for armed guards in every school. The gun lobby last week
released an ad saying Obama’s own daughters are protected by
armed guards at school and calling the president an “elitist
hypocrite.”  Obama’s inaugural address tomorrow and State of the Union
speech on Feb. 12 will set the tone as he pushes for action.  Plouffe said there is no reason “that immigration reform
shouldn’t pass.”  “Obviously the legislative process has to work its way
through but this is the moment,” Plouffe said. “The stars seem
to be aligned to finally get comprehensive immigration reform.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cheyenne Hopkins in Washington at 
 chopkins19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  