-- Portugal Billionaire Sells Lollipops, Champagne in Poland
-- B y   K a m b i z   F o r o o h a r   a n d   R o b e r t   L a F r a n c o
-- 2013-01-21T08:05:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-20/portugal-billionaire-sells-lollipops-champagne-in-poland.html
In 2003, Luis Amaral bought  Eurocash
SA (EUR) , a Warsaw-based grocery business, for 120 million Polish
zlotys ($30 million). The operation was losing money.
Competitors were taking market share. Its owner,  Jeronimo
Martins SGPS SA (JMT) , the Lisbon-based retail operation controlled by
billionaire Alexandre Soares Dos Santos, wanted nothing to do
with it.  Today, Eurocash is  Poland ’s biggest distributor of non-
durable goods, with 19 percent of the market. The company’s
value has surged more than 15-fold since selling shares in an
initial public offering in 2005, helping Amaral, the 51-year-old
chief executive officer and  Portugal  native, amass a $1.1
billion fortune, according to the Bloomberg Billionaires Index.  Amaral’s 44 percent stake in Eurocash, which sold about 7.8
million lollipops and 3 million bottles of champagne last year,
is valued at about $910 million. He has collected about $220
million in dividends and stock sales since the public offering,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg, and has never appeared
on an international wealth ranking.  “He’s a visionary who created a custom-built business for
the Polish market,” said Jakub Krawczyk, a Vienna-based analyst
at Raiffeisen Centrobank AG in a phone interview on Jan. 9.
“Eurocash has helped traditional retailers to survive against
the onslaught of giant supermarkets.”  Community Grocers  The value of publicly traded food retailers have surged in
the past six months on better-than-expected sales. Retail
fortunes on the Bloomberg ranking rose 19.5 percent on average
in 2012. The four heirs to the  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  fortune --
Jim Walton, Christy Walton,  Alice Walton  and Rob Walton --gained
a combined $13.5 billion.  Stefan Persson , the chairman of
Swedish clothing retailer  Hennes & Mauritz AB (HMB) , added $2.7
billion during the year.  “We don’t comment on his personal wealth,” said Jan
Domanski, the company’s head of  investor relations , in a phone
interview on Jan. 9. “He is a very private person.”  Eurocash, whose wholesale stores sell grocery items,
alcoholic beverages and other supplies, saw revenue increase 68
percent to 12.4 billion PLN in the first nine months of 2012
from a year earlier. About half of Eurocash’s sales are
generated from independent grocery stores, an important element
of most Polish communities.  ‘Hypermarket Invasion’  The company’s growth comes amid increased competition from
international hypermarket chains such as Tesco Plc, the biggest
food retailer in the U.K., and  Carrefour SA (CA) , the world’s second-
largest food seller. Carrefour, which has 248 supermarkets and
hypermarkets in Poland, announced plans to build 200 smaller
stores in the country in July.  “The large chains are non-Polish owned and mom-and-pops
are very frightened of the hypermarket invasion,” Charles
Allen, an analyst for Bloomberg Industries in Princeton,  New
Jersey , said by phone. “Eurocash is listed in Poland and offers
a defense.”  Eurocash also operates its own retail stores. Many Poles
are loyal to their corner shop, preferring to buy milk,
vegetables and other household goods there instead of at the
larger hypermarkets.  Amaral is not the first wholesaler to become a billionaire
serving independent grocery stores. South African Nathan “Natie” Kirsh, 81, owns 63 percent of Jetro Holdings, a
wholesale grocer that operates about 100 stores in the U.S.  Accounting Software  After acquiring Jetro in 1985, Kirsh targeted small grocers
under-served by large distributors, then expanded to supplying
independent restaurants. He controls a $5.4 billion fortune,
according to the Bloomberg ranking.  Amaral moved to Poland from Portugal in 1995 to work for
Jeronimo Martins, where he helped establish Biedronka, now the
country’s largest discount retail chain. He left moved to  South
America  in 2000, eventually settling in  Brazil , where he became
a partner in a private equity firm.  In 2003, Amaral returned to Poland to buy Eurocash.
Jeronimo Martins was struggling to recover from a faulty
implementation of productivity and accounting software that
threatened to destroy its business, and sold Eurocash to focus
on its expanding Biedronka chain, Allen said.  “The whole of Jeronimo Martins was in bad shape,” he
said. “A lot of people didn’t think Eurocash would survive.”  Financing Acquisitions  Eurocash had 48 stores when Amaral purchased it in a
 management buyout . He focused on expansion, using the company’s
profits to finance acquisitions, buying Premium Distributors,
the biggest alcoholic beverages distributor in Poland, in 2010
from Warsaw-based  Central European Distribution Corp. (CEDC)   A year later, Amaral paid 1.1 billion PLN for the Tradis
distribution unit of Warsaw-based retail distributor Emperia
Holding SA. The company opened its 150th Eurocash Cash & Carry
store in Poznan, Poland this month.  Amaral is expanding beyond food. In September, Eurocash
agreed to buy at least 25 percent of cosmetics maker Polbita-
Interchem Group for an undisclosed sum from Warsaw-based
private equity firm Resource Partners Holdings.  The  Bloomberg Billionaires Index  takes measure of the
world’s wealthiest people based on market and economic changes
and Bloomberg News reporting. Each net worth figure is updated
every business day at 5:30 p.m. in  New York . The valuations are
listed in U.S. dollars.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kambiz Foroohar in New York at 
 kforoohar@bloomberg.net ;
Robert LaFranco in London at 
 rlafranco@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew G. Miller at 
 mmiller144@bloomberg.net  