-- Rahul Gandhi Rallies India’s Congress in Speech as Deputy
-- B y   A b h i j i t   R o y   C h o w d h u r y   a n d   A n d r e w   M a c A s k i l l
-- 2013-01-20T18:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-20/rahul-gandhi-rallies-india-s-congress-in-maiden-speech-as-deputy.html
Rahul Gandhi  said it was time to
repair a broken system of governance in his first speech after
being named deputy leader of  Congress , an appointment that seeks
to invigorate the ruling party ahead of next year’s election.  Gandhi, 42, was selected as Congress vice-president at a
strategy meeting in Jaipur on Jan. 19, positioning the latest
member of a famed political dynasty to lead the governing
alliance into the poll. With 15 months until votes are cast,
Gandhi must reverse the fortunes of a party that has been
tainted by corruption charges, lost a succession of major state
ballots and whose government is presiding over an economy poised
to expand at the slowest pace in a decade.  “The time has come to question the centralized,
unresponsive, unaccountable systems of decision-making,” Gandhi
told his party yesterday in the capital of Rajasthan state.
“There is a young and impatient India and it is demanding a
greater voice in the nation’s future and they are not going to
watch silently.”  Since being elected to parliament more than eight years
ago, Gandhi has kept a low profile giving few speeches and
declining requests to join the government of Prime Minister
 Manmohan Singh . In the biggest test so far of Gandhi’s
leadership and star power, Congress managed only fourth place in
May elections in the state of  Uttar Pradesh  after he took charge
of the party’s campaign.  ‘Bigger Role’  Opposition parties have pilloried Congress’s reliance on a
family, who more than six decades ago helped deliver Indian
independence and has provided the country with three prime
ministers. Sonia Gandhi, Rahul’s mother, will continue as party
president.  “This is an attempt to repackage the party before the
election and distance it from the problems during this
administration,” said  Sandeep Shastri , a lecturer in politics
at Jain University in Bangalore. “In the past, Rahul Gandhi has
been reluctant to play a bigger role but now he’s going to have
to become accountable for the direction he takes the party in.”  The announcement of Gandhi’s new role sparked celebrations
and fireworks in Jaipur, led by members of the Congress youth
wing, which Gandhi has headed for several years. Around half of
 India ’s 1.2 billion people are under 25 years of age, a key
demographic in the next election that a youthful leader like
Gandhi may find it easier to tap into.  Family Name  In an emotional 45-minute speech, Gandhi thanked the party
for appointing him, stressed the need to eradicate corruption
and said there should be a greater decentralization of power
away from government. He talked about the assassination of his
grandmother, former Premier Indira Gandhi, and how his mother
cried in his hotel room the night before his appointment,
warning him of the dangers of political power.  Gandhi said voters are fed up with “people who are corrupt
talking about eradicating corruption, and people who disrespect
women every day talking about  women’s rights ,” reflecting on
two issues that have sparked street protests over the last 18
months.  Arun Jaitley , a leader of the main opposition  Bharatiya
Janata Party , mocked Congress for its promotion of Gandhi,
saying his abilities are untested and unproven. Jaitley said
Gandhi was only being appointed because of his family name.  “The world’s largest democracy cannot be trusted to those
whose actual potential we do not know, whose opinions on various
subjects we do not know,” Jaitley said.  India’s Poor  Gandhi’s vision for India remains unclear. He has failed to
articulate his views on how to tackle corruption and whether he
supports a greater role for foreign investment in the economy.  Gandhi has focused on issues facing India’s poor and how to
make economic growth more inclusive, throwing his weight behind
a bill to raise compensation for farmers’ land when it’s
acquired for industry or roads. Even with Gandhi’s backing, the
proposals became mired in ministerial debate.  Gandhi’s decision to accept the new job is a “big
development” as it sends a clear signal that he is ready to
become prime minister if Congress wins the next general election
that must be held at the latest in May 2014, said to Satish Misra, a political analyst at the Observer Research Foundation
in  New Delhi .  “Rahul has always appeared unsure of himself,” said
Misra, who has been following Indian politics for the last three
decades and has lived under all three prime ministers from the
Gandhi-Nehru family. “It appears that he has pushed doubts
about whether he is up to the job out of his mind.”  Economy Woes  Gandhi’s family has dominated Congress and Indian politics
since freedom from British rule in 1947.  Jawaharlal Nehru ,
Gandhi’s great-grandfather and independence movement hero,
became the country’s first prime minister. He was followed by
his daughter, Indira Gandhi, and her son,  Rajiv Gandhi , Rahul’s
father. Both were assassinated, Indira while still in office,
bringing comparisons with the Kennedy family.  Sonia Gandhi  declined the opportunity to be prime minister
in 2004 after leading Congress to election victory. Citing
expected opposition attacks over her Italian ancestry, she
instead opted to install Singh as premier.  Last year’s defeat in Uttar Pradesh is not the first time
Gandhi has failed to shine during a provincial campaign.
Elections in 2010 in Bihar, India’s third most populous state,
also exposed the limits of Gandhi’s ability to draw votes. The
party only managed to secure four seats in the local assembly.  ‘Fading Legacy’  Amid slower growth and with the fastest inflation in the
BRIC group of major  emerging markets , Singh’s management of
 Asia ’s third-largest economy has come under attack.  “Our growth has definitely come down but not as much as in
other countries of the world,” Singh said in a speech to party
workers yesterday. “We are working hard to accelerate the pace
of our growth.”  Author and Times of India columnist Santosh Desai said last
year at the release of a new book on Rahul Gandhi that the
presence of a member of the dynasty at the top of the Congress
provided a degree of certainty to a broad-based party whose
constituents often have little else in common.  Still, “it’s a fading legacy that holds the party together
by necessity,” Desai said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Abhijit Roy Chowdhury in New Delhi at 
 achowdhury11@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew MacAskill in New Delhi at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  