-- Rheumatoid Arthritis Riak Boosted by Gene Regulators
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 2013-01-21T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-20/rheumatoid-arthritis-riak-boosted-by-gene-regulators.html
The kind of DNA  once known as
“junk”  may influence people’s risk of getting rheumatoid
arthritis, according to a study that offers the latest look at
the complex system of switches that turn disease genes on.  Using genetic information from more than 300 people with
rheumatoid arthritis and another 300 without, the researchers
found 10 areas that appeared to influence risk, according to the
research published yesterday in the journal  Nature Biotechnology .  The finding builds on a growing body of evidence that genes,
small pieces of DNA that make up about 1 percent of the genome,
aren’t the only parts of the system that matter for disease risk.
In September, a group of scientists created a map of the
regulatory genes, and suggested they might be important for
complex diseases like rheumatoid arthritis.  “This could explain why risk genes assert themselves and
cause disease, and why some people are affected more easily than
others,” said Tomas Ekstrom, a study author and professor of
cell biology at the Karolinska Institutet, in a statement.  Rheumatoid arthritis , or RA, is a disease in which the
immune system attacks the body, resulting in swelling and damage
in the joints, which can make tasks such as walking or holding
items painful. Women are more likely than men to have rheumatoid
arthritis, and an estimated 1.5 million adults have the disease,
according to the U.S.  Centers for Disease Control and Prevention .  Changes in the junk DNA regulatory system may explain how
the environment can influences inherited genes, the researchers
wrote in the paper. One way that happens is in its ability to
add or subtract pieces of DNA molecules. This process, called
 methylation , helps the body make sure that the correct genes are
working at the right times.  Environmental Factors  “An example of this would be the gene variant that was
previously linked to the increased risk of RA amongst smokers,”
Ekstrom said. His group is now checking to see if there are
regulatory regions that may explain the link between the
inherited risk and the environment in rheumatoid arthritis.  In the study, researchers found changes in the regulatory
system were associated with rheumatoid arthritis. Some of these
influenced disease risk. Using mathematical modeling, the group
found that some of these changes occurred only when people had
particular gene variants. That suggests that the regulatory
system is playing a role, the authors wrote.  Of the 10 areas discovered by the researchers, 9 were
associated with a region known to play a role in diseases where
the body attacks itself. One-tenth was on a region never-before
associated with the disease. The findings were double-checked in
a group of 12 people with rheumatoid arthritis and 12 controls.  Rheumatoid arthritis is treated with anti-inflammatory
pills such as aspirin, or drugs such as Humira that attack the
disease directly by modifying the immune system. Humira is made
by AbbVie Inc., split off this month from Abbott Laboratories,
and had $7.9 billion in 2011 sales, according to Abbott.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in  San Francisco  at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  