-- Shipyards ‘Doomed’ If Scotland Quits U.K., Lawmakers Say
-- B y   R o d n e y   J e f f e r s o n
-- 2013-01-20T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-20/shipyards-doomed-if-scots-vote-to-leave-u-k-lawmakers-say.html
Scotland ’s shipyards would lose
contracts and be “doomed” if the country votes to leave the
U.K. in a referendum next year, a group of lawmakers said.  The workshops on the Clyde river in and around Glasgow
would lose their status as the main British center for making
Royal Navy Type-26 surface vessels in addition to export work,
the Scottish Affairs Committee at the U.K. Parliament in  London 
said in a report published today. The lawmakers urged the
Scottish government to spell out how it would safeguard jobs.  “The choice faced by the shipyards and shipbuilders in
Scotland is stark and clear,” Ian Davidson, chairman of the
group, said in a statement. “Stay in the U.K. and Scottish
shipyards have a secure source of work for decades to come. In
short: Leave the U.K. and the shipyards are doomed.”  Independence is the cornerstone policy of Scottish First
Minister  Alex Salmond , who says Scotland would be better off in
charge of its own finances and North Sea oil, while keeping the
pound and the  Bank of England . Supporters of the status quo say
Scotland has a stronger economy as part of the U.K.  A poll last week for the Herald newspaper showed that
backing for independence hasn’t changed since Salmond signed an
agreement with U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  in October to
hold the referendum in the fall of 2014.  Respondents in favor of going it alone stood at 28 percent,
the same as three months ago, according to the TNS BMRB survey.
Those wanting to stay in the U.K. represented 48 percent, down
from 53 percent, while the proportion of people who haven’t made
up their mind rose five percentage points to 24 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rodney Jefferson in Edinburgh at 
 r.jefferson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Eddie Buckle at 
 ebuckle@bloomberg.net  