-- Russia Locked in ‘Huge’ Rates Feud, Shuvalov Says
-- B y   S c o t t   R o s e ,   R y a n   C h i l c o t e   a n d   I l y a   A r k h i p o v
-- 2013-01-21T13:58:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-20/shuvalov-ratchets-up-easing-pressure-before-bank-rossii-handover.html
Russia ’s central bank is resisting
calls to cut  interest rates , sparking a “huge argument” with
the government over priorities as economic growth slumps, First
Deputy Prime Minister  Igor Shuvalov  said.  Russia needs “easier money” to boost corporate lending,
Shuvalov, 46, said in a Jan. 18 interview during a train ride to
Moscow from Kaluga. Bank Rossii, the country’s central bank, has
room to cut borrowing costs by as much as a percentage point and
is resisting as it fights  inflation , he said.  Shuvalov, Russia’s top official for economic policy, is
amplifying pressure from Cabinet members on the central bank to
cut borrowing costs as growth slows to half the government’s 5
percent target. The unprecedented clash is playing out in
public, raising the stakes for the successor of central bank
Chairman Sergey Ignatiev, whose term expires in June.  “We’re trying to persuade them, always, that now they need
to reduce the rate,” Shuvalov said. “And they say, not yet. We
think they could.”  Inflation is a priority for the government, which
eventually wants to rein in consumer-price growth to less than 4
percent, Shuvalov said. That would send a positive signal to
investors after inflation surged to 6.6 percent in 2012, faster
than the previous year and above the central bank’s target.  Monetary-policy makers left borrowing costs unchanged this
month after unexpectedly raising them in September. They removed
a phrase from their statement that market rates were acceptable
for the “nearest future,” which central bank First Deputy
Chairman  Alexei Ulyukayev  said opens the door for increases or
decreases as soon as next month.  Ignatiev’s Succession  President  Vladimir Putin  will nominate a candidate to
replace Ignatiev in March, three months before the current
chairman’s third and final term ends, Shuvalov said.  “Mr. Ignatiev was and is a brilliant central bank
chairman,” Shuvalov said. “Ignatiev worked quietly and slowly
to achieve results.”  The government has been increasingly vocal in its debate
with the central bank, with Finance Minister Anton Siluanov and
Deputy Economy Minister  Andrei Klepach  arguing for easier credit
last week. Still, the regulator is following its legal
obligation to do as it sees fit on questions of interest rates
and inflation, Shuvalov said.  “They work completely independently,” he said. “And we
argue very often. And they ultimately can say that ‘we work
based on our law.’”  ‘Counterproductive’ Easing  Easing monetary policy with lower rates would be
“counterproductive” and “likely to produce new imbalances,
new risks for different segments of the economy,” Ulyukayev
said Jan. 16 in comments at the same economic forum where
Siluanov and Klepach spoke.  Even with lower borrowing costs, the government would also
need to do its part to boost  growth  to a stable 5 percent,
Shuvalov said. Economic output is projected to grow 2.4 percent
in the fourth quarter from a year earlier, according to the
median of 15 estimates in a Bloomberg  survey . That would be the
weakest pace since growth resumed in 2010 after a recession.  Priorities include developing eastern Siberia and the  Far
East , increasing trade with  Asia  and diversifying the economy,
said Shuvalov, who oversaw Russia’s preparations for the Asia-
Pacific Economic Cooperation summit.  Imperfect Economy  “The structure of our economy is not perfect and we depend
on oil and gas a lot,” he said. “And on the metals. We need
direct foreign investment. The level should be much higher than
at the moment.”  State-asset sales must differ from privatizations in the
1990s, which were criticized for lacking transparency, Shuvalov
said. A lawyer by training, he joined the government as a
property official in the late 1990s and became Cabinet chief of
staff in 2000, going on to hold posts in the presidential
administration until taking his current position in 2008.  “We speak openly with all possible investors, domestic and
international,” Shuvalov said. “We would like to sell in such
a way that the public appreciates this, understanding it is a
fair price.”  The government’s decision to impose spending caps on
revenue from oil and gas starting this year will bolster state
finances by reducing the dependence on oil income. Revenue from
the industry accounted for 50.2 percent of  federal budget 
earnings last year, according to preliminary  Finance Ministry 
data published Jan. 18.  Russia’s international currency and gold reserves are the
world’s fourth largest, trailing  China ,  Japan  and  Saudi Arabia .
They grew $39 billion last year to $537.6 billion as of Jan. 1,
according to  central bank data .  European Rescues  Still, that doesn’t mean Russia can afford to rescue
European countries, where debt crises have threatened global
growth, without first thinking about its domestic needs,
Shuvalov said. The government moved 900.2 billion rubles of 2012
energy revenue to the  Reserve Fund , which can be used to finance
future budget deficits, the Finance Ministry said today.  “We need to be very frugal at the moment, very
conservative,” Shuvalov said, adding that the government isn’t
prepared to write off a 2.5 billion-euro ($3.3 billion) loan to
Cyprus given in 2011.  Russia is facing calls from other Cyprus creditors to
participate in a new bailout, including the possibility of
forgiving some of the loan, the Welt am Sonntag newspaper
reported on Jan. 19, citing unidentified German government
officials. German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  told
lawmakers last week that Russia must participate in a euro-area
bailout.  “I don’t want to provide any money for Cyprus,” he said,
adding that Russia hadn’t yet responded to a request from the
island for a new loan. “We have so many friends and partners
who would like to receive some loans from us.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net ;
Ryan Chilcote in London at 
 rchilcote@bloomberg.net ;
Ilya Arkhipov in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  