-- Springer Science Sale Said to Be Delayed as Buyers Balk at Price
-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d
-- 2013-01-20T20:02:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-20/springer-science-sale-said-to-be-delayed-as-buyers-balk-at-price.html
The sale of Springer Science &
Business Media, the German academic publisher, was postponed by
 Sweden ’s EQT Partners AB after potential buyers balked at the
asking price, according to people familiar with the talks.  EQT, the private-equity firm that bought the company
jointly with the  Government of Singapore Investment Corp.  in
2009, had been seeking offers of 3 billion euros ($4 billion) to
4 billion euros, said the people, who asked not to be identified
because talks are private. The auction, scheduled to start this
month, and initial public offering preparations have been put on
hold as EQT reviews its options for the business, they said.  EQT, which bought Springer Science in 2009 in a deal
valuing the publisher at 2.3 billion euros, hired  JPMorgan Chase
& Co. (JPM)  and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  in October to prepare a
divestment, people familiar said at the time. The business had
attracted interest from companies such as Bertelsmann SE and
buyout firms including KKR & Co.,  Carlyle Group (CG)  and  Providence
Equity Partners , people familiar said in November. The unit
publishes 2,000 magazines and 7,000 books every year on subjects
including science and medicine.  Springer Science has yet to report full-year earnings,
which may help make the company more attractive, the people
said. While the official sale process is temporarily delayed,
EQT may continue holding informal talks with buyers as it seeks
an exclusive negotiating partner, one of the people said.  Spokesmen at EQT and Bertelsmann declined to comment.  Bertelsmann,  Europe ’s largest media company, is considering
teaming up with a private-equity fund like KKR or a sovereign
wealth fund, people said in November. While the German company
is interested, it is hesitant to make such a large acquisition
and is concerned about the effect of digitalization in
publishing on Springer Science’s business, one person said.  Buyout firms typically seek to improve performance at the
companies they acquire before selling them within about five
years. They often pay themselves a dividend from their companies
when they decide against a sale.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Kirchfeld in London at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  