-- Myanmar Calls for Kachin Peace Talks as Cease-Fire Tested
-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e   a n d   K y a w   T h u
-- 2013-01-21T08:59:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-20/myanmar-calls-for-kachin-peace-talks-as-cease-fire-pledge-tested.html
Myanmar called for peace talks with
ethnic Kachin rebels amid growing concern over attacks on
civilians and the potential that the conflict might spill over
into neighboring  China .  A government peace negotiating committee invited the Kachin
Independence Organization, the armed group’s political wing, for
negotiations in a letter to chairman Zaung Haya dated Jan. 19,
the state-run  New Light of Myanmar  reported. Fighting erupted in
June 2011 after a 17-year hiatus, making it Myanmar’s last
ethnic conflict without a cease-fire agreement.  President Thein Sein announced a unilateral cease-fire two
days ago following a three-week offensive against Kachin
fighters that involved the use of air power. The army attacked a
Kachin base Jan. 19, signaling a possible resumption in
fighting, the  BBC   reported . La Nan, a spokesman for the Kachin,
didn’t answer calls to his mobile phone.  The conflict is testing  Thein Sein ’s control over army
commanders two years after he took power following an election
that ended about five decades of direct military rule. The
president vowed to push for peace at a meeting at the weekend
with donor nations aimed at coordinating plans to modernize the
country’s financial system and infrastructure.  “I want to stress that we continue to try to achieve
genuine peace in the country,” Thein Sein said in his speech.
“I want to invite my colleagues from KIO to come to the peace
meeting from here on again. I believe KIO will soon join us in
the  peace process .”  Political Dialogue  The fighting in Kachin state threatens to undermine Thein
Sein’s authority among ethnic armies after he allowed greater
political freedom and held talks with dissident  Aung San Suu Kyi . He said that political dialogue would start with 10 ethnic
armies that reached cease-fires with the government.  The New Light of Myanmar said the Kachin army attacked a
police station on Jan. 18, killing two officers, and injuring 22
civilians in mine attacks targeted at three vehicles.  Human
Rights Watch  last week called on the government to halt
indiscriminate attacks against the Kachin, such as one on Jan.
14 that killed three civilians, and to allow humanitarian groups
access to about 15,000 displaced people.  The U.S. has urged both sides to enter talks to end the
fighting, while China  welcomed  the cease-fire announced by the
government after a bomb landed in its territory.  China Role  “The border areas are close and people have frequent
exchanges, so war will surely affect the other,” Foreign
Ministry spokesman Hong Lei said at a briefing in Beijing today.
“China hopes both sides will start peace negotiations to
restore stability to the border area. China would like to play a
positive role in this process.”  The last attempt at peace talks in October broke down when
the Kachin sent low-ranking officials to a meeting with senior
Myanmar generals, which was perceived as a snub, according to
the  International Crisis Group , a Brussels-based policy research
group.  Still, the conflict is “much simpler” to resolve than
fighting between ethnic Rakhine Buddhists and Muslim Rohingya
that erupted last year, Jim Della-Giacoma, Crisis Group’s
Southeast Asia project director, wrote on Jan. 10.  “The years of fighting and the cease-fire in Kachin State
have produced two sides that may be wary but are very familiar
with each other and in regular contact,” he  wrote . “There is
now informal discussion about what the contours of a cease-fire
might be as well as what might follow in terms of sharing of
revenues from resources, economic development, political
structures, transitions arrangements, and the possible
devolution of some power.”  Kachin Christians  Kachin, bordering China and  India , is the northernmost of
Myanmar’s 14 provinces and home to natural resources including
precious gems, jade, copper and gold. Ethnic Kachins are
predominately Christian Baptists and Roman Catholic in the
majority Buddhist country.  The Kachin took up arms against the military government in
1961, and the group’s Kachin Independence Army has grown to
become Myanmar’s second-largest non-state ethnic armed group,
according to  Human Rights Watch . The KIO maintains a civilian
administration that acts as a parallel state, the group said.  Recent clashes between government troops and Kachin rebels
have occurred close to oil and gas pipelines being built by
China National Petroleum Corp. and China Power Investment
Corp.’s $3.6 billion hydropower project that Thein Sein
suspended in 2011 because of environmental concerns. In a 2011
 statement , the government said Kachin rebels attacked Chinese
staff working at hydropower projects in the northern state.  Myanmar has more than 30 armed ethnic minority groups that
have resisted central government control since it gained
independence from Britain in 1948. Since June 2011, the Kachin
have killed 35 soldiers and left 190 injured, according to a
government statement on Jan. 18.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net ;
Kyaw Thu in Bangkok at 
 kthu1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  