-- Myanmar Can’t Transform While at War With Itself
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-01-20T23:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-20/myanmar-can-t-transform-while-at-war-with-itself.html
Is Myanmar’s reformist government
backsliding on  promises to find  a peaceful resolution to six
decades of conflict with the country’s  alienated minorities ?
Recently, the military took the unusual step of  deploying
fighter jets  and helicopter gunships to battle the Kachin
Independence Organization in the north.  In truth, both the KIO and central authorities share
responsibility for the violence. Each will have to take steps
toward the other to put Myanmar on a path to national unity and
 spur its so-far impressive transformation .  The government, once one of the world’s most repressive,
has released political prisoners, legalized trade unions,
abolished censorship and recognized the opposition’s victory in
parliamentary by-elections. President Thein Sein has negotiated
cease-fires with every ethnic group except the KIO. With   
minorities  constituting a third of Myanmar’s population and
occupying half the land, he has named national unity his first
priority.  Last week, the government  announced  an end to offensive
actions in the area of the latest escalation. Yet the fighting
hasn’t stopped. The same thing happened after a similar
government order Dec. 10. Both cases raise questions about  Thein
Sein ’s control over the military. Still, it hasn’t helped that
the KIO has declined to reciprocate these measure, lending
credibility to the military’s claim of self-defense.  The KIO has passed up  other opportunities  to test Thein
Sein’s peace commitment. The government persuaded senior
military commanders to participate in October’s peace talks in
 China , but the KIO sent such low-level delegates, separation of
forces negotiations were impossible. The group has failed to
respond to government offers of dialogue on Kachin political
demands.  The KIO is  understandably wary , given its disappointing
previous engagements with central governments. This
administration, however, has proved fundamentally different.
Given what Thein Sein has achieved on other fronts, he deserves
a chance on this one. Too much is at stake -- a real chance of
ending civil wars that have claimed as many as half a million
lives and contributed to Myanmar’s impoverishment -- for the
Kachin not to invest in the  peace process .  The central authorities will have to do their part. Beyond
ceasing hostilities, the government needs to convince the Kachin
that it will address their political needs.  Agreeing on a means to allocate the country’s considerable
resource wealth will be one of the tough challenges of a
national conference Thein Sein proposes to settle political
disputes with Myanmar’s minorities. Much of the country’s
hydroelectric power, gemstones, gold, teak and jade is situated
in their homelands.  The president has said the  current constitution , under
which all revenue from natural resources goes to the central
government, can be changed. He could win greater confidence by
stating upfront that, in managing its extractive industries,
Myanmar will follow international best practices. Those include
 the principle  that because the social, economic and
environmental costs of extraction fall on local populations,
they have a right to be consulted about projects in advance, and
to compensation.  It would also be helpful for the government to say publicly
what officials privately acknowledge -- that they are prepared
to discuss a federal system, with some powers devolved to the
states. Myanmar’s minorities agreed to the country’s formation
in 1947 in exchange for such a setup, but the promise was never
kept. In the interim, federalism became a taboo among central
authorities, seen as a step toward secession by the ethnic
states.  In fact, none of the minorities aspire to secede. The
government and military know that. They would lose nothing by
telling the states that a federal system is on the table. And
they might gain the cooperation of the Kachin, the last group
fighting.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 