-- Yen Strengthens From Lowest Since 2010 as BOJ Meets; Kron
-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e   a n d   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o
-- 2013-01-21T18:43:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-20/yen-touches-2-1-2-year-low-as-boj-begins-meeeting.html
The yen strengthened from its
weakest level against the dollar since June 2010 as  Bank of
Japan (8301)  officials started a two-day policy meeting in  Tokyo .  Japan ’s currency gained versus all 16 of its major
counterparts after slumping since October amid speculation the
BOJ, under pressure from the government of new Prime Minister
Shinzo Abe, will boost stimulus to lift the economy out of
recession. The yen also rose as data showed traders became the
least bearish on the currency in eight weeks.  Sweden ’s krona
fell as Finance Minister  Anders Borg  suggested the country would
benefit from a weaker currency. The  Swiss franc  advanced.  “It’s hard to see what the BOJ could say tomorrow that
would exceed market expectations,” said  Daragh Maher , a
currency strategist at HSBC Holdings Plc in  London . “It’s a
natural positioning ahead of the Bank of Japan’s meeting given
the yen’s decline.”  The yen climbed 0.4 percent to 89.76 per dollar at 1:35
p.m. in  New York  after depreciating to 90.25, the weakest since
June 23, 2010. Japan’s currency rose 0.4 percent to 119.54 per
euro. The euro was little changed at $1.3318.  U.S. financial markets are shut today for a public holiday.  The BOJ will expand asset purchases this week, according to
all 23 economists in a Bloomberg News survey, with the median
estimate for a 10 trillion-yen increase. Abe has announced a
spending package of similar size and is calling on the central
bank to double its inflation target to 2 percent.  ‘Too Far’  The BOJ will need to slow monetary easing if the effects on
prices and the yen go too far, according to Koichi Hamada, an
economist and adviser to Abe on choosing a new central bank
chief when Governor Masaaki Shirakawa’s term ends in April.  “If it goes too far, it should be stopped,” he said
yesterday after appearing with Economy Minister Akira Amari on
NHK Television.  The difference in the number of wagers by  hedge funds  and
other large speculators on a decline in the yen compared with
those on an advance -- so-called  net shorts  -- was 65,727 in the
period through Jan. 15, figures from the Washington-based
Commodity Futures Trading Commission showed. That’s the least
since the reading on Nov. 20.  The yen will trade at 87 per dollar and 114 per euro by
March 31, according to Bloomberg surveys of analysts. The
dispersion in estimates, measured by their variation from the
mean, was 3.6 percent for dollar-yen and 4.7 percent for euro-
yen quarter-end projections. The two figures are the widest
among 16 Group of 10 currency pairs tracked by Bloomberg.  One-month implied volatility for the yen against the dollar
fell to 11.5 percent today after climbing to 12.6 percent, the
most since August 2011.  Yen’s Decline  Japan’s currency has tumbled 13 percent in the past three
months, the biggest decline among the 10 developed-nation
currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes.
The dollar is unchanged and the euro rose 2.5 percent.  Sweden’s krona declined for a second day against the dollar
as Borg said the central bank’s monetary policy is propping up
the currency and preventing the  exchange rate  from helping to
sustain growth.  Because of high consumer debt levels “monetary policy in
Sweden as a whole perhaps is a little bit tighter than in other
countries and it’s clear that this supports the exchange rate,”
he said in  Stockholm . “Given the weak economic development it
would have been an advantage if the krona had weakened somewhat,
that’s clearly the case.”  The Riksbank cut its repurchasing rate for a fourth time in
a year last month, bringing it to 1 percent, and indicated it
has finished easing policy. The  European Central Bank ’s rate is
0.75 percent.  The krona dropped 0.2 percent to 8.6936 per euro and slid
0.2 percent to 6.528 per dollar.  Swiss Franc  The franc advanced for a second day against the euro after
tumbling last week to the lowest since the  Swiss National Bank 
imposed a cap on the currency in 2011.  Option traders are pushing the cost of bearish wagers on
Swiss shares to the lowest level in almost seven years amid
optimism the recent decline in the franc will benefit exporters.  Puts protecting against a 10 percent drop in the Swiss
Market Index cost 3.6 points more than calls betting on a 10
percent rally, according to three-month options data compiled by
Bloomberg. The price relationship slid to 3.09 on Jan. 17, the
lowest since May 2006.  The franc gained 0.2 percent to 1.2418 per euro.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net ;
Kristine Aquino in Singapore at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  