-- 
Leon Black’s Apollo Agrees to Purchase ‘Idol’ Owner CKX for $509 Million

-- B y   P e t e r   E l s t r o m   a n d   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 
2011-05-10T17:44:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/-idol-owner-ckx-agrees-to-be-bought-by-apollo-affiliate-for-5-50-a-share.html
Leon Black ’s Apollo Global Management
LLC agreed to buy  CKX Inc. (CKXE) , owner of the “American Idol”
television show, for about $509 million in cash.  The New York-based private equity firm is paying $5.50 a
share, the companies said in a statement today. The price
represents a 40 percent premium to New York-based CKX’s closing
price over the past six months and a 24 percent gain over
yesterday’s close of $4.45.  “Idol,” which charges the highest ad rates of any U.S. TV
series, is winning back viewers in its 10th season, snapping
four years of losses, after hiring  Steven Tyler  and  Jennifer Lopez  as judges. CKX said a year ago it was in talks with
potential buyers.  “This a bet that ‘Idol’s,’ success can continue” Hal Vogel, an independent media analyst in  New York , said in an
interview. “These assets are showing a much longer life. I
expected more deterioration over time.”  Former Chairman and Chief Executive Officer  Robert F.X. Sillerman , who left last year to pursue a bid and holds almost
21 percent of the stock, is supporting the agreement, according
to the statement.  CKX’s board has approved the accord with New York-based
Apollo and will recommend shareholders back the deal, the
companies said today.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  is providing a
debt financing commitment in connection to the transaction.  “We look forward to working with Apollo,” Michael Ferrel,
chairman and CEO of CKX, said in a statement. The firm “will
serve as a strong steward for the company’s brands going
forward.”  Los Angeles-based Gores Group made an unsolicited offer for
CKX, a person familiar with the matter said last month.  ‘Idol’ Ratings  “Idol,” the most watched U.S. TV show, is broadcast twice
a week on  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Fox network. The series has increased its
audience by 2 percent this season, averaging 24.8 million
viewers nightly after producers brought in new judges and
refocused on the show’s music. Among the 18-to-49-year-olds
sought by advertisers, viewing is down 5 percent, Fox said.  Gaude Paez, a spokeswoman for Fox in Los Angeles, declined
to comment on Apollo’s acquisition of CKX.  Besides “Idol,” CKX has rights to the “So You Think You
Can Dance” television brand, and the names and images of Elvis Presley and  Muhammad Ali .  Apollo’s offer also has the support of The Promenade Trust,
a shareholder whose sole beneficiary is Lisa Marie Presley, the
daughter of  Elvis Presley , the companies said.  Apollo Investments  CKX rose $1.01, or 23 percent, to $5.46 at 1:14 p.m. New
York time in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The stock had gained
10 percent this year before today.  Apollo was formed in 1990 by Black, Joshua Harris and Marc Rowan and pursues leveraged buyouts, credit investments and
distressed asset purchases. The firm had $67.6 billion in assets
under management as of the end of 2010, and has invested in
industries from real estate to telecommunications.  Apollo, with investments in Caesars Entertainment Corp. and
Realogy Corp., went public this year on the New York Stock
Exchange after earlier selling shares on a private exchange
managed by Goldman Sachs.  Apollo rose 13 cents to $18.63. The shares have dropped
about 2 percent since their March 29 debut.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Peter Elstrom in New York at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net ;
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  