-- 
H&R Block Swaps Reach Two-Month High as Debt Investors Organize

-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 
2011-05-10T21:41:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/h-r-block-swaps-reach-two-month-high-as-debt-investors-organize.html
Credit-default swaps on  H&R Block
Inc. (HRB)  jumped to the highest level in two months after a group of
mortgage-bond investors sought to force the company’s Option One
Mortgage Corp. unit to repurchase soured loans.  The cost to protect the bonds of Block Financial LLC, which
issues all of parent H&R Block’s public company debt, added 49.3
basis points to 400.5 basis points, the highest level since
March 8, according to data provider CMA, which is owned by CME
Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the
privately negotiated market.  Contracts on the Kansas City, Missouri-based tax preparer
increased 49.4 basis points yesterday as mortgage-bondholders
organized to force repurchases of soured loans by Option One.
Three investors that retained Talcott Franklin PC asked the law
firm to solicit other members of its RMBS Investor Clearing
House to join in the action, according to Talcott Franklin, the
firm’s head.  The cost of protecting U.S. company bonds from default
declined to the lowest level in a week as corporate earnings
bolstered investor confidence and amid speculation that  Greece 
will avoid a debt restructuring.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, which
investors use to hedge against losses on corporate debt or to
speculate on creditworthiness, decreased 0.7 basis point to a
mid-price of 88.6 basis points as of 5:14 p.m. in New York,
according to index administrator Markit Group Ltd.  More than 72 percent of companies in the Standard & Poor’s
500 Index that have reported first-quarter earnings beat
analysts’ forecasts, according to data compiled by Bloomberg
News. The  International Monetary Fund  is arranging a package of
as much as 100 billion euros ($144 billion) to replace Greece’s
existing bailout, the Athens-based Kathimerini newspaper
reported.  The credit swaps index, which typically declines as
investor confidence improves and climbs as it deteriorates, is
at the lowest level since May 2.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Childs in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  