-- 
Acer Exploring Acquisition of Software Developer, Chairman Says

-- B y   T i m   C u l p a n
-- 
2011-05-11T09:09:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/acer-exploring-acquisition-of-software-developer-chairman-says.html
Acer Inc. (2353) ’s chairman said he’s close
to deciding whether to buy a  software developer  that would boost
the appeal of its products as Taiwan’s biggest computer maker
seeks to revive investor confidence and earnings growth.  The company has narrowed the search to one to two overseas
candidates, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer J.T. Wang said.
It’s seeking a software developer that would help make Acer’s
personal computers, smartphones and tablets more compatible with
each other, he said, declining to provide details such as names
or how much it’s prepared to spend.  “We understand we have to make a decision soon,” Wang,
56, said yesterday in his first interview since Taipei-based
Acer ousted CEO and President Gianfranco Lanci, who clashed with
the board over corporate strategy, at the end of March. “We
need some software that can create better value.”  Acer, losing sales to  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPad and  HTC Corp. (2498) 
smartphones, aims to transform itself from a volume-driven maker
of commodity computers to a developer of products that can
command a wider margin. Profit last quarter tumbled to the
lowest in more than six years.  Acer’s stock, the worst performer among the five biggest
computer makers, slid 0.2 percent to NT$53.5 in Taipei today.
The shares have tumbled 41 percent this year after the company
missed its sales guidance for two straight quarters and posted
its lowest quarterly profit since 2004.  “I don’t believe they can rely on tablets to sustain
growth,” said  Calvin Huang  of Daiwa Securities Group Inc. in
Taipei, one of the 17 of 27 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg who
recommend investors sell the stock.  Lanci Clash  Wang denied comments from ex-CEO Lanci that Acer is
unwilling to hire more engineers or fears any “de-
Taiwanization” of the company. Acer expects to hire hundreds of
engineers this year, though fewer than 1,000, in addition to the
current 1,000, Wang said.  Wang and Lanci last met March 28 in a 90-minute meeting at
the Le Meridien hotel in Taipei, where the two agreed terms of
the Italian executive’s departure, the two men said. Lanci’s
departure was announced three days later, ending his 14-year
career at the company, the final three as CEO and president.  Wang said Lanci didn’t adequately handle the “paradigm
shift” caused by the iPad. Lanci, in a separate interview, said
he suggested as early as June -- two months after the first iPad
went on sale -- that Acer develop tablets and the company was
slow in delivering them.  Smartphone Market  Acer would have captured a greater share of the smartphone
and tablet markets if the company hired engineers outside
 Taiwan , paving the way for sales to climb 50 percent over five
years to $30 billion by 2015, Lanci said. Based on Lanci’s
strategy of designing too many products through too many phone
operators, the sales target would be “totally impossible” to
achieve, Chairman Wang said.  The company is considering boosting its next dividend
payout ratio to compensate for the drop in profit expected this
year, Wang said.  Unlike with smartphones, where Acer waited until 2009 to
enter the market, the company can still gain a foothold in
touch-screen tablets because the industry’s sales model is
different and retailers are eager to find alternatives to the
iPad, which has faced shortages, Wang said. Sales through Best
Buy Co. stores in the U.S. of its first tablet, the A500,
surpassed expectations, he said, without providing details.  Retail Strength  “Smartphone is majority through telecom, while tablet is
majority through the retail chain, and we have much better
relationships and cooperation through retail,” Wang said,
reiterating a plan to sell as many as 7 million tablets this
year. “If I can get 15 percent of sales from touch phones and
tablets in the fourth quarter, that would be a great success.”  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s Windows 8, due next year, will renew
market interest in laptops because improvements in boot-up
times, Internet connectivity and touch-screen functionality will
help Apple’s rivals catch up to the iPad’s ease of use to enjoy
media content, while providing the convenience of computers to
type documents and longer e-mails.  “They’ll count on Microsoft to turn things around with
Windows because Microsoft is the only hope for PC companies,”
Daiwa’s Huang said.  Acer vaulted past  Lenovo Group Ltd. (992)  and  Dell Inc. (DELL)  to become
the second-largest maker of personal computers in 2009 after a
three-year buying spree that resulted in the purchases of
Gateway Inc., eMachines Inc., Packard Bell BV, and Founder
Technology Group’s PC business. Acer slipped to No. 3 last year.  Wang said he’ll focus on developing new products rather
than acquisitions to return Acer’s sales growth back to
“double-digit” percentages.  “I am trying very hard, but don’t say that I promised,”
Wang said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Culpan in Taipei at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  