-- 
Lacker Says Fed Should Plan Withdrawal of Stimulus After QE2 Program Ends

-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 
2011-05-10T18:36:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/lacker-says-fed-should-plan-withdrawal-of-stimulus-after-qe2-program-ends.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond
President Jeffrey Lacker said the central bank should turn its
attention to withdrawing stimulus after completing its $600
billion bond purchase program at the end of next month.  “Barring significant unexpected developments, this should
be the high-water mark for monetary stimulus in this cycle, with
the focus going forward on the timing and pace of stimulus
withdrawal,” Lacker said today in a speech in Arlington,
Virginia.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and the  Federal Open Market
Committee  have said they will complete their bond purchase
program, known as QE2 for the second round of quantitative
easing, at the end of June. The central bank has yet to announce
its subsequent plans. St. Louis Fed President  James Bullard 
noted in a speech last week that monetary policy may go “on
hold” to see how the economy develops.  “While timing and pace will depend upon how the economy
behaves, I believe it will be important to remember the lesson
of the last recovery -- namely, that inflation is capable of
rising even if the level of economic activity has not returned
to its pre-recession trend,” Lacker said to a gathering of
northern  Virginia  business and community leaders.  Policy Tightening  “It may be necessary to initiate policy tightening well
before the unemployment rate has fallen to a rate we would
expect to see over the long run,” Lacker said. “While I don’t
want to minimize the extent of lingering weakness in economic
activity, we should not lose sight of the fact that the economy
has been expanding at a significant pace and the fundamentals
for future growth are strong right now.”  Speaking to reporters after the speech, Lacker declined to
outline a timeline for the withdrawal of stimulus, saying it
depends on how the economy unfolds.  “This is the point in the business cycle when the risk of
losing a bit of credibility and risk of losing ground on
inflation is highest,” he said. It’s “far better to act
preemptively than get behind the curve on inflation and have to
catch up,” he said.  Lacker said longer-term inflation expectations had risen to
the top of the range he’s comfortable with.  “If you go above that range you have to really be
concerned,” he said. “We’re at the very upper end of the range
right now.”  Economy Added Jobs  The Labor Department said last week the economy added
244,000 jobs in April with non-government employers added
268,000 jobs, the best month for the private sector of the
economy since 2006.  Other job market data remain weak, as the  unemployment rate 
has been stuck near 9 percent or higher for 25 months. The
number of people who filed for jobless benefits for the first
time rose to 474,000 last week for the most new filings since
August, according to a separate Labor Department report.  Speaking to reporters, Lacker said the rise in claims may
be “pretty temporary,” while the April payrolls report is a
“solid signal” the labor market is “definitely healing.”  Consumer confidence  dropped last week to the lowest level
in more than a month as rising fuel costs squeezed American
household budgets. The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index
decreased to minus 46.2 in the week ended May 1, the lowest
level since the end of March. In 2010, the index average reading
was minus 45.7, showing consumer’s comfort has yet to show
sustained improvement.  Spending Grew  “ Consumer spending  growth is likely to be somewhat
restrained for a time, as households adjust to the bigger bite
these higher prices take out of their take-home pay,” Lacker
said. “I would be concerned if I expected substantial further
price increases, but at this point,  futures markets  are pricing
in modest declines in petroleum products. If the markets are
right about that, the effect of energy prices on consumer
spending should only be temporary.”  The economy grew at a 1.8 percent pace in the first quarter
of 2011, according to Commerce Department data. The slowdown in
growth will probably prove to be “transitory,” Bernanke said
in an April 27 press conference.  In a statement before Bernanke’s press conference the FOMC
unanimously agreed to complete their plan to purchase $600
billion of bonds through June to avert deflation and boost
growth. They also pledged to keep  interest rates  “exceptionally
low” for an “extended period.” The Fed said in its statement
that inflation from commodities would likely prove
“transitory” as well.  Lacker said he agrees with this assessment.  “There are good reasons to believe this surge is
temporary,” he said. “In the absence of further energy price
increases, we are likely to see inflation subside to a rate
closer to 1.5 percent.”  Fed presidents rotate voting on monetary policy, with
Lacker, 55, voting next year. The FOMC next meets in  Washington 
on June 21-22.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joshua Zumbrun  in Arlington, Virginia at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  