-- 
Adecco First-Quarter Profit Rises as French Employment Grows

-- B y   L e i g h   B a l d w i n
-- 
2011-05-10T08:44:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/adecco-first-quarter-profit-rises-as-french-employment-grows-2-.html
Adecco SA (ADEN) , the world’s largest
supplier of temporary workers, said first-quarter profit
increased as employment levels in France continue to rise.  Net income climbed to 100 million euros ($143 million) from
57 million euros a year earlier, the Glattbrugg, Switzerland-
based company said today in a statement. That beat the 90.5
million-euro average estimate of six analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. Sales gained 24 percent to 4.92 billion euros.  In France, where Adecco earns 29 percent of its revenue,
the number of job seekers dropped steadily in the first quarter
of 2011 as economic recovery spurred hiring, government data
show. Randstad Holding NV, Adecco’s nearest rival, said on April
28 that first-quarter revenue from  France  rose 22 percent.
Adecco is “optimistic” about the French market despite strict
 labor laws , Chief Financial Officer Dominik de Daniel said.  “What was really helpful in Q1 was the very good recovery
of the French construction business,” he said today by phone.
“The market data for France still point to double-digit top-
line growth. If the labor market stays rigid that’s a good sign
for us as companies prefer to stay flexible and take on temps.”  Revenue from France was 1.41 billion euros, 23 percent
higher than a year ago, Adecco said.  The company’s shares rose as much as 2.1 percent to 59.95
Swiss francs and were up 0.2 percent at 10:13 a.m. in Zurich
trading.  Smaller Acquisitions  Adecco is still on track to meet a 5.5 percent target for
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization
in three years to five years, Chief Executive Officer Patrick de Maeseneire said in a phone interview.  The Belgian, who joined Adecco in 2009 after heading Swiss
cocoa producer Barry Callebaut AG, said integration of MPS, a
U.S. company acquired by Adecco in December, is going quicker
than planned, leaving the way open for smaller acquisitions.  “We still have approximately 150 million euros set aside
and if we have opportunities in that range we’ll certainly look
at them,” he said.  North America  is a possible target, though France will
continue to provide the bulk of Adecco’s revenue, De Maeseneire
said.  “The French market is still growing slightly faster than
North America, so you shouldn’t expect a major shift” in
Adecco’s operations, he said.  Sales in  Germany , Austria and  Italy , which together account
for 12 percent of Adecco’s sales, will continue to expand
fastest amid a scarcity of skilled labor, De Maeseneire said.  Staffing Needs  “There’s a shortage of engineers in Germany and it‘s
becoming the case with health care,” he said.  While finding jobs for those highly trained workers offers
the highest return, Adecco’s profits are still mostly from
industry, said Michael Foeth, an analyst at Vontobel equity
research.  The company’s “white-collar staffing is now also back to
double-digit growth,” he said in an e-mail. “But the gross
margin continues to be impacted by the very strong, lower-margin
industrial staffing market.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leigh Baldwin in Zurich at 
 lbaldwin3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
  at   acullen8@bloomberg.net . 