-- 
Lady Gaga, Robin Hood Raise $47 Million for Poor, Veterans

-- B y   P a t r i c k   C o l e
-- 
2011-05-10T03:48:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/lady-gaga-robin-hood-raise-47-million-to-help-new-york-s-poor-veterans.html
The  Robin Hood Foundation  gala,
Wall Street’s largest single-evening fundraising event, had
Lady Gaga onstage and took in $47.4 million last night at
its annual  New York  dinner.  The sum, which fell short of last year’s record of
$87.8 million, will go to groups fighting poverty in the
city. The total included $11.9 million raised at tables for
a new program that will assist veterans of the Afghanistan
and Iraq wars and National Reservists, as well as $400,000
for an auction item to fly to Los Angeles and record a song
with Black Eyed Peas front man will.i.am.  The 2010 total included a matching gift from
billionaire  George Soros  and Robin Hood board members.  Last night’s event, held at the Jacob K. Javits
Convention Center, sold out in mid-April after the
foundation announced that Lady Gaga would perform.  Founded in 1988, the  Robin Hood Foundation  raises
money for 200 of New York’s poverty-fighting organizations.
Its board -- which includes Paul Tudor Jones II, Greenlight
Capital’s David Einhorn, SAC Capital Advisors LP’s Steven A. Cohen, film producer  Harvey Weinstein  and actor  Gwyneth Paltrow  -- covers the gala’s cost so that all proceeds go
to the beneficiaries.  The crowd, which drew on the worlds of finance, real
estate and entertainment, included Henry Kravis, Sarah
Jessica Parker,  Martha Stewart ,  Steven Rattner  and film
director  Ron Howard .  Kid Rock  The mega-party, hosted by NBC Nightly News anchor
 Brian Williams , got more onstage action when Tony Bennett
performed a couple of ballads. Kid Rock later sang about
making the world a better place as uniformed military
personnel marched into the center of the dining area.  “It was incredible, the event was unlike anything I
had seen,” said Justin Sadrian, a Warburg Pincus managing
director and first-time Robin Hood gala attendee, in an
interview. “This gala is on a totally different level than
others.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Cole in New York at 
 pcole3@Bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 Mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net  