-- 
Lafarge Goes on Diet After Takeover Binge Hurts Credit Rating

-- B y   F r a n c o i s   d e   B e a u p u y
-- 
2011-05-10T22:00:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/lafarge-goes-on-diet-after-takeover-binge-hurts-credit-rating.html
Lafarge SA (LG)  Chief Executive Officer
Bruno Lafont knows from experience that getting into shape
requires sacrifices.  Lafont says he has spent the past 18 months dieting to
improve his lifestyle. Now the 54-year-old French executive will
need the same resolve to slim down the bloated borrowings of the
world’s largest cement maker. Lafarge has more than 14 billion
euros ($20 billion) in debt, a load that cost the company its
investment-grade  credit rating  at Standard & Poor’s in March.  To ease the burden, Paris-based Lafarge is considering the
sale of a 1.4 billion-euro gypsum unit, which may attract bids
from private-equity companies including TPG Capital and Carlyle
Group LP, people familiar with the talks said in January. The
sale would slice off a business that Lafont used to run and
became a springboard for his three-decade career at the company.  “It’s likely heartbreaking for Bruno,” Michel Bon, who’s
been on the Lafarge board since 1993, said in an interview. “He
knows all the staff. If he has to do it, he’ll do it properly.”  Selling gypsum, which accounts for 9 percent of Lafarge’s
revenue, may help Lafont restore some shareholders’ confidence
in the cement maker, which has yielded no return since its
purchase of an Egyptian cement maker for $15 billion in 2007.  The deal saddled Lafarge with debt just as construction
slowed down. That’s left Lafont, who’s made more than 1.2
billion euros of disposals since the start of 2009, reviewing
other ways to get the company into shape.  ‘Company Must Prevail’  Lafarge is pledging to reduce investment and cut the
dividend in half to meet a target of reducing borrowings by at
least 2 billion euros this year. All options are on the table
and there are “no taboos,” Lafont said in February.  That failed to convince  Standard & Poor’s , which lowered
Lafarge to BB+ a month later, citing “sluggish demand” and
political upheaval in  Egypt . Unrest in the North African country
trimmed earnings by 30 million euros in the first quarter.  Lafont, who joined Lafarge in 1983, says he’s made tough
calls before. Lafarge sold the Turkish cement operations that
Lafont built up after the purchase of the assets in 1989. The
retreat, which led to proceeds of 163 million euros, was part of
a plan to raise 1 billion euros in 2009.  “It touched me a lot, but at some point, the interest of
the company must prevail,” Lafont said in an interview in Paris
on May 3. “The way it’s done and even the choice of the buyer
is important. The group’s reputation is at stake.”  Tapping Shareholders  Lafarge snatched the No. 1 spot in the cement industry with
its purchase of Blue Circle Industries Plc of the U.K. in 2001.
Timing wasn’t on Lafarge’s side. Lafarge’s two largest deals
were both followed by slowdowns in construction markets, forcing
Lafarge to refinance.  “The huge error he’s made was to make a capital increase
in 2009 and to use part of the proceeds to pay the dividend,”
said Arnaud Cayla, a  fund manager  at Barclays Wealth Management
France, which oversees 6 billion of assets including Lafarge
stocks. “In the last decade, Lafarge has made two large deals,
Orascom and Blue Circle, at the height of the cycle and was
forced to trim debt afterwards by making a capital increase at
the trough of the cycle. There’s little consideration for small
shareholders in this kind of company.”  Lafarge shares have dropped 10 percent in the past year,
more than Holcim SA,  Europe ’s No. 2, while  HeidelbergCement AG (HEI) ,
the German market leader, is up about 6 percent in the period.  Wrong Job  While Lafont has spent 28 years of his professional life at
Lafarge, building materials weren’t his initial calling.
Educated at a Jesuit school in the affluent 16th quarter of
Paris, and a graduate of  France ’s ENA administration school,
Lafont abandoned his first post at the finance ministry’s
forecasting department after six months.  “I wasn’t made to be a civil servant,” said Lafont, who
also graduated from France’s top business school HEC. “I looked
for a company that had never been in the government’s hands,
that was international and that was making money.”  Lafont, married to a violin player who fostered his passion
for classical music and opera, last year visited customers and
employees in 35 countries. The while the time on the road
enhanced his cultural awareness, the travels came at the expense
of his golf skills, he said.  Lafont joined Lafarge as an auditor in 1983, spent five
years in  Germany  then moved to  Turkey . He returned to Paris in
1994 to become CFO, and made his mark by almost doubling sales
of the gypsum unit which he headed from 1998 to 2003, partly
through acquisitions. He then moved on to become chief operating
officer, before being tapped for the top job in 2006.  Acquisitions  Among his first moves was the $3.5 billion-purchase of the
remainder of Lafarge North America Inc. He also eliminated a
management layer to accelerate decisions. In 2007, he sold a
roofing unit to private equity firm PAI for 2.1 billion euros,
and announced the purchase of Cairo-based Orascom Cement, the
biggest cement producer in the Middle East.  “When you make an acquisition of this size, it’s about
execution,” said Oscar Fanjul, vice chairman of Omega Capital
SL and the vice chairman on Lafarge’s board. Lafont “is good at
managing execution. He’s not a pessimistic person, he’s quite
realistic about the situation.”  The possible disposal of the gypsum unit may serve as a
litmus test if Lafont can cut through old alliances and confront
the uncomfortable reality of Lafarge’s debt burden. And while
his 18-month crackdown on snacks has shown his determination to
cut back, Lafont isn’t prepared to give it all up. Fanjul said
he’s failed so far to convince Lafont to quit smoking cigars.  “I’m not perfect,” said Lafont. “I can’t commit to
something I can’t deliver,” he said with a smile.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Francois De Beaupuy at 
 fdebeaupuy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  