-- 
Thailand’s Stock Market to Weather Any Political Upheavals, Aberdeen Says

-- B y   A n u c h i t   N g u y e n   a n d   T o n y   J o r d a n
-- 
2011-05-10T02:40:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/thailand-s-stock-market-to-weather-any-political-upheavals-aberdeen-says.html
Thai stocks will probably weather any
political unrest after July’s elections, with the benchmark
index rallying for a third year as economic growth boosts
corporate earnings, according to Aberdeen Asset Management Plc.  Prime Minister  Abhisit Vejjajiva , who took power in late
2008 after a court disbanded the ruling party for election fraud,
yesterday announced the vote will take place on July 3. The
election will mark a “new beginning” after street protests
disrupted the country since a 2006 military coup, Abhisit said.  “The worst-case scenario could trigger further unrest and
possibly even another coup, but Thailand has repeatedly proved
itself to be remarkably resilient,” James Thom, a Singapore-
based  fund manager  at Aberdeen, said in an e-mailed reply to
questions. Last year marked “some of the worst street violence
for years and yet the Thai stock market was amongst the best
performers in the region,” he said.  Thailand ’s benchmark SET Index has gained 3.8 percent in
2011, extending last year’s 41 percent rally. A surge in exports
and domestic consumption has fueled economic growth that reached
a 15-year high of 7.8 percent in 2010. The central bank on April
28 forecast  Southeast Asia ’s second-biggest economy may expand
4.1 percent in 2011 as higher commodity prices boost farm income
and subsidies shield consumers from higher global fuel prices.  Aberdeen oversees $290.4 billion of assets globally,
including $5.3 billion of Thai equities.  Aberdeen New Thai
Investment Trust Plc (ANW)  has returned an average 26 percent annually
over the past decade, the best performer among 81 funds that
focus on Thailand with records tracked by Bloomberg over that
period.  Siam Cement Pcl (SCC) ,  Advanced Info Service Pcl (ADVANC) ,  BEC World
Pcl (BEC) ,  Hana Microelectronics Pcl (HANA) ,  Siam Makro Pcl (MAKRO)  and  Big C
Supercenter Pcl (BIGC)  are among Aberdeen’s favored stocks, Thom said.  Consumer Companies  In May 2010, Aberdeen advised investors to buy shares of
banks and consumer companies even as the nation’s political
unrest worsened. The SET Banking Index has climbed 35 percent
and the SET Commerce Index comprising retailers has surged 71
percent in the past 12 months.  Supporters of former Premier  Thaksin Shinawatra , who was
toppled in the military coup, held street protests and blocked
the capital’s main commercial district between March and May
2010, demanding that Abhisit step down and call a new election.
The political standoff in which at least 90 people died
triggered a record monthly outflow of 58.7 billion baht ($1.94
billion) from the Thai stock market in May 2010.  “The growth outlook remains good with investment picking
up, tourist numbers rising and Thai farmers benefiting from
higher global food prices and I see a great deal of optimism
amongst the businesses that we’re invested in,” Thom said.
“They have learned to get on with life and build their
businesses despite politics.”  Tourist Arrivals  Thai tourist arrivals are expected to increase by 7.5
percent each year and revenue will expand 11 percent annually as
the government builds more infrastructure and implements plans
to restore the confidence of international visitors, Abhisit
said on March 2, without specifying the years.  Thailand attracted 15.8 million tourists last year,
generating 585 billion baht of revenue, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tony Jordan in Bangkok at 
 Tjordan3@bloomberg.net ;
Anuchit Nguyen in Bangkok at 
 anguyen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reinie Booysen at   rbooysen@bloomberg.net  