-- 
Air France Crash Analysis Moves to Lab from Sea as Black Boxes Return Home

-- B y   L a u r e n c e   F r o s t   a n d   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n
-- 
2011-05-10T22:00:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/air-france-crash-analysis-reaches-lab-as-black-boxes-return-home.html
Investigators who recovered the
Airbus flight recorders two years after the Air  France  crash
that killed all 228 people on board are seeking to beat the odds
again and reconstruct the final moments of flight 447.  The recorders, one storing flight data and the other
cockpit voices and sounds, house several dozen memory chips that
may provide clues to modern aviation’s biggest unsolved mystery.
The challenge will be to render the material readable after the
boxes spent two years at the bottom of the Atlantic Ocean,
exposed to corrosive salt water and intense pressure.  “We have no experience in dealing with flight recorders
that have been immersed at this kind of depth, so we just don’t
know,” said Philippe Plantin de Hugues, a black-box expert with
France’s BEA air-accident investigation bureau in Paris.  The boxes are set to arrive in the French capital tomorrow,
almost two years after the  Airbus A330  plunged into the sea four
hours into a May 31, 2009, flight from  Rio de Janeiro  to Paris.
According to the plane’s last automated radio transmissions,
faulty airspeed readings caused the autopilot to shut down in
bad weather, a situation the pilots were drilled to cope with.  The flight 447 crash investigation is reliant on the black
boxes because the Air France plane went down in a so-called
black hole beyond radio contact and radar coverage. Most
accidents happen during takeoff or landing, witnessed by
bystanders and overheard by the control tower. Even then, black
boxes can prove crucial to unlocking an accident’s causes.  Recorder Clues  The 2008 crash-landing of a British Airways Boeing 777 at
 London ’s Heathrow Airport, which all 152 passengers and crew
survived, was caused by ice crystals that had clogged fuel
lines, a chain of events established only with the help of the
flight recorders.  The boxes from the Air France Airbus A330, made by
 Honeywell International Inc. (HON) , appeared to be in good shape when
they were hauled from the seabed last week. Following their
discovery, the salvage team also pulled up some bodies from the
wreckage and took tissue samples to help with identification.  Robert Galan, a former test pilot and author of a 2008 book
that catalogs aircraft crashes and their causes, said modern
technology has made reading of black boxes more reliable because
the material is no longer stored on analog tapes.  “We’re lucky in that the information is digitized now, so
it can’t be deformed and it can’t be erased,” he says. “Thirty
years ago, we were working with analogue recordings, where you
could get erroneous readings.”  Memory Boards  Seawater is likely to have penetrated the orange
cylindrical casings and soaked the critical memory boards,
Plantin de Hugues said. One unknown is whether the canisters
have been spared from corrosion by the low levels of oxygen
3,900 meters (12,800 feet) below the waves.  After a rinse in de-ionized water to remove salt and other
deposits that could cause a short circuit, the electronics are
dried in a special oven and inspected under a microscope. If the
circuit boards are damaged beyond repair, each memory chip can
be detached and read individually, according to the BEA.  “They want to understand what the pilots saw when these
problems with airspeed showed up, and how they interpreted
that,” said David Learmount, a former U.K. Royal Air Force
pilot and safety editor at Flight International. He predicted
the investigation will focus on “what they said to each other
and what they set about doing.”  Retrievable Data  The flight data and voice recordings should be retrievable,
according to Paul Dujancourt, who works at data-recovery
specialist  Kroll Ontrack , which helped read information from a
hard drive that had fallen 39 miles (63 kilometers) into a lake
from the exploding Space Shuttle Columbia in 2003.  Once uploaded to the BEA’s computers, copies of the data
are stored on secure drives and in the agency’s safe, while the
original black-box media are removed to a police evidence room.  The raw cockpit data is transformed into hundreds of
variables including flight parameters such as altitude, pitch,
engine thrust, heading and computed airspeed, and double-checked
in a procedure that can take days, Plantin de Hugues said.  While the flight data is still being prepared, the team
will have uploaded the cockpit audio, a more straightforward
process that often gives first clues to the pilots' situation.  “We listen to the last few minutes without speaking, and
it’s tough,” Plantin de Hugues said. “The atmosphere is
subdued.”  Who Flew?  The voice recording alone, if successfully recovered, may
answer two outstanding questions: why the pilots flew into a
storm that other planes deliberately avoided, and who was at the
controls? The  BEA  has said an autopsy on the flight captain’s
body, recovered after the crash, couldn’t establish whether he
had retired to his bunk, leaving the plane in the hands of his
two junior pilots.  Information from the data recorder may also show whether
the pilots tried to re-engage the autopilot before the airspeed
readings had stabilized. Preliminary findings published by the
BEA in December 2009 are based almost entirely on the so-called
ACARS radio messages relayed automatically from the plane by
satellite over a period of about four minutes.  They catalog a series of failures, beginning with the
malfunction of the airspeed sensors, or Pitot tubes, and ending
with a convergence of pressure measurements inside and outside
the cabin that suggests a rapid plunge in altitude.  The BEA will prepare a full transcript of the voice
recordings that synchronizes every pilot’s comment or cockpit
sound with the flight data, plotted separately as dozens of
distinct graphs on a common time axis. Reading them is akin to
following an orchestral score.  For the BEA’s Plantin de Hugues, who has spent 17 years
decoding the behavior of man and machine as their cooperation
breaks down, unlocking the final moments still inspires a sense
of respect.  “The pilots never stop trying to save the situation,” he
said. “They maintain a professional attitude right up until the
end.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laurence Frost in Paris at 
 lfrost4@bloomberg.net ;
Andrea Rothman in Paris at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net ;
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  