-- 
Make Drug Use Pay Its Own Way: Laurence Kotlikoff, Glenn Loury

-- B y   L a u r e n c e   K o t l i k o f f   a n d   G l e n n   L o u r y
-- 
2011-05-10T23:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/make-drug-use-pay-its-way-commentary-by-laurence-kotlikoff-glenn-loury.html
In a far-off land called I’m Right,
You’re Wrong, a fierce drug-legalization debate is raging. Half
the people, libertarians, say drug use should be legal. The
other half, moral purists, insist it shouldn’t.  They disagree even on what to call it when those who buy or
sell drugs are led off to jail. The libertarians call this a
form of taxation -- specifically, a tax on the time of the buyer
and seller. The moral purists prefer the term criminal
penalties.  On this much everybody can agree: non-violent buyers and
sellers are wasting a lot of time in jail.  Let’s say everyone agrees to drop the unwinnable
legalization argument and to do something useful: switch to
levying penalties in dollars rather than in time.  The penalties should equal the difference between the gross
price paid by buyers, including the dollar value of their lost
time, and the net price received by sellers, after subtracting
the dollar value of their lost time. The amount of drugs bought
and sold doesn’t change. What does change is that no one is
sitting in jail on drug charges, and the government has real
revenue from taxes or penalties (call it what you will).  Why pay to house and feed drug buyers and sellers in prison
when you can convert the implied tax-penalty into money that can
be spent on something useful -- like a public campaign showing
the terrible dangers of drug use?  Filled Jails  This question applies in spades to the U.S. Our home of the
free has the highest  incarceration rate  of any country in the
world, and enforcement of drug laws has a lot to do with that.
Among developed countries, nobody else comes close. Our
imprisonment rate is six times that of Britain, seven times that
of  Germany  and nine times that of  France .  America’s lockup rate is not only miles out of line with
that of other countries. It’s completely out of line with our
own past practice. Today’s rate is five times what it was in
1970. Over the same period, our violent crime rate has fallen by
half. The increase in non-violent criminal incarceration is
concentrated among drug offenders, whose numbers have increased
12-fold since 1980.  Among groups disproportionately involved in trafficking
drugs, incarceration rates are staggering. Fifteen percent of
white male high school dropouts and 69 percent of black male
high school dropouts will spend time in jail by age 35. These
figures are four and five times higher, respectively, than they
were in 1979.  Huge Cost  As of 2008,  more than 2.3 million  Americans -- roughly the
population of our fourth-largest city, Houston -- were locked
up.  China , with about four times the U.S. population, has 1.5
million people behind bars. Tally the number of Americans in
jail, on parole, or on probation and  you’re talking  close to the
populations of  Los Angeles  and  Chicago  combined.  The cost of putting so many people away is huge. Half of
these expenditures are made by state governments, many of which
are in terrible fiscal shape.  Connecticut ,  Delaware ,  Michigan ,
 Oregon  and  Vermont  now spend more on prisons than on higher
education. For those released from jail, legitimate jobs, let
alone well-paying ones, are very hard to find.  More than half  of prison inmates have minor children.
Consequently, millions of our kids are now growing up with at
least one parent incarcerated, which helps explain why our
country leads the developed world in child poverty.  In our view, using and selling drugs should be seen as
socially offensive and loudly condemned to discourage use. Those
selling drugs to minors, a form of child abuse, should be locked
away for a long time.  Time Is Money  But for the vast majority of those engaged in the drug
trade, we should switch from taking some of their time to taking
some of their money. The dollar-denominated penalties (taxes, if
you prefer) should be high enough to limit drug use without
encouraging widespread evasion. Drug addicts would be offered
rehabilitation programs as an alternative to paying the full
price of their habit.  In the world we envision, the adult drug stores would be
considered by some as legal and taxed, by others as illegal and
fined. Regardless, they would operate like other commercial
enterprises and receive the same police protection. As with the
ending of  Prohibition , this would dramatically reduce the
horrendous violent crime rates in many of our major cities. The
proceeds from taxing the drug trade should be used in two ways
only -- to publicly condemn and discourage drug use, and to help
those dependent on drugs to get clean.  Like our war on smoking, we can start to win our war on
drugs. To do so, we need, at long last, to adopt a winning
strategy.  ( Laurence Kotlikoff , professor of economics at  Boston
University  and president of Economic Security Planning Inc., is
a Bloomberg News columnist. Glenn Loury, professor of social
sciences at  Brown University , is co-author of “Ethnicity,
Social Mobility, and Public Policy.”)  To contact the writers of this column:
Laurence Kotlikoff at  kotlikoff@bu.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  