-- 
All Three 2018 Winter Olympic Contenders Earn Praise From IOC in Report

-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 
2011-05-10T14:44:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/all-three-2018-winter-olympic-contenders-earn-praise-from-ioc-in-report.html
Each of the three cities bidding for
the 2018 Winter Olympics could be successful as hosts, an
International Olympic Committee study concluded.  Pyeongchang,  South Korea ; Munich; and Annecy, France, all
are capable of hosting the  Winter Games , according to a
technical analysis of each city’s bid that included assessments
of 14 categories, including the host committees’ concepts,
venues, travel arrangements, finances, accommodations,
transportation and security.  “The commission is of the opinion that each city’s concept
offers a viable option to the IOC, though the very nature of
each project presents different risks,” the 119-page report
said.  The IOC’s Evaluation Commission visited the cities in
February and March, and the three bids weren’t ranked or
compared to each other.  Formal presentations will be made to IOC members next week
in Lausanne,  Switzerland , and the host city will be selected on
July 6 in Durban,  South Africa .  Pyeongchang, which lost bids in 2010 and 2014, received
what might have been the most positive remarks from the
commission.  “Overall, the commission believes the legacy from a 2018
Pyeongchang Games, building on existing legacies from previous
Olympic Winter Games bids, would be significant to further
develop winter sport in  Asia ,” the report said.  Munich would be the first city to host both the summer and
Winter Games, having staged the summer Olympics in 1972.  “With an extensive use of existing and temporary
facilities, a Munich 2018 Games would be low-impact with a high
degree of sustainability,” the report said.  The IOC’s comments about Annecy were much more favorable
than a report last year that said its venues would be too spread
out.  “While presenting some operational challenges, the
commission believes that the games concept presented by Annecy
2018 could be a workable model for Olympic Winter Games
sustainability,” the report said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in  New York  at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 