-- 
Amgen’s Anemia Medicine Linked to Higher Risk in Heart-Attack Patients

-- B y   R o b   W a t e r s
-- 
2011-05-10T20:00:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/amgen-s-epogen-j-j-s-procrit-boost-heart-attack-patients-risk.html
A drug sold by  Amgen Inc. (AMGN)  and  Johnson
& Johnson (JNJ)  for people with anemia didn’t reduce heart damage in
patients who’d experienced heart attacks and may increase the
chances of recurrence or death, a study found.  Epogen, approved in 1989 as the first drug for  Thousand
Oaks , California-based Amgen, is used by patients undergoing
 kidney dialysis  to boost their depleted red blood cells. J&J
sells the drug as Procrit, mostly for cancer patients getting
chemotherapy. While animal studies suggested the medicine might
reduce heart damage, today’s findings in the  Journal of the
American Medical Association  found the opposite.  Sales of Procrit, Epogen and Amgen’s longer-acting version,
Aranesp, declined to $6.9 billion in 2010 from $9.8 billion in
2006 after reports emerged in 2007 that the drugs increased the
risk of heart attacks and stroke when given at high doses. The
study results suggest doctors should be cautious in using the
treatments for patients at risk of  heart disease , said Deepak Bhatt, chief of cardiology at the V.A. Boston Healthcare System.  “The bottom line is that while there was a lot of
excitement based on animal studies, now that we’ve tested it, we
find it actually is not helpful and may in some cases be
detrimental,” said  Samer Najjar , the study’s lead author and
the medical director of the heart failure and heart
transplantation program at  Washington Hospital Center  in
Washington D.C.  In the study, heart-attack patients were given
angioplasties to open their clogged arteries. Within four hours
of the procedure, they were given an injection of a placebo or
erythropoietin alfa, the chemical name for Epogen and Procrit.  Doctors later used magnetic resonance imaging to measure
the area of heart damage, Najjar said.  No Difference Seen  The hope, based on “impressive” findings in animal
studies, was that the drug would shrink the amount of muscle
damage, Najjar said in a telephone interview today. Instead, he
and his colleagues at 28 hospitals in the U.S. saw no difference
in the extent of damage. In a subgroup of 21 patients ages 70
and older, patients treated with the drug had more heart damage
than those who got the placebo.  In addition, five patients who were given the drug died,
had new blood clots form or had strokes or second heart attacks,
complications that didn’t occur in any of the placebo patients,
the study found.  Patients with  kidney disease  have about a 50 percent higher
risk of heart disease, Bhatt said. That means doctors need to be
particularly careful in deciding when to give their patients
erythropoietin and at what doses, he said.  Christine Regan, an Amgen spokeswoman declined to comment.
Lisa Vaga, a spokeswoman for  New Brunswick , New Jersey-based J&J
said in an e-mail that because Procrit isn’t approved for
limiting damage from heart attacks, “we cannot provide
perspectives on this study.”  The study was funded by a grant from the U.S. National
Institute on Aging.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rob Waters  in  San Francisco  at 
 rwaters5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 