-- 
Crouch’s Role Reversal Hands Manchester City First Champions League Berth

-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 
2011-05-11T01:56:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/manchester-city-beats-tottenham-for-slot-in-next-year-s-champions-league.html
Manchester City qualified for
soccer’s Champions League for the first time with a 1-0 win over
Tottenham that guaranteed a top-four finish in England.  An own goal by  Peter Crouch  at the City of Manchester
Stadium gave City the victory last night. It came about a year
after Crouch’s strike at the same ground sent Spurs into
 Europe ’s elite club competition at City’s expense.  Playing in the Champions League was one of the goals set by
City owner Sheikh Mansour bin Zayed al Nahyan when he bought the
club in 2008. The  Abu Dhabi  ruling family member has spent more
than 350 million pounds ($573.1 million) to bring players
including  Carlos Tevez ,  David Silva  and Yaya Toure to a club
that last won a major trophy in 1976.  “In two or three years Manchester City can become one of
the top teams in Europe,” manager  Roberto Mancini  told City’s
website. “We got this because the players wanted to play in the
Champions League and deserved to play in the Champions League.”  City has a chance to end its 35-year trophy drought in
three days when it faces Premier League rival Stoke City in the
F.A. Cup final at  London ’s Wembley Stadium.  City’s win last night also guaranteed a place in next
season’s Europa League for Stoke, which qualifies for the
second-tier competition by reaching the cup final. Liverpool
hosts Spurs on May 14 in a game that may decide which team
finishes in fifth place to claim another Europa League spot.  With two games remaining, City can secure direct entry into
the Champions League group stage by overtaking third-place
Arsenal, which has 67 points to City’s 65. The fourth-place team
enters a two-game playoff for a group-stage place.  Two Games, Two Points  “There’s a chance because we’ve got two games left and
we’re just two points behind them,” City defender  Micah Richards  told his team’s website. “The main thing is that we’ve
already qualified for the Champions League and nobody can take
that away from us.”  Tottenham advanced to the quarterfinals this season before
losing 5-0 to Real Madrid over two games. The run earned Spurs
13.4 million euros ($19.3 million) in  revenue  from tournament
organizer UEFA, before ticket sales.  The winning goal last night came moments after  Luka Modric 
missed a chance to put Spurs ahead when he fired wide from  Aaron Lennon ’s pass. Crouch then deflected James Milner’s cross past
Carlo Cudicini, his own goalkeeper, in the 30th minute.  Steven Pienaar  and Lennon shot over in the second half with
teammates well placed. City almost doubled its lead in the 87th
minute, though  William Gallas  cleared Patrick Vieira’s chip off
the goal line.  Tevez’s Return  Tevez, City’s captain and top scorer this season with 22
goals, came on with seven minutes remaining after being
sidelined for a month because of a hamstring injury. The
Argentine striker was denied a goal-scoring return in injury
time by Cudicini’s save.  Tevez isn’t guaranteed to start against Stoke in the F.A.
Cup final, Mancini said.  “I don’t think Carlos can be ready 100 percent because he
played 15 minutes and did only one week’s training,” Mancini
said.  The Italian coach also warned his players against allowing
Champions League qualification to distract them from proper
preparation for the F.A. Cup final.  “If we think it will be an easy game, that will be a big
mistake,” Mancini said. “We used up a lot of energy against
Tottenham.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  