-- 
Tanzania Lending Rates May Drop Once Credit Bureau Operating, Banks Say

-- B y   D a v i d   M a l i n g h a   D o y a
-- 
2011-05-10T08:56:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/tanzania-lending-rates-may-drop-once-credit-bureau-operating-banks-say.html
Banks in Tanzania, East Africa’s
second-biggest economy, may further reduce lending rates once a
planned credit reference bureau becomes operational, said
Lawrence Mafuru, chairman of the country’s industry association.  “We are currently lending at between 8 and 15 percent, and
this has come down over time from 30 percent,” Mafuru said in
an interview yesterday in Dar es Salaam, the commercial capital.
“We now see  interest rates  only dropping after a credit
reference bureau is established and national  identity cards  are
introduced,” he said.  While bad loans have declined, banks remain concerned about
the risk of impairments, Mafuru said. “There are still many
people in the market who think they can get away with not paying
a debt, so we include that risk of impairment in the interest
rate.”  The credit reference bureau, expected to start by the end
of the year, will give banks access to potential customers
credit records and details, reducing the risk of bad debts.
Tanzania’s average lending rate declined to 14.76 percent in the
year through March from 14.81 percent a month earlier, according
to the central bank. The Bank of  Tanzania  doesn’t have a
benchmark lending rate and sets monetary policy by targeting
 money supply .  Non-performing loans declined to 252 billion Tanzanian
shillings ($166 million) in 2010 from 388 billion shillings a
year earlier, while the ratio to advances fell to 6 percent last
year compared with 11 percent, Mafuru said.  Revenue in the industry will probably expand by as much as
20 percent this year, he said. Credit to the private sector rose
18 percent to 4.1 trillion shillings last year, while banks’
assets increased 22 percent to 9.3 trillion shillings, he said.  Kenya , East Africa’s biggest economy, started its first
credit reference bureau last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Malingha Doya in  Dar es Salaam  at 
 dmalingha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Richardson at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net  