-- 
Laos to Ask Ch. Karnchang to Finance Mekong River Hydropower Dam Review

-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e
-- 
2011-05-10T09:56:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/laos-to-ask-ch-karnchang-to-finance-mekong-river-hydropower-dam-review.html
Laos  will ask Bangkok-based Ch.
Karnchang Pcl to pay for a review of a $3.8 billion hydropower
dam on the Mekong River after downstream countries called for a
delay to further study environmental concerns.  The Thai-financed  Xayaburi hydropower plant  is the first of
about 10 dams the government plans to build on the mainstream
Mekong, which runs from  China ’s Tibetan plateau through Myanmar,
 Thailand , Laos,  Cambodia  and Vietnam. Laos agreed last month to
delay the dam temporarily.  “We are just discussing the process and then requesting
the developer to finance the additional review,”  Daovong
Phonekeo , deputy director general of Laos’s Department of
Electricity, said by phone today from Vientiane, the capital.
“We are delaying the project, but not permanently,” he said.  Laos wants the study to counter criticism from  Vietnam ,
Cambodia and Thailand that the project may disrupt fish catches
and rice production downstream. Ch. Karnchang’s shares fell 3
percent to 8 baht, its lowest close since March 18.  The cost of the review “depends on how many experts we
have to hire” and should take “something like” six to 12
months to complete, Daovong said. Vietnam recommended last month
that all planned hydropower projects on the Mekong be delayed
for a decade.  “It will not take 10 years” to complete the study,
Daovong said.  No Request  Ch. Karnchang, Thailand’s third-biggest construction
company by market value, owns a 57 percent stake in the 115
billion baht ($3.8 billion) project. The company hasn’t received
a request from Laos to finance the review, Supamas Trivisvavet,
an executive vice president, said by phone today.  “At this moment, we haven’t heard,” she said. “But I
think it’s the Laos government acquiring the independent
consultant to do the review.”  The Mekong and its tributaries provide food, water and
transportation to about 60 million people in those four
countries. A technical  review  last month by the
intergovernmental Mekong River Commission found that the dam may
lead to the extinction of species like the Mekong giant catfish.  “Gaps in knowledge” mean the full extent of the
downstream impact on fisheries is hard to estimate, it said.  Laos wants its own study to verify the findings of the
commission’s work, which served as the basis for riparian
countries to object to the dam, Daovong said.  Thai Demand  Thailand agreed in December to buy 95 percent of the
electricity from the plant, which will have a capacity of 1,285
megawatts.  PTT Pcl (PTT) , Thailand’s biggest energy company, has a 25
percent stake in the project, while Bangkok-based  Electricity
Generating Pcl (EGCO)  owns 12.5 percent, according to company filings.  China has already built four hydropower dams on the Mekong,
completing the first one in 1993 without consulting its
downstream neighbors. It plans to build four more as part of
efforts to almost double its hydropower capacity to at least 300
gigawatts by 2020.  Southeast  Asia ’s smallest economy aims to use its resources
to boost incomes for its 6 million citizens who comprise Asia’s
youngest population. Hydropower and mining projects are set to
underpin gross domestic product growth that may reach 7.7
percent this year, the  Asian Development Bank  said in an April 7
 report .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  