-- 
Asian Currencies Strengthen on Growth Outlook; Ringgit and Peso Decline

-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 
2011-05-10T09:04:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/asian-currencies-strengthen-on-economic-growth-outlook-yield-advantage.html
Asian currencies gained on
speculation the world’s fastest economic growth and rising
 interest rates  will attract fund inflows.  Economists predict the Bank of  Korea  will lift borrowing
costs this week, joining  China , India, Indonesia, the
Philippines, Taiwan, Thailand and Malaysia in raising interest
rates this year. Taiwan’s export growth accelerated in April,
data showed yesterday, while China reported today a trade
surplus that was more than three times larger than forecast.  Indonesia’s rupiah strengthened 0.1 percent to 8,553 per
dollar as of 3:33 p.m. in Jakarta, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Taiwan’s dollar and the Thai baht rose 0.1 percent to
NT$28.725 and 30.18, respectively.  “Despite accelerating inflation,  Asia ’s economies remain
strong, inviting fund inflows into the region,” said Tohru Nishihama, an economist at Dai-ichi Life Research Institute Inc.
in  Tokyo . “The region’s yield advantage is widening, which also
supports the regional currencies.”  Developing economies in Asia will expand 8.4 percent this
year, compared with 2.4 percent growth in advanced countries,
the  International Monetary Fund  forecast in April. Overseas
investors bought $6.3 billion more Indian, Indonesian, South
Korean and Taiwanese equities than they sold this year, exchange
data show. Benchmark rates as high as 7.25 percent in India and
6.75 percent in  Indonesia  compare with a maximum of 0.25 percent
in the U.S. and  Japan .  Record Taiwanese Exports  The Bank of Korea will boost its policy rate by a quarter
of a percentage point to 3.25 percent on May 13, according to 12
of 14 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Two predict no change.
South Korean financial markets are closed today for a public
holiday.  China’s surplus widened to $11.4 billion in April, while
exports climbed 29.9 percent, the customs bureau said today. The
yuan advanced 0.03 percent to 6.4919 per dollar.  Taiwan’s dollar climbed for a second day after data showed
yesterday overseas shipments climbed 24.6 percent in April from
a year earlier to $27.3 billion, compared with the median
estimate for an 18 percent rise in a Bloomberg survey of
economists.  “Better-than-expected export figures supported the
currency,” said Eric Hsing, a fixed-income trader at First
Securities Inc. in Taipei. “Income from overseas will continue
to drive up the Taiwan dollar.”  Indonesia Tolerates Appreciation  The rupiah strengthened for a third day, extending its
rally this year to 5 percent as the central bank tolerates gains
in the currency to tackle inflation. Gross domestic product rose
6.5 percent in the first quarter from a year earlier after
having increased 6.89 percent in the previous three months,
official data showed this month.  “The overall picture for the rupiah and the stocks is
positive,” said Mika Martumpal, a currency analyst at PT Bank
Commonwealth in Jakarta. “Bank Indonesia has also made it clear
that it will allow gains in the currency to control imported
inflation.”  Malaysia ’s ringgit fell after the government raised sugar
prices, adding to concern that accelerating inflation will slow
spending and curb the nation’s economic growth. Consumer prices
gained 3 percent in March from a year earlier, the most since
April 2009. Bank Negara Malaysia raised its overnight policy
rate to 3 percent from 2.75 percent on May 5, saying prices will
face upward pressure in the second half. The ringgit declined
0.1 percent to 2.9896 per dollar.  “The market is worried that slowing spending will hurt
growth, given the fact that the economy is relying more on
domestic consumption and less on exports,” said Godwin Chan, a
currency trader at OSK Investment Bank Bhd. in  Kuala Lumpur .  Elsewhere, the Philippine peso weakened 0.1 percent to
42.965 per dollar, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
 India ’s rupee was little changed at 44.745 and  Singapore ’s
dollar strengthened 0.1 percent to S$1.2324.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  