-- 
Atlantic City Casino Gambling Revenue Declined 7.1% in April

-- B y   B e t h   J i n k s
-- 
2011-05-10T18:57:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/atlantic-city-casino-gambling-revenue-declined-7-1-in-april-1-.html
Atlantic City  casino gambling revenue
fell 7.1 percent in April as competitors in nearby markets wooed
customers and New Jersey Governor  Chris Christie  stepped in to
create a tourism district to stem losses.  Proceeds shrank to $289.4 million from a year earlier, New
Jersey’s Division of Gaming Enforcement said today on its
website. Slot machine revenue at the 11 casinos fell 3.4 percent
to $208.6 million, and table game winnings dropped 15 percent to
$80.9 million.  Gambling in the second-biggest U.S. casino market after  Las
Vegas  tumbled to $3.57 billion in 2010 from a peak of $5.2
billion in 2006 -- before competition from nearby states
including  Pennsylvania  and New York triggered four years of
declines. Six of Atlantic City’s casinos went through bankruptcy
or restructured debt during the financial crisis.  Gambling revenue slid 7.2 percent in the first four months
of this year from the same period last year.  New Jersey  has created an Atlantic City tourism district
with boundaries beyond its casinos, giving a state authority
oversight of planning and development around the Boardwalk,
Marina district and key retail areas.  Christie has redirected some gaming revenue to spruce up
the city and overhauled regulations, moving most casino
oversight to the Attorney General’s Division of Gaming
Enforcement, cutting jobs and regulations at the casino control
commission.  Construction resumed in March at the half-built Revel
casino resort, which in February issued $1.15 billion in debt.
New Atlantic City investors include Golden Nugget owner Landry’s
Restaurants Inc., which paid $38 million for Trump Entertainment
Resorts Inc.’s Trump Marina Hotel Casino in February, and Dennis Gomes, who last year agreed to buy Resorts Atlantic City, New
Jersey’s oldest casino resort, from a group of creditors.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Beth Jinks in  New York  at 
 bjinks1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  