-- 
Australia Mine Tax to Reap A$7.7 Billion as Commodities Rise

-- B y   G e m m a   D a l e y
-- 
2011-05-10T09:31:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/australia-mine-tax-to-reap-a-7-7-billion-as-commodities-rise.html
Australia’s planned 30 percent tax on
 iron ore  and coal profits will earn A$7.7 billion ($8.3 billion)
in its first two years as a gain in commodity prices tempers a
record exchange rate, the Treasury Department said.  The tax, which will affect companies such as  BHP Billiton
Ltd. (BHP)  and Rio Tinto Group, is scheduled to start in July 2012
after the laws are passed by Parliament. Today’s treasury
forecast is higher than the previous estimate of A$7.4 billion.  “They are a highly variable source of revenue as they are
heavily influenced by commodity prices and exchange rate
levels,” the Treasury said in the 2011-12 budget papers
released in Canberra today.  Companies including Rio and BHP, which are meeting surging
Asian demand, have announced more projects since the tax was
announced in June 2010. In the face of industry opposition,
Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  watered down predecessor  Kevin
Rudd ’s plan for a 40 percent tax on all resources.  The Australian currency, which has gained 19 percent
against the  U.S. dollar  in the past 12 months and traded at
$1.078 at 11.30 a.m. in Sydney, has dented earnings. At the same
time, commodity prices have gained.  Contract prices for coal used in steelmaking and power
generation rose to a record after rain and flooding in November
through January inundated mines and disrupted output in the
northeastern state of Queensland. Kobe Steel Ltd. of Japan
agreed to pay Rio $330 a metric ton for hard coking coal for
three-month contracts starting April 1.  Investment Plans  Companies have announced further investments since the tax
was announced. BHP in March approved in investments, including
developing the Jimblebar mine, and  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd. (FMG) 
in November approved an expansion in the Pilbara region of
Western Australia.  The government wants to use revenue to lower the corporate
 tax rate  to 29 percent from 30 percent, encourage retirement
savings as well as pay for roads and railways. The Greens party,
which controls the upper house of Parliament starting in July,
wants to dump tax cuts for businesses earning more than A$2
million per year in favor of a sovereign wealth fund.  “We will support elements in the budget that we think are
in the general interests of Australians,” Greens leader  Bob
Brown  told reporters in Canberra yesterday. “ We will be
looking for opportunities to improve this budget.”  The  Reserve Bank  of  Australia  on March 24 highlighted gains
in resource company profits in its financial stability review
released in Sydney.  “On a matched sample basis, underlying profits for listed
ASX 200 resources companies were around 68 percent higher in the
second half of 2010 compared with the corresponding period in
2009, while profits for other non-financial companies were
little changed,” the central bank said.  Share market analysts are forecasting resources companies’
earnings will increase by 64 percent in the 2011 fiscal year,
the central bank said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gemma Daley in Canberra at 
 gdaley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Brinsley in Tokyo at 
 jbrinsley@bloomberg.net  