-- 
Australia Posts Wider-Than-Estimated Trade Surplus, Aided by Coal Exports

-- B y   J a c o b   G r e b e r   a n d   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 
2011-05-10T03:26:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/australia-s-trade-balance-rebounded-to-surplus-in-march-on-iron-ore-coal.html
Australia reported a  trade surplus  in
March, rebounding from a deficit the previous month as increased
exports of  iron ore  and coal outpaced higher imports of gasoline.
The Australian dollar rose.  The excess was A$1.74 billion ($1.88 billion), from a
revised A$87 million deficit in February, the Bureau of
Statistics said in a report in Sydney today. The median estimate
in a Bloomberg News survey of 19 economists was for a surplus of
A$500 million.  Australia’s economy probably contracted last quarter as
damage to mines from torrential rains in Queensland state cut
coal production “significantly” and recovery was taking longer
than expected, the central bank said May 6. Even so, the local
currency broke through $1.10 last week to reach the highest
level since it was freely floated in 1983, as traders bet a
mining investment boom will spur interest-rate increases.  “Part of the bounce-back is due to coking coal exports,
which are returning after the low in February due to the
Queensland floods,” Andrew McManus, an analyst at  Australia  &
New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. in Sydney, said before the report.
“We would expect some weakness in services and manufacturing
exports as has been the trend with the Australian dollar above
parity with the U.S. currency.”  The Australian currency climbed to $1.0785 as of 1:20 p.m.
in Sydney from $1.0766 just before the report.  Exports rose 9 percent to A$25 billion, led by a 15 percent
gain in iron ore. Imports advanced 1 percent on a 23 percent
increase in gasoline, the report showed.  Coal Industry  The  Reserve Bank  of Australia has held rates at 4.75
percent for the past five meetings to help Queensland’s economy
recover from the damage. It boosted borrowing costs seven times
from October 2009 to November last year to contain inflation as
the mining boom bolstered employment growth.  “The return to more normal operating conditions will see
net exports add to growth in the second quarter and points to
strong second-quarter gross domestic product growth, in the
order of 1.5 percent,” Westpac Banking Corp. said in a research
note after the trade balance report.  Australian employers added 37,800 workers in March, more
than economists forecast, led by hiring in the mineral- and
energy-rich states of  Western Australia  and Queensland. The
country reported its biggest annual job gain on record last year.  “Australia’s terms of trade are likely to rise further in
the June quarter, to be above the level assumed a few months ago
-- and at their highest level in at least 140 years -- boosted
in particular by high prices for iron ore and coal,” the RBA
said in its quarterly policy statement last week, referring to a
measure of income earned from exports.  Natural Gas  Increased demand for skilled workers at projects such as
Chevron Corp.’s A$43 billion Gorgon liquefied natural-gas
project, under construction in Western Australia, threatens to
stoke wage growth and inflation. BG Group Plc, Chevron, Royal
Dutch Shell Plc and ConocoPhillips are among companies planning
to invest about A$200 billion in proposed liquefied  natural gas 
projects in Australia.  Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  said Feb. 1 the resource
industry could be short of 36,000 workers in the next four years
and the government will have to introduce measures to encourage
older Australians and parents to rejoin the workforce to meet
the demand.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jacob Greber in Sydney at 
 jgreber@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  