-- 
Australia Shrinks Spending to Combat Inflation

-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h   a n d   G e m m a   D a l e y
-- 
2011-05-10T14:18:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/australia-ends-23-years-of-spending-growth-to-slow-mining-fueled-inflation.html
Australia’s government will end 23
years of spending growth to ease inflation from a mining boom
and support the return to a  budget surplus , even as it plans
measures to help companies hurt by a record-high currency.  The underlying cash  deficit  will narrow to A$22.6 billion
($24.4 billion) in the 12 months to June 30, 2012, less than
half the A$49.4 billion gap this fiscal year, Treasurer Wayne Swan said in Canberra yesterday. The government plans A$22.2
billion in savings over the next four years that it projects
will help deliver a A$3.5 billion surplus in 2012-13, an
election year.  “With the investment pipeline ramping up and unemployment
falling, the boom will test our economy and our workforce, and
price pressures will reemerge,” Swan told parliament. “The
dollar is around post-float highs and this makes it difficult
for some sectors, particularly those that compete in
international markets.”  The local currency has soared 20 percent in the past year
as surging iron ore and coal shipments to China and  India  spur
investors to bet the  Reserve Bank  of Australia will raise
 interest rates  to contain inflation. Unemployment has fallen to
a two-year low and inflation accelerated last quarter to the
fastest pace in five years as businesses including  BHP Billiton
Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s No. 1 mining company, expand output.  Spending Falls  “In these conditions, it is important the government does
not compound these pressures, which is why the government is
rapidly returning the budget to surplus in 2012-13 as planned,”
the budget said. Government spending adjusted for consumer-price
inflation will shrink by 0.1 percent in 2012-13, the first fall
since a 3.1 percent drop in 1988-89, it said.  The plans will see the fiscal stance supporting monetary
policy as Prime Minister Julia Gillard’s government seeks to
reduce the need for higher borrowing costs that would add to
challenges for an administration with a 15-year low public
approval rating.  “There’s quite a substantial fiscal contraction over the
next couple of years, which should help the RBA,” said  Joshua Williamson , a senior economist at Citigroup Inc. in Sydney.
“The question is whether inflationary pressures will come
through too soon and the RBA will need to act anyway.”  The Australian dollar was little changed after the
announcement, trading at $1.0788 at 9 p.m. yesterday in Sydney
from $1.0796 just before the proposal was released.  Credit Ratings  Standard & Poor’s  sovereign credit analyst Kyran Curry, in
a phone interview from Melbourne, said the plan is consistent
with  Australia  keeping its AAA rating. Art Woo, director of Asia
sovereign ratings at Fitch Ratings in  Hong Kong , said the budget
has no impact on the country’s AA+ rating and means “no change
to the outlook, which is also stable.”  Steven Hess , a senior
credit officer at Moody’s Investors Service, said Australia has
“about the lowest debt of any Aaa government we rate.”  Consumer-price growth will be 3.25 percent in the year to
June 30 before easing to 2.75 percent in the 12 months to June
30, 2012, projections in the budget papers showed.  The government forecast economic growth will accelerate to
4 percent in the year to June 30, 2012, from 2.25 percent in the
prior 12 months.  Driving growth is the mining investment spree totaling A$76
billion next fiscal year, spurring companies to hire workers and
prompting the government to forecast the  unemployment rate  will
fall to 4.5 percent by mid-2013.  Job Growth  Australia recorded its biggest annual job growth on record
last year and employers added 37,800 workers in March, more than
economists forecast, led by hiring in the mineral- and energy-
rich states of Western Australia and Queensland.  BHP Billiton is expanding its iron ore operations in
Western Australia’s Pilbara region.  Two coal-seam gas projects, expected to cost more than A$30
billion, are proceeding near the Queensland port of Gladstone.
 Santos Ltd. (STO) , Australia’s third-largest oil producer, and BG
Group Plc, the U.K.’s third-biggest gas producer, will start
hiring the first of more than 10,000 construction workers needed
for the two projects later this year.  The government’s plan had measures to boost migration to
remote areas such as Pilbara to ease the labor shortage. These
include a program to encourage 16,000 migrants to settle in
remote areas and “fast-tracking” permanent residency for visa
holders who spend two years in such regions.  The Australian currency’s strength has hurt non-resource
industries, with the nation’s manufacturing contracting in April
for the seventh time in eight months and the tourism industry
suffering.  Surf’s Down  Darren Handley, co-founder of Gold Coast-based BASE Pty
Ltd., said the higher dollar cut his exports in half in the past
two years to 30 percent of the A$10 million per year business.
BASE, which makes 10,000 DHD surfboards, is moving its
manufacturing from Australia to the U.S. and  South Africa  to
remain competitive, he said.  “The currency is killing the industry here in Australia,”
Handley said yesterday after he returned from a four-day visit
inspecting sites in Los Angeles. “We have to move offshore
because it’s too expensive to make boards here now.”  The government’s budget proposes A$34.4 million to assist
manufacturers to build on skills to integrate into global supply
chains and identify new opportunities to develop a competitive
advantage.  Australian Industry Group Chief Executive Heather Ridout
welcomed the measures, saying more needs to be done given the
scale of the currency’s impact on manufacturers.  ‘Biggest Shocks’  “The budget should have gone further,” Ridout told
reporters after the budget’s release. The measures aren’t
“enough to protect the sector from one of the biggest shocks
that it’s ever had” from the currency’s appreciation over the
past 12 months.  Australian household spending is also subdued, with the
central bank saying last week that personal savings have
increased in recent years to the highest level since the 1980s.  Australia’s central bank said May 6 it will likely need to
raise rates “at some point” as underlying inflation is
expected to be in the top part of the target band over much of
the next couple of years.  Swan’s budget outlined new spending totaling A$9.1 billion
through fiscal 2014-15, less than half the savings over the same
period. A temporary levy on personal income to pay for flood
damage will total savings of A$1.7 billion, it showed.  Rate Outlook  Traders bet there’s a 22 percent chance central bank
Governor Glenn Stevens will boost rates by a quarter of a
percentage point to 5 percent next month, a 44 percent chance in
July and 68 percent in August, bank bill futures showed.  Among the biggest spending initiatives in Swan’s proposal
were A$1.25 billion in tax breaks for low-income families; A$969
million in health and hospital investment; and A$359.3 million
for a national workforce development fund.  Savings such as spending cuts in the plan included A$3.2
billion in “tax reform and integrity” measures, A$2.5 billion
in defense cuts and A$712.8 million in “reprioritized
spending” on Medicare and mental-health benefits.  Such steps would add to the drag on  consumer spending  after
households boosted savings rates in the aftermath of the global
financial crisis. Retail sales fell 0.5 percent in March for the
first time in five months, sending shares lower for  Myer
Holdings Ltd. (MYR) ,  David Jones Ltd. (DJS)  and  Woolworths Ltd. (WOW)   Flooding across Australia, Tropical Cyclone Yasi, bushfires,
the gain in the local dollar against the U.S. currency and
slower consumer spending have seen revenue fall, Swan said in
the budget papers yesterday.  Australia’s Debt  Prior to the budget, the  International Monetary Fund 
estimated Australia’s deficit next year at 0.6 percent of gross
domestic product, smaller than any member of the Group of Seven
industrial nations.  The fiscal tightening would add to a monetary brake on the
economy that has undergone a 1.75 percentage-point gain in the
benchmark interest rate from October 2009 to November last year.
The Reserve Bank has kept the cash rate target unchanged at 4.75
percent since then.  Australia’s benchmark rate is the highest in the developed
world and contrasts with near-zero in the U.S. and  Japan , a
differential that has driven the currency to the highest level
since it was freely floated in 1983. The  European Central Bank 
last month boosted borrowing costs to 1.25 percent, the first
increase in almost three years.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Michael Heath in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang in Singapore at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  