-- 
Austria’s Finance Minister Opposes Greek Debt Restructuring

-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 
2011-05-10T09:27:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/austria-s-finance-minister-opposes-greek-debt-restructuring-1-.html
Austrian Finance MinisterMaria Fekter said she opposes restructuring Greek debt because it
would lift pressure from the country’s government to enact
economic reform.  “I completely reject a restructuring -- that wouldn’t be
any good and only would increase the problem,” Fekter told
reporters in Vienna today. “If one made a cut regarding the
debt, there wouldn’t be any more pressure on reforms.”  Greek bond yields and the cost of insuring the country’s
debt against default rose to all-time highs amid speculation
about a debt write-off or an extension of repayment timelines.
Standard & Poor’s cut  Greece ’s long-term sovereign credit rating
by two levels yesterday to B, five notches below investment
grade. The rating may be lowered further, S&P said.  “Should the Greeks have difficulties” with the timing of
the repayment of the aid package supported by the European Union
and the  International Monetary Fund , “this could be extended a
bit,” Fekter said before Austria’s weekly cabinet meeting.
“One also has to examine how one should deal with the high
yields that came about in the last days on restructuring
speculation.”  Fekter, a member of the pro-business People’s Party, has
been the finance minister of the AAA-rated Alpine republic since
April 21, succeeding Josef Proell, who resigned on bad health.  Reinhold Mitterlehner,  Austria ’s Minister of Economics and
a member of Fekter’s party, said today that a restructuring of
Greek debt could be discussed.  “I dismiss an exit or an exclusion of Greece, but at the
most payment dates could be extended or a restructuring could be
considered,” Mitterlehner told reporters. “One doesn’t really
have other options.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  