-- 
Tax-Shelter Lawyers Acted in Bad Faith, Prosecutor Argues

-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 
2011-05-10T21:18:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/tax-shelter-lawyers-acted-in-bad-faith-prosecutor-argues-1-.html
The former head of the  Chicago  office
of the defunct law firm Jenkens & Gilchrist and others accused
of marketing phony tax shelters acted in “bad faith” by
providing letters saying the investments would probably survive
tax authorities’ challenges, a prosecutor told jurors.  Paul Daugerdas and four co-defendants “cannot possibly
claim that they were acting in good faith” with the letters,
which were a “total farce,” Nanette Davis, a Justice
Department attorney, told jurors today in closing arguments at
their trial in federal court in  Manhattan .  “These were not lawyers acting in good faith,” Davis
said. “These were lawyers with a product they were selling
which could get them huge fees. These were lawyers acting in bad
faith.”  Charles Sklarsky, a lawyer for Daugerdas, attacked the
credibility of the government’s cooperating witnesses during his
closing argument by saying they have a “motive to fabricate.”
Sklarsky said his client is a “good man” who is being punished
for using aggressive strategies.  “He’s a lawyer who pushed the law, who took aggressive
positions that the IRS didn’t like,” Sklarsky said, referring
to the U.S. Internal Revenue Service. “There’s no question
about that. But just because the IRS doesn’t like the positions
you take doesn’t make you a criminal.”  Daugerdas is one of seven people indicted in June 2009 on
charges of conspiracy and  tax evasion  for selling phony tax
shelters from 1994 to 2004. Prosecutors said the defendants used
the shelters to generate more than $7.32 billion in fraudulent
tax losses for at least 931 wealthy individuals.  Possible Sentences  The five defendants face as much as five years in prison if
convicted of conspiracy. Closing arguments in the trial, which
began in March, are scheduled to continue tomorrow.  Two of the seven people indicted in June 2009, Erwin Mayer
and Robert Greisman, pleaded guilty and are cooperating with the
government. Three others connected to the case are cooperating,
including two who pleaded guilty.  Jenkens & Gilchrist avoided prosecution in March 2007 by
admitting it developed and marketed tax shelters that generated
more than $1 billion in phony losses, and agreed to pay
$81.6 million to clients who sued over its tax-shelter advice.  Jenkens shut down after reaching the agreement, which
didn’t apply to lawyers at the Dallas-based firm, and blamed its
demise on attorneys in its office in Chicago, which was run by
Daugerdas.  The case is U.S. v. Daugerdas, 1:09-cr-00581, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York -
at   cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  