-- 
Major League Baseball Extends Backing of Australian Academy Through 2012

-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 
2011-05-10T04:14:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/mlb-opts-to-extend-backing-of-australian-academy-program-through-2012.html
Major League Baseball  agreed to
continue backing its annual Australian academy for another two
years, extending a development program that’s helped produce 164
professional players over its first decade.  In partnership with the Australian Baseball Federation
since 2001, the MLB Australian Academy Program runs for seven
weeks each year on the Gold Coast in Queensland. The academy was
the first of its kind and served as a model for similar projects
in Italy and  China , said Tom Nicholson, Major League Baseball
International’s director for Australia and Oceania.  “It really has provided many victories for us and a career
pathway for a lot of Australians,” Nicholson said in a phone
interview. “It’s something that keeps us in the game based on
the success that we’ve achieved.”  MLB contributes more than half the cost of running the
program, Nicholson said, declining to be more specific. Players
are on the field for eight hours a day and attend classes in the
evenings so they don’t fall behind with their high-school
studies, he said.  Australians make up 139 of the 164 academy graduates to
have signed professional contracts with MLB clubs, MLB and the
Australian federation said in a  joint release . Players from
 Japan ,  New Zealand  and  South Africa  have also come through the
Australian academy.  There were 81 Australians active with major league, minor
league and other professional teams during the 2010 season, up
from 48 in 2000, MLB said. Infielders Luke Hughes of the
 Minnesota Twins , Brad Harman of the  Philadelphia Phillies  and
Rich Thompson of the Los Angeles Angels played at the major
league level after attending the academy.  This year’s program is scheduled to be held June 25 to Aug.
13 at Palm Meadows International Baseball Facility.  MLB had “no hesitation” in continuing to back the
program, Nicholson added.  “I don’t know what it is about Australians but they seem,
no matter what sport, to take it on with such vigor and punch
above their weight consistently,” Nicholson said. “We wanted
to have an opportunity to make some inroads in such a
competitive landscape.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  