-- 
BofA Billions in Loan Losses at Stake on Moynihan Outlook

-- B y   H u g h   S o n
-- 
2011-05-10T15:50:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/bank-of-america-billions-of-dollars-in-losses-at-stake-on-moynihan-outlook.html
At  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , where the
company’s home-price forecasts have proved too good to be true,
billions of dollars of new losses are at stake along with the
credibility of Chief Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan .  The 51-year-old Moynihan, who succeeded  Kenneth D. Lewis  in
2010 after the worst housing market since the Depression, has
tied his firm’s performance to a recovery in home prices this
year -- a prediction more optimistic than one made by the bank’s
own economist. Underestimating the slump in U.S. real estate led
to $3 billion of expenses in the past two quarters, and Bank of
America said it may suffer $1.5 billion in losses for every four
percentage points that declines exceed forecasts.  Home prices  may begin a “gradual improvement over the
second half,” Neil Cotty, the company’s chief accounting
officer, said last month.  Michelle Meyer , the bank’s senior U.S.
economist, predicts the market won’t hit bottom until 2012.
Rival lenders and analysts say the drop could exceed 10 percent.  “If you put on a pair of rose-colored glasses with respect
to the housing market, then you can defer the recognition of
provision costs and buy time to earn your way out of the hole,”
said  Tony Plath , a professor of finance at the University of
North Carolina in  Charlotte  who follows Bank of America. “It’s
wrong, but that’s what’s going on.”  ‘Long and Painful’  Meyer, whose arrival in August from Barclays Plc was
accompanied by a news  release  praising her expertise in housing
markets, sees foreclosure sales as a drag in the months ahead.  “There’s a long and painful path before the housing market
looks normal,” Meyer said in an April 20 interview on Bloomberg
Television’s “Bottom Line” with Mark Crumpton. “Our view is
that we’ll see a 5 percent drop in national home prices this
year; it could be larger. The increased share of distressed
sales will continue to exert downward pressure on home prices.”  The forecast made by Cotty, 56, on an April 15 conference
call with analysts is “directionally” consistent with Meyer’s,
said  Jerry Dubrowski , a Bank of America spokesman. Management’s
projection, which uses a combination of standard indexes and the
company’s own analysis, is “close” to the average 1.4 percent
decline of 111 economists surveyed by MacroMarkets LLC, he said.  Home values fell 3 percent in the first quarter, according
to real estate website  Zillow Inc.  Prices will drop as much as 9
percent this year and won’t find a floor until 2012 as
foreclosures spread and unemployment remains high, said Stan Humphries, the firm’s chief economist.  Countrywide Loans  “Reasonable people will come to different views when
looking at economic forecasts,” Bank of America’s Dubrowski
said. “I don’t think we’re overly optimistic in our
expectations for housing prices. It is difficult to predict what
housing prices will do, and we make a good faith effort to do
so.” Meyer’s research department is independent from
management, he said.  Bank of America, based in Charlotte,  North Carolina , holds
 $408 billion  of mortgages and home-equity lines. Its home-loan
division has lost more than $15 billion since the 2008
acquisition of Countrywide Financial Corp., the biggest mortgage
lender during the housing bubble.  Regulators later found its growth was fueled by lax lending
standards, with loans marred by false or missing data about
borrowers and properties. That entitled mortgage buyers  Fannie
Mae  and  Freddie Mac  and bond insurers including Assured Guaranty
Ltd. to demand refunds. The takeover also saddled Bank of
America with $41.7 billion in troubled Countrywide loans.  Concern that those costs will swell has hurt shares of Bank
of America, the largest U.S. lender by assets and the biggest
servicer of mortgages. The stock’s drop of about 29 percent in
the past year is the worst in the 24-company  KBW Bank Index. (BKX)  The
performance will likely be addressed at the firm’s annual
shareholder meeting tomorrow in Charlotte.  Rising Claims  Falling home prices often lead to more defaults, which in
turn causes claims from mortgage investors and insurers. The
company acknowledged in January and again in April that it had
underestimated the severity of home-price declines.  In January, it disclosed a $3 billion settlement with the
two government-sponsored enterprises, Fannie Mae and Freddie
Mac. Assuming stable housing prices, the deal “largely
addressed” those liabilities, the bank said, and Moynihan told
investors management was “pleased to put the GSEs behind us.”  Three months later, unresolved demands for loan refunds
surged $2.9 billion to a record  $13.6 billion , fueled mostly by
claims from Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. The bank also agreed
last month to pay $1.6 billion to settle claims with Hamilton,
Bermuda-based Assured.  Housing Consensus  Home prices are “extremely unlikely” to bottom in the
middle of the year, said Humphries, the Zillow economist whose
Seattle-based firm tracks home prices. “We’re still seeing
monthly depreciation rates at above 1 percent right now.”  A majority of the economists surveyed by Madison, New
Jersey-based MacroMarkets predict prices will be flat or drop as
much as 7 percent this year as foreclosures add to the supply of
distressed properties.  Robert Shiller , the Yale University economics professor who
co-founded the forecasting firm,  said  April 26 that values may
decline “another 5 or 10 percent.” Morgan Stanley’s Oliver Chang is calling for a drop of as much as 11 percent.  Prices are close to the low reached in April 2009,
according to the S&P/Case-Shiller Index. The measure, which
Dubrowski said is one of the components used to calculate the
bank’s own housing index, fell 3.3 percent in February, the
biggest drop in more than a year.  Foreclosure Impact  Other banks expect home prices to drop and are selling bad
mortgages.  Citigroup Inc. (C) , the third-largest bank by assets,
sold $1.1 billion in delinquent mortgages in the first quarter
because the New York-based firm sees “downward pressure” on
prices this year, Treasurer Eric Aboaf said on April 27.  A glut of foreclosed homes may push prices lower when their
legal status is resolved, said Celia Chen of Moody’s Analytics
Inc., who forecasts a 5 percent decline this year. Bank of
America is among five of the largest U.S. mortgage servicers
being targeted by state attorneys general for faulty foreclosure
practices, which delayed some seizures and sales.  “If that’s dragged out, you could have the bottom later,
and prices will continue to fall through next year,” Chen said.  The impact of lower home prices helped drive a 36 percent
decline in first-quarter profit at Bank of America to $2.05
billion. The bank set aside another $1 billion to cover new
demands for mortgage refunds and didn’t cut its $10 billion
upper estimate of possible payments to claimants other than
Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, even after the Assured settlement
reduced the pool of disputes. In both cases, the company cited
falling home prices.  ‘Being Overwhelmed’  The added expenses “give the impression that their
assumptions around housing prices are not as conservative as
they could be,” John McDonald, a Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.
analyst in  New York , said in an interview.  The costs also weakened Moynihan’s credibility with
investors, said McDonald and  Paul Miller  of FBR Capital Markets.
The bank trades for less than 60 percent of book value per
share, compared with 76 percent for Citigroup and more than 100
percent for  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)   “They keep telling me they’re through with most of the
Fannie and Freddie losses, but last quarter we saw an increase
of over 25 percent in requests, which makes me question how far
they’re through the book,” Miller said. “They’re being
overwhelmed.”  Miller has a “market perform” rating on the shares, while
McDonald rates them “outperform,” saying that the firm’s
capital will remain adequate even in a worst-case scenario.  Reflect and Revise  Bank of America’s housing-price targets are updated
quarterly, allowing the lender to adjust estimates to reflect
market conditions, Chief Financial Officer Charles Noski, 58,
said last month in an interview.  “At any point in time, we have the opportunity to reflect
the most current thinking, not only of the various indexes but
of our own economists on coming to a collective view on how
housing prices should behave,” Noski said. The bank later said
Noski is relinquishing his post and becoming a vice chairman.  Moynihan has had other stumbles since becoming CEO in
January 2010. He called his first year a period to “repair and
rebuild” after a $2.2 billion loss, setting expectations for
improved results. In March, Moynihan told investors at a
conference in New York that the bank expected to be allowed to
raise its 1-cent dividend this year. Within days, Bank of
America became the only U.S. lender among the biggest four to
have its capital plan rejected by the  Federal Reserve .  Lewis Forecast  The regulator may have been concerned that the bank’s
capital could be threatened by its Countrywide loans, analysts
including  Frederick Cannon , director of research at KBW Inc.,
have said. Moynihan’s predecessor, Lewis, purchased the mortgage
lender co-founded by Angelo Mozilo in July 2008.  Lewis also underestimated the fall in home prices. He
predicted in June 2007 that the U.S. housing slump would end in
the next month or two. Instead, values plunged 24 percent over
the next three years, wiping out $4 trillion in equity and
sending 3.9 million homeowners into foreclosure.  “The drag stops in the next few months,” Lewis said in a
June 2007 interview with Bloomberg News. “It’s just about to be
over. We’re seeing the worst of it.”  Three days after Lewis’s prediction, Bank of America
analysts accurately wrote that U.S. mortgage losses were just
beginning.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugh Son in New York at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Rick Green at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  