-- 
Barrick’s Chairman Munk Says Equinox Deal Won’t Distract From Gold Focus

-- B y   M a t t   W a l c o f f   a n d   S t e v e n   F r a n k
-- 
2011-05-10T21:12:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/barrick-s-chairman-munk-says-equinox-deal-won-t-distract-from-gold-focus.html
Barrick Gold Corp. (ABX)  Chairman Peter Munk said his company’s C$7.3 billion ($7.6 billion) purchase of
copper producer  Equinox Minerals Ltd. (EQN)  won’t distract it from
focusing on mining the precious metal.  Barrick needs acquisitions to grow, and gold mines are too
expensive, Munk said today at the Bloomberg Canada Economic
Summit in Toronto.  Equinox “generates cash that I can use to develop my
reserves, so I can accelerate my ability to grow in gold by
buying a cash-producing and cash-generating asset,” he said.  The deal gives Barrick control of the Lumwana copper mine
in Zambia and  Saudi Arabia ’s biggest deposit of the industrial
metal. Barrick has fallen 14 percent since April 21, the last
trading day in Toronto before it agreed to buy Equinox. The
shares have declined on concern the company is reducing its
focus on gold in favor of further diversification into copper.  David Haughton, a Toronto-based analyst at Bank of
Montreal, cut his rating on Barrick to “market perform” from
“outperform” on April 25. Copper miners trade on a smaller
multiple of earnings than gold companies, he said in a note.  Gold mines now sell for about seven times what they did 10
years ago, Munk said.  “Gold-company valuations have been driven up very high,”
Munk said. “To do today an acquisition in gold, to buy a
junior, is very hard to justify.”  Equinox will also boost Barrick’s gold output, he said.  “The Equinox assets in  Zambia  happen to be in world’s
second-most prolific gold-producing belt,” he said. “In the
next five to 10 years, we’ll be able to find, hopefully, more
and more gold.”  “I know it’s unorthodox,” he said of the Equinox deal.
“But you keep on doing orthodox things, then you’re part of the
herd.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matt Walcoff in Toronto at 
 mwalcoff1@bloomberg.net ;
Steven Frank in Toronto at 
 sfrank9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at   scasey4@bloomberg.net . 