-- 
Partisan Divides Harden on Possible Debt Accord as Options Are Rejected

-- B y   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s   a n d   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 
2011-05-11T11:48:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/bennet-sees-no-plan-b-on-debt-reduction-if-gang-of-six-negotiations-fail.html
Lawmakers in both parties said their
options were narrowing for reaching an accord on reducing long-
term deficits as congressional leaders rejected key elements of
a possible bipartisan deal to raise the U.S. debt limit.  Republicans said they wouldn’t agree to any measure that
raised taxes or contemplated automatic tax increases to rein in
future deficits. Democrats continued to insist that Social
Security cuts be omitted from the discussions.  At the same time, the two camps sketched out disastrous
consequences from failing to get an agreement in the coming
months to reduce the federal debt, which lawmakers in both
parties and President  Barack Obama  have said will be necessary
to win support to raise the government’s legal borrowing limit.  Senator Lindsey Graham , a South Carolina Republican,
summarized the frustration among some lawmakers over various
programs and proposals being taken off the table as negotiations
intensify over  government spending .  “If you can’t do Medicare, you can’t do Social Security,
you can’t do Medicaid, you can’t raise taxes, you can’t lower
taxes, we’re just going to sit here and talk to each other,” he
said.  The government is scheduled to hit its $14.3 trillion debt
ceiling next week and will run out of options for avoiding
default by early August, according to projections by Treasury
Secretary  Timothy Geithner . So far, there is little sign of any
consensus being reached that would lead to lifting the debt lid.  No Tax Increase  “Taxes will not be on the table in the discussions” among
Senate and House leaders to pave the way for a vote in Congress
to raise the limit, said Senate Republican leader  Mitch McConnell  of Kentucky, scarcely an hour before the negotiating
group, led by Vice President  Joe Biden , held its second
gathering yesterday at Blair House, across from the White House.  McConnell, who called the nation’s debt “a looming
crisis,” also said he doubted that separate negotiations by a
bipartisan group of six senators could yield a deal. “With all
due respect to the Gang of Six,” McConnell said, “the
discussions that can lead to a result between now and August are
the talks” among Biden and congressional leaders.  Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat, said
minutes later that changes to Social Security shouldn’t be part
of any debt-reduction deal. He also said Republicans would have
to accept tax increases as part of any compromise.  “We should not be drawing lines in the sand,” Reid said,
even as he made his comment about Social Security. The “fair”
way to reach agreement, he added, is to “cut spending -- we
know we have to do that -- but also to make the tax code a
little more fair.”  ‘Real Progress’  Biden said after yesterday’s meeting that the group was
“making real progress,” and that “I remain optimistic” about
prospects for an agreement. He added that “optimism is an
occupational requirement” for his job.  Senator  Max Baucus , a Montana Democrat who is chairman of
the Senate Finance Committee and is participating in the talks,
said the group is making strides and has discussed specific
programs.  “The ball’s advanced a couple of steps further,” he said.
“I’ve got quite a strong sense that this is going to work
out.”  Democratic Representative  Chris Van Hollen  of Maryland
echoed those comments, saying the lawmakers had “identified
some areas of common ground.” Still, he said, the group had yet
to address some of the toughest issues, such as entitlement
programs, in a specific way.  “The major areas of disagreement have not yet engaged in a
detailed level,” he said.  Not Doing Puzzles  The group’s Republican members, Senator  Jon Kyl  of Arizona
and Representative Eric Cantor of Virginia, didn’t comment upon
leaving the meeting. Kyl later said on  Capitol Hill  that the
group is doing substantive work. “We’re not just sitting there
doing crossword puzzles,” he told reporters.  Some Republicans said it was counterproductive to reject
debt-reduction options at this point.  “Some of us are saying, even though we have our own
preferences, we need to keep everything on the table,” said
Senator  Rob Portman  of Ohio. “At this stage, we shouldn’t be
talking about limiting the debate; we should be talking about a
genuine discussion over the entire gamut of issues.”  Raising tax revenue and curbing the growth of entitlement
programs such as Social Security and Medicare are at the core of
talks that the Gang of Six have been conducting for four months.
Led by Democratic Senator  Mark Warner  of Virginia and Republican
Senator Saxby Chambliss of Georgia, the group has been trying to
reach a compromise based on last year’s  proposal  by the leaders
of Obama’s bipartisan debt commission. Warner has said that the
group is weighing a plan to cut $3 in federal spending for every
$1 of new revenue.  ‘Do It Now’  “We’re going to be in tough shape if the Gang of Six can’t
produce something, because there really is not a Plan B,”
Senator Michael Bennet, a Colorado Democrat, said at a breakfast
yesterday in the Bloomberg News Washington bureau. “We need to
surface the work product from these guys, and then we need to
have a debate about it. And we need to do it now.”  While Bennet gave the Gang of Six “better-than-even” odds
of reaching a deal, other lawmakers said the group might miss
its opportunity to produce a bipartisan plan.  “They’re at real risk of having history pass them by if
they don’t get a real proposal on the table shortly,” said
Democratic Senator  Chris Coons  of Delaware, a member of the
Senate Budget Committee.  ‘Strong Likelihood’  Coons said he saw a “strong likelihood” that Democrats,
who control the Senate, would present their own budget blueprint
that would receive no Republican support, rather than “a budget
that has a real chance of moving forward, where we all come to
the middle, and we give some and they give some.”  Democratic Senator Kent Conrad of  North Dakota , the Senate
Budget Committee chairman, yesterday showed colleagues a fiscal
blueprint that would shave $4 trillion over 10 years from the
debt -- half through tax increases and half through spending
cuts, Reid said.  Republicans, who hold the majority in the House, have
stressed that they would reject any plan that includes raising
taxes. House Speaker  John Boehner  of Ohio reiterated that
position in a May 9 speech to the Economic Club of  New York ,
saying that all means for reducing the government’s debt --
except a tax increase -- should be considered.  Market Yields  Amid debate about the deficit in Washington, bond market
yields in the U.S. are lower now than when the government was
running a  budget surplus  a decade ago. The yield on the
benchmark 10-year note is below the average of 5.48 percent in
1998 through 2001, the last time the U.S. had a budget surplus,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices.  Ten-year yields rose two basis points, or 0.02 percentage
point, to 3.23 percent as of 10:48 a.m. in  London , pushing
yields toward the week’s high after four consecutive weekly
declines. U.S. stock futures climbed, indicating that the
benchmark Standard & Poor’s 500 Index will rise for a fourth
straight day.  Talks by the Gang of Six have been hung up over politically
difficult questions about how to handle changes to entitlement
programs, as well as the details of any tax overhaul.  ‘Still At It’  Warner and Chambliss said in brief interviews yesterday
that their group is making “progress,” while declining to
reveal any details or say when they might present their plan.  “We’re still at it,” Warner said.  In his speech, Boehner outlined the parameters for the
Republican position on any agreement to raise the debt limit. He
called for an accord that reduces spending by “trillions” in
exchange for any borrowing increase and said the cuts must
exceed the debt-limit boost. He argued that it would be more
irresponsible for Congress to fail to slash spending than it
would be to allow the nation to default on its obligations.  Representative Steny Hoyer of  Maryland , the House’s second-
ranking Democrat, said that Boehner, by ruling out any tax
increases, was abandoning what many consider a crucial element
of any debt-reduction plan.  Obama’s debt commission and others “have made it clear
that without using revenues, you cannot get there in a
reasonable way, and certainly politically, you probably couldn’t
get there either,” Hoyer told reporters.  Still, Hoyer said he wasn’t “overly pessimistic” about
the prospect for an agreement to emerge from the Biden meetings.  Bennet dismissed as “utterly predictable” the conditions
some Democrats and Republicans are placing on a debt-reduction
agreement. “The question is going to be, ‘Can we construct a
center here that can hold?’” he said. “The alternative is
really terrifying.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in Washington at 
 jdavis159@bloomberg.net ;
Lisa Lerer in Washington at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  