-- 
Berjaya, KrisAssets, Mclean, Smelting: Malaysia Equity Preview

-- B y   C h a n   T i e n   H i n
-- 
2011-05-10T00:18:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/berjaya-krisassets-mclean-smelting-malaysia-equity-preview.html
Shares of the following companies may
have unusual moves in  Malaysia  trading. Stock symbols are in
parentheses and prices are as of the previous close, unless
stated otherwise.  The  FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI (FBMKLCI)  Index rose 0.3 percent to
1,519.41.  Berjaya Corp. (BC MK): The property, insurance and gaming
group agreed to sell its 40 percent stake in Berjaya Sompo
Insurance Bhd. to Sompo Japan Asia Holdings Pte. for 496 million
ringgit ($166 million) in cash, according to an exchange filing.
Berjaya fell 0.9 percent to 1.05 ringgit.  Bertam Alliance Bhd. (BERT)  : The developer signed an
agreement to jointly build residential and commercial real
estate on 270 acres of land in Malaysia’s southern Johor state,
according to an exchange filing. Bertam was unchanged at 88 sen.  KrisAssets Holdings Bhd. (KRIS)  : The office and shopping
mall operator said in a statement first-quarter net income rose
to 35.4 million ringgit from 27 million ringgit a year earlier.
The stock fell 0.2 percent to 4.23 ringgit.  Malaysia Smelting Corp. (SMELT MK): The tin producer
reported a first-quarter profit of 28.3 million ringgit compared
with a 29.1 million ringgit loss a year earlier, according to an
exchange filing. Its shares were unchanged at 4.38 ringgit.  Mclean Technologies Bhd. (MTB MK): The Malaysian provider
of precision cleaning services for hard disk drives will start
trading on the Kuala Lumpur stock exchange. The company sold
shares at 52 sen each, according to its listing prospectus.  MWE Holdings Bhd. (MWE)  : The Malaysian yarn and fabric
manufacturer agreed to form a joint venture with Shinco
Enterprise Corp. to operate a textile and apparel manufacturing
plant in  Indonesia , the company said in a statement. MWE lost
1.5 percent to 1.29 ringgit.  Permaju Industries Bhd. (PERM)  : The timber group
received 14.5 million ringgit in settlement from Ma Bin Hing and
Chai Kin Loong, according to a Kuala Lumpur stock exchange
filing. Permaju last traded at 39 sen on May 4.       V.S. Industry Bhd. (VSI MK): The electronics parts and
components manufacturer was appointed by Keurig Inc., a unit of
Green Mountain Coffee Roasters Inc., to manufacture coffee
makers, according to a company statement. The stock was
unchanged at 1.85 ringgit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chan Tien Hin in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 thchan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reinie Booysen in Singapore at 
 rbooysen@bloomberg.net  