-- 
Bernanke QE2 Averts Deflation, Spurs Rally, Expands Credit as Program Ends

-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 
2011-05-10T15:53:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/bernanke-qe2-averts-deflation-spurs-rally-expands-credit-as-program-ends.html
Ben S. Bernanke ’s $600 billion strike
against deflation is paying off, as stock and debt markets rise,
bank lending grows and economists forecast faster growth.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index has gained 13.5 percent
since the Federal Reserve chairman announced on Nov. 3 the plan
to buy Treasuries through its so-called quantitative easing
policy. Government bond yields show investors expect consumer
prices to rise in line with historical averages. The riskiest
companies are obtaining credit at the cheapest borrowing costs
ever and Fed data show that commercial and industrial loans
outstanding are rising for the first time since 2008.  “Looking at market indicators, you have to be convinced
it’s been a success,” said Bradley Tank, chief investment
officer for fixed-income in  Chicago  at Neuberger Berman Fixed
Income LLC, which oversees about $83 billion. “When you get
into periods of aggressive central bank easing, and we’re
clearly in the most aggressive period of easing that we’ve ever
seen, the markets tend to lead the real economy.”  The Fed said last month it won’t need to extend the $600
billion buying program beyond its scheduled end next month.
Payrolls expanded by 244,000 in April, the biggest gain since
May 2010, after a revised 221,000 increase the prior month, the
Labor Department said May 6. The jobless rate climbed to 9
percent, the first increase since November, a separate survey of
households showed.  ‘Stopped the Hemorrhaging’  “We are starting to see the impact, albeit slowly,” said
Jim Sarni, managing principal in  Los Angeles  at Payden & Rygel,
which oversees more than $55 billion in fixed-income assets.
“The  unemployment rate  has slowly started to come down. We have
a long way to go, but at least it stopped the hemorrhaging.”  Bernanke’s quantitative easing program, dubbed QE2 by
analysts and investors because it followed an earlier round of
$1.7 trillion in bond purchases in 2009 and the first quarter of
2010, was criticized by officials around the world.  Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  said that the policy would
foster financial instability and asset bubbles. Six days after
the Fed suggested at its Sept. 21 meeting that it was ready to
start buying Treasuries, Brazilian Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  said governments were engaging in a “currency war.”
German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  called the asset-
purchase program “clueless” on Nov. 5 and suggested it was
designed to erode the value of the  U.S. dollar .  Fighting Deflation  Back in November, the biggest concern for the Fed was
preventing a general decline in prices, which can paralyze an
economy by hindering investment, as the jobless rate held at 9.5
percent or higher for 14 months. Core consumer prices rose 0.6
percent in October from a year earlier, the smallest gain since
records began in 1958, government data at the time showed.  “Measures of underlying inflation are somewhat low,
relative to levels that the Committee judges to be consistent,
over the longer run, with its dual mandate” of promoting full
employment and containing consumer prices gains, the central
bank’s  Federal Open Market Committee  said in a Nov. 3 statement.  Since reaching a 20-month low of 2.18 percent in August, a
bond market measure of inflation expectations the Fed uses to
help determine monetary policy has risen to 2.87 percent. The
five-year forward breakeven rate projects what consumer price
increases may be beginning in 2016, smoothing blips in inflation
expectations from swings in  oil prices  and other temporary
events.  Controlling Inflation  The gauge is down from 3.28 percent in December even with
energy and food costs reaching record highs in a sign that
investors expect Bernanke will be able to withdraw the
unprecedented stimulus before inflation gets out of hand. The
current level compares with the average of 2.71 percent in the
five years before credit markets seized up in 2008. The core
inflation rate has increased to 1.2 percent.  “We’ve seen a bit of a lift in breakeven inflation rates,
but it’s not dramatic,” Tank of Neuberger Berman said.  The Fed’s policy of pumping cash into the financial markets
risks longer term damage, according to Bruce Bittles, chief
investment strategist at Milwaukee-based Robert W. Baird & Co.,
which oversees $85 billion. He compared the Fed’s current policy
to the one it adopted following recession of 2001-2002, when
policy makers slashed its target rate to 1 percent in 2003 to
spark the housing market and the economy.  “It was a failure,” Bittles said. “I don’t think it’s
very healthy to artificially boost stock prices. What are the
long-term consequences of that? We don’t know. The Fed did this
with housing back in the last decade, and the unintended
consequences were a disaster.”  Dollar Depreciation  QE2 has contributed to a 12 percent decline since August in
the dollar based on Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes,
which measure its performance against nine of the most-traded
currencies in the world, including the euro, yen and pound.  Gold and silver reached records in April as investors
sought to hedge financial assets against the weakening dollar
and accelerating inflation. Gold advanced 25.8 percent in the
past year, while silver more than doubled as investors increased
their holdings in exchange-traded products to a record 15,518
metric tons on April 26.  Rising commodities may be restraining the economy. The
Commerce Department said April 28 that the gross domestic
product rose at a 1.8 percent annual rate in the first quarter
after a 3.1 percent pace in the final three months of 2010. The
Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index fell to minus 46.2 in the week
ended May 1, the lowest level since the end of March, as the
highest gasoline prices in almost three years soured Americans’
views of the buying climate.  ‘Fed’s Ventilator’  “What’s important for people to understand is the Fed is
simply stepping in to create some credit in a situation where
the banking system apparently is unable to create credit,” said
Paul Kasriel, chief economist at Northern Trust Corp. in
Chicago. “The patient right now is incapable of breathing on
its own, and it needs the help of the Fed’s ventilator.”  Credit provided by the Fed, commercial lenders, savings and
loans, and  credit unions  increased 1.67 percent in the last
three months of 2010, according to a Northern Trust report. That
compares with a long-term average of 4.58 percent since 1953.
Treasury yields may fall after QE2 ends as investors seek to
protect themselves from a worsening economy, Kasriel said.  Yields on 10-year Treasuries, which are a benchmark for
everything from home mortgages to corporate bonds, have fallen
to 3.18 percent from this year’s high of 3.74 percent on Feb. 8,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. Treasuries of all
maturities have returned 1.76 percent this year, while corporate
bonds have gained 4.1 percent, including reinvested interest,
Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes show.  ‘Improving Gradually’  In deciding to end QE2 as scheduled in June policy makers
are betting that economy will rebound. The median estimate of 73
economists surveyed by Bloomberg is for GDP to exceed 3 percent
in the remaining three quarters of the year.  “The labor market is improving gradually,” Bernanke said
at a press conference after the Fed’s two-day meeting ended
April 27. “The longer it goes on, the more confident we are.”  Bernanke said the Fed would initially hold its balance
sheet, currently with $2.723 trillion in assets, steady after
completing the purchases by reinvesting the proceeds of maturing
Treasuries and mortgage bonds it during QE1.  The Fed has bought about $470 billion of government debt
under the program, said  David Ader , head of government bond
strategy at  Stamford , Connecticut-based CRT Capital Group LLC.
That money has encouraged investors to wade into riskier assets.  Record Pace  Speculative-grade companies have sold $131.5 billion of
 junk bonds  this year, compared with $106.3 billion at this time
last year, when sales set a record $287.6 billion, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Yields on debt rated below Baa3 by
Moody’s Investors Service and less than BBB- at S&P average 7.23
percent, down from 8.88 percent a year ago and 14.7 percent in
2009, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes.  Banks eased lending terms in the first quarter as they
forecast improvement in the  U.S. economy  and companies sought
more loans, a Fed survey released this week of loan officers at
55 domestic banks and 22 U.S. branches and agencies of foreign
banks conducted from March 29 to April 12 showed.  Fifty-five percent of domestic banks surveyed reported
improvements in the credit quality of large and middle-sized
loan applicants, the Fed said. About 35 percent reported
improvements in small firms, according to the survey.  Commercial and industrial loans totaled $1.25 trillion as
of April 20, according to the Fed. While that’s down from the
peak of $1.62 trillion in October 2008, it’s up from last year’s
low of $1.21 trillion in September, marking the longest
sustained increase since 2008.  Household credit limits rose about $30 billion in the first
three months of this year from the previous period, the first
increase since the third quarter of 2008, the New York Fed Bank
said May 9 in a report. Foreclosures declined 17.7 percent and
bankruptcies fell 13.3 percent.  QE2 “slowed the pace of deleveraging, and it clearly
helped to mitigate the risk of deflation,” said  William Cunningham , co-head of global active fixed income in  Boston  at
 State Street Global Advisors , which oversees $2.1 trillion. “It
had a positive impact on net.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  