-- 
BG Net Drops 38 Percent on Higher North Sea Taxes, Charges

-- B y   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n
-- 
2011-05-10T15:56:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/bg-earnings-decline-38-percent-on-higher-north-sea-taxes-charge.html
BG Group Plc (BG/) , the U.K.’s third-
largest natural-gas producer, said earnings declined 38 percent
on higher North Sea taxes and charges related to disposals and
long-term contracts.  Net income in the first quarter fell to $597 million from
$960 million a year earlier, the Reading, England-based company
said today in a statement. Excluding disposals and other one-
time items, profit missed analyst estimates. Operating profit
from liquefied natural gas operations slid 10 percent to $570
million.  “LNG earnings in the first quarter failed to meet our
expectations,” with BG’s estimated market share shrinking to
5.4 percent from 5.7 percent in the previous quarter,  Oswald Clint , a London-based analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.,
said in an e-mailed report. “The quarter was filled with one-
offs” due to production disruptions and tax increases.  Higher  North Sea  taxes reduced earnings by $265 million, BG
said. Output was curbed in the quarter by a shutdown at the
Hasdrubal plant in  Tunisia  and disruptions at fields in the
North Sea. Production volumes fell 5 percent to 58.2 million
barrels of oil equivalent (647,000 barrels a day).  “It was a challenging quarter for our exploration and
production operations, with civil unrest in North Africa,
flooding in  Australia , an increase in U.K. tax and a shutdown in
the North Sea,” BG Chief Executive Officer Frank Chapman said
in the statement. “We now expect modest production growth in
2011.”  Shares Fall  BG shares dropped 1.6 percent to 1,412.5 pence in  London .  In  Egypt , the West Delta Deep Marine projects development,
which was due to start later this year, was postponed “by
several months,” BG said today. It may also delay drilling one
of two exploration wells into next year, Chapman said.  In the U.K. North Sea, production at the Everest and Lomond
platforms was bought on stream in the quarter and the restart of
the Erskine field is “imminent,” BG said.  Adjusted earnings were $819 million, missing the $1.21
billion mean estimate of nine analysts surveyed by Bloomberg
News.  First-quarter LNG shipping and marketing operating profit
was $501 million, down 14 percent from a year earlier, when the
company benefited from “strong weather-related gas demand,” BG
said.  BG earnings were cut by a tax rise announced in the U.K.
budget on March 23. The company also recorded a $408 million
charge on long-term U.K. gas contract adjustments and hedges, it
said.  ‘Rank Order’  “We will continue with our plans in the U.K” for projects
already being developed, Chapman told reporters. “However,
future possibilities” will be “placed in a rank list alongside
all of the other global project opportunities that we have” for
evaluation and may “move further down the rank order.”  BG plans to invest about $1.5 billion in projects the U.K.
North Sea projects this year, he said.  BG forecast in February oil and gas output would rise 14
percent a year through 2015 as the company boosts investments in
 Brazil , Australia and the U.S. The company is building a new LNG
plant in Australia on expectations demand for the fuel will
outpace supply in 2020.  BG and partners are advancing with the development of the
Lula field off Brazil, which was formerly known as Tupi.
Extraction at Lula Sul has increased to about 25,000 barrels of
oil a day in the quarter, BG said. Lula North East has reached a
pumping rate of 18,000 barrels a day, which is constrained by
the field’s infrastructure.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduard Gismatullin in London at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  