-- 
MBIA Can Demand Job Data From RFC Mortgage Borrowers, Court Says

-- B y   K a r e n   F r e i f e l d
-- 
2011-05-10T18:58:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/mbia-can-demand-job-data-from-rfc-mortgage-borrowers-court-says.html
MBIA Insurance Corp. can demand
information about the employment status and income of mortgage
borrowers from Ally Financial Inc.’s Residential Funding Co., a
judge ruled.  New York  state Supreme Court Justice Bernard J. Fried in
 Manhattan  granted a motion by MBIA to seek subpoenas for out-of-
state documents and, where necessary, testimony regarding
borrowers’ income and employment. The decision, signed
yesterday, was posted today.  MBIA sued Minneapolis-based RFC in 2008, claiming the
company breached contracts for the insurer to provide guarantees
for five residential mortgage-backed securitization
transactions. MBIA said RFC included loans to borrowers who
couldn’t repay them.  The information “is relevant to MBIA’s allegation that RFC
breached certain of those warranties and representations by
neglecting to verify those borrowers’ employment status and
incomes,” Fried wrote in granting the motion.  RFC said the orders for out-of-state information were
unduly burdensome and unnecessarily broad in scope, according to
the ruling.  “There’s literally going to be thousands of subpoenas sent
out to employers,” said Manal Mehta, a partner at Branch Hill
Capital, a San Francisco-based hedge fund that invests in
Armonk, New York-based  MBIA Inc. (MBI)   Jeffrey Lipps, outside counsel for RFC in the case, didn’t
immediately return a call for comment. Jim Olecki, a spokesman
for Detroit-based Ally, had no immediate comment.  “Today’s important order will further facilitate our
ability to demonstrate that RFC willfully disregarded its
underwriting guidelines and misrepresented the quality of the
 mortgage loans  it placed into the securitizations we insured and
to recover the losses we have incurred from this wrongful
behavior,”  Kevin Brown , an MBIA spokesman, said in an e-mail.  The case is MBIA Insurance Corp. v. Residential Funding
Company LLC, 603552/2008, New York state Supreme Court
(Manhattan).  -With assistance from Shannon Harrington and Patricia Hurtado in
New York. Editors:  Andrew Dunn , Stephen Farr  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Freifeld in New York at 
 kfreifeld@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  