-- 
Bini Smaghi Says Euro Member Debt Restructuring Wrong in Theory, Practice

-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   V i t s
-- 
2011-05-10T08:40:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/bini-smaghi-says-debt-restructuring-in-euro-member-would-create-problems.html
European Central Bank Executive Board
member Lorenzo  Bini Smaghi  said allowing a euro-area member
state to default on or restructure its debt would create more
problems than it solves.  “Default or debt restructuring is a dramatic economic and
social event for the country which experiences it -- I would
call it political ‘suicide’ -- which leads many into poverty, as
experience has shown,” Bini Smaghi said in a speech in Florence
today. While at first sight it might seem reasonable and fair to
ask investors to bear the consequences of their decisions, “it
is wrong not only in theory but also in practice,” he said.  Bini Smaghi’s comments come after Greece’s credit rating
was yesterday cut two levels to B from BB- by  Standard & Poor’s ,
which said further reductions are possible as the risk of
default rises. Euro-region officials said after an unscheduled
May 6 meeting in Luxembourg that Greece needs “a further
adjustment program.”  Bini Smaghi said large investors who have bought insurance
against sovereign default “stand to benefit greatly from the
default and lobby in favor of it.”  “They tend to encourage naive governments to believe that
debt restructuring can be done in an ‘orderly way,’ distracting
them from implementing the appropriate policy adjustment,” he
said. “If the euro area were to go down the path of leaving it
entirely up to the markets to decide which countries are solvent
and which are not, it would put the euro at a disadvantage
compared with all other major currencies.”  Bond Yields  A year after  Greece  received a 110 billion-euro ($158
billion) aid package that aimed to stem the spread of the
region’s sovereign crisis, the nation’s debt is rising as it
faces record borrowing costs. The yield on Greek 10-year bonds
stood at 15.2 percent today, twice the level of a year ago when
Greece accepted an international bailout, indicating investors
are betting Greece won’t be able to return to markets as
planned.  ECB Executive Board member Juergen Stark said today Greece
is “not insolvent” and added the current fiscal program is
aimed at regaining  market access . “At the end of the day, a
restructuring wouldn’t be a solution to the problems that Greece
needs to overcome. There are structural problems and the budget
needs to be brought under control,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christian Vits in Frankfurt at 
 cvits@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  