-- 
Bloomberg Tradebook Launches Independent Research Initiatives

-- B y  
-- 
2011-05-10T12:55:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/bloomberg-tradebook-launches-independent-research-initiatives.html

Press Release  Clients get industry-leading transparency & research consultants  New York -- Bloomberg Tradebook, a leading global agency broker,
today announced innovations in research access, transparency and
service and an expanded team of independent research providers
(IRPs).  The new Bloomberg Tradebook IRPs are: Capital Markets Research,
IPO Financial Network, Roubini Global Economics, Sales Pulse
Research, Turning Point Analytics, Two Rivers Analytics and
Veritas Investment Research. These firms will join Bloomberg
Tradebook’s current research providers Arete Research, Riedel
Research Group and Thompson Research Group. Bloomberg
Tradebook’s dedicated research team reviewed numerous IRPs,
including those recommended and requested by clients, before
selecting providers.  “We chose these independent research providers after a deep,
rigorous and analytical process,” said Bloomberg Tradebook’s
Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and President, Raymond M. Tierney
III. “Our execution expertise combined with investment ideas
from leading IRPs and Bloomberg’s unmatched data and news gives
clients valuable tools to seek maximum alpha.”  Dean Daniels, CEO Roubini Global Economics, said, “Bloomberg
Tradebook has a distinguished history as an innovator in merging
insight with its clients’ workflow and Roubini Global Economics
gives its clients a view into the economic dynamics that affect
investment decision-making. The partnership between Bloomberg
Tradebook and Roubini Global Economics makes a powerful
combination and we are very pleased to be a part of it.”  Bloomberg Tradebook also revealed industry-leading policies and
programs:  Direct access to IRPs - In addition to receiving research
reports and events, clients can also connect directly with the
analysts themselves. Bloomberg Tradebook has selected IRPs with
a record of performance and informed perspectives on the markets
they cover  Full transparency in pricing - Bloomberg Tradebook clients will
get specific details on what research they will be getting for
the fees they pay.  Also, clients will only pay for the research
that they want and can pay using hard dollars, commission
sharing arrangements (CSAs) or bundled commissions  Highly trained research consultants - Bloomberg Tradebook offers
clients the ease and expertise of a specialized consultant who
can work as a single point of contact. These consultants, who
have completed extensive training, will provide clients with
tailored research.  “These initiatives move us closer to our goal of being the
industry’s broker of choice,” Tierney said.  “Bloomberg
Tradebook designed these measures to help our clients get an
edge with access to customized, relevant and actionable trading
ideas from sources they can trust.”  For more information on Bloomberg Tradebook research services
contact:  Alvin Kressler (the Americas and APAC) at
 akressler1@bloomberg.net  and +212 617 7074 or Erika Hempel
(EMEA) at  ehempel@bloomberg.net  and +44 20 7073 3192 or go to
www.bloombergtradebook.com/services/  About Bloomberg Tradebook
Bloomberg Tradebook is Bloomberg’s agency broker that partners
with the buy-side and sell-side to provide high-quality
liquidity, market insight and customized solutions based on
innovative technologies. Founded in 1996, Bloomberg Tradebook
offers its customer base trading solutions for equities,
futures, options, and foreign exchange (FX) to actively manage
complex trading strategies across more than 100 global
exchanges.  By providing direct access to independent research
analysts and commission management services, Bloomberg Tradebook
provides clients with numerous ways to find and implement smart
trading ideas.  Bloomberg Tradebook is available on the
Bloomberg Professional service.  MEDIA CONTACTS:
Pam Snook, Bloomberg LP,  pamsnook@bloomberg.net , +212-617-7652
Sophie Fischman,  Bloomberg@cognitomedia.com , +1 646 395 6300
Stuart Macaulay,  BloombergEMEA@cognitomedia.com ,+44 20 7438 1100
Anne Karumo,  BloombergAsia@cognitomedia.com , +65 8112 64 09
 