-- 
Boston Scientific Says Ray Elliott To Retire as President, CEO at Year End

-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z   a n d   A l e x   N u s s b a u m
-- 
2011-05-10T20:12:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/boston-scientific-ceo-elliott-to-leave-shares-fall.html
Boston Scientific Corp. (BSX) , the second-
biggest maker of implanted heart devices, said Ray Elliott will
retire as chief executive officer at the end of 2011, sending
the company’s shares down the most in 14 months.  Elliott, 61, served as president and CEO for less than two
years, taking the helm in July 2009 after serving as chief
executive of orthopedics maker  Zimmer Holdings Inc. (ZMH)  He presided
over a period of stagnant revenue as demand waned for the
company’s heart stents and pacemakers. He said in February that
2011 would be a “difficult” year for Boston Scientific as
economic pressures continued to curb sales.  “Ray Elliott, the tough guy of the industry, after a lot
of bluster and bravado, seems to be throwing in the towel,”
said Phillip Nalbone, an analyst at Wedbush Securities in  San
Francisco , in a telephone interview. “It’s a big blow to people
who have been pinning hopes for a turnaround at Boston
Scientific on Elliott and his team.”  Boston Scientific, based in Natick,  Massachusetts , joins
 Medtronic Inc. (MDT) , the largest maker of medical devices, in the
search for a new leader. Medtronic Chief Executive Officer
William A. Hawkins announced his retirement in December and
initially planned to leave at the end of April. Last week, the
company said he would remain while the search for his
replacement continues.  Slowing Sales  Sales at Boston Scientific have slowed during Elliott’s
tenure, declining 4.7 percent to $7.8 billion last year from
2009. Quarterly sales have yet to surpass the $2.1 billion
generated in last three months of 2009, the first full quarter
with Elliott at the helm. Revenue fell 1.8 percent to $1.9
billion in the first quarter of 2011.  “It’s a tough industry and it seems to be getting the
better of some experienced leaders,” Nalbone said in a
telephone interview. “This is bad for investors because Ray
convinced people that he had a thoughtful plan and he was going
to be there to see it through.”  Boston Scientific declined 69 cents, or 8.9 percent, to
$7.02 at 4:00 p.m. in  New York  Stock Exchange composite trading,
in the biggest decline since March 15, 2010. The shares have
fallen 29 percent since Elliott took over as CEO, on July 13,
2009, according to Bloomberg data. Minneapolis-based Medtronic
rose 41 cents to $42.65.  Search Committee  Boston Scientific’s board has created a search committee
to find a successor, the company said in a statement. Elliott,
who will remain on the board once he steps down, is a member of
the committee and will continue to provide strategic advice to
Boston Scientific after he retires, the company said.  Elliott said he has positioned the company for growth after
starting a turnaround that included paying down company debt,
settling litigation, selling off a neurovascular unit and
creating a senior leadership team.  “While the company continues to evolve, we expect that
much of the turnaround work will be complete by the end of the
year,” Elliott said in the statement. “The time is right for
someone new to take the reins, complete execution of that plan
and take Boston Scientific to the next level.”  Elliott’s departure in the middle of his plan creates a lot
of uncertainty, said Derrick Sung, an analyst with Bernstein
Research in New York.  “Does Elliot’s departure signal a lack of confidence in
the company’s ability to achieve his goals?” Sung wrote in a
note to investors. “Will the new CEO continue down this path,
or chart a new course from scratch, rendering the last two years
wasted time?  The ensuing internal uncertainty at the company
could also reduce morale and trigger further departures.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in  Minneapolis  at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net 
Alex Nussbaum in New York 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   Rgale5@bloomberg.net  