-- 
Bovespa Index Rises for Third Day as Banks Gain on Banco do Brasil Profit

-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   C u a d r o s
-- 
2011-05-10T21:50:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/bovespa-stock-index-futures-rise-on-banco-do-brasil-profit-metals-gains.html
Brazil ’s Bovespa stock index rose for
a third session, the longest winning streak in a month, as banks
surged on higher profits and homebuilders rallied on speculation
the industry will weather rising interest rates.  The MSCI Brazil/Financials Index climbed the most of 10
industry gauges as state-controlled lender Banco do Brasil SA
advanced after adjusted net income rose 42 percent in the first
quarter from a year earlier. MRV Engenharia & Participacoes SA
led gains for real-estate shares. Meatpackers JBS SA and Marfrig
Alimentos SA surged as rival BRF Brasil Foods SA tumbled the
most since November 2008 on concern it will have to sell assets
to complete the merger that created the company.  The Bovespa climbed 0.4 percent to 64,876.88 at the 4:15
p.m. New York time close. Thirty-eight stocks rose on the index
while 27 fell. The real strengthened 0.7 percent to 1.6032 per
dollar.  “Results have been coming in line or a bit better than
expected,” said Kelly Trentin, head analyst at Sao Paulo-based
brokerage Spinelli Corretora. “The market continues to focus on
the question of inflation and  interest rates .”  Banco do Brasil gained 2.4 percent to 29.15 reais after
saying adjusted first-quarter net income, which excludes
extraordinary events, climbed to 2.92 billion reais ($1.8
billion). The average estimate of eight analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg was for adjusted profit of 2.69 billion reais.  MSCI Inc.’s gauge of Brazilian financial shares advanced
2.7 percent.  BRF Sinks  MRV, Brazil’s fourth-biggest homebuilder by revenue, rose
4.4 percent to 14.50 reais. The  BM&FBovespa Real Estate (IMOBBV)  Index
rose 1.8 percent, rebounding from an 11 percent slide this year
through yesterday. Investors may have overestimated the impact
of rising borrowing costs on the industry’s earnings, said Joao Pedro Brugger, who helps oversee 60 million reais at Leme
Investimentos in Florianopolis, Brazil.  Brasil Foods  slumped 7.1 percent to 29.58 reais. The
company, formed when Perdigao SA Comercio & Industria purchased
Sadia SA in July 2009, must allow competition and may also have
to share gains from the deal with its customers, said a report
signed by Gilvandro Vasconcelos Coelho de Araujo, general
attorney of Brazil’s antitrust agency, known as Cade. It may be
forced to sell some of its brands and plants, Valor Economico
newspaper reported.  ‘Potential Buyers’  Marfrig and JBS are the “most obvious potential buyers for
the brands,” Banco Bradesco SA said in a report today.
Marfrig’s outside press agency said in an e-mailed statement
that the company doesn’t comment on market rumors. A JBS
official who asked not to be identified due to internal policy
declined to comment.  Marfrig gained 1.7 percent to 14.80 reais while JBS
advanced 2.7 percent to 5.62 reais.  Hypermarcas SA, Brazil’s fourth-largest consumer-goods
company by market value, tumbled 7.8 percent to 16.71 reais
after HSBC Holdings Plc cut its rating to “neutral” from
“overweight” following lower-than-forecast quarterly earnings
that sparked an 11 percent plunge yesterday.  The Bovespa dropped 6.8 percent this year through yesterday
on concern accelerating inflation will hurt economic growth. The
index trades at 10.3 times analysts’ earnings estimates, the
lowest since March 2009, according to weekly data compiled by
Bloomberg. That compares to a ratio of 13.3 for the Shanghai
Composite Index, 7 for  Russia ’s Micex and 14.5 for  India ’s
Sensex.  Investors pulled 3.3 billion reais from  Latin America ’s
biggest equity market this year through May 4, data from the  Sao
Paulo  exchange show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexander Cuadros in Sao Paulo at 
 acuadros@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulous@bloomberg.net  