-- 
BP Rejects Claims for Drill-Ban Losses, Cleanup-Boat Damages

-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s   a n d   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 
2011-05-10T16:26:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/bp-rejects-claims-for-drill-ban-losses-cleanup-boat-damages.html
BP Plc (BP/)  said it isn’t responsible for
damages to boats that participated in its  oil-spill  cleanup
program or for the losses of Gulf Coast businesses idled by the
U.S. deep-water drilling moratorium.  The U.S. Oil Pollution Act, which requires companies to
compensate people and businesses harmed by an offshore spill,
makes clear that liability is “limited to damages directly
caused by a covered oil spill and that indirect or derivative
losses are not compensable,” BP said in papers filed yesterday
in federal court in New Orleans.  BP’s filing came in response to to post-spill claims
included among 350 consolidated lawsuits by thousands of
businesses and individuals who allege harm from the more than
4.1 million barrels of oil that gushed from BP’s damaged subsea
well last year. London-based BP created a $20 billion fund,
administered by  Kenneth Feinberg , to repay losses caused by the
disaster.  The incident, the worst offshore spill in U.S. history, led
the Obama Administration to temporarily suspend deep-water
drilling in the Gulf, and led BP to hire thousands of
recreational and fishing boats to assist in the cleanup. BP said
the U.S. Coast Guard has already determined that losses tied to
the moratorium aren’t covered under the Oil Pollution Act.  Premature Claims  BP also claims a lawsuit by Louisiana over spill-related
losses is premature because the state should be required to
present its losses to Feinberg first.  “To date, 155 government entities have submitted almost
800 OPA claims directly to BP, and BP has paid over
$1.25 billion to government claimants -- almost $580 million to
state and local governments and the remainder to the U.S. Coast
Guard,” the company said in the filing.  “As  Louisiana  is well aware from meetings with BP, BP
stands ready to consider Louisiana’s OPA claims once Louisiana
complies with its OPA obligations and presents them to BP,” the
company said.  In March, hundreds of boat owners and contractors who
participated in cleaning up the BP spill filed a master
complaint seeking compensation for unpaid wages, vessel damage
and physical injuries from contact with the spilled oil or
chemical dispersants used to break up the oil. BP yesterday
asked the federal court in New Orleans overseeing spill suits to
dismiss claims by these plaintiffs under the Oil Pollution Act.  The case is In Re: Oil Spill by the Oil Rig Deepwater
Horizon in the  Gulf of Mexico  on April 20, 2010, MDL-2179, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of Louisiana ( New Orleans ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com ;
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Southfield,  Michigan , at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  