-- 
Brazil Real Rises on Commodity Prices, Chinese Trade Surplus

-- B y   J o s u e   L e o n e l   a n d   B e n   B a i n
-- 
2011-05-10T21:43:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/brazil-real-rises-on-commodity-prices-chinese-trade-surplus.html
Brazil ’s real gained for a third day
as commodities rose and China reported an April trade surplus
that was three times larger than forecast, boosting confidence
in global growth and demand for higher-yielding assets.  The real rose 0.7 percent to 1.6037 per dollar at 5 p.m.
New York time, from 1.6141 yesterday. Its gain was the biggest
among the six most-traded Latin American currencies tracked by
Bloomberg.  The price of commodities, as measured by the UBS Bloomberg
index of raw materials, increased for a second day. Rising
commodities adds to the tendency of the real to strengthen
against the dollar, said Mauricio Junqueira, who helps oversee
$300 million of assets at Squanto Investimentos in Sao Paulo.  “In the last two days, there was a strong recovery in
commodity prices,” he said in a telephone interview.  Raw sugar contracts surged as much as 6.2 percent in New
York today on speculation that imports of the sweetener into
 China , the world’s second-biggest consumer, will rise. Brazil is
the world’s largest exporter of the sweetener.  Shipments of sugar into China, Brazil’s biggest trading
partner, may jump 35 percent to 2.7 million metric tons in the
year starting Oct. 1 as demand outpaces domestic supply,
according to  Australia  and New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. Prices
for the sweetener also rose as industry group Unica said output
may trail estimates in the main producing region of Brazil.  Chinese Exports  China’s customs bureau said exports from the world’s
second-biggest economy climbed 30 percent to a record $156
billion in April. The country’s trade surplus widened last month
to $11.4 billion, exceeding the forecasts of all 27 economists
in a Bloomberg News survey.  “Basically it’s in line with global growth still
continuing to move higher, so it should be positive for risk
assets,” Ram Bala Chandran, a Latin American currency and rates
analyst at Citigroup Inc. in  New York , said by phone.  The central bank said it twice purchased dollars today in
the  spot market  at 1.6086 reais and then at 1.6059 each. Buying
the U.S. currency is part of a regular effort by policy makers
to stem the real’s two-year 28 percent rally, the most in
emerging markets tracked by Bloomberg over the period.  The yield on interest-rate futures contracts due in
January rose one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 12.29
percent. The yield on the contracts maturing in January 2017
increased three basis points to 12.41 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
{Benjamin Bain} in New York at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net ;
Josue Leonel in  Sao Paulo  at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  