-- 
Britons Struggle to Afford Holidays at Home, Lonely Planet Says

-- B y   C o l m   H e a t l e y
-- 
2011-05-10T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/britons-struggle-to-afford-holidays-at-home-lonely-planet-says.html
Britons will struggle to find an
affordable holiday at home while overseas tourists find “great
value” because of a weaker pound, according to the latest
 Lonely Plane t travel guide.  “If you’re on a tight budget, there’s no getting away from
it - Britain ain’t cheap,” David Else, author of the ninth
edition of the Lonely Planet Great Britain guide, said in an e-
mailed statement. “Public transport, admission fees,
restaurants and hotel rooms all tend to be expensive compared
with their equivalents in many other European countries.”  Britons are bracing for government spending cuts and
grappling with inflation as the country emerges from its worst
recession since World War II. The pound has fallen 5 percent
against the yen and 2 percent versus the euro in the last 12
months. The guides, founded in 1973 by husband and wife, Tony
and Maureen Taylor, publish more than 600 titles in English.  “Ironically, in the last few years the U.K. has become a
great value destination for international visitors who flock to
Bargain Britain for a cheap holiday,” Else said. “Whilst our
weak economy may be great for overseas travelers, Brits’ wallets
are struggling to take the strain.”  Many of Britain’s restaurants were “overpriced or lacking
in quality” and some of the country’s “tourism industry just
doesn’t deliver,” said the guide.  London  is “one of the world’s greatest cities, if not the
greatest,” said the Lonely Planet guide. Edinburgh is “one of
the world’s most fascinating cities,” while the northern
 England  city of Manchester is “truly special.” The city of
Leicester in central England is a “bustling global melting
pot,” and Chester, in northwest England, is described as
“marvelous.”  The southern England county of Surrey is “made up of
uninspiring towns and dull, sprawling suburbs,” and the
southern England port of Dover is “down in the dumps,” said
the guide.  Britons will go elsewhere in 2012 if they don’t get value
for money this year, Else said.  In February the British Broadcasting Corporation acquired
the remaining 25 percent of Lonely Planet that it didn’t already
own.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Colm Heatley in Belfast at 
 cheatley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at 
 ckeatinge@bloomberg.net . 