-- 
BSkyB Directors Face Cadbury Conundrum as Hedge Funds Purchase Shares

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 
2011-05-11T09:28:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/bskyb-shareholders-facing-cadbury-conundrum-as-news-corp-bid-talks-loom.html
British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY) ’s
board may come under pressure to push  Rupert Murdoch ’s News
Corp. for another 2.2 billion pounds ($3.6 billion) as hedge
funds flow into shares of Britain’s largest pay-TV provider.  As the U.K. government considers whether to give final
approval for the takeover, institutions have reduced their
holdings in BSkyB since November, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg and research firm Data Explorers. Hedge funds have
moved in as a possible deal nears, the data show.  “As you get closer to the endgame and the process becomes
clearer, you begin to have people who come in just to place a
bet on the price,” Scott Moeller, professor of finance at Cass
Business School in London, said in an interview. “People are
building the bid into their expectations.”  Should the government stand by its preliminary decision to
clear the acquisition,  News Corp. (NWSA)  will start negotiations about
its bid for the 61 percent of Isleworth, England-based BSkyB it
doesn’t already own. The risk for BSkyB’s board is that New
York-based News Corp. may walk away if shareholders push for a
price above the current market value, sending the shares back
toward levels before the takeover offer.  The influx of funds at a time of bid negotiations may be
reminiscent of  Kraft Foods Inc. (KFT) ’s takeover of Cadbury Plc in
2010, when Chairman Roger Carr and Chief Executive Officer Todd Stitzer agreed to sell the maker of  Dairy Milk chocolate bars 
after leading a five-month campaign against the deal.  Influencing the Sale  Short-term traders globally owned 31 percent of Cadbury’s
shares before the final deal, Carr said in February last year,
saying it was the “shift in the register that lost the battle
for Cadbury” and that short-term investors “unduly”
influenced the sale.  BSkyB in June rejected the initial 700 pence a share offer,
valuing the stake at 7.8 billion pounds, saying it wants at
least 800 pence. The stock rose 0.3 percent to 844.5 pence as of
10:19 a.m. in London trading today.  Citigroup Inc. analysts including Thomas Singlehurst said
News Corp. may be willing to pay 900 pence to 1,000 pence per
share. Michael T. Shannon, who co-manages the $4.3 billion
Merger Fund for Westchester Capital Management Inc., which owns
shares of BSkyB, said the company is worth at least 900 pence a
share.  While some investors are pushing for a deal, News Corp.
Chief Operating Officer  Chase Carey , who is leading the bid for
the broadcaster, says that BSkyB’s stock may already be trading
too high.  ‘Clearly Troubling’  “The movement in the Sky stock price is clearly
troubling,” Carey said on a conference call with analysts on
May 4. The company’s profit and cash flow “validate the
premiums Sky was trading at last summer but not a whole new
premium on top of the pre-existing premium.”  The stock closed at 600.5 pence on June 14, the day before
News Corp. announced the initial bid.  Institutional investors in BSkyB have reduced the number of
shares they offered on loan by more than one-fifth from a high
of 291 million in November, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg and Data Explorers. News Corp. in December won
European Union approval to take full control of BSkyB ahead of
the U.K. review.  The proportion of the company’s stock available to be
borrowed has fallen from 17 percent to 13 percent in the same
period.  BSkyB spokesman Robert Fraser declined to comment on the
shift in the shareholder register.  The incoming shareholders are typically  hedge funds , Data
Explorers said in a report. Data Explorers gathers global
securities lending data every day on assets held by more than
20,000 institutional investment funds. The company’s database
represents more than 85 percent of global transactions.  ‘Significant Gap’  Very few investors are betting that a takeover will not
happen, according to the data. Less than 1 percent of shares
outstanding are being bet on a decline in the share price.  When BSkyB’s independent directors, led by  Nicholas Ferguson , chairman of  SVG Capital , rejected News Corp.’s offer
in June, they said there is a “significant gap” between the
proposal and the company’s value.  News Corp. wants full control of BSkyB to gain access to
the broadcaster’s increasing cash flow. BSkyB may also help
Murdoch make News Corp.’s newspaper business more profitable by
allowing him to bundle newspaper and pay-TV subscriptions and
spread content over several media platforms.  U.S. hedge funds including Taconic Capital Advisors, co-
founded by Frank Brosens, and Perry Capital LLP have disclosed
stakes in BSkyB since the bid was announced, joining longer-term
funds Odey Asset Management and Taube Hodson Stonex Partners on
the register.  Opportunism  New York-based Taconic, which first disclosed a stake in
February, has a holding worth 272 million pounds. Taconic
Capital co-founder Kenneth Brody declined to comment. Perry
Capital’s stake is worth 139 million pounds. A spokesman for
Perry Capital didn’t return calls seeking comment.  “You can’t blame it on the hedge funds,” said Cass’s
Moeller, a former investment banker with Morgan Stanley. “The
hedge funds don’t get the shares unless somebody else is selling
out.”  The takeover of Cadbury by Kraft for about 13.6 billion
pounds is a “relevant precedent situation,” said Alex de Groote, an analyst at  Panmure Gordon  in  London , adding that
different funds manage their portfolios for different risk and
reward profiles.  At the time, many of the short-term holders in Cadbury had
an annualized return of 33 percent over a six-week period, Carr
said.  Delay  The U.K. government is considering whether to grant full
approval for the takeover, after News Corp. in January offered
to spin off BSkyB’s 24-hour Sky News channel to address media
concentration concerns and avoid a longer review.  The approval process has been slowed down because of the
high level of detail regulator Ofcom has to examine and it may
take longer than two weeks before a decision will be announced,
a person familiar with the negotiations said May 9. Spokespeople
for the government, Ofcom, BSkyB, and News Corp. declined to
comment.  While some hedge funds may push for short-terms gains,
others say their BSkyB investments are for the long term,
including Taube Hodson Stonex, which has held stock in BSkyB
since 1998.  “We would like to remain shareholders for a very long
time,” said Cato Stonex, a  fund manager  at Taube Hodson Stonex,
which manages 10.3 billion pounds and also owns stock News Corp.
“There ought to be some premium for taking control, otherwise
we would be happy to enjoy the growing dividends.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan Browning  in London 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  