-- 
BTA Bank Can Continue $4 Billion Ablyazov Case, Judge Rules

-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 
2011-05-10T15:12:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/bta-bank-wins-u-k-dismissal-of-ablyazov-s-conspiracy-claims.html
BTA Bank, the bailed-out Kazakh
lender seeking to recover assets for international creditors,
can continue its $4 billion fraud lawsuit against ousted
Chairman Mukhtar Ablyazov, a U.K. judge ruled.  Judge Nigel Teare in Bristol, England, today rejected
Ablyazov’s claim that the case is a veiled attempt by Kazakhstan
President Nursultan Nazarbayev to eliminate political rivals.
Nazarbayev was re-elected last month with 95.5 percent of the
vote, adding five more years to his two-decade rule.  “If the consequence of that case succeeding is that the
president of Kazakhstan is assisted in eliminating Mr. Ablyazov
as a political opponent,” then it is a “natural consequence”
of the lawsuit, Teare said in the judgment.  BTA, whose creditors include  Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc (RBS) ,  Barclays Plc (BARC)  and  Morgan Stanley (MS) , claims Ablyazov conspired
to siphon money from the bank through a series of fake loans and
share sales before fleeing from Kazakhstan to London. The
Almaty-based lender was nationalized in February 2009 and later
defaulted on $12 billion of debt.  “Ablyazov maintains that the bank was nationalized purely
for political reasons, as the bank was sound at the time,” his
spokesman, Locksley Ryan of London-based  RLF Partnership Ltd. ,
said today in a phone interview.  Recovery Notes  BTA last year issued 10-year “recovery notes” to
creditors for about $5 billion of bad loans as part of its debt
restructuring. The lender will share with creditors, on a 50-50
basis, recoveries from impaired assets, including damages from
the U.K. lawsuits.  Other creditors that stand to benefit from the case include
 Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) ,  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , Standard Chartered
Plc,  Commerzbank AG (CBK) ,  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) ,  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) 
and New York-based  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , which in July 2009
quit as BTA’s restructuring adviser.  BTA in December won a U.K. appeals court ruling forcing
Ablyazov to place his assets, estimated at $5 billion, into
receivership. The bank said Ablyazov didn’t disclose all his
business deals, including ownership in a Moscow skyscraper
project.  Ablyazov’s lawyers claim BTA’s takeover was motivated by
their client’s membership in the “democratic opposition” to
Nazarbayev. Similar conspiracy claims were dismissed by Teare in
February.  ‘Power and Influence’  The defendant’s renewed attempt to dismiss the case focused
on an alleged concerted strategy by Nazarbayev to remove the
“power and influence” of the country’s oligarchs, according to
the ruling. Teare said evidence of the scheme was
circumstantial, and that the financial crisis was a more likely
reason for the takeover.  Ablyazov was arrested in 2003 and imprisoned on “trumped
up” charges that resulted in the seizure of his assets, his
lawyers have said. He was also tortured in custody and survived
two assassination attempts, they say.  Kazakh prosecutors issued arrest warrants for Ablyazov and
Roman Solodchenko, BTA’s one-time chief executive officer, in
March 2009 on suspicion they embezzled money and laundered it
through loans to fake companies. Both men denied the charges.  The case is: JSC BTA Bank v. Mukhtar Ablyazov, [2011] EWHC
1136 (Comm), Royal Courts of Justice ( London ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 