-- 
Buy-to-Let Market Revives as Britons Choose Bricks and Mortar Over Shares

-- B y   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e   a n d   S i m o n   P a c k a r d
-- 
2011-05-11T09:59:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/buy-to-let-market-revives-as-britons-choose-bricks-and-mortar-over-shares.html
Mike Valente raises his hand to bid
on a second house in a property auction in  London , moments after
paying 130,500 pounds ($215,000) for another home he plans to
rent out.  “Money does so poorly in the bank at the moment,” the 53-
year-old dentist said in an interview at the auction house on
Tavistock Square where he bought the properties last month.
“Buy-to-let is coming back because land and houses are cheap,
and bricks and mortar won’t go to the wall like shares.”  Purchasers like Valente are fueling a rebound in the U.K.’s
private rental market, known as buy-to-let, as they take
advantage of falling prices and low  interest rates . The value of
loans taken out by private landlords increased 22 percent last
year, Council of Mortgage Lenders data shows. Mortgages obtained
by all types of homebuyer fell 5.1 percent, according to the
 Bank of England .  “Transactions are up, but buy-to-let landlords and cash
investors are propping up the figures rather than owner-
occupiers,” said Nick Leeming, business development director of
property website  Zoopla .  Buy-to-let transactions played a big part in the rise and
fall of the U.K. real-estate market during the previous decade.
The number of these deals increased 19-fold in the 10 years to
2007 -- when average  home prices  doubled -- as TV programs such
as Channel 4’s “Location, Location, Location” and investment
clubs encouraged Britons to become landlords. In the two years
through 2009, mortgages for rental properties fell by 73 percent
compared with a 52 percent drop in home loans overall.  Arrears, Repossessions  In 2008, mortgages to buy rental properties accounted for
18about 10 percent of all home loans and 15 percent of those
that were at least three months delinquent. Last year, lenders
repossessed 5,900 buy-to-let homes, or 16 percent of the total,
also higher than its share of the mortgage market.  Buy-to-let deals became identified with speculation during
the boom years, though the market has deeper roots. They became
attractive to private investors after the government enabled
more companies to provide mortgages and introduced legislation
on fixed-term tenancies in the 1980s. Also, mortgage-interest
payments and management costs linked to these investments are
treated as tax-deductable business expenses.  “Buy-to-let has become part of pension planning for a lot
of people,” said Grenville Turner, chief executive officer of
Countrywide Plc, the U.K.’s largest real estate and mortgage
broker.  Steady Climb  Privately owned rental homes have increased as a proportion
of all residential properties every year since 1999, rising from
about 10 percent to almost 16 percent. That may climb to 20
percent by the end of 2016, real estate adviser Savills Plc said
in a report today.  “Our prognosis for the private rented sector as a whole
remains extremely bullish,” said Yolande Barnes, the broker’s
head of residential research.  About 83 percent of U.K. residential investors owned 10
units or less as of March 31, the  Association of Residential
Letting Agents  said. Unlike the U.S.,  France  and  Germany ,
institutional investors have virtually no presence in the U.K.’s
private rental market.  “In the near term, the buoyant U.K. rental market should
continue to support buy-to-let borrowers, but interest rate
rises are a risk on the horizon,” Mark Boyce, a credit analyst
at  Standard & Poor’s , said in a report yesterday.  Crisis Benefit  Britain’s economic crisis has made buy-to-let investments
more attractive. The Bank of  England  has kept its benchmark
interest rate at a record low of 0.5 percent for 27 consecutive
months, reducing financing costs and improving returns.  Restrictions on mortgage lending have prompted more Britons
to rent homes. The number of English households living in
private rented accommodation increased by 1.1 million in the six
years through March 2010, government figures released two months
ago show. The private rented sector represents the highest
proportion of England’s housing stock in 35 years, according to
the data.  Average home prices in England and Wales are 12 percent
below the peak reached in November 2007, according to sales-
figure prices compiled by the  Land Registry .  “The rental sector is strong, mortgages are available and
property is out there so that a good quality investor can make
good, sensible purchases,” Countrywide’s Turner said.  The value of the benchmark  FTSE 100 Index (UKX)  of U.K. stocks
fell 5.2 percent in the decade ending in 2010, although
reinvested dividends lifted annual returns for stock market
investment to 3.2 percent for the period, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Returns on Rentals  Gross rental income for homes averaged about 5 percent of
purchase prices in the first quarter, according to a February
survey of members of the Association of Residential Letting
Agents. The net income return is less if management expenses and
lost revenue from non-payment is included.  In parts of the country where accommodation is in short
supply, rents are rising quicker than property prices. In the
London region, average residential rents rose 16 percent last
year, Savills said.  The average gross rental income of the 3,100 tenant-
occupied properties sold in auction last year was 8.5 percent,
based on hammer prices, according to David Sandeman, managing
director of the  Essential Information Group , which collects data
from U.K. property auctions.  Expanding Investment  Valente says he expects to earn 800 pounds a month from his
latest purchase, a two-bedroom house. The home is his fifth in
the English village of Fobbing, about 25 miles (40 kilometers)
east of London, which he says is an “overlooked opportunity”
because local employment is strong. He wouldn’t say how many
properties he owns in total.  Buy-to-let investments are “attractive in the medium and
long term as rental incomes will continue to increase as the
sector gets ever stronger,” Turner said. “On top of that,
there’s capital gain.”  By the end of last year there were 1.3 million buy-to-let
mortgages outstanding worth 152 billion pounds, representing 12
percent of outstanding home loans, according to  Council of
Mortgage Lenders data.   Demand from prospective landlords is “resilient and loan
performance has improved,” said Michael Coogan, CML’s director
general.  Institutional investors own about 3.76 million apartments
in the U.S., according the world’s biggest real-estate adviser,
CB Richard Ellis Group Inc. The U.K. is trying to attract large-
scale investment in the market by lowering stamp duty taxes for
buyers of multiple homes.  “You couldn’t buy the land and build this property for
much less than I got it for,” said Valente. “Shares can make
you a millionaire overnight, but property is safe and steady.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Spillane in London at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net ;
Simon Packard in London at 
 packard@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 