-- 
Calderon Calls Oil a ‘Bubble’ That Won’t Spark Change in Gasoline Policy

-- B y   F a b i o l a   M o u r a   a n d   C a r l o s   M a n u e l   R o d r i g u e z
-- 
2011-05-10T17:02:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/calderon-says-oil-bubble-won-t-spark-change-in-mexico-s-gasoline-policy.html
Mexican President Felipe Calderon
said he has no plans to change the government’s policy of
gradually raising domestic gasoline prices because the two-year
oil rally is a “bubble” that will fade.  “My perception is that we are looking at some kind of
bubble related with the events in the north of  Africa ,”
Calderon said in an interview in Bloomberg headquarters in  New
York . “I cannot see higher prices in terms of commodities. My
perception is that very soon we are going to see some kind of
peak on that.”  Mexico’s  Finance Ministry  increased local unleaded gasoline
prices 2.7 percent in the first quarter after boosting them 12.7
percent in 2010 while crude oil surged 34 percent in New York
trading over that time. The Finance Ministry sets prices on
gasoline sold by state-controlled  Petroleos Mexicanos , which
supplies all filling stations in the country.  At 9 pesos a liter, Mexican gasoline costs the equivalent
of $2.94 a gallon, or 26 percent below the $3.95 average in the
U.S. reported by AAA, the country’s biggest motoring
association.  “I hope we can reach and align with international prices
in the medium term,” said Calderon, 48. “In  Mexico , it’s a
very sensitive issue. I need to face very strong political
opposition. We need to increase this clearly and we can do that
gradually. It’s the right policy right now.”  Crude oil has slumped 8 percent in the past two weeks to
$103.26 a barrel after touching a two-year high of $114.83 on
May 2. Commodity prices have declined 4.2 percent this month,
paring their advance in the past two years to 31 percent,
according to the UBS Bloomberg CMCI index.  Gasoline Subsidies  Calderon said he may accelerate the pace of gasoline price
increases if the oil surge looks like a “permanent movement.”  “If not a bubble and we observe there is a permanent
movement, we need probably to move quickly,” he said.  The government may spend more than 100 billion pesos ($8.6
billion) on fuel subsidies this year, Finance Minister  Ernesto Cordero  said April 24. The government spent almost 64 billion
pesos on gasoline subsidies last year, more than double the
allocation for fuel subsidies that year, Cordero told lawmakers
Sept. 14.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carlos Manuel Rodriguez in Mexico City at 
 carlosmr@bloomberg.net ;
Fabiola Moura in New York at 
 fdemoura@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  