-- 
Calderon Is ‘Very Comfortable’ With Mexican Peso Rally Amid Low U.S. Rates

-- B y   J o s e   E n r i q u e   A r r i o j a   a n d   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n
-- 
2011-05-10T19:19:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/calderon-is-very-comfortable-with-mexican-peso-rally-amid-low-u-s-rates.html
Mexican President Felipe Calderon
said he’s “very comfortable” with the peso’s strength and
inflation remains under control even as the economy grows faster
this year than the government previously expected.  Calderon, in an interview, said a 6.7 percent rally in the
currency this year is a “natural phenomenon” stemming from
near-zero  interest rates  in the U.S. Stress tests performed by
the nation’s banks indicate  Mexico  will be able to withstand any
“hard movements” in global capital flows if rates in the U.S.
rise or the European Union’s debt crisis expands, he said.  “If you analyze the beginning of the crisis until now
Mexico’s peso is probably the currency that has appreciated the
least,” Calderon said in an interview at Bloomberg’s
headquarters in  New York .  “I feel very comfortable.”  Even as growth in  Latin America ’s second-biggest economy
accelerates, policy makers have bucked a regional trend of
rising interest rates and kept borrowing costs at a record-low
4.5 percent for more than a year. Inflation in April quickened
to 3.36 percent, nearly half the 6.51 percent rate in  Brazil .  The peso extended gains and rose 0.4 percent to 11.5621
per dollar at 3:08 p.m. New York time. The Mexican currency
gained 6.7 percent this year to date, matching the gains by the
Colombian peso, the best performer among seven Latin American
currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Calderon said that Mexican economic growth quickened to
more than 5 percent in the first quarter from 4.6 percent in the
fourth, and stands to gain considerably from an even mild
recovery in the U.S. The Mexican president said manufacturing,
especially of automobiles, jumped 50 percent last year as a
result of stronger exports to the U.S., which buys 80 percent of
the country’s sales abroad.  U.S. Demand  “The demand in the  United States  looks to me like it’s
starting to recover -- not enough, and my perception is that the
American economy will suffer,” said Calderon. “However, even
with a very small growth in the demand sector, it will be very
positive for us.”  Mexico’s economy should grow 4.3 percent this year, more
than a previous government estimate of 3.9 percent, Calderon
said. The  International Monetary Fund  and private economists
expect gross domestic product to expand by as much as 5 percent
in 2011, he said. Mexico’s GDP grew 5.5 percent in 2010.  Calderon said he’s fighting monopolies and seeking to open
the oil industry to more private investment to improve Mexico’s
competitiveness. Antitrust legislation he signed yesterday aims
to end “monopolistic behavior” by big companies including ones
in the telecommunications industry owned by billionaire  Carlos Slim , the Mexican president said.  Slim  While many of Slim’s companies follow “good practices”
there are “big enterprises” in Mexico, including in
telecommunications, that need to be better regulated for anti-
competitive behavior, Calderon said.  “I really respect Carlos Slim, or any other Mexican
enterprise,” he said. “But at the same time, I am the
authority and I need to regulate the market in order to avoid
monopolistic practices.”  In addition to tougher legislation, the  Supreme Court  ruled
this month that Slim’s wireless carrier and biggest company by
market value, America Movil SAB, can’t use injunctions to stave
off cuts in the fees it charges competing carriers to connect
calls. The ruling may let rivals reduce prices for consumers.  Calderon said he would consider selling shares in state-
owned oil producer  Petroleos Mexicanos  as part of a bill he
plans to submit to “modernize” the company and arrest six
years of declining production.  Petrobras, Statoil Models  New legislation Calderon plans to present to Congress which
convenes in September would seek to remake Pemex along the lines
of Brazil’s  Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4)  or Norway’s  Statoil ASA (STL) , he
said.  “That could be an alternative,” said Calderon, when asked
about a possible share sale for Pemex, in the Bloomberg
Television interview.  Pemex, Latin America’s largest oil producer, is offering
foreign  oil companies  performance-based contracts as it seeks
technologies to extract oil from mature fields and stem six
straight years of declines.  “My plan is to try another legal reform in order to
modernize Pemex in a way similar to what Petrobras did 10 years
ago,” said Calderon, a former energy minister. “It’s going to
be difficult, but I think we are moving the perception of public
opinion of how important it is to modernize the enterprise.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jose Enrique Arrioja at 
 jarrioja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  