-- 
Calderon Blames Violence on End of U.S. Gun Ban

-- B y   B r e n d a n   W a l s h
-- 
2011-05-10T20:06:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/calderon-blames-violence-on-end-of-u-s-gun-ban.html
Mexican President Felipe Calderon
said drug-related violence is being fueled by illegal imports of
U.S. guns that have surged since a ban on assault weapons ended
in 2004.  “The violence in Mexico started when the assault weapons
ban expired,” Calderon, 48, said today in an interview on the
“ Charlie Rose ” program airing on PBS and Bloomberg Television.  Authorities have seized more than 100,000 weapons in the
past four years, 85 percent of which came from the U.S.,
Calderon said during an interview earlier at Bloomberg’s
headquarters in  New York . Sixty percent of the guns seized were
assault weapons, including AR-15 and AK-47 rifles, he added.  “All those weapons are not going to the good hands of the
good American citizens -- all those weapons are going to the
hands of the criminals,” Calderon said. “They are killing
people.”  Calderon is trying to reduce violence tied to organized
crime and drug trafficking that has caused more than 34,000
deaths since he came to office in 2006. President  George W. Bush 
and congressional Republicans allowed the assault-weapons ban to
expire a decade after it was adopted in 1994, and subsequent
efforts to impose stricter controls have failed because of
bipartisan House opposition.  The U.S., as the world’s largest consumer of drugs and the
source of most of the weapons used by Mexican gangs, shares
responsibility for stamping out violence, Calderon said.  “What we need is that the government, the Congress and the
American society realize this is not a Mexican problem, this is
a common problem,” Calderon said.  ‘Additional U.S. Effort’  “What we are expecting is an additional effort in order to
stop the flows of weapons and laundered money into  Mexico , in
the same way in which we are making an extraordinary effort to
stem the flow of drugs into the U.S.,” he added.  Deaths related to drug trafficking in Mexico reached 15,273
last year, a 59 percent increase from 2009, and in April there
were 1,400 such killings, the highest monthly count since
December 2006, according to Mexico City-based newspaper  Milenio .
The government estimates the violence shaves 1.2 percentage
points off economic output annually.  The U.S.  Justice Department  estimates $17.2 billion of
cocaine, marijuana and other drugs cross the border into the
U.S. annually. The U.S. is aiding Mexico’s fight against drug
gangs through the Merida Initiative, a three-year, $1.6 billion
assistance package including helicopters and police training.  ‘Stabilization’  Mexico’s efforts to fight the drug gangs, improve its
judicial system, bolster police forces, increase access to
education and create more jobs for young people will pay off,
Calderon said.  “I can see now some kind of stabilization, in terms of
homicide,” Calderon said on “Charlie Rose.” “And I hope to
see, in the short-term, even, that we can expect some kind of
decline.”  Even as Mexico clamps down on drug-related violence, the
nation is failing to change public perceptions about the
deterioration in security, he said. Mexico’s 16 homicides per
100,000 people is lower than the murder rate of  Washington  and
less than the 80 per 100,000 people killed annually in  Rio de
Janeiro , which is hosting the 2016 Olympics, he said.  “The difference is that the perceptions about  Brazil  is
that Brazil implies only party, carnival,” Calderon said on
“Charlie Rose.” “If you see a lot of Mexican people, we are
really experts talking bad about Mexico.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brendan Walsh in New York at 
 bwalsh8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  