-- 
Calderon Vows to Renew Drive in Congress to Boost Pemex Output

-- B y   J o s e   E n r i q u e   A r r i o j a   a n d   C a r l o s   M .   R o d r i g u e z
-- 
2011-05-11T00:29:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/calderon-may-propose-selling-shares-in-pemex-to-boost-nation-s-oil-output.html
Mexican President Felipe Calderon
said he plans to sell bonds issued by  Petroleos Mexicanos  to his
countrymen and renew a drive in Congress to give the state-run
oil producer the tools it needs to boost output.  The government has no plans to sell shares in Pemex,
Calderon’s office said in a statement. Earlier today, in an
interview with Bloomberg television in New York, Calderon said a
share sale for Pemex “could be an alternative” as part of his
campaign to modernize the 73-year old company.  New legislation Calderon plans to present to Congress which
convenes in September would seek to remake Pemex along the lines
of  Brazil ’s  Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4)  or Norway’s  Statoil ASA (STL) ,
Calderon said at Bloomberg headquarters in New York.  “My plan is to try another legal reform in order to
modernize Pemex in a way similar to what Petrobras did 10 years
ago,” said Calderon, a former energy minister. “It’s going to
be difficult, but I think we are moving the perception of public
opinion of how important it is to modernize the enterprise.”  Pemex,  Latin America ’s largest oil producer, is offering
foreign  oil companies  performance-based contracts as it seeks
technologies to extract oil from mature fields and stem six
straight years of declines. The company plans to invest about
$23 billion this year to boost output. Production fell to 2.576
million barrels a day in 2010, from a daily average of 3.4
million when Calderon was energy minister in 2004.  2008 Debate  In 2008 Calderon pushed through Congress a bill to allow
Pemex to offer exploration and production contracts to private
companies and to sell so-called citizen bonds to raise capital
among the Mexican public. The contracts were delayed several
times after being challenged by some lawmakers in the  Supreme
Court , and opponents watered down another bill to promote more
foreign investment in  Mexico ’s oil industry.  The Mexico City-based company’s investment budget has
surged 145 percent since 2006. Production has fallen 19 percent
in the same period, while proven reserves declined from 16.5
billion barrels in 2006 to 13.8 billion barrels last year,
according to a presentation on the company’s website.  Calderon said that Pemex is preparing the sale of its so
called Bonos Ciudadanos, securities similar to trust
certificates that yield dividends.  Lawmakers from the  Institutional Revolutionary Party , or
PRI, Mexico’s largest opposition party, proposed in February to
reduce the tax burden for Pemex by 50 billion pesos ($4.33
billion) annually.  Petrobras first sold shares to the public in December 1957
on the Rio de Janeiro stock exchange, which no longer exists,
and has soared more than sixfold in the past decade. The company
raised as much as $70 billion in the world’s largest share sale
in September to help finance its $224 billion investment plan,
intended to tap the largest oil finds in the Americas in three
decades.  Monopoly  In 1938, Mexico’s President Lazaro Cardenas seized the
assets of companies that later became Chevron Corp. and  Exxon
Mobil Corp. (XOM) , the world’s largest oil company. Mexico created
Pemex later that year. It prohibited private and foreign
companies from exploring or producing oil until October 2008
when the law was revised. Pemex is the only domestic refiner.  Pemex would benefit from following the path of Brazil’s
state-controlled Petrobras and selling a stake to the public,
said  Luis Tellez , chairman and chief executive officer of Bolsa
Mexicana de Valores SAB in an interview late last year.  BP Plc (BP/) ,  Europe ’s second largest oil company, and  Repsol YPF
SA (REP)  are among about 30 companies paying almost $30,000 to acquire
bidding rules and access to the data room for the first round of
the performance-based contracts that Pemex is offering to work
on three fields in the southeastern state of Tabasco.  The yield on the Pemex 10-year U.S. dollar bonds fell 1
basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 4.857 percent. The
price of the security rose 0.07 cents to 108.11.  Gasoline Prices  Calderon, 48, said he has no plans to change the
government’s policy of gradually raising domestic gasoline
prices because the two-year oil rally is a “bubble” that will
fade.  “I cannot see higher prices in terms of commodities. My
perception is that very soon we are going to see some kind of
peak on that,” Calderon said. “We need to increase this
clearly and we can do that gradually. It’s the right policy
right now.”  Mexico’s  Finance Ministry  increased local unleaded gasoline
prices 2.7 percent in the first quarter after boosting them 12.7
percent in 2010 while crude oil surged 34 percent in  New York 
trading over that time. The Finance Ministry sets prices on
gasoline sold by state-controlled Petroleos Mexicanos, which
supplies all filling stations in the country.  At 9 pesos a liter, Mexican gasoline costs the equivalent
of $2.94 a gallon, or 26 percent below the $3.95 average in the
U.S. reported by AAA, the country’s biggest motoring
association.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jose Enrique Arrioja at 
 jarrioja@bloomberg.net 
Carlos M. Rodriguez in Mexico City at 
 carlosmr@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at  
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 