-- 
Mexico’s Calderon Says Slim Companies a Focus of Antitrust Law

-- B y   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n   a n d   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n
-- 
2011-05-10T16:30:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/calderon-says-slim-s-companies-are-a-focus-of-mexico-antitrust-crackdown.html
Mexican President Felipe Calderon
said antitrust legislation he signed yesterday aims to end
“monopolistic behavior” by big companies including ones in the
telecommunications industry owned by billionaire  Carlos Slim .  Calderon, in an interview with Bloomberg television in New
York, said that while many of Slim’s companies follow “good
practices” there are “big enterprises” in  Mexico , including
in telecommunications, that need to be better regulated for
anti-competitive behavior.  “I really respect Carlos Slim, or any other Mexican
enterprise,” Calderon said. “But at the same time, I am the
authority and I need to regulate the market in order to avoid
monopolistic practices.”  Calderon has led an antitrust crackdown since taking office
in 2006 in a bid to make  Latin America ’s second-biggest economy
more competitive. In addition to tougher legislation, the
 Supreme Court  ruled this month that Slim’s wireless carrier and
biggest company by market value,  America Movil  SAB, can’t use
injunctions to stave off cuts in the fees it charges competing
carriers to connect calls. The ruling may let rivals reduce
prices for consumers.  Regulators have also stepped up efforts against Slim’s
dominance in Mexico by focusing on the connection fees America
Movil charges. In the past month, the country’s antitrust agency
issued a $1 billion fine for anticompetitive practices in that
market, and the phone industry regulator ruled in favor of
rivals seeking lower fees. America Movil said it plans to appeal
the antitrust ruling.  Interconnection Fees  America Movil is the largest wireless carrier in Mexico,
with 71 percent of the market’s subscribers, ahead of Telefonica
SA’s 21 percent. Grupo Iusacell SA and  NII Holdings Inc. (NIHD)  are the
other two competitors in Mexico’s wireless market.  America Movil has asked competitors to pay a rate of 95
centavos (8 cents) a minute this year when their customers call
America Movil customers. The Federal Telecommunications
Commission has set a rate of 39 centavos for three companies --
  Grupo Televisa SA (TLEVICPO) , NII Holdings Inc. and Alestra SA -- that
have sought its intervention in pricing disputes.  Telefonos de Mexico SAB, a unit of America Movil, is the
largest land-line carrier in Mexico, with about 80 percent of
phone lines and 70 percent of high-speed Internet connections.
Telmex’s competitors include fixed-line carriers Axtel SAB and
Maxcom Telecomunicaciones SAB and cable companies such as
Megacable Holdings SAB and Televisa.  Telmex gained 0.4 percent to 10.45 pesos in Mexico City at
12:06 p.m.  New York  time after dropping 4 centavos following the
comments by Calderon. Telmex is up 4 percent this year. America 
Movil rose 0.8 percent to 30.49 pesos. The stock is down 14 
percent this year.  Arturo Elias , a spokesman for Slim, said he was reviewing
the statements from Calderon and had no immediate comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julianna Goldman in Washington at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net ;
Crayton Harrison in Mexico City at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  