-- 
Canada’s Fiscal Strength Means Commodities Won’t Sink Soundest G-7 Economy

-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s   a n d   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 
2011-05-10T22:30:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/canada-s-fiscal-strength-means-commodities-won-t-sink-soundest-g-7-economy.html
Canada’s economy is seen by
economists as able to withstand any weakness in commodity prices
as it taps strengths that include political stability and the
best fiscal outlook of any Group of Seven country.  Prime Minister Stephen Harper’s election victory last week
allows him to move ahead with his deficit-cutting plans, and
provide certainty in policy making that will help support
Canada’s currency, said  David Rosenberg , chief economist at
Gluskin Sheff + Associates in Toronto.  “Canada as an attractive place to invest transcends the
commodity story and a lot of that has to do with political
stability and fiscal integrity,” Rosenberg said in a telephone
interview, adding “the long-term trend line” for commodities
“is still pointing up.”  Finance Minister Jim Flaherty today made his first major
remarks since a May 2 election at a  Bloomberg Canada Economic
Summit  in Toronto, saying he will re-introduce a budget next
month. The plan he sent to Parliament in March wasn’t passed
before opposition parties triggered an early election. Flaherty
said he will remain focused on eliminating the deficit and
keeping taxes low to boost investment and job creation.  “Our government will continue to maintain the fiscal
prudence that has enabled us to avoid the debt and deficit
issues some other nations face today,” Flaherty said at the
summit, adding he aims to have the budget in balance in fiscal
2014-15. “While Canada’s economy was side-swiped by this
international turmoil, we are recovering better than most.”  Biggest Exports  Flaherty spoke in the same week investors knocked $99
billion off the value of commodities, products that are among
Canada’s biggest exports. The Bloomberg Canada Economic Summit
featured 11 panels including  Frank Stronach , the founder of
Aurora, Ontario-based Magna International Inc., Peter Munk,
chairman of Toronto-based  Barrick Gold Corp. (ABX) , and Donald Guloien, CEO of Toronto-based  Manulife Financial Corp. (MFC)   Goldcorp Inc. Chairman Ian Telfer said at the summit today
he expects commodity prices to rise this year. He said he is
“bullish” on the price of gold, which he said will reach
$2,000 per ounce by the end of 2011. He also predicted copper
averaging $4 to $4.50 per pound and uranium around $65 to $70
per pound over the same period. His Vancouver-based company is
the world’s second-largest producer of gold.  Major Commodity Exporter  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index of 24 raw materials fell
11 percent last week, the most since December 2008, as slower
growth in U.S. services and fewer German manufacturing orders
stoked concern the economic recovery is faltering. The index
rose as much as 2.8 percent yesterday after Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. said commodities may recover.  Canada is the only G-7 economy that is a major exporter of
commodities. Canada is the biggest foreign supplier of oil to
the U.S., and as recently as January was supplying the country
with twice what  Saudi Arabia  does.  “Commodities have cooled off but I don’t necessarily see
that this is a horrible thing long-term,” said Stephen Lingard,
senior vice president of Franklin Templeton Multi-Asset
Strategies in Toronto, which oversees about C$8.3 billion ($8.6
billion) in assets. “Even producers don’t want to see oil at
$130, $140 or $150 a barrel because it will begin to weigh on
some of these big export markets from a demand scenario.”  Canadian Dollar  Since May 2, Canada’s dollar has gained 2 percent against
the euro, while declining against the  U.S. dollar  like most
other major currencies. The currency appreciated 0.5 percent to
95.74 cents versus the U.S. dollar at 5:53 p.m. in Toronto, from
96.18 cents yesterday. One Canadian dollar buys $1.04450.  “If we get down close to par on the Canadian dollar I
think it’s going to become a screaming buy” in the longer term,
Rosenberg said.  The victory by Harper, 52, came three weeks after the
 International Monetary Fund  predicted the world’s 10th largest
economy will expand 2.8 percent this year, while inflation will
end the year near the Bank of Canada’s 2 percent target. An
average unemployment rate of 7.6 percent will be bettered only
by  Japan  and  Germany  in 2011. Canada’s net debt, a measure of
indebtedness that takes into account the value of assets such as
government pension funds, is the lowest in the G-7 and half the
level in the U.S.  Political Certainty  Certainty in policy making sets Canada apart from other
major industrialized countries, Rosenberg said. The U.K. and
Germany are run by coalition governments, French President
 Nicolas Sarkozy  and Japan’s Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  have become
unpopular with their electorates, while in the U.S., Democratic
President  Barack Obama  must negotiate with a Republican-run
House of Representatives.  “ Canada  is viewed as a bastion of political stability,”
Rosenberg said.  Harper’s Conservatives won 167 districts, above the 155
needed to take control of the 308-seat legislature.  “You can do away with some of that uncertainty with
respect to Canadians being sent back to the polls on a fairly
regular basis, so we have a better outlook for fiscal spending
from this side,” said  David Tulk , Chief Macro Strategist at TD
Securities in Toronto. Canada’s fiscal health is “night and
day” compared with the “situation to the U.S. and many other
developed markets.”  Weathering Recession  Canada weathered the financial crisis better than the rest
of the G-7 even as pressures from abroad tipped it into
recession and sent its jobless rate to a four-year high of 8.7
percent in August 2009. Toronto-based Royal Bank of Canada and
the country’s other 20 banks received no public money during the
credit turmoil, and the country’s financial regulations have
inspired regulatory overhauls elsewhere.  Harper pledged during the campaign a review of  government
spending  to find C$4 billion in annual savings, which would be
used to balance the budget in three years and finance election
promises. Control of the legislature may make it easier for him
to move ahead with spending curbs, said  Mark Chandler , head of
Canadian currency and rates strategy at Royal Bank of Canada’s
 RBC Capital Markets  in Toronto.  “I suspect the end game for this is to try to get down
the deficit a little bit quicker,” Chandler said in a May 3
telephone interview. “You probably have more scope to do that
under a majority government.”  Harper has been in power since 2006 without holding a
majority, meaning he’s had to rely on support from opposition
lawmakers to pass laws. Under Harper, program expenditures have
increased by 40 percent to C$245 billion as the Conservative
leader sought to placate opposition parties and win favor with
voters.  The  Conservative platform , which commits to reintroduce
measures from the 2011 fiscal plan that wasn’t passed before the
election was called, projects a C$2.8 billion surplus in the
fiscal year that begins April 2014.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Toronto at   targitis@bloomberg.net ;
Greg Quinn in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net . 