-- 
Celanese Says Ethanol-From-Coal Process Is a ‘Game-Changer’

-- B y   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 
2011-05-10T20:13:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/celanese-says-ethanol-from-coal-process-is-a-game-changer-1-.html
Celanese Corp. (CE)  said its technology to
make ethanol from coal is more profitable than producing the
gasoline additive from plants, and is a “game-changer” for the
U.S. chemicals company.  The so-called TCX technology can convert coal, petroleum
coke or natural gas to ethanol for 25 percent to 35 percent less
than alternative processes, Celanese said today in  presentation 
slides posted on its website. The cost of converting coal to
ethanol is $1.50 a gallon, equal to making gasoline from crude
oil costing $60 a barrel, the Dallas-based company said.  “Fuel with our ethanol technology represents a game-
changer for the company,” Chief Executive Officer David Weidman
said in a presentation to investors in  New York .  Weidman said he is advancing a November plan to build two
factories in  China  that will turn coal into ethanol for
industrial uses. The company also may produce ethanol for fuel
in China,  India ,  Australia , Colombia and  Egypt , he said.  Ethanol sales could boost yearly earnings by more than $1 a
share, said Edlain Rodriguez, an analyst at Gleacher & Co.  “We expect investors to start focusing soon on this
potential value-creating platform not currently embedded in the
stock price,” Rodriguez, who is based in New York and
recommends buying the stock, said today in a report.  Celanese rose $2.17, or 4.3 percent, to $52.08 at 4:01 p.m.
in New York Stock Exchange composite trading, the biggest
daily percentage increase since Nov. 18. The shares have gained
26 percent this year.  Earnings in 2013 will be at least $6 a share and will grow
10 percent to 15 percent after then, not including gains from
ethanol sales, Weidman said. That’s higher than the company’s
April forecast for 2013 profit of $5.50 to $6.50. The average
estimate of five analysts surveyed by Bloomberg was for $5.63.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jack Kaskey in Houston at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at   scasey4@bloomberg.net . 