-- 
CEZ Jumps to Highest Since 2009 After Profit Exceeds Estimates

-- B y   L a d k a   B a u e r o v a
-- 
2011-05-10T12:29:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/cez-1st-quarter-profit-falls-1-2-on-lower-power-prices-co2-tax.html
CEZ AS (CEZ)  rose to the highest in almost
two years after the  Czech Republic ’s largest power producer
posted a first-quarter profit that exceeded analysts’ estimates.  Net income in the three months through March 31 fell 1.2
percent to 17.3 billion koruna ($1 billion) on higher production
at Romanian wind farms and solar plants at home, the Prague-
based utility said today in a statement. That beat the 15.6
billion koruna median estimate of 10 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg.  Newly installed capacity in Romania’s Fantanele & Cogealac
600-megawatt wind farm and solar power plants in the Czech
Republic boosted output, compensating for lower prices of
electricity and a new tax on carbon credits approved by
lawmakers last year. CEZ also gained from a revaluation of its
share options in  Hungary ’s Mol Nyrt.  “Both revenue and profits beat market expectations,”
Bohumil Trampota, an analyst at Atlantik FT, said in a note.
“Higher heat generation and production in Romanian wind farms
had a positive impact.”  The stock advanced as much as 1.5 percent to 950.8 koruna,
its highest intraday level since August 2009, and traded up 1.1
percent as of 1:22 p.m. in Prague. It was the second-best
performer in the 15-member PX index, which slid 0.3 percent.  The Mol stake revaluation boosted CEZ’s profit by 1.8
billion koruna, according to Jan Tomanik, an analyst at Prague-
based brokerage Wood & Co. That helped offset lower gains from
the sale of electricity where prices remained below last year’s
level, as well as a newly imposable tax on allocated carbon
credits.  Prices Surge  CEZ said last month it accelerated sales of power output
after electricity prices surged following the shutdown of some
German nuclear  power plants . The utility has sold 2012 power for
52 euros a megawatt-hour, 2013 power for 54 euros a megawatt-
hour and 2014 electricity for 56 euros a megawatt-hour, trading
director Alan Svoboda said at a press conference.  “The effects of the higher exports to  Germany  should be
visible only from the second quarter,” Petr Bartek, an analyst
at Erste Group Bank AG, wrote in a note before the results were
published. He has an “accumulate” recommendation on CEZ
shares.  Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization fell 3 percent to 26.6 billion koruna, beating the
26.3 billion koruna analyst estimate. First-quarter revenue
gained 5 percent to 56.8 billion koruna as CEZ generated more
power in its wind farms in  Romania  and newly installed solar
plants at home.  The company still expects full-year earnings to decline 15
percent this year as it’s too early to raise targets, Chief
Executive Officer Martin Roman said during the press conference.  CEZ may decide to sell its Turkish assets this year, Chief
Financial Officer Martin Novak said. The company will look at
proposals in June and will probably make a final decision on
sale by the end of this year, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladka Bauerova in Prague at 
 lbauerova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  