-- 
China Says It Will Seek to Control Consumer-Price Inflation, Boost Imports

-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o   a n d   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 
2011-05-10T20:25:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/china-says-it-will-try-to-control-inflation.html
China  said it faces challenges from
rising consumer prices and will maintain a “prudent” monetary
policy, according to a statement released today following the
annual Strategic and Economic Dialogue with U.S. officials.  “China will guide its monetary policy to return to
normality from an anti-crisis status,” according to the
statement distributed by the Chinese delegation to the talks in
 Washington . “It will try to meet reasonable demand for capital
needed for economic growth, while focusing on removing
inflationary monetary elements.”  At the same time, the world’s second-largest economy will
seek to expand domestic demand and increase imports, the
statement said. It also said it hopes the U.S. will end
restrictions on exports of high-technology goods to China.  China is seeking to control consumer prices that rose 5.4
percent in March, the most in 32 months, without stifling the
growth that’s helping to power the world economy. The country is
scheduled to release April inflation numbers tomorrow.  U.S. officials, including Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner , are urging China to allow faster appreciation of its
currency as a way to control inflation and address lopsided
global flows of goods and capital that contributed to record
Chinese exports in April.  Trading Partners  Geithner, speaking at the close of the two-day talks, said
he hopes China “moves to allow the exchange rate to appreciate
more rapidly and more broadly against the currencies of all its
trading partners.”  Chinese Deputy Finance Minister  Zhu Guangyao  said that
while the U.S. and China agree that the yuan should be allowed
to strengthen, they differ on how quickly it should rise.  “China will continue with a reform of its  exchange-rate 
mechanism to increase the yuan’s flexibility,” Zhu said at a
news conference in Washington, speaking in Chinese. “The view
from the U.S. side is that the yuan should rise continuously at
a faster appreciation pace, so we have differences on the degree
of appreciation.”  China today reported an April trade surplus that was more
than three times larger than forecast as exports surged to a
record, bolstering the U.S. case for faster yuan gains.  The surplus widened to $11.4 billion and exceeded the
forecasts of all 27 economists in a Bloomberg News survey.
Exports climbed 30 percent to $156 billion while import growth
slowed to 22 percent, the customs bureau said. The  trade surplus 
compared with $140 million in March and $3.2 billion in the
survey for April.  Currency Strengthens  China’s central bank set the yuan’s reference rate at 6.495
per dollar, a record high, for the third day before the final
day of the meeting in Washington. The currency was unchanged at
6.4937 at 1:07 p.m. in  Shanghai . The People’s Bank of China
allowed the currency to strengthen 0.9 percent in April, the
biggest monthly gain this year.  China, the world’s biggest consumer of copper, iron ore and
soybeans, has seen its import bill surge over the past year as
prices of commodities climbed, contributing to the nation’s
first quarterly trade deficit since 2004 in the January-to-March
period.  At the start of the meeting yesterday, Geithner said China
has been making progress “towards a more flexible exchange
rate” and on weaning its economy off a dependence on exports.  Still, Senator Sherrod Brown, a Democrat from  Ohio , urged
the U.S. administration to press China on the currency issue and
also said Congress should pass legislation to protect American
workers from an undervalued yuan. Brown and Senator  Olympia
Snowe , a Republican from  Maine , have proposed a measure to allow
additional sanctions to address currency issues.  China argues that its currency is not a key cause of global
economic imbalances, highlighting the role of U.S. restrictions
on Chinese purchases of high-technology products.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net   To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in Washington at  