-- 
China’s Commodity Deals Dropping as Oil, Copper Prices Rise

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-05-11T08:40:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/china-s-commodity-takeovers-dropping-30-this-year-as-oil-copper-advance.html
China, the world’s biggest user of
natural resources, is pulling back from commodities and energy
acquisitions as the rest of the world pursues deals at the
fastest pace since the financial crisis.  China’s companies have spent $14.2 billion on acquisitions
this year, down 30 percent from the same period last year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Worldwide the value of
takeovers in the industry is $176 billion, the most at this time
of the year since 2007. U.S. companies from  Alpha Natural
Resources Inc. (ANR)  to DuPont Co. are the largest buyers.  After China snapped up assets from a stake in  Repsol YPF
SA (REP) ’s Brazilian unit to Ugandan fields from  Tullow Oil Plc (TLW) ,
political unrest in countries such as Egypt and Libya helped
push up commodity prices this year. The rebound led Glencore
International AG to offer shares this month in the year’s
biggest initial public offering, which may value the commodity
trader at about $61 billion.  “Faced with strict regulatory control over Chinese
acquisitions in the U.S. and other countries, Chinese companies
have been shifting targets,” said Guan Anping, a professor at
the People’s University of China in Beijing and a former Chinese
trade official. “The turmoil in North Africa and Middle East
highlighted the risks of resources investment in the region.
Chief executives of state-owned enterprises became very
cautious.”  Lubrizol, Danisco  U.S. buyers lead acquisitions this year, with the biggest
deal coming from Warren Buffett’s  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) ’s $9.2
billion takeover of lubricant maker  Lubrizol Corp. (LZ)  Mine owner
 Massey Energy Co. (MEE)  agreed in January to an $8.3 billion buyout
from Alpha Natural Resources Inc. DuPont last month raised its
bid for Danish food-ingredients maker Danisco A/S to $6.4
billion.  Morgan Stanley (MS)  has advised on 16 deals valued at $55
billion so far this year, the most among investment banks.
Goldman Sachs Inc. comes second at $46 billion, and Credit
Suisse has advised on $35 billion in transactions.  Most Expensive Deal  China lost the contest for Equinox Resources Ltd. last
month, with Toronto-based  Barrick Gold Corp. (ABX) ’s C$7.3 billion
($7.6 billion) bid trumping  Minmetals Resources Ltd. (1208) ’s C$6.3
billion offer.  The takeover was the most expensive copper mining
acquisition, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The battle
came as  China ’s currency fell 2.8 percent against the Canadian
dollar over the past six months. Against the euro, the yuan has
dropped 3.2 percent in the same period.  U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said this week
that China needs a stronger yuan to contain prices and spur
domestic demand. His case was bolstered by official data out
today showing that inflation in the fastest-growing major
economy has exceeded Premier Wen Jiabao’s 4 percent target each
month this year.  “China is still pursuing acquisitions, but they are not
the only game in town anymore,” said Richard Horrocks-Taylor,
head of mining investment banking at  RBC Capital Markets  in
London. “Chinese acquirers have become more sophisticated and
more thorough in their assessment before they make an offer.”  In mining, China had already retreated last year, making
acquisitions worth $4.5 billion compared with $10 billion in
2009, according to Ernst & Young LLP.  Oil, Copper Prices  Valuations on mining and energy companies have gone up
after crude oil jumped 43 percent in the past year to more than
$110 a barrel in  London  and copper advanced 24 percent. The
 Standard & Poor’s  GSCI Total Return Index of 24 commodities has
beaten bonds, stocks and the dollar every month since December,
the longest run in at least 14 years.  Baar, Switzerland-based Glencore’s IPO will set benchmarks
for assets as it raises funds in London and  Hong Kong , said
 Christine Tiscareno , an equity analyst at Standard & Poor’s.  “Prices are at the peak,” Tiscareno said. “China is very
shrewd to take a back seat until they see what happens with
Glencore. Even though they can afford to pay up and they need
the resources, prices are likely to come down.”  Commodities tumbled last week on concern the global economy
may slow. The S&P commodities index slid more than 10 percent,
and crude oil declined more than 12 percent. Copper fell to the
lowest price in almost five months last week on concern that
higher  interest rates  will lead to slower growth and inflation.  China faces political opposition to some deals. Australia
blocked a $2.8 billion bid by state-owned China Minmetals Corp.
for  OZ Minerals Ltd. (OZL)  in March 2009 on national security
concerns. Australia also helped stymie Aluminum Corp. of China’s
planned $19.5 billion investment in Rio Tinto Group.  Political Barriers  “Political barriers raised by Western countries have
frustrated Chinese in overseas takeovers,” said Heng Kun, an
analyst with Essence Securities Co. in Beijing. “But that’s
unlikely to deter their expansion plans in the long run. China
will continue to seek iron ore, oil, copper, uranium and minor
metals that are in domestic short supplies.”  China will build 10 cities larger than  New York  by 2025 and
will need to import more steel, iron ore, coal, aluminum and
copper, Rio Tinto’s Chief Economist Vivek Tulpule said last
year. The nation will almost triple its annual use of copper to
20 million tons in 25 years, according to CRU, a London-based
metals and mining consulting company, prompting companies to
seek control of mines oversees.  “China has a longer-term strategic imperative to secure
sources of future supply for commodities,” said Ric Ronge, who
helps manage the equivalent of $1.3 billion at Pengana Global
Resources Fund in  Melbourne . “They will keep buying.”  To contact the reporter on this story:  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  