-- 
China Exports Fuel Wider-Than Estimated $11.4 Billion April Trade Surplus

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-05-10T07:47:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/china-exports-fuel-wider-than-estimated-11-4-billion-april-trade-surplus.html
China  reported a trade surplus that
was more than three times larger than forecast in April as
exports surged to a record, bolstering the U.S. case for faster
yuan gains as officials from both nations meet for annual talks
in Washington.  The surplus widened to $11.4 billion and exceeded the
forecasts of all 27 economists in a Bloomberg News survey.
Exports climbed 30 percent to $156 billion while import growth
slowed to 22 percent, the customs bureau said today.  The rebound in China’s surplus to its highest this year may
add pressure on the world’s biggest exporter and holder of
foreign-exchange reserves to address imbalances and reduce
inflation through steeper yuan appreciation. U.S. Treasury
Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  and Chinese Vice Premier Wang Qishan pledged yesterday to tackle currency conflicts between
the world’s biggest economies.  “This number will likely add to the pressure from
Washington for Beijing to allow faster currency appreciation,”
said  Brian Jackson , a Hong Kong-based strategist with Royal Bank
of  Canada . “But more importantly it should persuade Chinese
policy makers that a stronger yuan can be tolerated by the
economy and is warranted as part of their efforts to curb price
pressures.”  Record Yuan  The trade surplus compared with $140 million in March and
the $3.2 billion in the Bloomberg News survey.  China’s central bank set the yuan’s reference rate at 6.495
per dollar, a record high for the third day ahead of the final
day of an annual economic meeting between U.S. and Chinese
officials in  Washington . The currency was 0.02 percent higher at
6.4930 at 3:42 p.m. in  Shanghai .  The People’s Bank of China allowed the currency to
strengthen 0.9 percent in April, the biggest monthly gain this
year.  Stocks climbed after the report. The benchmark Shanghai
Composite Index rose 0.6 percent to 2,890.63 at the 3 p.m. close,
the most in five days.  Consumer prices rose 5.4 percent in March, the most in 32
months, and may have climbed 5.2 percent in April, according to
the median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey. The statistics
bureau will release inflation data in Beijing tomorrow.  Higher Costs  China, the world’s biggest consumer of copper,  iron ore  and
soybeans, has seen its import bill surge over the past year as
prices of commodities climbed, contributing to the nation’s
first quarterly trade deficit since 2004 in the January-to-March
period.  Australia  today reported a trade surplus for March on
growing exports of iron ore and coal.  Higher prices and government policies to cool the economy
may have deterred China’s purchases last month. Premier  Wen
Jiabao  has clamped down on lending, imposed limits on home sales
and curbed expansion in some industries.  Imports of iron ore by volume dropped 11 percent in April
from the previous month and 4.4 percent from a year earlier, the
customs bureau said today. Crude oil shipments fell 0.6 percent
in April from the previous month and natural-rubber imports
dropped 14 percent from March as slower growth in vehicle sales
crimped demand from tire makers.  Sales of passenger cars to dealerships rose 2.8 percent in
April from a year earlier to 1.14 million, down from a 33
percent gain in the same month in 2010, the China Association of
Automobile Manufacturers said today.  Price Correction  The worst weekly plunge in commodities prices since
December 2008 last week, including a 15 percent decline in oil,
may help ease inflation pressure in China.  “The price factors that have boosted the import bill
recently are expected to ease markedly due to the recent sharp
correction in global commodity prices,” said  Ma Jun , chief
China economist at Deutsche Bank AG.  Export growth was in line with the median estimate in a
survey of 29 economists.  “Exports will do quite well this year mostly related to
the rebound in the U.S. and European economies and also because
the effect of the Japan earthquake isn’t that great,” said
Alaistair Chan, a Sydney-based economist with Moody’s
Economy.com, who had the most accurate forecast for the  trade
surplus .  Companies benefiting from the nation’s trade gains this
year include Cosco Pacific Ltd., part of China’s largest
shipping group. Cosco said it more than doubled first-quarter
profit, helped by a 20 percent increase in throughput at its
container terminals after it added facilities to cope with
rising exports of toys, furniture and auto parts to the U.S. and
 Europe .  Policy Tightening  Excluding data from February, when the lunar new year
holiday distorted import growth, the increase in inbound
shipments was the smallest annual gain since October 2009 and
compared with the 29 percent median estimate in a Bloomberg
survey.  The slowdown “reflects the effects of domestic policy
tightening on domestic demand as well as lower import price
growth,” said Yu Song, a Beijing-based economist with Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. “The trade surplus will remain at a relatively
high level in the coming months amid continued domestic policy
tightening.”  At the start of the two-day Strategic and Economic Dialogue
yesterday, Geithner said China has been making progress
“towards a more flexible  exchange rate ” and weaning its
economy off a dependence on exports.  Currency Sanctions  Still, Senator Sherrod Brown, a Democrat from  Ohio , urged
the U.S. administration to press China on the currency issue and
also said Congress should pass legislation to protect American
workers from an undervalued yuan. Brown and Senator  Olympia
Snowe , a Republican from  Maine , have proposed a measure to allow
additional sanctions to address currency issues.  China argues that its currency is not a key cause of global
economic imbalances, and highlights the role of U.S.
restrictions on Chinese purchases of high-technology products in
lopsided trade between the two nations.  --Victoria Ruan. With assistance from  Jay Wang  in  Singapore ,
Zheng Lifei, Huang Zhe and Chua Baizhen in Beijing, Sophie Leung
in  Hong Kong . Editors: Nerys Avery, Ken McCallum  To contact Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Victoria Ruan in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7570
 vruan1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst in Hong Kong at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  