-- 
China’s April Iron Ore Imports Drop 11% on Rising Prices

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-05-10T04:23:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/china-s-april-iron-ore-imports-drop-11-on-rising-prices-1-.html
China, the world’s biggest  iron ore 
buyer, cut purchases by 11 percent in April from the previous
month as higher prices deterred purchases.  Imports were 52.88 million metric tons in April, down from
59.48 million tons in March, according to China’s General
Administration of Customs. That’s 4.4 percent lower than a year
ago, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Second-quarter contract iron ore prices were forecast by
Baosteel Group Corp. to surge 25 percent. Chinese steelmakers
rushed to buy iron ore in March before the price increase, Hu Kai, an analyst with researcher Umetal.com said.  “Activity cooled down in April as prices gained,” Hu said
before the release. “Traders diverged on the market outlook
because of signs of further tightening on the economy,”.  The cash price of 62 percent-iron ore arriving at  China ’s
Tianjin port has gained 4.2 percent to $179.70 a ton since April
1, according to the Steel Index.  China’s iron-ore imports rose 9.5 percent to 230 million
tons in the first four months from a year ago, the customs
administration said.  Steel-product exports dropped 2.9 percent to 4.77 million
tons last month from 4.91 million tons in March, according to
the data. The shipments were up 17 percent from a year earlier
to 15.28 million tons in the first four months, the data showed.  China’s government has been moving to damp demand for
housing, a major user of steel. The People’s Bank of China on
May 3 said that controlling inflation is its top priority, even
after a manufacturing index slid in April, which indicates that
growth may slow in the second-biggest economy.  Premier  Wen Jiabao  said May 1 that the nation is
“determined” to bring down housing prices in some cities to a
“reasonable” level. China’s home prices rose for the eighth
consecutive month in April, according to SouFun Holdings Ltd.  --Helen Yuan and Xiao Yu. Editors: Keith Gosman, Rebecca Keenan  To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story
Helen Yuan in Shanghai at 
 hyuan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net . 