-- 
Cisco Names Juniper’s Yen to Run Server Unit Amid Shakeup

-- B y   N i c k   T u r n e r
-- 
2011-05-10T20:47:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/cisco-names-juniper-s-yen-to-lead-server-division-amid-management-shakeup.html
Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO)  named  Juniper
Networks Inc. (JNPR)  executive David Yen to lead its server access and
virtualization technology group, the latest change in a shakeup
of the networking-equipment maker that began last month.  Yen will replace Mario Mazzola, Prem Jain and Luca Cafiero,
who founded the business that served as the basis for the
division,  San Jose , California-based Cisco said yesterday in a
statement. They will take on advisory roles, the company said.  The server business, created in 2008, is part of Cisco’s
effort to sell more gear into the burgeoning data-center market.
The division includes Nexus network switches and the United
Computing System, a range of technologies that help customers
manage information. The UCS business is on track to make $650
million in revenue annually, as of Cisco’s last reported
quarter, the company said.  Chief Executive Officer  John Chambers  pledged last month to
make a number of targeted moves at Cisco, an effort to rebuild
confidence among investors and customers. Cisco said on April 12
that it will close the Flip video-camera business and cut 550
jobs. Last week, the company announced plans to simplify its
management structure.  Yen served as executive vice president at Sunnyvale,
California-based Juniper. He led the company’s data-center
network research and development project, called  QFabric . Yan
also worked for 20 years at Sun Microsystems Inc., a server
maker that is now part of Oracle Corp.  HP Showdown  The move into servers has put Cisco into closer competition
with the biggest computer makers, including  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ) 
and  International Business Machines Corp. (IBM)  Hewlett-Packard and
other companies also are expanding into new markets, including
networking, storage and services, an effort to become one-stop
shops for data-center customers.  Cisco rose 19 cents to $17.79 at 4 p.m. New York time in
Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The shares have fallen 12 percent
this year.  The declining stock price and market-share losses have put
pressure on Chambers to make changes.  In routers, which made up 16 percent of Cisco’s sales last
year, Cisco’s share dropped to 55 percent last year from 66
percent in 2006, according to IDC, a market-research firm in
Framingham, Massachusetts. Cisco also lost more than 10
percentage points of share in network-security hardware.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nick Turner in  San Francisco  at 
 Nturner7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net . 