-- 
Clinton Seeks U.S. Arctic Spill Policy as Drilling in Greenland Resumes

-- B y   M a r i a n n e   S t i g s e t   a n d   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 
2011-05-10T14:16:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/clinton-seeks-arctic-spill-policy-as-greenland-drilling-resumes.html
U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  will push for an Arctic  oil spill  response taskforce
this week as  Cairn Energy Plc  prepares for its busiest drilling
season off the coast of Greenland.  Clinton will travel to Greenland’s capital for a meeting of
the eight nations that lay claim to the Arctic amid growing
concerns about the risks to the environment in light of last
year’s Gulf of Mexico spill. Cairn, the first explorer to drill
off Greenland in a decade, won  approval  for four wells this year
to tap an estimated 17 billion barrels of oil.  “This will be a historic meeting,” said Julie Reside, a
spokeswoman at the State Department. “For the coming two years,
Secretary Clinton and the other ministers will set in motion
negotiations on a new instrument to control potential oil spills
in the Arctic.”  After six failed attempts by explorers to find oil over the
past 30 years, Greenland received a record 17 applications in
last year’s licensing round. Producers including  Exxon Mobil
Corp. (XOM)  and  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  have been attracted by higher  oil
prices , dwindling resources and Arctic exploration made easier
by global warming.  Climate Report  Interior Secretary  Ken Salazar  will join Clinton for the
seventh meeting of the Arctic Council ministers in Nuuk on May
12. The member states are Canada,  Denmark , Finland, Iceland,
 Norway ,  Russia ,  Sweden  and the U.S. A search-and-rescue treaty
will be signed and ministers will also receive a report on how
 climate change  is affecting the Arctic, Reside said.  “The Arctic Council is in an odd transition place now: it
has been decided that they need to make it a more formal
institution and give it real authority,” said Buck Parker, a
strategic adviser with Earthjustice, a non-profit law firm that
focuses on environmental issues. “They have to make it look
like they’re doing something, or other countries that
particularly have an interest in how the Arctic is managed with
respect to global warming are going to want some say.”  Cairn, based in Edinburgh, plans to invest a further $500
million to drill as many as four wells off the coast of
 Greenland  this year, one more than in 2010. The company failed
to make a commercial discovery there last year.  Investment  “By the end of this year we will have spent over $1
billion in Greenland,” Simon Thomson, Cairn’s legal and
commercial director, said in an interview. The explorer is
targeting prospects ranging in size from 1 billion barrels to
“hundreds of millions of barrels,” Thomson said.  Cairn has just won approval from the Greenland government
for its 2011 campaign. The Scottish explorer plans to drill as
many as three wells in the Atammik and Lady Franklin blocks, and
at least one in the Eqqua or Napariaq blocks farther north in
Baffin Bay, according to a  report  published on the island’s
minerals bureau website.  Water depths range from 288 meters (945 feet) at Napariaq
to 1,530 meters at Eqqua, similar to where BP Plc was drilling
when the Deepwater Horizon rig exploded, killing 11 workers and
spewing almost 5 million barrels into the  Gulf of Mexico .  “It took BP months to stop Macondo, with a fleet of 6,500
ships, with 50,000 people and a bill of about $40 billion,”
said Ben Ayliffe, a senior oil campaigner at Greenpeace
International. Cairn, valued at about $9.8 billion. “last year
had 14 ships thousands of miles from anywhere, and they’re not
the sort of company than can afford to take a $40 billion hit on
an oil spill.”  Extreme Weather  Greenpeace argues that freezing temperatures, extreme
weather conditions, lack of local infrastructure and remote
locations would challenge a spill response. The spilt oil risks
becoming trapped under sheets of thick ice.  “It could take years to stop a spill,” Ayliffe said by
phone from  London . “There are no proven technologies to keep
ice out of the way of a project which would need to run over the
Arctic winter.”  In a bid to stop Cairn, four protesters from the campaign
group boarded the company’s Stena Don drilling rig in September
and spent two days hanging from the platform’s underbelly,
forcing drilling to be suspended. Last month, 11 campaigners
tried to occupy the Leiv Eiriksson rig en route from  Turkey  to
Greenland.  Independence, Wealth  The far north’s potential is spurring exploration from
Russia to  Alaska . The Arctic may hold 27 percent of the world’s
undiscovered gas and 13 percent of the oil, the  U.S. Geological
Survey  said in 2008. Areas off Greenland, including some shared
with  Canada , may hold 17 billion barrels of oil, 148 trillion
cubic feet of gas and 9.3 billion barrels of gas liquids, the
USGS said.  For Greenland’s 57,000 inhabitants, largely dependent on
shrimp exports, petroleum may also bring wealth and allow
greater independence from Denmark.  Denmark gives Greenland an annual subsidy of about $608
million, or $10,700 per person. The Arctic island was granted
home rule in 1979 and increased local powers in 2009.  “A commercially viable oilfield discovery in the Greenland
waters could contribute significantly toward a self-sustaining
economy in Greenland,” Cairn wrote in a March report.  -- Editors: Stephen Cunningham, Alex Devine  To contact the reporters on this story: Marianne Stigset in
Greenland at   mstigset@bloomberg.net . Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  