-- 
Colombia Exporters ‘Learning to Survive’ Strong Peso, Trade Minister Says

-- B y   H e l e n   M u r p h y
-- 
2011-05-10T16:39:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/colombia-exporters-learning-to-survive-strong-peso-trade-minister-says.html
Colombian exporters can’t expect the
government to protect them from the effects of a strong currency
and “are learning to survive” by boosting productivity and
seeking new markets, Trade Minister Sergio Diaz Granados said.  “The plan is to encourage our companies to improve their
productivity and the quality of their products, enter new
markets,” Diaz said in an interview in Bogota yesterday.
Exporters shouldn’t seek “artificial protections through the
 exchange rate  that aren’t sustainable over the long term.”  Colombian exporters are having to contend with a peso
that’s strengthened 23 percent over the past two years, the most
after  Brazil  among Latin America’s six major currencies. The
central bank and Finance Ministry have sought to ease the peso’s
gains without resorting to  capital controls  as in the past, said
Diaz.  “We have used them in other occasions, in 2007 and 2008,
and the result was more a cost to the reputation of the country
than a benefit to the exchange rate,” Diaz, 42, said. “We are
providing a soft landing to the problem by devising appropriate
policies.”  Finance Minister Juan Carlos Echeverry on April 29 said the
government would create an overseas fund with as much as $1.2
billion from dollars bought in the local  spot market  through the
end of 2011. The government would forgo repatriating funds from
abroad for the rest of the year, Echeverry said.  The dollar purchases are in addition to the  central bank’s 
plans to buy a minimum of $20 million daily until at least June
17.  Peso Weakened  Since the measures were announced the peso has weakened 1.6
percent. Today, the peso fell 0.34 percent to 1,794.1 per  U.S.
dollar  at 12:11 p.m. New York time.  In 2007 the central bank attempted to reduce incentives to
bring short-term capital into Colombia by ordering companies and
investors to deposit 40 percent of loans raised abroad with the
bank for six months. The  Finance Ministry  also imposed deposit
requirements of 50 percent for two years on new portfolio
investment in the country, including the purchase of bonds and
stocks. The controls were abolished in 2008.  Central Bank Chief Jose Dario Uribe reiterated yesterday
that the cost of using capital controls to ease gains in the
peso outweighs the benefits.  Transport, Electricity  Diaz said that while the Finance Ministry and central bank
“have the last word” on capital controls, his ministry aims to
help exporters weather a strong peso, which makes their goods
more expensive in dollar terms, by improving transport and
making their use of energy more efficient.  Even with the gains in the currency, export levels haven’t
declined, said Diaz, a  lawyer  who did postgraduate study at the
Inter-American Institute for Economic and Social Development in
 Washington . Last year exports rose to $39.8 billion from $32.9
billion in 2009, according to the statistics  agency .  Foreign direct  investment  will likely reach $8 billion this
year, rising to $13 billion in 2014, Diaz said.  As part of the government’s strategy to seek new export
destinations, Colombia is joining  Mexico , Chile and Peru to form
a trading bloc that will enable them to compete with Brazil for
Asian markets. Chile, Peru and Mexico are already members of the
Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation group, known as APEC, while
Colombia isn’t.  ‘Distant Markets’  “It will let us bring in investment from distant markets
like Europe and  Asia ,” Diaz said. “ We are using this as a
platform to enter APEC.”  The outcome of Peru’s presidential race between Ollanta
Humala, who has pledged to seek a new constitution and
redistribute wealth, and Congresswoman Keiko Fujimori, who says
she favors increased foreign investment and the sale of state
companies, is unlikely to threaten the accord, Diaz said.  “Both have expressed their interest in the process,” he
said.  Diaz, who will travel to  China  with President  Juan Manuel Santos  in September, expects negotiations for a free-trade
accord between the two nations to start within four years.  Colombia  plans to open trade offices this year in
 Singapore , Seoul and  Tokyo  as well as an embassy in Indonesia,
he said. Free-trade talks with  India  may begin in three or four
years.  Diaz said he doesn’t see the likelihood of any fresh
holdups by the U.S. congress in ratifying a free-trade agreement
with Colombia, and didn’t rule out passage by August.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Helen Murphy at 
 hmurphy1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  