-- 
Community Health Drops $7.3 Billion Bid for Tenet After Third Rejection

-- B y   P a t   W e c h s l e r   a n d   A l e x   N u s s b a u m
-- 
2011-05-10T20:16:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/community-health-ends-effort-to-buy-tenet-after-third-rejection.html
Community Health Systems Inc. (CYH)  dropped
its $7.3 billion bid to buy  Tenet Healthcare Corp. (THC)  and create
the largest U.S. hospital company after Tenet repeatedly
rejected the offer.  Community Health also is withdrawing its slate of nominees
for Tenet’s board of directors, the Franklin, Tennessee-based
company said yesterday in a statement. Community Health, the
second-largest U.S. hospital operator, said on Jan. 14 it would
nominate 10 directors to replace Tenet’s current board.  Tenet’s refusal earlier yesterday to negotiate is the third
time its board rebuffed Community Health, turning down
unsolicited bids in December for $6 a share in cash and stock
and an all-cash offer in April. On May 2, Community Health
raised its “best and final” offer 21 percent to $7.25 a share
and said it would walk away from its effort if Tenet failed to
begin “good-faith discussions.”  “Investors are back to focusing on the fundamentals” of
Tenet,” said Art Henderson, an analyst at Jefferies & Co. in
Nashville,  Tennessee , who places a value of $9 to $9.50 on
Tenet’s shares. “If Tenet can execute as it has suggested it
can in presentations, then I think we will see the stock move
meaningfully higher.”  Tenet rose 11 cents, or 1.7 percent, to $6.63 at 4:01 p.m.
in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. Community Health
fell 18 cents to $30.90.  Potential Suitor  Tenet’s managers would consider a bid from a suitor willing
to “put an offer on the table consistent with the way they see
the valuation,” Henderson said in a telephone interview.
“They’re absolutely open to talking, but they’re not shopping
the company,” he said. “They’re looking to get back to
business.”  Tenet has said since December that the  Community Health 
offers undervalued the company, and analysts have told Bloomberg
that Tenet should be trading at more than $9 a share.  “We continue to believe that the execution of Tenet’s
current business strategy will deliver greater value than
Community Health’s inadequate proposal and we are not willing to
enter into discussions based on many factors, including a
grossly inadequate offer,” Tenet’s chief executive officer,
Trevor Fetter, said in the statement.  Tenet’s board authorized as much as $400 million in share
repurchases, according to the statement. The stock will be
bought “at times and amounts based on market conditions and
other factors,” Tenet said.  Subpoenas  Last month, Tenet filed a lawsuit accusing Community Health
of defrauding Medicare, the federal health insurance program,
and said legal troubles could make it hard to finance the
acquisition. Community Health has also been subpoenaed by
federal investigators for the  Department of Health  and Human
Services and the Texas Attorney General’s office, asking for
documents related to Medicare and the joint state-federal
Medicaid program for the poor.  Community health shareholders, including union-backed CtW
Investment Group, are looking to unseat several board members
including Larry Cash, the company’s chief financial officer.  “There’s a lot that’s happened here in the past month that
Community is going to have to deal with,” Henderson said.  Brooke Gordon, a spokeswoman for Community Health, declined
to comment beyond the company’s statement.  Tenet owns 49 hospitals in 11 states. Community Health
owns, operates or leases 130 hospitals. HCA Holdings Inc., based
in Nashville, Tennessee, is the largest U.S. hospital company.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Pat Wechsler in New York 
 pwechsler@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Nussbaum in New York 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   Rgale5@bloomberg.net  