-- 
Congress Can Regulate Health-Care Market, U.S. Argues to Appellate Court

-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 
2011-05-10T18:29:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/congress-has-power-over-health-care-markets-u-s-tells-appeals-court.html
Congress has broad power to regulate
the health-care market, U.S. lawyers told the first federal
appeals court to hear arguments on the validity of the insurance
mandate in the Obama administration’s health-care overhaul.  A three-judge panel in Richmond,  Virginia , today was asked
to consider whether requiring most Americans to buy health
insurance is, as a lower-court judge ruled, the same as ordering
them to buy broccoli or a Cadillac.  “Congress is not asking people to buy something they
otherwise would not buy,” said Acting Solicitor General Neal Katyal, adding that being an active participant in the health-
care market is an “almost universal feature of our existence.”  In back-to-back arguments, the judges -- Diana Gribbon Motz, Andre Davis and James Wynn Jr. -- reviewed two lower court
rulings on the law. One of the cases upheld the law; the other
struck down part of it.  Motz asked Katyal whether a decision in favor of the law
would lead to “unlimited” government power.  Katyal said there are two “rock solid” limits. The
government may not act in an “attenuated way” and it may not
infringe on states’ responsibilities.  National Market  “This is a market that is truly national in scope,”
Katyal said.  The U.S. calls the insurance mandate the linchpin of the
Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, claiming that the
 insurance industry  won’t be able to meet its obligations for
coverage under the law without expanding the pool of younger,
healthier customers. Absent the mandate, the health-insurance
market would wither, the government said in court papers.  Mathew Staver, arguing a challenge filed by Liberty
University in Lynchburg, Virginia, said the law sought a
“redistribution of wealth among private parties” and
represented the first time under the U.S. Constitution’s
Commerce Clause that Congress attempted to regulate “non-
economic inactivity.”  So far, trial-court decisions on the statute have broken
along party lines, with judges appointed by Republican
presidents ruling against it and Democratic-appointed judges
ruling in favor. All three judges randomly assigned to today’s
case were appointed to the bench by Democratic presidents.  Obama Nominees  Davis and Wynn were nominated by President  Barack Obama .
Motz was appointed by former President  Bill Clinton .  The judges today questioned Virginia’s right to be in court
challenging the law. The U.S. argued that Supreme Court
precedent restricts states from seeking to overturn federal laws
that apply only to individuals.  E. Duncan Getchell Jr., Virginia’s solicitor general, spent
most of his time defending the state’s right to sue.  “If we are going to be a government of limited and
enumerated powers, then you have to have a forum to sort it
out,” Getchell said. “If the federal courts are not the forum,
then there’s no forum.”  The cases are Liberty University v. Geithner, 10-02347, and
Commonwealth of Virginia v. Sebelius, 11-01057 and 11-01058, 4th
U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals (Richmond).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  