-- 
Conoco Reaches Deal to Close Wilhelmshaven Refinery in Germany

-- B y   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t   a n d   N i d a a   B a k h s h
-- 
2011-05-10T15:08:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/conoco-reaches-deal-to-close-wilhelmshaven-refinery-in-germany.html
ConocoPhillips (COP)  reached an agreement
to close its Wilhelmshaven refinery, allowing it to convert the
northern German facility to an oil storage terminal from June 1,
a labor representative said.  The workforce of 406 will be reduced to 48 and the U.S. oil
company will pay a total of 15 million euros ($22 million) to
employees after making the deal yesterday, Vera Ackermann,
district manager for the IG BCE union, said today by phone.  “By the end of this month, we will begin serving notices
to employees who will not be required to operate the terminal
operations at the site,”  Rich Johnson , a ConocoPhillips
spokesman based in Houston, said in an e-mail. “We have no
plans to dismantle Wilhelmshaven.”  ConocoPhillips said in September last year it would keep
the German refinery, the company’s biggest European oil-
processing plant, closed following a fire in May. The plant has
the capacity to process 260,000 barrels of oil a day, according
to ConocoPhillips’s website. About 102,000 barrels of
distillates, a group of fuels including diesel and heating oil,
and 36,000 barrels of gasoline are produced daily.  The labor union representative said she still “hopes” the
facility can continue to operate as a refinery via a sale to an
investor. “We are continuing to actively work on a sale of
Wilhelmshaven,” Johnson said in the e-mail.  A Saudi Arabian foundation may bid together with German
businessman Carsten Hippenstiel for the refinery, broadcaster
NDR reported on its website this month.  The prospective buyer, who has links to the Saudi king, is
keen to process Saudi crude at the site and is pushing for talks
with ConocoPhillips, NDR said, citing Thomas Reiter, a spokesman
for the group.  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  is advising ConocoPhillips on
the sale, Johnson said.  Saudi Aramco , the world’s largest oil exporter, said May 8
that it doesn’t plan to join a group to buy the facility.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nicholas Comfort in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net ;
Nidaa Bakhsh in London at 
 nbakhsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  