-- 
Copper Rises for Second Day Before Chinese Inflation Figures

-- B y   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z   a n d   Y i   T i a n
-- 
2011-05-10T18:05:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/copper-gains-for-third-day-before-chinese-inflation-figures.html
Copper futures rose for the second
straight day in New York before a report that may show inflation
eased in  China , the world’s biggest user, reducing concern that
the country will take more steps to tighten credit.  Figures released tomorrow will show Chinese consumer prices
climbed 5.2 percent in April, compared with a gain of 5.4
percent in March, according to a Bloomberg News survey of
economists. Copper fell 7.1 percent in the two months ended
April 29 as China raised interest rates to curb surging consumer
prices that exceeded the government’s full-year target.  The metal is “treading water ahead of the Chinese data due
out overnight,” said  Leon Westgate , an analyst at Standard Bank
Plc in  London . “Key will be the Chinese inflation and growth
data and implications for Chinese tightening measures going
forward.”  Copper futures for July delivery advanced 2.55 cents, or
0.6 percent, to close at $4.042 a pound at 1:14 p.m. on the
Comex in New York. Yesterday, the price gained 1 percent. On May
6, the metal touched a five-month low of $3.928. The most-active
contract has gained 25 percent in the past 12 months.  Futures may climb to a record in the second half after
inventories drop in China, said Stephen Briggs, a senior metal-market strategist at BNP Paribas SA. The price rose to an all-time high of $4.6575 on Feb. 15.  “China is using big stockpiles accumulated in 2009, when
prices were low,” Briggs said in Sydney. “Once Chinese
destocking is out of the way, there’s going to be a refocus on
the difficulty of producers to keep up with demand.”  Copper imports in China fell 14 percent in April from March
and were down 40 percent from a year earlier.  “The generally weaker import data will trigger a debate on
whether the softer numbers should be read as a sign of growing
weakness in the Chinese economy,”  Edward Meir , a senior analyst
at MF Global Holdings Ltd. in Darien,  Connecticut , said today in
a report.  On the London Metal Exchange, copper for delivery in three
months rose $20, or 0.2 percent, to $8,910 a metric ton ($4.04 a
pound). Zinc, lead, nickel and aluminum also advanced. Tin fell.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net ;
Yi Tian in New York at 
 ytian8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  