-- 
Cost of U.S. Imported Goods Rises More Than Estimated on Food, Fuel Prices

-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 
2011-05-10T15:44:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/cost-of-u-s-imported-goods-in-april-climbs-more-than-economists-estimated.html
Prices of goods imported into the
U.S. rose more than forecast in April as a slumping dollar and
growing economies overseas pushed up the cost of fuel and food.  The 2.2 percent increase in the import-price index followed
a revised 2.6 percent gain in March, according to figures from
the Labor Department today in Washington. Other reports showed
distributors boosted inventories and small businesses lost
confidence.  The increase in prices from overseas may put pressure on
companies like  Whole Foods Market Inc. (WFMI)  to pass on higher costs,
calling into question Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s
view that the surge in commodities will have temporary effect on
inflation. The report on small businesses showed the share of
those surveyed who planned to raise prices held in April at the
highest level in 30 months.  “While many policy makers have described recent commodity
cost increases as ‘transitory,’ the reality is that even at the
small business level, producers are increasingly more confident
in their ability to pass on costs to customers,”  Joseph LaVorgna , chief U.S. economist at Deutsche Bank Securities in
 New York , said in a note to clients.  The median forecast of 51 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News called for a 1.8 percent increase in import prices last
month. Projections ranged from increases of 1 percent to 2.5
percent.  Compared with a year earlier, import prices increased 11
percent, exceeding the 10 percent increase projected by
economists surveyed and the biggest 12-month gain in a year.  Shares Climb  Stocks rose, sending the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index higher
for a third straight day, as companies including  Dean Foods Co .
and Fossil Inc. forecast earnings that topped analysts’
projections. The 500 Index climbed 0.4 percent to 1,352.25 at
11:43 a.m. in New York.  Confidence among small companies fell to a seven-month low
in April, damped by a deteriorating outlook for the economy, a
report from the  National Federation of Independent Business 
showed. The Washington-based group’s optimism index decreased to
91.2, the lowest since September, from 91.9 the prior month.
Seven of the measure’s 10 components dropped.  Small businesses planning to increase prices held at a net
24 percent of owners for a second month, according to the
report.  Increasing sales are also prompting wholesalers to increase
stockpiles, according to figures from the Commerce Department.
Inventories climbed 1.1 percent in March as sales jumped 2.9
percent. At the current pace of sales, distributors had enough
goods on hand to last 1.13 months, matching the level in June
2008 as the lowest on record.  Fuel, Food  The report on prices from overseas showed the cost of
imported petroleum increased 7.2 percent from the prior month
and was up 37 percent from a year earlier. Excluding all fuels,
import prices climbed 4.3 percent from April 2010, matching the
prior month’s 12-month increase as the biggest since October
2008.  Imported food was 1.8 percent costlier last month and was
up 20 percent from a year earlier, the biggest 12-month increase
since records began in 1977.  Whole Foods, the largest U.S. natural-goods grocer, says
prices may continue to climb later this year, according to A.C. Gallo, president and chief operating officer of the Austin,
Texas-based company. Beef, dairy, corn and soy are major among
commodities experiencing inflation, he said.  Pass Through  “We have been able to pass some of them through,” Gallo
said in a May 4 earnings call with analysts, referring to cost
increases. “There is some uncertainty based on not quite
understanding what kind of inflation we’ll be seeing in our
costs and what will be able to pass through.”  Following a two-day meeting in  Washington  last month, Fed
officials said the effect on inflation from the jump in fuel and
other commodities will probably be “transitory,” according to
a statement released April 27.  The officials also lowered their forecasts for U.S. growth,
saying the economy is recovering at a “moderate pace,” and
agreed to finish $600 billion of bond purchases on schedule in
June, according to the statement.  A weakening U.S. currency has also made imported goods more
expensive. The dollar fell 7.7 percent against a basket of major
currencies from the beginning of the year to the end of April.  The dollar has since strengthened, gaining 2.4 percent from
April 29 as commodity prices have fallen.  Today’s report showed the cost of goods from  China  rose 0.4
percent, while those from  Japan  were increased 0.3 percent.
Goods from  Latin America  climbed 3.5 percent and those from the
European Union increased 0.8 percent. Prices of Canadian imports
rose 2.4 percent, and goods from  Mexico  advanced 2.5 percent.  The import-price index is the first of three monthly price
gauges from the Labor Department. Producer prices are due May 12
and the consumer-price index on the following day. The Bloomberg
survey median for those measures indicates inflation excluding
volatile food and fuel expenses remains contained.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  