-- 
Craig Stine, Citadel’s Investment Banking Co-Head, Departed Firm This Week

-- B y   Z a c h a r y   M i d e r   a n d   S a i j e l   K i s h a n
-- 
2011-05-10T19:49:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/craig-stine-citadel-s-investment-banking-co-head-departed-firm-this-week.html
Craig Stine, co-head of  investment
banking  at Citadel Securities, a unit of  Ken Griffin ’s Citadel
LLC, quit the firm this week, the 10th high-level exit in less
than two years.  His departure was confirmed today by  Devon Spurgeon , a
spokeswoman for the Chicago-based firm. Stine ran the group with
Brian Maier after the former head of investment banking, Todd Kaplan, left in January 2010, less than a year after joining.  “Once you’re known as a revolving door, it’s hard to
recruit the best in this competitive environment,” said  Jeanne Branthover , head of financial services at Boyden Global
Executive Search Ltd. in New York. “The war for talent is
tougher now than before the financial crisis.”  Griffin started the securities unit in late 2008 to expand
his hedge fund by advising corporations on mergers and
acquisitions, and underwriting and trading stocks and bonds. The
business, created at the height of the financial crisis, has
been subject to a series of executive departures since Rohit D’Souza, whom Griffin had hired to build the new unit, left in
October 2009 after a year.  Chris Boas, head of credit markets for Citadel Securities,
Brad Kurtzman, who ran equity derivatives sales and trading, and
Carl Mayer, head of leveraged finance, quit in January. Patrik Edsparr was ousted last May, seven months after Griffin picked
him to succeed D’Souza.  Tim Devine, a banker who worked with Stine, also left
Citadel this week, Spurgeon confirmed. Stine, who focused on
advising financial companies, and Devine joined Citadel in 2009
from Citigroup Inc.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zachary Mider in  New York  at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net ;
Saijel Kishan in New York at 
 skishan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  