-- 
Cycling Team Withdraws From Giro d’Italia After Rider Is Killed in Crash

-- B y   A l e x   D u f f   a n d   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 
2011-05-10T23:46:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/cycling-team-withdraws-from-giro-d-italia-after-rider-is-killed-in-crash.html
Leopard-Trek withdrew from the Giro
d’Italia cycling race after leading yesterday’s ceremonial
fourth stage in honor of team member  Wouter Weylandt , who was
killed the previous day after crashing on a descent.  Weylandt, a 26-year-old Belgian, died when his bike hit a
wall, throwing him into the road. Teams rode the 216-kilometer
(134-mile) fourth stage from Genoa to Livorno as a procession,
without competing, as a mark of respect.  “We simply cannot continue racing given the
circumstances,” team captain Fabian Wegmann said in a  statement 
from Leopard-Trek yesterday. “We feel this is the right thing
to do.”  The squad and U.S. rider Tyler Farrar of the Garmin-Cervelo
team led the field across the finish line yesterday with the
nine men riding side-by-side and embracing each other around the
shoulders. Farrar, a sprint specialist who was close to Weylandt
and regularly trained with him, will also leave the Giro and
return to  Belgium .  Weylandt struck his head about 25 kilometers from the end
of the 173-kilometer stage between  Reggio nell’Emilia and
Rapallo . He was “catapulted to the other side of the road”
after his handlebars or left pedal hit a small wall, the
VeloNews website  reported , citing an eyewitness account from
RadioShack rider Manuel Cardoso.  Doctors couldn’t revive Weylandt, Giro spokesman Matteo
Cavazzuti said by telephone. An autopsy revealed he suffered
fatal skull and facial injuries, Italian news agency ANSA
reported yesterday.  1995 Death  The last rider to die at one of cycling’s top three-week
races was Italy’s Fabio Casartelli, who wasn’t wearing a helmet
in a fatal fall at the 1995 Tour de  France .  Wearing a helmet became mandatory in professional cycling
in 2003. Cyclists can reach speeds as high as 60 miles per hour
on descents.  In 2009,  Spain ’s Pedro Horillo sustained a punctured lung
and multiple fractures after plunging down a ravine on a stage
of the Giro. Riders protested against unsafe conditions after
Horillo’s crash. Competitors have weighed in on Weylandt’s
accident.  “Things like this shouldn’t happen,” British cyclist  Mark Cavendish  wrote two days ago on his Twitter  page . “Absolutely
sick to my stomach.”  Weylandt became a professional rider with the Quick-Step
team in 2004 and won the third stage of last year’s Giro with
the squad.  Leopard-Trek is in its first year and is led by two-time
Tour de France runner-up  Andy Schleck  and his brother Frank, who
are from Luxembourg.  Competitive racing at the Giro is scheduled to resume today
with the fifth of 21 stages, a 191-kilometer ride from Piombino
to Orvieto. The race ends May 29 in Milan.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Duff in Madrid at 
 aduff4@bloomberg.net ;
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  