-- 
DAX Benchmark Gains; Siemens, Bayer, BASF Shares Rise in Frankfurt Trade

-- B y   G i l e s   B r o o m   a n d   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 
2011-05-10T12:24:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/dax-benchmark-gains-siemens-bayer-basf-shares-rise-in-frankfurt-trade.html
German stocks advanced for the third
day in four after  Deutsche Post AG (DPW) , the world’s biggest carrier
of air and sea freight by volume, reported a profit.  Bonn-based Deutsche Post gained 2.6 percent as first-
quarter earnings before interest and taxes beat estimates and
Chief Financial Officer Lawrence Rosen predicted growth in the
U.S. and  Europe  in an interview on Bloomberg Television.
 Infineon Technologies AG (IFX)  rose 2.4 percent after saying it plans
to return capital to investors. Munich Re climbed 2.7 percent as
BofA Merrill Lynch Global Research recommended buying the
shares.  The benchmark  DAX index (DAX)  gained 112.57, or 1.5 percent, to
7,523.09 at 2 p.m. in Frankfurt. The gauge fell 1.1 percent
yesterday amid renewed concern that government debt in Europe’s
peripheral countries is unmanageable. The broader HDAX Index
also rose 1.5 percent today.  “Despite renewed concerns surrounding  Greece ’s ability to
handle its debt matters, the DAX opened higher supported by
Infineon, which announced its share buyback program, and
Deutsche Post, whose reported numbers exceeded analysts’
expectations,” said Anita Paluch, a sales trader at ETX Capital
in  London .  Deutsche Post rallied 2.6 percent to 13.83 euros, the
highest price since Feb. 18. First-quarter Ebit increased 23
percent to 629 million euros, beating the average estimate of
588 million euros based on a Bloomberg survey of 14 analysts.
Sales rose 6.9 percent to 12.8 billion euros.  Deutsche Post  Rosen predicted Deutsche Post will grow in the U.S. and
Europe on Bloomberg Television’s “Countdown” with  Mark Barton .
He also said the company’s U.S. turnaround was “absolutely”
secure in an interview with CNBC television.  Infineon, Europe’s second-largest chipmaker, increased 2.4
percent to 8.19 euros after saying it plans to return up to 300
million euros of capital to investors up to March 2013,
according to a statement after the close of trading yesterday.  The company said it may buy back as many as 40 million
shares. The share buyback authorization was granted at
Infineon’s annual general meeting in February, according to the
statement.  Munich Re  jumped 2.7 percent to 113.10 euros after BofA
Merrill Lynch raised its recommendation on the world’s biggest
reinsurer to “buy” from “neutral.”  Centrotherm Photovoltaics AG surged 4.1 percent to 38.85
euros as the maker of solar-panel production lines said first-
quarter profit jumped 85 percent and orders almost tripled as
Chinese manufacturers raced to build factories.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Giles Broom in Zurich at 
 gbroom@bloomberg.net ;
Julie Cruz in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer in London at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  