-- 
Delta Air, Virgin Blue Get U.S. Approval on Australia Plan

-- B y   J o h n   H u g h e s   a n d   R o b e r t   F e n n e r
-- 
2011-05-10T17:00:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/delta-air-virgin-blue-get-u-s-approval-on-australia-plan-1-.html
Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  and  Virgin Blue
Holdings Ltd. (VBA)  won tentative U.S. approval to collaborate on
U.S.-Australia flights, a reversal of an earlier decision, after
they adjusted their proposal to include more passengers.  “The expansion and optimization of their joint network
will make the alliance more competitive and allow it to deliver
substantial benefits,” Susan Kurland, the Transportation
Department’s assistant secretary for aviation and international
affairs, wrote in an order today in Washington.  Delta, the world’s second-largest airline, and Virgin Blue
first sought approval in July 2009 to collaborate on routes,
share flight bookings and provide reciprocal lounge access to
customers. The venture aims to boost earnings at both carriers,
which compete with Qantas Airways Ltd. and United Continental
Holdings Inc. on flights across the  Pacific Ocean .  The Transportation Department said in its September
decision rejecting the alliance that the stated benefits of the
venture, including lower fares and efficient service, were “in
doubt” and that the carriers had not shown the arrangement
would bring “substantially more public benefits.”  In today’s decision, Kurland wrote that the carriers had
made “substantial changes” to their plan. The airlines
clarified that the Virgin Blue Group will operate with one
management structure and unified reservation system compatible
with Delta’s, according to the order.  The carriers also expanded the scope of their joint venture
to include more destinations, Kurland wrote. The agency will
review comments over the next 21 days before issuing a final
decision.  Qantas,  Australia ’s largest carrier, on Jan. 14 announced
plans for a similar tie-up with AMR Corp.’s American Airlines.  Virgin Blue, Australia’s second-largest airline, this year
began an alliance with Etihad Airways for services to the Middle
East and  Europe , as Chief Executive Officer John Borghetti
focuses on more profitable routes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Hughes  in Washington at 
 jhughes5@bloomberg.net .
Robert Fenner in Melbourne 
 rfenner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net 
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  