-- 
Democrat Hoyer Opposes White House Plan on Contractor Disclosure

-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 
2011-05-10T20:26:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/democrat-hoyer-opposes-white-house-plan-on-contractor-disclosure.html
A top House Democrat said he opposes
a White House plan that would require government contractors to
disclose some of their political donations.  “It’s not a requirement now, and I don’t think it ought to
be a requirement,” Representative Steny Hoyer of  Maryland , the
chamber’s second-ranking Democrat, told reporters in Washington.
“I’m not in agreement with the administration on that issue.”  The White House drafted the disclosure order last month,
though President  Barack Obama  has yet to issue it. Republican
lawmakers also have come out against it.  The draft order follows last year’s  Supreme Court  decision
in Citizens United v. Federal Election Commission, which struck
down a federal law banning companies from using money from their
general treasuries to support or oppose political candidates.
After the ruling, Obama urged Congress to pass legislation
requiring additional disclosures to limit the impact of
anonymous political spending.  “There’s some serious questions as to what the
implications here are if somehow we consider political
contributions in the context of awarding contracts,” Hoyer
said.  House Oversight and Government Reform Committee Chairman
Darrell Issa, a California Republican, plans a hearing on the
proposal on May 12.  Jacob Lew , director of the White House office of Management
and Budget, declined to testify at the hearing, writing in a May
6 letter that the order was “still moving through the standard
review and feedback process.”  Issa, in a letter sent yesterday, asked Lew to reconsider
and said he might issue a subpoena to force him to appear.  Senate Republican leader Mitch McConnell of  Kentucky  called
the order “outrageous” in a statement on April 20.  “No White House should be able to review your political
party affiliation before deciding if you’re worthy of a
government contract,”he said.  Senate Republicans last September blocked that chamber from
voting on legislation that would have required corporations and
unions to disclose spending on political advertising.  To contact the reporters on this story: 
Lisa Lerer in  Washington  at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  