-- 
Deutsche Bank Sees Gold Rising as High as $2,000 as George Soros Pares Bet

-- B y   R o d r i g o   O r i h u e l a
-- 
2011-05-10T20:55:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/deutsche-bank-sees-gold-rising-as-high-as-2-000-as-george-soros-pares-bet.html
Gold, which reached a record on May
2, may surge a further 30 percent by January as investors seek
to protect themselves from “economic uncertainty,” according
to Deutsche Bank AG.  “I’m bullish on gold despite its current levels,” Hal Lehr, Deutsche Bank’s managing director for cross-commodity
trading, said in an interview in Buenos Aires. “It could reach
$2,000 an ounce in the next eight months.”  Investors including  George Soros  and  John Paulson  invested
in gold as the metal surged over the past year amid a sovereign
debt crisis in  Europe , economic turmoil in the U.S. and civil
unrest in the Middle East. This month‘s record $1,577.57 an
ounce was a sixfold gain since the precious metal’s low in
August 1999.  Gold fell 1.6 percent on May 4 after the Wall Street
Journal reported that Soros Fund Management LLC sold precious-
metal assets. Soros’ fund held shares in the SPDR Gold Trust,
the biggest exchange-traded product backed by gold, and the
iShares Gold Trust at the end of 2010, U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission filings show.  Gold rose for a third day in  New York  today as concern
about Europe’s debt woes spurred demand for precious metals as a
protection of wealth. Standard & Poor’s yesterday downgraded
 Greece ’s credit rating for the fourth time since April 2010.
Gold for June delivery rose $13.70, or 0.91 percent, to close at
$1,516.9 an ounce at 1:30 p.m. on the Comex in New York.  Inflation Hedge  Bullion rose for six consecutive weeks through April 29 as
the metal is seen as a hedge against inflation around the globe.
Central banks in  China ,  India  and the European Union, among
others, have increased  interest rates  in recent weeks as
policymakers seek to control consumer prices with tighter
monetary policy.  The U.S. Federal Reserve has kept the benchmark rate
between zero percent and 0.25 percent since December 2008 and
pledged to purchase $600 billion in Treasuries through June to
stimulate the economy.  Standard & Poor’s  earlier last month
revised its debt outlook for the U.S. to negative from stable.  The U.S. Treasury Department projects the government could
reach its debt ceiling limit of $14.3 trillion as soon as mid-
May and run out of options for avoiding default by early July.  Lehr’s so-called cross-commodity team was created by
Deutsche last year to handle large investments in commodities
without distorting prices with sudden inflows of cash, he said.
The team focuses on investment opportunities in a portfolio of
commodities, as opposed to looking at individual commodities.  Bullish on Corn  Lehr declined to offer a breakdown of all the commodities
that form his portfolio, though he said he’s also bullish on
corn, which has risen 92 percent in the past 12 months.  “I believe that over the next two to three years we will
continue to see  price levels  in the $700 range although I
believe the prices for this July crop will rise to over $800,”
he said. “Corn crops are obviously very weather dependent and
now that ethanol and biodiesel have become so important, we see
strong price support for corn from bio-diesel and ethanol.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rodrigo Orihuela in  Buenos Aires  at 
 rorihuela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  