-- 
Deutsche Post Profit Declines After Year-Earlier Gain From Postbank Sale

-- B y   C h r i s   R e i t e r
-- 
2011-05-10T08:02:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/deutsche-post-profit-declines-after-year-earlier-gain-from-postbank-sale.html
Deutsche Post AG (DPW) , the world’s biggest
carrier of air and sea freight by volume, reported lower first-
quarter profit because of a one-time gain last year from the
disposal of Postbank.  Net income fell to 325 million euros ($465 million) from
1.7 billion euros a year earlier, when options related to the
sale of the former Postbank unit added 1.4 billion euros to
profit, the Bonn-based company said today in a statement. The
figure matched the 325 million-euro average of seven analyst
estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Adjusted for the Postbank
effect, profit rose 27 percent, the company said.  “We are in an ideal position to benefit significantly from
the continuing momentum in global markets,” Chief Executive
Officer Frank Appel said in the statement.  Deutsche Post, which is also  Europe ’s largest mail carrier,
is gaining business as emerging markets in  Asia  lead worldwide
economic growth and the U.S. recovers. The company stuck to its
forecast that earnings before interest and taxes in 2011 will
rise to a range of 2.2 billion euros to 2.4 billion euros.  Growth in Asia will likely continue to outpace advances in
Europe and the U.S. for the next several years, Chief Financial
Officer Lawrence Rosen said on a conference call. The share of
sales from emerging markets, which has climbed to 33 percent
from 25 percent over the past four years, should continue to
rise, he said.  Ebit Beat  First-quarter Ebit increased 23 percent to 629 million
euros, beating the average estimate of 588 million euros based
on a Bloomberg survey of 14 analysts. Sales rose 6.9 percent to
12.8 billion euros.  Deutsche Post rose as much as 31 cents, or 2.3 percent, to
13.79 euros and was up 2.2 percent at 9:35 a.m. in  Frankfurt ,
valuing the company at 16.7 billion euros.  The company’s DHL business, which includes express-package
delivery as well as freight handling and forwarding, is raising
rates as volumes increase because of the global economic
recovery. The traditional postal business introduced the E-
Postbrief secure e-mail system in July in an effort to make up
for declining revenue as physical letter volumes fall.  DHL’s Ebit rose 66 percent to 363 million euros in the
first quarter, helped by higher volumes, fuel surcharges, and
lower freight rates. Ebit at the mail division fell 4.1 percent
to 373 million euros because of taxes and expenses for expanding
its digital business.  Deutsche Post is targeting growth in Ebit at the DHL unit
of 13 percent to 15 percent a year through 2015, while the mail
division’s Ebit should “stabilize” at about 1 billion a year,
the company said today, reiterating previous targets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Reiter in Berlin at 
 creiter2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  