-- 
Novak Djokovic in ‘Best’ Form Ever as Gap With No. 1 Rafael Nadal Narrows

-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 
2011-05-10T15:18:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/djokovic-in-best-form-ever-as-gap-with-men-s-tennis-no-1-nadal-narrows.html
Novak Djokovic said he’s never played
better as he closes in on the No. 1 spot in men’s tennis for the
first time.  “I’m playing the best tennis of my life,” the Serb told a
news conference at the  Rome  Masters today.  Two days ago, Djokovic defeated world No. 1 Rafael Nadal 7-
5, 6-4 in the final of the Madrid Masters. His first victory on
clay over the  French Open  champion extended his unbeaten run
this season to 32-0, a start that’s second only to John McEnroe,
who went 42-0 in 1984.  Djokovic, ranked second on the ATP World Tour, has the
chance to take the top spot from Nadal at the clay courts of the
Foro Italico this week, should he win the title and the Spaniard
lose before the semifinals. That would make Djokovic the first
player other than Rome defending champion Nadal or Grand Slam
record holder  Roger Federer  to hold the top ranking since  Andy Roddick  of the U.S. in February 2004.  “The No. 1 ranking is getting closer for me, but it’s
still taking a lot of work,” Djokovic said. He will play Lukasz Kubot of Poland in his opening match tomorrow.  “Right now these guys are playing better than me and
better than other players,” Federer told a news conference.
“Novak’s won all the big tournaments together with Rafa this
year.”  Sixth Title  Switzerland’s Federer, ranked third on the ATP tour, won a
record-extending 16th Grand Slam championship at last year’s
Australian Open. He faces  France ’s Jo-Wilfried Tsonga in his
opening round in the Italian capital tomorrow.  Djokovic’s victory in Madrid handed Nadal his first clay-
court loss in almost two years. The Serb has won six tournaments
this season including the Australian Open.  The Spaniard is seeking a sixth title at the French Open,
which starts May 22 at  Roland Garros  in Paris. His first match
in Rome tomorrow is against the winner of the contest between
Italian qualifier Paolo Lorenzi and  Brazil ’s Thomaz Bellucci.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh at the Foro Italico in Rome through the London
newsroom at   drossingh@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  