-- 
Dollar Thrifty Merger Makes Traders See Biggest Gain in America: Real M&A

-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e   a n d   M a r k   C l o t h i e r
-- 
2011-05-10T03:44:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/dollar-thrifty-merger-makes-traders-see-biggest-gain-in-america-real-m-a.html
Dollar Thrifty Automotive Group Inc. (DTG) 
shareholders may extract the biggest price increase of any
takeover in America as  Hertz Global Holdings Inc. (HTZ)  and  Avis
Budget Group Inc. (CAR)  vie for control of the car-rental company.  Dollar Thrifty, which has doubled in the past 13 months as
Hertz and Avis each offered to buy the Tulsa, Oklahoma-based
company, rose 10 percent above Hertz’s unsolicited bid announced
yesterday. The gap is larger than any pending U.S. deal over $1
billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Park Ridge ,
New Jersey-based Hertz offered $72 a share, 24 percent higher
than Avis’s September proposal, after saying about seven months
ago that $50 a share was its “best and final” bid.  Hertz may force Avis, which has been seeking antitrust
approval to buy Dollar Thrifty for a year, to raise its offer
for a third time and drive the bidding into the “low-to-mid
$80s,” according to Avondale Partners LLC. The winner would get
a company that is more profitable than either acquirer and
emerge as the second-largest U.S. car-rental company, behind
Enterprise Rent-A-Car Co. Dollar Thrifty’s owners stand to reap
a windfall of more than $1 billion on a stock that was trading
for under a dollar less than three years ago, the data show.  “There’s no reason to think there won’t be at least one,
if not two, rounds of improved bidding,” said Bill Kavaler,
senior special situations analyst at Oscar Gruss & Son Inc. in
New York. “The market believes that Hertz, by making this bid,
needs Dollar Thrifty more than they thought they did the first
time around. That’s why the market smells blood. They need it,
and if they need it they’re going to have to pay for it.”  Biggest Gap  Richard Broome, a spokesman for Hertz, said the current
proposal gives Dollar Thrifty shareholders “fair value.”  Dollar Thrifty said in a statement yesterday that the board
plans to “review and consider” Hertz’s offer and advised
shareholders not to take action.  Stephanie Pillersdorf , a
spokeswoman for Dollar Thrifty, and  Andrew Siegel , a spokesman
for Parsippany, New Jersey-based Avis, declined to comment.  Shares of Dollar Thrifty jumped 14 percent to $79.27, the
highest since the company’s initial public offering in 1997.  Hertz agreed to buy the rental-car operator for $57.60 in
cash and 0.8546 share for each Dollar Thrifty share owned,
valuing the bid at $72 a share on May 6.  After Hertz fell 1 percent to $16.68 yesterday, the deal
was worth $71.85, less than Dollar Thrifty’s closing price. The
$7.42 difference was the widest in percentage terms among all
pending U.S. takeovers valued at more than $1 billion, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  ‘Bidding War’  Hertz said it expects to start an exchange offer for the
shares next week and plans to close the deal before the end of
the third quarter.  “People expect both companies to come back with higher
offers,” said Nancy Havens-Hasty, president of Havens Advisors
LLC, a New York-based merger arbitrage fund manager, which owned
200,000 Dollar Thrifty shares as of March 31. The  stock trading 
higher than the offer price signals investors expect “a very
vigorous bidding war.”  Shares of Dollar Thrifty have advanced 104 percent since it
became a takeover target in April last year, boosting its market
value to $2.29 billion, data compiled by Bloomberg show. That’s
more than Avis, which is worth $1.94 billion. Hertz is the
largest of the three with an equity value of $6.94 billion.  Dollar Thrifty has outgained its two competitors since
slumping to a low of 62 cents in March 2009 as air travel and
leisure spending plummeted during the worst U.S. recession since
the Great Depression.  Rental-Car Market  The company, which operates the Dollar and Thrifty brands,
has about 629  locations  in 52 countries, mostly in the U.S. and
 Canada . By bidding for Dollar Thrifty, Hertz and Avis are
competing to secure the No. 2 spot behind Enterprise.  The nation’s four biggest car-rental chains generate 83
percent of U.S. car-rental sales, according to a report this
month from  IBISWorld , the  Santa Monica , California-based
industry researcher. Closely held Enterprise had a 40 percent
share, followed by Hertz with 20 percent and Avis with 17
percent. Dollar Thrifty accounted for 5.6 percent of the
industry’s sales, according to IBISWorld.  Hertz’s latest offer is at least the sixth attempt by
either Hertz or Avis to buy Dollar Thrifty in the past 13 months,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. In April 2010, Hertz
agreed to buy Dollar Thrifty for $41 a share in cash and stock,
the data show.  Rival Offers  The deal included a one-time dividend of $6.88 a share to
be paid by Dollar Thrifty to its shareholders before the deal
closed. Avis countered with an unsolicited cash-and-stock bid of
$46.50 in July, which it then raised to $47.13 in September.  Hertz then boosted its terms to $50, which Avis exceeded
with a $53 offer in September. Dollar Thrifty’s shareholders
rejected Hertz’s bid on Sept. 30, a day after Avis added a
breakup fee to its higher offer.  “Now Hertz is coming in and trying to screw things up for
Avis,” Oscar Gruss’s Kavaler said.  Between the time Dollar Thrifty’s owners voted against
Hertz’s $50 bid and its latest offer, Dollar Thrifty gained 39
percent to $69.69 as of May 6. The Avis bid is currently valued
at about $57.88 a share, including the special dividend.  Hertz and Avis are competing for a company that had a 17
percent operating margin in the past 12 months, outstripping
both potential acquirers. Dollar Thrifty also retained about 52
cents for each dollar of revenue after subtracting the cost of
goods sold, a higher gross margin than either bidder.  Taking a Shot  Dollar Thrifty reported $131.2 million in net income last
year and $45 million in 2009, as Hertz suffered losses each of
those years. Avis made a $54 million profit in 2010 after losing
money for four straight years.  “Dollar Thrifty is such a good, profitable business that
if you have any shot at acquiring it you probably need to take
that shot,” said Fred Lowrance, an analyst at Avondale in
Nashville,  Tennessee . “They see massive earnings and margins
and they say, ‘Hmm. Wouldn’t it just be better to go out and buy
that than spending the next several years trying to build that
on our own?’”  Lowrance said shareholders expect another round of bids
between Hertz and Avis that may push the offer price to the
“low-to-mid $80s.”  Avis is still seeking antitrust approval to purchase Dollar
Thrifty one year after it filed for a review with regulators.
Avis may be ordered by the U.S. Federal Trade Commission to sell
off parts of the combined company or spin off one of its brands,
antitrust lawyers and industry analysts said in November.  ‘Waiting and Watching’  Avis has said it was  willing  to sell parts of its business
that generate as much as $325 million in annual revenue.  Hertz said it has held discussions with the FTC and has
begun selling its Advantage brand to facilitate approval. Hertz
acquired Advantage through a bankruptcy auction in 2009 after a
drop in leisure travel.  “Certainly with Hertz saying they’d give up their brand
Advantage, they have a higher probability of getting their
antitrust approval through,” said Michael Shannon, who co-
manages the $4.58 billion Merger Fund in Valhalla,  New York , for
Westchester Capital Management Inc., which owns about 7 percent
of Dollar Thrifty.  “We’ve been waiting and watching for a long time now,”
Hertz Chief Executive Officer Mark Frissora said on the
conference call with analysts yesterday. “After hearing the
earnings call last week, we realized that there was no progress.
All the while we’ve been monitoring at the FTC and we thought,
given the news of last week, the timing was right for us to go
forward,” he said, referring to Avis’s and Dollar Thrifty’s
earnings conference calls.  Relative Value  Both Hertz and Avis are rated junk, according to
Bloomberg’s Company Credit Ratings. Hertz, which had $1.37
billion in cash at the end of the first quarter, plans to fund a
portion of the purchase via the debt markets. Hertz reaffirmed
its goal of achieving an investment-grade  credit rating , the
company said on the conference call.  “It remains to be seen what happens,” Westchester
Capital’s Shannon said. “But it’s certainly obvious that both
companies want Dollar Thrifty, that there’s a lot of value there,
a lot of synergies, and frankly it’s a terrific deal for them.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tara Lachapelle in New York at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Clothier in Southfield,  Michigan , at 
 mclothier@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net ;
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net . 