-- 
Domino Printing Sees U.S. Egg Venture Growth to Cut Infections

-- B y   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 
2011-05-10T11:50:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/domino-printing-sees-u-s-egg-venture-growth-to-cut-infections.html
Domino Printing Sciences Plc (DNO) , a U.K.
supplier of ink and barcode equipment, sees its joint venture
for tracking eggs in the U.S. expanding in other countries as
consumers demand protection from infections such as salmonella,
Managing Director Nigel Bond said.  “The volume countries are going to be of significant
interest -- I’d imagine countries like  China ,  Brazil ,” Bond
said in an interview in Cambridge,  England , yesterday. Potential
clients include “anyone who inputs into the American market, so
nearby countries like  Canada ,  Mexico ,” he said. “The
potential’s enormous.”  Demand from consumers, as well as tightening regulation,
such as the EU’s  falsified medicines directive , which aims to
cut bootlegged drug supply, will drive demand for the company’s
products, he said. Domino is supplying its printers to the joint
venture company, which will provide a system that can trace eggs
to the farms where they’re produced.  More than 72 billion eggs are produced in the U.S. each
year, and in excess of 500 million were recalled in 2010 because
of salmonella poisoning, according to Domino. Consumers of eggs
coded by the system may use a website to see which farm the eggs
came from and, if there is a health scare, if the farm is
affected. Domino acquired 15 percent in the joint venture with
NewMarket Impressions LLC for $50 million, it said last month.  Acquisition Strategy  Domino will make acquisitions to keep its technology range
up to date, Bond said.  “I’m sure if you had been sat here 20 years ago, talking
to the MD then, he’d have said we’ve got a full portfolio, but
technology moves on,” he said. “I expect over the next 10
years, other technologies will come along, some of which we will
partner with people on, some of which we will acquire.”  Domino is working on new technology, including inks which
change color as a food or drug ages -- a product that could be
applied to sensitive food such as fresh meat and fish.  “That would be of interest to us, because that is low-
cost; it’s an ink you can put into a printer,” he said. He
wouldn’t say how far the research and development had progressed
for this process. “It’s one of the things our chemists look
at.”  Research and development will focus on improving the
company’s current technology, he said, as well as improving
power efficiency and being led by new rules in food and drugs
labeling, he said.  The priority is to ensure “the products we’ve brought in
over the last 10 years are leaders in their field,” he said.  NewMarket Impressions is controlled by Los Angeles-based
Yucaipa Cos.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Howard Mustoe in  London  at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  