-- 
Driest French Spell in 50 Years Raises Specter of 2003 Heat Wave

-- B y   V i d y a   R o o t
-- 
2011-05-10T22:05:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/dry-french-spring-raises-specter-of-2003-heat-wave.html
Joseph Menard, a dairy farmer in
Brittany, northwestern  France , says the country’s  driest spring 
in half a century has left him with just two weeks of animal
fodder in stock.  “There hasn’t been enough water for the grass to grow,”
Menard, who is also president of the agricultural office for
Brittany’s  Ille-et-Vilaine  region, said in a telephone
interview. “We get one or two hours of sporadic rain, but
that’s not enough to grow enough feed for both daily use and
stock for the summer.”  Unseasonably high temperatures that resulted in the second-
warmest April since 1900 and the driest spring in about 50 years
have prompted France to restrict water use in some areas. The
government also has scheduled an agriculture ministry gathering
for tomorrow and a “drought committee” meeting for May 16.  The weather is raising prospects for a repeat of the 2003
heat wave, which resulted in more than 14,000 deaths in France
and left  Europe ’s agricultural and forest industries with about
13 billion euros ($18.5 billion) of losses. Adverse global
weather, ranging from the flooding of the  Mississippi River  to
droughts in  Kansas ,  Oklahoma  and parts of Europe, is damaging
farms and crops.  While the growing season is early in parts of the Northern
Hemisphere, corn futures almost doubled in the past year as U.S.
stockpiles headed for a 15-year low. Wheat prices rose about 64
percent in the same period.  Baguettes to Pasta  The warm spell affecting northern Europe may further cut
the output of crops such as wheat and corn, boosting prices for
everything from baguettes to pasta.  Although it’s too early to count the cost of the current
dry spell in France, Europe’s largest agricultural producer, the
north and northwestern regions of the country have been hit
particularly hard, said Dominique Barrau, the secretary general
of Paris-based farmers’ union  Federation Nationale des Syndicats
d’Exploitants Agricoles .  “We are on the same path as in 2003,” he said in a phone
interview. “It’s more difficult for livestock farmers now since
their situation has progressively worsened since 2009 and they
don’t have the funds to fall back on.”  Temperatures across France averaged 14.5 degrees Celsius
(58 Fahrenheit) in April, 3.8 degrees above normal and the second
highest in more than a century after 2007. Average rainfall of
21 millimeters, or 65 percent less than normal, made it one of
the  driest periods since 1959 , according to data compiled by
Meteo France, the national weather service.  Heat Wave  In 2003, more than 70 of France’s 180 weather stations
reported record-breaking highs in early August. From Aug. 4,
temperatures higher than 35 degrees were recorded at more than
two-thirds of the stations. Temperatures of more than 40 degrees
were found at 15 percent of the stations, unprecedented since
records began being kept in Paris in 1873.  French  measures to prepare  for another possible heat wave,
including registering old people at risk with local
municipalities, will kick in on June 1. The steps were put in
place because many of the people who died in 2003 were elderly.  France’s nuclear sector is taking precautions of its own.
Andre-Claude Lacoste, head of France’s nuclear safety watchdog
Autorite de Surete Nucleaire, said this week that measures are
being studied for Electricite de France SA’s nuclear sites on
the Loire and Rhone Rivers. The reactors rely on river water for
cooling. France gets about 80 percent of its electricity from
nuclear power.  Wine Quality  The effect of the heat and the dry weather on vineyards and
wine will not be clear before August.  “The last three weeks before the grape harvest are key for
wine in terms of the water, the sun and the maturity,” Antoine
Granger, the director of a wine cooperative, told France 2
Television on April 22.  For now, farmers are feeling the greatest impact from the
dry spell.  “There’s not been enough water since the winter,” said
Menard, who has about 40 dairy cows and also grows grains.  About 50 percent of the spring harvest of cattle feed is at
risk, Barrau said. France’s drought-hit areas would need at
least 50 millimeters of rain in the next 15 days for the
situation to improve, he said. If the dry spell continues -- as
Meteo France predicts -- farmers may face losses of as much as
300 euros a hectare (2.47 acres), he said.  With France the biggest producer of wheat in the European
Union, an extended drought “will be catastrophic,” according
to Michel Portier, general director of Paris-based farm
consulting firm Agritel, which advises more than 2,000 farmers
on crop sales.  Food Security   At the March 12 government-sponsored meeting, Barrau and
Menard expect pressure to be exerted on providers of hay and
corn that go into animal feed not to increase prices.  “There aren’t countless options for cattle breeders,”
said Menard. “The other thing to ask for might be additional
financial aid from the government.”  The government needs to closely monitor the situation, said
Barrau. Environment Minister Nathalie Kosciusko-Morizet has said
the drought committee will get together every six weeks. The
meetings are aimed at “helping users anticipate the situation
between now and the summer,” her ministry said.  France needs a “proper national policy on the rational,
reasonable use of water,” Menard said. “Food security is at
stake.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vidya Root in Paris at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at 
 tquinson@bloomberg.net . 