-- 
Easyjet First-Half Net Loss Widens on Higher Fuel Costs, Canceled Flights

-- B y   S t e v e   R o t h w e l l
-- 
2011-05-10T12:49:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/easyjet-loss-jumps-as-ceo-points-to-better-bookings-punctuality.html
EasyJet Plc (EZJ)  jumped the most in seven
months after Chief Executive Officer Carolyn McCall said the
carrier has sold about half its summer seats while lifting fares
and that delays which hurt profit in 2010 are being eliminated.  EasyJet rose as much as 6.2 percent to 368.20 pence in
London, the biggest intraday gain since Oct. 6, after the Luton,
England-based carrier also said it has cut unit costs in all
areas except crew pay. A pretax 153-million-pound ($250 million)
loss in the fiscal first half was slightly less than forecast.  McCall, who joined from Guardian Media Group Plc in July
with a pledge to improve punctuality after crew shortages caused
a surge in delays, said today that yields -- a measure of ticket
prices -- are gaining as EasyJet focuses more on business travel
even as waning consumer confidence curbs leisure trips.  “There are signs that the new management team is starting
to deliver,” said  Gert Zonneveld , an analyst at Panmure Gordon
in London. “Summer seats have been sold at good prices and we’re
seeing punctuality improvements and cost reductions, which is
positive, so there are reasons for optimism.”  EasyJet was trading 5.2 percent higher at 364.7 pence as of
1:25 p.m. in London, boosting its market value to 1.57 billion
pounds. The stock has fallen 17 percent this year, the biggest
drop on the seven-member Bloomberg EMEA Airlines Index.  Business Appeal  McCall said today on a conference call that a “flexi-fare”
offered via travel agents in November that allows passengers to
change flights will be sold through EasyJet’s website from the
end of May, widening the carrier’s appeal to business travelers.  The CEO also aims to boost its share of the corporate
market by lifting frequencies on key routes from bases in
 London , Paris and Geneva. The airline reckons that 18 percent of
its passengers currently travel on business.  “We’ve put in a lot of the stepping stones that we had to
in order to build the foundations to be able to attract more
business passengers,” McCall said on the call. “We had to
improve reliability and punctuality, and we have fixed that. We
are confident about our performance there.”  On-time performance averaged 81 percent in the second
quarter, versus 66 percent a year earlier, the carrier said
today in a statement.  The pretax loss widened from 79 million pounds a year
earlier, EasyJet said, after disruption from Britain’s coldest
December on record and walkouts by air-traffic controllers in
France and  Spain  forced flights to be canceled.  Kerosene Costs  Fuel expenses climbed as the oil price surged, accounting
for 43 million pounds of the pretax loss. Crude is up 34 percent
from a year ago, even after dropping 15 percent in the five days
ending May 6, the biggest weekly decline since December 2008.  EasyJet has hedged 64 percent of its fuel needs for the six
months ending September 30 at $755 a ton, and 41 percent of its
needs for the financial year ending September 2012 at $909, it
said on its website. Jet fuel traded at $1,009 a ton yesterday.  The net loss was 114 million pounds, compared with 59
million pounds a year earlier, the carrier said.  “The past six months has been tough, with sharply rising
fuel costs combined with cautious behavior by consumers,”
McCall said. “The combination of fuel and air-passenger duty
increases is proving harder to pass on.”  EasyJet will hold its fleet size constant at 204 aircraft
next winter and implement a “conservative approach” to growth,
it said in a statement. Founder and No. 1 shareholder Stelios Haji-Ioannou, who fell out with McCall’s predecessor over the
purchase of planes, said he welcomed the new capacity plan.  “At long last the EasyJet board has recognized that by not
growing the fleet beyond the current levels of just over 200
aircraft the company will make more money than by buying more,”
the entrepreneur in a statement. “Management now needs to sweat
the business’s existing assets.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steve Rothwell in London at 
 srothwell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  