-- 
Heat Push Celtics to Brink of Elimination; Thunder Win in Third Overtime

-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-05-10T06:08:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/heat-push-celtics-to-brink-of-elimination-thunder-win-in-third-overtime.html
The  Miami Heat  pushed the  Boston
Celtics  to the verge of postseason elimination with an overtime
victory. The Oklahoma City Thunder then won 133-123 in triple
overtime to tie their National Basketball Association playoff
series against the Memphis Grizzlies.  LeBron James  scored 35 points and  Dwyane Wade  added 28 for
the Heat, who beat the Celtics 98-90 after outscoring the
Eastern Conference champions 12-4 during the overtime period at
TD Garden in Boston. The win gives Miami a three-games-to-one
lead in the best-of-seven second-round series.  “We’re one more win away from our short-term goal,” Chris Bosh, who had 20 points and 12 rebounds for the Heat, said at a
news conference.  Miami hosts Game 5 tomorrow with a chance to advance to the
Eastern Conference finals against  Chicago  or Atlanta. The Bulls
and Hawks are tied at two games apiece, with Game 5 scheduled
for tonight in Chicago.  The Thunder rallied from an 18-point first-half deficit
last night at FedExForum in Memphis and finally pulled away by
outscoring the Grizzlies 14-4 in the third overtime.  It was the second NBA playoff game to go three overtimes in
the past seven years.  “This was a fun game,”  Kevin Durant , who scored 35 points
for Oklahoma City, said in a televised interview. “Both teams
fought hard. Playing games like this, that’s what you live
for.”  Westbrook Leads Thunder  Russell Westbrook scored 40 points to lead the fourth-
seeded Thunder, who hit 5-of-7 shots in the final overtime.  Zach Randolph had 34 points and 16 rebounds for  Memphis ,
and Marc Gasol totaled 26 points and 21 rebounds. The Grizzlies
made only one basket in the third 5-minute overtime.  The best-of-seven series shifts to Oklahoma City for Game 5
tomorrow. The winner of the series will face the  Dallas 
Mavericks for a place in the NBA Finals. Dallas completed a
four-game sweep of the two-time defending champion Los Angeles
Lakers two days ago.  Miami is one win away from ousting the defending Eastern
Conference champion Celtics thanks to its “Big Three” of
James, Wade and Bosh. The Heat added James and Bosh during the
offseason after losing to Boston in the first round of the NBA
playoffs a year ago.  Boston  went scoreless for the first three minutes of the 5-
minute overtime, while the Heat took control with a 6-0 scoring
run. James, Bosh and Wade combined for all 12 of Miami’s points
in overtime and 85 percent for the game.  “This team is going to go as far as us three take it,”
said Wade, who had lost his previous 11 regular-season and
playoff games in Boston. Wade, James and Bosh had totaled 44
points in the Heat’s 97-81 loss in Game 3.  Paul Pierce  scored 27 points last night to lead the
Celtics, who finished with 18 turnovers. Celtics point guard
Rajon Rondo, who returned after suffering a dislocated elbow in
Game 3, had 10 points and five assists in 38 minutes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 