-- 
ECB Officials Reject Restructuring as Greece Struggles to Repay Its Debts

-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r o c k e t t   a n d   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 
2011-05-10T12:42:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/ecb-officials-reject-restructuring-as-greece-struggles-to-repay-its-debts.html
European Central Bank officials
warned of catastrophic consequences if  Greece  is allowed to
restructure its sovereign debt.  “Default or debt restructuring is a dramatic economic and
social event for the country which experiences it -- I would
call it political ‘suicide’ -- which leads many into poverty,”
Executive Board member Lorenzo Bini Smaghi said in Florence
today. Fellow board member  Juergen Stark  said restructuring
“wouldn’t be a solution to the problems that Greece needs to
overcome.”  Concern at the Frankfurt-based ECB is growing after Greek
bond yields soared to all-time highs on speculation the
government will be unable to meet its refinancing needs under
the conditions of its current 110 billion-euro ($158 billion)
bailout package. Greece’s credit rating was yesterday cut two
levels by  Standard & Poor’s , which said further reductions are
possible as the risk of default rises.  “The ECB is fighting to keep politicians away from the
restructuring debate,” said  Nick Kounis , head of macro research
at  ABN Amro  in Amsterdam. “They are worried that people are
starting to consider it in important capitals.”  The strategy may be working.  Germany , which last month
indicated a restructuring was possible, yesterday said extending
further aid to Greece may be preferable.  More Aid?  European finance chiefs, who held an unscheduled meeting in
Luxembourg on May 6 to discuss Greece’s plight, said the nation
needs “a further adjustment program.”  Athens-based newspaper Kathimerini reported today that the
 International Monetary Fund  is arranging a new aid package to
replace Greece’s existing bailout. The plan would allow Greece
to avoid selling bonds for another two years, the newspaper
said. Under the original rescue program, Greece was due to
return to markets and sell about 27 billion euros of bonds next
year and a similar amount in 2013.  Record financing costs are dimming expectations that Greece
will be able to sell debt at manageable rates. The country’s
two-year bonds yield about 25 percent and the 10-year yield is
at 15.4 percent, more than twice the level when Greece received
its aid package a year ago.  “It was expected that Greece would be able to refinance
itself via the market next year and there now are strong
indications that won’t happen,” ECB council member  Ewald Nowotny  said today in a radio interview with ORF. Still, fellow
council member Yves Mersch said in Florence that restructuring
is “not an option.”  Greece ‘Bankrupt’  While German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  said today it’s too
early to decide whether Greece needs more financial aid, the
Handelsblatt newspaper reported that euro-area countries are
readying a further “two-digit” billion-euro loan. Finance
ministers will discuss the package next Monday, Handelsblatt
said, citing unidentified “eurozone sources.”  Greece can’t meet payments on the money it already owes
“and now the European Union’s talking about lending them more
money,”  Mark Grant , managing director at Southwest Securities
Inc., told Pimm Fox on Bloomberg Television’s “Taking Stock.”
Greece “is bankrupt, and the European Union is going to have to
face up to that. The country has to default or restructure.”  ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  has refused to entertain
the idea of a restructuring, calling instead for Greece to
implement its current austerity program.  ‘Easy Ways Out’  “We need to strengthen the norms and the rules for each
country to be full members of the euro rather than making easy
ways out which would not work in any case,”  Bini Smaghi  said
today.  He put some of the blame for the restructuring discussion
on large investors who have bought insurance against a sovereign
default and “stand to benefit greatly from the default and
lobby in favor of it.”  “They tend to encourage naive governments to believe that
debt restructuring can be done in an ‘orderly way,’ distracting
them from implementing the appropriate policy adjustment,” he
said. “If the euro area were to go down the path of leaving it
entirely up to the markets to decide which countries are solvent
and which are not, it would put the euro at a disadvantage
compared with all other major currencies.”  Nowotny said last month that a restructuring of Greek
 government bonds  could drive up borrowing costs in other euro-
area countries as investors bet they will follow Greece’s lead.  Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  has also rejected
the idea of a restructuring.  “Greece’s problems won’t be solved by restructuring its
debt but by restructuring the country,” he said April 15.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Brockett in Frankfurt at 
 mbrockett1@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Black in Frankfurt 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  