-- 
Ecopetrol Rises Most in a Month Before Andean Exchange

-- B y   B l a k e   S c h m i d t
-- 
2011-05-10T21:15:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/ecopetrol-rises-most-in-a-month-before-andean-exchange-2-.html
Ecopetrol SA,  Colombia ’s largest oil
company, gained the most in a month as crude rose and investors
buy up the state-run company’s stock ahead of Colombia’s May 30
bourse integration with Peru and  Chile .  Ecopetrol, the most weighted stock on Colombia’s Colcap
Index, where it accounts for 20 percent of the market, rose 3.3
percent to 3,900 pesos at 4 p.m. New York time, after earlier
gaining as much as 3.8 percent, the most on an intraday basis
since March 16.  “Many investors are coming along for the ride now as
Peruvian and Chilean pension funds are to invest in our
market,” said Camilo Rubiano, analyst at Afin Sa. “The market
is going to see more liquidity, a larger supply with a larger
basket of shares.”  Colombia’s bourse rose the most since April 20 as liquidity
returns to the market after Avianca Taca Holding SA and Grupo
Aval Acciones y Valores ended oversubscribed share issuances
that will begin trading this week, said Rubiano. The Colcap
Index rose 1.3 percent to 1,692.77.  Finance Minister Juan Carlos Echeverry said the government
will withdraw from congress a bill to sell as much as a 10
percent stake in Ecopetrol and may resend the bill later after
correcting procedural problems, according to a regulatory filing
today.  Investors are buying Ecopetrol’s shares on bets that the
delay of the sale issuance will assure the stock isn’t diluted
in the short term, Rubiano said.  Ecopetrol said surging exports and record production fueled
a 59 percent jump in first-quarter profit, according to a
statement May 5. Net income increased to 3.11 trillion pesos
($1.7 billion) from 1.95 trillion pesos a year earlier, the
company said. Revenue rose 41 percent as output climbed 17
percent.  Crude oil rose today as concern increased that flooding of
the  Mississippi River  will disrupt fuel output, and equities
climbed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Blake Schmidt in  Sao Paulo  at 
 bschmidt16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Glenn Kalinoski at 
 gkalinoski1@bloomberg.net  