-- 
Egypt’s April Inflation Accelerates as Food Prices Increase

-- B y   M a r i a m   F a m
-- 
2011-05-10T14:48:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/egypt-s-inflation-accelerates-to-12-1-in-april-as-food-prices-increase.html
Egyptian inflation accelerated in
April on rising food prices, one of the causes of the unrest
that toppled President  Hosni Mubarak .  The inflation rate in urban parts of  Egypt , the gauge that
the central bank monitors, rose to 12.1 percent from 11.5
percent in March, the Central Agency for Public Mobilization and
Statistics said on its website today. Prices increased 1.2
percent in the month, it said.  The central bank will probably disregard higher prices and
“keep  interest rates  on hold in its next meeting in an effort
to support investment,”  Alia Mamdouh , an economist at Cairo-
based investment bank CI Capital, said by e-mail before the
figures were published. She had forecast the inflation rate at
11.9 percent.  Eighteen days of protests in Egypt, sparked by falling
living standards and high unemployment as well as a lack of
democratic rights, led to the ouster of Mubarak on Feb. 11. The
political turmoil may slow economic growth to 1 percent this
year, the  International Monetary Fund  said last month.  Core inflation , which excludes the prices of fruits and
vegetables as well as regulated prices, rose to an annual rate
of 8.76 percent in April from 8.54 percent in the previous
month, the central bank said in a statement on its website.  Food Prices  The prices of food and beverages, the biggest component in
the  consumer price index , rose 21.7 percent this year, according
to data on the statistics agency website.  As protests continue, tourists have stayed away and factory
output has been hit by strikes. Egypt’s net international
reserves fell for a fourth month in April to $28 billion from
$30.1 billion in March, the lowest level since April 2007.  The central bank on April 28 left its overnight deposit
rate unchanged at 8.25 percent, the lowest level in more than
four years, and the overnight lending rate at 9.75 percent to
support economic growth. The Monetary Policy Committee last
raised the benchmark interest rate in September 2008.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 