-- 
Electric Cars Could Balance 10% of U.K. Power Needs, Report Says

-- B y   K a r i   L u n d g r e n
-- 
2011-05-10T11:20:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/electric-cars-could-balance-10-of-u-k-power-needs-report-says.html
Electric cars and trucks may help the
U.K. cope with erratic renewable power generation by recharging
when demand is low and supplying the network when demand is
high, the country’s grid operator said.  Electric vehicles may be able to balance 6 to 10 percent of
the nation’s power needs by 2020 and lower demand on fossil
fuels as backup,  National Grid Plc (NG/)  said in a report released
today in partnership with  Ricardo Plc (RCDO) , a U.K. maker of fuel-
efficient cars. The annual return to the car owner would be
around 50 pounds ($82), the companies said.  Britain, aiming to get 15 percent of its energy from
renewable sources by 2020, is planning $120 billion of offshore
wind projects as well as gas and nuclear plants to replace aging
generators. A surge in renewable energy projects, which is more
variable than traditional power sources, will boost the need for
back-up generators and management of energy usage, authors
including Neil Downing and Ben Smith said in the report.  “Great Britain’s electricity grid is a highly meshed
network,” the authors said. “The overriding principle of
operation of the  Great Britain  electricity network -- and any
other large scale network -- is to match electricity supply
precisely to consumer demand on a second-by-second basis.”  In fiscal year 2010, National Grid spent 270 million pounds
on so-called reserve services, the report said. These services,
which can supply energy within 2 seconds and 20 minutes
depending on how long they are required, are needed to manage
variations in usage and to handle unplanned events like power
plant failures.  Reverse Charging  Grid operators use demand-side management to trim usage
when there is a surge in energy use or a sudden drop in supply.
Electric car owners could be paid a fee if they are willing to
refrain from charging at times of high usage. In the future,
cars may supply power stored in their batteries to the grid when
they’re not in use.  “Plug-in vehicles may be able to work in synergy with the
 electricity market  to smooth the daily demand profile,” the
author said. This may help reduce “the need to meet additional
balancing requirements by simply running more ‘conventional’
generation and potentially incurring additional carbon dioxide
emissions.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kari Lundgren in London at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  