-- 
Telefonica’s Atento Call-Center Division Plans IPO, With Pricing in June

-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h   a n d   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i
-- 
2011-05-10T11:18:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/telefonica-s-atento-call-center-division-plans-ipo-in-spain-1-.html
Telefonica SA (TEF) ’s Atento call-center
unit will sell new shares in an initial public offering as the
Spanish parent company seeks to reduce debt and focuses on Latin
America to offset declining domestic market share.  The stock price will be set by about June 9, according to
the terms of sale obtained by Bloomberg News today. Atento has
an enterprise value of as much as 1 billion euros ($1.43
billion), according to Jean-Baptiste Bruny, a Madrid-based
analyst at Banco de Sabadell SA.  Telefonica, Spain’s former phone monopoly and the biggest
operator in the country, aims to expand in Latin America’s
fixed-line and mobile-phone markets as government austerity
measures and the entry of smaller rivals limit domestic growth.
The Madrid-based company has a target of reducing debt to a
range of 2 to 2.5 times operating income before depreciation and
amortization from 2.5 times in 2010.  “Telefonica wants to sell non-core assets and Atento is
the first one in line,” Bruny said in a phone interview. “The
company has already tried to sell it before but couldn’t because
of a lack of demand and the crisis.”  The sale will be jointly coordinated by  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , while  Banco Santander SA (SAN) ,  BNP Paribas (BNP) 
SA,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA) 
will be the bookrunners, according to the term sheet. The
document doesn’t indicate any amounts, including Telefonica’s
planned holding following the IPO.  Atento Earnings  Atento’s revenue rose 26 percent last year to 1.66 billion
euros, with the largest part coming from Brazil, according to
Telefonica’a  annual report . Operating profit before depreciation
and amortization increased 23 percent to 190 million euros.
Atento had 151,896 employees at the end of 2010.  Telefonica, which is slashing its Spanish workforce by
about 20 percent in the next three years, is betting on higher
dividends and  Latin America ’s economic growth to help win back
investors discouraged by the highest unemployment rate of the
countries that share the euro. The company, which owns the O2
mobile-phone brand, is scheduled to report earnings on May 13
before the market opens in Madrid.  Chairman Cesar Alierta is also trying to defend the
operating margin before depreciation and amortization at
Telefonica’s Spanish business, where competitors are cutting
prices. The company isn’t interested in any mergers or
acquisitions this year, Alierta told investors in London on
April 14.  Telefonica declined as much as 0.8 percent to 16.80 euros
and was down 0.1 percent as of 1:16 p.m. in Madrid trading. The
stock has declined 0.4 percent this year, valuing the company at
77.2 billion euros.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Adam Haigh in London at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net ;
Manuel Baigorri in  Madrid  at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong in Berlin at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  