-- 
Emerging Stocks Rise Most in 2 Weeks on China Exports, Earnings

-- B y   W e i y i   L i m   a n d   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n
-- 
2011-05-10T14:50:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/emerging-stocks-rise-most-in-2-weeks-on-china-exports-earnings.html
Emerging-market stocks rose, with the
benchmark index headed for its biggest rally in two weeks, as
record Chinese exports and better-than-estimated corporate
earnings bolstered confidence in the global economy.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index climbed 0.3 percent to
1,165.23 at 9:57 a.m. in New York, poised for the largest
increase on a closing basis since April 21. The Russian ruble
lead gains in emerging-market currencies, strengthening 0.7
percent against the dollar.  China ’s Shanghai Composite Index climbed 0.6 percent as the
government said exports increased by a bigger-than-estimated 30
percent to a record in April.  Hindalco Industries Ltd. (HNDL)  and
 Hindustan Unilever Ltd. (HUVR)  advanced in Mumbai on fourth-quarter
earnings that topped analysts’ forecasts. Brazil’s Bovespa index
gained 0.4 percent, led by financial shares, after Latin
America’s biggest bank by assets posted higher-than-expected
earnings.  China’s trade data “reinforced the view that there’s no
risk of hard landing for the economy,” said Wu Kan, a  fund
manager  at Dazhong Insurance Co. in Shanghai, which oversees
$285 million.  Policy makers in the world’s biggest exporter and second-
largest economy are trying to cool inflation without curbing
economic growth. Consumer price increases probably slowed to 5.2
percent in April from 5.4 percent the previous month, according
to the median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey. The
statistics bureau will release inflation data in Beijing at 10
p.m.  New York  time.  Yield Spreads  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over  U.S. Treasuries  dropped six basis points to 3.02
percentage points, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI
Global Index. The Markit iTraxx SOVX CEEMEA Index of credit-
default swaps for emerging  Europe , the Middle East and Africa
fell two basis points to 186, according to data provider CMA in
 London .  The IMF is arranging an 80 billion-euro ($114 billion) to
100 billion-euro aid package to replace Greece’s existing
bailout program, Greek newspaper Kathimerini reported, without
saying how it got the information.  The plan entails disbursing an additional 30 billion euros
to cover Greece’s funding needs through 2013 and would include
tougher conditions and more realistic targets than last year’s
bailout, the newspaper said. Greek government bonds rose after
the report.  Shanghai  Rally  The Shanghai Composite advanced for a second day. Yanzhou
Coal Mining Co. rose 2.1 percent, pacing gains among Chinese
coal producers. The shares advanced after the price of the fuel
climbed yesterday to the highest in more than two years. China
Shenhua Energy Co., the largest coal producer, added 1 percent.  Hindalco, India’s largest aluminum maker, gained 0.3
percent in Mumbai after saying fourth-quarter profit increased
to 7.08 billion rupees ($158 million). The average profit
estimate of 19 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg was 5.67 billion
rupees. Hindustan Unilever, the Indian unit of the world’s
second-biggest consumer-goods company, rose 4.4 percent.  State-controlled lender Banco do Brasil SA gained for a
fourth day, rising 1.3 percent, after adjusted profit rose 42
percent in the first quarter from a year earlier.  Nigeria’s All-Share Index gained 2.3 percent, the most in
four months.  First Bank of Nigeria Plc (FIRSTBAN) , the country’s third-
biggest lender by market value, jumped 5 percent after
 Renaissance Capital  rated the stock “buy” in reinitiated
coverage.  The Romanian leu strengthened 0.3 percent against the euro
after the country’s inflation rate accelerated more than
economists had forecast in April to the highest level in almost
three years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reinie Booysen at 
 rbooysen@bloomberg.net  