-- 
Emerging-Market Food Inflation May Peak in June, Goldman Says

-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 
2011-05-10T12:35:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/emerging-market-food-inflation-may-peak-in-june-goldman-says.html
Food inflation in emerging markets
may peak as early as June or July, which could ease investors’
concerns about “aggressive” monetary tightening and boost
bonds and equities in local markets, Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
said.  “Food prices may become a source of headline disinflation
in many emerging markets by the end of 2011,” Themistoklis
Fiotakis, a London-based analyst at Goldman Sachs, wrote in a
report today. After a recent slide in agricultural commodities,
“food-inflation relief may come sooner and it may be sharper
than we initially thought.”  The S&P GS Agricultural Commodity Index has dropped 11
percent since April 6, while Goldman had forecast a 13 percent
rise between April and June, according to Fiotakis. Overall
emerging-market inflation could slide by more than 100 basis
points between June and December if international food prices
stay at current levels, he said.  The world food-price index tracked by the  United Nations ’
Rome-based Food and Agriculture Organization rose to 232.1
points in April from 231 points in March, having fallen from a
record 237.2 in February.  Goldman Sachs previously expected emerging-market food
inflation to peak around September, with food prices becoming a
source of disinflation by late 2011 or early 2012. A reduction
in inflation stemming from food prices could “ease market fears
for aggressive tightening” of monetary policies in some
emerging markets and help local bond markets rally, Goldman
Sachs said.  Long Exposure  “In the event that yields start to decline in certain
emerging markets, equities are bound to benefit as well,”
Fiotakis said, adding the bank “continues to recommend a broad
long exposure” to equities in such markets.  Food is the most important factor in emerging-market
inflation, according to Goldman Sachs. The S&P GS Agricultural
Commodity Index rose more than 90 percent between June 2010 and
February 2011, making it “easy to understand” the price
pressure from farm goods, Fiotakis wrote.  “Given the massive increase that has already occurred, one
would need global food prices to continue to grow at these
extreme rates to maintain current headline inflation rates,”
Fiotakis said. “Even under a scenario of more adverse weather
conditions, the contribution from food inflation to general
inflation would eventually subside.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 