-- 
Emirates Posts Record Profit as Superjumbos Lure Passengers

-- B y   T a m a r a   W a l i d   a n d   S t e f a n i a   B i a n c h i
-- 
2011-05-10T14:42:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/emirates-posts-record-full-year-net-as-a380s-lure-passengers-1-.html
Emirates, the world’s biggest airline
by international traffic, said annual earnings surged 43 percent
to a record as it attracted more passengers using a growing
fleet of Airbus SAS A380 superjumbos.  Net income in the year ended March 31 rose to 5.93 billion
dirhams ($1.6 billion) from 4.15 billion dirhams a year earlier,
the Dubai-based company said today. Profit at the main airline
division jumped 52 percent to 5.37 billion.  The Middle East’s biggest carrier is building the largest
superjumbo fleet as it seeks to establish Dubai as an inter-
continental travel hub and win passengers from  Air France-KLM (AF) 
Group and  Deutsche Lufthansa AG. (LHA)  It’s also fending off local
challengers  Qatar Airways  and Abu Dhabi’s Etihad, and redeployed
capacity amid unrest in Arab states and the Japanese earthquake.  “The record results reflect their excellent geographic
position, good product and strong management, which shows great
flexibility in adapting to current market challenges,” said  John Strickland , an aviation analyst at JLS Consultancy.  State-owned Emirates may announce more plane orders at the
Dubai Air Show in November but is unlikely to place contracts
for jets at the Paris event next month, Chairman Sheikh Ahmed bin Saeed al-Maktoum said at a press conference in Dubai.  A380 Plans  Emirates has 90 A380s on order after last year agreeing to
buy a further 32 with a list price of $11 billion, and is
targeting 120. The company currently has 15 superjumbos in the
fleet and will receive six more this fiscal year.  “We continue to be the largest A380 operator and we have
exciting expansion plans for the coming year,” Sheikh Ahmed
said. “We will always find new and open routes to be able to
maintain profitability.”  The airline will add services to Geneva, Copenhagen, Rio de
Janeiro and Buenos Aires this year and will announce others
soon, the chairman said.  The fleet of 152 Airbus and  Boeing Co. (BA)  aircraft will reach
169 by 2012, with the 200-strong order book worth in excess of
$68 billion, excluding options, according to Emirate’s website.
President  Tim Clark  has said that the only restriction on growth
is airport space.  Having coped with a “challenging year” that also featured
airport closures due to a volcanic ash cloud and heavy snowfalls
in some of its biggest markets, Emirates aims to maintain growth
of 10 percent or more this year and next, Sheikh Ahmed said.  Sales Surge  Group sales surged 26 percent to 57.4 billion dirhams in
the year as Emirates flew 31.4 million people, up 14 percent.
The  load factor , or proportion of seats filled, was 80 percent
and cargo revenue rose 28 percent to 8.6 billion dirhams.  “Our financial year has started with a few challenges, with
shifting fuel prices and regional instability,” Sheikh Ahmed
said. Emirates would have achieved net income of 7 billion
dirhams in the year were it not for fuel costs, he said, adding
that a reasonable oil price for the industry would be between
$80 and $90 a barrel, compared with the current $100-plus.  Airlines stand to earn almost 50 percent less this year
than in 2010 as rising oil prices limit the benefits of a
rebounding economy, the  International Air Transport Association 
predicted in March. IATA cut its forecast for industry profit to
$8.6 billion from the $9.1 billion projected earlier.  Emirates paid a dividend of 2 billion dirhams to the Dubai
government for the year, the most to date, Sheikh Ahmed said,
though a  bond issue  was postponed after borrowing costs rose.  “In the last month we said we might tap the market for
bonds or sukuk issuance and then saw the prices were too high so
we stopped,” he said. “When the market improves we can tap it.”  The company’s cash of 16 billion dirhams is a “nice cushion
to have,” the chairman said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tamara Walid in  Abu Dhabi  at 
 twalid@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net ;
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net  