-- 
Endangered Species Backlog to Decrease Under U.S. Work Plan

-- B y   W i l l i a m   M c Q u i l l e n
-- 
2011-05-10T20:45:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/endangered-species-backlog-to-decrease-under-u-s-work-plan-1-.html
The  U.S. Interior Department  said it
will reduce a backlog of more than 250 cases seeking protection
for wildlife and plants under the  Endangered Species Act ,
seeking to end a lawsuit brought by an environmental group.  The plan, filed with the  U.S. District Court  for the
 District of Columbia , calls for reviews of pending requests to
be completed within six years, according to court documents
filed today by the department.  The proposal was part of a settlement with  WildEarth
Guardians , an environmental and wildlife group based in  Santa
Fe ,  New Mexico , and one of the department’s most frequent legal
opponents. The law has been in effect for 35 years and protects
more than 1,300 species in the U.S.  “For the first time in years, this work plan will give the
wildlife professionals of the Fish and Wildlife Service the
opportunity to put the needs of species first and extend that
safety net to those truly in need of protection, rather than
having our workload driven by the courts,” said  David Hayes ,
deputy secretary of the Interior.  Candidates awaiting action includes the  Florida bonneted
bat ,  Tacoma Western pocket gopher ,  streaked horned lark , and
additional frogs, salamanders, insects, fish and plants.  The Obama administration proposed $24.6 million for
endangered-species listing, up from $22.1 million in 2010.  The program will streamline a process that previously would
have led to possibly hundreds of individual legal claims, said
Nicole Rosmarino, wildlife program director for WildEarth.  ‘Good For Species’  “It’s good for the species,” Rosmarino said. “Some have
been waiting for protection for over 30 years and so we think
the agreement” would “advance the endangered special program
in an intelligent way.”  The  Fish and Wildlife Service , after the plan is adopted,
would seek to protect the species added to the list with
regulations, technical assistance and grants to support
conservation projects.  The U.S. will need to make a final determination on which
of the more than 250 species seeking to be listed are
“warranted but precluded,” a loophole provided in the statute.
About 150 requests have been pending for more than 20 years and
57 have waited more than 30 years. Ninety-eight percent of the
candidates are imperiled by habitat loss and more than half are
threatened by disease or predators. An additional 37 percent are
threatened by  climate change , according to the group.  Fewer Petitions  Under the accord, the group agreed it would file fewer than
10 additional petitions each year to let the Interior Department
clear the backlog, Rosmarino said.  The agreement doesn’t guarantee any of species awaiting
classification will be listed, said Patrick Parenteau, a Vermont
Law School professor who specializes in endangered species
cases. The certainty of the process will allow the groups to
decide how to proceed, he said.  Environmental and wildlife groups may eventually file
lawsuits challenging U.S. rulings that individual species aren’t
endangered, he said.  “It’s a very positive step in a significant effort to
clear the backlog,” Parenteau said. “At least it will get
decisions on whether they will be listed or not.”  The settlement must be approved by a U.S. judge in
 Washington .  The agreement will extend federal protection “to many more
deserving species than otherwise would have been the case,”
both parties said in a joint filing to the court.  The case is In Re Endangered Species Act Section 4 Deadline
Litigation, 10-377, U.S. District Court for the District of
Columbia (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
William McQuillen in Washington at 
 bmcquillen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  