-- 
Merkel Refuses to Commit to More Greece Aid Until After Assessment Reports

-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a
-- 
2011-05-10T13:10:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/merkel-refuses-to-commit-to-more-greece-aid-until-after-assessment-reports.html
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel 
refused to commit to more aid for Greece, saying it is too early
to decide whether the country needs additional financial help to
stamp out the debt crisis.  “First we need to hear what the status is; only then can I
decide what, if anything, needs to be done,” Merkel told
reporters in Berlin today. “I’m the kind of person who draws
conclusions when I’ve seen the results and analyzed them.
Nothing will keep me from doing that.”  A review by the  International Monetary Fund  and European
officials of Greece’s effort to cut its debt and deficit, a
condition for last year’s 110 billion-euro ($158 billion)
bailout, isn’t due until June and “I won’t talk about what
needs to be done” before it is completed, Merkel said.  Merkel’s refusal to tip her hand in the euro-region’s debt
crisis is a rerun of her stance a year ago, when she held out
for weeks before bending to fellow European leaders to back the
Europe-led aid package for  Greece . She hinted at that linkage
during her talk with foreign reporters in Berlin today.  “What I made clear -- that wasn’t hesitation, but a demand
-- that we can offer solidarity only if Greece’s stability and
eagerness to reform is proven,” she said. “We can get out of
this difficult situation only if we properly rebuild that
foundation, not just help without Greece doing anything” in
return.  Greek Bonds Rise  Greek government bonds rose, pushing securities of Europe’s
most-indebted nations higher, as Greece sold bills and the
Kathimerini newspaper reported the IMF is arranging a new aid
package. The euro declined 0.1 percent to $1.4351 at 1:50 p.m.
Berlin time.  Lawmakers in Merkel’s governing coalition are moving toward
accepting the need for more aid to Greece as analysts and
investors speculate the country that triggered the euro-area
sovereign crisis can’t avoid restructuring its debt.  Germany would consider more aid to avoid restructuring,
which would risk “maneuvering ourselves into an even bigger
problem than we have already,” Michael Meister, the
parliamentary finance spokesman for Merkel’s  Christian
Democratic Union , said yesterday.  In return for steps that might include lower  interest rates 
and longer maturities on aid, Greece must accelerate its state
asset sales program to convince creditors it’s serious about
cutting debt, Meister said.  Changing Tone  The comments in recent days contrast with the position of
German officials as recently as last month, when Deputy Foreign
Minister Werner Hoyer said a Greek debt restructuring “would
not be a disaster.” Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble 
referred to restructuring Greece’s debt in an interview in Die
Welt newspaper published on April 14. He subsequently said his
remarks had been misinterpreted. A Merkel economic adviser, Lars Feld, has called a restructuring unavoidable.  Financial markets may force the hand of the German
chancellor, who said today that  Germany  will “stand behind the
euro.” Greece’s credit rating was cut two levels to B by
 Standard & Poor’s  yesterday and Moody’s Investors Service warned
of a downgrade.  While banks are “lobbying hard to avoid a default,”
Germany “and others are now cornered by Greece,” Fredrik Erixon, director of the European Centre for International
Political Economy in Brussels, said by phone.  ‘Ease Conditions’  “Germany is now trying to ease conditions on the first
loan so that they don’t have to provide a second loan,” he
said. “But Greece is probably going to need a second loan. At
some point there has to be either a radical restructuring of
Greek debt or else Greece will have to simply be cut loose.”  Germany, as  Europe ’s largest economy, is the biggest
single-country contributor to Greece’s aid, which was followed
by bailouts for Ireland and  Portugal . “Many people are
disappointed” that some countries breached the debt and deficit
limits for euro nations, Merkel said.  While members of her coalition rank among those unhappy at
having to pick up the tab, Merkel said that she was confident
lawmakers will agree to the post-2013 European Stability
Mechanism for indebted euro-area states once it goes to a
parliamentary vote after the summer recess.  “I’m not sure that Germany has a fixed plan, but they want
some clarification about the Greek issue before parliament votes
on the ESM,”  Holger Schmieding , London-based chief economist at
Joh. Berenberg Gossler & Co., said in a phone interview. That’s
“very different from saying Germany has concluded Greece needs
a haircut and is now executing its devilish plan.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at  jhertling@bloomberg.net  