-- 
Merscorp Electronic Mortgage Registry Is Sued Over Michigan Foreclosures

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 
2011-05-10T22:40:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/merscorp-mortgage-registry-sued-over-non-judicial-foreclosures-in-michigan.html
Mortgage Electronic Registration
Systems Inc. “illegally prosecuted” non-judicial foreclosures
in  Michigan  and owes more than $100 million to people who lost
their homes, lawyers for three homeowners said in a lawsuit.  The homeowners said Merscorp Inc.’s MERS, which runs an
electronic registry of mortgages, used Michigan’s so-called
foreclosure by advertisement process illegally and
“misappropriated” their homes. Any foreclosures by MERS using
this process in Michigan should be voided, they said in their
complaint filed in federal court in Detroit.  Michigan is one of 27 states where banks don’t have to get
a court’s permission to seize a property, meaning homeowners
have to bring their own lawsuit to halt a foreclosure. Michigan
law lets mortgage lenders or servicers foreclose after
advertising a default in a newspaper for four consecutive weeks.  MERS “lacked the authority to foreclose by advertisement”
because it didn’t own or have any interest in the underlying
debt and “was not the servicing agent of the mortgage,” Maryla
Depauw and Sharon and Terrance Lafrance, the homeowners said, in
their complaint filed yesterday. MERS “knowingly, fraudulently
and illegally” foreclosed on homes for years using a law it
“had no authority or right to utilize,” they claim.  MERS is required to take foreclosures to court, their
lawyers said, citing an April 21 decision by Michigan’s Court of
Appeals. The decision, which voided two property seizures, said
state law requires a foreclosing party to own the legal title to
the debt.  Janis Smith, a Merscorp spokeswoman, didn’t immediately
return a call seeking comment today.  Servicing, Ownership  Merscorp’s MERS tracks servicing rights and ownership
interests in  mortgage loans  on its electronic registry, allowing
banks to buy and sell the loans without having to record the
transfer with a county.  Depauw and the Lafrances filed their suit as a class
action, seeking to represent all other Michigan property owners
“whose property was illegally foreclosed upon by MERS.”
They’re asking for more than $100 million in actual damages on
multiple counts including fraud and wrongful foreclosure, as
well as more than $300 million in punitive damages.  Depauw, who lives in Oakland County, Michigan, and the
Defrances, who live in St. Clair County, said their homes were
illegally foreclosed on and sold at sheriff’s sales.  The suit is Depauw v. Mortgage Electronic Registration
Systems Inc., 2:11-cv-12032, U.S. District Court, Eastern
District of Michigan ( Detroit ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Detroit at 
 mcfisk@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  