-- 
Tesco CEO Plans More Brands, Global Online Offer to Drive Growth

-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 
2011-05-10T11:35:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/tesco-ceo-plans-more-brands-global-online-offer-to-drive-growth.html
Tesco Plc (TSCO)  Chief Executive Officer
 Philip Clarke  said the U.K.’s largest supermarket company will
add more own-brands and expand existing ones to revive growth in
its domestic business, and will extend its online business.  New “highly valued” brands will follow in the footsteps
of Tesco’s current Technika television range and Florence & Fred
clothing line, which offers 12-pound ($19.60) children’s
dresses, Clarke said in a  video  to workers today. Tesco will
also extend its online business beyond the U.K., Ireland and
South Korea to all its global markets, he said.  Clarke, who took over as CEO from Terry Leahy in March,
today starts a series of internal meetings with 5,000 senior
managers across the retailer’s 14 markets to explain his
strategy. Tesco’s domestic business, which accounts for about
two-thirds of sales, has lost momentum and posted a “below
par” profit last year, he said last month.  “Our previous strategy served us well for over a
decade, but we’ve updated it to reflect the changing needs of
our customers and the global nature of our business,” the 51-
year-old executive said today.  Tesco aims to be as strong in all product categories as it
is in food, and to expand retail services such as
telecommunications.  “There will be a slight change of emphasis” to reflect
changing consumer trends and Tesco’s increasingly global
strategy, Clarke said. The retailer has stores in 13 countries
outside the U.K. including the U.S. Fresh & Easy chain, Homeplus
in  South Korea  and Lifespace shopping malls in  China .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Shannon in  London  at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri in Amsterdam at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  