-- 
Eskom Closes Medupi, Kusile Power Plant Construction Sites After Protests

-- B y   C a r l i   L o u r e n s
-- 
2011-05-10T15:51:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/eskom-closes-medupi-kusile-power-plant-construction-sites-after-protests.html
Eskom Holdings Ltd.,  South Africa ’s
state-owned power utility, suspended construction of its Medupi
electricity plant following a violent protest by about 500 of
the 9,000 workers at the site today.  Workers damaged vehicles at Medupi, Eskom said in an e-
mailed statement. The closure follows the suspension of building
work at the Kusile power-plant project on May 6, after
protesters set fire to site offices, cranes and vehicles in a
dispute with contractors. Kusile remains shut, Eskom said.  The two projects are the largest in Eskom’s 460 billion-
rand ($68 billion) expansion program aimed at curbing blackouts,
which in 2008 left some of the world’s largest platinum mines
without power. Violent protests are not unusual in South Africa,
where state workers in August held a strike that shut thousands
of schools and interrupted services at hospitals and courts.  While the Medupi plant remains on schedule to start
generating electricity in late 2012, the duration of the
shutdown at both sites isn’t known, the company said.  “We’re staying very close to it,” Hilary Joffe, a
spokeswoman for Eskom, said by telephone from Johannesburg,
adding that the disputes concern contractors. Ed Jardim, a
spokesman for contractor Murray & Roberts Ltd., said the company
may comment later, speaking from his mobile phone from  Pretoria .  “We understand that the issue at Medupi had to do with
foreign welders, of which there are about 100, from  Thailand ,”
Joffe said, adding that they have skills that aren’t available
in South Africa. There “seems to be a series of issues” at
Kusile, including possible “retrenchments,” as a contract for
Eskom unit Roshcon Ltd. contract nears completion, she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carli Lourens in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net  