-- 
Ethiopian Inflation Accelerates to 29.5% as Food Costs Jump

-- B y   W i l l i a m   D a v i s o n
-- 
2011-05-10T15:25:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/ethiopian-inflation-accelerates-to-29-5-as-food-costs-jump-1-.html
Inflation in  Ethiopia  accelerated to
29.5 percent in April as food prices jumped, the Central
Statistical Agency said.  The inflation rate increased from 25 percent in March, the
Addis Ababa-based agency said on its  website  today. Food prices,
which make up more than half of the basket of goods used to
calculate overall inflation, surged 32.2 percent from a year
earlier, while non-food items rose 25.6 percent, it said.  Annual inflation has quickened from 5.3 percent in August
following an 18 percent devaluation of the birr against the
dollar on Sept. 1. In January, the government introduced price
controls on goods including bread, meat, sugar and beer, citing
a lack of competition in the domestic market.  Global food prices have risen this year as U.S. corn
stockpiles fell to the lowest since 2007, soybean inventories
shrank to the smallest since 2003 amid flooding in  Canada ,  China 
and  Australia  and droughts in Russia and  Europe . The world food-
price index tracked by the United Nations’ Rome-based Food and
Agriculture Organization rose to 232.1 points in April from 231
points in March, having fallen from a record 237.2 in February.  “Clearly the international commodity and fuel price shock
has had some impact, but loose monetary policy and the large
depreciation have played a role too,” Sukhwinder Singh, the
International Monetary Fund’s resident representative in
Ethiopia said in an e-mailed response to questions today.  “Government needs to tighten its monetary policy and
ensure any fiscal response to the global shocks is affordable
and well targeted,” Singh said.  Ethiopia’s central bank uses measures including minimum
deposit rates and Treasury-bill auctions to conduct its monetary
policy. Any inflation rate above the government’s single-digit
target is a “concern,” central bank spokesman Alemayehu Kebede
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
William Davison in  Addis Ababa  at 
 wdavison3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Richardson at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net  