-- 
EU Slows Drive for Greek Aid Expansion as Merkel Seeks ‘Proven’ Commitment

-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r   a n d   T o n y   C z u c z k a
-- 
2011-05-11T07:07:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/eu-slows-drive-for-more-greek-aid-as-merkel-seeks-proven-steps.html
European leaders slowed debt-wracked
 Greece ’s drive for extra aid, saying the Athens government must
first make good on pledges to overhaul an economy mired in a
three-year recession.  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel , recalling her go-slow
tactics when the debt crisis erupted, said Greece -- lamed by a
general strike today -- needs to stay the budget-cutting course
to win an increase in the 110 billion-euro ($158 billion)
lifeline granted a year ago.  “We can offer solidarity only if Greece’s stability and
eagerness to reform is proven,” Merkel told reporters in Berlin
yesterday. “We can get out of this difficult situation only if
we properly rebuild that foundation, not just help without
Greece doing anything.”  Bonds of Greece, laboring under  Europe ’s highest borrowing
costs, rallied yesterday on expectations that Merkel would
consent to another loan program to prevent a Greek default that
would roil the  euro zone . The yield on the country’s two-year
bond fell 43 basis points, the biggest decline in more than a
week, to 25.18 percent.  “What you’re going to get is the idea of Greece getting
funding now so it won’t have to go to the market in 2012,”  Alan Ruskin , global head of Group of 10 foreign-exchange strategy at
Deutsche Bank AG in  New York , said on “Bloomberg Surveillance”
with  Tom Keene . “Eventually Greece has to restructure. It’s
just a question of first ring-fencing all the potential
losers.”  Portugal  Aid  Greece’s first package, 67.5 billion euros for Ireland and
78 billion euros that Portugal is set to obtain on May 16, put
the bill for quelling the crisis at 256 billion euros and
counting. Under the bailout plan, Greece was due to sell 27
billion euros of bonds next year. The return to markets is being
hampered by a 10-year bond yield of 15.4 percent, more than
twice the rate at the time of the bailout.  Speculation swirled that more Greek aid is imminent, with
European officials denying a Handelsblatt report that Greece is
in line for another 60 billion euros and a Kathimerini report
that the  International Monetary Fund  is prepping a replacement
package worth 80 billion to 100 billion euros.  A new aid package would feature a cut in the rates on Greek
loans and an extension of debt maturities, plus extra funds to
spare Greece from going to the markets, two officials involved
in the talks said.  Athens  Review  Greece’s financing needs won’t be known until European and
IMF officials finish poring through its accounts in “a few
weeks,” European Union Economic and Monetary Commissioner Olli Rehn said. The assessment mission is due to start today in
Athens.  IMF Managing Director Dominique Strauss-Kahn will attend a
meeting of euro-region finance ministers on May 16 in Brussels
to tackle the rescue facilities, Portugal’s aid and the next
steps on Greece.  Rehn saluted Greece for cutting the deficit by 20 billion
euros in the past year, while saying it is lagging on promises
to sell 50 billion euros of state assets and modernize the
economy.  Privatization is the target of today’s Greek strike, with
unions protesting the government’s planned sale of 17 percent of
 Public Power Corp SA (PPC) , the former energy monopoly.  While the central government cut spending by 0.9 percent in
the first four months, a 9.2 percent slump in  tax revenue  pushed
the deficit to 7.2 billion euros from 6.4 billion euros, the
Greek Finance Ministry said yesterday.  After a year of wages cuts, tax increases and other
austerity, Greece ended 2010 with the euro-region’s second
highest deficit at 10.5 percent of gross domestic product and
the highest debt at 143 percent of GDP.  Asset Sales  “The next challenges in Greece relate rather to the
effective implementation of structural reforms and to the
implementation of the privatization program,” Rehn told
reporters yesterday in Strasbourg,  France .  Less than 12 months into the three-year program negotiated
at the outset of the crisis, Greece won a reduction in the
 interest rates  on its loans and was given extra time to pay them
back. The concessions failed to lower borrowing costs or ease
investor concern that the original rescue wouldn’t suffice.  In all, Greece may need aid through 2015 to help it
confront 250 billion euros of financing needs in the five years
beginning in the middle of 2010, said  David Owen , chief European
economist at Jefferies International Ltd. in  London .  “At the end of the day, Greece will need financing beyond
simply the next two years or so,” he said. “What they’re doing
is just backstopping the system.”  Debt Sale  The shift in sentiment in  Germany , Europe’s biggest
economy, away from talk of haircuts on the privately held debt
helped push the difference in yields between Greek 10-year bonds
and comparable German debt by 30 basis points to 1,231.  Greece found buyers for short-term debt yesterday, selling
1.625 billion euros of 26-week Treasury bills at a yield of 4.88
percent. Foreign investors bought 34 percent of the bills, the
Public Debt Management Agency in Athens said. Still, that’s 160
basis points more than what Germany last charged to sell 10-year
bonds.  Greece’s financial squeeze coincides with European debate
over upgrading the temporary rescue mechanism set up last year
and replacing it in 2013 with a permanent fund that includes a
debt-restructuring option.  The  European Central Bank , holder of 76 billion euros of
distressed countries’ debt after a year of market-supporting
purchases, underlined its opposition to writedowns on Greek
bonds.  Default equals “political suicide,” Executive Board
member Lorenzo Bini Smaghi said in Florence yesterday. Fellow
board member  Juergen Stark  said restructuring “wouldn’t be a
solution to the problems that Greece needs to overcome.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net ;
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  