-- 
European Union Aims to Raise Tariffs on Fast-Growing Nations Such as India

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 
2011-05-10T23:33:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/european-union-aims-to-raise-tariffs-on-fast-growing-nations-such-as-china.html
The European Union intends to
increase tariffs on  developing countries  including China,  India 
and  Brazil  under a plan to give only the neediest nations
preferential access to the world’s biggest market.  The European Commission proposed to deny faster-growing
emerging economies tariff reductions granted through the
 Generalized System of Preferences , under which the EU imported
60 billion euros ($86 billion) of goods in 2009. That figure
would fall to about 38 billion euros under the proposal to limit
the trade benefits to 80 nations instead of the current 176,
according to the commission, the EU’s executive arm.  The EU, battling a Greece-triggered debt crisis after
emerging from a recession in 2009, says overhauling decades of
trade policy for poorer countries is justified by the economic
rise of such nations as  China , India and Brazil.  Russia  and
Saudi Arabia are also among the nations that would lose GSP
benefits under the proposal, which needs the support of EU
governments and the European Parliament.  “Global economic balances have shifted tremendously,” EU
Trade Commissioner Karel De Gucht said today in Strasbourg,
 France . “If we grant tariff preferences in this competitive
environment, those countries most in need must reap the most
benefits.”  Brazil Responds  Brazil’s foreign ministry said that taking away trade
benefits for its country’s exporters could raise costs for
European consumers and producers because many of the continent’s
companies, especially in the automotive industry, rely on trade
with its affiliates in the South American country.  The move could also lead to a “more significant
concentration of primary goods in Brazil’s exports” to the EU,
the foreign ministry said in a statement.  The planned overhaul, due to take effect by January 2014,
bolsters the EU’s push to strike free-trade agreements with
individual countries or groups of nations as a way around
stalled global talks on expanding commerce. That’s because it
gives countries denied GSP benefits an incentive to reach
separate accords with the EU.  “It could and should boost our FTA effort,”  De Gucht 
said. The 27-nation EU signaled the way ahead earlier this year
by approving a commercial accord with  South Korea  that is the
world’s second-largest trade deal. That agreement will take
effect in July.  Scrutiny by EU national governments and the Parliament of
the proposal to overhaul the GSP will probably take at least a
year, De Gucht said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Stearns in Strasbourg, France, at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  