-- 
Euro Falls Before Greece Auctions Bills Amid Debt Restructuring Concern

-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n   a n d   R o n   H a r u i
-- 
2011-05-10T07:48:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/euro-trades-near-three-week-low-versus-dollar-amid-restructuring-concern.html
The euro traded within a cent of a
more-than three-week low against the dollar before  Greece  sells
Treasury bills today amid speculation the it will need to
restructure its debt.  The 17-nation currency reversed an earlier decline versus
the yen. Standard & Poor’s yesterday downgraded Greece’s credit
rating for the fourth time since April 2010, rekindling concern
the region’s debt crisis is escalating. European Central Bank
Executive Board member Lorenzo  Bini Smaghi  said a Greek debt
restructuring would leave the nation’s banks “on their knees.”
The Swiss franc weakened against the dollar and the euro after a
report showed the nation’s consumer prices increased less than
economists forecast in April.  “It’s restructuring fear that’s really taken the bull by
the horns and caused investors to sell euro long positions,”
said  Neil Jones , head of European hedge-fund sales at Mizuho
Corporate Bank Ltd. in London. “When investors read about debt
restructuring and major problems in the banking system, you can
understand why the euro gets sold heavily on the back of
comments like that.”  The euro was little changed at $1.4368 as of 8:46 a.m. in
London, after declining to $1.4255 yesterday, the weakest since
April 19. It was 0.5 percent stronger at 115.99 yen from 115.43
yen yesterday. It earlier touched 114.80, the least since March
28. The dollar climbed 0.5 percent to 80.75 per dollar.  Greece is scheduled to auction 1.25 billion euros ($1.79
billion) of 182-day bills today. S&P lowered the country’s
credit rating to B from BB- yesterday, saying that further
reductions are possible. Another cut would make Greece the
lowest-rated nation in  Europe .  S&P’s Downgrade  The downgrade came after an unannounced meeting of European
finance ministers on May 6 in which they agreed Greece needed
more help to avoid a restructuring. The country received a 110-
billion euro bailout last year, and was followed by Ireland and
 Portugal  in seeking aid.  The idea that a restructuring of Greek debt could be done
in an orderly way is a “fairy tale,” Bini Smaghi said in an
interview with Italian newspaper La Stampa.  “It was expected that Greece would be able to refinance
itself via the market next year and there now are strong
indications that won’t happen,” fellow ECB council member Ewald Nowotny said in a radio interview with Austrian state
broadcaster ORF.  Credit-Default Swaps  Credit-default swaps on Greek debt jumped 30 basis points
to a record 1,369 yesterday, according to CMA, signaling a 69
percent probability of default within five years.  Swiss consumer prices rose 0.3 percent in April from a year
earlier after advancing 1 percent in March, data showed today.
Economists had forecast a gain of 0.6 percent, according to the
median of 11 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey. In the month,
consumer prices rose 0.1 percent.                         The
franc declined versus all 16 of its most-traded peers, losing
0.7 percent to 87.82 centimes per dollar and 0.6 percent to
1.26017 per euro.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucy Meakin in  London  at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net . 