-- 
Europe’s Coffee Stocks Rise on Vietnam, Central America Exports

-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 
2011-05-10T17:05:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/europe-s-coffee-stocks-rise-on-vietnam-central-america-exports.html
Coffee stockpiles in  Europe  are
climbing as high prices attract beans from Central America,
 Colombia  and  Vietnam .  Inventories at European ports on March 31 were up 7.8
percent at 11.07 million bags from the end of February, the
European Coffee Federation said in an e-mailed statement today.  Robusta coffee touched $2,672 a metric ton, the highest
price since March 2008, on NYSE Liffe in London on March 18. On
the prior day, May-delivery coffee traded as much as $205 a ton
above beans for July delivery.  “The robusta premium we saw in March and April attracted a
lot of coffee for certification in Europe,”  Kona Haque , an
analyst at Macquarie Group Ltd., said by phone from  London 
today. “There were also good exports from Central America and
Colombia in March.”  Robusta stockpiles with valid grading certificates in
warehouses monitored by NYSE Liffe rose 20 percent to about 5
million bags from March 7 to May 2, exchange data showed.  Rising inventories in Europe are unlikely to push robusta
coffee prices down due to low stocks in top producer Vietnam and
reduced supplies from  Indonesia , the world’s third-largest
grower of the variety, Haque said.  Shipments from Vietnam rose more than 37 percent in the
first four months of the year to 650,000 tons, preliminary data
from General Statistics Office in Hanoi showed.  Vietnamese Sales  Rallying coffee prices prompted Vietnamese farmers to
accelerate sales, said  Luong Van Tu , chairman of the Vietnam
Coffee & Cocoa Association.  “I think any bearish impact from rising stocks would be
tempered by the fact that Vietnamese growers are likely to see a
diminishing export pace, as they sold aggressively in the first
quarter, and now their own producer stocks are much thinner,”
Haque said in an e-mail response to questions today.  “Couple that with Indonesia’s weaker supplies and it makes
for a weakening supply profile for the next few months,” she
said. Indonesia’s coffee production will decline about 25
percent to 8.5 million bags in the current crop year, the
London-based International Coffee Organization estimated.  Coffee exports from nine countries in  Latin America  climbed
17 percent in March to 3.1 million bags from a year earlier,
Guatemala’s National Coffee Association, or Anacafe, said on
April 26.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 Ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 Ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 