-- 
European Gasoline Crack Advances to 32-Month High: Oil Products

-- B y   R a c h e l   G r a h a m
-- 
2011-05-10T16:49:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/european-gasoline-crack-advances-to-32-month-high-oil-products.html
European gasoline’s crack spread, or
premium to  Brent crude , advanced to the most in more than 2 1/2
years on speculation that refiners will increase exports to the
U.S. because of flooding on the  Mississippi River .  Gasoline for immediate delivery rose as  Total SA (FP) , Europe’s
biggest refiner, bought on the barge market. Gasoil advanced on
London’s ICE Futures Europe exchange.  Light Products  The front-month gasoline crack widened for a fifth day to
$15.84 a barrel, according to PVM Oil Associates Ltd. data on
Bloomberg. That’s the most since September 2008.  Flooding on the  Mississippi  threatened refineries and
shipping. As many as 11 plants, accounting for 13 percent of
U.S. fuel output, are located between  New Orleans  and  Baton
Rouge , according to Lipow Oil Associates LLC in Houston.  “There are places where barges can no longer operate and
there is a chance that refineries will be affected,” said
 Christophe Barret , an oil analyst at Credit Agricole CIB.  Gasoline stockpiles on the U.S. East Coast dropped 24
percent since the beginning of March, according to data from the
Energy Department in  Washington . “With the current levels of
inventories there are concerns about supply,” Barret said.  So-called barge lots of gasoline traded at as much as
$1,139 a metric ton, according to a Bloomberg survey of traders
and brokers monitoring the Argus Bulletin Board and the Platts
pricing window. That’s more than yesterday’s highest price of
$1,101 for the Eurobob grade, to which ethanol is added to make
finished vehicle fuel. Petroplus Holdings AG was among today’s
sellers on the barge market, where lots are usually about 1,000
or 2,000 tons.  Middle Distillates  Gasoil, used mainly in heating, advanced for the first time
in six days. Gasoil for May delivery added $20.25, or 2.2
percent, to $940 a ton on London’s ICE Futures  Europe  exchange
as of 5:03 p.m. local time. That contract expires on May 12.  Heating oil barges traded at discounts of $3 a ton to the
May ICE gasoil contract, little changed from yesterday.  Jet fuel traded at premiums of $87 and $88 to the June ICE
gasoil contract, the survey showed. Jet barges traded from $84
to $88 more than the May gasoil contract yesterday.  Residues  Low-sulfur fuel oil traded from $648.50 to $660 a ton in
northwest Europe, the survey showed. High sulfur fuel oil barges
traded from $620 to $625 a ton.  Fuel oil is used to power ships and generate electricity.
Low sulfur fuel oil contains 1 percent sulfur, while its more-
polluting equivalent has a 3.5 percent threshold.  Refineries  Paris-based Total halted a crude unit at its Gonfreville
refinery in  France  yesterday after a fire. The crude-processing
unit has been stopped and “there is no other impact on the
refinery,” Michael Crochet-Vourey, a spokesman for the company,
said in an e-mailed statement.  The fire, which generated smoke visible outside the
refinery, started at a distillation unit called D5 and was
brought under control within 20 minutes, according to the
statement.  ConocoPhillips reached an agreement to cuts the workforce
at the Wilhelmshaven refinery in northern  Germany , a labor
representative said. The refinery will be converted into an oil
storage facility from June 1, Vera Ackermann, district manager
for the IG BCE union, said today.  “By the end of this month, we will begin serving notices
to employees who will not be required to operate the terminal
operations at the site,” Rich Johnson, a ConocoPhillips
spokesman based in Houston, said in an e-mail. “We have no
plans to dismantle Wilhelmshaven.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rachel Graham in  London  
 rgraham13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  