-- 
Mosley Loses Bid Requiring Rebuttal Before Media Publishes Private Details

-- B y   H e a t h e r   S m i t h
-- 
2011-05-10T16:17:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/ex-formula-one-boss-mosley-loses-human-rights-case-sparked-by-nazi-story.html
Max Mosley lost a court bid to force
journalists to contact people before publishing potentially
embarrassing details of their private lives, a case prompted
when a News Corp. newspaper reported he’d taken part in a Nazi-
themed sex party without calling him beforehand.  The record award the  High Court  in London granted the
former Formula One president for breach of his privacy was “an
adequate remedy” that averted the “chilling effect” a prior-
notification requirement could have on the media, the  European
Court of Human Rights  ruled today.  “For the English media, it is a positive, they will be
popping champagne,” after being “so tarnished on phone
hacking,” said  Duncan Lamont , a media lawyer with Charles
Russell LLP in London.  Mosley, who stepped down as head of F1 racing’s ruling body
in 2009, won a 60,000-pound ($98,000) award in 2008 against News
Corp.’s News of the World for publishing, without contacting him
for comment, a story that said Mosley took part in a Nazi-themed
“orgy,” along with a video. His case precipitated a surge in
requests for so-called super-injunctions sought by celebrities
to block press reports about their sex lives.  The decision is a victory for News of the World, the U.K.’s
largest Sunday newspaper, which is facing lawsuits over tapping
into the voice mails of celebrities and politicians.  News Corp. (NWSA) 
apologized and offered settlements to some of the more than 20
people suing over the four-year-old scandal.  ‘Serious’ Journalism  “Serious investigative journalism always involves
consulting the subject,” Mosley said in a telephone interview
today, disputing the court’s statement that requiring reporters
to contact the subjects of a story would interfere with
investigative reporting.  Mosley has maintained the party had no Nazi overtones and
the U.K. court agreed in its July 2008 decision that there was
no evidence any Nazi theme was intended.  The court ruled that requiring media outlets to notify
people before publication was unnecessary.  “Any pre-notification requirement would only be as strong
as the sanctions imposed for failing to observe it,” the
Strasbourg, France-based court said in an e-mailed statement on
the unanimous decision. “Although punitive fines and criminal
sanctions could be effective in encouraging pre-notification,
that would have a chilling effect on journalism.”  The decision is “a significant pulling back” from the
point where there was concern politicians and royalty would need
to be given inviolable privacy, Lamont said, and “towards the
hurly-burly of English, slightly less polite, intrusive media.”  Appeal Considered  An appeal, which Mosley said he is considering, may be
difficult because the ruling was unanimous, Lamont said.  Daisy Dunlop, a spokeswoman for New York-based News Corp.’s
News International unit, declined to comment on the ruling.  Tabloids papers’ “economic interest is in publishing this
sort of stuff,” said  Jennifer McDermott , a lawyer with Withers
LLP in  London , warning today’s decision could be seen as
“another excuse to continue exposing people’s private lives.”  Even had the U.K. required pre-notification, it would have
to provide a “public interest” exception, which the Mosley
story would have qualified for, the court said.  Mosley’s father, Oswald, founded the British Union of
Fascists in 1932 and was imprisoned by the U.K. government for
most of World War II.  Adolf Hitler  was a guest at Oswald Mosley’s wedding to his second wife, Max Mosley’s mother.  “Given that the News of the World had believed that the
sexual activities they were disclosing had had Nazi overtones,
they could have chosen not to notify Mr. Mosley” even if a pre-
notification requirement were in place, the court said.  Mosley has filed lawsuits in 21 different countries, mainly
in an effort to force websites to remove the video, he said in
January at a hearing in Strasbourg. He has also filed a case
before local courts in  France , where he said “a couple of
thousand” copies of News of the World are sold.  The  European Court  of Human Rights case is: Mosley v. the
 United Kingdom , no. 48009/08.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heather Smith in Paris at 
 hsmith26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 