-- 
Ex-Galleon Trader Kimelman Wants Jury Told He Rejected Plea Deal With U.S.

-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 
2011-05-11T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/ex-galleon-trader-kimelman-wants-insider-trial-jury-to-hear-plea-rejection.html
Former Galleon Group LLC trader
Michael Kimelman said he wants jurors at his upcoming insider-
trading trial to be told that he could have avoided jail by
admitting guilt and rejected a plea deal because he’s innocent.  Kimelman is scheduled for trial on May 16 with fellow
former traders Zvi Goffer and his brother, Emanuel Goffer, who
are accused of being part of one of three rings that are the
target of a nationwide U.S. probe of  insider trading  at  hedge
funds . All three have pleaded not guilty. Jurors in the case of
Galleon Group co-founder Raj Rajaratnam ended their 11th day
of deliberations without reaching a verdict yesterday.  A lawyer for Kimelman said in court papers filed May 9 in
federal court in New York that his client wants jurors to know
that he rejected the plea deal even though accepting it would
have meant he wouldn’t have to serve any time in prison. The
government’s offer would have had Kimelman plead guilty to
conspiracy to commit  securities fraud  and “was still available
last week,” according to the filing.  “Mr. Kimelman rejected this non-jail offer, electing
instead to adhere to his position that he is innocent of any
criminal conduct, despite the possibility that if convicted at
trial, he could be sentenced to a period of imprisonment,” his
lawyer,  Michael Sommer , said in the filing. “Mr. Kimelman
requests that the facts of the plea offered to him be admitted
at trial.”  ‘Innocence’  Kimelman has asked Sullivan for permission to show the jury
an agreement between prosecutors and his lawyers describing the
rejected deal, saying it was “evidence of his consciousness of
innocence.”  Sommer said that while the government doesn’t dispute the
offer was made, “it does oppose the jury hearing these facts.”  “It bears in mind that Mr. Kimelman did not just reject a
plea agreement, he rejected a non-jail sentence,” his lawyer
said. “A jury is entitled to believe that most people would
jump at the chance to avoid jail.”  “Let us not deprive an innocent person, falsely accused,
of the inference which common sense draws from a consciousness
of innocence,” Sommer said.  Sullivan has yet to rule on Kimelman’s request.  Ellen Davis , a spokeswoman for  Manhattan  U.S. Attorney  Preet Bharara ,
whose office is prosecuting the case, declined to comment.  Lawyers’ Tips  Prosecutors filed a superseding indictment in April in
which Goffer, his brother and Kimelman are charged with
conspiracy and securities fraud. Prosecutors said the Goffer
ring of the Galleon-related cases traded on stock tips that came
from lawyers at Ropes & Gray in New York and from Gautham Shankar, another former trader. Kimelman’s lawyers said he faces
a statutory maximum of as long as 45 years in prison if
convicted of all charges.  The U.S. has placed Zvi Goffer at the center of the scheme
and claimed his accomplices called him “Octopussy,” a
reference to the 1983 James Bond movie, because of his many
sources of information. Goffer’s lawyers dispute the
characterization.  The defendants were arrested in November 2009, the second
round of defendants charged in a case stemming from the
prosecution of Rajaratnam.  The case is U.S. v. Goffer, 10-cr-00056, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  