-- 
Facebook Had 7.5 Million Users Under 13 Years Old, Consumer Reports Says

-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 
2011-05-10T15:59:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/facebook-had-7-5-million-users-under-13-years-old-in-past-year.html
Facebook Inc., the world’s most
popular social-networking service, had 7.5 million U.S. users
who were younger than 13 in the past year, a violation of the
site’s policies, according to a survey by  Consumer Reports .  More than 5 million of the users were under age 11,
according to the  Consumer Reports  “State of the Net” survey.
In addition, Facebook exposed more than 5 million U.S.
households to some type of “abuse,” including virus infections
and  identity theft , the survey showed. About 1 million children
experienced bullying on the site, Consumer Reports said.  “Despite Facebook’s age requirements, many kids are using
the site who shouldn’t be,” said Jeff Fox, technology editor
for the Yonkers,  New York , magazine. “What’s even more
troubling was the finding from our survey that indicated that a
majority of parents of kids 10 and under seemed largely
unconcerned by their children’s use of the site.”  Facebook, which has more than 500 million members, has
faced criticism that it doesn’t protect the privacy of users,
especially young people, and can be used to bully teens.
Last month, the company announced additional safety tools,
including a redesigned “Family Safety Center” that has videos
and articles for teens, parents and teachers.  Facebook said it encourages communication between parents
and kids about using the Internet safely.  Age Restrictions  “Recent reports have highlighted just how difficult it is
to implement age restrictions on the Internet and that there is
no single solution to ensuring younger children don’t circumvent
a system or lie about their age,” the company said today in an
e-mailed statement. “We appreciate the attention that these
reports and other experts are giving this matter and believe
this will provide an opportunity for parents, teachers, safety
advocates and Internet services to focus on this area.”  Facebook requires users to be at least 13 -- and older in
some jurisdictions. The site also lets users report accounts
registered to members who are under 13 so they can be deleted.  In March, Facebook said it’s expanding an existing
reporting system that lets users flag content they consider
bullying to a parent or teacher. The site also lists tips on
preventing cyberbullying, including using a “block” feature to
stop abusive behavior.  In all,  Palo Alto , California-based Facebook has 20 million
American users under 18, Consumer Reports said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  