-- 
J&J, Hip Makers Asked by FDA for Patient Data on Metal in Blood

-- B y   G r e g   F a r r e l l   a n d   A l e x   N u s s b a u m
-- 
2011-05-11T21:15:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/fda-asks-j-j-stryker-for-patient-data.html
The U.S.  Food and Drug Administration 
asked  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) , which is already facing more than 1,000
lawsuits over hip replacements, to study whether its implants
raise the level of metal in patients’ blood to dangerous levels.  The FDA on May 6 sent the request to J&J and 20 other
device makers, including Biomet Inc.,  Stryker Corp. (SYK)  and  Zimmer
Holdings Inc. (ZMH) , asking them to study the levels of cobalt and
chromium in patients for at least eight years after
implantation. The request focuses on all-metal devices whose
failure rates have prompted recalls and increased scrutiny from
regulators.  The agency “is aware of the public health questions
regarding the safety of metal-on-metal total hip replacement
systems,”  Karen Riley , an FDA spokeswoman, said in an e-mail to
Bloomberg News. “There is not enough scientific data to specify
the concentration of metal ions in a patient’s body necessary to
produce adverse systemic effects.”  The request comes nine months after DePuy Orthopaedics, a
unit of  New Brunswick , New Jersey-based J&J, recalled a hip-
replacement system that had been implanted in 93,000 patients
worldwide. DePuy cited unpublished data from the U.K. national
joint registry that indicated a failure rate of 12 percent
within five years of implantation.  DePuy “is seeking further clarification from the FDA and
considering how to best meet the agency’s requirements,” Lorie
Gawreluk, a spokeswoman, said in an e-mail.  Scope of Request  Garry Clark, a spokesman for Warsaw, Indiana-based Zimmer,
said in an e-mail that his company was “working to understand
the scope of the agency’s request.”  Stryker doesn’t make metal-on-metal implants, Russell
Weigandt, a spokesman for the Kalamazoo, Michigan-based company,
said in an e-mail. He declined to comment further.  The leading hip makers behind J&J are Zimmer and Stryker,
according to a BMO Capital Markets report in February that said
the worldwide hip replacement market would grow 3.2 percent this
year from $5.28 billion in 2010.  J&J rose 81 cents, or 1.2 percent, to $66.57 at 4 p.m. in
 New York  Stock Exchange composite trading. Zimmer fell 54 cents
to $69.15 and Stryker rose 84 cents, or 1.4 percent, to $61.84.  The  American Academy  of Orthopaedic Surgeons and the
leading makers of hip and knee implants last year started a
pilot program designed to duplicate joint registries that track
patients’ health in the U.K.,  Australia  and other countries.  Metal Ions  The FDA launched a  website  in February devoted to concerns
about all-metal hips. It cites reports in medical literature of
“a small number of patients in which high levels of metal ions
in the bloodstream may have caused other types of symptoms or
illnesses elsewhere in the body, including effects on the heart,
nervous system, and thyroid gland.”  The May 6 letter says high metal concentrations in the
blood may also be related to increased pain, tissue damage and
the need for repeat surgeries to fix failing hip implants.  Closely held Biomet “is supportive of FDA’s efforts to
gather additional data in the interest of patient safety, and
will comply fully with FDA’s requests,” the company said in a
statement provided by Bill Kolter, a spokesman for the Warsaw-
Indiana-based company. Biomet approached the agency last year
seeking help for a study of the devices’ health impact, the
statement said.  About 23,000 of Biomet’s M2a hips have been used worldwide,
the company said. “To date, our monitoring of the performance
of Biomet’s all-metal bearing products, and our careful review
of currently available evidence, indicate that our products are
safe and effective,” the statement said.  ---Editors:  Andrew Dunn , Andrew Pollack  To contact the reporters on this story:
Greg Farrell in New York at 
 gregfarrell@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Nussbaum in New York 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  