-- 
Fed Governor Duke Says Small Business Credit, Sales Improve

-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s   a n d   E d w a r d   K o h n
-- 
2011-05-10T14:57:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/fed-governor-duke-says-small-business-credit-sales-improving.html
Federal Reserve Governor Elizabeth Duke said the economic outlook and credit access for U.S. small
businesses are improving this year.  “Recent anecdotal evidence leads me to believe that
conditions are improving for small businesses,” Duke said today
at a community development conference in  St. Louis . “Although
no definitive data source exists, the combination of a variety
of recent survey results paints a picture of increasing optimism
about future sales and business conditions and a corresponding
easing of credit availability for small businesses.”  Duke’s upbeat comments on small business contrast with
caution from the  National Federation of Independent Business ’s
optimism index, which fell to a seven-month low in April, the
group reported today. Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  last month
urged a focus on community development and improving the U.S.
housing market.  “While this upward trend is encouraging, the Fed is
continuing to look for ideas that will help small businesses as
they work through some of the more subtle issues constraining
their overall growth,” Duke said at a conference hosted by the
St. Louis Fed.  The U.S. housing market may take years to recover from a
slump as foreclosures persist at a high rate, she said.  “There has been no recovery in the housing market, and
prices are still falling,” partly because “borrowers don’t
want to save those homes,” she said in response to an audience
question. Bankers and regulators are looking at a “multiyear
process to clear the housing market.”  Duke didn’t comment on the overall U.S. economic outlook or
monetary policy in her remarks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steve Matthews in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  