-- 
FIFA Members Sought Favors for World Cup Votes, England’s Triesman Alleges

-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 
2011-05-10T19:53:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/fifa-members-sought-favors-for-world-cup-votes-england-s-triesman-alleges.html
Four FIFA executive board members
sought favors from the English Football Association in exchange
for their votes for the country to host the 2018 World Cup,
former F.A. Chairman  David Triesman  said.  Speaking to a parliamentary committee looking into the
bidding process, Triesman alleged Jack Warner, a FIFA vice
president from  Trinidad & Tobago , Brazil’s Ricardo Teixeira,
 Paraguay ’s Nicolas Leoz and  Thailand ’s Worawi Makudi engaged in
“improper and unethical” behavior before Russia was chosen in
December as host of the 2018 tournament.  “These were some of the things that were put on me
personally, which in my view did not represent proper and
ethical behavior on the part of the members of the executive
committee,” Triesman told the Culture, Media and Sports
Committee. The F.A. runs English soccer.  Warner didn’t answer his mobile telephone. Calls to the
Thai soccer association after hours went unanswered.  Brazil ’s
soccer confederation, known as CBF, didn’t return a voice-mail
message seeking comment. Nicolas Leoz, the president of the
South American soccer confederation, known as Conmebol, won’t
comment, said association spokesman Nestor Benitez.  “I cannot say if they are all angels or all devils,” FIFA
President  Sepp Blatter  said at a press conference today in
Zurich. “If this is true, I will fight it.”  Blatter will learn on June 1 if FIFA’s members will elect
him for a fourth term or favor challenger Mohamed Bin Hammam, of
Qatar, who heads soccer in  Asia  and lobbied for his home nation
to get the World Cup.  Election  The 75-year-old Blatter, who’s been with FIFA for 36 years,
said he couldn’t say whether the rest of FIFA’s board was clean.
Blatter doesn’t select committee members. They’re sent to FIFA
by soccer’s six regional bodies.  The committee also received evidence from the  Sunday Times 
newspaper, which it published on Parliament’s website, that
Qatar paid $1.5 million to African soccer head Issa Hayatou of
Cameroon and Jacques Anouma of the  Ivory Coast  to vote for its
winning bid to host the 2022 World Cup, lawmaker Damian Collins
said.  The Qatar Football Association denied the allegations,
which it called serious and baseless.  “As The Sunday Times itself states, these accusations
‘were and remain unproven,’” the Qatar Football Association
said in an e-mailed statement. “They will remain unproven,
because they are false.”  Qatar officials said they told FIFA as soon as they
were informed of the allegations and offered full support for
any investigations into the matter.  ‘Nothing to Hide’  “We have nothing to hide and are prepared to support and
cooperate with any further investigations and will be happy to
counter any allegations from whistleblowers with real
evidence,” the association’s statement said.  Triesman resigned as F.A. chief a year ago after being
secretly taped saying Spain and  Portugal  had agreed to share
votes with Qatar, the Gulf nation that was the surprise
selection to host in 2022. He wasn’t involved in England’s final
bid, which only garnered two votes.  He told the committee Warner asked for 2.5 million pounds
($4.1 million), that would be “funneled” through him, to build
an educational center in Trinidad. He also asked for a further
500,000 pounds to buy Haiti World Cup television rights for the
earthquake-hit nation, which would also go through him, Triesman
said.  ‘Nonsense’  Sky Sports  reported Warner as saying the allegations are
“a piece of nonsense.”  “I have never asked anyone for any money for my vote at
any time,” Sky quoted Warner as saying. “I have been a FIFA
member for 29 years and these allegations will astound anyone
who knows me, including David Dein and Geoff Thompson.”  Thompson headed  England ’s failed 2018 bid and former
Arsenal vice chairman Dein was its international president.  Triesman said that Leoz asked for a knighthood and Makudi
wanted to be given the television rights to an exhibition match
between England and the Thai national team. Teixeira also asked
Triesman to “come and tell me what you have for me.”  FIFA General Secretary  Jerome Valcke  said in Zurich that he
didn’t understand why Triesman didn’t send evidence to FIFA
before if he had it.  Triesman told the committee he didn’t report the incidents
to FIFA out of fear it would damage England’s bid, but admitted
he should have.  “In retrospect that wasn’t the right view to take and I
accept that,” he told the committee.  Current English F.A. CEO Alex Horne said in an interview in
Zurich that the organization would ask the committee for all its
evidence and send it to FIFA. He said it was “too early to
speculate” if the English body would call for the  World Cup 
vote to be taken again.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in  London  at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 