-- 
Obama Health-Care Law Fight Reaches the First of Three U.S. Appeals Courts

-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 
2011-05-10T12:49:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/fight-over-obama-healthcare-law-reaches-first-of-three-u-s-appeals-courts.html
Three judges appointed to the bench
by Democratic presidents will hear the first appellate arguments
on whether requiring Americans to buy health insurance is, as a
lower court judge ruled, the same as ordering them to buy
broccoli or a Cadillac.  So far, trial court decisions on the law have broken along
party lines, with judges appointed by Republican presidents
ruling against the law and Democratic-appointed judges ruling in
favor of it.  The U.S. appeals judges in Virginia assigned to review the
cases are  Diana Gribbon Motz ,  Andre Davis  and  James Wynn Jr. 
Davis and Wynn were appointed to the appeals court in Richmond,
Virginia by President Barack Obama. Motz was appointed by
President  Bill Clinton .  The Justice Department will seek today to persuade the
judges that  Obama ’s health-care overhaul, which mandates most
Americans obtain insurance, is constitutional. In back-to-back
arguments, the panel will review two rulings -- one upholding
the law and the other striking down part of it.  “The fact that the government is sending the solicitor
general of the United States to argue the case does reflect how
important the government considers this case to be,” said  Lisa Blatt , an appeals lawyer at Arnold & Porter LLP in Washington.
The U.S. solicitor general usually argues cases before the U.S.
Supreme Court.  Market Will Wither  The U.S. calls the insurance mandate the linchpin of the
Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, claiming that,
without expanding the pool of younger, healthier customers, the
insurance industry won’t be able to meet its obligations for
coverage under the law. Absent the mandate, the health-insurance
market will wither, the government said in court papers.  The arguments before the U.S. Court of Appeals in Richmond
may preview two other cases to be heard early next month in
federal appeals courts in Cincinnati and Atlanta. Decisions by
the three panels, especially if their rulings differ, may set
the stage for “the ultimate argument” before the Supreme
Court, said  Michael Gerhardt , a constitutional law professor at
University of North Carolina School of Law in Chapel Hill.  Christian University  The Virginia appeals stem from a challenge to the law by
the state of Virginia and another by Liberty University, a
Christian school founded in Lynchburg, Virginia, by the late
Reverend Jerry Falwell.  The cases were assigned randomly to the three judges, whose
identities were made public this morning.  Motz, a graduate of Vassar College and the University of
Virginia law school, started in private practice in Baltimore in
1968 and has served as an assistant state attorney general and
associate appeals judge in Maryland. She was confirmed for the
4th Circuit seat in 1994, according to biographical information
on the court website.  Davis graduated from the University of Pennsylvania in 1971
and the University of Maryland school of law in 1978. He has
worked as a law professor at Maryland and served as a Baltimore
city judge, assistant U.S. attorney in Maryland and a civil
rights attorney for the U.S. Justice Department. He was also a
U.S. District Court judge and was commissioned to the 4th
Circuit in 2009.  Wynn, a 1975 graduate of the University of North Carolina
at Chapel Hill, earned degrees at Marquette University Law
School and the University of Virginia Law School. He served as a
lawyer in the U.S. Navy, was an assistant appellate defender in
North Carolina and an associate justice of the Supreme Court of
North Carolina. He joined the 4th Circuit last year.  Nov. 30 Ruling  The appeal of the Nov. 30 ruling by U.S. District Judge
 Norman Moon , in Lynchburg, who upheld the act, will be heard
first. Liberty University argued the mandatory health-insurance
provision is unconstitutional and claims the law doesn’t protect
against insurance payments funding abortions.  In a 54-page opinion, Moon compared the provision to laws
mandating a minimum wage.  U.S. District Judge  Henry Hudson  of Richmond reached the
opposite conclusion on Dec. 13, finding the mandate beyond
Congress’s power to regulate interstate commerce.  Virginia claimed Congress has only the power to tax, not to
force participation in a market. In its lawsuit, the state
defended its Health Care Freedom Act, which barred compelling
Virginians to buy health insurance.  ‘Unchecked Expansion’  In his 42-page opinion, Hudson said the “unchecked
expansion” of congressional power represented by the insurance
requirement “would invite unbridled exercise of federal police
powers.” No Supreme Court decision authorized Congress to
“compel an individual to involuntarily enter the stream of
commerce by purchasing a commodity in the private market,” he
wrote.  Hudson’s decision was the first loss by the government in
challenges mounted in Virginia, Michigan, Oklahoma, the District
of Columbia and Florida, where 26 states joined an effort to
have the statute thrown out.  Hudson limited his ruling to the mandatory insurance
provision.  E.  Duncan Getchell Jr ., Virginia’s solicitor general, will
argue for the state today in Richmond.  Mathew Staver , dean of
Liberty University School of Law, will argue the university’s
case. Acting U.S. Solicitor General  Neal Katyal  will represent
the Obama administration.  Democrat Majority  The U.S. Court of Appeals in Richmond shifted to a majority
of Democratic appointees after Obama, a Democrat, filled four
seats left open by former President  George W. Bush , a
Republican.  Three U.S. District Court judges appointed by Democrats,
including Moon, have upheld the statute. Hudson, appointed to
the bench by Bush, and U.S. District Judge  Roger Vinson , an
appointee of Republican President  Ronald Reagan , ruled against
it.  Vinson, in Pensacola, Florida, found on Jan. 31 that the
insurance mandate was essential to the legislative scheme,
making the entire act unconstitutional.  Under the logic of the mandate, Congress could force people
to buy broccoli because it’s healthy, or require anyone above a
certain income level to purchase General Motors cars because
that would help a taxpayer-subsidized business, he said.  Justice Department lawyers in court papers said the
individual mandate and expansions of Medicaid and employer-based
coverage will provide about 32 million more people with coverage
by 2019, citing the  Congressional Budget Office .  Interstate Commerce  The mandate falls under Congress’s power to regulate
interstate commerce as $43 billion in unpaid medical bills are
absorbed by the market each year, the Justice Department said.  “People do not confront unexpected life-or-death needs for
a Cadillac, and they do not carry insurance to finance future
purchases of cars or prohibitively expensive vegetables,” the
department lawyers wrote in the government’s appellate brief.
“And whereas patients are effectively guaranteed expensive
health-care services in times of need regardless of their means,
drivers must pay for their cars in order to drive them off the
lot.”  The cases are Liberty University v. Geithner, 10-02347, and
Commonwealth of Virginia v. Sebelius, 11-01057 and 11-01058, 4th
U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals (Richmond).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  