-- 
Finland’s Talks on Portugal Bailout Delayed Amid Demand for Burden Sharing

-- B y   D i a n a   b e n - A a r o n   a n d   K a t i   P o h j a n p a l o
-- 
2011-05-11T12:04:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/finland-may-demand-investors-share-burden-as-portuguese-bailout-condition.html
Finland  may insist  Portugal ’s rescue
include terms that force investors to share losses as lawmakers
in the northernmost euro member try to find a common stance on
bailouts before next week’s gathering of European finance heads.  At a meeting in Helsinki yesterday, “most groups stated
they want to have a kind of clear responsibility for investors
in Portugal’s sovereign bonds,” said Kimmo Sasi, who heads the
Finnish parliament’s working group on bailout talks, in a phone
interview. The Social Democrats, which emerged as the second-
biggest party after April 17 elections, will provide the “most
important proposal,” he said.  Portugal this month became the third euro member to obtain
aid as  Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis spreads beyond Greece and
Ireland. Voters in Finland last month rewarded parties critical
of bailouts, with the euro-skeptic True Finns winning record
backing to become parliament’s third-biggest group. Finance
Minister Jyrki Katainen will present his country’s stance on
crisis-handling measures at a May 16 meeting of his European
counterparts.  While Katainen, whose pro-Europe National Coalition is
Finland’s largest party, would be able to get majority lawmaker
support for a Portuguese bailout without the True Finns, he
can’t do so without the backing of the Social Democrats. The
party yesterday said it wants burden sharing to be incorporated
into bailouts and demands a bank tax be introduced to help fund
future financial rescues.  Restructuring  The party also wants the option of restructuring to be
available if sovereign debt burdens become unsustainable, while
demanding that aid donors be first to get their loans repaid.  “The  Social Democrats  have laid down their conditions,”
party secretary Mikael Jungner said in a phone interview today.
“The ball is in Jyrki Katainen’s court. The Social Democrats
will wait for him to make a proposal.”  The euro lost 0.3 percent against the dollar today to trade
at 1.4365 at 12:19 p.m. in  London .  A sub-committee of Finland’s caretaker government, led by
outgoing Prime Minister Mari Kiviniemi, cancelled a meeting due
to be held today on the bailout talks, meaning a parliamentary
grand committee slated to decide Finland’s stance on the bailout
can’t provide its opinion until May 13. Kiviniemi’s Center
Party, which ended fourth in last month’s vote, will still
support a bailout, it said yesterday.  “Finland can position herself still on Friday and that is
the latest, final moment,” Sasi said.  Greek Fallout  Lawmakers want tougher terms for bailouts amid speculation
that  Greece  may be forced to restructure its debts just over a
year after it agreed its 110 billion-euro ($158 billion) rescue.
 Standard & Poor’s  on May 9 lowered Greece’s debt rating by two
steps to B, five levels below investment grade.  German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said yesterday Greece needs
to meet strict terms to deserve an extension to its loan.  Burden sharing will be incorporated into Europe’s permanent
stability mechanism, which takes effect in 2013. The European
Financial Stability Facility, which Portugal must tap for funds,
doesn’t include provisions for investor losses.  Portugal will pay between 5.5 percent and 6 percent
interest on the European portion of a 78 billion-euro bailout,
comparable to the rate currently paid by Ireland, European Union
Monetary Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn  said yesterday.  Safeguard Stability  The package calls for Portugal to implement the austerity
measures that the Lisbon-based government proposed and
parliament rejected in March. Spending reductions for 2012 and
2013, including cuts to pensions, will amount to 3.4 percent of
gross domestic product, while revenue increases will represent
1.7 percent of economic output, Finance Minister Fernando Teixeira dos Santos said May 5. The plan also earmarks 12
billion euros for Portugal’s banks.  Rehn, himself a Finn, yesterday said Finland needs to
approve the package to avoid the fallout of a deepening crisis
in Europe.  “We are not just here to bail out German and French banks
but to safeguard Europe’s economic stability as a whole,” Rehn
said, in comments published by Finnish newswire STT.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Diana ben-Aaron in Helsinki at 
 dbenaaron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  