-- 
Ex-Glaxo Lawyer Wins Acquittal from Federal Judge at Obstruction Trial

-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s   a n d   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 
2011-05-10T21:01:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/former-glaxo-lawyer-wins-acquittal-by-judge-at-maryland-obstruction-trial.html
An ex- GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  attorney
accused of covering up the company’s improper marketing of its
antidepressant drug Wellbutrin SR won acquittal by a federal
judge at her criminal trial.  Lauren Stevens, 61, was cleared of wrongdoing today by U.S.
District Judge Roger Titus in Greenbelt,  Maryland , before the
case went to the jury. Titus ended the trial after prosecutors
presented their evidence for 10 days and before Stevens’s
lawyers offered her defense. Federal judges rarely dismiss cases
before jurors can decide the outcome.  “The case never should have been brought in the first
place,”  Reid Weingarten , Stevens’s attorney, said in a phone
interview following the ruling. “It’s a shame that this woman
had to go through all of this.”  Prosecutors charged Stevens, a former vice president and
associate general counsel for London-based Glaxo, with impeding
an inquiry in 2002 and 2003 by U.S. regulators into the
marketing of Wellbutrin SR for unapproved uses.  Stevens, of Durham,  North Carolina , was charged with one
count of obstructing an official proceeding, one count of
falsifying and concealing documents and four counts of making
false statements. The first two charges are punishable by a
maximum of 20 years in prison while the others carry terms of as
long as five years.  ‘Exercising Judgments’  The case centered on a dispute about “lawyers exercising
their judgments about document production,” Weingarten said
today. Weingarten previously told the jury that Stevens never
intended to mislead the  Food and Drug Administration . The
defense contended Stevens relied on the advice of in-house
lawyers at Glaxo as well as its outside law firm, King &
Spalding, in crafting Glaxo’s responses to the agency.  In March, Titus threw out the original indictment against
Stevens after finding that prosecutors had improperly told grand
jurors that an advice-of-counsel defense wasn’t relevant to
whether the attorney should be indicted for making false
statements about Glaxo’s products. The government re-indicted
Stevens the following month on obstruction charges.  “If someone relies in good faith on a lawyer’s advice,
that negates criminal intent,” Sam Buell, a former government
prosecutor who is now a law professor at  Duke University  in
Durham, said in a phone interview. “It sounds like a correct
decision.”  Charles Miller, a Justice Department spokesman, declined to
comment.  The case is U.S. v. Stevens, 10-cr-694, U.S. District
Court, District of Maryland (Greenbelt).  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Voreacos in Newark,  New Jersey , at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net ;
Jef Feeley in Wilmington,  Delaware , at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  