-- 
Scrushy Wins Reversal on Two Counts

-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 
2011-05-10T21:20:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/former-healthsouth-chief-richard-scrushy-has-counts-in-bribery-case-tossed.html
Richard Scrushy, the former chief
executive officer of  HealthSouth Corp. (HLS) , won reversal of two
convictions from his 2006 criminal trial, while the U.S. appeals
court affirmed four other counts.  The appellate panel in Atlanta sent the case back to the
trial court for resentencing today after reviewing the charges
for a second time. The U.S. Supreme Court ordered the re-
examination last year after narrowing the scope of a federal law
making it a crime to deprive citizens and shareholders of the
honest services of public and corporate officers.  The three-judge panel upheld two of the honest-services
convictions against Scrushy and former  Alabama  Governor Don Siegelman, while overturning two other such counts relating to
the former CEO’s alleged self-dealing with the ex-governor’s
help.  “This was a step in the right direction,” Scrushy’s
lawyer, Bruce Rogow, said in a phone interview. The attorney
said he will ask the  Supreme Court  to examine today’s decision
too. “We think there can be a giant step if the Supreme Court
accepts review.”  The appellate panel upheld Scrushy’s convictions on bribery
and conspiracy. Scrushy is serving six years and 10 months in a
federal  prison  in Beaumont,  Texas , after a Montgomery, Alabama,
jury convicted him in 2006 of giving Siegelman a $500,000
 campaign contribution  in exchange for a seat on a state hospital
regulatory board. He was acquitted in 2005 on criminal charges
of directing an accounting fraud.  ‘Out Sooner’  “Any kind of reduction of sentence would get him out
sooner,” Rogow said.  Laura Sweeney , a spokeswoman for the U.S. Justice
Department, said in a phone interview that the department is
“pleased” with the court’s decision.  Ruling last year on the appeal of former Enron Corp. Chief
Executive Officer  Jeffrey Skilling , the Supreme Court said the
honest-services law could be applied only in bribery and
kickback cases.  The appeals court also sustained Siegelman’s conviction on
two honest-services related counts as well as others relating to
bribery, conspiracy to commit mail fraud and obstructing
justice.  “We’re no better off in terms of a bottom line than we had
been before,” Siegelman’s attorney, Sam Heldman, said today in
a phone interview.  Heldman said he would seek further review of the ruling,
either by a full panel of the appeals court’s judges or at the
Supreme Court.  Siegelman, had received a seven-year sentence, which was
later vacated. He has been free on bail pending his appeal.  The case is U.S. v. Siegelman, 07-13163-B,  U.S. Court of
Appeals  for the 11th Circuit (Atlanta). The lower-court case is
U.S. v. Scrushy, 05-cr-119, U.S. District Court, Middle District
of Alabama (Montgomery).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  