-- 
France Should Ban Shale Exploration on Risks, Minister Says

-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 
2011-05-10T15:56:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/france-should-ban-shale-exploration-on-risks-minister-says-1-.html
The French government will back a
proposed ban on a technique used for the exploration and
production of natural gas and oil found in shale because of
threats to the environment.  “I’m against hydraulic fracturing. We have seen the
results in the U.S.,” French Environment Minister Nathalie
Kosciusko-Morizet said today on RMC radio. “There are risks for
the water tables and these are risks we don’t want to take.”  Hydraulic fracturing, also called fracking, uses a mixture
of water, sand and chemicals injected under high pressure to
break dense rock to release oil and gas trapped within.
Lawmakers today will begin debating a bill that would cancel
exploration permits already granted to energy companies
including  Total SA (FP)  and  Toreador Resources Corp. (TRGL)  if they plan to
use the technique, according to a draft of the text.  “It was an error,” Kosciusko-Morizet said of the permits
given last year. “These never should have been granted. An
environmental evaluation should have been done before giving out
the permits and not after.”  The ban, which was proposed by ruling UMP party lawmakers,
comes after months of protests across France against shale
drilling spearheaded by green groups and politicians who say it
could cause environmental damage. Explorers for shale gas and
oil in France had already started drilling in some cases or were
preparing to begin on permits near Paris and in the south before
the government halted work temporarily in February.  ‘We Don’t Want It’  The minister called for an overhaul of the country’s mining
code that details rules for oil and gas exploration and
production for  France , which produces less than 1 percent of
domestic needs mostly from around Paris and the southwest.  Hydraulic fracturing, which has also met resistance in the
U.S., “is a technology that we haven’t totally mastered,” she
said. “There is only one technology that can be used today to
produce shale gas and that’s hydraulic fracturing and we don’t
want it.”  Allowing the technique to be used in France would violate
the principles of “precaution and prevention” enshrined in the
country’s Environmental Charter, according to the proposed law
sponsored by UMP deputy Christian Jacob.  Deputies at the National Assembly are scheduled to start
debating the bill at midnight Paris time and vote on a final
version tomorrow before it moves to the Senate.  The deputies will have more than 40 amendments to consider
including one that would allow hydraulic fracturing for research
purposes by state-controlled entities and another that would ban
France-based companies from using hydraulic fracturing outside
the country or deepwater drilling offshore French Guiana.  Industrial Potential  “No one knows for sure whether shale potential is
promising enough to move toward industrial production,” the
French oil companies association Union Francaise des Industries
Petrolieres said last week in a statement. “Industry is simply
asking to do enough research to be able to precisely gauge the
situation.”  The CGT union, which represents the most workers at French
energy companies, said exploration work under government control
should be allowed in order to measure reserves. “Production of
shale oil and gas using current available technology isn’t
acceptable anywhere,” it said last week.  Toreador last quarter planned to drill the first of three
wells at the Chateau Thierry permit outside Paris to explore for
shale oil, while  Vermilion Energy Inc. (VET)  was planning to fracture
shale in three existing wells after exploration last year, the
government and companies have said.  Total holds the southern French Montelimar permit for shale
gas while  GDF Suez (GSZ)  SA has had talks with Schuepbach Energy LLC
on taking a stake in two permits the company holds in southern
France to explore for unconventional gas.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  