-- 
French Industrial Output Declines for First Month in Five

-- B y   M a r k   D e e n
-- 
2011-05-10T08:54:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/french-industrial-output-drops-for-first-time-in-five-months.html
French industrial output dropped for
the first time in five months in March as slowing demand and
supply disruptions curbed production of cars.  Output from factories, mines and utilities fell 0.9 percent
from February, when it gained a revised 0.5 percent, Paris-based
statistics office Insee said today. Economists forecast a 0.4
percent increase, according to the median of 16 estimates in a
Bloomberg News survey.  The biggest drop came in the automotive industry, where a
4.3 percent decline in production resulted from a combination of
softening demand and the idling of factories caused by a
disruption in the supply of parts from  Japan . Economic growth
may slow as global demand cools, though today’s figures still
point to acceleration in the first quarter, economists said.  “Following a strong start to the year, growth in the
industrial sector is likely to slow down in coming months,”
Joost Beaumont, an economist at  ABN Amro  in Amsterdam, said by
e-mail today.  A subsidy for new car purchases that was initiated in
December 2008 to counter the recession expired Dec. 31, though
the incentive was still offered to buyers who ordered cars
before the deadline and delayed delivery and payment to the
first three months of this year. That contributed to a factory
slowdown in March, the same month an earthquake and tsunami in
Japan cut off supplies of key components needed by carmakers
such as PSA Peugeot Citroen SA.  ‘Supply Problems’  “It is difficult to determine what part is due to the
slowing demand and what is due to supply problems out of
Japan,” said  Dominique Barbet , an economist at BNP Paribas in
Paris.  Among other industries, output of electrical equipment fell
1 percent, while production of chemicals and pharmaceuticals
rose 0.8 percent and 1 percent, respectively. Manufacturing
output, which excludes utilities, dropped 1 percent from
February, when it rose 0.9 percent, today’s report showed.  Insee publishes its initial measure of first-quarter gross
domestic product on May 13. The Bank of  France  estimates that
GDP expanded 0.7 percent in the first quarter and will grow an
additional 0.5 percent in the second quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  