-- 
French Body Files Complaint in National Soccer Team Coach Dispute on Race

-- B y   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i
-- 
2011-05-12T15:22:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/french-soccer-federation-didn-t-break-laws-with-quota-talks-jouanno-says.html
An anti-discrimination organization
filed a complaint over  France ’s handling of an investigation
into a row over soccer quotas based on race.  The body claims the investigation that cleared  Laurent Blanc , the French national soccer coach, was opaque and an
attempt to bury the case. On May 10, Sports Minister Chantal Jouanno said the French Football Federation and Blanc didn’t
break the law by discussing ways to limit players with foreign
roots in France’s youth soccer training programs, even though it
was “on the edge of being racist.”  “Was it a real investigation or a smokescreen aimed at
creating an illusion or hiding the truth,” Louis-Georges Tin,
the spokesman of CRAN, the Representative Council of Black
Associations of France, wrote in Le Monde today.  The race-quotas case sparked controversy in France by
bringing the country’s uneasy relationship with its immigrants
to the soccer field. It evoked charges of racism from some
former national team players and comes as immigration takes
center stage in France’s political debate a year before the
country’s presidential elections.  The ministry opened investigations after website  Mediapart 
released a recording of a Nov. 8 meeting where Blanc and other
FFF training staff discussed ways to have fewer players with
double nationalities in France’s youth-training programs because
they sometimes opt to play for another country. In the
recordings, Blanc also complains that the predominance of black
players in France has led to an overly physical style of play.  Calls for Resignation  In its last competitive match against Luxembourg on March
25, seven out the 11 French national team players were of
African, Arab or Caribbean descent. In the 2009-10 season, 24 of
60 players in France’s youth training program opted to play for
other countries, including  Morocco ,  Poland , and  Algeria .  Lilian Thuram and  Patrick Vieira , who played with Blanc,
45, on France’s 1998 World Cup-winning team, last week called on
their former teammate to resign. Vieira was born in  Senegal .  An investigation by the ministry and a separate one by the
FFF found no evidence of plans to impose quotas on players who
might opt to play for countries other than France, Jouanno said
at a press conference near Paris. Also, Blanc was present only
once at discussions about foreign players, and wasn’t the one
who brought up the subject, Jouanno said.  The idea of imposing quotas was discussed but “killed at
birth,” Patrick Braouezec, a member of parliament who was one
of two authors of the FFF’s report, said at a separate press
conference on May 10.  Immigration Politics  The case comes against a backdrop of a harsher policy on
immigration as France’s politicians gear up for the May 2012
presidential election. Last month, Interior Minister Claude Gueant said the government will increase expulsion of
undocumented aliens and plans to reduce the number of legal
immigrants it admits each year.  The government of President  Nicolas Sarkozy  had until now
focused on expelling people without residency papers and not
touched the number of visas granted.  Jouanno said that football in France isn’t racist, and is
one of the country’s best integrated institutions. She said the
real issue is to understand why a player trained in France would
choose another country.  “As a citizen, I regret that a French kid would prefer to
represent another country,” Braouezec said. “But as long as
FIFA rules allow it, it’s his right.”  FIFA Rules  FIFA, soccer’s global governing body, changed its rules in
2009, allowing players to represent the country of their
grandparents or parents, even if they’ve already represented
another country at youth level.  Blanc has defended his comments.  “That some terms, used during a candid work meeting about
a sensitive subject and taken out of their context, could be
considered ambiguous, I certainly accept,” Blanc said in a
statement April 30. “If I have hurt anyone, I apologize. But I
can’t accept being accused of racism and xenophobia when I am
against all forms of discrimination.”  Zinedine Zidane, the most famous player on the 1998 team
and whose parents are Algerian, said in an interview with
Journal de Dimanche that he was disappointed by Blanc’s
comments, but that he shouldn’t be fired.  The sports ministry’s investigation was solely to determine
if the law had been broken, not to decide the origin of the tape
recording nor Blanc’s future, Jouanno said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gregory Viscusi in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net  