-- 
FTC Finds Sanofi, Watson Failed to Report Patent Accords

-- B y   J e f f   B l i s s   a n d   B i l l   K o e n i g
-- 
2011-05-10T16:50:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/ftc-staff-finds-sanofi-watson-failed-to-report-patent-pacts.html
The Federal Trade Commission  said 
Sanofi-Aventis U.S. LLC,  Watson Pharmaceuticals Inc. (WPI)  and Synthon
Holding BV illegally failed to inform the agency about patent
agreements on the insomnia drug Ambien CR.  The  FTC  let the companies off with a warning as its staff
told them it decided not to recommend penalties because the lack
of a filing didn’t harm rivals or consumers, according to a
statement on the agency’s website. Also, the companies didn’t
appear to be trying to evade the reporting requirements, the
agency said.  The FTC said it decided to issue letters to the companies
to guide them on complying with a 2003 health-care law. Future
violations could mean fines of as much as $11,000 a day, the
agency said.  “We will consider enforcement recommendations, including
appropriate penalties” if the companies fail to tell the FTC of
future settlements, said Richard Feinstein, head of the FTC’s
Bureau of Competition, in the statement.  Sanofi-Aventis “acted in good faith, and no party appears
to have benefited from the failure to file,” said Jack Cox, a
spokesman for the Paris-based company, in an e-mail. “However,
the company takes note of the FTC’s position.”  FTC Chairman Jon Leibowitz has criticized some drug
settlements between brand-name and generic-drug makers as
delaying the introduction of less-expensive medicines. The
number of such deals increased to 31 in 2010 from 19 in the
previous year, according to the agency.  ‘Outrageous’  Some of these settlements “are outrageous, and they harm
consumers,” Leibowitz said on May 3 in an interview at the
Bloomberg News office in  New York . “Either the courts or
Congress needs to stop them.”  Sanofi-Aventis  sued Corona, California-based  Watson  and
Nijmegen, Netherlands-based  Synthon  in 2007 for patent
infringement by seeking to make a generic version of Sanofi’s
Ambien CR.  Settlements in patent cases often are called reverse-
payment or pay-for-delay deals because the brand-name company
compensates the generic-drug maker with cash or marketing or
sales deals in return for dropping challenges to patents.  Prices of generic drugs are generally 20 percent to 30
percent below those of brand-name drugs and in some cases as
much as 90 percent cheaper, the FTC has said.  Drug-company lobbyists have defended the patent settlements
as alternatives to long and costly court battles.  Spokespeople for Watson and Synthon didn’t immediately
respond to phone calls and e-mails seeking comment.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Bliss in Washington at 
 jbliss@bloomberg.net ;
Bill Koenig at 
 wkoenig@bloomberg.net  