-- 
Gasoline Gains on Supply Concern Amid Flooding, Refinery Outages

-- B y   B a r b a r a   P o w e l l
-- 
2011-05-10T16:59:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/gasoline-gains-on-supply-concern-amid-flooding-refinery-outages.html
Gasoline advanced a second day on
concern that flooding along the  Mississippi River  and refinery
shutdowns for unplanned repairs would disrupt fuel production
and distribution from the  Gulf Coast  to the Midwest.  Futures rose as much as 3.1 percent, extending yesterday’s
6.1 percent jump, as the potential opening of a spillway along
the Mississippi River to relieve flooding may “significantly”
reduce operations at two refineries, according to a statement
from Governor Bobby Jindal’s office. Inventories are at a 22-
month low before the start of summer driving season.  “Today is follow-through on concerns of potential supply
disruptions from Mississippi River flooding,” said  Andy Lipow ,
president of Lipow Oil Associates LLC in Houston. “We’re headed
into the summer driving season in a few weeks with gasoline
inventories that have been drawing the last three months.”  Gasoline for June delivery rose 6.49 cents, or 2 percent,
to $3.3433 a gallon at 12:49 p.m. on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange . It was the second consecutive gain, and follows
yesterday’s 6.1 percent surge.  The Mississippi will likely linger just below 48 feet in
 Memphis  through today before flooding flows south. To relieve
the threat to  New Orleans  and  Baton Rouge ,  Louisiana ’s capital,
the corps may open the Morganza Spillway. Opening the spillway
halfway would inundate a swath of central Louisiana along the
Atchafalaya River with 5 feet (1.5 meters) to 20 feet of water.  Morganza Spillway  Louisiana declined to identify the refineries that may be
affected. One of the plants on the Mississippi River, the
statement said, citing the state’s Department of Natural
Resources fuel team. Alon USA Energy Inc.’s Krotz Springs
refinery in Louisiana will be affected if the spillway is
opened, Lisa Vidrine, director of the St. Landry Parish office
of emergency preparedness, said in a telephone interview.  Flooding after the opening of the spillway may result in
“reducing operating capacity to 75 percent for two weeks and
then further significant reductions,” according to the DNR.  The 104,532-ton tanker Zaliv Baikal oil tanker was
prevented from delivering crude to  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ’s Baton
Rouge refinery because of concern that the ship wouldn’t fit
under the Interstate 10 bridge over the Mississippi River.  Futures surged yesterday as Chevron had a crude unit fire
in its Mississippi refinery and Exxon Mobil Corp. had a unit
failure in its Illinois plant.  The premium of June futures over July increased to 12.14
cents, the largest since August 2009, from 11.4 cents yesterday.
The premium of June gasoline over crude on Nymex surged $2.54 to
$37.68 a barrel.  Gasoline Supplies  Gasoline stockpiles dropped 11 consecutive weeks from Feb.
11 to April 29, according to Energy Department data, and lost
36.6 million barrels. Refiners operated at 82.8 percent of
capacity, 6.8 percentage points below a year earlier.  Supplies in Padd 1 are the lowest since October 2008,
according to Energy Department data. The region includes New
York Harbor, the delivery point of the Nymex gasoline contract.  U.S. supplies of the motor fuel probably fell 750,000
barrels last week from the previous week’s 204.5 million,
according to the median estimate of 17 analysts in a survey by
Bloomberg News. Supply disruptions after May 6 would not be
reflected in department’s report, to be released tomorrow.  “You had low stocks to begin with and now there’s fear of
disruptions,” said Mark Anderle, a trader at Truman Arnold Cos.
in Texarkana,  Texas .  Driving Season  The peak gasoline demand period starts after the Memorial
Day holiday in late May and ends on Labor Day in early
September. The holidays fall on May 30 and Sept. 5 this year.  Regular retail gasoline fell 0.9 cent to $3.951 a gallon
yesterday, AAA said on its website. The Energy Department cut
its forecast for summer gasoline prices by 5 cents to $3.81 a
gallon. That’s up from $2.76 from April through September last
year, the department said in its monthly Short-Term Energy
Outlook.  Stockpiles of distillate fuels, including heating oil and
diesel, were likely unchanged, according to the survey.  Heating oil for June delivery added 2.76 cents, or 0.9
percent, to $2.9894 a gallon. The discount of heating oil versus
gasoline increased 3.73 cents to 35.39 cents, the widest since
May 2007.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Barbara J Powell in  Dallas  at 
 bpowell4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net  