-- 
Genetic Test Helps Predict Chemotherapy Success in Breast Cancer

-- B y   M e g   T i r r e l l
-- 
2011-05-10T20:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/genetic-test-helps-predict-chemotherapy-success-in-breast-cancer.html
Breast cancer  survival can be
predicted with a genetic test that indicates which patients will
benefit from chemotherapy, according to a study published today.  The study was conducted over 10 years in patients newly
diagnosed with invasive breast cancer. The researchers predicted
patients’ responsiveness to treatment through a combination of
sensitivity to endocrine therapy, chemoresistance and
chemosensitivity. The study was published in the  Journal of the
 American Medical Association .  Of the patients predicted to be helped by chemotherapy, the
study found a 92 percent survival rate without relapse after
three years. The findings will be important for doctors making
decisions about whether to prescribe chemotherapy or recommend
other treatment, including enrollment in clinical trials, the
authors said.  “The treatment a patient receives at initial diagnosis
offers the greatest chance for cure,” Lajos Pusztai, a
professor at the  University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center 
in Houston and an author of the study, said in a statement.
“Currently, we’re still not sure who we are curing with
chemotherapy and who also could benefit from these novel
therapies.”  Last year, more than 207,000 women in the U.S. were
diagnosed with breast cancer, and almost 40,000 died from the
disease, according to the  National Cancer Institute .  ‘Predictive Signatures’  The study treated 310 patients with the chemotherapies
taxane and anthracycline, followed by endocrine therapy if they
were expected to respond to it. Through genetic testing, the
researchers then developed “predictive signatures” for
response to chemotherapy and applied them to a separate group of
198 patients to determine the test’s accuracy.  “The research builds on a decade of collaborative work in
developing a clinically meaningful chemotherapy predictor,” W.
Fraser Symmans, a professor in the pathology department at MD
Anderson and an author of the study, said in the statement. The
results, “if validated in future studies, could guide therapy
for about 80 percent of newly diagnosed women with invasive
breast cancer who are candidates for chemotherapy.”  The test was developed jointly by researchers at MD
Anderson and closely held  Nuvera Biosciences Inc.  in Woburn,
 Massachusetts , Symmans said in an e-mail today. The scientists
are continuing to “test the test” to ensure its accuracy
before it would be used routinely, he said.  “It is possible to predict both response and survival from
chemotherapy,” Symmans said. “Careful attention is necessary
to do this properly.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Meg Tirrell in  New York  at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net . 