-- 
Greek Bonds Rise as New Bills Sold Amid Bailout Speculation: Bunds Advance

-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a   a n d   P a u l   D o b s o n
-- 
2011-05-10T15:56:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/german-10-year-bund-yields-near-seven-week-low-before-greece-bill-auction.html
Greek government bonds rose as the
nation sold bills and Kathimerini newspaper reported that the
 International Monetary Fund  is arranging a new aid package.  The gains sent the yield on the two-year note down by the
most in a week. Portuguese two-year notes advanced for the first
time in four days after losses yesterday pushed the yield to the
highest since before the euro’s introduction. German bonds fell
as stock-market gains reduced demand for safety amid speculation
the  European Central Bank  will judge that the region’s economy
remains strong enough to withstand higher interest rates.  “The reason behind the rise in Greek bonds is the rumor
about a discussion for another bailout package,” said
Alessandro Giansanti, a senior rates strategist at ING Groep NV
in Amsterdam. “It’s temporary good news for Greece. We will
have a short-term rally but it will not change the bigger
picture.”  The Greek two-year yield dropped 43 basis points to 25.18
percent at 4:35 p.m. in London, after declining by as much as 95
basis points, the most since May 3. The 10-year bond yield fell
28 basis points to 15.43 percent.  Spain ’s 10-year bond yield
fell five basis points to 5.28 percent, while the Irish yield
declined seven basis points to 10.57 percent.  Germany ’s 10-year
yield increased two basis points to 3.12 percent.  Greek Bill Sale  The IMF is arranging an 80 billion-euro ($115 billion) to
100 billion-euro aid package to replace Greece’s existing
bailout program, Kathimerini reported, without saying how it got
the information. The plan would entail disbursing an additional
30 billion euros to cover Greece’s funding needs through 2013
and would include tougher conditions and more realistic targets
than last year’s bailout, the Athens-based newspaper said.  Greece sold 1.625 billion euros of 26-week Treasury bills
at a yield of 4.88 percent, attracting bids equivalent to 3.58
times the securities offered, the Public Debt Management Agency
in  Athens  said. Foreign investors bought 34 percent of the bills
at today’s sale, PDMA chief Petros Christodoulou said in a
statement, adding that the auction “beat our forecasts.”  “There hasn’t been a pause in the bills market, so there
has been a level of demand,” said  Orlando Green , a fixed-income
strategist at Credit Agricole SA in London. Some investors are
“comfortable that Greece can repay their debt within the year,
but beyond that it’s a bigger problem.”  Greece isn’t in talks with the European Union about a
further aid package, government spokesman  George Petalotis  said
in an e-mailed statement, commenting on a Dow Jones report
published earlier today.  International Investors  Today’s bill offering may have attracted “international
investors that are lured by relatively high yields,” said Elia Lattuga, a fixed-income strategist at UniCredit SpA in Milan.
“It’s a pretty high pick-up on German bills. Of course there’s
higher risk involved,” though the bills mature before the end
of the existing aid program from the EU and IMF, he said.  Greece’s refinancing needs of 58 billion euros are covered
this year by the nation’s 110 billion-euro loan package from the
European Union and IMF. Next year, Greece is supposed to regain
 market access  and refinance at least three-quarters of its
maturing medium- and long-term debt, and then fully fund debt
rollovers beginning in mid-2013.  Euribor futures dropped, sending the implied yield on the
June 2012 contract up two basis points to 2.30 percent, a sign
that investors may be adding to wagers that the ECB will resume
raising  interest rates . Bunds climbed last week as the central
bank left the refinancing rate at 1.25 percent and its
president,  Jean-Claude Trichet , signaled the ECB may not raise
rates further until after June.  German Inflation  Germany’s inflation rate, calculated using a harmonized
European Union method, was at 2.6 percent last month, a
government report will show tomorrow, confirming an earlier
estimate, according to the median prediction of 18 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg. The ECB’s inflation target for the 17-
nation euro region is 2 percent.  “It’s clear that rates should go up and the market is
pretty much convinced that the ECB won’t be deterred by the
volatility in the sovereign  debt market ,” said Elwin de Groot,
a senior market economist at Rabobank Groep in Utrecht, the
Netherlands. “There’s no reason to expect the ECB to change
their view that we need to get back to normal interest levels at
some point in time.”  German bonds have handed investors a 0.8 percent loss this
year, compared with a 1.8 percent gain for Treasuries, according
to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European Federation of
Financial Analysts Societies. Greek bonds have lost investors 12
percent, while those of  Portugal , the third country to seek aid
after  Greece  and Ireland, lost 16 percent.  Restructuring Risk  There’s an increasing risk that Greece will be forced to
restructure its debt, said  Moritz Kraemer , head of Standard &
Poor’s European debt evaluation team.  “We’re not saying it’s good or bad,” Kraemer told
Bloomberg Television in an interview from  Frankfurt  today.
“We’re just stating what we think is likely to happen.”  LCH Clearnet Ltd.,  Europe ’s largest clearing house,
increased the extra deposit it demands from clients to trade
Portuguese government bonds to 45 percent from 35 percent after
yields rose relative to a AAA benchmark.  The additional fee will be reflected in a margin call
tomorrow, LCH said in a statement on its  website . It applies to
“long” positions, while “short positions will pay a
proportionally lower margin,” the company said. The amount will
also be adjusted for the price of the bond, it said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Dobson in  London  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  