-- 
Germany-Based U.S. Companies Advocate Euro-Debt Restructuring

-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 
2011-05-10T11:32:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/germany-based-u-s-companies-advocate-euro-debt-restructuring.html
A third of U.S. companies with
operations in  Germany  favor a restructuring of over-indebted
euro countries’ debt, a poll by the American Chamber of Commerce
in Germany and the  Boston Consulting Group  showed.  Eighteen percent of companies rejected such a measure,
according to the survey of 107 U.S. businesses polled at the
start of the year.  “As a trend, one has to get used to the idea whether a
restructuring with a haircut is the right method,” AmCham
Germany Vice President Lutz Raettig, who’s also chairman of the
supervisory board of Morgan Stanley Bank AG, told reporters in
Berlin today. “We’ve had some sensible experiences in the cases
of Argentina, Mexico and  Brazil , where the situation calmed down
over time and created a sensible basis for a new development.”  Greek bond yields and the cost of insuring the country’s
debt against default rose to all-time highs amid speculation
about a debt write-off or an extension of repayment timelines.
Standard & Poor’s cut  Greece ’s long-term sovereign credit rating
by two levels yesterday to B, five notches below investment
grade. The rating may be lowered further, S&P said.  European debt woes are one of three big challenges faced by
Germany-based U.S. businesses, which have emerged from the
economic and financial crisis faster than they expected and are
seeking to expand sales, marketing, research and production
operations in Europe’s biggest economy, according to the poll.  Growing Sales  Most of the companies that were polled reject a breakup of
the 17-nation euro region, its split into a north bloc and a
south bloc or the exit of over-indebted nations such as Greece.
The enterprises have combined annual sales of 120 billion euros
($172 billion) and employ 320,000 people.  Eighty-seven percent of the companies expect sales to
increase this year and 60 percent forecast that German exports
to markets outside  Europe  will make up for the slump in demand
from cash-strapped euro countries, the poll showed.  German exports, adjusted for work days and seasonal
changes, jumped 7.3 percent in March, the  Federal Statistics
Office  in Wiesbaden said yesterday. March foreign sales were
worth 98.3 billion euros, the most since records began in 1950,
the statistics office said.  Germany’s “strong reliance on exports” and a lack of
highly qualified workers in an aging society represent the other
two big short- and medium-term risks for the domestic economy,
Daniel Stelter, senior partner and managing director at BCG,
said at the same briefing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  