-- 
GM Will Invest $2 Billion in U.S. Plants

-- B y   D a v i d   W e l c h
-- 
2011-05-10T20:12:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/gm-to-invest-2-billion-in-u-s-plants.html
General Motors Co. (GM)  will invest $2
billion in plants in eight U.S. states as it works to boost
production and market share.  The plans were announced today at a transmission factory in
Toledo,  Ohio , where GM will spend $205 million and retain or add
250 jobs. GM said the rest of the investment, which would create
or save 4,000 jobs at 17 facilities, depends on completing local
tax deals and will be announced in the coming months.  GM is growing less than two years after declaring
bankruptcy in June 2009. The Detroit-based automaker’s U.S.
market share increased to 19.6 percent through April from 18.7
percent in the same period last year, according to Autodata
Corp., in  Woodcliff Lake ,  New Jersey .  “It’s not only good for GM, it’s good for the  United
States of America ,” Chief Executive Officer Dan Akerson told
workers today in Toledo. “We’re committed to investing in the
manufacturing infrastructure of this country.”  GM has been spending on factories since its $50 billion
government-backed bankruptcy. GM announced a $131 million
investment last week in its Corvette sports-car plant in  Bowling
Green ,  Kentucky . Including that project, GM said it had
committed $3.4 billion to U.S. factories since emerging from
court protection, creating or preserving 9,000 jobs.  The automaker’s spending on new plants and production make
sense because GM is adding new models and technologies and
preparing for an improvement in auto sales, said Peter Nesvold,
analyst with New York-based Jefferies & Co.  ‘Spending Again’  “At a certain point you have to start spending again,”
Nesvold said in a telephone interview. “Auto sales will get
back to 14 million or 15 million units eventually.’  The upgrades in Toledo will make the plant capable of
building eight-speed automatic transmissions that will improve
fuel economy and performance, GM said.  GM’s investment during the next year will support more than
28,000 U.S. jobs when including indirect employment at suppliers
and work created from those employees spending their earnings,
according to the Center for Automotive Research.  Those jobs will contribute almost $2.9 billion to U.S.
gross domestic product, the  Ann Arbor , Michigan-based research
group said today in an e-mailed statement.  UAW Hiring  The United Auto Workers union has 1,357 members on layoff
waiting for jobs at GM, UAW Vice President Joe Ashton told
reporters at the event. Akerson said that once those workers are
recalled, GM will start hiring people to fill the remainder of
the 4,000 jobs.  The union will discuss bringing new products to plants in
Janesville,  Wisconsin ; Shreveport,  Louisiana , and Spring Hill
Tennessee, all of which have either slowed output or been idled,
Ashton said.  ‘‘That will be discussed at the table,” Ashton said.
“We’re hoping. It will depend on sales volume.”  The UAW also will negotiate to get more cash put into a
trust set up by GM to pay for retirees’ medical benefits, he
said. GM, Ford Motor Co. and Chrysler Group LLC all have funds
called Voluntary Employee Beneficiary Associations that are
seeded with cash and securities to pay benefits.  “I’m sure that will be part of the discussion,” he said.  While GM’s first-quarter profit excluding some items of 95
cents a share topped analysts’ average estimate of 91 cents, the
company’s North American and international operations trailed
targets set by underwriters of its initial public offering set
in December 2010, Nesvold said in a report today.  Underwriters’ Estimates  The six underwriters estimated GM’s first-quarter earnings
per share would be $1.14. Added costs for incentives, marketing
and engineering all brought earnings down, he said. Nesvold
rates the stock “hold” and has a 12-month price target of $36.  GM rose 22 cents to $31.61 at 4 p.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading. The shares have dropped 14 percent
this year and declined 4.2 percent since the November IPO.  “How can it be that just two quarters after the IPO they
are coming up so short,” Nesvold said. “I think right now
people would be more inclined to buy Ford. It’s more expensive
but there is less baggage.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Welch  in Southfield,  Michigan , at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net . 