-- 
Goldman Sachs Cuts Estimate for Potential First-Quarter Legal Losses 21%

-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 
2011-05-10T20:09:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/goldman-sachs-lowers-estimate-for-losses-from-lawsuits-21-to-2-7-billion.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , the fifth-
biggest U.S. bank by assets, cut its estimated losses from legal
claims by 21 percent in the first quarter.  The bank’s “reasonably possible” losses from lawsuits
dropped to $2.7 billion as of March 31 from $3.4 billion at the
end of 2010, according to its quarterly filing today with the
Securities and Exchange Commission.  The estimate, the second of its kind disclosed by the firm,
is the “upper end” of losses in matters where the risk is
“more than remote but less than likely,” New York-based
Goldman Sachs said in the filing.  Banks started releasing estimates of possible losses after
the SEC told corporate finance chiefs in October that they
should disclose such costs “when there is at least a reasonable
possibility” that they may be incurred, even if the risk is too
low to require reserves.  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , the biggest U.S.
lender, has said legal and regulatory matters may cost $150
million to $1.6 billion beyond what it has reserved.  Staff at the Commodity Futures Trading Commission advised
Goldman Sachs Execution & Clearing LP, known as GSEC, that they
intend to recommend legal action against the unit related to its
role as clearing broker for a broker-dealer, the company
disclosed in today’s filing.  The CFTC staff alleges that GSEC “knew or should have
known” that the client’s sub-accounts maintained at GSEC were
accounts belonging to customers of the broker-dealer and not the
broker-dealer’s own accounts, according to the filing.  Subpoenas Omitted  The filing also included a reference to subpoenas that
Goldman Sachs and certain affiliates received from regulators
regarding sales of collateralized debt obligations, including
the firm’s Abacus 2007-AC1 deal. The company’s last quarterly
filing, its annual report on March 1, disclosed that it received
requests for information, omitting mention of the subpoenas.  In July, Goldman Sachs paid $550 million to settle a
lawsuit filed by the SEC that accused the firm of misleading
investors in the Abacus CDO. A U.S. Senate subcommittee report
on the financial crisis that used Goldman Sachs as a case study
accused the firm of misleading investors about some CDOs. The
report was referred to the  Department of Justice  and the SEC.  Washington Mutual  Goldman Sachs was among underwriters of securities
offerings by  Washington Mutual Inc. (WAMUQ)  that were accused in an Aug.
5, 2008, lawsuit of failing to accurately describe Washington
Mutual’s exposure to mortgage-related activities. Federal
regulators seized Washington Mutual on Sept. 25, 2008. The
parties reached a “settlement in principle” on March 30 that
would require Goldman Sachs to contribute to a settlement fund,
the firm disclosed today.  Goldman Sachs said it has reserved the full amount of its
proposed contribution, without disclosing how much that is.
Goldman Sachs underwrote about $520 million of Washington Mutual
securities that are subject to the complaint, the company said.  At Goldman Sachs’s annual shareholder meeting on May 6,
General Counsel Gregory K. Palm said that the firm spent $726
million on legal fees last year and that it employs 286 full-
time lawyers, up from 252 a year ago.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Harper in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 