-- 
Goldman Sachs Traders Lost Money One Day Last Quarter, Best Record in Year

-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 
2011-05-10T10:32:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/goldman-sachs-traders-lost-money-one-day-last-quarter-best-record-in-year.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , the U.S.
bank that makes more than half its revenue from trading, lost
money in that business on one day during the first quarter, its
best record since posting zero days of losses a year ago.  After losing money on 13 days in the fourth quarter,
Goldman Sachs’s traders lost between $25 million and $50 million
on one occasion in the first quarter, according to the New York-
based firm’s quarterly filing with the Securities and Exchange
Commission. They generated more than $100 million on 32 days out
of 62 total days, the filing showed.  Goldman Sachs’s performance beats  Morgan Stanley (MS) , whose
traders lost money on three days and made more than $100 million
on 10 days, according to a filing yesterday. It falls short of
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , which both
reported zero days of losses in the quarter.  Goldman Sachs, the fifth-biggest U.S. bank by assets,  said 
last month that revenue from securities trading fell 22 percent
from a year earlier to $6.65 billion, although it climbed 83
percent from the fourth quarter. Last year, President and Chief
Operating Officer Gary D. Cohn said infrequent daily trading
losses are evidence that the firm doesn’t rely on making bets
with its own money.  Goldman Sachs reported zero days of trading losses during
the first quarter of last year, the first such perfect quarter
in the firm’s history. It reported 10 such days in the second
quarter and two for the third quarter.  During 2010, Bank of America, the biggest  U.S. bank  by
assets, had perfect quarters in the first and third quarters,
while JPMorgan, the second-biggest, had three perfect quarters.  JPMorgan’s figures may not be directly comparable with
other banks’ because they also include market risk besides
trading, such as principal transactions in its chief investment
office and some mortgage fees and hedges.  Goldman Sachs said its trading risks didn’t exceed the
firm’s value-at-risk limit, a measure of how much the company
could lose in the securities markets in one day, during the
quarter. Average value-at-risk was $113 million in the quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Harper in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 