-- 
Google Adds Entertainment Services to Take On Apple, Amazon

-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 
2011-05-10T22:59:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/google-prepares-to-unveil-online-music-service-at-developers-conference.html
Google Inc. (GOOG) , the world’s largest
Internet-search company, is making a bigger push into
entertainment services, adding music storage and movie-rental
features to its Android software for phones and tablets.  The new  Music Beta  service, announced today at the
company’s I/O developer conference in San Francisco, will store
song libraries and playlists, and will suggest music based on
listeners’ collections. Movies will be available for rent
through the Android Market, and can be streamed to personal
computers, tablet devices and handsets, the company said.  “We are very excited about music  -- just because of the
level of engagement users have with music,” Jamie Rosenberg,
director of digital content for Android, said at the conference.  Google is moving into new forms of entertainment to
diversify revenue, boost advertising sales and keep users on its
sites for longer. The company, based in  Mountain View ,
 California , is stepping up competition with  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and
 Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  -- which both offer music and film services --as
more users seek to access their song and movie libraries from
mobile devices and multiple PCs.  Cloud Storage  Google’s music-service rollout follows Amazon’s decision to
let consumers store digital music on its servers and stream the
tracks to computers and Android smartphones. Google’s new
service, like Amazon’s, will rely on cloud computing, which
delivers songs over the Internet rather than keeping them on
local hard drives. That differs from the approach of Apple’s
iTunes, the world’s biggest music seller, which offers
downloadable tracks.  “What we launched today is a completely legal service,”
Rosenberg said. “It is storing a music collection the user
already owns in the cloud in the same way that you might move
your collection to a portable MP3 player.”  Rosenberg said the company was stymied by a couple of music
labels in rolling out a music-buying service. He declined to
name the labels, and said he looks forward to more talks with
the  music industry .  Yesterday, Google’s YouTube unit said it would add “The
King’s Speech,” “Inception” and about 3,000 other titles to
its movie-rental service. The move accelerated YouTube’s shift
into Hollywood entertainment and increased its rivalry with
 Netflix Inc. (NFLX)  Movie rentals on Android Market will start at $1.99
and the service is based on the same back-end program as
YouTube’s, Google said today.  I/O Conference  Google’s I/O conference caters to programmers who design
applications for Google’s platforms, including Android and the
Chrome Web browser.  Google discussed the next major version of Android, dubbed
Ice Cream Sandwich, which will be available to partners later
this year. The company’s goal for this version of Android is
that it work easily with multiple devices, including tablets,
smartphones and Google TV. The company said Google TV will add
the Android marketplace for applications later this year.  The Internet search giant also previewed a program called
Android@Home, which will let users connect Android-based devices
to home accessories such as light switches, thermostats and
appliances. Special Android@Home light bulbs from Lighting
Science Group will be available by the end of the year, Google
said.  Google said it has activated 100 million devices that run
Android. Rival Apple had sold 108.6 million iPhones, which were
introduced in 2007, through the end of March.  With all that growth, Google is trying to make sure new
versions of Android get to consumers. It announced today it’s
working on new guidelines with partners such as HTC Corp. and
Sprint Nextel Corp. The company said the partners will receive
the latest Android platform upgrades for 18 months after the
device is first released, as long as the hardware supports it.  Google rose $4.98 to $542.66 at 4 p.m. New York time on the
Nasdaq Stock Market. The shares have fallen 8.6 percent this
year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 Bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  