-- 
Google Sets Aside $500 Million for Federal Investigation, Crimping Profit

-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 
2011-05-11T21:04:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/google-sets-aside-500-million-for-justice-investigation-reduces-profit.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  set aside $500 million
related to the possible resolution of a U.S.  Justice Department 
investigation of its advertising business, resulting in lower
first-quarter profit.  The expense trimmed net income to $1.8 billion, or $5.51 a
share, in the period, Google said yesterday in a regulatory
filing. The  Mountain View , California-based company had reported
first-quarter profit of $2.3 billion, or $7.04, on April 14.  “Although we cannot predict the ultimate outcome of this
matter, we believe it will not have a material adverse effect on
our business, consolidated financial position, results of
operations or cash flows,” Google said in the statement.  The Justice Department is investigating the use of Google
ads by “certain advertisers,” Google said in the filing. Aaron Zamost, a spokesman for the company, declined to comment on the
disclosure. Google gets almost all its revenue from online
advertising, which runs on its search engine and other sites,
such as YouTube.  Google faces an increasing array of scrutiny from
regulators over its market leadership and handling of users’
data. The Federal Trade Commission is preparing an investigation
of Google’s dominance of the search industry and has alerted
technology companies that it plans to gather information for the
probe, three people familiar with the matter said last month.  ITA Review  The FTC, which had been considering a broad investigation,
waited until the Justice Department concluded its own review of
Google’s acquisition of ITA Software Inc., two people familiar
with the matter said in April. The Justice Department cleared
the purchase last month, on the condition that Google make ITA’s
travel information available to search-engine rivals.  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , Kayak.com, Expedia Inc. and other Google
competitors banded together as a group called  FairSearch.org  to
oppose the acquisition of ITA, which makes software that
provides data for online travel sites such as  Orbitz Worldwide
Inc. (OWW)  They said the deal would reduce competition and called on
the Justice Department to impose conditions for the transaction.  U.S. Senator  Herb Kohl , a Wisconsin Democrat who heads a
Judiciary antitrust subcommittee, has said he will examine
Google’s business practices. Senator  Mike Lee  of Utah, the
panel’s senior Republican, has called for hearings.  Officials in  Texas  and the European Commission have started
investigations into Google’s search dominance, and Ohio Attorney
General Mike DeWine is considering such a probe.  With the $500 million expense, Google’s net income declined
8 percent in the first quarter from the year-earlier period.
Before the change, net income had climbed 18 percent.  Excluding revenue passed on to partner sites, sales rose 29
percent to $6.54 billion, topping the $6.32 billion average of
estimates. Still, that growth was dwarfed by a 54 percent jump
in operating expenses.  Laura Sweeney , a Justice Department spokeswoman, declined
to comment on the matter.  Google fell $7.21 to $535.45 at 4 p.m. New York time on the
Nasdaq Stock Market. The shares have declined 9.9 percent this
year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  