-- 
Lawmakers Press Apple, Google on Privacy

-- B y   E r i c   E n g l e m a n   a n d   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o
-- 
2011-05-10T19:06:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/google-defends-use-of-location-data-in-congressional-testimony.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and  Google Inc. (GOOG)  defended
their handling of user location data and said they do not track
individual smartphone customers in response to questions from
U.S. lawmakers about how the companies protect consumer privacy.  “Apple is deeply committed to protecting the privacy of
our customers,” said Guy “Bud” Tribble, Apple’s vice
president for software technology in testimony before a Senate
Judiciary subcommittee today in Washington. “Apple does not
track users’ locations -- Apple has never done so and has no
plans to do so.”  Representatives of Apple and Google, makers of software
used in millions of smartphones, appeared in Congress today as
lawmakers consider new online privacy rules that could alter how
they operate. The hearing was called by Senator Al Franken, a
Minnesota Democrat, to review whether use of location-based data
violates consumers’ privacy.  “Consumers have a fundamental right to know what data is
being collected about them,” Franken said as the hearing began.
“They have a right to decide whether they want to share that
information, and with whom they want to share it and when,” he
said. “And yet reports suggest that the information on our
mobile devices is not being protected in the way that it should
be.”  New Era  Lawmakers are trying to determine what rules are needed in
the new era of mobile devices that are as powerful as earlier
personal computers. The iPhone was introduced in 2007 and
Google’s Android software is used by companies including Samsung
Electronics Co. Ltd. and Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc.  “Smartphones are only becoming more and more popular,”
Franken said. “This is an urgent issue that we will be dealing
with.”  Apple, Google and other companies use location data to
deliver targeted advertising and help customers find nearby
businesses. The U.S. market for location-based services,
including applications and advertising, is expected to increase
to $4.7 billion by 2015 from $1.6 billion in 2010, according to
 ABI Research , an  Oyster Bay , New York-based research firm.  “The rapid growth of mobile products and services creates
many opportunities for consumers but also raises serious privacy
concerns,” including “invisible sharing of data with multiple
parties,” said Jessica Rich, deputy director of the Federal
Trade Commission’s consumer protection bureau, said at today’s
hearing.  Apple Data Collection  Apple, the world’s largest technology company by market
value, was called to testify following an April 20 report by two
computer programmers that said the operating system used in
iPhones and iPad tablet computers logs users’ coordinates.  Apple responded on April 27, saying that it doesn’t track
iPhone users’ locations, while acknowledging that it collects
data on Wi-Fi hot spots and wireless towers near the device. The
Cupertino, California-based company issued a software update to
limit how much location information was being logged or let
users turn off the feature.  Concerns raised by the programmers’ report have led to
investigations by regulators in  Germany ,  France ,  Italy  and  South
Korea . The attorneys general of  Illinois  and  Connecticut  also
have sought explanations from Apple and Google on how the
companies collect and store location information.  Franken questioned today how the user data collected from
smartphones by application makers or other companies is shared.  Cybercrime Target  Jason Weinstein, the deputy assistant attorney general of
the  Justice Department ’s criminal division, said that while laws
restrict what information can be shared with the government,
there are no restrictions that keep companies from sharing
information with other businesses.  “The line between mobile devices and personal computers is
shrinking every day” and mobile devices represent “another
platform for cyber criminals to target,” Weinstein said.  Outside developers of applications for Android bear
responsibility for how their software “collects and handles
user data and the privacy disclosures” to users who opt into
the service, Alan Davidson, Google’s director of public policy,
said in prepared testimony.  “Google does not control the behavior of third-party
applications or how they handle location information and other
user information that the third-party application obtains from
the device, even though Google strongly encourages application
developers to use best practices,” Davidson said.  Android Software  The company, based in  Mountain View ,  California , gives away
Android software to boost revenue from services such as mobile
advertising and expand the market for its search engine.  Google’s Android operating system accounted for 35 percent
of global smartphone shipments in the first quarter of this
year, followed by Apple with 19 percent, according to a report
this month from technology research firm Canalys.  A small amount of “location information” is kept on the
devices regarding nearby Wi-Fi access points and cell towers to
ensure that the device can keep providing location services when
there’s no connection to Google servers, Davidson said. The
information is not tied to a specific user, he said.  If users change their minds about location share, they can
later turn it off, according to Davidson.  Both Google and Apple cited increased consumer demand for
location-based services that help wireless users find nearby
businesses, such as restaurants. “These services offer many
benefits to our customers by enhancing convenience and safety
for shopping, travel and other activities,” Tribble said in his
prepared remarks.  Privacy Policy  Makers of applications that customers download to their
smartphones share information including location data with
downstream advertising and analytics companies, said Ashkan
Soltani, an independent researcher and consultant. Disclosure
about those practices is often inadequate or absent, he said.  Apple does not share “personally identifiable information
for their marketing purposes without our customers’ explicit
consent,” Tribble told lawmakers. The company requires third-
party application developers to accept restrictions aimed at
protecting consumer privacy, he said.  Users of Apple devices are covered by a single privacy
policy that applies to all of the company’s products, including
its iTunes and App stores, Tribble said. The handsets also let
customers turn off location-based services with a single switch,
and the company plans to release new iPhone software to encrypt
data on users’ whereabouts, he said.  “We give our customers clear notice of our privacy
policies, and our mobile products enable our customers to
exercise control over their personal information in a simple and
elegant way,” Tribble said.  Requiring Disclosures  Lawmakers focused on the idea of requiring further
disclosures for consumers about how location information is
used, particularly by developers of mobile applications.  Franken asked Apple and Google about the possibility of
requiring apps that run on its operating systems to have privacy
policies that spell out clearly what they do with consumers’
location data. Senator Sheldon Whitehouse, a Rhode Island
Democrat, likened mobile apps to pharmaceuticals and consumer
products, which require safety warnings and disclosures to
consumers.  “We build an arena in which the market can work but we can
make sure the boundaries of the arena are the boundaries of
safety,” Whitehouse said. “We need to really be working on
those boundaries.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eric Engleman in  Washington  at 
 eengleman1@bloomberg.net ;
Adam Satariano in  San Francisco  at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Allan Holmes at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  