-- 
Crop Weather Damage Grows as Europe Drought, Canada Rain Boost Grain Costs

-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n   a n d   E l i z a b e t h   C a m p b e l l
-- 
2011-05-10T21:54:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/grain-crop-weather-damage-growing-on-europe-drought-canada-rain.html
Less than a year after the worst
drought in a generation destroyed one-third of Russia’s wheat
crop and sent global food prices surging, more bad weather is
damaging fields from  North America  to Europe to  Asia .  Corn planting in the U.S., the world’s largest grower, is
advancing at half of last year’s pace because of excess rain,
government data show. The Canadian Wheat Board said fields are
so muddy that only 3 percent of grain has been sown, compared
with 40 percent normally. At the same time, drought left the
 Kansas  wheat crop in the worst shape since 1996, and dry spells
are threatening crops in France, Western  Australia  and  China .  While the growing season is still early for Northern
Hemisphere exporters, corn futures as much as doubled in the
past year as U.S. stockpiles headed for a 15-year low, and wheat
futures are up 62 percent from a year earlier. The  United
Nations  says global food costs advanced in April for the ninth
time in 10 months, and higher commodity expenses led food makers
including General Mills Inc. and McDonald’s Corp. to boost
prices to consumers.  “We needed everything to go perfectly, but there’s really
a lot of potential for problems, based on these weather
issues,” said Sterling Liddell, a vice president for food and
agribusiness research at Rabo AgriFinance in St. Louis, who
expects corn to reach a record $8 a bushel if conditions worsen.
“It could be a very explosive situation, because we’re already
so tight.”  Reduced Inventory  In a report tomorrow, the  U.S. Department of Agriculture 
probably will cut its forecast of global corn reserves before
this year’s Northern Hemisphere harvest to 122.5 million metric
tons, the lowest in four years, according to a Bloomberg News
survey of 14 analysts. The U.S. is the world’s biggest exporter
of corn, soybeans, wheat and cotton.  While the survey showed corn inventories probably will
rebound to 125.4 million tons next year, as higher prices spur
farmers to plant more, some analysts expected further declines
before the 2012 harvest.  Weather, especially in the U.S., may be the “swing
factor” for rebuilding global grain inventories, said Dan Manternach, a wheat economist with Doane Advisory Services, an
agricultural research company in St. Louis.  “Things are so tight, if Mother Nature so much as hiccups
on adverse weather, it can be unusually bullish for
commodities,” Manternach said.  Time to Recover  There’s still time for crops to recover. About 40 percent
of the U.S. corn crop was planted as of May 8, compared with 13
percent a week earlier, USDA data show. In  Iowa , the biggest
producer, planting was 69 percent complete, up from 8 percent.  Tyson Foods Inc. (TSN) , the largest U.S. meat processor, said it
is too soon to start hedging its corn-feed supply for livestock,
before this year’s crop is harvested. “It’s pretty dangerous to
start buying corn for the fall before you’ve planted the crop,”
Chief Executive Officer Donnie Smith said yesterday in a
conference call with reporters. “There’s way too many things
that could happen.”  Rising profits also are encouraging farmers to plant more.
The International Grains Council estimates that global wheat
production may climb 3.4 percent this year to 672 million tons,
while Memphis, Tennessee-based researcher Informa Economics Inc.
forecasts production at 679 million.  Russian Drought  Last year, the worst drought in 50 years spurred  Russia ,
once the world’s second-biggest shipper, to ban grain exports
through at least July 1, sending wheat futures on the  Chicago 
Board of Trade to $9.1675 a bushel on Feb. 14, the highest since
August 2008. Spring-wheat planting may decline from last year,
Russia’s Grain Union said.  “The market cannot afford a poor harvest this year,”
Standard Chartered analyst Abah Ofon said today in an e-mailed
report. “Near-term, market focus will be on the weather.”  If the Russian government retains the export ban to protect
domestic supply, farmers may sow less wheat and plant sugar
beets, oilseeds including sunflower, and buckwheat, SovEcon
managing director Andrei Sizov Jr. said May 4 in an interview in
 New York .  Dry weather in  France  and  Germany  and the U.K.’s hottest
April in at least 352 years are threatening crops across the
European Union, producer of one-fifth of the world’s wheat.  “We’re definitely going to be producing less grain than we
can consume,” said Andrew Dewing, the owner of Dewing Grain in
Aylsham,  England . “That doesn’t bode well for next year.”  Australia,  Canada , China  Parts of Western Australia have had the lowest rainfall on
 record  for the past 16 months, according to the country’s Bureau
of Meteorology. The government in Manitoba, Canada, has declared
a state of emergency because of  floods . Wheat output in China,
the world’s biggest consumer, may decline for a second straight
year because of dry conditions, Tommy Xiao, an analyst at
Shanghai JC. Intelligence Co., said on May 5.  Drought conditions may persist in wheat-growing areas from
China, the world’s largest grower and consumer, to the U.S. and
Western  Europe , hurting crops and lifting prices, British
Weather Services said on May 6.  Global wheat inventories may drop to 182.1 million tons by
June 1, down from last month’s USDA estimate and 8 percent lower
than a year earlier, according to last week’s Bloomberg survey.
Inventories at the end of next year may be little changed at
182.27 million, analysts said.  The U.S. winter-wheat harvest, which begins next month,
probably will total 1.387 billion bushels, the least in five
years, according to the survey.  Kansas Crop Shrinking  The crop in Kansas, the biggest U.S. grower of winter
varieties, may shrink by 29 percent from last year because of
drought, according to a survey of 55 analysts conducted last
week by the Wheat Quality Council and based on field samples.
The dry spell in  Texas , the No. 2 grower of winter wheat last
year, means the state may produce two-thirds less than normal,
said Mark Welch, an extension economist at Texas A&M University
in College Station.  “Texas and Oklahoma are very comparable to what happened
to the Black Sea region” of Russia last year, Doane’s
Manternach said. “It’s too late for rain to help those crops.”  Central Kansas had less than 25 percent of normal rainfall
in the past 30 days, while parts of Oklahoma and Texas had less
than 5 percent, said  Drew Lerner , the president of World Weather
Inc., an Overland Park, Kansas-based forecaster.  In Minnesota and North Dakota, the biggest spring-wheat
grower, farmers face planting delays after receiving twice the
normal amount of precipitation in the past month, Lerner said.
Parts of the Ohio River Valley and the Mississippi River Delta
have had up to four times the normal amount of moisture, he
said.  Yield Potential Dims  “The window for optimal yields in the lower Midwest is
closing, or it will soon,” Lerner said. “That doesn’t mean
they can’t have a good crop, but their potential for yields is
kind of escaping.”  Wheat futures for July delivery rose 1 percent to $7.9875 a
bushel in Chicago, gaining for a third straight session. Corn
futures, which closed today at $7.0725 a bushel, down 0.25 cent,
are up 91 percent from a year earlier.  The grain rally is boosting costs for meat processors and
grocery stores that are passing the expenses along to consumers.  Tyson Foods posted fiscal second-quarter profit yesterday
that missed analysts’ estimates as higher spending on feed
eroded gains in beef and chicken prices. Grain costs in fiscal
2011 will rise almost $500 million from a year earlier, the
Springdale, Arkansas-based company said.  Food Costs Rise  Oak Brook, Illinois-based McDonald’s boosted menu prices in
the U.S. by 1 percent in March, Chief Financial Officer Peter Bensen said on an April 21 conference call. General Mills, based
in  Minneapolis , said in March it would raise prices amid
“volatile costs for food ingredients.” Denny’s Corp., the
Spartanburg, South Carolina-based restaurant company, said May 3
that it plans to raise prices about 1 percent because of more
expensive commodities.  “This year, more than most years that we’ve experienced,
it’s more critical that we don’t have problems,” said Liddell,
of Rabo AgriFinance, a unit of Utrecht, Netherlands-based
Rabobank Group. “All of the crops are extraordinarily tight, so
this needed to be the year where we didn’t have any problems in
order to rebuild stocks.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Whitney McFerron in Chicago at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net ;
Elizabeth Campbell in Chicago at 
 ecampbell14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  