-- 
Greece May Restructure Next Year, Deutsche Bank’s Ruskin Says: Tom Keene

-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 
2011-05-10T15:43:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/greece-may-restructure-next-year-deutsche-bank-s-ruskin-says-tom-keene.html
A restructuring of Greece’s sovereign
debt will happen eventually and may occur next year, according
to Deutsche Bank AG’s  Alan Ruskin .  “Eventually Greece has to restructure,” Ruskin, global
head of Group-of-10 foreign-exchange strategy at Deutsche Bank
in  New York , said in a radio interview on “Bloomberg
Surveillance” with Tom Keene. “It’s just a question of first
ring-fencing all the potential losers. What you’re going to get
now is the idea of Greece getting funding now so it won’t have
to go to the market in 2012.”  Banks that own Greek debt and the  European Central Bank 
would likely lose capital in a restructuring, according to
Ruskin, who said such an overhaul may occur after France’s
national elections next year.  Greece, which accepted a 110 billion euro ($158 billion)
bailout from the European Union and  International Monetary Fund 
last year, may receive additional assistance, the Athens
newspaper Kathimerini and Germany’s Handelsblatt reported.  The Greek two-year yield dropped 43 basis points, or 0.43
percentage point, to 25.18 percent after declining by as much as
95 basis points, the most since May 3. The yield rose 27 basis
points yesterday after Standard & Poor’s cut Greece’s debt
rating two levels to B, citing the likelihood of a need for
restructuring.  While euro-region officials said after an unscheduled May 6
meeting in Luxembourg that Greece needs “a further adjustment
program,” Germany’s  Chancellor Angela Merkel  told reporters
today in Berlin that it’s too early to decide.  “In the meantime the idea is to keep a gun to the likes of
Greece’s head so they actually get their fiscal house in
order,” Ruskin said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net ;
 Tom Keene  in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  