-- 
Greek Bill Sale Meets Reduced Demand One Day After Debt Downgrade by S&P

-- B y   M a r c u s   B e n s a s s o n
-- 
2011-05-10T13:23:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/greece-sells-1-63-billion-euros-of-bills-one-day-after-s-p-debt-downgrade.html
Greece  paid almost 5 percent to
borrow for six months as European policy makers’ talk of an
additional aid package to avoid a debt restructuring drove its
bonds higher.  Greece sold 26-week bills today to yield 4.88 percent, 168
basis points more than  Germany  paid last month to borrow for 10
years. The rate was higher than the 4.8 percent at the previous
auction on April 12.  A Greek debt restructuring is “not an option,” European
Central Bank Governing Council member Yves Mersch told
journalists at a conference in Florence today.  European finance chiefs said Greece would need “a further
adjustment program,” after a May 6 meeting in Luxembourg to
review Greece’s progress in meeting the terms of last year’s 110
billion euro-bailout ($160 billion). Greece’s 10-year bond yield
has more than doubled since it accepted the aid package,
complicating efforts to return to markets with 27 billion euros
of bond sales next year as set out in the plan.  “It’s inevitable that Greece will have to borrow more
money from the EU and IMF,” said  Nick Stamenkovic , a fixed-
income strategist at RIA Capital Markets Ltd. in Edinburgh.
“The first outcome will be that they will get the necessary
external funding and that will provide some temporary support.”  New Package  Greek newspaper Kathimerini reported that Greece may also
be offered a new aid package of at least 80 billion euros to
replace the existing one that would cover its financing needs
for the next two years. Greece may get an extension of loan
repayments, European Central Bank Governing council member  Ewald Nowotny  said today in an interview with Austrian state
broadcaster ORF.  Greek bonds gained as reports of additional aid eased
concern the country would be forced to restructure its 330
billion euros of outstanding debt. The Greek two-year yield
dropped 53 basis points to 25.08 percent, the biggest decline in
a week. The 10-year bond yield fell 27 basis points to 15.44
percent.  The cost of insuring Greek debt against default fell from a
record 1,371 yesterday, dropping 53 basis points to 1,318. The
difference in yield between Greece’s benchmark 10-year bond and
comparable German debt fell 31 basis points to 12.3 percentage
points as of 3:30 p.m. in  Athens .  Political ‘Suicide’  ECB board members and other European policymakers warned
that a restructuring could be devastating.  “Default or debt restructuring is a dramatic economic and
social event for the country which experiences it -- I would
call it political ‘suicide’ -- which leads many into poverty,”
Executive Board member Lorenzo Bini Smaghi said in Florence
today. Fellow board member  Juergen Stark  said restructuring
“wouldn’t be a solution to the problems that Greece needs to
overcome.”  German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  attempted to cool
speculation that a new bailout for Greece will come as early as
June.  “First we need to hear what the status is. Only then can I
decide what, if anything, needs to be done,” Merkel told
reporters in Berlin today. “We don’t do Greece any favors by
speculating” about more aid, she added.  Budget Cuts  Greece slashed spending and raised taxes to reduce a budget
deficit that reached 15.4 percent of gross domestic product in
2009. The government accepted the bailout from the European
Union and  International Monetary Fund  last May after surging
borrowing costs made it impossible to finance its debt. The
rescue package fueled the spread of  Europe ’s debt crisis, and
Ireland and  Portugal  followed Greece in seeking aid as investors
shunned their bonds.  “The way to deal with insolvency is not to lend more to the
insolvent party, that’s Ponzi finance,” Citigroup Inc. Chief
Economist Willem Buiter said in an interview with Ken Prewitt on
Bloomberg radio from Edinburgh. “What you have to do is to face
up to the reality of restructuring” which means taking “the
necessary steps to restructure the sovereigns and the banks that
are exposed to the sovereigns.”  Standard & Poor’s cut Greece’s sovereign-debt rating two
notches to B yesterday, citing the increased likelihood of some
type of restructuring. Moody’s Investors Services yesterday also
threatened to cut its B1 rating on Greece.  “We’re not saying it’s good or bad,”  Moritz Kraemer , head
of S&P’s European debt evaluation team, told Bloomberg
Television in an interview from  Frankfurt  today. “We’re just
stating what we think is likely to happen.”  ‘Huge Mistake’  Restructuring would be a “huge mistake” and lock the
country out of financial markets for 10, 15 years,” Greek
Finance Minister  George Papaconstantinou  said in a May 3
interview with state-run Net TV.  A series of missed targets contained in last year’s plan
for Greece has contributed to the EU considering more
assistance. Last month the EU revised Greece’s  budget deficit  to
10.5 percent of GDP, more than the 9.4 percent target, as
revenue grew less than expected. Dow Jones reported today that
the country will require about 60 billion euros in new aid.
Greek government spokesman  George Petalotis  denied the report.  Foreign investors bought 34 percent of the bills at today’s
sale, PDMA chief Petros Christodoulou said in an e-mailed
statement. The auction “beat our forecasts,” he added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marcus Bensasson in Athens at 
 mbensasson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net . 