-- 
Gus Johnson Leaving CBS to Join Fox Sports Covering Football, Basketball

-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 
2011-05-10T21:17:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/gus-johnson-leaving-cbs-to-join-fox-sports-covering-football-basketball.html
Gus Johnson is taking his broadcast
calls of “Cold-blooded” and “Purrrrrre” to  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Fox
Sports after becoming a prominent voice on  CBS Corp. (CBS) ’s football
and college basketball coverage, Fox Sports co-president Eric
Shanks said today in a conference call with reporters.  Johnson, 43, is headed to Fox as a  National Football
League , college football and college basketball play-by-play
announcer, Shanks said from  Los Angeles .  “Gus calls a game with passion and a unique voice, that
really can add a new dimension not just to Fox college sports,
but to college sports in general, like he’s done with March
Madness for so many years,” he said.  Johnson has become a popular television personality for his
boisterous calls, such as the “Cold-blooded!” pronouncement
when University of Washington guard Isaiah Thomas made a last-
second shot to win the 2011 Pac-10 tournament.  The deal with FOX came after CBS failed to match the offer,
according to e-mails from Johnson’s marketing agent, Christian
Gesue. Gesue, who said a deal was reached yesterday, didn’t
comment on the length or financial terms.  CBS spokeswoman Jen Sabatelle said in a telephone interview
that Johnson and the network were unable to reach an agreement
to keep the commentator at CBS and that “we wish him continued
success.”  Johnson, who departed as radio voice of the  New York Knicks 
in October, joined  CBS Sports  in 1995 as a college basketball
broadcaster. In his time at the network, Johnson also covered
boxing and the Olympics.  ‘A New Opportunity’  “This is a new opportunity,” Johnson said on the
conference call. “It is a bigger stage for me right now, having
an opportunity to be a play-by-play guy at a network like Fox.”  “I can’t tell you how excited I am and how positive I feel
about this opportunity,” he said.  CBS’s decision not to match the offer from Fox was
influenced both by money and Johnson’s alienation of colleagues
at the network, the New York Daily News  reported  yesterday.
Other CBS commentators weren’t happy that Johnson had become the
 National Collegiate Athletic Association  tournament’s most
popular voice, the newspaper said, citing an unidentified person
at the network.  Sabatelle declined to comment on the Daily News report.  Fox Sports last week signed a 12-year deal along with Walt
Disney Co.’s ESPN to carry college basketball and college
football games from the Pac-10 conference.  Football and Basketball  Johnson will call 15 college football games this season
alongside Charles Davis, whose appointment also was announced on
the conference call. Johnson will do roughly 35 college
basketball games and play an undetermined role in the network’s
NFL coverage.  Johnson said he’s lost a lot of sleep over no longer having
the opportunity to call games at the NCAA basketball tournament.  “It’s an event that gave me so many great chances,
opportunities, and memories and moments,” he said. “I will
miss having a chance to do the tournament, but on the other
hand, I’m excited about moving forward.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net . 