-- 
ICE CEO Sprecher Says He’s Open to Altering NYSE Takeover Terms

-- B y   W h i t n e y   K i s l i n g
-- 
2011-05-10T20:05:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/ice-ceo-sprecher-says-he-s-open-to-altering-nyse-takeover-terms.html
IntercontinentalExchange Inc. (ICE)  Chief
Executive Officer Jeffrey Sprecher said he is open to changing
the terms of his joint unsolicited bid with  Nasdaq OMX Group
Inc. (NDAQ)  to buy  NYSE Euronext (NYX)  if the company will meet with him.  “We have the ability to lever up if we wanted to,”
Sprecher said at a UBS AG conference today in New York. “That
doesn’t mean to pay more, but to change the consideration
between debt and equity. If we entered into a negotiation, we
could certainly think about a different form of consideration,
or mix of cash and equity.”  ICE and New York-based Nasdaq OMX offered to buy the
operator of the New York Stock Exchange on April 1, a month and
a half after  Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1) , in  Frankfurt , agreed to buy the
company. NYSE Euronext’s board of directors has twice rejected
the Nasdaq OMX-ICE offer, saying that although the companies are
offering 11 percent more per share than the Deutsche Boerse
price, a deal with them would lead to too much debt and more
regulatory hurdles.  In the proposal, Nasdaq OMX and ICE would split NYSE
Euronext, with Nasdaq OMX keeping the stock and options trading
units and the listings business and ICE taking the Liffe futures
business. Atlanta-based ICE said April 1 it would pay $4.7
billion of its stock and $1.7 billion in cash for its portion of
the offer. It would assume none of NYSE Euronext’s debt.  The chance to buy NYSE Euronext’s Liffe business is a
“once-in-a-lifetime opportunity,” Sprecher also said today.  “The opportunity to buy Liffe at a fair price is not
something that’s going to come along very often,” he said.
“It’s owed to the unique position we’re in right with Nasdaq
and NYSE potentially being able to come together.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney Kisling in  New York  at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  