-- 
Anglo, Impala, ENRC Submit Plans to Zimbabwe on How to Cede 51% of Assets

-- B y   R e n e e   B o n o r c h i s   a n d   B r i a n   L a t h a m
-- 
2011-05-10T17:04:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/impala-says-submits-proposals-to-zimbabwe-committee-on-black-ownership-law.html
Anglo American Platinum Ltd. and
 Impala Platinum Holdings Ltd. (IMP) , the largest miners of the metal,
submitted proposals on meeting  Zimbabwe ’s demands to give local
people majority stakes in the companies’ assets in the country.  “We’re currently in ongoing engagement with the government
on our submission,” Anglo American Plc’s platinum unit, based
in Johannesburg, said by e-mail today. The unit is “confident
that it will be in a strong position to meet Zimbabwe’s
empowerment requirements based on this experience.”  Rio Tinto Group, the world’s second-largest mining company
by sales,  Mwana Africa Plc (MWA)  and Eurasian Natural Resources Corp.
are among those that may be affected by laws seeking to boost
black ownership. The Indigenization and Empowerment Act gives
foreign companies and other investors that aren’t considered
“indigenous,” and who own more than $500,000 in assets, until
June 2 to say how they will cede 51 percent holdings.  “We await a response,”  Bob Gilmour , a spokesman for
Johannesburg-based Impala, said by mobile phone today. ENRC has
submitted proposals to the government, Charlotte Kirkham, a
London-based spokeswoman, said by phone, without elaborating.  “The major mining companies are mainly cooperating,”
Saviour Kasukuwere, indigenization minister, said in a telephone
interview from Harare today. “We will evaluate the substance of
their proposals to see if they meet our expectations.”  Ian Middleton, a spokesman for Mwana, declined to comment
and Illtud Harri at Rio wasn’t immediately able to respond.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Renee Bonorchis in Johannesburg at 
 rbonorchis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  