-- 
Indian Point Nuclear Evacuation Plan ‘Impossible’ Lawmakers Say

-- B y   J i m   E f s t a t h i o u   J r .
-- 
2011-05-10T20:19:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/indian-point-nuclear-evacuation-plan-impossible-lawmakers-say.html
Entergy Corp. (ETR) ’s Indian Point nuclear
plant north of  Manhattan  would have to close if the U.S.
required a plan to evacuate 20 million people within 50 miles,
two U.S. lawmakers said after touring the plant with the chief
nuclear regulator.  Entergy, the second-largest operator of U.S. nuclear power
plants after Chicago-based  Exelon Corp. (EXC) , is seeking 20-year
extensions of licenses that expire in 2013 and 2015 for two
reactors at the site. The renewals would be rejected if New
Orleans-based Entergy had to submit an evacuation plan that
includes residents of Manhattan, 35 miles (56 kilometers) away,
said Representative Nita Lowey, a New York Democrat.  “When this plant was built, you didn’t have 20 million
people within a 50-mile radius,” Lowey said. “To evacuate
people from Westchester, Rockland, people from  New York City ,
east and west, is, in many of our judgments, an impossible
task.”  The evacuation plan for Indian Point covers a 10-mile
radius. The  U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission  recommended that
Americans within 50 miles of Japan’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear
plant evacuate after a March 11 earthquake and tsunami that set
off explosions and the release of radiation.  NRC Chairman  Gregory Jaczko , who toured the plant with
Lowey and Representative Eliot Engel, also a New York Democrat,
said the 10-mile zone could be extended under certain
circumstances. An internal NRC task force is reviewing the
events in Japan.  ‘Some Changes’  “I expect that they’ll be some changes to our requirements
coming out of that,” Jaczko said. “The decisions ultimately
about what we would do in the event of an accident are based
ultimately on what information we would get if there were, even
in the very unlikely event, to be an accident. If we needed to
take action beyond 10 miles, that’s certainly what we would be
recommending.”  Eight years before  Japan ’s catastrophe, the evacuation plan
for Indian Point -- which combines procedures developed by
Westchester, Rockland, Orange and Putnam counties -- was deemed
inadequate to safeguard residents in a  state-funded study  by a
firm run by James Lee Witt, former director of the U.S. Federal
Emergency Management Agency.  The first reactor at the plant in Buchanan, New York,
opened in 1962.  “If Buchanan, New York, was being considered as the site
of a new power plant today, it would be unequivocally
rejected,” Engel said. “The citizens that live around this
power plant should not be stuck with it or saddled with it
because of something that happened 40 years ago.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Efstathiou Jr. in  New York  at 
 jefstathiou@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  