-- 
Indonesia May Extend Pause in Rate Increase Amid Slowing Inflation, Growth

-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m   a n d   M a n i s h   M o d i
-- 
2011-05-11T08:30:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/indonesia-may-extend-pause-in-rate-increase-amid-slowing-inflation-growth.html
Indonesia ’s central bank will
probably keep  interest rates  unchanged for a third consecutive
meeting to support the economy, allowing gains in the rupiah to
reduce inflationary pressures.  Bank Indonesia will keep its benchmark  reference rate  at
6.75 percent, according to all 10 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News. The central bank is due to release its decision
in Jakarta tomorrow.  Indonesia has refrained from boosting borrowing costs since
increasing the key rate in February for the first time in more
than two years, in contrast with neighbors from Malaysia to
 India  where officials have accelerated monetary tightening.
President  Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono ’s policy makers have extended
fuel subsidies and let the rupiah climb the most in  Asia  after
 Taiwan  this year to contain imported inflation.  “There’s no strong reason for Bank Indonesia to raise
rates this month and by holding, it will provide an opportunity
for banks to give credit and that will boost economic growth for
the rest of this year,’ said Eric Alexander Sugandi, a Jakarta-
based economist at Standard Chartered Plc. “We’ve adjusted the
timing of the next rate increase to August.”  The Indonesian rupiah climbed to its strongest level since
2004 this month and has gained about 5 percent this year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The central bank is
allowing the rupiah to appreciate, Bambang Brodjonegoro, head of
fiscal policy at the nation’s finance ministry, said last week.  Later Move  Bank Indonesia  may not raise rates this week after
inflation eased for a third month in April, Brodjonegoro said in
Jakarta today.  “Maybe not tomorrow but later this year, especially when
Bank Indonesia feels that inflationary pressure is high,” he
said. “Until now we are able to manage the inflation, but at
one point in time BI has to increase interest rates since other
central banks in the region have increased interest rates a
couple of times.”  Consumer prices in Indonesia,  Southeast Asia ’s largest
economy, rose 6.16 percent last month from a year earlier,
slower than the 6.65 percent pace in March. Prices fell in April
compared with March.  Core inflation  accelerated to 4.62 percent
from 4.45 percent.  Policy makers from  Thailand  to the  Philippines  and
Singapore are stepping up the fight against inflation through
rate increases or currency appreciation as political unrest in
the Middle East boosts crude oil prices.  Malaysian Rates  Malaysia  raised rates last week for the first time this
year and asked banks to set aside more cash as reserves, while
India boosted borrowing costs on May 3 for the ninth time since
the middle of March 2010.  The pressure for Bank Indonesia to adjust interest rates is
“not too high” even after core inflation accelerated in April,
Governor Darmin Nasution said May 6.  The central bank sees a “probability” of “slight
deflation” in May and even if consumer prices rise, the gains
may be small, the governor said in Jakarta today. Bank Indonesia
will maintain its “tight” monetary policy stance because of
“inflation pressure” in the third and fourth quarter, he said.  Indonesia’s economic growth slowed to 6.5 percent last
quarter as investment eased. Gross domestic product rose 6.9
percent in the previous three months.  Chance ‘Squandered’  The growth slowdown may not be enough to keep inflation
from quickening in coming quarters as food and oil costs rise,
straining the budgets of Asian governments that subsidize fuel
and putting pressure on countries including Indonesia to raise
prices for gasoline and diesel.  Oil traded at above $100 a barrel today, and has climbed
about 13 percent this year.  PT Mandiri Sekuritas predicts April was probably the last
time this year that consumer prices would fall month-on-month,
according to head of research Ari Pitoyo.  “The chance for the government to raise fuel prices during
‘deflation’ months has been squandered, hence should the
government have no option but to raise fuel prices, we might see
inflation momentarily spike up,” Jakarta-based Pitoyo said.  He is recommending investors trim stocks of financial
companies, which were hurt when the government raised fuel
prices in 2005. Earnings at companies such as PT Mayora Indah,
which makes biscuits and candies, and PT Unilever Indonesia, the
unit of the world’s second-biggest consumer-goods company, may
be affected should the government raise fuel prices, threatening
discretionary spending, he said.  Bank Indonesia may face an “upside surprise” in inflation
in July, with the beginning of the school year occurring close
to the start of the Muslim fasting month, Wellian Wiranto, an
economist at HSBC Holdings Plc in  Singapore , said in a research
note today.  “The dependence thus far on currency appreciation to curb
inflation has had limited effectiveness given the predominance
of domestic consumption in the economy,” he said. “Although
Indonesia’s economy continues to hum on rather uneventfully,
this does not mean there is room for complacency.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  