-- 
Lindsey Manufacturing Executives Guilty in Bribery Case

-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 
2011-05-10T18:44:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/lindsey-manufacturing-executives-found-guilty-of-bribing-mexican-officials.html
Two executives with a  California 
maker of emergency electricity towers were found guilty of
paying bribes including a Ferrari to officials at a Mexican
state-owned utility to obtain orders.  The jury returned guilty verdicts today on all counts of
conspiracy and bribing of foreign officials against Keith Lindsey, the president of closely held Lindsey Manufacturing
Co., and Steve Lee, the company’s chief financial officer, said
 Thom Mrozek , a spokesman for U.S. Attorney Andre Birotte Jr. in
Los Angeles.  Prosecutors argued during the trial that the two men knew
that a 30 percent sales commission they paid Enrique Aguilar, a
Mexican representative, was used to cover more than $5 million
in bribes to the officials at Comision Federal de Electricidad.
Lindsey Manufacturing, based in Azusa, California, retained
Aguilar in 2002 after repeatedly failing to legitimately win
contracts in previous years, prosecutors said.  Jan Handzlik, a lawyer representing Lindsey and the
company, which was also a defendant, didn’t immediately return a
call to his office.  Aguilar, a Mexican citizen who was also indicted, is a
fugitive and wasn’t present at the trial. His wife, Angela
Aguilar, was arrested last year in Houston and convicted of one
count of conspiracy to launder money. U.S. District Judge Howard Matz acquitted her of one count of money laundering yesterday
while the jury was deliberating, her lawyer, Stephen Larson,
said.  Larson said today in a phone interview that he will file a
request with the judge to acquit her of the conspiracy count as
well.  The case is U.S. v. Aguilar, 10-1031, U.S. District Court,
Central District of California ( Los Angeles ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in Los Angeles at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  