-- 
International Coal Sued by Investor Over $3.4 Billion Arch Takeover Bid

-- B y   M i c h a e l   B a t h o n   a n d   P h i l   M i l f o r d
-- 
2011-05-10T17:13:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/international-coal-sued-by-investor-over-3-4-billion-arch-takeover-bid.html
International Coal Group Inc., whose
chairman is billionaire investor Wilbur Ross, was sued by a
shareholder contending the company is undervalued in a planned
$3.4 billion acquisition by  Arch Coal Inc. (ACI)   Teri Kirby, an International Coal shareholder, sued the
Scott Depot, West Virginia-based company arguing the proposed
transaction shortchanges shareholders in a complaint filed
yesterday in Delaware Chancery Court in Wilmington. Kirby, who
seeks to represent outside shareholders as a group, also sued
certain executives, including Ross, claiming the sale process
was flawed.  International Coal, known as ICG, was formed by Ross and
taken public in 2005, according to court documents. He owns
about 6 percent of the company’s equity. When the deal was
announced on May 2, Ross said it “was time to harvest” his
investment, in a Bloomberg Television interview.  “Both the consideration to ICG common shareholders
contemplated in the proposed transaction and the process” are
“fundamentally unfair to plaintiff and the other common
shareholders of the company,” the investor said in the lawsuit.  Arch’s offer of $14.60 a share in cash is about 32 percent
higher than ICG’s last closing price of $11.03 on April 29
before the transaction was announced.  ICG intends to “vigorously defend against the claims,”
Ross Mazza, a spokesman for the company, said in an e-mailed
statement.  Coking-Coal Producer  Arch’s acquisition of ICG, the largest producer of coal in
northern and central Appalachia, would make it the second-
largest U.S. coking-coal producer at a time when benchmark
prices for metallurgical coal have risen 47 percent to a record
$330 a metric ton for the three months starting April 1.  Arch is set to acquire International Coal’s 13 active
mining complexes, along with one major mining complex under
development, across three coal basins. The company’s mines are
in  Illinois ,  Kentucky , West  Virginia ,  Maryland  and Virginia.  The case is Kirby v.  International Coal Group Inc. (ICO) , CA6464,
Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael Bathon in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 mbathon@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: 