-- 
InterContinental Hotels First-Quarter Net Rises on U.S. Sales

-- B y   A r m o r e l   K e n n a
-- 
2011-05-10T06:22:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/intercontinental-hotels-first-quarter-net-rises-on-u-s-sales.html
InterContinental Hotels Group Plc (IHG) ,
owner of the Holiday Inn brand, said first-quarter profit rose
28 percent as travel recovered in the Americas, its biggest
market.  Net income rose to $69 million from $54 million a year
earlier, the Denham, England-based company said today in a
statement. That beat the $62.3 million average estimate of three
analysts in a Bloomberg survey.  Business and leisure travel is recovering following the
global recession of 2009. Revpar, a measure of room rates and
occupancy, rose worldwide in the year’s first three months, led
by  South America , according to researcher STR Global.
InterContinental, the world’s largest hotel group by rooms, has
most of its almost 650,000 rooms in the Americas.  The company’s global revpar rose 6.9 percent in the
quarter, with a nearly 19 percent rise in Greater  China  and an
8.4 percent increase in the U.S., which had the highest growth
since the second quarter of 2006, Chief Executive Officer Andrew Cosslett said in the statement.  “We remain confident about the outlook for the rest of the
year,” said Cosslett, who will leave the company on June 30.  Hyatt Hotels Corp. said this month revpar for hotels owned
or leased for at least a year advanced, while Starwood Hotels &
Resorts Worldwide Inc. last month reported increases in all
regions except Africa and the Middle East, where political
unrest affected business.  InterContinental Hotels shares have risen 0.5 percent in
London trading, compared with a 13 percent decline in Paris for
 Accor SA (AC) ,  Europe ’s largest hotelier and owner of the Ibis and
Sofitel brands.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Armorel Kenna in Milan at 
 akenna@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 