-- 
Iraq, Shell to Draft Contract for Gas Project Within a Week

-- B y   K a d h i m   A j r a s h   a n d   N a y l a   R a z z o u k
-- 
2011-05-10T12:33:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/iraq-shell-to-draft-contract-for-gas-project-within-a-week.html
Iraq and partners  Royal Dutch Shell
Plc (RDSA)  and Mitsubishi Corp. will draft the final contract for a
$12.5 billion project to develop natural gas in southern Iraq
within a week, Deputy Oil Minister Ahmad Shamaa said.  “We have reached an agreement that satisfies both sides,”
he told reporters today in Baghdad.  The final draft will be sent for approval to the Council of
Ministers, said Shamaa, who held talks with representatives of
the two companies three days ago. The signing of the agreement
with Shell and Mitsubishi has been repeatedly delayed because
Iraq doesn’t have laws for the development of gas and needed
time to review the case, he said.  The government gave initial approval last June for the
creation of a venture to be called Basra Gas Co. State-owned
South Gas would own 51 percent of the venture, Shell 44 percent
and Mitsubishi the remainder.  The project would involve the capture of gas at the Rumaila
oil field being developed by BP Plc and China National Petroleum
Corp.; the Zubair field under development by  Eni SpA (ENI) ,  Occidental
Petroleum Corp. (OXY)  and Korea Gas Corp.; and West Qurna 1, where
Exxon Mobil Corp. and Shell have a license, Deputy Oil Minister
Ahmed al-Shamma said on Nov. 26.  Iraq wants to develop its gas resources as fuel for  power
plants , which have been unable to meet demand in the nation of
about 31 million people. The government hopes eventually to
produce enough gas to export, and it awarded licenses in
November in the first auction of gas concessions since the U.S.-
led invasion that ousted  Saddam Hussein  in 2003.  Iraq, which generates most of its revenue by exporting
crude oil, holds the fifth-biggest gas reserves in the Middle
East, according to data from  BP Plc. (BP/)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Nayla Razzouk in Amman at 
 nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  