-- 
Ireland to Impose Levy on Pension Funds to Finance Jobs Plan

-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n   a n d   D a r a   D o y l e
-- 
2011-05-10T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/ireland-to-impose-levy-on-pension-funds.html
Ireland’s government will impose a
levy on domestic private pension savings, raising as much as 1.9
billion euros ($2.7 billion) to finance a job-creation program.  The government plans to apply an annual 0.6 percent charge
over four years on pension assets, excluding funds providing
benefits to non-resident employers and members, Finance Minister
 Michael Noonan  said in Dublin yesterday. The move should
generate 470 million euros ($675 million) a year, he said,
adding pensions had received “massive” tax breaks in the past.  The sales-tax rate on tourism-related products and services
will be cut to 9 percent from 13.5 percent, while a travel tax
will also be suspended, subject to conditions, he said. The
government will also introduce a partial loan guarantee program
for small and medium-sized businesses.  “There is no escaping the fact that we do not have the
resources available at present to fund large-scale policy
initiatives to help to generate economic activity,” said
Noonan. Still, “I believe that today’s jobs initiative will
help rebuild confidence amongst households and firms at home and
among potential investors abroad.”  With unemployment close to a 17-year high, Ireland’s new
government is seeking to create jobs within spending
restrictions set in the country’s bailout from the European
Union and  International Monetary Fund . Prime Minister  Enda Kenny 
pledged that the measures will have a neutral impact on the
budget published in December, with the pensions levy offsetting
tax cuts and spending increases.  ‘Disappointed’  “I am disappointed that ordinary workers trying to save
for retirement are being targeted to help fund this jobs
initiative,” Gerry Hassett, chief executive officer of Irish
Life & Permanent Plc’s retail unit, in an e-mailed statement.
“Clearly we have to deal with today’s crisis in the public
finances, but we must avoid creating an even bigger fiscal
crisis for the next generation in the process.”  Ireland cut its 2011 economic growth forecast to 0.75
percent from 1.75 percent on April 29, citing weaker-than-
expected domestic demand. The country’s unemployment rate was
14.6 percent in April.  Moody’s Investors Service warned on May 8 its current Baa3
stance on Ireland, the company’s lowest investment-grade rating,
could face “downward pressure” if the ability to restart debt
sales is hampered by “adverse sovereign developments in other
euro-area peripheral countries.”  The country was forced into an 85 billion-euro
international rescue in November as it sought to solve  Europe ’s
worst banking crisis. It has been struggling to convince
investors its debt is sustainable after the collapse of a
domestic real-estate bubble in 2007.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joe Brennan in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net ;
Dara Doyle in Dublin at 
 ddoyle1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  