-- 
Mississippi Flooding Threatens Crops, Refineries

-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n   a n d   L e e l a   L a n d r e s s
-- 
2011-05-10T21:47:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/mississippi-crests-in-memphis-as-flooding-threat-moves-south-to-refineries.html
The  Mississippi  River is holding just
below 48 feet in  Memphis  today as flooding flows south,
threatening more communities, refineries and shipping traffic
before emptying into the  Gulf of Mexico  past  New Orleans  in
about two weeks.  The river reached what may be its highest point in Memphis
of 47.85 feet (14.6 meters), less than the expected 48 feet, at
2 a.m., said Danny Gant, a National Weather Service
meteorologist. It was at 47.76 feet at 3:45 p.m., according to
the weather service’s  website .  “We think it will hover right around that area, it might
go a hair or two higher,” Gant said by telephone from Memphis.
“We’re just going to stay right around there for 12 to 24 hours
and then it is going to slowly start to fall.”  Gasoline futures advanced amid concern that the flooding
will disrupt fuel production and distribution. Futures rose 3.1
percent to $3.3797 a gallon, adding to a 6.1 percent gain
yesterday, the biggest since July 2009.  The rising water has interrupted coal shipments to  power
plants  in Tennessee, flooded more than 100,000 acres of Missouri
cropland, forced thousands from their homes and prompted the
 Army Corps  of Engineers to open the Bonnet Carre Spillway to
reduce the river’s force through New Orleans.  Largest River  The Mississippi is the largest river system in the country,
the third-largest watershed in the world and drains 41 percent
of the continental U.S., according to the Army Corps.  “We are watching a system this nation has invested $13
billion in and we are watching it get stressed and tested to its
limit,” said the Army Corps Colonel George Shepard on Bloomberg
Television’s “InsideTrack” today. “Right now we can calculate
we have had $351 billion of damages already prevented before
this flood happened, so I think we have a good investment.”  Valero Energy Corp. (VLO)  was forced to reduce operations at its
refinery in Memphis to between 80 percent and 85 percent of
capacity because of the flooding, according to people familiar
with refinery operations.  Flooding limited movement of products in and out of the
plant by barge, said the people, who declined to be identified
because they aren’t authorized to speak for the refinery.  Opening Spillway  To relieve the threat to New Orleans and Baton Rouge,
 Louisiana ’s capital, the corps may open the Morganza Floodway.
Opening it halfway would inundate a swath of central Louisiana
along the Atchafalaya River with 5 feet to 20 feet of water.  A decision to open the floodway may result in three million
acres of land ending up under water, Governor Bobby Jindal said
today at a press conference in  Baton Rouge . About 2,500 people
may be affected inside the floodway and another 22,500 by
backwater flooding, he said. A decision may come as soon as May
14, he said.  “The trigger is 1.5 million cubic feet of water a second
going past the Red River Landing,” Jindal said. “We are at
approximately 1.36 cubic million right now.”  The opening of the spillway also would affect two
refineries, his office said yesterday. One of the plants, on the
 Mississippi River , could have capacity cut to 75 percent for two
weeks, according to the state’s Department of Natural Resources.
Anna Dearmon, the DNR’s communications director, said she
couldn’t release the names of the refineries because of security
reasons.  Krotz Springs  Alon USA Energy Inc.’s Krotz Springs refinery will be
affected if the spillway is opened, Lisa Vidrine, director of
the St. Landry Parish office of emergency preparedness, said
today in a telephone interview.  Refinery officials said in a meeting late yesterday they
were doing engineering work on the possible construction of a
levee to protect the refinery, according to Vidrine.  On the Mississippi between New Orleans and Baton Rouge,
there are 11 refineries with a combined capacity of 2.5 million
barrels a day, or 13 percent of U.S. output,  Andy Lipow ,
president of Lipow Oil Associates LLC in Houston, said
yesterday.  Royal Dutch Shell Plc will supply plants at Geismar and
Norocol, Louisiana, by rail if the river prevents barges and
ships from unloading, according to an e-mail statement from
Alexandra Smith, a company spokeswoman.  Flooding stopped barge traffic on the  Ohio River  and north
of Memphis on the Mississippi last week and has interrupted
shipping south of the  Tennessee  city.  TVA Coal  The  Tennessee Valley Authority  is facing a shortage in coal
shipments at four units at its Gallatin power plant because high
waters have closed a lock used to move barges up for unloading.  “The reserve at the plant is, say, 20 to 30 days of on-
site coal reserves,” said Mike Bradley, a spokesman for the
federally owned utility. “We expect the lock will reopen before
those reserves are depleted.”  According to TVA’s website, the Gallatin plant consumes
about 12,350 tons of coal daily.  The Mississippi and Ohio rivers are also major delivery
systems for commodities and crops such as corn, soybeans and
other crops grown along their banks.  “Tennessee hasn’t seen flooding like this in 75 years,”
said Lee Maddox, a spokesman for the Tennessee Farm Bureau. The
northwestern part of the state, where entire counties are
largely under water, is “the breadbasket row-crop area of the
state,” with concentrations of corn and soybeans, he said.  “Corn is out of the question because that window is
closing this week to keep up a good yield,” Maddox said. “Now
their only option is soybeans, if they can get that planted in
June.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net ;
Leela Landress in Houston at 
 llandress@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  