-- 
Three Million Acres May Flood in Louisiana, Governor Says

-- B y   L e e l a   L a n d r e s s   a n d   B r i a n   S u l l i v a n
-- 
2011-05-11T03:56:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/mississippi-crests-in-memphis-as-floods-threaten-oil-refineries-to-south.html
Three million acres, an area almost
the size of  Connecticut , may go under water as the  Mississippi 
River flooding moves south and threatens  Louisiana .  “Based on inundation maps we are looking at, about 3
million acres in Louisiana will be under water,” Louisiana
Governor Bobby Jindal said at a press conference in  Baton Rouge 
yesterday. About 2,500 people inside the floodway may be
affected while backwater flooding may impact 22,500, he said.  The river was expected to hold just below 48 feet (14.6
meters) for a day in  Memphis  before the floods move south toward
Louisiana and then empty into the  Gulf of Mexico  past New
Orleans in about two weeks. It was at 47.75 feet at 8:45 p.m.
local time yesterday, according to the weather service’s
 website .  To relieve the threat to  New Orleans  and Baton Rouge,
Louisiana’s capital, the U.S.  Army Corps  of Engineers may open
the Morganza floodway. Opening the floodway halfway would
inundate a swath of central Louisiana along the Atchafalaya
River with 5 feet to 20 feet of water. The decision to open the
floodway may come as soon as May 14, Jindal said.  “The trigger is 1.5 million cubic feet of water a second
going past the Red River Landing,” Jindal said. “We are at
approximately 1.36 million right now.”  Gasoline futures advanced amid concern that the flooding
will disrupt fuel production and distribution. Futures rose 3.1
percent yesterday to $3.3797 a gallon on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange , adding to a 6.1 percent gain on May 9, the biggest
since July 2009. The contract dropped 1.2 percent to $3.3385
today. Crude prices slid 0.1 percent to $103.78 a barrel.  Red River  The Red River Landing is 63 miles north of Baton Rouge,
near where the Louisiana state line moves east from the river.
The Morganza floodway is between the landing and Baton Rouge.  The Mississippi, the largest river system in the country
and the third-largest watershed in the world, drains 41 percent
of the continental U.S., according to the Corps.  The opening of the spillway would affect two refineries,
according to Jindal’s office. One plant on the river may have
capacity cut to 75 percent for two weeks, according to the
state’s Department of Natural Resources yesterday. Anna Dearmon,
the DNR’s communications director, said she couldn’t release the
names of the refineries because of security reasons.  Alon USA Energy Inc. (ALJ) ’s Krotz Springs refinery will be
affected if the spillway is opened, Lisa Vidrine, director of
the St. Landry Parish office of emergency preparedness, said in
a telephone interview yesterday. Refinery officials said May 9
that they were doing engineering work on the possible building
of a levee to protect the refinery, according to Vidrine.  Potential Destruction  “If the Morganza is not opened and the levees are
breached, the downstream destruction would be worse,” Fred
Bryan, a professor emeritus of renewable natural resources at
 Louisiana State University  in Baton Rouge, said yesterday in a
telephone interview. “Once the river, with that cutting
capacity and speed, cuts a hole you better get after it because
it’s going to erode away the cut very quickly.”  The rising water has interrupted coal shipments to  power
plants  in  Tennessee , flooded more than 100,000 acres of Missouri
cropland, forced thousands from their homes and prompted the
Corps to open the Bonnet Carre Spillway to reduce the river’s
force through New Orleans.  On the Mississippi between New Orleans and Baton Rouge,
there are 11 refineries with a combined capacity of 2.5 million
barrels a day, or 13 percent of U.S. output, according to  Andy Lipow , president of Lipow Oil Associates LLC in Houston.  Valero Energy Corp. (VLO)  was forced to reduce operations at its
refinery in Memphis to between 80 percent and 85 percent of
capacity because of the flooding, according to people familiar
with refinery operations.  Barge Movements  Flooding limited movement of products in and out of the
plant by barge, said the people, who declined to be identified
because they aren’t authorized to speak for the refinery.  Entergy Corp. (ETR)  expects “several inches” of water in its
gas-fueled Baxter Wilson plant north of Vicksburg, based on a
forecast crest on May 19, Jill Smith, a company spokeswoman,
said yesterday in an interview. Gear and equipment is being
moved to the second floor, and crews are sandbagging a low levee
that protects the plant, she said.  NuStar Energy LP (NS)  said it will suspend deep draft vessel
operations at its St. James, Louisiana, terminal when the
Mississippi River stage reaches 32 feet at Donaldsonville.  The river is forecast to reach that level May 13, Greg Matula, a company spokesman, said in an e-mail yesterday. Barge
operations will stop when the river stage reaches 33 feet, which
is forecast to happen May 15, according to Matula.  “The current forecast indicates marine activity could be
suspended for one to two weeks,” Matula said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Leela Landress in Houston at 
 llandress@bloomberg.net ;
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  