-- 
Mitsubishi Is First Japanese Trader to Forecast Profit Drop

-- B y   Y u r i y   H u m b e r   a n d   I c h i r o   S u z u k i
-- 
2011-05-10T06:19:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/mitsubishi-is-first-japanese-trader-to-forecast-profit-drop.html
Mitsubishi Corp. (8058) ,  Japan ’s largest
trading company, forecast full-year profit will probably fall
from the previous year, when earnings were buoyed by gains on a
share-swap accord involving its  iron ore  unit in  Chile .  Net income may drop to 450 billion yen ($5.6 billion) in
the 12 months ending March 31 from 463.2 billion a year earlier,
the Tokyo-based company said today in a statement, becoming the
first among its rivals to forecast lower earnings.
The drop would follow a 69 percent surge in profit last year,
aided by rising commodity and energy prices.  “Mitsubishi is forecasting a decrease due to the absence
of gains on marketable securities and investments recorded in
the previous fiscal year,” as well as an increase in its costs,
according to the statement.  Mitsubishi acquired a 25 percent stake in  Cap SA (CAP) , Chile’s
biggest iron ore producer and steelmaker, in May 2010, an
investment that gained 50 percent until the end of 2010 and
dropped 12 percent this calendar year. Mitsubishi booked a $400
million pretax paper gain on the transaction and increased its
holdings of cash and cash equivalents by 12 percent to 1.21
trillion yen as of March 31.  Japanese traders set their assumptions lower than current
commodity prices, allowing for a great chance that profits could
beat forecasts, said Jiro Iokibe, senior analyst at Daiwa
Securities Group Inc.  “The traders expanded their investment base since last
year but one thing to look out for is what returns they will
make,” Iokibe said. The companies need to build a “solid”
asset base that is not dependent on resource prices, he said.  Mitsubishi shares fell 0.3 percent to 2,166 yen as of 1:47
p.m. in  Tokyo .  Itochu, Marubeni  Itochu Corp., Japan’s fourth-largest trader, forecast last
week that this year’s profit will increase 49 percent. Marubeni
Corp., the fifth-largest, expects a 25 percent net income gain
and Mitsui & Co., the No. 2 trader, a 17 percent increase this
fiscal year, the companies said May 6. Sumitomo Corp., the
third-largest, said profits may rise 8.5 percent.  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  and  Vale SA (VALE3) , the world’s largest
suppliers of coking coal and iron ore, key raw materials for
steelmaking, last year ended a custom of setting prices annually
in favor of agreements pegged to spot sales indexes. Mitsubishi
is a co-owner in the BHP Billiton-Mitsubishi Alliance, known as
BMA, the largest exporter of coking coal.  Iron ore and coking coal have gained the most of the major
commodities between 2001 and 2010, rising in price by 562
percent and 402 percent respectively, Macquarie Group said in a
report yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yuriy Humber in Tokyo at 
 yhumber@bloomberg.net ;
 Ichiro Suzuki  in Tokyo at 
 isuzuki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs in Sydney at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  