-- 
Jordan Requests More Gas From Egypt Once Deliveries Resume

-- B y   N a y l a   R a z z o u k
-- 
2011-05-10T17:14:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/jordan-requests-more-gas-from-egypt-once-deliveries-resume.html
Jordan asked  Egypt  to double natural-
gas deliveries to about 300 million cubic meters a day once
Egypt repairs damage from an attack on a pipeline.  Egypt wants to charge Jordan higher prices for gas when it
resumes deliveries, Mahmoud Al-Ees, an Energy Ministry
spokesman, said today after the two sides held talks in Cairo.  He declined to give further details. Neither the Egyptian
Oil Ministry nor EGAS, Egypt’s state-owned natural gas company,
could be reached by phone today.  Egypt suspended gas exports to Jordan and Israel on April
27 for the second time after saboteurs blew up a monitoring room
in the pipeline network, Egyptian Oil Ministry spokesman Hamdi
Abdel Aziz said at the time. Gunmen had attacked the link on
Feb. 5 during protests that led to the ouster of President  Hosni Mubarak , cutting shipments for more than a month.  Jordan was then forced to switch its  power plants  to other
fuels, which is costing the kingdom 3 million dinars ($4.2
million) a day, according to Al-Ees. The government issued new
regulations for its institutions, including putting out the
lights at night and stopping the use of air-conditioners and
heaters. Lighting was also rationed inside cities and turned off
on highways after 10 p.m.  Jordan, the only Arab country besides Egypt to have a peace
treaty with Israel, bought about 150 million cubic meters of
Egyptian gas a day as fuel for its power stations before the
last explosion. Imports were cut by half by Egypt after the
first attack on the Egyptian network and Jordan had been in
talks to increase them, according to Al-Ees.  Egypt has 78 trillion cubic feet (2.21 trillion cubic
meters) of gas reserves and is the main producer of the fuel in
the eastern Mediterranean region, according to the U.S. Energy
Department. The country exported 650 billion cubic feet in 2009,
of which 30 percent went through the El Arish-Ashkelon pipeline
to  Israel  or via a separate link to Jordan, Syria and Lebanon,
according to the department.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nayla Razzouk in Amman at 
 nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  