-- 
Kennedys, King Recall ’61 Freedom Riders; Jersey Housewives: TV

-- B y   G r e g   E v a n s
-- 
2011-05-10T02:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/kennedys-king-recall-1961-s-freedom-riders-jersey-housewives-greg-evans.html
With a thriller’s pace and the
emotional heft of a battlefield journal, PBS’s remarkable new
documentary “ Freedom Riders ” recounts the bloody anti-
segregation bus rides of 1961 that helped kill Jim Crow in the
Deep South.  Combining new interviews with the aging riders with
harrowing footage of their brave, battered younger selves,
“Freedom Riders” brings to vivid life a wrenching moment in
American history. Fifty years on and with the movement’s
successes long charted, this installment of PBS’s “ American
Experience ” reconstructs those tense weeks with edgy momentum.  In May 1961, civil rights activists, both black and white,
boarded several Greyhound and Trailways buses in Washington
D.C., en route to  New Orleans . At various points, including
Birmingham,  Alabama , and Jackson,  Mississippi , the nonviolent
participants would challenge state laws by ignoring signs
separating “whites” and “coloreds” at bus-station waiting
areas and diners.  Though hardly naive, the riders (and, quickly enough, the
nation) were stunned by the savage response. In Anniston,
Alabama, a full bus was torched and the riders attacked with
baseball bats as they disembarked. Birmingham police, led by the
defiantly racist Bull Connor, looked away as the local Ku Klux
Klan beat male and female civil-rights activists senseless.  Call From Kennedys  “Freedom Riders” also delves beyond the history-book
basics, revealing behind-the-scenes machinations of the nation’s
most powerful men.  President John Kennedy and his brother, Attorney General
 Robert Kennedy , consumed and distracted by Cold War politics,
were drawn inexorably into the headline-making Southern chaos.
 Martin Luther King , at first opposed to the dangerous campaign,
soon became a symbol of the movement, even as younger activists
questioned his relevance.  With a thorough roster of interviewees, writer and director
Stanley Nelson weaves together various strands and perspectives
into propulsive storytelling. Among the participants:  John
Patterson , the governor of Alabama who refused a telephone plea
for help from the Kennedys, and John Seigenthaler, an
administrative assistant to Robert Kennedy sent to quell the
violence.  But the story belongs to the riders: Charles Person, a
Morehouse College student and youngest member of the first wave
of activists; Diane Nash, a student leader in Nashville,
 Tennessee , who organized replacements when the initial riders
were beaten and arrested; and Jim Zwerg, a white student from
 Wisconsin  attacked by Klansmen.  Those three are just a few of the more than 400 people who
eventually boarded the nation’s buses that summer in the name of
civil rights. Nelson does them all justice.  “Freedom Riders” airs May 16 on PBS at 9 p.m. New York
time. Rating: ****  Jersey Housewives  “My husband, either you love him or you don’t,” says one
of the squabbling Carmelas of “ The Real Housewives of New
Jersey ,” inadvertently offering a fair assessment of Bravo’s
splintered reality franchise.  After meeting (or ignoring) these housewives -- and their
like from New York,  Washington , Atlanta and Orange County,
 California  -- you know which side you’re on.  The Jersey version, which begins its third season on May
16, is fairly touted as the most realistic of the “Housewives”
branches, even if reality means gilded McMansions, lacquered
hair and other signifiers of faux-Soprano luxury.  The Jersey series spotlights women (and their men) related
by blood or marriage, and the family battles seem more
engrossing, depressing and marginally less petty than the
contrivances of other versions.  The season premiere opens with a drunken brawl at a lavish
reception following a christening: Teresa apparently didn’t
invite sister-in-law (and series newcomer) Melissa to a book
signing. Or some such. Are they playing for the camera?
Probably, but the party’s ruined, nonetheless.  “The Real Housewives of  New Jersey ” airs May 16 on Bravo
at 9 p.m.  New York  time. Rating: **1/2  ( Greg Evans  is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Greg Evans at  gregeaevans@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 