-- 
Kenya Tea Growers Face Weather, Political Threats, Exporter Says

-- B y   J o h n s t o n e   O l e   T u r a n a
-- 
2011-05-10T14:45:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/kenya-tea-growers-face-weather-political-threats-exporter-says.html
Kenya ’s tea industry faces threats
including adverse weather, piracy and political instability in
its north  Africa  and Middle East markets, an exporter said.  “We are experiencing numerous challenges which include
extended dry weather, piracy along the  Indian Ocean , higher
crude prices and continuous instability in our main markets of
the Middle East and North Africa which is expected to affect the
industry’s performance,” Tim Chege, managing director of Kenya
Tea Packers Ltd., said today at a news conference in Nairobi,
the capital.  Kenya’s production of tea may decline as much as 12 percent
in 2011 on drought, according to the nation’s Tea Board. The
country, the biggest exporter of black tea, shipped 441 million
kilograms (972 million pounds) of tea last year, the board said.  Rains in the first two months of the so-called long rains
season were “very poor” and the outlook in May, the final
month of the season, is for “poor rainfall,” the Nairobi-based
Kenya Meteorological Department said on May 5. Crop development
in the country in April was poor, with the exception of areas in
central Kenya and the western highlands, it said.  Rising  oil prices  “have affected our operating cost which
has gone up by 10 percent,” said Chege, whose company is the
biggest tea packer in the country, blending and packing tea for
both local and international markets. Crude oil prices have
risen 12 percent in  New York  this year.  The threat of piracy in the Indian Ocean has lengthened the
time taken to deliver cargoes, further raising costs, Chege
said, while political unrest in north Africa and the Middle East
has disrupted deliveries.  Calming Down  Kenya ships tea to as many as 38 destinations, with Egypt
among the leading importers, according to the Tea Board.  “With the situation in Egypt calming down, we expect tea
flow to pick up, barring any further upheavals, which could
affect the industry considerably,” Chege said.  Eighteen days of protests in  Egypt , sparked by falling
living standards and high unemployment as well as a lack of
democratic rights, led to the ouster of President  Hosni Mubarak 
on Feb. 11.  To contact the reporter on this story:  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Richardson at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net  