-- 
Kenya’s Benchmark Rate to Increase as Inflation Climbs, Standard Bank Says

-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 
2011-05-10T14:08:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/kenya-s-benchmark-rate-to-increase-as-inflation-climbs-standard-bank-says.html
Kenya’s accelerating inflation, which
jumped to a two-year high in April, may lead the  central bank  to
raise its key lending rate as much as 2.5 percentage points in
2011, slowing economic growth,  Standard Bank  Group Ltd. said.  Higher global crude prices and disruptions to  food supply 
due to dry-weather will probably push the inflation rate up to
an average 17.5 percent in the fourth quarter, Stephen Bailey-
Smith, head of Africa research at the Johannesburg, South
Africa-based lender, told reporters today in Kenya’s capital,
Nairobi. Standard Bank owns 41 percent of Nairobi-based CFC
Stanbic Holdings Ltd.  “While food has played a predominant role in pushing
headline inflation higher, inflationary pressures are becoming
widespread,” he said. “If the central bank fails to tighten
sufficiently, pressure on the currency will persist, worsening
the inflation outlook.”  Consumer inflation in East Africa’s biggest economy jumped
to 12.05 percent last month on rising food and fuel costs,
exceeding the official 5 percent target for the fourth month,
the  statistics agency  said April 29. The Central Bank of  Kenya 
unexpectedly raised its key lending rate by a quarter of a
percentage point to 6 percent in March, the first increase since
June 2008, as it moved to curb price increases.  Growth in the export-driven economy is estimated to slow to
about 4 percent this year from about 5.8 percent, Bailey-Smith
said.  Fuel Prices Increase  Kenya’s shilling has depreciated 5.2 percent against the
dollar since the start of the year on demand from oil importers,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg News.  The government-set price limit for the most common gasoline
rose 8.5 percent as of April 15 after global crude oil prices
surged. KenolKobil Ltd., a Kenyan retailer with operations in
nine African countries, said it expects fuel prices to increase
further this month, the company said yesterday.  Kenya Power & Lighting Co., the sole electricity
distributor, plans to apply to the industry regulator to
increase tariffs, the Business Daily reported on May 9.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Richardson at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net  