-- 
N Brown Full-Year Income Climbs on Online Sales, Shares Rise

-- B y   R e n e e   L a w r e n c e
-- 
2011-05-10T15:47:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/n-brown-full-year-net-income-climbs-15-percent-on-online-sales.html
N Brown Group Plc (BWNG) , a U.K. internet
and catalogue home shopping company, said full-year profit rose
15 percent as it sold more items online. The stock rose the most
in almost a month.  Net income increased to 71.7 million pounds ($117.4
million) from 62.5 million pounds a year earlier, the company
said in a statement today. Revenue climbed 4.2 percent to 718.8
million pounds.  Online sales accounted for 45 percent of revenue at 324
million pounds. Last year, online sales overtook telephone
orders for the first time as the company invested in improving
its Internet sales system.  “The online world is driving us forward,” Chief Executive
Officer  Alan White  said in a phone interview today. “We are
investing in our online systems and online will be the main
driver of U.K. sales.”  N Brown is “on track” to meet its own forecasts this
fiscal year, White added. Comparable sales for at least a year
in the 10 weeks ended May 7 rose 1.5 percent.  “Current sales growth of 4.8 percent represents a solid
start to the new financial year,” John Stevenson, an analyst
with Peel Hunt LLP said in a note to investors today. Stevenson
recommends buying the stock.  Overseas sales will triple this fiscal year driven by
growth in the U.S. and  Germany , White said. Overseas sales
reached 4.2 million pounds last year. N Brown started selling in
the U.S. last year and in Germany in 2009.  “We put our toes in the water and what we see so far has
been encouraging,” White said.  White said N Brown is looking to shift some clothing
production back to the U.K. from  Asia  because of higher labor
and transportation costs. “There is still a huge gap in labor
costs but it’s narrowing so it will happen, but it will be a
drift,” White said.  N Brown purchases about 80 percent of its clothing from
Asia and around 30 percent of that is manufactured in  China ,
White said.  The stock rose 4.3 percent to close at 298 pence at 4:30
p.m. in  London , giving the company a market value of 835.7
million pounds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Renee Lawrence in London at 
 rlawrence7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at 
 ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  