-- 
Namibia’s Minerals Rules Only Affect New Permits, Licenses, Minister Says

-- B y   C h a m w e   K a i r a
-- 
2011-05-10T17:59:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/namibia-s-minerals-rules-only-affect-new-permits-licenses-minister-says.html
Namibia’s new minerals policy, under
which all “strategic minerals” will be awarded to the state-
owned mining company, will only apply to new licenses and won’t
affect ones held by companies including  Extract Resources Ltd. (EXT) ,
according to Isak Katali, the Minister of Mines and Energy.  “The existing exploration and mining licenses will not be
affected,” he told reporters in Windhoek today. “The alarmist
reports of nationalization are a red herring. They are based on
African stereotypes as neither the cabinet nor my budget
statement mentioned nationalization.”  Shares in mining companies operating in Namibia, including
uranium producer Extract, have fallen on concern about the
government’s plans for the industry. The nation’s cabinet said
on April 29 it supported a proposal that licenses for uranium,
gold, copper, coal, diamonds and rare earth metals are only
issued to Epangelo, the state-owned mining company.  Namibia’s government is altering its mining laws to ensure
its citizens receive more benefit from the nation’s mineral
wealth, Katali said. At the moment, the contribution of mining
to Namibian gross domestic product is “not enough,” he said.  In instances where an exploration license has been granted
and no development taken place,  Namibia  aims to accelerate work
through “joint-development arrangements,” Katali said. This
will allow the development of a resource “without negatively
impacting the rights of the existing holder,” he said.  The southern African nation is the world’s biggest miner of
offshore diamonds, the fourth-largest uranium producer and also
has deposits of gold, coal and copper.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chamwe Kaira in Windhoek at 
 ckaira@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at   asguazzin@bloomberg.net  