-- 
NATO Jets Hit Targets in Libyan Capital, Including Qaddafi Command Bunkers

-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 
2011-05-10T16:31:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/nato-jets-hit-targets-in-libyan-capital-tripoli-overnight.html
NATO jets intensified strikes
overnight on the Libyan capital Tripoli, including what the
alliance identified as “command-and-control” bunkers from
which  Muammar Qaddafi  is carrying out a campaign against rebels.  Amid reports that the North Atlantic Treaty Organization
hit at least four sites in the capital, an alliance official
repeated that NATO isn’t trying to kill the Libyan dictator. The
mission’s chief operations officer, Brigadier Claudio Gabellini,
said he wasn’t aware of Qaddafi’s activities and status.  “We have no evidence about what Mr. Qaddafi is doing right
now, and I tell you the truth: we’re not really interested in
what he’s doing,” Gabellini  told reporters  today at NATO’s
mission headquarters in Naples,  Italy .  The alliance’s stepped-up campaign comes as NATO claims to
have weakened Qaddafi militarily and rebel fighters struggle to
topple his 42-year regime. NATO combat jets have destroyed more
than 30 military targets around the rebel-held port city of
Misrata since May 2, attempting to degrade the Libyan ruler’s
ability to shell the harbor of the besieged city, Gabellini
said.  The air raids in Tripoli struck a building that residents
said had been used by military intelligence and another that may
have been used by members of parliament, the  Associated Press 
said, adding the bombing in the city was the heaviest in weeks.
Gabellini said the alliance was unable to verify Libyan reports
that a children’s center was hit, though saw no such evidence.  Degrading Qaddafi Forces  “We are having an effect and we are diminishing Qaddafi’s
capacity to issue orders to” reinforce “troops and to fly
regime jets,” the NATO operations chief said. Targets around
Misrata have included equipment used by loyalist soldiers to
attack civilians, such as tanks, rocket launchers and ammunition
dumps.  The strikes may have given the rebels an opening.
Opposition fighters broke through a frontline earlier this week
and consolidated their position a few miles west of Misrata, the
New York Times reported. Rebels also engaged in fighting with
Qaddafi troops near the eastern oil town of Brega, where they’ve
been dug in for weeks, the newspaper said.  NATO foreign ministers and their allies pledged last week
to increase pressure on Qaddafi in a bid to end a stalemate that
has ensued almost three months after the uprising began.
Alliance strikes have targeted the Libyan leader’s compound,
including a strike that the government in Tripoli said killed
Qaddafi’s son and three of his grandchildren last week.  Western leaders have also stepped up assistance to the
rebels, with the administration of President  Barack Obama 
pledging on May 6 to allow the opposition to draw on the $33
billion in Libyan assets frozen in the U.S.  The insurgency in  Libya , which has Africa’s largest proven
oil reserves, has helped push up crude prices this year. Oil has
risen more than 20 percent since mid-February, when the Libyan
uprising began. Oil traded at $103.07 a barrel at 4:19 p.m. in
 London .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Patrick Donahue at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net  