-- 
New Mauritius Hotels Says Second-Quarter Profit Jumped 25% as Resort Opens

-- B y   K a m l e s h   B h u c k o r y
-- 
2011-05-10T11:11:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/new-mauritius-hotels-says-second-quarter-profit-jumped-25-as-resort-opens.html
New Mauritius Hotels Ltd. (NMH) , the
nation’s largest leisure operator by market value, said second-
quarter profit jumped 25 percent as revenue from its  luxury
resorts  increased.  Net income for the three months through March increased to
334.6 million rupees ($12.2 million) from 268.1 million rupees a
year earlier, the company said in a  statement  published on the
website of the Port Louis-based Stock Exchange of Mauritius
today. Revenue rose to 2.11 billion rupees from 1.97 billion
rupees, it said.  The improved results were due to better performance in the
“up-market segment” and the partial reopening of the Trou aux
Biches five-star resort, said the company, based in Curepipe, in
central Mauritius.  Tourism is a main source of foreign currency for the Indian
Ocean island nation.  Europe  accounts for 67 percent of arrivals,
according to the Mauritius Tourism Promotion Authority. High
season runs from October to March.  Revenue for its first half of the year increased 8.9
percent to 4.51 billion rupees from a year earlier, and net
income advanced 15 percent to 902.6 million rupees, the company
said. It expected a similar performance in the second half of
the year, the company said.  NMH, as the company is known, is in talks with a Moroccan
lender for a 25 million-euro loan ($36 million) and bridging
facility to complete the first phase of the Domaine Palm
Marrakech project of 70 villas, a golf course and hotel, the
company said. It has already invested 60 million euros in the
project.  Debt Levels  The group said on April 18 that it bought the 50 percent
that is doesn’t already own in Domaine Palm Marrakech.  Cim Stockbrokers Ltd. cut its recommendations of the
company to “reduce” from “accumulate” because of concern
that debt levels and investment needs for the project in  Morocco 
are too high, the Port Louis-based brokerage said in an e-mailed
statement.  The stock climbed 4 rupees, or 3.9 percent, to 107 rupees
by the 1:30 p.m. close.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kamlesh Bhuckory in  Port Louis  at 
 kbhuckory@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  