-- 
Nick Clegg Is ‘Out of His Depth,’ Half of U.K. Voters Say in Populus Poll

-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 
2011-05-10T09:06:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/nick-clegg-is-out-of-his-depth-half-of-u-k-voters-say-in-populus-poll.html
U.K. Deputy Prime Minister  Nick Clegg 
is “out of his depth,” according to half the respondents in a
poll, and his  Liberal Democrat  party has failed to influence
the Conservative-led government’s policies, two thirds said.  The erosion of support for Clegg one year into the first
coalition administration since World War II was also reflected
in his party’s overall standing with voters in the  Populus Ltd. 
poll published in the Times newspaper in  London  today. Support
for the  Lib Dems  was unchanged from last month at 11 percent,
with only a third of voters who backed them at last year’s
election saying they would support them again.  As junior partners in the coalition, Clegg’s party has
borne the brunt of popular discontent over the imposition of the
deepest postwar cuts in public spending. The Liberal Democrats
have also been hit after policy U-turns that included the
ditching of a pledge not to increase college tuition fees.  Support for Clegg’s Conservative coalition partners was up
one percentage point at 37 percent in the poll, while the  Labour
Party  fell one point to 39 percent. Three quarters of those who
said they voted Conservative last year would back them again,
while four fifths who backed Labour would cast their vote in the
same way, the survey showed.  More than a third of voters surveyed said Clegg is weak,
while 17 percent said he is dishonest.  Backing among Lib Dem supporters for the coalition’s plans
to eliminate almost all the  budget deficit  by 2015 has also
weakened. Populus said 46 percent back the deficit-reduction
plans compared with 61 percent in February.  Clegg has vowed to have a “louder voice” in government
after the Liberal Democrats suffered the worst local-election
results last week since the party was formed in 1988.  In those elections, Clegg’s party lost 748 seats in
 England , while Cameron’s Conservatives gained 86 and Labour
added 857 seats. A  referendum  on the voting system, a Liberal
Democrat condition of last year’s coalition agreement, saw
voters reject the overhaul proposed by Clegg and opposed by
Prime Minister  David Cameron  by 68 percent to 32 percent.  Populus interviewed 1,504 voters by telephone on May 6-8.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  