-- 
Nigeria Stocks Rise Most in 4 Months; First Bank Gains on Renaissance Buy

-- B y   V i n c e n t   N w a n m a
-- 
2011-05-10T13:21:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/nigeria-stocks-rise-most-in-4-months-first-bank-gains-on-renaissance-buy.html
Nigeria’s stocks gauge rallied the
most in four months, led by  Dangote Cement Plc (DANGCEM)  and  First Bank of
Nigeria Plc (FIRSTBAN) , the nation’s third-biggest lender, which
Renaissance Capital rated “buy” in reinitiated coverage.  The 202-member All Share Index rallied 2.1 percent, the
most since Jan. 5, to 25,791.57 by 1:59 p.m. in Lagos, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg, taking its increase this year to
4.1 percent compared with a 6 percent drop in the MSCI Frontier
Market Index over the same period. Dangote Cement, the biggest
company by market value, increased for the first day in six,
rising 1.9 percent to 123.51 naira.  First Bank rallied 5 percent, the most since March 22, to
13.92 naira. Renaissance placed a “buy” recommendation on
First Bank and five other Nigerian lenders, saying April
elections in  Africa ’s most populous nation were “positive, and
should shift market focus away from political risk,” analysts
David Nangle, Adesoji Solanke and  Armen Gasparyan wrote in an
e-mailed note to clients yesterday.  The end of post-election violence in parts of the West
African nation has helped stabilize the country, Esili Eigbe, a
Lagos-based analyst with Stanbic IBTC Bank Plc, said. “This
might have convinced investors to start taking positions
again,” he said by phone today.  Goodluck Jonathan, 53, a Christian from the oil-rich Niger
River delta region, defeated former military ruler  Muhammadu
Buhari , a northern Muslim, in the April 16 vote by 57 percent to
31 percent, according to the Independent National Electoral
Commission. Jonathan’s People’s  Democratic Party  has won all the
presidential elections since 1999, when the West African nation
returned to civilian rule.  Nigerian stocks are also rising on the attractiveness of
their valuations as they are trading at an average of about
eight times historical earnings, Eigbe said. That compares with
14 times earnings on the  MSCI Frontier Market (MXFM)  Index, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. “Nigeria is a clearly a good
destination for equity investment,” he said.  Skye Bank Plc (SKYEBANK) , a Nigerian lender that was also rated
“buy” at Renaissance, gained 3.6 percent to 8.58 naira, the
highest since April 28.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vincent Nwanma in Lagos at 
 vnwanma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  