-- 
Nigerian Central Bank Will Use Reserves to Bolster Currency, Governor Says

-- B y   C h r i s   K a y
-- 
2011-05-10T15:54:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/nigerian-central-bank-will-use-reserves-to-bolster-currency-governor-says.html
Nigeria ’s targeted exchange rate of
about 150 naira to the dollar is sustainable in the “short to
medium term,” and the central bank will use its foreign
reserves to prop up the currency if it weakens, Governor Lamido Sanusi said.  “A weaker currency would have serious economic
ramifications for costs of production, for the cost of oil
imports, for employment in an import dependent economy,” Sanusi
said in an interview in Bloomberg’s  London  offices today.  Sanusi has been defending the naira, attempting to keep it
within a 3 percentage point band above or below 150 per dollar
at the central bank’s twice-weekly auctions, in a bid to curb
inflation. That policy was under strain as the naira depreciated
to as weak as 157 on March 17 on the  interbank market , according
to Bloomberg data, and foreign currency reserves declined.  The exchange-rate policy was cited as a concern by the
 International Monetary Fund , which said in February the central
bank should allow for more flexibility in the naira to avoid
depleting foreign reserves.  The reserves of  Africa ’s top oil producer declined 16
percent to $33.5 billion in the 12 months to May 6, according to
central bank  figures . They have gained 3.7 percent this year.  “We drew down reserves to maintain stability of the
currency,” Sanusi said. “It’s not really a disaster, we’re not
in a desperate situation.”  Credit Rating  Fitch Ratings  lowered its outlook on Nigeria’s BB- rating
to “negative” from “stable” on Oct. 22 as the government
depleted its excess crude account, a windfall saved when the
price of crude goes above the benchmark used for the budget, and
foreign-currency reserves dropped. The ratings agency plans to
visit the West African nation in August.  “I know the rating agencies want to build up reserves, but
the rating agencies are not looking at unemployment, not looking
at poverty,” Sanusi said. “I’m a central bank governor in a
country dealing with human beings.”  The central bank aims to bring the inflation rate below 10
percent. Rising energy and food costs this year pushed inflation
to 12.8 percent in March from 11.1 percent a month earlier, the
statistics office said on April 18.  “It’s very easy to build up reserves,” Sanusi said. “I
can decide today that I’m going to only sell $100 million at
auction and make the naira 180, 190, 200: What are you
suggesting I build up reserves and kill industry?”  The bank sold $300 million at yesterday’s foreign-exchange
auction, less than the $352.5 million demanded by lenders.
That’s down from average demand of $453.36 at the March
auctions. The dollars were sold for between 152.94 naira and
153.43 naira each.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chris Kay  in London at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Kirkland at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net . 