-- 
Nigerian Breweries Targets Market Share, Efficiency With New Acquisitions

-- B y   E m e l e   O n u
-- 
2011-05-10T15:23:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/nigerian-breweries-targets-market-share-efficiency-with-new-acquisitions.html
Nigerian Breweries Plc (NB)  said the
planned purchase of two local beermakers is aimed at adding
market share in  Africa ’s most populous country while avoiding
the cost of constructing new factories.  “The acquisition will strengthen our market coverage,
market share and efficiency,” Chief Executive Officer Nicolaas Vervelde told reporters today in Lagos, the commercial capital.
“If we don’t make the acquisition, we might be forced to build
a new brewery.”  Shareholders of Lagos-based Nigerian Breweries, which is
controlled by Dutch beermaker  Heineken NV (HEIA) , are scheduled at the
annual meeting later this month to vote on buying Sona Systems
Associates Business Management Ltd. and Life Breweries Ltd. The
acquisitions will give Nigerian Breweries five additional
beermaking plants across the country.  Nigeria, with more than 150 million people, is potentially
the continent’s largest consumer market and is attracting
increased investment from global beermakers seeking to expand
market share.  SABMiller Plc (SAB) , the world’s second-largest brewer
by volume, said on Feb. 25 that it plans a $100 million plant in
the southeastern city of Onitsha within two years.  Guinness Nigeria Plc (GUINNESS) , the local beermaking unit of
distiller  Diageo Plc (DGE) , said on March 11 that it will spend $336
million to expand brewing capacity in the west African nation.  The purchase of Sona Systems and Life Breweries will offer
“spare capacity,” Vervelde said. Nigerian Breweries isn’t
ruling out further purchases, the CEO said.  “If another opportunity calls for acquisition, we will
look at it, and if it will add returns to shareholders, we’ll
take advantage of it,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emele Onu in Lagos via 
 eonu1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dulue Mbachu at   dmbachu@bloomberg.net  