-- 
Nortel U.S., Canadian Units Battle European Affiliates Over $9.8 Billion

-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 
2011-05-10T16:01:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/nortel-u-s-canadian-units-battle-european-affiliates-over-9-8-billion.html
Nortel Networks Corp. (NRTLQ)  and its
bankrupt units in Canada and the U.S. are preparing to fight
their European affiliates over billions of dollars the company
collected while liquidating.  A group of European units in bankruptcy in the U.K. claimed
Nortel owes them C$9.8 billion ($10.2 billion), according to
court papers filed in Toronto, where the parent is in
bankruptcy.  The European units agreed to file a similar set of claims
by June 1 against the U.S. operating company, Nortel Networks,
Inc., in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Wilmington,  Delaware , a
company attorney, James Bromley, said today in court.  Judges in the U.S. and Canada will decide whether the
European claims are legitimate and how to divide about
$3 billion the company raised by auctioning its businesses since
filing for bankruptcy in 2009.  Until those disputes are resolved, U.S. and Canadian
bondholders won’t be paid anything, bondholder attorney Thomas
R. Kreller said in an interview after today’s hearing. The
disputes will probably be heard by the courts in September and
December, Kreller said.  “I would hope that given the size and complexity of the
case the time is coming to make some distributions,” U.S.
Bankruptcy Judge Kevin Gross said today in court.  Since filing for bankruptcy in the U.S.,  Canada  and the
U.K., Nortel has sold almost all of its businesses, raising
about $3 billion to distribute to creditors.  Nortel Networks Claims  Creditors of the company’s main U.S. unit, Nortel Networks,
claimed they were owed $16.3 billion, according to court
documents.  Derek Adler, an attorney for the Nortel European units,
declined to comment after the hearing. The European units claim
in court papers that inter-company agreements entitle them to
payments from Nortel Networks Corp., the parent; Nortel Networks
Inc., the main U.S. company; and other U.S. and Canadian
subsidiaries.  The case is Nortel Networks Inc., 09-10138, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in Wilmington, Delaware,
at   schurch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  