-- 
Lynn Nottage’s ‘Stark’ Tinseltown; Shaw’s Other Fair Lady: Jeremy Gerard

-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 
2011-05-10T02:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/nottage-s-stark-tinseltown-shaw-s-not-so-fair-lady-review.html
We first meet Vera Stark rehearsing a
movie scene with Gloria Mitchell, the Hollywood star for whom
she works as maid and confidant.  It’s 1933 and Gloria is desperate to land the title role in
“The Belle of  New Orleans ,” a Southern melodrama (the trend
will culminate six years later in “Gone With the Wind”).  Gloria is somewhat long in the tooth for ingenue roles and
drinks gin for breakfast when necessary. Like everyone else in
the company town, Vera, too, is looking for her chance to break
into the movies, and if being maid to a vain white actress is
her best opportunity, then dust she will.  Lynn Nottage’s ingenious new play, “By the Way, Meet Vera
Stark,” follows Vera’s fortunes as both she and Gloria are cast
in “The Belle of New Orleans,” essentially recreating their
real-life roles on screen.  As with her  Pulitzer Prize -winning drama “Ruined,” set in
a Congolese brothel, and “Intimate Apparel,” set in a
sweatshop, Nottage reveals the lives of women who aren’t likely
to show up in  New York  Times trend stories. She makes them
worthy of our attention.  In the play’s more successful Act I, we visit the apartment
Vera shares with two friends, Lottie (Kimberly Hebert Gregory)
and Anne Mae (Karen Olivo), also on the make for a break, while
casting jaundiced eyes on a white world intent on boxing them in
as servants and hussies.  Act II, set in 1973 and 2003, makes Vera more of a mystery,
the question being, “whatever happened to?”  Quiet Sensuality  Sanaa Lathan, an actress who exudes quiet sensuality, shows
Vera morphing from flavor-of-the-moment star to a kind of Eartha Kitt-enish chanteuse. She’s viewed from the perspective of a
talk-show guest and as the subject of a fatuous panel
discussion.  Director Jo Bonney stages the second-act back-and-forth
transitions with appealing fluidity, but that doesn’t make them
work.  The promise of Act I, especially in Vera’s crackling scenes
with a cocksure chauffeur played by the gifted Daniel Breaker,
goes largely unfulfilled. The balance of Vera’s life is
recounted as parody. We’ve met her in the flesh, but all too
quickly, that Vera departs, only to return as a symbol in the
flickering light.  Through May 22 at Second Stage Theatre, 307 W. 43rd St.
Information: +1-212-246-4422;  http://www.2st.com 
**1/2  ‘A Minister’s Wife’  Shaw’s “Candida” is about the effervescent wife of a
socially active, priggish and pompous minister, who casts her
spell on a truculent young poet. Mad for her and finding her
husband insufferable, young Eugene Marchbanks does everything he
can to irritate the Rev. James Morell. Nothing he does, however,
irritates like the new musical that Michael Halberstam has
commissioned from the play.  “A Minister’s Wife” is a one-acter with a score by Joshua
Schmidt (he composed the very good “Adding Machine”) and Jan
Levy Tranen. The book is by Austin Pendleton, a one-man national
theater who has been actor, writer, director and producer,
sometimes all at once.  Their efforts add up to a considerable number of
detractions. The music is derivative of Sondheim in a way that
“Adding Machine” was not; the lyrics offer some lovely
aphorisms without being especially revealing. And the book is
reductive, a cardinal sin when you’re dealing with a play of
ideas.  What “A Minister’s Wife” does have is Bobby Steggert, an
increasingly prominent actor, who plays Marchbanks with fiery
energy. He’s got a choice puppy-love object in Kate Fry’s peachy
Candida, but less of a foil in Marc Kudisch’s stuck-in-the-mud
Morell.  At the Mitzi E. Newhouse Theater,  Lincoln Center .
Information: +1-212-239-6200;  http://www.telecarge.com .
Rating: *1/2  (Jeremy Gerard is an editor and critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Jeremy Gerard in New York at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 