-- 
NRC to Boost Inspections at Browns Ferry Nuclear Plant

-- B y   M a r k   C h e d i a k
-- 
2011-05-10T16:53:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/nrc-to-boost-inspections-at-browns-ferry-nuclear-plant-1-.html
Federal regulators said they will
increase inspections at the  Tennessee Valley Authority ’s Browns
Ferry nuclear plant in  Alabama  after a cooling system failure
last fall.  Investigators determined a valve that failed in part of the
cooling system of the plant’s Unit 1 reactor was of “high
safety significance,” the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission
said today in a  statement  on its website.  The failure was found by TVA on Oct. 23 when the unit was
shut for refueling, and it was repaired before the reactor
returned to service, the NRC said. The valve helps keep the
reactor cool during emergencies, and its failure could have led
to core damage had “an accident involving a series of unlikely
events occurred,” the NRC said.  U.S. regulators have stepped up nuclear safety evaluations
in the wake of a March 11 earthquake and tsunami that triggered
partial meltdowns at a nuclear plant in  Japan .  “We are going to evaluate our options with regards to the
NRC findings,” Ray Golden, a spokesman for TVA, said in a
telephone interview.  “We continue to maintain that the issues associated with
the valve’s inability to operate were a manufacturing defect and
there was redundant plant equipment to perform that function and
it did so,” Golden said. Other backup cooling systems would
have kept the plant in a “safe condition,” Golden said.  Browns Ferry is located near  Athens , Alabama, about 32
miles west of Huntsville. TVA shut all of its nuclear units at
the plant in 1985 because of safety concerns. The plant’s Unit 1
was returned to service in 2007 after being idled for 22 years.
Units 2 and 3 were restarted in 1991 and 1995.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Chediak in  San Francisco  at 
 mchediak@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at   susanwarren@bloomberg.net . 