-- 
U.S. Nuclear Group Expects Four to Eight Reactors by 2020

-- B y   S i m o n   L o m a x
-- 
2011-05-10T19:39:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/nuclear-group-expects-four-to-eight-reactors-by-2020-correct-.html
Japan ’s nuclear crisis won’t prevent
construction of four to eight reactors in the U.S. by 2020, said
 Nuclear Energy Institute  Chief Executive Officer Marvin Fertel.  The NEI, a trade group representing reactor operators,
doesn’t expect the partial meltdown of a Japanese plant after a
March 11 earthquake and tsunami to “have a major impact on new
nuclear plant licensing,” Fertel said today at an industry
conference in Washington.  The 104 U.S. commercial reactors are getting closer
scrutiny by regulators and lawmakers after the disaster
destroyed  power lines  and flooded emergency diesel generators at
Tokyo Electric Power Co.’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant, depriving
its cooling systems of electricity. Fuel rods in four of the
plant’s six reactor buildings overheated, causing fires,
explosions and radiation leaks in the world’s worst nuclear
incident since the 1986 Chernobyl disaster.  The crisis led Japan to reassess a  plan  to get 50 percent
of its electricity from nuclear plants by 2030, Ichiro Fujisaki,
the nation’s ambassador to the U.S., said at the conference.
Japan’s government “will look anew" at this strategy, Fujisaki
said.  ‘‘That does not mean we will halt all the existing nuclear
power,’’ he said. Japan gets about a quarter of its electricity
from nuclear reactors, Fujisaki said.  The U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission started a 90-day
safety review of U.S. reactors in March after the disaster at
Fukushima, about 135 miles (217 kilometers) north of  Tokyo .  Better Preparation  U.S. plants may need to be better prepared for a ‘‘station
blackout,’’ when cooling systems are cut off from the  power grid 
and diesel generators fail, NRC Chairman  Gregory Jaczko  said
last month.  An industry review since the Japanese earthquake found some
plants aren’t in compliance with standards for dealing with
‘‘large fires and explosions that could result from aircraft
impact at a nuclear energy facility,’’ Fertel said today without
specifying the reactors.  The inspection detected a few instances where equipment was
stored in the wrong location and workers hadn’t received updated
training, Fertel told reporters. The reactor owners are taking
‘‘corrective action’’ based on the inspections, which are
separate from the NRC’s safety process, he said.  While the crisis in Japan has ‘‘added uncertainty’’ to the
outlook for U.S. nuclear power, the five-member NRC is scheduled
to vote on new reactor licenses this year, Fertel said.  Southern Co. (SO) ’s plan for two reactors in  Georgia  may be
approved by the end of the year, he said.  Scana Corp. (SCG) ’s proposal
to build two reactors in  South Carolina  may win NRC approval
this year or early in 2012, he said.  The NEI’s construction forecast would require the NRC to
rush the approval of new reactor designs, Tom Clements, a
nuclear campaign coordinator in Columbia, South Carolina, for
the environmental group Friends of the Earth, said in an e-mail.  The NRC should ‘‘stop this process until it has time to
consider the multitude of lessons about reactor design and
operation which will eventually be learned from the Fukushima
accident,” Clements said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Lomax in  Washington  at 
 slomax@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  