-- 
Obama’s Nuclear-Waste Panel May Weigh Decades of Storage

-- B y   K i m   C h i p m a n   a n d   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 
2011-05-10T22:05:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/obama-s-nuclear-waste-commission-may-weigh-decades-of-interim-storage.html
President  Barack Obama ’s panel on
nuclear waste may recommend that spent fuel be removed from
 power plants  and put into storage for decades until it can be
sent to a permanent site, two commission members said.  The  Blue Ribbon Commission on America’s Nuclear Future  may
suggest that an interim storage plan be developed along with one
or more permanent sites that could hold more than 100,000 metric
tons of radioactive waste for millenniums, according to the
members, who requested anonymity because the possible
recommendations haven’t been made public.  Obama ordered the Energy Department to create the 15-member
commission last year after he rejected plans for a permanent
repository at Yucca Mountain in  Nevada . Demands for a solution
that would start moving spent fuel from cooling ponds at power
plants have grown since radioactivity was released from such
ponds at Tokyo Electric Power Co.’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant in
 Japan  after the March earthquake and tsunami.  “We are sitting here with tens of thousands of pounds of
high-grade nuclear waste that we have to do something about,”
Chuck Hagel, a commission member and former Republican senator
from  Nebraska , said in an interview. “We will get there. A
central repository is one of the most legitimate options out
there.”  Hagel, who is co-chairman of the commission’s subcommittee
on disposal of nuclear waste, declined to comment on what the
panel may recommend.  May 13 Meeting  The commission’s three subcommittees will present reports
at a May 13 meeting in Washington. The findings will be
discussed and considered for inclusion in the recommendations to
the Obama administration, said John Kotek, commission spokesman.
He declined to comment on the subcommittee’s reports.  The panel is headed by former Representative Lee Hamilton,
an Indiana Democrat, and Brent Scowcroft, a former adviser to
Republican presidents  Richard Nixon  and  George H.W. Bush . It
faces a deadline to produce final recommendations by Jan. 29.  About 65,000 tons of nuclear waste has been generated in
the U.S. during the past 40 years, according to the Washington-
based  Nuclear Energy Institute , an industry group. Of that, 78
percent remains in cooling pools at power plants, according to
the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission.  The Energy Department has been liable for the costs of
accepting and disposing of spent nuclear fuel since 1998, when a
central repository was supposed to open, according to
legislation.  $956 Million Paid  Utilities have sued to recover some of their storage costs,
and the government has paid out $956 million in settlements and
judgments to date, said U.S. Deputy Attorney General Michael Hertz, who testified before the Blue Ribbon Commission in
February.  The proposal for interim storage may be an attempt to “get
the government out from underneath the lawsuits and paying the
nuclear industry hand-over-fist” for on-site storage, said Jim Riccio, a nuclear-power analyst in  Washington  with  Greenpeace ,
an environmental group opposed to nuclear power.  Opponents of interim storage, such as the Washington-based
 Physicians for Social Responsibility , argue that such an
approach is costly and dangerous because it would increase the
number of shipments of radioactive waste. Instead, they say
spent fuel should remain on site at nuclear plants, in safer
conditions than current storage systems, until moved to a
permanent home.  ‘Medium-Term Option’  “While on-site storage isn’t a permanent solution, it’s
the best medium-term option for addressing the serious and
urgent security and safety threats posed by current irradiated
fuel storage,” more than 170 national and local U.S. groups
wrote in a Feb. 2 letter urging the commission not to endorse
interim storage.  Obama’s rejection of the plan for a repository at Yucca
Mountain may delay the opening of such a site by at least 20
years, the Government Accountability Office said in a report,
citing unnamed government officials.  The study from Congress’s investigative arm was released
yesterday by House Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman  Fred Upton , a Michigan Republican.  Upton is among lawmakers critical of Obama’s decision to
scrap the Yucca Mountain Project, which was opposed by Nevada
officials led by Democratic Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid .  ‘Alarming’ Decision  “It’s alarming for this administration to discard 30 years
of research and billions of taxpayer dollars spent, not for
technical or safety reasons, but rather to satisfy temporary
political calculations,” Upton said in a statement yesterday.  The Energy Department strongly disagreed with the GAO’s
findings, including the “assumption that the Yucca Mountain
repository would have opened in 2020,” the auditors said.  “The department has acted responsibly in carrying out the
Yucca Mountain Project shutdown and will continue to do so in
pursuing new options with the guidance of the Blue Ribbon
Commission,” Katinka Podmaniczky, a department spokeswoman,
said in an e-mail.  “The Yucca project produced years of continued acrimony,
dispute, and uncertainty,” Energy Secretary Steven Chu said in
a Feb. 11 letter to the Blue Ribbon Commission.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kim Chipman in Washington at 
 kchipman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  