-- 
Obama’s Yucca Rejection May Delay Waste Plans, GAO Says

-- B y   K i m   C h i p m a n
-- 
2011-05-10T19:24:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/obama-s-yucca-rejection-may-delay-waste-plans-gao-says-1-.html
President  Barack Obama ’s rejection of
plans for a nuclear waste dump at Nevada’s Yucca Mountain may
delay the opening of a repository by at least 20 years,
congressional auditors said in a report, citing unnamed
government officials.  While scrapping the project may result in finding a better
alternative and help avoid costly delays, it also may prompt an
expensive and lengthy search for a new site, the Government
Accountability Office, Congress’s investigative arm, said in a
report released yesterday by House Energy and Commerce Committee
Chairman  Fred Upton , a Michigan Republican.  The House panel is investigating Obama’s 2009 decision to
abandon the Yucca Mountain waste site. Almost $15 billion has
been spent on the project since 1983, with $9.5 billion coming
from the public’s electric bills, according to the GAO. Upton
said Obama abandoned the site, which was opposed by leaders in
 Nevada  such as Senate Democratic Leader  Harry Reid , solely for
political reasons.  “It’s alarming for this administration to discard 30 years
of research and billions of taxpayer dollars spent, not for
technical or safety reasons, but rather to satisfy temporary
political calculations,” Upton said in a statement. The “work
to derail the Yucca repository over the last two years may have
set back our bipartisan efforts by two decades.”  65,000 Metric Tons  U.S. regulators have grappled for decades to resolve how to
store  nuclear waste , which can remain radioactive for at least
10,000 years. The U.S. has more than 65,000 metric tons of
commercial  spent nuclear fuel , enough to a fill a football field
almost 15 feet deep, according to the GAO. The volume of such
waste is expected to more than double by 2055, the congressional
auditors said  Political and social opposition remains the main obstacle
to establishing a permanent repository for U.S. commercial and
military nuclear waste, according to the GAO.  “Some of the officials we spoke with estimated that the
termination of Yucca Mountain could set back the opening of a
new geologic repository by at least 20 years and cost billions
of dollars,” the GAO said in the report.  The Energy Department “strongly disagreed” with the GAO’s
findings, including the “assumption that the Yucca Mountain
repository would have opened in 2020,” the auditors said.  “The Yucca project produced years of continued acrimony,
dispute, and uncertainty,” Energy Secretary Steven Chu said in
a Feb. 11 letter to a 15-member commission the administration
appointed to weigh storage alternatives.  The Energy Department “acted responsibly in carrying out
the Yucca Mountain project shutdown and will continue to do
so,” Katinka Podmaniczky, a department spokeswoman, said in a
statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kim Chipman in Washington at 
 kchipman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  