-- 
Obama Seeks to Pressure Congress With Immigration Pitch to Hispanics

-- B y   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r   a n d   H a n s   N i c h o l s
-- 
2011-05-10T17:06:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/obama-steps-up-pressure-on-congress-with-immigration-pitch-to-hispanics.html
President  Barack Obama  is trying to
step up pressure on Congress to act on revamping U.S.
immigration laws while also courting a key constituency that he
needs to win re-election next year.  For the fifth time in three weeks, Obama is putting an
overhaul of the immigration system on his agenda with a speech
today in El Paso,  Texas  -- a state where Hispanics make up 37.6
percent of the population and 48 percent of those under 18.  Like his White House predecessor,  George W. Bush , Obama has
been stymied in getting congressional action on rewriting laws
to deal with the estimated 11 million people in the country
illegally while also securing U.S. borders and dealing with the
concerns of businesses that need a supply of both skilled and
unskilled workers. The chances of passing a measure before the
2012 presidential election are small, since Republicans control
the U.S. House of Representatives and have seized upon border
security as their primary concern.  Obama is waging a “campaign to build public awareness and
public support for comprehensive immigration reform, which we
have to do to make sure that it’s got the kind of momentum
behind it that gets Congress’s attention,” said  Jay Carney , the
president’s spokesman.  The administration is adding an economic appeal to its
arguments for an immigration overhaul.  Competitive Edge  Business leaders including Cargill Inc. Chief Executive
Officer  Greg Page , Facebook Inc. Chief Operating Officer Sheryl Sandberg and former Republican Senator Mel Martinez of  Florida ,
now  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s chairman for Florida,  Mexico , Central
America and the Caribbean, were among a group of political,
religious and law enforcement officials invited to the White
House on April 19 to discuss overhauling the U.S. immigration
system with the president.  “The  United States  will find it far more difficult to
maintain its competitive edge if it excludes those who are able
and willing to help us compete,” Carney said yesterday. He said
it is “simply foolish” to have college students from around
the world studying in U.S. colleges and universities without
letting them “stay to start businesses, to launch startups, to
create jobs here in America.”  Mexican President Felipe Calderon said he is glad to see
Obama revive the issue, even if the effort doesn’t have enough
political support yet to move forward.  Living in Shadows  “I really applaud his effort to solve the problem not only
of millions of people living in the shadows, but also a problem
for the American society and economy,” Calderon said in a
Bloomberg Television interview in  New York .  Opposition to any changes in the law that would provide
illegal immigrants with a path to citizenship has hardened, with
increased demands from border states that the federal government
do more to secure the U.S. border with Mexico amid spreading
drug violence there.  Last year the Arizona legislature passed -- and Governor
Jan Brewer, a Republican, signed into law -- a measure requiring
police officers to check immigration status when they arrest or
stop someone and have “reasonable suspicion” that the person
is in the country illegally. The measure also requires
registered aliens to carry documentation with them at all times.
A federal appellate court has blocked enforcement of the law,
and Brewer said yesterday that the state would appeal that
decision to the U.S. Supreme Court.  Concerns about border security are “constantly used as a
one-liner” by opponents of an immigration law overhaul, said
Doris Meissner, former commissioner of the Immigration and
Naturalization Service under President  Bill Clinton .  Border Enforcement  In response to those critics, the Obama administration has
stepped up border enforcement and deportations, which he is
likely to highlight today in a city with one of the U.S.’s
busiest border crossings.  U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement  deported 392,862
illegal immigrants in fiscal year 2010, the largest number in
the agency’s history. About half were criminals, setting a
record for the number of criminals deported, the agency said.  Those steps have served to draw criticism from Hispanics
without attracting more support for action on the law.  After a May 3 meeting with the president, Representative
Luis Gutierrez, an Illinois Democrat who is a member of the
Congressional Hispanic Caucus, expressed frustration with Obama.  Seeking Balance  The focus of the administration has been “enforcement,
enforcement, enforcement,” Gutierrez said. “They’ve deported
400,000 people, more than any other administration. What we are
saying is there has to be some balance.”  A spokesman for House Speaker  John Boehner , an Ohio
Republican, said the administration hasn’t approached
Republicans about working on legislation.  “If the president is serious, his first priority should be
stopping the violence on our border,” Brendan Buck, a spokesman
for Boehner, said in an e-mailed statement.  The president’s decision to stage his speech in El Paso is
“good politics” because it’s an area where border enforcement
has been significantly beefed up, said Meissner, who is also a
senior fellow at the  Migration Policy Institute , a Washington
research organization that studies migration issues.  Frank Sharry, the director of  America’s Voice , an
immigration advocacy group based in Washington, said some
Hispanic voters may stay away from the ballot box in 2012 unless
the president takes more “concrete” steps on immigration after
promising to make it a priority in his 2008 campaign.  “What the president’s doing is not going to be sufficient
to mobilize Latino voters for 2012, though it may be sufficient
to help tee up immigration reform for 2013,” said Sharry, who
attended the April 19 White House meeting. Anger within the
Hispanic community, he said, is based on “high expectations
dashed spectacularly.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kate Andersen Brower in  Washington  at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net ;
Hans Nichols in Washington at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  