-- 
Obama Says Overhauling U.S. Immigration Laws Is an ‘Economic Imperative’

-- B y   H a n s   N i c h o l s   a n d   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r
-- 
2011-05-11T04:00:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/obama-says-immigration-law-overhaul-an-economic-imperative-1-.html
President  Barack Obama  sought to
recast the debate over revamping the country’s immigration laws
in economic terms, arguing that that innovation from immigrants
was vital to job growth and that an underground economy fueled
by illegal immigration was undermining the U.S. middle class.  Making his first trip to the southern U.S. border as
president, Obama told an audience in El Paso, Texas, that his
administration has answered critics who demanded stricter border
enforcement. Now, he said, it’s time to provide a legal path to
residency for some of the 11 million people in the country
illegally and revise an “outdated” system for legal
immigration.  “Immigration reform is an economic imperative,” Obama
said yesterday at the  Chamizal National Memorial , which
commemorates a 1963 treaty with Mexico that settled a century-
long boundary dispute.  Obama invoked the successes of immigrants who went on to
found  Google Inc. (GOOG) ,  Intel Corp. (INTC)  and Yahoo! Inc. as proof that
keeping the country open to foreign talent leads to  job
creation . Quoting  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  co-founder  Bill Gates , Obama
said the U.S. can’t remain competitive in the global economy by
excluding talent.  “It’s for this reason that businesses all across America
are demanding that Washington finally meet its responsibility to
solve the immigration problem,” he said.  Economics and Enforcement  Yesterday’s speech marked the fifth time in three weeks
that Obama has put an overhaul of the immigration system on his
agenda as he seeks to step up pressure on Congress to act on
revamping U.S. immigration laws. Along with the economic appeal,
he emphasized the steps the U.S. has taken to deport criminals
and secure the 2,000-mile border with  Mexico .  Obama blamed Republicans for holding up action, accusing
them of “trying to move the goal posts” on what constitutes
border security.  “Now they’re going to say we need to quadruple the Border
Patrol,” Obama said, drawing laughter. “Or they’ll want a
higher fence. Maybe they’ll need a moat.”  “Maybe they want alligators in the moat,” he said.
“They’ll never be satisfied.”  Along with entrepreneurial talent exemplified by high-tech
companies such as Intel and Google, Obama said the U.S. is
assisted by legalizing the flow of less-skilled labor.  Middle-income Americans will benefit when “there is no
longer a massive underground economy that exploits a cheap
source of labor while depressing wages for everyone else,” he
said.  Stalled in Congress  Still, it’s unlikely that any legislation will be
considered before next year’s presidential election.  Like his White House predecessor,  George W. Bush , Obama has
been stymied in getting congressional action on rewriting laws
to create a path to citizenship for some of the people residing
in the U.S. illegally and a temporary worker program.  Opposition to giving illegal immigrants a path to
citizenship has hardened, with increased demands from border
states that the federal government do more to secure the U.S.
boundary with Mexico amid spreading drug violence there.  In response to critics, the Obama administration has
stepped up border enforcement and deportations.  U.S. Immigration
and Customs Enforcement  deported 392,862 illegal immigrants in
fiscal year 2010, the largest number in the agency’s history.
About half were criminals, setting a record for the number of
criminals deported, the agency said.  Enforcement Concerns  Arizona  Senators  John McCain , a Republican who supported
Bush’s overhaul efforts, and  Jon Kyl , the Senate’s No. 2
Republican leader, have introduced their own border security
plan. In a statement after the president’s speech the two
invited Obama to visit southern Arizona, which they said has
heavier illegal cross-border traffic.  “We hear from our constituents on a daily basis, and,
while some progress has been made in some areas, they do not
believe the border is secure,” they said in the statement.  Kyl told reporters in  Washington  yesterday that Obama
can’t expect cooperation on an immigration overhaul without
tougher steps first to curb the flow of illegal immigrants into
the U.S.  “I think almost everybody recognizes that until the border
is secure, any hope of additional legislation dealing with
immigration problem is not likely to succeed in the Congress,”
Kyl said.  Criticism From Hispanics  The federal enforcement steps have drawn criticism from
some Hispanics, a key constituency that Obama is courting for
his 2012 re-election campaign.  Representative Silvestre Reyes, a Texas Democrat who
greeted Obama on the tarmac when he landed in El Paso, said many
Hispanic lawmakers have given up on getting legislation this
year, so it was more important for the president to galvanize
public opinion.  “I don’t think any of us expect immigration reform to
happen this year,” Reyes said. “We’ll see what sort of support
he gets from the Republican side, that’s the key.”  Mexican President Felipe Calderon said immigration is a
“crucial issue” for U.S. relations with Mexico and for the
economies of both countries. Mexico’s abundance of labor
complements the U.S.’s capital-intensive economy, he said.  “I really applaud his effort to solve the problem not only
of millions of people living in the shadows, but also a problem
for the American society and economy,” Calderon said in a
Bloomberg Television interview in  New York .  While in  Texas , Obama attended two Democratic National
Committee fundraisers in Austin at which the party was seeking
to raise $2 million. At the first event, Obama mentioned the
raid he authorized that killed al-Qaeda leader  Osama bin Laden ,
drawing applause from donors.  “We are taking the fight to al Qaeda and because of the
extraordinary bravery of men and women who wear this nations
uniform, the outstanding work of our intelligence agencies,
Osama bin Laden will never again threaten the  United States ,”
Obama said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hans Nichols in Austin, Texas, at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net ;
Kate Andersen Brower in Washington at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  