-- 
Oil Advances a Third Day as Flooding Stokes Fuel Output Concern

-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 
2011-05-11T02:11:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/oil-trades-near-highest-in-a-week-on-mississippi-floods-and-u-s-earnings.html
Oil advanced for a third day in  New
York  on concern flooding of the Mississippi River and a drop in
U.S. gasoline stockpiles will restrict fuel supplies before the
start of the driving season in the world’s biggest crude-
consuming nation.  Futures gained as much as 0.7 percent today as the flood
moved south from  Memphis , threatening refineries and shipping
traffic. U.S. gasoline inventories fell last week, the  American
Petroleum Institute  reported. Oil presents a “short-term buying
opportunity” because of constraints to supply and growing
demand, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch.  “Flooding along the Mississippi River is threatening
refinery operations,”  Michael Wittner ,  head of oil-market
research at Societe Generale SA in New York, said in a note.
That is “bullish for gasoline, which has pulled up crude.”  Crude for June delivery climbed as much as 72 cents to
$104.60 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange , and was at $104.06 at 12:06 p.m. Sydney
time. Yesterday, it rose $1.33 to $103.88, the highest since May
4. Prices are 37 percent higher the past year.  Brent crude  for June settlement traded at $117.61 a barrel,
down 2 cents, on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange.
Yesterday, it gained $1.73, or 1.5 percent, to $117.63, the
highest settlement since May 4.  Mississippi Flood  The Mississippi is holding just below 48 feet (14.6 meters)
in Memphis,  Tennessee . Three million acres, an area almost the
size of  Connecticut , may go under water as the flooding moves
south, Louisiana Governor Bobby Jindal said at a press
conference in  Baton Rouge , the state capital.  Gasoline futures climbed 3.1 percent yesterday as the
rising waters threatened refineries and shipping. A total of 11
plants, accounting for 13 percent of U.S. fuel output, are
located between  New Orleans  and Baton Rouge, according to Lipow
Oil Associates LLC in Houston.  Valero Energy Corp., the largest U.S. refiner, reduced
operations at its Memphis plant to between 80 percent and 85
percent of capacity because of flooding, according to people
familiar with operation. The plant has a capacity of 195,000
barrels a day.  To relieve the threat to New Orleans and Baton Rouge, the
corps may open the Morganza Spillway. Opening the spillway
halfway would inundate a swath of central Louisiana along the
Atchafalaya River with 5 feet to 20 feet of water.  Krotz Springs  Louisiana declined to identify the refineries that may be
affected. One of the plants is on the  Mississippi River , the
statement said, citing the state’s Department of Natural
Resources fuel team. Alon USA Energy Inc.’s Krotz Springs
refinery in Louisiana will be affected if the spillway is
opened, Lisa Vidrine, director of the St. Landry Parish office
of emergency preparedness, said in a telephone interview.  Flooding after the opening of the spillway may result in
“reducing operating capacity to 75 percent for two weeks and
then further significant reductions,” according to the DNR.  The 104,532-ton tanker Zaliv Baikal was prevented from
delivering crude to Exxon Mobil Corp.’s Baton Rouge refinery
because of concern that the ship wouldn’t fit under the
Interstate 10 bridge spanning the Mississippi River.  U.S. stockpiles of gasoline shrank 1.8 million barrels last
week from the previous week, according to the API report. An
Energy Department report today will probably show supplies fell
750,000 barrels, according to the median estimate of 17 analysts
in a survey by Bloomberg News. Supply disruptions after May 6
wouldn’t be reflected in the department’s report.  Peak Demand  The peak gasoline demand period starts after the Memorial
Day holiday in late May and ends on Labor Day in early
September. The holidays fall on May 30 and Sept. 5 this year.  U.S. crude stockpiles climbed 2.95 million barrels last
week to 367.2 million, according to the API report. An Energy
Department report today may show supplies rose 1.5 million
barrels, a Bloomberg News survey shows.  The most-active oil option was the July $115 call, which
gives investors the right to buy crude for July delivery at $115
a barrel. The contract rose 15 percent to $1.44 after more than
doubling on May 9.  New York futures have climbed 14 percent this year as
unrest in the Middle East and North Africa toppled leaders in
Tunisia and  Egypt  and spread to  Libya , Algeria, Bahrain,  Iran ,
Syria and Yemen.  North Atlantic Treaty Organization jets intensified strikes
on the Libyan capital of Tripoli, including what the alliance
identified as “command-and-control” bunkers from which  Muammar Qaddafi  is carrying out a campaign against rebels.  Brent, the European benchmark, traded at a premium of
$13.52 a barrel to U.S. futures today. The difference between
front-month contracts in  London  and New York surged to a record
$19.54 on Feb. 21. It averaged 76 cents last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski in Singapore at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  