-- 
Tokyo Electric Executives to Take Further Salary Reductions

-- B y   Y u j i   O k a d a
-- 
2011-05-10T05:33:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/tokyo-electric-executives-to-take-further-salary-reductions-1-.html
Tokyo  Electric Power Co. said the
company’s chairman and president will take no pay from this
month, extending salary cuts as the utility seeks government
funding to cope with the crisis at the Fukushima nuclear plant.  Chairman  Tsunehisa Katsumata  and President Masataka Shimizu
and six executive vice presidents won’t receive a salary,
Shimizu told reporters after a meeting with government officials
in Tokyo today. Other directors will have their pay cut by 60
percent, he said.  The utility known as Tepco today asked for government help
as it faces compensation demands after an earthquake and tsunami
two months ago damaged the Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant and forced
the evacuation of 50,000 families. Tepco may need to pay claims
of 4 trillion yen ($50 billion), the Asahi newspaper reported
last week.  “The situation with respect to our fund-raising, both from
bonds and loans from financial institutions, is very serious,”
Tepco said in a document submitted to the government and
distributed to the media. “About 750 billion yen needs to be
repaid this fiscal year and if the present circumstances
continue, our funding situation will eventually become
untenable.”  Shimizu met Trade Minister  Banri Kaieda  and Chief Cabinet
Secretary Yukio Edano at Prime Minister  Naoto Kan ’s office today
to discuss the proposal before speaking to reporters.  Funding Compensation  The company’s shares rose as much as 5 percent 493 yen in
Tokyo and traded at 482 yen at 1:45 p.m. The benchmark Nikkei
225 Stock Average fell 0.01 percent.  The decision to take bigger pay cuts came after Edano on
May 6 said Tepco must do more to convince customers to accept
higher charges, after media reports the company wants to raise
prices. Tepco later denied the reports.  Under Japanese  law , utilities need approval from the trade
ministry to increase power prices for small users. Tepco will
need to raise electricity prices by about 16 percent, the Asahi
said.  Farmers protested outside Tepco headquarters on April 26,
demanding compensation for losses and an early return to their
land. On the same day, Tepco said board members includingKatsumata and Shimizu will take a pay cut of as much as 50
percent.  Managers will have their salaries reduced by 25 percent and
workers by 20 percent. Tepco expects to save a total of 54
billion yen a year, it said at the time.  Nineteen board members, excluding independent directors,
were paid 698 million in the year to March 2010, according to
its latest annual report.  Executives plan to meet the Tepco employees union to
discuss further pay cuts for general workers, Shimizu said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yuji Okada in Tokyo at 
 yokada6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  