-- 
Mol ‘Surprised’ by Croatia Extending Suspension of INA Shares

-- B y   J a s m i n a   K u z m a n o v i c
-- 
2011-05-10T12:12:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/mol-surprised-by-croatia-extending-suspension-of-ina-shares.html
Mol Nyrt. was "surprised" by
 Croatia ’s market regulator extending the suspension of trading
in INA Industrija Nafte d.d. shares because it had complied with
the watchdog’s requests, the Hungarian refiner said.  The regulator known as Hanfa yesterday suspended trading in
INA stock on the Zagreb bourse for the third time in the last
six weeks, citing suspicious trading activity. Mol, which has
management rights in the Croatian company, has answered all
queries by the watchdog, spokesman Domokos Szollar said today in
an e-mailed statement.  Tensions between Budapest-based Mol and Croatian
authorities increased after the Hungarian company made an offer
to purchase the outstanding shares in INA in December. The
government claimed it had not been notified of Mol’s intention
before the offer. Mol has a 47.26 percent stake in INA and the
government in Zagreb holds 44.84 percent.  "We have to state again that we were very surprised to
learn about the temporary suspension of trade of INA shares,"
Szollar said in a statement. "For the sake of clarity and
transparency, Mol decided to publish its reply to the Hanfa
request."  In a May 6 letter, Mol told Hanfa that all of its foreign
"direct or indirect interests are being continuously disclosed,"
Szollar said.  The Hungarian refiner on April 28 said it bought INA shares
from private investors outside the offer period. The company
hasn’t reached any disclosure obligation level that would have
demanded a stock exchange announcement, it said.  Besides these transactions, Mol didn’t provide any
financial assets to any other entities for acquiring INA shares,
Szollar said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jasmina Kuzmanovic in Zagreb at 
 jkuzmanovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Lytle at 
 dlytle@bloomberg.net  