-- 
Home Prices Drop in Three-Fourths of U.S. Metro Areas as Foreclosures Rise

-- B y   K a t h l e e n   M .   H o w l e y
-- 
2011-05-10T15:20:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/home-prices-drop-in-three-fourths-of-u-s-metro-areas-realtors-group-says.html
Home prices  fell in more than three-
fourths of U.S. cities in the first quarter as foreclosures that
sell at cut-rate prices devalued real estate.  The median price of a single-family home dropped in 118
metropolitan areas out of 153 cities measured, the National
Association of Realtors said in a report today. The biggest
decline was in Biloxi,  Mississippi , followed by Akron, Ohio.  Real estate values are slumping as mounting foreclosures
undermine prices. The share of homes sold in March that were
distressed properties, meaning foreclosures or short sales, rose
to 40 percent from 39 percent in February, the Realtors group
said last month. There were 2.2 million homes in foreclosure in
March, up 1.4 percent from a month earlier, according to Lender
Processing Services Inc. in Jacksonville,  Florida .  “There are a lot of foreclosures being dumped on the
market at fire-sale prices, and there are a lot of foreclosures
still in the pipeline,” said  Patrick Newport , an economist with
IHS Global Insight in Lexington, Massachusetts. “The banks
don’t want to hold homes on their books, so they will sell for
whatever they can get.”  In Biloxi, the median price of a home sold fell 23 percent
in the first quarter from a year earlier. Prices dropped 21
percent in Akron and Salem, Oregon. Those cities were followed
by Dayton, Ohio, where the median price decreased 20 percent.  Cities With Gains  The best-performing cities were Charlotte,  North Carolina ,
with a 12 percent advance; followed by Buffalo,  New York , and
Burlington, Vermont, with increases of 11 percent.  The median price of a single-family home in the New York
metropolitan area fell 1.2 percent in the first quarter. The
Edison, New Jersey, region had a 6.9 percent decrease.  Prices in the Boston metropolitan area rose 0.1 percent,
the Chicago-based Realtors association said.  In a separate report today, the Realtors said U.S.
existing-home sales fell 0.8 percent in the first quarter from a
year earlier to an annual pace of 5.14 million. The biggest
decline was in Tennessee, where transactions decreased about 15
percent. The largest advance was in  South Dakota , with an 86
percent gain.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen M. Howley in Boston at 
 kmhowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  