-- 
Honeywell F-22 Oxygen Systems Probed

-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 
2011-05-10T19:07:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/honeywell-f-22-oxygen-systems-probed.html
A Honeywell Inc. system for providing
oxygen to F-22 pilots is being investigated as a possible source
for malfunctions that prompted the  Air Force  to ground its
premier fighter jet after reports of five incidents since late
April, according to officials.  “The inquiry is not solely focused” on Honeywell’s on-
board oxygen generating  system , Air Combat Command spokeswoman
Captain Jennifer Ferrau said in an e-mail. “However, that is
one area investigators will look at.”  Honeywell Aerospace spokesman Bill Reavis said “the
company will provide appropriate technical and program support
in the evaluation of this matter.”  The Air Combat Command on May 3 temporarily halted flights
of the F-22 “until further notice,” according to an e-mailed
statement from the command, based at Langley Air Force Base,
Virginia. The Air Force has taken delivery of 160 of the stealth
F-22 jets.  “The stand-down is a prudent measure following recent
reports of potential oxygen system malfunctions” and gives Air
Force officials time to investigate the system, the command
said. The  F-22 Raptor  is the U.S. military’s most advanced
fighter.  The grounding order was spurred by a five instances since
late April of F-22 “physiological-hypoxia-like” events that
may be indications of potential malfunctions, the Air Force
said.  ‘Physiological Symptoms’  One incident involved a pilot assigned to the 302nd Fighter
Squadron in  Alaska  who “scraped the underside of the aircraft
on trees during a landing approach,” an e-mail to congressional
defense committees said. “The pilot does not recall the
incident and is being treated for physiological symptoms.”  Prior to the five recent F-22 events, nine incidents were
reported between June 2008 and February, the Air Force said.  Those nine incidents trigged a safety board investigation
of the Honeywell system. The five additional incidents in quick
succession triggered the F-22 grounding, however, Ferrau said.  “We are still in the early stages of investigating the
reports” and “working to pinpoint the exact nature of the
problem.”  A parallel investigation is reviewing the F-35 Joint Strike
Fighter’s oxygen system, also made by  Morris Township , New
Jersey-based Honeywell, she said. The Pentagon plans to buy more
than 2,400 F-35s, made by  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) , of Bethesda,
 Maryland .  ‘Very Different’ Systems  The two systems “are very different,” the military’s F-35
spokesman, Joe DellaVedova, said in an e-mail. “The program has
leveraged the lessons learned from F-22 development to enhance
the F-35 across all subsystems, including oxygen system,” he
said. “The F-35 program was immediately made aware of last
week’s F-22 incidents,” he said.  “At this time, the program office does not see any
commonality in the potential causal factors the F-22 program is
investigating,” he said.  Lockheed Martin spokeswoman Laurie Quincy said in an e-mail
that the F-22 and F-35 oxygen systems have “unique
differences” but “as a precaution the F-35 team is reviewing”
the Raptor system “design and performance to gain additional
insight to improve the F-35 system if required.”  DellaVedova said F-35 program officials continuously
monitor “issues present in other aircraft” while “assessing
applicability to our current design.”  ‘Monitoring Future Findings’  “The F-35 program has both contractor and government
engineers supporting the investigation,” he said. “The F-35
will continue to play an active role monitoring future findings
and applying them to the F-35 system as appropriate.”  The estimated cost of the F-22 is about $411 million per
jet in inflation-adjusted dollars that amortize research,
development, production, maintenance and construction of support
facilities. That’s about triple the $139 million-per-plane
equivalent estimated cost as the program proceeded into full
development in 1991, the U.S. Government Accountability Office
said in its latest annual report on weapons systems.  F-22 jets are based in  Virginia ,  New Mexico ,  California ,
 Florida , Alaska and  Hawaii .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  