-- 
Hong Kong Government to Auction Three Housing Sites After April Slowdown

-- B y   K e l v i n   W o n g
-- 
2011-05-11T05:28:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/hong-kong-government-to-auction-three-housing-sites-after-april-slowdown.html
Hong Kong  will sell three land
parcels in an  auction  tomorrow that comes after home sales in
April fell to the lowest volume in two years following
government measures to stem surging prices.  The most expensive site -- on Stubbs Road,  Hong Kong Island 
-- may be turned into luxury housing projects and is expected to
fetch almost HK$4.4 billion ($566 million), based on the median
estimate of five surveyors and analysts polled by Bloomberg News.
Another site in the Kowloon Tong area may get HK$500 million,
while the parcel in the Yuen Long district may be sold for
HK$410 million, according to the survey.  Home sales dropped to the lowest volume in more than two
years in April and some developers have cut prices of new homes
since the end of last month. The government in November
increased property transaction taxes and pledged to boost land
supply amid public protests that prices are becoming
unaffordable and as the central bank warned about the risk of a
“credit-fueled property bubble.”  “The price being paid will still be good, though
developers are now more rational given how the market has
performed lately,” said Adrian Ngan, a Hong Kong-based property
analyst at MF Global Holdings Ltd.  The government two weeks ago sold a parcel in the Hung Hom
area at a price close to the top estimate of analysts in its
first auction of the year. Housing prices in the city, ranked
the world’s most expensive place to buy a home by Savills Plc,
have gained more than 55 percent in the past two years on
record-low  mortgage rates  and an influx of buyers from  China .  Luxury Houses  The Hang Seng Property Index, which tracks seven of the
city’s biggest developers, fell 0.2 percent at the noon trading
break in Hong Kong today, bringing its loss this year to 3.6
percent. This compares with the 1.6 percent gain in the
benchmark  Hang Seng Index .  Estimates for the Stubbs Road site, with a buildable area
of 180,835 square feet, range from HK$3.6 billion to HK$4.5
billion, with the median translating to HK$24,000 a square foot.  The site lies below the east of the Peak district in a
“traditional luxury housing area which rarely has land put up
for sale,” according to  James Cheung , a surveyor at Centaline
Property Agency Ltd., Hong Kong’s biggest closely held realtor
who estimates the site will fetch HK$20,000 a square foot.  The average price of apartments in the area, consisting
mainly of buildings more than 30 years old and with some
overlooking the Happy Valley race course, is now about HK$18,000
a square foot, he said.  More Land Sales  The three sites up for sale tomorrow are among the nine the
government plans to sell through auction or tender in the second
quarter. Hong Kong is considering announcing its land sale
schedule at the beginning of each quarter, Financial Secretary
John Tsang said last month.  The government may auction as many as 52 plots of land this
year, Tsang said in his Feb. 23 budget speech. The land could
yield 16,000 units, almost 80 percent more than from land sold
last year.  A group between Nan Fung Development Ltd. and Wing Tai
Properties Ltd. on April 27 paid a higher-than-estimated
HK$9,934 a square foot for a residential site in Hung Hom.  Developers including  Cheung Kong Holdings Ltd. (1)  and
Henderson Land Development Co. have cut prices of new apartments
at some of their projects by as much as 30 percent since the
Easter Holiday in late April on concern that higher mortgage
rates and the government curbs may dent home-buying sentiment.  Rising Rates  Hong Kong’s bank interest rates will rise on loan demand
and capital outflows when the U.S. increases borrowing costs,
Hong Kong Monetary Authority head  Norman Chan  said on April 28.  Some of the city’s biggest lenders, including Standard
Chartered Plc and BOC Hong Kong (Holdings) Ltd., raised mortgage
rates in April after the warning from the city’s de-facto
central bank, which is prevented by Hong Kong’s currency peg to
the dollar from raising  interest rates .  The number of units that changed hands last month declined
37.6 percent from a year earlier to 7,635, according to a
 statement  on the Land Registry website. That’s the lowest since
March 2009, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Kelvin Wong in Hong Kong at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  