-- 
Ontario Teachers’ Still Intends to Sell Maple Leaf Sports, CEO Leech Says

-- B y   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o   a n d   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 
2011-05-10T20:23:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/ontario-teachers-pension-plan-still-plans-sale-of-nhl-toronto-maple-leafs.html
Ontario Teachers’ Pension Plan  will
press ahead with efforts to sell control of Maple Leaf Sports
and Entertainment Ltd. after agreeing to buy a minority stake
from a unit of  Toronto-Dominion Bank. (TD)   Teachers’ reached an agreement in principle on the main
financial terms regarding the acquisition of TD Capital Group’s
13.5 percent share of Maple Leaf Sports, Chief Executive Officer
Jim Leech said today at the Bloomberg Canada Economic Summit in
Toronto. The fund expects to own 75 percent to 80 percent of the
company once the transaction closes, he said.  “This is simply to streamline the process,” Leech told
reporters at the conference. “It makes it easier to sell.
You’ve reduced the number of variables.”  Canada ’s third-largest pension fund manager said March 12
that it’s considering selling its 66 percent stake in Maple Leaf
Sports, the owner of the Toronto Maple Leafs National Hockey
League team and Toronto Raptors National Basketball Association
club.  Leech declined to put a date on when the transaction with
TD might be concluded, saying the deal is subject to approvals
including that of the NHL. He also refused to say how many bids
Teachers’ has received for Maple Leaf Sports or provide
financial details.  A sale of the Maple Leafs, who have won the Stanley Cup 11
times, would give a potential buyer control of professional
hockey’s most valuable franchise, according to Forbes magazine.
The Leafs are worth about $505 million, according to the
magazine’s 2010  ranking  of NHL team valuations.  Unit Growth  “When we first bought it, it was an arena a block from
here, and it had a team, one hockey team,” Leech said. “Today
it’s a large organization with four professional sports teams,
several different venues, large entertainment holdings, the
third-largest concert venue in  North America . We built that up.
And we’ll see now if we’ve created sufficient value that it’s
time to turn it over to somebody else.”  Besides the Leafs and the Raptors, Maple Leaf Sports also
owns the Toronto F.C. soccer team, the Air Canada Centre arena
and the Toronto Marlies minor-league hockey team.  Closely held Kilmer Sports Inc. is the company’s second-
largest shareholder with a 20.5 percent stake. Leech said today
he’s “not heard back” from Toronto-based Kilmer on whether it
plans to buy part of TD Capital’s stake.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Frederic Tomesco in Toronto at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net ;
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  