-- 
Morgan Stanley, Hetco Fail to Buy Forties; BFOE Loadings to Rise

-- B y   S h e r r y   S u
-- 
2011-05-10T17:05:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/morgan-stanley-hetco-fail-to-buy-forties-bfoe-loadings-to-rise.html
Morgan Stanley and Hess Energy
Trading Co., also known as Hetco, failed to buy  North Sea 
Forties for a second day even after they raised their bids.
Glencore International AG sought to buy a Urals cargo in the
Mediterranean without success.  Daily exports of the four North Sea crude grades that
determine the price of Dated Brent are scheduled to rise 4.6
percent in June from this month, according to loading programs
obtained by Bloomberg News.  North Sea  Morgan Stanley failed to buy a cargo of Forties for loading
May 26 to June 1 at 50 cents a barrel above Dated Brent, up from
its bid of a 45-cent premium, according to a survey of traders
and brokers monitoring the daily Platts trading window.  Hetco was unable to buy a consignment for May 29 to June 1
at 40 cents more than Dated Brent, 10 cents above its bid
yesterday, the survey showed.  Reported North Sea market activity typically occurs during
the Platts window, which ends at 4:30 p.m. London time. Prior to
the window, Forties loading 10 to 21 days in the future cost 55
cents more than Dated Brent, compared with 52 cents yesterday,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Brent for June settlement traded at $117.38 a barrel on the
London-based ICE Futures  Europe  exchange at the close of the
window, up from $113.03 yesterday. The July contract was at
$116.88, 50 cents less than June.  Combined shipments of Brent, Forties, Oseberg and Ekofisk
grades will total 32.5 million barrels, or 1.08 million barrels
a day, next month, loading programs showed. That compares with
32.1 million barrels, or 1.04 million barrels a day, in May.  Exports of Forties for June will total 24 cargoes, one more
than this month, according to a loading program obtained by
Bloomberg News.  Mediterranean/Urals  No bids or offers were made for Urals in the Mediterranean.
In northwest Europe, Glencore failed to buy 100,000 metric tons
of Urals for May 20 to May 24 at $2.95 below Dated Brent, the
survey showed. The grade was last sold at a discount of $3.25 to
Dated Brent on May 5.  Saudi Aramco  sold a cargo of a new crude blend to BP Plc as
the world’s largest oil exporter seeks to replace some of the
easily refined Libyan fuel now missing from the market, two
people with knowledge of the sale said.  West Africa  Royal Dutch Shell Plc’s Bonny oil terminal in  Nigeria 
returned to normal after operational problems, according to a
company official.  “Bonny is operating normally,” the London-based official
said in an e-mail, declining to be identified in line with
company policy.  A total of five cargoes of Bonny Light were added to
loading programs for May and June, according to revised
schedules obtained by Bloomberg News.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sherry Su in London at 
 lsu23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  