-- 
Most Heart-Stent Patients Fail to Get Best Drug Therapy, Researchers Say

-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 
2011-05-10T21:08:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/most-heart-stent-patients-fail-to-get-best-drug-therapy-researchers-say.html
Most heart disease patients fail to
get the best mix of life-saving medications before they land in
the hospital needing intervention for clogged arteries, and one-
third aren’t given the proper drugs after, researchers said.  The number of people getting optimal medical therapy hasn’t
changed significantly since 2007, when a landmark study found
that the right combination of drugs prevents heart attacks and
deaths as effectively as procedures to restore cardiac blood
flow. The findings in the  Journal of the American Medical
Association  show doctors haven’t translated those results into
better patient care, the researchers said.  Doctors should prescribe medication to lower  blood
pressure , cut cholesterol and prevent clots before patients need
procedures to prop open arteries, said lead researcher William
Borden, a cardiologist at New York-Presbyterian Hospital/Weill
Cornell Medical Center’s  Perelman Heart Institute . After the
procedure, which may include stents, the medicine gives patients
the best shot at heart health, he said.  “There are multiple medications that have individually
been shown to decrease rates of heart attack and increase
survival,” Borden said in a telephone interview. “While no one
wants to be on medicine, it is better than having a heart attack
or dying from heart disease.”  Drug Therapies  The study of about 500,000 patients undergoing procedures
to clear clogged arteries found 44 percent were receiving the
best drug regimen. After the surgery, doctors prescribed the
recommended medications, including blood thinners like Plavix
from Sanofi and  Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. (BMY) , cholesterol-lowering
drugs such as  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) ’s Lipitor and generic hypertension
pills called beta blockers, for 65 percent of their patients,
the study found.  The reason for the results aren’t clear, said  Christopher
White , director of cardiology at Ochsner Medical Center in  New
Orleans  and president of the Society for Cardiovascular
Angiography and Interventions. The use of angioplasty, the
procedure to clear clogged arteries, has decreased, and many
doctors are practicing with the study results in mind, he said.  The findings, based on the  National Cardiovascular Data
Registry , may not take into account the reasons doctors have for
not prescribing a medication, he said in a telephone interview.
If a doctor tells a patient to stop a medication because they
have a reaction to it, for example, the physician may not put
the reasons in the database, he said.  Courage Study  Other doctors may not be pushing optimal medical therapy
because patients don’t feel sick and resist taking more drugs,
he said in a telephone interview. The results of the earlier
trial, dubbed Courage, should be used as a guideline rather than
a law, he said. The question of what exact pills patients need
isn’t clear and the answer will vary depending on the patient,
he said.  It is critically important that patients take the right
medicines to keep  heart disease  from worsening, said Judith
Hochman, director of cardiovascular clinical research at New
York University School of Medicine, who wasn’t involved in the
research. If patients have a reaction to one medication, there
are other options, she said  “There may be some misconception on the part of physicians
and patients that once you have a procedure it fixes the
problem,” she said in a telephone interview. “The bottom line
is that all of these patients, whether or not they undergo a
procedure, need to be on optimal medical therapy. You have to
address the underlying disease.”  Borden said there are several other potential explanations
for the results. Some doctors may not be aware of the ideal drug
therapy, others question the findings of previous studies and
the health system makes it easier for doctors to order tests and
perform procedures than to discuss the proper drug therapy with
their patients, he said.  “This is a wake-up call to say that we need to examine how
we are providing medical care and look at ways to improve that
delivery,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  