-- 
Towns Owe $825 Million for Sick Pay, Christie Says

-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 
2011-05-10T18:47:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/towns-owe-825-million-for-sick-pay-christie-says.html
New Jersey municipalities face more
than $825 million of bills for unused sick and vacation days
accumulated by their workers, said Governor  Chris Christie , who
called for an immediate end to awarding such payouts.  “What they are saying is that you are a money tree,”
Christie, 48, told residents at a gathering in Evesham today.
“If they want to do something like pay $825 million in sick-
leave payouts, they’ll just raise your property taxes.”  Christie, a first-term Republican, has criticized the “do-
nothing” Legislature for failing to act on proposals he says
will help control growth in property taxes, already the highest
in the nation. Democrats control both legislative chambers.  Under New Jersey law, employees in many of the state’s 566
municipalities can bank unused sick and vacation time, which
they can cash in at retirement.  Christie vetoed Democratic-sponsored  legislation  in
December that would have capped sick and vacation payouts at
$15,000 for new workers. He wants to phase out the payouts
altogether and force current employees to use banked time before
taking new sick or vacation days.  The governor told residents that government workers call
the payouts “boat checks” because they often use them to buy
watercraft on retirement. “Sick leave is for when you’re sick -
- not for a boat,” he said.  Assemblywoman Pamela Lampitt said Christie has failed to
compromise on the issue.  “The governor is taking a my-way-or-the-highway approach
to ending sick leave abuse,” Lampitt, a Camden Democrat, said
in a statement. “Each and every day the governor chooses to
play politics instead of negotiating real reform, the taxpayers
lose.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Nj Statehouse at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  