-- 
OZ Minerals Agrees to Pay $64 Million to Settle Two Shareholder Lawsuits

-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 
2011-05-10T07:19:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/oz-minerals-agrees-to-pay-64-million-to-settle-two-shareholder-lawsuits.html
OZ Minerals Ltd. (OZL) , an Australian
copper and gold producer, agreed to pay A$60 million ($64
million) to settle two shareholder lawsuits that claimed the
company failed to properly disclose its refinancing plans and
debt levels in 2008.  Oz Minerals, based in Melbourne, breached its obligations
to shareholders when it listed current debt as long-term debt in
its August 2008 half-yearly report during the global financial
crisis, said John Walker, executive director of litigation
funder,  IMF Australia Ltd. (IMF)   “Normally that wouldn’t be that much of an issue,” Walker
said. “But this was in the middle of the GFC and then they
couldn’t refinance the debt,” he said, referring to the crisis.  Oz Minerals shares plunged 79 percent in the second half of
2008, wiping out $6.5 billion of market value, as it struggled
to refinance debt amid a global credit market squeeze and
declining metal prices. The company was forced to sell most of
its assets to China Minmetals Group to repay the debt.  The shares rose 2.9 percent to A$1.40 at the 4:10 p.m.
close of trading on the Australian Stock Exchange.  Slater & Gordon Ltd. (SGH)  and Maurice Blackburn Lawyers filed
separate lawsuits on behalf of shareholders who claimed to have
been misled.  Oz Minerals, formed in 2008 through the merger of Oxiana
Ltd. and Zinifex Ltd., agreed to pay A$19.2 million and A$1.8
million in legal fees to settle the Slater & Gordon suit, Walker
said.  The company agreed to pay A$35.9 million and A$3.1 million
in legal fees to settle the Maurice Blackburn suit, which was
financed by IMF, he said.  Natalie Worley, a spokeswoman for Oz Minerals, didn’t
immediately respond to telephone and e-mail requests for
comment. The settlements must be approved by Australian courts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  