-- 
Patagonian Hydroelectric Project Approval Spurs Violent Protests in Chile

-- B y   M a t t   C r a z e   a n d   R a n d y   W o o d s
-- 
2011-05-10T12:58:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/patagonia-hydroelectric-project-approval-spurs-violent-protests-in-chile.html
Chile approved a hydroelectric
project that would flood Patagonian valleys and become the
country’s biggest power generator, sparking violent protests and
more than a hundred arrests.  Police fired water cannons and tear gas at demonstrators
outside the building in the city of Coyhaique where 11 of the 12
members of an environment commission voted in favor of the
 HidroAysen  project that Santiago-based Empresa Nacional de
Electricidad SA and  Colbun SA (COLBUN)  want to build.  HidroAysen’s five dams would flood nearly 6,000 hectares
(14,800 acres) of land and require a 1,900 kilometer (1,180
mile) transmission line to feed the central grid that supplies
Santiago and surrounding cities as well as copper mines owned by
Codelco and Anglo American Plc. The government of President
Sebastian Pinera says Chile needs more hydroelectric and coal-
fired plants to meet demand that will double in the next decade
and reduce power costs that are the highest in the region.  “We have to get that energy somewhere, independent of what
the project is, because energy today is twice as expensive as in
other Latin American countries,” Ena Von Baer, the government’s
spokeswoman, told reporters yesterday in Santiago. “We want to
be a developed country and to do that we need energy, especially
cheap energy for the poor.”  Street March  Hundreds of protesters blocked the entrance to the room
where the government’s regional representative Pilar Cuevas and
other officials sat after yesterday’s meeting in Coyhaique. A
police officer and at least one other person were injured by
stones thrown by demonstrators, while more than 20 people were
arrested during clashes with police involving tear gas and water
cannons, regional governor Nestor Mera told reporters yesterday.  More than 120 were arrested last night in protests around
the country, newspaper La Tercera reported. About 1,500 people
gathered in a plaza in central Santiago before marching to the
presidential palace, the newspaper reported. Police dispersed
protesters who tried to block traffic in the downtown area.  With capacity to produce 2,750 megawatts, about 35 percent
of the country’s current power consumption, the project would
dwarf Ralco,  Chile ’s biggest hydro-generator at about 760
megawatts, on the Bio Bio River. HidroAysen would require a
total investment of about $7 billion.  Shares Rise  Shares of Colbun and Endesa Chile, as Empresa Nacional de
Electricidad is known, rose 1 percent and 1.4 percent,
respectively, in Santiago trading yesterday before the vote, as
investors speculated on a favorable outcome.  Yesterday’s approval was for the dams. The project plans to
seek approval for the transmission line later this year.  HidroAysen is in “advanced” talks with Zug, Switzerland-
based mining company  Xstrata Plc (XTA)  to jointly develop a section of
the transmission line, HidroAysen Chief Executive Officer Daniel Fernandez said in an interview yesterday.  Non-profit group  Patagonia Without Dams  has erected
billboards showing electricity pylons blotting a landscape of
rugged snow-topped mountains and green fields sandwiched between
 Argentina  and Pacific fjords.  “Here we don’t need all this energy that they are going to
generate,” said Gloria Hernandez, an adviser to the Catholic
Church in Aysen. “They are going to deliver it to the mining
companies in the north.”  Local Jobs  HidroAysen runs television adverts emphasizing the need for
new energy sources by showing a floodlit stadium plunged into
darkness during a soccer match. The project is clean, renewable
and will bring jobs to the region, Michel Moure, HidroAysen’s
head of operations, said. At least a fifth of the workforce will
be sourced locally, Moure told the commission yesterday.  Pinera, the billionaire entrepreneur-turned-politician who
assumed the presidency in March 2010, is targeting average
annual growth of 6 percent over his four-year term, double the
average under the previous administration.  So far this year, authorities have granted Santiago-based
 Empresas Copec SA (COPEC)  a permit to build a $500 million  coal mine  on
a Patagonian island and approved Brazilian billionaire  Eike Batista ’s plans for a $4.4 billion thermoelectric plant.
HidroAysen “would be good” for Chile, Interior Minister
Rodrigo Hinzpeter told Duna radio station before the vote.  Injunction Filed  Gabriel Silber , an opposition lower-house member, filed an
injunction against the vote in a local appeals court on the
grounds that some regulators have vested interests in the
project. While the court allowed yesterday’s vote to proceed, it
may overturn the result, Silber told reporters from Coyhaique.  The government put undue pressure on regulators to approve
HidroAysen, Senator Patricio Walker of the opposition  Christian
Democrat  party told the commission.  The environmental application process has been transparent
and in compliance with regulations, Von Baer said. The
commission wasn’t influenced by Hinzpeter’s earlier endorsement,
Cuevas told reporters.  Opponents of the project will now focus on blocking a
separate study into the transmission line to the central grid.  “Obviously this fight continues,” Senator Walker said
from Coyhaique. “The transmission lines must not affect virgin
land and that’s a fight to be fought further ahead.”  HidroAysen has held talks with companies including  Spain ’s
 Abengoa SA (ABG)  and  Colombia ’s Interconexion Electrica SA to jointly
develop the transmission line and may invite bids for partners
next year once a further study is complete, Fernandez said.  The company may also study operating the transmission as a
concession with operators paying for its usage on a daily basis,
he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Randall Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net  or
Matthew Craze at 
 mcraze@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman@bloomberg.net  