-- 
Pertamina Offers $3.5 Billion for Exxon’s Angola Oil Block Stake, WSJ Says

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-05-10T02:23:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/pertamina-bids-3-5-billion-for-exxon-s-angola-stake-wsj-says.html
PT Pertamina bid about $3.5 billion
for  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ’s 25 percent stake in an Angolan oil
block, surpassing an offer from a Chinese rival, the Wall Street
Journal reported, citing a person familiar with the matter.  The Indonesian state energy company is holding talks with
Exxon on the stake after beating off competition from China
Petrochemical Corp., known as Sinopec Group, and  India ’s Oil &
Natural Gas Corp., the newspaper said, citing the person.  Indonesia, a former member of the Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries, is seeking oil resources to stem a decline
in domestic production, while China and India are buying stakes
in overseas projects to meet demand in the two fastest-growing
major economies.  Angola , which vies with  Nigeria  as Africa’s top
oil producer, pumped 1.625 million barrels a day last month.  Hari Karyuliarto, Pertamina’s corporate secretary, didn’t
return two telephone calls seeking comment, while Mochamad
Harun, vice president of corporate communication, didn’t answer
calls to his mobile phone. Sinopec Group’s Beijing-based
spokesman  Huang Wensheng  didn’t answer three calls requesting
for comment.  ONGC lost a bid to buy Exxon’s stake in Block 31 in Angola,
two people with knowledge of the matter said in March. India’s
biggest energy explorer had offered about $2 billion, they said.  BP Plc (BP/)  owns 26.7 percent of the block and is its operator.
The other shareholders include Exxon’s Esso unit, with a 25
percent stake,  Statoil ASA (STL)  with 13.3 percent and  Marathon Oil
Corp. (MRO)  with 10 percent. France’s  Total SA (FP)  sold its 5 percent
stake to Hong Kong-based China Sonangol International Holding
Ltd., according to the report.  Indonesia, Southeast Asia’s largest oil producer, turned a
net importer after declining output at aging fields led to the
country’s withdrawal from OPEC in 2008. Crude production dropped
to 769,068 barrels a day in April from 788,497 barrels a day in
March, the nation’s oil and gas regulator BPMigas said on May 3.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  