-- 
Peru Boosts Canada Trade in Bid to Double Exports in Five Years

-- B y   C o l i n   M c C l e l l a n d
-- 
2011-05-10T16:25:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/peru-boosts-canada-trade-in-bid-to-double-exports-in-five-years.html
Peru , the world’s largest silver
producer and second-largest producer of copper, wants to sell
more fish and textiles to Canada as it plans to double global
exports in five years, the deputy trade minister said.  The two countries increased trade by 70 percent to more
than $3.8 billion in 2010, consisting of $3.3 billion in
Peruvian exports and about $500 million in Canadian exports,
after a free trade deal was signed in August 2009, Vice Minister
of Foreign Trade Carlos Posada said in an interview in Toronto.  “The expectations we are setting up for the government is
that each five years we must double exports to the world, 20
percent per year,” Posada said.  Peru wants to diversify trade beyond mining and energy
projects that are lined up for $41 billion in commitments over
the next decade. That includes a $1.3 billion expansion of
Antamina, the world’s largest combined copper-and-zinc mine, by
a group of companies including Vancouver-based Teck Resources
Ltd.,  Canada ’s largest diversified mining company.  South
America ’s sixth-biggest economy aims to increase the exports of
textiles and agricultural products while attracting tourism.  “We have mollusks, scallops, sea bass and eel unique in
our coastal waters,” Posada said. “We are exporting a lot to
the  United States ,  Asia  and  Europe , but we want to increase our
trade with Canada.”  Economic growth in Peru is forecast at 7 percent to 7.4
percent this year, with exports making up 45 percent of gross
domestic product, Posada said.  He discounted that ex-military rebel Ollanta Humala would
sour markets if he wins a presidential election runoff against
Congresswoman Keiko Fujimori to be held on June 5.  “Peru has such a strong economic and policy basis that it
doesn’t matter who leads the government for the next five
years,” he said. “You cannot make the good things that Peru
has now magically disappear.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Colin McClelland in Toronto at 
 cmcclelland1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  