-- 
Peso Bond Rally Shows Calderon Averting BRICs ‘Overheating’: Mexico Credit

-- B y   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z   a n d   Y e   X i e
-- 
2011-05-10T21:36:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/peso-bond-rally-shows-carstens-averting-brics-overheating-mexico-credit.html
Mexican peso bonds are posting their
best rally in seven months as slower inflation and record-low
interest rates enable debt from  Latin America ’s second-largest
economy to outperform the biggest emerging-market nations.  The yield on the benchmark 10 percent bond due in 2024 fell
31 basis points, or 0.31 percentage point, in the 30 days
through yesterday, to 7.42 percent, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. Rates on similar-maturity debt from Brazil
declined 29 basis points to 12.55 percent in the same period,
while ruble bond yields rose 25 to 8.25 percent and Chinese bond
yields climbed 10 to 4.08 percent.  While the so-called BRIC nations are raising interest rates
to stem inflation, Mexican policy makers held the benchmark
lending rate at a record low 4.5 percent last month as the
peso’s 15 percent rally in the past two years reduced price
increases to almost a five-year low. President Felipe Calderon
kept inflation in check by limiting stimulus spending after the
global financial crisis sparked  Mexico ’s deepest recession in 14
years in 2009, and the country is now benefiting from growth
spurred by a pickup in exports to the U.S.  “No one was looking at Mexico at the beginning of the
year,” said Alfredo Thorne, the head of  investment banking  for
Grupo Financiero Banorte SAB in Mexico City and the former chief
of Latin America research at JPMorgan Chase & Co. “Today, the
economy still has a lot of room to continue growing without
having any overheating issues. This puts Mexico in a very
different situation than  China ,  India  and Brazil.”  Growth of 5%  Investors have piled into Mexican debt as central bank
minutes showed Governor Agustin Carstens confident that price
increases will stay within the target of 2 percent to 4 percent.
 Brazil  raised borrowing costs 125 basis points this year to 12
percent to cool growth that has driven inflation beyond the
upper end of its 6.5 percent target.  India raised its benchmark repurchase rate 100 basis points
this year to 7.25 percent. China increased its benchmark lending
rate 50 basis points to 6.31 percent. Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
chief economist  Jim O’Neill  coined the term BRIC for emerging
markets Brazil,  Russia , India and China.  Mexico’s economy expanded 5.5 percent last year, the most
in 10 years, and may grow as much as 5 percent in 2011, Finance
Minister  Ernesto Cordero  said March 21. Prices rose 3.36 percent
in April from a year ago, within the central bank’s target, and
about half Brazil’s 6.51 percent rate.  Stable wages, an economy with room to grow and unemployment
at the lowest since 2008 are making Mexico more attractive as a
manufacturing hub than China, Thorne said in an interview at
Bloomberg’s offices in Mexico City on May 5. Private-sector
wages in urban China rose 14.1 percent last year, while Mexico’s
minimum wage  has risen  4.1 percent this year.  Record Exports  Mexican exports rose 30 percent to a record $298.4 billion
last year, driven by the fastest growth in the U.S. in five
years. The  U.S. economy  expanded 2.9 percent last year and 1.8
percent in the first quarter.  “Investors neglected the strong relationship between the
U.S. economy and the Mexican one,” said Jean-Dominique Butikofer, a  fund manager  who helps oversee about $1 billion of
emerging-market debt at Union Bancaire Privee in Zurich. “One
of the stories we are still betting on is that a lot of
manufacturing will be repatriated from  Asia  to Nafta
countries,” he said, referring to the  North American Free Trade
Agreement  between  Canada , the U.S. and Mexico.  Butikofer recommends buying Mexican government peso debt
due 2020 through 2025.  Consumer price increases are “very close” to the central
bank’s 3 percent target and “behaving quite well,” Carstens
said in a Bloomberg interview on May 6 in Helsinki.  Peso Rally  “We will look into the output gap together with other
indicators,” Carstens said. “Until we see that the convergence
to our 3 percent permanent goal is in danger, then we might
adjust the policy.”  The peso’s gain during the past two years is the biggest
for any 24-month period on record. The stronger currency may
drive costs higher for foreign companies with operations in
Mexico and make exports more expensive in dollar terms. The
country’s dependence on oil revenue and lack of legislative
changes to broaden tax collection led  Standard & Poor’s  to
downgrade the sovereign  credit rating  to BBB from BBB+ in
December 2009.  Drug violence that has left more than 34,000 people dead
since Calderon took office in December 2006 has shaved at least
1 percentage point off economic growth, Thorne said. Calderon’s
approval rating fell to 52.1 percent this year, down 14.3
percentage points from a year earlier, as more Mexicans identify
the security situation as a concern, according to pollster
Consulta Mitofsky.  ‘Not an Option’  “Giving up the fight is not an option,” Calderon said in
a speech  broadcast  nationally on May 4, in response to the
discovery of mass graves in northern Mexico. “We must double
our efforts, because if we give up, they are going to continue
kidnapping, extorting and killing all across the country.”  Mexico also needs to diversify its trading partners beyond
the U.S., which buys 80 percent of its exports, said  Jimena Zuniga , a Latin American economist at Barclays Plc in  New York .  The country “hasn’t been able to benefit from fast-growing
emerging-market demand, especially Asian demand,” Zuniga said.
“The medium-term growth trend in Mexico is really poor.”  Mexico boosted infrastructure spending, froze gasoline
prices and provided aid to companies to prevent layoffs because
of lower production in 2009. The plan was forecast to add about
120 billion pesos ($10.4 billion) to the economy.  Stimulus Steps  Brazil’s steps included cutting taxes on car purchases,
household appliances and building materials, seeking to boost
domestic demand as export sales slowed amid the world economic
slump. Central bank policy makers also slashed the benchmark
interest rate to a record low and injected more than $100
billion into the market to revive the $1.6 trillion economy.  Foreign investors seeking higher yields than the near-zero
rates in the U.S. have flooded the Mexican market and held 31
percent of short-term notes known as CETES as of April 28, up
from 22 percent a year earlier. Carstens said he isn’t
considering raising the amount of dollars the bank buys through
dollar options monthly to curb the peso’s gain.  Mexico’s rating at S&P is one level higher than the BBB-
credit ratings for Brazil and  Colombia . Moody’s Investors
Service has rated Mexico Baa1 since 2005.  The extra yield investors demand to own Mexican dollar
bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries narrowed 11 basis points to 129
at 5 p.m. New York time, according to JPMorgan.  Cost to Protect  The peso rose 0.6 percent to 11.5459 per dollar.  The cost to protect Mexican debt against non-payment for
five years fell two basis points to 98, according to data
provider CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles
prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market.
Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities or cash equivalent if the issuer fails
to comply with debt agreements.  Yields on futures contracts for the 28-day interbank rate
due in October rose 3 basis points yesterday to 5.04 percent.  Traders have pushed back bets for a central bank rate
increase to October, according to trading in TIIE futures. As
recently as April 4, the traders were calling for an increase in
July. The bank will wait until January to increase the cost of
lending, according to the median estimate of 21 analysts in a
survey by Citigroup Inc.’s Banamex unit.  “Carstens has a rifle full of ammunition that he can still
use” to fight inflation and the peso’s rise, Thorne said. “The
bank is in no hurry to raise rates.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andres R. Martinez in Mexico City at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net ;
Ye Xie in New York at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  