-- 
Pound Weakens on Bets Bank of England Will Lower Growth Forecast Tomorrow

-- B y   G a r t h   T h e u n i s s e n
-- 
2011-05-10T15:59:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/pound-gains-versus-euro-retail-sales-surge-most-in-five-years-on-wedding.html
The pound weakened versus the dollar
and the euro on speculation the  Bank of England  will lower its
economic growth forecasts when it releases its inflation report
tomorrow, making higher  interest rates  less likely.  Sterling declined against most of its major peers, falling
from the highest in more than a month versus the euro. The
currency depreciated even as data today showed U.K. retail sales
and a house-price gauge rose last month.  “The economic picture in the U.K. is still mixed and
today’s data isn’t going to change the Bank of England’s stance
on rates,” said  Derek Halpenny , European head of currency
research at Bank of Tokyo in London. “We’re still looking at
sterling trending weaker.”  The pound fell 0.4 percent to $1.6340 as of 4:52 p.m. in
 London , approaching yesterday’s three-week low. Britain’s
currency also depreciated 0.4 percent against the euro to trade
at 87.91 pence after reaching 87.21 pence, the strongest level
since April 6, and was little changed at 131.91 yen.  The Bank of England left its key rate at a record low 0.5
percent on May 5. Governor  Mervyn King  has indicated he favors
keeping borrowing costs on hold even as inflation accelerates at
twice the bank’s 2 percent limit.  “The pound continues to look vulnerable against most
currencies,” Adrian Schmidt, a currency strategist at Lloyds
Bank Corporate Markets in London, wrote in a report today. The
BOE’s inflation report “is likely to include major downgrades
in growth expectations.”  Debt ‘Consequences’  Money markets are factoring in a 25 basis-point increase in
the central bank’s main rate by year-end, according to sterling
overnight index average forwards, Tullett Prebon Plc data show.  “The economic consequences of high-level indebtedness now
would become more severe if rates were to rise,” King told a
committee of the European Parliament in Brussels on May 2.  U.K. retail sales at outlets open at least a year jumped
5.2 percent in April from a year earlier, the most in five
years, as public holidays and the warmest April on record
spurred spending, the British Retail Consortium said today.  A house-price gauge climbed to the highest level in nine
months in April as demand for homes stabilized, a separate
report from the  Royal Institution  of Chartered Surveyors showed.  The  Confederation of British Industry  yesterday lowered its
economic growth estimates for the U.K., saying gross domestic
product would rise 1.7 percent in 2011 compared with a February
estimate of 1.8 percent.  U.K. 10-year gilt yields rose one basis point to 3.38
percent. The yield on the two-year note climbed two basis points
to 1.02 percent.  The Debt Management Office sold 1.2 billion pounds of 1.875
percent bonds due Nov. 22, 2022, at an auction today. Investors
bid for more than twice the amount on offer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Garth Theunissen in London 
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  