-- 
Japanese Containers Test Positive for Radiation on Arrival in Rotterdam

-- B y   M a u d   v a n   G a a l   a n d   A l a r i c   N i g h t i n g a l e
-- 
2011-05-10T17:34:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/radiation-found-in-19-japanese-containers-in-rotterdam-five-quarantined.html
Dutch authorities have found traces
of radiation on 19 containers originating from  Japan , two months
after an earthquake and tsunami there caused leaks from the
Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear plant.  Five of the containers, scanned on arrival at the Port of
Rotterdam, were quarantined because the level of contamination
was above the permissible threshold, the Dutch Food and Consumer
Product Safety Authority said on its  website  today. The other 14
boxes were cleared after further inspection, it said.  “Whether this is an exceptional incident with a low impact
is difficult to say,” said Philip Damas, an analyst at Drewry
Shipping Consultants Ltd. in  London . “You can get a bit carried
away into a panic mode when really it’s a one-off.”  Scans of the ship’s superstructure at sea failed to reveal
contamination, which was detected when the containers were
screened in Rotterdam,  Europe ’s biggest port, before being
offloaded, said Marian Bestelink, a spokeswoman for the Dutch
food authority. Further checks showed goods inside one of the
five irradiated containers to be untainted, and they were
released, while the other four are undergoing checks, she said.  Washed Down  Ports worldwide have tightened checks on ships that left
Japan after the March 11 temblor. The journey time to Europe is
about 30 days, and containers from the Asian nation will be
scanned for radiation “for as long as is necessary,” the food
authority, which is based in  The Hague , said in a statement.  The quarantined containers will be washed down and released
to their owners once further scans show that radiation has
fallen to safe levels, the group said.  A.P. Moeller-Maersk A/S, the world’s largest container
line, said it’s too early to comment on the significance of the
Dutch discovery. The Copenhagen-based company had a box
quarantined in  Belgium  last week even though traces of radiation
were not harmful, spokesman Michael Storgaard by telephone.  Japan handled about 4 percent of the world’s containers
prior to the disaster and almost 20 percent of the global fleet
by box capacity was timetabled to call there, Clarkson Plc, the
world’s biggest shipbroker, has said.  In the aftermath of the tsunami, five of the six largest
container shipping lines maintained calls to Tokyo Bay, a
decision mirrored by owners of  oil tankers  and bulk transports.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maud van Gaal in Amsterdam at 
 mvangaal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  