-- 
RBS, Lehman Minibond Singapore Negligence Lawsuit Dropped

-- B y   A n d r e a   T a n
-- 
2011-05-10T11:51:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/rbs-lehman-minibond-singapore-negligence-lawsuit-dropped.html
A Singapore lawsuit accusing  Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ) , Minibond Ltd. and  Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc (RBS)  of being reckless and negligent in selling Lehman
structured notes has been dropped.  The investors have withdrawn their claims against RBS and
are barred from filing similar complaints against the bank, Ross
Crawford, RBS head of legal for  Asia , said in an e-mailed
statement today. The investors were also ordered to pay Lehman’s
legal costs, the defunct securities firm’s lawyer Danny Ong of
Rajah & Tann said.  Lehman, Minibond and RBS were sued by five investors in
Sept. 2009 accusing them of misrepresenting the Lehman minibonds
as safe and low-risk investments. The investors said the product
brochure, which had a picture of a man sitting on the shoulder
of Alexander the Great with a caption “Invest on the shoulders
of giants,” was misleading, according to the lawsuit.  N. Sreenivasan, who represented the investors, declined to
comment as did Vinodh Coomaraswamy, who acted for Minibond.  No reasons were given for the investors’ decision to drop
the lawsuit, according to a court filing. The investors, part of
the Minibond Investors Action Group which claimed to represent
at least 165 people with more than S$20 million ($16 million) of
investments in Lehman notes, had earlier sought to drop the
lawsuit in December, according to a separate court filing. The
parties couldn’t agree on the terms to discontinue the lawsuit
then, according to court papers.  A separate group of 213 investors in  Singapore  are
appealing a ruling which dismissed their bid to recoup S$18
million in losses tied to Lehman.  Investors in Singapore bought S$508 million of structured
products linked to Lehman which lost most or all of their value
when the lender filed for the biggest bankruptcy in U.S.
corporate history.  The case is Eng Chwee Hock Kenneth & Ors v Minibond Ltd &
Ors S768/2009 in the Singapore High Court.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Tan in Singapore at 
 atan17@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  