-- 
Treasury Three-Year Notes Decline Before $32 Billion Auction

-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 
2011-05-10T15:25:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/treasury-3-year-notes-decline-before-u-s-32-billion-securities-auction.html
Treasury three-year notes fell for
the first time in nine days as the government prepared to sell
$32 billion of the securities, in the first of three days of
note and bond sales.  U.S. three-year note yields rose from almost the lowest
level this year after  Greece ’s newspaper Kathimerini said the
 International Monetary Fund  is arranging fresh aid for Greece.
The Treasury will sell $72 billion in total debt sales this
week. Pacific Investment Management Co. increased its bet
against  U.S. debt .  “We are weakening some in order to accommodate the auction
process,” said  Ian Lyngen , a government bond strategist at CRT
Capital Group LLC in  Stamford ,  Connecticut . “There is still a
bullish underpinning to the market given the looming Greek
restructuring and its possible implications, but a lot of people
are biased to see a backup in rates baring further deterioration
of the fundamentals.”  Yields on three-year notes increased three basis points, or
0.03 percentage point, to 0.95 percent at 11:23 a.m. in  New
York , according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The yield
touched 0.90 percent yesterday, the lowest since Dec. 8. The
1.25 percent note due in April 2014 dropped 3/32, or 94 cents
per $1,000 face amount, to 100 27/32.  Note Yields  Ten-year note yields rose 2 basis points to 3.18 percent
after it dropped on May 6 to 3.13 percent, the lowest level
since Dec. 8.  Pimco’s $240.7 billion Total Return Fund had minus 4
percent of its assets in government and related debt at the end
of April, versus negative 3 percent in the previous month,
figures posted on the company’s website show.  Treasury note investors were more pessimistic this week,
according to a weekly sentiment index based on a poll of clients
by JPMorgan Chase & Co. The gauge fell to negative 19, the
lowest since May, 2010.  In addition to today’s three-year note auction, the U.S. is
scheduled to sell $24 billion of 10-year notes tomorrow and $16
billion of 30-year bonds on May 12. The auctions are all new
cash as there is no similar maturity debt maturing, compared
with $21.8 billion of maturing debt coinciding with a similar
grouping of auctions in February.  Auction Assessment  “The market is still looking for some direction after the
rally of late as the curve has gotten rich,” said Ira Jersey,
an interest-rate strategist at Credit Suisse Group AG, one of 20
primary dealers that trade directly with the  Federal Reserve .
“There are no maturities this week that offset the auctions so
that may cause the market to cheapen to accommodate the new
supply.”  The record $9.14 trillion in U.S. publicly traded debt is
raising concern yields will rise when the Fed ends its $600
billion bond-purchase program next month. The U.S. will reach
the debt limit of $14.29 trillion as early as May 16, according
to the Treasury Department.  The central bank bought $6.677 billion of debt due from May
2015 to September 2016 today under the program of purchases
known as quantitative easing.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said on April 27 that the
central bank will keep reinvesting proceeds of maturing debt
after ending large-scale bond purchases in June.  Early Trade  The three-year notes scheduled for sale today yielded 1
percent in pre-auction trading, compared with 1.28 percent at
the previous offering of the securities on April 12.  Investors bid for 3.25 times the amount of available debt
last month, compared with the average of 3.14 for the past 10
auctions. Indirect bidders, which include foreign central banks,
bought 33.7 percent.  Direct bidders, non-primary dealers buying for their own
accounts, purchased 8.9 percent of the notes, the least since
December 2009.  Treasuries have outperformed German bonds this year,
returning 1.8 percent, compared with a 0.8 percent gain for
German securities, according to indexes compiled by the European
Federation of Financial Analyst Societies and Bloomberg.  The difference between rates on 10-year notes and Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of trader expectations
for consumer prices over the life of the debt known as the
break-even rate, widened to 2.48 percentage points from 2.28
percentage points at the start of the year. The average during
the past decade is 2.10.  Inflation Read  The  bond market  is backing Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke’s
view that $4-a-gallon gasoline and record food prices don’t
foreshadow runaway inflation or threaten the economy.  The BGOV Barometer shows that investors in bonds designed
to protect against rising consumer prices are betting inflation
may be at the same level during the next decade as during the
next two years. That’s unusual because the risk of faster
inflation typically rises over time. Surveys of consumers also
suggest the Fed will contain inflation.  These indicators show “continued confidence that the Fed
can control inflation in the medium term,” said Dana Saporta,
an economist at Credit Suisse Holdings USA Inc. in New York, one
of the 20 primary dealers of  U.S. government debt  that trade
with the central bank.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  