-- 
Treasury Wine Valued at $2.3 Billion After Spinoff From Foster’s Group

-- B y   R o b e r t   F e n n e r
-- 
2011-05-10T08:16:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/treasury-wine-valued-at-2-3-billion-after-spinoff-from-foster-s-group.html
Treasury Wine Estates Ltd., the
world’s second-largest winemaker, gained in its first day of
trading, valuing the company at A$2.2 billion ($2.3 billion)
after it was spun off from  Foster’s Group Ltd. (FGL)   Treasury rose from a starting price of A$3.21 to A$3.36 at
the 4:10 p.m. close of trading in Sydney. The Melbourne-based
company has about 650 million shares on issue after Foster’s
investors gained one share for every three they had owned in the
combined company.  Treasury, with brands including  Penfolds and Beringer , was
spun off by Foster’s after more than A$2.5 billion of writedowns
so the brewer could focus on its 50 percent share of the
Australian beer market. The separation was completed yesterday.  Separate companies make it easier for prospective bidders
to value both businesses, after Foster’s rejected an offer for
Treasury worth as much as A$2.7 billion last year, according to
investor Theo Maas.  “Two separate sets of numbers make these simpler companies
to value and run,” said Maas, who helps manage about $5.4
billion at Arnhem Investment Management in Sydney, including
Foster’s stock. “It gives clarity for the boards to work out
what they may be worth if there is a bid.”  Foster’s shares rose 2.7 percent to A$4.53 after adjusting
for the split. The stock closed yesterday at A$5.48 in their
last trade as a combined beer and wine company.  The two companies have a market value today of A$11 billion
compared with A$10.6 billion yesterday as a single entity.  Bid Reports  Since announcing plans for the breakup last year, Foster’s
has been linked in media reports to potential bids from a number
of international rivals.  SABMiller Plc is considering an offer for the beer
business, the  Sunday Times  reported Aug. 22, without saying
where it got the information.  Asahi Breweries Ltd. (2502)  of  Japan 
hired advisers to look at the beer business, the Times reported
Aug. 24.  David Dearie, who has been running the wine business in
 Australia  and  New Zealand  since July 2009, has become Treasury’s
chief executive officer.  John Pollaers  is taking the same role
at Foster’s after about a year in charge of its Australian beer
operations.  Dearie plans to cut A$100 million of annual costs from
Treasury by the end of June by reducing expenses for packaging,
warehousing and bottling. He is also targeting shorter
production runs for brands such as Wolf Blass to enable Foster’s
to cut inventory holding costs.  “As a standalone business Treasury Wine Estates will
benefit from enhanced strategic and management focus,” Treasury
Chairman Max Ould said in an e-mailed statement, “The
performance of the business continues to improve.”  Takeover Spree  In September, Foster’s rejected a bid for Treasury worth
between A$2.3 billion and A$2.7 billion, saying the price
undervalued a business that generates in excess of A$2 billion
of annual sales from 35 million cases of wine.  The breakup ends a 15 year diversification strategy by
Foster’s, which spent more than A$6 billion buying winemakers in
Australia,  North America  and  Europe  to limit the impact of
stalling Australian beer consumption.  The company’s first wine acquisition was Mildara Blass Ltd.
in 1996 for A$482 million. It paid A$2.6 billion in cash and
debt for California’s Beringer Wine Estates Holdings Inc. in
2001, and its A$3.2 billion purchase of Southcorp Ltd. in 2005
cemented its ranking as the world’s second-biggest winemaker
behind Constellation Brands Inc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Fenner in Melbourne at 
 rfenner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net 
-0- May/10/ :16 GMT 