-- 
Treasuries Decline Before Debt Sales; Gross Boosts Bearish Bet

-- B y   W e s   G o o d m a n   a n d   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 
2011-05-10T09:23:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/treasuries-hold-loss-before-debt-auctions-gross-increases-bet-on-decline.html
Treasuries fell, pushing 10-year
yields toward this week’s high, as the government prepared to
begin three days of debt sales and Pacific Investment Management
Co. increased its bet against  U.S. debt .  Bonds interrupted a rally that sent yields to the lowest
level this year before today’s $32 billion three-year auction.
The record $9.14 trillion in U.S. publicly traded debt is
raising concern yields will rise when the  Federal Reserve  ends
its bond-purchase program next month. The Treasury Department
says the U.S. will reach the debt limit of $14.29 trillion as
early as May 16. Pimco’s $240.7 billion Total Return Fund had
minus 4 percent of its assets in government and related debt at
the end of April, figures posted on its website show, versus
negative 3 percent in March.  “There’s a lot of supply for the market to take down this
week and that will weigh on the market,” said  Richard McGuire ,
a senior fixed-income strategist at Rabobank International Ltd.
in London. “We think the Congress will be able to sort out the
debt ceiling issue in the end, but uncertainty in the run-up to
that will be negative for Treasuries.”  The 10-year yield rose two basis points to 3.17 percent as
of 9:45 a.m. in London, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader
prices. The 3.625 percent note due in February 2021 traded at
103 24/32. The yield rose to 3.18 percent yesterday, after
dropping to a five-month low of 3.13 percent on May 6.  The U.S. is also scheduled to sell $24 billion of 10-year
notes tomorrow and $16 billion of 30-year bonds on May 12.  Retail Sales  The Fed is seeking to spur the economy by buying $600
billion of Treasuries in a program it started in November and is
scheduled to end in June. The central bank will today scoop up
$5 billion to $7 billion of debt due from May 2015 to October
2016 as part of the purchases, according to its  website .  U.S. retail sales increased 0.6 percent in April after
rising 0.4 percent in the previous month, according to the
median forecast of 76 economists in a Bloomberg survey before
the Commerce Department’s May 12 report. Separate figures today
may show import prices rose last month, another survey shows.  The three-year notes scheduled for sale today yielded 0.98
percent in pre-auction trading, compared with 1.28 percent at
the previous offering of the securities on April 12.  Investors bid for 3.25 times the amount of available debt
last month. The average for the past 10 auctions is 3.14.
Indirect bidders, which include foreign central banks, bought
33.7 percent.  Direct bidders, non-primary dealers buying for their own
accounts, purchased 8.9 percent of the notes, the least since
December 2009. There are 20 primary dealers that are required to
bid at the sales.  Pimco Position  U.S. Treasuries outperformed German bonds this year,
handing investors a 1.8 percent return compared with a 0.8
percent gain from German securities, according to indexes
compiled by the European Federal of Financial Analyst Societies
and Bloomberg.  Pimco’s cash and equivalents  accounted  for 37 percent of
holdings, the largest component, after  Bill Gross , who runs the
world’s biggest bond fund at the  Newport Beach , California-based
company, increased his bet against U.S. bonds last month.  Gross, 67, has been warning that the threat of inflation
will be bad for Treasuries even as other investors snapped up
the securities.  U.S. government debt  returned 1.15 percent in
April, the most since August, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch data. U.S. debt has returned another 0.7 percent
in May, the figures show.  Trimmed Losses  Pimco can have a so-called negative position in Treasuries
by using derivatives, futures or by shorting. Shorting is
borrowing and selling an asset in anticipation of making a
profit by buying it back after its price has fallen.  Treasuries trimmed losses yesterday after  Standard & Poor’s 
lowered  Greece ’s long-term sovereign debt rating, spurring
demand for the safety of U.S. government securities.  Investors were reassured by Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ,
who said April 27 that the central bank will keep reinvesting
proceeds of maturing debt after ending large-scale bond
purchases in June.  Real 10-year yields, or the difference between the  consumer
price index  and the Treasury rate, declined to 0.45 percent on
May 6, the least since 2008. Using two-year Treasuries, the real
yield is negative 2.15 percent.  The difference between rates on 10-year notes and Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of trader expectations
for consumer prices over the life of the debt, has widened to
2.49 percentage points from 2.28 percentage points at the start
of the year. The average over the past decade is 2.10.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anchalee Worrachate in  London  at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net ;
Wes Goodman in  Singapore  at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net . 