-- 
Treasuries Decline as U.S. Sells Securities, Euro-Zone Debt Concern Eases

-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   D a n i e l   K r u g e r
-- 
2011-05-10T21:03:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/treasuries-decline-as-u-s-sells-securities-euro-zone-debt-concern-eases.html
Treasuries fell, with three-year
notes declining for the first time in nine days, as investors
balked at adding government debt after the U.S. sold $32 billion
of three-year notes at the lowest yield this year.  Yields on benchmark 10-year notes fell as German  Chancellor
Angela Merkel  said restructuring of  Greece ’s debt isn’t being
considered. The Treasury will sell $24 billion of 10-year notes
tomorrow and a $16 billion in 30-year bonds the next day as it
raises all new cash at this week’s auctions rather than rolling
over maturing securities.  “There are longer-end auctions coming, which is a lot of
duration that you have to price in,” said Larry Milstein,
managing director in New York of government and agency debt
trading at R.W. Pressprich & Co., a fixed-income broker and
dealer for institutional investors. “We are also seeing less
flight to quality as the situation in the euro zone stabilizes
some.”  The yield on the current three-year note rose five basis
points, or 0.05 percentage point, to 0.97 percent at 5 p.m. in
 New York , according to Bloomberg Data. The 1.25 percent note due
in April 2014 dropped 5/32, or $1.56 per $1,000 face amount, to
100 25/32.  The benchmark 10-year note yield rose five basis points to
3.21 percent.  Auction Demand  The three-year notes drew a yield of 1 percent, compared
with the average forecast of 1.01 percent in a Bloomberg News
survey of eight primary dealers and the lowest since 0.862
percent as the Dec. 7 sale.  The bid-to-cover ratio for the three-year note sale, which
gauges demand by comparing total bids with the amount of
securities offered, was 3.29, compared with an average of 3.14
for the previous 10 sales.  Indirect bidders, an investor class that includes foreign
central banks, purchased 32.7 percent of the notes today,
compared with an average of 35.9 percent for the past 10 sales.
Direct bidders, non-primary dealer investors that place their
bids directly with the Treasury, purchased 15.3 percent of the
notes, compared with the 10-auction average of 13.3 percent.  “The market cheapened up pretty well into supply,” said
Justin Lederer, an interest-rate strategist at the primary
dealer Cantor Fitzgerald LP in New York. “It was a very fair
auction. There is still an underlying bid in the front end of
the market, but we are seeing some slight giveback after we
tested the low’s in yield on the year.”  Note Returns  Three-year notes have returned 1.04 percent this year,
compared with a 1.8 percent gain for the broader Treasury
market, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes.  “The market is still reeling from the rally of the last
couple of weeks where we just kept going up,” said  Sean Murphy ,
Treasury trader in New York at  Societe Generale , one of 20
primary dealers that trade Treasuries with the  Federal Reserve .
“We are a little steeper in the curve after the auction as the
market waits for long-end supply.” The yield curve measures the
difference between short- and long-term yields.  The central bank bought $6.677 billion of debt due from May
2015 to September 2016 today under the program of purchases
known as quantitative easing.  Treasury note investors were more pessimistic this week,
according to a weekly sentiment index based on a poll of clients
by JPMorgan Chase & Co. The gauge fell to negative 19, the
lowest since May, 2010.  Merkel Stance  German  Chancellor Merkel  refused to commit to more aid for
Greece, saying it is too early to decide whether the country
needs additional financial help to stamp out the debt crisis.  “First we need to hear what the status is; only then can I
decide what, if anything, needs to be done,” Merkel told
reporters in Berlin today. “I’m the kind of person who draws
conclusions when I’ve seen the results and analyzed them.
Nothing will keep me from doing that.”  Pacific Investment Management Co.’s $240.7 billion Total
Return Fund had minus 4 percent of its assets in government and
related debt at the end of April, versus negative 3 percent in
the previous month, figures posted on the company’s website
show. Pimco’s cash and equivalents accounted for 37 percent of
holdings, the largest component after  Bill Gross , who runs the
world’s biggest bond fund at the  Newport Beach , California-based
company, increased his bet against U.S. bonds last month.  Pimco View  “I’m on the Pimco side,” said  Thomas Roth , senior
Treasury trader in New York at Mitsubishi UFJ Securities USA
Inc. “I feel that the Fed buying has been more of a factor to
prices than some other people think.”  Fed Bank of Richmond President Jeffrey Lacker said the
central bank should turn its attention to withdrawing stimulus
after completing its $600 billion bond purchase program at the
end of next month.  “Barring significant unexpected developments, this should
be the high-water mark for monetary stimulus in this cycle, with
the focus going forward on the timing and pace of stimulus
withdrawal,” Lacker said today in a speech in Arlington,
Virginia.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and the  Federal Open Market
Committee  have said they will complete their bond purchase
program at the end of June.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  