-- 
Interest Rate on EU Aid Loans to Portugal to Be Between 5.5%-6%, Rehn Says

-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r   a n d   A n a b e l a   R e i s
-- 
2011-05-10T15:57:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/rehn-says-portugal-to-pay-5-5-to-6-for-eu-bailout-loans-1-.html
Portugal  will pay between 5.5 percent
and 6 percent interest on the European portion of a 78-billion
euro ($112 billion) bailout, comparable to the rate currently
paid by Ireland.  “We will follow the IMF pricing policy and we will have a
small premium with a markup for risk, and this will lead to the
interest to be somewhere on the scale of over 5.5 percent but
clearly below 6 percent,” European Union Monetary Affairs
Commissioner  Olli Rehn  told reporters in Strasbourg,  France .  The goal is for Portugal to return to market financing
before the aid program runs out, Rehn said today. Last month, he
said Portugal’s bailout loans would “most likely” be for three
years, shorter than the 7 1/2-year maturities on joint EU-
International Monetary Fund packages of 110 billion euros for
 Greece  and 67.5 billion euros for Ireland.  Greece pays an average of 3.5 percent for the first three
years of its plan and 4.5 percent thereafter. Ireland, which is
trying to get better terms, currently pays an average of 5.8
percent. Rehn today said a reduction on the Irish rate could be
made “shortly.”  Euro-area countries will provide two-thirds and the IMF
one-third of Portugal’s loans, or 52 billion euros and 26
billion euros, respectively. The IMF loans will have an interest
rate of 3.25 percent for the first three years and 4.25 percent
after that, based on current rates,  Poul Thomsen , head of the
IMF mission in Portugal, said on May 5.  Portugal resorted to the EU-led bailout after parliament
rejected the government’s latest round of spending cuts and tax
increases to tackle the  budget deficit , prompting snap
elections.  The package calls for Portugal to implement the austerity
measures that the government proposed and parliament rejected in
March. Spending reductions for 2012 and 2013, including cuts to
pensions, will amount to 3.4 percent of gross domestic product,
while revenue increases will represent 1.7 percent of economic
output, Finance Minister Fernando Teixeira dos Santos said May
5. The plan also earmarks 12 billion euros for Portugal’s banks.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anabela Reis in Lisbon at 
 areis1@bloomberg.net ;
James Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  