-- 
Trinidadian Took Part in JFK Airport Terror Plot, Prosecutor Tells Jury

-- B y   T h o m   W e i d l i c h
-- 
2011-05-10T20:26:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/trinidadian-took-part-in-jfk-airport-terror-plot-prosecutor-tells-jury.html
A Trinidadian man took part in a
foiled plot to blow up  New York ’s John F. Kennedy International
Airport by offering to find people who might fund it, a federal
prosecutor told jurors at the start of the second trial in the
case.  Kareem Ibrahim , 65, in May 2007 advised the plotters not to
seek help from an extremist group in Trinidad and instead
offered to find other backers, according to the June 2007
criminal complaint under which he was arrested.  “Without any hesitation, Ibrahim joined the plot,”
Assistant U.S. Attorney Berit Berger told jurors today in
federal court in Brooklyn, New York. “Ibrahim volunteered to
contact people overseas” in  England  and  Iran . U.S. District
Judge Dora Irizarry is presiding over the trial.  The attacks, hatched by a former cargo worker at the
airport,  Russell Defreitas , were designed to blow up fuel lines
and tanks and, ultimately, “the whole of Kennedy,” Defreitas
said in a recorded conversation. The plot surrounding the
Queens, New York, airport was foiled in its planning stages with
the aid of informant Steven Francis, who infiltrated the group.  Plot Members  Defreitas, 67, a U.S. citizen and native of  Guyana , and
 Abdul Kadir , 59, a former member of Guyana’s parliament, were
sentenced to life in prison after a jury convicted them in
August. Abdel Nur, 61, a Guyanese citizen who pleaded guilty on
the eve of last year’s trial, was sentenced to 15 years.  “Mr. Ibrahim is innocent,” his lawyer, Zoe J. Dolan, told
the jury in her opening statement today.  The plot members sought support from Abu Bakr, leader of
the group Jamaat Al Muslimeen, or JAM, which had staged a 1990
coup attempt in Trinidad that resulted in “numerous deaths,”
according to court papers.  Berger told the jury the JFK plotters hoped to get help
either from JAM directly or by JAM introducing them to Adnan G.
El Shukrijumah. Shukrijumah is wanted in connection with
possible terrorist threats against the U.S. and is a member of
al-Qaeda, the Muslim terrorist group formerly led by  Osama bin
Laden , according to court papers.  Ibrahim, Defreitas and Francis met with Nur at a JAM
compound in Trinidad in May 2007, according to the complaint.
Nur told them he had met with a JAM leader and presented the
plot to attack New York’s biggest airport.  Contacts Overseas  The next day, “Kareem advised against presenting the plan
to the JAM leader, and instead said that he (Kareem) would
present the plan to contacts overseas who may be interested in
purchasing or funding it,” according to the complaint.  During that conversation Defreitas compared the scheme to
the Sept. 11 attacks, and said, “Even the Twin Towers can’t
touch it,” according to the complaint. “This can destroy the
economy of America for some time if it falls into the right
hands.”  Defreitas and Nur left with Ibrahim Google images and video
of the airport Defreitas and Francis had taken, according to
prosecutors in the office of U.S. Attorney Loretta Lynch. Four
days later, Ibrahim told Defreitas he was sending “an
associate’ to travel “overseas” to present the plan, according
to the complaint. The men were arrested shortly after that.  Ibrahim, who was slated to be tried last year with the
others, was granted a separate proceeding due to a medical
condition.  The case is U.S. v. Defreitas, 07-cr-00543, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of New York ( Brooklyn ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thom Weidlich in Brooklyn, New York, federal court at
   tweidlich@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 