-- 
Anglo, BHP, Rio Offer ‘Abundance of Riches’ on Profit and Prices RBS Says

-- B y   C a r l i   L o u r e n s
-- 
2011-05-10T16:57:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/rio-tinto-bhp-anglo-offer-abundance-of-riches-rbs-says.html
Rio Tinto Ltd.,  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  and
 Anglo American Plc (AAL)  offer “an abundance of riches” because of
record profits expected for this year and a projected 2013 peak
in commodity prices, Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc said.  The companies will “see further impressive revenue and
profit growth as they benefit from volume and commodity price
increases over the next few years,” RBS said, initiating
coverage of the three and recommending investors buy their
stock, particularly Rio. “We urge investors to build their
positions in the mining sector.”  Metal prices have gained 87 percent in two years, based on
the LMEX London Metal Index. Rio, BHP and Anglo may spend $171
billion in five years to expand output and gain from Asian
demand for materials used in construction, cars and appliances,
including  iron ore , copper and manganese, according to RBS’s
calculations. BHP, the world’s largest mining company, plans to
spend $80 billion alone in that period.  “Mining companies have never had it so good,” Nick Hatch,
a London-based analyst at RBS, said in a report. “Between FY11
and FY13, we estimate these three companies could generate
cumulative net cash of $161 billion, available to finance growth
projects, acquisitions and shareholder returns, either via share
buybacks or dividends.”  Expansion projects will probably take
preference, and acquisitions are likely to be limited to
“strategic bolt-on deals,” the analyst said.  RBS expects Rio to offer investors the best value, and the
stock may climb as much as 48 percent beyond the bank’s estimate
of 6,150 pence in the next 12 months, it said.  Aluminum Preferred  Aluminum is “one of our preferred commodities, and we may
finally see the company reap the benefits of its Alcan
acquisition,” RBS said. Rio’s 2007 purchase of Alcan Inc. led
to $40 billion in debt.  Northern Dynasty Minerals Ltd. (NDM)  may be a takeover target for
Anglo or Rio, RBS said. Its main asset is half of the Pebble
copper-gold-molybdenum project in  Alaska , possibly the world’s
largest undeveloped copper project, according to RBS analysts.  Anglo owns the other half of Pebble, while Rio holds 19.2
percent of Vancouver-based Northern. BHP and Anglo may also be
interested in Colombian coal producer Drummond Co., which might
be valued at as much as $7 billion, RBS said. Rio may consider
acquiring the rest of Ivanhoe Mines Ltd., in which it has a 42.1
percent stake, the bank said.  Anglo, RBS’s second-ranked pick among the trio, has led the
three in London trading with a 3.4 percent advance to 3,055
pence in the past six months. BHP gained 1.6 percent to 2,449
pence, while Rio lost 2.3 percent to 4,235.5 pence.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carli Lourens in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at   ajordan11@bloomberg.net . 