-- 
Liverpool Routs Fulham to Go Fifth in Premier League, Boost European Bid

-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 
2011-05-10T00:09:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/rodriguez-scores-hat-trick-to-lift-liverpool-to-fifth-in-premier-league.html
Maxi Rodriguez  scored three goals as
Liverpool routed Fulham 5-2 to boost its chances of playing in
soccer’s Europa League next season.  Rodriguez put Liverpool 2-0 up in the first seven minutes
at Craven Cottage in  London  last night and completed his second
hat trick in three Premier League games in the 70th minute. Dirk Kuyt and  Luis Suarez  added Liverpool’s other goals, while Moussa
Dembele and Steve Sidwell scored for Fulham.  The win lifted Liverpool two points above Tottenham into
fifth place, the automatic qualifying spot for  Europe ’s second-
tier club competition. The Reds, who have climbed from 12th to
fifth in the standings since  Kenny Dalglish  took over as manager
from  Roy Hodgson  on Jan. 8, host Tottenham on May 15.  “No one would ever have anticipated the run the boys have
been on since January,” Dalglish said in comments on his club’s
website. “It’s been unbelievable, and even if we don’t get
fifth then we’ve been absolutely fantastic.”  Liverpool is on 58 points, four behind fourth-place
Manchester City in the final qualifying spot for Europe’s elite
Champions League. City hosts Tottenham tonight and can guarantee
a top-four finish with a victory.  Dalglish’s team has scored 17 goals in its past five league
games, with Argentine attacking midfielder Rodriguez getting
seven of them. He put Liverpool ahead after 32 seconds last
night before volleying the second.  Kuyt’s 13th  Kuyt got his 13th league goal of the season in the 16th
minute when Fulham goalkeeper  Mark Schwarzer  allowed the
Dutchman’s shot to slip through his hands.  Dembele pulled a goal back for Fulham in the 57th minute
before Rodriguez added Liverpool’s fourth with a shot from
outside the penalty area.  Suarez took the ball around Schwarzer to make it 5-1 in the
75th minute and Sidwell completed the scoring 10 minutes later.  Last night’s game was  Jamie Carragher ’s 666th for
Liverpool, putting him second on the club’s all-time appearance
list behind Ian Callaghan with 857.  “When you win everything is enjoyable, and we’re going in
every day now with a smile on our face and looking forward to
games,” Carragher, 33, told Liverpool’s website. “Confidence
is high and we want to keep this run going.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  