-- 
Rolls-Royce, Apple, Righthaven, Louis Vuitton: Intellectual Property

-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 
2011-05-10T11:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/rolls-royce-apple-righthaven-louis-vuitton-intellectual-property.html
Rolls-Royce Group Plc (RR/)  must lower the
$3.7 billion in damages sought in a patent lawsuit against
United Technologies Corp.’s Pratt & Whitney because the jet-
engine maker overstated the effect of competition, a judge
ruled.  Estimates for engine prices, units sold and the value of
service contracts are “based on misstatements of the law, a
lack of sound evidence, and unsupported economic assumptions,”
U.S. District Judge Leonie Brinkema in Alexandria, Virginia,
said in a May 4 ruling. Brinkema didn’t say what the damages can
be should Rolls-Royce prove during trial that Pratt used a
patented design for engine fan blades without permission.  Rolls-Royce claims Pratt’s GP7200 Fan Stage violates patent
rights issued in 2000 for a Rolls-Royce Trent engine used on
Airbus SAS A380s. London-based Rolls-Royce argued that it should
be entitled to $1.35 billion for the lower prices it said it was
forced to charge on engines, plus $2.3 billion in profit lost
because of engines sold by a venture of Pratt and  General
Electric Co. (GE)   The list price for the Trent engine is $20 million, which
was discounted an average of 87.3 percent to $2.54 million, the
judge said, citing company data. She rejected Rolls-Royce
arguments that without competition from East Hartford,
Connecticut-based Pratt’s GP7200 engine, the discount would have
been 77 percent, for a price of $4.6 million, the filing shows.  A damages consultant hired by Rolls-Royce “cannot just
simply assume that airlines would happily pay millions of
dollars more per engine,” Brinkema wrote in throwing out the
consultant’s report. “It is not even clear whether Airbus would
have undertaken the project of producing the Airbus 380 in the
first place if it had only one engine supplier to rely upon.”.  “Rolls-Royce takes protection of its technology and
intellectual property very seriously and will vigorously pursue
legal action against any attempts to infringe it,” Mia Walton,
a spokeswoman for Rolls-Royce in the U.S., said in an e-mail.  Pratt told the judge it plans to install different blades
on further engines that design around the Rolls-Royce invention.  As an alternative to the $3.7 billion in damages, Rolls-
Royce said it could instead be entitled to $1.3 billion as a
lump sum of royalties owed. The company based that claim on
interest from the consultant’s estimate that a royalty agreement
with Pratt would have been signed for $493 million in 2000.  Brinkema said Rolls-Royce could ask for $493 million at
most, and Pratt can challenge that figure because it equals
almost the entire amount Pratt invested in the joint venture
with GE and is “highly speculative.”  Pratt in November filed its own patent-infringement case
against Rolls-Royce with the U.S. International Trade Commission
in  Washington . A trial is scheduled for October before the
agency, which has the power to block imports of products found
to violate U.S. patents.  The case is Rolls-Royce Plc v.  United Technologies Corp. (UTX) ,
10cv457, U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of
Virginia (Alexandria).  Apple, HP, Aruba Accused by Linex of Infringing Wi-Fi Patents  Hewlett-Packard Co. and Apple Inc. were among five
companies accused by closely held Linex Technologies Inc. of
infringing patents for wireless communications used in laptop
computers.  Aruba Networks Inc. (ARUN) ,  Meru Networks Inc. (MERU)  and Ruckus Wireless
Inc., all based in Sunnyvale, California, were also named in the
May 6 complaint with the U.S. International Trade Commission in
Washington, which has the power to block imports of products
found to infringe patents. Linex also filed suit in federal
court in Wilmington, Delaware, the same day, seeking cash
compensation.  Linex, a Palm Beach Gardens, Florida-based licenser of
technology, claims two of its patents cover inventions used in
the standard for wireless communication, including a way to
limit the fading of signal strength in buildings. The complaint
cites at least nine models by Palo Alto, California-based HP,
including the Pavilion and Envy laptops, as well as Cupertino,
California-based Apple’s MacBook Air, MacBook Pro, Airport
Extreme and Time Capsule products.  The case is In the Matter of Certain Wireless Communication
Devices and Systems, Complaint  No. 2802 , U.S. International
Trade Commission (Washington). The civil case is Linex
Technologies Inc. v.  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ) , 11cv400, U.S. District
Court for the District of Delaware (Wilmington).  For more patent news, click here.  Copyright  Righthaven Brings in Dale Cendali for Copyright Dispute  Righthaven LLC, the Las Vegas-based company that has filed
more than 200 cases attempting to enforce copyrights for
Stephens Media Group, has turned to a marquee name for one of
its suits.  According to a May 4 filing, Righthaven hired Kirkland &
Ellis LLP’s  Dale Cendali  to help litigate a case against the
Pahrump Life website on which an article from the Las Vegas
Review-Journal was posted without authorization.  Cendali replaces Righthaven’s in-house counsel John Charles
Coons, who withdrew from the case Feb. 2, according to court
records.  Cendali may be best known for her successful representation
of Harry Potter’s U.S. publisher  Scholastic Corp. (SCHL)  in a trademark
case. She has also represented Associated Press in the copyright
infringement case involving the photo of President Obama against
artist Shepard Fairey.  When she was with Los Angeles-based O’Melveny & Myers LLP
she represented the Martha Graham Center of Contemporary Dance
in a trademark suit involving the name of the late Martha
Graham. Cendali moved from O’Melveny to Chicago-based Kirkland &
Ellis in March 2009.  Righthaven hasn’t been faring well with its suits. In the
case against Pahrump Life, U.S. District Judge James C. Mahan
noted in an April 27 order that the company’s ownership of the
newspaper’s copyrights is presently being contested in another
case, and may not have standing to sue anyone for copyright
infringement.  The case is Righthaven LLC v. Pahrump Life, 2:10-cv-01574-
JCM-PAL, U.S. District Court, District of Nevada (Las Vegas).  ‘Origami Series’ Painted by Sarah Morris Infringes, Designers
Say  Six designers of origami figures have sued a  New York 
artist for copyright infringement.  The designers, who have created diagrams for creating
complex folded-paper figures such as weasels and praying
mantises, accuse  Sarah Morris  of using their designs without
authorization in her paintings.  According to an  art-auction website , Morris uses household
gloss paint on square-format canvasses based on an exploration
of “the grid forms that result from the creasing and folding”
of paper or other materials.  A press statement for a 2008 exhibition of her work in
 London  that is quoted on the auction website says that Morris
based her origami series “on found origami diagrams.”  The six artists, one of whom is Livermore, California-based
physicist  Robert J. Lang , say the so-called “found” diagrams
are their original work for which they didn’t give Morris
permission to use.  The case was filed federal court in  San Francisco  March 22,
and, so far, Morris is unrepresented by counsel and has made no
court filings herself. An e-mail to New York’s  Friedrich Petzel
Gallery , which has shown work from the Morris Origami series,
didn’t receive an immediate response.  The six origami designers are represented by  Andrew K.
Jacobson  of the  Bay Oak Law Firm APLC  and Caroline Noel
Valentino of Haims MacGowan Valentino & Peebles LLP, both of
Oakland, California.  The case is Robert J. Lang v. Sarah Morris, 3:11-cv-01366-
EMC, U.S. District Court, Northern District of California (San
Francisco).  Lime Wire’s Gorton Tells Jury He Didn’t ‘Appreciate’ Risk  Lime Wire LLC founder  Mark Gorton  told a jury yesterday he
hadn’t “fully appreciated” the damages he might have to pay
for copyright infringement in case of litigation over the free
downloading of songs through the company’s website.  Gorton was testifying in a trial in U.S. District Court in
New York on the amount of money he will be assessed because of a
ruling that Lime Wire induced the infringement of thousands of
songs through its peer-to-peer file-sharing software on the
Internet.  “You went into Lime Wire with your eyes wide open about
the risks,” Glenn Pomerantz, a lawyer for music companies such
as  Warner Music Group Corp. (WMG) , told Gorton. He cited a memo to
potential Lime Wire investors in 2001 raising the possibility of
“substantial” damages from copyright litigation.  “I don’t believe I fully appreciated them,” Gorton
replied.  Music labels owned by Warner,  Sony Corp. (6758) ,  Vivendi SA (VIV)  and
 Citigroup Inc. (C)  are seeking hundreds of millions of dollars from
Gorton. The trial judge, U.S. District Judge  Kimba Wood , also
ordered Lime Wire to shut down its music service last year.  Pomerantz told the jury of eight women and one man in
opening statements May 3 that the record industry’s revenue fell
52 percent from 2000, the year Lime Wire was founded, to 2010.  Gorton, 44, was called by the record labels. His testimony
will resume today.  In 2005, the Recording Industry Association of America, the
labels’ trade group, sent Gorton a letter demanding that he shut
down his site.  “At the time I didn’t think we were intentionally inducing
copyright infringement, but I understand the court has found
otherwise,” Gorton said.  Pomerantz told Wood with the jury out of the room that the
defense shouldn’t be allowed to argue that other file-sharing
services would have replaced Lime Wire because that was
inconsistent with her ruling last year.  Wood agreed and told the panel when it returned that
Gorton’s testimony on that point will be stricken from the
record.  Gorton’s lawyers are trying to convince the jurors that
events unrelated to file sharing caused the drop in music
industry revenue.  The record companies accused Gorton of making a fraudulent
transfer of assets into family limited partnerships to shield
the funds from liability. Pomerantz told the jurors in his
opening that Gorton transferred the money three days after the
U.S. Supreme Court ruled in 2005 that file-sharing service
Grokster could be held liable for copyright infringement.  Gorton’s lawyers have said the asset transfer resulted from
estate planning and that the closing date was set before the
Supreme Court’s decision.  The case is Arista Records LLC v. Lime Wire LLC, 06-05936,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more copyright news, click here.  Trademark  Louis Vuitton Rises, Gucci Slips in Brand-Valuation Study  Louis Vuitton , the French maker of laminated canvas
handbags, is the world’s most-valuable luxury brand for the
sixth consecutive year, a research group said.  The brand, owned by Paris-based  LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis
Vuitton SA (MC) , has a value of $24.3 billion, an increase of 23
percent from 2010, according to Millward Brown Optimor’s 2011
 BrandZ  study published yesterday. That’s almost as much as the
combined values of Hermes, Gucci and Chanel, which ranked
second, third and fourth in this year’s luxury-brand standings.  Vuitton’s value amounts to almost 28 percent of LVMH’s
market capitalization. The brand is benefiting from demand for
status symbols in developing markets such as Brazil, Russia,
India and  China , and the perception in Europe and the U.S. that
its products are exclusive, said Cristiana Pearson, a director
at Millward Brown Optimor who led the study.  “As we continue to come out of the recession, people will
continue to spend more on luxury, and the BRIC countries don’t
look like they’re slowing,” with growth in Brazil and China
particularly strong, Pearson said by phone from London.  Hermes International (RMS)  SCA, in which LVMH holds a 20.2
percent stake, posted the biggest increase in brand value in the
luxury industry with a 41 percent jump to $11.9 billion,
according to the BrandZ study. Florence, Italy-based Gucci’s
value declined 2 percent to $7.45 billion, affected by French
parent  PPR (PP)  SA’s financial performance, Pearson said. Chanel
advanced 23 percent to $6.82 billion.  Hennessy, Moet & Chandon and Fendi placed seventh, eighth
and ninth in the study, respectively, with values of $3.42
billion to $5 billion, meaning LVMH, the world’s largest luxury-
goods maker, owns or has a stake in five of the industry’s 10
most-valuable brands.  The Cartier and Rolex brands ranked fifth and sixth in the
luxury-brand ranking, while Burberry replaced Tiffany as No. 10.
The brand values of Burberry, Chanel and Vuitton benefited from
investment in technology, Millward Brown Optimor said.  Vuitton placed 26th worldwide among 100 companies across 13
industries in the BrandZ study.  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , maker of the iPad
tablet, is the world’s most valuable brand, with its estimated
value surging 84 percent from a year earlier to $153 billion,
according to Millward Brown Optimor.  The study was based on interviews with consumers as well as
analysis of company performance.  Taiwan Lawmakers Looking at Revisions to Trademark Law  A measure under consideration by Taiwan lawmakers would
expand the scope of that nation’s trademark law, the China Post
 reported  today.  Holograms, three-dimensional shapes and movements such as
the startup animations in some mobile phones would receive
protection, Wang Mei-hua, director-general of Taiwan’s
Intellectual Property Office told the China Post.  A ban on the online listing of fake items would be barred
under the proposed bill, the newspaper reported  Minimum limits for trademark infringement fines would be
reduced under the bill, according to the China Post.  For more trademark news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 