-- 
Romans Poised to Party or Flee as Facebook Quake Believers Defy Debunkers

-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o   a n d   A l e s s a n d r a   M i g l i a c c i o
-- 
2011-05-10T22:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/romans-defy-facebook-quake-talk-and-party.html
About 1,700 Romans will party today
like there’s no tomorrow, defying interpretations of the work of
deceased seismologist Raffaele Bendandi that suggest a major
earthquake will strike  Italy ’s capital on May 11.  For months Italian sections of social networks including
 Facebook  have carried discussions about the research of
Bendandi, a self-taught seismologist who died in 1979. He
believed that earthquakes could be predicted by observing the
combined movements of the planets, the sun and the moon. Since
the planets are due to be aligned today, some Romans are worried
that the first big earthquake in the Eternal City may hit.  “Think what you will but I’m going to sleep in Ostia
lido,” Nicola Ciavattini wrote on the message board of a
 Facebook group , referring to the popular beach town outside
 Rome .  Most Romans see a reason to celebrate instead. Over 1,700
people have signed up on Facebook for a  party  at the Circus
Maximus, an ancient open-air Roman amphitheater. Other events
are scheduled at the Spanish Steps and public park Villa
Pamphili.  The Italian Institute of Geology and Vulcanology,  INGV ,
termed the earthquake prediction baseless. “These kinds of
legends tend to spread at high speeds due to the Internet and
were further fueled and intensified after the real quake in
 Japan  last month,” said Massimo Crescimbeni, a psychologist who
works at the INGV.  Earthquake Awareness  The INGV has decided to make May 11 an earthquake awareness
day, inviting school children to its headquarters in Rome to
observe seismologists at work.  A major quake has never struck Rome, according to records
at the INGV. Their scientists say that the most recent seismic
activity in the city dates back to 1703.  Even the foundation which oversees Bendandi’s research
documents has denied the forecast. While an alignment of planets
will take place today, his published work makes no reference to
the possibility of an earthquake in Rome in 2011, said Paola
Lagorio, the head of the Bendandi Foundation.  Still, the earthquake speculation forced Italy’s Civil
Protection agency to issue a  report  giving information about
Bendandi and stating that “it’s impossible to exactly predict
the date, place and intensity of an earthquake.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net 
Alessandra Migliaccio in Rome at 
 amigliaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  