-- 
Romania to Sell Stakes in Energy Companies Eyed by EBRD

-- B y   A n d r a   T i m u   a n d   I r i n a   S a v u
-- 
2011-05-10T13:36:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/romania-to-sell-stakes-in-energy-companies-eyed-by-ebrd-1-.html
Romania  plans to sell minority stakes
in nuclear and hydropower operators in the next 12 months as it
needs significant investments in the  energy industry ,
International Monetary Fund official Jeffrey Franks said.  The government will probably sell share packages of more
than 10 percent of the country’s atomic power company
Nuclearelectrica SA and the hydropower generator, Hidroelectrica
SA, Franks, who is the IMF’s mission chief to Romania, said in
an interview in Bucharest yesterday.  The IMF and the European Union, which have extended Romania
a combined 5 billion-euro ($7 billion) precautionary agreement
over the next two years, have urged the government to improve
the way the state-owned companies are run and bring in private
management to help reduce a  budget deficit  to 3 percent of gross
domestic product by next year from 6.5 percent in 2010.  The Balkan country is trying to attract investors to help
spark the economy after a two-year recession. The government
plans to sell minority stakes in its utilities Transgaz SA and
 Transelectrica SA (TEL)  and largest oil company  OMV Petrom SA (SNP)  to
finance infrastructure investments.  It added Nuclearelectrica and Hidroelectrica to the sales
list as the government will probably discard a plan to divide
energy assets into two holding companies because of legal
issues, Franks said.  ‘Very Happy’  “I’m very happy that one of the achievements of this
mission is that the government agreed to bring in additional
private capital to Hidroelectrica and Nuclearelectrica,” Franks
said. “They also agreed to sell minority or even majority
stakes in some coal-fired power plants. This could bring
billions of euros of investment to Romania in the energy sector
in the coming years and that can help economic recovery.”  Prime Minister Emil Boc’s government still must decide on
the “exact size” of the stakes to be sold in Nuclearelectrica
and Hidroelectrica and also on the sale procedures, whether it
will be through a strategic investor or via the stock exchange,
said Franks.  The  European Bank for Reconstruction and Development , which
has disbursed about 4.1 billion euros to finance projects in
Romania in the past 10 years, may be interested in becoming a
shareholder in the sales of majority stakes, EBRD director
Claudia Pendred said.  “We cannot invest in nuclear, but we could consider,
subject to successful due diligence, co-investing alongside a
strategic investor in the other energy companies if the
government decides it wants to sell a majority stake to a
strategic investor,” Pendred said in an interview in Bucharest
today. “It doesn’t have to be 100 percent, it has to be a
majority, 50 percent plus 1 share.”  The government pledged to international lenders it will
sell majority stakes is unprofitable coal-fired  power plants 
Turceni, Rovinari, Craiova and in the PVC maker Oltchim SA,
according to Franks.  The Balkan nation still needs to solve the problem of
unpaid debts of state-owned companies which total about 5
percent of gross domestic product, Franks said yesterday at a
press conference.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andra Timu in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net ;
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  