-- 
Romanian April Inflation Quickens to Fastest in Almost 3 Years

-- B y   I r i n a   S a v u
-- 
2011-05-10T07:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/romanian-april-inflation-quickens-to-fastest-in-almost-3-years.html
Romania ’s inflation rate rose to the
highest in almost three years in April, more than economists had
forecast, driven by surging food and fuel prices and higher
domestic electricity costs.  Inflation accelerated to 8.3 percent, the fastest since
July 2008, from 8 percent in March, the Bucharest-based  National
Statistics Institute  said today in an e-mailed statement. The
median estimate in a Bloomberg survey of six economists was 8.2
percent. Prices increased a monthly 0.7 percent.  Policy makers from  China  to  Brazil  have been struggling to
tame quickening inflation as the global economic recovery and
conflict in the Middle East drives up energy and food prices.
Romanian central bankers are trying to lower domestic prices
boosted by a government increase in a value-added  tax rate  last
year and global prices, while aiding an economic recovery.  “We expect inflation to drop dramatically to about 5.2
percent in July once the first-round effect of the VAT rate hike
fades away entirely, and then move toward 5.0 percent by the end
of the year,” Citigroup Inc. economists Ilker Domac and
Gultekin Isiklar wrote in a note to clients before the release.  Food-price inflation accelerated to an annual 10.9 percent
in April, compared with 9.9 percent in March, sparked by higher
bread, potato, fruit and sugar prices, the institute said.  Non-food prices rose 7.7 percent, compared with 7.4 percent
in the previous month, boosted by rising tobacco, fuel and
electricity prices. Price growth for services slowed to an
annual 4.8 percent, compared with 5.7 percent in March, as a
stronger currency lowered rent and telephone prices.  “Food and commodity prices, along with the possibility of
administrative price adjustments, remain the main uncertainties
on the inflation front,” Isiklar and Domac said.  Romania’s trade deficit narrowed in March to 806 million
euros ($1.1 billion) from 929 million euros a year ago on
surging exports boosted by demand from western  Europe , the
statistics institute said in a separate statement today. The gap
was a revised 407.6 million euros in February.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  