-- 
Russia Opens Criminal Probe of Corruption-Fighting Blogger

-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 
2011-05-10T13:31:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/russian-investigators-probe-anti-corruption-blogger-navalny.html
Russian investigators opened a
criminal probe into Alexei Navalny, an anti-corruption blogger
who has campaigned against wrongdoing at state companies.  Officials are investigating claims Navalny caused
“material damage” through fraud or abuse of trust, Vladimir Markin, spokesman for the Investigative Committee of the
Prosecutor General’s Office in Moscow, said in comments made to
RIA Novosti and confirmed by his office today. Navalny said in a
phone interview that the aim is to scare him into stopping his
campaign. His lawyer, Dmitry Volov, dismissed the accusations as
“not serious.”  Navalny, a corporate lawyer, allegedly cost the state
timber company more than 1 million rubles ($36,000) by arranging
a money-losing contract. He was working at the time as an unpaid
adviser on corporate governance to Kirov Region Governor Nikita Belykh, who has come to his defense.  Navalny, 34, owns shares in about 20 Russian companies,
including OAO Gazprom and OAO Rosneft, the world’s largest gas
producer and  Russia ’s top oil company. He published allegations
on his  blog  of a $4 billion fraud during the construction of an
oil pipeline across eastern Siberia involving OAO Transneft,
Russia’s monopoly pipeline operator. Transneft denied any
wrongdoing.  ‘No. 1 Possibility’  “The No. 1 possibility now is to put me in jail,” said
Navalny, adding that the potential charges against him carry a
sentence of five years in prison. “But, of course, I will
continue with my work. I understood this would happen.”  Top officials including Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  and
President  Dmitry Medvedev  have publicly backed the need for an
investigation into Navalny’s claims. Medvedev, 45, is trying to
improve corporate governance as he seeks to turn Moscow into an
international financial hub and sets up a $10 billion fund to
co-finance investments in Russia.  At the same time,  Dmitry Peskov , Putin’s spokesman, said in
December that the lawyer’s campaign “has nothing to do with the
interests of minority shareholders or transparency at state
companies.”  Security services are also investigating Navalny, who has
recently won several court cases against state-run companies.  Online Donations  Yandex NV, Russia’s most-used Internet search engine,
turned over information about the account Navalny uses to
receive online donations at the request of security agencies,
the Moscow-based company said May 3 in an e-mailed statement. A
spokesman for the Federal Security Service, or FSB, the main
successor to the KGB, declined to comment.  Donations to Navalny’s Rospil  website , set up to expose
fraudulent government procurement contracts, have reached
$240,000 since February and are continuing to rise, according to
the blogger.  “The more active he becomes, the more they try to blacken
his reputation and create problems for him,” said Volov,
Navalny’s lawyer.  The investigative committee said on its  website  on Feb. 8
that Navalny had threatened the manager of the state timber
company with dismissal to pressure him to sign a contract with
another firm. Federal prosecutors cleared the way for the
subsequent criminal inquiry by overturning a decision at the
regional level to drop the case.  Navalny, whose blog received 1 million unique visitors when
he posted the Transneft allegations, won a legal victory April
21 when a Moscow court threw out the state-run pipeline
operator’s appeal of a ruling ordering it to disclose board
minutes. He won a similar ruling last month against state-owned
oil producer Rosneft.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at   bpenz@bloomberg.net  