-- 
A Few Brave Women Dare Take Wheel in Defiance of Saudi Law Against Driving

-- B y   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r
-- 
2011-05-10T20:00:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/saudi-women-to-get-behind-the-wheel-in-defiance-of-driving-ban.html
Manal, a 32-year-old woman, is
planning something she’s never done openly in her native  Saudi
Arabia : Get in her car and take to the streets, defying a ban on
female drivers in the kingdom.  Manal and 10 other people are organizing a campaign on
Facebook and Twitter urging Saudi women with international
driver’s licenses to join them starting June 17, risking their
jobs and their freedom. The coordinated plan isn’t a protest,
she said.  “I’m doing it because I’m frustrated, angry and mad,”
Manal, who asked to be identified only by her first name, said
in an interview from the eastern city of Dhahran. “It’s 2011
and we’re still discussing this insignificant right for women.”  The risk the women are willing to take underscores both
their exasperation with the restrictions and the infectious
nature of the changes sweeping the region. Saudi Arabia, which
has the world’s biggest oil reserves, so far has avoided the
mass demonstrations that have toppled the leaders of Tunisia and
 Egypt  and threaten officials in Libya, Yemen and  Syria .  “These events have taught Saudi women to join ranks and
act as a team,” said Wajeeha al-Howeider, a Saudi women’s
rights activist, in a telephone interview from Dhahran. “This
is something they could only have learned from those
revolutions.”  Male Approval  Saudi Arabia enforces the ascetic Wahhabi version of Sunni
Islam. Women aren’t allowed to have a Saudi driver’s permit,
even though some drive when they’re in the desert away from
urban areas. They can’t travel or get an education without male
approval or mix with unrelated men in public places. They aren’t
permitted to vote or run as candidates in municipal elections,
the only ones the kingdom allows.  The last time a group of women publicly defied the driving
ban was on Nov. 6, 1990, when U.S. troops had massed in Saudi
Arabia to prepare for a war that would expel  Iraq  from  Kuwait .
The Saudi women were spurred by images of female U.S. soldiers
driving in the desert and stories of Kuwaiti women driving their
children to safety, and they were counting on the presence of
international media to ensure their story would reach the world
and lessen the repercussions, according to Noura Abdullah, 55.  Abdullah was one of 47 drivers and passengers who stayed
out for about an hour before being arrested. They were banned
from travel for a year, lost their jobs for 2 1/2 years and 
were condemned by the powerful clergy as harlots.  Spread the Word  Now it’s “superb” that a younger generation is following
in their footsteps, Abdullah said in an interview from  Riyadh ,
the capital. She doesn’t have an international driver’s license,
so she will help by spreading the word about the event with
telephone calls, text messages and e-mails, she said.  “Their timing is perfect,” she added. “There’s momentum
in Saudi Arabia now and that should help.”  King Abdullah  has taken steps this year to ensure regional
turmoil remains outside his borders, pledging almost $100
billion of spending on homes, jobs and benefits. He also has
promised to improve the status of women. He opened the first co-
educational university in 2009; appointed the kingdom’s first
female deputy minister, Nora bint Abdullah al-Fayez, the same
year; and has said he will provide more access to jobs for
women, who make up about 15 percent of the workforce.  A change of policy in 2008 allowed women to stay in hotels
without male guardians, and an amendment to the labor law
allowed women to work in all fields “suitable to their
nature.”  ‘Largely Symbolic’  Human Rights Watch  said in January that “reforms to date
have involved  largely symbolic  steps to improve the visibility
of women.” While the  United Nations  ranked the kingdom in the
top one-third of nations in its 2010  Human Development Report  --
higher than Brazil and  Russia  -- its score for  gender equality 
was much lower. On that measure, which includes assessments of
reproductive health and participation in politics and the labor
market, Saudi Arabia was 128th of 138 nations, below Iran and
 Pakistan .  The campaign Manal is helping to organize, called “ I will
drive starting June 17 ,” is the latest effort by Saudi women
this year to express their desire for more rights. On April 23,
a group of 15 women showed up at a registration center in the
western city of  Jeddah , asking to participate in the September
election, the Arab News reported a day later. While they were
denied entry, they were permitted to relay their demands to
Abdul Aziz al-Ghamdi, the head of the district office, the Arab
News said.  Facebook Fans  The protest against the driving ban has attracted almost
800 Facebook fans since it began May 6.  “We are not here to break the law or demonstrate or
challenge the authorities,” the organizers said on their page.
“We are here to claim one of our simplest rights.”  Sheikh Mohammed al-Nujaimi, a Saudi cleric, dismissed the
campaign, saying statements he makes about religious issues that
are posted on websites have received more than 24,000 page views
in a day.  The plan is “against the law, and the women who drive
should be punished according to the law,” al-Nujaimi said in a
telephone interview. Driving causes “more harm than good” to
women, because they risk mixing with men they aren’t related to,
such as mechanics and gas-station attendants, he added.  “Women will also get used to leaving their homes at
will,” al-Nujaimi said.  Other Support  Three telephone calls by Bloomberg News to the mobile phone
of a press officer at Saudi Arabia’s Traffic Department, which
enforces transit rules in the country, weren’t answered.  The campaign has received the support of some Saudi men.
Ahmad al-Yacoub, 24, a Dhahran-based businessman, said he’s
joined the effort because “these ladies are not fighting with
religion or the government.”  “They are asking for a simple right that they want to
practice freely without being harassed or questioned,” al-
Yacoub said.  Ghada Abdul-Latif, a 31-year-old rights activist, said she
will support the effort by filming it and posting it online; she
won’t drive for fear of being jailed before her wedding in June.  “It is a courageous campaign,” said Hatoon al-Fassi, a
Saudi historian. “It feels so weird to consider such a human
right a courageous movement. But it is in a country such as
Saudi Arabia, which is trying to live against the current and
life and history.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donna Abu-Nasr in Dubai at 
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  