-- 
HSBC, Barclays, Hooters, Lehman, Rajaratnam in Court News

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n   a n d   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 
2011-05-10T11:44:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/hsbc-rbs-barclays-hooters-lehman-rajaratnam-in-court-news.html
HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) ,  Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  and Barclays Plc will set aside about $3.4
billion for customers improperly sold personal-loan insurance
after abandoning a lawsuit to avoid paying compensation.  Barclays, Britain’s second-biggest lender by assets, will
earmark 1 billion pounds ($1.6 billion) and HSBC $440 million,
the banks said in separate statements yesterday. Edinburgh-based
RBS, which had already made a provision of 100 million pounds,
will set aside an additional 850 million pounds, the bank said.  The British Bankers’ Association yesterday abandoned legal
attempts to overturn a court ruling that may force the industry
to pay more than 8 billion pounds.  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY) , the
biggest provider of payment protection insurance, last week
broke ranks with competitors and earmarked 3.2 billion pounds to
settle claims with clients who bought the insurance, which
covers payments on credit cards and mortgages in case of illness
or unemployment.  “When Lloyds says game over, let’s pay up, then everybody
else has to cave in pretty fast,” said  Simon Maughan , co-head
of European equities at MF Global Ltd. in  London .  Clients who bought the insurance rarely compared prices and
terms or switched providers, and usually weren’t aware they
could have purchased it elsewhere, according to the Competition
Commission.  “We don’t always get things right for our customers,”
Barclays Chief Executive Officer Robert Diamond said in the
statement. “When we get them wrong, we apologize and put them
right.”  Hooters Settles Suit Challenging Chain’s Sale to Buyout Firm  Hooters of America Inc., the restaurant chain best known
for its tank top-clad waitresses and spicy chicken wings,
settled a lawsuit challenging the company’s sale to a buyout
firm, a lawyer said.  Hooters managers, the family of Robert “Bob” Brooks, the
chain’s former chief executive officer, and officials of
private-equity firms  Chanticleer Investors LLC  and  Wellspring
Capital  Management LLC agreed to resolve the Delaware Chancery
Court case over the chain’s sale to Chanticleer, Lewis R.
Clayton, a New York-based lawyer for Wellspring, said in a May 6
interview.  “The settlement is confidential and the parties have
agreed to dismiss all claims,” Clayton added.  Brooks’s family sold its interests in the 455-restaurant
chain to a group of investors led by Chanticleer earlier this
year for an undisclosed amount. The sale resolved a dispute over
the executive’s estate, according to court filings. Brooks,
known as Hooters’ “Worldwide Wing Commander,” died in 2006.  Wellspring, a private-equity firm whose holdings include
the  Checkers  hamburger-restaurant chain according to its
website, had sought to buy Hooters, according to court papers.
Chanticleer officials, who claimed they were granted a purchase
option as part of a loan deal with one of Hooters’ units,
ultimately bought the chain earlier this year.  Michael Pruitt, Chanticleer’s chairman, declined to comment
on the settlement yesterday. Alexis Aleshire, a Hooters
spokeswoman, and Kurt Heyman, a lawyer for Brooks’s family,
didn’t immediately return calls for comment yesterday.  The Delaware case is Hooters of America Inc. v.
Neighborhood Restaurants International Inc., 6054, Delaware
Chancery Court (Wilmington).  For more, click here.  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  Lawsuits/Pretrial  Barclays to Get $1.1 Billion From Lehman Brokerage Trustee  Barclays Plc (BARC) , which bought Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s
North American business, will get $1.1 billion in trading assets
from the trustee liquidating the remnants of Lehman’s brokerage,
the trustee’s lawyer said.  The two sides continue to dispute more than $1 billion in
so-called margin assets, lawyer William Maguire told a judge
yesterday after he approved the partial agreement. The assets
Barclays will get were held in so-called clearance boxes to
clear trades and should have been transferred to the London-
based bank in September 2008, according to court papers.  “Could you reach agreement over more matters if I gave you
more time?” U.S. Bankruptcy Judge James Peck asked Maguire
yesterday at a hearing in Manhattan. He agreed to hear arguments
from the lawyers after Maguire said negotiations over the
dispute had reached “the end of the road.”  The agreement followed a trial last year that involved a
three-way fight, with lawyer David Boies representing Barclays
the U.K.’s third-biggest bank. Barclays said it was owed $3
billion on the brokerage purchase, and the trustee demanded
about $7 billion from Barclays. The New York-based Lehman parent
company sought an alleged $11 billion “windfall” it said
Barclays made on the purchase.  Peck denied the Lehman brokerage’s claim and reduced the
trustee’s right to assets. A February ruling left Barclays
disputing as much as $3.5 billion in assets.  Lehman wrote a letter to the judge on April 29, saying it
was claiming $500 million from Barclays for allegedly failing to
pay all of the bonuses the U.K. bank agreed to when it bought
the defunct investment firm’s business. Barclays has said it
paid all the promised bonuses and other compensation.  The case is In re  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ) , 08-13555,
 U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of  New York 
(Manhattan).  Madoff Trustee Drops $3.8 Billion in Claims Against Feeder Fund  The trustee overseeing the liquidation of Bernard L. Madoff’s former firm agreed not to pursue $3.8 billion from
three defunct funds related to the Fairfield Greenwich Group,
the biggest feeder fund to Madoff’s firm, as part of a
settlement.  Irving Picard , the trustee for Bernard L. Madoff Investment
Securities LLC, will drop efforts to collect the $3.8 billion it
claims the Fairfield funds withdrew in the final six years of
Madoff’s fraud, Picard and the Fairfield funds’ liquidators said
in separate statements yesterday.  As part of the agreement, one of the funds, Fairfield
Sentry, agreed to reduce its $1.2 billion in customer claims
against the Madoff bankruptcy estate by almost $1 billion, both
sides said.  The settlement allows the liquidators of the Fairfield
funds to work together with Picard to pursue assets from the
former owners and managers of the Fairfield funds,  David Sheehan , the Madoff trustee’s chief counsel, said in Picard’s
statement.  The accord also assigns to Picard the liquidators’ claims
against the Fairfield Greenwich management companies, officers
and partners. Madoff creditors will get the first $200 million
of any such recoveries and 85 percent of any additional
recoveries, according to Picard’s statement.  Under the agreement, the Fairfield liquidators will pay $70
million to a claims fund administered by Picard for
reimbursement of Madoff customers.  The Fairfield funds agreed to the entry of judgments for
the $3.8 billion, which Picard agreed not to collect, citing
their “limited ability to pay cash toward any judgment.”  The settlement must be approved by a bankruptcy judge in
Manhattan before it becomes final.  The case is Securities Investor Protection Corp. v. Bernard
L. Madoff Investment Securities LLC, 08-1789, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For the latest lawsuits news, click here. For the latest new
suits news, click here. For copies of recent civil complaints,
click here.  Trials/Appeals  Rajaratnam Jury Listens to More Wiretapped Conversations  The jury in the insider-trading trial of Raj Rajaratnam
began its third week of deliberations by listening to a dozen
wiretapped conversations, most of which were between the Galleon
Group LLC co-founder and Rajiv Goel, a former  Intel Corp. (INTC) 
executive.  Jurors asked to hear six recordings of phone conversations
between the two men this morning, saying in a note from the jury
foreman that the replays were for the benefit of the alternate
juror who replaced Juror 2 on May 4.  Shortly after hearing the first set of recordings, jurors
were back in the courtroom listening to six more conversations,
one of which was between Rajaratnam and his brother, Rengan
Rajaratnam. The rest were between Rajaratnam and Goel.  The conversations primarily concerned an investment by
Intel in a wireless network company to be formed by  Clearwire
Corp. (CLWR)  and  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)  and the planned acquisition of
PeopleSupport Inc. by Essar Group, an Indian company.  The case is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 09-cr-01184, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  BSkyB Seeks Reversal of Dramatic Intrusion on Soccer Prices  British Sky Broadcasting Plc, the U.K.’s biggest pay-
television provider, asked an appeals court to reverse a
regulator’s “dramatic intervention” limiting how much it can
charge rivals for coverage of soccer matches.  The watchdog, known as Ofcom, should be barred from setting
prices for FA Premier League matches below the market rate,
BSkyB’s lawyer told a panel of three judges yesterday at the
 Competition Appeal Tribunal  in London. The regulator has argued
BSkyB hurts consumers by charging competitors too much.  “Sky’s valuable assets, developed through an enormous
amount of investment, innovation and risk-taking,” are being
forcibly made available to companies “who wish to retail them,
as if they’re a public good,” James Flynn, BSkyB’s lawyer with
Brick Court Chambers in London, said at the hearing.  BSkyB, the target of a takeover by Rupert Murdoch’s News
Corp., agreed to pay 1.62 billion pounds ($2.64 billion) in 2009
to show most live Premier League soccer matches between 2010 and
2013. BSkyB, based in Isleworth, England, has bet its business
model on showing exclusive sporting events and films.  Ofcom spokeswoman Elizabeth DeWinton didn’t immediately
return an e-mail seeking comment.  For more, click here.  Ex-Langbar CEO Should Have Known of Fraud, U.K Prosecutor Says  Geoffrey Pearson, the former chief executive officer of a
Bermuda-based investment company at the center of a fraud
scandal, made false statements to induce investors to buy
worthless shares, a London jury was told.  Pearson, 63, has pleaded not guilty to 13 counts of making
misleading statements to the financial markets between June and
October 2005 while he was CEO of Langbar International Ltd.  Langbar was “worthless” and “fraudulent from the
start,” prosecutor Jonathan Caplan said yesterday at the
beginning of Pearson’s trial. The company was set up in Bermuda
in June 2003 and began trading on London’s Alternative
Investment Market later that year. Shortly after starting
business, Langbar said it had won South American contracts which
it sold for a profit of around $350 million. Those contracts
were a fiction, as was the money, Caplan told the jury.  Pearson was appointed CEO of the company, formerly known as
Crown Corp., in June 2005. By October of that year, trading in
the company’s shares was suspended. Lawyers for Pearson will
present his defense later in the trial of the case brought by
the Serious Fraud Office, the U.K. agency responsible for
prosecuting white-collar crime.  me  While Pearson isn’t accused of setting up the fraud, he
should have found out about it and stopped authorizing
statements to the market, Caplan said.  NFL Club Owners Seek Reversal of Lockout Order in Labor Fight  National Football League team owners, criticizing the
players’ union for disbanding in the midst of a labor dispute,
asked an appeals court to reverse a federal judge’s order to end
a lockout of the players.  The owners, in a filing yesterday with the U.S. Court of
Appeals in St. Louis, said U.S. District Judge Susan Richard Nelson had no jurisdiction to issue her April 25 order and that
the dispute should be resolved by the National Labor Relations
Board. They called the disbanding of the NFL Players Association
“a tactical ploy” to increase bargaining leverage by using the
courts.  The NFL imposed the lockout after collective-bargaining
talks failed in March and the players association announced it
would no longer function as a union. Ten players sued March 11,
accusing the league of violating federal antitrust laws.  The factions disagree on how the 32-team league and the
players should split $9 billion in annual revenue, on extending
the regular season from 16 to 18 games, on a salary cap for
first-year players and on health care for the athletes.  With a lockout, the athletes don’t get paid and can’t
practice. The NFL’s teams can’t sign or trade them.  Both sides are exempt from federal antitrust laws as long
as they are engaged in collective bargaining. The players’
disavowal of their union status enabled them to accuse the NFL
in court of anticompetitive business practices.  George Atallah, a spokesman for the players, didn’t reply
to an e-mail seeking comment yesterday. The players have until
May 20 to file their response.  The National Hockey League yesterday asked the appeals
court for permission to file a friend-of-the-court brief
supporting team owners in the NFL case.  “The NHL has a direct interest in ensuring that the
determination of terms and conditions of employment for NHL
players is the product of a bona fide labor process rather than
the ‘lever’ of potential antitrust liability,” attorneys for
the hockey league said in their filing.  That league too questioned the players’ ability to disclaim
their union and then file suit seeking injunctive relief.  The case is Brady v. NFL, 0:11-cv-00639, U.S. District
Court, District of Minnesota (St. Paul). The appeal is Brady v.
National Football League, 11-01898, 8th U.S. Circuit Court of
Appeals (St. Louis).  LG Loses Bid to Block Whirlpool From Saying Dryers Use Steam  An  LG Electronics Inc. (066570)  unit lost a bid for a court order
barring competitor Whirlpool Corp. from using the word “steam”
in national marketing of its Duet line of clothes dryers.  U.S. District Judge Amy St. Eve in  Chicago  yesterday
rejected the request by LG Electronics USA, an American
subsidiary of the Seoul, South Korea-based appliance maker. A
jury last year found Whirlpool had breached Illinois’s deceptive
trade practices law. LG, in a press statement, said it plans to
appeal.  “The court finds that Whirlpool has established that its
dryers do, in fact, use steam,” St. Eve said in a 39-page
ruling, adding that company ads saying so aren’t likely to
injure LG.  A federal jury in Chicago last year rendered a split
verdict in the trial of a 2008 case filed by LG accusing
Whirlpool of misleading consumers. The jurors rejected LG’s
unfair competition and consumer fraud claims while finding that
Whirlpool had breached the Illinois Uniform Deceptive Trade
Practices Act.  “Consumers are being misled by Whirlpool’s deceptive
marketing of a cold-water spray as steam,” the Englewood
Cliffs, New Jersey-based LG unit said in its press statement.
“LG will continue to challenge Whirlpool’s deceptive activities
and review all options including an appeal.”  The case is LG Electronics USA Inc. v.  Whirlpool Corp. (WHR) , 08-
cv-242, U.S. District Court, Northern District of Illinois
(Chicago).  Fight Over Obama’s Health-Care Law Reaches Federal Appeals Court  A U.S. court in Virginia will hear the first appellate
arguments on whether requiring Americans to buy health insurance
is, as a lower court judge ruled, the same as ordering them to
buy broccoli or a Cadillac.  The Justice Department will seek today to persuade three
judges in Richmond, Virginia, that President Barack Obama’s
health-care overhaul, which mandates most Americans obtain
insurance, is constitutional. In back-to-back arguments, the
panel will review two rulings -- one upholding the law and the
other striking down part of it.  The U.S. calls the insurance mandate the linchpin of the
Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, claiming that,
without expanding the pool of younger, healthier customers, the
insurance industry won’t be able to meet its obligations for
coverage under the law. Absent the mandate, the health-insurance
market will wither, the government said in court papers.  The arguments before the U.S. Court of Appeals in Richmond
may preview two other cases to be heard early next month in
federal appeals courts in Cincinnati and Atlanta. Decisions by
the three panels, especially if their rulings differ, may set
the stage for “the ultimate argument” before the Supreme
Court, said Michael Gerhardt, a constitutional law professor at
University of North Carolina School of Law in Chapel Hill.  The cases are Liberty University v. Geithner, 10-02347, and
Commonwealth of Virginia v. Sebelius, 11-01057 and 11-01058, 4th
U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals (Richmond).  For more, click here.  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  Litigation Departments  Former SEC Counsel Rejoins Cleary Gottlieb  David Becker , who quit as Securities and Exchange
Commission general counsel before he was sued over inherited
profits from Bernard Madoff’s fraud, has rejoined the law firm
where he worked before taking the SEC post.  Becker, 63, returned to Cleary Gottlieb Steen & Hamilton
LLP to focus on securities enforcement, corporate governance,
internal investigations and financial regulation, the firm said
yesterday in a statement. Becker, who will be based in
 Washington , left the SEC in February after two years in the
position.  SEC Chairman  Mary Schapiro  has faced scrutiny stemming from
a lawsuit filed by Irving H. Picard, the bankruptcy court
trustee unwinding Madoff’s business, a week after Becker
announced plans to leave the agency. The suit demands that
Becker and his brothers return $1.5 million in what Picard
called fictitious profits from liquidating their mother’s
account three years before the Ponzi scheme unraveled.  Congressional lawmakers and SEC Inspector General H. David
Kotz have begun investigations into why Becker was permitted to
work on Madoff matters at the SEC even though he had personal
ties to the case. Becker, who returned to the SEC two months
after Madoff was arrested in December 2008, has said his
involvement was cleared by the agency’s ethics office. He has
said his departure was unrelated to the Picard lawsuit.  Madoff pleaded guilty in 2009 to charges related to his
decades-long Ponzi scheme and is serving a 150-year sentence in
federal prison.  For the latest litigation department news, click here.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net ;
 Ellen Rosen  in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  