-- 
SBI to Help Khosla-Backed SunBorne Get Loans for Solar Project

-- B y   N a t a l i e   O b i k o   P e a r s o n
-- 
2011-05-10T10:55:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/sbi-to-help-khosla-backed-sunborne-energy-get-loans-for-solar-project.html
SunBorne Energy Technologies , a solar
power developer backed by billionaire Vinod Khosla, is close to
arranging 1.5 billion rupees ($34 million) in loans from three
banks for its first plant in  India .  SBI Capital Markets Ltd., a unit of India’s largest lender,
is arranging the deal, SunBorne Chief Operating Officer Gagan
Vermani said today by telephone.  “We already have a sanction letter from one bank and two
more are in the pipeline,” Vermani said. “For all practical
terms, we’ve closed.” Vermani declined to name the banks.  Solar projects in the country facing a government deadline
to build 1.1 gigawatt of capacity by the year’s end are racing
to secure financing. Banks have expressed concerns about lending
to the new sector, including worries that solar equipment may
not perform as expected under Indian climactic conditions which
would affect projects’ ability to produce enough power to pay
back loans.  “There’s only seven to eight months left to put up that
1.1 gigawatt,” Vermani said. “We don’t see most of that
happening.”  As projects get delayed to next year, Sunborne expects a
surge in contracts to design and build projects for other
developers in 2012, he said.  Suntech Deal  SunBorne is building a 15-megawatt plant in Gujarat state
that is due to be completed this year. The 2.1 billion rupee-
plant will use modules from  Germany ’s SolarWorld and  China ’s
Suntech Power Holdings Co., Vermani said.  Last week, SunBorne selected Jiangsu-based Suntech, the
world’s largest producer of solar modules, over  Trina Solar Ltd. (TSL) 
and  Renewable Energy Corp ASA (REC)  for the supply of 100 megawatts of
panels over the next two years. The deal is worth about $150
million, Vermani said.  Suntech offered the best insight into long-term costs
because it has contracts tied up for raw materials and
components like silicon and wafers, he said.  “Prices in this sector fluctuate very rapidly,” he said.
“This long-term agreement will help us with pricing.”  SunBorne and Suntech will agree on prices on a quarterly
basis, Vermani said. Sunborne expects module prices from top
global manufacturers to fall as low as $1.4 per megawatt by the
end of this year, he said.  Sunborne is also planning a 5-megawatt plant near Jodhpur
in Rajasthan state. By 2015, the company aims to set up 500
megawatts of photovoltaic capacity, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Obiko Pearson in Mumbai at 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at   landberg@bloomberg.net . 