-- 
Scene Last Night at Robin Hood: Bundchen, Lady Gaga, Cohen, Och

-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 
2011-05-14T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/scene-last-night-at-robin-hood-bundchen-lady-gaga-einhorn-cohen-och.html
At around 10 Monday night, Lady Gaga
arrived in a glowing egg positioned on top of a cart filled with
cakes and macaroons.  Escorted by brawny men in sleeveless Roman tunics, the cart
rolled past hedge-fund founders Dan Och,  David Einhorn ,  Steven A. Cohen ,  Ken Griffin , and more than 4,000 others gathered in
the Jacob K. Javits Convention Center for the Robin Hood
Foundation benefit.  Soon “the Gaga,” as emcee Brian Williams called her,
emerged onstage wearing a cream outfit that exposed her midriff.  “I’d like to thank all the rich people for donating
tonight,” she said. “And when I say rich, I mean rich in
spirit.”  By the time she was serving up “Bad Romance,” the event
had raised $47.4 million for the foundation, which helps New
Yorkers in need.  Earlier, guests heard from Tony Bennett before confronting
a medley of cold beef, chicken, kale and artichokes. And one
guest had punched in the amount of $400,000 into a wireless
device at his table to win a recording session with will.i.am of
the Black Eyed Peas. There was also plenty of time for air-
kissing and mingling.  Stand By Me  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  president  Gary Cohn  was
photographed with model Gisele Bundchen who wore a sheer, black
lace top with a vest in just the right places. Husband  Tom Brady 
mingled with lesser masters of the universe.  Sarah Jessica Parker, dressed in what she described as
“electric heliotrope,” dined with  Harvey Weinstein ,  Naomi Watts , and  Liev Schreiber .  Yet the mood seemed intentionally more subdued than in
years past.  “I think this is a year full of challenges,” said David Saltzman, Robin Hood’s executive director, while standing under
a large sign reading, “The Forces for Good Are Gathering.”  “In some ways people think the worst is behind us, and yet
for poor people the worst is in front of us.”  Kid Rock captured the ambiance in a song he wrote for the
occasion.  “I can’t change the world and make things fair,” the
rocker sang as hundreds of servicemen and servicewomen filled
the aisles of the dining room, “The least that I can do is
care.”  ‘Wired to Serve’  The foundation has a new program to help military veterans.  “They are wired to serve. What they need is a bridge,”
Admiral Michael Mullen, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff,
said in an interview with Tom Brokaw.  Veterans of Iraq and  Afghanistan  have a much higher suicide
rate than the general population or of veterans of past wars.
They also have a higher homeless rate.  “We want to let people know that it’s okay to ask for
help,” said Michael E. Thornton, a retired U.S. Navy SEAL and
one of the five Medal of Honor recipients present.  The night had its moments of good old-fashioned Wall Street
humor.  Seth Meyers of “Saturday Night Live,” referring to his
stint two weeks ago speaking at the White House Correspondents’
Dinner, said, “How refreshing it is tonight to finally perform
for the people who run the country.”  Triumph the Insult Comic Dog appeared in a video to give
the crowd a ribbing.  “Your contributions are completely tax deductible,” said
the acerbic puppet voiced and manned by Robert Smigel, “which
might be of interest to you, if you actually paid taxes.”  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon in  New York  at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter at @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 