-- 
Schapiro Says SEC Reviewing Stock Rules for Unlisted Firms

-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u
-- 
2011-05-10T19:05:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/schapiro-says-sec-reviewing-rules-for-stakes-in-nonpublic-firms.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission is studying whether growth of closely held companies
is being hindered by limits on the number of shareholders they
can have, SEC Chairman  Mary Schapiro  told lawmakers today.  The agency’s staff is reviewing a rule that requires firms
with more than 499 shareholders to disclose financial
information, as well as other restrictions on how nonpublic
firms can solicit investors, Schapiro said at a House Oversight
and Government Reform Committee hearing on the future of capital
formation. The SEC is forming a committee on small and emerging
firms to contribute to the review, she said.  “Companies seeking access to capital should not be
overburdened by unnecessary or superfluous regulations,”
Schapiro said. “At the same time, while we have an important
responsibility to facilitate growing companies’ access to
America’s investment capital, we must balance that
responsibility with our obligation to protect investors.”  The SEC sharpened its focus on how unlisted companies raise
money after  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  halted a planned offering
of as much as $1.5 billion in Facebook Inc. shares to U.S.
investors. Goldman Sachs said on Jan. 17 it pulled the offer
because of concern that “immense media attention” could
violate SEC rules limiting marketing of private securities.  Issa Statement  That decision showed that “private capital formation in
the U.S. is increasingly difficult,” Representative  Darrell Issa , the California Republican who leads the House panel, said
in a statement yesterday. “Reversing this trend and efficiently
attracting capital to the best investment opportunities in the
 United States  is critical to a widespread economic recovery and
the long-term viability of our global market position.”  The 499-owner limit, which applies to firms with more than
$10 million in assets, was created to ensure that shareholders
get sufficient information about their investments. While the
law counts so-called owners of record toward that threshold,
people who invest through a fund -- the so-called beneficial
holders -- aren’t included.  Schapiro has asked staff to review both the number of
shareholders that should trigger registration as well as how
those holders are counted, she said in her statement.  Barry Silbert, chief executive officer of SecondMarket
Inc., urged that the limit be significantly increased or
eliminated altogether.  ‘Disincentive’  The shareholder limit “has created a disincentive for
private companies to hire new employees, or acquire other
businesses for stock, as these private companies are fearful of
taking on too many shareholders,” Silbert said at the hearing.  Silbert, whose company bills itself as the largest
secondary market for trading alternative investments, said
public markets have become inhospitable to smaller firms after
online brokerages cut demand for research and regulatory
compliance costs increased.  Secondary markets have become more popular as funding
sources, in part because requirements imposed by the 2002
 Sarbanes-Oxley Act  and last year’s Dodd-Frank Act have made
accessing public markets more expensive. The trend has spawned
new exchanges for unregistered shares, including New York-based
SecondMarket, San Bruno, California-based SharesPost Inc. and
 San Mateo , California-based Xpert Financial Inc.  Trading of shares in closely held firms has tripled since
2009 and is likely to rise 51 percent this year to almost $7
billion, according to Nyppex LLC, a New York research and
advisory services firm.  Accredited Investors  The investments, which can be riskier than bets on publicly
traded stocks, are reserved for so-called accredited investors -
- people with at least $1 million in assets or $200,000 in
annual income. A basic premise of  securities law  is that such
investors are sophisticated enough to fend for themselves
without regulators’ protection.  Silbert said the SEC should lift a restriction on general
solicitations for investors. What’s most important is that
shareholders meet the accredited investor criteria, he said. As
part of reviewing whether to keep the ban, Schapiro said the
agency will study whether it violates freedom of speech.  “I recognize that some continue to identify the general
solicitation ban as a significant impediment to capital raising
for small businesses,” Schapiro said. “At the same time, the
general solicitation ban is supported by others on the grounds
that it helps prevent  securities fraud  by making it more
difficult for fraudsters to attract investors or unscrupulous
issuers to condition the market. We need to balance these
considerations as we move forward in analyzing this issue.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Gallu in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  