-- 
SEC Missing Stanford Fraud Not Excused by Law, Investors Say

-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s   a n d   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 
2011-05-10T23:09:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/sec-missing-stanford-fraud-not-excused-by-law-investors-say-1-.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission’s delay in cracking down on R. Allen Stanford’s
alleged  Ponzi scheme  isn’t excused by a law that protects
regulators’ discretionary decisions, Stanford’s investors claim.  While U.S. law may shield the agency from poor policy
choices, it doesn’t protect against allegations of official
misconduct and abuse of office, lawyers for the investors said
today in a court filing in federal court in Dallas.  Eight Stanford investors sued the SEC in March on claims
that Spencer Barasch -- the former head of the SEC’s Fort Worth-
Dallas office -- allowed Stanford’s alleged fraud to flourish
for years by repeatedly blocking investigations into the
financier’s operations.  This case “is about misconduct, and has nothing to do
with disgruntled citizens second-guessing SEC ‘policy
judgments,’’’ Edward Gonzales, the investors’ lawyer, said in
today’s filing. “It is discretion that may be abused, not one’s
office.’’  The SEC seized Stanford’s operations in February 2009 on
suspicion of fraud. Four months later, prosecutors indicted
Stanford and three of his top officers for running what they
claim was a $7 billion Ponzi scheme built on bogus certificates
of deposit at Antigua-based Stanford International Bank Ltd.  Stanford Denies Wrongdoing  Stanford, who denies all wrongdoing, has been imprisoned as
a flight risk until he can be tried.  Last month, the government asked a  Dallas  judge to throw
out the investors’ lawsuit, which seeks to force the SEC to
cover their losses on Stanford CDs.  The investors based much of their complaint on a 2010
report by the SEC’s inspector general, who faulted Barasch for
declining to act on agency recommendations to investigate
Stanford for years. The report also criticized Barasch for
trying to act as Stanford’s lawyer after he left the agency in
2005.  “The unethical conduct of Spencer Barasch and negligent
supervision by his superiors both make the government liable
here,’’ Gonzales said in the filing.  Barasch, who isn’t personally sued by the investors, has
denied acting improperly before or after leaving the SEC. Ashley
Nelly, a spokeswoman for Andrews Kurth LLP, the law firm where
Barasch now works, didn’t immediately return a call seeking
comment on today’s filing.  Kevin Callahan , SEC spokesman, didn’t immediately return a
call or e-mail after regular business hours.  The case is Robert Juan Dartez LLC v.  United States , 3:11-
cv-0602, U.S. District Court, Northern District of  Texas 
(Dallas).  The criminal case is U.S. v. Stanford, 09-cr-342, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of Texas (Houston). The SEC
case is Securities and Exchange Commission v. Stanford
International Bank, 09-cv-298, U.S. District Court, Northern
District of Texas (Dallas).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston
at   laurel@calkins.us.com ;
Andrew M. Harris in  Chicago  at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha in  San Francisco  at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net . 