-- 
Serbian Central Bank May Hold Interest Rates as Dinar Gains, Survey Says

-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 
2011-05-10T12:28:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/serbian-central-bank-may-hold-interest-rates-as-dinar-gains-survey-says.html
Serbia’s central bank may hold
 Europe ’s highest benchmark interest rate as it waits to see the
effect of three increases this year and a stronger dinar on
inflation, a Bloomberg survey showed.  The Belgrade-based Narodna Banka Srbije will leave its two-
week repurchase rate unchanged at 12.5 percent when it meets on
May 12, according to 10 of 21 economists. Seven see the bank
raising the rate by a quarter-point and three expect an increase
to 13 percent. One predicts a cut to 12.25 percent.  Global rate setters are struggling to contain inflation as
the world economy gathers strength and food and oil prices rise.
The  European Central Bank  raised  interest rates  last month for
the first time in almost three years. ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said yesterday the world’s central bankers are united in
fighting inflation fueled by surging commodity prices and fast-
growing emerging economies.  “The dinar has appreciated substantially since the start
of the year and I do not see any reason for further policy
tightening,” Dusko Vasiljevic of the Belgrade-based Ceves
economics research institute said in a phone interview.  The dinar, which has gained almost 7 percent this year, was
trading at 99.24 to the euro at 2:15 p.m. in Belgrade, according
to Bloomberg data.  Weak domestic consumption, which is “25 percent below pre-
recession levels,” rather than inflation, is the main concern
for the economy, Vasiljevic said. There is little evidence of
domestic demand picking up “after 200,000 people in the formal
economy or 10 percent of all employed persons, lost their jobs
during the crisis.”  Inflationary pressures may subside during the middle of the
year as a result of base effects, he said.  Inflation Outlook  Serbia , which has raised its benchmark rate 4.5 percentage
points since August, had an inflation rate of 14.1 percent in
March. The rate is expected to rise to 14.5 percent in May,
according the median estimate of a Bloomberg survey. April data
is due May 12.  Inflation in Serbia has mainly been driven by food prices.
The Serbian central bank has largely relied on the firming dinar
to fight inflation since the start of 2011, with the double-
digit benchmark rate attracting fresh capital inflows.  The stronger dinar hasn’t stopped price increases, “so you
begin to wonder if inflation results from a lack of competition
or a renewed increase in retail margins,” Ljiljana Grubic, a
researcher at Raiffeisenbank in Belgrade, said in a phone
interview. Grubic expects a cut by the central bank.  ‘Rate Increases’  “Rate increases will only be lifting the cost of
financing for the Serbian budget,” Grubic said, referring to
government plans to step up borrowing in the local market after
the sale of Telekom Srbija AD fell through. “The government
will not be able to afford that high cost of debt.”  The failure to sell Telekom Srbije will affect Serbia’s
“current account funding mix” this year, Hypo Alpe Adria Bank
said in a note to clients yesterday. Hypo Alpe Adria is among
those who still see a need for more rate increases as the
government continues to raise regulated prices, including
electricity and gas.  The government has pledged to raise prices under its
control no more than 9 percent in 2011, central bank governor
Dejan Soskic said in a May 7 interview with Belgrade newspaper
Novosti.  Curbing inflation may be difficult in a pre-election year,
when the government traditionally loosens spending. Serbia must
keep its 2011 fiscal gap below 4.1 percent of gross domestic
product to comply with the terms of a bailout loan from the
 International Monetary Fund , completed last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at   jagomez@bloomberg.net  