-- 
Ex-Langbar CEO Pearson Should Have Known About Fraud, U.K Prosecutor Says

-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 
2011-05-10T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/sheila-bair-leaving-fdic-nasdaq-nyse-portugal-compliance.html
Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.
Chairman  Sheila Bair  will leave her post July 8, a week after
the official expiration of her term, the agency announced
yesterday.  Bair, whose term officially ends June 30, plans to stay the
extra days to finish work on the rule requiring systemically
risky firms to outline how they can be unwound in the event of a
collapse, a person briefed on the matter said.  The final rule on the so-called living wills is to be voted
on during an FDIC board meeting in the first week of July, said
the person, who spoke on condition of anonymity because the plan
isn’t public.  The FDIC rule will require financial companies with at
least $50 billion in assets to provide information on their
debt, funding, capital and cash flows. The plan is designed to
mitigate some of the risks that exacerbated the credit crisis
after  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ)  collapsed in 2008.  Companies failing to submit credible plans could be subject
to more stringent capital, leverage or liquidity requirements as
well as restrictions on their growth, activities or operations,
agency officials have said.  Bair said at a  Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago  meeting May
5 that the Fed and FDIC must be willing to force systemically
important financial firms to create “credible and actionable”
living wills.  Bair, who is serving as the 19th chairman of the agency,
has said she was not interested in renewing her term and intends
to write a book and spend time with her family.  President  Barack Obama  faces several high-level regulatory
vacancies this summer, including the chairman of the FDIC and
the head of the new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, which
is scheduled to officially start work on July 21.  Compliance Action  Nasdaq  Venture Market for Smaller Stocks Gets SEC Approval  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ)  can launch a national market for
“smaller and emerging” companies that fail to qualify for
listing on other exchanges, according to the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission.  The SEC  said  on May 6 it cleared Nasdaq OMX’s BX Venture
Market for companies de-listed from other exchanges or that fail
to meet standards on those venues. The listings are required to
be segregated from higher-quality companies on Nasdaq Stock
Market, the agency said.  BX Venture Market gives companies “the opportunity to list
their securities on an exchange, in an environment that offers
the potential of enhanced liquidity, transparency and
oversight,” the SEC said. Its “second-tier” securities will
face heightened evaluation and surveillance for fraud and
manipulative trading activity by the exchange, the agency said.  Approval comes as the number of U.S. initial public
offerings has fallen over the last two decades amid criticism
that securities markets aren’t as welcoming to smaller companies
because of changes to trading rules and financial regulations.
From 2001 through last year there were 1,984 IPOs, compared with
6,066 in the previous decade, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Eighty companies went public in 2009 and 59 in 2008.  Before that, the last time fewer than 100 companies went
public in the U.S. was 1984.  “We need experimentation,” said James Angel, a finance
professor at  Georgetown University  in  Washington . “We’ve
changed the market structure so it’s not as friendly to small-
cap companies as it should be. We have to try a lot of different
things to see what could work.”  Separately, Nasdaq and  IntercontinentalExchange Inc. (ICE) 
yesterday urged NYSE Euronext shareholders to demand that their
board meet with the two companies before the July 7 vote on a
merger with  Deutsche Boerse AG. (DB1)   NYSE Euronext and  Frankfurt ’s  Deutsche Boerse  agreed in
February to a merger that would create the world’s largest
exchange operator. The board rejected the Nasdaq OMX-ICE offer,
worth $41.95 a share, saying the unsolicited deal would lead to
too much debt and regulatory opposition.  The Nasdaq OMX-ICE proposal would break up NYSE Euronext,
with Nasdaq OMX taking the stock and options trading and the
listings businesses, while ICE would keep  futures markets .  In the letter to shareholders, Nasdaq OMX and ICE cited
their higher price per share, cost synergies and a $350 million
reverse break-up fee. The companies said the regulatory
execution risk that the  NYSE Euronext (NYX)  board cited as a reason
for their rejection is a “red herring.” Deutsche Boerse
approvals will take months after the deal is complete, they
wrote.  “NYSE Euronext management is attempting to divert
attention from its own challenging regulatory approvals by
rushing you through the stockholder approval process,” Nasdaq
OMX and ICE wrote.  For more, click here.  U.S. Treasury Creates Committee to Advise on Insurance Issues  The U.S. Treasury Department said it will create a panel to
advise regulators on insurance issues after the industry
complained it wasn’t getting enough input on the Financial
Stability Oversight Council.  The Federal Advisory Committee on Insurance will advise the
Treasury Department and the director of the new Federal
Insurance Office, the Treasury said in a statement yesterday.  Industry groups, including the  Property Casualty Insurers
Association of America , have said insurance companies need
greater representation on the oversight council, a group of
regulators created to prevent another financial crisis.  Portugal  Probes Rating Companies Following Academics’ Complaint  Portugal’s Attorney General’s Office opened an
investigation of credit-rating companies following a complaint
by four professors who said the companies’ rating actions helped
provoke the country’s financial crisis.  The investigation of Moody’s Investors Service, Standard &
Poor’s Corp. and  Fitch Ratings  is in an initial phase, the
Attorney General’s Office said yesterday in an e-mailed
statement.  The complaint was filed by current and retired professors
including Jose Reis, an economist at Coimbra University, and
Jose Manuel Pureza, a Coimbra University professor who is also a
member of parliament with the Left Bloc party.  Courts  Rajaratnam Jury Asks to Hear More Wiretapped Conversations  Jurors in the insider-trading trial of Galleon Group LLC
co-founder Raj Rajaratnam, began their third week of
deliberations yesterday, listening to a dozen wiretapped
conversations.  Jurors asked to hear recordings of phone conversations
between Rajaratnam and Rajiv Goel, a former Intel Corp.
executive, as well as one between Rajaratnam and his brother,
Rengan Rajaratnam. The conversations primarily concerned an
investment by Intel in a wireless network company to be formed
by  Clearwire Corp. (CLWR)  and  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)  and the planned
acquisition of PeopleSupport Inc. by Essar Group, an Indian
company.  Rajaratnam, 53, is on trial as part of the largest
crackdown on hedge-fund insider trading in U.S. history.
Prosecutors said he gained $63.8 million from tips leaked by
corporate insiders and hedge-fund traders about stocks including
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , Intel and Clearwire.  Rajaratnam defended himself at trial claiming his trades
were the result of Galleon research, not illegal tips.  During the trial, Goel testified that he passed inside
information about Intel’s planned investment in the Clearwire
venture to Rajaratnam, who made about $579,000 in profit from
the information, according to prosecutors. Goel, a former friend
of Rajaratnam, pleaded guilty and testified as a prosecution
witness.  Goel also testified that Rajaratnam made trades in Goel’s
investment account based on inside information about the
PeopleSuppport acquisition.  On May 4, U.S. District Judge Richard Holwell replaced
Juror 2, saying she was forced to withdraw from the panel for
medical reasons that weren’t disclosed publicly. Holwell told
the panel to restart deliberations with the new juror.  The case is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 09-cr-01184, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  ( Manhattan ).  Ex-Langbar CEO Should Have Known of Fraud, U.K Prosecutor Says  Geoffrey Pearson, the former chief executive officer of a
Bermuda-based  investment company  at the center of a fraud
scandal, made false statements to induce investors to buy
worthless shares, a prosecutor told a  London  jury yesterday.  Pearson, 63, has pleaded not guilty to 13 counts of making
misleading statements to the financial markets between June and
October 2005 while he was CEO of Langbar International Ltd.  Langbar was “worthless” and “fraudulent from the
start,” prosecutor Jonathan Caplan said at the beginning of
Pearson’s trial yesterday. The company was set up in  Bermuda  in
June 2003 and began trading on London’s Alternative Investment
Market later that year. Shortly after starting business, Langbar
said it had won South American contracts which it sold for a
profit of around $350 million. Those contracts were a fiction,
as was the money, Caplan told the jury.  Pearson was appointed CEO of the company, formerly known as
Crown Corp., in June 2005. By October of that year, trading in
the company’s shares was suspended. Lawyers for Pearson will
present his defense later in the trial of the case brought by
the  Serious Fraud Office , the U.K. agency responsible for
prosecuting white-collar crime.  Langbar “represented to the market that it was cash rich
to the tune of half-a-billion dollars when it was worthless,
with barely a penny,” Caplan said. While Pearson wasn’t at the
company for long, he was in charge during a “critical time”
for Langbar.  Prosecutors said that, prior to July 2006, shares of the
company were sparsely traded. On the day Pearson was appointed
CEO, 3.5 million shares changed hands. Then, between July and
October, 308 million shares were bought and sold for prices from
40 pence ($0.66) and 88 pence.  While Pearson isn’t accused of setting up the fraud, he
should have found out about it and stopped authorizing
statements to the market, Caplan said.  Comings and Goings  Former SEC Counsel Rejoins Cleary Gottlieb Amid Madoff Scrutiny  David Becker , the former Securities and Exchange Commission
general counsel who has been sued over inherited profits from a
Bernard Madoff account, has rejoined the law firm where he
worked before taking the SEC post.  Becker, 63, returned to  Cleary Gottlieb Steen & Hamilton
LLP  to focus on securities enforcement, corporate governance,
internal investigations and financial regulation, the firm said
yesterday in a statement. Becker, who will be based in
Washington, left the SEC in February after two years in the
position.  Irving H. Picard, the bankruptcy court trustee unwinding
Madoff’s business, sued Becker a week after he announced his
plans to leave the agency. The suit demands that Becker and his
brothers return $1.5 million in what Picard called fictitious
profits from liquidating their mother’s account three years
before the  Ponzi scheme  unraveled.  Becker, who returned to the SEC two months after Madoff was
arrested in December 2008, has said the SEC’s ethics office
cleared his involvement with the case and has said his departure
was unrelated to the Picard lawsuit.  Congressional lawmakers and SEC Inspector General H. David
Kotz have begun investigations into why Becker was permitted to
work on Madoff matters at the SEC even though he had personal
ties to the case.  Madoff pleaded guilty in 2009 to charges related to his
decades-long Ponzi scheme and is serving a 150-year sentence in
federal prison.  Speeches, Interviews and Reports  Bank Bail-in Bonds May Avert ‘Systemic Trauma,’ IIF Says  Bank bail-in bonds could help avoid the “systemic trauma”
caused by the disorderly failure of large financial firms, the
 Institute of International Finance  lobby group said.  Rules for bail-in securities would force bond investors in
failing banks to take losses so governments aren’t forced to tap
taxpayer funds for bailouts. National regulators should agree to
consistent rules on how to resolve failing banks, the IIF wrote
in a report published yesterday. The group represents more than
400 financial firms from  Citigroup Inc. (C)  to  Credit Suisse Group
AG. (CSGN)   “The general objectives of bail-in arrangements should be
to create conditions where any financial firm may be
restructured in an orderly failure in the event it is no longer
able to meet its obligations,” Credit Suisse Chairman Urs Rohner said at a press conference in London yesterday.  Bail-in legislation would create a form of Chapter 11
process for banks that would allow firms to gain time in a
restructuring by swapping debt for equity, said Gerry Cross, the
IIF’s deputy director of regulation. Bail-in laws would allow
regulators to make banks convert bond liabilities into equity,
which they don’t have to repay to investors, he said.  “Bail-in can forestall precipitous loss of value and
systemic shock by recapitalizing the firm and allowing it to be
restructured,” the IIF said in its report. “The objective of
any resolution tools should not be the survival of a failing
firm per se, but rather allowing firms to fail in an orderly way
without any cost to taxpayers.”  Bail-in legislation needs to be coordinated internationally
because impairing the rights of bond investors raises different
legal questions across jurisdictions, the IIF wrote in the
report. National regulators should agree to consistent rules on
how to resolve failing banks, the lobby group said.  The U.K.’s Independent Commission on Banking recommended in
April that the country’s biggest banks implement plans for an
orderly bankruptcy and erect fire breaks around their consumer
units in what it termed “moderate” proposals.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ellen Rosen  in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 