-- 
Silver Lake Said to Reap Three-Fold Return on Skype After Sale

-- B y   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i
-- 
2011-05-10T20:51:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/silver-lake-said-to-reap-three-fold-return-on-skype-after-sale.html
Silver Lake  stands to reap a three-
fold return on its investment in Skype Technologies SA, which
 Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  today agreed to buy for $8.5 billion in cash,
according to a person briefed on the deal.  Silver Lake, part of the group that bought a majority stake
from EBay Inc. 18 months ago in a transaction valuing Skype at
$2.75 billion, put up $900 million in capital, said the person,
asking not to be named because the information is private. The
firm’s 40 percent stake is now worth $3.1 billion, when
adjusting for $775 million in debt Skype reported in April.  Microsoft today agreed to buy Skype, the world’s most
popular Web-calling service, to attract users and narrow  Google
Inc. (GOOG) ’s lead in Web advertising. A purchase would divert Skype,
which is based in Luxembourg, from a plan announced in August to
sell $100 million of shares in an initial public offering.  The private-equity owners have boosted the number of users
and hired a new chief executive officer, former Cisco Systems
Inc. executive Tony Bates. They also helped settle a legal
dispute between EBay and Skype’s founders.  “Skype sits at the intersection of social, mobile and
video communication over the Internet,” said Egon Durban, who
led the investment for  Menlo Park , California-based Silver Lake.
“But it was an orphaned division of a public company and needed
some attention.”  Reviving Online Services  Jennifer Farrelly, a spokeswoman for Silver Lake, declined
to comment on the firm’s returns. Meghan Cross, a spokeswoman
for Skype, didn’t immediately return a call seeking comment.  While the number of registered users grew 40 percent to 663
million last year, Skype has struggled to convert them into
paying customers at the same pace, according to regulatory
filings. The company had a net loss of $6.9 million last year
and said in a filing last month that it “may not achieve
profitability in the coming years.”  Microsoft Chief Executive Officer  Steve Ballmer  is aiming
to revive Microsoft’s online services division, which had an
operating loss of more than $700 million in the three months
that ended in March. The company lags behind Google in Web
search and related advertising.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cristina Alesci in New York at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  