-- 
Microsoft Skype Deal May Strain Relations With AT&T, Verizon

-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 
2011-05-10T20:23:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/skype-s-free-calling-means-buyout-strains-microsoft-s-relations-with-at-t.html
Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  may have a tougher
time convincing wireless operators to support mobile phones with
Windows software after its $8.5 billion purchase of  Skype 
Technologies SA, analysts said.  Skype’s Internet-calling service will be on Windows phones,
as well as Microsoft’s Xbox and Kinect game consoles, the
Redmond, Washington-based company said today. Skype lets members
make free voice and video calls to each other, and calls to most
outsiders for 2.3 cents a minute.  Microsoft’s backing of Skype may be seen as a threat by
wireless carriers such as  AT&T Inc. (T)  and Verizon Wireless because
it could cut into voice revenue, said  Craig Moffett , an analyst
at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. in New York.  “It is kind of a head scratcher to me how Microsoft is
going to navigate the complicated relationships that it has to
have with carriers at the same time as it is repositioning
itself as a potentially major threat to their wireless voice
business,” Moffett said.  Microsoft is trying to expand in mobile devices as it faces
slower growth in personal computers, the traditional market for
its Windows and Office software. The company, which has lost
ground in the smartphone market to  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone and
 Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android devices, introduced the Windows Phone 7
operating system last year and struck a partnership this year to
have  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  use Windows as its primary handset software.  Nokia, the world’s largest mobile-phone maker by unit
sales, said last month it plans to introduce devices running
Windows Phone in volume next year.  Microsoft fell 16 cents to $25.67 in Nasdaq Stock Market
trading at 4 p.m. New York time. It has lost 8 percent this
year. Luxembourg-based Skype is privately held.  ‘Bandwidth Arbitrage’  Software such as Skype’s may cut into revenue for wireless
operators because it allows users to make calls with data
services, just like they do when surfing the Internet, rather
than using traditional voice minutes. Carriers typically charge
customers for voice plans and data plans separately.  Using a data plan for voice or video calls can make them
much cheaper for customers, Moffett said. Google and Apple offer
similar products.  “It’s certainly a threat,” said Moffett, who has an
“outperform” rating on AT&T and an “underperform” on  Verizon
Communications Inc. (VZ) , majority owner of Verizon Wireless. “We’ve
broadly characterized it under the title of bandwidth arbitrage.
Wireless operators make the vast majority of their profits from
low-bandwidth services like voice and text, but those services
are easily arbitraged by doing them over the data network, where
the price per megabyte is a tiny fraction.”  ‘Good Relationships’  Investors may see the Microsoft-Skype combination as a
threat to carriers’ revenue, said  Jonathan Chaplin , an analyst
with Credit Suisse Group AG. Still, Microsoft is unlikely to
push Skype services so aggressively that it threatens carrier
relationships, he said.  The company “needs good relationships with carriers to
drive the adoption of Windows Mobile,” New York-based Chaplin
said in a note to investors. “This will discourage Microsoft
from pushing a disruptive business model with Skype.”  Melissa Havel, a spokeswoman for Microsoft, declined to
comment.  Brenda Raney , a  Verizon Wireless  spokeswoman, and
 Fletcher Cook , an AT&T spokesman, also declined to comment.  Microsoft is likely to integrate Skype into software for
tablet computers as well as mobile phones, said  Colin Gillis , an
analyst with BGC Partners LP in New York. Skype, with 170
million active users, will help boost the popularity of Windows-
powered devices, he said.  Big Knock  “What’s the big knock on Microsoft right now? PCs are
going to be displaced, tablets are going to take over the
world,” Gillis said in an interview. “Throw Skype into this,
that’s going to give them a unique edge.”  If Internet-calling technologies gain in popularity on
mobile devices, wireless operators may respond by changing
prices. Carriers may raise the price of using their networks by
boosting the cost of data plans, Moffett said.  “The simplest thing will be new pricing plans where they
will shift more of the price burden onto data plans to insulate
them,” Moffett said. “There’s a clear vision in the technology
community that voice and text aren’t businesses, they’re
applications.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Amy Thomson in  New York  at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net  