-- 
Slim’s Telmex Said to Build Faster Network to Step Up Internet Competition

-- B y   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n
-- 
2011-05-10T20:17:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/slim-s-telmex-said-to-build-faster-network-to-step-up-internet-competition.html
Telefonos de Mexico SAB, the nation’s
largest phone company, is building a network that will extend
fiber-optic cables to 1 million homes this year, boosting the
speed of its  Internet service  by as much as 10 times, a person
with direct knowledge of the plan said.  The fiber-to-the-home network has already reached thousands
of homes, said the person, who declined to be identified because
the plans are private. Mexico City-based Telmex, controlled by
billionaire  Carlos Slim ’s America Movil SAB, is working on the
project with Alcatel-Lucent, the Paris-based communications-
equipment supplier, the person said.  Telmex plans to deploy the network in 40 cities, the person
said, principally in places where mobile-phone carrier Grupo
Iusacell SA is introducing its own fiber-to-the-home network.
Totalplay, as Iusacell calls the service, markets Internet
speeds of up to 100 megabits a second, compared with the 5
megabits Telmex offers home users in most areas.  “Fiber-to-the-home is the best technology that exists,”
said Martin Lara, an analyst at Corp. Actinver SAB in  Mexico 
City. “It’s going to be good for the consumer.”  With the new network, Telmex plans to offer speeds of 10
megabits, 20 megabits and 50 megabits as it seeks to keep users
from switching to Totalplay and other companies that can offer
packages of phone, Internet and television. Mexico’s government
bars Telmex from offering video service, saying it must comply
with rules governing its connections with competitors. Telmex
says it has already met those requirements.  Verizon, BT  While Telmex will probably focus on high-income areas, its
plan appears “fairly aggressive,” Lara said. Iusacell has said
it expects 300,000 Totalplay customers by the end of next year.
Telmex’s plan is to have 1 million homes capable of receiving
the fiber service, and not all will necessarily be subscribers.  A spokeswoman for Grupo Carso SAB, a holding company
controlled by Slim that has a unit that builds
telecommunications networks, confirmed a fiber-to-the-home
project in Mexico disclosed in the company’s first-quarter
 report  is principally for Telmex. A Telmex spokeswoman said
executives had no comment, and a spokesman for closely held
Iusacell had no immediate comment.  Mary Ward , a spokeswoman for
Alcatel-Lucent, declined to comment.  Phone companies such as  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ)  and BT
Group Plc have invested in fiber-to-the-home networks to provide
new services to customers who are using their phone lines less
in favor of wireless devices. Telmex lost 29,000 phone lines
last quarter for a total of 15.6 million. Fiber networks are
also capable of carrying television signals.  Spending Plan  Axtel SAB, Mexico’s second-largest phone carrier, offers
fiber-to-the-home technology in some markets. Grupo Televisa
SA’s cable units and Megacable Holdings SAB are selling phone,
Internet and TV packages to lure Telmex’s users.  Telmex rose 8 centavos to 10.49 pesos at 4:10 p.m. New York
time in Mexico City trading. The stock has gained 4.8 percent
this year.  Slim, 71, said in January that Telmex will spend 10 billion
pesos ($860 million) in capital investments this year. Of that
amount, 70 percent will go to improving Internet speeds and
quality, Chief Financial Officer Adolfo Cerezo said in February.  Investors will be happy with the fiber plan unless it leads
to an increase in capital investments, Lara of Actinver said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Crayton Harrison in Mexico City at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  