-- 
Small-Business Index in U.S. Fell in April to Seven-Month Low

-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 
2011-05-10T11:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/small-business-index-in-u-s-fell-in-april-to-seven-month-low.html
Confidence among U.S. small companies
fell to a seven-month low in April, damped by a deteriorating
outlook for the economy, a private survey showed.  The  National Federation of Independent Business ’s optimism
index decreased to 91.2, the lowest since September, from 91.9
the prior month, the Washington-based group said today in a
statement. Seven of the measure’s 10 components dropped.  Small-business owners are reluctant to ramp up hiring and
investing until they see a pickup in demand, indicating bigger
gains in employment will be difficult to achieve. The report
also showed the share of survey participants who planned to
raise prices held at the highest level in 30 months, and fewer
owners predicted sales to rise after adjusting for inflation.  “Owners found no reason to be optimistic about the future
and so no reason to pick up the pace of spending and hiring,”
 William Dunkelberg , the group’s chief economist, said in a
statement. “Spending must recover here to get employment up and
running.”  The group’s gauge of expectations for better business
conditions six months from now dropped 3 points to a net minus 8
percent last month. A measure of whether small firms think this
is a good time to expand fell 1 point to a net 4 percent.  The NFIB survey’s net figures are calculated by subtracting
the percent of business owners giving a negative answer from
those with a positive response, and adjusting the results for
seasonal variations.  Hiring Plans  The report showed hiring plans stagnated last month, and a
measure of hard-to-fill job openings dropped 1 point from the
prior month to a net 14 percent. Plans for  capital investment 
fell by 3 points to a net 21 percent.  The net share of owners projecting higher sales, adjusted
for inflation, fell 1 point to 5 percent. At the same time, a
measure of earnings trends increased by 6 points to a net minus
26 percent.  Small businesses planning to increase prices held at a net
24 percent of owners for a second month, according to the
report.  The NFIB report was based on 1985 small-business owners
surveyed through April 29. Small businesses represent more than
99 percent of all U.S. employers and have created 65 percent of
new jobs in the past 17 years, according to the U.S. Small
Business Administration. A small business is defined as an
independent enterprise employing up to 500 people.  To contact the report on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story;
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  