-- 
Soho Spiced Up as Vietnamese Food Escapes East London Enclave

-- B y   R i c h a r d   V i n e s
-- 
2011-05-10T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/soho-gets-spiced-up-as-vietnamese-food-brings-taste-of-east-london-enclave.html
There’s a stretch of street in east
 London  where just about every restaurant is Vietnamese and the
smug food lover might feel justified in thinking that this is a
city rightly famed for its culinary diversity.  The trouble is that once you leave Kingsland Road and head
into the  West End , establishments serving this south-east Asian
cuisine are few in number. Even out east, standards vary greatly
and some venues hedge their bets with a range of Chinese dishes.  Hieu Trung Bui, 35, the Hanoi-born restaurateur who owns
Viet Grill on Kingsland Road, and  Cay Tre  and Keu! on nearby Old
Street, is hoping to change all that with a Cay Tre -- which
means “bamboo” in English -- in the heart of the nightlife
area of Soho, right next to the  Groucho Club , on Dean Street.
The restaurant is scheduled to open on May 13.  “We will do some staple, key dishes of the Vietnamese but
also something new,” Hieu said in an interview. “The point is
to try to use local supplies such as English beef and good
chicken from here. So it’s Vietnamese cooking but with as many
good-quality local ingredients as possible. But all the herbs
and the spices will be from Vietnam, of course.”  Bui moved to  Ho Chi Minh City  -- the former Saigon -- when
he was two years old and was raised there. At the age of 25, he
traveled to London to study. He earned money in his spare time
by working in Vietnamese restaurants.  “The food wasn’t really what I was used to eating in
Vietnam,” he said. “Many of the Vietnamese in the U.K. fled
from the country after the war with the Americans, and at that
time we didn’t have so many things to eat. So they brought over
here all that street food, just a few dishes, and they had to
fill up their menu with something else.  Spring Rolls  “Most of them stayed in a camp in  Hong Kong  for a couple
of years and learnt about Chinese food and thought that is the
food to have for a big meal and Vietnamese is like a starter. So
they opened restaurants that way. They have 10 or 15 Vietnamese
dishes, like noodles or pho or spring rolls, and the rest is
chicken with black bean sauce, crispy duck, things like that.”  Bui is being backed by Ratnesh Bagdai, an accountant by
training who formerly worked for the Caprice Group, opening J
Sheekey and then became the business partner of the chef Mark Hix, among others. Bagdai also provides accountancy services for
 Russell Norman , whose Polpo, Polpetto and Spuntino are among 
London’s must successful new restaurants. He started working 
with Bui two years ago.  “Looking around internationally, --  New York  in particular
-- I’m surprised that London hasn’t quite grasped Vietnamese
food,” said Bagdai. “I’m really excited. I love the food
anyway. Vietnamese food, for my taste, fits all purposes: light,
seasonal, great ingredients and great, great flavors. In Soho,
there is a way of eating these days and it is light and it is
sharing.  Right Concept  “In terms of borrowing, if you’ve got the right concept,
the right person behind it, a little bit of financial guidance,
I can take most people to the bank and get the money. It’s a
great state of affairs in London: Restaurants are doing very
well.”  Cay Tre won’t have the field entirely to itself. Caprice
Holdings Ltd. owns Bam-Bou, an Indochinese venue in Fitzrovia,
while Nam Long Le Shaker, on the Old Brompton Road, treads a
similar culinary path, albeit one illuminated by the Flaming
Ferrari, a cocktail the sober might approach with trepidation.  “I was supposed to leave the country after I finished my
degree but I thought these dishes I have here are not the ones I
have in  Vietnam  and I like food,” Bui said. “I was eating out
all the time, so I asked my mom and friends and we found a place
in Old Street and we opened Cay Tre in 2003.  “For the first six months we had to stick with a couple of
Chinese things but then Mark (Hix) -- he was at the (nearby)
Rivington Grill then -- came in and said, ‘Get rid of it.’ So I
took all the Chinese food off the menu. I opened Viet Grill in
2006. If you come to Kingsland Road on a Saturday night, you
have about 15 restaurants and all are busy. You go to Chinatown
for a Chinese meal and come to Kingsland Road for Vietnamese.  “Authentic Vietnamese food isn’t new in  Australia , or
America or  France  but we want to change the perception in
London. There’s a much more delicate cuisine in the cities in
Vietnam -- much less basic -- and I want people to try it.”  (Richard Vines is the chief food critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Richard Vines in London at 
 rvines@bloomberg.net  or  http://twitter.com/Richardvines   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 