-- 
Republicans Seek Obama Response on NLRB’s Boeing Complaint

-- B y   H o l l y   R o s e n k r a n t z
-- 
2011-05-10T19:37:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/south-carolina-governor-seeks-obama-action-on-nlrb-s-boeing-case.html
Republicans demanded that President
 Barack Obama  respond to a complaint against  Boeing Co. (BA)  by the
 National Labor Relations Board , saying the agency’s action on a
 South Carolina  airplane factory may crimp  job creation .  “For the president to not weigh in on this is a problem,”
Republican South Carolina Governor Nikki Haley said today after
a meeting at the  U.S. Chamber of Commerce  to discuss the case.
“We need to see leadership. This is an unbelievable attack on a
state” that is attempting “to put people to work.”  The labor board, which mediates disputes, found last month
that Boeing chose to build a factory in South Carolina over
adding a line in Washington state because of a history of labor
strikes in the Puget Sound area. Boeing doesn’t have to shut the
South Carolina plant as long as it opens a second line in
Washington, according to the board’s remedy.  “By doing this to Boeing, they are forcing them to spend
legal fees, and keeping them from spending money in South
Carolina, which I need them to do,” Haley said.  A hearing on the Boeing case is set for June 14 in  Seattle .
Lafe Solomon, the NLRB acting general counsel, said yesterday in
a statement that “there is nothing remarkable or
unprecedented” in the complaint against Chicago-based Boeing,
and it was issued only after a “thorough investigation in the
field” and a “careful review” by attorneys.  Solomon Nomination  Republicans and Boeing criticized the board over the
complaint. Republican senators are urging Obama to withdraw the
nomination of Solomon, who filed the case, to be NLRB general
counsel. Boeing has faced increased labor tension, with a strike
by engineers and four by the Machinists Union since 1989,
including a two-month walkout at the end of 2008.  “The president could fix this,” said  Senator Lindsey Graham , a South Carolina Republican. “He could remove Mr.
Solomon. He will never see the light of day in the Senate.”  The Republican reaction to the board’s action is “overly
dramatic” and “disturbing,” said Senator  Tom Harkin , an Iowa
Democrat who heads the committee that consider Solomon’s
nomination.  “Republicans have chosen to spend their time attacking the
handling of a routine unfair labor practice charge,” he said in
an e-mail.  Party leaders should back programs that create jobs and not
on attacking the  labor movement , Harkin said. “Unions are one
of the few voices left in our society speaking up for the little
guy, and if we let powerful CEOs trample all over these rights
without consequences, we might as well give up on having a
middle class altogether,” he said.  Graham and Senator Lamar Alexander, a Tennessee Republican,
said they will introduce legislation before the end of the week
that would seek to prevent similar complaints from the NLRB. The
bill would prohibit federal action against states that pass laws
allowing workers to opt out of joining a labor union.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Holly Rosenkrantz in  Washington  at 
 hrosenkrantz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  