-- 
South Korea Producer Prices Held Near a 28-Month High in April

-- B y   E u n k y u n g   S e o
-- 
2011-05-10T21:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/south-korea-producer-prices-held-near-a-28-month-high-in-april.html
South Korea ’s producer-price
inflation held near a 28-month high, bolstering the case for the
nation’s central bank to raise interest rates for a third time
this year when they meet on May 13.  Prices increased 6.8 percent in April from a year earlier,
after climbing 7.3 percent in March, the Bank of Korea said in a
statement in  Seoul  today. They rose 0.3 percent from a month
earlier.  Consumer-price gains, which also moderated last month, are
still above the central bank’s 4 percent target ceiling,
increasing the likelihood policy makers will tighten further to
prevent higher costs from derailing growth. The central bank
will raise its benchmark seven-day repurchase rate by 25 basis
points to 3.25 percent this week, according to 12 of 14
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  “Inflation expectations in  Korea  are not well anchored,”
Wai Ho Leong, a senior regional economist at  Barclays Capital  in
 Singapore , said in a report before the figures were released. He
forecasts three more interest-rate increases in May, July and
September, taking the benchmark to 3.75 percent by the end of
this year.  Consumer prices rose 4.2 percent in April from a year
earlier, after a 4.7 percent gain in March. The expected
inflation rate over the next year stood at 4 percent in April,
the fastest pace since June 2009, according to a central bank
report last month.  Governor Kim Choong Soo and his board left borrowing costs
unchanged last month after two quarter-point increases in
January and March. Kim said on April 12 that the bank was
“determined to normalize”  interest rates  at a pace that is
neither too slow nor too fast.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  