-- 
Southern Sudan Clashes in Warrap State Kill 72 People, Army Spokesman Says

-- B y   M a t t   R i c h m o n d
-- 
2011-05-10T13:19:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/southern-sudan-clashes-in-warrap-state-kill-72-people-army-spokesman-says.html
Southern Sudanese rebels and cattle
herders clashed in Warrap state, leaving at least 72 people
dead, army spokesman Philip Aguer said.  Fighting in the area erupted after  Southern Sudan ’s army
pursued the rebels out of neighboring Unity state, Aguer said by
phone today from the southern capital, Juba. At least 34
civilians died in the clashes in Warrap state that took place on
May 8 and yesterday, he said.  “The army chased them towards Warrap state where they tried
to raid some cattle camps,” Aguer said.  The violence adds to a series of conflicts in the region
that have overshadowed  Southern Sudan ’s preparations for
independence in July. Fighting has killed more than 1,000 people
this year and displaced at least 93,783 in Southern Sudan,
according to the  United Nations .  The Rome-based  World Food Programme  said that it had
stopped operating in parts of Jonglei and Lakes states on April
26 after one of its employees was killed and one of its trucks
commandeered by the southern army. The shutdown denied food
rations to about 235,000 people in the affected areas.  Army Attack  The fighting in Unity state started when southern
government forces attacked the rebel South  Sudan  Liberation
Army, which is led by former army officer Peter Gadet, a
spokesman for the group said.  “This is the first time that they have attacked us,” Bol
Gatkouth Kol said by phone today.  The SSLA announced its formation on April 11 by issuing a
 declaration  accusing the regional government of corruption and
failing to halt a breakdown in law and order.  Gideon Datpan, Unity state’s information minister,
described the fighting as a “cleanup operation” by southern
government forces against Gadet’s militia.  The authorities in Southern Sudan say the group is backed
by President Umar al-Bashir’s government in Khartoum and that
Gadet is mobilizing a northern nomadic tribe, the Misseriya, to
fight with his forces in Unity state.  At independence, Southern Sudan will assume control of
about three-quarters of Sudan’s current oil production of
490,000 barrels a day, pumped mainly by China National Petroleum
Corp.,  Malaysia ’s Petroliam Nasional Bhd. and  India ’s Oil &
Natural Gas Corp. Sudan had 5 billion barrels of proven oil
reserves as of January 2010, according to the  U.S. Energy
Information Administration .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Richmond in Juba, Sudan via Johannesburg at 
1999 or  pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 