-- 
Soybean Prospects in Brazil, Argentina Improve, Oil World Says

-- B y   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s
-- 
2011-05-10T13:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/soybean-prospects-in-brazil-argentina-improve-oil-world-says.html
Soybean crop prospects in Brazil and
 Argentina , the second- and third-biggest exporters of the
oilseed behind the U.S., have improved, researcher Oil World
said in a report today.  Growers in Brazil will produce 73 million metric tons of
soybeans, up from a record 68.7 million tons a year ago, and
farmers in Argentina will harvest 49.5 million tons, up 1
percent from a prior estimate, according to the report.  World consumption of soybeans is expected by the  U.S.
Department of Agriculture  to jump 7.5 percent to 255.8 million
tons in the year through Aug. 31.  In Argentina, “soybean production prospects have improved,
primarily in Chaco and in the northern regions where initial
harvesting has been made,” the researcher said. In  Brazil ,
“soybean production has turned out higher than expected and
probably surpassed last year’s record.”  Soybean futures for July delivery increased for a third
session, gaining 0.7 percent to $13.4375 a bushel in  Chicago .
The price has jumped 1.7 percent in the past three sessions.  Farmers in Argentina have been reluctant to sell soybeans,
Oil World said. Only 2 percent of the crop sold in March, down
from 4 percent a year earlier, and 5 percent sold in April,
compared with 10 percent in 2010, according to the report.
Farmers had sold only a fourth of this year’s soybean crop, a
six-year low, selling corn and wheat first, the researcher said.  Planting Delays  Growers also may be hoping for higher prices as planting
delays in  North America  contribute to higher prices, according
to the report. Political doubt in Argentina, which has national
elections on Oct. 23, may also be curbing selling by farmers,
Oil World said.  Export sales in the country totaled 800,000 tons in April,
down from 2.3 million tons a year ago, and will also be down
“sharply” from last year in May according to shipment
nominations, Oil World said. Exports will total about 2 million
tons this month, down from 2.62 million a year earlier,
according to the report.  Farmers in the  Commonwealth of Independent States  will
expand production of the oilseed, Oil World said. Output in the
region, which includes Russia, Ukraine and  Kazakhstan , will be
3.54 million tons, up 14 percent from 2010, according to the
report. The Ukraine crop may be 1.9 million tons, the most-ever,
and exports may reach a record 1.1 million tons, Oil World said.  “Soybeans have enjoyed increasing attractiveness among
farmers in several regions owing to improved yields and
favorable returns per hectare,” the researcher said. “Ukraine
is likely to harvest a record soybean crop, which may boost
soybean exports to a record.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony C. Dreibus in  London  at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter@bloomberg.net . 