-- 
Allen Stanford Faces Sept. 12 Criminal Trial

-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s   a n d   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 
2011-05-11T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/stanford-s-7-billion-criminal-fraud-trial-set-for-sept-12-1-.html
Financier R. Allen Stanford is
scheduled to go on trial Sept. 12 in Houston trial on charges he
led a $7 billion investor fraud with jury selection.  Stanford, 61, was indicted in June 2009 on 21 criminal
charges he misled investors about the safety and oversight of
certificates of deposit issued by his Antigua-based Stanford
International Bank Ltd. Last week, prosecutors re-indicted the
financier on narrower charges, dropping seven allegations.  Declaring that the superseding indictment contained “no
basic changes in the relevant counts,” U.S. District Judge
David Hittner yesterday signed an order setting Stanford’s trial
to start with jury selection in about four months.  Stanford, who denies all wrongdoing, has been imprisoned as
a flight risk since he was arrested almost two years ago. His
trial was to begin Jan. 24, until Hittner postponed the case to
allow Stanford to undergo drug rehabilitation in a prison
facility.  Hittner found Stanford mentally unfit to assist in his
defense as a result of an addiction to prescription anxiety
drugs he acquired while in prison. Stanford has been undergoing
detox treatment at the hospital unit at the federal prison in
Butner,  North Carolina , since mid-February.  “Our client has been found incompetent and is currently
still in Butner,” Ali Fazel, one of Stanford’s criminal-defense
lawyers, said in a phone interview yesterday. He declined to
comment further, citing the judge’s order not to discuss the
case publicly.  Laura Sweeney , a Justice Department spokeswoman, also
declined to comment, citing Hittner’s gag order on lawyers in
the case.  The criminal case is U.S. v. Stanford, 09-cr-342, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of  Texas  (Houston).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston
at   laurel@calkins.us.com ;
Andrew M. Harris in  Chicago  at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha in  San Francisco  at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net . 