-- 
Starwood Property First-Quarter Profit Jumps on Commercial Loan Portfolio

-- B y   B r i a n   L o u i s
-- 
2011-05-10T12:04:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/starwood-property-first-quarter-profit-jumps-on-commercial-loan-portfolio.html
Starwood Property Trust Inc. (STWD) , the
real estate investor founded by  Barry Sternlicht , reported
higher first-quarter earnings as the company’s expanding
commercial lending portfolio boosted income.  Net income attributable to Starwood rose to $31.4 million,
or 43 cents a share, from $5.9 million, or 12 cents, a year
earlier, the Greenwich, Connecticut-based company said in a
statement today.  Starwood is making loans and buying debt and securities
tied to offices, shopping centers, apartments, warehouses and
hotels as the U.S. commercial property market recovers. The
company invested $403.1 million in the first quarter, bringing
the total investments since the company was created to $2.1
billion.  “As the value of commercial property recovers, the pace of
property transactions and related loan originations and loan
sales has risen dramatically,” Sternlicht, chairman and chief
executive officer of Starwood, said in the statement.  Sternlicht, 50, is the former chairman of  Starwood Hotels &
Resorts Worldwide Inc. (HOT)  Starwood Property had its initial public
offering in August 2009.  Starwood Property increased the dividend for the second
quarter to 44 cents from 42 cents in the previous three months.
The company forecast “core earnings” of $1.80 to $1.95 a share
this year. Core earnings exclude non-cash equity compensation
expenses and any unrealized gains or losses.  “They continue to position themselves pretty well,”
Joshua Barber, an analyst at Stifel Nicolaus & Co. in Baltimore,
said before the report. “They’re making a lot of good
investments.”  Starwood Property’s results were released before the open
of regular U.S. trading. The shares rose less than 1 percent to
$22.71 yesterday in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.
They have gained 5.7 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Louis in  Chicago  at 
 blouis1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net . 