-- 
States Said to Alter Mortgage Accord as Banks, Republicans Balk at Terms

-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n   a n d   K a r e n   F r e i f e l d
-- 
2011-05-10T21:54:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/states-said-to-alter-mortgage-accord-as-banks-republicans-balk.html
U.S. states probing foreclosure
practices revised a nationwide settlement proposal after banks
and eight Republican  attorneys general  objected to mortgage loan
principal cuts, two people familiar with the talks said.  The provision of the original 27-page term-sheet submitted
by the states and  Justice Department  would encourage defaults,
the banks and eight attorneys general said. Revisions of the
proposal reflect earlier talks with the banks, one of the people
said, without disclosing terms of the new accord. The new terms
were sent last week to lenders including  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) 
and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)   Republican attorneys general met today in Atlanta to
discuss the issue, said Adam Temple of the Republican State
Leadership Committee. A representative of the American Bankers
Association, which represents the banking industry, told them
that principal reductions don’t work.  The seven-month probe by all 50 states was triggered by
claims of faulty foreclosure practices after the housing
collapse, which state officials said may violate their laws. In
addition to Bank of America and JPMorgan,  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) ,
 Citigroup Inc. (C)  and  Ally Financial  Inc. are involved in talks
with the states. The five banks control more than half of the
mortgage servicing market, Iowa Attorney General Tom Miller, who
leads the state probe, has said.  Miller, a Democrat, didn’t return a call seeking comment on
the new proposal. Jumana Bauwens, a spokeswoman for Bank of
America and  Thomas Kelly , a spokesman for New York-based
JPMorgan, declined to comment.  Lenders Object  During a recent call between states officials and the
banks, some lenders said they opposed any settlement term that
would reduce loan balances, according to one of the people
familiar with the talks. The banks argued a principal writedown
plan would encourage homeowners to default, a notion some
attorneys general on the call disputed, the person said.  Representatives of banks said they were open to other types
of loan modifications, including changing interest payments,
said the person.  While the original term-sheet required “a substantial
portion of monetary relief” go toward loan modifications
including principal reductions, one of the people said the
states may seek money to pay restitution to homeowners who were
wrongly subjected to foreclosure.  Principal Reductions  At today’s meeting in Atlanta, Bob Davis, an executive vice
president with the  American Bankers Association , said in an
interview that he told the group that principal reductions don’t
work. Loan balances must be reduced so much for borrowers
struggling to make payments that it is a better deal for lenders
to foreclose instead, he said.  “Principal reductions don’t substantially improve the cash
flow problem,” Davis said. “You can’t lower principal enough
to make it an attractive tool.”  In talks over the initial proposal, the states agreed on
some terms while failing to reach an accord on how much lenders
would pay to fund principal reductions, a third person familiar
with the talks said in April. As of yesterday, the states had
yet to give the banks a proposed dollar amount, one of the
people familiar with the revised proposal said.  Federal Settlement  Earlier this year, mortgage servicers agreed with U.S.
banking regulators to a series of reforms, including conducting
a review of loans that went into foreclosure in 2009 and 2010
and improving procedures for modifying loans and seizing homes.  The proposals for a nationwide settlement by the states and
federal government seek to set requirements for how banks
service loans and conduct home foreclosures.  Any state agreement with banks on principal reductions will
depend on the size of the writedowns and the incentives provided
servicers, the third person said.  A final agreement could take as long as four months to
reach, a fourth person involved in the talks has said. All four
declined to be identified because the matter is confidential.  Oklahoma  Attorney General Scott Pruitt, a Republican, said
last month he may negotiate an alternative accord with the banks
if the national settlement turns out to be “inconsistent with
our conviction.”  Pruitt said in a letter to Miller in March that forcing
lenders to reduce mortgage balances would take away incentives
for banks to loan money and “destroy an already devastated
housing market.”  Targeting States  Besides Oklahoma, state attorneys general who have
criticized the proposal to reduce principal balances are
 Florida ,  Texas , South Carolina,  Virginia ,  Alabama ,  Nebraska  and
 Georgia . Attorneys general for Florida, Georgia and Alabama were
among the officials meeting in Atlanta today, Temple said.  The modified settlement proposal comes after government
officials revealed that at least one bank has been targeting
individual states for talks related to the foreclosure
settlement.  Charlotte , North Carolina-based Bank of America was accused
on a conference call by a top official at Miller’s office of
engaging in a divide-and-conquer strategy by undermining support
for a settlement of the state probe, a person on the call said.  The bank tried to get attorneys general to break away from
those supporting the original deal, Iowa Assistant Attorney
General Patrick Madigan said during the recent call, according
to the person. Another person familiar with the settlement talks
said the bank sought to sow dissent among the states. Both asked
not to be identified because the talks are private.  ‘Shared Research’  Lauren Kane, a spokeswoman for Georgia Attorney General Sam Olens, has said a bank, which she declined to identify,
discussed with her office the federal regulator settlement. Adam
Piper, a spokesman for  South Carolina  Attorney General Alan
Wilson, said last month two banking representatives “shared
research” with his office and “pointed out some concerns with
certain provisions.”  Jennifer Meale, a spokeswoman for Florida Attorney General
Pam Bondi, said last month that her office has “had general
discussions with banks about how the matter might be resolved.”  Diane Clay, a spokeswoman for Oklahoma’s Pruitt, has said
several “industry representatives” have been in contact with
her office. It’s unclear whether Pruitt’s proposal of a new
settlement agreement is related to the modified plan under
consideration by the states and banks.  Clay didn’t return a call seeking comment on the new plan.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David McLaughlin in  New York  at   dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net  and;
Karen Freifeld in New York at   kfreifeld@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  