-- 
Subbarao Says India Requires Capital Inflows to Finance Deficit

-- B y   K a r t i k   G o y a l
-- 
2011-05-10T14:06:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/subbarao-says-india-requires-capital-inflows-to-finance-deficit.html
India ’s concerns about capital
inflows are “less acute” than other countries because it needs
the funds to finance its current-account deficit, central bank
Governor Duvvuri Subbarao said.  After the U.S. announced its second round of quantitative
easing in August 2010, “the prospect of easy liquidity in the
U.S. seemed to prompt a large increase in capital flows to
emerging market economies, threatening domestic price and
financial stability,” Subbarao said in Zurich today, according
to a speech e-mailed by the  Reserve Bank  of India. The U.S. move
also seemed to stoke global commodity prices, he said.  “This combination has put some emerging market economies
in a policy bind, but higher  interest rates  will only intensify
capital inflows, potentially putting more pressure on exchange
rates and domestic stability,” he said. “In India’s case, the
concerns on this account currently are less acute since capital
flows are needed to finance our current-account deficit.”  Higher inflow of funds has strengthened Asian currencies,
led by  Indonesia ’s rupiah and the Singapore dollar. The rupiah
gained 5 percent this year and the Singapore dollar has advanced
4 percent. The Indian rupee has weakened 0.1 percent during the
period, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  India’s current-account deficit, a measure of trade and
investment flows, narrowed to $9.7 billion in the three months
ended Dec. 31. from a $16.8 billion shortfall in the previous
quarter, according to the central bank.  “Yet even for us, the composition of the inflows remains
an issue,” Subbarao said. “About three-quarters of the
current-account deficit has been financed by volatile capital
inflows.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kartik Goyal in  New Delhi  
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  