-- 
Swiss Consumer Prices Rise Less Than Economists Forecast

-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 
2011-05-10T07:41:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/swiss-consumer-prices-rise-less-than-economists-forecast-2-.html
Swiss consumer prices increased less
than economists forecast in April, giving the central bank room
to keep borrowing costs on hold next month.  Consumer prices rose 0.3 percent from a year earlier after
advancing 1 percent in March, the  Federal Statistics Office  in
Neuchatel said in an e-mailed statement today. Economists had
forecast a gain of 0.6 percent, according to the median of 11
estimates in a Bloomberg News survey. In the month, consumer
prices rose 0.1 percent.  Swiss central bank President Philipp Hildebrand said on
April 29 the franc’s appreciation has helped keep inflation
developments “moderate so far.” European Central Bank
President  Jean-Claude Trichet  signaled last week that the bank
may keep borrowing costs on hold next month after increasing the
benchmark interest rate for the first time in almost three years
in April to fight inflation threats.  “People expected a higher inflation rate,” said Reto Huenerwadel, an economist at UBS AG in Zurich. “One shouldn’t
over-interpret the April reading, however. We’ll see a stronger
inflation threat emerging in the future.”  The franc dropped after the release, trading as low as
1.2623 against the euro. It was at 1.2602 at 9:36 a.m. in Zurich
and traded at 87.77 centimes against the dollar.  Core Inflation  The franc has strengthened 13 percent against the euro over
the past year, helping contain price pressures by making
imported goods more affordable. Surging energy costs are driving
inflation across the 17-member euro-region economy and prompted
the ECB to raise its benchmark rate by 25 basis points to 1.25
percent last month.  The cost of fuel rose 5.9 percent from a year earlier,
while heating oil was 16 percent more expensive, today’s report
showed. Prices of imported  consumer goods  dropped 0.5 percent,
while domestic goods were 0.5 percent more expensive. Consumer
prices, excluding volatile components such as food and energy
costs, slipped 0.1 percent in the year.  The  Swiss National Bank  in March left its benchmark rate
unchanged near zero. Hildebrand has said that the SNB “will not
hesitate to take all measures necessary to ensure  price
stability  in our country, also in the future.”  The Zurich-based central bank on March 17 forecast
inflation to average 0.8 percent this year and 1.1 percent in
2012 before reaching 2 percent in 2013.  Switzerland ’s inflation
rate, using a European Union harmonized method, rose 0.1 percent
from a year earlier in April.  The SNB is scheduled to hold its next monetary policy
assessment on June 16.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  