-- 
Syria’s Bid for UN Human Rights Council Said to Be Derailed

-- B y   B i l l   V a r n e r
-- 
2011-05-10T20:08:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/syria-s-bid-for-un-human-rights-council-said-to-be-derailed.html
Syria  is likely to drop its bid for a
seat on the United Nations  Human Rights Council  under pressure
from nations that condemn its repression of protesters,  Egypt ’s
ambassador to the world body said.  “ Kuwait  will run now and Syria will run in 2013,”
Ambassador Maged Abdelaziz said in an interview. He said Kuwait
has agreed to become a candidate for one of four seats on the
Geneva-based panel that will go to Asian nations when the UN
General Assembly elects 15 new members on May 20.  Abdelaziz said UN envoys have been trying to convince
Syrian Ambassador Bashar Ja’afari that it would be wise to
withdraw rather than face almost certain defeat in the election.
Ja’afari is waiting today to hear from his government and Kuwait
is waiting to declare its candidacy, Abdelaziz said.  Kuwait is the “best bet” of Arab nations to retain a seat
on the  Human Rights Council , a greater priority after  Libya  was
suspended from the panel on March 1, Abdelaziz said.  “This is something we have been talking to Bashar about
for a week,” he said. “We see this as the most sensible thing
to do, and I think Damascus will realize that it is very
dangerous to go into the election and suffer defeat.”  In the event Syria doesn’t withdraw, Kuwait won’t publicly
seek the Asian seat on the Human Rights Council, Abdelaziz said.  Ja’afari said his government hasn’t decided to pull out of
the race, and Kuwait’s mission had no comment.  Syrian Protests  Syrian security forces clamped down today on protesters
across greater Damascus and flash-point cities including Daraa,
surrounding the areas and carrying out arrests, human rights
groups said.  The Syrian uprising drew initial pledges of reform from
President Bashar al-Assad, who lifted an emergency law in place
since 1963 and appointed a new government. He hasn’t repeated
the assurances in recent weeks as the security forces have
stepped up their attacks, sending tanks into Daraa and other
cities.  The Geneva-based human rights group UN Watch said in
statement today that Syria is “expected to drop its bid” for a
seat on the council, while also citing the U.S. State
Department’s assessment that Kuwaitis have “limited freedoms of
speech, press, assembly, association and religion.”  The UN General Assembly, consisting of all 192 UN member
governments, will elect the 15 new members to the 47-nation
council in a secret ballot. The votes of 97 countries are needed
for election to a three-year term.  Syria in January was one of four countries endorsed by
Asian nations for four seats that will go to nations from that
continent. Kuwait has been scheduled to be a candidate for the
council in 2013.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bill Varner at the  United Nations  at 
 wvarner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  