-- 
Syrian Security Forces Surround Restive Areas, Make Arrests, Group Says

-- B y   M a s s o u d   A .   D e r h a l l y
-- 
2011-05-10T14:17:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/syrian-forces-crack-down-on-protesters-across-damascus-carry-out-arrests.html
Syrian security forces clamped down
on protesters across greater Damascus and flashpoint cities
including Daraa, surrounding the areas and carrying out arrests,
human rights groups said.  Authorities encircled the Damascus district of al-Muadamiya
late yesterday and detained large numbers of pro-democracy
protesters in the suburbs, including Barzeh and Douma, Mahmoud Merhi of the Arab Organization for Human Rights said in a phone
interview from  Syria  today. Gunfire was heard in al-Muadamiya
and about 100 people were arrested yesterday in the capital and
its suburbs, said Ammar Qurabi, head of Syria’s National
Organization for Human Rights. He said no deaths were reported.
Security forces entered three villages outside Daraa, he said.  “The periphery of Daraa is surrounded, which is a clear
indication that the crisis is still not over,” Merhi said. The
government said May 5 that the army had begun a gradual retreat
from the southern town, where anti-government protests began in
mid-March, after completing its mission by detaining “terrorist
elements and restoring security and calm.”  The Syrian uprising drew initial pledges of reform from
President Bashar al-Assad, who lifted an emergency law in place
since 1963 and appointed a new government. He hasn’t repeated
the assurances in recent weeks as the security forces have
stepped up their attacks, sending tanks into Daraa and other
cities.  Deaths, Detentions  The continuing repression of protests in Syria and Yemen
comes after revolts against longtime leaders in Egypt and
 Tunisia  helped spread unrest throughout the Middle East.  Since the protests began in March, 757 demonstrators have
been killed, Qurabi said today. As many as 10,000 may have been
detained, he said. In Daraa, a curfew was in effect and several
mosques have been barred from calling worshippers to prayers,
while about 450 people have been arrested in the last three days
in the coastal city of  Banias , Qurabi said yesterday.  Bouthaina Shaaban, a political adviser to the president,
met with a number of activists and intellectuals, Louay Hussein
a writer and activist who met with Shaaban this week, said in a
telephone interview from Damascus today.  ‘Positive Discussion’  “It was a positive discussion,” he said. “We asked that
the authorities begin releasing pro-democracy activists who have
been detained, as a sign of goodwill. We asked that attacks on
protesters stop, that people have the right to assemble in
peace, that the media has access to sites where demonstrations
are taking place, and after this we can engage in a political
dialogue.”  The state “has a problem now in trying to transition
toward a political solution,” Hussein said. “There needs to be
a dialogue between activists, intellectuals, writers, lawyers
and the government.”  Hassan Abdel-Azim, a spokesman for the opposition
Democratic National Group who was arrested April 30 at his
office in Damascus, was released late yesterday, Merhi said.
Malak al-Shanawani, a feminist activist, was arrested today,
Merhi said.  Surrender Urged  The Interior Ministry said 1,083 people “involved in riot
acts” have turned themselves into authorities so far in
response to a government announcement that those who surrender
between May 2 and 15 will be exempt from prosecution and
punishment, the official SANA news agency reported yesterday. It
said they were released after they vowed not to repeat any act
that harms the security of the state or its citizens.  The president’s British-born wife Asma, 35, may have gone
to the U.K. with her three children amid the increasing violence
in Syria, the London-based  Daily Mail  reported, citing a high-
ranking person in Arab diplomatic circles. Asma al-Assad holds
Syrian and British nationality. A spokesman for the U.K. Foreign
Office declined to comment on the report, saying it doesn’t
release information on travel by British individuals. A Home
Office spokesman said it doesn’t comment on individual cases.  Most foreign journalists have been banned from Syria and
the government has restricted media access to protest
flashpoints and made it more difficult to get visas.  U.S., EU Sanctions  The U.S. has imposed sanctions on Syrian government
officials because of the violent crackdown on protests. The
European Union imposed an embargo on exports to Syria of arms
and equipment as well as a visa ban and an asset freeze
targeting 13 Syrian officials and their associates who have been
identified as being responsible for repression against the
nation’s civilian population.  Among the officials is the president’s brother, Maher al-
Assad, who heads the army’s fourth division and the Republican
Guard. Others on the list include Ali Mamlouk, who heads the
General intelligence Service; Interior Minister Mohammad Ibrahim
al-Shaar; Rami Makhlouf, a businessman who is a cousin of the
president; and Rustom Ghazaleh, head of military intelligence.  “The solution to the crisis has to be political; there is
no other solution,” Merhi said. “If there are no tangible
steps on the ground there will be no end to the crisis.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Massoud A Derhally in  Beirut , Lebanon, at 
 mderhally@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 