-- 
U.K. Plans Stronger Media Regulation as It Reviews Privacy Laws

-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 
2011-05-10T15:27:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/u-k-plans-stronger-media-regulation-as-it-reviews-privacy-laws.html
U.K. Culture Secretary Jeremy Hunt
said he plans to expand regulation of all media amid controversy
over the use of the Internet to override super-injunctions used
by prominent people to prevent adverse publicity.  Celebrities who won court orders blocking British
newspapers from publishing stories about their private lives are
finding their legal protection invalidated after an anonymous
user of Twitter Inc. posted a series of messages May 8 making
allegations detailing the activities they sought to keep out of
the public eye.  “We are in a situation where technology, and Twitter in
particular, is making a mockery of the privacy laws that we
have, and we do need to think about the regulatory
environment,” Hunt told reporters in  London  today. “It should
be Parliament that decides where we draw the line on our privacy
law.”  Hunt said he plans to start a public consultation next week
on the contents of a new bill on communications regulation with
a view to bringing in the legislation next year. That might
entail bringing Web-based media into line with laws governing
newspapers and broadcasters.  At the same time, Justice Secretary Kenneth Clark is
awaiting the results of an inquiry by a senior judge before
deciding how to proceed with reforming privacy laws. That report
by the Master of the Rolls, David Neuberger, is scheduled to be
published this month. Hunt said he and Clark will work together
on the future of the law on privacy. The government is also
awaiting a report on a proposed Bill of Rights intended to
clarify the role of European conventions on human rights under
domestic laws.  ‘Crazy Situation’  “We are in this crazy situation where information is
available freely online that you are not able to print in
newspapers,” Hunt said. “In the long term there is a big
question that we have to look at, which is whether the way that
we regulate different types of media need to start to converge,
because at the moment we have totally different regulatory
regimes for different types of media, and yet every media
organization is in the process of developing products that
operate across platforms.”  Privacy rulings have been on the rise since Formula One
President Max Mosley won a ruling in 2008 that his privacy
rights were violated by a story in  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s News of the
World newspaper about a Nazi-themed sex party.  The flurry of rulings brought opposition from Prime
Minister David Cameron, who said Parliament, and not the courts,
should set privacy law. One lawmaker estimated as many as 30 of
the orders have been issued, with at least four granted within
the last month.  Super-injunctions bar U.K. media from writing about extra-marital affairs or identifying the celebrities involved.  The Twitter postings have “demonstrated that whatever the
law tries to do on privacy the Internet is a very powerful force
that you can’t buck,” Hunt said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net . 