-- 
U.K. Submits 12 Applications to Tap $6.5 Billion in EU Clean Energy Funds

-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l   a n d   C a t h e r i n e   A i r l i e
-- 
2011-05-10T17:08:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/u-k-submits-12-applications-to-tap-6-5-billion-in-eu-clean-energy-funds.html
The U.K. government is seeking funds
from the European Union for 12 projects under a 4.5 billion-euro
($6.5 billion) program to promote low-carbon energy.  The projects will compete for funds generated by the sale
of 300 million allowances to emit carbon dioxide under the EU’s
 New Entrants’ Reserve  initiative, the U.K. Department of Energy
and  Climate Change  said today in a statement. At a carbon price
of 15 euros ($21.50), less than today’s price, that could raise
about 4.5 billion euros, the government said.  Seven proposals are for carbon capture and storage, which
gathers emissions for storage in depleted oil and gas fields.
The remaining proposals were for innovative renewable
technologies including four tidal plants and an offshore wind
project. The  European Investment Bank  will evaluate those before
the commission awards funding next year. At most three per
member state can be supported, DECC said.  “Taking forward these sorts of technologies will be
crucial to our move to a low-carbon economy, providing green
jobs as well as helping us lower emissions and increase energy
security,” Energy Minister  Charles Hendry  said.  Carbon Capture Plants  Scottish Power Ltd., a unit of  Spain ’s  Iberdrola SA (IBE) , will
seek funds for CCS technology at its coal-fired power station at
Longannet. That project is the only entrant in a separate U.K.
funding competition that will award as much as 1 billion pounds
($1.6 billion), the largest confirmed commitment to a single
commercial scale CCS project in the world, according to DECC.  “U.K. projects accounted for nine of the 22 European CCS
projects that originally applied for NER 300 funding,” said
Kieron Stopforth, an analyst at Bloomberg New Energy Finance.
“That the majority of those are progressing shows for now U.K.
CCS is in good health and the government’s creating a stable
policy regime.”  Scottish & Southern Energy Plc (SSE)  will seek EU cash to develop
CCS at its gas-fired power station in Peterhead, Aberdeenshire.  “It’s good news, but only the next step in the process,”
Justyn Smith, a Perth-based spokesman for Scottish & Southern,
said by telephone. “It could be sometime before the project
becomes reality.”  Four Demonstrations  The U.K. government said it intends to fund four
demonstration CCS projects as it bets on the technology to help
tackle climate change, though it scrapped a tax on power
consumers designed to fund them in March saying it would fund
them by general taxation.  “The competition’s long timescale means this wave of
European projects won’t start construction until funding’s
finalized,” Stopforth said. “Unlike in the U.S., where for
instance construction has started at Mississippi Power’s Plant
Ratcliffe CCS project.”  Ayrshire Power Ltd.  plans to build a new 1,852-megawatt
plant in Hunterston with carbon capture kit, the third Scottish
CCS project proposed.  It shouldn’t be a case of “either/or”, Muir Miller,
project director at Ayrshire Power, said in an e-mailed
statement. “It should be a case of the regulators and the
operators working out how best to gain the maximum advantage for
this country, for Scottish jobs and our wider economy.”  Alstom and Drax  A CCS initiative by a group including  Alstom SA (ALO)  and  Drax
Group Plc (DRX)  at a site in Selby, North Yorkshire, will move
forward, as will the Don Valley carbon capture project owned by
2Co Energy Ltd., a British emissions-reduction company backed by
U.S. private equity firm TPG Capital.  Progressive Energy Ltd. is leading a group whose CCS
project in Teeside, North England, went through alongside a
program in Yorkshire by  C.GEN , a company based in  Belgium .  DECC also proposed initiatives that harness the power of
waves and tides including the  world’s first  demonstration tidal
array by Scottish Power Renewables on Scotland’s west coast.
MeyGen, a group including  Morgan Stanley (MS) , is planning a project
that includes  Rolls-Royce Group Plc (RR/)  and Atlantis Resources Corp.
tidal turbines as DECC estimates wave and tidal stream energy
could provide as much as 20 percent of the U.K.’s current
electricity demand.  The Pentland Orkney Wave Energy Resource project that’ll
use Aquamarine Oyster and Pelamis wave energy converters off the
coast of the Orkneys in  Scotland  was also put forward alongside
the Kyle Rhea Tidal Turbine Array that will deploy devices made
by Marine Current Turbines.  One offshore wind project, the Blyth Britannia initiative
that’ll use 10-megawatt  wind turbines  made by Clipper Windpower
Ltd. in Northumberland, will also compete.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 sbakewell1@bloomberg.net ;
Catherine Airlie in London at 
 cairlie@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  