-- 
U.S. IBD/TIPP May Economic Optimism Index (Text)

-- B y   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 
2011-05-10T14:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/u-s-ibd-tipp-may-economic-optimism-index-text-.html
Following is the text of the
May economic optimism index as released by TechnoMetrica
Market Intelligence and Investors Business Daily.  The IBD/TIPP Economic Optimism Index advanced by 2.0 points, or
4.9%, in May posting 42.8 vs. 40.8 in April.  The index is 2.9
points below its 12-month average of 45.7 and 1.6 points below
its reading of 44.4 in December 2007 when the economy entered
into the recession, and 7.7 points below its all-time average of
50.5.  Note: Index readings above 50 indicate optimism; below 50
indicate pessimism.  The IBD/TIPP Economic Optimism Index has a good track record of
foreshadowing the confidence indicators put out later each month
by the  University of Michigan  and The Conference Board.
IBD/TIPP conducted the national poll of 917 adults from May 1 to
May 6. The margin of error is +/-3.3 percentage points.  The IBD/TIPP Economic Optimism Index has three key components,
all of which gained in May.  •     The Six-Month Economic Outlook, a measure of how consumers
feel about the economy’s prospects in the next six months,
increased 3.5 points, or 9.0%, to 42.3.  When compared to
December 2007, the index shows a gain of 10.2 points.  •     The Personal Financial Outlook, a measure of how Americans
feel about their own finances in the next six months, advanced
1.8 points, or 3.7%, to reach 50.0.  •     Confidence in Federal Economic Policies, a proprietary
IBD/TIPP measure of views on how government economic policies
are working rose 0.6 points, or 1.7%, to reach 36.1.  “Despite high gasoline and food prices, a high unemployment and
underemployment, Americans’ confidence surged  due to the ‘rally
effect’ sparked by the killing of  Osama bin Laden ,” said
Raghavan Mayur, president of TIPP, a unit of TechnoMetrica
Market Intelligence, IBD’s polling partner.  “The post-Osama rebound in optimism is clear,” said  Terry Jones ,
associate editor of Investor’s Business Daily. “It remains to be
seen, however, whether that gain can be sustained in the face of
soaring prices, slow job growth and continued fights in
Washington over spending and taxes.”  The Breakdown  This month, only two of the 21 demographic groups that IBD/TIPP
tracks were above 50 on the Economic Optimism Index. Sixteen
groups advanced on the index.  On the Economic Outlook component, only one of the 21 groups
that IBD/TIPP tracks scored in optimistic territory.   Eighteen
groups advanced and three declined.  On the Personal Financial component, ten of the groups IBD/TIPP
tracks scored in optimistic territory. Sixteen groups advanced
on the component and five declined.  On the Federal Policies component, only one of the 21
demographic groups tracked was above 50. . Eleven groups
advanced on the component, eight declined, and one stayed at the
same level as the previous month in May.  SOURCE: TechnoMetrica Market Intelligence and Investors Business
Daily  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Tanzi in  Washington  at 
 atanzi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  