-- 
U.S. Pushes China on Human Rights Record at the Risk of Upsetting ‘Friend’

-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n
-- 
2011-05-10T16:47:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/u-s-pushes-china-on-human-rights-at-risk-of-upsetting-friend-.html
The U.S. risked  China ’s wrath by
pressing the world’s second-biggest economy on its human rights
record, with Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  calling it a
“fool’s errand” to try and deter dissent and free speech.  In an interview with The Atlantic magazine, the top U.S.
diplomat accused China “of trying to stop history, which is a
fool’s errand.” In some of her strongest language to date,
Clinton called China’s human-rights record “deplorable,”
according to excerpts of an April 7 interview published today.  “Like friends, we discuss those differences honestly and
forthrightly,” Clinton said at the opening session yesterday of
the first day of meetings between U.S. and Chinese officials in
 Washington . She cited reports of arrests and “disappearances”
of artists, journalists and bloggers.  To underline the message, Vice President  Joe Biden 
indicated that criticism on this front would continue -- even at
the risk of irritating Chinese authorities, who view it as an
intrusion into domestic affairs. State Councilor Dai Bingguo
pushed back, saying the U.S. should “learn first-hand” about
China’s “enormous progress” in human rights and “get to know
the real China.”  Disagreement ‘Rankles’  “I know and I understand that disagreement, when we voice
it, is upsetting or rankles,” Biden said. Still, the U.S.
administration believes “strongly” that protecting human
rights “is the best way to promote long-term stability and
prosperity of any society.”  While Chinese human rights violations are always alluded to
in face-to-face talks between the U.S. and China, the
administration had been wary of overtly slamming the Beijing
government on its crackdown on dissidents. Similarly, on  Capitol
Hill , legislators are reluctant to devote energy to an issue
that hasn’t grabbed the public’s attention and isn’t tied
directly to U.S. jobs or the budget.  Ahead of this meeting, China’s official religious groups
called a U.S. report on  freedom of worship  in the country
“subjective, full of prejudices and not true to reality,”
according to Xinhua, the state-run news service.  Human rights remains a cornerstone of  U.S. foreign policy 
and private discussions on the topic were very candid and
honest, according to a senior administration official who spoke
on condition of anonymity. The purpose was to leave no room for
ambiguity between the two sides, the official said.  Obama Statement  In a White House meeting yesterday, President  Barack Obama 
raised concerns with Chinese Vice Premier Wang Qishan about
China’s human rights record and U.S. support for “universal
rights of expression and worship,” according to a statement
from the U.S. administration.  Wang, on the “ Charlie Rose ” show airing on PBS and
Bloomberg Television, said that China wouldn’t run into the
types of violent demonstrations taking place in parts of North
Africa and the Middle East. In February, online activists
organized rallies in several Chinese cities against government
corruption and abuse of power, saying they were inspired by the
so-called Arab Spring.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson in Washington at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  