-- 
U.S. Must Act on Six Drilling Permits, Federal Judge Rules

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k   a n d   A l l e n   J o h n s o n   J r .
-- 
2011-05-10T19:23:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/u-s-must-act-on-six-drilling-permits-federal-judge-orders.html
The U.S. “unlawfully and improperly
delayed” permits for deep-water drilling after the  BP Plc (BP/)  Gulf
of Mexico oil spill last year, a federal judge ruled.  U.S. District Judge Martin Feldman in  New Orleans  today
ordered offshore energy regulators to act within 30 days on six
pending permit applications filed by companies that have
contracts with Ensco Offshore Co., the  Louisiana  drilling
company leading the legal challenge to the government’s offshore
drilling bans.  Federal law “establishes a non-discretionary duty on the
 Department of Interior  to act, favorably or unfavorably, on
drilling permit applications within a reasonable time,” Feldman
said in a written order. Ensco was harmed by “the government’s
failure to act on pending permit applications contemplating the
use of Ensco’s rigs,” he said.  The Obama administration suspended all drilling in waters
deeper than 500 feet last May in response to the worst offshore
 oil spill  in U.S. history. More than 4.1 million barrels of
crude leaked into the Gulf after the Deepwater Horizon exploded
and sank while drilling a subsea well for BP off the Louisiana
coast in April.  “We’re reviewing the judge’s ruling,”  Wyn Hornbuckle , a
spokesman for the U.S. Justice Department, said in an e-mail. He
declined to comment further “at this time.”  Previous Moratorium  After offshore companies and regional business and
political leaders sued in June, Feldman threw out the
government’s deep-water drilling moratorium as overly broad and
punitive to the Gulf Coast economy. Interior Secretary Kenneth Salazar imposed a second ban in July. That ban was also
challenged in court, and Salazar withdrew it in October before
Feldman could rule on its validity.  Ensco continued its lawsuit after the second moratorium was
lifted, contending that regulators were continuing a de facto
ban by refusing to process new permits. The government argued
that the lawsuit was made irrelevant by the end of the
moratorium and that any delays in granting permits were required
to prevent future incidents such as the BP spill.  The government has “unlawfully and improperly delayed”
Ensco permit applications, Feldman said today.  “Although the government has begun to issue some permit
applications, plainly because of this lawsuit, the future of
drilling in the  Gulf of Mexico  remains elusive,” he said.
“Moreover, the government’s conduct of delay in deepwater
drilling in the Gulf dramatically presents far more than the
mere possibility of persistent and repetitious intentional
delays” in processing permit applications, he said.  Feldman said officials “presented no credible assurances
that the permitting process will return to one marked by
predictability and certainty.”  The case is Ensco Offshore Co. v. Salazar, 2:10-cv-01941,
U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Louisiana (New
Orleans).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in  Detroit 
at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net ;
Allen Johnson Jr. in New Orleans
at   allenmct@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  