-- 
U.S. Wholesale Inventories Increased 1.1% in March; Sales Climbed by 2.9%

-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 
2011-05-10T14:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/u-s-wholesale-inventories-increased-1-1-in-march-sales-climbed-by-2-9-.html
Inventories at U.S. wholesalers rose
less than sales in March, a sign companies will continue to add
to stockpiles to meet demand.  Stockpiles increased 1.1 percent, in line with the median
projection of a 1 percent gain in a Bloomberg News survey of
economists, Commerce Department data showed today in Washington.
Sales climbed 2.9 percent after dropping 0.3 percent in February.  At the current pace of sales, wholesalers had enough goods
on hand to last 1.13 months, matching the level in June 2008 as
the lowest on record. Distributor inventories, which also reflect
rising imports, may continue to add to gross domestic product in
the current quarter.  “Inventories are going up and they are adding to
production,”  Sal Guatieri , a senior economist at BMO Capital
Markets in Toronto, said before the report. “Inventories are
thought to be fairly lean.”  The median forecast for wholesale inventories was based on a
Bloomberg survey of 30 economists. Estimates ranged from
increases of 0.6 percent to 1.2 percent. Stockpiles rose 1
percent in February, unrevised from the government’s prior
estimate.  Wholesalers make up about 30 percent of all business
stockpiles. Factory inventories, which comprise about 38 percent
of the total, rose 1.1 percent in March after a 1 percent gain
the previous month, the Commerce Department said on May 3. Retail
stockpiles, which make up the rest, will be included in the May
12 business inventories data.  Durable Goods  Today’s report showed wholesalers’ stockpiles of durable
goods, or those meant to last several years, increased 0.4
percent in March, boosted by machinery and metals. Sales climbed
2.3 percent, pushing the inventory-to-sales ratio down to 1.46
months, the lowest since 2004.  The value of unsold non-durable goods increased 2 percent
and sales advanced 3.4 percent.  United Technologies Corp. (UTX) , maker of Carrier air
conditioners, last month said 2011 sales would be at the high end
of its forecast as pent-up demand stokes growth globally. The
Hartford-based company said the March 11 earthquake in  Japan  had
yet to disrupt inventories of electronic components used in its
manufacturing processes.  “As we look across the globe, we see end markets are
improving,” Chief Financial Officer Gregory Hayes said on an
April 20 conference call. “We continue to work with our
suppliers in securing available inventory and alternative sources
and we expect that the impact of disruptions, if any, will only
be felt in the back half of the year.”  More Jobs  The strengthening labor market signals further gains in
 consumer spending  that will prompt businesses to replenish
stockpiles. Employers added 244,000 workers to payrolls in April,
the biggest gain since May 2010 when census hiring exaggerated
payroll gains, Labor Department figures showed on May 6.  Inventories in the first quarter were stocked at a $43.8
billion pace, compared with a $16.2 billion rate in the fourth
quarter, government data showed last month. The economy grew at a
1.8 percent pace in the first three months of 2011.  While lean stockpiles help set the stage for faster growth,
they can also be a constraint when supply chains are disrupted by
natural disasters like the earthquake and tsunami in Japan.  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  and Honda Motor Co. of Japan are unable
to take full advantage of rising demand for the types of fuel-
efficient models that U.S. consumers associate with the two
companies because of supply shortages.  “While our current dealer supply of vehicles remains
adequate, we know that production constraints may start to affect
sales into the summer months,” John Mendel, Honda’s U.S.
executive vice president, said in a statement last week.  Bob Carter , Toyota’s group vice president for U.S. sales,
said the company’s 47-day supply of vehicles at the start of May
varied by model. Prius has a less than 10-day supply.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Willis in  Washington  at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  