-- 
U.S. Treasury Department Schedule for Tuesday, May 10

-- B y   V i n c e n t   D e l   G i u d i c e
-- 
2011-05-10T14:26:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/u-s-treasury-department-schedule-for-tuesday-may-10.html
The following is a reformatted
version of the U.S. Treasury Department’s daily release on the
schedule for Secretary Timothy F. Geithner and other officials:  On Tuesday morning, Secretary Geithner will attend meetings
of the 2011 U.S.-China Strategic and Economic Dialogue (S&ED) at
the Treasury Department. These meetings are closed press.  In the afternoon, S&ED co-leads Secretary Geithner,
Secretary of State Clinton, Chinese Vice Premier Wang and
Chinese State Councilor Dai will meet with U.S. and Chinese
business leaders at the Blair House to discuss promoting cross-
border trade and investment in both countries. There will be a
pool spray at the top of the meeting.  Later in the afternoon, Secretary Geithner will deliver
remarks at the closing session of the S&ED at the Interior
Department. Secretary of State Clinton, Chinese Vice Premier
Wang and Chinese State Councilor Dai also will deliver remarks.
Following the joint statements of the S&ED co-leads, Secretary
Geithner and Secretary Clinton will hold a press conference at
the Interior Department. These events are open press to S&ED
credentialed media; the deadline to request S&ED media
credentials has passed.  Also on Tuesday, Secretary Geithner will attend the Vice
President’s meeting at Blair House with a bipartisan, bicameral
group of Members of Congress to continue work on a legislative
framework for comprehensive deficit reduction. Participants in
the meeting will include the Vice President, Senator Daniel
Inouye, Senator  Jon Kyl , Senator  Max Baucus , Representative Eric Cantor, Representative James Clyburn, Representative  Chris Van
Hollen , Director of the Office of Management and Budget Jacob Lew, and Director of the National Economic Council Gene Sperling. This meeting is closed press. Please contact the White
House Press Office for additional details.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vincent Del Giudice in  Washington  
 vdelgiudice@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  