-- 
UBS Seeks Top-Five Ranking for U.S. Investment Bank as Dealmakers Defect

-- B y   S e r e n a   S a i t t o   a n d   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k
-- 
2011-05-10T13:08:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/ubs-seeks-top-5-ranking-for-u-s-investment-bank-after-dealmakers-defect.html
UBS AG (UBSN) , which has lost at least 50
dealmakers from its U.S. investment bank since 2009, remains
committed to the unit and aims to reach a top-five rank, said
Matthew Grounds, global co-head of investment banking.  “I’m only interested in getting our market position in the
Americas to where it needs to be,” Grounds, 41, said in an
interview yesterday at the firm’s New York office. The bank has
dedicated capital for hiring, he said, declining to elaborate.
Given the company’s global size, “I want to be top five.”  UBS,  Switzerland ’s largest lender, has struggled with
defections since cutting its bonus pool about 80 percent during
the 2008 credit crisis. They included Richard Leaman, 48, the
 investment banking  chairman, and leaders of teams for health
care, energy, and telecommunications, media and technology. UBS
slipped to 11th advising North American mergers-and-acquisitions
this year, from sixth in 2005, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “The question is whether the ship is sinking, so those
bankers who can find another job are leaving,” said  Roy Smith ,
a finance professor at  New York University .  Chief Executive Officer  Oswald Gruebel , 67, said in
February that earnings at the global investment bank must
improve “significantly” in 2011. Gruebel, a former bond
trader, has hired more than 1,700 bankers in the past two years
to rebuild the division after more than $57 billion in credit-
crisis writedowns at UBS.  Currencies, Commodities  Last year, the Zurich-based firm’s revenue from managing
stock and bond sales and advising clients on deals fell 16
percent to 2.84 billion Swiss francs ($3.3 billion).  Grounds, the Sydney-based CEO of UBS Australasia, was
appointed in March with Simon Warshaw to jointly lead global
investment banking alongside Jimmy Neissa.  UBS’s challenges also include the fixed-income business.
The bank had the lowest revenue from sales and trading of fixed-
income securities, currencies and commodities last year among
the nine biggest investment banks, according to Bloomberg data.
The U.S. fixed-income trading unit should be scaled down to
boost profitability in remaining operations,  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM)  analysts led by  Kian Abouhossein  wrote in a note last month.  UBS advanced 9.6 percent in Swiss trading this year,
compared with a 1.6 percent gain in the 48-company Bloomberg
Europe Banks and Financial Services Index. The stock rose 12
centimes, or 0.7 percent, to 16.82 francs by 3 p.m. today.  Four bankers who left UBS said cuts to cash bonuses
prompted them to do so. Torie von Alt, a UBS spokeswoman in the
U.S., declined to comment.  ‘Logical Alternative’  Some bankers also said they were concerned the firm would
continue to let the U.S. unit shrink. They spoke on the
condition of anonymity, citing confidentiality agreements.  “A solution for UBS could be selling the U.S. investment-
banking unit and returning to its original business of  wealth
management  for people who don’t live in Switzerland,” said
Smith, a former partner at  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  “It would
be a logical alternative for them to consider.”  Disposing of the U.S. investment bank would be “absurd,”
Grounds said. Instead, the firm wants it to replicate successes
the unit has had in the Asia-Pacific, he said. In that region,
UBS ranks sixth this year for advising on mergers and
acquisitions, as well as for equity underwriting, according to
Bloomberg data. In the U.S., it’s 10th in equity underwriting.  One strategy will be to cultivate talent internally, said
Aryeh Bourkoff, head of the U.S. investment-banking division.  “It’s very much like Goldman’s strategy historically,
which is giving younger partners a chance to excel,” Bourkoff
said. New York-based Goldman Sachs ranks No. 4 in advising on
U.S. mergers and acquisitions this year, Bloomberg data show.  Moelis, Jefferies  Bourkoff started at UBS in 1999, initially working in the
fixed-income clearing group and later as an equity research
analyst. He served as joint global head of technology, media and
telecommunications banking before his latest promotion.  Leaman left as chairman of investment banking in 2010 to
join Moelis & Co., the New York-based investment bank founded by
former UBS executive Kenneth Moelis. In 2009, most of UBS’s
health care investment-banking group, led by Benjamin Lorello,
defected to New York-based  Jefferies Group Inc. (JEF) , where he heads
global investment banking. Last year, UBS lost a group of energy
bankers, led by Stephen Trauber, to  Citigroup Inc. (C)   Last week, UBS’s global head of power and utilities
investment banking, James Metcalfe, left for infrastructure-
investment firm Alinda Capital Partners LLC. Lee LeBrun, co-head
of mergers and acquisitions for the Americas, is retiring. Other
departures include Eric Mandl, a technology banker who went to
 Evercore Partners Inc. (EVR) , and Dieter Hoeppli, a metals and mining
banker who joined  Deutsche Bank AG. (DBK)   Cummings, Eisenberg  UBS also has been hiring. Last month, it named Stephen Cummings, Wachovia Corp.’s head of corporate and investment
banking, chairman of investment banking in the Americas. UBS
hired JPMorgan’s Richard Eisenberg as managing director in the
technology, media and telecommunications banking group.  By some measures, the U.S. investment bank is showing signs
of improvement. This year, the number of managing directors
declined 3 percent or 4 percent to 110, while revenue climbed 10
percent, Grounds said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Serena Saitto in  New York  at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net .
Laura Marcinek in New York at 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
 Jennifer Sondag  at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net . 