-- 
HUK-Coburg Aims to Keep German Auto Insurance Lead With Pricing

-- B y   O l i v e r   S u e s s
-- 
2011-05-10T15:55:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/huk-coburg-aims-to-keep-german-auto-insurance-lead-with-pricing.html
HUK-Coburg Holding AG, which last
year overtook  Allianz SE (ALV)  as  Germany ’s largest auto insurer,
plans to keep its top spot by offering the lowest tariffs as a
seven-year price war slows down.  “Retaining our price leadership in German car insurance is
the core element of our business strategy,” Klaus-Juergen
Heitmann, the management board member responsible for property
and casualty insurance at HUK-Coburg, said in an interview.  Allianz,  Europe ’s biggest insurer, covered about 8.2
million cars in Germany at the end of last year compared with
about 8.4 million at HUK-Coburg. Germany is Europe’s second-
largest car insurance market after  Italy , according to
 statistics  from the Brussels-based CEA European insurance and
reinsurance federation.  “Last year, the harsh winter made up about 2 percentage
points of our combined ratio,” Heitmann said. “If that isn’t
repeated this time around, we might as well return to a ratio of
less than 100 percent.”  HUK-Coburg’s auto-insurance unit’s combined ratio, or
spending on claims and costs as a percentage of gross premium
income, worsened to 102.3 percent last year. That was its first
underwriting loss in more than a decade and compared with a
market average of 107 percent among German auto insurers. A
ratio above 100 percent means an insurer’s claims and costs
exceed premium income.  Price War  Auto coverage, the biggest non-life insurance segment in
Germany with about 20 billion euros ($29 billion) in premiums,
has been unprofitable in the last few years amid a price war
that began in 2005 and led to a technical loss of 1.4 billion
euros in the industry last year after a loss of 700 million
euros in 2009,  according to  Germany’s  GDV  insurance association.  The Internet is increasingly gaining in importance as a
sales channel for auto insurers, Heitmann said. The Coburg-based
mutual insurer’s HUK24 web-based offering is Germany’s biggest
with about 1.3 million cars covered.  HUK-Coburg and rivals HDI Direkt and Wuerttembergische
Gemeinde-Versicherung earlier this year bought a majority stake
in German price comparison website Aspect Online.  “As much as 50 percent of insurance contracts bought
online are being sold through price comparison websites, which
charge high fees, driving up costs for this sales channel,”
Heitmann said. “By buying a stake in one of those portals, we
want to increase the competition and reduce fees.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oliver Suess in Munich at 
 osuess@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net 
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  