-- 
Ukraine’s Current-Account Gap Erodes Hryvnia Gains, VTB Says

-- B y   K a t e r y n a   C h o u r s i n a   a n d   D a r y n a   K r a s n o l u t s k a
-- 
2011-05-10T10:37:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/ukraine-s-current-account-gap-erodes-hryvnia-gains-vtb-says.html
Ukraine ’s widening current-account
deficit may damp gains in the local currency this year as global
commodity prices rise, VTB Capital said.  The hryvnia may strengthen to 7.85 per dollar by year-end,
compared with a February forecast of 7.75, Alexey Moiseev and
Dmitry Fedotkin, economists at VTB Capital in Moscow, said in a
report sent to reporters today. It may gain to 7.60 by the end
of 2012, compared with an earlier estimate of 7.62, they said.
The hryvnia traded at 7.978 at 1:05 p.m. in Kiev.  The deficit in Ukraine’s current account, the broadest
measure of trade, may widen to $5 billion, or 3 percent of gross
domestic product, this year as global commodity prices rise, VTB
said. That compares with a forecast of 1.9 percent in February
and the 2010 figure of 2.1 percent.  “Our new in-house view on commodity prices has led to a
more pronounced deterioration in our estimate of the current-
account deficit and thus has slightly limited the prospects of a
stronger hryvnia appreciation in 2011,” Fedotkin and Moiseev
said. “For next year, we see a more pronounced improvement in
the capital-account surplus, which would be more supportive for
the hryvnia.”  The hryvnia has strengthened by 0.05 percent this year,
according to Bloomberg data. Ukraine’s central bank manages the
 exchange rate  by buying and selling foreign currency. Central
Bank Governor Serhiy Arbuzo said April 6 the bank would continue
to keep the hryvnia stable.  Ukraine, a former Soviet state, had a current-account gap
of $793 million in the first quarter, compared with surplus of
$57 million in the same period last year, as the cost of Russian
natural gas jumped, the central bank said April 27.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kateryna Choursina in Kiev at 
 kchoursina@bloomberg.net ;
Daryna Krasnolutska in Kiev at 
 dkrasnolutsk@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net 
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  