-- 
Unemployed at 25% in South Africa as BMWs Drive Too Few Jobs

-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n   a n d   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 
2011-05-10T22:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/unemployed-at-25-in-south-africa-as-bmws-drive-too-few-jobs.html
At a  Daimler AG (DAI)  plant that overlooks
the East  London  harbor in South Africa, robots help produce one
of the world’s best-selling luxury cars. A line of one-armed,
orange, computerized machines works under minimal human
supervision, attaching panels to chassis for Mercedes-Benz C-
Class sedans.  Stuttgart, Germany-based Daimler is one of a bevy of global
auto giants, including  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) ,  Ford Motor
Co. (F)  and  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) , who have pumped about 32 billion
rand ($4.65 billion) into South Africa during the past decade to
create the nation’s biggest manufacturing industry, Bloomberg
Markets magazine reports in its June issue.  “This is a growing market for us,” says Bernd Schwendtke,
42, a German national and chief financial officer at Mercedes-
Benz’s South African unit. “The government offers a range of
support. We have a flexible and committed labor force.”  The auto industry is one of several bright spots in
Africa’s largest economy. Car companies produced 472,049
vehicles last year in  South Africa , 26 percent more than in
2009, on their way to a government goal of 1 million by 2020.
The stock market and the rand in South Africa, the world’s
largest producer of platinum, have also rallied during the
global commodities boom.  Yet the nation’s rise as a world-class automaker, with
automated assembly lines, has barely made a dent in reducing the
joblessness that still plagues the economy almost two decades
after the end of apartheid. An already high unemployment rate of
21.9 percent in the final quarter of 2008 spiked to 25.3 percent
in the third period of last year as the global credit crackup
and a surging rand threw about 1 million more  South Africans  out
of work.  Protests  The rate dipped to 25 percent in the first quarter of this
year -- still the highest of 61 developed and emerging countries
monitored by Bloomberg.  Protesters have been pouring into the streets throughout
the country, venting rage over their economic plight and lack of
basic services such as running water and sanitation. South
Africans organized a record 111 demonstrations last year --
drawing as many as several thousand people, according to
Municipal IQ, a Johannesburg-based independent local government
research group. The street actions threaten to erode the
political dominance of the  African National Congress , which rode
to power with the end of state-sanctioned segregation in 1994.  Apartheid Legacy  Amid the fury, the government of President  Jacob Zuma , 69,
announced in November a massive program to create 5 million jobs
and slash unemployment to 15 percent by 2020. Just as the
government used subsidies to fuel the auto revolution, it now
plans to lift the domestic agriculture and mineral-processing
industries, which are more labor intensive than car production.  “Apartheid left us with a legacy of disempowerment,
landlessness, inequality of opportunity and millions of
unemployed young people,” Finance Minister  Pravin Gordhan  said
in a speech to Parliament in February. “We cannot view the fact
that 42 percent of young people between the ages of 18 and 29
are unemployed as merely a statistic. We have got to do things
differently.”  In a shantytown on the northwestern outskirts of Pretoria,
Andries Makwela picks through a heap of rubbish beside a
railroad line. He bends pieces of metal in half and stuffs them
into a torn dog food bag to carry them to a scrap dealer, which
pays him 2 rand for each kilogram of material. With few job
skills, Makwela, 28, stands little chance of getting hired at a
BMW plant about 5 kilometers (2.7 miles) away. There, 1,600
full-time workers, assisted by 99 robots, produce 250 3-Series
sedans a day.  Soaring Rand  “I don’t think it’s possible to find a job in this
country,” says Makwela, who lives in a shack with his single
mother.  President Zuma’s biggest challenge to creating jobs in
manufacturing, which makes up 15 percent of the economy, has
been the soaring rand, says Stewart Jennings, president of the
National Association of Automotive Component and Allied
Manufacturers. The rand rose 39 percent against the dollar from
the start of 2009, hammering exports of manufactured goods and
causing hundreds of factories to close.  The currency has appreciated as near-zero  interest rates  in
developed countries encourage investors to place money in South
Africa, where the central bank’s benchmark lending rate is 5.5
percent. Net purchases of bonds and equities by nonresidents
amounted to 89.5 billion rand last year and 102 billion rand in
2009 -- the most since at least 1994.  Inflows  In South Africa, the stock market rose as shares of mining
companies such as  Anglo American Plc (AGL)  surged along with metals
prices. The FTSE/JSE Africa All Share Index gained 16 percent
from the beginning of 2010 through May 10, compared with a 21
percent jump for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  “South Africa has attracted substantial portfolio inflows
over the last two years,” says Roderick Ngotho, an emerging-
markets strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in
London. “Continued global demand for commodities and South
Africa’s relatively high interest rates were supportive for the
rand.”  Gill Marcus , the governor of the South African Reserve
Bank, said in October that while the rand’s strength is harming
the economy, there’s little the authorities can do about it. The
central bank and the National Treasury spent $7.4 billion
accumulating foreign reserves last year in a bid to moderate the
rand’s gains, to little avail.  “If we don’t create an economic climate which is going to
stimulate growth, then I’m afraid it doesn’t matter what
incentives are there; the private sector is not going to make
use of them,” Jennings says.  Incentives  At first glance, the success of South Africa’s  auto
industry , which exported 239,465 vehicles last year, defies
logic. The nation is half a world away from major markets in the
U.S.,  Europe  and  Asia , boosting the cost of transporting
imported parts and cars for sale overseas. The government has
lured companies with rebates on duties they pay on imported
parts worth 56.9 billion rand in the four years through March
2009.  When the rebates end next year, the government, which
maintains a manageable and declining budget deficit, will throw
more sweeteners, worth from 14 billion to 15 billion rand a
year, at the motor industry. The government expects the
incentives will create about 60,000 jobs, mainly in automotive
component companies, and help meet a goal of doubling annual
vehicle production in eight years.  “Without the support from the government, we certainly
wouldn’t be here,” Mercedes-Benz’s Schwendtke says. “The major
markets are all far, far away. This logistical disadvantage
somehow has to be balanced by the government.”  High Tech  Automakers also get a sales lift from gainfully employed
South Africans who favor lower-priced models from  Volkswagen AG (VOW) 
and Toyota. South Africans bought 492,956 new cars, trucks and
buses last year, a 25 percent increase from 2009, according to
the National Association of Automobile Manufacturers of South
Africa. About 57 brands and 1,800 models compete for local
consumers.  While car production has soared, the number of auto
assembly jobs hasn’t kept pace due to the advance of
manufacturing technology. Of the 13.1 million workers employed
in all of South Africa, only 28,128 were directly employed in
auto factories as of the end of last year, a 4.5 percent
increase from the year before, according to the national
association.  Wage Subsidies  Mike Schussler, chief economist at Johannesburg-based
advisory service Economists.co.za, says the government isn’t
deriving adequate returns on its incentives. He estimates each
job created in the capital-intensive auto industry has cost
taxpayers about 160,000 rand, or about 10 times the minimum
annual wage of farmworkers.  “There are much easier and cheaper ways to create jobs
than in the motor industry,” Schussler says. “It makes sense
that we now diversify.”  Zuma’s new jobs program targets local companies in the
agricultural, mineral, tourism and energy industries. It’s
offering companies as much as 900 million rand in tax deductions
to establish a new plant and subsidizing wages for youth with a
5 billion rand fund.  “We are emerging from the worst economic recession in a
century,” Zuma said in the eastern town of Ermelo in February.
“We have to do everything possible to create jobs.”  Procter & Gamble  Global giants such as Nestle SA, the world’s biggest food
company, are expanding into South  Africa  without the benefit of
a subsidy to sell goods in the local market. On Feb. 3, Vevey,
Switzerland-based Nestle said it will invest about 67 million
Swiss francs ($74.9 million) in the country, including building
two new factories that will create 230 permanent jobs. And late
last year, Cincinnati-based Procter & Gamble Co., the world’s
largest consumer-products company, completed a 350 million rand
plant near Johannesburg that produces baby-care products.  “We’re seeing more and more companies coming to South
Africa with the idea of expanding northward into the rest of
sub-Saharan Africa,” says  Mark Mobius , who oversees about $34
billion as executive chairman of Singapore-based Templeton Asset
Management Ltd.’s Emerging Markets Group. “It’s becoming more
and more important. We’re very, very bullish.”  Government subsidies alone won’t generate 5 million jobs.
The economy must pick up steam if President Zuma is to reach his
target. The National Treasury, which says 7 percent annual
expansion is required to produce that many jobs by 2020,
forecast in February growth of 4 percent on average over the
next three years.  Approval Rating  If Zuma’s plan falls short, the ANC risks alienating
voters. The party holds 66 percent of seats in Parliament and
controls eight of the nine provinces and five of the six largest
towns. The government’s approval rating slumped to 59 percent in
November from 70 percent the year before, a February survey
shows. Local elections will be held on May 18.  In Pretoria’s Gezina district, three dozen artisans, some
holding up paint rollers and trowels, wait for job offers
outside of Builders Warehouse, a hardware superstore. The men
flock around cars that stop in front of them, in the hope
they’ll be given a day’s work. Bricklayer Mike Senwamadi, who
has been coming to this street corner for 20 years, says he’s
been having a harder time landing a permanent job. He gets hired
a few days a week.  “The jobs are just for those in power,” says Senwamadi, a
father of seven. “I come here without hope.”  While post-apartheid South Africa has proven itself as a
high-tech carmaker, the government still has to show workers
such as Senwamadi that they have a stake in the country’s
future.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mike Cohen in  Cape Town  at 
Or  mcohen21@bloomberg.net ;
Franz Wild in Johannesburg at   fwild@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net  