-- 
Turkish Asset-Sales Agency Cancels Sale of Ankara Gas Grid

-- B y   A l i   B e r a t   M e r i c   a n d   S t e v e   B r y a n t
-- 
2011-05-10T11:16:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/turkish-asset-sales-agency-cancels-sale-of-ankara-gas-grid-1-.html
Turkey ’s asset-sales agency canceled
the sale of an 80 percent stake in Ankara’s gas distribution
network after the winning bidder failed to pay the $1.21 billion
it had promised.  The agency plans to try again to sell Baskent Dogalgaz
Dagitim AS by September or October after Mmeka Makine Ithalat
Pazarlama & Ticaret AS, owned by Mehmet Emin Karamehmet and
Mehmet Kazanci, failed to meet the payment deadline late
yesterday, Ahmet Aksu, acting head of the agency, said today in
a telephone interview. Mmeka had been unable to get financing
for the purchase, Finance Minister Mehmet Simsek said in
televised comments after the cancellation.  Mmeka is also committed to buy electricity distribution
grids in cities including Istanbul after making bids totaling
more than $5 billion in auctions last year. Revenue from the
Ankara sale had been earmarked to pay off 1.2 billion liras
($771 million) in municipal debt to the Treasury and the state
gas supplier Botas, the agency said in an e-mailed statement.  The failure of the Ankara gas sale “won’t impact the
electricity distribution sale process” because authorities are
able to award the contracts to second-placed bidders, Aksu said
today. The second-placed bid for the Ankara sale was ruled out
as too low, he said.  The press office for Karamehmet’s Cukurova Holding said it
had no comment on the canceled sale after being contacted by
telephone. An assistant for Kazanci declined to answer questions
when reached on his mobile phone.  The next sale will be Turkey’s third attempt to sell the
capital’s gas grid after  Global Yatirim Holding AS (GLYHO)  failed to pay
the $1.61 billion it bid for the network in an auction in March
2009.  The sales agency will retain a $93 million deposit Mmeka
provided as a guarantee that it would complete the purchase.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Steve Bryant  in Ankara at 
 sbryant5@bloomberg.net ;
Ali Berat Meric in Ankara at 
 americ@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 