-- 
Van Dongen’s Chic Hookers, Lady Wrestlers Seduce Paris: Review

-- B y   J o r g   v o n   U t h m a n n
-- 
2011-05-10T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/van-dongen-s-chic-hookers-lady-wrestlers-seduce-paris-jorg-von-uthmann.html
Not every Dutch artist who came to
Paris failed, went mad, sliced off his ear and killed himself.  Kees van Dongen (1877-1968), who arrived in 1899, some 13
years after  Van Gogh , was tremendously successful and became the
portraitist of the Roaring Twenties.  The exhibition at the  Musee d’Art Moderne de la Ville de
Paris,  which was first seen in Rotterdam, Van Dongen’s
birthplace, covers the first half of his career, up to 1931.  Ignoring his later work, which is more conventional and
often banal, also spares the organizers the trouble of dealing
with the low point of his career -- his trip to  Nazi Germany  in
1941 as a guest of the regime. After the war, he and his fellow
travelers were temporarily excluded from the Salon.  Van Dongen didn’t start out as a society painter. In his
young years, he was an avowed anarchist.  Picasso, whose neighbor he was in the legendary cluster of
shabby Montmartre studios, nicknamed him -- after the blue-
blooded Russian agitator -- “the Kropotkin of the Bateau-
Lavoir.” Together they explored Paris nightlife, the cabarets,
brothels and watering holes.  Fernande Olivier, Picasso’s mistress, became Van Dongen’s
model. In response to Picasso’s five “Les Demoiselles
d’Avignon,” he came up with twice as many “Tabarin
Wrestlers,” muscular ladies you wouldn’t want to mess with.  Van Dongen did his best to conceal the fact that he was a
brilliant draftsman and that he had worked as a cartoonist for
magazines. He preferred to be viewed as having miraculously
emerged from nowhere as a painter.  Wild Beasts  In 1905, he appeared with Matisse, Derain, Vlaminck and
others in the historic Salon d’Automne that led a horrified
critic to attack them as “fauves,” or wild beasts.  In a way, Van Dongen was the wildest of the beasts. His
deliberate primitivism, crude vigor and strident colors were
close to the German Expressionists. No wonder German galleries
welcomed him with open arms.  Another scandal broke out at the 1913 Salon d’Automne: The
police removed as obscene a nude of his wife Guus with the black
triangle of her pubic hair very much in evidence. In 1920,
Anatole  France , probably the country’s most revered writer, was
shocked to find out that his neighbor had portrayed him as a
decrepit old man.  At that time, Van Dongen had moved to a chic private street
near the Bois de Boulogne where he lived with Lea Jacob, manager
of the haute couture house Jenny, who introduced him to Parisian
high society.  Cocktail Period  It was the beginning of what he called “my cocktail
years,” with glamorous parties and well-heeled guests eager to
be immortalized by the master.  Hookers were out, countesses were in.  Van Dongen adapted his style to the new clientele.
Matisse’s son-in-law, the art historian Georges Duthuit, joked
about the Dutch painter’s success: “The trick is to lengthen
the women and make them look slim,” he said. “After that, you
only have to enlarge their baubles, and they’re happy.”  The exhibition proves that barb is well founded.  After World War II, Van Dongen moved, with yet another lady
in tow, to  Monaco . That explains the many canvases on loan from
that “sunny place for shady people,” as the writer Somerset Maugham, who lived nearby, called it.  “Kees van Dongen: Fauve, Anarchiste et Mondain” is at the
Musee d’Art Moderne de la Ville de Paris through July 17. The
show is supported by Catella AB’s Catella France. Information:
 http://mam.paris  or +33-1-5367-4000.  (Jorg von Uthmann is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Jorg von Uthmann in Paris at  uthmann@wanadoo.fr .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 