-- 
Warburg, Blackstone Seek Kosmos IPO as Crude Oil Hits High

-- B y   L e e   S p e a r s
-- 
2011-05-10T21:57:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/warburg-blackstone-seek-kosmos-ipo-after-oil-hits-32-month-high.html
Kosmos Energy Ltd., the oil and gas
exploration and production company owned by Warburg Pincus LLC
and  Blackstone Group LP (BX) , is seeking to raise as much as $540
million today in an initial public offering after oil gained 48
percent in a year to a 32-month high.  Kosmos, based in Hamilton,  Bermuda , is offering 30 million
shares at $16 to $18 each, according to a filing with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission. The company has about a 23
percent stake in Ghana’s  Jubilee  oilfield, the biggest offshore
discovery in West Africa in a decade, according to the
prospectus.  “The price of oil has certainly gone higher, and that
improves the perceived value of the company,” said Hugh Johnson, who oversees about $2 billion as chairman of  Albany ,
New York-based  Hugh Johnson  Advisors LLC. “Private equity folks
try to be good at the timing of their exit, and I think they’re
trying to do that now.”  Warburg and Blackstone may be capitalizing on the climb in
crude oil and a recent spate of private equity-backed IPOs.
While crude dipped amid a recent sell-off in commodities, it has
rallied since its December 2008 low, increasing more than
threefold as of April 11. Companies owned by leveraged buyout
firms raised about $19.5 billion worldwide through IPOs in the
first quarter, more than half their total for all of 2010, data
compiled by Bloomberg and London-based Preqin Ltd. show.  Global Offerings  Kosmos is one of at least 20 companies worldwide attempting
to raise at least $2.85 billion in IPOs this week, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. OAO Russian Helicopters, which had
been scheduled to raise as much as $500 million in a  London 
offering, postponed the deal, according to the London Stock
Exchange.  There are 10 offerings scheduled to price in the U.S., the
most since December, Bloomberg data show. Jiayuan.com
International Ltd., the Beijing-based online-dating company, is
seeking to raise $85.2 million and FriendFinder Networks Inc.,
the publisher of Penthouse magazine, aims to raise as much as
$60 million.  Kosmos agreed in 2009 to sell assets including the Jubilee
field to  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  for an enterprise value of about $4
billion, according to a person with knowledge of the situation.
Exxon terminated the agreement last year.  Since 2009, Kosmos has further developed the Jubilee
project and made more offshore discoveries in Ghana, according
to the prospectus. Jubilee is expected to yield 120,000 barrels
of oil per day in the third quarter of this year. The Jubilee
field started production in November, and the company began to
receive revenue from its share of the output early this year.  Energy Challenges  Brent crude futures traded in London reached $127.02 on
April 11, the highest since August 2008. They tumbled 13 percent
last week as the death of  Osama bin Laden  and a strengthening
dollar triggered a five-day rout in commodity prices.  “The challenge for any IPO in the energy sector right now
is that the sector has recently fallen out of favor, and the
pricing will be challenged by that,” said  Alan Gayle , senior
investment strategist at RidgeWorth Capital Management in
Richmond,  Virginia , which oversees $48 billion. “Trying to
issue an IPO in the face of a market that’s going the other way
just represents one more hurdle.”  The biggest U.S. energy IPO this year was Kinder Morgan
Inc., which raised $3.29 billion including an overallotment
option and was the largest since Conoco Inc.’s $4.4 billion
offering in 1998. The Houston-based energy-pipeline company’s
shares have dropped 4.9 percent since its February IPO.  Warburg and Blackstone, both based in New York, aren’t
selling shares in the IPO. Kosmos, which was founded in 2003 and
started to generate revenue this year, will use proceeds to fund
exploration and project development in  Ghana  and Cameroon, the
company said. Citigroup Inc., based in New York, Barclays Plc of
London and Credit Suisse Group AG of Zurich are leading the
offering. The shares will trade on the New York Stock Exchange
under the ticker KOS.  Other IPOs  In other IPO news, Jiayuan.com joins Beijing-based Phoenix
New Media Ltd., the TV and mobile-news provider, and China Zenix
Auto International Ltd., the wheel manufacturer based in
Zhangzhou, in selling shares in the U.S.  Jiayuan.com is offering 7.1 million American depositary
receipts at $10 to $12 apiece. Phoenix New Media may raise as
much as $178.75 million selling 13 million ADRs at $12 to $14
each, and China Zenix may raise as much as $148.4 million.  FriendFinder, the  Boca Raton , Florida-based operator of
websites including AdultFriendFinder.com and Cams.com, is
attempting to sell 5 million shares for $10 to $12 each. The
company postponed an IPO last year that sought to raise as much
as $240 million, and in 2008 announced plans for an offering of
as much as $460 million.  Schottenstein Realty Trust Inc., the Columbus, Ohio-based
real estate investment trust, may raise as much as $426.67
million this week, and RLJ Lodging Trust, the Bethesda,
Maryland-based REIT, may raise as much as $577.5 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lee Spears in  New York  at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Jennifer Sondag  at   jsondag@bloomberg.net . 