-- 
Wells Fargo Shuffles Management as It Reorganizes Wealth-Management Unit

-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 
2011-05-10T16:54:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/wells-fargo-shuffles-leadership-in-wealth-management-division.html
Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , the fourth-biggest
U.S. bank by assets, shuffled regional managers and broadened
oversight as part of an effort to streamline the wealth-
management unit.  The lender cut its regional managers from 12 to seven,
Vince Scanlon, a bank spokesman, said in a May 6 e-mailed
statement.  John Dowd  will add oversight of Pennsylvania and
Delaware to his role managing the Northeast region and John Duchala, who had overseen the two states, will lead the
Southwest, Scanlon said. Jeff Hartman adds Washington, Virginia
and Maryland to his management of the Carolinas, as Greg Bronstein moves to head the Southeast region, Scanlon said.  Wells Fargo is fine-tuning businesses that Chief Executive
Officer  John Stumpf , 57, called “sub-optimized” in December.
Wealth management is one of three units, along with brokerage
and retirement, bolstered by the purchase of Wachovia Corp. and
overseen by  David Carroll . The segment represents a “big
opportunity,” Timothy J. Sloan, the finance chief, said in May.  “As many companies do from time to time, Wells Fargo
wealth management has recently made a number of changes to its
internal structure,” Scanlon said in a separate e-mailed
statement. “This new organizational structure, which takes us
from 12 to seven regions, will allow us to realize the
efficiencies of the merger with Wachovia.”  $390 Billion  Joe DeFur leads California and Hawaii, while Jeff Grubb
supervises the Mountain Northwest and Tim Traudt manages the
Great Lakes region, Scanlon said. The division held $390 billion
in client assets on Dec. 31, Scanlon said.  Kim Radford and Bill D’Antignac, named in an April 2009
statement as two of six managers for the East Coast, weren’t
mentioned in Scanlon’s announcement. Radford oversaw the
Southeast, while D’Antignac ran  Florida , according to the
statement.  First-quarter profit at the wealth, brokerage and
retirement segment climbed 20 percent from a year earlier to
$339 million, on revenue of $3.2 billion, the company said in a
quarterly regulatory filing.  Wells Fargo rose 24 cents to $28.45 at 12:28 p.m. in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading. It had fallen 8.5 percent
in the past year through yesterday, trailing the 24-member  KBW
Bank Index (BKX) ’s 2.2 percent decline.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dakin Campbell in  San Francisco  at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 