-- 
Wendy’s/Arby’s Says Making ‘Substantial Progress’ on Sale

-- B y   L e s l i e   P a t t o n
-- 
2011-05-10T20:29:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/wendy-s-arby-s-sees-substantial-sale-progress.html
Wendy’s/Arby’s Group Inc., the third-
largest U.S. fast-food chain, said it’s making “substantial
progress” on the sale of the Arby’s brand and undoing the tie-
up led by shareholder  Nelson Peltz .  The company has narrowed its list of potential buyers to
“several quality bidders,” Chief Executive Officer Roland Smith said today in a conference call to discuss first-quarter
results. He didn’t name the candidates. Wendy’s/Arby’s said in
January that it hired UBS to help in the process.  Splitting the two restaurant groups, united at Peltz’s
urging in 2008, would allow Smith to focus on expanding the
Wendy’s franchise beyond its more than 6,500 stores. Arby’s may
appeal to a franchisee buyer that already operates Arby’s
locations, said Sara Senatore, an analyst at Sanford C.
Bernstein & Co. in New York.  “A financial bidder who is looking for  cash flow ” also
may be interested, said Senatore, who rates the shares “market
perform.” The company said today that first-quarter sales at
Arby’s North American stores open at least 15 months climbed 5.5
percent, compared with little change at Wendy’s outlets.  The shares advanced 20 cents, or 4.2 percent, to $5.02 at
4:02 p.m. in  New York  Stock Exchange composite trading, the most
in two months. They have risen 8.7 percent this year, compared
with an 11 percent gain in the Standard & Poor’s Midcap 400
Index.  Earnings Performance  The Atlanta-based company posted first-quarter profit,
excluding items such as strategic evaluation costs, of 1 cent a
share, compared with the 2-cent average of estimates compiled by
Bloomberg. Revenue rose 1.2 percent to $848 million, close to
analysts’ estimates.  Wendy’s, along with other restaurant operators, is facing
rising prices for ingredients such as meat. The fast-food chain
expects beef costs to rise 20 percent in 2011, compared with a
previous forecast of as much as 15 percent, Chief Financial
Officer Stephen Hare said during the call. Total commodity costs
will jump as much as 6 percent this year, he said.  Wendy’s has sought to attract customers at different times
of the day and compete with larger  McDonald’s Corp. (MCD)  by
introducing new breakfast foods. By the end of the year, 1,000
Wendy’s locations will sell breakfast, Smith said. McDonald’s is
the biggest U.S. fast-food chain, followed by Yum! Brands Inc.  “Their goal is certainly to compete with McDonald’s,”
Senatore said. In the fast-food industry, “breakfast is really
the only part of the business that is growing,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leslie Patton in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  