-- 
Westfield Increases Development Target as Sales Recover at its U.S. Malls

-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 
2011-05-11T06:27:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/westfield-increases-development-target-as-sales-recover-at-its-u-s-malls.html
Westfield Group plans to spend more
developing malls and expanding its London City property after
sales at its U.K. and U.S. centers rose in the first quarter.  Westfield, which last year spun off the  Westfield Retail
Trust (WRT)  that owns stakes in the company’s Australian and New
Zealand malls, upgraded its development-starts forecast to
between A$1.25 billion ($1.36 billion) and A$1.5 billion for
both 2012 and 2013, from A$1 billion earlier.  “Opportunities are presenting themselves, with cost of
debt coming down, and the Westfield Retail Trust spinoff giving
them greater flexibility with respect to funding,” said Stuart Cartledge, managing director at Phoenix Portfolios in  Melbourne .
“The strength is clearly in the U.S., and Westfield London is
clearly in ramp-up mode.”  The company plans to conduct a “sizeable expansion” of
Westfield London and will develop additional land at its
Stratford City development adjacent to the site of the 2012
Olympics, co-managing director Steven Lowy said today on a
teleconference.  Revenue from Westfield London jumped almost 20 percent in
the quarter, compared with a 0.9 percent rise in total U.K.
retail sales, the company said, citing data from the BRC-KPMG
Retail Sales Report. U.S. sales rose 5.4 percent, the Sydney-
based company said in a statement to the stock exchange, while
 Australia  and New Zealand sales were little changed.  U.S. Recovery  Westfield created the new listed trust at the end of last
year to offer a lower-risk investment vehicle for domestic
investors, while allowing  Westfield Group (WDC)  to pursue higher-
return management and development opportunities.  April retail sales in the U.S., expected this week, likely
climbed 0.6 percent as employment gains allow Americans to
weather higher fuel costs, economists said. U.S. private
payrolls rose by the most in five years in April and overall
employment increased for a seventh straight month. Australian
 consumer confidence  rebounded in April on a pause in interest-
rate increases, a strengthening currency and falling
unemployment.  The company started A$490 million of new projects during
the quarter, and plans to begin between A$750 million and A$1
billion during the rest of the year, it said.  Westfield also affirmed its full-year earnings and
distribution forecasts. The shares lost 0.2 percent to A$9.05 at
the 4:10 p.m. close of trading in Sydney.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nichola Saminather in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  