-- 
Wheat Gains for Third Day as Adverse Weather Threatens Harvests Worldwide

-- B y   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s   a n d   L u z i   A n n   J a v i e r
-- 
2011-05-10T12:51:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/wheat-gains-for-third-day-as-dry-weather-excess-rain-threaten-u-s-crops.html
Wheat futures advanced for a third
day as dry weather threatened to damage winter crops in  Europe 
and the U.S., and excess rainfall delayed planting of the spring
variety in Canada, adding to concerns that global supplies may
tighten.  About 42 percent of the winter-wheat crop in the U.S., the
world’s largest exporter of the grain, was rated poor or very
poor in the week to May 8, up from 41 percent the previous week
and 8 percent in the same week a year earlier, the  U.S.
Department of Agriculture  said yesterday. Rain in the northern
Plains and Canada has delayed spring-wheat seeding.  “We’re definitely seeing weather coming back into wheat
markets,” said Erin Fitzpatrick, an analyst at Rabobank in
 London . “U.S. winter wheat poor-very poor increased again this
week, no rain in Europe over the weekend and  Canada  only had 3
percent planted. We need to get some better weather soon.”  Wheat for July delivery gained 20 cents, or 2.5 percent, to
$8.105 a bushel by 1:15 p.m. London time on the Chicago Board of
Trade, extending yesterday’s 4.1 percent jump. The price is up
64 percent in the past year. Milling wheat for November delivery
on the NYSE Liffe exchange in Paris gained 3.25 euros, or 1.4
percent, to 229.25 ($329.94) a metric ton.  About 22 percent of spring-wheat was planted, compared with
64 percent a year ago, and the previous five-year average of 61
percent, USDA data show.  “Adverse weather in the U.S. and in Europe continues to
affect crop development,” said  Abah Ofon , an analyst at
Standard Chartered Bank. “Although we remain largely positive
on the supply outlook, risks to our view are now more elevated.
The fundamental shift in global trade patterns and import
demand, as a consequence of the 2007-08 food crisis, suggests
that the market cannot afford a poor harvest this year.”  So Muddy  The central and southern plains in the U.S. had below
normal rainfall for an eighth consecutive month in April,
Informa Economics Inc. said May 6.  The Canadian Wheat Board said yesterday fields are so muddy
that only 3 percent of grain has been sown, compared with 40
percent normally. Canada is the largest wheat shipper after the
U.S. and the European Union, according to the USDA.  Australia ’s wheat production may fall 2 million tons to
24.3 million tons in the 2011-2012 season from a record a year
earlier as drought conditions persist in the western part of the
country, Mathews said in a separate report. Australia is the
world’s  fourth-largest  wheat exporter, according to the USDA.  Pace of Slowing  Corn for July delivery gained 7.5 cents, or 1.1 percent, to
$7.15 a bushel in Chicago after climbing 3.1 percent yesterday.
Corn futures are up 93 percent in the past year.  About 40 percent of the U.S. corn crop, the world’s
biggest, was planted as of May 8, advancing from 13 percent a
week earlier, the USDA said yesterday. Still, the pace of sowing
was behind last year’s 80 percent, and the previous five-year
average of 59 percent.  Soybeans for July delivery increased for a third session,
gaining 0.7 percent to $13.445 a bushel in  Chicago . The price
has jumped 1.7 percent in the past three sessions.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Luzi Ann Javier in Singapore at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net ;
Tony C. Dreibus in London at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  