-- 
Why CEOs Avoided Getting Busted in Meltdown: William K. Black

-- B y   W i l l i a m   K .   B l a c k
-- 
2011-05-10T23:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/why-ceos-avoided-getting-busted-in-meltdown-commentary-by-william-black.html
The defining characteristic of crony
capitalism is the ability of favored elites to loot with
impunity and the failure of regulators to do their jobs.  We have seen this in the financial crisis that started in
2008 and in an earlier era, when the savings-and-loan industry
collapsed.  In the Texas “Rent-a-Bank” scandal of the 1970s, for
example, two ringleaders created a fraud network of 50 lenders
that caused billions of dollars in losses. The watchdogs removed
and sanctioned one of the main culprits, but because the crimes
weren’t prosecuted, the same crooks reappeared in the 1980s to
do it all over again, only on a bigger scale. Unless you
imprison the fraudsters, sophisticated financial scams grow ever
more destructive.  It seems as if we have forgotten this lesson.  Take the seven senior officials convicted in the failure of
one of the lenders that drove the 2008 credit crunch. All of the
cases arose from an investigation of  Taylor Bean  & Whitaker
Mortgage Corp. The first trial occurred last month -- 6 1/2
years after the  Federal Bureau of Investigation  warned publicly
that there was an “epidemic” of  mortgage fraud  and predicted
that it would cause a financial crisis if it weren’t contained.
The trial and conviction of Taylor Bean’s former chairman,  Lee Farkas , occurred nine years after his crimes were suspected.  Taylor Bean was a small Florida mortgage broker before the
fraud began as the housing boom took off.  Fannie Mae  had cited
Farkas for multiple violations, but never filed a criminal
referral, which would have triggered an investigation. Had it
done so, Farkas might have been prosecuted and Taylor Bean shut
long before it caused so much damage. Instead, it expanded, then
failed, pulling down a bank with it at a  cost  of $2.8 billion to
the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. Farkas plans to appeal the
verdict.  Fraud With Impunity  The  Office of Thrift Supervision , the successor to the S&L
regulator where I worked, made no criminal referrals in the
latest crisis. The Office of the Comptroller of the Currency and
the  Federal Reserve  made less than a handful. Mortgage and
investment banks also made very few referrals -- and never
against their senior officers.  Now it is true that banks made thousands of criminal
referrals, but almost all involved low-level figures. The volume
overwhelmed the Federal Bureau of Investigation, which failed to
devote adequate resources. As late as 2007, the agency assigned
only 120 investigators spread among 56 field offices to probe
thousands of cases. More than eight times that number probed the
S&L frauds, a far smaller epidemic.  Unlike the S&L debacle, there was no national  task force 
and no comprehensive prioritization. This made it difficult to
investigate the huge, fraudulent subprime lenders. And since
there were no criminal referrals of these firms, the FBI wasn’t
even attempting to pursue them.  Two Lessons  The two great lessons to draw from this epidemic of fraud
is that if you don’t look for it, you don’t find it and that
wherever you do look, you do find fraud. The FBI was
concentrating on retail banking, or individual borrowers and
smaller lenders. But the big problems were being created in the
wholesale end of the business, where loans were pooled,
packaged, sold and securitized. Because the FBI only looked at
relatively small cases, it found only relatively small frauds.  The FBI has been processing no more than 2,000 mortgage-
fraud cases a year. There are two things to consider though: Not
only were they the wrong cases to focus on, but they amounted to
nothing in light of the estimated 1 million fraudulent mortgage
loans made annually during the housing bubble years.  Deserted by Regulators  The FBI -- deserted by the banking regulators and undercut
by the  Justice Department  -- was so desperate that it formed a
partnership with the  Mortgage Bankers Association  in 2007. The
trade association had created an absurd definition of mortgage
fraud under which accounting frauds by a lender were impossible
and bankers were the victims. By 2009 the financial crisis had
become so acute that Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner 
discouraged criminal investigations of the large nonprime
lenders.  Nobel laureate  George Akerlof  and Paul Romer wrote a
classic article in 1993. The title captured their findings:
“Looting: the Economic Underworld of Bankruptcy for Profit.”
Akerlof and Romer explained how bank CEOs can use accounting
fraud to create a “sure thing” in the form of record short-
term income, generated by making low-quality loans at a premium
yield while making only minimal reserve allowances for losses.
While it lasts, this fictional income allows the chief executive
officer to loot the bank, which then fails, and walk away
wealthy.  Wealth Destruction  In criminology, we call these accounting-control frauds and
we know that they destroy wealth at a prodigious rate. There’s
no “if” about the losses -- the only questions are when they
will hit, how big they will be, and who will bear them. The
record income produced explains why those involved get away with
it for years. Private markets don’t discipline firms reporting
record profits. They compete to fund them. Fraudulent CEOs can
control the hiring and firing and can create the perverse
incentives that produce a dynamic in which bad ethics drive good
ethics out of the marketplace.  Sophisticated accounting-control frauds not only sucked in
employees who should have known better, but also loan brokers.
The result is that the large fraudulent lenders -- those making
a lot from liar’s loans -- produced an echo epidemic of
deception.  Fraud, it turns out, begets fraud.  (William K. Black is an associate professor of economics
and law at the University of Missouri-Kansas City and the author
of “The Best Way to Rob a Bank Is to Own One.” The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
William K. Black at  blackw@umkc.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  