-- 
Williams Formula One Team Says Full-Year Profit Rose 28% on Cost Reduction

-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 
2011-05-10T10:12:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/williams-formula-one-team-says-full-year-profit-rose-28-on-cost-reduction.html
Williams Grand Prix Holdings Plc said
profit from its Formula One business rose 28 percent to 5.8
million pounds ($9.5 million) last year on cost cuts. Sales fell
16 percent to 91 million pounds.  Team Principal Frank Williams said today in a statement
that Williams Grand Prix Engineering Ltd.’s results for the year
ended Dec. 31, 2010 provide a “solid foundation” amid “one of
the harshest sponsorship environments for a long time.” Toyota
Motor Corp. ended an agreement with the team, head of finance
Louise Evans said by telephone.  An accord between Formula One teams reduced expenses on
engines and testing, Evans said. The company’s shares rose 9
cents to 19.94 euros at noon today in  Frankfurt .  Williams became the first listed Formula One team on March
2 after co-founders Williams and Patrick Head sold part of their
stakes for 25 euros a share to shore up its future in a 60
million-euro ($86.2 million) initial public offering. Head is
retiring after this season and sold most of his 23.5 percent
holding. Williams retains a 50 percent stake.  The team has failed to score a point in the first four of
as many as 20 races this season.  Grove, England-based Williams gets about 75 percent of its
income from sponsors and 25 percent from prize money. Several
larger companies are looking for the motor-racing series to
become more environmentally friendly before sponsoring teams,
Williams Chairman Adam Parr said in an interview. Formula One
plans to introduce engines in 2013 that reduce fuel consumption
by 35 percent.  Hybrid Supercar  Williams is diversifying into road-car technology and is
helping to develop a $1.2 million hybrid supercar for Jaguar
Land Rover. Production is scheduled to start in 2013.  The company didn’t pay  corporation tax  in 2010 under a U.K.
government research and development tax credit system after
carrying forward losses of about 88 million pounds from previous
years, Evans said.  Parr said it was “very early days” to discuss the effects
of a possible takeover of the auto-racing series by  News Corp .
and the Agnelli family’s Exor SpA, who said last week they made
an initial approach to series owner CVC Capital Partners Ltd.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Duff in Madrid at 
 aduff4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  