-- 
TMX Hasn’t Been Approached by Firms With Counterbid, CEO Kloet Says

-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r   a n d   M a t t   W a l c o f f
-- 
2011-05-10T18:10:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/tmx-hasn-t-been-approached-by-firms-with-counterbid-ceo-kloet-says.html
TMX Group Inc. (X)  Chief Executive
Officer Thomas Kloet said he hasn’t been approached by other
firms interested in putting together a counterbid to its
combination with the  London Stock Exchange Group Plc. (LSE)   A group of Canadian banks approached the country’s pension
plans to seek alternatives for the C$3.2 billion takeover of TMX
by the London bourse to keep the Toronto Stock Exchange in
Canadian hands. He said TMX would be obligated to consider all
alternatives if any were presented.  “We’d consider all alternatives on the whole, but we’re
committed to the deal we have,” Kloet said today at the
Bloomberg Canada Economic Summit. “The deal we have is an
excellent deal. I have not seen anything else.”  London Stock Exchange Group on Feb. 9 agreed to combine
with TMX Group in a C$3.2 billion ($3.3 billion) all-stock
transaction, in which LSE shareholders would own 55 percent of
the company. The transaction requires approval of the Canadian
government and five provincial securities regulators, as well as
two-thirds of TMX shareholders.  “We think we have found a partner who’s like-minded in
many ways, helps us develop a whole host of new products and
services that we don’t currently have in our marketplace,”
Kloet said. “We’re excited by that deal.”  Kloet said he wouldn’t comment on any alternative deals he
hasn’t seen.  “I know what our deal is, and I know it’s good for our
marketplace,” Kloet said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net ;
Matt Walcoff in Toronto at 
 mwalcoff1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  