-- 
Yen, Franc Drop Versus Major Counterparts as Stocks, Commodities Advance

-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 
2011-05-10T21:05:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/yen-depreciates-versus-euro-dollar-as-european-equities-commodities-gain.html
The yen and the Swiss franc slid
versus their major counterparts, with  Japan ’s currency dropping
against the euro for the first time in six days, as gains in
stocks and commodities damped demand for safer assets.  The euro rose versus the dollar after a spokesman for
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  said restructuring of Greece’s
debt isn’t being considered. Inflation in Switzerland slowed
more than forecast, dimming prospects for interest-rate boosts.
Raw materials rallied from a slump last week, pushing up the
Canadian and Australian dollars.  “Global equity markets have gotten a big boost today,”
said Brian Taylor, chief currency trader a Manufacturers &
Traders Trust Co. in Buffalo,  New York . “Commodity currencies
will be a factor as the global economy picks up; you’re going to
see places like  Canada , Australia and New Zealand do well.”  The yen depreciated 1 percent to 116.54 per euro, snapping
a five-day gain, at 5 p.m. in New York. The Japanese currency
weakened 0.6 percent to 80.88 per dollar.  Europe ’s shared
currency rose 0.3 percent to $1.4409 after earlier losing as
much as 0.7 percent. It dropped to $1.4255 yesterday, the
weakest level since April 19.  The Swiss franc fell all of its 16 most-traded
counterparts, dropping 0.9 percent to 87.98 centimes per dollar
and tumbling 1.2 percent to 1.2678 per euro.  The MSCI World Index climbed 0.9 percent, and the Standard
& Poor’s 500 Index gained 0.8 percent. The Thomson
Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index of  raw materials  climbed 1.3 percent
after losing 9 percent last week in the biggest drop since
December 2008.  China  Meetings  China’s yuan reference rate was set at the strongest since
2005 as officials met for a second day in  Washington . The rate
was 6.495 per dollar.  China assured the U.S. it will continue moving toward a
more flexible yuan  exchange rate , a Treasury official said. Even
so, no specific target or number for the currency’s value will
be part of formal agreements between the two nations, the
official said.  In a statement released today following the meetings, the
annual Strategic and Economic Dialogue with U.S. officials,
China said it faces challenges from rising consumer prices and
will maintain a “prudent” monetary policy.  The franc was the best-performing major currency in the
past 12 months, according to the Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted
Indexes, a gauge of 10 developed-nation currencies, gaining 13
percent. That performance was followed by a 7.6 percent rally in
the Swedish krona.  Swiss National Bank   Switzerland ’s currency fell today as the nation’s consumer
prices rose 0.3 percent in April from a year earlier, the
Federal Statistics Office in Neuchatel said. That gives the
Swiss National Bank room to keep interest rates on hold next
month. A Bloomberg News survey forecast a 0.6 percent gain.  “The CPI numbers were softer than expected, making the SNB
June meeting somewhat of a close call on whether they raise
rates or not,” said  Vassili Serebriakov , a currency strategist
at  Wells Fargo & Co . in New York. “We’ve had some hawkish
comments from the Swiss National Bank, and it seems to be less
of a concern after the numbers today.”  The SNB kept its benchmark interest rate unchanged at 0.25
percent at its meeting on March 17. It decides borrowing costs
again in June.  The Canadian dollar advanced 0.5 percent to 95.69 cents per
greenback, from 96.18 cents yesterday.  Australia ’s dollar gained
0.3 percent to $1.0840, from $1.0807.  Norwegian Krone  Norway’s krone strengthened 0.6 percent against the euro to
7.8126 and gained 0.9 percent to 5.4220 per dollar. Norwegian
underlying inflation, which excludes energy costs and taxes,
quickened to a 1.3 percent annual pace in April from 0.8 percent
the previous month, data showed today. Futures for crude oil,
the nation’s largest export, rose 1.3 percent to $117.39 a
barrel in  London  after falling earlier as much as 2 percent.  A restructuring of Greece’s debt “is not being
discussed,” Steffen Seibert, Merkel’s spokesman, said in an e-
mailed statement. Greece’s exit from the region that uses the
euro “has never been and isn’t being debated,” Seibert said.  European and International Monetary Fund officials are
examining Greece’s progress, and “on the basis of the report of
the review mission, we will in a few weeks time have a chance to
make an informed decision,” European Union Economic and
Monetary Commissioner Olli Rehn told reporters in Strasbourg,
France today.  New Zealand ’s dollar may be as much as 20 percent
overvalued relative to estimates of the equilibrium exchange
rate, the  IMF  said. Part of the overvaluation reflects the large
positive interest-rate differential, which may dissipate with
eventual tightening by major central banks, the Washington-based
group said as part of an annual review of the country’s economy.  The currency, nicknamed the kiwi, depreciated as much as
0.8 percent to 78.90 U.S. cents before trading little changed at
79.54 cents.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  