-- 
YPF Makes Argentina’s Largest Oil Discovery in Two Decades

-- B y   R o d r i g o   O r i h u e l a
-- 
2011-05-10T20:44:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-10/ypf-makes-argentina-s-largest-oil-discovery-in-two-decades-2-.html
YPF SA (YPF) , Argentina’s largest company
by market value, said it’s discovered the equivalent of about
150 million barrels of shale oil at a field in southern
Patagonia, the country’s largest discovery in two decades.  YPF, in which Madrid-based  Repsol YPF SA (REP)  is the controlling
shareholder, made the find in the Loma La Lata field, YPF Chief
Executive Officer Sebastian Eskenazi said today in a televised
speech from Neuquen province. YPF found 4.5 trillion cubic feet
of unconventional natural gas in the same area in December.  The Buenos Aires-based company will invest $270 million
this year to develop the shale oil project, which will boost
Argentina’s total crude reserves by 6 percent and YPF’s by 27
percent, President Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner also said
today in a televised speech after Eskenazi’s announcement. YPF
said it plans to drill 17 new wells in the Loma La Lata area.  Eskenazi is seeking to limit YPF’s production declines as
the country’s oil fields mature. YPF produces more than 50
percent of  Argentina ’s crude. The company, in which the Eskenazi
family owns 25 percent, last year had a 100 percent annual oil
reserve-replacement ratio for the first time in 13 years.  So-called unconventional shale formations are more costly
than traditional wells as they extract oil or gas trapped in
shale rocks.  Vaca Muerta  Five shale  oil wells  are currently producing from the Vaca
Muerta formation in the Loma La Lata area, YPF said. The wells
produce between 200 and 560 barrels of oil equivalent per day,
the statement said.  The Eskenazi family’s closely-held Petersen Group last week
boosted its stake in YPF to 25 percent from about 15 percent by
paying Repsol $1.3 billion for the additional stake.  YPF American depositary receipts rose $1.96, or 4.50
percent, to close at 45.56 in New York Stock Exchange composite
trading at 4:15 p.m.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rodrigo Orihuela in  Buenos Aires  at 
 rorihuela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net . 