-- MasterCard, Visa Card Fees Under EU Scrutiny, Almunia Says
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 2012-05-04T16:20:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-04/-too-high-card-fees-under-antitrust-scrutiny-eu-s-almunia-says.html
Visa Europe  Ltd. and  MasterCard Inc. (MA) 
are under scrutiny from the European Union’s top antitrust
regulator over fees paid by retailers he described as “too
high.”  There isn’t “any indication” that card-transaction costs
for retailers have decreased since 2006, EU Competition
Commissioner  Joaquin Almunia  told a Brussels conference today,
without naming specific bank-card companies.  “The fees are still too high and too unequal,” across
 Europe , he said. “We are now conducting a study which will give
us a better picture of the merchants’ actual costs and benefits
of accepting cards as compared to other means of payment.”  Visa Europe, operator of the largest payment-card network
in the 27-nation EU, is already being investigated by regulators
over fees it charges for cross-border credit-card and deferred-
debit transactions after retailers said the fees were unfair.
Visa Europe reduced similar fees for  debit cards  last year to
settle an EU complaint from 2009.  2009 Settlement  MasterCard also settled a similar case by the commission in
2009, agreeing to cut so-called interchange fees to 0.3 percent
of a transaction’s cost for credit cards and 0.2 percent for
debit cards. Interchange fees are paid by the retailer’s bank to
the bank that issued the customer’s card.  Visa Europe commissioned an economic survey that showed
that cash payments are “more expensive at the average Visa card
transaction value and that Visa Europe’s interchange fees are
set at an entirely reasonable level,” according to an e-mail
from Amanda Kamin, a London-based spokeswoman for the company.  MasterCard, based in Purchase,  New York , declined to
immediately comment.  Fee Cap  Regulators are willing to “reconsider” the agreements
with Visa Europe and MasterCard that capped the fees, if the EU
study could show why card fees for cross-border payments didn’t
fall, Almunia told reporters.  Retailers see card fees “as an excessive tax imposed by
banks, since the payment service fee rate can be as high as 2
percent of the transaction value,” Almunia said today.
Technical standards and rules applied by card operators in
individual EU nations may also limit competition because they
prevent retailers from seeking lower fees in other countries.  Banks make about a quarter of their total income from
retail payment revenues, according to a European Central Bank
estimate cited by Almunia that he said was based on a 2009
analysis from consultancy company Capgemini.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  