-- Adam ‘MCA’ Yauch, Beastie Boys Founder, Dies of Cancer at 47
-- B y   M a r k   B e e c h
-- 2012-05-04T19:37:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-04/adam-mca-yauch-beastie-boys-cofounder-dies-of-cancer-at-47.html
Adam Yauch, one third of the white
hip-hop group  Beastie Boys , which helped bring rap music to the
suburbs, has died. He was 47.  Yauch, also known as MCA, died following a battle with
cancer, the  Associated Press  reported, citing his mentor  Russell Simmons .  The trio had a hit with “(You Gotta) Fight for Your Right
(to Party!)” from their first  album  in 1986, which peaked at
No. 7 on Billboard’s Hot 100, and later won over critics with
sampled music, drum beats and biting lyrics on records such as
“Paul’s Boutique,” their second release, in 1989. The New
York-based group traded on an image of beer-drinking punks and
enjoyed their greatest success with Adam “Ad-rock” Horovitz
and Michael “Mike D” Diamond.  “The Beastie Boys combined hardcore and hip-hop in a
fresh-sounding musical mashup that was danceable, infectious and
wickedly funny,” the  Rock and Roll Hall of Fame  says on its
website. “By attracting a sizable following of white fans --
hardcore-loving teens and party-minded frat kids -- with their
bratty wit and cunning collages of beats and samples, they
broadened the audience for hip-hop, bringing it into the
mainstream.”  The Beastie Boys were inducted into the Hall of Fame in
 Cleveland  last month. Yauch didn’t attend the ceremony. They
were the third hip-hop group to be inducted, joining Run-D.M.C.
and Grandmaster Flash and the Furious Five.  Birthday Party  Yauch was born on Aug. 5, 1964, in  Brooklyn , to Frances and
Noel Yauch, according to the  website  of the group’s publicist.
He taught himself to play bass in high school and formed a band
for his 17th birthday party. That group would later become the
Beastie Boys.  Doctors found cancer in Yauch’s parotid, or salivary, gland
and in a lymph node in his neck, he said in a 2009 video he made
for the group’s  website .  Yauch is survived by his wife Dechen, daughter Tenzin Losel
and his parents, according to his publicist.  To contact the writer on the story:
Mark Beech in  London  at 
 mbeech@bloomberg.net ;  http://twitter.com/Mark_Beech .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 