-- Lafarge CEO Pushes on With Disposals as Savings Lift Profit
-- B y   F r a n c o i s   d e   B e a u p u y
-- 2012-05-04T08:14:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-04/lafarge-ceo-pushing-ahead-with-disposals-as-savings-lift-profit.html
Lafarge SA (LG)  Chief Executive Officer
Bruno Lafont said he’s determined to meet a target of selling 1
billion euros ($1.3 billion) in assets to lower debt and pursue
further savings that helped the world’s biggest cement maker
beat profit estimates.  The company is budgeting for a “significant” drop in
borrowings this year, Lafont said on a call today. Operating
profit climbed 28 percent to 267 million euros. Analysts
 estimated  217 million euros, and Lafarge shares surged as much
as 6.1 percent in Paris.  Lafont is halving the dividend, and deepening cost cuts
amid higher raw-material prices and a lingering construction
slump in southern  Europe . Like  HeidelbergCement AG (HEI) , Lafarge is
seeking to repair a  credit rating  that has fallen one level
below investment grade following multi billion dollar
acquisitions.  “Asset sales are an important target, and I’m confident
and determined,” Lafont said. “We’re confident that debt will
be significantly reduced.”  Lafarge  climbed  as high as 31.8 euros and traded at 31.34
euros as of 10:03 a.m.  Cost-Cutting Culture  Global cement makers have so far reported mixed results,
with Cemex SAB beating results and HeidelbergCement, the world’s
No. 3, failing to meet estimates.  Holcim Ltd. (HOLN)  reports results on
May 9.  For all cementmakers, cost-cuts are now a priority after
large acquisitions inflated debt levels at a time when higher
energy costs have coincided with slowdowns in some parts of
Europe.  “Cost cutting is now embedded in our culture,” Chief
Financial Officer Jean-Jacques Gauthier told analysts on a call.  Lafarge, which purchased Orascom’s cement operation in
North Africa for $15 billion, is “well on track” to meet its
goal of 400 million euros in savings for this year, Lafont said.
It’s seeking another 400 million-euro reduction in  capital
spending  to reduce debt, which shrank 13 percent to 12.36
billion euros.  Sales in the first quarter increased 5 percent to 3.35
billion euros, bolstered by demand and prices for cement in
 emerging markets  from Morocco to  Brazil . Cement demand should
grow by 1 percent to 4 percent this year, though Lafarge lowered
its expectations for the Greek market in volumes.  Signs of Hope  “There are some encouraging signs,” Gauthier said, with
price increases helping compensate for the cost of inputs.
Lafarge is cautious about demand in  China , which accounts for
about 3 percent of the company’s business globally.  Gauthier said he’s optimistic about a planned $2.9 billion
joint venture with  Anglo American Plc (AAL)  involving the mining
company’s Tarmac unit. Antitrust regulators are calling for
divestments to approve the combination of cement and other
building-material operation.  Divestments are unlikely to affect the planned cost savings
targeted by the two companies, Gauthier said. Asset sales tied
to getting regulatory approval for the joint venture may tip
Lafarge over its 1 billion-euro disposal target for this year,
he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Francois de Beaupuy in Paris at 
 fdebeaupuy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  