-- AIG Plunges as Sales Decline at Main Units: New York Mover
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2012-05-04T14:47:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-04/aig-plunges-as-sales-decline-at-main-units-new-york-mover.html
American International Group Inc. (AIG) , the
bailed-out insurer, plunged the most since March after sales
declined at its largest units.  First-quarter sales at Chartis, which insures commercial
property, corporate boards and airplanes, fell 3.8 percent to
about $8.82 billion as the company sought to pare risks, AIG
said yesterday in a statement. Premiums, deposits and other
considerations at the SunAmerica life insurer dropped about 13
percent to $5.6 billion on declines from fixed-annuity contracts
amid low  interest rates .  Net income climbed to $3.21 billion, or $1.71 a share, from
$1.3 billion, or 31 cents, a year earlier, as costs declined
from catastrophe claims and the New York-based company booked
gains from a stake it is divesting in  AIA Group Ltd. (1299)   “Relatively little of AIG’s outperformance reflected
improved earnings potential within core operations,” analysts
at Stifel Nicolaus & Co. led by Meyer Shields said in a research
note yesterday.  AIG  dropped  5 percent to $32.42 at 10:38 a.m. in  New York ,
the biggest fall since March. The U.S.  owns  70 percent of the
insurer and needs to sell shares at an average of $28.72 to
break even on its investment.  Chief Executive Officer  Robert Benmosche , 67, is counting
on results at Chartis and SunAmerica to attract private
investors as the U.S. government reduces its stake. AIG
retreated from Asia with its sale of a majority stake in Hong
Kong-based AIA, and has sold more than $50 billion in assets as
it works to repay the 2008 government bailout.  Chartis is concentrating on the most profitable operations
as it seeks to increase the portion of business coming from
emerging economies, the company said. Underwriting expenses rose
at the unit in the first quarter as the insurer spent to acquire
more business, Chartis CEO  Peter Hancock  said on a conference
call with analysts.  SunAmerica CEO Jay Wintrob said he is seeking to boost
variable annuity sales. Companies including  MetLife Inc. (MET) , the
largest U.S. life insurer, have scaled back in the business.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  