-- AIG Invests $7.4 Billion at 5.3% to Boost Returns, Adds RMBS
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2012-05-04T20:03:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-04/aig-invests-7-4-billion-at-5-3-to-boost-returns-adds-rmbs.html
American International Group Inc. (AIG) , the
bailed-out insurer, invested $7.4 billion in the first quarter
at a yield of 5.3 percent at its life unit as the company seeks
to boost returns.  The purchases include a 15 percent allocation to non-agency
residential mortgage-backed securities, said Jay Wintrob, the
chief executive officer of New York-based AIG’s SunAmerica life
operation, in a conference call today.  “We continue to be opportunistic with our investments in
structured securities in order to improve yields, increase net
investment income and offset the impact of a lower interest rate
environment,” Wintrob said.  AIG has been reshaping the portfolios at SunAmerica and the
Chartis property-casualty unit as Federal Reserve policy makers
plan to hold  borrowing costs  low through late 2014, pressuring
fixed-income returns on funds backing insurance policies. AIG’s
main bond portfolio is valued at more than $250 billion and
includes corporate debt, mortgage-backed assets and municipal
securities.  AIG purchased $600 million of the securities sold by a New
York Fed-controlled fund called Maiden Lane III, CEO  Robert Benmosche  said on the call. Maiden Lane III was created as part
of AIG’s bailout to acquire mortgage investments that AIG had
insured against losses.  Fed Auctions  The Fed began divesting those assets last month with the
sale of $7.5 billion in securities. The district bank said today
it is seeking bids, due May 10, for more collateralized debt
obligations from Maiden Lane III.  AIG  slid  3.8 percent to $32.83 at 4:01 p.m. in  New York ,
its biggest drop since March, after sales fell at its main
units.  Sales declined 4.1 percent to about $8.82 billion at
Chartis as the company sought to pare risk, AIG said yesterday
in a statement disclosing first-quarter results. Premiums,
deposits and other considerations at SunAmerica dropped about 13
percent to $5.6 billion on declines from fixed-annuity
contracts.  Net investment income at Chartis advanced to $1.22 billion
from $1 billion in the last three months of 2011. The figure at
SunAmerica jumped 22 percent to $2.89 billion, the insurer said
in a  supplement  on its website.  Chartis benefited from “the redeployment of excess cash in
2011 into higher yielding securities,” the insurer said in a
 slide presentation  today.  The yield on Wintrob’s purchases compares with 1.88 percent
available on  10-year U.S. treasuries  and 4.2 percent on
corporate debt, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index
data.  MetLife Inc. (MET) , the largest U.S. life insurer, said in a
first-quarter  supplement  that its fixed maturity portfolio had a
yield of 4.96 percent, up from 4.9 percent at the end of 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 Ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  