-- Hainan Said to Get Flight-Cut Order for Pilot-Rest Breach
-- B y   J a s m i n e   W a n g
-- 2012-05-04T16:00:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-04/hainan-said-to-get-flight-cut-order-for-pilot-rest-breach.html
Hainan Airlines Co. (600221) , China’s fourth-
biggest carrier, was ordered to cut services after pilots and
cabin crew violated rest rules, according to a notice from the
aviation regulator obtained by Bloomberg News.  The airline will have to reduce monthly flying by 15
percent from December’s amount, beginning this week, according
to the April 18 statement from the  Civil Aviation Administration
of China ’s central and southern branch. The duration of the
limit will depend on how quickly the carrier improves standards,
the announcement said. The CAAC circulated the notice to all of
the nation’s airlines, according to an April 24 cover letter.  Hainan Air is taking steps after some staff didn’t get
enough rest in the first quarter because of the Lunar New Year
holiday travel season and disruptions caused by bad weather,
parent HNA Group said in an e-mailed reply to Bloomberg News
questions. The Haikou, Hainan-based carrier has received a
notice from the regulator, HNA said, without elaborating.  “Hainan Air attaches great importance to the issue and
will work to remedy faults,” said HNA, which is controlled by
the government of Hainan province in southern  China . “We will
closely follow every rule set by the regulator and welcome
inspection from people in all walks of life.”  The carrier broke a requirement for personnel to get at
least 36 hours of continuous rest every seven days, according to
HNA. No one was available for comment at the CAAC, according to
a person who answered the phone at the regulator’s head office
in Beijing yesterday.  No New Planes  Chinese carriers are boosting efforts to recruit pilots
from overseas and spending more on training as they struggle to
find enough personnel for growing fleets. The nation will need
70,600 new pilots over 20 years to meet expansion plans and
replace retiring crew, according to  Boeing Co .  Hainan Air will be limited to 28,755 flying hours a month,
according to the notice. The carrier has to present a plan for
how it will meet this requirement, which the regulator will then
approve. The carrier will also be barred from applying to add
new planes this year, according to the notice. HNA affiliates,
including  Tianjin Air  and Joy Air, aren’t covered by the ruling.  Hainan Air will also be fined 29,000  yuan  ($4,600) for the
violations, which were committed by 33 pilots and 120 flight
attendants, according to the notice. Some of the pilots will be
fined 800 yuan or have their licenses suspended for two months,
the notice said. It didn’t say how many pilots faced each
punishment.  HNA also has investments in airports, logistics, shipping
and retail businesses.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jasmine Wang in  Hong Kong  at 
 Jwang513@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  