-- Air France Loss Heightens Pressure to Secure Union Cuts Deal
-- B y   M a t h i e u   R o s e m a i n
-- 2012-05-04T09:20:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-04/air-france-quarterly-loss-widens-as-fuel-wipes-out-traffic-gain.html
Air France-KLM Group (AF)  said its first-
quarter loss widened as fuel costs and a drop in freight volumes
wiped out benefits from gains in passenger traffic, increasing
pressure to secure cost cuts from unions by a June deadline.  The operating loss widened to 597 million euros ($785
million) from 403 million euros a year earlier,  Europe ’s biggest
airline said in a statement today. That’s bigger than the 510
million-euro loss predicted by analysts in a Bloomberg survey.  “It’s worse than expected,” said Frank Skodzik, an analyst
at Commerzbank AG in  Frankfurt . “The deviation is mainly coming
from a very weak performance in cargo, while the passenger
business benefited from tight control of capacity and a better-
than-expected rise in prices.” Skodzik rates the stock “add.”  With the annual fuel bill expected to increase by 1.1
billion euros and the first-half loss likely to widen from last
year’s 548 million euros, talks with unions on delivering 2
billion euros of cost cuts announced in January are critical to
the turnaround, the Paris-based company said.  “In this context, the group is highly focused on the
negotiations under way, the successful outcome of which will
enable it to significantly improve its economic efficiency
between now and 2014,” it said in the statement.  Worst Performer  Air France-KLM shares were trading down 1.1 percent at 3.47
euros as of 11:22 a.m. in Paris, valuing the company at 1.04 
billion euros. The stock has  declined  almost 13 percent this
year, the worst performance on the seven-member Bloomberg EMEA 
Airlines Index, which is up 16 percent.  Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA) , Europe’s second biggest airline, has
gained 4.5 percent this year and  International Consolidated
Airlines Group SA (IAG) , the No. 3, is up almost 20 percent.  With the cost of a barrel of crude oil stuck above $100,
Air France is struggling to boost margins even after passenger
traffic rose 5.5 percent in the first quarter, lifting the
occupancy level 3.1 percentage points to almost 82 percent and
helping to boost group revenue 6 percent to 5.64 billion euros.  Cargo traffic slumped 6.1 percent, with less than 65
percent of the company’s freight capacity being utilized, amid a
“persistent weakness of international trade,” it said.  Lufthansa, IAG Cuts  Benefits from implementing the first part of Air France-
KLM’s ‘Transform 2015’ savings plan should start to be felt in
the second half, the company said today, without giving an
earnings estimate for the period.  Cologne-based Lufthansa said yesterday that it would scrap
about 3,500 administrative posts, or 20 percent of the total, to
help deliver a 1.5 billion-euro savings plan after its first-
quarter operating loss more than doubled to 381 million euros.  IAG, which reports earnings on May 11, plans to cut pilot
pay by 62 million euros at its Iberia arm to lift productivity
25 percent and match levels at sister-unit British Airways.  Air France-KLM in January froze pay and hiring to cut costs
by 1 billion euros and is seeking a similar saving via a 20
percent productivity gain it says is needed to secure the long-
term future. While most French unions have agreed to renegotiate
decades-old contract terms, details have yet to be hammered out.  Election Factor  Reaching a deal by Air France-KLM’s June deadline is a
“huge necessity” and won’t be derailed by French presidential
elections on May 6, Chief Financial Officer Philippe Calavia
said on a conference call, adding that the carrier must convince
any new government of the need for revised terms.  Talks about a commercial pact with Abu Dhabi-based Etihad
Airways are continuing, the executive said, though reaching an
agreement will be tough given respective market shares on
relevant routes, and there’s no prospect of a deal within weeks.  The company has no plans for a capital increase in order to
adhere to covenants, Calavia said, and has the option of relying
on its “non-core” stake in Amadeus IT Holding SA.  Auditors have signaled that the Air  France  unit needs to be
refinanced by the end of 2013 to avoid breaching France’s Code
du Commerce, La Tribune reported last month, citing unidentified
people. The company has indicated that the issue is a technical
one and wouldn’t have arisen had the value of the Amadeus stake
been recognized at the end of last year, the paper said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathieu Rosemain in Paris at 
 mrosemain@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  