-- Air Canada First-Quarter Loss Widens on Aveos, Fuel Costs
-- B y   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o
-- 2012-05-04T11:42:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-04/air-canada-first-quarter-loss-widens-on-aveos-fuel-costs.html
Air Canada (AC/A) , the country’s largest
carrier, posted a wider first-quarter loss as fuel expenses rose
and it booked costs tied to the restructuring of a former
maintenance unit now called Aveos Fleet Performance Inc.  The net loss was C$210 million ($212 million), or 76 cents
a share, compared with C$19 million, or 7 cents, a year earlier,
Montreal-based Air  Canada  said today in a statement. Revenue
advanced 7.6 percent to C$2.96 billion.  Air Canada’s fuel bill rose 20 percent to C$889 million,
and it booked costs of C$120 million tied to Aveos, which shut
down and filed for insolvency protection March 19. The airline,
whose parent sold control of the maintenance provider in 2007,
was required to pay severance to as many as 1,500 workers.  “The quarter was marked by a challenging environment, with
persistently high fuel prices and volatility,” Air Canada Chief
Executive Officer Calin Rovinescu said in the statement.  The carrier paid an average of 91.6 cents for a liter of
fuel, up 17 percent from a year earlier, it said in a  filing .  Labor strife also had an impact, culminating in a sickout
by pilots March 18 and a wildcat strike by mechanics and baggage
handlers five days later. Canada’s government intervened to
prevent stoppages as talks over collective agreements stalled,
and earlier this week named arbitrators to resolve the disputes.  Bookings Hit  Operations “were disrupted by job action by a number of
unionized employees, which resulted in a decline in bookings for
travel originating in Canada in the immediate aftermath of these
incidents,” Rovinescu said today. “Since then, we have seen an
improvement in advance booking trends.”  Excluding some gains and costs, the adjusted first-quarter
loss was 64 cents share, Air Canada said, beating the average
79-cent estimate from a Bloomberg  survey  of nine analysts.
Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, amortization and
rent declined to C$175 million from C$207 million.  The results also reflect foreign-exchange gains of C$87
million, compared with gains of C$104 million a year ago.  Capacity will increase by as much as 1 percent in the
second quarter, with the full-year figure expanding no more than
1.5 percent, the carrier said today.  Unit costs, excluding fuel and vacation packages, rose 1
percent in the quarter as Air Canada postponed some maintenance
work. That’s less than the 4 percent to 5 percent increase that
the company had forecast three months ago.  Air Canada now expects the measure to increase by between
0.5 percent and 1.5 percent in 2012, less than the range of 1
percent to 2 percent it projected three months ago.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frederic Tomesco in Montreal at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  