-- Air Force Opens Revised Competition for Afghan Aircraft
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2012-05-04T21:59:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-04/air-force-opens-revised-competition-for-afghan-aircraft.html
The U.S.  Air Force  is restarting its
stalled competition for as much as $1 billion to buy 20 light-
attack aircraft for the Afghanistan military.  A revised request for proposals will be issued and contains
only “minor changes,” Air Force spokeswoman Jennifer Cassidy
said today in an e-mailed statement. A new award will be made
early next year, with first aircraft deliveries expected 18
months later, she said.  “We haven’t changed the criteria, just better clarified
how the proposals will be assessed,” Cassidy said. “The
changes will more clearly define the evaluation criteria and
tighten the decision-making process.”  The document doesn’t open the contest to companies other
than the initial competitors -- pitting Sierra Nevada Corp. and
its Brazilian subcontractor,  Embraer SA (EMBR3) , against Hawker
Beechcraft Corp.  Brazil  is monitoring the case because the deal
would mark a breakthrough for its biggest aircraft maker.  Hawker, a closely held company that is 49 percent owned by
Goldman Sachs Group Inc., had protested the Defense Department’s
Dec. 30 decision, which would have given Sierra Nevada an
initial $355.1 million to provide a turboprop aircraft for the
Afghan military.  The Air Force canceled the contract in February and General
Donald Hoffman, commander of the Air Force Materiel Command,
started an investigation into its selection process.  The first part of the inquiry was completed last month and
“focused solely on the execution of the Air Force source
selection processes/procedures in the original contract,”
Cassidy said without elaboration.  “A new source selection team was appointed to evaluate the
new proposals,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  