-- Malawi Needs $1 Billion to Boost Economy, Weighs Devaluation
-- B y   F r a n k   J o m o
-- 2012-05-04T14:39:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-04/malawi-needs-1-billion-to-boost-economy-weighs-devaluation.html
Malawi needs $1 billion in aid next
year and is weighing devaluing its currency to boost its
economy, President Joyce Banda said.  “Our economy is in a state of disaster,” Banda told
reporters today in Lilongwe, the capital, adding that the
country’s leading manufacturing companies were unable to import
raw materials because they lacked the foreign currency to pay.
“When we were getting into government, I didn’t know the
economy was in such a mess,” she said.  The government is willing to devalue the local currency,
the kwacha, in order to meet terms set by the  International
Monetary Fund  and unlock blocked aid flow, Banda said. Before
implementing the measure, the government will seek assurance of
aid to the southern African nation to cushion the poor from the
effects of devaluation, she said.  Malawi is struggling to ease foreign-currency and fuel
shortages as well as win back support from international donors
after the former President Bingu wa Mutharika, who died last
month, had rejected IMF advice. The country relies on foreign
aid for more than 40 percent of its budget.  Malawi, which will host the African Union Summit in July,
is concerned it might alienate donors by hosting Sudanese
President Umar al-Bashir, who is wanted by the  International
Criminal Court  on charges of genocide.  “Malawi cannot risk to lose donors by hosting al-Bashir,”
Banda said. “I have left the issue in the hands of AU to
decide.”  Malawi lost about $350.7 million of the U.S. funding meant
for its energy sector when it hosted Al Bashir last year during
a meeting of the  Common Market  for Eastern and Southern Africa.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frank Jomo in Blantyre at 
 fjomo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hilton Shone at 
 hshone@bloomberg.net  