-- Alibaba Says Some Taobao Staff Arrested, Online Stores Shut
-- B y   M a r k   L e e
-- 2012-05-04T10:07:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-04/alibaba-says-some-taobao-staff-arrested-online-stores-shut-1-.html
Alibaba Group Holding Ltd.,  China ’s
biggest e-commerce company, said police arrested some workers at
its Taobao Internet shopping site after a “small” number were
accused of accepting improper benefits from vendors.  Taobao has shut down nine online stores of the vendors
involved, Alibaba Group said in a statement on Taobao’s website
today. Police also made arrests at external Taobao vendors,
according to the statement.  A “handful” of Taobao employees were involved, John Spelich, a Hong Kong-based spokesman for Alibaba, said by phone
today. The cases were isolated and occurred in the “recent
past,” he said, declining to elaborate.  “Today’s Taobao forum posting is an opportunity to
communicate clearly to all stakeholders our continuing strong
position against this type of misbehavior,” Spelich said.  Taobao, China’s biggest online shopping website with 500
million user accounts, set up a department in 2010 to handle
complaints about the behavior of employees. The unit said last
year it received reports about preferential treatment for some
vendors.  Taobao is “asking our merchants to join with us to nip
such behavior in the bud,” Spelich said.  Alibaba.com Ltd. (1688) , a separate Alibaba Group unit, said an
internal probe found more than 2,300 vendors used its website to
defraud global buyers, prompting then-Chief Executive Officer
David Wei to quit. The Hong Kong-listed unit said then it will
visit the facilities of all paying suppliers as part of its
efforts to strengthen protection of buyers on its website.  Taobao has “several million” vendors offering goods and
services to consumers, according to today’s statement.  Yahoo!
Inc. (YHOO) , the biggest U.S. Web portal, is the biggest shareholder in
closely held Alibaba Group.  It’s “unavoidable” that there are some Taobao vendors who
seek illegal profits by getting involved in bribery, Alibaba
Group vice president Tao Ran told China’s official Xinhua News
Agency in an interview published May 1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Lee  in  Hong Kong  at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  