-- Manchester City Prepares $64 Million Bale Bid: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-05-04T05:49:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-04/manchester-city-prepares-64-million-bale-bid-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers with clickable Internet links.  Bale Bid   Manchester City  is ready to make a 40 million-pound ($64.7
million) offer to Tottenham for Gareth Bale and is ready to
triple the Welsh winger’s salary to more than 100,000 pounds a
week, the  Daily Mirror reported .  City is set to propose a player-plus-cash deal to sign Bale
with on-loan striker Emmanuel Adebayor making his move to Spurs
permanent, the newspaper said. City may also offer another
player in the package and Nigel De Jong and  Adam Johnson  are on
the list of potential candidates, the paper added.  Schurrle Fits Chelsea  Chelsea is considering a bid of as much as 15.5 million
pounds for Bayer Leverkusen striker Andre Schurrle as owner
 Roman Abramovich  ponders the extent of his off-season squad
rebuilding, the  Daily Telegraph reported .  Schurrle, a 21-year-old who can play as a striker or wide
attacker, fits the profile of the kind of “hungry, young”
player Chelsea is trying to recruit, the newspaper said.  Abramovich Determined   Abramovich is determined to bring  Jose Mourinho  back to
Chelsea as manager, the  Daily Mail reported .  The Russian billionaire is undeterred by Mourinho’s
insistence that he will stay with Real Madrid after winning the
Spanish title, and is hoping to change his mind, the Mail added.  United Move   Manchester United  may move for Japan midfielder Shinji
Kagawa after  Borussia Dortmund  said it would listen to offers
for a player valued at 7 million pounds and whose contract
expires in 2013, the  Telegraph reported .  Kagawa, 23, has rejected a new four-year deal with the
German champion and his form this season and contract situation
have raised his profile as a “financially-astute signing,” the
Telegraph added.  Arsenal Boost  Arsenal’s chances of keeping  Robin Van Persie  have been
boosted by Manchester City’s 20 million-pound valuation of
English soccer’s player of the season, the  Daily Express
reported .  City’s valuation is far below the figure that would force
the Gunners to even consider selling the striker, who’s yet to
start negotiations on extending a contract that expires next
year, the Express added.  Dempsey Hint  Liverpool Chairman Tom Werner said manager  Kenny Dalglish 
will be given funds to strengthen his squad and hinted that
Fulham midfielder  Clint Dempsey , who’s scored 22 goals this
season, is on the club’s radar, the  Mirror reported .  “We never talk publicly about our transfer targets,
however, any team would be lucky to have Clint Dempsey playing
on their squad,” the Mirror cited Werner as saying.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  