-- Manchester City Signs Deal With Nike as Team Uniform Supplier
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2012-05-04T14:23:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-04/manchester-city-signs-deal-with-nike-as-team-uniform-supplier.html
Manchester City , owned by a
billionaire member of the Abu Dhabi royal family, signed a
six-year agreement with Nike Inc. to have the world’s largest
sporting-goods maker supply the soccer team’s uniforms.  Nike will replace Umbro from the start of the 2013-14
season, the Premier League club said in a statement. Umbro is
a unit of Nike.  “We are delighted to have further strengthened our
relations with the Nike family,” John MacBeath, City’s interim
chief executive, said, adding “this is a very important step in
the evolution of Manchester City.”  Garry Cook, who resigned after three years as City’s chief
executive in September, worked at Nike before joining the club.
Since Sheikh Mansour bin Zayed Al Nahyan bought City in 2008,
he’s spent about $1 billion to lift the club from under the
shadow of cross-town rival Manchester United and establish it as
one of  Europe ’s biggest teams.  That spending has attracted some of soccer’s biggest stars
such as Carlos Tevez,  David Silva  and  Sergio Aguero  and also
criticism from rivals like Liverpool owner John W. Henry.  The team has been trying to secure better commercial
contracts to stem losses that may lead to a breach of European
soccer’s new fiscal restrictions that seek to match expenditure
to income. City’s $312-million loss announced last year was the
biggest in English soccer.  The Nike contract follows a 10-year stadium naming rights
and infrastructure sponsorship agreement with Abu Dhabi’s
national airline Etihad worth about 350 million pounds. Neither
Nike or City disclosed the financial terms of the deal.  City, which won its last English league title in 1968, tops
the Premier League standings on goal difference over  Manchester
United  with two games remaining in the season.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 