-- Manulife ‘Well-Positioned’ for Asia Expansion, Guloien Says
-- B y   S e a n   B .   P a s t e r n a k
-- 2012-05-04T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-04/manulife-well-positioned-for-asia-expansion-guloien-says.html
Manulife Financial Corp. (MFC)  Chief
Executive Officer Donald Guloien said few companies are as
‘well-positioned’ as  Canada ’s largest insurer to benefit in Asia
from a doubling of its middle-class population over the next
decade.  “We would expect to see a steady progression in Asia,”
Guloien said yesterday in a telephone interview. “We’re getting
the results consistent with the investment we’ve made.”  Manulife, which has been in Asia for 115 years, has
bolstered operations there through joint ventures,  acquisitions 
and adding agents and brokers. Insurance sales climbed 35
percent worldwide in the first quarter to C$823 million ($832
million), led by a record C$365 million of sales in Asia.  At Manulife’s annual shareholders meeting yesterday in
Toronto, Guloien said  Asia  is home to about 25 percent of the
world’s middle-class population. Manulife’s “growth potential”
in the region is about twice the rate of gross domestic product
expansion in the area, he said.  Profit from Asia reached C$1.1 billion in the first quarter
because of record insurance sales, higher premiums and deposits.
That’s more than triple the C$351 million Manulife recorded a
year earlier.  Asia represented one-third of Manulife’s so-called
operating results last year -- a figure that includes operating
income,  revenue , and premiums and deposits. Five years ago, Asia
represented about 20 percent of those results, Chief Financial
Officer Michael Bell said.  Faster Growth  “With the faster growth rate in Asia, you can almost
anticipate that will be a bigger piece of the pie,” Guloien
said.  Manulife fell 2.7 percent to C$12.98 in Toronto yesterday,
the stock’s biggest one-day decline in about three weeks. The
company said second-quarter results may be lowered by as much as
C$800 million because of changes to fixed-income reinvestment
rates. That was more than the C$550 million that  Peter Routledge ,
an analyst at National Bank Financial expected.  The company’s shares have dropped about 71 percent from a
peak of C$44.19 in 2007. Declining stock prices forced the
company to increase its reserves to cover guarantees on
investment products such as annuities and hedge against stock-
market and interest-rate risk. The company cut its quarterly
dividend in half in 2009.  Asia and wealth management are the two biggest
opportunities for Manulife, the owner of Boston-based John
Hancock Financial, to expand, said Guloien, 55. He cited  China ,
 Indonesia , Hong Kong and  Japan  as countries with the most
potential.  “I believe few other companies are as well-positioned in
the region,” Guloien told investors at the annual meeting.  Profit Goal  The company reiterated a goal of having C$4 billion in
profit by 2015 and a 13 percent return on equity. Last year,
increased hedging costs and declining stock markets led to
annual profit of C$129 million.  “Manulife has been trying to grow in Asia for a long
time,” Guloien said. “In 2009, I think we put a lot of
emphasis on it, and tried to de-emphasize other things.”  Manulife entered Asia in 1897 when it issued a policy in
Shanghai, and later expanded to  Hong Kong , Japan, the
Philippines, Thailand, Malaysia,  Singapore , Indonesia, Taiwan
and Vietnam, according to its website.  The insurer has more than 50,000 agents selling products
including life insurance, health insurance and wealth management
in  Asia , and has distribution through more than 100 bank
partnerships and 500 dealers and brokers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sean B. Pasternak in Toronto at 
 spasternak@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 David Scanlan  at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
 David Scheer  at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 