-- Argentina Congress Backs Takeover of YPF From Repsol
-- B y   E l i a n a   R a s z e w s k i
-- 2012-05-04T16:01:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-04/argentina-congress-backs-takeover-of-ypf-from-spain-s-repsol.html
President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner  won Congressional backing to seize  YPF SA (YPFD) , the
country’s biggest energy company, from  Spain ’s Repsol  YPF SA (YPF)  as
the government seeks to boost oil production and cut imports.  The lower house voted 207 to 32 yesterday to back
Fernandez’s bill empowering the government to take 51 percent of
YPF. The Senate had approved the legislation on April 26. The
government hasn’t said how much it will pay for the stake, which
Repsol valued at $10.5 billion, or how it will pay for it.  “Beginning now, our oil will stop being a commodity for
Repsol but a basic good to be used for the development of the
country,” ruling party lawmaker Agustin Rossi said as the
debate wound down.  Shortages at gas stations and a doubling of fuel  imports 
last year, which Fernandez blamed on a lack of investment and
declining oil production, helped unify support for the
expropriation in both chambers of Congress. Repsol has denied
the government’s accusations, saying it invested more than $20
billion since 1999, when it took control of YPF.  Repsol’s  shares  have tumbled 22 percent to 13.6 euros since
Fernandez announced the takeover plan on April 16, while YPF’s
 American depositary receipts  fell 25 percent to $14.60 as of
11:46 a.m.  New York  time. Repsol’s shares fell 1.8 percent in
 Madrid  today. YPF shares rose 4.9 percent to 80.9 pesos on the
Buenos Aires stock exchange.  Default Swaps  The cost of insuring against an Argentine default initially
surged the most in the world after Fernandez’s decision. The
country’s five-year credit-default swaps climbed 14 basis
points, or 0.14 percentage point, to 924 basis points since her
announcement. The extra yield investors demand to own Argentine
government dollar bonds over  U.S. Treasuries  was little changed
at 973, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global index.  Fireworks erupted outside the Congress building in Buenos
Aires after the results were announced and a crowd waving flags
celebrated. About 62 percent of Argentines back the takeover,
according to an April 19-20 survey by Poliarquia Consultores
published in newspaper La Nacion. The poll of 1,115 people had a
margin of error of 3 percentage points.  “The benefits of this measure won’t be for the government
of the day but for the entire nation,” lawmaker Fernando
Solanas said during the debate. “Natural resources belong to
the nation.”  CEO Candidate  Miguel Galuccio, a former executive at Houston-based oil
services company Schlumberger Ltd., is likely to be named YPF’s
chief executive officer, newspaper Ambito Financiero reported
yesterday, without saying how it obtained the information.  Galuccio, an Argentine citizen, was tapped to run the
company more than two months ago and resigned as president of
Schlumberger’s Integrated Project Management unit last month,
the Buenos Aires-based newspaper said.  Since taking office in December 2007, Fernandez has
nationalized Aerolineas Argentinas SA and seized $24 billion in
private pension funds. The 59-year-old lawyer won a second four-
year term by a landslide in October elections after overseeing
economic growth that averaged 6.5 percent from 2008-2011.  Fernandez is pressuring energy companies to boost output
after fuel imports doubled to $9.4 billion in 2011 from the
previous year, narrowing the country’s trade surplus to a one-
year low of $280 million in December.  Price Controls  Controls on gas, oil and utility prices, which the
government introduced in 2002 as part of its anti-inflation
policy, have reduced investment and driven foreign companies
such as  GDF Suez (GSZ)  to leave the country, while others, including
BG Group Plc, closed local offices.  “Fernandez is right about those numbers but she makes it
seem as if she had nothing to do with them,” said  Camilo Tiscornia , a former central bank economist who now runs research
company C&T Asesores in Buenos Aires. “Repsol’s performance is
a result of the government’s regulation of the sector.”  Planning Minister Julio De Vido and deputy Economy Minister
Axel Kicillof, who Fernandez appointed last month to run YPF for
30 days, have met with officials from  Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4) ,
Chevron Corp. and Exxon Mobil Corp. to discuss future
investments.  Argentina ’s oil production dropped to 35.3 million cubic
meters in 2010 from 45.4 million in 2001, according to the most
recent data published by the Argentina Oil and Gas Institute.
YPF produces about 34 percent of the country’s crude. Economic
growth will slow to 3 percent this year from a yearly average of
7.7 percent since 2003, according to the median estimate of
eight economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Payment Appraisal  Fernandez said Argentina’s National Appraisal Tribunal will
decide how much the government will pay for the YPF shares. In
an April 17 presentation to senators, Kicillof rejected Madrid-
based  Repsol (REP) ’s claim that the stake was worth $10.5 billion.  The government won’t pay Repsol any compensation for the
takeover, after taking into consideration environmental damage,
dividend payments and allegedly insufficient investments,  Daniel
Kerner , a Buenos Aires-based analyst at the Eurasia Group wrote
today in an e-mail report.  “The numbers that some executives talked recklessly about
in valuing the company will be revised as we review the fine
print and the secret information managed by the company,”
Kicillof said.  Government ‘Demagoguery’  Repsol Chairman  Antonio Brufau  said Argentina will have to
pay a fair price for YPF because courts won’t be swayed by the
government’s “demagoguery.”  “The country will have to pay us sooner or later,” Brufau
told reporters in Cartagena, Spain, on April 17. “Mr. Kicillof
won’t set the price.”  The YPF expropriation was condemned by the  World Bank  and
the European Union. World Bank President  Robert Zoellick  said
Argentina is an “outlier” in  Latin America  and most of the
region’s leaders see the country’s nationalization of YPF as a
“mistake.”  The European Union “will do everything in our power” to
support Spain in its dispute with Argentina, EU Trade
Commissioner Karel De Gucht said on April 24.  Oscar Aguad, a lawmaker from the Radical Civic Union,  said
he expects the case eventually will go to the World Bank
International Center for Settlement of Investment Disputes,
known as Ciadi, which would probably place a higher price on the
shares than Argentina.  “The government will pay a high price for this
expropriation,” said Aguad. “Argentina is going to lose a
lawsuit at the Ciadi and the country will also suffer a big loss
of credit.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eliana Raszewski in  Buenos Aires  at 
 eraszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  