-- Martin Marietta’s Hostile Bid for Vulcan Blocked for 4 Months
-- B y   P h i l   M i l f o r d ,   T h o m a s   B l a c k   a n d   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 2012-05-05T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-04/martin-marietta-blocked-from-vulcan-buyout-for-four-months-1-.html
Martin Marietta Materials Inc. (MLM)  was
blocked for four months from making a hostile bid for rival
gravel producer  Vulcan Materials Co. (VMC)  after a judge ruled the
company violated a confidentiality agreement.  Martin Marietta , based in Raleigh,  North Carolina , offered
to pay $4.7 billion in December for Birmingham, Alabama-based
Vulcan, which rejected the stock-swap bid as inadequate.  “Martin Marietta breached the procedural obligations to
which it remained subject,” Delaware Chancery Court Judge Leo Strine Jr. said in a 139-page opinion released yesterday in
Wilmington, Delaware.  Martin Marietta sued on Dec. 12, the same day it made the
hostile bid, in a preemptive move to get the court to rule that
the offer wasn’t prohibited by a May 2010 confidentiality
agreement between the companies. Vulcan countersued. The
combination would create the world’s largest producer of sand,
gravel and crushed stone.  Martin Marietta spokeswoman Andrea Calise said in an e-
mailed statement that the company was “in the process of
reviewing the ruling and considering its options.”  “We appreciate the  Delaware  Chancery Court’s careful
consideration of this matter and are pleased with the
decision,” Vulcan said in an e-mailed statement.  During a four-day trial that began Feb. 28, Don James,
chairman of Vulcan, told Strine that in 2010 he had envisioned a
friendly “merger of equals.” The talks foundered before Martin
Marietta Chief Executive Officer Ward Nye disclosed the hostile
bid, with a major sticking point being who would run the new
company, according to Strine.  Board Seats  Martin Marietta has offered to exchange half a share for
each share of Vulcan and pay a quarterly dividend equal to 20
cents a Vulcan share. Vulcan is forecast to lose $48 million
this year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg News.  Martin Marietta has also proposed candidates for five
Vulcan board seats to be filled at the annual shareholders
meeting, not enough to control the 11-member board. Vulcan
pledged to sell assets for as much as $500 million to reduce
debt and cut costs by $155 million to rally shareholder support.  In the final analysis, Strine saw the Martin Marietta
agreement as a contract and wrote that, “consistent with
Delaware’s pro-contractarian public policy,” any breach
“should be entitled” to relief.  Vulcan fell 3.6 percent after the close of trading
yesterday on the  New York  Stock Exchange to $39.88. The shares
fell 3.1 percent to $41.37 in regular trading.  The case is Martin Marietta Materials v.  Vulcan Materials ,
CA7102, Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net ;
 Thomas Black  in Dallas at 
 tblack@bloomberg.net ;
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  