-- Stocks, Commodities Retreat as Treasuries Advance on Jobs
-- B y   S t e p h e n   K i r k l a n d   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2012-05-04T20:42:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-04/asian-stocks-drop-for-second-day-won-weakens-kiwi-rises.html
Stocks tumbled, extending the biggest
weekly loss of the year for global equities, after U.S.
employers added fewer jobs than forecast and services and
manufacturing output in the euro region shrank more than
estimated. Treasuries rose and oil plunged below $100 a barrel.  The MSCI All-Country World Index lost 1.5 percent at 4 p.m.
New York time, extending its weekly plunge to 2.4 percent. The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index sank 1.6 percent and lost 2.4
percent in the week, also its worst since December. The 10-year
U.S. Treasury note yield fell five basis points to 1.88 percent.
Oil dropped as much as 5 percent to lead commodities to their
biggest three-day slide since September. The  Dollar Index (DXY)  rose
for a fifth straight day, its longest advance in seven months.  Concern that weakening economic data will drag stocks lower
in May for a third straight year grew after Labor Department
data showed payrolls climbed by 115,000 in April, the smallest
gain in six months and less than the median economist forecast
of 160,000. A purchasing managers index in Europe dropped to
46.7, below the initial estimate of 47.4, London-based Markit
Economics said today.  “The data point to sluggish job growth, declining labor
market participation and for those employed, stagnant purchasing
power,” Mohamed El-Erian, the chief executive officer of
Pacific Investment Management Co., said in an e-mail today.
“Consumption, as a growth engine, is less dynamic at a time
when headwinds from  Europe  and a potential fiscal cliff are
still material.”  Jobs Report  The Labor Department report showed private payrolls, which
exclude government agencies, rose 130,000 after a revised gain
of 166,000. They were projected to rise by 165,000, the survey
showed. Factory payrolls grew by 16,000, the smallest in five
months and less than the survey forecast of a 20,000 increase.
The jobless rate unexpectedly fell to a three-year low of 8.1
percent as people left the  labor force , while average hourly
earnings rose a less-than-forecast 1.8 percent from last year.  Bank of America Corp., Cisco Systems Inc., JPMorgan Chase &
Co. and Microsoft Corp. lost at least 2.4 percent to  lead  the
 Dow Jones Industrial Average  down as much as 168.32 points to
13,038.27 as all 30 stocks retreated. Technology and energy
companies fell the most among the 10 main S&P 500 groups, with
utilities the only industry to advance.  LinkedIn Corp. (LNKD)  jumped
7.2 percent as the biggest professional-networking website
reported sales and  profit  that topped analyst estimates.  Of the 419 companies in the index that have reported so far
in the earnings season,  71 percent  have posted per-share profit
that topped estimates, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Deja Vu’  Today’s slump trimmed the S&P 500’s advance for 2012 to
about less than 9 percent. The index has lost 3.5 percent since
its four-year high on April 2, spurring bears to predict the
gauge will mirror retreats of at least 15 percent from April
peaks in 2010 and 2011 as economic growth slows. Birinyi
Associates Inc., Northern Trust Corp. and Wells Capital
Management say increasing investor anxiety is a contrarian sign
that will give way to a rally after record profits left shares
10 percent cheaper than a year earlier.  “The specifics of the report aside, we’re getting a
feeling of deja vu here,”  Dan Greenhaus , chief global
strategist at broker-dealer BTIG LLC in New York, said in a
report. “Weak job growth and weak income growth is most
unwelcome especially at a time when so many were banking on the
exact opposite.  Treasury 10-year yields declined six basis points over the
last five days in a seventh straight weekly decline, matching
the longest stretch since the end of 2008. Thirty-year yields
slid five basis points to 3.07 percent today and rates on two-
year debt were little changed at 0.26 percent.  European Elections  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index lost 1.8 percent today to extend
this week’s retreat to 2.4 percent. Wacker Chemie AG, the
second-biggest producer of solar-grade silicon, fell 6.1 percent
in  Frankfurt  after saying earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization for fiscal 2012 are expected to be
‘‘well below’’ the previous year.  European stocks fell as France,  Germany  and  Greece  prepared
for elections this weekend. French voters go to the polls in a
final runoff between President  Nicolas Sarkozy  and Socialist
challenger  Francois Hollande , while Germany’s  Chancellor Angela
Merkel ’s party risks losing control of a state in a regional
ballot. Greeks pick a new government in a national election.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  dropped 1.1 percent.
 India ’s Sensex Index sank 1.9 percent as the rupee weakened,
spurring concern the government may find it hard to cool
inflation and curb the fiscal deficit. The Micex Index lost 3.6
percent in Moscow, erasing its gain for the year.  Dollar Rallies  The dollar strengthened against all 16 major peers except
the Japanese yen, which rallied versus all major counterparts.
The U.S. currency climbed 0.5 percent to $1.3084 versus the euro
as the shared currency weakened for a fifth straight day, its
longest slump since September.  The S&P GSCI gauge of 24 commodities dropped 2.4 percent
and extended its three-day loss to 5 percent, its worst slump in
seven months. Crude also fell for a third day, the longest
streak in four weeks, tumbling 3.9 percent to $98.49 a barrel in
 New York .  ‘‘We’re in a situation where, quite frankly, the data is
going to dictate what happens going forward and I suspect the
data is going to be pretty choppy for a while,”  Michael Hanson ,
senior economist at Bank of America Merrill Lynch, told
Bloomberg Television. “The fundamentals in the economy, I
think, still haven’t fully recovered. And so I think the market
is going to reflect that and we’re going to be choppy in the
market for a little while going forward.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Kirkland in London at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  