-- Asian Stocks Drop on Growth Concerns, Sun Hung Kai Falls
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s
-- 2012-05-04T08:18:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-04/asian-stocks-drop-for-second-day-on-u-s-data-commodity-prices.html
Asian  stocks  fell for a second day,
with a regional benchmark index heading for its biggest drop in
two weeks, as  Australia ’s central bank cut its economic growth
forecast and U.S. service industries rose less than forecast,
sparking concern the global recovery may be faltering.  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) , the world’s No. 1 mobile-phone
maker by sales, fell 2.9 percent in Seoul. Gloucester Coal Ltd.
slipped 1.3 percent on speculation the price of fuel used in
power stations may not recover from an 18-month low. Sun Hung
Kai Properties Ltd. dropped 1.8 percent after Hong Kong’s
biggest developer announced former Chairman Walter Kwok’s arrest.  “Global growth is looking a little bit sluggish as the
European situation is not getting any better,” said Khiem Do,
Hong Kong-based head of Asian multi-asset strategy at Baring
Asset Management Asia Ltd., which oversees about $10 billion.
“Some investors are also becoming disappointed that  China 
hasn’t continued cutting the reserve requirement for lenders.”  The MSCI Asia Pacific Excluding Japan Index dropped 0.7
percent to 439.08 as of 4:06 p.m. in  Hong Kong , the most since
April 23. About four shares slid for every three that rose in
the index. The regional gauge added 0.4 percent this week, its
first weekly advance in five weeks following moves to stimulate
economic growth in Australia and amid signs manufacturing output
in U.S. and China is improving.  Trading volumes in Hong Kong were 21 percent lower compared
to the 30-day average, while those in Australia and China were
at least 2.6 percent higher, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg News. Japanese markets are closed today for a holiday.
 South Korea ’s  Kospi Index (KOSPI)  dropped 0.3 percent. Hong Kong’s Hang
Seng Index slipped 0.8 percent.  RBA Cuts Forecast  Australia’s  S&P/ASX 200 Index (AS51)  decreased 0.7 percent. The
 Reserve Bank  of Australia cut its 2012 economic growth forecast
for the country to 3 percent from 3.5 percent, citing weaker
jobs and housing markets. The RBA unexpectedly lowered its
benchmark  interest rate  by half a percentage point this week to
support the economy as inflation slows.  China’s  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  added 0.5 percent on
speculation the government may take steps to avoid a deeper
economic slowdown. The central bank last cut lenders’ reserve
requirements in February.  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index were little
changed today. The gauge declined 0.8 percent in  New York 
yesterday as U.S. service industries grew at a slower pace than
projected in April, adding to signs recovery in the world’s
largest economy may be faltering.  Energy Stocks Drop  Exporters declined. Samsung Electronics dropped 2.9 percent
to 1.36 million won in Seoul. Hyundai Motor Co., South Korea’s
biggest carmaker, declined 3.2 percent to 257,000 won.  Billabong
International Ltd. (BBG) , an Australian surfwear maker that gets about
70 percent of sales from America and Europe, fell 1.2 percent to
A$2.51 in Sydney.  Energy companies posted the biggest decline among the 10
industry  groups  on the  MSCI Asia Pacific Excluding Japan Index. (MXAPJ)   Coal producers fell on speculation the price of the fuel
used in power stations won’t recover from an 18-month low as
economic growth in China, the world’s biggest coal user, slows
Gloucester Coal fell 1.3 percent to A$7.50 in Sydney. China Coal
Energy Co., the nation’s No. 2 producer of the fuel, dropped 1.3
percent to HK$8.84 in Hong Kong.  Sun Hung Kai Properties dropped 1.8 percent to HK$92.60 as
it resumed trading following this morning’s suspension. The
company said its former chairman was arrested by the anti-
corruption commission, widening a probe that includes his
brothers and a former government official.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Ex-Japan Index rose 12.6 percent this
year through yesterday, compared with a 10.7 percent gain by the
 S&P 500  and a 5.3 percent advance by the Stoxx  Europe  600 Index.
Stocks in the Asian benchmark are  valued  at 12.7 times estimated
earnings on average, compared with a multiple of 13.2 for the
S&P 500 and 10.8 times for the Stoxx 600.  Huabao Resumes Trading  Huabao International Holdings Ltd., a maker of flavors and
fragrances used in cigarettes, sank 7 percent to HK$3.70 in Hong
Kong, the most on the Asian gauge. The stock resumed trading
today after halting on April 25, when Huabao said a short-
seller’s report was misleading. Anonymous Analytics said the
Hong Kong-based company “reports absurdly high margins, which
industry sources say should not be possible.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John McCluskey at 
 j.mccluskey@bloomberg.net  