-- Bank Loan Bundling Investigated by Biden-Schneiderman: Mortgages
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2012-05-04T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-04/bank-loan-bundling-investigated-by-biden-schneiderman-mortgages.html
New York  Attorney General Eric Schneiderman and Delaware’s Beau Biden are investigating banks
for failing to package mortgages into bonds as advertised to
investors, three months after a group of lenders struck a
nationwide $25 billion settlement over foreclosure practices.  The states are pursuing allegations that some home loans
weren’t correctly transferred into securitizations, undermining
investors’ stakes in the mortgages, according to two people with
knowledge of the probes. They’re also concerned about improper
foreclosures on homeowners as result, said the people, who
declined to be identified because they weren’t authorized to
speak publicly.  The probes prolong the fallout from the six-year housing
bust that’s cost Bank of America Corp.,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and
other lenders more than $72 billion because of poor underwriting
and shoddy foreclosures. It may also give ammunition to
bondholders suing banks, said  Isaac Gradman , an attorney and
managing member of IMG Enterprises LLC, a mortgage-backed
securities consulting firm.  “The  attorneys general  could create a lot of problems for
the banks and for the trustees and for bondholders,” Gradman
said. “I can’t imagine a better securities law claim than to
say that you represented that these were mortgage-backed
securities when in fact they were backed by nothing.”  Countrywide Faulted  Schneiderman said  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ’s Countrywide
Financial unit last year made errors in the way it packaged home
loans into bonds, while investors have sued trustee banks,
saying documentation lapses during mortgage securitizations can
impair their ability to recover losses when homeowners default.
Schneiderman didn’t sue Bank of America in connection with that
criticism.  The  Justice Department  in January said it formed a group of
federal officials and state attorneys general to investigate
misconduct in the bundling of  mortgage loans  into securities.
Schneiderman is co-chairman with officials from the Justice
Department and the Securities and Exchange Commission.  The next month, five mortgage servicers --  Bank of America
Corp. ,  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) ,  Citigroup Inc. (C) , JPMorgan Chase & Co.
and  Ally Financial Inc. (ALLY)  -- reached a $25 billion settlement with
federal officials and 49 states. The deal pays for mortgage
relief for homeowners while settling claims against the
servicers over foreclosure abuses. It didn’t resolve all claims,
leaving the lenders exposed to further investigations into their
mortgage operations by state and federal officials.  Top Issuers  The New York and Delaware probes involve banks that
assembled the securities and firms that act as trustees on
behalf of investors in the debt, said one of the people and a
third person familiar with the matter.  The top issuers of mortgage securities without government
backing in 2005 included Bank of America’s Countrywide Financial
unit, GMAC, Bear Stearns Cos. and  Washington Mutual , according
to trade publication Inside MBS & ABS. Total volume for the top
10 issuers was $672 billion. JPMorgan acquired Bear Stearns and
 Washington  Mutual in 2008.  The sale of mortgages into the trusts that pool loans may
be void if banks didn’t follow strict requirements for such
transfers, Biden said in a lawsuit filed last year over a
national mortgage database used by banks. The requirements for
transferring documents were “frequently not complied with” and
likely led to the failure to properly transfer loans “on a
large scale,” Biden said in the complaint.  “Most of this was done under the cover of darkness and
anything that shines a light on these practices is going to be
good for investors,” Talcott Franklin, an attorney whose firm
represents mortgage-bond investors, said about the state probes.  Critical to Investors  Proper document transfers are critical to investors because
if there are defects, the trusts, which act on behalf of
investors, can’t foreclose on borrowers when they default,
leading to losses, said Beth Kaswan, an attorney whose firm,
Scott + Scott LLP, represents pension funds that have sued  Bank
of New York Mellon Corp. (BK)  and US Bancorp as bond trustees. The
banks are accused of failing in their job to review loan files
for missing and incomplete documents and ensure any problems
were corrected, according to court filings.  “You have very significant losses in the trusts and very
high delinquencies and foreclosures, and when you attempt to
foreclose you can’t collect,” Kaswan said.  Laurence Platt, an attorney at K&L Gates LLP in Washington,
disagreed that widespread problems exist with document transfers
in securitization transactions that have impaired investors’
interests in mortgages.  “There may be loan-level issues but there aren’t massive
pattern and practice problems,” he said. “And even when there
are potential loan-level issues, you have to look at state law
because not all states require the same documents.”  Fixing Defects  Missing documents don’t have to prevent trusts from
foreclosing on homes because the paperwork may not be necessary,
according to Platt. Defects in the required documents can be
fixed in some circumstances, he said. For example, a missing
promissory note, in which a borrower commits to repay a loan,
may not derail the process because there are laws governing lost
notes that allow a lender to proceed with a foreclosure, he
said.  A review by federal bank regulators last year found that
mortgage servicers “generally had sufficient documentation” to
demonstrate authority to foreclose on homes.  Schneiderman said in court papers last year that
Countrywide failed to transfer complete loan documentation to
trusts. BNY Mellon, the trustee for bondholders, misled
investors to believe Countrywide had delivered complete files,
the attorney general said.  Hindered Foreclosures  Errors in the transfer of documents “hampered” the
ability of the trusts to foreclose and impaired the value of the
securities backed by the loans, Schneiderman said.  “The failure to properly transfer possession of complete
mortgage files has hindered numerous foreclosure proceedings and
resulted in fraudulent activities,” the attorney general said
in court documents.  Bank of America faced similar claims from Nevada Attorney
General Catherine Cortez Masto, who accused the  Charlotte , North
Carolina-based lender of conducting foreclosures without
authority in its role as mortgage servicer due improper document
transfers. In an amended complaint last year, Masto said
Countrywide failed to deliver original mortgage notes to the
trusts or provided notes with defects.  The lawsuit was settled as part of the national foreclosure
settlement, Masto spokeswoman  Jennifer Lopez  said.  Bank of America spokesman  Rick Simon  declined to comment
about the claims made by states and investors. BNY Mellon
performed its duties as defined in the agreements governing the
securitizations, spokesman Kevin Heine said.  “We believe that claims against the trustee are based on a
misunderstanding of the limited role of the trustee in mortgage
securitizations,” he said.  Biden, in his complaint over mortgage database MERS, cites
a foreclosure by  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  as trustee in which the
promissory note wasn’t delivered to the bank as required under
an agreement governing the securitization. The office is
concerned that such errors led to foreclosures by banks that
lacked authority to seize homes, one of the people said.  Renee Calabro , spokeswoman for Frankfurt-based Deutsche
Bank, declined to comment.  Investors have raised similar claims against banks. The
Oklahoma Police Pension and Retirement System last year sued
U.S. Bancorp as trustee for mortgage bonds sold by Bear Stearns.
The bank “regularly disregarded” its duty as trustee to review
loan files to ensure there were no missing or defective
documents transferred to the trusts. The bank’s actions caused
millions of dollars in losses on securities “that were not, in
fact, legally collateralized by mortgage loans,” according to
an amended complaint.  “Bondholders could have serious claims on their hands,”
said Gradman. “You’re going to suffer a loss as bondholder if
you can’t foreclose, if you can’t liquidate that property and
recoup.”  Teri Charest, a spokeswoman for Minneapolis-based  U.S.
Bancorp (USB) , said the bank isn’t liable and doesn’t know if any
party is at fault in the structuring or administration of the
transactions.  “If there was fault, this unhappy investor is seeking
recompense from the wrong party,” she said. “We were not the
sponsor, underwriter, custodian, servicer or administrator of
this transaction.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David McLaughlin  in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net ;
Rob Urban at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net . 