-- Barbaro Trainer Pushes Union Rags to Second-Favorite Derby Odds
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2012-05-04T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-04/barbaro-trainer-pushes-union-rags-to-second-favorite-derby-odds.html
Michael Matz says he likes his chances
with Union Rags in the  Kentucky Derby  as much as he did six
years ago with Barbaro.  Barbaro, who entered the 2006 event undefeated, won by the
largest margin in 60 years. Union Rags is entering this year’s
race as the second favorite, with morning line odds of 9-2,
behind 4-1 chance Bodemeister.  “Union Rags isn’t undefeated, but he can accomplish what
Barbaro did,” Matz, who trained them both, said in a telephone
interview from Louisville,  Kentucky . “They’re both big strong
colts with a ton of ability.”  The first leg of thoroughbred racing’s Triple Crown will be
run tomorrow at Churchill Downs in Louisville. It’s a 20-horse
field and the winner receives $1.46 million.  Barbaro lost none of his six starts heading into the 1 1/4-
mile (2-kilometer) derby in 2006 and won by seven lengths. Two
weeks later, he suffered multiple fractures of his right hind
ankle in the Preakness Stakes at Pimlico Race Course in
Baltimore.  For eight months, Barbaro’s injury and recovery captured
the public’s attention before the horse was euthanized Jan. 29,
2007, when laminitis, a life-threatening inflammatory condition,
moved into his front feet.  Union Rags, housed in the same stall in Barn 42 that was
occupied by Barbaro at  Churchill Downs (CHDN) , has earned almost $1.2
million in six starts, in which he’s won four times and finished
second and third in the other races.  Sold, Bought Back  Bred by Phyllis Wyeth, Union Rags was sold for $145,000 in
2010 to IEAH Stables, the owner of Big Brown, which won the 2008
Derby and Preakness before coming in last in the Belmont Stakes.
The following March, Wyeth bought back the colt as a 2-year-old
for $390,000.  “I’ve been training for Phyllis Wyeth for quite a few
years,” the 61-year-old Matz said as he shouted orders to
workers feeding his horses in Union Rags’ barn at the Louisville
track. “Phyllis had horses for me, but they weren’t good
enough. Then she bought this very big, attractive looking
colt.”  Union Rags won the Fountain of Youth at Gulfstream Park in
Hallandale,  Florida , on Feb. 26. He’s lost two races by a total
of 1 1/2 lengths, coming in third in the Florida Derby on March
31 and second behind Hansen in the Breeders’ Cup Juvenile, the
race for 2-year-olds destined for the Triple Crown events.
Hansen has 10-1 odds in the  Kentucky Derby , and will be leaving
from the 14th gate.  “He’s done everything right so far,” Matz said of Union
Rags. “We’ve gotten him a little harder in each race.”  Bodemeister, who didn’t race as a 2-year-old, is trained by
three-time Derby winner  Bob Baffert  and is running from the
sixth post position, two gates outside Union Rags. The colt won
the Arkansas Derby last month by 9 1/2 lengths. In between is
Dullahan, who was given 8-1 odds, while undefeated Gemologist
will be challenging from the 15th spot at 6-1.  Arkansas Derby  Mike Battaglia, who has been handicapping horses at
Churchill Downs since 1975, said he favored Bodemeister over
Union Rags because “his Arkansas Derby was huge.”  “It was very close,” Battaglia said after the post draw.
“If Bodemeister had drawn the one, or even the two, I would’ve
switched them and made Union Rags the favorite.”  Trainer Larry Jones said this year’s Derby field has too
many talented competitors for his 3-year-old Mark Valeski, which
he withdrew this week.  “When you go in, you’ve got to be ready to tackle the
bears,” Jones said. “This is a very deep field. We feel like
we belong with them, but there’s going to be a horse that runs
15th that’s a very good horse. It’s not like you just go out
there and hope that Union Rags gets a bad trip, then we win.”  Jockey Julien Leparoux, 28, is looking for his first Triple
Crown victory aboard Union Rags. His rides have earned more than
$85 million in prize money and he has amassed 1,652 first-place
finishes in 8,431 starts.  If Matz’s feelings about his colt are accurate, Leparoux
may achieve his goal.  “I’ve had one great horse in Barbaro,” Matz said. “I
think I might have a second one.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  