-- Barclays Recommends Banks CDS to Hedge Europe Crisis Risk
-- B y   S r i d h a r   N a t a r a j a n
-- 2012-05-04T18:27:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-04/barclays-recommends-banks-cds-to-hedge-europe-crisis-risk.html
Investors should buy protection on the
debt of financial firms to guard against the risks from an
escalation of  Europe ’s debt crisis amid signs this year’s credit
market rally is stalling, according to Barclays Plc.  “Financials appear most attractive as cost-effective macro
hedges,” the strategists led by Jeffrey Meli and Bradley Rogoff
wrote in a report today. “We recommend buying CDS protection on
a basket of financial credits as an alternative to hedging with
the CDX index.”  The average cost to protect against the debt of the six
biggest U.S. banks has dropped about 130 basis points from a
high of 351.9 basis points in November, according to prices
compiled by Bloomberg. A benchmark gauge of company credit risk
in the U.S. has dropped by 48.7 basis points in the same period.  “The banking system and financials in general are more
exposed to a potential spillover effect from a crisis in
Europe,” Alex Gennis, a Barclays credit strategist, said in a
telephone interview. “Financials have become the most liquid
part of the market and have become increasingly volatile as a
result.”  In Europe, uncertainty looms as French voters go to the
polls this weekend to pick between President  Nicolas Sarkozy  and
Socialist challenger  Francois Hollande , while  Germany ’s
Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s party risks losing control of a state
in a regional ballot.  Fiscal Strains  Traders have pushed up a U.S. credit-default swaps index
since March on concern that rising yields on Spanish and Italian
debt are signaling the region’s fiscal strains will spread,
reducing corporate credit quality worldwide. The Markit CDX
North America Investment Grade Index, which typically rises as
investor confidence deteriorates and falls as it improves, has
climbed from a one-year low of 85.5 on March 19 to a mid-price
of 98.8 basis points at 1:38 p.m. in New York, Bloomberg prices
show.  Financial firms’ credit-default swaps are more likely to
rise than those of investment-grade U.S. industrial companies,
whose business is stronger and less vulnerable to a slowdown in
the European economy, the analysts said.  Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower
fails to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted
debt. A basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract
protecting $10 million of debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sridhar Natarajan in  New York  at 
 snatarajan15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  