-- Barclays Commodities Head Jones Said to Quit for Mercuria
-- B y   C l a u d i a   C a r p e n t e r   a n d   L a n a n h   N g u y e n
-- 2012-05-04T19:29:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-04/barclays-commodities-head-roger-jones-said-to-quit-bank-3-.html
Roger Jones resigned as global head of
commodities at  Barclays Capital  and will join Mercuria Energy
Trading SA, the latest person to quit banking and join a trading
company or hedge fund as regulations tighten.  The departure of Jones, 46, was confirmed by a person with
direct knowledge of the matter, who declined to be identified
because the information hasn’t been made public. His new role
was confirmed by a source close to Mercuria, a closely held
commodities trader based in Geneva, who also asked not to be
named. Jones became head of commodities at Barclays in 2007,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Trafigura Beheer BV, RK Capital Management LLP and Mercuria
hired commodities staff from banks after UBS AG lost its head of
commodities, Jean Bourlot, and JPMorgan Chase & Co. closed its
group trading commodities for the bank’s own account. Bank of
America Corp. dismissed energy analysts to cut costs, two people
with knowledge of the moves said.  “Roger Jones is the latest in a parade of top trading and
executive commodity talent to abandon  Wall Street  for more
lucrative pastures of  hedge funds , independent traders and
merchant commodity firms,” said George Stein, the managing
director of Commodity Talent LLC, a recruitment company based in
 New York . “Regulatory restrictions on the large banks are
prompting the exodus.”  Federal Reserve  JPMorgan and Bank of America are among banks that shut
units trading the banks’ money in commodities because the
Volcker rule will limit such practices. The rule, a provision of
the Dodd-Frank law in 2010 and named for former  Federal Reserve 
Chairman Paul A. Volcker, who proposed it, bars U.S. bank
holding companies with federally insured deposits from trading
for their own accounts.  The Commodity Futures Trading Commission is also curbing
the size of positions any one party can take in U.S. raw-
material derivatives.  Barclays became a top player with JPMorgan in the share of
clients who use them for over-the-counter energy trades, a
Greenwich, Connecticut-based Greenwich Associates survey of
corporate treasury officials showed in March. First-quarter
revenue from fixed-income, currencies and commodities rose 9
percent from a year earlier, Barclays said April 26.  Jones joined Barclays in 2002 from Deutsche Bank AG, where
he was managing director and head of oil, U.S. natural gas and
U.K./European power and gas trading, according to Barclays.
Between 1991 to 1997, he was an oil trader at Phibro-Salomon,
the predecessor to Phibro Trading LLC in Westport, Conn. From
1987 to 1991, Jones was an oil trader at Minneapolis-based
Cargill Inc., the largest closely held U.S. company.  Commodities Trader  Barclays replaced Jones with Mike Bagguley, the global head
of foreign exchange, who will take on the additional
responsibilities for commodities, said  Seth Martin , a spokesman
for the bank in New York. Bagguley, who has been with Barclays
since 2001, has been managing foreign exchange at Barclays since
2010. Commodities and foreign exchange will continue to be run
by separate senior-management teams, Martin said.  Jones was a managing director and head of commodities
trading at Barclays. His career at the bank included
responsibility for energy trading out of London,  Singapore , New
York and  Tokyo , as well as European power and gas, coal freight,
 carbon emissions  and metals trading. Barclays is one of 12
traders allowed on the floor of the London Metal Exchange, the
world’s biggest metals market.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Claudia Carpenter in  London  at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net ;
Lananh Nguyen in London at 
 lnguyen35@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter in London at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  