-- Barry Bonds Asks Court to Throw Out Obstruction Guilty Verdict
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2012-05-05T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-04/barry-bonds-lawyers-seek-reversal-of-obstruction-guilty-verdict.html
Lawyers for  Barry Bonds  told an
appeals court that the former  San Francisco  Giants outfielder’s
conviction for obstruction of justice in the government’s probe
of steroid use should be overturned.  Bonds,  Major League Baseball ’s career home-run record
holder, argued in a court filing yesterday with the San
Francisco-based appeals court that he was convicted of a felony
that he wasn’t charged with. Instead, he was convicted for
making a “truthful albeit rambling and irrelevant statement
under oath,” according to the filing.  The government’s case, based on an attempt to combat
steroid use in sports, “while admirable in its underlying
purpose, has been pursued with an intensity at times bordering
on zealotry,” lawyers for Bonds claimed in the filing. No court
has ever found a “truthful statement to constitute an
obstruction of justice.”  Bonds was found guilty of obstruction last year for what
prosecutors called his evasive response in 2003 before a federal
grand jury. Asked if his trainer,  Greg Anderson , ever gave him
anything that required a syringe for injection, Bonds didn’t
immediately say yes or no. In a 146-word response, he spoke
about being a “celebrity child” who didn’t “get into other
people’s business.” In the end, he answered, “No.”  The former San Francisco Giants outfielder was sentenced to
probation instead of prison time in December and was also
ordered by U.S. District Judge Susan Illston to spend 30 days in
home confinement with a location monitoring device, pay a $4,000
fine and serve 250 hours of community service.  Jack Gillund, a spokesman for U.S. Attorney Melinda Haag in
San Francisco, declined to comment.  The case is U.S. v. Bonds, 11-10669,  U.S. Court of Appeals 
for the Ninth Circuit (San Francisco).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in San Francisco at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  