-- Battersea Said to Get More Than 10 Bids Including Chelsea
-- B y   N e i l   C a l l a n a n   a n d   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2012-05-04T15:44:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-04/battersea-said-to-get-more-than-10-bids-including-chelsea.html
Chelsea Football Club Ltd. submitted
one of more than 10 offers to buy the London landmark Battersea
Power Station, according to a person with knowledge of the
bidding.  The southwest London site drew interest from U.K., Irish,
U.S. and Asian bidders, said the person, who declined to be
identified because the information is private. Some of the
offers are unconditional.  Chelsea, the Premier League team owned by Russian
billionaire  Roman Abramovich , would use the site for
construction of a new 60,000-seat stadium, the soccer team  said 
on its website today.  The landmark power station, featured on the cover of  Pink
Floyd ’s 1977 album “Animals,” was put up for sale after its
owners failed to pay lenders owed more than 500 million pounds
($809 million). It’s no longer in use. Creditors  Lloyds Banking
Group Plc (LLOY)  and Ireland’s National Asset Management Agency had
Ernst & Young LLP hired as administrators of the property.  The 38-acre (15-hectare) site was valued at 500 million
pounds, controlling shareholder  Real Estate Opportunities Plc (REO) 
said in October. REO was given planning consent last year for a
5.5 billion pound redevelopment of the site, which is 3.2 miles
(5.15 kilometers) by car from Chelsea’s current stadium. The
club is considering turning its current site into apartments and
shops.  “We have many significant hurdles to address if we are to
build a new stadium on the site,” the club said in its
statement. The bid doesn’t mean the team has made a definitive
decision to leave its current  Stamford  Bridge stadium, Chelsea
said.  “We are encouraged by the strong level of interest shown
in the sales process to date and the level of the bids received
today,” Alan Bloom of Ernst & Young said in a statement.  The site is being sold through brokers Knight Frank LLP and
Ernst & Young’s real estate corporate finance team. Ernst &
Young spokesman Adam Holden declined to comment and Knight Frank
didn’t immediately return a call.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Neil Callanan in London at 
 ncallanan@bloomberg.net ;
Tariq Panja in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  