-- Berkshire Mortgage Venture Bets on Florida’s Rebound
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C o l l i n s
-- 2012-05-04T17:28:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-04/berkshire-mortgage-venture-bets-on-florida-s-rebound.html
Berkadia Commercial Mortgage LLC, the
joint venture of  Warren Buffett ’s  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  and
 Leucadia National Corp. (LUK) , is expanding in  Florida  as it prepares
for an end to the state’s real estate slump.  “Florida in general is on the rebound, albeit slowly,”
Hugh Frater, chief executive officer of Horsham, Pennsylvania-
based Berkadia, said in a telephone interview today. “We expect
Florida to be a place that people will continue to migrate to
for some time.”  Frater, 56, said he expects the revival particularly in
multifamily housing, pointing to Miami where new apartments and
condominiums are already being built. Berkadia announced in
September that it agreed to buy banking assets from Tavernier
Capital Partners LLC to expand in Florida.  Sales of commercial properties totaled $50.3 billion in the
first quarter of this year, up 40 percent from a year earlier,
according to  Real Capital Analytics Inc.  The improving
availability and cost of mortgage capital has helped fuel deals,
especially in apartments, said  Ben Thypin , director of market
analysis at the New York-based researcher.  Florida sales in the first three months were $4.57 billion
and are on pace to surpass last year’s $15 billion total “by a
significant margin,” Thypin said today in an e-mail.  KeyBank Deal  Berkadia originates and services commercial  mortgage loans 
including financing multifamily properties through  Fannie Mae ,
 Freddie Mac  and the  Federal Housing Administration . The firm
serviced about 25,000 loans with a $185 billion portfolio as of
March 31, the company said. That’s expected to increase to about
29,000 loans with an unpaid balance of $225 billion this summer
when Berkadia completes a  deal  to take on servicing about $40
billion in commercial loans from Cleveland-based KeyBank Real
Estate Capital, a unit of KeyCorp, Frater said.  Berkshire and New York-based Leucadia created Berkadia from
the mortgage-lending business they bought in 2009 from bankrupt
 Capmark Financial Group Inc. (CPMK)  and it’s now the third-largest U.S.
commercial and multifamily mortgage servicer, according to the
Mortgage Bankers Association. Servicers collect payments from
borrowers and pass them on to mortgage lenders or investors,
minus fees. They also handle foreclosures when borrowers don’t
pay.  Buffett, 81, Berkshire’s chairman and CEO, said in a May
2011 interview after his company’s annual meeting that the
commercial  property market  was showing signs of strength. The
billionaire investor is scheduled to share his views on
Berkshire and its units tomorrow at the company’s annual
shareholder meeting in Omaha, Nebraska.  Looking to Grow  Berkadia said in July it was looking to grow and hired
Randy Jenson as chief financial officer with duties including
“an important role” in mergers and acquisitions. Jenson was
president and co-founder of Ranch Capital LLC, a San Diego-based
private-equity firm, according to a statement.  Berkadia started originating floating-rate bridge loans in
March 2011 that are funded by its own capital. The company also
originates loans for inclusion in commercial mortgage-backed
securities. About $371 million of bridge and CMBS loans were
outstanding as of March 31, the company said.  The bridge-loan program offers commercial mortgages of $5
million to about $25 million with terms of 10 months to two
years, and may go up to $50 million, the company said.  “The bridge loan activity is a growing part of what we
do,” Frater said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Collins in Omaha at 
 mcollins45@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  