-- BNP Paribas First-Quarter Profit Rises on Klepierre Sale
-- B y   F a b i o   B e n e d e t t i - V a l e n t i n i
-- 2012-05-04T08:22:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-04/bnp-paribas-first-quarter-profit-rises-9-6-on-klepierre-gain.html
BNP Paribas SA (BNP) , France’s largest bank,
said first-quarter profit rose 9.6 percent, helped by the sale
of a stake in property company Klepierre SA and a rebound in
fixed-income trading revenue.  Net income  climbed  to 2.87 billion euros ($3.77 billion)
from 2.62 billion euros a year earlier, the Paris-based company
said in a statement today. That compares with the 2.67 billion-
euro average estimate of 10 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  The bank began trimming its balance sheet last year as
 capital requirements  and funding costs increased. BNP Paribas
reiterated that it will reach a 9 percent common equity Tier 1
ratio under Basel III capital standards by the end of the year
as it retains earnings and reduces assets. The March sale of a
stake in Paris-based  Klepierre (LI)  led to a 1.8 billion-euro gain in
the quarter and will bolster capital.  “These solvency levels are a protection,” said Romain Burnand, who manages about 700 million euros at Moneta Asset
Management in Paris and owns shares in BNP Paribas. “Even if
results had to deteriorate strongly, BNP would reach its year-
end capital goals. What matters for a shareholder is to avoid a
capital increase at a low point.”  Excluding one-time items, profit fell 22 percent to 2.04
billion euros in the quarter, the bank said. BNP Paribas had an
843 million-euro charge stemming from a rule that requires banks
to book a loss if the price of their debt rises. It also
recorded 142 million euros of losses on sovereign bond sales.  Societe Generale  BNP Paribas fell 0.2 percent to 29.03 euros by 10:15 a.m.
in Paris trading. The stock has  declined  4.3 percent this year,
compared with a 1.1 percent  gain  in smaller French competitor
 Societe Generale (GLE)  SA and a 1.6 percent increase in the 43-company
 Bloomberg Europe Banks and Financial Services Index .  Shares in European banks, which rallied in the first
quarter, spurred by 1 trillion euros in European Central Bank
loans, dropped last month as Spain’s worsening economic data
revived the continent’s debt crisis.  Societe Generale , France’s second-largest bank by market
value, fell 4.2 percent in Paris yesterday after reporting a 20
percent decline in first-quarter net income. While profit beat
estimates, investors questioned whether the company can sustain
its performance as the debt crisis persists and opinion polls
show Socialist  Francois Hollande , who has pledged to increase
taxes on banks, leading in France’s presidential race.  Investment Bank  BNP Paribas “had good operating performance” both in its
main consumer-banking markets and in its capital markets
business, Chief Executive Officer Jean-Laurent Bonnafe said.  Bonnafe said his bank is “not particularly concerned” by
the Spanish economy. “We do not see any domino effect in terms
of the situation of  Spain  and other countries potentially in
 Europe ,” he said in a Bloomberg Television interview today.  Pretax profit at BNP Paribas’s corporate and investment
bank declined about 30 percent to 1.17 billion euros as lower
revenue from equity and advisory operations and corporate
financing outweighed a 6.6 percent increase in fixed-income
sales. The fixed-income rebound was “driven by good performance
in rates and forex in particular on flows and by very sustained
primary bond issue business,” the bank said.  BNP Paribas also booked 74 million euros of losses from
selling about 2 billion euros in loans as part of its corporate-
and investment-bank deleveraging efforts, it said.  The company doesn’t plan further job cuts at the unit on
top of the 1,400 positions it is already eliminating worldwide,
Bonnafe said in the interview.  Asset Cutting  BNP Paribas gets most of its  revenue  from  France ,  Belgium ,
 Luxembourg  and  Italy  and the company also owns BancWest, a
network of branches in the U.S. Through its purchase of assets
from Fortis in 2009, the lender added clients in faster-growing
economies such as Turkey and  Poland .  Consumer-banking pretax profit stood at 1.69 billion euros,
up 1 percent from a year earlier, BNP Paribas said. Earnings at
the French branch network rose 1.5 percent to 605 million euros,
while Belgian retail banking pretax profit rose to 201 million
euros from 184 million euros a year earlier. BNP Paribas’s
Italian retail network, Banca Nazionale del Lavoro SpA, had 150
million euros in pretax earnings, down 1.3 percent.  By the end of March, BNP Paribas completed 80 percent of
its plan to cut as much as 79 billion euros in risk-weighted
assets, mostly at the corporate- and investment-banking unit, it
said. BNP Paribas, like Societe Generale, retreated from dollar-
linked businesses such as aircraft financing as U.S. short-term
funding evaporated last year. In February, BNP Paribas sold $9.5
billion in North American energy assets to  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)   Hollande, Sarkozy  France’s May 6 presidential election may have implications
for banks’ profits. Hollande, who has called finance his
“biggest adversary,” leads incumbent  Nicolas Sarkozy  in
opinion polls.  France’s four largest listed banks may see their 2013
earnings dented by 10 percent under Hollande’s economic program,
estimated Jean-Pierre Lambert, a London-based analyst at Keefe,
Bruyette & Woods Ltd. Hollande pledged to force banks to split
retail and “speculative” investment operations, to tax all
financial transactions and to impose a 15 percent increase in
levies on bank profits.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fabio Benedetti-Valentini in Paris at 
 fabiobv@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  