-- BofA Can Offer Merrill Settlement for Approval in N.Y.
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 2012-05-04T16:41:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-04/bofa-can-offer-merrill-settlement-for-approval-in-n-y-.html
Bank of America Corp.  directors can
offer a $20 million settlement of lawsuits alleging the bank
overpaid when it bought Merrill Lynch & Co. for approval, a
 Delaware  judge ruled.  Delaware Chancery Court Judge Leo Strine today denied a
request by Bank of America shareholders who sued in Delaware
over the $50 billion Merrill Lynch buyout to block another group
of investors from asking a federal court in New York to approve
the settlement.  “I have no confidence that I have the authority to enjoin
parties to a federal proceeding,” Strine said in a hearing
today.  Bank of America shareholders contend the board and former
Chief Executive Officer  Kenneth D. Lewis  misled them about the
brokerage firm’s losses leading up to the buyout and should have
pulled the plug on the deal. Lewis left Bank of America in 2009.  New York-based  Merrill Lynch , founded by Charles E. Merrill
in 1914, suffered at least $50 billion in losses and writedowns
linked to the collapse of the U.S. subprime mortgage market
before agreeing to the sale in September 2008.  Lawrence Grayson, a Bank of America spokesman, declined to
comment on Strine’s ruling in a telephone interview.  April 12 Settlement  Lawyers representing pension funds in Louisiana and  Florida 
who sued in federal court in New York over the Merrill buyout
reached the $20 million settlement April 12, according to court
filings.  Attorneys for investors who sued Bank of America’s board in
Delaware over the purchase in January 2009 contend the $20
million accord amounts to a fraction of the damage the company
suffered as a result of the Merrill Lynch buyout. If the  New
York  settlement is approved, it could wipe out the Delaware
claims.  The Delaware plaintiffs say the $20 million amounts to just
4 percent of the board’s $500 million in insurance coverage and
is inadequate, according to court filings.  The Delaware investors filed a so-called derivative action,
which would return any recovery from insurance covering
directors to the bank’s coffers rather than to individual
shareholders.  October Trial  They had asked Strine to block the New York plaintiffs from
presenting the settlement to U.S. District Judge Kevin Castel
for approval. Strine set an October trial date for claims
against Bank of America directors over the Merrill buyout.  The New York plaintiffs opposed that request and asked
Strine to put the Delaware case on hold until Castel decides
whether to accept the New York accord. The Delaware plaintiffs
have filed objections to the settlement in Castel’s court.  In addition to denying the Delaware plaintiffs’ injunction
request, Strine also agreed to stay the Delaware case until
Castel issues a decision on the New York settlement.  Still, the judge warned lawyers for the Bank of America’s
directors that if Castel rejected the settlement as inadequate,
they’d face investors’ claims in Delaware.  “If the settlement goes away, the trial date stands,” the
judge said today. All the directors would be forced go to trial
without delay, Strine said.  The New York case is In re Bank of America securities,
derivative and employee retirement income securities act
litigation, 09-02058, U.S. District Court, Southern District of
New York ( Manhattan .) The Delaware case is Rothbaum v. Lewis,
CA4307, Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  