-- BofA Names Ashok Krishnan Head of Execution Services
-- B y   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r
-- 2012-05-04T12:15:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-04/bofa-names-ashok-krishnan-head-of-execution-services.html
Bank of America Corp. , the second-
largest U.S. lender, promoted Ashok Krishnan to lead its
execution services business globally, succeeding Roger Anerella
who is leaving the firm.  Krishnan, who ran the business in  Europe , the  Middle East 
and  Africa , will start the job immediately, according to an
internal memo obtained by Bloomberg News. He will continue to be
based in  London  and report to Fabrizio Gallo, global head of
equities and head of EMEA Global Markets. Anerella is leaving
the bank to pursue other interests, the memo said.  “Electronic trading is a key area of focus for the firm
and the provision of cutting edge electronic trading solutions
for our clients is core to our offering,” Gallo wrote in the
memo. “We anticipate significant growth opportunities in this
area over the course of 2012 and beyond.”  Krishnan is an engineer by training and graduated from the
 London Business School . He joined Merrill Lynch & Co., now owned
by Bank of America, in 2005 from Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s
London office, where he was responsible for developing the
bank’s electronic trading system in Europe.  Born in  India  and a cricket enthusiast, Krishnan is
responsible for electronic trading including sales, product
development and services. He will oversee direct  market access ,
algorithmic trading, dark pools and related services and market
structure for the bank.  Andrew Todd , a spokesman for Bank of America, declined to
comment.  In Europe, Bank of America is a shareholder in Turquoise,
which the biggest banks own jointly with  London Stock Exchange
Group Plc. (LSE)  The firm also owns a stake in Bats Global Markets
Inc., the third-largest U.S. equity-exchange operator and
controller of Bats Chi-X Europe.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nandini Sukumar in London at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  