-- Bonds Resurrected as Glaxo Leads Rising Sales
-- B y   C h a r l e s   M e a d   a n d   S a r i k a   G a n g a r
-- 2012-05-04T16:06:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-04/bonds-resurrected-as-glaxo-leads-rising-sales.html
Bond sales worldwide are reviving from
the slowest month of the year as yields on corporate debt
decline to the least since 2010.  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK) ’s $5 billion offering, its first
dollar-denominated sale in more than four years, led issuance of
at least $55.1 billion this week following $45.8 billion in the
period ended April 27, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Stockholm-based Ericsson AB, the biggest maker of mobile phone
networks, sold $1 billion of 10-year bonds to refinance existing
debt, its first issue in almost three years.  Borrowing costs are declining as investor demand rises amid
optimism that the global economy isn’t slowing enough to dent
corporate creditworthiness. Some 71 percent of U.S. companies
that have reported first-quarter earnings beat analysts’
estimates, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Mutual fund inflows
for fixed-income funds globally rose last week to the highest
level since March, according to research firm EPFR Global.  “What else can they buy that offers a comparable risk-
reward profile?” said Edward Marrinan, macro credit strategist
at Royal Bank of Scotland Plc in  Stamford ,  Connecticut . “While
many portfolio managers are hardly thrilled with current all-in
yields, corporate credit fundamentals are good and  default risk 
is historically low. As long as this remains the case, demand
for credit exposure will be strong.”  Yields on company bonds from the most creditworthy to the
riskiest declined to 4.092 percent, the lowest level since Nov.
9, 2010, and down from 4.825 percent at year-end, according to
the Bank of America Merrill Lynch Global Broad Market Corporate
& High Yield Index.  Default Swaps Rise  The extra yield investors demand to own the debt rather
than government securities has declined to 277 basis points from
last month’s high of 285 basis points, index data show. While
spreads are down, they’re still above last year’s low of 193 on
April 11, 2011.  Elsewhere in credit markets, a benchmark gauge of U.S.
company credit risk rose the most in three weeks, with the
Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, which investors
use to hedge against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness,
climbing by 3.4 basis points to a mid-price of 99.5 basis points
as of 12:04 p.m. in  New York , according to prices compiled by
Bloomberg.  That’s the biggest rise since April 13 for the index, which
typically rises as investor confidence deteriorates and falls as
it improves. Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value if a
borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the value of the
defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000 annually on a
contract protecting $10 million of debt.  Rate Swap Spreads  The U.S. two-year interest-rate swap spread, a measure of
bond market stress, rose for a third day, climbing 0.9 basis
points to 29.25 basis points as of 12:03 p.m. in New York. The
gauge widens when investors seek the perceived safety of
 government securities  and narrows when they favor assets such as
corporate bonds.  Bonds of ABB Ltd. are the most actively traded U.S.
corporate securities by dealers today, with 125 trades of $1
million or more as of 12:05 p.m. in New York, according to
Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority. ABB Finance USA sold $2.5 billion of debt
yesterday in a three-part offering.  Corporate bond sales are reviving with $45.1 billion of
sales in the first three days of May, compared with $34.9
billion a month earlier, Bloomberg data show. Sales in April of
$200 billion, less than half the $409 billion sold in March,
marked the slowest month since December, when issuance declined
to $187.3 billion.  Weakness Stabilized  While austerity measures aimed at stemming  Europe ’s debt
crisis have pushed economies from the U.K. to  Spain  into
recession, European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said
policy makers still expect a gradual recovery this year.  In the U.S., unemployment fell to a three-year low of 8.1
percent in April, Labor Department figures showed today in
 Washington . Of the 418 S&P 500 index companies that have
reported first-quarter earnings, 295 have beaten analysts’
earnings estimates, Bloomberg data show.  “A lot of the weakness was due to the fact that you had an
escalating situation in the  European debt crisis ,” Hans Mikkelsen, a high-grade credit strategist at Bank of America
Merrill Lynch, said in a telephone interview. “At the same time
you had significant signs of weakness in U.S. economic data.
That has sort of stabilized.”  Glaxo Offering  Investors added $4.85 billion to fixed-income mutual funds
globally in the week-long period ended April 25, the highest
level since the period ended March 14 and more than double the
2012 low of $2 billion posted April 11, according to EPFR data.  GlaxoSmithKline’s sale on May 2, the busiest day in the
U.S. corporate bond market in seven weeks, was split between $1
billion of three-year notes and $2 billion each of five- and 10-
year debt, Bloomberg data show.  The bonds traded yesterday at tighter spreads relative to
Treasuries, with the 2015 maturity yielding 38.1 basis points
more than benchmarks after pricing at 45 basis points, data from
Bloomberg and Trace show.  “Issuers that are ready to go are taking advantage of
better market conditions ahead of Friday’s payroll number,”
said Anne Daley, a New York-based managing director on the
investment-grade syndicate desk at Barclays Plc, which helped to
manage the Glaxo deal. “The large, multi-tranche, multi-
billion-dollar deals are going exceptionally well.”  Ericsson’s $1 billion of 10-year, 4.125 percent notes,
which priced to yield 225 basis points more than Treasuries on
May 2, tightened yesterday to 210.4 basis points, Bloomberg and
Trace data show.  Corporate bonds “still stand out head and shoulders among
the more defensive, risk-free asset classes,”  Thomas Chow , a
 money manager  at Delaware Investments in Philadelphia with about
$170 billion under management, said in a telephone interview.
“There has just been such deep demand among institutional
investors.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Charles Mead in New York at 
 cmead11@bloomberg.net ;
Sarika Gangar in New York at 
 sgangar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  