-- BP-Led Shah Deniz 2 Gas Project Needs $50 Billion Investment
-- B y   Z u l f u g a r   A g a y e v
-- 2012-05-04T13:03:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-04/bp-led-shah-deniz-2-gas-project-needs-50-billion-investment.html
The BP Plc-led Shah Deniz 2 natural-
gas project will require as much as $50 billion in investment to
open up a new supply route to Europe across  Turkey , according to
 Azerbaijan ’s state energy company.  “In a project like this, we have to invest $25 billion
into drilling and production,” Elshad Nasirov, vice president
of the State Oil Co. of Azerbaijan, or Socar, said in an
interview in the capital of Baku. “Another $25 billion will be
invested in different transportation projects from Baku to
Turkey, across Turkey and from Turkey to the EU. So, in total,
it makes $50 billion.”  BP and the Azeri government cleared the second phase of the
Shah Deniz project last month, approving the start of the so-
called front-end engineering and design process. The project
will expand the field’s production by 16 billion cubic meters a
year, with first exports due by 2017 or 2018.  Azerbaijan currently exports gas from the first phase of
the Shah Deniz project to  Georgia  and Turkey via the South
Caucasus Pipeline, or SCP. The pipeline, also led by BP,
connects the Sangachal terminal south of Baku to Turkey’s
eastern town of Erzurum via Georgia.  The Shah Deniz group, which also includes Socar,  Statoil
ASA (STL)  and  Total SA (FP) , earlier announced plans to expand the capacity
of the SCP from 8 billion cubic meters a year.  Azerbaijan and Turkey signed a memorandum of understanding
in December to build a 2,000-kilometer (1,240-mile) pipeline,
known as Tanap, across Turkey. Socar holds 80 percent of Tanap,
estimated to cost $5 billion to $7 billion. Turkey’s state
pipeline company Boru Hatlari Ile Petrol Tasima AS, or Botas,
and energy company Turkiye Petrolleri AO have a combined 80
percent.  Nasirov said an inter-governmental agreement on Tanap is
planned to be signed by June 30.  Tanap will be linked up with one of three pipeline projects
vying for the right to export Shah Deniz gas, i.e. Nabucco West,
a revised version of the EU-backed Nabucco project, BP’s South
East  Europe  Pipeline and the Trans-Adriatic Pipeline, or TAP,
that’s being developed by Statoil, EGL AG and EON Ruhrgas AG.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zulfugar Agayev in Baku at 
 zagayev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hellmuth Tromm at 
 htromm@bloomberg.net  