-- Brazil Coffee Discount Steady as Trade at a ‘Standstill’
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2012-05-04T09:44:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-04/brazil-coffee-discount-steady-as-trade-at-a-standstill-.html
The discount buyers are getting on
coffee from  Brazil , the world’s largest producer, held steady
this week on “standstill” trading after prices in  New York 
resumed their slide, according to Flavour Coffee.  Fine cup beans for May and June shipment are trading at a
discount of 8 cents a pound to the price on ICE Futures U.S. in
New York, data from Rio de Janeiro-based broker showed. Buyers
of good cup beans for shipment in June and July are getting a
discount of 15 cents a pound to the exchange price, according to
the data. Both were unchanged from last week.  Arabica coffee fell as much as 4 percent in New York
yesterday as fears of a frost in Brazil eased. Coffee areas will
be free of frost for the next 10 days, forecaster Somar
Meteorologia said on May 2. A frost alert for Parana,  Sao Paulo 
and  Minas Gerais , Brazil’s largest arabica-producing state, was
issued by government’s Meteorology Institute, known as Inmet, on
May 1, sending prices up as much as 2.8 percent.  With “weaker ICE performances, business went to a complete
standstill as producers somewhat were able to keep their offers
unchanged,” Flavour Coffee said in a weekly report e-mailed
yesterday.  Temperatures in major coffee areas stayed at 8 degrees to
12 degrees Celsius (46 to 54 degrees Fahrenheit), far from
freeze levels, Flavour Coffee said. Freezing in Brazilian
growing regions can damage trees bearing the following year’s
crop. The last major frosts happened in 1994 and in 1975,
sending prices up in 1997 and to a record in 1977.  Robusta Premium  Conillons, as Brazilian robusta coffee is known, are
trading at a premium of 4 cents a pound to the price on NYSE
Liffe in  London  for May, June and July shipments, up from 3
cents a pound last week, data from the broker show.  “Arrivals of new crop keep improving with producers
focused on harvesting and drying procedures,” Flavour Coffee
said. “Surprisingly prices are firmer, with reasonable demand
for both new and current crop,” according to the report.  Harvesting of the 2012-13 robusta crop has started in
Rondonia and Espirito Santo, the main growing states, according
to Cepea, a University of Sao Paulo research group.  Arabica coffee is grown mainly in  Latin America  and is
favored for specialty drinks such as those made by  Starbucks
Corp. (SBUX)  Robusta beans are grown mainly in  Asia  and parts of  Africa 
and are used in instant drinks and espresso.  Robusta coffee for July delivery rose 0.5 percent to $1,984
a ton by 10:30 a.m on NYSE Liffe in London. Arabica coffee for
July delivery rose 0.4 percent to $1.765 a pound on ICE.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 Ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 Ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 