-- Brazil Rate Futures Yields Plunge on Plan to Cut Savings Returns
-- B y   J o s u e   L e o n e l   a n d   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a
-- 2012-05-04T21:50:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-04/brazil-rate-futures-yields-drop-on-plan-to-cut-savings-returns.html
Yields on Brazilian interest-rate
futures extended their weekly drop to the biggest since 2008 as
the government planned to reduce returns on  savings accounts  to
facilitate deeper cuts in the benchmark Selic rate.  The yields slid for a seventh straight week after the
administration of President  Dilma Rousseff  announced yesterday
new rules on the way savings rates in Brazil are calculated. The
real touched its lowest level since September yesterday on
speculation policy makers will keep reducing borrowing costs and
are prepared to intervene if the currency strengthens.  “They’re eliminating the hurdle in which the savings
accounts rules are a risk for further rate cuts,”  Eduardo Suarez , head of Latin American currency strategy at Scotia
Capital Inc., said in a phone interview from Sao Paulo. “Dilma
wants rates at international levels. The question now is whether
they’ll continue to target the Selic rate or will focus on
pressuring banks to cut lending rates.”  Yields on the futures contract due in January 2014 fell 23
basis points, or 0.23 percentage point, to 8.28 percent at 6
p.m. in  Sao Paulo  after touching a record low 8.22 percent. It
decreased 44 basis points this week in the biggest five-day drop
since Aug. 19. The real depreciated 1 percent to 1.9276 per  U.S.
dollar , extending its drop this week to 2.1 percent. The
currency touched 1.9355 yesterday, its weakest level since Sept.
22.  Savings-accounts returns will be limited to 70 percent of
the benchmark Selic rate if it falls to 8.5 percent or lower,
plus a fluctuating Reference Rate, Brazilian Finance Minister
 Guido Mantega  said in a press conference in Brasilia yesterday.
The decree must be approved by Congress.  ‘Opening the Door’  “This is opening the door for rates to fall,” Alfredo Barbutti, an economist at Liquidez DTVM Ltda., said by phone
from Sao Paulo.  Brazilian central bank President Alexandre Tombini said
yesterday in a statement posted on its website that the changes
on savings accounts consolidate the basis for sustainable
economic growth and are a fundamental step toward removing
relics inherited from  Brazil ’s era of high inflation. Brazil has
lowered its key rate 350 basis points since August to 9 percent
to fuel growth.  Scotia Capital’s Suarez said the market is waiting for
indications from the central bank on how deep future rate cuts
will be following the savings rules changes.  “Signals are changing very fast,” he said. “Tombini was
very clear three weeks ago when he said the rate-cutting cycle
would stop above the previous record low” of 8.75 percent.
“The central bank has notably been absent this week. It’s
mostly been the Finance Ministry and Rousseff speaking.”  Dollar Purchases  Brazil’s central bank bought $5.5 billion in the  spot
market  from April 1 through April 20, the most since $6.6
billion purchased in July, to help exporters by weakening the
local currency.  Rousseff has been pressuring banks to reduce loan spreads
following the rate cuts. Brazil’s private banks will reduce
spreads to be able to compete with state-owned banks, which are
reducing  interest rates  on loans, Mantega told reporters in Sao
Paulo today. He said a weaker real and lower rates are pleasing
industrial companies and that credit growth in 2012 is slower
than desirable.  “Mantega was saying today that he wants faster credit
growth, so one objective of these policies is to boost credit
and speed up growth of the economy,” Suarez said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Josue Leonel in Sao Paulo at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net ;
Gabrielle Coppola in Sao Paulo at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  