-- Brookfield May Add Housing to Its Manhattan West Development
-- B y   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t
-- 2012-05-04T18:44:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-04/brookfield-may-add-housing-to-its-manhattan-west-development.html
Brookfield Office Properties Inc. (BPO) ,
owner of downtown New York’s World Financial Center, may include
as many as 900 units of housing at its Manhattan West project,
which it has marketed mainly for offices.  The exploration is a response to the growth of the
residential market on the West Side, Dennis Friedrich,  New York- 
based Brookfield’s president and chief investment officer, said
today on a conference call with investors. He called the
prospects for housing at the site “pretty promising.”  “We’ve always highlighted the office density because we’re
an office landlord,” Friedrich said. “But we have the ability
to build 900 units on that site. That market has really taken
off, and may drive greater value for us, so we took a little bit
of time to study that.”  Brookfield’s current plan calls for  offices  and retail,
including two skyscrapers, at the site on 10th Avenue west of
Pennsylvania Station.  Manhattan  West requires a platform over a
65-foot railroad trench through which NJ Transit and Amtrak
passenger trains pass.  Chief Executive Officer Ric Clark said the company is “on
the verge” of starting the deck, pending completion of
negotiations with authorities.  Clark will become Brookfield Office’s chairman in July and
Friedrich will replace him as CEO, the company said yesterday.  Any housing would be “within the envelope” of the 5.4
million square feet (502,000 square meters) of development
planned for the site, Friedrich said.  Hudson Yards  Manhattan West is part of  New York City ’s plan to extend
Midtown’s high-rise office district, the biggest in the U.S.,
west to the  Hudson River . Related Cos. has rights to build about
13 million square feet of construction, including about 6
million square feet of offices, mostly over the Hudson Yards
rail property, a half-block west of Brookfield’s trench.  The real estate companies are competing with each other,
and with the World Trade Center redevelopment in lower
Manhattan, for tenants large enough to anchor new office towers.
 Viacom Inc. (VIAB)  took itself out of the running last week when it
extended its headquarters lease at 1515 Broadway in Times
Square, a property owned by  SL Green Realty Corp. (SLG)   Brookfield “spent a lot of time with Viacom” trying to
lure the media company to its downtown offices, Clark said.  The landlord may have more than 3 million square feet of
vacancies next year at the 8 million-square-foot World Financial
Center. Bank of America Corp. is leaving most of the space there
that it inherited when it bought Merrill Lynch & Co.  Brookfield today said first-quarter comparable funds from
operations rose 8.5 percent from a year earlier as new office
leases at higher rates increased rental income.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David M. Levitt in  New York  at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  