-- Buffett’s CTB Adds Chicken Eviscerators in Dutch Purchase
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2012-05-04T16:58:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-04/buffett-s-ctb-adds-chicken-eviscerators-in-dutch-purchase.html
Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) ’s CTB Inc.,
the farm-products firm bought by Chairman  Warren Buffett  in
2002, agreed to acquire Meyn Holding BV of the Netherlands to
expand into  neck breakers  and eviscerators for chickens.  Meyn, founded in 1959, has customers in more than 90
countries, Milford, Indiana-based CTB said today in a  statement .
Terms weren’t disclosed.  Buffett, 81, is scheduled to host Berkshire’s annual
meeting tomorrow in Omaha,  Nebraska , where he will discuss the
firm’s units, comment on their managers and show off products
and services. CTB Chief Executive Officer Victor Mancinelli, who
has been praised publicly by Buffett for expanding the unit,
said the billionaire Berkshire chairman supported the deal.  “He’s thrilled with it and he can see the strategic fit
with our company very well,” Mancinelli said in a telephone
interview. “It is one of the bigger acquisitions that we have
done in the last five years.”  CTB, which has made at least eight acquisitions since
joining Berkshire, sells feeders and ventilation systems under
its Chore-Time Poultry group and provides equipment for storing
and drying grain. The unit bought Porcon, based in Deurne, the
Netherlands, in 2007, and added it to the PigTek equipment group
of brands.  Stun, Pluck, Kill  Meyn provides systems to stun, pluck and kill as many as
12,000 birds an hour, according to its website. The Meyn
 Maestro , which removes chickens’ insides without damage to the
liver, is the world’s best selling eviscerator, according to the
company’s website. Oostzaan-based Meyn also makes equipment for
chilling, deboning and packaging.  Berkshire units from NetJets to Clayton Homes to Geico set
up stalls at Omaha’s CenturyLink Center to highlight their
offerings of luxury flights, prefabricated homes and car
insurance policies. CTB’s display at last year’s meeting showed
its solutions for handling grain and keeping animals, and
exhibited a biometric system for measuring the weight of pigs.  “Vic is a manager that could run any company in the
Fortune 500,” Buffett said of Mancinelli in a  video  address to
CTB employees posted on the unit’s website in 2010. “He’s done
a wonderful job for us.”  CTB recorded $124 million of pretax profit last year.
Berkshire’s 2011  net income  was $10.3 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Frye in  New York  at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net . 