-- Butamax, Pfizer, Burberry, BitTorrent: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2012-05-04T11:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-04/butamax-pfizer-burberry-bittorrent-intellectual-property.html
Butamax Advanced Biofuels LLC asked
the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office to reexamine a disputed
patent owned by  Gevo Inc. (GEVO) , the U.S. biotechnology company backed
by the oil refiner Total SA and the specialty chemicals maker
 Lanxess AG. (LXS)   A joint venture of  BP Plc (BP/)  and DuPont Co., Butamax said
Gevo’s patent may be invalid because it’s based on technology
that “was well known at the time the patent was filed,”
according to a statement yesterday.  The companies have been  sparring  since January 2011 over
patent rights for systems that convert corn and non-food crops
into isobutanol. The Patent Office granted an earlier Butamax
request on March 23 to reexamine another Gevo patent, according
to the statement. Patent reexaminations take about three years
on average.  The Patent Office is also reviewing two Butamax patents at
Gevo’s request.  Isobutanol is blended with gasoline or refined into
specialty chemicals or  jet fuel .  Pfizer Letting U.S. Test Failed Compounds on New Illnesses  More than 20 compounds that  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) ,  Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY) 
and  AstraZeneca Plc (AZN)  failed to turn into drugs will be tested by
U.S.-sponsored scientists in a $20 million program to see if
they’ll work against ailments they weren’t aimed at previously.  If they do, the time to market will be shorter and the
drugmakers, who retain ownership of the compounds, will share
profits with the researchers, who keep  intellectual property 
rights. Traditionally, companies spend about $2 billion and take
14 years to develop therapies, a so-called “valley-of-death”
commitment that’s stalled progress as drugmakers move cautiously
in deciding which illness to target.  The joint program, a first for the National Institutes of
Health, is designed to lessen their risk, funded by
$575 million in President Barack Obama’s fiscal 2013 budget. The
agency cited the HIV treatment AZT, created from failed attempts
to treat cancer, in explaining the partnership.  “We need to generate more of these success stories in a
more systematic manner,” NIH director Francis Collins said
during a news conference announcing the agreements.  The compounds New York-based Pfizer, Lilly, based in
Indianapolis, and London-based AstraZeneca will make available
have already been shown to be safe in humans.  The drugmakers will give researchers access to the
chemicals and related data, the NIH said in a statement.  “Americans are eagerly awaiting the next generation of
cures and treatments to help them live longer and healthier
lives,” Health and Human Services Secretary Kathleen Sebelius
said in the statement. “To accelerate our nation’s therapeutic
development process, it is essential that we forge strong,
innovative and strategic partnerships across government,
academia and industry.”  Should the drugs prove effective against a new disease, the
companies will have the option to develop them into a marketed
product, the agency said. Taxpayers would get a financial
benefit only if an NIH scientist is a researcher on one of the
compounds. Then there would be a flow of royalties back to the
federal agency.  The bottom-line benefit for the public is societal, Collins
said. Diseases that don’t have treatments now may get one, he
said.  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Bogart Heirs Vie With Burberry Over Use of ‘Casablanca’ Coat  Burberry Group Plc (BRBY)  and heirs of Humphrey Bogart have filed
lawsuits against each other over an image of the late actor
wearing a Burberry trench coat in the film “Casablanca.”  Burberry asked a federal court to declare that its use of
Bogart’s name and image in social media doesn’t infringe Bogart
LLC’s trademark rights or rights of publicity, it said in a
complaint filed May 2 in  New York .  Bogart LLC followed that action by filing a trademark-
infringement complaint yesterday in  California  state court in
 Los Angeles .  The London-based fashion company said it licensed from
photo agency Corbis an image of Bogart wearing the trench coat
in the final scene of the 1942 film. The picture was used in a
Burberry historical timeline to indicate the influence of the
brand, according to the complaint. Burberry said the image
wasn’t used to sell merchandise.  “Defendant is attempting to exert and assert against
Burberry rights which it does not possess,” Burberry said in
its complaint. The company said its reference to Bogart in the
timeline is protected under the First Amendment to the U.S.
Constitution.  Burberry said Bogart LLC contacted it in April and ordered
it to cease using the image. Bogart LLC then contacted the
company at least two other times and “made a significant
monetary demand,” Burberry said.  Burberry’s “use of Bogart intellectual property rights in
their marketing and promotion materials and in products were for
the express purpose of commercially linking their Burberry brand
and products to the persona and character of Humphrey Bogart in
the minds of defendants’ potential and actual customers,”
Bogart LLC said in its complaint.  Bogart LLC, according to a news release, is majority-owned
by the children of Bogart and actress Lauren Bacall.  “This is such an incredibly disappointing and
disrespectful action by Burberry,” Stephen Bogart, the son of
the late actor, said in the release.  Bogart, who died in 1957 of cancer, was nominated for an
Academy Award for his role as Rick Blaine, an expatriate
nightclub owner, in “Casablanca.” The film won the Academy
Award for Best Picture.  The federal case is Burberry Ltd. v. Bogart LLC, 12-3491,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).
The state case is Bogart LLC v. Burberry Group, BC483967,
Superior Court of California, County of Los Angeles.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Google’s Android Profit and Loss Figures Questioned by Judge  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s disclosure that its Android software made a
small profit in recent years was questioned by the judge
overseeing a trial of  Oracle Corp. (ORCL) ’s claims that the smartphone
operating system infringes its copyrights.  U.S. District Judge William Alsup in San Francisco said a
Google document turned over to the  Redwood City , California-
based database maker in the intellectual property dispute
suggested the search engine provider was “losing money” at one
point and made a “small profit” for the second half of 2011.  “It comes out to their losing money,” Alsup said, looking
at the document, which is sealed from public view.  Oracle’s attorneys say Google executives have been unable
to confirm the figures. After hearing arguments from lawyers for
both companies at a hearing yesterday, Alsup ordered Google to
produce documents that back up the figures.  “It’s unclear to me that anyone can vouch for these
numbers,” he said.  A jury is deliberating whether  Mountain View , California-
based Google infringed Oracle’s copyrights for the Java
programming language, which Google used to develop Android,
introduced in 2007 and now running on 300 million devices. If
Google is found to have infringed, damages would be partly based
on Android’s profits.  Jim Prosser, a Google spokesman, didn’t immediately return
a voice-mail message seeking comment on the figures.  Google doesn’t disclose revenue for Android.  The case is Oracle v. Google, 10-3561, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of California ( San Francisco ).  Google Argues for Dismissal of Authors’ Book-Scan Lawsuit  Google Inc. asked a judge to dismiss a lawsuit by an
organization representing authors over the search-engine
company’s digital scanning of millions of books, saying the
group can’t represent the owners of the books’ copyrights.  U.S. Circuit Judge Denny Chin in Manhattan heard arguments
yesterday on motions by Google to deny the authors the right to
proceed as a class and to dismiss the organization’s case. Chin
last year rejected a $125 million settlement between the two
sides and the parties have been unable to reach a new agreement.  “It would be a terrible burden on the court if each
individual author was forced to litigate,” Joanne Zack, a
lawyer for the Authors Guild, told the judge. “A class action
is superior.”  Google announced in 2004 a plan to digitally scan books
from public and university libraries to provide short snippets
of text to people who use its Internet search engine. The
Authors Guild, individual authors and publishing companies sued
in 2005, claiming Mountain View, California-based Google hadn’t
sought authorization from the owners of the works.  Google said in court papers that because the guild doesn’t
claim to own the copyrights at issue, it can’t sue on behalf of
authors. Google’s lawyer said yesterday that the company’s
scanning project has been an “economic benefit” to many
authors.  Zack, the authors’ lawyer, told the judge there was “no
evidence of a conflict among class members on financial
benefits.”  “We are fully prepared to litigate this case against the
three individual plaintiffs,” Durie said in court.  The judge said he would rule later on the motions.  The authors have asked for a jury trial.  A related lawsuit was brought by several organizations
representing visual artists. Chin also will consider a motion by
Google to dismiss their case.  Google said it’s still in talks about a possible settlement
with book publishers including  McGraw Hill Cos., (MHP)  Simon &
Schuster Inc. and  John Wiley & Sons Inc. (JW/A)  Yesterday’s hearing
didn’t involve the publishers.  “We’re hopeful we can reach agreement with the
publishers,” Megan Lamb, a Google spokeswoman, said after the
hearing.  The authors’ case is Authors Guild v. Google, 05-08136; the
visual artists’ case is American Society of Media Photographers
v. Google, 10-02977; U.S. District Court, Southern District of
New York (Manhattan).  Adult Film Company Told It Reached Too Far in Copyright Suit  A federal magistrate judge in New York came down hard on a
maker of adult films who sued a number of anonymous defendants
for using the BitTorrent protocol to download and share the
films without authorization.  In his May 1 order, U.S. Magistrate Judge Gary R. Brown
said the plaintiffs “improperly avoided” more than $25,000 in
filing fees by treating the defendants as a group rather than
individuals.  He said that if reported estimates that hundreds of
thousands of such defendants have been sued nationally,
plaintiffs in similar cases “may be evading millions of dollars
in filing fees annually. Nationwide these plaintiffs have
availed themselves of the resources of the court system on a
scale rarely seen. It seems improper that they should profit
without paying statutorily required fees.”  He also questioned the inclusion of some defendants. One of
them is “an octogenarian with neither the wherewithal nor the
interest” in using BitTorrent. Another alleged defendant was
away from his home computer and at work at the time the illegal
downloading occurred, and a third defendant said that
downloading the film was contrary to her “religious, moral,
ethical and personal views.”  He denied the plaintiffs the broad early discovery they
sought and barred them from obtaining the defendants’ e-mail
addresses or phone numbers. The potential defendants must be
provided a copy of the subpoena and given an opportunity to
obtain counsel, he said.  Brown also recommended that the judges in his district tell
plaintiffs that any future cases they file in this judicial
district be a separate action against each defendant “so as to
avoid unfair outcomes, improper joinder and waste of judicial
resources and to ensure the proper payment of filing fees.”  The case is K-Beech v. John Does 1-37, 2:11-cv-03995, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of New York (Central Islip).  For more copyright news, click here.  IP Moves  Farella Hires Patent Litigator Nguyen from Irell & Manella  Farella Braun & Martel LLP hired Andrew Nguyen for its IP
practice, the San Francisco-based firm said in a  statement .  Nguyen , a litigator, joins from Irell & Manella LLP of Los
Angeles. Before he was a lawyer, he was a software engineering
intern at  Symantec Corp. (SYMC)   He has represented clients whose technologies include video
games, digital video recorders, online video and smartphones.  Nguyen has an undergraduate and a master’s degree in
computer science from the  University of California  at Los
Angeles, and a law degree from Northwestern University.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 