-- California Can’t Wait for Facebook to Boost Coffers: Muni Credit
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 2012-05-04T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-04/california-can-t-wait-for-facebook-to-boost-coffers-muni-credit.html
The biggest initial public offering by
an  Internet company  can’t come soon enough for California
Governor  Jerry Brown , whose budget deficit is getting worse.  Facebook Inc. (FB) , the  Menlo Park , California-based owner of
the world’s most popular social-networking service, expects to
begin marketing its IPO next week. When company insiders such as
Chief Executive Officer  Mark Zuckerberg  exercise options, the
state stands to rake in about $2 billion from income taxes
through next fiscal year, the Legislature’s nonpartisan budget
analyst has said.  Brown, a 74-year-old Democrat, hasn’t said how he’ll use
the cash. In two weeks, he plans to revise his $92.6 billion
budget for the year starting July 1. The spending imbalance was
already at $9.2 billion before  tax revenue  fell about $3 billion
below his projections. He’s asking voters to approve higher
taxes or face $4.8 billion in education cuts.  “There’s no question that a  Facebook IPO  will benefit the
state’s bottom line, but it shouldn’t be viewed as a get-out-of-
tough-decisions-free card,” H.D. Palmer, a Brown budget
spokesman, said in an interview.  California lawmakers have chopped more than $45 billion
since 2008 from programs such as health and schools as the most-
populous U.S. state grappled with shortfalls totaling more than
$100 billion. The 18-month recession that ended in 2009 cost the
state more than a million jobs and lowered revenue by 24 percent
from peak to trough.  $96 Billion  Facebook, founded in 2004, is valuing itself at as much
as $96 billion in the offering, according to a regulatory
filing. The company had about 3,500 employees as of March 31.  The IPO differs from those of other California-based
Internet companies. The way the lockup periods determining when
workers can exercise options are structured, California’s slice
may come within six months, said Jason Sisney, a deputy
legislative analyst in Sacramento. When  Google Inc. (GOOG) , based in
 Mountain View , went public in 2004 it took two years for the
bulk of the revenue to reach state coffers.  If the IPO comes this month and options are exercised in
November, taxes would apply to the year starting July 1, Sisney
said in an e-mail.  “It’s a windfall, that’s it,” Bud Byrnes, president of RH
Investment Corp. in Encino, a part of  Los Angeles , said in an
interview. “The issue that is going to be crucial is going to
be what happens on the tax increase plan.”  Zuckerberg’s Share  Executives and investors will sell 157.4 million shares for
as much as $35 each, according to a regulatory filing.  Zuckerberg, 27, a  California  resident, could pay as much as
$390 million in taxes to the state from exercising an option,
according to data compiled by Brown’s Finance Department and
Bloomberg. Employees and some investors holding 139 million
shares exercisable in six months could pay about $353 million.  A Facebook spokesman, Jonathan Thaw, said the company
didn’t have a comment.  California, the world’s ninth-biggest economy, took in $7.2
billion from income taxes in April, $1.9 billion less than
Brown’s forecast.  The worsening finances may threaten California’s chance for
an upgrade by  Standard & Poor’s . In February the company boosted
its outlook to positive from stable on California’s A- rating,
the lowest for any state. The larger deficit is among issues
that will “test the Legislature’s commitment to a stronger
fiscal position as a public policy priority,” Gabriel Petek, an
S&P analyst in  San Francisco , said in a report this week.  ‘Budget Gimmick’  “I wouldn’t want it to be the latest budget gimmick,”
state Treasurer Bill Lockyer said of the IPO tax revenue, in a
telephone interview. “And if you build it into ongoing
expenditures, that’s even worse as it either exacerbates or just
postpones the day of reckoning.”  Investors starved for California bonds haven’t been
deterred by its fiscal strains. Debt of California and its
localities  earned 13.9 percent  in the year through May 2,
beating the  12 percent  return for the full municipal market,
according to S&P data.  When the state sold $1.35 billion of tax-free general-
obligation bonds April 12, it priced debt maturing in 10 years
to yield 2.87 percent, or 0.73 percentage point higher than a
Bloomberg Fair Value  index  of top-rated municipal securities.
The  spread  over AAA hadn’t been that small since 2008, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Following are pending sales:  WASHINGTON plans to sell $432 million of federal highway
grant anticipation revenue bonds, or Garvee bonds, as soon as
this month, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It will be
the state’s first sale of such debt, according to Standard &
Poor’s, which rates the bonds AA, third-highest. Citigroup
Global Markets is the underwriter. (Added May 4)  CHICAGO plans to sell $435 million in revenue bonds this
month to pay for improvements and extensions to its water system
in the first debt issuance for the century-old structure since
user rates doubled in November. The proceeds will also be used
to refund debt, according to an offering document. Siebert
Brandford Shank & Co. will lead the sale. (Updated May 4).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael B. Marois in  Sacramento  at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  