-- Cameron Can See Evidence at News Corp. Media-Ethics Probe
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2012-05-04T15:36:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-04/cameron-can-see-evidence-at-news-corp-u-k-media-ethics-probe.html
U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  and
top ministers won formal legal status at an inquiry triggered by
News Corp.’s phone-hacking scandal after evidence disclosed at
the probe led to calls for one Cabinet member to resign.  Cameron should receive advance access to prepared
statements by witnesses including former News Corp. executives
Rebekah Brooks and  Andy Coulson , who are scheduled to testify
next week, Judge Brian Leveson ruled today in London after an
emergency hearing.  The decision on the “core participant” status comes about
a week after evidence at the inquiry led to demands for Culture
Secretary  Jeremy Hunt  to step down. E-mails, which the
government didn’t see until they were released to the public,
showed one of Hunt’s aides offered inside information to a  News
Corp. (NWSA)  lobbyist when the minister was reviewing the company’s
proposed takeover of  British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc. (BSY)   “Newspapers had obviously been alert to the evidence that
would be given,” said Leveson, referring to the government’s
claim that advance notice of such evidence would be fairer.
“Articles quoting parts of the e-mails and passing comment on
them appeared very quickly after becoming public.”  Cameron called for the inquiry in July in response to
public outrage over phone hacking at News Corp.’s now-defunct
News of the World tabloid. The judicial probe is reviewing all
aspects of the U.K. media, including its ties to politicians,
after hacking victims said News Corp.’s close relationship with
government helped cover up the scandal.  ‘Level Playing Field’  The government’s new status in the inquiry is
“reasonable” given that most of the U.K.’s biggest newspaper
publishers are also core participants, said Niri Shan, a media
lawyer with Taylor Wessing LLP in  London .  “All this is doing is putting them on a level playing
field with the media,” Shan, who isn’t involved in the matter,
said in a phone interview.  Hunt’s adviser,  Adam Smith , resigned April 25, after the e-
mails were revealed to Leveson, who is overseeing the inquiry.
Smith said he had “gone too far” in his contacts with News
Corp.  Other politicians who won the status include Hunt, Business
Secretary  Vince Cable , who was initially involved in the BSkyB
approval process, and Deputy Prime Minister  Nick Clegg . All
eight ministers in the group will submit their own evidence by
the end of the day, Leveson said. Some will testify.  Coulson, Brooks  Brooks, who has had close ties to Cameron, resigned as
chief executive officer of News Corp.’s U.K. unit in July, two
days before being arrested in probes into phone hacking and
bribery of public officials by journalists.  Coulson was arrested the same month. He had resigned in
January 2011 as Cameron’s press chief -- a role he took on after
stepping down as editor of the News of the World in 2007.  Evidence released by the inquiry showed News Corp. Chairman
 Rupert Murdoch  and his son James had dozens of meetings with
U.K. lawmakers, including Cameron. Both Murdochs testified
before Leveson last month, saying they didn’t discuss the BSkyB
bid in detail during the meetings.  News Corp. closed the News of the World in July to help
contain the scandal and abandoned the company’s 7.8 billion
pound ($12.6 billion) bid for the 61 percent of BSkyB it didn’t
already own.  Police investigations have led to at least 46 arrests,
while the scandal has expanded to include bribery and computer
hacking by journalists.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  