-- Cameron Blames Tough Economy as Tories Lose in Local Polls
-- B y   E d d i e   B u c k l e   a n d   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2012-05-04T16:51:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-04/cameron-s-conservatives-lose-local-council-seats-across-britain.html
Prime Minister  David Cameron  blamed
“difficult” economic times as his  Conservative Party  lost
local-council seats across Britain to the Labour opposition in
elections yesterday and faced a challenge from euro-skeptics.  With results in from virtually all the 181 local councils
being contested, the Tories had lost almost 400 seats, more than
a quarter of those they previously held, and control of 12 out
of 53 local councils, according to a  tally by the BBC . Labour
added more than 770 seats and gained control of Birmingham,
Britain’s second-largest city, Cardiff, the Welsh capital, and
27 other councils. It also won a majority in Glasgow,  Scotland ’s
largest city. Extrapolated nationally, the results gave Labour a
projected lead over the Tories of 38 percent to 31 percent, the
 BBC  said.  “These are difficult times and there aren’t easy
answers,” Cameron told broadcasters today. “What we have to do
is take the difficult decisions to deal with the debt, deficit
and broken economy that we’ve inherited. We will go on making
those decisions and we’ve got to do the right thing for our
country.”  Support for the Conservatives has slumped to the lowest
since the coalition government came to power two years ago.
Cameron has faced a backlash over the March 21 budget that
penalized charities and pensioners and provided an income-tax
cut for the rich; the economy has slipped back into recession;
and Culture Secretary  Jeremy Hunt  is under pressure to quit amid
questions over his impartiality during News Corp.’s aborted bid
to take full control of  British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc. (BSY)   ‘Sent a Message’  Cameron “has been sent a message from the people of this
country,” Labour leader  Ed Miliband  told supporters in
Birmingham. “People have said we don’t like what this
government is doing. When you have a government piling
unfairness on top of economic failure people are not going to
support them.”  The Tories also faced a potential threat from the U.K.
Independence Party, which wants Britain to leave the European
Union. In the places where it fielded candidates, UKIP took
about 12 percent of the vote, according to the BBC.  That suggests the euro-skeptic party could deprive the
Conservatives of support and seats at the next general election,
making it even harder to get an outright parliamentary majority.
UKIP’s success may increase pressure from some Conservatives for
a referendum on whether Britain should leave the EU.  ‘Economic Benefits’  Foreign Secretary  William Hague  said it was “perfectly
common” for governments to lose seats in local elections midway
through a parliament term.  “It’s not a matter of turning left or right,” he told BBC
Radio 4. “It is a matter of repairing the damage from the last
government. The real test will come in 2014 or 2015 when people
can see the economic benefits of what we’re doing, and I believe
they will.”  Tallying of votes in the highest-profile contest, for mayor
of London, began this morning, with the winner due to be
declared during the evening.  Early results in London showed the Conservative mayor,
 Boris Johnson , taking more first and second-preference votes
than  Ken Livingstone , the former mayor who is running for
Labour, in a break with the national trend.  The final poll, carried out from April 30 to May 2 for the
Evening Standard newspaper, gave Johnson a lead of 53 percent to
47 percent over Livingstone in the decisive second round, when
second-preference votes from the five minor candidates are
totted up.  YouGov Plc (YOU)  questioned 2,119 Londoners online and its
voter predictions are based on the 1,238 respondents who said
they were certain to vote. No margin of error was given.  Job Cuts  The Tories’ ratings have been sliding as the biggest
spending cuts since World War II take effect. More than 700,000
public-sector jobs will be eliminated by 2017 to help slash a
 budget deficit  totaling 8 percent of gross domestic product.
Data last week showed the economy sliding into the first double-
dip recession since the 1970s.  Recently attacked as “arrogant posh boys who don’t know
the price of milk” by a member of their own party, Cameron and
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  have struggled to
deal with Labour accusations that they are out of touch with
ordinary voters.  Britain’s economic plight has also hit the Conservatives’
coalition partners, the Liberal Democrats. The party lost more
than 300 seats, or more than 40 percent, threatening to
undermine its powerful base of local activists. Liberal Democrat
leader  Nick Clegg  described it as a “disappointing and
difficult night.”  ‘Repairing and Reforming’  “I am really sad that so many colleagues and friends,
Liberal Democrat councilors, who have worked so hard, so
tirelessly for so many years for communities and families in
their local areas have lost their seats,” Clegg said this
morning, speaking outside his  London  home. “I am determined
that we will continue to play our role in rescuing, repairing
and reforming the British economy.”  A similar voting pattern at a general election would give
Labour a majority in the House of Commons.  The results provide a boost for Miliband, whose approval
ratings are lower than Cameron’s and who has battled speculation
that he may not lead the party into the next general election in
May 2015.  “We are a party winning back people’s trust, regaining
ground, but there is more work to do,” Miliband said today.  Estimated turnout yesterday was 32 percent, the lowest
since 2000, the BBC said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eddie Buckle in London at 
 ebuckle@bloomberg.net ;
Svenja O’Donnell in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  