-- Campbell Soup, Blackstone Said to Bid for Bolthouse Farms
-- B y   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n ,   D u a n e   D .   S t a n f o r d   a n d   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i
-- 2012-05-04T17:33:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-04/campbell-soup-blackstone-said-to-bid-for-bolthouse-farms.html
Campbell Soup  Co. and  Blackstone Group
LP (BX)  made bids for natural juice maker WM Bolthouse Farms Inc.,
according to people with knowledge of the matter.  First-round offers, which were due April 27, also came from
other private-equity firms, said one of the people, who declined
to be identified because the deliberations are private. Bids
submitted to Madison Dearborn Partners LLC, the Chicago-based
private-equity firm that owns Bolthouse Farms, came in higher
than $1.5 billion, said one of the people.  Chuck Dohrenwend, a spokesman for Madison Dearborn who
works for the Abernathy MacGregor Group, declined to comment.  Campbell’s U.S. beverage unit, led by its V8 fruit and
vegetable juice brand, has been a bright spot for the company
amid sluggish soup sales. Bolthouse would add scale to help
contain rising costs, which contributed to a 35 percent decline
in the unit’s operating income in the first half of this fiscal
year.  Bolthouse dates back almost a century, when the family of
the same name began commercial vegetable farming in  Michigan ,
according to the company’s  website . Bolthouse now counts fresh
carrots, salad dressings and juices among its products. The
company also has a line of teas and lemonades.  Madison Dearborn acquired Bolthouse in 2005, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  U.S. beverage sales for Campbell rose 4 percent in the
quarter ended Jan. 29. U.S. soup sales fell 2 percent, hurt by a
12 percent decline in ready-to-eat versions. Sauce sales in the
U.S. also fell 2 percent as private-label salsa cut into the
company’s market share.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Duane D. Stanford in Atlanta at 
 dstanford2@bloomberg.net ;
Cristina Alesci in  New York  at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  