-- Canada Dollar Weakens as U.S. Jobs Gains Slow, Oil Falls
-- B y   C e c i l e   G u t s c h e r   a n d   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 2012-05-04T21:20:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-04/canada-dollar-fluctuates-after-u-s-jobless-rate-fell-in-april.html
Canada ’s dollar weakened for a third
day against its U.S. counterpart after the U.S. Labor Department
reported April jobs gains trailed forecasts and crude  oil prices 
fell below $100 a barrel for the first time since February.  The currency lost 1.6 percent this week versus the
greenback on speculation that bets the Bank of Canada will raise
borrowing costs this year are overdone. Canada’s Ivey purchasing
managers’ index fell last month to the lowest level since July,
adding to evidence the nation’s economy is growing more slowly
than projected by the central bank.  “We had weak data coming out of both the U.S. and
Canada,” said Blake Jespersen, director of foreign exchange in
Toronto at  Bank of Montreal (BMO) ’s BMO Capital Markets unit, in an
interview. “We’re seeing quite a slide in commodity prices, and
especially oil. The Canadian dollar is bearing the brunt of that
pressure.”  Canada’s currency, nicknamed the loonie, weakened 0.8
percent to 99.61 cents per  U.S. dollar  at 5 p.m. in Toronto. It
touched 98 cents on April 27, the strongest since September. One
Canadian dollar buys $1.0039.  Crude oil, Canada’s biggest export, fell 3.9 percent to
$98.59 in  New York .  Bonds Gain  Government bonds  rose, pushing the 10-year yield down seven
basis points, or 0.07 percentage point, to 2.02 percent. The
price of the 2.75 percent bonds due in June 2022 added 66 cents
to C$106.65.  Two-year government bond yields have  climbed  29 basis
points this year to 1.25 percent on the nation’s growth
prospects relative to other Group of Seven countries.  The probability Canada’s central bank will raise rates by
September fell to less than half, down from two-thirds at the
start of the week, according to Bloomberg calculations based on
overnight index swaps.  “The market has downgraded their expectations from last
week,” Jespersen said. “I wouldn’t bet on a rate rise this
year, I would think early 2013.”  The Ivey purchasing managers’ index dropped to 52.7 in
April on a seasonally adjusted basis, following a March reading
of 63.5, according to a statement by the University of Western
Ontario business school. Readings greater than 50 indicate
government and company purchases advanced. Economists surveyed
by Bloomberg News forecast a reading of 61, based on the median
of 13 estimates.  U.S. nonfarm payrolls climbed 115,000, the smallest gain in
six months, after a revised 154,000 rise in March that was more
than initially estimated, Labor Department figures showed today
in  Washington . The median estimate of 85 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News called for a 160,000 advance. The jobless rate
fell to a three-year low of 8.1 percent.  “It’s not an overly impressive number and we can expect to
see some chipping away at rate expectations,” said  Mark Chandler , head of fixed-income strategy at Royal Bank’s Capital
Markets unit, by phone from Toronto.  Canada’s dollar is up 1.2 percent this year for the third-
best performance among 10 major currencies tracked by Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Indexes.  -- With assistance from Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa. Editors:
Paul Cox, Greg Storey  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cecile Gutscher in Toronto at 
 cgutscher@bloomberg.net  or;
Chris Fournier in Halifax at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Robert Burgess  at 
 bburgess@bloomberg.net  