-- Carbon Market Lobbyist Criticizes ‘Whopping Falsehoods’
-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 2012-05-04T15:21:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-04/carbon-market-lobbyist-criticizes-whopping-falsehoods-.html
The carbon market has been damaged by
three “whopping falsehoods” that slowed its growth and caused
European lawmakers to question their belief in the system, said
the retiring head of a carbon market lobby group.  “The political environment has been dominated by an ebb
tide,”  Henry Derwent , chief executive of the International
 Emissions Trading  Association, said today by phone from Geneva
on his last day at the lobby group’s headquarters. “The
European Union emissions trading system is still there, though
it’s bleeding from a few wounds, some self-inflicted.”  The first lie is that climate science is exaggerated,
boring and unimportant, Derwent said. The second is that nations
shouldn’t protect the climate because others aren’t and the
third is that markets are not the best solution, he said. “It’s
not surprising that those who don’t want to do anything are
seduced by the falsehoods.”  EU carbon permits have plunged 80 percent since peaking at
34.40 euros ($45.17) a metric ton in 2008, the same year Derwent
joined IETA as president. He previously helped advise U.K. Prime
Minister  Tony Blair . Stagnant economic production has
exaggerated an oversupply of allowances in the EU, and almost-
non-existent demand outside the bloc has deepened the surplus.
Cap-and-trade legislation stalled in the  U.S. Senate  after
narrowly passing the  House of Representatives  in 2009.  Carbon permits for December fell 4.33 percent today to 6.85
euros on the ICE Futures Europe exchange in London as of 12:18
p.m.  Advice to Successor  IETA should have joined with other business and
environmental lobby groups around 2010 to better protect the
idea of carbon trading, Derwent said.  “We really thought we were doing fantastically well,” he
said. “We just did not realize how bad things could get. We
might have managed to prevent it falling so far as it did.”  Dirk Forrister, the former climate adviser to U.S.
President  Bill Clinton , is replacing Derwent this week. “Watch
out very carefully for the tides of changing opinion” is
Derwent’s advice to his successor. “We must make sure that we
don’t get beached by this ebb tide.”  The U.S. should not argue against climate protection on the
grounds that  China  and other nations aren’t doing anything,
because that’s not true, Derwent said. China has started carbon-
market pilot programs, while Australia, Korea and  Mexico  are
among other nations moving toward trading, he said.  Derwent said his biggest achievement was modest: “Keeping
the show on the road during a great push back. You are seeing
the idea of emissions trading continuing.”  ‘Losing Belief’  Some European Union lawmakers are doubting that carbon
markets are the answer to  climate change , Derwent said. “It’s a
shame to see the EU collectively losing its belief.”  European Commission officials governing the bloc’s market,
including Jos Delbeke and Peter Zapfel in Brussels, have “not
lost the plot,” Derwent said. “They were and remain heroes.
Their ability to prevail over other directorates-general is
weakened substantially.”  The EU program, the world’s biggest by traded volume, was
damaged in part because of avoidable thefts of carbon allowances
and  tax fraud , Derwent said. He urged carbon traders to see
beyond current prices, which reached a record low last month.
“Look further up the road. Don’t look at your feet.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  