-- Activist Chen Invited to NYU in Sign Standoff Is Ending
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-05-04T19:22:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-04/chen-offered-fellowship-at-university-in-the-u-s-nuland-says.html
The U.S. and China forged a new
solution to the dilemma surrounding  Chen Guangcheng  after their
original deal fell apart, opening a path for the legal activist
to study at  New York University .  New York  University invited Chen to be a visiting scholar
“either in New York or at one of our other global sites,”
university spokesman  John Beckman  said today in an e-mailed
statement. NYU School of Law professor Jerome Cohen, co-director
of the school’s U.S.-Asia Law Institute, is a friend and adviser
to Chen.  Chen has been offered a fellowship at an American
university, and can be accompanied by his wife and two children,
State Department spokeswoman  Victoria Nuland  said in a statement
earlier in the day. China’s foreign ministry said Chen is free
to apply to study abroad, and Nuland said the U.S. expects
Chinese authorities will “expeditiously process his
applications.”  “Over the course of the day, progress has been made to
help him have the future that he wants and we will be staying in
touch with him as this process moves forward,” Secretary of
State  Hillary Clinton , who is in Beijing for talks with Chinese
leaders, said before the fellowship offer was announced.  The development came as Clinton and U.S. Treasury Secretary
 Timothy Geithner  concluded two days of talks with Chinese
officials on economic and diplomatic issues, an annual dialogue
that was threatened by discord over Chen’s treatment. During
that time, Clinton was in frequent contact about Chen with U.S.
diplomats, according to a U.S. officials who briefed reporters
on the condition he not be identified.  No. 1 Creditor  The ability to manage such human-rights disputes, one of
the most incendiary elements of the Sino-American relationship,
affects the large and growing stake the two countries have in
economic cooperation.  China  now holds $1.18 trillion of  U.S.
government debt , ahead of the second-largest foreign creditor,
 Japan , with $1.1 trillion, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The relatively quick resolution demonstrates the importance
each country places on its relationship with the other, said
 Chris Johnson , a senior adviser at the Washington-based Center
for Strategic and International Studies and a former China
analyst at the Central Intelligence Agency.  “Both sides looked over the edge yesterday and decided it
was time to turn the wheel back from the cliff,” Johnson said
in a telephone interview.  Even during the human rights dispute, Chinese and U.S.
negotiators managed to arrive at some significant agreements,
including an increase in the level foreign stakeholders can own
in securities  firms, he said.  “That’s very helpful to the Goldman Sachs of the world,”
Johnson said.  Managing Disagreements  In closing remarks at the Strategic and Economic Dialogue,
Clinton said it is important “to acknowledge that we cannot
allow disagreements to derail our relationship or hold back our
cooperation on a broad range of matters.”  “You have to look at the trend lines, not just the
headlines,” she said. “And that is especially true in the
China-US relationship. The trend is clear. Our countries are
growing more interdependent and so we need to build a resilient
relationship that allows both of us to thrive and meet our
regional and global responsibilities without unhealthy
competition, rivalry or conflict.”  The outline of the arrangement emerged after Chen changed
his mind over a previous deal for him to remain in China and
study law, saying he feared for his family’s safety. The
prospect of Chen’s departure to the U.S. may help limit any
political damage to President  Barack Obama , with Republican
lawmakers threatening a probe of whether Chen was pressured to
leave the U.S. embassy in Beijing, where he had been given
refuge.  Study Abroad  If Chen “wants to study abroad, he can, like any Chinese
citizen, go through proper channels and relevant departments and
procedures according to law,” Foreign Ministry spokesman Liu Weimin said, according to a statement.  While State Department officials expressed confidence that
a firm deal had been reached, they refused to discuss what
guarantees, if any, they got from the Chinese on their
commitment to provide “expeditiously” passports that Chen and
his family will need to leave the country.  There have been no discussion about whether Chinese
authorities would permit Chen to return if he goes to the U.S.,
according to a second U.S. officials who briefed reporters on
condition of anonymity because the diplomatic talks were
confidential.  Son’s Birthday  U.S. Ambassador  Gary Locke  spoke with Chen for half an hour
today, and Chen met with embassy personnel at the hospital, the
official said. Chen is pleased with his hospital care, the
official said.  Chen’s children, who were being treated for fevers, were
given haircuts and new clothes, the official said. The diplomats
brought presents for his son as it was his birthday, and the
hospital staff brought a cake, the official said.  Chen was imprisoned for more than four years after
representing villagers who opposed forced sterilizations and
abortions, and then was held under house arrest until he escaped
in late April. He told American diplomats during his weeklong
stay in the U.S. embassy that he wanted to remain in China, and
he left the compound in a deal worked out in talks with Chinese
leaders, U.S. officials said. He later said he feared for his
wife and children and wanted to travel outside China.  ‘Extremely Sorry’  In the account of the conversation between Chen and his
friend Guo that was posted on Twitter and released by the State
Department, Guo said Chen told him he felt “extremely sorry for
the pressure brought to the relevant parties including the U.S.
embassy,” that he only wanted to visit the U.S. temporarily,
and that he left the embassy on May 2 of his own free will.  In an interview today with the Washington Post, Chen
shifted from criticism of the U.S. to praise, saying the U.S.
embassy helped him “a lot” and that the Chinese government
wasn’t upholding its side of the agreement. He said he wasn’t
“tricked” into leaving the embassy and could have stayed if
he’d wanted.  The U.S. and China have growing economic incentives for
keeping their relationship on track even in the face of human-
rights disputes such as the conflict over Chen.  Trade Ties  The U.S. had a $295 billion  trade deficit  with China last
year, compared with a $6.2 billion deficit in 1989, according to
U.S. Commerce Department data. American exports to China, now
the third-largest destination abroad for American goods, have
soared to $104 billion from $5.8 billion. Machinery, farm
products, aircraft and medical instruments are the top export
categories, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  China overcame  Canada  as the top buyer of U.S. farm goods
in the fiscal year ended Sept. 30, with purchases totaling $19.9
billion, up almost $5 billion from the previous year. China’s
imports accounted for about 14 percent of the $137.4 billion in
U.S. agricultural goods shipped overseas, according to the  U.S.
Department of Agriculture . About 75 percent of China’s purchases
were soybeans and cotton, the USDA said.  Chinese Vice Premier  Li Keqiang  told Geithner that the two
nations should further strengthen macroeconomic policy
coordination to promote economic growth, according to China’s
Xinhua news agency.  Beyond the economy, the expanding bilateral engagement
includes issues from  Iran ,  Syria  and freedom of the seas to
intellectual property rights, trade, investment, and cyber crime
and espionage.  “Both countries are in their own political transitions,”
Johnson, the former CIA analyst, said. “This signals that they
want smooth bilateral relations.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in Beijing at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Forsythe in Beijing at 
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  