-- Chicago Gasoline Advances on Marathon Work, Phillips 66 Flaring
-- B y   L y n n   D o a n
-- 2012-05-04T21:23:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-04/chicago-gasoline-advances-on-marathon-work-phillips-66-flaring.html
Chicago  gasoline gained for the first
time in four days after  Marathon Petroleum Corp. (MPC)  reported a
planned unit shutdown at the Catlettsburg refinery in  Kentucky 
and  Phillips 66 (PSX)  flared gases at a refinery in  Illinois .  Marathon’s 240,000-barrel-a-day Catlettsburg refinery will
shut the No. 1 sulfur recovery unit May 5 for “minor
maintenance,” a notice to the state Division of Air Quality
shows. The plant also planned to shut a light-oil aromatics
desulfurizing unit April 25 for about 45 days, the company said
in a separate filing.  Conventional gasoline to be blended with ethanol, or CBOB,
in Chicago advanced 6 cents to 9 cents a gallon below futures
traded on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange at 4:20 p.m. East
Coast time, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The fuel
dropped to a seven-day low yesterday as refiners sold supplies
on the  spot market .  “There’s still a lot of turnaround work going on,” Steve
Mosby, vice president of supply consultant ADMO Energy LLC in
 Kansas City ,  Missouri , said in a telephone interview. “I think
someone out there saw it 20 under and said, ‘You know, I’m going
to go buy that.’”  Citgo Petroleum Corp. shut most main production units at
the 170,500-barrel-a-day Lemont refinery in Illinois by May 1
for a maintenance turnaround that was scheduled to last four to
five weeks, a person familiar with operations said April 26.  Illinois Refinery  Phillips 66 (PSX-W)  reported a fault at a flare gas recovery
compressor that resulted in a release at the 153,000-barrel-a-
day Wood River refinery in Illinois yesterday, the company said
in a notice to the Illinois Emergency Management Agency.  Rich Johnson , a spokesman at the company’s headquarters in Houston,
declined in an e-mail to comment on the incident.  Gasoline inventories  in the Midwest, known as the PADD 2
region, dropped 3.2 percent to 50.1 million barrels in the week
ended April 27, the Energy Department said this week.  Conventional, 87-octane gasoline in the  Gulf Coast  climbed
0.87 cent to a discount of 19.13 cents a gallon against futures
at 4:11 p.m. in New York.  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  reported a loss of steam at the Deer
Park complex in Texas yesterday that resulted in a benzene
release, a  notice  to the National Response Center shows. The
incident occurred at the chemical plant, Emily Oberton, a Shell
spokeswoman in Houston, said in an e-mail.  Conventional, 87-octane gasoline in New York Harbor slipped
0.13 cent to a discount of 9.63 cents a gallon against futures.  The same fuel in the Midwest, or Group 3, rose 0.5 cent to
14.25 cents a gallon below futures.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lynn Doan in  San Francisco  at 
 ldoan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  