-- Chile Peso Poised for Second Weekly Gain on Bank Minutes
-- B y   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d
-- 2012-05-04T18:12:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-04/chile-peso-poised-for-second-weekly-gain-on-bank-minutes.html
Chile ’s peso fell from a seven-week
high as a drop in copper overshadowed sales of dollars and
central bank minutes this week indicating policy makers had
considered increasing borrowing costs.  The peso depreciated 0.2 percent to 483.32 per  U.S. dollar 
at 1:29 p.m. in Santiago and was little changed this week. It
earlier touched 480.12, the strongest level since March 16, and
has traded in a range of 479.32 to 490.65 since March 7.  Copper, Chile’s main export, fell after a U.S. jobs report
showed employers added fewer positions than forecast last month.
The peso also slid after rallying to 480 per dollar, a level
where buy orders may have been clustered.  “This week we had intense selling of dollars from abroad
and from institutional clients,” said Cristian Donoso, a trader
at Banchile Inversiones in Santiago. “The peso had got out of
line with commodities and other currencies. We have been in a
range for almost two months, so a big support level built up at
480.”  The peso rallied yesterday after the central bank said in
minutes of its April 17 meeting that policy makers had debated a
rate increase of a quarter-percentage point that had been all
but ruled out by the market.  “The bias from the central bank surprised to the upside,”
said  Alejandro Cuadrado , head of Latin American currency
strategy at  Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA)  in New York. “We
don’t think it signals an immediate change of monetary policy,
but it does suggest a change in pricing.”  Rate Outlook  Swaps traders had started pricing in no more rate rises
this year. Offshore investors in the Chilean peso forwards
market had a $6.4 billion short peso position on May 2, down
$553 million from $7 billion on April 24, the latest available
central bank data show. Local investors cut their long peso
position by $1.7 billion to $14.8 billion from $16.5 billion.  Offshore investors may be unwinding a net short position in
the peso to offset smaller long positions in other emerging
currencies such as the real, said Eugenio Cortes, head of
currency forwards at EuroAmerica Corredores de Bolsa SA in
Santiago, in a phone interview. A short is a bet an asset may
drop in value.  Copper dropped for a third straight day in  New York  after a
report showed the U.S. added fewer jobs in April than economists
expected, adding to evidence that growth is slowing and demand
for the metal may slow. Futures for July delivery slid 0.4
percent to settle at $3.721 a pound at 1:17 p.m. on the Comex in
New York. Prices fell 2.7 percent this week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sebastian Boyd in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  