-- Chinese Stocks Advance to 7-Week High on Policy Speculation
-- B y   W e i y i   L i m
-- 2012-05-04T08:29:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-04/chinese-stocks-swing-between-gains-losses-on-policy-speculation.html
Chinese stocks  rose, driving the
benchmark index to a seven-week high, on speculation the
government may take steps such as cutting banks’  reserve
requirements  to avoid a deeper slowdown.  Industrial Bank (601166)  Co. paced gains by lenders. China CNR Corp.
added 0.9 percent after winning contracts for railway freight
cars. Neusoft Corp. and Yonyou Software Co. led software
companies higher after the government announced tax breaks to
support the industry.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  rose 11.93 points, or 0.5
percent, to 2,452.01 after falling as much as 0.5 percent
earlier. That’s the gauge’s highest close since March 13. It has
gained 2.3 percent this week, the most since February. The  CSI
300 Index (SHSZ300)  increased 0.9 percent to 2,715.88. The  Bloomberg
China-US 55 Index (CH55BN) , the measure of the most-traded U.S.-listed
Chinese companies, lost 1.4 percent at the close in  New York 
yesterday.  “There’s speculation in the market about a reserve ratio
requirement cut over the weekend,” said Chen Liqiu, a
strategist at Jianghai Securities Co. in  Shanghai . “China’s
investors are very opportunistic, so they play along with such
rumors.”  Reserve Ratios  China has reduced reserve requirements for banks twice
since November, though it has kept benchmark rates on hold since
July at the highest level since 2008.  The People’s Bank of China usually gives no warning of
major monetary-policy announcements, unlike central banks in the
U.S., Japan and U.K. On the 10 most-recent occasions when the
PBOC issued statements ordering changes to lenders’ reserve
ratios, seven came after trading ended on a Friday, and four of
the five interest-rate changes since October 2010 were announced
before the start of the trading week.  Industrial Bank gained 1.7 percent to 14.64  yuan .
Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd. added 0.5 percent
to 4.38 yuan. China Construction Bank Corp. increased 0.6
percent to 4.76 yuan.  The Shanghai index has climbed 11.5 percent this year amid
speculation the government will take measures to boost the
economy. Stocks in the gauge are valued at 10.5 times estimated
earnings, compared with a record low of 8.9 times on Jan. 6,
according to weekly  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  Growth Rebound  About 10.32 billion shares changed hands in the Shanghai
Composite yesterday, or 30 percent higher than the daily average
this year. Thirty-day  volatility  in the gauge was at 17.30.  China’s economic growth may have bottomed out and a rebound
is likely as Communist Party leaders support the economy to
limit social tensions, Tan Kim Eng, a credit analyst at  Standard
& Poor’s , said.  “The main reason for the slowdown is because of domestic
tightening,” he said in an interview in  Manila  today. “If
necessary, policies can be reversed, and we think they will
reverse.”  Neusoft Corp. gained 2.6 percent to 9.34 yuan, its highest
close since Dec. 12. Yonyou Software Co. surged 5 percent to
16.92 yuan. A tax break that’s as long as five years was granted
to some software and integrated circuit companies, according to
a statement posted on the Ministry of Finance’s website
yesterday after markets closed.  Bottomed Out  China CNR, a train maker, climbed to 4.50 yuan. The company
received 4.24 billion yuan of contracts for railway freight
cars, according to a statement to the  Shanghai Stock Exchange .  China stocks have bottomed and will take time to start
“trending up,” according to Dorris Chen, an analyst at BNP
Paribas SA.  “Weak” bank lending in January and February and the
earlier-than-expected reserve ratio cut last year “misled”
enterprises to expect proactive easing, Chen wrote in a report
today. “We foresee limited room for potential earnings upgrades
throughout 2012.”  Chinese industries face a grimmer and more complicated
global situation, Chong Quan, deputy China international trade
representative at the Ministry of Commerce, said, according to a
statement posted on the ministry’s website.  Almost 500 Chinese shipyards out of a total of more than
1,600 may close because of falling orders and decreasing loans,
Hexun.com reported yesterday, citing industry data.  China  had a  trade surplus  in April of just above $10
billion as exports and imports showed “very small growth,”
Commerce Minister  Chen Deming  said yesterday. The trade figure
compares with a median estimate of $9.9 billion from 14 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg News before the comments and an $11.4
billion surplus in April 2011.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Richard Frost at 
 rfrost4@bloomberg.net  