-- China’s Money Rate Climbs in Week as Bill Redemptions to Decline
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-05-04T09:09:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-04/china-s-money-rate-climbs-in-week-as-bill-redemptions-to-decline.html
China ’s benchmark money-market rate
rose this week on speculation cash at banks will decline in May
as fewer central bank bills mature.  Short-term debt securities and  repurchase agreements  issued
by the People’s Bank of China worth a total of 236 billion  yuan 
($37.5 billion) are due for redemption this month, down from 399
billion yuan in April, according to Guo Caomin, a bond analyst
at Industrial Bank Co. in Shanghai. The monetary authority
 injected  65 billion yuan into the financial system yesterday
through seven-day reverse repurchase contracts.  “Liquidity will get moderately tight in the second quarter
as bill redemptions fall,” Shanghai-based Guo said. “The
central bank may use the tool of reserve repo more often to
prevent cash shortages.”  The seven-day  repurchase rate , which measures interbank
funding availability, gained six basis points this week to 3.84
percent as of 5:05 p.m. in  Shanghai , according to a weighted
average rate compiled by the National Interbank Funding Center.
It dropped one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, today.  The one-year swap contract, the fixed cost needed to
receive the floating seven-day repo rate, rose 11 basis points
this week to 3.36 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. It increased four basis point today.  The central bank added an extra 117 billion yuan of cash to
the financial system this week via bill redemptions, compared
with 64 billion yuan last week, according to  data  compiled by
Bloomberg.  The yield on the 3.99 percent government bond due June 2021
advanced five basis points this week to 3.53 percent, according
to the Interbank Funding Center. It was steady today.  Bill Sale  China’s  finance ministry  sold 15 billion yuan of 273-day
bills today, according to a trader at a  finance company  that
participates in government debt auctions. The highest winning
bid was at 2.8413 percent, according to the trader.  The finance ministry in December published a list of 55
underwriters required to bid at its debt sales, including
Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd., Agricultural Bank of
China Ltd., Bank of China Ltd., China Construction Bank Corp.,
China Citic Bank Corp., Postal Savings Bank of China, Industrial
Bank Co., Guotai Junan Securities Co. and BOC International
(China) Ltd.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
 Judy Chen  in Shanghai at 
 xchen45@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  