-- China Renaissance Hires Cowen Banker Au for H.K. Unit
-- B y   M a r k   L e e
-- 2012-05-04T00:43:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-04/china-renaissance-hires-cowen-banker-au-for-h-k-unit.html
China Renaissance Partners, a Beijing-
based financial firm, hired the two most senior executives from
U.S. investment bank  Cowen Group Inc. (COWN) ’s Asia division to run its
unit in Hong Kong, stepping up efforts to expand outside its
home market.  The appointments of Thaddeus Beczak, the former chairman of
Cowen Asia, and Frank Au, who was chief executive officer of the
Asian business, will help bolster China Renaissance’s health
care and consumer businesses, Bao Fan, founder of the Chinese
firm, said in phone interview. China Renaissance plans to apply
for securities licenses from regulators in Hong Kong and the
U.S., Bao said.  China Renaissance, which won advisory roles in technology
deals including  Youku Inc. (YOKU) ’s planned $1 billion acquisition of
Chinese online video rival Tudou Holdings Ltd., plans to broaden
its range of investment-banking services. Au, a former banker at
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., co-founded his own financial firm
before selling it to Cowen in 2008.  “China Renaissance plans to transform into a full-service
investment bank,” Au said yesterday. The firm will offer
securities sales, trading, research, underwriting and corporate
finance services in  Hong Kong  and U.S., he said.  Beczak and Au left Cowen last month, said David Lu, who was
promoted to head of Asia investment banking at the New York-
based firm last week. Cowen will continue to “actively build
our presence” in Asia, the firm said last week.  Advisory Roles  “It’s a question of time before China will become one of
the centers of the global financial markets, and to that end
China should have its own global investment bank,” Bao said May
2. “Historically we have established ourselves as the leading
technology investment bank in China.”  China Renaissance won a role in a $1.5 billion placement by
360Buy.com last year, when the Chinese online retailer sold
stock to investors including Tiger Fund and Russian billionaire
Yuri Milner’s DST. The Chinese firm also advised New York-listed
 E-Commerce China Dangdang Inc. (DANG)  and  NQ Mobile Inc. (NQ)   China Renaissance is creating a new unit, China Renaissance
Securities. Beczak, who was president of J.P. Morgan Securities
Asia in the 1990s, was appointed the subsidiary’s chairman,
while Au was named president, Bao said.  China Renaissance’s office in Hong Kong is its first
outside mainland China, where the firm has more than 40
employees in Beijing and Shanghai. The Chinese company may add
offices in  New York  and  San Francisco , Au said.  “We are a China-focused investment bank,” Au said. “Our
expansion into the U.S. is to support our core business. We will
underwrite, sell and research U.S. listed China companies.”  China Renaissance will continue to develop its advisory
business for mergers and acquisitions, and private placements,
Au said.  Under Au, Cowen won work from Chinese consumer companies
including Vipstore.com and  Zhongpin Inc. (HOGS) , as well as medical-
equipment company  China Kanghui Holdings Inc. (KH) , according to the
U.S. firm’s website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Lee  in Hong Kong at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  