-- China Market-Opening Pledge Yields JPMorgan Opportunity
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-05-04T17:33:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-04/china-said-to-allow-49-foreign-stakes-in-securities-ventures.html
China  raised the ceiling on foreign
banks’ investments in securities ventures for the first time in
more than a decade after two days of talks with the U.S.
overshadowed by wrangling over activist  Chen Guangcheng .  China agreed to let foreign companies raise their stakes in
joint ventures with domestic securities firms to as much as 49
percent, according to a joint statement released after annual
Strategic and Economic Dialogue talks in Beijing yesterday. The
current maximum is 33 percent. It will allow similar stakes in
futures brokers.  While Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner hailed a
strengthening in economic ties today, two decades of opening by
China have failed to balance trade between the two, with the
U.S. posting a $19.4 billion trade deficit in February. Global
banks haven’t broken into underwriting rankings and China has
stalled on agreements to lift restrictions on U.S. movies.  “This is a strong gesture from China’s policy makers to
further open its financial markets,” said Hong Jinping, a
Shenzhen-based analyst at China Merchants Securities Co.. At the
same time, the new rules “won’t change the landscape of China’s
brokerage industry, which is dominated by over 100 local firms”
and where local political connections are important, Hong said.  Romney’s Criticism  President  Barack Obama  is under pressure to show results
from his China policy amid criticism from Republican challenger
 Mitt Romney  for failing to press U.S. interests hard enough. Ted Dean, chairman of the American Chamber of Commerce in China,
which represents more than 1,200 companies, said last month his
group’s biggest concerns include the investment-approval
process, intellectual-property rights and transparency in rule
making.  In a sign that the dilemma over activist Chen is closer to
resolution, China said separately that he can apply to study
abroad, while  Victoria Nuland , a U.S. State Department
spokeswoman, said Chen has been offered a fellowship at a
university in the U.S. and can be accompanied by his wife and
two children. He was in a hospital after earlier staying at the
U.S. embassy in Beijing for six days.  Morgan Stanley and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  are among U.S.
banks that may gain more control over underwriting operations in
China, the second-biggest market for share sales in 2011 after
the U.S., according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS)  and  UBS AG (UBSN)  are the only foreign firms to currently
have management control over their local ventures.  UBS Securities Co. is the only foreign bank in the top 20
underwriters of bonds in China, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The European bank ranked 14th, while Bank of China
Ltd.,  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China (601398)  Ltd. and China
Construction Bank Co. snapped up the top three spots, data show.  ‘Stopping Short’  “On the surface, this is very good news,” said Stephen Roach, a professor at  Yale University  and former non-executive
chairman for  Morgan Stanley (MS)  in  Asia . “However, by stopping
short of 50 percent, China is reluctant to go the full distance
in allowing foreign control of a free and open financial
services sector.”  The  yuan  was little changed at 6.3040 per dollar yesterday,
a level 0.2 percent weaker than at the start of the year. It has
failed to appreciate after China last month allowed the currency
to move 1 percent from its daily fixing, compared with 0.5
percent previously. The currency rose 4.7 percent in 2011 and
3.6 percent in 2010.  There was little evidence of tensions over exchange-rate
policy, with Geithner in his closing remarks calling Chinese
moves toward a more flexible yuan “significant and promising”
and likely to lead to gains against the dollar and other major
currencies.  Less Intervention  He also said that Chinese authorities were “intervening
less in exchange markets” and progress in economic and
financial changes in the nation is translating into
“opportunities for U.S. workers and companies.”  “The U.S.’s tone on the yuan has been softer than before
and hasn’t become a major focus this time,” said Zhang Zhiwei,
chief China economist for Nomura Holdings Inc. in  Hong Kong , who
previously worked at the  International Monetary Fund . “It’s
hard to say that the yuan remains misaligned or undervalued.”  China also pledged to increase dividend payouts by state
enterprises, while the U.S. committed to “give full
consideration to China’s request that it be treated fairly” as
the U.S. makes changes to export controls. The U.S. will try to
facilitate high-tech exports to China for civilian uses.  “Both sides can credibly claim to have achieved some
progress in furthering their own and mutual interests,” said
 Eswar Prasad , a former IMF China division chief who’s now a
senior fellow at the Brookings Institution in  Washington .  Export Subsidies  Progress in U.S.-China discussions can be incremental.
While the U.S. highlighted China’s willingness to negotiate new
rules limiting export subsidies, the language on the topic in
yesterday’s joint statement was almost identical to one the
Obama administration made in February. Today’s missive added
that the nations agreed to a first meeting in the talks for
mid-2012.  The U.S. and China made “incremental but positive movement
in the right direction,” said Tim Adams, a former Treasury
undersecretary for international affairs and managing director
at the Lindsey Group, a Fairfax, Virginia-based investment
consultant. “The key is to support forward momentum for
reform.”  China’s  trade surplus  with the U.S. has helped the country
accumulate a record $3.3 trillion in foreign-exchange reserves
and made it the U.S.’s biggest overseas creditor, contributing
to bilateral friction. Chinese investors held $1.18 trillion of
U.S. Treasuries at the end of February.  The Chinese government last year failed to meet a World
Trade Organization deadline to lift restrictions on U.S. movies.
The industry is a key export for the U.S., which enjoys a $12
billion global trade surplus on films and other audiovisual
products, the White House said.  Goldman, UBS  Goldman Sachs and Zurich-based UBS got their underwriting
license before China put a moratorium on new securities joint
ventures in September 2006, gaining an edge over many of their
foreign rivals. Since the ban was lifted at the end of 2007,
JPMorgan, Morgan Stanley, Credit Suisse Group AG and Deutsche
Bank AG have started operations with local Chinese partners.  Still, local investment banks manage most stock and bond
sales in China. UBS had a 3.5 percent share of the underwriting
market for domestic equities last year, the most of any foreign
bank, while New York-based Goldman Sachs hadn’t done a deal,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. The largest underwriter was
China’s  Ping An Insurance Group Co. (2318) , with 9.9 percent.  “Obviously going from 33 to 49, you can argue, is better,
but you still don’t have control,” said  Fraser Howie , a
Singapore-based managing director of CLSA Asia-Pacific Markets
who co-authored the book “Red Capitalism” on China’s financial
system. “Let’s keep things in perspective.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story: Ian Katz in
Beijing at   ikatz2@bloomberg.net ; Cathy Chan
in Hong Kong at   kchan14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net ;
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  