-- Christie Reaches Agreement With Largest Public Workers Union
-- B y   S t a c i e   S e r v e t a h
-- 2012-05-04T19:17:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-04/christie-reaches-agreement-with-largest-public-workers-union-1-.html
New Jersey Governor  Chris Christie  and
the state’s largest union announced a tentative four-year
contract agreement that increases pay, reduces clothing
allowances and recognizes a new law raising workers’ benefit
costs.  Specifics of the tentative deal will be released next week
by the administration and the  Communications Workers of America ,
Christie said in a statement today. The union represents more
than 35,000 state employees.  Christie, a first-term Republican, and the CWA have been
negotiating since March 2011. The union’s contract expired in
June, and talks stalled that month after Christie signed a bill
forcing workers to pay more for health care. Union officials had
lobbied for the contributions to be negotiated.  “It is clear under this contract, our members continue to
make sacrifices,” the CWA said in a release posted on its
website today. “Our tentative agreement contains small salary
increases, reduces clothing maintenance allowances, and
recognizes the new law governing health care for public
employees.”  Christie in December announced a four-year contract with
the International Federation of Professional and Technical
Engineers Local 195 and Service Employees International Union
Local 518, which represent more than 5,000 employees. That deal
freezes wages for the first two years and gives raises of 1
percent in the third and 1.75 percent in the final year,
Christie said in a statement at the time.  The agreement with the CWA, which would be retroactive to
July 1, will go to the membership for review and approval during
the next several weeks, according to the statement.  “We have accomplished our core objectives during a very
difficult political and economic climate, defending the
integrity of our contract against an administration hell-bent on
undermining this legal right at every opportunity,” the CWA
said. “Given this fact, we support this tentative agreement and
recommend its ratification.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stacie Servetah in Trenton at 
 sbabula@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  