-- Citigroup Sees Brokerage’s Fair Value Rising Before Sale
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 2012-05-04T22:23:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-04/citigroup-sees-brokerage-s-fair-value-rising-before-sale.html
Citigroup Inc. (C)  boosted the estimated
value of its stake in the Morgan Stanley  Smith Barney  joint
venture, signaling the bank may seek a higher price when the
next piece of the brokerage is sold later this month.  Citigroup pegged the estimated fair value above the
$10 billion recorded on its own balance sheet, wiping out a
previous impairment, the New York-based lender said yesterday in
its quarterly filing with securities regulators. In an unrelated
matter, the bank estimated it might need $4.7 billion to satisfy
obligations if its  credit rating  gets cut by two levels.  Vikram Pandit, 55, Citigroup’s chief executive officer, is
selling slices of the Smith Barney venture as he shrinks his
company’s balance sheet and rebuilds capital.  Morgan Stanley (MS)  can
buy a 14 percent stake this month, increasing its ownership in
Smith Barney -- the world’s largest brokerage -- to 65 percent.
It can buy the business outright over the next two years.  Under the current agreement, Citigroup and New York-based
Morgan Stanley will submit their estimates of the brokerage’s
fair value. If the figures are within 10 percent of each other,
the stake will be sold at the average of the two, a person
briefed on the arrangement has said. If the difference is more
than 10 percent, the firms would bring in an outside appraiser,
the person said.  No Rush  Citigroup Chief Financial Officer  John Gerspach , 58,
indicated last month that the bank may be willing to sell the
rest of its stake to Morgan Stanley this year. Morgan Stanley
Chief Executive Officer  James Gorman , 53, said April 19 that he
feels “no particular compulsion” to speed up the purchase of
the remaining pieces.  Citigroup, the third-largest U.S. lender by assets, also
said in the filing that a hypothetical two-level downgrade of
its credit by all three ratings firms could compel the company
to come up with $4.7 billion in cash.  The funds would be needed to cover collateral for
derivative triggers and exchange margin requirements, according
to the filing. The sum would be $1.1 billion if only Moody’s
Investors Service takes action, Citigroup said. The estimates
were based on holdings as of March 31.  Citigroup said it has about $421 billion in  liquidity  to
meet those obligations, and could also consider “selling or
financing highly liquid  government securities , tailoring levels
of secured lending, adjusting the size of select trading books,
reducing loan originations and renewals, raising additional
deposits” or borrowing from central banks.  Downgrades Pending  Moody’s, which is reviewing lenders and securities firms
with global capital markets operations, has said it’s
considering downgrades of the world’s biggest banks by the end
of June, including a two-level cut for Citigroup. Moody’s has an
A3 long-term rating on Citigroup’s  debt , while  Standard & Poor’s 
gives an A- grade.  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  may be reduced by one grade to Baa2,
the second-lowest investment-grade rating, Moody’s said on Feb.
16. Morgan Stanley may be cut as many as three levels, Moody’s
said. The ratings company wrote that credit profiles of
investment banks are weakening amid worsening government
finances, economic uncertainty and higher funding costs.  Citigroup said its net funded exposure to five troubled
European nations --  Greece , Ireland,  Italy , Portugal and  Spain 
-- rose to $9.1 billion at March 31 from $7.7 billion at Dec.
31. The increase was largely driven by holdings tied to Italy.  Libor Probe  In legal matters , the Swiss Competition Commission asked
some Citigroup subsidiaries for information and documents as it
investigates possible manipulation of the London interbank
offered rate, the bank said.  Regulators have been probing whether lenders lied to hide
their true cost of borrowing and traders colluded to influence
the benchmark, which is used to set other rates. Barclays Plc,
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc and HSBC Holdings Plc have said
they are the subject of regulatory probes into Libor, which is
used as the basis for $360 trillion of securities worldwide.  Citigroup previously  disclosed  it was the target of
information requests in Libor probes by regulators in the U.S.,
U.K.,  Japan  and  Canada . In December, the Japanese Financial
Services Agency suspended the bank’s Citigroup Global Markets
Japan Inc. unit from trading in some derivatives for 13 days
over “certain communications” made by two of its traders about
yen-related Libor rates.  Citigroup also is a defendant in lawsuits filed since April
2011 against firms that served on the Libor panel, according to
the bank’s annual report.  Libor is generated through a daily survey of banks
conducted on behalf of the British Bankers’ Association by
 Thomson Reuters  Corp. in which firms are asked to report their
own borrowing rates. Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News,
competes with Thomson Reuters in selling financial and legal
information and trading systems.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Moore in  New York  at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  