-- Citigroup Says Bank May Need $4.7 Billion in Ratings Cut
-- B y   R i c k   G r e e n
-- 2012-05-04T21:01:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-04/citigroup-says-bank-may-need-4-7-billion-in-ratings-cut.html
Citigroup Inc. (C) , the third-largest U.S.
lender by assets, said a hypothetical two-level downgrade of its
credit by all three ratings firms could compel the company to
come up with $4.7 billion in cash.  The funds would be needed to cover collateral for
derivative triggers and exchange margin requirements, the New
York-based company said today in its quarterly filing with
securities regulators. The sum would be $1.1 billion if only
Moody’s Investors Service takes action, the bank said. The
estimates were based on holdings as of March 31 and include the
parent company and Citibank N.A.  Citigroup said it has about $421 billion in  liquidity  to
meet those obligations, and could also consider “selling or
financing highly liquid  government securities , tailoring levels
of secured lending, adjusting the size of select trading books,
reducing loan originations and renewals, raising additional
deposits” or borrowing from central banks.  Moody’s, which is reviewing banks and securities firms with
global capital markets operations, has said it’s considering
downgrades of the world’s biggest lenders, including a two-level
cut for Citigroup. While ratings cuts typically raise borrowing
costs and force banks to increase collateral, analysts have said
the change was expected.  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  may be reduced by one grade to Baa2,
the second-lowest investment-grade rating, Moody’s said on Feb.
16. Competitors such as New York-based  Morgan Stanley (MS)  may be cut
as many as three levels, Moody’s said. The ratings company wrote
that credit profiles of investment banks are weakening amid
worsening government finances, economic uncertainty and higher
funding costs.  Evolving Risks  “Capital markets firms are confronting evolving
challenges, such as more fragile funding conditions, wider
credit spreads, increased regulatory burdens and more difficult
operating conditions,” Moody’s said in February. “These
difficulties, together with inherent vulnerabilities such as
confidence-sensitivity, interconnectedness and opacity of risk,
have diminished” the industry’s prospects, Moody’s said.  Moody’s has an A3 long-term rating on Citigroup’s debt,
while  Standard & Poor’s  gives an A- grade.  Citigroup dropped 2.7 percent to $31.60 at 4:15 p.m. in  New
York , leaving the stock with a  20 percent gain  this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rick Green  in New York at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  