-- Clariant Said to Hire Citi to Advise on Planned Asset Sales
-- B y   A n d r e w   N o e l ,   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d   a n d   P a t r i c k   W i n t e r s
-- 2012-05-04T13:20:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-04/clariant-said-to-hire-citi-to-advise-on-planned-asset-sales.html
Clariant AG (CLN)  has hired  Citigroup Inc. (C) 
as an adviser for its planned exit of units generating about $1
billion in chemical sales to the paper, textiles and emulsions
industry, people with knowledge of the situation said.  The three businesses may be sold separately or as a whole
and could be attractive to private equity buyers, said the
people who declined to be identified because the process is
private. Clariant is also considering joint ventures, they said.  The Swiss company, which acquired catalyst-maker Sued-
Chemie for $2.7 billion last year, is refocusing on higher
margin products such as additives for the oil industry and
personal-care products. Clariant is in the midst of carving out
the units. It’s still “months or quarters” away from making
any announcements on the plan, Chief Financial Officer Patrick Jany said yesterday on a call following the release of earnings.  The sale of textile- and paper-chemical businesses is
coinciding with heightened competition in the market and
increased energy costs that have shrunk margins.  Clariant has relocated its production of pretreatments and
dying chemicals to the Asia-Pacific region, which accounts for
60 percent of global textile production. The business generated
676 million Swiss francs ($740 million) in revenue last year,
and earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization of 34 million francs.  The company doesn’t break out earnings for paper- and
emulsion-chemical units.  The emulsions business is based in  Brazil  and supplies
water-based additives and polymers for paints, coatings, and
adhesives.  Celanese Corp. (CE) , spun off by Hoechst AG in 1999,
bought Clariant’s European emulsions business for about $140
million in 2002. Clariant also exited its stake in a Portuguese
emulsions venture with Sociedade Central de Resinas AG.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Noel in London at 
 anoel@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Kirchfeld in Frankfurt at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net ;
Patrick Winters in Zurich at 
 pwinters3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  