-- Conrad Black Is Back in Canada After U.S. Prison Release
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s   a n d   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 2012-05-04T19:54:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-04/conrad-black-returned-to-canada-u-s-immigration-agency-says.html
Conrad Black , the former Hollinger
International Inc. chairman convicted of fraud and obstruction
of justice, was released from federal prison in Miami and
returned to  Canada .  U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement said today in a
statement that it had “effected the return of Mr. Conrad Black
to Canada in accordance with the final order of removal.”  Black, 67, was found guilty by a federal jury in  Chicago 
after a four-month trial in 2007. His initial 6 1/2-year prison
sentence was reduced by three years after Black successfully
appealed two of three fraud convictions.  During the Canadian-born executive’s reign as chairman and
chief executive officer from October 1995 to November 2003,
Hollinger International was the world’s third-biggest publisher
of English-language newspapers, including the U.K.’s  Daily
Telegraph , Canada’s National Post and the Jerusalem Post. The
Chicago-based company is now known as Sun-Times Media Group Inc.  In 2001, Black renounced his Canadian citizenship when he
accepted a life peerage in the U.K.’s House of Lords, where he
holds the title Lord Black of Crossharbour.  Canadian news channels CTV and CP24 today showed live
images of Black and his wife, journalist Barbara Amiel, playing
with two dogs in the garden of their home in the Bridle Path
neighborhood of North Toronto. He didn’t immediately reply to an
e-mailed request for comment on his release.  Temporary Resident  Black returned on a temporary resident permit, said Alexis
Pavlich, a spokeswoman for Citizenship and Immigration Canada.
The permit is typically a one-year visa that precedes an
application for permanent residency and citizenship.  While in federal prison, first in Coleman,  Florida , and
later in Miami, Black tutored fellow inmates, wrote columns for
the National Post and completed a book about his experience with
the U.S. criminal-justice system, “A Matter of Principle,”
which was published last year.  He has also written biographies of U.S. presidents  Richard Nixon  and  Franklin Roosevelt  as well as a life of Quebec Premier
Maurice DuPlessis.  The jury that convicted Black had found that he and three
other Hollinger executives collaborated to steal $6.1 million
from the company. Black was also found guilty of removing from
his Toronto office cartons of records sought by the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission.  Amount Cut  Appellate rulings whittled the amount stolen from the
company to only $600,000 while allowing the obstruction count to
stand. Prosecutors declined to retry him or his co-defendants.  Black, who began his prison term in March 2008, was freed
in July 2010 while his appeals were pending and returned to
prison in September.  “I have always tried to take success like a gentleman and
disappointment like a man,” Black told U.S. District Judge Amy St. Eve before she imposed the second, reduced sentence.  “I accept that a reasonable person could conclude that I
am guilty,” he said, adding he also believed the same
reasonable person could conclude he had been “adequately
punished.”  The case was U.S. v. Black, 05-cr-00727, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of  Illinois  (Chicago).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net ;
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net  