-- Conrad Black Released From Prison to Immigration Agency
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-05-04T17:09:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-04/conrad-black-released-from-u-s-prison-to-immigration-agency.html
Conrad Black , the former Hollinger
International Inc. chairman convicted of fraud and obstruction
of justice in 2007, was released from a U.S. prison into the
custody of federal immigration authorities.  “Mr. Black was turned over from the Bureau of Prisons into
ICE custody this morning,” Nestor Yglesias, a spokesman for
Immigration and Customs Enforcement, said in a telephone
interview today. “We have nothing else to add at this point.”  Yglesias declined to say whether ICE still had custody of
Canadian-born Black or for how long. Black, 67, had been
incarcerated at the Federal Correctional Institution in Miami,
according to the website of the U.S. Bureau of Prisons.  Black’s original 6 1/2-year term was reduced to 3 1/2 years
in June by U.S. District Judge Amy J. St. Eve in  Chicago  after
the former newspaper publisher successfully appealed two of
three mail fraud counts of which he was convicted in 2007.  He renounced his Canadian citizenship in 2001 when he
accepted a life peerage in the U.K.’s House of Lords, where he
holds the title Lord Black of Crossharbour.  Hollinger International was once the world’s third-biggest
publisher of English-language newspapers. Its publications
included the U.K.’s  Daily Telegraph ,  Canada ’s National Post and
the Jerusalem Post.  Black was originally found guilty for his role in the theft
of $6.1 million from the Chicago-based company now known as Sun-
Times Media Group Inc. Convictions overturned on appeal reduced
the total value of the theft to $600,000.  Each court reviewing the case upheld the jury’s finding
that Black obstructed justice when he removed boxes from his
Toronto office that prosecutors said contained documents sought
by the U.S. government.  The case is U.S. v. Black, 05-cr-00727, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of  Illinois  (Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago
at   aharris16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 