-- Copper Dominant Holding ‘Adding Fuel to Fire,’ Galena Says
-- B y   M a r i a   K o l e s n i k o v a   a n d   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z
-- 2012-05-04T11:25:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-04/copper-dominant-holding-adding-fuel-to-fire-galena-says-1-.html
The dominant holding of copper
stockpiles by one company is “adding fuel to the fire” of
limited supplies with traders betting on lower prices, according
to Galena Asset Management Ltd., the London-based unit of
commodity trader Trafigura Group.  Inventories of the metal in warehouses monitored by the
London Metal Exchange fell 38 percent this year to the lowest
since October 2008. Two companies held 40 to 49 percent of
copper stocks and positions expiring in three days as of May 2,
with a dominant holding of 50 percent or more seen for all of
April except four days, according to an LME report used to apply
lending guidelines. Traders betting on lower prices are short.  “It would appear the market is generally short and also
there seems to be no significant liquidity or inventory
around,” Jeremy Weir, chief executive officer of Galena, said
in an interview in Lausanne,  Switzerland . “Stocks seem to be
fairly tight, but they seem to be fairly well held, so that’s
adding fuel to the fire.”  Copper for immediate delivery on April 30 traded at $155 a
metric ton higher than the contract for delivery in three months
on the LME, the widest so-called backwardation since August
2008. The backwardation this year first appeared in February.
The premium was $55.50 a ton yesterday.  Buying Copper  Backwardation should encourage buying of later dated
contracts, which is positive for prices, Weir said in the
interview on April 25. “Spread tightness does not necessarily
result in higher prices as might naturally be assumed,” he
said. “It does, however, provide some support as roll costs to
become negative which, if persistent, force shorts to cover.”
That means traders who are short buy back contracts to reduce
their losses if prices are going up. Copper has climbed 8.6
percent this year.  About 32 percent of the LME-monitored stockpiles are due to
leave warehouses, with canceled warrants last week at the
highest since March 2004. Traders holding short futures
positions are getting “squeezed” because they have to pay
premiums to get out of their positions or to keep them active,
 Robin Bhar , an analyst at Societe Generale SA, said in a report
April 27. “Much, if not all, of the available copper stock
sitting in LME warehouses is believed to be tightly held,” he
said. The price investors pay to borrow the metal for one day
traded at $14 a ton today after climbing to $30 a ton on May 2,
according to LME data.  “Some investors have been lulled into a false sense of
security that you’ll always have a contango,” Weir said,
referring to a market situation when the nearest contract is
cheaper than later ones.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Kolesnikova in London at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  