-- Detroit Big Three Profits Surge While Shares Decline
-- B y   K e i t h   N a u g h t o n ,   T i m   H i g g i n s   a n d   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 2012-05-04T20:08:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-04/detroit-big-three-profits-surge-while-shares-decline.html
Home was where the hemorrhaging
happened three years ago when two Detroit automakers headed for
bankruptcy and a third suffered record losses. Now North America
has become a money machine for the Detroit Three, which earned
$4.5 billion there in the first quarter on surging U.S. sales.  General Motors Co. (GM) ,  Ford (F)  Motor Co. and Chrysler Group LLC
exceeded estimates with first quarter net income that totaled
$3.2 billion. The most pleasant surprise was healthy North
American operating margins of 11.5 percent at Ford, 7 percent at
GM and 4.5 percent at Chrysler. Even combined losses of $405
million in Europe for GM and Ford were better than analysts
anticipated from a region in an intractable financial crisis.  Such pleasant surprises would have been unimaginable in
2009 as GM and Chrysler filed Chapter 11 and Ford was coming off
$30 billion in losses in the three previous years. Now with
gasoline prices approaching $4 a gallon, U.S. car buyers are
embracing fuel-efficient new offerings, such as the  Ford Focus ,
Chevrolet Cruze and Chrysler 200. And Chrysler and Ford predict
better days ahead as they roll out more new models this year.  “The indications for the remainder of the year continue to
be absolutely positive,” Chrysler Chief Executive Officer
 Sergio Marchionne  said on an April 26 conference call. Chrysler
introduces the Dodge Dart compact car this quarter and the
company is “expecting great volume” from that model through
the rest of the year, he said.  New Malibu, Fusion  GM is introducing a redesigned version of its top selling
car, the Chevy Malibu, which gets up to 37 miles (59.5
kilometers) per gallon in highway driving. And Ford has new
versions of its Fusion family car and Escape small sport-utility
vehicle about to debut.  “Those two product launches are extremely important,” Bob Shanks, Ford’s chief financial officer, said in an April 27
interview. “By the way, they will be profitable as well, which
is really important.”  Making money on new models might sound obvious, but it’s a
relatively new concept in  Detroit . Throughout most of the past
two decades, GM, Ford and Chrysler made most of their money on
SUVs and trucks. Cars were loss leaders that they put out mostly
to comply with U.S. fuel-economy regulations. That’s the
business model that  broke down  so spectacularly when  gas prices 
soared in 2008 and car buyers turned away from the big rigs
Detroit depended on to make money.  ‘Fully Transitioned’  Now with  gas prices  high again and U.S. auto sales still
running at a rate 10 percent slower than 2007’s, GM, Ford and
Chrysler are posting some of their best North American earnings.
Ford, for example, had pretax operating income of $2.1 billion
in  North America  in the first quarter on sales of 651,000
vehicles. Ford earned the same amount in the first quarter of
2004, when it took sales of 1 million vehicles, most of them
trucks and SUVs.  “What both GM and Ford have shown is the ability to be
profitable at unusually low levels of auto sales in North
America,”  Peter Nesvold , an analyst with Jefferies & Co., said
in an interview. “Both companies have fully transitioned away
from the dependence on SUVs and to some degree pickups. So both
are thriving even when small cars are sort of what’s in
demand.”  Detroit’s new formula for making more with less may help GM
and Ford find a way to make money in  Europe . Each did better
than estimated by holding the line on prices in Europe, where
many automakers are deeply discounting to try to attract
business. Ford’s $149 million loss was less than the $190
million or more it had warned it might lose. GM’s $259 million
loss was below the $410 million deficit  Wall Street  projected,
said  Brian Johnson , an analyst with  Barclays Capital .  Losses in Europe  In Europe, GM’s “pricing remained flat,” Johnson wrote in
a note yesterday, “which is a relief.”  Still, Ford has said it will lose $500 million to $600
million in Europe this year as the stubborn sovereign debt
crisis saps  consumer confidence . GM didn’t specify exactly how
much it might lose in Europe, which frustrated analysts.  For GM, “Europe remains the anchor around their neck,”
 Matt Collins , an analyst at  Edward Jones  in  St. Louis , wrote in
an e-mail. “Management’s guidance was underwhelming.”  Chrysler sells few vehicles in Europe. Its parent company,
Turin, Italy-based  Fiat Spa (F) , had a first quarter loss in Europe
of 207 million euros ($272 million), before interest, taxes and
one-time items.  Analysts and automakers say factories must be shut to get
supply in sync with shrinking demand. Yet, strong European
unions and  labor laws  have so far prevented the deep
restructuring that U.S. automakers undertook in North America.  ‘Tall Order’  “The jury is still very much out on whether or not anybody
is on the right track in fixing their European operations,”
Collins said. “They need to take capacity out of the system --
that’s the bottom line. Unfortunately, with the labor laws and
strength of the unions there, that’s a tall order.”  Detroit auto executives believe their success in North
America provides a road map for rescuing Europe.  “Europe’s tough, no bones about it,” Tony Brown, Ford’s
group vice president of global purchasing, said in an interview.
“We’ve got a success model in terms of what we’ve done, so
we’ve got a lot to build on. So we’re going to solve it.”  Despite stalling sales in  China , GM managed to generate a
pretax operating profit of $529 million in its international
operations, which includes  Asia . Ford, which has just 2 percent
of the passenger car market in China, lost $95 million in its
Asia and Africa region. Ford said it will still make money in
Asia this year as it rolls out three new SUVs and the Focus
compact car in China. Chrysler is not yet a player in China.  Impatient Investors  Investors remain impatient. Despite all three automakers
exceeding estimates, investors are dumping shares as if Detroit
is on the road to ruin. GM has fallen 18 percent from its peak
this year at $27.34 on Feb. 17. Ford has also dropped 18 percent
since peaking this year at $12.96 on Feb. 6. Chrysler has put
off an initial public offering, which is unlikely to occur this
year, Marchionne said last week.  “Investors are in a mode of, ‘Forget what you did for me
last quarter, what are you going to do for me next quarter?’,”
Barclays’ Johnson, who rates on GM and Ford “overweight,” said
in an interview. “Any whiff of second-quarter sequential
weakness is being mercilessly traded down. This trading behavior
is short sighted.”  Detroit executives are bewildered by the disconnect between
beating analysts’ estimates and the beating their stocks are
taking. They say they try not to be distracted by it.  “We can’t run the business based on what the market
does,” said Ford’s Brown. “If we continue to deliver the
performance, the market will respond. So we’re just going to
keep our heads down and continue to deliver.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Keith Naughton in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 knaughton3@bloomberg.net ;
Tim Higgins in Southfield, Michigan,  at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Trudell in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  