-- Dewey Lawyers in Moscow, Almaty Said to Join Morgan Lewis
-- B y   J e r e m y   H o d g e s   a n d   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 2012-05-04T15:26:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-04/dewey-lawyers-in-moscow-almaty-said-to-join-morgan-lewis-1-.html
Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP’s six partners in
its Russian and Almaty,  Kazakhstan , offices will move to Morgan,
Lewis & Bockius LLP, according to a person familiar with the
situation.  In addition to the six partners, the firm’s associates and
staff will also move to Morgan Lewis, said the person, who
declined to be named because the changes haven’t been publicly
announced.  Stephen Jurgenson, head of Dewey’s Abu Dhabi office, and
 James Simpson , a London partner, also departed today, for
Pillsbury Winthrop Shaw Pittman LLP. Simpson served as co-head
of Dewey’s project finance and infrastructure practice,
Pillsbury said in a  statement . Jurgenson oversaw the development
of the Abu Dhabi office since 2010, according to the statement.  Dewey has lost more than a third of its partners in recent
weeks. Mergers-and-acquisitions chief Morton Pierce left for
White & Case LLP in New York yesterday.  In  Frankfurt , a Dewey corporate finance team is moving to
McDermott Will & Emery LLP, according to a person familiar with
the situation. The team includes partners Philipp von Ilberg and
Joseph W. Marx, said the person, who declined to be named
because the matter is private.  Christopher Rieck, a New York-based spokesman for
McDermott, declined to comment on the move that would give the
Chicago firm its third office in  Germany .  Sharp’s Move  Morgan Lewis said yesterday that Peter Sharp, the managing
partner of Dewey’s London office, and two other lawyers would
join its outpost in the U.K. capital.  Two London-based Dewey lawyers, Bruce Johnston and Amanda Jennings, are joining Morgan Lewis, the person said. Johnston
had been appointed by Dewey to a London committee to review the
office’s options to wind down or close the business.  Dewey’s privately placed bonds, sold in 2010 to insurance
companies to refinance older bank loans, have fallen as low as
45 cents to 55 cents on the dollar, from a trade in the 60s on
April 27, Kevin Starke, an analyst at CRT Capital Group LLC,
said in a report yesterday.  Dewey, based in  New York , is in “an apparent death
spiral,” Starke wrote.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeremy Hodges in London at 
 jhodges17@bloomberg.net ;
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net 
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 