-- Dewey, MoFo, Pillsbury, Cleary, Davis Wright: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2012-05-04T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-04/dewey-mofo-pillsbury-cleary-davis-wright-business-of-law.html
Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP, which has lost
more than a third of its partners in recent weeks, saw its
merger and acquisition chief and a team of  London  litigators
depart as the price of its bonds slumped in private trades.  M&A chief Morton Pierce left yesterday with seven other
partners to join White & Case LLP in New York, he said in a
telephone interview. London managing partner Peter Sharp, Nick
Greenwood and David Waldron are joining Morgan, Lewis & Bockius
LLP in London, Morgan Lewis said in a statement.  Dewey’s privately placed bonds, sold in 2010 to insurance
companies to refinance older bank loans, have fallen as low as
45 cents to 55 cents on the dollar, from a trade in the 60s on
April 27, said Kevin Starke, an analyst at CRT Capital Group
LLC, in a report.  Dewey, based in  New York , is in “an apparent death
spiral,” Starke wrote.  Dewey, whose bank loans are partly secured with money due
from clients, told  partners  they can’t have their monthly pay
until they send all the bills for their services, a person
familiar with the matter said.  Dewey is under orders from bankers to collect as much money
owed to the firm as possible after the departure of about 90
partners and the ouster of chairman Steven Davis, according to
another person familiar with Dewey’s finances. The banks are
reluctant to put the firm into bankruptcy as that might make it
harder to collect the bills, that person said. Both people
didn’t want to be identified because the matter wasn’t public.  Pierce is joining  White & Case  along with seven other
partners, he said. He’s leaving because of the turmoil at Dewey,
he said.  “Everyone knows what’s going on at Dewey,” he said.  Pierce and Denise Cerasani will be joining with six
partners who can’t be identified for legal reasons, White & Case
chairman Hugh Verrier said in an internal memo sent to all staff
and seen by Bloomberg.  “Two of our strategic priorities have been to strengthen
our global M&A practice and expand our New York office,”
Verrier wrote in the memo. “These new partners will help us
achieve both of these priorities.”  The London departures follow those of London project
finance lawyer Nabil Khodadad to Vinson & Elkins LLP, tax lawyer
Julio Castro to KPMG LLP and  Stephen Walters , who resigned, a
spokesman for Dewey said.  The law firm is preparing to liquidate its U.K. office, two
people familiar with the situation said. The London office
appointed a committee including restructuring lawyer Mark Fennessy and banking lawyer Bruce Johnston to review its options
to wind down or close the business, said the people, who
declined to be named because the matter is private.  Dewey was still talking with SNR Denton LLP and other law
firms about a possible transaction,  Mike Sitrick , a spokesman
for Dewey, said yesterday. He declined to specify the type of
deal the firms were willing to do.  For more, click here.  Moves  Ex-Finra Enforcement Director Nathan Joins Morrison & Foerster  Daniel A. Nathan, the former vice president and regional
enforcement director for the Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority, joined Morrison & Foerster LLP’s  Washington  office as
a partner.  During his five years at Finra, Nathan oversaw a 70-lawyer
team across 15 offices responsible for bringing as many as 900
disciplinary actions, the firm said in a statement. Previously,
Nathan served at the Securities and Exchange Commission as
assistant director in the Division of Enforcement and at the
Commodity Futures Trading Commission as deputy director of
enforcement.  Nathan is “a triple threat,” because of his experience at
the three agencies, according to Jordan Eth, co-chair of
Morrison & Foerster’s 140-lawyer securities litigation,
enforcement and white-collar defense group.  In 12 years at the SEC, Nathan supervised federal
investigations of  insider trading , market manipulation,
financial fraud and accounting misconduct. In nine years at the
CFTC, he oversaw the agency’s Enforcement Division and created
the CFTC’s Office of Cooperative Enforcement, which expanded
joint enforcement efforts between the CFTC, the U.S. Justice
Department, the SEC and state authorities.  Morrison & Foerster has more than 1,000 lawyers and 15
offices in the U.S.,  Asia  and  Europe .  Finance Lawyer Joins Pillsbury, Will Head Asia Practice  Pillsbury Winthrop Shaw Pittman LLP added Henry Liu, a U.S.
and Chinese-qualified corporate and finance lawyer, to the
firm’s finance practice. Liu was formerly a partner in DLA Piper
LLP’s corporate and finance practice.  He will primarily work in Pillsbury’s New York office and
will spend a significant amount of time in the Shanghai office,
according to the firm. He will also lead Pillsbury’s financial
institutions and infrastructure teams for Greater  China  and
Asia.  Liu has represented companies on Asia-related cross-border
corporate, financing and regulatory matters in mergers and
acquisitions, banking and finance,  capital markets , private
equity and investment funds, foreign direct investments, real
estate, technology transfers and international trade, the firm
said.  From 1995 to 2000, he was general counsel and director
general at the China Securities Regulatory Commission, where he
headed up the working group drafting and enacting China’s first
securities law, according to the firm.  Pillsbury has 15 offices in the U.S., Europe and Asia.  Arbitration Specialist Joins Quinn Emanuel From Arnold & Porter  David Orta will join Quinn Emanuel Urquhart & Sullivan
LLP’s Washington office as a partner and will head the
Washington international arbitration practice. He was previously
a partner in the Washington office of Arnold & Porter LLP.  Orta, an experienced trial lawyer and arbitration advocate,
devotes most of his time to representing clients in
international disputes, Quinn Emanuel said. He has represented
clients in arbitrations in forums including the International
Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes, UNCITRAL, the ICC
and the International Centre for Dispute Resolution.  “Within the coming months we will be adding well known
international arbitration specialists in other major arbitration
centers, including London,” managing partner John Quinn said in
a statement.  Quinn Emanuel’s Washington office opened in September and
has expanded to 22 lawyers. Quinn Emanuel has more than 600
lawyers with offices in  Los Angeles , New York,  San Francisco ,
Silicon Valley, Washington,  Chicago ,  Tokyo , London, Mannheim and
Moscow.  K&L Gates Adds Partners in Doha and Charleston  The Doha office of K&L Gates LLP added Amjad Hussain as a
partner in its corporate and finance practices. He joined the
firm from Eversheds LLP, where he was a partner in the Doha
office.  Hussain advises clients on corporate and financing
transactions, focusing on Shariah-compliant matters including
corporate, real estate, asset and project financings.  Richard A. Farrier Jr. also joined the firm as a partner in
its commercial disputes practice in Charleston,  South Carolina .
He was previously at Nelson Mullins Riley & Scarborough LLP,
where he was managing partner of the Charleston office. Michael T. Cole took over as acting managing partner in Charleston at
Nelson Mullins.  Farrier, a trial lawyer, represents companies in complex
litigation involving claims of financial and securities fraud,
breach of contract, partnership and shareholder breaches,
deceptive trade and business practices, trademark and copyright
infringement, trade secret misappropriation, and defective
products.  K&L Gates has more than 40 offices in  North America ,
Europe, Asia,  South America  and the  Middle East .  Restructuring Partner Joins Chadbourne in London  Chadbourne & Parke LLP said John Verrill joined the firm’s
London office as a partner in the insolvency and financial
restructuring group.  Verrill comes to Chadbourne from Dundas & Wilson LLP, where
he was co-head of the insolvency and restructuring team,
Chadbourne said in a statement.  Verrill has more than 25 years of experience in the
corporate recovery sector. He has advised on restructuring and
insolvency issues for both debtors and creditors, with a focus
on complex cross-border insolvency matters and company voluntary
arrangements.  “Having John join us in London is strategically important
for Chadbourne’s insolvency and financial restructuring group,”
said Claude Serfilippi, managing partner of the firm’s London
office. “He will be well placed to drive and support matters
handled by our integrated insolvency practice in our New York,
Mexico City, Warsaw and Moscow offices.”  Chadbourne has offices in New York, Washington, Los
Angeles, Mexico City,  Sao Paulo , London, Moscow, Warsaw, Kiev,
Istanbul, Dubai and Beijing.  Linklaters Partner Joins Allen & Overy as German IP Head  Allen & Overy LLP appointed partner Jens Matthes to head
the German IP team in the firm’s Dusseldorf office.  Matthes joins Allen & Overy from Linklaters LLP, where he
was responsible for establishing and managing the German
intellectual property practice group since 2008.  Matthes specializes in trademark, design and patent law,
unfair competition law, licensing and research and development
agreements, as well as employee inventions, counterfeiting and
the transfer and exploitation of intellectual property rights.  Matthes replaces Nadine Herrmann, the former head of Allen
& Overy’s German intellectual property group, who left for Quinn
Emanuel Urquhart & Sullivan LLP with a team of Allen & Overy
lawyers on May 1.  Allen & Overy has about 4,750 staff, including 480
partners, working in 39 offices worldwide.  Bird & Bird Adds Partners in London and Stockholm  Bird & Bird LLP added Geraint Lloyd to the firm’s
international corporate practice group as a partner in London.
He was previously at Berwin Leighton Paisner LLP, where he
headed the  venture capital  team, Bird & Bird said in a
statement.  Lloyd focuses on private equity, venture capital, mergers
and acquisitions and funds formations. He has experience in the
technology, clean technology and health-care areas. Lloyd will
help develop Bird & Bird’s venture capital and wider corporate
offerings, the firm said.  Gabriel Lidman, an international media sector group partner
in the Stockholm office, joined Bird & Bird from Swedish law
firm  Hamilton , where he headed the technology, media and
telecommunications and intellectual property group.  Lidman has a background in the media sector, including
traditional media and online. His areas of expertise include
outsourcing, intellectual property and  information technology ,
as well as general commercial practice.  Bird & Bird has more than 900 lawyers in 23 offices across
Europe, the Middle East and Asia.  Deals  DSM to Buy U.S.-Based Biomedical Business for $360 Million  Royal DSM NA (DSM)  agreed to buy U.S.-based  Kensey Nash Corp. (KNSY)  for
$360 million in cash to drive expansion in the market for
medical devices and materials engineered from proteins and
synthetic polymers.  Cleary Gottlieb Steen & Hamilton LLP  provided legal counsel
to DSM, which was advised by  Citigroup Inc. (C)  Katten Muchin
Rosenman LLP advised Kensey Nash, with Jefferies Group Inc.
serving as financial adviser.  Cleary’s team included New York partners William Groll and
partner David Gelfand on antitrust matters in Washington.  Katten’s legal team was led by Chicago partners Mark D.
Wood and David R. Shevitz. Partners Daniel Lange contributed on
employee benefits and Matthew Hinderman on tax. They are both in
the Chicago office.  Kensey Nash’s board is recommending the $38.50-a-share
offer, which is 33 percent higher than the Exton, Pennsylvania-
based company’s close on May 2, Heerlen, the Netherlands-based
DSM said.  For more, click here.  Firm News  Davis Wright Names Schneier to Executive Committee  Sharon L. Schneier, a commercial litigation partner in the
New York office of Davis Wright Tremaine LLP, was named chair of
the executive committee. Schneier, who was previously New York
partner-in-charge, focus her practice on complex matters.  “She has been a tremendous leader in the firm for many
years, and her vision and focus will serve us well as we execute
on our strategic plan,” Dave Baca, Davis Wright’s managing
partner, said in a statement.  Mark Berry, partner-in-charge of Davis Wright’s Bellevue,
Washington, office, was named vice-chair of the executive
committee.  Davis Wright has about 500 lawyers worldwide.  On The Docket  Bard Faces Vaginal Mesh Trial; Plaintiffs Lawyers Appointed  C.R. Bard Inc. will face its first federal-court trial next
year over claims that the company’s vaginal-mesh implants
injured women.  U.S. District Judge Joseph R. Goodwin in Charleston,  West
Virginia , set a Feb. 5 trial date for the first of about 600
federal cases contending that Bard’s  Avaulta  device caused organ
damage. Goodwin is overseeing a consolidation of cases filed in
federal courts across the U.S. against Bard, Johnson & Johnson
and other makers of vaginal-mesh inserts.  Goodwin appointed  Bryan Aylstock ,  Fred Thompson III  and
 Henry G. Garrard III  to lead a group of plaintiffs’ lawyers who
will oversee the progress of pretrial information exchanges over
the consolidated federal cases.  The order of trials for the first federal cases over
Avaulta “will be determined after completion” of the
information exchanges, Goodwin said in his order May 1.  Aylstock, a Pensacola, Florida-based lawyer, said he was
pleased Goodwin set the first trial over Bard’s mesh product for
early next year.  “We have a lot of women who have suffered devastating
consequences from the Avaulta product and they deserve their day
in court,” Aylstock said in a telephone interview.  Bard, based in Murray Hill,  New Jersey , and a unit of New
Brunswick, New Jersey-based  J&J (JNJ)  also face litigation in U.S.
state courts over their mesh products. More than 75,000 women a
year have the devices inserted vaginally to treat pelvic organs
that bulge, or prolapse, or to deal with incontinence.  Scott Lowry, a Bard spokesman, didn’t return a call for
comment on the judge’s decision to set the trial date.  The Bard consolidated cases are In re C.R. Bard Inc. Pelvic
Repair System Products Liability Litigation, 2:10-MD-02187, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of West Virginia (Charleston).  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in New York at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 