-- Dish Says It Will Drop ‘Mad Men’ Network in AMC Dispute
-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 2012-05-04T20:51:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-04/dish-to-drop-mad-men-network-citing-poor-viewership.html
Dish Network Corp. (DISH) , the second-largest
U.S. satellite-TV provider, says it will drop  AMC Networks Inc. (AMCX) 
channels including AMC, WE tv, IFC and Sundance Channel from all
packages, citing poor viewership.  Dish, based in Englewood, Colorado, will no longer carry
the networks because AMC is demanding a “high renewal cost when
compared to their low viewership,” the company said today in an
e-mailed statement.  AMC broadcasts TV shows including “Mad Men,” “The
Walking Dead” and “Breaking Bad.” Dish subscribers can see
AMC’s “very limited” programming through outlets including
Amazon.com Inc., Apple Inc.’s iTunes and  Netflix Inc. (NFLX) , the
satellite-television provider said in the statement.  AMC said Dish was dropping the networks as a response to a
court ruling last month that denied the satellite-TV company the
right to appeal an outstanding lawsuit, according to a separate
statement today. In 2008, when AMC was a  Cablevision Systems
Corp. (CVC)  unit, it filed a breach-of-contract lawsuit against Dish
seeking $2.5 billion over the collapse of Voom, a collection of
high-definition stations.  A judge ruled that Dish had destroyed evidence relating to
Voom and denied Dish the right to further appeal the decision,
leaving the case to be set for trial, AMC said in the statement.
Dish informed AMC days later of its intention to drop the
network, AMC said.  Dish says the litigation is a separate matter and not
related to its decision to drop AMC Networks.  AMC fell 3.2 percent to $43.12 at the close in New York.
Dish slipped 4 percent to $31.31. Dish is scheduled to report
earnings May 7.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Sherman in  New York  at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  