-- Disney Pilots $6 Billion Marvel Licensing Machine: Retail
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2012-05-04T04:00:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-04/disney-pilots-6-billion-marvel-licensing-machine-retail.html
Ever wonder what the Incredible Hulk
smells like? Try Indian sandalwood, musk and sharp cedar.  “It’s more of an earthy fragrance,” said Andrew Levine,
chief executive officer of  Jads International LLC , the  Hunt
Valley , Maryland-based marketer that signed on to produce a line
of “Avengers” scents, including Smash, a cologne based on the
green superhero. “You have to mimic the character.”  Dozens of companies are tying in with “Marvel’s The
Avengers,” the  Walt Disney Co. (DIS)  action film opening today in the
U.S. With its Captain America character dating back to World War
II, “The Avengers” has an unusually broad appeal, attracting
licensing and sponsorship deals that go well beyond toys,
including ones for hotels, fragrances and luxury cars.  Searching for revenue beyond the box office has been a big
part of the strategy at Disney, where the Marvel division
generated $6 billion in retail merchandise sales last year,
according to License! Global magazine. Disney’s consumer
products division produced operating income of $816 million in
2011, more than the $618 million brought in by the company’s
original business, its film studio.  “The superhero transcends age, gender and ethnicity,”
said Robin Korman, head of loyalty marketing at hotelier  Wyndham
Worldwide Corp. (WYN) , which is offering a ticket giveaway for guests.
“It really is one of those genres that’s universally
embraced.”  The film features cars from Acura, Honda Motor Co.’s luxury
division, including customized versions of the MDX sport-utility
vehicle, which starts at $43,000, and an NSX concept car driven
by Robert Downey Jr.’s “ Iron Man ” Tony Stark. The picture also
includes  Harley-Davidson Inc. (HOG) ’s $15,500 FLS Softail Slim
motorcycle, the ride of choice for Captain America, played by
30-year-old  Chris Evans .  Generations of Fans  Wyndham, based in Parsippany, New Jersey, made collectible
room key-cards and commissioned 400,000 copies of a comic book
from Disney’s Marvel division to distribute free at its
properties. The comic features “Avengers” characters including
Iron Man and the Black Widow enjoying loyalty program perks such
as free rooms and  Internet access . The Hulk works out in a
fitness center.  “Please don’t blow up any of our hotels,” Korman asked
Marvel’s illustrators.  “Avengers” fans include men age 35 and older, with median
household incomes that exceed $75,000, making them target buyers
for Harleys, said Dino Bernacchi, director of North American
marketing communication for the Milwaukee-based company.  Likely Bikers  The “Avengers” characters, including  Captain America  and
Thor, have decades of history and have sold millions of comic
books, Bernacchi said.  “They have a built-in fan base hungry to see this concept
come to life,” Bernacchi said, adding “they are 22 percent
more likely to purchase a motorcycle.”  Sales of movie-related toys, gadgets and apparel can exceed
film receipts, Jay Rasulo, chief financial officer of Burbank,
California-based Disney said last year. The company, which
didn’t respond to requests for interviews, is scheduled to
report fiscal second-quarter earnings on May 8.  Disney rose 0.6 percent to $43.81 yesterday in  New York .
The stock has gained 17 percent this year, placing seventh among
the 16 stocks in the  S&P 500 Media Index. (S5MEDA)   Discovery
Communications Inc. (DISCA) , up 35 percent, is first.  Hasbro Sales  Marvel-related toys, such as Thor hammers and Hulk fists,
are expected to generate a record $400 million in revenue this
year for licensee  Hasbro Inc. (HAS) , according to Drew Crum, an
analyst at Stifel Nicolaus & Co.  “We expect Disney to push the Marvel franchise more
aggressively across international markets,” Crum wrote in an
April 27 report.  “The Avengers” is the first Marvel film Disney has
marketed since purchasing the business for $4.2 billion in 2009.
The movie has broken international box office records, grossing
more than $281 million overseas as of May 2, Disney said in a
release.  Levine, the cologne maker, said the response has been
“phenomenal” to his line of “Avengers” scents, which retail
for $29.99 a bottle and target customers 16 years and older.  “It’s all about being a hero,” he said. “People want to be
part of something good.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in  Los Angeles  at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  