-- Dolby Soars After Being Picked to Provide Windows 8 Audio
-- B y   N i a m h   R i n g
-- 2012-05-04T20:07:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-04/dolby-soars-after-being-picked-to-provide-windows-8-audio.html
  Dolby Laboratories Inc. (DLB)  advanced the
most in more than five years after  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  chose the
sound company to provide audio for Windows 8 for tablets and
computers when the software’s latest version debuts this year.  Dolby gained 18 percent to $44.22 at the close in New York
for the biggest jump since November 2006, after the San
Francisco-based company reported the agreement and quarterly
profit that topped analysts’ estimates yesterday.  The deal will enable Dolby, which makes more than 80
percent of annual  revenue  from licensing technology, to boost
proceeds from royalties. Makers of products based on Windows 8
will be generally required to license Dolby technologies
included in the software, Dolby said.  “The profile of the PC segment is materially improved by
the Win8 deal and the company is intensifying its focus on new
initiatives,” including  mobile and other devices that deliver
Internet content,  Michael Olson , a Piper Jaffray Cos. analyst
who  rates  the shares the equivalent of hold, said in a note.  Dolby has been shifting its business as consumers shed DVDs
and PCs in favor of media on mobile phones and tablets. The
Microsoft agreement to incorporate Dolby Digital Plus won’t add
to fiscal 2012 earnings, since the product isn’t expected to
ship until the 2013 period, Dolby said.  The company narrowed its full-year sales forecast to as
much as $960 million for the year ending Sept. 30. It previously
 predicted  revenue of as much as $970 million.  “Dolby Digital Plus on Windows 8 will enable more people
to enjoy cinematic sound anytime, anywhere, and on any device,”
Ramzi Haidamus, executive vice president, sales and marketing,
said in a statement yesterday.  Dolby reported earnings excluding certain items of 91 cents
a share for the second quarter, ended March 30. That topped the
average estimate of 81 cents a share from predictions compiled
by Bloomberg. Revenue increased 4 percent to $260.3 million.
Analysts had predicted $253.1 million.  The shares have risen 45 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Niamh Ring in  New York  at 
 nring@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Cecile Daurat at 
 cdaurat@bloomberg.net  