-- Dollar Fluctuates Versus Euro as Jobs Data Trail Forecast
-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 2012-05-04T13:14:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-04/dollar-fluctuates-versus-euro-as-jobs-data-trail-forecast.html
The dollar gained versus most major
counterparts after a report showed U.S. employment rose less
than forecast in April, boosting demand for the safety of the
greenback.  Europe ’s shared currency headed for its first weekly loss
in three weeks against the dollar after a report showed the
region’s manufacturing and services industries shrank in April
more than forecast, and France and Greece prepared to hold
elections this weekend. The U.S. currency strengthened even amid
speculation the  Federal Reserve  may keep accommodative monetary
policy in place longer to support the economy.  “The tone of the payrolls report was negative,” said  Mark McCormick , a currency strategist at Brown Brothers Harriman &
Co. in New York. “People are already looking past the jobs
report ahead to the elections that are taking place in Europe
this weekend. That’s going to make some of the market responses
muted.”  The dollar gained less than 0.1 percent to $1.3145 per euro
at 9:09 a.m.  New York  time, poised for a weekly advance of 0.8
percent. The greenback declined 0.2 percent to 79.99 yen. The
17-nation currency fell 0.2 percent to 105.23 yen.  Nonfarm payrolls climbed 115,000, the smallest gain in six
months, after a revised 154,000 rise in March that was more than
initially estimated, Labor Department figures showed today in
 Washington . The median estimate of 85 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News called for a 160,000 advance. The jobless  rate
fell to a three-year low of 8.1 percent.  ‘Weaker Report Overall’  “It’s a weaker report overall,” said  David Mann , regional
head of research for the Americas at Standard Chartered Plc in
New York. “It’s not weak enough to make the market convinced
that quantitative easing is coming soon. There’s not yet enough
confidence of that, but it’s starting to raise a few more
concerns.”  The  Dollar Index (DXY) , which Intercontinental Exchange Inc. uses
to measure the greenback against the currencies of six major
U.S. trade partners, was little changed at 79.237.  The gauge fell 0.2 percent on April 6, when the Labor
Department reported payrolls added 120,000 jobs, which trailed
even the lowest estimate in a Bloomberg News survey that
projected an increase 205,000.  The jobs data came a day after the Institute for Supply
Management’s gauge of U.S. service industries, which account for
almost 90 percent of the  U.S. economy , trailed forecasts in
April. The Tempe, Arizona-based group’s  nonmanufacturing index 
fell to a four-month low of 53.5, from 56 in March. Readings
greater than 50 signal growth.  ‘Do More’  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said last week the central
bank is “prepared to do more” if necessary to boost the
economy. He spoke at a press conference after his  Federal Open
Market Committee  refrained at a two-day meeting from new
stimulus moves and said in a statement the economy has been
expanding moderately.  The central bank bought $2.3 trillion of bonds in two
rounds of quantitative easing from December 2008 to June 2011 to
lower borrowing costs. The Dollar Index fell 14 percent during
that period.  Other U.S. economic data have signaled growth.
Manufacturing expanded in April at the fastest pace in almost a
year, according to the ISM’s factory index. It reached a reading
of 54.8, the group said May 1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Robert Burgess  at 
 bburgess@bloomberg.net  