-- Dow Chemical Expects Africa Sales to Double in 3 Years, CEO Says
-- B y   E r i c   O m b o k
-- 2012-05-04T07:20:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-04/dow-chemical-expects-africa-sales-to-double-in-3-years-ceo-says.html
Dow Chemical Co. (DOW) , the largest U.S.
chemicals producer, said it expects sales in Africa to at least
double within three years as demand for its products including
water-purification systems and building materials grows.  The company, based in Midland,  Michigan , inaugurated an
office in Nairobi yesterday that will serve the East African
region, Chief Executive Officer  Andrew Liveris  said yesterday in
an interview in the Kenyan capital. Dow, which has an annual
capital investment budget of $2.5 billion, will initially spend
an average of $30 million per year in Africa on areas including
manufacturing facilities to grow its sales, he said.  Dow has been reviewing opportunities in Africa and “really
reinforcing our commitment” to the continent, Liveris said.
“This is a multibillion dollar opportunity for Dow. We are less
than a billion dollars revenue today and most of that is
centered in southern  Africa  and northern Africa.”  Economic growth in Africa may average 5 percent over the
next two decades as the continent boosts its manufacturing
capacity, diversifies trade by reducing its reliance on
agriculture and invests in infrastructure including power
supply, the United Nations Economic Commission for Africa said
in a  report  in March. Growth averaged more than 5 percent
between 2000 and 2010, helped by improved economic management
and rising prices for its commodities, it said.  Dow has manufacturing facilities in 37 countries and sales
offices in 160 nations. It spends $1.7 billion on research and
development annually, with two thirds of sales generated outside
the U.S., Liveris said.  Growing Manufacturing  “We have strategies to keep growing outside the U.S.,” he
said. “We really try to grow through our manufacturing
facilities, our value add and over time, our research and
development.”  Dow, founded in 1897 as a bleach maker, is the world’s
biggest producer of ethylene, chlorine, epoxy resins and linear
low-density polyethylene plastic. It’s the world’s second-
biggest chemical maker by revenue behind  Germany ’s BASF SE.  The strategy to grow sales in eastern Africa will begin
with importing products into the regional market, warehousing
and working with global supply chains, Liveris said. Over time,
the company may introduce manufacturing and eventually research
and development facilities in the region, he said.  In partnership with Saudi Arabian Oil Co., a state-owned
energy supplier, Dow is currently building the Sadara Chemical
complex in  Saudi Arabia  at a cost of $20 billion, Liveris said.
The plant is expected to begin production in 2015 with 40
percent of output being exported to  Asia  and as much as 35
percent to the  Middle East  and Africa, he said.  Dow’s  shares  fell 1.5 percent to $32.86 in  New York 
yesterday, valuing the company at $39.3 billion. The stock has
risen 11 percent so far this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Ombok in Nairobi at 
 eombok@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Richardson in Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 