-- Duke Energy First-Quarter Profit Falls on Plant Settlement
-- B y   J i m   P o l s o n
-- 2012-05-04T20:07:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-04/duke-energy-first-quarter-profit-declines-on-warmer-weather.html
Duke Energy Corp. (DUK) , which plans to buy
 Progress Energy Inc. (PGN)  to become the largest U.S. utility owner,
said first-quarter profit fell 42 percent after a regulatory
settlement in  Indiana  increased costs and mild weather reduced
heating demand.  Net income fell to $295 million, or 22 cents a share, from
$511 million, or 38 cents, a year earlier,  Charlotte , North
Carolina-based Duke said today in a statement. Excluding the
Indiana settlement and other one-time items, per-share profit
was 2 cents more than the 36-cent average of 10 analysts’
 estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  The Indiana settlement, announced April 30, clipped results
by 20 cents. It resolves a dispute over cost overruns at a $3.3
billion coal-fueled power plant expected to begin operation this
year. Duke agreed that customers will pay only $2.6 billion of
the plant cost.  In  North Carolina , where Duke has the most customers, the
first quarter was the warmest in 22 years, according to the
National Climatic Data Center. Lower heating demand cut results
by 4 cents a share, Duke said. Higher utility rates in North and
South Carolina added 3 cents to profit.  Sales fell 0.9 percent to $3.63 billion. Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer Jim Rogers affirmed a forecast for 2012
adjusted profit of $1.40 to $1.45 a share.  Included in the forecast are lower operating earnings of 2
cents a share that will result from the Indiana plant
settlement, Chief Financial Officer Lynn Good said today in an
interview.  Warmer Temperatures  Duke needs both federal and state approvals to close the
$16.5 billion Progress transaction, revised after the  Federal
Energy Regulatory Commission  rejected the initial mitigation
plan because of anti-competition concerns. Progress said
yesterday it expects the merger to close by July 1.  The deal would combine North Carolina’s largest utilities
and create the second-largest U.S. nuclear power plant operator.
Progress, based in Raleigh, North Carolina, reported net income
of $150 million, or 51 cents a share, on sales of $2.1 billion
yesterday.  Duke rose 0.8 percent to $21.56 at the close in New York.
Progress rose 0.8 percent to $54.43. Duke has a buy  rating , a
sell rating and 18 holds from analysts.  Exelon Corp. (EXC) , based in Chicago, is the largest U.S. utility
owner and the largest operator of nuclear plants.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Polson in  New York  at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  