-- Dunkin’ Brands to Add 80 U.K. Baskin-Robbins Locations
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B o y l e
-- 2012-05-04T12:02:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-04/dunkin-brands-to-add-80-u-k-baskin-robbins-locations.html
Dunkin’ Brands Group Inc. (DNKN) , operator of
the namesake coffee shops, plans to add 80 Baskin-Robbins ice
cream parlors in the U.K. by 2015 as it focuses on expansion
outside of the U.S.  The restaurants, three of which opened this week in London,
will employ 400 people and showcase the brand’s new store
design, which includes lounge-style seating, digital menu boards
and bigger displays for ice cream cakes, the company said in a
statement today. They will also serve British-themed ice cream
flavors such as English Toffee.  Baskin-Robbins has almost 100 U.K. locations, part of its
6,755 sites worldwide, of which 4,200 are outside the U.S.,
Chief Executive Officer Nigel Travis said in an interview
yesterday in  London . The company has been closing U.S. Baskin-
Robbins stores as it seeks growth abroad.  “The U.K. is a huge opportunity,” said Travis, a native
of London. “In the U.S., we’ve stabilized the business, and our
goal now is to get back to growth.”  Travis said he’s keeping “an open mind” about bringing
Dunkin’ Donuts to the U.K. to compete with chains such as  Krispy
Kreme Doughnuts Inc. (KKD) ,  Starbucks Corp. (SBUX)  and  Whitbread Plc (WTB) ’s Costa
Coffee, yet has no plans to do so at the moment. Starbucks
unveiled its first television ads in the U.K. in March as part
of a broader European marketing campaign. Some American
franchisees are interested in opening  Dunkin’ Donuts  shops in
Britain, Travis said.  ‘Accelerated Transfer’  Baskin-Robbins has been switching franchises that don’t
meet operational targets to new franchisees in a process dubbed
“accelerated transfer,” which has led to increased sales for
the switched-over locations, Travis said. Fifty franchisees
changed hands last year, and 20 in the first quarter of this
year, he said.  The chain’s first-quarter sales from international stores
open at least a year increased 7.6 percent, compared with 7.2
percent growth at U.S. locations. Baskin-Robbins opened 49 net
new stores outside the U.S. in the period, and 368 last year. In
2011, the Baskin-Robbins U.S. store count declined by 90 and the
company plans to close as many as 80 this year.  Outside the U.S., Baskin-Robbins operates 1,100 stores in
 Japan , 900 in Korea, 200 in Russia and the Commonwealth of
Independent States, and almost 100 in  China , said Travis, whose
favorite ice cream flavor is Pralines ‘n Cream. The Canton,
Massachusetts-based company will soon open its first Indian
Dunkin’ Donuts location, in Delhi, he said.  Green Mountain Test  Travis said separately that the company hasn’t started
testing capsules for  Green Mountain Coffee Roasters Inc.’s (GMCR)  new
Vue coffee maker. He said a decision on whether to sell the so-
called V-Cups will be made after the test.  Dunkin’ Brands currently sells K-Cups for Green Mountain’s
Keurig brewer in its stores to lure at-home coffee drinkers.
Waterbury, Vermont-based Green Mountain introduced the Vue
machine, which makes espresso-based drinks, in February to help
combat competition when the main patents for its K-Cups expire
in September.  Dunkin’ Brands, which held an initial public offering in
July,  fell  0.5 percent to $32.60 yesterday in  New York . The
shares have risen 31 percent this year, ahead of the 7.6 percent
gain in the  Russell 1000 U.S. Restaurant Index. (RGUSDLRT)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Boyle in London at 
 mboyle20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sara Marley at 
 smarley1@bloomberg.net  