-- LME CEO Expects Multiple Takeover Bids as Deadline Looms
-- B y   G l e n y s   S i m ,   S u s a n   L i   a n d   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z
-- 2012-05-04T13:05:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-04/lme-wants-warehouses-in-china-as-asia-growth-lifts-demand.html
The London Metal Exchange expects to
receive multiple takeover offers by the May 7 deadline, and
shareholders may assess bids on price as well as the advantages
a potential buyer may bring, the chief executive said.  “We anticipate hearing from a number of people,”  Martin Abbott  said today in a Bloomberg Television interview in
 Singapore . “Clearly someone who has an  Asia  lever provides a
story but it’s not the only story in town.”  At stake is control of the marketplace that handles more
than 80 percent of industrial metals futures and traces its
roots back to 1877.  Hong Kong Exchanges (388)  and Clearing Ltd.,
Asia’s largest bourse operator, said this week that it’s
studying a bid.  China  is the world’s largest metals user.  “There’s no guarantee that the LME shareholders will
decide to sell but if they do decide to sell, it will be because
of a number of factors,” said Abbott. “No. 1 will be that
someone’s offered them a good price. But No. 2 will also be that
someone has shown to them that there’s a long-term advantage in
being acquired by that particular company.”  Hong Kong Exchanges said on April 30 that it was one of a
number of interested parties studying the opportunity to buy the
LME and it will consider additional financing if needed. The
London bourse may be valued at about $1.3 billion, according to
Equity Research Desk, a hedge-fund adviser in Greenwich,
 Connecticut .  ‘Type of Story’  CME Group Inc. (CMS) ,  NYSE Euronext (NYX)  and Intercontinental Exchange
Inc. have made preliminary offers, three people with knowledge
of the matter said in February. CME Group owns the world’s
largest futures exchange; NYSE Euronext is the biggest U.S.
exchange operator; and Intercontinental is the second-largest
U.S. futures market.  “The fact that I’m here in Asia doesn’t mean that I’m
flying or holding a candle for one particular bidder,” said
Abbott, who’s in the city-state to address an LME metals seminar
and didn’t identify any potential bidders. “But clearly there
are advantages. Different types of bidders, they all bring a
different type of story.”  Shareholder Approval  Any bid will have to be approved by more than 50 percent of
shareholders, with the owners of at least 75 percent of shares
backing the move. The LME is owned by more than 60 of its 94
members, including Goldman Sachs Group Inc., JP Morgan Chase &
Co. and UBS AG. Market users including commodities trader
Trafigura Beheer BV and Aurubis AG, the world’s second-largest
refined copper producer, have expressed concerns about the
change of ownership.  Metals prices  rallied in the past decade as demand from
 emerging markets  overwhelmed supplies from mines, attracting a
surge of interest from investors. The LME handled a record $15.4
trillion of contracts in copper and other industrial metals last
year, compared with $2.5 trillion in 1999. It operates  London ’s
last open-outcry transactions through a 6-meter-wide (20-foot)
ring in which traders shout out orders.  The LME wants to expand its warehouse network into China,
Abbott said in the interview today. “We would love to be able
to put LME delivery points, LME warehouses into China, which we
think would be a big benefit to the Chinese industry,” he said.  The exchange licenses a network of hundreds of storage
sites around the world where users can deposit metals, with
Asian locations in  Japan ,  South Korea , Malaysia and Singapore.
Metals demand in Asia will continue to expand, Abbott said.  “What’s going on in China, what’s going on in the whole of
Asia, it’s a whole multi-generational, structural change,” said
Abbott. “It’s not cyclical. So we’re not going to be fazed by
short-term adjustments to forecasts.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Glenys Sim in Singapore at 
 gsim4@bloomberg.net ;
Susan Li in  Hong Kong  at 
 sli31@bloomberg.net 
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net ;
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  