-- LME Wants Warehouses in China as Asia Growth Lifts Demand
-- B y   G l e n y s   S i m   a n d   S u s a n   L i
-- 2012-05-04T05:52:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-04/lme-wants-to-expand-warehouse-network-to-china-ceo-abbott-says.html
The London Metal Exchange, the biggest
marketplace for industrial metals that’s set to consider
takeover offers next week, wants to expand its warehouse network
into  China , the largest user of base metals including copper.  “We would love to be able to put LME delivery points, LME
warehouses into China, which we think would be a big benefit to
the Chinese industry and LME,” Chief Executive Officer  Martin Abbott  said in a Bloomberg Television interview today. The LME
is anticipating a number of approaches next week, Abbott said.  The exchange licenses a network of more than 600 storage
sites around the world where users can deposit metals, with
 Asian locations  in  Japan ,  South Korea , Malaysia and  Singapore .
Metals demand in  Asia  will continue to expand, Abbott said.  “What’s going on in China, what’s going on in the whole of
Asia, it’s a whole multi-generational, structural change,” said
Abbott. “It’s not cyclical. So we’re not going to be fazed by
short-term adjustments to forecasts.”  China’s growth slowed more than forecast last quarter,
boosting concern that demand for commodities, including metals,
may soften. Gross domestic product in the world’s second-biggest
 economy grew  8.1 percent from a year earlier after an 8.9
percent gain in the fourth quarter, according to data last month.  Three-month futures for copper, a metal typically taken as
a gauge of economic activity, have gained 8.6 percent this year,
and traded at $8,252 a ton at 1:49 p.m. in Singapore. The
 LMEX Index (LMEX) , which tracks the performance of the six main base
metals traded by the exchange, has gained 6 percent in 2012.  ‘More Stuff’  “People talk about slowing growth,” Abbott said in the
interview. “But you know, we’re talking about slowing from
double-digit growth to a mere 8 percent per year. But that’s
still 8 percent more stuff than they used last year.”  The LME, which began trading tin and copper in 1877, will
consider takeover offers made by May 7. The company may be
valued at about $1.3 billion, according to Equity Research Desk,
a hedge-fund adviser in Greenwich,  Connecticut .  Hong Kong Exchanges & Clearing Ltd. (388) , Asia’s largest bourse
operator, said on April 30 it’s studying a bid. CME Group Inc.,
 NYSE Euronext (NYX)  and Intercontinental Exchange Inc. have made
preliminary offers, three people with knowledge of the matter
said in February. Abbott didn’t identify any would-be bidder.  “We anticipate hearing from a number of people,” said
Abbott, who was appointed  chief executive  in 2006 and is in
Singapore for the bourse’s first metals seminar in Asia.
“Clearly someone who has an Asia lever provides a story but
it’s not the only story in town.”  Record Stockpiles  Abbott’s comment on establishing LME warehouses in China
comes as total reserves of copper in the country are estimated
to have risen to an all-time high, with producers saying that
they intend to export metal into the London exchange’s network.  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN)  said last month it was “astounded
by how much copper is being stored in warehouses” in China,
according to an April 26 report, estimating total stockpiles
have climbed to about 1 million tons.  Jiangxi Copper Co. (358) , China’s largest producer, and other
makers and fabricators plan to ship copper out of China into
nearby LME warehouses, Su Li, president of Jiangxi Copper
International Trading Co., said on May 2.  Copper inventories in LME warehouses declined to 235,200
tons as of yesterday, the lowest level since 2008. Stockpiles
monitored by the Shanghai Futures Exchange stood at 204,762 tons
last week and have more than doubled this year.  The plan for local LME warehouses “is certainly good for
the industry,” said Wen Xianjun, vice chairman of the China
Nonferrous Metals Industry Association, which represents
producers and major state-owned trading firms. “This would help
to lower logistics fees, and facilitate deliveries. However,
regulators may have their own considerations.”  Overseas futures exchanges  are prohibited  from setting up
warehouses in China for commodity-futures delivery before rules
on the opening of China’s futures markets are issued, according
to a 2008 rule from the China Securities Regulatory Commission.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Glenys Sim in Singapore at 
 gsim4@bloomberg.net ;
Susan Li in  Hong Kong  at 
 sli31@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  