-- Hedge-Fund Millionaire Diggle Targets $150 Million for Farm Fund
-- B y   T o m o k o   Y a m a z a k i
-- 2012-05-04T01:22:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-04/hedge-fund-millionaire-diggle-targets-150-million-for-farm-fund.html
Vulpes Investment Management, the
Singapore company set up by hedge-fund manager Stephen Diggle,
plans to raise as much as $150 million over the next few months
for a fund that invests in farms around the world.  The $35 million Vulpes Agricultural Land Investment
Company, which has a cattle and sheep farm in  Uruguay , two corn
farms in  Illinois , and a New Zealand kiwi-and-avocado orchard,
is seeking to raise at least $50 million in the next couple of
months to expand investments into Africa and Eastern Europe,
Diggle said.  Once Singapore’s biggest hedge-fund manager at Artradis
Fund Management Pte, Diggle is allowing outsiders access to the
investments run by his family office as he seeks assets that can
counter inflation. His farmland portfolio has had a yield of
about 5 percent since Diggle began buying land in 2009, with
land price appreciation of about 35 percent, as an increase in
wealth drives demand for a broader range of food, he said.  “I got the idea in 2008 when I thought the world was
falling apart,” Diggle said in an interview in  Singapore  this
week. “Yield-producing safe assets are intrinsically more
interesting.”  Global food prices rose 8 percent from December to March
because of higher  oil prices , adverse weather and strong demand
in  Asia  for food imports, the  World Bank  said last month. Food
prices are rising again, threatening  food security  for millions
of people, according to the Washington-based World Bank.  The about 3,500 hectares (8,649 acres) cattle and sheep
farm in Uruguay has yielded about 3 percent since Vulpes
purchased it in 2010, with land appreciation of about 50
percent, according to Diggle.  Diversifying Assets  The fund also owns two sites in Illinois, primarily
producing corn and yielding 7 percent since Vulpes invested in
2009. The land price has appreciated as much as 50 percent,
while the kiwifruit and avocado farm in  New Zealand  has returned
up to 14 percent since the purchase in 2011, he said.  With the new funding, Diggle plans to diversify the
portfolio by geography, products, weather and government
interference, he said. He said he is considering possible
investments in Zambia, Malawi and Mozambique in Africa, and
Ukraine or Bulgaria in Eastern Europe.  Diggle, who made $2.7 billion for investors as markets
seesawed in 2007 and 2008 at Artradis, opened his family office
after liquidating Artradis’s volatility funds last year. Vulpes
currently has about $250 million in assets, according to Diggle.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tomoko Yamazaki in Tokyo at 
 tyamazaki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net . 