-- Hedge Funds Fell 1% in April as Global Markets Decline
-- B y   K e l l y   B i t
-- 2012-05-04T18:08:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-04/hedge-funds-fell-1-in-april-as-global-markets-decline.html
Hedge funds  fell 1 percent in April,
tracking stocks worldwide, as renewed concern that the European
sovereign-debt crisis would worsen and global economic growth
would stall halted an equity-market rally earlier in the year.  Hedge funds are trailing global stocks this year, gaining
3.4 percent in the first four months, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg, compared with the 11 percent advance for equities
worldwide, including reinvested dividends. The Bloomberg
aggregate hedge fund  index  decreased to 117.45 from 118.60 last
month as long-short equity,  multistrategy (BBHFMLTI)  and global macro funds
fell.  “Hedge fund managers have been somewhat cautious,”
according to Jay Krieger, principal at Fundamental Capital
Management LLC, the $70 million Pasadena, California-based fund
of funds. “They’re not going to jump on the recovery
bandwagon.”  The  MSCI All-Country World Index (MXWD)  fell 1.1 percent,
including dividends, in April as  Spain  entered its second
recession since 2009,  China ’s gross domestic product slowed more
than forecast and U.S. business activity cooled.  Multistrategy hedge funds fell 0.9 percent in April to
limit this year’s gain to 0.9 percent, according to the
Bloomberg index. Long-short equity funds, whose managers can bet
on rising and falling stocks, declined 0.6 percent last month
and advanced 3.1 percent in 2012.  Macro (BBHFMCRO)  funds, which bet on
global economic trends, slumped 1.2 percent last month and
climbed 1.7 percent in the first four months of the year.  Macro Strategies Trail  “The macro strategies have not done well -- it’s hard to
take advantage of trends,” said Emma Sugarman, global head of
capital introduction at BNP Paribas SA in New York, which helps
hedge funds meet prospective investors.  The main Bloomberg hedge fund index is weighted by market
capitalization and tracks 2,758 funds, 1,237 of which have
reported returns for April. The index is down 9.9 percent from
its July 2007 peak.  Hedge funds attracted $16 billion in new capital in the
first three months of the year, boosting industry assets to
$2.13 trillion, a record high, according to Chicago-based Hedge
Fund Research Inc. Hedge funds with more than $5 billion in
assets attracted the biggest share of investor capital in the
first quarter, with $18.3 billion in net deposits. Those with
less than that amount garnered almost $2 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kelly Bit in  New York  at   kbit@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  