-- Edwards Knew Checks for Mistress Helped Him, Lawyer Says
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n   a n d   J o h n   P e r a g i n e
-- 2012-05-05T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-04/edwards-knew-checks-for-mistress-helped-him-lawyer-says.html
John Edwards , the former presidential
candidate accused of campaign-finance crimes, acknowledged that
checks from a multimillionaire donor to support his mistress
were for his benefit, the donor’s lawyer testified.  Alex Forger, the attorney for heiress Rachel “Bunny” Mellon, testified yesterday in federal court in Greensboro,
North Carolina, about a conversation he had in December 2008
with Wade Smith, a friend of Edwards. Smith said that Edwards
“acknowledges” the checks from Mellon were “for his
benefit,” Forger, a prosecution witness, testified.  Smith was responding to questions about the purpose of
“furniture checks” made out by Mellon to an interior
decorator, Bryan Huffman, and later endorsed by Cheri Young, the
wife of Andrew Young, an Edwards campaign aide, Forger
testified.  Edwards, who lost a bid for the 2008 Democratic
presidential nomination, is accused of illegally using almost $1
million in contributions from Mellon and  Fred Baron , a now-
deceased trial lawyer, to hide his affair with  Rielle Hunter , an
unemployed filmmaker. Edwards, a former Democratic U.S. senator
for North Carolina, fathered a child with Hunter. He faces as
long as five years in prison for each of the six counts against
him if convicted.  Forger said he became suspicious after receiving a call
from JPMorgan Chase & Co. in September 2007 about a $150,000
check. The bank told him and Mellon’s accountants that the
personal account didn’t have enough money to cover the check and
requested that her estate make up the difference, Forger said.  Check for $175,000  Forger said Mellon called him in December 2007 asking for
help making out a $175,000 check.  “She said it was for the benefit of John Edwards,” Forger
recalled. “It’s going to Bryan Huffman because that’s the way
they want it sent,” he said she told him.  Mellon acknowledged that she knew the limits on campaign
donations, Forger said.  “This was a personal contribution and it was obviously a
gift,” Forger said Mellon told him.  Huffman, a friend of Mellon, testified that at one point,
 Andrew Young  asked Mellon “for $40 million to $50 million,”
and when she became upset at the amount, Edwards called her and
said he didn’t want the money.  Huffman also said Mellon understood the money she donated
was a personal gift to Edwards and not for his campaign.  Another witness, outside adviser Peter Scher, testified
that he’d “been hearing things” about Rielle Hunter traveling
with Edwards in the campaign, and that he told Edwards if there
was anything untoward going on, it couldn’t be kept secret and
would ruin his political career. He said Edwards answered with
an obscenity.  The case is U.S. v. Edwards, 11-00161, U.S. District Court,
Middle District of  North Carolina  (Greensboro).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net ;
John Peragine in Greensboro, North Carolina, at
 drjohnnd@hotmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  