-- Egypt Protesters, Security Forces Clash at Cairo Rally
-- B y   D a h l i a   K h o l a i f
-- 2012-05-04T17:28:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-04/egypt-protesters-security-forces-clash-at-cairo-rally.html
Egyptian security forces broke up a
protest near the  Defense Ministry  in Cairo, leaving 128 injured,
as thousands rallied against the violence that killed at least
seven in the past week.  Security forces used water cannons and tear gas, and rocks
were hurled by both sides. Helicopters hovered over the site and
at least 20 tanks were deployed to block the way to the
ministry,  Al Jazeera  reported.  “No to the death of Egyptians at the hands of Egyptians,”
read a banner hung by demonstrators in the middle of  Tahrir
Square , where several marches from across the capital merged.
They were mostly organized by the Muslim Brotherhood and the
April 6 movement, a largely secular activist group.  The injured were hospitalized for mild wounds, the state-
run Middle East News Agency reported. More than 20 soldiers were
hurt, Al Jazeera said, citing an unidentified military official.  The past week’s violence, in which unidentified assailants
targeted protesters encamped close to the ministry to demand an
end to military rule, came as the country prepares for
presidential elections due to start on May 23, the first since
the toppling of  Hosni Mubarak  last year.  Several presidential candidates temporarily suspended their
campaigns because of the killings. Other groups blamed the
military and boycotted a meeting with the ruling generals over
the country’s new constitution. Some suggested that the fighting
was sparked by supporters of Mubarak.  Hazem Abou Ismail  The April 6 group had called for a march to the
headquarters of the Defense Ministry, defying warnings by the
ruling army council yesterday. The group said it withdrew from
the protests to avoid more deaths, according to an e-mailed
statement. The council says it will hand over power after the
presidential vote is completed next month.  Many of the demonstrators at the rallies that were attacked
earlier this week were supporters of Hazem Abou Ismail, the
Salafi lawyer-turned-cleric who was disqualified from the
presidential race last month because his mother is a foreign
national. His backers said the ban was a politically motivated
decision.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dahlia Kholaif in Kuwait at 
 dkholaif@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  