-- Emerging Equities Post Worst Slump Since 2008 on Global Economy
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r v e y
-- 2012-05-04T23:00:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-04/emerging-stocks-pare-weekly-advance-on-global-economy-concern.html
An index of emerging-market stocks
fell this week to post the longest string of weekly declines
since 2008, led by energy companies, as concern that a global
slowdown will crimp consumer demand weighs on commodities.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  dropped 0.6 percent this
week to 1,012.96, its seventh straight weekly slump.  OAO
Novatek (NVTK) ,  Russia ’s second-largest gas producer, sank 21 percent
in  London  to lead weekly declines in the index, while OAO
Novolipetsk Steel, Russia’s largest steelmaker by market value,
fell to an almost three-year low. Moscow’s  Micex (INDEXCF)  Index slipped
to a 2012 low, while  Brazil ’s Bovespa Index dropped 1.4 percent.  Economic reports from around the world this week have
bolstered concerns the world is headed for recession, with
Chinese and U.S. service-sector growth slowing and  Europe ’s
jobless rate at a 15-year high. U.S. employers added fewer jobs
than economists forecast last month, data today showed, aiding
oil’s slump below $100 a barrel in  New York  for the first time
since February. Metals prices slid in London.  “The data has turned really bad the last couple of
weeks,”  Neil Shearing , a senior  emerging-markets  analyst at
Capital Economics Ltd. in London, said by phone today. “The
weaker payroll data cautions investors and puts them in a wait-
and-see mode for taking on risk.”  The MSCI Emerging Markets gauge has added 11 percent this
year and trades for 10.5 times estimated earnings of member
companies, data compiled by Bloomberg show. That compares with a
multiple of 12.3 times for the MSCI World Index of developed
countries, which has gained 7 percent in 2012.  ETF Slips  The IShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index exchange-traded
fund, the  most-traded ETF  tracking developing-nation shares,
fell 2.2 percent in the week to $41.36, the lowest level since
April 10. The Chicago Board Options Exchange Emerging Markets
 ETF Volatility Index (VXEEM) , a measure of options prices on the fund
and expectations of price swings, rose 3.1 percent to 26.60.  Neither of  Greece ’s two major political parties that have
supported the nation’s international bailouts -- New Democracy
and Socialist Pasok -- will win an outright majority in May 6
elections, opinion polls show.  Francois Hollande , the Socialist challenger for the French
presidency who is leading conservative incumbent  Nicolas Sarkozy 
in polls, has called for a re-negotiation of the budget pact
crafted by European leaders in March to stave off a repeat of
the region’s debt crisis.  “Political uncertainty has twinned with economic
unpredictability to create an even more uncertain backdrop for
global markets as we move into late spring,”  Chris Weafer , the
chief strategist at Moscow-based Troika Dialog, Russia’s oldest
investment bank, said in an e-mailed note to clients. “This
combination is keeping investors wary of so-called risk
assets.”  Novatek, Mechel  Novatek and OAO  Mechel (MTLR) , Russia’s biggest producer of coking
coal, were the biggest decliners this week on the emerging
markets stock gauge. American depositary receipts of  Mechel (MTL)  sank
15 percent to the weakest level since July 2009.  Oi SA (OIBR4) , retreated 14.3 percent in the week to 9.83 reais in
 Sao Paulo  after the Brazilian telecommunications company was
rated sell in new coverage at Citigroup Inc.  Eletropaulo Metropolitana Electricidade de Sao Paulo SA ,
the Brazilian unit of Arlington, Virgina-based power producer
AES Corp., dropped 2.2 percent after reporting on May 3 that net
income in the first quarter slid 61 percent from a year earlier.  The Micex tumbled 3.6 percent today, bringing its weekly
drop to 2.1 percent. OAO Surgutneftegas sank 4.4 percent and OAO
 Gazprom Neft  retreated 4.5 percent as crude oil fell below $1000
a barrel for the first time since February.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP) , which only traded over the
last three days of the week because of holidays on April 30 and
May 1, gained 2.3 percent, led by a 17 percent  surge  in Shanghai
Construction Co. The  Taiwan Stock Exchange (TWSE)  advanced 3 percent in
the week, the most since the beginning of February.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries climbed five basis points, or 0.05
percentage point, to 343 basis points today, according to
JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Harvey in New York at 
 charvey32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  