-- Enphase Sales to Grow as Rooftop Solar Shifts, CEO Says
-- B y   A n d r e w   H e r n d o n
-- 2012-05-04T20:30:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-04/enphase-sales-to-grow-as-rooftop-solar-shifts-ceo-says.html
Enphase Energy Inc. (ENPH) , which has
increased 39 percent since its shares began trading March 29,
expects a technological shift in the rooftop solar market to
spur demand for its microinverters.  Enphase had about $150 million in sales last year and Chief
Executive Officer Paul Nahi expects that to grow this year as
solar companies seek ways to reduce system costs and offset
declining government subsidies.  Solar panels require inverters that convert the direct
current generated by the photovoltaic process into alternating
current used on the grid. Most current systems use a few, large
inverters and Nahi said residential projects are starting to use
microinverters wired to each panel individually, an approach
that’s less expensive to install and may boost performance.  “Everybody is recognizing that there’s a wholesale shift”
occurring, Nahi said in an interview today. “The entire
residential global market will be microinverters.”  Enphase was one of two renewable-energy initial public
offerings this year. Two other companies withdrew their
registrations in April, the solar-thermal developer  BrightSource
Energy Inc. (BRSE)  and the ethanol producer Enerkem Inc. Renewable
Energy Group Inc., a biodiesel maker, debuted in January.  Enphase’s share of the California inverter market is about
28 percent for residential systems and 16 percent for commercial
systems, according to the California Solar Initiative, a state
incentive program.  The global inverter market is about $7 billion a year, Nahi
estimated.  ‘Plug and Play’  Microinverters let system owners and installers monitor the
performance of individual panels and make adjustments as needed
to optimize performance. Incorporating the inverter into each
panel simplifies installation because there’s no need to wire
them to centralized inverters, Nahi said. The idea isn’t new and
is now starting to take hold in the solar industry.  “It’s plug and play,” he said.  Conventional inverter suppliers  SMA Solar Technology AG (S92) ,
 Power-One Inc. (PWER)  and  SunPower Corp. (SPWR)  are expected to introduce
microinverter products this year, Enphase said in a March 26
filing.  “All manufacturers, anyone who does inverters, will tell
you that they are working on microinverters,” Nahi said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Herndon in  San Francisco  at 
 aherndon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  