-- EPA Sets Guidance for Using Diesel in Hydraulic Fracturing
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2012-05-04T21:21:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-04/epa-sets-guidance-for-using-diesel-in-hydraulic-fracturing-1-.html
The U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency set  standards  for using  diesel fuel  in hydraulic
fracturing, adding to federal requirements on the practice that
has led to a boom in natural gas production.  Representatives of drilling companies say diesel has mostly
been phased out of the process known as fracking. The EPA’s
regulatory effort could lead to greater federal oversight and
further delays, according to industry officials.  In the draft of a guidance document to state permitting
officials today, the agency included six categories of fuels
deemed to be considered diesel, while stopping short of an
outright ban on the use of the fuel demanded by environmental
groups.  The diesel guidance coupled with two rules issued by the
Obama administration in recent weeks “shows that industry is
not going to get a free pass,” Amy Mall, a senior policy
analyst at the  Natural Resources Defense Council , said in an
interview. “These are all important steps, but they are not
enough.”  In 2005, Congress  exempted  fracking from  requirements  of
the Safe Drinking Water Act, a move health advocates labeled the
“ Halliburton loophole ” after the company led by Richard Cheney
before he became vice president. Halliburton is the world’s
largest provider of fracking services, such as the fuel.  Drilling Restraints  The law specified that the EPA retained authority over
fracking if diesel is used. While companies such as  Schlumberger
Ltd. (SLB)  say they no longer use diesel, environmental advocates had
pressed for a broad definition of the fuel, which industry
lobbyists said could constrain drilling by adding more
requirements and delays.  The standards left unanswered any liabilities for companies
that used the fuel in the past to help break up deep rock
formations to free trapped natural gas.  “It provides no clarification as to what the agency is
doing as to the previous use of diesel,” Jason Hutt, a lawyer
for drillers at Bracewell & Giuliani LLP in Washington, said in
an interview.  In the guidance, the EPA identified six distinct categories
of fuels covered by the agency, including two types of diesel,
crude oil and kerosene. It also offered a catch-all description
that could include other fuels. If those fuels are being used,
drillers will need to apply for a specific permit, which could
delay drilling.  Diesel is used in some fracking operations where the
underground rock or clay has a tendency to absorb water,
according to a report by Democrats on the House Energy and
Commerce Committee.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katarzyna Klimasinska in  Washington  at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Enoch at 
 denoch@bloomberg.net  