-- EU Milk Prices Slid in March as Output Climbed, LTO Says
-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 2012-05-04T13:48:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-04/eu-milk-prices-slid-in-march-as-output-climbed-lto-says.html
European Union cow’s milk prices fell
3.3 percent in March from the previous month as French and Dutch
dairies cut their payments to farmers amid rising global output,
farm organization LTO-Nederland wrote in a monthly report.  EU dairies on average paid farmers 33.72 euros ($44.31) per
100 kilograms (220 pounds) of milk in March, LTO wrote in the
 report  on its website today, down from a revised 34.87 euros in
February. The average price has risen from 33.46 euros in March
last year.  The  dairy-price index  tracked by the  United Nations ’ Food &
Agriculture Organization in April fell to the lowest level since
October 2009. World milk production is forecast to climb 2.7
percent this year to 750.1 million metric tons, accelerating
from last year’s 2.3-percent increase, according to the FAO.  “Market sentiment remained negative over the last couple
of weeks,” LTO wrote. “The main factors responsible for the
current direction of the market are increases in milk production
exceeding expectations and lagging export demand to absorb these
extra supplies.”  In  France ,  Bongrain SA (BH) ,  Danone (BN)  SA, Groupe Lactalis and
Sodiaal Industrie all lowered their milk payments, while Royal
Friesland Campina NV and DOC Kaas in the Netherlands also cut
the price they paid farmers, according to LTO.  “Consumption within the developed nations is a little
flatter, which means any additional milk produced in the EU and
the U.S. is likely to boost export volumes from these regions,”
LTO said. “Prices are expected to remain subdued until the
surplus supplies are worked through.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  