-- European Manufacturing, Services Output Shrank Last Month
-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r
-- 2012-05-04T09:35:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-04/european-manufacturing-services-output-shrank-last-month.html
Euro-region services and manufacturing
output contracted more than initially estimated in April, adding
to signs of a deepening economic slump.  A euro-area composite index based on a survey of purchasing
managers in both industries dropped to 46.7 from 49.1 in March,
London-based Markit Economics said today. That’s the fastest
rate of decline since October and below an estimate of 47.4
published on April 23. A reading below 50 indicates contraction.  After shrinking in the final three months of 2011,  Europe ’s
economy probably slipped into recession in the first quarter as
the region’s worsening debt crisis forced governments from  Spain 
to Italy to step up spending cuts. European Central Bank
President Mario Draghi yesterday said the economic outlook has
become “more uncertain” and left open the option of further
stimulus after keeping the  benchmark interest rate  at 1 percent,
already a record low.  “It appears that the euro-zone economy is headed for a
third successive quarter of gross domestic product
contraction,” said  Howard Archer , chief European economist at
IHS Global Insight in  London . “Indeed, there is a growing risk
that the rate of euro-zone contraction could actually deepen in
the second quarter.”  The euro remained lower against the dollar after the
report, putting it on track for its biggest weekly drop in a
month. The common currency was at $1.3134 as of 9:59 a.m. London
time and has dropped 1 percent since April 27.  Stocks Drop  European stocks fell as investors await a U.S. payrolls
report later today and elections in France and Greece this
weekend. The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  slipped 0.8 percent.  A gauge of euro-region  manufacturing  fell to 45.9 in April
from 47.7 the previous month, Markit said earlier this week. A
measure of services dropped to 46.9 from 49.2, it said today.  In  Germany , Europe’s largest economy, a services index rose
less than initially estimated, to 52.2 in April from 52.1 in
March. A gauge in France plunged to 45.2 from 50.1, while
Spain’s measure dropped to 42.1 from 46.3. The Italian index
also declined.  Chris Williamson , chief economist at Markit, said the euro-
area economy probably contracted at a quarterly rate of 0.5
percent in April, “extending the downturn for a third
successive quarter.”  ‘Even in Germany’  “Growth has practically ground to a halt even in Germany,
and  France  has joined Italy and Spain in seeing a strong rate of
economic decline,” Williamson said in a statement. The ECB’s
stimulus measures don’t seem to have “had a lasting impact on
the real economy.”  The ECB, which has injected more than 1 trillion euros
($1.3 trillion) into the banking system to fight the crisis,
said yesterday that risks to the economic outlook remain on the
downside.  Adding to signs of a deepening recession across Europe,
euro-region economic confidence dropped in April to the lowest
since December and the jobless rate rose to a 15-year high of
10.9 percent in March. German unemployment unexpectedly
increased last month, and the U.K. slipped into its first
double-dip recession since 1975.  Renault SA (RNO) , France’s second-largest automaker, said on
April 25 that first-quarter revenue dropped 9 percent on
declining European demand. The Boulogne-Billancourt, France-
based company said the “fall in the European market is expected
to slow in the second quarter.”  ‘We Have a Problem’  “If indicators continue to worsen, we have a problem,”
said  Christoph Weil , a senior economist at Commerzbank AG in
Frankfurt. “If periphery countries continue to remain weak, it
could weigh on the economic development. The euro-region economy
may only return to growth in the third quarter.”  The  Reserve Bank  of Australia today lowered its growth and
inflation forecast as weak job and housing markets keep price
gains in check. In the U.S., the world’s largest economy, the
jobless rate probably held at 8.2 percent last month, according
to a Bloomberg survey ahead of today’s report.  China ’s purchasing managers’ index for the services
industry was at 54.1 last month, up from 53.3 in March,
according to the last report by HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit.  Some companies are relying on faster-expanding markets to
bolster sales as Europe remains mired in recession.  Lafarge SA (LG) ,
the world’s biggest cement maker, today reported first-quarter
earnings that beat analyst estimates on demand in  emerging
markets  such as Morocco and Brazil.  Linde AG (LIN) , the world’s
second-biggest maker of industrial gases, also beat estimates
with first-quarter profit, helped by China and the U.S.  The European Union’s statistics office is scheduled to
release a preliminary estimate for euro-area gross domestic
product in the first quarter on May 15.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simone Meier in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  