-- European Stocks Post Biggest Weekly Retreat Since March
-- B y   T o m   S t o u k a s
-- 2012-05-04T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-04/european-stocks-post-biggest-weekly-retreat-since-march.html
European stocks  posted their biggest
weekly drop since March as  Spain  entered a recession, a report
showed the  U.S. economy  added fewer workers than expected and
investors awaited elections in France and Greece this weekend.  Home Retail Group Plc (HOME)  had its biggest weekly drop since
2006 after it said annual profit fell 60 percent and it won’t
pay a final dividend. Man Group Plc plunged after saying clients
withdrew a net $1 billion in the first quarter, while costs were
higher than analysts had predicted.  Vestas Wind Systems A/S (VWS)  fell
for a second week.  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  retreated 2.4 percent to 253
this week, its biggest slide in six weeks. The Stoxx 600 gained
0.5 percent last week. The gauge has  lost 7.1 percent since its
2012 high  on March 16 amid renewed concern that the euro area
has yet to contain its sovereign-debt crisis.  “The closely watched non-farm payrolls report came in
significantly below expectations,” said Chris Beauchamp, a
market analyst at IG Index in  London . “The outlook does not
look particularly promising.”  National benchmark indexes fell in 15 of the 18 western-
European markets this week. The U.K.’s  FTSE 100 Index (UKX)  and
France’s CAC 40 lost 2.1 percent.  Germany ’s DAX dropped 2.6
percent for its biggest weekly retreat this year.  Spain Enters Recession  Spain’s IBEX 35 Index sank 2.2 percent as a report showed
that  Europe ’s fifth-largest economy has entered its  second
recession  since 2008. The Mediterranean nation’s gross domestic
product contracted 0.3 percent in the first quarter. It also
shrank 0.3 percent in the fourth quarter of 2011.  In the U.S., a Labor Department report showed that the
world’s largest economy added 115,000 workers in April, the
smallest number in six months. The  unemployment rate 
unexpectedly declined to a three-year low of 8.1 percent as
Americans left the  labor force . European stocks fell as
investors speculated that the slowdown in hiring will restrain
the wage growth needed to fuel  consumer spending , which accounts
for 70 percent of economic activity in the U.S.  In the euro area, polls show the French will probably elect
their first Socialist president since 1995, while recession-
weary Greeks will pick a new government. Local elections will
test Italy’s political pulse, and voters in a northern German
state may deal a symbolic blow to  Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s
coalition.  “It still looks as if  Francois Hollande  will end up owning
the keys of the Elysee Palace come Sunday night,” Beauchamp
said. “In  Greece , the situation is much less clear. Uncertainty
could well persist further into next week about the new makeup
of the government in Athens, which would raise the possibility
of more losses for markets.”  Euro-Area Unemployment  Unemployment in the 17 countries that use the euro rose to
a 15-year high and  manufacturing  contracted for a ninth month,
according to reports on May 2. The  jobless rate  increased to
10.9 percent in March from 10.8 percent in February, the
European Union’s statistics office in Luxembourg said. That’s
the highest since April 1997, according to Bloomberg News data.  A  euro-area composite index  based on a survey of purchasing
managers in both services and manufacturing dropped to 46.7 in
April from 49.1 in March, London-based Markit Economics said on
May 4. That fell short of an initial estimate of 47.4 on April
23.  The  European Central Bank  kept its benchmark  interest rate 
at a record low of 1 percent on May 3 as predicted by every
economist in a Bloomberg News survey. While the ECB still
expects a gradual economic recovery this year, “downside
risks” prevail and the outlook has become “more uncertain,”
the central bank’s president,  Mario Draghi , said.  Earnings Beat Estimates  Some 60 of the  Stoxx 600’s companies  posted results this
week. Of those that have reported since April 10, 54 percent
have beaten analysts’ estimates for earnings per share,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Home Retail tumbled 24 percent. The U.K. owner of the Argos
and Homebase chains posted pretax profit that fell to 102
million pounds ($165 million) in the 52 weeks ended Feb. 25, the
 Milton Keynes , England-based retailer said. That compared with
the 96.7 million-pound average estimate of 19 analysts surveyed
by Bloomberg News. The retailer will pay  a full-year dividend  of
4.7 pence a share, down from 14.7 pence a year earlier, with no
final dividend.  Man Group plunged 17 percent. The world’s biggest publicly
traded hedge-fund manager reported that client withdrew $4.1
billion from Man’s investment funds, which was partly offset by
$3.1 billion of sales, the London-based company said.  Vesta, Delhaize Slump  Vestas Wind Systems A/S sank 13 percent, its largest weekly
drop since February, after saying its first-quarter loss almost
doubled. The world’s biggest wind-turbine maker also said it
expects to spend more to repair faults in 376 machines.  Delhaize Group SA (DELB)  slumped 14 percent to its lowest price
since 2003 after the owner of the U.S. Food Lion stores forecast
that earnings will drop as much as 20 percent and a decline in
same-store sales accelerated.  Operating profit before expenses and writedowns linked to
store closures will fall as much as 20 percent before taking
into account currency fluctuations, the Brussels-based company
said. Profit on that basis fell 17 percent to 189 million euros
($247 million) in the first quarter, missing the 204.7 million-
euro average of seven analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Stoukas in Athens at 
 astoukas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  