-- Europcar Sweetens Bond Terms as Owner Ups Equity Injection
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   K u o   a n d   H a n n a h   B e n j a m i n
-- 2012-05-04T15:53:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-04/europcar-s-owner-said-to-boost-equity-injection-to-145-million.html
Europcar cut the size of its new  bond
issue  and sweetened the terms for investors at a time when its
owner is plowing more money into the continent’s biggest car-
hire company.  The operator of more than 1.2 million vehicles in  North
America  and  Europe  sold 324 million euros of senior,
subordinated five-year notes, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Europcar cut the offering from 335 million euros,
three bankers involved in the deal said.  The proceeds will be used to refinance existing debt and,
as part of the reorganization, Europcar’s private-equity owner
is injecting more equity into the fleet operator. Paris-based
 Eurazeo SA (RF)  will put 110 million euros into the business, up from
the 90 million euros announced in a  statement  last month, two of
the bankers on the bond sale said.  “This large original issue discount and all-in yield
should get investors comfortable, plus the small additional 20
million euros from the shareholder,” said Tatjana Greil Castro,
a portfolio manager at Muzinich & Co. Ltd. in  London , which
oversees $14 billion of high-yield assets.  Marine Boulot, a spokeswoman for the car-hire operator,
declined to comment, as did Eurazeo spokesman Charles Fleming.  Europcar sold the bond at a yield of 14 percent, boosted
from the 12.25 percent to 12.5 percent originally marketed, said
a banker on the deal, who declined to be identified because the
information is private.  Call Eliminated  The company also eliminated the option to redeem the bonds
early. Initially, it proposed a three year so-called call option
at investor presentations at the end of April, which was reduced
to 2 1/2 years before being scrapped.  In addition to the equity injection, Europcar will set
aside 20 million euros of cash from its balance sheet for debt
repayment, the bankers said. The new bond will refinance
Europcar’s 425 million-euro, second-lien floating-rate note
maturing in May 2013, according to an April 24 statement.  The company, in the middle of a program to cut costs and
develop new products, reported a 3.5 percent drop in operating
profit to 235 million euros in 2011 from a year earlier,
according to its earnings statement. Sales were flat at 1.97
billion euros.  The rental company trimmed net debt to 2.9 billion euros
from 3 billion euros in 2010. Europcar is rated B3 by Moody’s
Investors Service, while Standard & Poor’s grades it one level
higher at B.  Deutsche Bank AG, Credit Agricole CIB, Goldman Sachs Group
Inc., JPMorgan Chase & Co., Societe Generale SA and Royal Bank
of Scotland Group Plc were lead managers of its transaction. BNP
Paribas SA and Lloyds Banking Group Plc acted as bookrunners.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Kuo in London at 
 pkuo2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net ;
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  