-- Ex-Credit Suisse Executives Reunite With Oswald Gruebel
-- B y   B r a d l e y   K e o u n   a n d   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 2012-05-04T19:50:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-04/ex-credit-suisse-executives-reunite-with-oswald-gruebel.html
Former  Credit Suisse (CSGN)  Group AG
executives Jack DiMaio, David Moffitt and Chris Ricciardi formed
an investment firm to buy financial companies and recruited
 Oswald Gruebel , the Swiss bank’s ex-chief, as an adviser, two
people with knowledge of the matter said.  The firm, named Mead Park Management LLC, is scouting for
banks, insurers and loan-management companies in  Europe  and the
U.S. and may make as much as $2 billion of equity investments,
said the people, who requested anonymity because the plans
aren’t public. Gruebel, Credit Suisse’s chief executive officer
from 2004 to 2007, is advising on potential acquisitions and
helping to line up investors, the people said.  “If in the future Mead Park would go into certain
transactions, I might be part of them,” Gruebel, 68, said in a
telephone interview. “I can’t be more specific than that
because there’s nothing, zero, at the moment.”  Mead Park, based in  New York , joins  Wilbur Ross ’s WL Ross &
Co. and other investors who have raised funds to tap
opportunities in the financial industry created by the market
crises in the U.S. and Europe since 2008. Many of the largest
banks are unloading businesses, distressed loans and other
assets to strengthen their balance sheets.  The new firm reunites a trio who last worked together under
Gruebel in the early 2000s in Credit Suisse’s fixed-income
division. Gruebel, who left the Swiss bank in 2007, later served
as CEO of its biggest rival, Zurich-based  UBS AG (UBSN) , before leaving
last year.  CEO DiMaio  The formation of Mead Park was previously reported by
Asset-Backed Alert. DiMaio, 45, will be CEO of the new firm, the
people said. He said he couldn’t comment.  DiMaio developed his reputation as a corporate-bond trader
at  Credit Suisse First Boston , where he worked for more than 15
years and ran fixed-income trading. He later ran a hedge fund at
Credit Suisse, which was spun out of the bank in 2005 and was
called DiMaio Ahmad Capital LLC.  In July 2009, DiMaio was recruited to the New York-based
securities firm Morgan Stanley by the company’s then-CEO,  John Mack , 67, who had served as co-CEO of Credit Suisse alongside
Gruebel from January 2003 to June 2004. DiMaio ran Morgan
Stanley’s fixed-income trading business before leaving in
January 2011.  Ricciardi, 43, who helped pioneer collateralized debt
obligations in the 1990s, worked at Credit Suisse from 2000
until 2003, when he left to expand Merrill Lynch & Co.’s sales
of CDOs. Such investments were used in the years before the 2008
financial crisis to turn subprime mortgages into triple-A
securities.  Structured Products  Moffitt, 49, oversaw structured-product sales in Merrill’s
fixed-income division before leaving in October 2008. He joined
DiMaio at  Morgan Stanley (MS)  in November 2009 and left in July 2011,
shortly after DiMaio departed.  Gruebel, who was hired out of retirement to revive UBS,
skipped college and started his career as a trainee at Deutsche
Bank AG in 1961. He joined Credit Suisse in 1970, rising through
the ranks from its Eurobond trading desk. He doubled the bank’s
earnings and share price in the three years after taking over as
sole CEO in 2004.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bradley Keoun in New York at 
 bkeoun@bloomberg.net ;
Michael J. Moore in New York at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 