-- Exelon Profit Falls on Warmer-Than-Normal Weather
-- B y   J u l i e   J o h n s s o n
-- 2012-05-04T12:55:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-04/exelon-profit-falls-on-warmer-than-normal-weather.html
Exelon Corp. (EXC) , the largest U.S. power
company, said first-quarter profit fell 70 percent as warmer-
than-normal weather reduced demand for electricity.  Net income dropped to $200 million, or 28 cents a share,
from $668 million, or $1.01, a year earlier, Chicago-based
Exelon said in a statement today. Excluding merger-related
expenses and other one-time items, per-share profit was 6 cents
more than the average of 13  analysts’ estimates  compiled by
Bloomberg.  “As expected, our lower operating earnings for first
quarter 2012 reflected unfavorable market factors and mild
weather,” Christopher M. Crane, Exelon’s chief executive
officer, said in the statement.  Chicago had its warmest March with an average temperature
of 53.5 degrees Fahrenheit (11.9 Celsius), eclipsing the
previous record of 48.6 degrees set in 1910, according to the
 National Weather Service . Weather-driven demand for heating in
the first quarter was 25 percent below normal for Exelon’s
Chicago utility and 23 percent lower for its Philadelphia
utility, the company said.  An increase in Exelon’s customer base will help to blunt
the effect weather and a decline in natural-gas prices have on
its wholesale power market revenue, said  Travis Miller , director
of utilities research at Chicago-based  Morningstar Inc. (MORN)  Exelon’s
acquisition of Constellation Energy Group Inc., completed last
month, expands its share of the retail  electricity market .  Merger Costs  “It will only be a small part of the quarter, but we hope
to see some indication that the wholesale-retail strategy is on
track,” Miller said in a phone interview before results were
announced. He rates Exelon at four stars, the equivalent of a
buy.  The quarter’s results include $227 million for commitments
Exelon made to win Maryland’s approval for the Constellation
purchase and $172 million the company agreed to pay to settle a
federal dispute over Constellation’s prior hedging practices.  Exelon’s nuclear plants supplied 93.6 percent of their
power output capacity for the first quarter, down from 94.8
percent for the same period a year earlier because of scheduled
refueling. With its purchase of Constellation, Exelon owns all
or part of 20 reactors, the largest group of U.S. nuclear power
plants.  The earnings were released before regular trading began on
U.S. markets. Exelon, which has six buy and 15 hold ratings from
analysts, fell 1.2 percent to $38.82 yesterday in  New York .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Johnsson in Chicago at 
 jjohnsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  