-- F.A. Cup Means Money as Well as Medals to Liverpool’s U.S. Owner
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2012-05-04T12:28:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-04/f-a-cup-means-money-as-well-as-medals-to-liverpool-s-u-s-owner.html
A Liverpool victory over Chelsea in
tomorrow’s F.A. Cup soccer final will be worth more than just
a trophy to the team’s American owner.  Fenway Sports Group, which also owns baseball’s  Boston Red
Sox , believes Liverpool must return to its former glory in order
to hit its commercial targets.  “Football success is the driver of commercial success,”
the directors of UKSV Holding Company Ltd., the team’s parent
company, said in the first set of results published since the
group led by hedge fund trader  John W. Henry  bought the club in
October 2010.  Liverpool last won the Premier League in 1990 and its
record of 18 English titles was broken last year by  Manchester
United , which is in contention to add a 20th this season. The
Reds are currently in eighth place and will miss out on European
soccer’s  Champions League  for third straight season, something
that FSG targeted as a key performance indicator.  Liverpool has won  Europe ’s elite club competition five
times, third-most behind Real Madrid and AC Milan. It will be
relegated to the second-tier Europa League next season after
winning the League Cup in February.  An eighth F.A. Cup title tomorrow may provide a commercial
boost because principal sponsor  Standard Chartered ’s 4-year, 81
million-pound contract contains performance-related clauses.  “We’ve created a platform that will allow us commercially
to go and continue to grow our revenue,” managing director  Ian
Ayre  said yesterday. “We’ve grown it significantly, we have an
opportunity to do so globally, which all underpins future
investment in the team.”  Today’s results published by Companies House show UKSV lost
50 million pounds ($81 million) from when it was incorporated
Oct. 1, 2010 to July 31, 2011. The team’s full-year accounts
show revenue remaining flat at 183.6 million pounds, with a 15
million pounds increase in commercial income offset by a 14
million pounds decrease in television sales after failing to
qualify for the Champions League.  Abandoned Plans  Henry’s decision to abandon former owners  George Gillett 
and  Tom Hicks ’s plans for a new stadium led to a 49.2 million
pounds expense, while a further 8.4 million pounds was spent on
paying off ex-manager  Roy Hodgson  and other staff no longer with
the club.  Hodgson was appointed by Hicks and Gillett and was in
charge when FSG took over. He was replaced after just six months
by  Kenny Dalglish , a former player who led Liverpool to three
league titles in a first stint as manager that ended in 1991.  Liverpool’s accounts confirm the former owners lost more
than 100 million pounds in loans they made to the club. FSG has
lent the club 30.2 million pounds and wiped out 200 million
pounds owed to Royal Bank of Scotland Plc and Wachovia Corp.
That’s resulted in a 14 million-pound drop in interest charges.  “There has been a clearing out of debt, a clearing out of
money that’s been expended on stadium that just isn’t going to
achieve much going forward,” Ayre said yesterday.  The published accounts outline FSG’s strategy of wanting to
improve on-field performance through “a positive playing style,
excellent football infrastructure and investment in young,
talented players.”  Results so far have been mixed with about 100 million
pounds spent on mostly British players since January 2011.
Salary costs rose by about 12 million pounds between 2010 and
2011 and ownership says its aim is to “manage these costs
within financial constraints, while remaining as competitive as
possible.”  The majority of the newcomers have underperformed, leading
to the firing of director of football Damien Comolli last month.  Striker Andy Carroll, bought for a U.K.-record 35 million
pounds from Newcastle in January, has scored eight goals in 44
games this season, and winger  Stewart Downing  has failed to
record a single goal or assist since his 20-million pound
signing from  Aston Villa  last summer.  The Reds have earned 24 of a possible 54 points at home
this season and are on course for their worst performance at
Anfield in 63 years, while only relegated Wolverhampton has
collected fewer league points since the start of 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser in London at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  