-- Facebook at 99 Times Profit Exceeds 99% of S&P 500 Index
-- B y   L e e   S p e a r s   a n d   S a r a h   F r i e r
-- 2012-05-04T15:35:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-04/facebook-at-99-times-profit-exceeds-99-of-s-p-500-index-tech.html
Facebook Inc. (FB)  is betting its growth
prospects will persuade investors to pay 99 times earnings for
its initial public offering, a higher multiple than 99 percent
of companies in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  The world’s most popular social-networking site will seek a
market value of as much as $96 billion, offering shares at $28
to $35 each, a regulatory filing showed yesterday. The  Menlo
Park , California-based company will begin meeting investors next
week and is scheduled to price the offering on May 17, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  The high end of the proposed valuation would make Facebook
more costly than every member of the  S&P 500  relative to
earnings except for Amazon.com Inc., Leucadia National Corp. and
Equity Residential,  data  show. While 27-year-old Chief Executive
Officer  Mark Zuckerberg  has amassed more than 900 million users
since starting Facebook in 2004, his challenge is to stem
slowing sales growth amid increasing competition from  Google
Inc. (GOOG)  and Twitter Inc.  “It’s really, really expensive,” said  Bob Rice , managing
partner at Tangent Capital Partners LLC, on Bloomberg
Television. “It’s very hard for me to get my arms around a
valuation of 80, 90 billion dollars for a company that did a
couple of hundred million dollars of profit in the quarter.”  Slowing Growth  Facebook’s earnings in the 12 months through March 31 were
$972 million, with sales of more than $4 billion. Sales may rise
64 percent to $6.1 billion this year, according to researcher
EMarketer Inc. That would be the third straight year of slowing
growth in revenue.  The company and its holders plan to sell about 337.4
million shares in the offering. At the high end of the range,
the IPO would raise $11.8 billion, making it the largest initial
share sale on record for an Internet company.  Facebook is meeting with its lead underwriters at Morgan
Stanley, JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. today
in  New York  to go over talking points ahead of the IPO,
according to two people with knowledge of the matter. JPMorgan
pasted a Facebook sign flanked by two of the website’s signature
thumbs-up icons on the front of its Park Avenue headquarters to
welcome the executives.  Chief Operating Officer  Sheryl Sandberg  is among executives
pitching the IPO to investors, using a featured role in a
promotional video to tout the company’s mobile prospects. The
company is expanding in that area to win advertisers away from
Google, its biggest competitor for online ads.  At the top end of the IPO range, Facebook would already
have a market  capitalization  about half the size of Google’s --
even though it has one-10th the sales.  Google Comparison  “If you compare it to the number of employees, compare it
to the earnings, the valuation is still several times greater
than other flagship technology companies,” said Ray Valdes, an
analyst at Gartner Inc. in  San Jose ,  California . “Still,
there’s a tremendous amount of interest, and the valuation is
lower than expected.”  Facebook is offering 180 million shares, while existing
owners such as  Accel Partners  and Digital Sky Technologies are
offering 157.4 million, according to the filing. Zuckerberg is
offering 30.2 million of his 533.8 million shares. The majority
of his net proceeds will be used to pay taxes associated with
exercising a stock option.  CEO’s Control  Zuckerberg may control about 57 percent of the voting power
of Facebook’s outstanding capital stock after the offering,
according to the filing. Sandberg, who isn’t selling in the
offering, holds 1.9 million shares.  Facebook will have 2.14 billion Class A and B common shares
outstanding following the IPO, worth about $75 billion at the
top end of the  price range . Including restricted stock units,
options and common stock to be issued following the purchase of
Instagram Inc., the shares outstanding would total 2.74 billion,
implying a market value of $96 billion at the high end.  Facebook isn’t pursuing the so-called “low-float”
strategy employed by some Internet companies to boost initial
demand for their stock. The company is making 16 percent of its
class A and class B common stock public in the sale, a higher
proportion than Internet peers Groupon Inc., LinkedIn Corp. and
Pandora Media Inc. sold in their IPOs, Bloomberg data show.
Taking into account other shares, options and restricted stock
units that may be added, the float would be about 12 percent.  Internet IPOs  On average, the 28 Internet companies that have completed
U.S. IPOs since the beginning of 2011 have floated 17 percent of
their shares, Bloomberg data show. In a typical initial
offering, investors receive shares worth closer to 20 percent of
the company, according to Paul Deninger, a senior managing
director at New York-based investment bank Evercore Partners
Inc.  Facebook filed for the IPO Feb. 1, using a placeholder
amount of $5 billion. Zuckerberg, a co-founder, is the company’s
top holder, filings show. The shares will be listed on the
Nasdaq Stock Market under the symbol FB.  The initial share sale would dwarf the 2004 IPO of Google,
the world’s most valuable  Internet company . Google’s offering,
the same year Zuckerberg helped found Facebook, raised $1.9
billion and valued the company then at about $23 billion. The
company currently has a market value of almost $200 billion.  Facebook follows fellow Internet companies such as Zynga
Inc. and Groupon in going public. Zynga, the maker of Internet
games such as “FarmVille,” raised $1 billion in its December
IPO, while online-coupon provider Groupon raised $805 million,
including an overallotment option, in November. Both stocks are
trading below their offer prices.  MySpace, Friendster  Zuckerberg co-founded Facebook with his college roommates
at  Harvard University , developing a site that let students
socialize over the Web. He later made the service accessible to
everyone, intensifying competition with sites such as MySpace
and Friendster.  Both eventually succumbed to Facebook, which lured users
with innovative features like News Feed, which lets people check
on friends’ activities in a single place.  News Corp ., which
bought MySpace in 2005, sold the site last year for a fraction
of the price it paid. Friendster revamped itself as a social-
gaming platform following its 2009 purchase by Malaysia’s MOL
Global Ltd.  Facebook’s revenue surged 88 percent last year to $3.71
billion, with online advertising accounting for almost all of
it. The company also expects its focus on the mobile market to
yield gains as users spend more time accessing the site through
Internet-ready handheld devices such as the  iPhone . Success in
that field is key to its valuation over time, said  Eric Jackson ,
founder of investment firm Ironfire Capital LLC.  “The real test for Facebook is going to come 12 to 18
months from now,” Jackson said on Bloomberg Television’s
“InsideTrack.” “They’re really going to have to prove that
they can start to monetize these 900 million users, not just in
a desktop environment, but more importantly in a mobile
environment.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lee Spears in New York at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net ;
Sarah Frier in New York at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  