-- Facebook Gets First Buy Rating After Setting Price Range
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2012-05-05T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-04/facebook-rated-outperform-at-wedbush.html
Facebook Inc. (FB)  received a buy
recommendation from Wedbush Securities Inc. and a target price
of $44, its first rating since announcing plans to sell shares
in a range of $28 to $35 in an initial public offering.  Facebook, owner of the world’s most popular social-
networking company, should benefit from its large, growing user
base that will help attract more spending by advertisers and
boost revenue and earnings,  Michael Pachter , an analyst at
Wedbush in Los Angeles, said yesterday in a note to investors.
Mobile advertising could play an especially important part of
the growth in advertising, Pachter said.  “More users should drive more usage, which in turn should
drive increased advertising revenue share,” Pachter wrote.
“Facebook will capture an increasing percentage of spending on
offline advertising, while growing share of online advertising
as well, as usage continues to increase and advertisers become
more comfortable with the cost-effectiveness of online
advertising.”  Pachter rated the shares outperform, the equivalent of a
buy. The rating, which is unusual before a company’s initial
public offering, could help persuade investors considering Menlo
Park,  California-based Facebook , which is valuing itself at as
much as $96 billion. Still, the earnings potential may not be
realized until the middle of this decade as Chief Executive
Officer  Mark Zuckerberg  focuses on the user experience, Pachter
said.  Patience Required  “Investors should be prepared to be exceedingly patient,”
Pachter said. “Zuckerberg appears committed to the company’s
mission of making the world more open and connected, and appears
to us to consider revenue generation an afterthought.”  The stock also should be helped by general investor
interest, according to Pachter. Recent transactions on the
private markets have put the valuation at as much as $44 a
share. That indicates demand for Facebook shares should outstrip
supply, Pachter said.  Facebook will begin meeting investors next week as part of
its road show and is scheduled to price the offering on May 17,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. As part of the promotional
tour, the company will play up its prospects for advertising,
including mobile.  “Mobile is a key area of growth for Facebook,” Chief
Operating Officer  Sheryl Sandberg  said in a video posted May 3
to accompany the investor presentations.  Online Advertising  The company makes most of its sales from online advertising
for businesses that want to reach a user base of more than 900
million. It began this year to sell marketing messages tailored
to mobile devices, part of a push to keep it from losing
business to competitors including Twitter Inc. and  Google Inc. (GOOG)   The company and its holders plan to sell about 337.4
million shares in the offering. At the high end of the range,
the IPO would raise $11.8 billion, making it the largest initial
share sale on record for an  Internet company .  Also, Facebook would be more costly than every member of
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index relative to earnings except for
 Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) , Leucadia National Corp. and Equity Residential,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Facebook would already
have a market capitalization about half the size of Google
Inc.’s -- even though it has one-10th the sales.  Facebook follows more recent IPOs by fellow Internet
companies such as  Zynga Inc. (ZNGA)  and  Groupon Inc. (GRPN)  Zynga, the maker
of Internet games including “FarmVille,” raised $1 billion in
its December IPO, while online-coupon provider Groupon raised
$805 million, including an overallotment option, in November.  Both stocks are trading below their offering prices.  Zuckerberg’s Tax Bill  Facebook is offering 180 million shares, while existing
owners such as  Accel Partners  and Digital Sky Technologies are
selling 157.4 million, according to the filing. Zuckerberg is
offering 30.2 million of his 533.8 million shares. The majority
of his net proceeds will be used to pay taxes associated with
exercising  stock options .  Zuckerberg may control about 57 percent of the voting power
of Facebook’s outstanding capital stock after the offering,
according to the filing. Sandberg, who isn’t selling in the
offering, holds 1.9 million shares.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 Bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  