-- Father’s Shadow as Transit Leader Hard to Evade for Shuster
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r
-- 2012-05-04T13:16:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-04/father-s-shadow-as-transit-chairman-tough-to-evade-for-shuster.html
U.S. Representative Bill Shuster’s
route home from Washington to Hollidaysburg in central
 Pennsylvania  ends with a 20-mile stretch on the Bud Shuster
Highway.  Building the four-lane interstate was among the prizes his
father, who served 14 terms in the U.S. House from 1973 to 2001,
secured as chairman of the Transportation Committee. It’s a
trophy from an era when members like Bud Shuster could bring
home federal dollars by earmarking them for projects in their
districts.  That changed in this session of Congress, as the  Tea
Party ’s small-government influence started dominating House
Republicans’ debates on highway spending and everything else.
Earmarks are officially banned. If Bill Shuster, a Republican,
achieves his goal of following his father as Transportation
Committee chairman, his approach to the job will have to be
different.  “We are not our fathers,” Representative Duncan Hunter, a
 California  Republican and son of a former chairman of the Armed
Services Committee, said in an interview. “Times change here,
and we grow up in the different times. I don’t have a black-and-
white TV just because my dad did.”  Speaker  John Boehner , an Ohio Republican, boasted earlier
this year that he is ushering in a new era of transportation
policy, putting forth a five-year highway bill devoid of
earmarks.  ‘Relationships, Friendships’  In this environment, the 52-year-old Shuster has been
working to establish himself as independent from his father. His
colleagues say he has developed his own style in building a
policy and fundraising resume that could allow him to advance
past more senior members the next time the Transportation and
Infrastructure Committee gavel is up for grabs.  “Bill’s leadership style is based on relationships,
friendships, and he knows that in this environment old-school
wielding of power doesn’t work,” North Carolina Representative
 Patrick McHenry , who serves on the whip team with Shuster, said
in an interview. “It’s a much more collaborative committee
leadership process than it was two generations ago.”  Boehner has assigned Shuster a lead role in rounding up
votes for a multiyear reauthorization of spending on the
nation’s roads, bridges, highway and mass transit programs. In
addition to serving as a lieutenant to Majority Whip  Kevin McCarthy  of California, Shuster sits on the 33-member Republican
Steering Committee, which votes on candidates for panel
chairmanships.  No-Tax-Hike Pledge  He is among 238 House members who have signed Americans for
Tax Reform’s pledge not to raise taxes. He has a 71 percent
career score from the anti-tax group Club for Growth, which
ranks him in the middle of the pack among  House Republicans .  Shuster said in an interview that he “absolutely” is
interested in leading the transportation committee -- possibly
as soon as January, when the panel’s current chairman, Florida
Representative  John Mica , may have to give up the chairmanship
because of House Republicans’ self-imposed term limits.  “Sure, I would someday be interested in that,” said
Shuster, who is married and has two children. “I’m always
interested in moving up.”  Shuster in March was co-chairman of the  National Republican
Congressional Committee ’s annual dinner, which brought in $12
million for the campaign group’s efforts to aid Republican
candidates between now and the November election.  Campaign Contributions  Through his leadership PAC, Bill PAC, Shuster had
contributed $21,000 to fellow Republicans’ House and Senate
campaigns as of April 21, according to OpenSecrets.org, a
campaign finance watchdog group in  Washington . In 2010, Shuster
aided Republicans’ successful House takeover with $59,500 in
donations through his leadership PAC to 45 House candidates,
Open Secrets data show.  “There’s no doubt that -- particularly given the role of
money in campaigns today -- that a member of Congress who’s able
to not have to spend on himself can spend on others, and that
becomes very important in securing a committee chairmanship and
maintaining support within your delegation and your
conference,” said Jon Delano, a political analyst for KDKA-TV
in Pittsburgh who teaches public policy at  Carnegie Mellon .  Redistricting after the 2010 Census, which trimmed a seat
from Pennsylvania’s congressional delegation, kept Shuster with
a solidly Republican constituency. His current district includes
Shanksville, where United Airlines flight 93 crashed on Sept.
11, 2001, months after Shuster came to Congress. Shuster helped
secure funds for a memorial to honor the victims that was
dedicated last year.  ‘Safe District’  The new district boundaries moved Shuster farther west and
more solidly into the Pittsburgh media market, a change that
Delano said could help raise the lawmaker’s profile.  “He’s not yet perceived as a key player for the rest of
the commonwealth,” Delano said. “He’s in a safe district that
guarantees him the same type of longevity that someday might
allow him to follow in his father’s committee footsteps.”  Bud Shuster, 80, resigned from Congress in January 2001,
after coming up against a term limit as transportation chairman
and three months after the House’s ethics committee cited him
for “serious official misconduct” stemming in part from his
ties to a lobbyist. His son, who ran Shuster Chrysler in East
Freedom, Pennsylvania, before coming to Congress, won a special
election to replace him that May.  Father’s Projects  Interstate 99, officially named the Bud Shuster Highway,
was one in a multitude of projects the former transportation
chairman directed home. Shuster sought to build an elevated
light-rail system in Altoona, Pennsylvania, a town with fewer
than 50,000 residents, and the $218 billion, six-year highway
bill he helped to pass in 1998 lifted tolls for Pennsylvania
Turnpike drivers traveling between the Breezewood and Bedford
interchanges.  A 1991 highway bill included so much money for Shuster’s
district that it prompted Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan, a  New
York  Democrat, to joke that the recipient of the most earmarks
in the bill was “the state of Altoona,” according to the
 Washington Post. (WPO)   Representative Tom Rooney, a Florida Republican elected in
2008, said the younger Shuster shares his father’s passion for
transportation issues.  “He’d come down to the whips’ meetings and he’d make an
impassioned plea for somewhat of normalcy when it comes to
transportation and it comes to legislating,” Rooney said in an
interview, adding that Shuster would argue that “since the
beginning of our country, this sort of thing has been a large
part of our job as members of Congress.”  Highway Bill  The House is having trouble passing a multiyear highway
bill. Last month House lawmakers began negotiations with their
Senate counterparts after a series of short-term extensions.  “For those of us that are somewhat new, he’s very
approachable and he is extremely pragmatic when it comes to
understanding the issues,” Rooney said.  Only about a third of the House’s 242 Republicans had
served with Shuster’s father. As that number dwindles, so will
whatever lingering associations Shuster’s colleagues have with
his father’s legacy, Hunter said.  “Most people don’t even know that his dad was chairman,”
Hunter said. “You know how this town works: You’re gone, you’re
gone.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 Jschneider50@bloomberg.net  