-- Fed’s Williams Sees Better Employment, Self-Sustained Growth
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n   a n d   A k i   I t o
-- 2012-05-04T17:37:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-04/fed-s-williams-sees-employment-improving-self-sustaining-growth.html
Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco
President  John Williams  reiterated his view that the U.S. labor
market is gaining strength, following a report showing the
economy last month added the fewest jobs since October.  “We are still very far from our maximum employment
mandate, but things are clearly improving,” Williams said today
in a speech in Dana Point, California. “I am increasingly
hopeful that the recovery has entered a phase of self-sustaining
growth.”  Williams is the first Fed official to speak after the Labor
Department today reported the economy added 115,000 jobs last
month, below the median estimate of economists in a Bloomberg
News survey who projected an increase of 160,000. The
 unemployment rate  fell to 8.1 percent, the lowest since January
2009, according to the report.  “We have now regained about 40 percent of the 8.8 million
jobs lost during the downturn,” Williams said at the annual
convention of the  California  Bankers Association. “All the
same, the unemployment rate remains far too high.”  Despite signs of progress, it is “crucial that we continue
our highly accommodative monetary policy,” Williams said,
adding the “day is still far off” when the central bank will
begin withdrawing record stimulus.  When asked when the central bank will probably need to
raise the main interest rate, Williams said, “I’m in the 2014
camp.”  Tighten Policy  The central bank may tighten policy sooner if there were
“upgrades to the forecast for growth and reductions in the
forecast for the unemployment rate,” he told reporters after
the speech.  Fed officials last week upgraded their forecasts for
growth, unemployment and inflation even as they said the economy
will require low  interest rates  through at least late 2014.  “I would think of myself as much more of a centrist” on
policy, Williams told reporters.  The Fed released a table last week showing when policy
makers expect to first raise the benchmark interest rate. Six
policy makers want to raise rates before 2014, while four would
like to hold rates near zero beyond 2014. Seven policy makers
favor 2014.  Stay Subdued  Inflation will probably remain subdued, Williams said,
adding that he shares the assessment of financial markets that
energy prices are likely to decline.  The national average price of a gallon of gasoline has
fallen to $3.80 cents, as of yesterday, according to the
American Automobile Association. It rose to its highest level of
the year on April 4, at $3.94 a gallon.  “We’ve seen the worst in the increase in fuel costs,”
Williams said.  Data released since the April 24-25 meeting of policy
makers have pointed to a mixed economic outlook. Today’s jobs
report following a Labor Department report yesterday that showed
initial jobless claims dropped close to the lowest level of the
recovery.  Jobless claims fell by 27,000 to 365,000 in the week ended
April 28, a one-month low, from a revised 392,000 the prior
period.  U.S. stocks declined for a third straight day on the worse-
than-expected jobs figures, indicating the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index will halt a two-week advance. The  S&P 500  decreased 1.5
percent to 1,371.19 at 1:18 p.m. in  New York . The yield on the
benchmark 10-year Treasury note declined to 1.88 percent from
1.93 percent yesterday.  Lacked Vigor  The recovery “has lacked the vigor of many past
recoveries” and faces significant risks from “global economic
stresses, especially the European sovereign debt situation, and
budget trends at all levels of government in the  United
States ,” Williams said.  Even if  Europe  avoids financial crisis, its damaged
economies will reduce demand for U.S. exports, he said. In the
U.S., abrupt changes to tax policies at the end of the year “if
they occur, could make it harder for the recovery to gain
further momentum.”  Even if policy makers in Europe and the U.S avert worst-
case scenarios, the turmoil may be causing “businesses and
consumers to feel uncertain about the economy’s prospects,”
Williams said.  “Such uncertainty may prompt entrepreneurs to shy away
from hiring and investing, and may make households wary of
spending,” he said.  Williams, 49, became president of the  San Francisco  Fed in
March 2011 after serving as that bank’s director of research. He
is a voting member this year of the  Federal Open Market
Committee .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net ;  Aki Ito in San Francisco at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  