-- Former N.Y. Senate Leader Bruno Charged With Corruption Scheme
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2012-05-04T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-04/former-new-york-senate-leader-charged-with-corruption-scheme-1-.html
Joseph L. Bruno, the former  New York 
state Senate majority leader whose conviction on corruption
charges was thrown out last year, was indicted again by a
federal grand jury.  Bruno was charged with depriving the state of his honest
services through bribery and kickbacks and by using his official
position for personal enrichment, U.S. Attorney  Richard
Hartunian  in the Northern District of New York said yesterday in
a statement.  Bruno was convicted in 2009 of two counts of mail fraud for
defrauding the state of its right to his honest services. A jury
in Albany found he failed to disclose conflicts of interest
connected to payments he received from people seeking to do
business with the state.  The  U.S. Court of Appeals  in  Manhattan  vacated the
conviction, following a 2010  Supreme Court  ruling in the case of
former Enron Corp. Chief Executive Officer  Jeffrey Skilling . The
Supreme Court said the honest-services law criminalizes schemes
involving bribes or kickbacks, not the failure to disclose
conflicts of interest.  Bruno, a Republican, was elected to the state Senate in
1976 and served until 2008, when he resigned amid a federal
corruption investigation. He served as Senate majority leader
for almost 14 years.  In a court appearance yesterday, Bruno pleaded not guilty 
and was released, according to court documents.  `Vindictive Reaction'  ``There is no legitimate purpose in charging Joe Bruno 
today in a new indictment,'' his lawyers, William Dreyer and 
E. Stewart Jones, said yesterday in an e-mailed statement. 
``This new effort by the U.S. attorney is a vindictive reaction 
to its loss of the long and tortured honest-services case 
against him.''  Bruno intends to vigorously defend himself against the 
``scurrilous allegations,'' the lawyers said. ``He is now 
83 years of age and hoped and prayed that this matter was behind 
him and that he could move on with his life,'' they said.     Bruno solicited payments from an  Albany  businessman who
directed that several companies pay Bruno a total of $440,000,
the U.S. Attorney’s Office said in the statement. The payments
were disguised as “consulting” fees, and $80,000 was for a
“virtually worthless” horse, the government said.  In exchange, Bruno performed official acts benefiting the
interests of the businessman and his companies, including
directing the award of a $250,000 grant to Evident Technologies
Inc., the government said.  “We look forward to having an impartial jury consider this
superseding indictment and the evidence in this case as soon as
possible,” Hartunian said in his statement.  The case is U.S. v. Bruno, 09-00029, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of New York.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David McLaughlin  in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  