-- Frack First, Disclose Chemicals Later Under U.S. Rule
-- B y   K a t a r z y n a   K l i m a s i n s k a
-- 2012-05-04T16:02:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-04/frack-first-disclose-chemicals-later-under-u-s-rule.html
Oil and natural gas companies won’t be
forced to disclose chemicals used in hydraulic fracturing until
work is completed, under a proposed U.S. rule issued today that
drew opposition from environmental groups.  The proposal lets gas producers exclude  trade secrets  and
confidential information, Interior Secretary  Ken Salazar  said
today on a conference call. It would add about $11,833 in costs
per well in 2013, according the Interior Department.  “The proposal today will allow us to continue powering our
economy by developing America’s abundant oil and gas
resources,” Salazar said during a conference call. “It is
critical that the public has full confidence that effective
safety and environmental protections are in place.”  President  Barack Obama  has pledged to increase gas
production without harming the environment. The U.S. industry
argued for reporting after completing the fracking, which
injects water, sand and chemicals underground to free trapped
gas. Environmental groups had preferred an earlier draft of the
standards that would have required disclosure before work began.  “This is a free pass to the oil and gas industry at the
expense of public health,” Jessica Ennis, a Washington-based
legislative associate for the environmental group Earthjustice,
said today in an e-mail.  The  Natural Resources Defense Council , a New York-based
advocacy group, faulted the Obama administration for crafting a
rule it said is weaker than the requirements set by states.  ‘Critical First Step’  “This is a critical first step, but so much more needs to
be done,” said Amy Mall, senior policy analyst at the Council.
“Federal safeguards have not caught up” with states, she said.  The Washington-based American Exploration and Production
 Council , representing natural gas companies including  Anadarko
Petroleum Corp. (APC)  and  Apache Corp. (APA) , had said more disclosure will
slow energy development. The Independent Petroleum Association
of America called the rule “an unnecessary layer of rigidity”
in an e-mail sent after the rule was released.  Following recommendations from the  energy industry , the
Interior Department is working to integrate the disclosure
called for in today’s rule with the existing website
FracFocus.org, managed by with the Ground Water Protection
Council and the Interstate Oil and Gas Compact Commission, and
used by the companies.  ‘High Bar’  The rule would require energy companies to confirm that
wells meet appropriate construction standards, and that the
operators have plans to manage water that flows back when the
fracturing is completed.  The administration set a “high bar” for companies to
invoke the exemption that would exempt reporting trade secrets
or other proprietary information, Salazar said on the call.  “The proposed rule seeks to achieve benefits by making
more information available to the public about the chemicals
injected in well-stimulation fluids, while protecting trade
secrets and confidential business information,” according to
the rule.  Fracking, used by companies such as  Exxon Mobil Corp (XOM)  and
 Chevron Corp. (CVX) , helped the U.S. become the world’s largest
natural gas producer. While Interior rules would only apply to
the federal lands, the administration hopes states will follow
its model.  Salazar said the rule, which is subject to 60 days of
public comment, may become final later this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katarzyna Klimasinska in Washington at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  