-- Gafisa Appealing to Foreign Investors Ahead of Board Vote
-- B y   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a   a n d   T e l m a   M a r o t t o
-- 2012-05-04T20:05:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-04/gafisa-appealing-to-international-investors-ahead-of-board-vote.html
Gafisa SA (GFSA3)  is appealing to
international shareholders, who hold 57 percent of the Brazilian
homebuilder’s stock, to support the company’s slate of board
nominees at a meeting next week.  “An important part of our shareholders may be on the
sidelines in the process,” Chief Executive Officer Alceu Duilio Calciolari said in an interview today. “The company can change
without their opinion.”  Investors holding about 7 percent of the stock, including
Rio de Janeiro-based fund managers Polo Gestao de Recursos Ltda.
and Rio Bravo Investimentos, are challenging Gafisa’s nominees
after the  stock plunged  57 percent in the past year, saying
current management isn’t capable of turning around the company,
which reported a fourth-quarter loss of $537 million.  Control of the board at  Brazil ’s fifth-biggest homebuilder
by revenue may change hands should international investors, many
of whom are unaware of the upcoming election, fail to support
the company’s nominees, Calciolari said. Investors who don’t
attend the meeting have until May 8 to vote.  International investors are at a disadvantage because some
of the challengers’ board nominees will be announced only during
the meeting on May 11, Calciolari said.  Polo Gestao de Recursos has nominated five new people to
the board, including Claudio Andrade, a partner at the firm,
according to regulatory filings. Rio Bravo and Funcef, the
pension fund of state-controlled bank Caixa Economica Federal,
have also put forth candidates to Gafisa’s board.  Share Performance  The funds have requested a so-called “multiple vote” on
the nominees, known as cumulative voting in the U.S.  Gafisa shares fell 3.8 percent to 3.80 reais at 5:03 p.m.
in Sao Paulo. They are down 7.8 percent this year, compared with
a 7.2 percent gain for the benchmark Bovespa index. Its
competitor  Cyrela Brazil Realty SA Empreendimentos e
Participacoes  is up 6.3 percent this year.  Gafisa posted a consolidated net loss of 1.03 billion reais
($537 million) in the last three months of 2011, compared with a
loss of 14.1 million reais in the same period a year ago.  Gafisa said its net debt rose 32 percent from a year
earlier to 3.24 billion reais in the fourth quarter.  “Our strategy is to not take on additional debt,”
Calciolari said. The company will “pay our debt that we have in
the short-term. We are not accessing the market.”  Shareholders’ Interests  Gafisa’s current board of directors has neglected the
interests of shareholders, failing to solicit their opinion when
the company received takeover proposals and belatedly reporting
write-offs from events that occurred in previous years, Polo’s
Andrade said in a telephone interview from  Rio de Janeiro .  “One of the problems we had was a question of
transparency,” Andrade said.  The company started implementing its strategy for a
turnaround last October by naming a new chief financial officer,
hiring separate heads of each business unit and scaling back its
geographic focus to Rio de Janeiro and Sao Paulo, Calciolari
said.  “We are on the right track,” Calciolari said.  Proxy advisory firms ISS, or Institutional Shareholder
Services Proxy Advisory Services, and Glass Lewis & Co. have
both endorsed Gafisa’s slate of board nominees.  “Despite the company’s well-publicized difficulties, the
dissident shareholders have failed to present a sufficiently
detailed or convincing rationale regarding their alternative
strategy and board slate,” ISS analysts wrote in an April 30
report. “A vote against the management slate could also have
unintended consequences, since there are no guarantees regarding
which individuals may be nominated by minority shareholders at
the time of the meeting.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gabrielle Coppola in  Sao Paulo  at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net ;
Telma Marotto in Sao Paulo at 
 tmarotto1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  