-- German Stocks Witness Biggest Weekly Drop of the Year
-- B y   A l e x i s   X y d i a s   a n d   T o m   S t o u k a s
-- 2012-05-04T16:18:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-04/german-stocks-drop-as-dax-heads-for-weekly-decline.html
German stocks  dropped for a fourth
day, dragging the DAX Index toward the biggest weekly decline of
2012, as a report showed employers in the U.S. added fewer
workers than forecast last month.  MAN SE (MAN)  plunged to the lowest in almost two months.  Linde AG (LIN) 
lost 1.2 percent as analysts said earnings growth may slow.
 Wacker Chemie AG (WCH) , the world’s second-biggest maker of solar-
grade silicon, fell 6.1 percent after reporting a decrease in
earnings.  Metro AG (MEO)  slid for a third day after analysts reduced
price forecasts for the retailer.  The benchmark DAX slid 2 percent to 6,561.47 at the 5:30
p.m. close in Frankfurt, for a weekly loss of 3.5 percent. The
gauge has still gained 11 percent this year as investors
speculated that companies in  Germany  will do better than those
in the euro area’s most indebted nations. The broader HDAX Index
dropped 2 percent today.  “The jobs number was disappointing and our clients have
been selling,” Duarte Caldas, a market strategist at IG Markets
in Lisbon, said in a phone interview. “They are preparing for a
bit of volatility in the weeks ahead.”  Employers in the U.S. added fewer workers than forecast in
April and the  jobless rate  unexpectedly declined as people left
the  labor force , underscoring concern the world’s largest
economy may be losing speed. Payrolls climbed 115,000, the
smallest gain in six months, after a revised 154,000 rise in
March that was more than initially estimated, Labor Department
figures showed. The median estimate of 85 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg called for a 160,000 advance.  European Elections  Four elections this weekend have the potential to reshape
the European political map and show how the response to the
financial crisis remains hostage to the whims of voters on both
sides of the region’s economic divide. The polls capture the
popular agitation after emergency loan packages in  Europe  worth
386 billion euros ($508 billion) and a focus on deficit
reduction failed to halt the debt crisis.  Recession-weary Greeks may pick a new government and polls
show the French will probably install Francois Hollande as the
country’s first Socialist president since  Francois Mitterrand  in
1995. Local elections will test Italy’s political pulse, and
voters in a northern German state may deal a symbolic blow to
Chancellor Angela Merkel’s coalition.  “The two biggest risks for the weekend ahead are France
and Greece,” Caldas said. “Clients have not been willing to
take more risk.”  EON AG, Germany’s biggest utility, removed 30.1 points from
the  DAX (DAX)  today as the shareholders lost the right to the latest
dividend. Adjusted for the right to the 1-euro payment, the
shares fell 1.8 percent to 15.89 euros.  MAN, Linde  MAN, the German truckmaker controlled by car manufacturer
Volkswagen, sank 4.9 percent to 88.41 euros, the lowest since
March 7. The stock was cut to sell from buy at NordLB.  Linde fell 1.2 percent to 127.05 euros, paring this year’s
advance to 11 percent. The world’s second-biggest maker of
industrial gases reported first-quarter profit that beat analyst
estimates on higher demand in  China  and the U.S. Morgan Stanley
analysts said the earnings may not be strong enough to trigger
estimate upgrades.  “Linde’s recent outperformance within the global gases
industry, and subsequent upgrade momentum, has begun to
moderate,” Morgan Stanley analysts led by Peter J. Mackey in
 London  wrote in a report today. “We see little scope for
further upgrades near-term.”  Wacker Chemie declined 6.1 percent to 59.80 euros as the
company said first-quarter net income fell to 40 million euros
from 168 million euros a year earlier.  ‘Poor’ Earnings  “Earnings quality was poor,” wrote WestLB analysts in a
report. “We are concerned about the outlook with respect to
polysilicon margins if the current strong momentum in demand
should slow in the second half and new capacities come on
stream.”  Metro declined for a third day, falling 2.7 percent to
22.94 euros. Analysts at UBS AG and Nomura Holdings Inc. reduced
their price estimates on the shares after the biggest German
retailer yesterday reported a wider-than-expected first-quarter
loss.  Preferred shares of Volkswagen declined 3.5 percent to
139.95 euros as automakers slid.  Daimler AG (DAI)  dropped 3.5 percent
to 39.29 euros.  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) , the world’s largest
maker of  luxury vehicles , slid 3.8 percent to 68.99 euros.  Merck KGaA (MRK)  dropped 3 percent to 81.55 euros. The drugmaker
was cut to underweight, the equivalent of sell, from equal
weight at Barclays Plc.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alexis Xydias in London at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Stoukas in Athens at 
 astoukas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  