-- Girish Navani: Examining a City's Health
-- B y   J o h n   T o z z i
-- 2012-05-04T00:25:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-04/girish-navani-examining-a-city-s-health.html
     May 3 (Bloomberg BusinessWeek) -- Understanding the health
of a community is difficult. Surveys cost millions of dollars and
take months to figure out how diseases such as obesity or
diabetes affect a population. They’re too slow to spot
fast-moving illnesses like the flu.  Girish Kumar Navani, chief executive officer and co-founder
of EClinicalWorks, is trying to change that. The Westborough
(Mass.) company’s electronic health records are used by 60,000
physicians who see 1 million patients each day. About one in five
Americans’ health data are stored using EClinicalWorks software.
Those data form a real-time record of patients presenting
symptoms, getting diagnoses, and undergoing treatment.  EClinicalWorks began working with  New York  City’s health
department in 2009 to examine the health of the city as a whole.
The records let officials “take a pulse of the community and know
how to target future policy decisions,” says Michael Buck, the
city’s biomedical informatics manager. “Sometimes it takes us
decades to make decisions on population health,” says Navani, 45.
With real-time health analytics, “you might suddenly start making
[decisions] in weeks.”  The company is now offering a product called community
analytics to health authorities and medical organizations across
the country. To protect privacy, EClinicalWorks queries health
records where they’re stored, either on secure servers or a
doctor’s own hard drive, and strips them of identifying
information such as names.  The Greater Baltimore Medical Center already uses
EClinicalWorks’ health records and plans to have its community
analytics system in place by June. That will let the hospital
measure how well its procedures work, says Tressa Springmann,
Greater Baltimore’s chief information officer. For example,
clinicians could track when patients fill their prescriptions and
test whether it’s better to follow up 15 or 30 days after an
appointment. “The analytics component over time will tell us, are
they getting better?” she says. “That’s our feedback loop.”  Navani came to the U.S. from  India  in 1988 to study
engineering. He worked for Teradyne and Fidelity before starting
EClinicalWorks in 1999. He built it with no outside investors and
says it’ll reach $250 million in revenue this year. Doctors pay
up to $525 per month for the health records software, and
community analytics will cost more, though the price hasn’t been
determined.  Navani calls the new software part of a broader mission to
use technology to improve health care. EClinicalWorks is also
rolling out a free Web portal and mobile apps for patients to
access their records and get reminders to, say, schedule a
checkup.  Only a third of U.S. doctors have adopted electronic health
records, according to the Centers for Disease Control. For
Navani, they’re the “on-ramp” to a better health system. With the
data stored digitally, he says, “you can look back and change
both patient and provider behavior.”