-- Gol Shares Rise as Costs Decline 3.9% in First Quarter
-- B y   J o s e   S e r g i o   O s s e   a n d   K a t e r i n a   P e t r o f f
-- 2012-05-04T21:09:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-04/gol-shares-rise-as-costs-decline-3-9-in-first-quarter.html
Gol Linhas Aereas Inteligentes SA (GOLL4) ’s
shares rose as  Brazil ’s second-biggest airline said costs per
seat in the first quarter declined and analysts said the carrier
could become profitable in the second half.  The shares climbed 5.2 percent to 10.54 reais at the close
in Sao Paulo, their highest value since April 17. The stock had
fallen 19 percent before today. Costs per seat per kilometer, or
Cask, excluding fuel, fell 3.9 percent to 8.63 centavos in the
quarter, the company said in its results statement earlier
today. The shares rose even as Gol posted a surprise loss.  “Gol successfully managed the Cask ex-fuel” in the first
quarter, Bank of America Merrill Lynch analysts wrote in a note
to clients today. “If we don’t see any unpleasant surprise from
exogenous items such as foreign exchange, oil or competition,
Gol could finally reach” profitability in the second half,
wrote analysts Roberto Otero, Sara Delfim and Murilo Freiberger,
who have a neutral rating on the stock, equivalent to hold.  Gol is retrenching as it tries to control labor costs and
manage rising jet-fuel prices. The company dismissed 131 crew
members and cut 80 of its 900 daily flights early this month and
is on schedule to spin off its frequent-flier business, known as
Smiles, executives said on a conference call today.  “The effort is huge to keep the Cask as low as possible,”
Chief Executive Officer Constantino de Oliveira Jr. said on the
conference call with reporters. “The more challenging the
environment, the better the advantage an airline gets for
keeping Cask low.”  Net Loss  Including fuel, Cask rose 6.6 percent, as fuel costs
increased 42 percent to 951.6 million reais ($495 million),
representing about 44 percent of the carrier’s total costs.  Gol, based in  Sao Paulo , posted a 41.4 million reais
consolidated net loss in the quarter, compared with a net income
of 69.4 million reais a year earlier. That missed the average
analysts’  estimate  of 9.03 million reais, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, amortization
and rent costs fell 24 percent to 267.9 million reais. Sales
were 2.17 billion reais, compared with 1.9 billion reais a year
earlier.  First-quarter profit was also hurt by a decline in the
value of the real. The real has lost 2.2 percent against the
dollar this year, the second-worst performance among 16 major
currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  One-Off Expenses  Gol has no further plans for cuts in payroll and flights,
should the present scenario of fuel and currency-related costs
remain, Oliveira said today. Measures announced on April 2
should affect Gol’s performance in April and May the most,
reducing costs and increasing one-off expenses related to
severance, he said.  The company’s payroll cost rose 13 percent to 407.3 million
reais in the quarter, according to the filing.  Gol is on track to spin off Smiles, Chief Financial Officer
said on the call.  “Our goal is, really, to have all the information we need
to assess the move and reach a decision, whatever it is,” he
said.  An initial public offering of Smiles, after a possible spin
off, shouldn’t be assumed, said Pereira. Gol might keep Smiles
as a privately-owned subsidiary, supporting the airline
business, he said.  Gol shares have fallen 15 percent this year, trailing
Brazil’s benchmark Bovespa  index , which has risen 7.2 percent.
 Tam SA (TAM) , Gol’s biggest competitor, has gained 28 percent so far
this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jose Sergio Osse in Sao Paulo at 
 josse1@bloomberg.net ;
Katerina Petroff in Sao Paulo at 
 kpetroff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Helder Marinho at 
 hmarinho@bloomberg.net  