-- Goldman Said to Plan Trading System for Corporate Bonds
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 2012-05-04T16:09:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-04/goldman-sachs-said-to-prepare-trading-system-for-corporate-bonds.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  will start an
electronic trading system for corporate bonds this month as the
fifth-biggest U.S. bank adapts to regulatory changes and
competition, according to a person familiar with the plans.  The platform, called GSessions, has been under development
for a year, said the person, who declined to be identified
because the New York-based firm isn’t making details public yet.
The Wall Street Journal reported the initiative late yesterday
on its website.  The move comes three weeks after  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , the
world’s largest money manager, said it was planning its own
bond-trading platform called Aladdin Trading Network that would
allow clients to bypass Wall Street firms such as Goldman Sachs.
Last year, Goldman Sachs’s  revenue  from market making and
principal investments in credit, including corporate debt and
derivatives, fell to $2.72 billion from $8.68 billion in 2010,
according to a regulatory filing.  The profitability of Wall Street firms is being challenged
by regulations requiring that they hold more capital as a buffer
against potential losses from assets such as corporate debt. A
U.S. law that seeks to prohibit federally insured banks from
making bets with their own money may also hinder lenders’
ability to commit money to buy securities from clients,
according to analysts including Brad Hintz at Sanford C.
Bernstein & Co.  Fixed Income  In presentations over the past two years, Goldman Sachs
executives have said the firm succeeded in developing electronic
trading capabilities in the stock and currency markets and were
also preparing for a higher percentage of fixed-income trading
becoming computerized.  “Connectivity with clients and what we call owning the
desktop is going to be very, very important,” Chief Financial
Officer David A. Viniar said in a presentation in February 2011.
“Having those capabilities, having first-mover advantage, we
think is going to be key coming out after the new regulations.”  GSessions will start by offering two five-minute trading
sessions a day, one in an investment-grade bond and another in a
high-yield, high-risk security, the person said. Speculative-
grade, or junk, bonds are rated below Baa3 by Moody’s Investors
Service and lower than BBB- at  Standard & Poor’s .  At the start of each session, Goldman Sachs will post a bid
and offer price and notify clients of the maximum amount of
liquidity the firm is willing to provide to fill orders,
according to the person.  Acting as Counterparty  Rather than matching trades between clients, Goldman Sachs
will act as the counterparty to all trades and collect the
spread, or difference, between the bid and offer prices, the
person said. That gap will be lower than what Goldman Sachs
earns on non-computerized trades, the person said.  BlackRock, based in  New York , said on April 12 that it was
creating Aladdin Trading Network to lower trading costs for
customers. BlackRock is awaiting approval from the Securities
and Exchange Commission for its platform.  Brian Beades , a
spokesman for BlackRock in New York, declined to comment.  MarketAxess Holdings Inc. (MKTX) ’s electronic trading system for
U.S. and European investment-grade,  emerging markets  and other
types of bonds said last month that it had a record $58.7
billion of transactions during March. Other electronic trading
systems for fixed income include Tradeweb Markets LLC and
Bloomberg LP, the parent company of Bloomberg News, which also
provides news and information to the financial community.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christine Harper  in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  