-- Google’s Wardriving ’Engineer Doe’ at Center of Probe
-- B y   T o d d   S h i e l d s   a n d   J o r d a n   R o b e r t s o n
-- 2012-05-04T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-04/google-s-wargaming-engineer-doe-at-privacy-probe-center.html
Before he became the  Google (GOOG)  Inc.
worker identified as “Engineer Doe” in a U.S. probe of data
gathering, Marius Milner wrote software that invigorated a hobby
called “wardriving.”  The practice, in which enthusiasts drive around
neighborhoods to locate wireless connections, was named after
the Matthew Broderick film  “WarGames,”  about a video-game
enthusiast who accidentally hacks into military computers.  “He is a GOD in the wireless community,” John
Kleinschmidt, a network engineer from  Michigan , said in a
message on Milner’s page on the LinkedIn social network.  Milner’s expertise as shown through the wardriving program,
called NetStumbler, eventually led him to Google and its Street
View project, which is being investigated by U.S. states.  Street View’s cars went beyond mapping wireless connections
to take in people’s communications sent over their networks,
including messages between a man and woman seeking an extra-
marital relationship, according to U.S. Federal Communications
Commission documents.  Google, owner of the largest search engine, was fined
$25,000 by the FCC on April 13 for impeding the agency’s
investigation.  The employee who designed Street View’s software, referred
to only as “Engineer Doe” in FCC records, invoked his right
against self-incrimination and declined to be interviewed by the
FCC, the agency said May 2 as it released a version of its
inquiry’s conclusions. The agency said it wouldn’t seek
penalties under U.S. wiretap laws because there wasn’t clear
precedent, and Engineer Doe’s silence left questions unanswered.  NetStumbler Project  Milner was previously identified as ‘Engineer Doe’ by the
 New York  Times. In a brief interview with Bloomberg at his  Palo
Alto ,  California , home May 2, he refused to confirm or deny the
connection. “You know what I’m going to say -- you have my
lawyer’s name,” he said. “I have no comment.”  Niki Fenwick, a Google spokeswoman, declined to comment for
the story. Martha Boersch, Milner’s San Francisco-based lawyer,
also declined comment.  Milner, 41, worked at Lucent Technologies Inc. and
communications-gear maker Avaya Holdings Corp. before being
hired at Google in 2003, according to his LinkedIn page. He now
works for its YouTube unit.  Milner has served as the self-employed chief technology
officer for NetStumbler since 2001, according to the LinkedIn
page. His software was used by enthusiasts who wandered streets
with a laptop and competed to spot the greatest number of nodes
serving up a wireless signal, or Wi-Fi, Kleinschmidt, who tested
some of Milner’s code, said in an interview.  ‘Benign Tool’  Wardriving as a hobby has faded as Wi-Fi has grown from a
curiosity to a widely available utility. Smartphones and laptop
computers now are commonly manufactured with the capability to
detect wireless networks.  At the peak of the hobby’s popularity,  NetStumbler 
enthusiasts on message boards would admonish and banish users
who asked about using the software for capturing personal
information, Kleinschmidt said. “It was a mapping software,
that’s all it was,” he said.  NetStumbler “was a benign tool” that didn’t collect
personal data, Benjamin Kern, a Chicago-based partner who
practices technology law at McGuireWoods, said in an interview.  “Wardriving I would primarily characterize as a sport, as
a fun hobby-type thing,” Kern said.  Personal Data  Engineer Doe worked on Street View during the 20 percent of
time that Google allots to all employees for personal projects,
the FCC said.  The Street View tool he crafted was based on software
different from NetStumbler, and was intended to collect
information about what people were doing as they used their Wi-
Fi, according to the FCC. Engineer Doe examined the data
gathered to see if it could be used in other Google products,
the agency said.  He at least twice told colleagues the Street View cars were
collecting payload data, or personal information carried by the
wireless signal, according to the FCC. Engineer Doe sent an e-
mail of his draft software code to Street View’s project
leaders, and they forwarded the e-mail to all members of the
team, Google said in response to questions from the FCC,
according to the agency.  The company earlier claimed the data collection was “the
work of one engineer,” the agency said.  Data Collection Investigations  Mountain View , California-based Google’s data collection
remains under investigation by 42 states, Susan Kinsman, a
spokeswoman for  Connecticut ’s attorney general, said in an
interview.  European Union privacy regulators also said this week that
are looking into Street View’s activities, particularly whether
the company was aware it was gathering and storing information
it didn’t need.  Google never had “a company plan to collect payload
data,” Al Verney, a spokesman for Google in Brussels, said
yesterday. “We made a mistake, we admitted it and we have
cooperated with regulators around the globe to put this matter
behind us.”  Milner is well regarded in the “white-hat” hacking
community, which focuses on fixing technology, said Don Bailey,
chief executive officer of Capitol Hill Consultants, a San
Francisco-based company focused on wireless security.  Defining ‘Use’  He had a reputation of being “very above-board” among Wi-
Fi trackers, Ted Morgan, chief executive officer of Boston-based
location-services company Skyhook, a Google rival, said in an
interview. Skyhook in a lawsuit has accused Google  of
sabotaging plans by  Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc. (MMI)  and  Samsung
Electronics Co. (005930)  to use Skyhook software. Google says it’s done
nothing wrong.  Among wardriving enthusiasts last decade, “No one did
payload collection,” Morgan said. ‘It was pretty much known
that was a bad thing to do.’’  A 2002  posting  on the NetStumbler.org forum that carries
Milner’s name advises readers that, “In most places, it is
illegal to use a network without permission from the owner.  ‘‘The definition of ‘use’ is not entirely clear, but it
definitely includes using someone else’s Internet connection or
gathering information about what is on the network.’’  To contact the reporters on this story:
Todd Shields in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net ;
Jordan Robertson in  San Francisco  at 
 jrobertson40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  