-- Google Said to Face Fine by U.S. Over Apple Safari Breach
-- B y   S a r a   F o r d e n
-- 2012-05-05T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-04/google-said-to-face-fine-by-u-s-over-apple-safari-breach.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  is negotiating with the
U.S. Federal Trade Commission over how big a fine it will have
to pay for its breach of  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s Safari Internet browser, a
person familiar with the matter said.  The fine could amount to more than $10 million dollars,
said the person, who declined to be identified because the talks
are confidential. The fine would be the first by the FTC for a
violation of  Internet privacy  as the agency steps up enforcement
of consumers’ online rights.  The FTC is preparing to allege that  Mountain View ,
California-based Google deceived consumers and violated terms of
a consent decree signed with the commission last year when it
planted so-called cookies on Safari, bypassing Apple software’s
privacy settings, the person said.  “We will of course cooperate with any officials who have
questions,”  Chris Gaither , a Google spokesman, said in an e-
mail, declining to comment further. An FTC spokeswoman, Claudia Bourne Farrell, declined to comment.  The cookies allowed Google to bypass Safari’s built-in
privacy protections to aim targeted advertising at users of
Safari on computers, laptops, iPhones and iPads. Google said at
the time that it “didn’t anticipate this would happen” and
that it was removing the files since discovering the slip.  The Safari breach was first identified by Stanford
researcher Jonathan Mayer, who published a blog entry on his
discoveries Feb. 16.  ‘Unfair and Deceptive’  The FTC is charged with protecting consumers against
“unfair and deceptive” practices under the law that created
the agency. European regulators are probing Google more broadly
on its privacy policy and sent a detailed questionnaire to the
company in March.  Google signed a consent decree with the FTC last year in
which it settled allegations it used deceptive tactics and
violated its own privacy policies in introducing the Buzz
social-networking service in 2010. The 20-year settlement bars
Google from misrepresenting how it handles user information, and
requires the company to follow policies that protect consumer
data in new products and to submit to regular privacy audits.  The FTC has the authority to levy fines for violations of
its consent decrees of as much as $16,000 a day for each
violation.  First-Quarter Revenue  Google, the world’s largest Internet search company, on
April 12  reported  first-quarter revenue of $8.14 billion,
excluding sales passed on to partner sites. Profit before
certain costs was $10.08 a share.  The agency issued its largest fine in a privacy-related
case against data broker ChoicePoint Inc. in 2006 for
compromises of personal financial records of more than 163,000
consumers. ChoicePoint agreed to pay $10 million in civil
penalties and $5 million in consumer redress in a settlement
with the FTC.  “Google is quickly becoming the privacy problem child for
regulators in the U.S. and  Europe ,” said Jeffrey Chester,
executive director of the Center for Digital Democracy, which
has urged regulators to review the handling of consumer data by
companies including Google and Facebook Inc. “The Commission’s
work to enforce its consent decree with Google shows there’s a
real regulatory cop on the digital beat.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sara Forden in Washington at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  