-- Gross Says U.S. Economy Suffering From ’Structural’ Unemployment
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n
-- 2012-05-04T13:38:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-04/gross-says-u-s-economy-suffering-from-structural-unemployment.html
Bill Gross , manager of the world’s
largest mutual fund, said U.S. unemployment is now a structural,
and not cyclical, problem stemming from technology advances and
the lack of retraining.  “Jobs are being structurally destroyed,” Gross said in an
interview today with Ken Prewitt and  Tom Keene  on Bloomberg
Radio’s “Bloomberg Surveillance.” Employment figures released
today reflect “the inability of the  U.S. economy  to provide
jobs.”  Employers in the U.S. added 115,000 jobs in April, fewer
than forecast and the smallest gain in six months, Labor
Department figures showed in Washington. The median estimate of
85 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News called for a 160,000
advance. The jobless rate fell to a three-year low of 8.1
percent.  Gross, co-chief investment officer at  Newport Beach ,
California-based Pacific Investment Management Co., said the
government had exhausted traditional fiscal and monetary
responses in its attempt to spark higher growth.  “They have to start looking elsewhere,” he said.  Washington should consider changes to trade and currency
policies, as governments in Brazil,  China  and Europe have done,
Gross said. A depreciation of the dollar would increase the
competitiveness of U.S. manufacturing abroad, he said.  Gross runs Pimco’s Total Return Bond Fund, which attracted
$2.7 billion in investor deposits in April, bringing assets to a
record $258.7 billion. The fund has returned 4.7 percent this
year, beating 99 percent of its peers, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Investors piled into bonds in April,
seeking a haven from slowing U.S. economic growth and  Europe ’s
debt crisis.  Gross said he had recovered from poor performance in 2011
partly by focusing on mortgages.  “We assumed from late last year that the market wouldn’t
change,” Gross said. “We followed the policy of taking a safe
spread.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Condon in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  