-- Groupon Loses Half of Value Since IPO on Accounting Woes
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a
-- 2012-05-04T20:09:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-04/groupon-loses-half-its-value-since-ipo-amid-accounting-concerns.html
Groupon Inc. (GRPN) , the biggest online
coupon company, has lost half its value since a November initial
public offering amid concern over its ability to translate
growth into profit while rectifying accounting missteps.  The company fell 3.3 percent to $9.97, a record low, at the
close today in  New York . Groupon has  slumped  50 percent since
its stock-market debut.  Chief Executive Officer  Andrew Mason  is taking steps to
shore up confidence in the company’s ability to account for its
business, which centers on the distribution of coupons for
discounts on products and services. Groupon in March reported a
“material weakness” in financial controls and lower fourth-
quarter revenue than previously stated.  “They’re in a penalty box time frame where they need to
re-earn investors’ trust because of all the accounting
restatements,” said  Herman Leung , an analyst at Susquehanna
International Group in San Francisco. “They want us to focus on
revenue, and then those revenue numbers are the ones that are
restated. How can investors be comfortable with that?”  Restatements in the past year underscore the challenges of
accounting for a relatively untested business model. Last year,
the company abandoned an accounting method for operating income
after a review by regulators.  The company also needs to do a better job translating
growth into profit, Leung said. Groupon’s $65 million loss in
the fourth quarter surpassed the $10.6 million it lost in the
previous three months, even as sales rose 14 percent to $492.2
million. The company’s headcount rose to more than 11,000 as of
Dec. 31, according to regulatory filings.  ‘Multiple Roads’  “With Groupon, there seems to be multiple different roads,
and not all of those roads are a steady path for growth,” Leung
said. “I know expansion is a key priority, but there’s also
doing it the right way, and being more long-term and strategic
about how to plan for the growth.”  Groupon said this week it’s adding Daniel Henry, the
finance chief of  American Express Co. (AXP) , and Robert Bass, a vice
chairman of Deloitte LLP, to the board, underscoring a drive to
bolster the company’s finance and accounting bona fides.  Julie Mossler, a spokeswoman for Chicago-based Groupon,
declined to comment on stock price movements.  The changes announced in March were “primarily related to
an increase to the company’s refund reserve accrual,” leading
to higher reimbursement rates of more expensive offers, Groupon
said at the time. The company also said it’s been working for
several months with an accounting firm to remedy internal
controls, and will report on the effectiveness of those controls
by the end of the year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Kucera in  San Francisco  at 
 dkucera6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  