-- Liberty FCC Request to Control Sirius XM Radio Rejected
-- B y   T o d d   S h i e l d s   a n d   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 2012-05-04T22:07:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-04/liberty-fcc-request-to-control-sirius-xm-radio-rejected.html
The U.S. Federal Communications
Commission dismissed an application by John Malone’s  Liberty
Media Corp. (LMCA)  for permission to control  Sirius (SIRI)  XM Radio Inc.  The request made March 20 fueled speculation Malone wants
to increase his stake in Sirius, the largest U.S. satellite
radio company, and spin it off. The application isn’t acceptable
because Liberty Media couldn’t get passwords and other
information from Sirius, the agency said today in a letter
distributed by e-mail.  The request to the FCC displayed tension between Sirius
Chief Executive Officer Mel Karmazin and Liberty, its biggest
shareholder, that escalated after Malone, Liberty’s chairman,
saved Sirius from bankruptcy in 2009 with a $530 million loan.
Liberty owns preferred stock convertible into about 40 percent
of New York-based Sirius’s common shares.  “After this filing, Liberty probably has to pursue other
ways to get what they want, which means buying shares,” Amy Yong, an analyst at Macquarie Securities in  New York , said in an
interview. She called the FCC’s rejection positive for Sirius
because Liberty buying more shares may drive up their value.  Control of Sirius’s licenses to use public airwaves may
help Malone gain leverage for favorable terms if he seeks to end
the alliance with Karmazin,  James Ratcliffe , a New York-based
analyst with Barclays Capital Inc., said in an April 3 note.  Sirius fell 2.3 percent to $2.16 at 4 p.m. today on the
Nasdaq Stock Market.  Liberty, based in Englewood,  Colorado , didn’t establish
that it intends to convert stock or install a board majority,
the FCC said in its letter. The document was signed by Roderick
Porter, deputy chief of the FCC’s international bureau, and
Julius Knapp, chief engineer of the office of engineering and
technology.  Heather Oshiro-Lipp, a Liberty spokeswoman, didn’t
immediately respond to a telephone call and  Patrick Reilly , a
Sirius spokesman, didn’t immediately return a call and e-mail.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Todd Shields in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net  or
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  