-- Libor’s Stability Has Money Market Funding Stress on Hold
-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2012-05-04T13:53:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-04/libor-s-stability-has-money-market-funding-stress-on-hold.html
Money-market indicators signaled the
ability of banks to borrow and lend short term funds remained
stable with the London interbank offered rate unchanged for the
eighth straight day.  Three-month London interbank offered rate, or Libor, which
represents the rate at which banks say it would cost to borrow
from another,  was  0.46585 percent, the same rate since April 24,
according to the British Bankers’ Association.  The Libor-OIS spread, a gauge of banks’ reluctance to lend,
was unchanged at 32 basis points. The gap was as high as 51
basis points this year on Jan. 6. Overnight index swaps, or OIS,
give traders predictions on where the Fed’s effective funds rate
will average for the term of the swap. The central bank’s target
rate is set in a range of zero to 0.25 percent.  Predictions in the forward market for Libor-OIS, known as
the FRA/OIS spread, was 32.25 basis points for June, compared
with 32.4 basis points yesterday, according to UBS AG data.  The difference between the two-year swap rate and the
comparable-maturity Treasury note yield, known as the swap
spread, was little changed at 28.85 basis points. The gap is a
gauge of investors’ perceptions of U.S. banking sector credit
risk as swap rates are derived from expectations for dollar
Libor. Swap rates serve as benchmarks for investors in many
types of debt, including mortgage-backed and auto-loan
securities.  The cost for European banks to convert euro-denominated
payment streams into dollars-based funding via the cross
currency swaps market rose. The three-month cross-currency basis
swap was 41.25 basis points below Euribor, compared to 42.75
basis points below yesterday. The basis swap rate was minus
162.5 basis points on Nov. 30.  Euribor-OIS Spread  The Euribor-OIS spread, the difference between the euro
interbank offered rate and overnight indexed swaps, held steady.
The measure of banks’ reluctance to lend to one another was 38
basis points from 39 basis points yesterday. The measure has
fallen from 95 basis points at the start of the year.  The market for corporate borrowing through U.S.  commercial
paper  expanded the most in four months in the most recent weekly
data provided by the  Federal Reserve . The seasonally adjusted
amount of U.S. commercial paper jumped $14.1 billion to $939.9
billion outstanding in the week ended May 2. Corporations sell
commercial paper, typically maturing in 270 days or less, to
fund everyday activities such as paying rent and salaries.  The price on one-year cross-currency basis swaps between
yen and U.S. dollars was minus 29.1 basis points, compared to
minus 28.9 yesterday. A negative swap price indicates investors
are willing to receive reduced interest payments on the yen they
lend in order to obtain the needed financing in dollars.  Foreign-exchange swaps are typically for periods of less
than a year, while cross-currency basis swaps usually range from
one to 30 years. The latter are agreements in which a person
borrows in one currency and simultaneously lends in a different
currency. The trade involves the exchange of two different
floating-rate payments, each denominated in a different currency
and based on a different index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liz Capo McCormick in  New York  at 
 Emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  