-- Icahn Reins In Short Position That Cut First-Quarter Gain
-- B y   M i l e s   W e i s s
-- 2012-05-04T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-04/icahn-reins-in-short-position-that-cut-first-quarter-gain.html
Carl Icahn , the activist investor who
bet against the U.S. stock market last year, pared back the
wager after the equity rally ended up reducing the billionaire’s
first-quarter returns.  The 76-year-old stock picker sold a net $3.7 billion of
securities, including energy and communications shares, in the
three months ended March 31, according to a quarterly report
filed May 1 with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.
That helped raise cash for Icahn to close out some of his wagers
against market indexes, including the  Standard & Poor’s 500 (SPX) ,
designed to protect his other holdings.  The hedge-fund manager, who oversees $6.6 billion of net
assets, began increasing his short positions in August through a
strategy involving options, futures and exchange-traded funds.
When the U.S. benchmark soared 12 percent during this year’s
first quarter, losses on the short sales offset most of Icahn’s
gains on individual stocks, leaving his investment fund up 1
percent, according to the  SEC filing .  “The worst-case scenario for a strategy like this is a
quickly rising market,” said Jared Woodard, a principal at
Condor Options Research in New York. The short positions “will
start eating into your returns,” Woodard said.  Icahn, based in New York, declined to comment. His
investment fund had a return before expenses of 34.5 percent
last year, compared with a 2.1 percent gain for the  S&P 500 ,
including reinvested dividends. The firm doesn’t disclose
returns after expenses.  Bearish Outlook  The billionaire’s primary strategy is to take stakes in
companies he deems underperforming and then push for moves
designed to boost their stock prices, such as asset sales or
share buybacks. Icahn makes the investments through a hedge fund
that relies solely on his capital, having returned money from
outside backers last year.  He became more bearish in August based on his outlook for
the  European debt crisis  and the  U.S. economy , people with
knowledge of his trading said at the time. He moved to protect
his holdings from a potential market decline by establishing a
$2 billion short position on the S&P 500.  “The guy is an activist investor first and foremost,”
 Chris Rich , head options strategist at JonesTrading
Institutional Services LLC, said in a telephone interview from
 Chicago . “I could see him wanting to put a beta hedge” on the
market, Rich said. A beta hedge is a trade designed to
accentuate a stock picker’s skill by neutralizing the impact of
market swings on returns.  Icahn carried out the trade by using financial derivatives
known as futures and by selling short index ETFs, such as the
SPDR S&P 500  ETF Trust. (SPY)  In a short sale, an investor borrows and
then sells a security in anticipation that it can later be
repurchased at a lower price for return to the lender.  Short Positions  By year-end, Icahn had short positions on index ETFs with a
face value of almost $4.5 billion, according to an annual report
filed by  Icahn Enterprises LP (IEP) , the parent company for his hedge
fund. The filing also showed that the fund had established $2.1
billion of short positions through derivatives described as
equity swaps.  The stock market began climbing as personal consumption in
the U.S. rose, Bouhari Arouna, director of equity derivatives
strategy and structuring at BNP Paribas SA in  New York , said in
a telephone interview. Central banks in  Europe  and the U.S.
provided a further boost through quantitative easing programs
designed to spur economic growth through asset purchases.  “You can’t fight the central banks,” Arouna said.  Stock Holdings  The Icahn fund’s stock holdings as of Dec. 31 would have
generated a 10 percent gain if left unchanged through the first
quarter, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. In the May 1
filing, Icahn reported his hedge fund’s 1 percent return in the
first quarter followed a 9.6 percent gain a year earlier. The
latest quarter’s results included a $402 million loss recognized
on equity-swap contracts.  “Gains were primarily due to our long exposure to the
equity markets that were primarily driven by certain core
holdings,”  Icahn Enterprises  said in the filing. These profits
“were offset in part by our short positions,” the firm said.  By March 31, the firm had reduced its short positions on
the index ETFs to $571 million. The fund simultaneously sold
stocks, cutting its equity holdings to $4.8 billion as of March
31 from $7.6 billion as of Dec. 31.  Motorola Solutions Inc. (MSI)  said
on Feb. 27 that it bought back $1.17 billion of company stock
from Icahn as part of a larger share-repurchase program.  During the first quarter, Icahn also increased the short
positions established through equity swaps to $4.9 billion, the
filing shows. Equity swaps are derivative contracts that are
similar to futures. Both tie up less capital than would short
positions on  index funds .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Miles Weiss in Washington at 
 mweiss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  