-- Iceland Plans Corporate Eurobond Comeback as Default Legacy Dims
-- B y   O m a r   R .   V a l d i m a r s s o n
-- 2012-05-04T08:24:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-04/iceland-plans-corporate-eurobond-comeback-as-default-legacy-dims.html
Iceland  wants this week’s $1 billion
dollar bond sale to pave the way for the island’s companies to
start selling debt abroad less than four years after its biggest
banks defaulted.  “Iceland wasn’t in any actual need to refinance its
foreign debts,” Finance Minister Oddny Hardardottir said in a
telephone interview. “The primary reason for this auction now
was that it’s important that the Treasury leads the way into the
markets, as the terms offered to the Treasury can benefit other
Icelandic parties that intend to seek foreign financing. That’s
important for large corporations.”  Yesterday’s dollar bond sale marks Iceland’s second foray
into international debt markets since the 2008 financial
collapse, in which its three biggest banks defaulted on $85
billion in debt. The government last June sold $1 billion in
five-year dollar notes after receiving bids for twice that
amount.  Yesterday’s 10-year issue sold at a yield of 408 basis
points more than the benchmark U.S. Treasury bonds. A basis
point is 0.01 percentage point.  “It’s important that the Treasury take the lead and with
this as we’re trying to ensure good  market access ,” she said.
“We’re not in any way dependent on certain loans or lenders,
such as emergency loans from our neighboring countries or
international organizations.”  Iceland completed a 33-month International Monetary Fund
program in August and its economy will this year outgrow the 17-
member euro area and post a smaller  budget deficit , the
Washington-based fund estimates.  Yield Curve  Hardardottir said the loan will be used to repay the IMF
and the Nordic countries.  “We intend to use this loan for the Treasury’s debt
management and to create a favorable yield curve,” she said.
“We won’t use these funds to finance any of the state’s
operations in any way. Following this debt sale the Treasury’s
need for international financing has been satisfied for some
time and we won’t seek further financing for some time to come,
at least not this year.”  Iceland’s economy, which contracted 6.7 percent in 2009,
will expand 2.4 percent this year and 2.6 percent next year, the
IMF said last month. That compares with a 0.3 percent
contraction in the 17-member euro area, the European Commission
said Feb. 23.  The dollar bond sale was managed by Deutsche Bank AG,
JPMorgan Chase & Co. and UBS AG.  Hardardottir declined to comment on which Icelandic
companies are closest to tapping international debt markets.  “The Treasury has with this debt sale, and the debt sale
last year, marked the way forward,” she said. “This will make
it easier for Icelandic companies to follow.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Omar Valdimarsson in Reykjavik at 
 valdimarsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  