-- Micron Gains on Speculation It May Get Elpida Assets Cheaply
-- B y   I a n   K i n g
-- 2012-05-04T20:48:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-04/micron-gains-on-speculation-it-may-target-elpida-assets-cheaply.html
Micron Technology Inc. (MU)  rose on
speculation that the memory chipmaker may try to acquire the
assets of Elpida Memory Inc. cheaply after a potential rival
dropped out of the bidding.  SK Hynix Inc. (000660) , the world’s second-biggest memory chipmaker,
said it won’t bid for  Japan ’s Elpida, which has filed for
bankruptcy. That makes Micron more likely to acquire Elpida’s
assets for as low as 17 cents on the dollar, according to  Doug Freedman , an analyst at  RBC Capital Markets .  “Many suspect Micron is now the favorite and stands the
best chance to win the assets,” Freedman wrote. “This would be
a positive, considering the purchase price comes at a
significant discount.”  Micron has no comment on rumor or conjecture, Dan Francisco, a spokesman for Boise, Idaho-based Micron. The
company’s executives have said they would consider opportunities
to use deals to cope with price fluctuations in the industry and
that they are monitoring events in Japan. Micron has declined to
say whether it will bid for Elpida.  Micron shares  rose  8 cents, or 1.2 percent, to $6.55 at the
close in  New York  after earlier gaining as much as 6.5 percent.
The stock has climbed 4.1 percent this year.  SK Hynix, the only company that had publicly expressed
interest in buying Tokyo-based Elpida, decided not to
participate in the second round of bidding, the Icheon, South
Korea-based company said today in a regulatory filing in Seoul.
It didn’t elaborate.  Losses, Price Plunge  Elpida is Japan’s largest maker of chips for DRAM, or
dynamic random access memory. Beset by plunging prices for the
chips and five quarters of losses, Elpida filed for bankruptcy
in February with liabilities of 448 billion yen ($5.6 billion).  Elpida’s buyer would gain its 12 percent share of the
global market for DRAM chips, which provide the main memory for
personal computers, to help compete against industry leader
 Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  Elpida also supplies Apple Inc. with
chips used in the iPhone.  Private-equity firm TPG Capital also planned a bid, a
person familiar with the matter said April 6. Jochen Legewie, a
spokesman for TPG in  Tokyo , declined to comment in an e-mail.
Calls to Elpida’s office weren’t answered during a national
holiday in Japan.  While Elpida’s  creditors  may ask for at least $3 billion to
$4 billion, bidders won’t probably offer more than $2 billion,
Bank of America Merrill Lynch said in a March 30 report. Also, a
buyer would have to spend $3 billion during the next 12-18
months to help restore Elpida’s competitiveness, making the deal
risky, according to the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian King in  San Francisco  at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  