-- Mid-Atlantic Warmth Peaks Today Before Cool Weather Arrives
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2012-05-04T13:42:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-04/mid-atlantic-warmth-peaks-today-before-cool-weather-arrives.html
The mid-Atlantic will probably have
its warmest day for the next two weeks today, boosting energy
demand for cooling across the region into the central U.S.,
forecasters said.  Washington may reach 84 degrees Fahrenheit (29 Celsius)
while Richmond,  Virginia , makes it to 92 and Philadelphia peaks
at 85, according to the National Weather Service.  New York ’s
high today may reach 75.  Temperatures are expected to start dropping over the
weekend and into the new week, said  Matt Rogers , president of
Commodity Weather Group LLC in Bethesda,  Maryland .  “Today is forecast to be the peak day of warmth for the
lower mid-Atlantic,” Rogers said in a note to clients. “Beyond
the short-term, the forecast is still favored to trend cooler
next week.”  The warm weather may stretch back into the Midwest boosting
electricity consumption by as much as three times normal levels
in the region through early next week to meet air conditioning
needs, according to  David Salmon , owner of Weather Derivatives
in Belton, Missouri.  Commodities traders watch temperature outlooks and cooling-
degree-day forecasts to gauge energy use and demand. About 51
percent of U.S. households use gas for heating, according to the
Energy Department. Demand for gas from electricity generators
peaks in the summer months to meet air conditioning needs.  Ohio Valley  Parts of the Midwest, Ohio Valley and South may have
temperatures averaging 6 degrees below normal next week, Salmon
said. Much of the rest of the eastern U.S. will average about 2
degrees below normal from May 10 to May 14, he said.  By mid-May, the South will probably be 3 to 4 degrees below
normal while the Northeast has more seasonal weather, according
to MDA EarthSat Weather in Gaithersburg, Maryland.  Temperatures in the western U.S. may be 5 to 14 degrees
higher than normal from May 14 to May 18, according to MDA.  The normal average temperature for May 7 in New York is
about 60 degrees, according to MDA. It’s 55 in  Boston , 57 in
Chicago, 64 in  St. Louis , 68 in Atlanta, 73 in Dallas, 75 in
Houston, 55 in Seattle and 65 in Burbank, California.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  