-- Tiger Woods Misses Cut at Charlotte PGA Tour Event by One Shot
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 2012-05-05T04:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-04/tiger-woods-in-danger-of-missing-cut-at-charlotte-pga-tour-event.html
Tiger Woods  missed the two-round cut
at the  U.S. PGA Tour ’s Wells Fargo Championship, his first event
since last month’s  Masters Tournament .  Woods finished two rounds at the Quail Hollow Club in
 Charlotte ,  North Carolina , at even par, one shot outside of the
cut line of 1 under. He tied for 75th place. The top 70 players,
plus ties, advanced to weekend play.  The former No. 1-ranked golfer in the world began
yesterday’s round on the 10th hole following a 1-under-par 71 in
the first round. After a birdie on the 11th hole, Woods made
bogeys on the next two holes. He followed another birdie on the
17th with a bogey on the 18th. With nine holes to play, Woods
needed to make at least one birdie to have a better chance to
continue playing. He was unable to.  “It was frustrating,” Woods told reporters. “I’ve missed
my share of cuts in the past and they don’t feel good.”  The 36-year-old Woods, seventh in the  Official World Golf
Ranking , had last missed a cut at the  PGA Championship  in August
-- where he finished two rounds at 10 over par, six shots beyond
the cut line. He has missed the 36-hole cut seven other times in
U.S. PGA Tour events as a professional.  Woods tied for 40th at last month’s Masters at 5 over par,
his worst performance in golf’s first major tournament as a
professional.  A lot of his current struggles are the result of swing
changes Woods said he is still in the process of making under
new swing coach  Sean Foley .  “It takes time to get rid of old patterns,” Woods said.
“It takes hundreds of thousands if not millions of golf balls,
but eventually it comes around. We’ve changed a bunch of
different things, and every now and again I fall into the same
stuff, old stuff. That doesn’t work with a combo platter of old
and new. I’ve had my share of successes, and I know it’s
coming.”  Fan Takes Ball  On the par-5 fifth hole, Woods’s 14th of the day, his
second shot landed far to the left, leading to an extensive
search for the ball. After the ball couldn’t be found, a rules
official allowed Woods to drop another ball, without penalty. He
went on to par the hole.  “Based on the evidence I received, we determined that the
ball was picked up by a fan,” Mark Russell, the tour’s head
rules official, said in a statement.  Woods missed birdie putts on his final two holes, including
one from about four feet on his 17th.  Nick Watney  leads the tournament heading into weekend play
at 12 under, one shot ahead of  Webb Simpson  and two in front of
 Stewart Cink , Ben Crane, D.A. Points and  John Senden .  Woods is next scheduled to play at the Players
championship, beginning May 10.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Buteau in Atlanta at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 