-- Lincoln Made Nation Wait for Slave Edict: Lewis Lapham
-- B y   L e w i s   L a p h a m
-- 2012-05-05T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-04/lincoln-made-nation-wait-for-slave-edict-lewis-lapham.html
On New Year’s Eve 1862, black churches
in the northern states were crammed with praying, singing
congregations. At  Boston ’s  Music Hall , abolitionists heard
Beethoven’s Fifth while waiting for the expected news.  (To listen to the podcast, click  here .)  In September, President Lincoln had warned the rebel states
that all their slaves would be free on January 1 if they did not
rejoin the Union. Now he was to issue the Emancipation
Proclamation.  “Will Lincoln’s backbone carry him through?” asked
diarist George Templeton Strong. And, in fact, by 2 p.m. on New
Year’s Day there was still no word from  Washington .  For one, Lincoln had found a small error in the copy
brought for his signature and sent it back to be entirely
redone. In addition, the First Lady insisted he host their
annual East Room New Year’s reception.  A final delay came when Lincoln worried that his signature
would look too weak on the page since his fingers were “almost
paralyzed” from all the holiday handshaking.  After his circulation returned, Lincoln wrote out his full
name, smiled, and said, “That will do.”  He knew this was to be the great event of the 19th century.  I spoke with Harold Holzer, author of “Emancipating
Lincoln,” on the following topics:  1. Clouded Reputation  2. Saving the Union  3. Canny Politician  4. Vow with God  5. Day of Jubilee  To buy this book in  North America , click  here .  ( Lewis Lapham  is the founder of  Lapham’s Quarterly  and the
former editor of Harper’s magazine. He hosts “The World in
Time” interview series for Bloomberg News.)  Muse highlights include a roundup of  NYC Weekend  best bets
and a look at  movies .  To contact the writer on the story:
Lewis Lapham in  New York  at 
 lhl@laphamsquarterly.org .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 