-- Linde Profit Beats Estimates on China, North America
-- B y   S h e e n a g h   M a t t h e w s
-- 2012-05-04T08:01:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-04/linde-quarterly-profit-beats-estimates-on-china-u-s-.html
Linde AG (LIN) , the world’s second-biggest
maker of industrial gases, reported first-quarter profit that
beat analyst estimates on sales of liquefied gases in  China  and
cylinder gas in North America.  Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and
amortization advanced 6.2 percent to 808 million euros ($1.06
billion), the Munich-based company said today. Analysts surveyed
by Bloomberg had estimated 802.5 million euros.  The gas maker is building two air-separation plants in
Yantai and a plant for hydrogen and carbon in Chongqing in China
as it boosts the proportion of sales it gets from  emerging
markets . Business was “robust” in North America, Linde added,
echoing comments from larger rival  Air Liquide SA (AI)  last week that
demand is rising in  North America  and developing economies.  “Our profitable growth trend is intact,” Chief Financial
Officer Georg Denoke said on a conference call. “The start was
softer from a global recovery perspective in January and
February. But we have seen a very strong March, if not to say
the strongest March ever.”  Chief Executive Officer Wolfgang Reitzle said that he’s
confident of meeting targets for earnings and sales growth this
year as the company acquires  Air Products & Chemicals Inc. (APD) ’s
home care business for $752 million.  Pace of Recovery  “The pace of economic recovery still varies from region to
region,” Linde said in the release. “The highest growth rates
were once again to be seen in the emerging economies. Robust
trends were also visible in North America, whereas the increase
in demand in Western Europe was relatively modest.”  The shares fell 1.6 percent to 126.50 euros at 9:52 a.m. in
 Frankfurt . Germany’s benchmark DAX index was down 0.4 percent at
that time. Linde has gained 10 percent this year for a market
value of 21.7 billion euros.  Quarterly sales rose 5.4 percent to 3.51 billion euros,
beating a 3.47 billion-euro analyst estimate. Net income gained
1.1 percent to 287 million euros, ahead of a 268.3 million-euro
prediction in the Bloomberg survey.  The company also reiterated a target for operating profit
of at least 4 billion euros in 2014 and return on capital
employed of at least 14 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sheenagh Matthews in Frankfurt at 
 smatthews6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  