-- Indian Banks May Need $50 Billion Under Basel Rules, Fitch Says
-- B y   A n t o   A n t o n y
-- 2012-05-04T10:27:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-04/indian-banks-may-need-50-billion-under-basel-rules-fitch-says.html
Indian lenders  may have to raise as
much as $50 billion to add to their retained earnings to meet
Basel III  capital requirements  being set by the country’s
central bank, Fitch ratings said today.  More than 75 percent of the funds will be required during
the two years starting April 1, 2016, under new capital
guidelines issued by  Reserve Bank  of  India  on May 2, Fitch said
in a statement. Banks must be fully compliant with the new rules
by March 2019, according to the central bank.  Indian banks need to raise fresh funds at a time when their
financial performance is being pressured by slowing economic
growth and bad loans.  State Bank of India , the nation’s largest,
will be most affected by the higher capital requirements given
its share of the country’s banking system, followed by smaller
government banks that are less able to raise funds, Fitch senior
director Ananda Bhoumik said in the statement.  “The immediate impact of the Basel III capital regime is
benign,” she said, citing a common equity Tier 1 ratio for many
Indian banks close to 8 percent or higher.  Large private banks are likely to have less trouble meeting
the new rules, helped by stronger profits and higher  capital
ratios , according to Fitch. About half of the $40 billion needed
by government banks is likely to be injected by the government
to maintain majority shareholding, the rating company said.  “We are not expecting any immediate difficulty for Indian
banks in raising capital to comply with Basel norms,” M D Mallya, who heads the Indian Banks Association, said in an
interview today ahead of the Fitch report. “Indian lenders are
better capitalized than many of their global peers and can
comply with the new norms with relative ease.” He is also the
chairman of  Bank of Baroda. (BOB)   India’s sovereign credit outlook was lowered last month to
negative by  Standard & Poor’s , and is rated one step above junk
status. Fitch has an equivalent rating on the country’s debt
with a stable outlook.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anto Antony in  New Delhi  at 
 aantony1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at   csomayaji@bloomberg.net . 