-- Lions Gate Wins Approval for ‘The Hunger Games’ in China
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e   a n d   S h i v a u n e   F i e l d
-- 2012-05-05T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-04/lions-gate-wins-approval-for-the-hunger-games-in-china.html
Lions Gate Entertainment Corp. (LGF)  won
approval to release “The Hunger Games” in China, Chief
Executive Officer  Jon Feltheimer  said, gaining access to the
world’s third-biggest movie market.  “We got approved to be in China in cinema and that’s a big
move for that movie,” Feltheimer said in a May 2 interview at
the Milken Institute Global Conference in Beverly Hills,
California.  The year’s biggest film to date has collected $603.5
million in worldwide sales without China, which follows North
America and Japan in box-office receipts. Feltheimer didn’t
discuss details such as the release date.  Overseas sales of $228.5 million for “The Hunger Games”
have lagged behind revenue in the U.S. because Suzanne Collins’
trilogy of young-adult books aren’t well known internationally,
Feltheimer said. That will change by the time the second film,
“Catching Fire,” is released next year, he said.  China  is becoming more important to U.S. filmmakers as the
country adds more movie theaters, loosens restrictions on
Western films and seeks more co-productions. Box-office sales
there increased 35 percent to $2 billion in 2011, according to
the Motion Picture Association of America. U.S. receipts were
$10.2 billion, according to the group.  A 3-D version of the 1997 blockbuster “Titanic” has taken
in $134 million in China since it was released there on April
10, according to Box Office Mojo, a film researcher.  Lions Gate fell 3.6 percent to $11.47 at yesterday in  New
York  trading. The shares have gained 38 percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael White in  Los Angeles  at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net ;
Shivaune Field in Los Angeles at 
 sfield99@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  