-- Iowa Man Convicted of Mailing Threats, Bombs to Firms
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-05-04T18:08:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-04/iowa-man-convicted-of-mailing-threats-bombs-to-firms.html
An Iowa man was convicted of mailing
menacing letters to securities firms and pipe bombs to mutual-
fund managers  Janus Capital Group Inc. (JNS)  and American Century Cos.
in a bid to drive up the value of stocks he owned.  John Tomkins, 47, of Dubuque, was found guilty today of all
nine extortion counts, as well as three counts related to the
bombs. Jurors deliberated for about two hours after Tomkins,
acting as his own lawyer and witness, admitted during his two-
week trial in federal court in  Chicago  that he sent the letters,
while disputing prosecutors’ claim that he sent viable pipe
bombs to the mutual-fund companies.  “We’re satisfied by the jury’s swift verdict in this
case,” Assistant U.S. Attorney Patrick Pope, the lead
prosecutor, told reporters in the courthouse lobby. “We were
confident the jury would see the evidence for what it was.”  Tomkins was accused of seeking to influence share prices
for 3Com Corp., a computer-networking equipment maker now part
of  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ) , and for  Navarre Corp. (NAVR) , a software
distributor, from May 2005 to January 2007. Tomkins pleaded not
guilty after his arrest in 2007 and again when the indictment
was revised in 2009.  “I didn’t get what I wanted and nothing happened, did
it?” Tomkins testified during the trial. He told jurors he only
meant to scare people into action and didn’t intend to injure
anybody.  Francis Lipuma, the Chicago lawyer appointed by the court
to assist Tomkins, couldn’t immediately be reached for comment
on the verdict.  Pipe Bombs  When threatening letters to securities firms failed to spur
them to drive the two companies’ shares to $6.66, Tomkins sent
packages containing pipe bombs to Denver-based Janus and
 American Century  offices in  Kansas City ,  Missouri , with
threatening notes in January 2007.  “They were not destructive devices,” Tomkins testified on
May 3, tracking statutory language from the related charges, one
of which carries a mandatory minimum 30-year sentence.  Tomkins didn’t complete the circuitry in the battery-
powered devices, which contained gunpowder and shotgun pellets,
before mailing one each to American Century and Janus.  Still, “the bombs were very real and they were
terrifying,” Pope told the jury in his April 24 opening
comments.  ‘Reign of Terror’  Tom Brady , the U.S. Postal Service’s inspector in charge in
Chicago, today called the crimes a “reign of terror” and said
Tomkins’s arrest probably prevented him from mailing a live
bomb.  “I believe at some point he would connected them,” Brady
told reporters after the verdict.  The U.S. government collected evidence from Tomkins’s car,
home, computer and a storage locker tying him to the letters,
as well as the devices mailed to Janus and American Century from
Rolling Meadows, Illinois, in January 2007, Pope told the jury.
Investigators also found that Tomkins held stock in both 3Com
and Navarre during the letter-writing campaign, Brady said.  Some of the letters Tomkins sent were signed, “the
Bishop,” a moniker he told jurors was derived from a science
fiction novel written by  Harry Harrison . They also contained a
phrase inspired by John Milton’s “ Paradise Lost :” “It is
better to reign in hell than to serve in heaven.”  Sentencing is tentatively scheduled for Aug. 6.  Tomkins was charged with nine counts of mailing
threatening communications with intent to extort a thing of
value, each punishable by as long as 20 years imprisonment. Two
more counts were for possessing an unregistered destructive
device, punishable by as long as 10 years in prison.  He also was accused of possessing and using a destructive
device while committing a crime of violence, which carries a
mandatory minimum sentence of 30 years in prison and must be
served consecutively with the sentence for any other conviction.  The case is U.S. v. Tomkins, 07-cr-227, U.S. District Court
for the Northern District of  Illinois  (Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  