-- Tisch Beats Buffett With 8% Return Citing Diana Ross
-- B y   R i c h a r d   T e i t e l b a u m
-- 2012-05-04T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-04/tisch-beats-buffett-with-8-return-citing-diana-ross.html
Loews Corp. Chief Executive Officer
James Tisch is the dealmaker who won’t make a deal.  He has almost $50 billion to invest, including premiums
from an insurance company his New York-based conglomerate owns.
Yet Tisch hasn’t made a big purchase in five years, holding off
even during the 2008 and 2009 financial meltdown, when the
 Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  fell more than 50 percent.  Tisch gives a musical answer when asked about acquisitions.
“Do you remember Diana Ross and the Supremes?” he muses in his
seventh-floor office on the East Side of Manhattan. He then
breaks into a smooth, tenor rendition of one of the Motown
trio’s 1960s hits.  “You can’t hurry love,” Tisch croons, slicing the air with
his hand. “No, you just have to wait.”  Tisch, 59, says he won’t rush into any big purchase, partly
because hungry private-equity firms are driving up prices. Other
U.S. corporate chieftains are equally reluctant. The companies
in the S&P Industrial Index, which excludes financial firms and
utilities, are holding a record stash of more than $1 trillion
and, like Loews, are using some of their cash to buy their own
shares rather than taking on new enterprises in a shaky economy.  Even while counseling patience,  Jim Tisch  and his
management team have outperformed the value investor and serial
acquirer to whom they’re often compared:  Warren Buffett . Since
Tisch took over the top spot at Loews in December 1998, the
firm’s shares have returned 8 percent annualized through the end
of March, almost double the 4.3 percent  return  of the Class A
stock of Buffett’s  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) , a company more than
10 times Loews’ size.  Book Value  Growth in Loews’ book value per share -- a metric favored
by Buffett -- has averaged 10 percent annualized from 1998
through 2011 compared with 8.1 percent for its Omaha, Nebraska-
based rival.  “That’s validation of Loews’s ability to allocate capital,”
says Fred Fialco, a portfolio manager at  Torray LLC , a Bethesda,
Maryland-based investment firm that owns Loews shares. “They
know how to compound earnings.”  Jim Tisch guides Loews as part of a triumvirate. He’s
president and CEO; his brother Andrew, 62, and their cousin
Jonathan, 58, are co-chairmen. Together, they run a conglomerate
with a $15.2 billion market capitalization as of April 10 that
traces its origins to a single New Jersey hotel bought more than
six decades ago by Jim’s late father, Laurence, and his late
uncle, Robert.  21% Family Stake  Collectively, Jim, Andrew and their mother, Wilma, together
with Jonathan and his mother, Joan,  own  21.2 percent of Loews
shares, worth $3.2 billion on April 10, according to government
filings. Loews holdings of other family members haven’t been
made public.  The company now oversees 17 luxury hotels in the U.S. and
Canada, insurer  CNA (CNA)  Financial Corp., four dozen oil rigs and
drill ships, a $2 billion natural gas exploration company, and
pipelines that carry 11 percent of America’s average daily
natural gas consumption.  Robert’s side of the family controls 50 percent of the
Super Bowl champion  New York Giants  football team, run by
Jonathan’s brother Steve. The Tisches also have their name
attached to numerous  New York  institutions, including Tisch
Hospital at the NYU Langone Medical Center, the Tisch School of
the Arts at New York University and the Tisch Galleries at the
Metropolitan Museum of Art.  Buffett is Spending  Today, Jim Tisch faces a choice. After spending $1.5
billion to buy back shares since 2008, he must decide whether to
leverage Loews cash to go after the kind of beaten-down assets
that have generated dramatic gains for him in the past.  Buffett has been spending: In September, he paid $9.7
billion for Wickliffe, Ohio-based  Lubrizol Corp. , a specialty
chemical maker.  Tisch has been holding back.  “We have asbestos-lined pockets,” he says, using a favorite
phrase. “We don’t let cash burn a hole in them.”  One reason Loews has outperformed Buffett -- who was a
friend and bridge partner of Larry Tisch -- is that Jim Tisch,
the consummate contrarian, bought such assets as rigs and
 pipelines  near cyclical lows. He also was willing to divest
assets -- something Buffett seldom does -- by selling watchmaker
Bulova Corp. in 2008 for $263 million and spinning off tobacco
giant  Lorillard Inc. (LO)  the same year.  Lorillard was a big contributor to Loews’s cash flow and
profits and thus helped drive up its stock price from 1998
through 2008.  30% Buyback  Tisch’s readiness to buy his own stock has also
distinguished him from Buffett, and has pushed up Loews shares.
He has reduced the company’s publicly traded shares by about 30
percent since 1998, taking advantage of the stock often being
priced at a deep discount to the value of the companies Loews
controls.  In mid-April, the discount to the value of Loews’
subsidiaries and other holdings was more than 25 percent. Three
of the units -- Boardwalk Pipeline Partners LP,  Diamond (DO)  Offshore
Drilling Inc. and CNA -- are, like Loews itself, publicly
traded.  “The market underestimates Jim Tisch’s skill as an
allocator of capital,” says Michael Price, founder of MFP
Investors LLC and an ex-Loews director. “If I owned Berkshire
Hathaway, I’d sell it and buy Loews.”  Companies across the U.S. landscape are following Tisch’s
lead, husbanding cash and buying back shares. As of the end of
2011, S&P Industrial Index companies had increased the  cash  they
held for 13 consecutive quarters.  ‘Corporate Uncertainty’  “The cash accumulation is the result of corporate
uncertainty,” senior S&P Indices analyst Howard Silverblatt
says. “Until they have a clearer picture of the economic climate
and policies, they will continue to move slowly and invest
slowly.”  Share buybacks by S&P 500 companies totaled $409.1 billion
in 2011, up from $298.8 billion the year before. Last September,
Buffett joined the parade, launching a share repurchase plan,
though in a small way. In his Feb. 25 shareholder letter,
Buffett said Berkshire had repurchased $67 million in shares --
a tiny percentage of its $195 billion market capitalization on
April 10.  “We like making money for continuing shareholders, and
there’s no surer way to do that than by buying an asset -- our
own stock,” he wrote, adding that such purchases need to be made
at a price that’s below the company’s intrinsic value.  Berkshire stopped buying when the stock reached 110 percent
of book value.  Contrarian Investor  Tisch made his reputation as a contrarian  value  investor.
In 1982, as a vice president in Loews’s investing department, he
bought seven supertankers for $6 million each, less than their
scrap value, and unloaded the last of them in 2004 for almost 10
times that amount. In 1992, he bought 39 offshore drilling rigs
for about $372 million, half what a single new rig costs today.
And it was on Tisch’s watch in 1999 that CNA turned a $9 million
investment in telecommunications giant Global Crossing Ltd. into
a $1.9 billion profit in three years.  “He learned at his father’s feet,” says Ray Dalio, founder
of Bridgewater Associates LP, the Westport, Connecticut-based
hedge fund, who remembers talking about global markets over
lunch with Larry Tisch in the early 1980s. “I’ve watched it come
full circle.”  Jim Tisch today oversees a vastly different company than
the one run by his uncle and father -- who was best known for
his stint as CEO of  CBS Corp. (CBS)  Loews has majority control of
three Houston energy companies: 50.4 percent of Diamond Offshore
Drilling Inc.; 61 percent of  Boardwalk (BWP)  Pipeline Partners LP, a
gas pipeline master limited partnership; and all of unlisted
HighMount Exploration & Production LLC, a gas company operating
in the Southwest.  Regency Hotel  Loews owns 90 percent of Chicago-based CNA and all of New
York-based Loews Hotels Holding Corp., which is anchored by
Manhattan’s 354-room  Loews Regency Hotel .  In early March, a block east of the Regency, Jim Tisch
leans in the doorway of the narrow, 16-desk Loews trading floor
as the investment department, headed by Chief Investment Officer
Richard Scott, begins its morning meeting. The 50-person team is
charged with deploying $50 billion in assets.  First up is the U.S. Treasury desk: “The two-year auction
went well; the five-year auction is today,” a portfolio manager
says. “I think the auction should go fine.”  Later, an equities manager gives a report on computer maker
 Dell Inc. (DELL)  “Revenues barely grew,” he says. “Earnings were soft;
the stock is indicated down 5 percent.”  Three Money Pots  Scott, 58, who came to Loews from insurer  American
International Group Inc. (AIG) , manages three pots of money. First is
CNA Financial’s $44.4 billion of paid-in premiums, as of
December 2011, which because of state regulations and rating
company requirements are invested mostly in fixed income, even
though 10-year Treasuries yielded less than 2 percent in mid-
April.  “That’s not great for an insurance company,” Scott says.  The second pot is the $2.5 billion managed mostly for the
pension plans of the Loews corporate office and CNA. The goal:
beating a Loews-designed benchmark primarily made up of stocks
and bonds. A big chunk of this money is in 30 hedge funds. The
aim is to generate relatively stable gains, not to shoot out the
lights, Scott says.  Third is Loews’ $3.6 billion of  cash  and liquid securities
as disclosed in early March. That pool has three mandates, Scott
says: to fund strategic acquisitions; to bolster portfolios or
make bridge loans; and to make opportunistic investments.  Away from the trading floor, the Loews headquarters is a
portrait of informality, as Tisch family members traipse through
the building and employees gather for on-the-fly meetings.  ‘Keep It Simple’  “We want to be as collaborative as possible,” says Andrew Tisch, who adds that face-to-face discussion is favored over
memos and reports: “Keep it simple, open doors, shirt sleeves --
and talk about it, don’t write about it.”  Observers say the Tisch clan is exceptionally close-knit.
“There is such a family sense of respect,” says Loews board
member Charles Diker, chairman of  Cantel Medical Corp. (CMN)  “There is
a warmth that I’ve never seen elsewhere.”  Jim and Andrew occupy adjacent offices. Jim’s is a 19- by
17-foot (5.8- by 5.2-meter) space decorated with a brooding,
black Richard Serra canvas, family photos and shelves of bric-a-
brac he has picked up, including a trillion-dollar note from
Zimbabwe and a replica of a New York street sign reading Jim
Tisch Way. Cousin Jonathan, one floor below, oversees Loews
hotels.  The three Tisches are equal  members  of the “office of the
president,” which guides policy.  Never Overruled  “At the end of the day, Jimmy is the CEO and has the power
to overrule,” says Andrew Tisch, who wears French cuffs and dark
suits. “We’ve never been overruled. We find a consensus. We work
very hard to work together.”  Family management has been part of the Tisch ethos for four
generations. In 1946, Larry Tisch, fresh out of the U.S. Army,
where he worked as a code-breaker for the Office of Strategic
Services, a predecessor to the  CIA , persuaded his parents to buy
a faded hotel in the resort town of Lakewood, New Jersey. The
brothers turned it around, with Larry handling the books and
Robert schmoozing customers.  With the cash they generated, the Tisches were off,
purchasing and renting run-down properties in the Catskills,
Florida and Atlantic City, New Jersey. Beginning in 1949, the
next generation of Tisches was born, seven siblings and cousins
in all. The two families briefly lived together in a single
house near Atlantic City, even sharing a checking account.  Loew’s Theatres  By 1959, Larry and Robert had found an underpriced company
to buy: Loew’s Theatres, owner of 102 movie houses and the WMGM
radio station in New York. After spending $10.5 million for a
controlling 28 percent stake, in 1960 they sold the radio
station alone for $11 million, according to “The King of Cash,”
a book about Larry Tisch by Christopher Winans (Wiley, 1995).  In 1969, Loew’s also began selling off the theaters, and in
1970 it created holding company  Loews Corp. (L) , without the
apostrophe.  The template was set: Find distressed or cyclical assets
offered by motivated sellers, gain control and sell off
unrelated businesses to earn back the original investment.  In 1968, Loews bought Lorillard. Larry Tisch said later
that the tobacco company wasn’t cheap, yet they were able to get
it for a package of Loews subordinated debt and warrants, with
no cash expended.  “It was simply an acquisition that made a lot of sense,”
says Andrew Tisch, who served as CEO and chairman. “It had
excellent cash flow; it had excellent assets.” He says the furor
over the health effects of  cigarettes  hadn’t yet begun. “It was
a different world back then,” he says. “It was not a demonized
business.”  CNA a Bargain  In 1974, Loews found another bargain: It paid a split-
adjusted $2.50 a share for 51 percent of CNA, which in addition
to selling insurance ran nursing homes and owned part of a
dental equipment maker, which were soon sold.  Loews Corp.’s highest-profile purchase came in 1986, when
it bought a 20 percent-plus stake in CBS. Larry Tisch ran it for
nine years, selling divisions and raising hackles among
journalists, especially in March 1987, when he fired 215 members
of the news staff. In 1995, Loews sold CBS to Westinghouse
Electric for $5.4 billion, generating a roughly $2 billion
profit.  By that time, Jim Tisch had come of age. After earning a
Master of Business Administration from the  Wharton School  of the
University of Pennsylvania in 1977, he eventually went to work
in the investment department at Loews. The 1982 supertanker deal
whetted his appetite for energy assets.  Glut of Crude  In 1989, with the world swamped by a glut of crude, oil
rigs were cheap. Tisch went looking to buy a single rig and
ended up buying all of Diamond M Co. for what the Houston
Chronicle reported as $59 million in cash and debt. Three years
later, Diamond M spent $372 million for Odeco Drilling, owner of
39 rigs. Recently, a new rig cost twice that.  Beginning in 2003, Tisch made another series of sweet
deals, this time with pipelines. Heavily indebted power
companies were scrambling to unload assets to raise cash
following Enron Corp.’s bankruptcy. In May of that year, Loews
paid $1.05 billion to buy Texas Gas Transmission LLC from
Williams Cos. The next year, Loews paid $1.14 billion for Gulf
South Pipeline LP. The assets were combined and christened
Boardwalk Pipeline, which was taken  public  in 2005.  As of April 10, the listed partnership units had a market
value of $5.5 billion. Last year, Loews reaped $282 million in
distributions from its various Boardwalk holdings.  Sum of the Parts  On a March afternoon, Tisch leans back in his chair and
points to a fever line on his computer terminal. He’s wearing
wire-rim glasses, an orange-and-green tie and a rumpled, white
button-down shirt. The line on the screen shows the combined
value of Loews positions in Boardwalk, CNA Financial and Diamond
Offshore in real time.  The news isn’t good. As of April 10, the three add up to
$35.52. Loews’s disclosed net cash and liquid securities at the
time add $7.39 a share, which means that Loews stock, at $38.39
a share, is trading at a 10.5 percent discount to the value of
the three listed companies, the cash and the securities.  To get to the full discount, one must add unlisted
HighMount, which Arlington, Virginia-based  BGB Securities Inc. 
says is worth $5.04 per Loews share, while Loews Hotels adds
$1.79 a share and additional assets of Boardwalk contribute
another $4.27. That adds up to $54.01, meaning Loews traded at a
28.9 percent discount to the sum of its parts on April 10.  One conclusion: Wall Street doesn’t respect Tisch’s asset
allocation skills.  “I’m taking the view that we’re a failure at promoting the
stock,” he says.  Devils and Angels  Tisch says he envisions himself as a cartoon character with
a devil on his left shoulder and an angel on the right.  “The angel says, ‘Explain the Loews story to everyone; tell
them about the discount,’” he says. “Then the devil is
whispering, ‘Don’t do anything. Just file the 10-Ks, and the
stock will remain cheap for you to buy back.’”  Loews share buybacks take advantage of the so-called
conglomerate discount, in which the market penalizes holding
companies because Wall Street now considers them too complex. On
its  website  and at conferences, Loews tells potential investors
that the discount makes the stock a bargain.  Conglomerates Unravel  In the 1960s and ’70s, conglomerates were popular among
investors, who saw them as deft asset allocators. Companies with
multiple businesses such as  ITT Corp. (ITT)  had price-earnings
multiples of 20 or higher. That gave them the currency to buy
cheap companies with their high-priced shares, says Bill
Mitchell, editor of Spinoff & Reorg Profiles, an  Irvine ,
California-based  newsletter .  The dynamic has worked in reverse since then. Today,
companies with a variety of businesses are selling or spinning
them off. Loews’s shedding of Bulova and Lorillard follows the
pattern. Jim Tisch says one reason Loews sold Lorillard is that
Loews shares were being dragged down by investor worries over
tobacco-related  litigation .  The government crackdown on tobacco marketing landed Andrew
Tisch in the congressional dock in April 1994. Andrew, who was
Lorillard CEO at the time, testified along with six other
tobacco executives before the House Subcommittee on Health and
the Environment. In the course of the hearing, Oregon
Representative Ron Wyden asked each of the seven whether he
believed nicotine was addictive.  “I believe nicotine is not addictive,” Tisch said at the
time. His six rivals all made the same or similar statements.  Danger in the Dark  As he contemplates his next move, Jim Tisch dwells on the
downside of acquisitions. Last year, he told analyst Sam Yake of
BGB Securities that buying a company is like entering a pitch-
black room where all kinds of dangers lurk. By soaking up Loews
stock at a discount to its market value, he’s buying shares of
five companies he knows.  Scott Black , founder of Boston-based Delphi Management
Inc., says the Loews lineup needs to generate more profit
growth.  “The individual pieces are just not exciting,” says Black,
who has owned Loews stock in the past. “There’s great asset
value, but they can’t grow the earnings. Though Jim Tisch is a
smart manager, we look for things with high returns on equity.”  Loews’s earnings  were $0.92 a share in the first quarter of
2012, the same as the year ago period.  ‘Like a Turtle’  Yake says that Loews’s current holdings are highly
cyclical, and that the firm should hunt more aggressively for
acquisitions.  “You can’t argue with success, but they move like a turtle
with two broken legs,” Yake says.  One reason Loews hasn’t bought: competition from U.S.
private-equity firms, which in April had access to $424 billion
in capital to invest, according to  PitchBook Data Inc. , a
Seattle-based research firm. As a result, the average leveraged
buyout in 2011 was priced at 8.3 times free cash flow compared
with 6.8 times free cash flow in 2009.  “The private-equity firms are the most motivated buyers out
there,” says Colin Blaydon, director of the Center for Private
Equity and Entrepreneurship at Dartmouth College’s Tuck School
of Business. “They have a lot of money to put to work.”  Some investors say Tisch’s patience is to his credit.  “He’s not caught up in the frenzy,” says Israel Englander,
founder of Millennium Management LLC, a New York-based hedge
fund. “He’ll pick his spot.”  Troubleshooting  Meanwhile, Tisch is busy at the companies Loews owns. CNA
Financial traded at more than a 30 percent discount to its book
value on April 10. HighMount faces natural gas prices that
dropped below $2 per million British thermal units in mid-April,
down from a peak of $13.58 in mid-2008. And Diamond Offshore
faces criticism that its rig fleet is among the industry’s
oldest, averaging almost 30 years.  Jim Tisch and Diamond Offshore CEO Larry Dickerson say they
have just been buying low and selling high. With oil demand and
prices sky-high in 2008, rivals such as Hamilton, Bermuda-based
 Seadrill Ltd. (SDRL)  ordered fleets of new rigs. Prices topped $750
million each, according to IHS Inc., an Englewood, Colorado-
based research and information firm.  Diamond Offshore instead continued its program of
overhauling its older rigs, stripping them to their hulls and
refurbishing them with new gear. Cost: $300 million or less
each. Tisch estimates that the rigs have 85 percent of the
capabilities of new builds, at less than 60 percent of the cost.
The rate to lease the rebuilt Ocean Victory peaked at $560,000 a
day, close to what IHS says is an industry high of about
$600,000.  Drill Ships  As new rig demand plunged in 2009 and the global economy
contracted, Diamond Offshore bought two new rigs, Valor and
Courage, for $490 million and $460 million at auction -- 35 and
39 percent discounts from the 2008 high. They entered service in
2010 and 2011. Diamond also ordered three deepwater drill ships
-- BlackHornet, BlackHawk and BlackRhino -- which will be
delivered during the next three years at prices ranging from
$590 million to $610 million, compared with a 2008 market peak
of $775 million to $950 million.  With the money saved by postponing new builds, Diamond
Offshore issued special dividends. Loews reaped $2.15 billion in
payouts from 2006 to 2011. A recent Credit Suisse Group AG
report ranks Diamond Offshore’s five-year, 31.9 percent  return
on capital  employed as the best in the industry.  Says Diamond’s Dickerson: “We tower over our competition.”  Too Much Gas  Tisch hasn’t always caught the market low. In 2007, with
gas at $6.19 per million BTUs, Loews paid $4.03 billion for gear
and fields with 2.5 trillion cubic feet of proven gas reserves
or equivalent. By mid-2008, gas prices had more than doubled.  “We thought we were brilliant,” Tisch says.  Then the market turned. The debut of hydraulic fracturing,
or fracking, in which sand and chemical-infused water is
injected into rock under pressure to release hydrocarbons,
dramatically increased production and sent prices plunging to
$2.03 on April 10. Loews gas subsidiary HighMount, largely by
controlling costs, is making money anyway; it earned $62 million
in 2011 on revenue of $390 million.  Tisch predicts that prices will rise as power producers
switch from oil and coal to cheap gas.  CNA has been a longer-running headache. The man in charge
of revamping it is CEO Thomas Motamed, who joined the firm from
insurer  Chubb Corp. (CB)  in January 2009. When he arrived,
underwriting at CNA had been so consistently poor that it
wouldn’t have posted any  profits  during the previous 15 years if
it hadn’t reaped investment gains.  Insurance Mess  “Anything that came under the door from agents that had a
big dollar sign on it, they wanted to write,” Motamed says.  Motamed hired new management. He has refocused on selling
property and casualty insurance to seven key markets:
construction, financial, health care, manufacturing, technology,
professional services and small business.  “Directionally, they’re improving,” Bank of America Merrill
Lynch insurance analyst Jay Cohen says. “They still have a long
way to go.”  If CNA Financial, based on its April 10 price, were to
improve so that it traded just at the industry average of about
book value, it would add $3.5 billion to Loews’s worth. Tisch
says the insurer has turned a corner.  “It’s been a very long corner,” he says.  Hotels are now Loews’ smallest business, but they’re a
sentimental favorite with Jim, Andrew and Jonathan. The trio got
started working at  Loews hotels , and they eat breakfast at
Manhattan’s Loews Regency several times a week when they’re in
town, greeting customers that on one recent morning included
former  Citigroup Inc. (C)  chief Sandy Weill and New England Patriots
owner Robert Kraft.  Hotel Expansion  Jonathan Tisch, who oversees the hotels, has big plans for
them. He expects there will be 30 within 10 years, to take
advantage of global growth in travel.  “We need to be in cities like Boston, Chicago, San
Francisco and Washington, D.C.,” he says.  Loews is also investing in the next generation of Tisches.
Jim’s son Benjamin, 30, manages a portfolio for Loews that seeks
to profit from global economic trends, while Andrew’s son Alex,
33, evaluates prospective acquisitions.  Jim Tisch says it’s too early to talk about succession;
he’s having too much fun.  “I love it; it plays very well into my adult-onset
attention-deficit disorder,” he says, joking. “There’s always
something new.”  And that next acquisition? As Diana Ross put it, “You got
to trust, give it time, no matter how long it takes.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Teitelbaum in New York at 
 rteitelbaum1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Serrill at 
 mserrill@bloomberg.net . 