-- Hitting Argentina for Oil Seizure Can Hurt U.S. Interests
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-05-04T00:32:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-04/hitting-argentina-for-oil-seizure-can-hurt-u-s-interests.html
Argentina ’s Lower House voted on
Thursday to approve the expropriation of 51 percent of YPF SA,
the country’s largest oil company. Expect more international
outrage in weeks to come, when President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner  announces how little she plans to pay  Spain ’s Repsol
YPF SA, the previous owner, for its stake, which it values at
more than $10 billion.  Then take a deep breath and move on, because most efforts
by other nations to punish Argentina promise to be ineffectual
and counterproductive. That’s a job best left to the markets.  The YPF takeover is just the latest snook that Argentina
has cocked at investors, creditors and policy makers around the
globe: In 2007, Fernandez’s predecessor (and husband)  Nestor Kirchner  began skewing the country’s official inflation rate,
prompting censure by the  International Monetary Fund . In 2008,
Fernandez nationalized $24 billion of private pension funds. In
2009, she did the same to Aerolineas Argentinas SA.  In 2010, Fernandez forced out the central bank’s governor
and began tapping its reserves to pay off debt. Yet Argentina
still owes the members of the  Paris Club  $9 billion from its
infamous 2001 default, has not settled with several private debt
holders, and has more cases pending with the  International
Center for Settlement of Investment Disputes  than any other
nation.  High Dudgeon  Argentina’s trading partners and investors have responded
to its wayward behavior with high dudgeon. Spain has threatened
to cut imports of Argentinian biofuels. The European Union has
delayed economic talks. The IMF has closed its office in  Buenos
Aires  and given Argentina  until September  to rectify its
statistics on inflation and gross domestic product. The U.S.
announced in September it would vote against multilateral loans
for Argentina until further notice, and last month it revoked
trade preferences for Argentina because of its failure to pay
arbitration awards to two U.S. companies.  Fernandez, however, has Argentine  public opinion  on her
side. Her takeover of YPF was backed by more than 60 percent of
those polled. Mixing high drama with low politics, she has
repeatedly wrong-footed her weak and disorganized domestic
opponents and successfully played on public resentment over the
rushed privatizations of the 1990s (which included Aerolineas
and the pension funds) and the huge privations that followed
after the 2001 default.  Moreover, thanks partly to a commodity boom, Fernandez has
kept Argentina’s economy growing and unemployment low, even as
she has manipulated economic policies. She has demonstrated time
and again that she doesn’t care what the outside world thinks.  That doesn’t mean Argentina should be allowed to violate
international agreements and obligations with impunity. Members
of the  World Trade Organization  should vigorously pursue their
complaints about Argentina’s rising wall of import restrictions.
The IMF and its members should push Argentina to bring its
statistics up to snuff. Companies and their national governments
should keep the pressure on Argentina to make good on damages
that have been awarded.  But if such pressure is not carefully targeted, it can
backfire. Consider the U.S. decision to vote against almost all
multilateral loans for Argentina. The U.S. lacks the clout to
make the ban stick -- at the  Inter-American Development Bank ,
for example, no other country has followed its lead. To the
extent that the move sends a signal, it is an unfortunate one:
the familiar heavy hand of  Uncle Sam , albeit one now holding a
rather diminished stick. Moreover, some of these loans -- like  
one  approved last November to buttress Argentina’s finance
ministry -- are intended to strengthen the administrative sinews
of Argentina’s public sector, whose weakness has been exploited
by Fernandez. The U.S. should reconsider what seems a largely
self-defeating strategy.  Argentine Borgia  The U.S. should also keep in mind that Fernandez’s
political maneuvers have more in common with the Borgias than
with  Fidel Castro  of Cuba or  Hugo Chavez  of  Venezuela . In 1993,
she and her husband supported YPF’s privatization. Now she has
reversed it. At the same time, she’s also soliciting offers from
foreign  oil companies  to operate some of YPF’s fields. She would
doubtless welcome foreign investors willing to develop
Argentina’s shale gas reserves -- and, given that they are the
world’s third largest, inevitably they will come, regardless of
Repsol’s unhappy experience and whatever outlandish terms she
sets.  Eventually, her misguided economic policies may cause her
government’s undoing. Argentina’s refusal to settle with its
holdout creditors has cut it off from global credit markets, and
left it reliant on increasingly dubious mechanisms to service
its rescheduled debts. Foreign investment is  shrinking . Capital
flight is growing. Subsidies on utilities and transportation are
increasing government deficits, and caps on rates have made it
less profitable for energy companies to invest. Private
economists put Argentina’s inflation at more than double the
government’s stated figure of  around 9 percent .  Rather than play the role of outside oppressor in
Fernandez’s well-scripted narrative, the U.S. and other
countries should let Argentina’s house of cards collapse of its
own accord. Don’t restrict visas for Argentinian officials or
try to throw it out of the Group of 20, as  some  have recommended;
instead, rely on countries like  Mexico  and  Brazil  to apply
suasion at June’s G-20 meeting, and otherwise do what can be
done to strengthen Argentina’s democratic institutions.  From regional power politics and  United Nations 
peacekeeping to nonproliferation, the U.S. has interests with
Argentina that go beyond just collecting unpaid bills. The best
way to advance them is to take the high road and the long view.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: the View editors on poor  corporate
governance at tech companies ;  Michael Kinsley  on  Mitt Romney’s
former spokesman ; Virginia Postrel on the economic folly of
 recycling eyeglasses ;  Susan Antilla  on  mandatory arbitration ;
and Jonathan Cohn and David Strauss on making  health-care reform
work .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 