-- January Jones, Langone, Tisch, Fink, Rockefeller: Scene
-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 2012-05-04T15:06:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-04/january-jones-langone-tisch-fink-rockefeller-scene.html
January Jones , who plays the well-
situated but unhappy Betty in “ Mad Men ,” said she’s a saver,
not a spender on the red carpet last night.  “I try to wear clothes that don’t need to be dry
cleaned,” Jones said, sporting a dress by  Mary Katrantzou  and
shoes by  Sergio Rossi , both borrowed, she noted.  Jones said she doesn’t collect art, drive a fancy car or
live in a big house, “but I do like to spend on shoes.”  The occasion was a Christie’s International party held with
La Mer and the conservation group Oceana before the May 8
auction of the Yves Klein painting “FC 1.” That meant Jones
got to shake hands with the chief executive officer of the
auction house, Steven Murphy. Some of the proceeds from the sale
will go to Oceana, Murphy said.  Susan Rockefeller brought the ocean to the event, in her
OPI nail polish, Beauty and the Beach, a “tealy blue” color
she designed, which will be available soon on her website,
 SusanRockefeller.com .  “I’d love to be by the ocean right now,” Jones said.  Meanwhile, it was the night of dueling hospital galas.  NYU Langone Medical Center had 725 guests and raised $4.2
million at its Violet Ball at Cipriani 42nd Street.  The  Mount Sinai Medical Center  drew almost 1,300 guests and
raised more than $3 million at its Crystal Party, held in a tent
in Central Park’s Conservatory Garden.  Langone Praise  “Good for them,” said Ken Langone, chairman of NYU
Langone’s board and co-founder of Home Depot, when told of the
simultaneous events.  “I had no idea,” said Peter May, chairman of Mount
Sinai’s board of trustees and the president and founding partner
of Trian Fund Management LP. “The Crystal Party is always on
the first Thursday of May,” he said. By coincidence, he was
wearing a violet-striped tie and pocket square.  May said his job at the gala was to “make sure everybody
has a good time,” including  Jim Tisch , president and chief
executive of Loews Corp. (whose business is the subject of a
profile in the June issue of Bloomberg Markets magazine), Marc Utay, managing partner of Clarion Capital Partners LLC, and
 Glenn Dubin , chairman and CEO of Highbridge Capital Management
LLC.  Langone said his job was “to thank as many people as
possible,” including  Larry Fink , chairman and CEO of  BlackRock
Inc (BLK) , and Helen Kimmel, the namesake of a patient pavilion under
construction, for which she gave $150 million.  Tisch Drama  The NYU party featured a performance by the NYU Tisch
School of the Arts Drama Cantorum, and lilacs and peonies on the
tables. The appetizer was gravlax.  The Mount Sinai party featured dancing to a DJ under
multiple crystal chandeliers. Salmon was the main course, served
with fennel and Portobello mushrooms.  David Windreich, head of U.S. investing at  Och-Ziff Capital
Management Group LLC (OZM) , was a chairman of the Mount Sinai gala.  “There’s a real humanity about the place,” said
Windreich. “By virtue of its location it serves one of the
richest and one of the most underprivileged areas of the city.”
The medical complex is spread across lower Harlem and the Upper
East Side in  Manhattan .  As for business, May said he’s been “feeling pretty
bullish” as the economy is “really starting to pick up.” He
said he’s invested in consumer-retail companies such as Tiffany
& Co.,  Wendy’s Co. (WEN)  and  Family Dollar Stores Inc. (FDO)   Langone said he stops into a Home Depot store a couple of
times a week.  Carts of Flowers  “We see him often,” said district manager Robert
Solewski. “He buys carts of flowers, and those outdoor heating
lamps.”  Langone said he goes to the stores to check up on his
business.  “I don’t do home improvement myself,” he added.  Also last night, at the American Cancer Society Taste of
Hope fundraiser at 82 Mercer, chef Todd English said his
restaurant Olives at the W at Union Square will be reopening
Monday.  “The bar will be bigger so it will definitely cater to the
finance crowd,” said English, the event’s honoree whose sister
passed away from  breast cancer .  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  Today’s Muse highlights include:  Lewis Lapham  on  history ,
 New York   weekend .  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 