-- Jobs Won’t Come Unless U.S. Leaders Take Action on Growth
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-05-04T13:44:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-04/jobs-won-t-come-unless-u-s-leaders-take-action-on-growth.html
Today’s disappointing employment
report demonstrates the stark reality facing U.S. policy makers:
If they want to create more jobs, they will have to find a way
to generate more economic growth.  The Labor Department reported that U.S. nonfarm payrolls
grew by 115,000 in April, bringing the three-month average
increase to 176,000. That’s down from a three-month average of
252,000 in February. It’s also just barely enough to reduce the
 unemployment rate , which inched down to 8.1 percent in April
from 8.2 percent in March as the number of people looking for
work declined.  The weakening trend confirms a fundamental tenet of
economics: It takes better-than-average momentum to achieve a
significant decline in unemployment. According to a rule of
thumb known as Okun’s Law -- named after  Arthur Okun , an
economic adviser to presidents  John F. Kennedy  and  Lyndon B. Johnson  -- growth must exceed its long-term potential rate by
two percentage points to lower unemployment by one percentage
point.  For a while, the labor market seemed to be defying this
rule of thumb. The jobless rate fell 0.9 percentage point in
2011, even though the economy grew at an inflation-adjusted rate
of only 1.7 percent, well below the 2 percent to 3 percent that
most economists believe to be its long-term potential.  Temporary Catch-Up  Now, though, that surprising burst is looking more like a
temporary catch-up after the lackluster job growth of the early
part of the recovery. The trajectory of the employment-to-
population ratio in the three months through April suggests no
actual progress in reducing unemployment. This is more in line
with economists’ average forecast of 2.3 percent output growth
this year, and with their expectation that the jobless rate will
still be well above 7 percent at the end of 2014.  How, then, can U.S. policy makers improve the jobs picture?
The obvious answer is more growth through fiscal stimulus.
 Research  shows that added  government spending  tends to be
particularly effective at times like these, when  interest rates 
are extremely low and long-term unemployment is threatening to
do permanent damage. The growth boost could actually reduce the
U.S. government’s debt burden.  Unfortunately, Congress seems likely to do precisely the
opposite. Economists at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. estimate that
the waning of government stimulus, together with spending cuts
already enacted, will shave about 1.5 percentage points off
economic growth in 2013. If politicians can’t agree on a way to
extend some of the Bush tax cuts beyond the end of this year and
to postpone the automatic spending reductions dictated by last
year’s debt-ceiling deal, the negative effect could be many
times larger.  The political gridlock leaves the  Federal Reserve  as the
only entity capable of providing stimulus. Its ammunition isn’t
nearly as powerful as the government’s: A third round of
quantitative easing, in which the Fed would buy bonds to bring
down longer-term interest rates, would almost certainly be less
effective than its two predecessors. Goldman Sachs estimates
that an added $1 trillion of Fed purchases might boost economic
growth by 0.5 percentage point in the first year after a QE3
announcement, down from 0.8 percentage point for the first two
rounds of easing.  Depleted as its arsenal may be, the Fed must stand ready to
act again -- and to do even more if politicians fail to avert
the fiscal disaster coming at the end of this year. The Fed
might not be able to put millions of people back to work
singlehandedly, but it can help protect what little we have
gained.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: the View editors on  Argentina’s oil grab  and
poor  corporate governance at tech companies ;  Michael Kinsley  on
 Mitt Romney’s former spokesman ; Virginia Postrel on the economic
folly of  recycling eyeglasses ;  Susan Antilla  on  mandatory
arbitration ; and Jonathan Cohn and  David Strauss  on making
 health-care reform work .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 