-- Joe the Plumber May Join Boy Mayor as Kaptur’s Election Victim
-- B y   M a r k   N i q u e t t e
-- 2012-05-04T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-04/joe-the-plumber-may-join-boy-mayor-as-kaptur-s-election-victim.html
The path to re-election for Marcy Kaptur, the longest-serving woman in the U.S. House of
Representatives, started with a race against the Boy Mayor and
will end when she confronts Joe the Plumber.  In March’s Democratic primary, Kaptur defeated Dennis Kucinich, her congressional colleague, after Ohio Republicans
redrew the Toledo-area district to pit her against the man who
ran  Cleveland  at 31.  Now, Kaptur faces Republican Samuel J. Wurzelbacher, who
gained fame as Joe the Plumber in 2008 when his “spread the
wealth” exchange with then-candidate  Barack Obama  was caught on
tape.  Wurzelbacher said he is running as “the guy next door who
wants to represent his community.” Kaptur said she feels
besieged -- first by Kucinich, and now by Wurzelbacher in the
era ushered in by the  Supreme Court ’s 2010  Citizens United 
ruling, which removed limits on independent election spending.  Kaptur, 65, said her bid for a 16th term  is “like
fighting off a hostile takeover.”  “With Citizens United, the elections of today are
completely unpredictable,”  Kaptur said in a telephone
interview from  Washington .  Underdog Joe  The Texas-based Campaign for Primary Responsibility, a
super-PAC enabled by the court decision, spent $146,295 against
Kaptur and $106,883 for Kucinich in their primary fight. Ohioans
for Opportunity, a Columbus-based super-PAC whose treasurer was
an aide to former Democratic Governor  Ted Strickland , spent
$58,000 on radio ads against Kucinich, Federal Election
Commission records show. Kaptur won with 56.4 percent of the
vote according to unofficial results.  The race between Kaptur and Wurzelbacher won’t be so
competitive, said  David Wasserman , House editor for the
nonpartisan Cook Political Report in Washington. The district is
heavily Democratic and Wurzelbacher, who has never held or
sought public office, is “out of his league,” he said.  Still, Wurzelbacher, 38, may use his fame and ties to
Republicans including former presidential candidate  John McCain 
to attract outside spending, said James Ruvolo, a former Ohio
Democratic Party chairman from Toledo. He was mentioned more
than 25 times in the final presidential debate in 2008.  “The question is, will Joe the Plumber’s notoriety give him
access to resources,” Ruvolo said in a telephone interview.  Watch Him Read  Wurzelbacher said he can appeal to Democrats and
Republicans who want more than Kaptur has delivered and are
looking for a fresh voice. He said he’ll read bills before
voting and put a webcam on his desk so the public can watch.  Now, his workspace is a card table with a laptop in an
otherwise empty rented house that serves as his Toledo campaign
headquarters.  “I’m not your typical Republican,” said Wurzelbacher,
sitting behind the table in faded jeans, a flannel shirt and a
work jacket. “I’m not wearing a suit most of the time. I’m not
hanging out at the country clubs and yachting. I’m usually in a
crawlspace, plumbing, working hard, hanging out with my
buddies.”  Kaptur said Wurzelbacher appears to be “living off of his
campaign fund,” because he has paid himself more than $16,300
since November in a candidate’s salary, reports filed with the
 Federal Election Commission  show.  “I don’t know that the man has ever had a regular job;
he’s not a licensed plumber,” Kaptur said. “He doesn’t live in
the district, and, as far as I know, never did anything for the
people here.”  Learning the Pipes  While he doesn’t have a plumbing license, Wurzelbacher said
he was trained in the trade in the  Air Force  and works on the
side besides earning fees speaking engagements. In
Wurzelbacher’s financial disclosure filed Jan. 5 with the House
showing all income totaling $200 or more in 2010 and 2011, he
reported honorariums from 16 groups totaling $141,929. There was
no income from plumbing.  House candidates, who don’t have to live in the places they
represent, may receive a salary from their campaign committees
as long as it’s less than the $174,000 a member of Congress
makes or what the candidates received as earned income in the
previous year, according to a Federal Election Commission
Campaign Guide.  Wurzelbacher said in a statement that Kaptur “is turning
to dirty politics because she’s afraid of losing her tax-funded
livelihood” and he will “put my history of hard work and real
results up against hers any day.”  Love of Cain  If elected, Wurzelbacher said his top priority would be
replacing the U.S. tax code. He said one option could be former
Republican presidential candidate  Herman Cain ’s 9-9-9 tax plan,
which would tax sales transactions at 9 percent and apply the
same rate for business and individual incomes. Cain has endorsed
Wurzelbacher and donated $2,500 to his campaign, Federal
Election Commission records show.  Kaptur spent more than $1 million to defeat Kucinich and
had $104,215 on hand as of March 31, compared with $82,481 for
Wurzelbacher, reports show. Of the itemized individual
contributions Kucinich reported through Feb. 15, 89 percent came
from outside  Ohio , compared with 32 percent for Kaptur,
according to the Federal Election Commission.  Of the $61,825 in itemized individual contributions
reported by Wurzelbacher so far, 18 percent came from Ohio and
the rest from  Arizona ,  Texas ,  Florida  and 23 states and the
 District of Columbia , according to campaign reports.  America’s Working Man  Asked about the criticism he lacks qualifications,
Wurzelbacher said he meets the constitutional requirements to
run, and that not holding prior office is good because he has
not been bought and can “work for the American people.”  Kaptur said Republicans are “using” Wurzelbacher to try
to take advantage of voter discontent about the economy, and she
almost sounds like Joe the Plumber when asked why she wants a
16th term.  “I want to be one of those voices fighting for the working
men and women of this country because they have too few voices
in the Congress of the  United States ,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Niquette in Columbus, Ohio, at 
 mniquette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  