-- Kentucky Derby Race Is Just Part of the Attraction in Louisville
-- B y   B e n j a m i n   S t e v e r m a n
-- 2012-05-04T12:56:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-04/kentucky-derby-race-is-just-part-of-the-attraction-in-louisville.html
Since its start in 1875, the  Kentucky 
Derby has become the premier race for 3-year-old thoroughbred
horses in the U.S., attracting 165,000 visitors a year to
Churchill Downs in Louisville, Kentucky.  While the 1 1/4-mile race known is the main attraction, the
scene on game day can still be a colorful throwback to the horse
races of the European aristocracy -- from the plentiful food and
drink to the natty attire and those famously floral hats.  The city is also home to a two-week Derby festival leading
up to the big day.  1. Tickets  You can buy tickets to the Derby and the Kentucky Oaks -- a race
for fillies on the day before the Derby -- starting at $65 per
person and ranging as high as $5,000. The cheaper admission
price doesn’t provide you a cushy seat or even a clear view of
the track. It just gets you onto the grounds, where you can
watch races on TV screens. The priciest ticket gets you to the
Millionaires Row of  Churchill Downs (CHDN) , with access to a view
platform, a gourmet buffet, a bartender who knows her Mint
Juleps, a private wagering station and more. A $615 package puts
you in the first floor of the grandstand and includes a lunch
buffet.  2. Handicapping  There are 12 races today at Churchill Downs and another 13
tomorrow. To keep track of them all -- and maybe place a wager -
- pick up the $8 Ultimate Kentucky Derby Guide, published by the
Daily Racing Form. An official Churchill Downs program costs
$10. Also available, for the gambler who wants to do more
research, are a variety of betting guides priced at $10 to $20
each. They feature picks by racing experts who keep an eye on
horses in practice the week before the Derby.  3. Hats  The hats at Churchill Downs can be as much an attraction as the
horses. The Louisville Courier-Journal says the 2012 Derby’s
biggest fashion trend is “crazy-strong color.” You might
arrive wearing the $450 “Marla Derby” hat from Luna Boutique,
a bright green hat with a wide brim. If that’s too bright, try
the “Hot to Trot” hat, by Attitudes by Angie, which features a
high array of white and black feathers and costs $698.  4. Concessions  The classic  Kentucky Derby  beverage is the mint julep.
Traditionally, the mix of mint leaf, bourbon, sugar and water is
served in a silver or pewter cup, though most modern julep fans
get their drink in a mere glass. At Churchill Downs, a mint
julep will cost you $11. If you’ve had enough of traditional
fare, the racetrack sells other alcoholic drinks ($7 to $9) and
snacks ($4 to $8) from french fries to sandwiches and pizza.  5. Hotels  A week before race day, rooms at budget hotels near Churchill
Downs were priced at more than $500 per night, four or five
times their usual rate. The classiest accommodations are far
more expensive. A three-night stay at the Galt House Hotel in
downtown Louisville costs $3,150 to $3,750. The packages include
a welcome reception with live entertainment at the 1,290-room
hotel, which is five miles from the racetrack.  6. Derby Week Activities  A week’s worth of events and attractions come before tomorrow’s
big race. Visitors might stop at the Kentucky Derby Museum --
admission $14 -- for an overview of the race’s history. The
Belle of Louisville, a steamboat built in 1914, offers
sightseeing cruises on the  Ohio River  starting at $21 per
person.  7. Bourbon  For those who want to drink in more than just local color, one
option is a shot of bourbon whiskey, Kentucky’s signature
spirit. More than 50 varieties of local bourbon are available at
the bars and restaurants on Louisville’s Urban Bourbon Trail. A
free application for iPhone or Android can lead visitors to the
best spots, where bourbon is priced anywhere from $5 to $25 or
even more per glass.  8. Kentucky Horse Country  Many of the notable breeding farms in Kentucky aren’t in
Louisville -- they’re a 90-minute drive away near Lexington. For
$40, Thoroughbred Heritage Horse Farm Tours offers a guided
three-hour tour of race courses and farms where champion
thoroughbreds are born, raised and trained. Blue Grass Tours
adds in some lessons on bourbon making with its $75-per-person
“Horses, Hooch, and History Tour.”  9. Dinner and Drinks  At Bourbons Bistro in the Clifton neighborhood of Louisville,
you might start with an appetizer of fried green tomatoes ($6),
followed by Bourbons’ pulled pork sandwich ($15). Wash it all
down with one of more than 130 varieties of bourbon. Three miles
away at the Proof on Main restaurant in downtown Louisville, a
dinner might include Chickpea and Country Ham Fritters ($10)
followed by a $26 entree of Marksbury Farm Chicken, along with a
$7 side of Weisenberger Grits. Flights of bourbon -- featuring
three different varieties each -- cost $16 to $24.  10. Hobnob with the Locals  If your goal was to see some of Louisville high society, you
could have paid $300 to attend the third annual Taste of Derby,
a fundraiser for hunger relief last night. With 1,000 guests,
the event featured food and wine tastings and an open bar.
Another option yesterday was Celebrity Day at the Downs, a
luncheon that featured the marshals of the Pegasus Parade,
including this year’s grand marshal, Cyndi Lauper. A single
ticket was $99, while a preferred table was $892.  11. Souvenirs  As a souvenir, you can bring home a $37 Kentucky Derby Museum
25th Anniversary Cookbook, offering recipes for such favorites
as grits casserole or strawberry muffins. You can get a julep
cup etched with the logo of the 138th Kentucky Derby for $60 or
buy four prints of artist Peter Williams’s depictions of the
race for $750. For those with less pricey tastes, a T-shirt with
the derby’s official logo is $22.  Methodology  Bloomberg Rankings examined the costs associated with attending
the Kentucky Derby. Bloomberg does not endorse any of the
products or services mentioned.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Benjamin Steverman in  New York  at 
 bsteverman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nikhil Hutheesing at 
 nhutheesing@bloomberg.net  