-- Khalid Sheikh Mohammed’s 9/11 Trial Tests Military Courts
-- B y   D a v i d   G l o v i n   a n d   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 2012-05-04T04:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-04/khalid-sheikh-mohammed-s-9-11-trial-tests-military-courts.html
Khalid Sheikh Mohammed, the accused
mastermind of the Sept. 11 attacks, will appear before a
judge in Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, tomorrow to be arraigned for the
second time in a case that will test whether alleged terrorists
can get justice before U.S. military tribunals.  After false starts including a proposed civilian trial in a
 New York  federal court, U.S. prosecutors will seek to convict
Mohammed and four others of the worst terrorist attack on
American soil. At the same time, they’ll try to show that the
military tribunal system the Obama administration has
established can comply with international standards.  Civil libertarians say the five should be tried in civilian
courts that provide greater legal protections, such as excluding
evidence tainted by torture.  “A prosecution that ultimately fails to measure up to
international standards of justice undermines our credibility in
the eyes of the world and plays into the hands of those who want
to attack us,” said  David Glazier , a law professor at Loyola
Law School in  Los Angeles  who will attend the arraignment as an
observer for the  University of Virginia  law school’s Center for
National Security Law.  Tomorrow, the judge, U.S. Army Colonel James Pohl, will ask
the five defendants whether they understand the charges against
them, want to be represented by lawyers, and are satisfied with
the attorneys they now have, said James Connell, a lawyer for
Ali Abdul Aziz Ali, a Pakistani who’s one of the five defendants
and is accused of helping finance the attacks. A trial may be at
least a year away.  Pleas Unlikely  Pohl also may hear arguments on various defense requests,
Connell said. The defendants are unlikely to enter pleas of
guilty or not guilty until later, he said in a telephone
interview.  “It could be a short day or a very long day,” Connell
said.  There has been no indication whether Mohammed, the self-
proclaimed mastermind of the Sept. 11 attacks and allegedly once
al-Qaeda’s operations chief, will renew his bid, made during his
last court appearance in 2008, to plead guilty and be martyred,
saying, “I do not trust the Americans.” Other defendants
joined in the request, which Mohammed called his “earnest
desire.”  The earlier charges were withdrawn after President  Barack
Obama  sought to move the case to federal court in New York. The
administration returned the charges to the military system in
2011 after a political fight over where the men would be tried.
The charges were referred to the Guantanamo Bay tribunal last
month.  Starting Over  Now,  proceedings  will begin anew with enhanced legal
protections for the defendants, lawyers say. In a glimpse of the
many unresolved legal issues, defense lawyers already have filed
motions seeking access to their clients without government
monitoring and urging that statements the defendants make in
court be disseminated publicly and not classified.  “This is the most important terrorism trial of our
lifetime, and we’re doing it in a proceeding with significant
open questions and issues,” said Zachary Katznelson, a senior
staff attorney at the  American Civil Liberties Union ’s  National
Security Project . He said the case belongs in civilian courts.
The ACLU this week filed a  motion  asking that accounts of
detainee abuse be made public and not remain classified, as the
government urges.  Killing 2,976 People  Mohammed, who was captured in a 2003 raid in Pakistan, is
charged with Aziz Ali, Walid Muhammad Salih Mubarak Bin Attash,
Ramzi Binalshibh, and Mustafa Ahmed Adam al-Hawsawi for planning
and carrying out attacks on New York and Washington and aboard
United Airlines Flight 93, which crashed in Shanksville,
 Pennsylvania , after passengers fought back against the
hijackers. The attacks killed 2,976 people.  The five are charged with conspiring to finance, train and
direct the 19 hijackers who seized four airliners used in the
attacks that destroyed the World Trade Center and damaged the
Pentagon outside Washington. The charges include terrorism,
hijacking aircraft, conspiracy, murder in violation of the law
of war and attacking civilians.  Two others were tried before commissions and convicted
before a 2009 overhaul of the rules: Salam Hamdan, sentenced to
5 1/2 years in prison in 2008 for serving as Osama bin Laden’s
driver, and Ali Hamza Ahmad al-Bahlul, who got a life sentence
in 2008 for aiding bin Laden. Others such as Australian David
Hicks, who trained at al-Qaeda camps in  Afghanistan , have
pleaded guilty before military tribunals.  Daniel Pearl Case  Mohammed has said he personally killed Wall Street Journal
reporter Daniel Pearl, who was decapitated in  Pakistan  in 2002.
The confession came at a U.S. military hearing at Guantanamo Bay
in March 2007. He hasn’t been charged in the Pearl case.  Mohammed was held by the Central Intelligence Agency until
2006, and then sent to Camp Delta, the detention facility at
Guantanamo Bay that now holds 169 suspected terrorists.  The CIA has acknowledged that Mohammed was one of three al-
Qaeda operatives who were “waterboarded.” He underwent the
procedure, which simulates drowning, 183 times, according to
government documents. The U.S. has since banned the practice,
which critics such as  Human Rights Watch  call a form of torture.  Even if they’re acquitted, Mohammed and his accused
accomplices have no chance of being released from custody, said
 Christopher Swift , a fellow at the  Center for National Security
Law . Held as unlawful enemy combatants captured outside the
U.S., they may be detained until hostilities involving the U.S.
end, he said.  ‘Very Unusual Trial’  “This is a very unusual trial,” Swift said in a telephone
interview. “Most trials offer the prospect that an acquitted
individual will be released.”  That’s just one of the unresolved issues that may wind up
before the U.S. Supreme Court, he said. Another is the extent to
which the prosecutors from the military and the U.S. Justice
Department will rely on evidence gathered through torture, said
 Victor Hansen , a retired Army lawyer who’s now a professor at
the New England School of Law in  Boston .  Under the Military Commissions Act of 2009, prosecutors are
barred from introducing into evidence statements of the accused
that were elicited through harsh interrogation methods, Hansen
said in a telephone interview.  Still, it’s unclear whether other information gathered
through such means, including leads to witnesses or hearsay
statements made outside of court by captured al-Qaeda members,
will be allowed into evidence.  Tarnished Conviction?  A conviction based on such evidence could be tarnished,
said Morris Davis, who was chief prosecutor for the military
commission at Guantanamo Bay from 2005 to 2007. He now teaches
at Howard University Law School in  Washington .  “You could have the most perfect trial at Guantanamo, and
the vast majority of the world is still going to be skeptical,”
said Davis, who wants the case tried in civilian courts. “It’s
clearly an extraordinarily significant case. It’s disappointing
it’s being relegated to a second-rate forum.”  “You can make an overwhelming case against KSM,” Davis
said of Mohammed. “There’s tons of other evidence establishing
his guilt.”  Other U.S. lawyers defend the process, saying the 2009 law
improved the legal process first established by President  George
W. Bush ’s administration.  ‘Fairness, Justice’  The tribunal “incorporates all of the fundamental
guarantees of fairness and justice that are demanded by our
values,” U.S. Army Brigadier General Mark Martins, chief
prosecutor at the  Office of U.S. Military Commissions  in the
Defense Department, said on April 3 at the  Harvard Law School .
“It also far exceeds the applicable international law
standard.”  Military judges are unbiased, officers on a jury panel have
no connections to a case, and the military’s rules of evidence
are based on civilian standards, he said. The Guantanamo Bay
defendants will be allowed to cross-examine witnesses, and
prosecutors will be required to prove their case beyond a
reasonable doubt, Martins said.  For a death sentence to be imposed, as the U.S. seeks in
the case, a jury of at least 12 officers must agree unanimously 
on the verdict, Martins said. The 80 percent conviction rate in 
courts martial from 1988 to 1993 is lower than that in civilian
terrorism cases, he said.  International Standards  “It’s not exactly identical to a criminal trial in federal
civilian court, but in key respects it’s very close,” said
 Charles Dunlap , a retired Air Force Major General and visiting
professor at the Duke University law school. “In any event, it
more than meets international standards.”  It’s unclear what Mohammed and the others will seek from
the proceedings. Glazier, a former Navy officer, said the least
likely outcome is that they’ll mount a defense by attacking the
evidence or the legal bases for the charges against them.  It’s more likely that they’ll seek martyrdom or use the
trial to denounce the U.S., he said.  “He wants to stand up and take credit for what he did,”
Davis said. “He’s proud of it.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Glovin in New York at 
 dglovin@bloomberg.net ;
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  