-- Heat Beat Knicks 87-70, Thunder Take 3-0 Lead in NBA Playoffs
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2012-05-04T05:12:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-04/knicks-loss-to-heat-is-nba-record-13th-straight-playoff-defeat.html
The  New York  Knicks set a National
Basketball Association record with their 13th consecutive
postseason loss, 87-70 to the Miami Heat, while the Oklahoma
City Thunder beat the Dallas Mavericks 95-79.  The Heat and Thunder lead their best-of-seven series by
three games to none. Oklahoma City can advance to the second
round with a win in Dallas tomorrow, while the Heat can
eliminate the Knicks with a victory in New York the next day. No
team has rallied from a three-game deficit to win a best-of-
seven NBA playoff series.  At Madison Square Garden last night, LeBron James scored
eight straight points as the Heat opened the fourth quarter with
a 19-6 run to pull away from the Knicks.  “Bron came in and got at it right away,” Miami’s Dwyane Wade told reporters. “He had an unbelievable fourth quarter.”  James had 32 points to lead the Heat, who got 20 points
from Wade. Chris Bosh, who took a private plane to New York
after being at the birth of his son yesterday morning in Miami,
had nine points and 10 rebounds.  Carmelo Anthony  had a team-high 22 points for the Knicks,
who shot 32 percent.  The Knicks, who haven’t won a playoff game since April
2001, had shared the record of 12 straight postseason losses
with the 2004-06 Memphis Grizzlies.  Stoudemire Injury  New York was playing without Amar’e Stoudemire, its second-
leading scorer, who cut his left hand when he punched a metal
and glass box holding a fire extinguisher at Miami’s
AmericanAirlines Arena four days ago following a Game 2 loss.  Stoudemire, who had a small muscle in his hand surgically
repaired the following day, said he’s confident he’ll be able to
play in Game 4.  At American Airlines Center in Dallas,  Kevin Durant  scored
31 points for Oklahoma City against the defending NBA champion
Mavericks.  Russell Westbrook  added 20 points for the Thunder.  Dirk Nowitzki had 17 points and Jason Kidd had 12 to lead
Dallas.  Tonight, the Atlanta Hawks visit the  Boston Celtics  and the
Philadelphia 76ers host the  Chicago Bulls  with each series tied
at a game apiece. The  Los Angeles Lakers  can take a 3-0 lead
with a win at the  Denver Nuggets .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  