-- NBA’s Stern Says All Teams Should Be Profitable Within Two Years
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 2012-05-04T16:35:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-04/nba-s-stern-says-all-teams-should-be-profitable-within-two-years.html
A majority of National Basketball
Association teams will make money this year and all 30
franchises should be profitable within two years, Commissioner
 David Stern  said.  Stern, speaking on “Political Capital With  Al Hunt ,”
airing on Bloomberg Television this weekend, said the 10-year
agreement negotiated last year with the players’ union, which
includes revenue sharing and an increased tax on teams that
exceed a salary cap, will enable every franchise to eventually
make money.  “This year, we’ll probably have about 10 teams losing
money,” Stern said. “And next year, I hope the number will be
down to under five. And then after that, I would expect that all
of our teams will have the opportunity to make money.”  Stern had said during negotiations that the league’s 30
teams had lost at least $300 million collectively during each of
the past three seasons.  He said a shortened season and compressed schedule didn’t
hurt the league this season.  “It seems that we have come out of it just about where
last season came off,” Stern said. “We’re pleased beyond
pleased. We didn’t expect it to be this good.”  A luxury tax on high-spending teams and revenue sharing
will allow clubs in smaller markets to compete with those in
places like  New York  and  Los Angeles , Stern said.  Revenue Sharing  “Under our new collective bargaining system, we have in
place a system where those teams can clearly compete,” Stern
said. “There is a very high tax that will be imposed after next
season. We think that will press down the salary level among the
top teams. In addition, the highest grossing teams will be
redirecting well over $200 million to the smaller teams. So we
think, as a competitive matter, as an economic matter, we have
leveled the playing field.”  A 149-day labor stoppage caused the NBA season to begin
Dec. 25, 54 days later than originally planned, and a schedule
of 66 games rather than 82.  He said the shortened schedule didn’t lead to any more
injuries, even though players have less time to rest between
games.  “It makes a nice issue,” he said. “We’re studying it.
But we can’t confirm what people are writing about.”  He also said the NBA’s rules against violence were working.
Metta World Peace of the  Los Angeles Lakers  was suspended after
elbowing  James Harden  of the Oklahoma City Thunder in the head
last month.  Curbing Player Violence  “The recent incident demonstrates how much we have
squeezed violence out of the NBA,” Stern said. “In the case of
the gentleman formerly known as  Ron Artest , he was a repeat
offender and we dealt harshly, I think, with a seven-game
suspension.”  Stern, a lawyer, said a federal investigation of the
players union would not hurt the league.  “The appropriate thing to do is to accord people the
benefit of the doubt and see what due process ultimately
yields,” he said. “If I had nickel for every federal
investigation that went no place and throw in some state ones as
well, I could afford to move to  Washington .”  The  National Football League  suspended New Orleans Saints
linebacker Jonathan Vilma on May 2 for a year without pay for
his role in a bounty program in which players received bonsues
for injuring opponents.  Stern said he doesn’t plan to pursue a political career
once he steps down as NBA commissioner.  “My next career is not going to involve politics,” he
said. “It’s only going to involve kibitzing of politicians, and
talking to my friends in the Washington media about how the
state of the world should be changed.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan D. Salant in Washington at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at   jcummings21@bloomberg.net . 