-- New York Fed Seeks Bids for CDO Holdings in Maiden Lane III
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n   a n d   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   G a g e
-- 2012-05-04T17:20:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-04/new-york-fed-seeks-bids-for-cdo-holdings-in-maiden-lane-iii.html
The  Federal Reserve Bank of New York 
is seeking bids for parts of two collateralized debt obligations
tied to real-estate debt, after acquiring the securities in the
government rescue of  American International Group Inc. (AIG)  in 2008.  The New York Fed invited nine broker-dealers including
Barclays Plc, Credit Suisse Group AG and Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. to compete for the so-called Triaxx CDOs held within its
Maiden Lane III LLC  portfolio , the district bank said today in a
 statement  on its website. Bids will be due May 10.  The auction is “in response to several strong”
unsolicited bids for the assets, the New York Fed said.  The central bank has been selling debt acquired in the AIG
bailout in response to demand this year after halting a series
of auctions last year blamed for roiling credit markets.
Barclays and Deutsche Bank AG teamed to buy $7.5 billion of CDOs
tied to commercial mortgages from Maiden Lane III on April 26.  That followed sales of $19.2 billion of home-loan bonds to
Credit Suisse and Goldman in January and February that helped
the Fed unwind its separate  Maiden Lane II  vehicle at a profit
of $2.8 billion for taxpayers. Maiden Lane III acquired CDOs
that sliced mainly mortgage-backed securities into new bonds
with varying risks, while Maiden Lane II held securities that
packaged individual home loans.  Higher Quality  The outstanding balance of Triaxx CDOs in Maiden Lane III
totaled $2.5 billion as of March 31, according to  data  posted on
the New York Fed’s website. The deals differ from most of the
CDOs insured by AIG and later taken over by the Fed by
containing more higher-quality securities backed by so-called
prime jumbo mortgages, rather than riskier subprime debt.  Typical prices for the most-senior securities backed by
fixed-rate jumbo mortgages created during the  housing bubble 
were 91 cents on the dollar last week, according to Barclays
data. That’s up from 89 cents in December, a smaller rally than
among notes tied to riskier loans, which fell more last year.  Jumbo home loans are ones larger than allowed in
government-supported programs, currently as much as $729,750 for
Federal Housing Administration loans for single-family
properties in some areas. Limits range from $417,000 to $625,500
for  Fannie Mae (FNMA)  and Freddie Mac loans with the lowest costs for
borrowers using 20 percent down payments.  ICP Asset Management  The Triaxx CDOs were created and managed by ICP Asset
Management LLC. The New York-based company and its founder
 Thomas Priore  were sued by the Securities and Exchange
Commission in 2010 for allegedly making trades for the vehicles
that broke rules limiting risk, and failing to get required
approvals for transactions from AIG and bond insurer FGIC Corp.,
another victim. Priore denied wrongdoing.  The Fed’s Maiden Lane III vehicle unwound credit-default
swaps that AIG had sold to protect counterparties against
losses. The facility bought the underlying assets that AIG
insured for banks, sparing the Wall Street firms from any
losses. Lawmakers criticized the payments as a “backdoor
bailout” of the companies.  Three Triaxx CDOs, including the two being auctioned by the
Fed, in August joined investors including AIG trying to
intervene in a court case seeking approval for Bank of America
Corp.’s proposed $8.5 billion settlement over faulty mortgage
bonds. The CDOs, represented by lawyers from Miller & Wrubel PC,
said in a filing that “many observers” believe the amount was
too small, and they held $2.2 billion in affected securities.  The  New York  Fed’s three Maiden Lane vehicles were  part  of
the group of 22 bondholders that negotiated the agreement, which
is still before a state judge.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jody Shenn in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net ;
Caroline Salas Gage in New York at 
 salas1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  