-- New Keystone Bid Gives GOP Political ’Ammunition’
-- B y   J i m   E f s t a t h i o u   J r .
-- 2012-05-05T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-04/new-keystone-bid-gives-gop-political-ammunition-.html
TransCanada Corp. (TRP)  has reapplied to
build the Keystone XL oil pipeline, inserting a project that is
strongly opposed by environmental groups into the November U.S.
presidential election.  PresidentBarack Obama delayed the $5.3 billion project in
November, drawing criticism from Republican presidential
candidate  Mitt Romney . Last month,  House Republicans  sought to
advance the pipeline, which crosses the Canadian border, by
adding language to a highway spending bill that would set a 30-
day deadline to issue a permit.  Republicans have said Obama’s action cost jobs and led to
higher gasoline prices. The new permit application, filed
yesterday, will let Republicans try and force Obama’s hand on
the issue, said  Kevin Book , managing director at ClearView
Energy Partners LLC, a Washington-based policy-analysis firm.  “It gives ammunition to the Republicans who want to
include language in any bill they can pass,” Book said in an
interview. “It may create pressure on Obama.”  Obama rejected the pipeline after  Nebraska  state  officials
and environmental groups objected to the route that crosses the
Ogallala aquifer, a drinking-water source for 1.5 million
people. The new application uses already-reviewed routes through
 Montana  and South Dakota and will add an “alternative” path
through Nebraska determined by the state’s Department of
Environmental Quality, according to a statement from the
Calgary-based TransCanada.  What’s His Excuse?’  Obama “cited a need for a new application from TransCanada
and a new route in Nebraska,” Senate Republican Leader Mitch McConnell of  Kentucky  said in a statement. “Now that he has
both, what will his excuse be?”  The company initially applied for a permit in 2008.  The U.S. State Department, which has jurisdiction over the
project because it crosses an international border, said it will
review TransCanada’s application to determine if the project is
in the national interest. That will include hiring an outside
consultant to evaluate potential environmental impacts, the
department said.  “This remains the most significant environmental fight of
the Obama years,” Bill McKibben, founder of  350.org , an
organization that advocates for reducing  climate change , said in
an interview.  U.S. Conflicts  U.S. Senator Bernie Sanders, a Vermont independent, and 13
other lawmakers last year sought an investigation into whether
the department’s original consultant, Cardno Entrix, had a
conflict of interest. A February report from the State
Department’s inspector general recommended a revised contractor-
selection process to avoid the appearance of improper influence.  Cardno Entrix, which had described TransCanada as a major
client, is a subsidiary of  Cardno Ltd. (CDD)  of  Brisbane ,  Australia .  The environmental review will take at least six months,
according toSusan Casey-Lefkowitz, director of the
international program at the  Natural Resources Defense Council .  “All we’ve heard from this administration is that they are
committed to doing a thorough review of this northern segment of
the Keystone XL pipeline,” Casey-Lefkowitz said in an
interview. “The slate is clean. They need to start from
scratch.”  The original project, estimated to cost $7.6 billion,
would’ve expanded TransCanada’s existing Keystone pipeline to
carry as much as 830,000 barrels a day from Canada’s oil sands
and North Dakota’s Bakken Shale along a 1,661-mile (2,672-
kilometer) path to Gulf Coast refineries. The scaled-back
proposal covers a segment from the Canadian border to  Steele
City , Nebraska.  ‘Out of Excuses’  Obama is now “out of excuses for blocking this job-
creating energy project any longer,” House Speaker  John Boehner , an Ohio Republican, said in a statement.  TransCanada said it expects to start construction of the
portion of pipeline covered in the new application in the first
quarter of next year and finish by late 2014 or early 2015. It
anticipates it will begin construction as soon as June on a
pipeline from Cushing,  Oklahoma , to Texas refineries that was
part of the original Keystone XL proposal.  “The president will let the State Department complete its
review of the new application,” Michael Levi, a senior fellow
at the  Council on Foreign Relations , said in an interview. “I
can’t imagine that the pipeline backers would want a legally
ambiguous effort to push the pipeline through that could then
land them in court.”  Conference Compromise  A Senate-House conference committee is scheduled to take up
a highway spending bill May 8, including a House version that
sets a deadline for the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission to
approve the oil pipeline. It’s unlikely that the panel’s
Democrats would go along with that provision, Book said. Many
Democrats have already voted for Keystone XL in other bills,
giving them political cover.  “As we get closer to an election, the Senate Democrats are
not going to give the Republicans an enormous victory,” he
said. “The White House is obviously not going to change their
mind.”  Nebraska Senator Ben Nelson, a Democrat who isn’t seeking
re-election, said in a statement that he hoped “Congress will
avoid further political meddling in the review process” while
Nebraska officials “work with TransCanada on a route that is
acceptable to Nebraskans.”  Construction Backed  In a telephone poll of 1,000 likely voters conducted April
6 though April 13, 79 percent said they favor construction of
the pipeline and 86 percent said they would rather import oil
from  Canada  than from members of the Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries, according to  Mike McKenna , an oil industry
lobbyist and president of MWR Strategies Inc. in  Washington .  TransCanada “is going to give the president the
opportunity to approve the project before the election,”
McKenna said in an interview. “It’s been out enough in the
public consciousness that its beginning to cost him votes.”  The survey, conducted by the American Energy Alliance, a
Washington-based industry group, shows that Obama may pay a
political price for continuing to block the project, McKenna
said. The poll has a margin of error of plus or minus 3.1
percent.  “Positive sentiments about production (overlaid with
concerns about trading partners) are why Keystone is a winner,”
McKenna said in an April 23 research note. “Most (62%)
respondents believe that, with the right  energy policy , gasoline
would cost $2.50 per gallon.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Efstathiou Jr. in  New York  at 
 jefstathiou@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  