-- New York’s Best Cheap Eats Picked by Top Chefs in Survey
-- B y   R i c h a r d   V i n e s
-- 2012-05-05T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-04/new-york-s-best-cheap-eats-picked-by-top-chefs-in-survey.html
Spend big bucks and you can enjoy
fabulous gourmet meals in  New York . How about eating well for
just a few dollars? I asked chefs and restaurateurs from the
U.S. and around the world where they go for simple, inexpensive
food. Here’s what they had to say.  April Bloomfield (Spotted Pig, New York): “Thai Son in
Chinatown has great, inexpensive Vietnamese food. I especially
like the Pho Bo Kho, which is a beef stew with noodles,
radishes, carrots, bean sprouts, and cilantro.  “Bill’s Bar & Burger in the Meatpacking district has a
variety of burgers. It’s such a casual place. I like how you can
pop in to grab a burger and a pint.  “Jing Fong in Chinatown is my go-to dim sum spot. I
suggest arriving early to beat the crowds and fill up on
delicious shrimp dumplings and steamed BBQ pork buns pushed
around on trolleys by sweet Chinese ladies.”  Heston Blumenthal  (Fat Duck): “I love New York and I wish
I had more time there. I like trying new places but I always
make time to visit Momofuku Ssam Bar.”  Massimo Bottura (Osteria Francescana, Modena, Italy):
“When I want a good plate of pasta, I go to Eataly. I really
like it. For sushi, it’s Sushi of Gari on the Upper East Side. I
also like Torrisi in Little Italy. It’s authentic third-
generation Italian cooking.”  David Bouley  (Bouley, New York): “Right now my favorite
spot for inexpensive eating, or eating in general, is Buvette,
in the  West Village . Jody Williams is doing pure honest cooking,
super clean, fresh flavors and it is one of the few restaurants
I have found that makes me feel warm all over and is reminiscent
of my French mother and grandmother’s cooking.”  Daniel Boulud  (Daniel, New York): “It’s a chain but there
is one in my neighborhood and I love Hale & Hearty’s lentil
soup. Thelewala on MacDougal Street for cheap Indian wraps. For
banh mi, hot dog, sausage on the bun I love the one we do at
 Epicerie Boulud . They really are the best. Di Fara pizza in
Brooklyn is not the cheapest in town but it’s very good. Daisy
May’s for barbecue. It’s the best in town.”  Ignatius Chan (Iggy’s, Singapore): “Shake Shack. It’s
fantastic: the soft bun, the juicy patty. Eat it and you feel
good.”  David Chang (Momofuku Ko): “I mainly go to Sichuan
restaurants like Hot Kitchen in the East Village.”  Mathias Dahlgren (Mathias Dahlgren, Stockholm): “Roberta’s
pizza. It’s a bunch of young people. They grow their own
vegetables and there’s just such energy. Also, Fatty ‘Cue.
There’s a new generation of chefs with informal restaurants that
are affordable. Fine dining is becoming fun dining.”  Ken Friedman (Spotted Pig, New York): “When I go out, I
don’t want to go to a trendy restaurant where somebody’s going
to know me and the chef sends out a bunch of stuff I don’t want
to eat. I live in the East Village and I like  BaoHaus . It’s a
phenomenal place that has great Asian buns: pork, tofu. You
queue up and they’re playing hip-hop.  “I’m from California and I miss Mexican food. I go to Dos
Toros for phenomenal burritos and California-style tacos. I also
go to a couple of Mexican grocery stores, Tehuitzingo Deli &
Grocery and Zaragoza. I go to Dinosaur in Harlem for really
great, Southern-style barbecue. And Mad for Chicken for Korean
fried chicken. It’s on the second floor and kind of hidden.”  Trevor Gulliver (St John,  London ): “Late-night burger in
Corner Bistro; John’s pizza downtown. Also, Oriental Garden,
Elizabeth Street. That’s where (chef) Fergus (Henderson) and I
go with  David Chang  when we are in town. It’s good on a Sunday
morning: Get your number and queue outside, even when it’s
raining!  “One of the three-times-fried chicken places in Korea Town
in Queens, perfectly proper little plastic fast food outlets,
and they do pitchers of light U.S. beer to wash things down too,
worth a visit.”  Angela Hartnett  (Murano, London): “Eataly, because you can
just sit and have a great pizza. Parm for the meatballs. Clinton
Street Baking for breakfast. If I want to go somewhere nice, I
have lunch at Jean-George’s Nougatine. People think it’s fancy
pants but he has the most amazing bargains.”  Daniel Humm (Eleven Madison Park, New York): “I love
Mandoo Bar in Koreatown for Korean dumplings, ramen, and seafood
pancakes. I’ve been going there for years and find it to be
great comfort food. I also love Parm and their take on Italian
American classics. They make an amazing chicken parm sandwich.”  Thomas Keller  (Per Se, New York): “Yakitori Totto. It’s
just very clean, good food and they treat me like anyone else.”  Nuno Mendes (Viajante, London): “Congee Village. It’s open
until 2 a.m. or 3 a.m. and you can go and just have a great bowl
of congee. Also, Minca. It was set up by a Japanese guy who was
obsessed with ramen and did stages all over Japan.”  Danny Meyer  ( Gramercy Tavern , New York): “Old Town Bar --
classic old New York Tavern -- beloved by authors and
politicians. Don’t go to feel loved. Do go for cold pints of
beer, really good cheeseburgers, Buffalo wings, and creamy slaw.  “Motorino -- that oven pounds out compelling pizza after
compelling pizza. Not big on hospitality, but exceptional
batting average for pizza you want to devour. John’s of Bleecker
Street -- still New York’s original and best coal oven pie.
Never in vogue, useless wine list, and plastic tomatoes in salad
-- but pizza never fails. Can’t beat John’s sausage and mushroom
pie.  “Paulie Gee’s ( Brooklyn ) -- Paulie Gee is a late-in-life
career changer who has turned his avocation for pizza into a
bona fide destination for pie lovers. Visiting his homey-
industrial-almost-chic joint feels like taking a trip to another
place in another time.  “Just had some yummy pork and chive dumplings at Tasty
Dumpling in Chinatown: Dumpling is for dump with respect to
decor, but I dare you to find more flavor and quantity for $1.50
in NYC.”  Russell Norman (Polpo, London): “ Shopsins  is an eccentric
diner in the rather scruffy Essex Street Market. The menu is
huge, the rules are arbitrary to say the least -- no parties
fascinating to listen to and watch as they scream and shout at
each other. The sliders are worth the visit alone, as are
Kenny’s famous Slutty Cakes, pancakes with peanut butter.  “ Rye  is a very hip and beautifully designed neighborhood
restaurant in Brooklyn, with meticulous attention to detail.”  Jamie Oliver (Union Jacks, London): “It’s usually a
whirlwind PR trip and what little time I get, I visit my chef
friends’ restaurants -- where April Bloomfield, Mario Batali and
Jonathan Waxman are cooking.  “But when we did the  Jamie’s America  series, I saw a side
to New York that I didn’t even know existed. I went to Astoria,
Queens for Egyptian food at Kabab Cafe. I checked out the famous
Jewish knishes on the Lower East Side at Yonah Schimmel’s, and
tried Daisy May’s for some real authentic barbecue. I could not
believe what tasty and caring food I was served for so little
money.”  Adam Perry Lang (Barbecoa, London): “There is a great
Dominican breakfast and lunch spot called Lali’s on 10th Avenue
between 44th and 45th. It’s super-no-frills but it is home-
cooked Dominican food and hits the spot. Chicken and rice,
oxtail etc. Ask for the salsa verde on the side and crunchy rice
which they keep under the counter sometimes. Lali herself is a
mom and runs the place and is a warm wonderful person when she
warms up and sees your smile. The best “Spanish coffee.” Order
it light and sweet.  “Also check out Papaya King on East 86th street: two dogs
‘with’ and a large papaya juice. It is an institution.”  Wolfgang Puck (Spago,  Los Angeles ): “I go to New York so
rarely, the cheapest I go is the bar at Daniel for snacks. I do
like Marea, Central Park South.  Michael White  is a very good
chef.”  Gordon Ramsay  (Gordon Ramsay, New York): “Stanton Social:
great buzz, great onion-soup dumplings. Minetta Tavern is great
for local atmosphere & properly charred steaks. DBGB is good for
a variety of burgers & quality easy food. ABC is great food in
an old-warehouse-feel environment, very stripped back.”  Rene Redzepi (Noma, Copenhagen): “Momofuku Noodle Bar is a
must. I also like Boka (Korean) on St Marks, Franny’s (pizza) in
Brooklyn and Roberta’s (pizza). I’ve heard promising things
about Isa too.”  Eric Ripert  (Le Bernardin, New York): “There’s a place in
my neighborhood on the Upper East Side, called the  Jones Wood
Foundry . I really like the ambiance, the music. They have great
beers, good scotch and I like the food a lot -- they have a
great black pudding and kidney pie. It’s a warm and convivial
spot, a perfect neighborhood restaurant.  “And I was just going through La Guardia airport and there
is a great pizza place in the Delta Terminal called Crust.”  Albert Roux  (Le Gavroche, London): “My favorite restaurant
in New York, without a doubt, is Le Bernardin. I also like that
famous delicatessen near the  Carnegie Hall  (Carnegie Deli) where
you can get huge salted-beef sandwiches. They are huge. I love
them.”  Jean-Georges  Vongerichten (Jean Georges, New York): “New
York Noodle Town. I go there often for a bowl of Chinese noodle
soup. At Pop Burger, I jump out of my car and grab some burgers
to take home. Shake Shack burgers are delicious but then I have
to run into the middle of Madison Square Park. I also like
Mezzaluna and (pizza) Co.  (Richard Vines is the chief food critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. He is U.K. and Ireland
chairman of the World’s 50 Best Restaurants awards. Opinions
expressed are his own.)  Today’s Muse highlights include:  Lewis Lapham  on  history ,
New York  weekend .  To contact the writer on the story:
Richard Vines in New York at
 rvines@bloomberg.net  or  http://twitter.com/Richardvines .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 