-- NFL Union Files Grievance for Four Players in Saints Bounty Case
-- B y   A a r o n   K u r i l o f f
-- 2012-05-05T04:01:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-04/nfl-union-files-grievance-for-players-in-saints-bounty-case-1-.html
The National Football League players
union says Commissioner  Roger Goodell  lacks the authority to
suspend four players for participating in the New Orleans
Saints’ 2009-11 bounty program.  The NFL Players Association filed a grievance with
arbitrator Stephen Burbank, arguing that Goodell is barred from
disciplining players for any non-contract bonuses that took
place before the league’s new collective bargaining agreement
with players was signed in August 2011. Responsibility for
player punishment, and any appeal, in this case belongs to the
arbitrator instead of Goodell, according to the complaint.  Goodell earlier this week suspended Saints linebacker
Jonathan Vilma without pay for the 2012 season; defensive
lineman Anthony Hargrove, now with the  Green Bay Packers , for
eight games; defensive end Will Smith for four games and
linebacker Scott Fujita, now with the  Cleveland Browns , for
three games.  “The CBA expressly bars the NFL commissioner from imposing
penalties against players for alleged undisclosed payments such
as the Saints’ claimed ‘pay-for-performance/bounty’ system,”
the union said in the complaint filed May 3.  NFL spokesman  Greg Aiello  said yesterday in an e-mail that
none of the players has filed an appeal, which must be done by
May 7.  “We expect that the arbitrators will 1) reject the union’s
efforts to protect players from accountability for prohibited
and dangerous conduct directed against other players and 2)
uphold the disciplinary process that was so carefully negotiated
in the Collective Bargaining Agreement less than a year ago,”
Aiello said in the e-mail.  No Authority  In a letter to the league, the union said Goodell had no
authority to punish the players for previous conduct.  “Even assuming for the sake of argument that the
commissioner had the authority to punish players for conduct
detrimental under the alleged facts and circumstances of this
particular situation -- he does not -- he nevertheless would be
prohibited from punishing NFL players for any aspect of the
alleged ‘pay-for-performance/bounty’ conduct occurring before
Aug. 4, 2011,” the union said in its letter.  Burbank, a professor at the  University of Pennsylvania  law
school, should “ultimately determine whether and to what extent
the players should be punished,” the union letter said.  The NFL last month handed down the stiffest punishment ever
imposed on a team and its leadership for the bounty program.
Saints coach Sean Payton was suspended for an entire season,
General Manager Mickey Loomis was given a half-season
suspension, assistant coach  Joe Vitt  received a six-game ban and
the franchise was stripped of two draft picks and fined
$500,000.  Former Saints defensive coordinator  Gregg Williams , now
with the  St. Louis Rams , was suspended indefinitely for
administering the program.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Kuriloff in  New York  at 
 akuriloff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  