-- Nordic Aviation Sees Larger Turboprops Soon to Beat Fuel Costs
-- B y   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n
-- 2012-05-04T11:24:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-04/nordic-aviation-sees-larger-turboprops-soon-to-beat-fuel-costs.html
Bombardier Inc. (BBD/B)  and Avions de
Transport Regional, or ATR, the only companies still building
turbo-propeller passenger planes, will probably commit to larger
models soon to help airlines beat fuel costs and overcome
airport constraints, the world’s biggest turboprop lessor said.  Nordic Aviation Capital, based in  Denmark , is the largest
provider of turboprop planes for leasing to airlines, with a
fleet of 160 aircraft including 86 planes built by ATR and
25 Q-Series planes from Bombardier.  The high cost of  jet fuel  and difficulty in obtaining
landing and take-off rights, or slots, at major airports
worldwide means regional airlines flying short routes will
require turbo-propeller planes that can carry significantly more
than the maximum 78 carried today by both the ATR72 and
Bombardier’s Q-400, said Martin Moller, chairman and sole
shareholder of Nordic Aviation Capital A/S.  “The turbo-propeller era is really about to take off,”
Moller said in an interview in Toulouse,  France . “With airport
constraints, airlines need bigger planes for passenger
operations, and does anyone think fuel prices are coming down?
With a turboprop you can probably move about 50 percent more
passengers with the same amount of fuel.”  Moller said he is urging ATR to offer a 90-seat plane to
complement its 78- and 42-seaters “as soon as possible.” He
said he would be willing to make a speculative order for 10
planes initially to help get the plane released and show ATR
shareholders European Aeronautic, Defence & Space Co. and
Finmeccanica SpA that the plane had strong support.  Development Costs  “I also think someone is probably seriously thinking about
stretching a certain airplane as far as 110 seats,” Moller
said. He declined to disclose the name of the company initially,
though subsequently predicted that Bombardier would commit to a
stretch of its 78-seat Q-Series.  Bombardier Chief Executive Officer Pierre Beaudoin said in
2006, when he was running the company’s aerospace unit, that
Bombardier was looking at a possible stretch of the Q400 to as
many as 95 seats.  ATR CEO Filippo Bagnato said yesterday that the company is
still working up the business case for developing a larger
plane, estimating the development costs at ”about half what it
costs to develop a regional jet.” Bombardier has said its
Cseries regional jet will cost about $3.3 billion to develop.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrea Rothman in Toulouse, France at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  