-- Norway Dumps Ireland, Portugal Bonds on Euro Crisis
-- B y   J o s i a n e   K r e m e r
-- 2012-05-10T09:26:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-04/norway-dumps-ireland-portugal-bonds-amid-euro-challenges-1-.html
(Corrects euro bond holdings in ninth paragraph in story
that was published on May 4.)  Norway’s sovereign wealth fund sold
all its Irish and Portuguese  government bonds  after rejecting
the Greek debt swap and warned that Europe faces considerable
challenges.  The  $610 billion Government Pension Fund Global  returned
7.1 percent, or 234 billion kroner ($41 billion), as measured by
a basket of currencies, in the first quarter, the Oslo-based
investor said today. Its equity holdings gained 11 percent while
its fixed-income investments rose 1.6 percent.  The fund, which voted against  Greece ’s debt swap this year
because it disagreed with being subordinated to the European
Central Bank, also said it reduced debt holdings in Italy and
 Spain  amid a broader strategy to cut investments in Europe. The
fund added government bonds from  emerging markets  such as
 Brazil ,  Mexico  and  India .  “Predictability is important for a long-term investor and
the euro-area faces considerable structural and monetary
challenges,”  Yngve Slyngstad , chief executive officer of Norges
Bank Investment Management, said in a statement.  Stocks jumped globally in the quarter after the  European
Central Bank  stepped in with more than $1 trillion in three-year
loans to the region’s banks. The rally was tempered toward the
end after Spain announced in March it would miss a deficit
target and as austerity measures dragged euro-region economies
into a recession and boosted unemployment to a 15-year high.  Biggest Restructuring  Greece pushed through the biggest sovereign debt
restructuring in history in the period, with private investors
writing off more than 100 billion euros of debt. That decision
spurred European finance ministers to approve a second bailout
package for the nation of 130 billion euros.  The fund said that it held 1.3 billion kroner in Greek
bonds before the debt swap. Its holdings in Italian government
debt fell to 26.6 billion kroner from 33 billion kroner at the
end of 2011, while Spanish debt declined to 15.6 billion kroner
from 18 billion kroner.  “It is not only those five countries but in addition we
are looking at the situation as a whole,” Slyngstad said in an
interview. “We are concerned about the situation in the euro
area,” he said. “In many countries there are macroeconomic
challenges.”  Investments in euro-denominated bonds declined to 39
percent of the fund’s fixed-income holdings at the end of March
from 43 percent at the end of 2011. The euro-denominated
government bond holdings returned 2.9 percent in local currency
in the quarter, according to the fund.  “We have sold proportionally more of government bonds in
southern  Europe  than in other countries,” he said. “This has
been a process that has been going on for two years.”  Returns Surge  Irish bonds have returned 11.55 percent so far this year,
while Portuguese bonds have gained 19 percent, according to
broad market indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European
Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. All euro-area bonds
returned 3.9 percent, according to Bloomberg indexes.  The yield spread on Ireland’s benchmark 10-year bond over
German debt narrowed two basis points 520 basis points today,
while the Portuguese equivalent was little changed at 913 basis
points. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point. Spain’s widened
one basis point to 419 basis points.  The investor, which is managed by the central bank and gets
guidelines from the government, has started a strategy shift
that will reduce its bond and stock holdings in Europe to
capture more of global growth as it struggles to meet a 4
percent return target.  Largest Holdings  At the end of March, the fund held 60.7 percent of its
assets in stocks, 39 percent in bonds and 0.3 percent in real
estate. It’s mandated to hold 60 percent in stocks, 35 percent
in bonds and 5 percent in real estate.  The fund’s largest stock holding at the end of the quarter
was Royal Dutch Shell Plc, while its biggest bond holding was
U.S. Treasury bonds, followed by the U.K. and  France .  Norway ’s government deposited 60 billion kroner of oil
revenue into the fund in the quarter. The return beat by 0.3
percentage point the benchmark set by the  Finance Ministry .  The investor lost 86 billion kroner, or 2.5 percent, last
year as stock markets slumped on concern the region’s debt
crisis might tip the global economy into recession.  The  fund  got its first capital infusion in 1996 and has
been taking on more risk as it expands globally, raising its
stock portfolio from 40 percent in 2007. It first added stocks
in 1998, emerging markets in 2000 and this year real estate to
boost returns and safeguard wealth.  Norway, a nation of 5 million people, generates money for
the fund from taxes on oil and gas, ownership of petroleum
fields and dividends from its 67 percent stake in  Statoil ASA (STL) ,
the country’s largest energy company. The Nordic nation is the
world’s second-largest gas exporter and the seventh-biggest oil
exporter. The oil fund invests outside Norway to avoid stoking
domestic inflation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Josiane Kremer in Oslo at 
 Jkremer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  