-- Obama Opens 25th Florida Office as He Outspends Romney
-- B y   J u l i e   B y k o w i c z
-- 2012-05-04T04:23:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-04/obama-opens-25th-florida-office-as-he-outspends-romney.html
Three days before President  Barack Obama  holds his first “official” campaign rallies, 200
supporters snacked on cupcakes at an opening of the re-election
committee’s Tampa-area office -- its 25th in Florida.  After posing for pictures with life-sized cutouts of the
president and first lady at the May 2 event, they inked their
names on posters requesting volunteers to conduct phone banks,
register voters and staff the offices.  Tomorrow, Obama will travel to college campuses in
Columbus,  Ohio , and Richmond, Virginia, to mark the start of his
general election bid, yet much of the groundwork for the contest
already has been quietly put in place.  “In 2012, we have had the benefit of time to put an
unprecedented effort on the ground in all 50 states that is
registering voters and making sure that voters know what is at
stake in this election,” said Katie Hogan, an Obama campaign
spokeswoman.  The president’s campaign has spent $94 million, about $16
million more than  Mitt Romney  has laid out while fending off
eight primary challengers, according to U.S. Federal Election
Commission data through the end of March compiled by Bloomberg.  Unlike the presumptive Republican nominee’s spending, only
$3.7 million of Obama’s cash has gone to television ads. The
former Massachusetts governor has outspent the president by
almost four to one on that front, according to Kantar Media’s
CMAG, a political ad tracker based in  New York .  Six Hundred Employees  Instead, Obama’s money is being invested in infrastructure,
the FEC reports show. Obama’s payroll reached about 600
employees in March, while Romney was paying 93 people.  Obama’s campaign machine has 165 offices across the U.S., a
review of its website shows, even snatching up Romney’s Iowa
headquarters at a former Blockbuster video store in  Des Moines 
once it became available after the Jan. 3 Republican caucuses.  Stephen Wayne , a professor of government at Washington-
based  Georgetown University , said “energizing a base that
didn’t hang together over the past four years is very important,
and that takes people on the ground as well as a good computer-
tracking mechanism like he had in 2008.”  The president’s early on-the-ground presence is evident in
states expected to be the most competitive in November: Florida,
Ohio, Virginia and  North Carolina .  Gathering Volunteers  Lynnette Acosta, a 33-year-old information technology
manager in  Orlando , often pulls out her personal mobile phone
during weekly phone-banking sessions, leaving the campaign
phones free for other volunteers.  Noreen Murphy, a 64-year-old retiree in Valrico, Florida,
enters data for the campaign every Monday at its Florida
headquarters in Ybor City, Tampa’s historic cigar-making
neighborhood.  She does it for free because “it means so much to get this
man re-elected,” Murphy said, citing Obama’s  health-care 
legislation as one of the reasons behind her support.  The campaign has hired more than a dozen developers to
analyze data and guide election strategy. At the top of Obama’s
payroll, having earned $130,000 since the beginning of the
campaign, according to FEC reports, is Michael Slaby, the chief
integration and innovation officer who was chief technology
officer in 2008.  Internet Advertising  On average this election cycle, political candidates are
expected to earmark 2 cents of every dollar they spend for
online buys, while Obama will probably invest triple that
amount, said Kip Cassino, executive vice president for research
at Borrell Associates, a media analysis firm based in
Williamsburg,  Virginia .  “Most campaigns are run by folks who haven’t gotten beyond
TV,” Cassino said. “However, the Obama campaign has done far,
far better. He can literally raise a lot of money just by
pushing a button.”  Obama’s online ad presence is orchestrated by Bully Pulpit
Interactive, a Washington-based company led by Andrew Bleeker,
who was director of Internet advertising for Obama’s 2008
campaign. Bully Pulpit has been paid $19 million by the
campaign.  The campaign’s fourth-largest category of expenditures so
far was on telemarketing services. Five of its top 20
contractors in March were telemarketing firms, FEC reports show.  The Obama campaign has spent $11 million on “postage” --
enough to pay the average salaries of 196 U.S. Postal Service
city letter-carriers for a year.  Direct Mail  The campaign’s second-highest expense, at $18 million, was
payment to AB Data, a Milwaukee-based company that specializes
in direct-mail fundraising.  The re-election campaign has relied less on consultants
than Romney’s has; two of Obama’s top 25 expenses were
categorized on FEC reports as “consulting,” for a total of
$2.2 million, compared to five of Romney’s, for a total of about
$16 million.  That could stem from the fact that the president hasn’t
engaged in  television advertising  yet. Obama’s top political
consultant payments include $3.2 million to GMMB Inc., a TV and
video ad firm headed by Jim Margolis, who worked on the 2008
campaign, and more than $380,000 to top political strategist
 David Axelrod ’s AKPD Message and Media firm.  All that spending is powered by fundraising that exceeds
that of past sitting presidents, writes Brendan J. Doherty, a
U.S. Naval Academy professor of politics, in his forthcoming
book, “The Rise of the President’s Permanent Campaign.”  Most Presidential Fundraisers  Through May 2, Obama had held 133 fundraisers for his re-
election campaign or the  Democratic National Committee , compared
to the campaign total of 86 that  George W. Bush  held for his
2004 re-election campaign or the  Republican National Committee ,
Doherty said.  Bill Clinton  held 70 fundraisers for his re-
election campaign or the  Democratic Party .  Obama had raised $197 million by the end of March,
according to FEC reports. Romney had raised $89 million, the
reports show.  Obama’s campaign spending supports what campaign employees
call “the snowflake effect” of developing teams of community-
based, unpaid volunteers who do much of the campaign legwork
such as voter registration, phone banking and canvassing.  Acosta, who is a national co-chairwoman of the campaign,
estimates that she has personally met with more than 100 people
to urge them to support the president. Her efforts stretched to
the full-time equivalent of 40 hours a week at times, and she
recently appeared in a Spanish-language ad on air in  Florida  –-
all for no pay.  Outpacing 2008  Obama’s 2008 Florida director, Steve Schale, said
construction of the re-election team is outpacing that of four
years ago when the president’s campaign registered more than
200,000 new Democrats in the four months leading to the general
election. Obama carried Florida in the 2008 election.  “At this point in the campaign, there was no campaign,”
said Schale, noting that there wasn’t a single Florida office
open until July. Schale, who founded Schale Strategies LLC in
Tallahassee, is not employed by Obama’s campaign.  That advantage increases pressure on Romney to pivot to the
general election, said  Tobe Berkovitz , a communications
professor at  Boston University .  “Obama has had months to start putting his pieces on the
chessboard, while Romney has been playing one move at a time,”
he said.  At the Wednesday office opening, near a strip mall in
Riverview outside of Tampa, Elena McCullough greeted supporters
she has known for four years.  The 51-year-old Wesley Chapel resident said she door-
knocked in 2008. About one year ago, just after Obama announced
he’d be running for a second term, she said she called her
fellow volunteers: “I said, OK, everybody, it’s time to get
back on board.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Bykowicz in Tampa at 
 jbykowicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  