-- Drugmakers’ Deal With Obama Said to Be Probed by House
-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2012-05-04T16:25:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-04/obama-deal-with-drugmakers-said-to-be-probed-by-house.html
Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  and  Merck & Co. (MRK)  are being
pulled into an expanding congressional investigation about the
agreement drugmakers reached with the Obama administration to
support the Democrats’ overhaul of the U.S. health-care system,
according to three people familiar with the talks.  The probe began last year, with Republicans on the House
Energy and Commerce Committee seeking documents from an industry
trade group, said the people, who aren’t authorized to speak
publicly. When that group didn’t cooperate, the panel decided to
target Pfizer, the world’s biggest drugmaker, along with Merck,
 Amgen Inc. (AMGN) ,  Abbott Laboratories (ABT)  and  AstraZeneca Plc (AZN) , said one of
the people.  The Republicans last month began negotiating directly with
the companies in e-mails, calls and meetings demanding documents
and information outlining what the industry agreed to with
President  Barack Obama  in 2009 and 2010, when the law was being
worked on in Congress. Michael Burgess, a Representative from
Texas, said he’s been frustrated by a lack of cooperation.  “This has been like pulling teeth, trying to get
information,” said Burgess, a Republican working on the panel’s
investigation, in a telephone interview.  A White House spokesman declined to comment about the
investigation.  Peter O’Toole , a spokesman for New York-based
Pfizer, said the company is cooperating, as did  Tony Jewell , an
AstraZeneca spokesman. Kelly Davenport, a spokeswoman for
 Thousand Oaks , California-based Amgen, said the drugmaker is
aware of the probe.  An ‘Inconstant Love’  The investigation is part of a tenuous relationship that
has developed between the industry and politicians since passage
of a law that expanded health insurance to more than 30 million
Americans, said Alec Vachon, a health-care consultant who is
president of Hamilton PPB in  Washington . The pharmaceutical
industry has loosened its ties to Republicans, who were united
in voting against the law.  About 54 percent of the industry’s political donations in
the first quarter of 2012 went to Republicans, down from a 74
percent share in 2002.  “It’s an inconstant love,” Vachon said by telephone. Past
investigations by Republicans have mostly been focused on
patient safety or Medicare. This is more political, he said.  Committee Demands  The almost $1 trillion, 10-year plan for overhauling the
health-care system passed through Congress without a single
Republican vote in either the House or Senate. The insurance
expansion is funded partly by more than $100 billion in taxes
and discounts on products the  drug industry  offered to the White
House. In return, the newly insured will be able to buy the
drugmakers’ pills using their new coverage.  The committee’s demands so far have been limited to e-mails
and meetings with company lobbyists and lawyers, without
subpoenas or formal letters that can be used to push
uncooperative targets into compliance, a person familiar said.  “We have been cooperating with the committee on an ongoing
basis since the investigation began,” said  Matt Bennett , a
spokesman for the Washington-based Pharmaceutical Research and
Manufacturers of America, or PhRMA.  Adelle Infante, an Abbott spokeswoman, and  Ron Rogers , a
spokesman for Merck, didn’t immediately reply to e-mails seeking
comment.  ‘How Dare They’  Drug company executives have said they are worried that
providing the committee with a bundle of documents will create
more problems than it solves, according to two people familiar
with the investigation.  “Any time you disclose documents, you have no idea what
rocks you’re going to turn over,” Vachon said. “There’s no
upside here.”  Parts of the health law expanding insurance coverage have
been challenged as unconstitutional by 26 states, which may make
this year treacherous for the industry.  PhRMA says that in addition to the $100 billion companies
are giving up over a decade to help fund the law, the industry
is concerned that its profits will be used by the government to
fund future health legislation that could flow out of a Supreme
Court ruling against the law.  The trade group cited a potential overhaul of Medicare’s
payments to doctors, or new health insurance rules.  A Supreme Court ruling that invalidates parts of the law
could restart the debate on what to do about health care, said
 Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY)  Chief Executive Officer  John Lechleiter .  No Going Back  “There’s going to have to be a ‘what’s next?’”,
Lechleiter said in an interview from PhRMA’s annual meeting in
 Boston  last month. “There’s no status quo that any of us could
return to.”  The court plans to rule on the law’s constitutionality in
June.  The industry has found little sympathy from Democrats, who
say drugmakers still get too good a deal from government health-
care programs. A proposal in the Obama administration’s fiscal
2013 budget would cut $156 billion over a decade from Medicare
and Medicaid spending on the industry’s drugs.  Taking more money from drug companies would result in lost
jobs and fewer future cures, said  John Castellani , CEO of PhRMA.  “I see our critics and their one-dimensional focus on
costs, and I say, ‘How dare they?’” he said in a speech at the
annual meeting last month.  $240 Million Lobby  PhRMA and the rest of the drug and health products lobby,
Washington’s largest, spent $240 million in 2011 and registered
over 1,500 lobbyists, according to the Center for Responsive
Politics.  Along with drugmakers, the committee has asked questions of
about 10 other groups, including doctors and hospitals. They
also demanded that the White House turn over information on
negotiations between the health industry and Democrats, and have
so far been foiled.  “This is not a beef with anyone in the industry. I’m
perfectly OK that they went to the White House and advocated on
behalf of the industry, that’s part of the way things are
done,” Burgess, the Republican from  Texas , said. “What I’ve
got a problem with is the door being closed to the rest of us.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Drew Armstrong in  New York  at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  