-- Obama Pushes for Student Loan Rate Extension
-- B y   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r
-- 2012-05-04T16:21:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-04/obama-pushes-for-student-loan-rate-extension.html
President  Barack Obama  sought to keep
up pressure on Congress to freeze the interest rate on federally
subsidized student loans without cutting public health funding,
saying a higher education can’t be an unaffordable luxury for
middle-income Americans.  Speaking hours after the Labor Department reported that
employers added fewer  workers  than forecast in April, Obama said
“we’ve got to do more” to create jobs in the U.S. and that one
way is to make sure more students can attend college.  “Higher education cannot be a luxury, it’s an economic
imperative,” the president told juniors, seniors and their
parents at Washington-Lee High School in the Washington suburb
of Arlington, Virginia.  The rate on the loans is set to double on July 1 without
action by Congress. While the Republican-led House has passed an
extension of the current 3.4 percent  interest rate  on Stafford
loans there’s disagreement between Republicans and Democrats
about how to pay for it. The  Congressional Budget Office 
estimates the rate freeze will cost $6 billion.  A rate increase would affect about 7.4 million students,
according to the White House, adding an average of $1,000 a year
in payments on  college loans .  Obama made his pitch for action on student loans in a swing
state for the November election. He’ll return to Virginia
tomorrow as he formally opens his re-election campaign.  Young Voters  Obama and presumptive Republican nominee  Mitt Romney  are
vying for young voters, two-thirds of whom cast ballots for
Obama in 2008. Romney says that while he agrees with Obama on
the need to stop the rise in student-loan rates, he blames the
administration for an economy where he says too many recent
college graduates can’t find jobs.  The U.S. House, defying a veto threat from the White House,
voted 215-195 on April 27 to extend the current 3.4 percent
interest rate on government  student loans . Obama administration
called the measure “politically motivated” because it would
finance the $5.9 billion subsidy by abolishing a public-health
fund.  The Senate, where Democrats have a majority, is scheduled
to vote next week on freezing the interest rate.  The Senate’s version of the measure would raise $9 billion
by requiring law, accounting and other professional services
firms with three or fewer shareholders to pay withholding tax if
they make more than $250,000 annually. Partners in such firms
now treat the income as profits and avoid the withholding tax.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kate Andersen Brower in Arlington, Virginia at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  