-- Obama’s Audacity Goes Missing in Chen’s Ordeal: William Pesek
-- B y   W i l l i a m   P e s e k
-- 2012-05-04T16:54:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-04/obama-s-audacity-goes-missing-in-chen-s-ordeal-william-pesek.html
There are many ways to read the
odyssey of dissident  Chen Guangcheng : China’s leaders are
heartless thugs;  Hillary Clinton  wimped out; the rights activist
is either emotionally unstable or a master opportunist mugging
for the international cameras.  Those still grappling to get their heads around the Bo Xilai scandal now have another example of how the truth in
Beijing is often impossible to discern. We are days, or perhaps
years, away from understanding how the blind Chen escaped from
house arrest, knocked on the U.S. Embassy’s door 300 miles away,
fell back into Chinese custody and now wants to flee, perhaps
only temporarily, to the U.S. to study. We may have to wait
until Ang Lee or  Steven Spielberg  brings this tale to the big
screen.  Yet a couple of early insights can be gleaned from how the
U.S. and  China  are handling Chen’s case and that of ousted
Communist Party Politburo boss Bo.  A few years ago, Chen’s daring escape and public plea for a
meeting with U.S. Secretary of State Clinton would have been
suppressed. There might be Beijing whispers about Chen, but no
internationally transmitted images, no CNN interviews, no public
airing of what did, or didn’t, transpire behind closed doors as
Chinese and U.S. officials bargained over his fate. It’s simply
becoming harder for China to keep a tight lid on dissent. That
alone could usher in major change.  Challenging 2012  Might Chen inspire more such incidents? A rash of high-
profile copycat defections would make 2012, a year when China
will undergo a once-in-a-decade leadership change, wildly
unsettling. Or could the international focus, coming at a time
when China fears Arab Spring-like uprisings, trigger a major
clampdown?  Bo’s fate, too, suggests China is finding it harder to
control the news and the narrative. The story of the former
Chongqing party secretary fuses allegations of corruption, greed
and espionage at the same time as Bo’s wife, Gu Kailai, has
garnered attention for her possible involvement in the murder of
a British businessman. This metastasizing scandal isn’t one
China wants in the global headlines. And yet it is, daily and
relentlessly.  The U.S.’s response to Chen’s plight is telling. At the
moment, at least,  Barack Obama ’s administration is looking less
than exemplary. The details of the Chen incident are murky, but
this saga shows how touchy the U.S. is about offending the
Chinese. It doesn’t seem to me that America went as far as it
could to protect Chen and his family, who he says have been
threatened by Chinese authorities. It’s another sign of how the
balance of power has shifted in the U.S.-China relationship.  China is aware of its rising strength and understands that
its ambitions are tied to rapid economic growth. U.S. Treasury
Secretary  Timothy Geithner  is kidding himself if he thinks China
will allow the  yuan  to appreciate against the dollar,
potentially weakening its export-driven economy. China will pay
lip service to Hollywood and Silicon Valley about clamping down
on piracy, while looking the other way as tens of millions make
a good living engaging in it. Those hoping China will lead on
 climate change  are dreaming.  So let’s not pretend any one U.S.-China summit, this one
included, matters all that much. China is undergoing a major
leadership change this year with Xi Jinping expected to replace
President  Hu Jintao . It is taking place amid the biggest scandal
to face the Communist Party in decades. Against that backdrop,
the U.S. could have sacrificed this week’s Beijing summit with
China’s departing leaders and little would have been lost.  Disorienting Ties  Trying to gauge the shifting China-U.S. relationship can be
disorienting. A side effect of the U.S. crisis that began in
2008 is that largely poor, developing China is America’s leading
foreign creditor. Were China to start selling its vast holdings
of U.S. Treasuries, markets would go nuts.  At one point, it seemed politically savvy to put bond
markets ahead of human rights. Clinton did just that in her
maiden trip to China as secretary of State in early 2009. Gone
was talk of political prisoners and censorship; in was Clinton
waxing eloquent about how “our economies are so intertwined”
that it would be bad for China if the U.S. couldn’t finance its
deficit spending.  There’s another reason swapping bonds for human rights
looked like the right approach. In the previous eight years the
U.S. invaded  Iraq  without provocation, seized terror suspects
like a rogue dictatorship and flouted international law by
holding prisoners indefinitely at Guantanamo Bay. Beating up on
China for human rights looked hypocritical.  The Chen saga is a remarkable bookend for Obama. A year ago
this week, we celebrated the killing of  Osama bin Laden . The
world applauded Obama’s audacious decision to take out the al-
Qaeda leader. Obama took a victory lap in  Afghanistan  this week,
a well-deserved one, too.  Then you consider the apparent absence of audacity -- and
obvious clumsiness -- in how the White House handled the Chen
affair. When the Obama administration had a chance to tell the
world what it’s made of, it answered very clearly: debt, and
lots of it.  (William Pesek is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
William Pesek in Tokyo at
   wpesek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff
 at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  