-- Obama Re-Election Momentum Hits Snag in April Jobs Report
-- B y   M i k e   D o r n i n g   a n d   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r
-- 2012-05-04T17:07:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-04/obama-re-election-momentum-hits-snag-in-april-jobs-report.html
A slowdown in job growth in April cuts
the economic momentum behind President  Barack Obama ’s re-
election bid as he prepares to officially begin campaigning.  U.S. employers added 115,000 workers to payrolls in April,
the smallest gain in six months. The  unemployment rate  dropped
to 8.1 percent as fewer people sought work.  Roger Altman , a deputy  Treasury secretary  in the Clinton
administration and a senior economic adviser to 2004 Democratic
presidential candidate  John Kerry , called the monthly jobs
report “pretty disappointing.”  “We need 200,000 to 250,000 jobs to really make this, or
to illustrate that this is a healthy and strongish recovery,”
Altman, chairman and founder of Evercore Partners, said in an
interview on Bloomberg Television. “We’re nowhere near that.”  Private payrolls crossed a boundary in April to positive
territory during Obama’s term, with a net gain of 35,000 since
he took office in January 2009. Total payrolls remain lower than
when Obama was inaugurated because there are 607,000 fewer
federal, state and local government employees.  The jobs report was released a day before Obama formally
opens his re-election campaign with political rallies in the
swing states of Ohio and Virginia. Presumed Republican
presidential nominee  Mitt Romney  has made the president’s
stewardship of the economy a point of attack and polls show
voters are focused on jobs and growth.  ‘Very Disappointing’  Romney termed the Labor Department report “terrible and
very disappointing,” and called it evidence Obama’s policies
aren’t working.  “This is way, way, way off from what should happen in a
normal recovery,” Romney said in an interview on the Fox News
Channel. “We seem to be slowing down, not speeding up.”  Stocks and bond yields dropped on concern a slowdown in
hiring may restrain the wage growth needed to fuel  consumer
spending , which accounts for about 70 percent of the economy.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index declined 1.5 percent to
1.371.11 at 12:18 p.m. in  New York . The yield on the 10-year
Treasury note fell to 1.88 percent from 1.93 percent late
yesterday.  Private Payrolls  The White House focused attention on the private sector
adding jobs for 26 consecutive months.  Alan Krueger, chairman of Obama’s  Council of Economic
Advisers , said in a statement that the report “provides further
evidence that the economy is continuing to heal from the worst
economic downturn since the Great Depression.”  Speaking hours after the report was released, Obama said it
shows more needs to be done to aid the recovery. He said he will
keep pressing Congress to pass the components of the jobs
proposal that he laid out last year and which were rejected by
Republicans in Congress.  ““There’s still a lot of folks out work which means we’re
going to need to do more,” Obama said during an appearance at a
high school in the Washington suburb of Arlington,  Virginia .
Congress “just saying no” to the administration job proposals
is not an option, he said.  The median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of
economists was for payrolls to increase by about 160,000 and for
the jobless rate to hold at 8.2 percent. March payroll gains
were revised upward to 154,000.  Job growth during the last two months may be distorted by
warmer-than-usual weather during the year’s early months. That
probably pulled forward some hiring decisions, leaving less room
for gains during the last two months.  Indicator for Voters  The  unemployment rate  is the economic indicator that
dominates political and public discussion of the economy. Still,
analysts said jobs data released six months before the election
do little to sway voters. Signs of economic performance over the
next six months are more important, they said.  “What happens now is just not relevant until you get much
closer to the election,” Norm Ornstein, a congressional scholar
at the  American Enterprise Institute  in  Washington , said in an
interview before the report’s release.  Ornstein also said growth in real disposable income in the
last two to three quarters before the election offers the best
gauge of how Americans will vote.  “It’s not just the rate, it’s how people feel,” he said.
“It’s not like the average person out there is going to pay
attention to what the jobs numbers are and say, ‘Gee, every one
of my friends is out of work but this says things are getting
better.’”  Election Impact  Only one U.S. president,  Ronald Reagan , has been re-elected
since World War II with a jobless rate above 6 percent. On
Election Day 1984, the rate was at 7.2 percent, having dropped
almost three percentage points in the previous 18 months.  While the jobless rate has declined since its peak during
Obama’s term of 10 percent in October 2009, the drop has been
slow and halting. It was stuck at about 9 percent through the
first three quarters of last year.  Recent economic indicators have raised concern that the job
market is cooling, mimicking a slowdown in early 2011. The
world’s largest economy expanded at a 2.2 percent annual rate in
the first quarter, slower than the 3 percent pace at the end of
2011, the Commerce Department reported last week.  Concern About Future  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort  Index (SPX)  shows that Americans
are still worried about their economic future. The index dropped
last week to a two-month low as more Americans grew concerned
about their personal finances. The index fell to minus 37.6 in
the week ended April 29 from minus 35.8, surrendering gains that
had lifted it to a four-year high last month.  While Americans remained pessimistic about the economy,
their views did improve with the index rising to minus 64.3 from
minus 66.4.  Real median  household income  in March was down $4,300 in
since Obama took office in January 2009 and is down $2,900 since
the recovery started in June 2009, according to an estimate from
Sentier Research, an economic-consulting firm based in
Annapolis,  Maryland .  Catherine Mann, a professor at Brandeis International
Business School said a lot could change between now and the
election.  “Within six months we could see  Europe  finally getting
their act together or the Euro collapsing,” she said in an
interview before the report. “In six months we could see the
bond markets look at the stalemate in the  U.S. Congress  and S&P
and Moody’s downgrading us further.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mike Dorning in Washington at 
 mdorning@bloomberg.net ;
Kate Andersen Brower in Washington at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  