-- Ohio Court Reverses $2 Billion Judgment Against Ford
-- B y   K e i t h   N a u g h t o n   a n d   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 2012-05-05T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-04/ohio-court-reverses-2-billion-judgment-against-ford.html
Ford Motor Co. (F)  won a reversal of a
$2 billion verdict and will receive a new trial on claims the
automaker overcharged commercial-truck dealers for 11 years.  An  Ohio  appeals court in  Cleveland  yesterday rejected the
largest judgment ever against Ford and ruled the trial judge
improperly excluded evidence that could have helped the company.
Dealers can ask the Ohio Supreme Court to review the ruling,
which Ford disclosed yesterday in a regulatory filing.  Cuyahoga County Judge Peter J. Corrigan improperly excluded
evidence offered by Ford to defend claims that it broke an
agreement to sell trucks at published prices from 1987 to 1998,
the appellate court ruled. The dealers sued Ford in 2002, and
Corrigan last June upheld a $4.5 million jury verdict for a
dealer. Extrapolating from there, he said Ford owed $1.98
billion in damages and interest to a class of 3,000 dealers.  “After the evidence is admitted, we question whether the
trial court would be able to certify the class at the damages
phase,” the appellate court said in its ruling. “Once the
trial court admits the previously excluded evidence, it will
need to determine whether it can continue to certify the
class.”  Ford, based in Dearborn,  Michigan , fell 2.3 percent to
$10.67 at the close in  New York .  First Trial  “We look forward to trying the case before a jury that
will be able to consider all the evidence that was improperly
excluded in the first trial,”  Marcey Evans , a Ford spokeswoman,
said yesterday in an interview.  James Lowe, a lawyer for dealers, declined to comment on
the ruling.  The $2 billion award was five times higher than the
largest-ever jury award against Ford in a  lawsuit , according to
data compiled by Bloomberg News. The largest jury verdict
against Ford was for $369 million in a products-defect case
awarded in  California  in 2004. That verdict was later reduced by
trial and appellate courts.  The case from 2002 involves medium and heavy truck dealers
who sold Ford Series 600 trucks and higher. Under Ford’s
“competitive price assistance” program, they could petition
for discounts on wholesale costs to keep up with competitors.
Dealers could seek price breaks on a case-by-case basis, and
Ford made decisions without telling other dealers, according to
the opinion.  Liability Question  The trial judge certified the dealers as a class in ruling
that their contracts “unambiguously required Ford to publish to
all dealers the price that it sold to any dealer,” according to
the opinion. The appeals court ruled that the contract is
ambiguous and “susceptible to more than one interpretation,”
meaning the judge erred on the question of liability.  While the judge properly allowed dealers to present their
damages model at trial, he also erred by excluding Ford’s
rebuttal evidence, according to the opinion. Such evidence
“went to whether existing market factors would have made it
economically unfeasible for Ford to actually offer the types of
discounts contemplated” by the dealers’ model.  One of the three judges on the appellate panel, Larry A.
Jones Sr., dissented on the question of the contract language.
He said the contract was “unambiguous,” and Ford “nullified
the dealers’ right” to “purchase trucks at published prices.”  Ford had said in financial filings that the $2 billion
verdict was a financial risk. The total comprised $780.6 million
in damages and $1.19 billion in pre-judgment interest.  Corrigan allowed the dealers to pursue claims against Ford
in a class action, or group suit, in 2005.  The case is Westgate Ford Truck Sales Inc. v. Ford Motor
Co., CV 02-483526, Court of Common Pleas, Cuyahoga County, Ohio
(Cleveland). The appellate case is Westgate Ford Truck Sales
Inc. v. Ford Motor Co., 2012-Ohio-1942, Court of Appeals of
Ohio, Eighth Appellate District, County of Cuyahoga (Cleveland).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Keith Naughton in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 Knaughton3@bloomberg.net ;
David Voreacos in Newark,  New Jersey , at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net  