-- Thomson Reuters Seeks to Overcome EU Antitrust Concerns
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 2012-05-04T10:45:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-04/thomson-reuters-offers-commitments-in-bid-to-end-eu-probe.html
Thomson Reuters Corp. (TRI)  offered extra
commitments to European Union regulators in a bid to settle an
antitrust probe over its securities identification codes.  The financial news and information provider made the
revised offer after an earlier attempt to end the case failed to
satisfy EU demands to make it easier for customers to switch
suppliers of market data.  The European Commission opened an investigation into the
 Thomson Reuters  codes in 2009, saying customers may potentially
be locked-in to working with the company because replacing the
codes required “a long and costly procedure” to rewrite or
reconfigure software applications.  “After reviewing the feedback from the European
Commission’s market test, Thomson Reuters submitted a revised
offer to the EC which is aimed at addressing the comments of our
customers,” said Yvonne Diaz, a spokeswoman for the New York-
based company. “It is premature to comment further.”  Joaquin Almunia , the EU’s antitrust commissioner has
increased scrutiny of financial markets  with probes into
whether Goldman Sachs Group Inc., JPMorgan Chase & Co. and 14
other investment banks colluded to shut out rivals from
information on the swaps market. He’s also investigating the
setting of the London Interbank Offered Rate.  Antoine Colombani, a spokesman for Almunia, said the EU had
received the commitments. He didn’t give details.  Failed ‘Market Test’  Thomson Reuters Corp. (TRI) ’s earlier bid to settle the case
failed a so-called “market test” with customers and
competitors, Almunia said in March. He said the company needed
to offer an “effective solution” to customers seeking an
alternative supplier of data.  Thomson Reuters said in December it would give licenses for
customers to use Reuters Instrument Codes to retrieve data from
other suppliers and provide them with information for computer
systems to link the codes with those used by competitors.  The company, controlled by Chairman  David Thomson  through a
family investment trust, has restructured divisions to focus
more on its tax, legal and government compliance businesses. It
reported a 26 percent increase in first-quarter profit, helped
by a tax benefit.  The Brussels-based commission settled a similar probe into
 Standard & Poor’s  licensing fees for securities identification
numbers.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
Thomson Reuters in selling financial and legal information and
trading systems.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net ;
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 