-- London Mayor Wins New Term, Bucking National Anti-Tory Trend
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2012-05-05T12:11:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-04/london-mayor-johnson-re-elected-bucks-national-anti-tory-trend.html
Conservative  Boris Johnson  won a
second term as mayor of London, defeating Labour’s  Ken Livingstone  and providing Prime Minister  David Cameron  with some
comfort after a day of local-election losses for the government.  Johnson took 51.5 percent of the vote to Livingstone’s 48.5
percent in the decisive second round of counting, winning
another four years in office after a campaign largely dominated
by the personalities of two leading candidates known universally
by their first names. Livingstone observed afterward that
Johnson had secured a platform to run for the leadership of his
party when Cameron steps down.  “I suspect this result has settled the question of the
next Tory leadership election,” Livingstone said in his
concession speech in  London ’s City Hall early today. Johnson
promised to “get a good deal from the government” for London.  Across the rest of the country, the May 3 local elections
saw the Conservatives lose 405 seats on local councils, more
than a quarter of those they previously held, according to a
 tally by the British Broadcasting Corp . Labour added 823 seats
and gained control of Birmingham, Britain’s second-largest city,
Cardiff, the Welsh capital, and 30 other councils. It also won a
majority in Glasgow,  Scotland ’s largest city. Extrapolated
nationally, the results gave Labour a projected lead over the
Tories of 38 percent to 31 percent, the  BBC  said.  Appearing with Johnson today at  City Hall , Cameron said he
had enjoyed backing his bid for re-election.  ‘Excellent’  “I think it was a very strong campaign by Boris,”
Cameron said in televised comments. “It was based on his
record, on the excellent things he has done out there and I am
delighted to congratulate him. It was a campaign the whole
Conservative party got behind.”  Peter Kellner, the president of pollster YouGov Plc, said
Johnson had shown he could “reach the parts that other
politicians cannot reach.”  Support nationwide for the Conservatives has slumped to the
lowest since the coalition government came to power two years
ago. Cameron has faced a backlash over the March 21 budget that
penalized charities and pensioners and provided an income-tax
cut for the rich; the economy has slipped back into recession;
and Culture Secretary  Jeremy Hunt  is under pressure to quit amid
questions over his impartiality during News Corp.’s aborted bid
to take full control of British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc.  Lib Dems Suffer  “These are difficult times and there aren’t easy
answers,” Cameron told broadcasters yesterday. “What we have
to do is take the difficult decisions to deal with the debt,
deficit and broken economy that we’ve inherited. We will go on
making those decisions and we’ve got to do the right thing for
our country.”  His Liberal Democrat coalition partners also suffered,
losing 336 council seats and falling to their lowest number
since the party was formed in 1988.  In London, Johnson emerged as more popular than his party
nationally. His personal support held up even though there was a
swing from the Tories to Labour in polling for the  London
Assembly , the body that holds the mayor to account.  London’s mayor has the largest personal constituency of any
British politician, with 5.8 million voters. Only the French
president has a bigger electorate in western Europe. That gives
mayoral candidates a platform to speak on any issue.  Fired  Johnson , 47, who told the BBC following his victory that he
has no plan to stand for election to parliament in 2015, has
fought his share of battles with party leaders. Originally a
journalist, he gained notoriety for scrapes including being
fired as a trainee from the  Times newspaper  for making up a
quote from his own godfather.  This didn’t stop him rising to edit the  Spectator magazine ,
and in 2001 he was elected to Parliament. His first stint as a
party spokesman there lasted seven months until he was fired for
lying to the then Conservative leader, Michael Howard, about an
extra-marital affair exposed by the News of the World newspaper.  Since becoming mayor, Johnson has regularly criticized
Cameron’s policies, arguing for lower taxes for the rich and an
end to “banker-bashing.” He attacked plans to reduce social-
housing subsidies, saying they’d push poorer people out of
central London and lead to “Kosovo-style social cleansing.”  Johnson pledged during the campaign to push for the
introduction of driverless trains on London’s Underground rail
network and to fight labor unions that have been able to disrupt
services with strikes. He’s pressing a plan to build a new
airport for the capital in the Thames Estuary to overcome
congestion at Heathrow,  Europe ’s busiest hub.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Robert Hutton  in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  