-- Monti to Benefit as Voters Punish Parties: Euro Credit
-- B y   J e f f r e y   D o n o v a n
-- 2012-05-04T12:56:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-04/monti-to-benefit-as-voters-punish-parties-euro-credit.html
Prime Minister  Mario Monti  may tighten
his grip on Italian power as voters weary of recession and the
debt crisis prepare to punish former ruling parties in local
elections.  About 9.5 million Italians are eligible to cast ballots in
the May 6-7 vote, providing the first snapshot of the political
landscape since Silvio Berlusconi’s government collapsed in
November and the  Northern League , his former ruling partner, was
hurt by a party-funding scandal. Under Monti, Italian 10-year
borrowing costs dropped to about 5.5 percent from 7 percent
before he took office on Nov. 16.  Polls suggest Berlusconi’s party and the League will lose
ground as voters turn to the center-left Democratic Party and
Beppe Grillo, a comic-turned-politician campaigning for  Italy  to
leave the single currency and restructure its 1.9 trillion-euro
($2.5 trillion) debt. The results may help Monti, a former
European Union commissioner, stay in office until the
legislature’s term ends in the first half of next year.  Monti relies on support in Parliament from Berlusconi’s
People of Liberty party, the Democratic Party and the centrist
Third Way, none of which “wants a change” amid Italy’s fourth
recession since 2001, said  Robert Leonardi , a politics professor
at  Rome ’s Luiss University. “Monti is going to last” because
“if we had early general elections or a fall of the government,
the financial markets would go bananas, and who’d want to assume
that responsibility,” he said.  Bond Performance  Italian bonds, whose  yields  reached levels in 2011 that
prompted Greece, Ireland and  Portugal  to seek bailouts, had nine
weeks of gains through March 9 amid Monti’s push for reforms and
unlimited three-year lending by the  European Central Bank . Six
weeks of losses then followed after  Spain  abandoned its budget-
gap target on March 2. The rate on Italy’s 10-year bond was down
7 basis points to 5.43 percent at 2:51 p.m. Rome time.  About 1,000 Italian municipalities will hold elections
starting this weekend, with Genoa and Palermo ranking as the
biggest cities up for grabs, according to the  Interior
Ministry ’s website. Run-off votes are scheduled for May 20-21.
The semi-autonomous regions of Val D’Aosta and Sardinia stage
their elections on May 27 and June 10-11, respectively.  The ballot comes amid a six-month drive by Monti to shield
Italy from the sovereign crisis that began in  Greece  more than
two years ago. His unelected government of non-politicians
pushed through measures to boost economic growth, which has
trailed the euro region’s average for more than a decade, by
deregulating services and reducing red tape. He’s also seeking
to overhaul the labor market by making it easier for companies
to fire workers.  Recession Bites  Italy entered a recession in the last quarter of 2011 after
the premier pushed through 20 billion euros ($26 billion) of
spending cuts and tax increases. Joblessness climbed in March to
a 12-year high of 9.8 percent and consumer  confidence  fell in
April to the lowest level in more than 15 years. The government
sees the economy shrinking 1.2 percent this year, less than the
1.9 percent decline forecast by the  International Monetary Fund .  Elections are a chance for people to express “whether they
feel politicians are exercising enough pressure to protect them
against the technocrats,”  Marc Ostwald , a fixed-income
strategist at Monument Securities Ltd. in  London , said by phone.  “The political risk is clearly there, but it’s not
elections related,” he said. “Can Monti convince the
politicians to rubber-stamp and pass all the structural reforms
he’s proposing?”  Losing Faith  Italians are losing faith in their traditional political
parties, according to an April 17  poll  by Tecne for L’Unita
newspaper. More than 48 percent of Italians said they wouldn’t
vote for any party if general elections were held now, while
support for the parties has fallen by half in the past year.  “The parties have failed,” Grillo, the comedian whose 5
Star Movement will present candidate lists in 101 cities, said
in a recent blog on his website.  Grillo has called for exiting the euro, and remaining in
the EU and defaulting or paying only part of Italy’s debt. His
movement would win about 7.3 percent of the votes were a general
election held now, a poll by SWG Srl showed on April 20.  That compared with 26.2 percent for the  Democratic Party ,
25.3 percent for the People of Liberty Party and 6.2 percent for
the Northern League, whose founder  Umberto Bossi  resigned April
5 amid the biggest wave of corruption scandals since the
“Bribesville” cases of the 1990s led to the demise of the
parties that dominated postwar Italian politics.  ‘Local Politics’  Support for the main parties “is lower than for the trade
unions and much lower than for the unelected Prime Minister
Monti, who still scores over 50 percent despite the austerity
budgets,”  James Walston , a politics professor at Rome’s
American University, wrote on April 23.  While municipal polls are about “local politics,” a
Democratic Party victory “may have the consequence of
redistributing power within” Monti’s “coalition internally,
and the question then becomes who can raise their voice to
request certain things,” said Leonardi. The Democratic Party
has called for easing measures meant to reduce Italy’s  debt  of
120 percent of output,  Europe ’s second biggest after Greece.  Italian bonds were the second worst-performing of 26
sovereign-debt indexes tracked by Bloomberg and the European
Federation of Financial Analysts Societies in April, with losses
of 1.3 percent after gaining 11 percent in the first quarter.
Spanish bonds were the worst performing, down 1.8 percent.  “Development in the euro area and in Italy is impossible
with the current fiscal targets,” Stefano Fassina, Democratic
Party spokesman on economic issues, said in a statement e-mailed
on May 2. Investment funds should be “freed up” for public
works in cities that would boost employment, demand and “also
benefit the public debt,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeffrey Donovan  at 
 jdonovan26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  