-- Moody’s Byrne Says Weak Europe May Slow China’s Growth Further
-- B y   A n d y   S h a r p
-- 2012-05-04T13:30:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-04/moody-s-byrne-says-weak-europe-may-slow-china-s-growth-further.html
Thomas Byrne , a senior vice president
at Moody’s Investors Service in  Singapore , spoke in an interview
in Manila about the outlook for China’s credit rating.  Moody’s rates China Aa3 with a positive outlook.  China’s
economy  expanded 8.1 percent in the first quarter from a year
earlier, the slowest pace of expansion since 2009.  On growth:  First quarter growth “would mark the bottom if there were
not continued weaknesses in  Europe . A big element of the
slowdown is, one, the slack demand from Europe on China’s
exports, and, two, the policy-induced slowdown with the
monetary-policy tightening and also the credit tightening that
occurred after the post-global financial crisis surge in credit.  ‘‘If  China  can improve its accountability, particularly in
local government, then probably a slower growth rate won’t
destabilize the country.  ‘‘If China continues on a very favorable growth and fiscal
trajectory then that should be reflected in a higher rating.’’  On inflation:  ‘‘Macroeconomic stability would be credit-positive;
inflation has come down from last year’s peak of 6 percent or
so, and now it’s under 4 percent, so these developments still
support the positive outlook.  ‘‘High inflation would have more immediate negative
consequences than this gradual rise in unemployment from the
grinding down of the growth rate.’’  On political unrest:  ‘‘We don’t think the greater social unrest has had a
negative impact on government fiscal performance or economic
growth, or adverse consequences on the budget where the
government has to hand out more public sector increases like
they did in some Middle Eastern countries recently. Political
unrest that feeds into economic or financial consequences would
be credit negative.’’  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Sharp in Tokyo at 
 asharp5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  