-- Oracle Judge Tells Jury to Keep Trying Amid ‘Possible’ Deadlock
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2012-05-04T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-04/oracle-judge-tells-jury-to-keep-trying-amid-possible-deadlock.html
A juror in  Oracle Inc. (ORCL) ’s copyright-
infringement trial against  Google Inc. (GOOG)  asked the judge for
guidance about not being able to reach a unanimous verdict,
raising the possibility the panel is deadlocked.  U.S. District Judge William Alsup, presiding over the trial
in San Francisco, sent the 12-member jury home yesterday with
orders to return today to “start fresh.” He proposed to Oracle
and Google lawyers, without the jury present, that they accept a
partial verdict if there are questions the panel agrees on, and
said the trial should move into the next phase dealing with
patent-infringement claims.  While the juror didn’t say in the note, which came on the
third day of deliberations, the panel was deadlocked, Alsup told
lawyers “it’s possible” that is “what’s going on.”  The panel is weighing whether Google infringed parts of
Oracle’s Java programming language that the search engine
provider used to develop the Android operating system for
smartphones, now running on 300 million devices.  Oracle, the largest maker of  database software , is seeking
$1 billion and a court order blocking Google from distributing
Android unless it pays for a license. Google claims the parts of
Java it used aren’t covered by copyrights and that its use of
Java, a free language, was fair and legal.  ‘Fair Use’  Jurors must decide whether Google infringed copyrights and,
if so, whether the copying was “fair use,” meaning that it
added something new or functional to Java that is in the public
interest.  Google, owner of the most popular search engine, needs more
evidence to back up a document claiming Android software lost
money in 2010 and made a small profit in the first half of last
year, Alsup said yesterday during a hearing. Android’s profits
would be used to compute damages that may be owed to Oracle if
Google is found to have infringed its copyrights in a way that
wasn’t fair use.  Google’s revenue for Android was $97.7 million in the first
quarter of 2010 and there was a “big loss for the whole year,”
Alsup said  while looking at a Google document that is sealed
from public view. The document shows that Google made “a small
profit” for the second half of 2011, Alsup said.  Oracle’s attorneys say Google executives have been unable
to confirm the Android financial figures, including expenses
that lowered profits. After hearing arguments from lawyers for
both companies, Alsup ordered Google to produce documents that
back up the figures.  “It’s unclear to me that anyone can vouch for these
numbers,” he said.  Jim Prosser, a Google spokesman, declined to comment on the
figures.  Google doesn’t break out how much in search and advertising
revenue it makes from searches done on Android mobile devices.
The company doesn’t charge for Android, which is free for
programmers to develop applications for Android devices.  The case is Oracle v. Google, 10-03561, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of  California  ( San Francisco ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  