-- Oracle Judge May Accept Partial Verdict in Google Java Suit
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2012-05-04T17:32:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-04/oracle-judge-may-accept-partial-verdict-in-google-java-suit-1-.html
The judge in  Oracle Corp. (ORCL) ’s lawsuit
against  Google Inc. (GOOG)  may accept a partial verdict if the jury
can’t agree on all four verdict questions about whether the
search engine provider stole Oracle’s technology to develop
Android software or didn’t need a license.  U.S. District Judge William Alsup in San Francisco said
today that he had a “strong inclination” to accept a partial
verdict on copyright infringement in the case, an outcome that
Google’s attorney Robert  Van Nest  said he opposes and Oracle’s
lawyers said they support.  “I’m going to receive a partial verdict,” Alsup said.
“I’m not going to let this work go to waste.”  The jury has been weighing whether Google infringed parts
of Oracle’s Java programming language to develop the Android
operating system for smartphones, now running on 300 million
devices. The panel heard two weeks of testimony from Oracle and
Google executives, including their chief executive officers.  After three days of deliberations, a juror sent a note to
Alsup yesterday asking what happens if they can’t reach a
unanimous decision. He told them to “start fresh” today and
they continue to deliberate.  ‘Fair Use’  Jurors were asked to decide whether  Mountain View ,
California-based Google infringed copyrights and, if so, whether
the copying was “fair use,” meaning that it added something
new or functional to Java that is in the public interest.  If they unanimously agree that Google infringed and can’t
agree on whether it was fair use, accepting just the
infringement verdict and having another trial on the fair use
question could violate Google’s constitutional rights, Van Nest
said. The lawyer cited the Seventh Amendment to the U.S.
Constitution, which says that cases tried by a jury may not be
reexamined by another court.  Oracle attorney  Michael Jacobs  said Alsup should accept a
partial verdict and hold a new trial on unresolved issues and
copyright damages.  The bulk of the $1 billion in damages Oracle is seeking is
linked to copyright infringement, according to court filings.
Oracle, the largest maker of  database software , is also seeking
a court order blocking Google from distributing Android unless
it pays for a license. Google claims that the parts of Java it
used aren’t covered by copyrights and that its use of Java, a
free language, was fair and legal.  Damages, Injunction  Without a verdict on whether infringement is fair use,
Oracle can’t seek damages or an injunction, said Edward Naughton, an intellectual property attorney at Brown Rudnick LLP
in  Boston  who’s not involved in the case.  “They can’t get relief, money or injunction, until there’s
a ruling on the defense of fair use,” Naughton said in a phone
interview.  The next phases of the trial, expected to last until the
first week of June, concerns whether Google infringed two Java
patents and whether  Redwood City , California-based Oracle is
entitled to any damages.  The case is Oracle v. Google, 10-03561, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of  California  ( San Francisco ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  