-- Oracle-Google Jury Told to Keep Deliberating May 7 Over Java
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2012-05-04T23:01:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-04/oracle-google-jury-told-to-resume-deliberating-may-7-correct-.html
Jurors deciding whether  Google Inc. (GOOG) 
stole Oracle Inc.’s technology are deadlocked on one of three
questions about whether the search engine provider infringed
copyrights to build Android software now used on more than
300 million phones.  U.S. District Judge William Alsup in San Francisco,
presiding over an intellectual property trial in its third week,
sent the jurors home today and ordered them to return May 7 for
more deliberations. He said earlier he would accept a partial
verdict today and changed his plan after talking privately with
Oracle’s and Google’s lawyers.  “It’s worth sending you home since you told me there’s
hope for reaching a unanimous decision on all questions,” Alsup
told jurors.  The jury’s foreman told Alsup that the panel’s majority
believed the judge should be notified today that it’s at an
impasse on one question. Other jurors favored more talks May 7
“to see if anyone has come up with a new perspective,” the
foreman said.  The foreman said the jury can’t agree on one of three
questions about whether Google infringed Oracle’s copyrights on
the Java programming language when it used the technology to
develop the Android operating system.  “Fair Use’  In two of those questions, jurors are also being asked to
decide whether Google’s use of Java, if there was infringement,
qualified as “fair use,” meaning that it added something new
or functional to Java that is in the public interest. Google
won’t be liable for infringement damages if the jury finds it
made fair use of Java copyrights.  The bulk of the $1 billion in damages Oracle is seeking is
linked to copyright infringement, according to court filings.  Alsup said that if jurors decide Google infringed
copyrights without agreeing on whether that was fair use, he
would accept a partial verdict and have the panel take the
matter up later in the eight-week trial, or a new trial could be
held on that issue.  A fourth question, which Alsup will use as a guideline for
issues that he has to decide, is whether Google proved that it
reasonably relied on Oracle and Sun Microsystems Inc., Java’s
creator, when it decided not to pay for a Java license.  Oracle, the largest maker of  database software , is also
seeking a court order blocking Google from distributing Android
unless it pays for a license. Google claims that the parts of
Java it used aren’t covered by copyrights and that its use of
Java, a free language, was fair and legal.  Damages, Injunction  Without a verdict on whether infringement is fair use,
Oracle can’t seek damages or an injunction, said Edward Naughton, an intellectual property attorney at Brown Rudnick LLP
in  Boston  who isn’t involved in the case.  “They can’t get relief, money or injunction, until there’s
a ruling on the defense of fair use,” Naughton said in a phone
interview.  The next phases of the trial, expected to last until the
first week of June, concerns whether Google infringed two Java
patents and whether  Redwood City , California-based Oracle is
entitled to any damages.  The case is Oracle v. Google, 10-03561, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of  California  ( San Francisco ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  