-- Panetta Says Drone Attacks Protect U.S. From Terrorists
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2012-05-04T17:03:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-04/panetta-says-drone-attacks-protect-u-s-from-terrorists.html
The U.S. will continue to launch drone
strikes against militant sanctuaries in Pakistan even if that
nation’s government keeps opposing them, Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  said.  While Panetta declined to be more specific when asked about
the unmanned vehicles because they “remain covert operations,”
he said in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s
“Conversations with  Judy Woodruff ” airing this weekend, “The
 United States  was attacked on 9/11, and we know who attacked
us.”  “We know that al-Qaeda was behind it,”  Panetta said.
“And we are going to do everything we can, use whatever
operations we have to, in order to make sure that we protect
this country and make sure that that kind of attack never
happens again.”  Told that sounded as if he meant drone attacks will
continue, Panetta said simply, “The United States is going to
defend itself under any circumstances.”  Drone attacks against sanctuaries of the Taliban and other
militant groups in  Pakistan  are carried out by the Central
Intelligence Agency, which Panetta previously headed. Pakistani
officials have opposed the strikes, saying they violate their
nation’s sovereignty and have killed civilians.  Stability in Afghanistan  The attacks are part of the Obama administration’s efforts
in neighboring Afghanistan, which Panetta said is on the path
toward stability so that U.S. and coalition forces can withdraw.  The country’s military and police forces last year “were
operational, they were involved in the battle and they’ve
continued to do a great job in providing security,” Panetta
said in the interview.  Progress in Afghanistan comes against the backdrop of
corruption in the country’s government and the persistent
challenge of the militant sanctuaries in Pakistan, as cited in
an April 30 report from Panetta’s own department.  “The Taliban is resilient,” Panetta said. “They’re going
to be there. They’re going to continue to attack. We do have
problems obviously with  Afghanistan  corruption. So I don’t think
we ought to take anything for granted.”  Coalition partners are counting on Afghan security forces
and governing authorities to take over as they move toward
recalling most of the 88,000 U.S. troops and their 40,000
counterparts from other nations by December 2014. The Afghan
Army, as of March 31, reached 194,466 personnel, close to its
195,000 goal for October. The police stood at 149,642 with a
goal of 157,000.  ‘Glimmer’ on Iran  On  Iran , Panetta said he was hopeful a solution would be
found to prevent the nation from getting a nuclear weapon.  Recent global pressure on Iran indicates “there is now at
least some glimmer there could be a diplomatic effort to try and
see if we can resolve these issues,” Panetta said. “There are
serious talks going on.” The discussions have the backing of
 Russia  and  China , which previously opposed such moves.  Representatives of the five permanent members of the  United
Nations Security Council  -- Britain, China,  France , Russia and
the U.S. -- plus  Germany  will meet with Iranian officials in
 Baghdad  on May 23.  “The bottom line here is that Iran has to make clear that
they’re going to suspend any kind of nuclear enrichment, and
that they will make no efforts to develop any kind of nuclear
weapon,” Panetta said.  China’s Defense Minister  Chinese Defense Minister Liang Guanglie will meet with
Panetta on May 7, an opportunity for improving military-to-
military relations, Panetta said.  “There are a lot of issues we have to discuss: talk about
 North Korea , talk about the ability to have free trade in that
region, talk about trying to keep our sea lanes open, talk about
humanitarian assistance, talk about proliferation of nuclear
weapons,” Panetta said.  “And I guess what I’m hoping is that we can establish at
least a process whereby we can communicate with one another on a
peaceful basis,” he said.  The Pentagon intends to cut about $490 billion from
previously planned  spending  over the next 10 years as part of
deficit-reduction efforts. The  defense budget  faces an
additional $500 billion in automatic cuts starting in January
unless Congress and the president agree on legislation to block
the process known as sequestration.  Congressional Leadership  “ I’m very concerned that the Congress, both Democrats and
Republicans, have to show leadership here,” Panetta said in the
interview. “The whole purpose of sequestration, or even
developing a crazy vehicle like that, was to ensure that they
would exercise leadership to prevent it from happening.”  Panetta, a former Democratic House member from  California ,
said the failure so far to reverse sequestration reflects the
most virulent partisanship he has seen in 40 years working in
 Washington .  “Today, I think the attitude is that governing is not
necessarily good politics, and the result is that it’s much more
partisan and much more divided,” he said. “And we’re paying a
high price for that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  