-- Paulson Hedge Fund Said to Extend Slump With April Loss
-- B y   K e l l y   B i t
-- 2012-05-05T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-04/paulson-hedge-fund-said-to-extend-slump-with-april-loss.html
John Paulson , the billionaire hedge-
fund manager seeking to reverse record losses in 2011, lost 6.7
percent last month in one of his largest funds as gold-mining
stocks dropped, said two people briefed on the returns.  The decline leaves Advantage Plus, which seeks to profit
from corporate events such as takeovers and bankruptcies and
uses leverage to amplify returns, down 8.8 percent this year,
said the people, who asked not to be identified because the
information is private. Since inception in 2005, it has gained
15 percent annually on average.  Paulson, 56, who became a billionaire in 2007 by betting
against the U.S. subprime mortgage market, told clients in
February that gold is his best long-term bet, serving as
protection against currency debasement, rising inflation and a
possible breakup of the euro. Gold miners are historically
inexpensive, he said at a meeting with investors last month.  “Over the last 12 months there’s been a disconnect between
the buyers of gold bullion, like central banks who are strategic
long-term holders of gold, and the buyers of gold equities, who
may believe gold prices will fall in the short term,” Paulson
said yesterday in a letter to investors. “This disconnect has
caused a large discrepancy between the gold spot price and the
implied valuation of gold through gold equities.”  Gold-mining stocks in the 64-member  S&P/TSX Global Gold
Index (SPTSGD)  slumped 7.3 percent in April and 13 percent in the first
four months of 2012. In comparison, bullion fell 0.5 percent
last month amid concern that  Europe ’s debt crisis may worsen and
that a slowdown in  China  may curb demand for the precious metal.  Miners Drive Losses  The decline in gold miners also drove losses in Paulson’s
Gold Fund, which can buy derivatives and other gold-related
investments, Paulson said in the letter. The fund declined 5.3
percent last month and 11 percent this year. Since inception in
2010, it gained 2.8 percent annually, on average.  Armel Leslie , a spokesman for Paulson & Co., declined to
comment on the firm’s returns.  Paulson & Co., which manages $24 billion, is the largest
individual holder of  AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. (AU) , which lost 6.9
percent last month and 19 percent in 2012. The Advantage Plus
fund had a 25 percent allocation to gold-related investments,
according to a year-end letter the firm sent to investors.  Paulson & Co. will now send a “brief commentary” along
with its monthly performance estimates to investors, Paulson
said in the letter. He is seeking to reverse 2011 losses from an
ill-timed bet on an economic recovery, which caused him to scale
back risk before stock markets started to rally late in the
year. About 20 percent of Paulson’s investor base is currently
underwater on the fund holdings, one of the people said.  ‘Positioned Differently’  Paulson’s funds rose 1.7 percent this year through April
30, a weighted average across all strategies, the firm said in
its letter, as funds including Recovery and Enhanced climbed.  The Advantage Fund, which employs a strategy similar to
Advantage Plus, decreased 5 percent last month and 6 percent
this year. Since inception in 2004, it gained an annual average
of 12 percent.  “Compared to last year, Paulson Advantage funds are
positioned differently and expect to generate uncorrelated
returns from event catalysts, not market movements,” Paulson
said in the letter.  The Advantage funds had been mostly invested in shares of
banks, insurance companies and other financial-services firms.
Paulson & Co. sold its entire stakes in Citigroup Inc. and Bank
of America Corp., positions that Paulson had started
aggressively building in 2009 as part of his bet that the  U.S.
economy  would recover by the end of this year, in the fourth
quarter of 2011.  Recovery Fund  Paulson’s Recovery Fund, which invests in assets Paulson
believes will benefit from a long-term economic rebound, such as
financial services, insurance, hotels and real estate companies,
fell 1.4 percent in April and gained 8 percent in the first four
months of 2012, the people said. Since its inception in 2008, it
has gained 5.4 percent annually.  The firm’s Enhanced Fund, which invests in the shares of
merging companies, declined 0.9 percent in April and climbed 12
percent this year. Since the fund began in 2001, it advanced 24
percent a year on average.  Paulson’s Credit Opportunities Fund dropped 0.7 percent
last month and gained 4.2 percent in 2012. Since inception in
2006, the fund surged 56 percent a year, which includes a 590
percent jump in 2007, largely because of Paulson’s bets against
the U.S. subprime mortgage market, one of the people said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kelly Bit in  New York  at 
 kbit@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  