-- Employers in U.S. Added Fewer Jobs Than Forecast in April
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2012-05-04T19:31:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-04/payrolls-in-u-s-rose-115-000-in-april-jobless-rate-at-8-1-.html
American employers added fewer workers
than forecast in April and the jobless rate unexpectedly fell as
people left the labor force, adding to concern the economic
expansion is cooling.  Payrolls climbed 115,000, the smallest increase in six
months, after a revised 154,000 gain in March that was larger
than initially estimated, Labor Department figures showed today
in  Washington . The median estimate of 85 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News called for a 160,000 advance. The jobless rate
fell to a three-year low of 8.1 percent, and earnings stagnated.  Stocks and bond yields fell on bets that a slowdown in
hiring will restrain the wage growth needed to fuel the  consumer
spending  that accounts for 70 percent of the world’s largest
economy. The data pose a challenge for President  Barack Obama ,
who was attacked by Republican challenger  Mitt Romney ’s campaign
today for his “failed economic record.”  “We’re still very much on the recovery path, but we’ve got
a huge amount of ground to make up in the labor market,” said
 Scott Brown , chief economist at Raymond James & Associates Inc.
in  St. Petersburg ,  Florida , who accurately forecast the
unemployment rate.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index dropped 1.6 percent to
1,369.95 at 3:27 p.m. in  New York . The yield on the 10-year
Treasury note fell to 1.87 percent from 1.93 percent late
yesterday.  Weakening  consumer confidence  is hurting sales at
businesses like Tops American Grill, Bakery & Bar in
Schenectady, New York.  No Plans to Hire  Evan Christou, the owner, said he has no plans to add to
his staff of 42 employees. Sales were up about 6 percent earlier
this year before dropping off when gasoline prices went up. He
said he would need to see a significant increase in sales for a
sustained period before hiring more workers.  “We’re kind of consolidating and multitasking,” said
Christou, 49. “In this market, it’s pretty much a wait-and-see
attitude.”  Transportation and warehousing, government agencies and
construction all cut jobs in April. Bloomberg survey estimates
ranged from increases of 89,000 to 210,000 after a previously
reported 120,000 rise in March.  The data come a day before Obama formally opens his re-
election campaign with rallies in the swing states of Ohio and
 Virginia . Romney has made the president’s stewardship of the
economy a point of attack and polls show voters are focused on
jobs and growth.  Romney Campaign  “From green jobs that never materialized to an
 unemployment rate  that has remained above 8 percent for 39
straight months, President Obama’s rhetoric simply doesn’t match
with his failed economic record,” Andrea Saul, a Romney
Campaign spokeswoman, said in a statement.  Alan Krueger, chairman of Obama’s  Council of Economic
Advisers , focused on 26 consecutive months of private job
growth. Today’s report “provides further evidence that the
economy is continuing to heal from the worst economic downturn
since the Great Depression,” he said in a statement.  Private payrolls during Obama’s term in office turned to
positive from negative in April, with a net gain of 35,000.
Overall payrolls remain lower than when Obama was inaugurated
because there are 607,000 fewer government workers, including
federal, state and local employees.  Edward LaHaie, 52, of Powder Springs,  Georgia , got a job in
April as a regional sales manager for Rawal Devices Inc., a
maker of control systems for industrial and commercial air
conditioners. He had been out of work since November when he
lost a similar sales job.  Counted the Days  “There are always opportunities for someone who has
skills,” he said. “It took a little longer than I would have
liked. I was unemployed for 170 days and I counted every one of
them.”  The Obama campaign is pointing to a revival in the  auto
industry  to support his record.  Chrysler Group LLC, the automaker controlled by Fiat SpA,
said it will accelerate the addition of 1,100 jobs and a third
crew of workers by hiring them in November, pulling ahead plans
for increasing production in early 2013. Earlier this week, it
also said four plants will skip normally scheduled two-week
midyear shutdowns to meet increased demand.  At the same time, cost-cutting is prompting reductions at
some companies.  H&R Block Inc. (HRB) , the biggest U.S. tax preparer,
plans to reduce 350 jobs and close about 200 company-owned
offices. AMR Corp.’s  American Airlines  this month said it will
eliminate 1,200 airport agent, baggage and cargo jobs as part of
a bankruptcy restructuring plan to trim annual labor spending.  Weather Effect  Economists pointed to some bright spots in today’s report.
Payroll gains for the prior two months were revised higher by a
total of 53,000 jobs. And some of the slowdown may reflect
unusually warm weather that boosted hiring early in the year.  “The weather was mild in January and February, and it’s
very possible that hiring was pulled forward,” said Christophe Barraud, an economist and strategist at Market Securities Paris
LLP, who correctly forecast the payrolls figure. “This report
is not good, but we have to wait for the next one to see if the
real trend is actually decelerating.”  The unemployment rate was forecast to hold at 8.2 percent,
according to the survey median. It has exceeded 8 percent since
February 2009, the longest such stretch since monthly records
began in 1948.  The  participation  rate, which indicates the share of
working-age people in the  labor force , fell to 63.6 percent, the
lowest since December 1981, from 63.8 percent.  Long-Term Unemployed  The report showed a drop in long-term unemployed Americans.
The number of people out of work for 27 weeks or longer fell as
a percentage of all jobless, to 41.3 percent.  Among those still looking for work is David Bouchey, of 
Aurora,  Colorado , who lost his job as a financial analyst in 2007. 
He said he thought his years of experience in the industry and 
three post-graduate degrees would land him a job.  “I’m overqualified for almost every job I apply for,”
said Bouchey, 54. He, his wife and two sons live on about $1,000
a month in public assistance. “I never thought the economy
would be this bad.”  Average hourly earnings were $23.38 in April, essentially
unchanged from the month before, today’s report showed. It was
the first time without an increase since August. Compared with
April of last year, earnings climbed 1.8 percent, matching
January as the smallest in a year. The average work week for all
workers held at 34.5 hours.  Growth Slows  Faster economic growth would help lay the groundwork for
more hiring. The economy expanded at a 2.2 percent annual rate
in the first quarter after a 3 percent pace the prior three
months, the Commerce Department reported last week. Consumer
spending grew 2.9 percent, the most in more than a year.  The improvement in the U.S. contrasts with some of the
other major economies. Joblessness in the 17-nation euro area
increased to 10.9 percent in March, the highest since April
1997, from 10.8 percent a month earlier, data showed this week.  United Parcel Service Inc. (UPS) , the world’s largest package-
delivery company, is among firms taking note.  “During the quarter, the most positive news has come from
the U.S. where indications of economic rebound are evident,”
Scott Davis, chief executive officer of UPS, said on an April 26
conference call. “Retail sales have grown faster than expected
and the employment environment has improved. On the other hand,
economies in other parts of the world continue to face
challenges.”  Fed Policy  Federal Reserve policy makers last month repeated their
plan to hold borrowing costs low through late 2014 to spur
growth.  “The unemployment rate has declined but remains
elevated,” Fed policy makers said in an April 25 statement. The
group “expects economic growth to remain moderate over coming
quarters and then to pick up gradually,” and “anticipates that
the unemployment rate will decline gradually.”  Today’s report showed that  factory payrolls  increased by
16,000, the smallest in five months. Construction companies cut
jobs for a third straight month. Retailers added 29,300
employees, almost recouping losses in the prior two months.
Employment gains at service-providers were the weakest since
August. Government payrolls declined for the seventh month in
the last eight.  The so-called underemployment rate -- which includes part-
time workers who’d prefer a full-time position and people who
want work but have given up looking -- held at 14.5 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  