-- U.S. Payrolls Probably Picked Up
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2012-05-04T04:00:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-04/payrolls-in-u-s-probably-picked-up-from-weakest-in-five-months.html
Hiring in the U.S. probably picked up
in April after the smallest gain in five months, showing the
labor market may be regaining momentum, economists said before a
report today.  Payrolls climbed by 160,000 workers following a 120,000
March increase, according to the median forecast of 85
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. The jobless rate held at
a three-year low of 8.2 percent, the figures may show.  The increase would leave the labor market 5 million jobs
short of the 8.8 million lost as a result of the 18-month
recession that ended almost three years ago. While some
companies like Chrysler Group LLC are adding workers, Federal
Reserve policy makers still view unemployment as “elevated”
and plan to hold borrowing costs low through late 2014.  “We’re seeing a moderate pace of job growth,” said  Scott Brown , chief economist at Raymond James & Associates Inc. in St
Petersburg,  Florida . “The improvement will help fuel consumer
spending to some extent. It’s still not fast enough to reduce
the unemployment rate a lot or to quickly make up for the ground
lost on employment during the recession.”  The Labor Department’s report is due at 8:30 a.m. in
Washington. Bloomberg survey estimates ranged from increases of
89,000 to 210,000.  The jobs data come six months before Americans head to the
polls to either re-elect President  Barack Obama  or choose
Republican  Mitt Romney , who has said White House policies have
done little to help U.S. workers.  Today’s Labor Department report may show private payrolls,
which exclude government jobs, climbed 165,000 after rising
121,000 in March, economists forecast.  2012 Average  The projected gain in total payrolls for April would bring
the average for this year to 199,000, compared with 206,750 in
the first four months of 2011.  Estimates for the jobless rate, derived from a separate
survey of households, ranged from 8.1 percent to 8.3 percent.
Unemployment has exceeded 8 percent since February 2009, the
longest such stretch since monthly records began in 1948.  Faster economic growth would help lay the groundwork for
more hiring. The economy expanded at a 2.2 percent annual rate
in the first quarter after a 3 percent pace the prior three
months, the Commerce Department reported last week.  Consumer
spending  grew 2.9 percent, the most in more than a year.  Stocks have gained this year on signs the economy will keep
expanding while  Europe  struggles with recession and Asia cools.
The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  has climbed  11 percent so far in
2012.  Chrysler Hiring  Chrysler, the automaker controlled by Fiat SpA, said it
will accelerate the addition of 1,100 jobs and a third crew of
workers by hiring them in November, pulling ahead plans for
increasing production in early 2013. Earlier this week, it also
said four plants will skip normally scheduled two-week midyear
shutdowns to meet increased demand.  Chrysler led the five largest automakers by U.S. sales in
exceeding analysts’ estimates for April, reporting a 20 percent
jump. Chrysler, Ford Motor Co. and Hyundai Motor Co. this week
said they will add shifts at factories this year.  General Motors
Co. (GM) , the top-selling automaker in the U.S., raised its forecast
for full-year U.S. light-vehicle sales.  “Over time, we believe that strength in the manufacturing
sector and strong retail sales will continue to lead to more  job
creation ,”  Don Johnson , vice president of U.S. sales at GM,
said on a May 1 conference call with analysts. “That’s going to
help more consumers put the recession behind them, gaining even
more confidence and drive vehicle sales higher.”  Global Economy  The improvement in the U.S. contrasts with some of the
other major economies. Joblessness in the 17-nation euro area
increased to 10.9 percent in March, the highest since April
1997, from 10.8 percent a month earlier, data showed this week.
 United Parcel Service Inc. (UPS) , the world’s largest package-delivery
company, is among firms taking note.  “During the quarter, the most positive news has come from
the U.S. where indications of economic rebound are evident,”
Scott Davis, chief executive officer of UPS, said on an April 26
conference call. “Retail sales have grown faster than expected
and the employment environment has improved. On the other hand,
economies in other parts of the world continue to face
challenges.”  Job Cuts  At the same time, cost-cutting is prompting cuts at some
companies.  H&R Block Inc. (HRB) , the biggest U.S. tax preparer, plans
to reduce 350 jobs and close about 200 company-owned offices.
AMR Corp.’s  American Airlines  this month said it will eliminate
1,200 airport agent, baggage and cargo jobs as part of a
bankruptcy restructuring plan to trim annual labor spending.  “Labor market conditions have improved in recent months;
the  unemployment rate  has declined but remains elevated,” Fed
policy makers said in an April 25 statement. The group “expects
economic growth to remain moderate over coming quarters and then
to pick up gradually,” and “anticipates that the unemployment
rate will decline gradually.”  The central bankers last month repeated their plan to hold
borrowing costs low through late 2014 to spur growth.  Fed officials also cut forecasts for the jobless rate, to
an average 7.8 percent to 8 percent in the fourth quarter from a
January projection of 8.2 percent to 8.5 percent, according to
central tendency estimates released April 25.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in  Washington  at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  