-- PDVSA Said to Plan $3 Billion 20-Year Bond Sale This Month
-- B y   C o r i n a   R o d r i g u e z   P o n s   a n d   D a n i e l   C a n c e l
-- 2012-05-04T21:35:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-04/pdvsa-said-to-plan-3-billion-sale-of-20-year-bonds-this-month.html
     May 4 (Bloomberg) --  Petroleos de Venezuela SA , the state-
owned  oil company , will sell $3 billion of 20-year bonds this
month, according to a government official who is involved in the
operation.  The Venezuelan central bank and other financial
institutions are interested in buying the bonds, which will
carry an interest rate of 9 percent and be sold before May 14,
said the official, who asked not to be identified because he
isn’t authorized to speak publicly about the matter.  PDVSA, as the Caracas-based company is known, hasn’t sold
dollar bonds since November when it issued $2.4 billion of
securities in a private placement with the central bank. The
Venezuelan government and PDVSA sell dollar-denominated bonds
locally in bolivars at the official  exchange rate , which allows
companies and individuals to obtain foreign currency by selling
the notes abroad to investors.  “Supply is long overdue,”  Siobhan Morden , the head of
Latin America strategy at Jefferies Group Inc. in New York, said
in an e-mail.  This is the best moment for PDVSA to borrow in dollars in
the past 18 months, the government official said.  An official at PDVSA declined to comment on any sale.  PDVSA bonds have rallied this year on speculation that
President  Hugo Chavez , who depends on the oil company to finance
his government, may not be fit to stand for re-election and that
a new administration may reverse policies that have caused a
stagnation in oil production.  Chavez in Cuba  Chavez, 57, has spent more time in Cuba receiving treatment
for an undisclosed cancer than in  Venezuela  since February,
while saying that he’ll be the candidate in October elections.
The self-declared socialist revolutionary has led Venezuela
since 1999.  Bonds issued by PDVSA were the second-most actively traded
dollar-denominated corporate securities by dealers in the past
week, with 846 trades of $1 million or more, according to Trace,
the bond-price reporting system of the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority. Notes from Goldman Sachs Group Inc. were
the most active.  The yield on PDVSA’s benchmark 8.5 percent bonds due in
2017 rose 45 basis points, or 0.45 percentage point, to 11.19
percent at 4:51 p.m. in Caracas, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The bond’s price fell 1.71 cents to 89.20 cents on
the dollar.  Most of the bonds will probably be sold gradually through
the central bank’s currency market, avoiding a glut, Victor Sierra, a managing director at Torino Capital LLC in  New York ,
said in an e-mail.  Market Effect  “The net effect on the market should be fairly neutral in
the short end,” Sierra said. “I expect a rebound in the coming
days as Chavez health issues continue.”  Net income surged 42 percent in 2011 to $4.5 billion on
$124 billion of revenue, the oil company said April 17. Total
debt rose 40 percent last year to $34.9 billion after the
company sold $10.3 billion of dollar-denominated bonds to
finance the development of new oil projects and government
social programs.  PDVSA President  Rafael Ramirez  said last month that the
company’s debt levels are “comfortable” and that there’s room
to borrow more in coming years amid efforts to tap heavy crude
reserves in the Orinoco belt with private partners including
 Chevron Corp. (CVX) ,  Eni SpA (ENI)  and Repsol YPF SA.  Of the $3 billion from the new bond sale, $1 billion will
probably be allocated to the central bank and the rest to
companies in “strategic sectors” for imports of food, medicine
and machinery,  Asdrubal Oliveros , director of Caracas-based
economic consulting and research firm Ecoanalitica, said in a
phone interview.  “Most of the new supply should come in a relatively smooth
way, with daily sales through Sitme instead of a sudden flow,
helping contain volatility,” Barclays Capital analysts
Alejandro Arreaza and  Alejandro Grisanti  wrote today in a note
to clients.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Corina Pons in Caracas at 
 crpons@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Cancel in Caracas at 
 dcancel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  