-- Pena Nieto Tests Poll Lead in Mexico Vote Debate After Gaffes
-- B y   N a c h a   C a t t a n
-- 2012-05-04T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-04/pena-nieto-tests-poll-lead-in-mexico-vote-debate-after-gaffes.html
Enrique Pena Nieto, the presidential
candidate of  Mexico ’s once-dominant  Institutional Revolutionary
Party , goes into this weekend’s televised debate with a 16-point
lead in the polls after shrugging off early campaign gaffes.  The former governor of Mexico state just needs to avoid
blunders in the two debates scheduled for May 6 and June 10 to
all but ensure victory in the July 1 election, said Antonio Crespo, a political analyst at the Center for Economic Research
& Teaching in Mexico City.  “The debates will be the last opportunity to strongly trip
up Pena Nieto,” Crespo said. “Otherwise, he’s not exposing
himself, and so there’s no way for him to lose points.”  The 45-year-old’s good looks and soap-opera star wife have
benefitted his campaign, and he has learned to dodge difficult
questions since stirring controversy by telling  Spain ’s El Pais
newspaper in December that he wasn’t the “woman of the
household” to explain why he didn’t know the price of
tortillas, Crespo said. A week earlier Pena Nieto had struggled
to name three books that influenced him at a literary fair.  Pena Nieto’s popularity also wasn’t damaged by his
statement, in an interview with El Universal newspaper published
Jan. 22, that he had fathered two children out of wedlock during
his first marriage.  “Voters are simply not paying attention to that,” said
Carlos Ramirez, an analyst with Eurasia Group, the New York-
based political risk group, calling Pena Nieto’s resistance to
criticism “the teflon effect.”  Opinion Poll  Pena Nieto had 37.5 percent of voter preferences in a Grupo
Economistas Asociados-ISA poll taken April 30 to May 2. Josefina Vazquez Mota, candidate for the ruling  National Action Party , or
PAN, had 21.1 percent and  Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador , 59, of
the Party of the Democratic Revolution had 17.9 percent. The
poll surveyed 1,152 people and had a margin of error of 3
percentage points.  With the debate questions drafted by the candidate’s
representatives, allowing little scope for spontaneous
discussion, Pena Nieto should be able to avoid any pitfalls
during the two-hour program.  “The likelihood of the debate changing significantly the
preferences of voters is quite low,” Ramirez said in a research
note yesterday. “A PRI that is looking stronger and more
cohesive than ever strengthens our view that Pena Nieto will win
the presidential election by a higher margin than originally
anticipated.”  Keeping Quiet  Pena Nieto has inspired a following of young men who don
wigs imitating his signature pompadour at public rallies.  The PRI candidate avoids exposure by giving few details
about his proposals because he is so far ahead of his opponents,
said Javier Oliva, a political analyst at Mexico’s National
Autonomous University. “Pena Nieto’s great advantage is that he
doesn’t say anything.”  Vasquez Mota has been unable to narrow his lead. Since the
campaign formally kicked off March 30, she has been heckled
outside a restaurant during a campaign stop and had a dizzy
spell while giving a speech.  PAN  member and former president
Vicente Fox said last month that it would take a “small
miracle” for her to win.  “I have the conviction of victory and I say that not out
of a sense of arrogance or pride, or because I am out of touch
with reality,” Vazquez Mota said in an e-mailed response to
questions yesterday. “There is no election that is decided
beforehand.”  Many Mexicans have turned against the PAN after the
country’s drug war cost more than 47,000 lives in the past five
years. Current President  Felipe Calderon  ordered troops onto the
street to tackle the cartels in 2006, helping trigger the
violence.  Drug War  “Since Calderon started to fight crime, extortion and
kidnapping have gone up,” said Daniel Gonzalez, a shoe-shiner
from Mexico state, who said he won’t vote for Vazquez Mota.
“Every day it feels like the violence is coming closer to
home.”  Pena Nieto has said he would refocus the drug war by going
after the worst crimes such as murder and extortion, expanding
the federal police force and building better coordinated state
police corps.  “It’s my commitment to give the people better results, to
really achieve peace and tranquility in Mexico,” he told
foreign journalists April 30.  The PRI’s strong presence in Congress will also allow him
to push through key legislation to boost the economy, such as
increasing private investment in the country’s oil industry, he
said. The party was in power for 71 years until 2000.  Economic Record  The PAN hasn’t provided the broad economic success or the
end to corruption that it pledged, Crespo said. While the
economy expanded 3.9 percent last year, growth has averaged 2
percent over the past decade, compared with 4 percent in  Brazil 
and 4.6 percent in  Colombia , according to figures from the
 International Monetary Fund .  Vazquez Mota has said she would fight corruption by
removing lawmakers’ immunity to prosecution, while a campaign
adviser, Macario Schettino, said in a March 22 interview that
they would attack impunity by overhauling the prosecution and
investigation bodies in Mexico.  Vazquez Mota has also said she would float shares of state-
owned oil company Petroleos Mexicanos on the stock exchange.  Lopez Obrador opposes most assets sales in the oil
industry. He has said that the proposals from his opponents
“will deteriorate the sector in every sense.”  A request for comment from Pena Nieto’s campaign team was
not immediately answered.  A soccer match scheduled to be aired at the same time as
the first televised debate will diminish the impact of the
candidates’ face-off, said Ramirez.  After a campaign that has failed to stir the same level of
interest as the 2006 election, which Calderon won by less than a
percentage point, some people may prefer to watch Tigres play
Morelia on another channel, he said.  Vazquez Mota “has to go after Pena Nieto and continue
attacking his credibility,” Ramirez said. “That’s the only way
that something could start biting for voters. But it’s becoming
more difficult as the election draws closer.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nacha Cattan in Mexico City at 
 ncattan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 