-- PepsiCo Sees Tingyi Aiding China Growth in Third Quarter
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-05-04T08:22:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-04/pepsico-sees-tingyi-deal-aiding-china-growth-from-third-quarter.html
PepsiCo Inc. (PEP) , the maker of Gatorade
sports drinks and Tropicana juice, expects its alliance with
 Tingyi (Cayman Islands) Holding Corp. (322)  to lift  China  beverage
volumes from the third quarter.  The deal, which was approved by China’s Ministry of
Commerce in March, will see Tingyi’s drinks unit  become  the
franchise bottler in China for PepsiCo.  The Tingyi unit will make, sell and distribute sodas and
Gatorade drinks as the U.S. company invests to narrow the gap
with  Coca-Cola Co. (KO)  in the world’s second-largest economy. The
Purchase, New York-based company was the fourth-largest soft-
drink maker in China with 4.9 percent share in 2011, according
to Euromonitor International.  “We’ll start to see significant pickup in growth rates”
by as early as the third quarter from the alliance, Tim Minges,
PepsiCo’s chairman for the Greater China region said in a May 3
interview in Shanghai. “We are going to gain from the increased
distribution, penetration from western China and northwestern
areas where we don’t currently have plants.”  Under the deal announced last November PepsiCo will
transfer equity interests in its bottling operations in China to
Tingyi beverage subsidiary Tingyi-Asahi Beverages Holding Co. In
exchange PepsiCo will receive a 5 percent stake in Tingyi-Asahi,
with an option to increase that to 20 percent by October 2015.  Shares of PepsiCo rose 0.1 percent to $66.91 in  New York  on
May. 3. Tingyi slid 0.5 percent in Hong Kong trading today to
HK$20.90, while the benchmark  Hang Seng Index  fell 0.8 percent.  Expanded Network  PepsiCo will be able to get closer to customers with the
expanded distribution network, Minges said.  The alliance is designed to boost market share and generate
sales and earnings growth, he said, without providing specific
forecasts.  “You’ll see this combination of affordability and
availability and that’s when the magic starts to happen,” he
said.  One of the first signs of the deal will be Tingyi’s
“Master Kong” branded juice carrying the Tropicana logo by
early June, Minges said. The number of bottling plants in the
combined PepsiCo-Tingyi system will exceed 70 in China, he said.  Coca-Cola and Tingyi led the China soft drink market with
15.8 percent and 13.1 percent share in 2011, respectively, data
from London-based Euromonitor show.  PepsiCo said in 2010 that it planned to invest $2.5 billion
in China in the food and beverage businesses over a three-year
period, including in manufacturing plants and research and
development.  The company is on track with that plan, spending about $700
million so far, Minges said. It is investing in a food and
beverage development center in  Shanghai  where products can be
developed, manufactured and also tested by customers. The
facility, which will do work for China and other parts of  Asia 
is expected to open later this year, according to Minges.  PepsiCo yesterday unveiled its new “Live for Now”
marketing campaign to revive its flagship cola, with plans to
plaster images of dead pop star  Michael Jackson  on 1 billion
soda cans. The strategy which will be implemented in 20
countries, starting in China tomorrow, the company said in a
statement.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Michael Wei in Shanghai at 
 mwei13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anjali Cordeiro at 
 acordeiro2@bloomberg.net  