-- Pfizer Says Lyrica Fails in Diabetes Trial, Halts HIV Study
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o   a n d   R o b e r t   L a n g r e t h
-- 2012-05-04T20:10:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-04/pfizer-says-lyrica-fails-in-diabetes-trial-halts-hiv-study-1-.html
Pfizer Inc.’s (PFE)  Lyrica, approved for use
in fibromyalgia, didn’t work to control painful nerve damage
from diabetes in one study, and the company halted a second
trial in nerve-damaged HIV patients.  Lyrica, with  sales  of $3.7 billion last year, didn’t
significantly lessen the pain of diabetes patients with nerve
damage who were switched to the drug after another treatment
failed, New York-based Pfizer said. The company also halted a
trial for HIV patients, after an interim analysis showed no
difference between Lyrica and a placebo.  Even before today’s results investors and analysts had
assumed Lyrica sales were near their peak, said  Les Funtleyder ,
a portfolio manager at Miller Tabak & Co. whose fund owns Pfizer
shares. The drug also is approved for use in pain after
shingles, partial-onset seizures in adults with epilepsy, and
diabetic nerve pain.  “The sense is Lyrica has gone about as far as it can go,”
Funtleyder said. “Maybe it is a slight loss of upside, but we
are not talking about a major hit.”  Pfizer, the world’s biggest drugmaker, declined less than 1
percent to $22.38 at the close of  New York  trading.  About 16 percent of people with diabetes develop pain and
numbness from nerve damage caused by high blood-sugar levels,
according to an April 2011 report from the  American Academy  of
Neurology. About a third of HIV patients have nerve damage, and
some of these people experience pain,  according to  the
 University of Chicago .  Pfizer said the trial in HIV patients wasn’t ended for
safety reasons. In the diabetes study, the most common adverse
events were fluid retention, dizziness, sleepiness and upper
respiratory tract infection, which are known side effects of the
drug, according to the company’s statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in New York at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Langreth in New York at 
 rlangreth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 