-- Philippine Bonds Decline as Inflation Accelerates; Peso Weakens
-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 2012-05-04T08:40:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-04/philippine-bonds-drop-as-inflation-accelerates-peso-declines.html
Philippine 10-year  government bonds 
dropped the most since March as inflation quickened from a 30-
month low. The peso declined, paring a weekly gain.  Consumer prices rose 3 percent in April from a year earlier
after increasing 2.6 percent in March, the  National Statistics
Office  said in  Manila  today. The acceleration gives the central
bank “less incentive” to add to this year’s two interest-rate
cuts, according to Allan Yu, first vice-president at
 Metropolitan Bank & Trust (MBT)  Co.  “Inflation is a little bit higher,” said Manila-based Yu.
“We will have to see in the next few months if there is going
to be a trend toward increasing inflation.”  The yield on the 6.5 percent bonds due April 2021 climbed
six basis points, the most since March 19, to 5.30 percent as of
4 p.m. in Manila, according to prices from Tradition Financial
Services. It dropped eight basis points, or 0.08 percentage
point, this week.  The faster inflation for April shows that a pause in
interest-rate cuts was necessary given the “high probability”
of upside risks to price pressures, central bank Deputy Governor
Diwa Guinigundo said in a mobile-phone message today. Still,
inflation will remain within the 3 percent to 5 percent target
this year and next, he said.  Growth Concern  The peso slid the most in more than a month after data
showed U.S. service industries rose less than estimated and as
 Australia ’s central bank lowered its economic growth forecast,
reigniting concerns about the global recovery.  The peso fell 0.3 percent to 42.320 per dollar, trimming
this week’s advance to 0.1 percent, according to Tullett Prebon
Plc. One-month implied volatility, a measure of exchange-rate
swings used to price options, increased 20 basis points today
and 40 basis points this week to 4.7 percent.  The  Reserve Bank  of Australia said today it sees average
growth of 3 percent in 2012, down from its February estimate of
3.5 percent. The U.S. Institute for Supply Management said
yesterday its non-manufacturing index fell to a four-month low
of 53.5 in April from 56 in March. The median forecast of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News was 55.3. A reading above
50 in the Tempe, Arizona-based group’s gauge signals expansion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in  Singapore  at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 