-- Philadelphia Orchestra Plans Fundraiser to Exit Bankruptcy
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2012-05-04T18:30:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-04/philadelphia-orchestra-plans-fundraiser-to-exit-bankruptcy.html
The Philadelphia Orchestra
Association, the symphony behind  Walt Disney ’s “Fantasia,”
will hold a special fundraising drive this summer with a unique
goal: collect enough money to get out of bankruptcy.  In July, the orchestra will try to raise $3 million to
$4 million needed to pay creditors and exit bankruptcy under a
reorganization plan, the orchestra’s attorney, Lawrence G. McMichael, with the Philadelphia law firm of Dilworth Paxson
LLP, said.  Orchestras across the country, including the seven biggest,
have been cutting costs to balance the quality of their programs
with what the local communities can pay for, said Judith
Kurnick, spokeswoman for the  League of American Orchestras .  “If the community can’t support a certain financial
commitment, it’s unfortunate but it’s a reality they have to
face,” Kurnick said in a telephone interview today.  Philadelphia is the only major U.S. symphony to file
bankruptcy. While under court protection from creditors,
orchestra managers cut about $6 million in annual costs, partly
by canceling pensions and renegotiating the lease on its main
performance space, McMichael said.  “The idea is to reach a business equilibrium,” McMichael
said in a telephone interview yesterday.  Reorganization Plan  Later this month the orchestra will file its plan of
reorganization, which details how the symphony will pay its
current debts and keep operating in the years to come, he said.
In July, the orchestra will ask U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Eric L. Frank, who is overseeing the case, to approve the plan.  Once the plan is approved, the orchestra will be able to
raise the exit money, mostly from its more than 70 board
members, McMichael said.  “We will need to pay out $3 million to $4 million,”
McMichael said in an interview yesterday. “Obviously, we are
hoping to be closer to three.”  McMichael said he has never heard of a company raising
money to exit bankruptcy through a charity fundraiser. Since the
orchestra wasn’t the first nonprofit to file for bankruptcy, it
probably isn’t the first to use a fundraiser to get out of
bankruptcy, McMichael said.  The orchestra’s effort isn’t much different from what
happens when a for-profit company in bankruptcy seeks new
investors.  Pension Fund  About $1.75 million of the money will go to a pension fund
for musicians, according to court documents. The orchestra
withdrew from the pension to save money. The payment will settle
the pension fund’s court challenge over the withdrawal.  The orchestra also canceled two other pensions, McMichael
said. That decision shifted the burden for paying benefits to
the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corp., which has filed a claim
against the orchestra for $62 million. The orchestra is
negotiating with the PBGC to resolve that claim before filing
its reorganization plan, McMichael said.  Should talks fail, the orchestra will file the plan by the
end of the month and battle the PBGC in court, he said.  The orchestra must also make a payment to the Kimmel
Center, the operator of the concert hall where the symphony
plays. The orchestra, which has been paying reduced rent since
filing bankruptcy, has negotiated a new lease that is in the
process of being put in final, written form. Before the
bankruptcy, the orchestra paid about $2.5 million a year in
rent, McMichael said.  Falling Attendance  The orchestra filed for bankruptcy one year ago, blaming,
in part, the high cost of the musicians’ pensions, according to
court papers.  The bankruptcy came as many classical music and opera
companies struggled with falling attendance and donations. Two
smaller orchestras, one in Louisville,  Kentucky , and the other
in Syracuse,  New York , also filed bankruptcy.  Philadelphia is among the seven biggest U.S. orchestras,
measured by budget, Kurnick said. The others are based in the
cities of New York,  Boston ,  Los Angeles ,  San Francisco ,
 Cleveland  and  Chicago .  The case is In re The Philadelphia Orchestra Association,
11-13098,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Eastern District of
 Pennsylvania  (Philadelphia).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  