-- Pimco Housing Bear Kiesel Says It’s Time to Start Buying
-- B y   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n
-- 2012-05-04T20:41:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-04/pimco-housing-bear-kiesel-says-it-s-time-to-start-buying.html
Mark Kiesel , the Pacific Investment
Management Co. managing director who sold his home in 2006 when
he deemed the market a bubble, says it’s time to buy.  “I was one of the most negative on housing,” Kiesel said
in a telephone interview. “I finally came to the conclusion
housing is looking pretty decent.”  Kiesel said he bought a house in  Newport Beach ,  California ,
where Pimco is based. Today he published a credit market note
titled  “Back In”  on the firm’s website in which he writes,
“I’m not sure U.S. housing prices have bottomed -- only time
will tell -- but there are many more positives today than there
were six years ago when I sold my house.”  Home prices  that have fallen 35 percent from their mid-2006
peak and  mortgage rates  of less than 4 percent are helping make
it a good time to buy, said Kiesel, who is global head of the
corporate bond portfolio management group at Pimco. Other signs
the housing market is turning around include  foreclosure filings 
dropping to levels last seen in 2007 and sales of  new  and
 existing homes  that have begun to increase as rising rents boost
the relative affordability of purchasing, he said.  “For those of you renting or on the sidelines, I recommend
you at least consider getting ‘back in’ and buying a house,” he
wrote in the note. “The future is hard to predict, but U.S.
housing is healing and is probably close to a bottom.”  ‘More Light’  Barclays Plc (BARC)  analysts also said today that a housing
recovery is emerging. The industry “will contribute modestly to
U.S. economic growth in the coming quarters,” Vincent Foley,
Michael Gapen and Cedric Morris wrote in a note titled “More
Light, Less Tunnel.”  Economists including  Mark Zandi  of Moody’s Analytics Inc.,
Bank of America Corp.’s  Michelle Meyer , CoreLogic Inc.’s  Mark
Fleming  and  Chris Rupkey  of Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ said
last month that housing prices are close to a trough.  While the housing market is showing signs of recovery, many
people continue to struggle. Mortgage modifications have been
started for more than 5.9 million U.S. homeowners from April
2009 through the first quarter, including 19,940 who began plans
in March with President  Barack Obama ’s Home Affordable
Modification Program, the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban
Development reported today.  Pimco, which oversees the world’s largest mutual fund, had
$1.77 trillion in assets under management as of March 31. The
company’s Total Return Fund, which had a record $258.7 billion
as of April 30, increased its allocation in mortgages to 53
percent, a 5 percentage point gain, during the first quarter,
according to the company’s  website .  ‘Had No Idea’  Kiesel declined to disclose details about his new home or
how much he paid, except to say it’s in Newport Beach, a coastal
community about 44 miles (70 kilometers) south of Los Angeles.
The purchase price of his new home, which he’s moving into next
weekend, was about one-third below what he would have paid for
it at the top of the market -- about the time he sold his last
property in May 2006.  “I had no idea that would end up being the peak,” he said
in the telephone interview. “No one knew back then. It was
basically luck.”  Kiesel sold his last home after concluding that excess
construction by homebuilders and easy lending standards set the
stage for a crash.  “Housing is the next Nasdaq bubble,” he said in a June
2006 interview with Bloomberg, a month before U.S.  home prices 
reached their peak, according to the  S&P/Case-Shiller index  of
values in 20 U.S. cities. “It’s not just houses that will be
for sale. You’re going to see financial assets for sale over
time, and ultimately corporate bonds.”  As recently as December, Kiesel said he would hold off
buying because he expected prices to keep falling through 2013.  Unemployment Declines  The U.S.  unemployment rate  in April was 8.1 percent, down
from 8.5 percent in December. Lenders have begun to loosen the
reins on credit as bank balance sheets have improved, a trend
that will boost investment throughout the economy, Kiesel said.  The U.S. manufacturing, technology, chemical, automotive
and energy industries have recovered to the point that they’re
driving housing demand in states including  Texas  and  North
Dakota , Kiesel said. In such cities as Miami and Phoenix, home
prices have fallen so much that foreign buyers seeking bargains
have bought enough property to start a price recovery, he said.  Phoenix’s median price rose 13 percent in March from a year
earlier amid a shrinking supply of foreclosures and other homes
priced at less than $100,000, DataQuick, a San Diego-based real
estate research company, reported today.  Increase in Rent  In Kiesel’s case, buying became more attractive after the
owner of the residence he was leasing wanted to raise his rent
10 percent, he said.  “I remember balking at that,” he said. “Basically,
landlords finally have pricing power.”  Rising rents make housing an attractive purchase for
investors compared with the low yields of such alternatives as
U.S. Treasury bonds, Kiesel said. Housing “is the ultimate
inflation hedge if you buy cheap,” he said.  The expectation that values will rise has reduced the
inventory of homes listed for sale as owners hold off to sell at
higher prices later, Kiesel said. That made it hard to find a
property worth buying, he said.  “All the good stuff is taken,” he said. “What finally
brought me back was finally finding a decent property.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Gittelsohn in  Los Angeles  at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Taub at 
 dtaub@bloomberg.net  