-- Posey at Yale Rep; Rabe’s Haze of Pot: Jeremy Gerard
-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 2012-05-05T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-04/posey-at-yale-rep-rabe-s-haze-of-pot-jeremy-gerard.html
David Rabe was so busy crisping
audiences with his Vietnam War trilogy and powder keg plays like
“Hurlyburly” that he never got around to writing that typical
freshman work, the portrait of the dramatist as a young man.  “An Early History of Fire,” set in 1962 and the Midwest
where Rabe grew up, fills that line on his c.v. It’s more
sentimental than his previous works and flouts their bruising
force.  Maybe waiting 40 years to write his “first” play was too
long. The landscape -- the sexual revolution that came with the
introduction of the Pill in 1960, the dawn of the Civil Rights
era, the revelatory haze of pot -- is so well trod that it’s
nearly impossible to find an original way into such a roman a
clef.  Theo Stockman plays Rabe’s stand-in, Danny, who lives with
his father Pop (Gordon Clapp), a German war refugee with brutal
memories and Old World values he had difficulty imparting to his
20-ish son.  Danny works in a nearby factory and parties with buddies
Terry (Jonny Orsini), the bewildered one, and Jake (Dennis
Staroselsky), the tough one.  College Girl  To their dismay, Danny has been pursuing Karen (Clair van
der Boom), a college girl from the nicer side of the tracks
whose striver-class airs make her an object of Terry and Jake’s
scorn. They hate rich people.  For Danny, however, the sexually aggressive Karen offers
intellectual as well as physical escape, and the idea terrifies
him. In a nice counterbalance to Karen, we also meet Terry’s
lively ex-girlfriend Shirley (Erin Darke), whose own liberation
comes from turning tricks on the other side of town.  Jo Bonney, a director who can throw grenades of her own,
has staged an oddly flaccid production. There are fine period
clothes from Theresa Squire and the authentic, which is to say
muted, lighting by Lap Chi Chu makes Neil Patel’s rundown set
look even more neglected.  Through May 26 at the Acorn Theatre, 410 W. 42nd St.
Information: +1-212-239-6200;  http://www.telecharge.com . Rating:
*1/2  ‘Realistic Joneses’  At the  Yale Repertory Theatre  in  New Haven , there’s a
terrific production by hot director Sam Gold of Will Eno’s
offbeat “The Realistic Joneses,” starring Parker Posey and
Glenn Fitzgerald as neighbors from hell.  They play Pony and John Jones, vaguely sinister new
neighbors of stolid Jennifer and  Bob Jones  (the equally fine
Johanna Day and Tracy Letts).  Set in what could be the next burg over from Rabe’s factory
town, “The Realistic Joneses” reminded me of a black satire by
Thomas Berger (“Neighbors”), wherein the placid if benumbed
worlds of one couple is turned inside-out by the arrival of
another who might as well have dropped in from Mars.  Indie film darling Posey and Fitzgerald are fabulous
Martians, bizarre in ways you can’t quite pin down.  It’s impossible to know whether they’re just different or
threateningly predatory. John introduces himself as an
astronaut, adding “But I use the term loosely.” Pony tells him
about an afternoon spent letting boys flick lit matches at her.  There are foreboding yet touchingly oblique conversations
about illness between actor-turned-actor/playwright Letts
(“August: Osage County”) and Day, along with dead-end
flirtations among the four of them. Eno is a surrealist who says
he’s “experimenting” with naturalism, but these folks speak in
non-sequiturs and non-sense. It’s fun, if somewhat wearing, at
under two hours.  Through May 12 at Yale Repertory Theatre, 1120 Chapel St.,
New Haven. Information: +1-203-432-1234;  http://www.yalerep.org .
Rating: **1/2  (Jeremy Gerard is the chief U.S. drama critic for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Today’s Muse highlights include  books  and  auctions .  To contact the writer of this column:
Jeremy Gerard in  New York  at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 