-- Premier League Rights Sale to Yield Record Live U.K. Matches
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2012-05-04T12:20:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-04/premier-league-rights-sale-to-yield-record-154-live-u-k-matches.html
Premier League soccer fans in the U.K.
will be able to watch more live matches than ever before from
the 2013-14 season after organizers put a record 154 games up
for sale to broadcasters.  The increase from 138 games under existing contracts forms
part of a new tender process for broadcast rights announced last
night by soccer’s richest domestic competition. The league had
considered scrapping a domestic sale after a court ruled U.K.
viewers could buy decoders from other European countries where
games are available cheaper.  The league’s current three-year agreements are worth 1.78
billion pounds ($2.88 billion) and dominated by  BSkyB Plc (BSY) , which
won rights to broadcast 115 matches each season from 2010 to
2013.  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s ESPN has the other 23 games. Yesterday’s
invitation to tender for the 2013-2016 rights split matches into
seven packages, five of 26 games and two of 12 each.  “No single buyer will be allowed to acquire more than 116
matches,” the league said in an e-mailed statement. “This
creates a more attractive and compelling offering for both
broadcasters and fans.”  By introducing a package of just 12 games, a free-to-air
broadcaster like the British Broadcasting Corp. or  ITV (ITV)  Plc may
be tempted to buy live games for the first time, Daniel Geey, a
sports lawyer at Field Fisher Waterhouse LLP, said in a
telephone interview.  “They would get massive audiences,” he said.  Premier League teams including record 19-time English
champion Manchester United, Arsenal and Liverpool draw millions
of viewers from around the world. The April 30 match between
United and  Manchester City  was available to more than 650
million homes in 212 territories, according to the league.  Global Rights  The current global rights are worth 1.4 billion pounds,
more than some rival leagues make from their domestic contracts.
The overseas broadcast sale will start after the U.K.
negotiations conclude around June.  Sky Sports  has dominated the English soccer market since
the Premier League’s inception in 1992. Rival broadcaster
Setanta collapsed in 2009 and paved the way for ESPN, which
shares rights to  England ’s F.A. Cup competition with ITV and
also screens Italian, German and Dutch league matches.  Qatar-based broadcaster  Al Jazeera , Apple Inc. and  Google
Inc. (GOOG)  are potential bidders for the rights to the 2013-14, 2014-
15 and 2015-16 seasons, according to U.K. media reports.  Bidding Process  Richard Scudamore , the Premier League’s chief executive
officer, said March 30 that his organization’s long relationship
with Sky wouldn’t affect the bidding process.  “Ultimately whatever umbilical cord there might be as an
ongoing working commercial relationship gets severed as the
invitation to tender gets issued,” he told a gathering of
sports industry professionals at Bloomberg’s London headquarters
that included Sky Sports Managing Director Barney Francis.
“Once we’re in the process, there’s nothing they can do other
than being the best bidder to win those rights.”  Last month, Sky’s German affiliate Sky Deutschland paid a
record 2.5 billion euros, a 53 percent increase on the previous
contract, to buy Bundesliga soccer rights for the four years
through 2017.  Scudamore delayed releasing the tender document as his
organization digested the implications of last year’s antitrust
ruling by the  European Court  of Justice stating homeowners could
purchase decoders showing foreign broadcasts. The increase in
domestic matches may mean a reduction in the number of games
broadcast in  Europe  to prevent U.K.-based fans buying foreign
content.  The Premier League is also inviting bids for a free-to-air
highlights package.  The league said the sales structure allows the continued
protection of a longstanding agreement where live games cannot
be televised in the U.K. at 3 p.m. on Saturdays, when the
majority of the 92 English professional league clubs play.  “The Saturday 3 p.m. ‘closed window’ is an agreement
whereby leagues and associations do not televise matches at the
traditional time football is played in their country in order to
protect attendance and participation at all levels of the
game,” the Premier League said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  