-- Rajaratnam Ordered to Give Deposition in Tax-Shelter Suit
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h   a n d   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2012-05-04T21:14:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-04/rajaratnam-ordered-to-give-deposition-in-tax-shelter-suit.html
Raj Rajaratnam, the Galleon Group LLC
co-founder convicted last year of  insider trading , was ordered
to give a deposition from federal prison in a tax-shelter
lawsuit, according to a court filing.  New York state Supreme Justice Eileen Bransten at a March
13 hearing in  Manhattan  ordered Rajaratnam to answer questions
at the Federal Medical Center Devens in Ayers,  Massachusetts ,
where he began  serving  an 11-year sentence in December,
according to a transcript of the hearing filed yesterday.
Rajaratnam isn’t a defendant in the lawsuit.  Diversified Group, a tax-shelter promoter, asked Bransten
on Feb. 15 to allow them to depose the former hedge-fund manager
as part of the 2010 lawsuit. Samidh Guha, a lawyer for
Rajaratnam, opposed the request, saying his client, who is
appealing his conviction, would invoke his right against self-
incrimination under the U.S. Constitution’s Fifth Amendment.  “The objection that the non-party may indeed assert the
Fifth Amendment privilege is not appropriately made by counsel,
but is only properly done once a question has been posed and the
Fifth Amendment privilege is asserted,” Bransten said,
according to the transcript.  Illegal Shelter  Rajaratnam and his wife, Asha, along with Galleon Group co-
founder Gary Rosenbach and his wife, Susan, sued Diversified in
2005, saying they were tricked into investing in an illegal  tax
shelter . The lawsuit sought to recover at least $15 million in
interest, penalties and fees that Rajaratnam and Rosenbach paid
to the U.S. Internal Revenue Service. It didn’t seek the taxes
they paid.  Rajaratnam and Rosenbach won a 2009 arbitrators’ decision
against Diversified and its president for $5.8 million,
according to court records. Diversified and its founder were
found to have committed fraud in the marketing, promotion and
implementation of the tax shelter sold to Rajaratnam, Rosenbach
and their wives.  In 2010, Diversified sued a tax attorney and three
consulting firms over the structuring of the shelter and are
seeking to depose Rajaratnam for that case. Bransten also
granted an unopposed request from Diversified’s lawyers to
question Rosenbach, who lives in Vail,  Colorado .  ‘Unrelated Acts’  Guha declined to comment on the ruling in a telephone
interview. He told the judge that the questioning of his client
under oath may open the door to “unrelated acts and other
things of that nature” regarding uncharged crimes against the
convicted fund manager, according to the transcript of the March
13 hearing.  Howard Kleinhendler, an attorney with Wachtel & Masyr who
is representing Diversified, said he is aiming to question
Rajaratnam sometime next month.  “I really think it’s going to be a question-by-question
basis because the tax shelter at issue was something that he
engaged in in 1999 and 2000 and I don’t really think he can take
the fifth on any of that,” Kleinhendler said in a telephone
interview. “I hope that on the issues that are relevant to my
case he’s going to testify.”  The case is Diversified Group Inc. v. Marcum & Kleigman
LLP, 450286/2010,  New York  State Supreme Court (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net ;
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  