-- Rand Gains on Firmer Metals Prices Before U.S. Jobs Data
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 2012-05-04T14:52:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-04/rand-gains-on-firmer-metals-prices-before-u-s-jobs-data.html
The rand weakened for a second day and
bonds declined after U.S. employers added fewer workers than
forecast in April, underscoring concern that growth in the
world’s largest economy may be losing speed.  South Africa ’s currency retreated 0.9 percent to 7.8074 per
dollar, the lowest in a week, as of 4:32 p.m. in Johannesburg.
The rand is down 0.8 percent in the past five days, its first
drop in three weeks. The yield on the nation’s 13.5 percent
bonds due 2015 rose two basis points, or 0.02 percentage point,
to 6.38 percent.  Payrolls climbed 115,000, the smallest gain in six months,
Labor Department figures showed today in  Washington . The median
estimate of 85 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News was for a
160,000 advance. A slowdown in hiring may restrain wage growth
needed to fuel  consumer spending , which accounts for about 70
percent of the  U.S. economy . The U.S. is South Africa’s third-
biggest trading partner, buying 8 percent of its exports.  The non-farm payrolls data is “looked at as a barometer
for the U.S. economic recovery,” George Glynos, an economist at
Johannesburg-based ETM Analytics, wrote in e-mailed comments
today. “The data which has been released recently out of the
U.S. has not been particularly positive. For now, it is
difficult to fundamentally justify a firmer rand.”  The rand also weakened ahead of elections in France and
 Greece  on May 6, creating uncertainty over austerity measures.
The euro region buys 22 percent of South Africa’s exports.  “The weekend’s elections in France and Greece will be
closely eyed over concerns of new governments backpedalling on
the required fiscal reforms,” Nomvuyo Guma, a currency
strategist at Standard Bank Group Ltd. in Johannesburg, said in
e-mailed comments. “There could be further weakness in store
for the rand.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  