-- TransCanada Re-Applies for Keystone XL Pipeline Permit
-- B y   D a v i d   W e t h e   a n d   B r a d l e y   O l s o n
-- 2012-05-04T20:39:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-04/transcanada-applies-for-u-s-permit-on-portion-of-keystone-xl.html
TransCanada Corp. (TRP)  has re-applied for a
U.S. permit for the Keystone XL oil pipeline, seeking permission
to build a $5.3 billion portion of the original project from the
Canadian border to  Steele City ,  Nebraska .  The application uses already reviewed routes through
Montana and  South Dakota  and will add an “alternative” path
through Nebraska determined by the state’s Department of
Environmental Quality, according to a statement from the
Calgary-based company today.  “There is no win by denying this pipeline,” TransCanada
Chief Executive Officer  Russ Girling  said today in a telephone
interview. “There are several wins -- energy security, economic
development, jobs, wealth creation and less of an environmental
impact -- as a result of approving the pipeline.”  TransCanada’s prior application for the Keystone XL
project, stretching from  Alberta  to the Gulf Coast, was rejected
by President Barack Obama on Jan. 18 in part because of
potential environmental risks in Nebraska.  “The company’s ‘new’ application is nothing but a rehash,
riddled with the same environmental risks that raise the same
unanswered questions while providing no new rationale for why it
should be built,” Susan Casey-Lefkowitz, director of the
Natural Resources Defense Council’s international program, said
in an e-mailed statement.  NRDC and other environmental groups say the risk of an  oil
spill  from Keystone XL poses a threat to Nebraska’s Sandhills
area and the Ogallala aquifer, which provides drinking water to
1.5 million people.  Nebraska Route  Republicans, including presidential candidate Mitt Romney,
have attacked Obama for blocking the pipeline, which they say
will bring jobs and  energy security  to the U.S.  “I will build that pipeline if I have to myself,” Romney
said last month.  Nebraska officials are studying a new TransCanada proposal
that would route the project through the eastern part of the
state. The Department of Environmental Quality will begin
holding hearings next week before conducting an environmental
impact study. The study may be concluded as soon as August,
Girling said.  Construction Start  TransCanada said its new application relies on 10,000 pages
of review that found the project would have minimal effect on
the environment. The day after the old permit was rejected, the
company said it may split the project, seeking federal
permission for the leg that crossed the border and going ahead
with construction of other portions of it.  “There is no legitimate reason for delaying this project
any further,” Marty Durbin, executive vice president of the
industry-funded  American Petroleum Institute , said in a
statement. “Keystone XL is a job creator and will bring more
reliable Canadian oil to the market, which could help bring
downward pressure on prices at the pump.”  The U.S. State Department has estimated it would provide
jobs for as many as 6,000 construction workers. The pipeline
needs approval from the department because it crosses an
international border. The department plans to hire a third-party
contractor to review the new proposal and will cooperate with
Nebraska and other federal agencies, according to a  statement 
released today.  Previously, the State Department estimated that the review
may be completed by the first quarter of next year, according to
the statement.  Permit Expected  As originally envisioned, the $7.6 billion project would’ve
expanded TransCanada’s existing Keystone pipeline to carry as
much as 830,000 barrels a day from  Canada ’s oil sands and  North
Dakota ’s Bakken Shale along a 1,661-mile (2,672-kilometer) path
to  Gulf Coast  refineries. The scaled-back proposal covers 1,179
miles of the northern portion of the project.  TransCanada expects to get its permit in the first quarter
and finish construction by early 2015, the company said. It
plans to begin construction as soon as next month on a $2.3
billion pipeline from Cushing,  Oklahoma , to Texas refineries,
the southern portion of the original Keystone XL proposal.  TransCanada was unchanged at C$42.95 at the close in
Toronto.  “It is in the interest of our national security to be able
to transport oil from Canada and North Dakota to refining
centers by pipeline rather than by rail or truck, which have
higher emissions,” Amy Myers Jaffe, director of the Baker
Institute Energy Forum at Rice University in  Texas , said in a
phone interview today. “Standing our ground like Custer over
pipeline infrastructure is irrational.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Wethe in Houston at 
 dwethe@bloomberg.net ;
Bradley Olson in Houston at 
 bradleyolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  