-- RBA Cuts Growth, Inflation Forecasts on Weaker Jobs
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2012-05-04T06:24:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-04/rba-cuts-growth-inflation-forecasts-on-weaker-jobs.html
The  Reserve Bank  of Australia cut
growth and inflation forecasts as weak job and housing markets
keep price gains in check, and as the local currency slid toward
its biggest weekly drop of the year.  “Labor market conditions have continued to be on the soft
side to date, with large increases in employment in mining and
some  service industries  roughly offset by declines in the
manufacturing, hospitality and retail sectors,” the central
bank said today in its quarterly monetary policy  statement . “A
recovery in housing construction is unlikely in the near term.”  Today’s revisions reflect risks of renewed European
instability as austerity measures aimed at stemming the debt
crisis push euro-area economies back into recession. RBA
Governor  Glenn Stevens  slashed the  benchmark rate  by half a
percentage point to a two-year low this week and traders wager
there’s a 73 percent chance he will lower rates by a quarter
point at the next meeting in June, according to swaps data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “The global environment continues to pose significant
downside risks to Australia’s outlook, even though the risk of a
meltdown in Europe looks to have eased,” said Katrina Ell, a
Sydney-based economist at Moody’s Analytics. “The RBA did not
expect the non-mining sectors to be as weak as what the recent
flow of data indicates.”  Slower Growth  The central bank sees average growth of 3 percent in 2012,
down from its February estimate of 3.5 percent. Consumer prices
will rise 2.5 percent in the year to December, from a previous
prediction of 3 percent; underlying inflation is predicted at
2.25 percent from a previous 2.75 percent, the central bank
said. The estimates are based on the overnight cash rate target
remaining at 3.75 percent, it said.  Australia ’s four biggest banks are trying to guard margins
against further erosion from elevated wholesale funding costs,
by passing through less of the central bank’s rate cuts to
mortgage holders. The RBA lowered rates twice late last year by
25 basis points.  The central bank said today that its half percentage-point
cut this week was made “in order to deliver the appropriate
level” of  borrowing rates . “The board judged that it was
desirable for financial conditions to be easier than those which
had prevailed in December, and that this required a 50 basis
point reduction in the cash rate,” it said.  Dollar’s Slide  The Australian dollar was at $1.0264 as of 4:16 p.m. in
Sydney, little changed from before the RBA statement. It was
heading for a 2 percent drop since April 27, which would be the
biggest weekly slide since December.  “The assumed high level of the  exchange rate  and a weak
short-term outlook for building construction are expected to
result in subdued growth outside of the mining sector in the
near term,” the RBA said today. “Growth in household spending
moderated at the end of 2011 and partial indicators suggest that
it remained soft in early 2012.”  The nation’s jobless rate has held at about 5.2 percent for
the past six months, less than half the level in  Europe , even as
the currency’s strength hurts manufacturing and tourism.  The RBA, explaining the revised inflation outlook, said it
expects a decline in the price of international goods to ease as
the currency has been little changed at high levels. A weakening
in domestically produced inflation will rely on moderate wage
growth due to a weaker labor market and improved productivity as
companies respond to competitive pressure caused by the local
dollar, it said.  Weaker Exports  Australia’s economy is struggling to accelerate,
unexpectedly recording back-to-back  trade deficits  as coal and
metal exports slumped. The RBA revised its export outlook lower,
“largely reflecting a reassessment of the ability of mining
companies to utilize new transport and port capacity fully in
the near term, along with weaker manufacturing exports.”  Elsewhere in the Asia-Pacific region, a report showed a
rise in  China ’s services industry in April. The purchasing
managers’ index for the services industry was 54.1 last month
from 53.3 in March, according to the last report by  HSBC
Holdings Plc (HSBA)  and Markit Economics.  A similar gauge for services for the euro area is also
scheduled for release today, along with data that may show the
region’s retail sales fell in March from a year earlier.  Fuel Costs  Philippine inflation accelerated to 3 percent in April from
a 30-month low on higher utility, fuel and food costs, a report
showed earlier today, exceeding the 2.6 percent median estimate
in a Bloomberg News survey.  The U.S. may report non-farm payrolls rose 160,000 in
April, more than the 120,000 gain the previous month, according
to the median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of 85
economists. The  unemployment rate  probably held at a three-year
low of 8.2 percent last month, according to the median of 83
estimates ahead of a report due today.  Even after this week’s rate cut, Australia has the highest
borrowing costs among major developed nations, reflecting demand
for energy and commodities from emerging nations including China
and  India .  Chevron Corp. (CVX) ,  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) , Woodside
Petroleum Ltd. and ConocoPhillips are among companies spending
$180 billion to explore and develop gas fields in Australia.  Gillard’s Forum  Prime Minister  Julia Gillard , facing near-record low
support for her Labor party in a Newspoll published this month,
today announced a June 13 economic forum in Brisbane. The
conference will address the competitiveness of the nation’s
economy and issues including the impact of Australia’s strong
currency, her office said today in an e-mailed statement.  The RBA revised up its outlook for mining investment,
saying its liaison suggested some projects previously seen as
“only possible now look more likely to go ahead.”  It also said the biggest offshore risk to the forecast is
that Europe’s sovereign debt crisis could intensify and derail
the upswing in the global economy. Global growth is expected to
be 3.5 percent this year and 4 percent next year, it said.  “While the likelihood of that occurring has eased somewhat
in recent months, partly because of the actions of authorities
in Europe, the situation remains fragile,” the RBA said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  