-- RBS Damps Speculation of Immediate Sale as Aid Repaid
-- B y   G a v i n   F i n c h   a n d   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 2012-05-04T15:37:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-04/rbs-resumes-dividend-payments-as-emergency-government-aid-repaid.html
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc 
damped speculation of an immediate sale of the government’s
stake in the bank after the lender said it’s poised to repay the
last of the emergency loans received in its bailout.  “There is no desire to sell at the current  share price ,”
Chief Executive Officer Stephen Hester told reporters as the
lender posted a 4 percent increase in first-quarter  operating
profit  today. “While I think everyone is focused on that being
the desired end game, I’m not aware of anything imminent.”  The repayment of 164 billion pounds ($265 billion) of
emergency aid it received from the U.K. and U.S. governments by
will remove an obstacle to the lender’s return to private
ownership. The bank still has to exit a government program that
insures its riskiest assets, start paying dividends on ordinary
stock, and boost the stock price. RBS trades at less than half
the level at which the taxpayer bought its 82 percent stake for
about 45.5 billion pounds.  “It’s in the government’s interests to wait until there’s
a much higher dividend prospect in the hope that has a positive
impact on the share price,” said  Neil Smith , an analyst at
WestLB AG in Dusseldorf who rates RBS a buy. “There’s a small
probability the government may try to sell a small stake at a
loss, but the likelihood of that happening looks more remote.”  The shares fell 0.3 percent to 24.47 pence in  London 
trading, for a market value of 27.1 billion pounds. The stock
has jumped 24 percent this year, fueling speculation the
government may sell part of its stake for less than the average
50.2 pence a share it paid for it.  Gulf Talks  The U.K. could start selling its stake in RBS at a loss,
 Jim O’Neil , chief executive officer of U.K. Financial
Investments Ltd., the body that manages the government’s holding
in the bank, told lawmakers on March 14. The government has also
made presentations to potential investors, including Middle
Eastern sovereign wealth funds, about a sale of its stake, two
people familiar with the matter said in March. The talks are
still at an early stage, the people said.  RBS said it will resume discretionary dividend payments to
preference shareholders after a European Union ban expired at
the end of April. The plan will cost 350 million pounds in 2012.
The Edinburgh-based bank still has to repay the government’s
access share, which was created in 2009 and gives the taxpayer
priority over ordinary shareholders.  Ordinary shareholders may have to wait at least a year for
dividends because regulators in the U.K. and the U.S. are
pushing banks to bolster capital as the latest round of rules
set by the  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision  are
implemented, Hester said today.  ‘Time Bomb’  “We are very clear one of the manifestations of the end
state of RBS is we should be a strong dividend payer,” the 51-
year-old said. “The issue is how we get there.”  Hester, who has said his job is equivalent to defusing the
“biggest time bomb in history,” has shrunk assets by more than
700 billion pounds and cut more than 35,000 jobs since he took
over from  Fred Goodwin  in 2008.  Operating profit rose 1.18 billion pounds in the first
quarter from 1.13 billion pounds in the year earlier period, RBS
said in a statement today. That beat the 917 million-pound
median estimate of six analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Loan impairments at the bank fell 32 percent in the quarter
to about 1.3 billion pounds from the year-earlier period after
souring bad loans at the so-called non-core unit shrank 52
percent to 499 million pounds, RBS said.  ‘Enormous Progress’  “RBS has made enormous progress and they are delivering on
what they said they would,” said  Ian Gordon , an analyst at
Investec Securities Ltd. in London. “The balance sheet metrics
are very impressive.”  Revenue at the securities unit slipped 18 percent to 1.73
billion pounds as income from credit markets dipped 27 percent
and that from asset-backed securities dropped 31 percent.
Operating profit at the bank’s consumer unit fell 7.9 percent to
477 million pounds, while operating profit at the corporate unit
slid 20 percent, RBS said.  The bank’s net loss increased to 1.52 billion pounds in the
first quarter from 528 million pounds as the bank took a 2.5
billion pound accounting charge on fluctuations in the value of
its own debt. So-called credit valuation adjustments require
banks to book losses when the value of their debt rises, and
gains when it declines, on the theory that a loss, or profit,
would be realized were the bank to repurchase that debt.  APS Exit?  RBS took about 52 billion pounds from the U.S. Federal
Reserve, 75 billion pounds of loans and guarantees from the U.K.
Credit Guarantee Scheme and the Bank of England’s Special
Liquidity Scheme and 36.6 billion pounds from the central bank’s
Emergency Liquidity Scheme. The SLS was introduced at the peak
of the credit crisis to allow banks to swap hard-to-trade
mortgage-backed securities for  government bonds  while the CGS
was designed to ensure short-term liquidity. All of these will
be repaid by the end of the month, RBS said today.  RBS still has about 120.8 billion pounds of assets covered
under the government’s Asset Protection Scheme, which it intends
to exit in the fourth quarter. The program, started in 2009,
allows the bank to insure its most toxic loans against default
in return for a fee. RBS said it has set aside 2.5 billion
pounds to cover the costs of the APS.  RBS followed  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  and  Barclays Plc (BARC)  in
increasing the amount it is putting aside to compensate
customers who were improperly sold payment protection insurance.
The bank earmarked an additional 125 million pounds after taking
an 850 million-pound charge last year. That was less than the
increase of between 200 million pounds and 300 million pounds,
as estimated by three analysts in a Bloomberg News survey.  PPI Charge  Lloyds this week took an additional 375 million-pound PPI
charge after a 3.2 billion-pound hit last year while Barclays
last week set aside an additional 300 million pounds for
compensation after a 1 billion-pound charge last year.  The insurance of payments on credit cards and mortgages, in
case of illness or unemployment, was improperly sold by the
biggest U.K. banks. Clients who bought the policies rarely
compared prices or terms and sometimes were not covered.  The lender’s loss-making  Ulster Bank  unit continues to face
“exceedingly difficult market conditions,” RBS said in the
statement. The loss decreased to 310 million pounds in the first
quarter from 365 million pounds on impaired mortgages. RBS
injected as much as 800 million pounds into the unit in the
first quarter on top of the 10 billion pounds it has pumped in
since 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gavin Finch in London at   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  