-- RBS Pumps Extra $1.2 Billion Into Ulster Bank on Mortgage Losses
-- B y   G a v i n   F i n c h   a n d   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 2012-05-04T16:13:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-04/rbs-s-ulster-bank-eases-terms-on-9-4-of-irish-home-loans-1-.html
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc ,
Britain’s biggest government-owned lender, has injected as much
770 million pounds ($1.24 billion) into its  Ulster Bank  unit to
absorb losses from the collapse of Ireland’s real estate bubble.  The capital support is in addition to 10 billion pounds
pumped into the operation since 2008, RBS Finance Director Bruce van Saun told reporters on a conference call today. Impairment
losses at the unit increased 20 percent to 394 million pounds in
the first three months of 2012 compared with the previous
quarter, Edinburgh-based RBS said in a  statement .  “Impairments came in much higher than expected and that’s
after they had guided that they should be trending down,” said
Shailesh Raikundlia, a banks analyst at Espirito Santo
Investment Bank in  London . “That is where the issues remain for
RBS.”  Ulster Bank’s assets doubled to 55 billion pounds in the
four years through the 2007 Irish real estate market peak and
the company took a 7.5 percent impairment charge against total
loans between 2008 and 2010, according to a report published in
December by the U.K.’s Financial Services Authority. The losses
on souring mortgage loans in the first quarter of this year are
worse than the company forecast on Feb. 23, when Chief Executive
Officer  Stephen Hester  said they had stabilized.  “Ulster Bank still faces exceedingly difficult market
conditions,” RBS said today. Losses increased “largely due to
rising arrears rates on the residential mortgage portfolio and
the continued deterioration in asset quality as property prices
declined.”  Financial Difficulty  Some 1.9 billion pounds, or 9.4 percent of Dublin-based
Ulster Bank’s mortgages had so-called forbearance arrangements
at the end of March, up from 9.1 percent from the end of
December. Such accords for customers in temporary financial
difficulty include loan-payment moratoriums, reduced repayments
or adding arrears to principal.  “Ulster Bank is a disaster for RBS,” said  Bruce Packard ,
an analyst at Seymour Pierce Ltd. in London. “It goes to show
that it wasn’t just the investment banks that failed, it was the
international businesses as well.”  Irish  house prices  have dropped about 50 percent from their
2007 peak, the  Central Statistics Office  said March 26.
Commercial real estate values have plunged by two-thirds,
according to Investment Property Databank. Unemployment in the
country stood at 14.3 percent in April, according to the
statistics office.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  