-- U.S. Begins Next AIG Offering; Insurer May Buy $2 Billion
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r   a n d   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2012-05-04T20:58:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-04/treasury-begins-another-aig-offering-insurer-may-buy-2-billion.html
The U.S. government has begun its
third offering of  American International Group Inc. (AIG)  stock, and
the bailed-out insurer has said it plans to buy as much as
$2 billion in shares, the Treasury Department said today.  The U.S. is accelerating the pace of sales after AIG
 surged  above $33 a share on April 5 for the first time in almost
a year. The government needs to average at least $28.72 on its
offerings to recoup funds that were used to take the equity
stake. The government still has a  70 percent stake  in AIG, which
dropped 3.8 percent today to $32.83 in New York.  “We expect Treasury can meet its objective, of getting out
in-time for a ‘victory lap’ before the elections” in November,
as AIG works to sell assets to raise funds to repurchase stock
from the U.S., Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. analysts led by
Josh Stirling said in an April 4 note to clients.  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , Citigroup Inc.,  Credit Suisse Group
AG (CSGN) ,  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM)  and  Morgan Stanley (MS)  are the government’s banks for the latest
offering, according to a statement today from the Treasury after
the close of regular trading.  “The size and price to the public of the offering will be
announced after pricing,” the department said.  The Treasury raised $5.8 billion in the first offering in
2011. At the same time, New York-based AIG sold 100 million
shares for $2.9 billion to demonstrate access to the capital
markets and satisfy a condition of its bailout. The insurer, led
by Chief Executive Officer Robert Benmosche, bought half of the
$6 billion in shares the department divested in March.  Bailed Out  President  Barack Obama ’s Treasury secretary, Timothy F. Geithner, has said the U.S. shouldn’t own companies a day longer
than necessary. Obama is seeking re-election in November.  AIG was first rescued in September 2008 by the Federal
Reserve after trading partners demanded payments on derivatives
contracts. After revisions, the firm’s lifeline included a $60
billion Fed credit facility, a Treasury investment of as much as
$69.8 billion and up to $52.5 billion to buy mortgage-linked
assets owned or backed by AIG.  The U.S. has exited stakes in banks including Citigroup
Inc. and retains holdings in automaker General Motors Co. and
home- and auto-lender Ally Financial Inc. The Treasury’s
recovery of funds under the Troubled Asset Relief Program
climbed in March past 80 percent of the approximately $414
billion that was disbursed.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Noah Buhayar in  New York  at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net ;
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 Ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  