-- Treasury Futures Interrupt April Rally Before Jobs Data
-- B y   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 2012-05-04T05:17:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-04/treasury-futures-interrupt-april-rally-before-employment.html
Treasury 10-year futures contracts,
little changed, interrupted a rally from April as economists
said a U.S. report today will show hiring picked up following
the smallest gain in five months.  Ten-year  yields , benchmarks for company borrowing and
mortgage rates, tumbled to less than 2 percent in April after
last month’s employment report ignited a debate over whether the
economy is poised to slow. For all the discussion over the pace
of expansion, corporate bonds are surging. Treasuries have
returned 0.2 percent this year, eclipsed by a 4.5 percent rally
for an index of investment grade and high-yield company debt,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch data.  “Payrolls will compensate for what they lacked last
month,” Marc Fovinci, who helps oversee $3 billion as head of
fixed income at Ferguson Wellman Capital Management Inc. in
 Portland , Oregon, said of the U.S. jobs report. “It doesn’t
hurt to own credit. We’re happy to earn the incremental yield. I
don’t think there’s going to be major change in the economy
that’s going to create fear in the credit markets.”  Ten-year futures contracts for June delivery held at 132
5/32 as of 1:17 p.m. in Singapore. They were unchanged this
week, after rallying for the past six. Financial markets are
closed in  Japan  for a holiday.  U.S. payrolls climbed by 160,000 in April, following a
120,000 increase for March, which was the least since October,
according to the median forecast of 85 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News. The  unemployment rate  held at a three-year low
of 8.2 percent, the government’s monthly jobs report may show.  High-Yield Bonds  The Bank of America Merrill Lynch corporate bond index
yielded 2.80 percentage points more than Treasuries. Demand for
the securities has narrowed the spread from 3.48 percentage
points at the end of last year.  High-yield bonds can help debt investors increase their
incomes,  Fidelity Investments , the Boston-based fund company
that oversees $1.61 trillion, said on its  website  May 2. The
securities are rated below BBB- by Standard & Poor’s and Baa3 by
Moody’s.  T. Rowe Price Group Inc. in Baltimore, which oversees
$554.8 billion,  announced  May 1 that it closed its high-yield
bond funds to new investors.  The company’s High Yield Fund attracted $266 million in the
first three months of 2012, versus $112 million for 2011, the
company said in a press release on its website.  The flows “could eventually strain our ability to invest
efficiently and result in an over-diversified fund with a less
effective investment strategy,” Mark Vaselkiv, the portfolio
manager, said in the release.  Fed Purchases  Columbia Management Investment Advisers LLC, the Boston
fund manager that oversees $326 billion, said it favors high-
quality corporate bonds and mortgage-backed securities over
long-term Treasuries, in a report on its  website  April 30.  Treasuries  fluctuated  yesterday as a report showing a
decline in initial unemployment claims was followed by one that
indicated slowing growth in  service industries , the largest part
of the American economy.  U.S. securities are providing a haven as some investors
speculate Socialist challenger  Francois Hollande  will oust
incumbent  Nicolas Sarkozy  in  France ’s presidential election May
6, slowing  Europe ’s effort to cut spending and fueling the
region’s debt crisis.  European Uncertainty  “Euro uncertainty pushed rates lower,” said Kevin Yang,
who is in charge of bond investment at Hontai Life Insurance Co.
in Taipei, which has $6 billion in assets. “The French election
may revise the nation’s deficit-cutting policy.” In the U.S.,
“the labor market is worse than the first quarter,” he said.  Yang said he sold Treasuries when the 10-year yield fell
below 1.9 percent in late April because the rate was too low
given the pace of economic growth. He would like to buy if
yields rise to a range of 2.2 percent to 2.3 percent, he said.  Hollande, who leads Sarkozy in opinion polls, has
criticized Europe’s German-led austerity push and argued for the
renegotiation of Europe’s fiscal compact.  Standard & Poor’s  cut Spain’s debt rating April 26,
increasing concern European governments won’t be able to pay
their debts.  Greece , which completed the largest debt
restructuring in history this year, is also holding an election
May 6.  Demand for safety is pushing bond yields down in the
highest-rated markets.  Ten-year rates fell to record lows of 3.53 percent today in
 Australia  and to 1.60 percent on May 2 in  Germany . U.S. 10-year
yields slid to 1.88 percent on April 27, approaching the record
low of 1.67 percent.  The  Federal Reserve  plans to sell as much as $8.75 billion
of Treasuries due from August 2012 to February 2013 today,
according to the Fed Bank of  New York ’s  website .  The sales are part of the U.S. central bank’s effort to
replace $400 billion of shorter-term debt in its holdings with
longer maturities by the end of June to hold down borrowing
costs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wes Goodman in  Singapore  at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story: Rocky Swift at  rswift5@bloomberg.net  