-- Treasury 10-Year Yield Is Less Than 2% Before French Vote
-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n   a n d   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 2012-05-04T11:51:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-04/treasury-10-year-yield-is-less-than-2-before-french-vote.html
Treasury  10-year yields  stayed below 2
percent amid speculation that reports will show the U.S.
unemployment rate stayed unchanged last month even as hiring
picked up.  Benchmark 10-year note yields were little changed in the
week, less than five basis points from the lowest in three
months. The jobless rate held at 8.2 percent, while payrolls
increased by 160,000, Bloomberg surveys showed before today’s
data. Polls signaled that French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  will
lose on May 6 to opposition candidateFrancois Hollande, who has
pledged to push for growth over austerity programs as  Europe 
struggles to contain its debt crisis.  “If the payrolls data comes in below expectations then
that would be a disappointment for the market and that could
support Treasuries,” said  Philip Marey , a senior market
economist at Rabobank Groep in Utrecht, the Netherlands.
“Concerns about the euro-region debt crisis and uncertainty
about the strength of the U.S. recovery are supporting safe-
haven flows.”  Benchmark 10-year note  yields  were unchanged at 1.93
percent at 7:48 a.m. in  New York , according to Bloomberg Bond
Trader prices. The 2 percent note maturing in February 2022
changed hands at 100 19/32. Rates fell to 1.88 percent on April
27, the lowest since Feb. 3. The average over the past decade is
3.83 percent.  A drop in the yield for the week would be the seventh
consecutive decline, what would be the longest run since the
seven weeks ended Dec. 19, 2008.  Jobs Report  The Labor Department’s employment report is due at 8:30
a.m. in  Washington . Bloomberg survey estimates ranged from
increases of 89,000 to 210,000.  Ten-year yields dropped to 1.90 percent on May 2 after ADP
Employer Services said U.S. employment increased by the least in
seven months in April.  Last month’s U.S. jobs report came in below analyst
expectations, igniting a debate over whether the economy is
poised to slow. Gross domestic product grew at an annual rate of
2.2 percent in the first quarter, from 3 percent in the prior
three months, the Commerce Department reported April 27.  “U.S. labor market data will be the focus of attention on
the financial markets,” Ralf Umlauf and Ulrich Wortberg,
strategists at Helaba Landesbank Hessen-Thueringen in  Frankfurt ,
wrote in a client note today. “The outlook is mixed and points
to continued growth in employment. A disappointing result cannot
be ruled out.”  Joblessness in the 17-nation euro area increased to 10.9
percent in March, the highest since April 1997, from 10.8
percent a month earlier, data showed this week.  Euro-region services and manufacturing output contracted
more than initially estimated in April, a composite measure
showed today, adding to signs of a deepening economic slump.  President Trailing  France ’s Hollande has criticized Europe’s German-led
austerity push and argued for the renegotiation of the region’s
fiscal compact. Greece, which completed the largest debt
restructuring in history this year, also holds an election on
May 6.  The vote in  Greece  may amplify the mutiny against the wage
and spending cuts and tax increases that are conditions for
drawing on financial aid and staying in the currency.  “Euro uncertainty pushed rates lower,” said Kevin Yang,
who is in charge of bond investment at Hontai Life Insurance
Co., which has $6 billion in assets and is in Taipei. “The
French election may revise the nation’s deficit-cutting
policy.”  Selling Treasuries  Yang said he sold Treasuries when the 10-year yield fell
below 1.9 percent in late April because the rate was too low
given the pace of economic growth. He would like to buy if
yields rise to a range of 2.2 percent to 2.3 percent, he said.  Ten-year yields will find support should they fall to the
April 27 low of 1.88 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Support and resistance refer to levels where orders
to buy or sell securities may be grouped. A bond yield rising
from a level of support would mean a decline in price.  The  Federal Reserve  plans to sell as much as $8.75 billion
of Treasuries today due from August 2012 to February 2013,
according to the Fed Bank of New York’s  website .  The sales are part of the U.S. central bank’s effort to
replace $400 billion of shorter-term debt in its holdings with
longer maturities by the end of June to hold down borrowing
costs.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emma Charlton in  London  at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net ;
Wes Goodman in  Singapore  at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net . 