-- Treasury 10-Year Yield Falls to 3-Month Low on Jobs Datas
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   D a n i e l   K r u g e r
-- 2012-05-04T21:12:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-04/treasuries-rise-as-u-s-april-jobs-gains-miss-forecast.html
Treasuries rose, pushing 10-year
yields to a three-month low, as employers in the U.S. added
fewer jobs than forecast amid speculation the  Federal Reserve 
may consider additional stimulus measures to boost the economy.  Government debt is poised for a seventh consecutive  weekly
gain , the longest stretch since 2008 at the height of the
financial crisis, as payrolls grew the least jobs in six months
to fuel concern the U.S. economic recovery is faltering. Yields
fell before elections in Europe that may result in leadership
changes and inflame the region’s sovereign-debt crisis. The U.S.
will sell $72 billion in notes and bonds next week.  “There is not enough to hang your hat on for quantitative
easing to be guaranteed, but the economy is weaker,” said  Scott Graham , head of government-bond trading in  Chicago  at  Bank of
Montreal (BMO) ’s BMO Capital Markets unit, one of 21 primary dealers
that trade with the Fed. “Europe is still a mess, which is
keeping us at these low yield levels.”  The benchmark 10-year note  yield  fell five basis points, or
0.05 percentage point, to 1.88 percent at 5 p.m. in New York,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. It touched 1.87
percent, the lowest since Feb. 3. The 2 percent security due in
February 2022 gained 15/32, or $4.69 per $1,000 face amount, to
101 2/32.  The weekly drop in yield matches the longest run since the
seven weeks ended Dec. 19, 2008.  The 10-year yield will “rest” below 2 percent for the
next 45 days,  Bill Gross , who runs the world’s biggest mutual
fund at Newport Beach, California-based Pacific Investment
Management Co., said in an interview today with Ken Prewitt and
 Tom Keene  on Bloomberg Radio’s “Bloomberg Surveillance.”  Net Shorts Drop  Hedge-fund managers and other large speculators decreased
their net-short positions in 10-year note futures in the week
ending May 1, according to U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission data.  Speculative short positions, or bets prices will fall,
outnumbered long positions by 144,756 contracts on the Chicago
Board of Trade. Net-short positions fell by 12,334 contracts, or
8 percent, from a week earlier, the Washington-based commission
said in its Commitments of Traders report.  U.S. employers added 115,000 jobs in April after a revised
increase of 154,000 positions in the previous month, the Labor
Department reported today in  Washington . The median forecast of
85 economists in a Bloomberg News survey was for an increase of
160,000. The  unemployment rate  fell to 8.1 percent.  ‘No Wage Growth’  Average hourly earnings for the 12 months ended April rose
1.8 percent, the Labor Department said. The measure has averaged
1.9 percent for the previous two years, compared with a 2.9
percent average for three years ended April 2010.  Bond traders have priced in an average  rate of inflation  of
2.2 percent for the next 10 years, as measured by the difference
between 10-year yields on Treasury Inflation-Protected
Securities and regular U.S. government securities, a difference
known as the break-even inflation rate. The median forecast
shown by the spread is 2.3 percent during the past 10 years.  The gap between Treasury yields for two- and 10-year
securities has narrowed to 1.62 percentage points, the smallest
in seven months, from 2.09 percentage points on Oct. 27, as
investors have become increasingly skeptical about the economy’s
ability to sustain growth without Fed support.  “Inflation concern is moot at this point,” said Tom Tucci, managing director and head of Treasury trading in  New
York  at CIBC World Markets Corp. “There is absolutely no wage
growth. How do you get inflation if people can’t pay for higher
prices? You don’t.”  Safety Premium  Valuation measures show investors are paying a premium to
own the safety of U.S. government securities. The so-called  term
premium  model created by economists at the Fed was negative 0.72
percent today, down from negative 0.26 percent on March 29 and
near the record low of 0.79 percent reached Feb. 2. The average
is positive 0.53 percent for the past decade. A negative reading
indicates investors are willing to accept yields below what’s
considered fair value.  Treasuries of all maturities have returned 2.3 percent
including reinvested interest between March 20, when the 10-year
note yield reached its high for the year of 2.4 percent, and
yesterday, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes.
The  Standard & Poor’s  500 Stock Index fell by 1 percent during
the same period.  Volatility as measured by the Bank of America Merrill Lynch
MOVE index fell to 62.90 on April 30, the lowest since June
2007, indicating the market isn’t betting on a significant rise
in yields in the near term.  ‘Risk Assets’  While the Fed refrained at a two-day meeting last week from
new actions to boost the economy, Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said
it’s “prepared to do more” if necessary. The Fed bought $2.3
trillion of bonds in two rounds of quantitative easing, or QE,
from December 2008 to June 2011 to lower borrowing costs.  Demand for Treasuries was boosted as investors sold stocks
and the  S&P 500  fell as much as 1.7 percent today.  “Risk assets were disappointed that the data wasn’t good
enough to show strong growth, but also not bad enough to get the
Fed to come with another round of stimulus,” said Michael Pond,
co-head of interest-rate strategy in New York at Barclays Plc, a
primary dealer. “That then pushes investors into one of the few
safe assets out there on a relative basis, which is
Treasuries.”  The U.S. will issue $32 billion in three-year notes, $24
billion in 10-year debt and $16 billion in 30-year bonds on
three consecutive days beginning May 8, the same amounts sold in
each so-called refunding month since November 2010. The Treasury
delayed decisions on whether to sell floating-rate securities
and bills with negative yields at government auctions for the
first time.  Service Industries  The jobs data came a day after the Institute for Supply
Management’s  index  of U.S.  service industries , which account for
almost 90 percent of the  U.S. economy , decreased to 53.5 in
April from 56 a month earlier. The Tempe, Arizona-based group’s
measure was projected to decline to 55.3, according to a
Bloomberg survey. Readings above 50 signal expansion.  Joblessness in the 17-nation euro area increased to 10.9
percent in March, the highest since April 1997, from 10.8
percent a month earlier, data showed this week.  Euro-region services and manufacturing output contracted
more than initially estimated in April, a composite measure
showed today, adding to signs of a deepening economic slump.  “We still have elections in  Europe  this weekend,” said
Richard Schlanger, who helps invest $20 billion in fixed-income
securities as vice president at Pioneer Investments in  Boston .
“The market can’t move a lot.”  France, Greece  Francois Hollande , the Socialist challenger for the French
presidency who is leading incumbent  Nicolas Sarkozy  in opinion
polls, has criticized Europe’s German-led austerity push and
argued for the renegotiation of the region’s fiscal compact.
 Greece , which completed the largest debt restructuring in
history this year, also holds an election on May 6.  The vote in Greece may amplify the mutiny against the wage
and spending cuts and tax increases that are conditions for
drawing on financial aid and staying in the currency.  The Treasury rally is becoming “overdone” on a short-term
basis, and 10-year note yields may be poised to rise, according
to FTN Financial, citing technical analysis.  The drop below 1.9 percent means investors should sell
today, looking to buy back the benchmark Treasuries over the
next 10 days as yields reach more attractive levels,  Jim Vogel ,
head of agency-debt research at FTN in Memphis, Tennessee, wrote
in a client note. The securities should be trading in a range of
2.04 percent to 1.9 percent, he said. A move below  1.855 percent 
will signal the rallying trend will continue, he said.  The Federal Reserve sold $8.64 billion of Treasuries due
from August 2012 to February 2013 today as part of its program
to replace $400 billion of short-term debt in its portfolio with
longer-term Treasuries in an effort to reduce borrowing costs
further and counter rising risks of a recession.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Robert Burgess  at 
 bburgess@bloomberg.net  