-- Regeneron Drug’s Benefit May Not Outweigh Risk, FDA Says
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2012-05-04T20:07:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-04/regeneron-drug-s-benefit-may-not-outweigh-risk-fda-staff-says.html
Regeneron Pharmaceuticals Inc. (REGN) ’s
Arcalyst may not offer enough of a benefit in preventing gout
flares to be worth the risk of developing cancer, U.S.
regulators said.  Arcalyst lowered the number of gout flares in final-phase
studies, yet the benefit was “small,”  Food and Drug
Administration  staff wrote in a  report  released today. The drug
also is associated with a small increased risk of malignancy,
the staff wrote. The agency is scheduled to convene advisers on
May 8 to weigh expanding approval of the medicine.  Regeneron studied the drug in gout for 16 weeks, the time
it anticipates patients will take Arcalyst to prevent flares
during their most-vulnerable period. The lack of long-term
safety data for such a medicine isn’t typical, FDA staff wrote.
If approved for wider use, Arcalyst sales may reach $209 million
in 2015, with $164 million coming from gout use, according to
the average of two analyst  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  While the expanded use of Arcalyst in gout would be a
“modest” contributor, gaining that clearance and an approval
the drugmaker is seeking for a cancer drug “would increase
investor confidence” in Regeneron’s ability to function as a
multiproduct company,  Jason Kantor , an analyst with  RBC Capital
Markets  in  San Francisco , wrote April 26 in a note to clients.  Regeneron, based in Tarrytown,  New York , fell 1.9 percent
to $131.40 at the close in New York. The company’s shares have
more than doubled in the past 12 months.  Six Cases  Arcalyst was linked to six cases of malignancies, including
prostate and breast cancers. FDA staff determined for every 244
patients treated with Arcalyst, one would develop a malignancy.  FDA staff also said that Regeneron conducted studies on
patients capable of taking other treatments including anti-
inflammatories and colchicine.  The agency’s deadline to decide whether to approve Arcalyst
is July 30.  Gout treatments include  Takeda Pharmaceutical Co. (4502) ’s Uloric
and a generic version called allopurinol. They lower levels of
uric acid, or bodily waste, that cause gout in excess levels,
which manifests through joint pain, according to the  National
Institutes of Health . Regeneron is seeking approval of Arcalyst
to prevent gout flares for people initiating uric-acid lowering
therapies.  Allopurinol breaks up uric acid crystals that can cause
flares of joint pain that may lead patients to stop taking their
medication, the company said. About 750,000 gout patients begin
taking allopurinol each year, according to Regeneron.  Weekly injections of Arcalyst reduced gout flares in final-
phase clinical trials and patients tolerated the drug well,
experiencing infections at a rate similar to those who took
placebo.  The drug was approved in February 2008 to treat a rare
genetic autoinflammatory disease known as Cryopyrin-Associated
Periodic Syndromes. Arcalyst  generated  in $20 million in sales
last year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  