-- Rice Prices Seen Under ‘Pressure’ on Ample Supply, FAO Says
-- B y   S u p u n n a b u l   S u w a n n a k i j
-- 2012-05-04T08:29:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-04/rice-prices-seen-under-pressure-on-ample-supply-fao-says.html
Rice prices will probably remain under
“pressure” in coming months as global production outpaces
consumption for the eighth consecutive year, according to the
 United Nations ’  Food & Agriculture Organization .  “Under current prospects of ample availabilities, export
prices could remain under downward pressure in the coming
months,” FAO said in a statement e-mailed today.  Global paddy production in 2012 is expected to increase 1.7
percent on year to 732.3 million metric tons, equivalent to
488.2 million tons of milled rice, exceeding consumption. That
will boost global inventories, lifting the world stock-to-use
ratio to new highs, the Rome-based agency said. Production is
expected to increase in Bangladesh,  China ,  India , Myanmar,
Pakistan, the Philippines and  Thailand , it said.  Lower prices of the staple for half the world may extend a
decline in  global food costs , which fell for the first time this
year in April on lower costs for dairy, grain and sugar,
according to an index of 55 food items tracked by the FAO.  “The large and growing stockpile could be a distinctly
bearish factor in the year ahead as it is not known when
inventories will be released to the world market,” said Darren Cooper, a senior economist at the International Grains Council
in  London .  Ending stockpiles in 2012 may rise 8.4 percent to 152.8
million tons, on reserve replenishment mainly in China, India,
Indonesia and Thailand, the FAO said. The government’s rice
purchase program in Thailand will boost its ending-stock of
milled rice by 19 percent to 7.4 million tons in 2012. Global
inventories will rise further to 164 million in 2013, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Supunnabul Suwannakij in Bangkok at 
 ssuwannakij@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  