-- Rivera’s Injury Has Oddsmakers Weighing His Value to Yankees
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2012-05-04T16:59:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-04/rivera-s-knee-injury-has-oddsmakers-weighing-value-to-yankees.html
Mariano Rivera’s career-threatening
knee injury has Las Vegas sports books reassessing both his
value to the  New York Yankees  and the public’s perception of the
team’s championship chances.  Rivera,  Major League Baseball ’s saves leader who’s
contributed to five World Series titles in New York, tore a
ligament in his right knee last night while catching a fly ball
near the outfield wall at Kauffman Stadium in  Kansas City  during
batting practice prior to a game between the Royals and Yankees.
Rivera was driven from the field on a cart and went to a
hospital for a scan, which revealed a torn anterior cruciate
ligament.  Two Las Vegas sports books are taking different approaches
to the absence of the 42-year-old right-hander.  The Las Vegas Hotel & Casino moved the Yankees’ World
Series odds to 8-1 from 13-2 because it “thought that the
public perception was that he was a key part of the end-of-the-
game situations and it was definitely worth something,”
according to  Jeff Sherman , an oddsmaker at the casino’s sports
book.  “He’s been so reliable over the years that, even if he
didn’t have his effectiveness, just the thought of Rivera coming
in had some type of effect on teams,” Sherman said in a
telephone interview. “That’s going to be a different situation
now.”  At 8-1, a winning $100 bet on the Yankees to take their
28th World Series title this season would net $800. At 13-2, the
same bet would get $650.  Third Favorite  New York remained the third favorite at the casino to win
the championship. The  Texas Rangers  are 5-1 favorites, followed
by the  Detroit Tigers  at 6-1.  Rivera’s absence wasn’t enough to merit a change in odds at
the MGM Mirage, where the Yankees are 6-1.  “It’s not going to move the needle because the Yankees are
such a public team,” Jeff Stoneback, a sports book manager at
the Mirage, said in a telephone interview.  The Yankees have too many All-Star players such as
shortstop  Derek Jeter  and third baseman  Alex Rodriguez  to have
one injury make a difference on the odds, Stoneback said.  “If they lost a combination of players like those three,
then the line would be adjusted, but with just one of them out,
public perception is that, ‘Hey, they’re the Yankees,’” he
said.  Financial Backing  The Yankees, whose $198 million opening day payroll is the
highest in baseball, according to  USA Today , also have the
ability to overcome player injuries because of their deep
pockets, Stoneback said.  “One thing with the Yankees is that they’ve got enough
money to pick up another closer at any time,” Stoneback said.  Yankees manager  Joe Girardi  has yet to announce who will
fill Rivera’s spot in the bullpen, with 27-year-old  David Robertson  and 32-year-old Rafael Soriano the likely candidates.  Robertson, who’s pitched in the eighth inning this season,
has a 0.00 earned run average in 11 innings, allowing seven
hits, striking out 18 and walking three. Soriano is 2-0 with a
2.00 ERA in nine innings, giving up 11 hits with eight
strikeouts and six walks.  The Yankees lost 4-3 last night, dropping their record to
13-12 this season, fourth in the  American League East  and 4 1/2
games behind the division-leading Tampa Bay Rays.  Rivera hinted to reporters during spring training that he
might retire when his $30 million, two-year contract expires at
the end of the season. He declined to say last night if the
injury might force his retirement.  “At this point I don’t know,” the 12-time All-Star said.
“It all depends on how the rehab is going to happen, and from
there, we’ll see.”  Rivera, who broke Trevor Hoffman’s saves record in
September, now has 608 to go along with a 76-58 record and a
2.21 ERA. In nine appearances this year, he posted a 2.16 ERA,
with five saves and a 1-1 record in 8 1/3 innings pitched.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in  New York  at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 