-- Romney Says Jobs Report Shows Obama Policy Isn’t Working
-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2012-05-04T14:52:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-04/romney-says-jobs-report-shows-obama-policy-isn-t-working.html
Mitt Romney  used the latest jobs
figures to criticize President  Barack Obama ’s management of the
economy ahead of a campaign appearance today in  Pennsylvania .  “This is way, way, way off from what should happen in a
normal recovery,” Romney said during a Fox News interview.  “It’s a terrible and very disappointing report this
morning,” the presumptive Republican presidential nominee said.
“We seem to be slowing down, not speeding up.”  Employers in the U.S. added fewer workers than forecast in
April and the jobless rate unexpectedly declined as people left
the  labor force , underscoring concern that the world’s largest
economy may be losing speed.  Payrolls climbed 115,000, the smallest gain in six months,
after a revised 154,000 rise in March that was greater than
initially estimated, according to Labor Department figures
released today in  Washington . The median estimate of 85
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News called for a 160,000
advance. The jobless rate fell to a three-year low of 8.1
percent.  Alan Krueger, chairman of the White House Council of
Economic Advisers, said private payroll growth shows the economy
is on the mend.  More needs to be done, he said in a statement, and Obama
will keep pressing Congress to pass the components of the jobs
proposal that he laid out last year and which have been rejected
by Republicans.  ‘Headwinds’ for Growth  “Despite adverse shocks that have created headwinds for
economic growth, the economy has added private sector jobs for
26 straight months, for a total of 4.25 million payroll jobs
over that period,” Krueger said.  “This is not progress,” Romney said. “It’s a terrible
record, and it shows that the president’s policies have simply
not worked. It’s taken far too long for our economy to
recover.”  Romney said Americans “know that their lives are not
better than they were three and a half years ago” and that this
is the “longest period of high unemployment that we’ve seen
since we started collecting these records back in 1948.”  In an  opinion article  in today’s Cleveland Plain Dealer
newspaper, Romney welcomed Obama to  Ohio  ahead of the
president’s planned campaign visit to the state tomorrow.  ‘Hollow’ Promises  “Mr. President, your promises now ring hollow,” Romney
wrote. “If you have brought new ideas to Ohio for creating
 jobs , why have you waited three years to unveil them? Have you
suddenly had a revelation, or is it because 2012 is an election
year? Whatever the case, what you are offering Ohio now is too
little, too late.”  Romney also questioned Obama’s credentials for trying to
fix the economy.  “Mr. President, forgive me for being blunt, but when it
comes to economic affairs, you’re out of your depth,” he wrote.
“I’ve learned a thing or two about how government policies can
kill private investment and stifle  job creation  and I have a
plan to get government out of the way.”  Romney was scheduled to attend a campaign event later today
in Pittsburgh after meeting privately with former Senator  Rick Santorum  of Pennsylvania. Santorum ended his Republican
presidential primary campaign on April 10 and hasn’t yet
formally endorsed Romney.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John McCormick  in Pittsburgh at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  