-- Romney Raises Bar on What Constitutes Good Unemployment Rate
-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2012-05-04T17:54:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-04/romney-raises-bar-on-what-constitutes-good-unemployment-rate.html
Mitt Romney  raised the bar for what
comprises an  unemployment rate  worth celebrating as he used the
latest jobs figures to criticize President  Barack Obama ’s
management of the economy while campaigning in  Pennsylvania .  “Anything over four percent is not cause for
celebration,” the presumptive Republican presidential nominee
said inside a warehouse of a specialized cement and corrosion-
resistant materials  manufacturer  in Pittsburgh.  “I’m going to get America working again,” Romney told
supporters. “I’m going to get America strong again.”  The former Massachusetts governor called it a “sad time in
America for people who want work and can’t find jobs.”  Employers in the U.S. added fewer workers than forecast in
April while the jobless rate declined as people left the  labor
force , underscoring concern that the recovery by the world’s
largest economy may be losing speed.  Payrolls climbed 115,000, the smallest gain in six months,
after a revised 154,000 rise in March that was greater than
initially estimated, according to Labor Department figures
released today in  Washington . The median estimate of 85
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News called for a 160,000
advance.  Unemployment  The jobless rate fell to a three-year low of 8.1 percent,
from 8.2 percent in March.  While the jobless rate has declined since its peak during
Obama’s term of 10 percent in October 2009, the drop has been
slow and halting. It was stuck at about 9 percent through the
first three quarters of last year.  Obama’s campaign responded to Romney’s speech by calling it
“filled with dishonesty and distortions” about the president’s
record and his own.  Romney “can’t change the fact that the president brought
the economy back from the brink of another Depression and we’ve
now seen over 4.2 million private-sector jobs created over the
last 26 months,” Obama campaign spokeswoman Lis Smith said in a
statement.  Referring to Romney’s business experience as a private
equity executive, Smith said “he profited handsomely by laying
off workers and outsourcing American jobs.”  Pushing Jobs Bill  Alan Krueger, chairman of the White House Council of
Economic Advisers, said private payroll growth shows the economy
is on the mend. More needs to be done, he said in a statement,
and Obama will keep pressing Congress to pass the components of
the jobs proposal he laid out last year that have been rejected
by Republicans.  “Despite adverse shocks that have created headwinds for
economic growth, the economy has added private sector jobs for
26 straight months, for a total of 4.25 million payroll jobs
over that period,” Krueger said.  Romney, speaking to several hundred people crowded into the
warehouse, said Obama has taken repeated actions that strained
the free enterprise system.  “We have a president who is continuing to push against
economic freedom,” he said. “The right course for America is
not to repress freedom, but to encourage freedom.”  Romney said his economic game plan would include slowing
the growth of the federal government.  “One thing I know I’m not going to do is go hire a bunch
more people in the federal government,” he said.  Coal Industry  Speaking in a region that mines coal, Romney said Obama has
made the industry’s existence more challenging.  “He sure doesn’t like coal,” Romney said. “He’s making
it harder for the people to mine coal and harder for enterprises
to use it.”  Proposals by the Environmental Protection Agency under
Obama to reduce pollution from coal-fired  power plants  have
earned criticism from the industry and plaudits from
environmental advocacy groups.  Obama is leading Romney in Pennsylvania 47 percent to 39
percent, a Quinnipiac University poll released yesterday shows.
The survey was taken April 25-May 1 and has a margin of error of
plus-or-minus 2.9 percentage points.  In an  opinion article  in today’s Cleveland Plain Dealer
newspaper, Romney welcomed Obama to  Ohio  ahead of the
president’s planned campaign visit to the state tomorrow.  “Mr. President, your promises now ring hollow,” Romney
wrote. “If you have brought new ideas to Ohio for creating
 jobs , why have you waited three years to unveil them? Have you
suddenly had a revelation, or is it because 2012 is an election
year? Whatever the case, what you are offering Ohio now is too
little, too late.”  Before his campaign event, Romney met privately with former
Senator  Rick Santorum  of Pennsylvania, who emerged as his main
rival in the race for the Republican nomination. Santorum,
hasn’t yet formally endorsed Romney, ended his campaign on April
10. Romney’s campaign had no immediate comment about today’s
meeting.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John McCormick  in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  