-- Ruffalo Fries Sausages, Mack, Marron Try N.Y. Frieze Fair
-- B y   K a t y a   K a z a k i n a   a n d   P h i l i p   B o r o f f
-- 2012-05-04T17:26:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-04/ruffalo-fries-sausages-mack-marron-try-n-y-frieze-fair.html
Mark Ruffalo , clad in navy-blue work
clothes and white butcher apron, was frying pork sausages in the
booth of  Gavin Brown’s Enterprise  at  Frieze Art Fair  New York
yesterday.  The actor, who plays the Incredible Hulk in the new movie
“The Avengers,” was there as part of a performance piece by
the gallery artist Rirkrit Tiravanija to raise awareness about
hydraulic fracking for natural gas.  “Fracking contaminates our water, and without water
there’s no food,” the actor-activist said. “We wanted to
remind people where their food comes from -- and to feed them
some sausages.”  A 20-minute taxi ride from the Upper East Side, the art
world elite has converged on Randall’s Island at a tented site
adjacent to sports fields, a psychiatric hospital and a homeless
shelter. Here, the London-based Frieze fair is making its New
York debut, through May 7.  “It’s a pilgrimage,” said Jeanne Greenberg Rohatyn,
daughter-in-law of the financier  Felix Rohatyn  and owner of
 Salon 94  gallery. “ New Yorkers  are seeing a different part of
New York.”  Many of the 180 galleries under the translucent white tent
reported brisk business yesterday for the VIP reception. They
were frequented by Lightyear Capital LLC’s  Donald Marron ,  John
Mack , the former chief executive of  Morgan Stanley (MS) , Solomon R.
Guggenheim Foundation President Jennifer Blei Stockman and Lisa Dennison of  Sotheby’s. (BID)   ‘First Picks’  “I came early: I wanted to make sure I had the first picks
at some things,” said art adviser Elizabeth Kujawski,  Ronald Lauder ’s curator, declining to be specific.  Was she successful?  “Yes, I was,” she said.  At the booth of Chelsea gallery  Cheim & Read , Marron
checked out a $2 million hanging beehive-like sculpture by
 Louise Bourgeois . Margaret Loeb, the wife of hedge-fund manager
 Daniel Loeb , admired Lynda Benglis’s gooey-looking “Quartered
Meteor.”  “The first half an hour was like 2007 all over again,”
said Adam Sheffer, partner at the gallery. “We brought modestly
priced, accessible work and it moved like wildfire.”  Los Angeles-based collectors Herbert and Lenore Schorr
stopped by the booth of James Fuentes and studied small
paintings and drawings by Joshua Abelow.  ‘Good and Uplifting’  “It’s spacious and airy,” Lenore Schorr said of the fair.
“It feels good and uplifting.”  “Given we have so many great fairs in the U.S. now,
there’s no need to go abroad,” her husband said.  By 2 p.m., the Lower East Side gallery had sold 30 of the
works, ranging from $2,300 for a drawing to $45,000 for a group
of 72 paintings.  The star of the Salon 94 booth was a 19-foot-long, $250,000
beige custom car, “Trabantimino,” created by Detroit-based
artist Liz Cohen. She wowed fair-goers by demonstrating its
hydraulic ability to expand and contract and rise and fall.  “It’s a kinetic sculpture,” said Alissa Friedman, a
director of the gallery. “It works, it drives. The artist got
it up to 60 miles per hour.”  Another hit of the fair was “Too Big to Fail,” Barbara
Kruger’s black-and-white painting offered by Sprueth Magers. The
word “fail” was upside-down.  By 1 p.m., two collectors had asked to place the $200,000
work on hold.  “So I reckon it sold,” said Andreas Gegner, a director of
the gallery, which is based in  London  and Berlin.  Back at Gavin Brown, paper-stuffed sausages packaged in
individual, wood boxes were selling out at $500 each. Proceeds
went to  Water Defense , a nonprofit co-founded by Ruffalo.  More Sales  Here are more sales from the VIP opening.  Hauser & Wirth :  Paul McCarthy ’s “White Snow Dwarf, Sleepy
#1 (Midget),” which had an asking price of $950,000; Phyllida
Barlow’s sculpture, featuring concrete, cement and plaster piled
up on a yellow bean bag, for $65,000; Matthew Day Jackson’s
bronze-and-steel slumped figure, “Seated not defeated (Chief
Bigfoot),” for $195,000.  Los Angeles-based  David Kordansky Gallery : Sold out his
booth of colorful abstract paintings by Jon Pestoni, with prices
ranging from $14,000 to $22,000.  Lower East Side gallery  Bureau : Justin Matherly’s haunting
cast-concrete sculpture based on the Greek statue “Laocoon and
His Sons,” for $35,000.  Berlin-based gallery  Luettgenmeijer : Three “Treif
collage” paintings by American artist Ryan McLaughlin,
depicting non-kosher foods like lobster and ham in semi-abstract
style, priced at $7,500 each.  Mitchell-Innes & Nash : A cube sculpture by Sarah Braman for
$20,000; Amanda Ross-Ho’s oversized brooch with two gold tragedy
masks linked by two gold chains for $40,000.  Moscow- and London-based  Regina  gallery: Six black-and-
white photographs by Nikolay Bakharev from the period 1978-85,
depicting gaunt bathers, for $3,000 each.  Sikkema Jenkins Co : a 5-by-9-foot collaged photograph
“Washington Crossing the  Delaware ” by Vik Muniz, for $45,000.  Muse highlights include a roundup of  NYC Weekend  best bets
and a look at  movies .  To contact the reporters of this story:
Katya Kazakina in  New York  at 
 kkazakina@bloomberg.net ;
Philip Boroff in New York at 
 pboroff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 