-- Rupiah Advances to Pare Weekly Loss on Intervention Speculation
-- B y   Y u d i t h   H o
-- 2012-05-04T09:52:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-04/rupiah-rebounds-from-june-2010-low-on-intervention-speculation.html
Indonesia ’s rupiah rose, paring a
weekly loss, on speculation the central bank intervened to
support the currency to stem imported inflation after it dropped
to a 23-month low. Bonds declined.  Consumer prices  increased  4.5 percent last month, the most
since September, official data show. Bank Indonesia has
 participated  in the foreign-exchange and debt markets to
stabilize the currency, according to an April 12 statement on
its website. The monetary authority will review borrowing costs
next week after leaving its  reference rate  at 5.75 percent for
the last two months.  “Bank Indonesia continues to monitor the rupiah,” said
Nurul Eti Nurbaeti, the head of treasury research at PT Bank
Negara Indonesia in Jakarta. “A strengthening currency would
help damp inflation.”  The rupiah strengthened 0.2 percent to 9,252 per dollar as
of 4:42 p.m. in Jakarta, according to prices from local banks
compiled by Bloomberg. It fell 0.7 percent this week after
closing at 9,268 yesterday, the weakest level since June 2010.
One-month implied volatility, which measures exchange-rate
swings used to price options, gained 50 basis points, or 0.5
percentage point, today. The measure rose 75 basis points this
week, the most since the five days ended March 2.  Growth Outlook  Bank Indonesia  expects the rupiah to strengthen further on
strong economic fundamentals, Perry Warjiyo, director for
economic and monetary-policy research, said in Jakarta today.
The currency’s decline yesterday was due to global growth
concerns and domestic dollar demand from companies, Hendar,
director of monetary policy at the central bank who uses only
one name, said today.  Credit Agricole CIB favors the rupiah due to large
portfolio inflows, Indonesia’s growth outlook and because the
country is a destination for Chinese investment, Dariusz Kowalczyk, a Hong Kong-based strategist at the company, wrote in
a report yesterday. He predicts the currency will appreciate to
8,700 per dollar by the end of the year.  The yield on the government’s 7 percent bonds due May 2022
rose two basis points to 6.04 percent today, according to
closing prices from the Inter Dealer Market Association. The
yield climbed 12 basis points this week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yudith Ho in Jakarta at 
 yho35@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 