-- Samaras, Venizelos Make Final Appeals Before Greek Elections
-- B y   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s   a n d   N a t a l i e   W e e k s
-- 2012-05-04T21:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-04/samaras-venizelos-make-final-appeals-before-greek-elections.html
Greece’s political leaders made their
final appeals to voters as they wound up a campaign for
tomorrow’s election that may determine whether the country has a
future in the euro area.  Former Finance Minister  Evangelos Venizelos  addressed
supporters of his socialist Pasok party in a speech yesterday in
the square outside Parliament, the focal point of two years of
protests and riots against the austerity measures that his party
has agreed to in return for two international rescue packages.  “Sunday will determine if we stay in  Europe  and the euro;
if we move down a difficult but safe road,” Venizelos said.
“Or if we embark on adventures that take us many decades back,
leading the country to bankruptcy and mass poverty.”  Greeks are voting for the first time since the country
became the byword for the  European debt crisis , with polls
showing many voters spurning the two main parties of Pasok and
 New Democracy  in favor of anti-bailout groups promising an end
to austerity. An inconclusive outcome to the election could mean
political instability that endangers bailout funds and,
ultimately, membership of the euro.  Polls suggest New Democracy will place first though without
enough support to rule outright, leaving leader Antonis Samaras
with the option of teaming up with Venizelos if he is to govern.
The two parties, which have alternated in power since 1974, were
partners in the outgoing caretaker government of Prime Minister
 Lucas Papademos , which secured a second rescue package earlier
this year, saving Greece from financial collapse.  More Cuts Needed  Under the terms of that 130 billion-euro ($170 billion)
package, which was accompanied by the biggest debt restructuring
ever, international lenders expect to hear in June how  Greece 
will achieve 11.6 billion euros of savings for 2013 and 2014.  Samaras, 60, has appealed for support that will give him
outright victory so he can renegotiate terms for the European
Union and International Monetary Fund bailout. He has promised
tax cuts for businesses to boost growth and to reduce waste in
the public sector. A New Democracy win would ensure the
stability the country needs, he said.  “You cannot have jobs and growth with political
instability,” he said yesterday in the northern Greek border
town of Alexandroupoli. “A European future for our children can
be had with stability: not instability.”  Economy Shrinks  This weekend’s contest will measure the Greek public’s
resolve to continue the reforms that international lenders from
the EU and IMF say are imperative. Greece’s economy will shrink
for a fifth year in 2012 under the weight of pension and wage
cuts and higher sales taxes.  While polls show most people don’t want to leave the euro
or the EU, analysts and economists warn that support for anti-
bailout parties could tilt the balance in favor of rejecting the
rescue terms and threaten Greece’s membership in the euro.  A Greek exit would reignite concerns about the fate of
other members of the euro area which face low growth and high
debt and deficits.  Fitch Ratings  said in a report on May 3 that
a Greek exit would spark a ratings review of all euro area
nations with Cyprus, Ireland,  Italy ,  Portugal  and  Spain  probably
downgraded on the risk of “contagion to banks,  bond market  and
capital flight.”  The country must choose between “an organized and
painstaking effort to reconstruct the economy within the euro
area” or “regressing decades socially and economically, which
would eventually lead the country out of the euro area and the
European Union,” Bank of Greece Governor  George Provopoulos 
said on April 24.  Austerity Fatigue  Polls suggest as many as 10 parties may enter Parliament,
underscoring fatigue over austerity and the politicians
responsible for implementing it. Unemployment has reached one in
five people.  Rising crime and illegal immigration have dominated the
campaign alongside the economy, spurring support for groups like
the anti-immigrant  Golden Dawn , which may win seats at the
federal level for the first time, and the nationalist
Independent Greeks.  Final opinion polls on April 20 showed New Democracy and
Pasok with about 45 percent of the total vote with anti-bailout
parties on both the left and right running with nearly the same
level of support.  The  Greek economy  has shrunk more than 13 percent over the
past three years since the last election in October 2009, when
former Prime Minister  George Papandreou ’s Pasok unseated New
Democracy only to find the country’s debt had been understated.
Greece’s election is being held two years after the government
negotiated its first, 110 billion-euro package, from the EU and
the IMF.  Campaigning is prohibited today. A total of 9.85 million
Greeks, including 360,000 new voters, are eligible to vote.
Polls open at 7 a.m. tomorrow and close at 7 p.m.  Athens  time
with the first exit polls expected at that time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maria Petrakis in Athens at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net ;
Natalie Weeks in Athens at 
 nweeks2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at   tquinson@bloomberg.net  