-- HSBC May Say Profit Rose on Fewer U.S. Impairments, China
-- B y   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 2012-05-04T13:36:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-04/hsbc-may-say-profit-rose-on-fewer-u-s-impairments-china.html
HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) ,  Europe ’s largest
bank, may say first-quarter pretax profit rose 5.5 percent as
the lender incurred fewer impairment charges on its U.S.
business and grew in  emerging markets .  The London-based lender may report profit before tax,
excluding revaluation of its own debt, rose to $5.8 billion from
$5.5 billion a year earlier, according to the median estimate of
10 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  The lender, which operates in about 85 countries, has set
aside more than $65 billion for souring loans in North America
following its 2003 purchase of Household International Inc.,
which lent directly to U.S. customers with subprime credit.
Among HSBC’s emerging-market investments, a bank it partly owns
in  China  posted profit that beat analysts’ estimates last week.  “They will benefit from a lower impairment charge,
reflecting lower incremental impairments in the U.S. runoff
book,” said  Ian Gordon , an analyst at Investec Securities in
London. While U.S. home prices are still declining, HSBC has
taken enough impairments to reduce new charges in the most
recent quarter, he said.  Pretax profit may be $3.6 billion after accounting for
revaluation of HSBC’s own debt, Gordon said.  HSBC’s shares have gained 10.7 percent in the year to date,
more than the 9.7 percent gain in the  FTSE 350 Banks Index. (F3BANK)   HSBC may not be through incurring costs related to the U.S.
subprime crisis. Some U.S. states have introduced moratoriums on
foreclosures, which added to third-quarter provisions, HSBC said
in November. The S&P/Case-Shiller index of property values fell
3.5 percent from a year earlier, the smallest 12-month drop
since February 2011, data released on April 24 showed.  Household Purchase  HSBC acquired Household for $15.5 billion and gained almost
50 million U.S. clients. It stopped taking new business in 2009
and had about 8.8 million active customer accounts at the end of
2011, according to a company filing. HSBC North America returned
to profit in 2010 after three years of losses, asset sales and
more than 6,000 job cuts.  “We’ve had an improvement in the U.S., which should reduce
loan-loss provisions,” said  Neil Smith , an analyst at WestLB AG
in Dusseldorf,  Germany .  Besides lower bad debt in the U.S., growth in emerging
markets will help earnings, while the performance of HSBC’s
investment bank will be “flattish,” said Gary Greenwood, an
analyst at Shore Capital in London. He rates HSBC shares hold.  Chinese Bank  China’s Bank of Communications Co., which is 19 percent
owned by HSBC and known as BoCom, said on April 27 that first-
quarter net income rose 20 percent to 15.9 billion  yuan  ($2.5
billion) from 13.3 billion yuan, beating analysts’ estimates.  BoCom will still likely contribute only an “incremental
boost” to profit, said Investec’s Gordon. Other investments in
mainland China for HSBC, which was founded in  Hong Kong , include
a stake in Ping An Insurance Group.  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN) , a U.K.-based competitor to HSBC in
emerging markets, reported two days ago that it had “high
single-digit” first-quarter revenue growth, driven by consumer
and wholesale-banking operations, while operating profit
expanded by a “low double-digit” rate from a year earlier.  The following is a table of estimates for HSBC in millions
of dollars. *T  Q1 Estimate    2011 Actual    No of analysts  Pretax Profit             5,798          5,495               10  To contact the reporter on this story:
Howard Mustoe in  London  at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  