-- Schaeuble Says Germany Will Negotiate With Hollande
-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 2012-05-04T18:03:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-04/schaeuble-says-germany-will-negotiate-with-hollande-on-growth.html
The German government will allow a
victorious Francois Hollande to “save face” while expecting
him to uphold French commitments to Europe’s budget treaty,
Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said.  Schaeuble’s comments are the clearest indication yet that
 Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s government is preparing for a
Hollande victory at  France ’s presidential election on May 6
after publicly backing  Nicolas Sarkozy  to win a second term.
Earlier today, the German government said that diplomatic
contact had been made with the Hollande camp.  “We’ve told Mister Hollande that the fiscal pact has been
signed and that Europe works along the principle of pacta sunt
servanda,” meaning agreements must be kept, Schaeuble said in a
speech in the western German city of Cologne today.  “I’ve said that everybody who gets freshly elected into
office must be able to save face,” Schaeuble said. “So we will
discuss this with Hollande in a very friendly way. But we won’t
change our principles.”  Hollande is leading European calls to step back from
 Germany ’s austerity prescription intended to tackle the root of
the debt crisis that sprang up in  Greece  in late 2009. He has
said he wants to renegotiate the fiscal pact to focus on growth.
Merkel has said the pact won’t be reopened, even as she backs
plans for structural reforms to spur economic expansion.  German Agreement  Hollande “knows” that European Union agreements can’t be
renegotiated every time a government changes, Schaeuble said.
Even so, Merkel’s government expects Hollande to say that fiscal
consolidation alone won’t be enough to create sustainable public
finances, and the German side would agree with such sentiments,
Schaeuble said.  “Heads of state and government said months ago that their
June summit will focus on the strengthening of growth in
 Europe ,” he said.  Sarkozy gained on Hollande in the campaign’s final daily
tracking poll by Ifop today. The survey put Hollande’s lead at
52 percent to 48 percent, down from 53-47 yesterday, according
to a statement by the pollster.  Hollande’s election would risk upsetting Merkel’s handling
of the debt crisis in tandem with France. Merkel and Sarkozy
took years to build a working relationship after he took office
in 2007 and only aligned policies in 2010 as the crisis forced
their hand.  Merkel Rejection  Merkel, who faces two state ballots in the next nine days
and national elections in 2013, rejects any compromise over
Hollande’s demands for issuing joint euro bonds, a more activist
 European Central Bank  or loosening austerity measures.  “We can’t keep giving out more money than we take in,”
Merkel told supporters of her Christian Democratic Union party
at the closing rally today in Tornesch, in the northern state of
Schleswig-Holstein. “You see it across Europe, where countries
that have broken that rule can’t freely decide for themselves
what they want to do and what they don’t want to do.”  Schaeuble sharpened that defense in his speech at a
separate CDU rally in Cologne, in North Rhine-Westphalia, which
goes to the polls on May 13. Schleswig-Holstein votes on May 6.  Schaeuble rejected proposals to allow the ECB to guarantee
euro members’ government debt, saying that would lead to a loss
of financial stability. He also reiterated his opposition to
selling  government bonds  in the euro region jointly as that
would set the wrong incentives for financial stability.  “As long as we don’t have a common fiscal policy, that
would mean that the one side piles up debt while the other side
pays,” Schaeuble said.  Spanish Banks  Neither should the European Stability Mechanism, the euro
region’s financial backstop, be allowed to help recapitalize
Spanish banks directly, he said.  “The answer is no,” Schaeuble said.  For all their differences, Merkel and Hollande will have
little choice other than to cooperate, said Volker Perthes,
director of the Berlin-based German Institute for International
and Security Affairs, which advises the government.  “Both are pragmatists,” Perthes said in an interview.
“They will find consensus.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rainer Buergin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  