-- Six-Term Senator Lugar Trails Opponent by 10 Points in Poll
-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 2012-05-04T15:20:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-04/six-term-senator-lugar-trails-opponent-by-10-points-in-poll-1-.html
Six-term U.S. Senator  Richard Lugar  of
Indiana is trailing his opponent in a May 8 Republican primary,
48 percent to 38 percent, according to a poll released today.  The poll by Howey Politics Indiana and DePauw University
said Indiana state Treasurer Richard Mourdock is leading with
conservative voters, 63 percent to 26 percent, and with all
Republican voters, 51 percent to 36 percent. Lugar leads with
only one group: moderates. The poll of 700 likely voters said
the senator carries them, 60 percent to 26 percent.  Mourdock is backed by FreedomWorks, which aids the Tea
Party movement, and the small-government group Club for Growth.  Lugar, the top Republican on the Senate Foreign Relations
Committee, has had a series of setbacks as the primary nears.
Anti-tax activist  Grover Norquist  this week said he will back
Mourdock, as did Representative  Michele Bachmann  of  Minnesota , a
Tea Party favorite who in January ended her bid for the
Republican presidential nomination.  The incumbent senator also has been hampered by a challenge
to his state residency amid criticism that he hasn’t spent
enough time in Indiana. A Democratic-controlled county elections
board ruled in March that Lugar was ineligible to vote in his
home precinct because he and his wife registered using the
Indianapolis address of a home he sold in 1977. A settlement was
reached allowing Lugar to change his voter registration address
to a family farm in Indiana.  The poll released today was conducted April 30 and May 1.
It had a margin of error of 3.7 percentage points.  ‘Take This Primary Back’  Lugar’s campaign will be working over the weekend “to take
this primary back” by seeking to persuade a handful of Mourdock
voters in each of  Indiana ’s 5,000 precincts to support the
incumbent, the senator’s spokesman Andy Fisher said in an e-
mail. The campaign will seek to turn out voters that have
supported Lugar in general elections and haven’t participated in
primaries, Fisher said, adding, “that is also very doable.”  Lugar has raised $5.9 million for his campaign compared
with $2.3 million raised by Mourdock.  The incumbent senator is opposed by conservative groups for
supporting the 2008 bank bailout, a pathway to citizenship for
children of some illegal immigrants, and a strategic arms
reduction treaty with Russia he helped steer through the Senate
in 2010.  A super-political action committee operated by Club for
Growth has spent $945,000 against Lugar and $514,000 for
Mourdock, according to the nonpartisan Center for Responsive
Politics. FreedomWorks has spent about $323,000 to defeat Lugar
and $188,000 to help elect Mourdock, data compiled by the Center
for Responsive Politics show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  