-- Sky Capital’s Mandell Sentenced to 12 Years for Fraud
-- B y   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 2012-05-04T18:37:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-04/sky-capital-s-mandell-sentenced-to-12-years-for-fraud.html
Adam Harrington, a former broker at
Sky Capital Holdings Ltd., was sentenced to five years in prison
for his role in what prosecutors said was an eight-year scheme
that defrauded investors of $140 million.  Sky Capital’s founder, Ross Mandell, who was tried with
Harrington and convicted of the same four counts, was sentenced
to 12 years in prison yesterday by the same judge, U.S. District
Judge Paul Crotty in  Manhattan .  The pair defrauded investors with private placement
investments in Thornwater LP and Sky Capital and manipulated the
prices of the stocks by bribing brokers, prosecutors said.
Harrington worked at Thornwater and Sky from 2000 to 2005 and
managed Sky’s New York office. He and Mandell were found guilty
in July 2011 of conspiracy,  securities fraud ,  wire fraud  and
mail fraud. Both must report to prison on June 18, the judge
said. Harrington was ordered to forfeit $20 million.  “Mr. Harrington did not occupy the role Mr. Mandell did in
the scheme,” Crotty said before passing sentence. “But he was
more than a foot soldier. He had a leadership role.”  The pre-sentence report submitted to the judge called for a
15-year prison term.  ‘Fulfilled Role’  “No one is arguing he played the role of the mastermind,”
Katherine Goldstein, an assistant U.S. attorney, told the judge.
She said a light sentence would send the “wrong message. In
this industry, people pay extremely close attention to these
sentences.”  Harrington’s lawyer,  Michael Bachner , in his plea to the
judge for a lighter sentence, said his client was a recovering
alcoholic whose father had walked out on the family when he was
a child. “Mr. Mandell fulfilled that role in many ways,”
Bachner said.  Harrington, 41, made $3.1 million in the five years he
worked at the companies, less than half as much as Mandell made,
Bachner said. Harrington, whose wife and friends were in the
courtroom, has three sons under the age of seven.  “I cannot tell you the sadness incarceration will bring to
my children,” Harrington said in remarks he read to the judge.
He added, “I’m so sorry for the loss of the victims who trusted
in Sky Capital.”  Bachner said Harrington was “somebody who believed in what
he was doing but engaged in illegal conduct in doing it.”  False Testimony  Mandell, who is 55, asked Crotty for mercy at his
sentencing yesterday, saying that he and his family have
suffered continuously since FBI agents raided Sky in November
2006. He said he never intended to cheat anyone and blamed his
conviction on false testimony given by witnesses in exchange for
leniency.  During the trial, jurors heard recordings made by the
 Federal Bureau of Investigation , including one in which Mandell
was heard telling brokers, “You have to lie, you have to paint
a rosy picture. That’s your choice.” In another conversation,
Mandell warned his brokers, “If Sky goes belly up, we’re all
going to be embroiled in a big scandal.” He added, “There will
be no one, no one that’s safe.”  The case is U.S. v. Mandell, 09-cr-00662, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Don Jeffrey in New York federal court
at   djeffrey1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  