-- Sohu Drives First ADR Index Tumble Since March
-- B y   Y e   X i e   a n d   L e o n   L a z a r o f f
-- 2012-05-06T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-04/sohu-drives-first-adr-index-tumble-since-march-china-overnight.html
Chinese shares  traded in  New York 
slumped, pushing the benchmark index down last week for the
first time since March, on concern the global slowdown will curb
demand for goods from the world’s biggest exporter.  The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded
Chinese shares in the U.S. lost 2.2 percent in the week to
101.94 in New York, after four weeks of gains.  Sohu.com Inc. (SOHU) ,
owner of  China ’s third-biggest search engine, sank 15 percent,
the steepest weekly slide since February.  Yanzhou Coal Mining
Co. (YZC)  traded at its biggest discount to  Hong Kong  in a month.  Data last week boosted concern that the global economy is
faltering, with growth in Chinese and U.S. service sectors
slowing and  Europe ’s unemployment rate climbing to a 15-year
high. U.S. employers also added fewer jobs than economists
forecast in April, a government report showed. China, which is
targeting the slowest economic growth since 2004, saw March
 exports  grow at less than half the average pace in 2011.  “I am still bearish on Chinese stocks,” John-Paul Smith,
a London-based emerging-markets strategist at Deutsche Bank AG,
said by phone. “Export demand is going to be weak at a time the
government is trying to shift the growth model. The sustainable
growth rate in China is a lot lower.”  While the gauge of Chinese companies’ American depositary
receipts and U.S.-listed stocks fell last week, the  Shanghai
Composite Index (SHCOMP)  of shares traded on the mainland jumped 2.3
percent, with markets closed on April 30 and May 1. The  Hang
Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of Chinese companies traded in Hong
Kong, shut on May 1, fell 0.2 percent, the second weekly drop.  Exports to Slow  Payrolls in the U.S. climbed 115,000 in April, the smallest
increase in six months, Labor Department figures released during
U.S. trading hours on May 4 showed. The median estimate of 85
economists surveyed by Bloomberg was for an increase of 160,000.  China’s  non-manufacturing purchasing managers’ index  fell
to 56.1 last month, from 58 in March, the National Bureau of
Statistics and China Federation of Logistics and Purchasing said
on May 3. A  government report  expected this week may show
exports grew 8.5 percent in April from a year earlier, compared
with 8.9 percent in March, according to the median estimate of
28 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Exports grew an average 21
percent last year.  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund , the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., declined for a second week,
losing 1.3 percent to $37.37. The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX) 
fell 2.4 percent, snapping two weeks of gains.  Internet Slump  Beijing-based Sohu plunged 15 percent last week to $47.20,
the biggest decliner on the Bloomberg China-US measure.  Other Internet stocks also slid, with  Shanda Games Ltd. (GAME) ,
the third-biggest online games operator in China, sinking 6.9
percent to $5.01, while the nation’s largest online travel
agency,  Ctrip.com International Ltd. (CTRP) , lost 8.1 percent to
$19.91, the weakest price since July 2009.  American depositary receipts of Yanzhou Coal, China’s
fourth-largest coal producer, fell 5.9 percent last week to
$20.18 in New York. The ADRs traded 3.1 percent below the
company’s Hong Kong-listed shares, the biggest discount since
April 10, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot Index of commodities
slumped 4.5 percent last week to 653.60, the biggest weekly
decline since December. Crude oil tumbled below $100 a barrel on
May 4 for the first time since February on the U.S. employment
data.  No ‘Domestic Demand’  Cnooc Ltd. (883) , China’s largest offshore oil producer, dropped
1.5 percent last week to $208.62 in New York. The ADRs traded
2.1 percent below its Hong Kong shares, also the biggest
discount since April 10.  Macau casino operator  Melco Crown Entertainment Ltd. (MPEL)  slid
12 percent to $13.90 in the U.S. last week, the worst weekly
fall since November. The stock was the second-biggest decliner
on the China-US gauge in the week.  “China still doesn’t have the domestic demand needed for
organic growth,” said Michael Gayed, the chief investment
strategist in New York at Pension Partners LLC, which advises on
more than $150 million in assets.  Yingli Green Energy Holding Co. (YGE) , a Chinese solar-panel
maker, climbed 4.4 percent to $3.76 on May 4, bringing its
weekly advance to 5 percent. The Baoding, China-based company
issued 1.5 billion  yuan  ($238 million) of unsecured, medium-term
notes to repay bank loans, according to a May 3 statement.
Yingli has 894 million yuan in bonds and loans due to be repaid
this year, according to  data compiled by Bloomberg .  Spreadtrum’s New Chips  Spreadtrum Communications Inc. (SPRD)  jumped 15 percent on May 4,
its biggest one-day climb since May 2010, after the mobile-phone
chipmaker forecast second-quarter sales that beat estimates and
said it will ship new smartphone chips ahead of schedule.
Volumes were almost four times the ADRs’ three-month daily
average, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Shanghai-based Spreadtrum said on May 3 that revenue in the
second quarter will be as much as $175 million, above the
current median of eight analysts’ estimates for $167 million.
The company plans to begin shipping a 1 gigaherz smartphone
product and its new 40-nano 2.5G baseband in the second three
months of 2012, a quarter earlier than planned, Chairman Leo Li
said on an earnings conference call on May 3.  “They’re ramping ahead of expectations, which has got to
be a big relief for Spreadtrum,”  Michael Walkley , an analyst at
Canaccord Genuity Ltd. who recommends buying the shares, said in
a phone interview from  Minneapolis . “The market had been
worried that Spreadtrum wasn’t moving to 3G smartphones fast
enough. But, in fact, they’re ahead of schedule.”  Of the 18 companies in the Bloomberg China-US index that
have reported earnings since April 10, nine  fell short  of
analysts’ forecasts, including Yanzhou Coal and China Telecom
Corp., data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Ten companies in the China-US index are expected to release
first-quarter results next week, including  Mindray Medical
International Ltd. (MR)  today and Melco Crown on May 9, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ye Xie in New York at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net ;
Leon Lazaroff in New York at 
 llazaroff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  