-- South Korea Checking Nuclear Reactor Safety After Outage
-- B y   S a n g i m   H a n
-- 2012-05-04T06:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-04/south-korea-checking-nuclear-reactor-safety-after-outage.html
South Korea ’s government is going
ahead with two new reactors even as citizen groups oppose more
use of atomic energy in the wake of a local plant failure and
the Fukushima Dai-Ichi disaster in  Japan .  State-run Korea Hydro & Nuclear Power Co. had a ground
breaking ceremony today in Uljin, 315 kilometers (196 miles)
southeast of Seoul, to commence building the two 1,400-megawatt
reactors after the government awarded licenses in December,  the
Ministry of Knowledge Economy  said in a statement.  President  Lee Myung Bak  attended the ceremony along with
more than 700 nearby residents, the ministry said. About 7
trillion won ($6.2 billion) has been earmarked to build the
reactors, and the government will reflect “all requirements”
cited in domestically and overseas studies to improve safety of
the reactors, the ministry said.  The government said its position is unchanged on the need
to expand nuclear-power generation. After the state utility
failed to promptly report a  power outage  at its oldest reactor
in February, local citizen groups campaigned against lifespan
expansions for aging reactors.  Japan is set to be nuclear free for the first time in more
than four decades this month as the last of its 50 reactors is
scheduled to be shut for maintenance. The moratorium follows an
earthquake and tsunami on March 2011 that crippled the Fukushima
Dai-Ichi nuclear facility, triggering the worst radiation leak
since Chernobyl.  South Korea, which gets a third of its electricity from
reactors, operates 21, with seven more under construction. The
first reactor in Uljin is slated to be completed by April 2017,
and the second one by February 2018, the ministry said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sangim Han in  Seoul  at 
 sihan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 