-- Spain’s Bankia Group Renegotiates $13 Billion of Assets
-- B y   C h a r l e s   P e n t y
-- 2012-05-04T11:15:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-04/spain-s-bankia-group-renegotiates-13-billion-of-assets-1-.html
Bankia (BKIA)  group,  Spain ’s third-biggest
lender, said it renegotiated 9.92 billion euros ($13 billion) of
assets in 2011 to stop them from going bad as the industry’s
default ratio soars to the highest level since 1994.  The renegotiated assets were equivalent to 5 percent of the
group’s 188 billion-euro loan book at the end of last year, the
company said in a regulatory filing in Madrid.  The Bankia group’s recognition that it is renegotiating
billions of euros in loans may fuel investor doubts about the
reliability of bad loan data in Spain. Bad loans as a percentage
of total lending in the Spanish banking industry hit 8.16
percent in February, the highest level in 18 years, according to
Bank of Spain data.  “It’s a very big number and it’s just for 2011,” said
Juan Pablo Lopez, an  analyst  at Espirito Santo Investment Bank
in Madrid, who rates Bankia a sell. “It’s negative because of
what it implies for the  credit quality  not just of Bankia but
for the whole system.”  The group’s reported default ratio for the end of last year
was 8.66 percent, up from 6.34 percent a year earlier.  The group, formed from the merger of seven savings banks
led by  Caja Madrid  and Bancaja, had 37.52 billion euros of
Spanish real estate holdings at the end of last year, down from
the 42.4 billion euros at the end of 2010, it said.  Economic Outlook  Of lending to real estate, 10.6 billion euros was
classified as “doubtful” and 7.3 billion euros as “sub-
standard,” said the banking group, headed by  Rodrigo Rato .  The debate about the accuracy of the recognition of bad
loans comes as unemployment exceeds 24 percent and the
 International Monetary Fund  predicts Spain’s economy will shrink
1.8 percent this year.  Alfredo Saenz, chief executive officer of  Banco Santander
SA (SAN) , Spain’s biggest bank, said April 26 that anyone raising
mortgage defaults as an issue affecting the banking industry was
“saying something stupid.” Analysts at JPMorgan Chase & Co.,
the world’s biggest bond underwriter, said in a report the same
day that rising mortgage defaults would be the “next elephant”
for Spanish banks as unemployment spurs non-payment.  The Bankia group said it had 84.2 billion euros in gross
 mortgage loans  at the end of 2011, of which 3.51 billion euros,
or 4.2 percent, was “doubtful.” Santander said in its 2011
 annual report  that it’s total “refinanced portfolio” for Spain
was 4.17 billion euros, or about 2 percent of its loans there.  Bankia is the publicly traded company formed from pooling
the banking business of the savings banks that took part in the
merger. Banco Financiero y de Ahorros, or BFA, is a holding
company that controls Bankia and includes assets such as land
and share holdings in companies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Penty in  Madrid  at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Charles Penty at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net  