-- Sprint CEO to Return $3.25 Million in Pay Tied to Iphone
-- B y   O l g a   K h a r i f   a n d   S c o t t   M o r i t z
-- 2012-05-04T23:49:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-04/sprint-ceo-to-return-3-25-million-in-pay-tied-to-iphone.html
Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)  Chief Executive
Officer  Dan Hesse  agreed to return $3.25 million of his
compensation, which had been increased in 2011 by excluding the
costs of adding  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone to the carrier’s network.  The  Overland Park , Kansas-based carrier, which sells the
iPhone at a loss, originally excluded the device’s cost from
2011 bonus calculations for eligible employees. After “feedback
from some shareholders,” Hesse said he would reduce his salary
in 2012 to repay the costs associated with the adjustment,
according to a  filing  today.  “I do not want, nor does our Compensation Committee want,
to penalize Sprint employees for the company’s investment with
Apple,” Hesse said in a  letter  to Sandra Price, senior vice
president of human resources at Sprint, that was part of today’s
filing.  Hesse’s decision to repay the funds comes amid uncertainty
over whether the iPhone will help orchestrate a turnaround at
Sprint so it can compete better with rivals  AT&T Inc. (T)  and
Verizon Wireless. The company, the third-biggest wireless
carrier in the U.S., reported a wider loss in the first quarter
amid contract user defections and has posted annual losses for
the past five years.  “Dan enjoys the full support of our board of directors and
we appreciate the leadership he has demonstrated as he continues
to guide the company through a turnaround in a difficult
competitive environment,” Sprint Chairman James H. Hance said
in the statement.  Stock Awards  For 2011, Hesse had received $11.9 million, a 31 percent
increase from a year earlier. He also got stock awards worth
$3.2 million and non-equity incentive plan compensation of $4.8
million. Shares of Sprint declined 45 percent last year as it
posted a loss of $2.89 billion.  Sprint started carrying the iPhone last year and in the
first quarter sold 1.5 million of the devices, helped by its
$99.99-a-month unlimited calling-and-data plan that  Verizon
Wireless  and AT&T don’t offer. The iPhone also helped boost
contract customers’ average monthly bills by 6.6 percent to
$59.88, from a year earlier, as users spent more on data plans.  In the first quarter, sales rose 5.1 percent to $8.73
billion, ahead of analysts’ estimates as the company’s loss
widened to 29 cents a share from 15 cents a year earlier.  Sprint’s shares dropped 4.8 percent to $2.36 in New York
today, to give a 55 percent decline in the past year.  “I think the underperformance of the stock has resulted in
a more vocal shareholder base, and to the board’s credit they
are listening and implementing,” said Walt Piecyk, an analyst
with BTIG LLC in  New York , in an e-mail.  Reductions to Hesse’s 2012 compensation will come from cuts
to his salary and incentive-plan payments.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Olga Kharif in Portland at 
 okharif@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Moritz in New York at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  