-- Sun Hung Kai Says Ex-Chairman Arrested in Widening Probe
-- B y   K e l v i n   W o n g
-- 2012-05-04T08:30:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-04/sun-hung-kai-says-former-chairman-arrested-in-widening-probe-1-.html
Sun Hung Kai Properties Ltd. (16) , Hong
Kong’s biggest developer, said former chairman  Walter Kwok  was
arrested by the anti-corruption commission, widening a probe
that includes his brothers and a former government official.  The arrest of Kwok, 61, was for an investigation under the
city’s anti-bribery law, Sun Hung Kai said in a statement today.  The  Independent Commission Against Corruption  in March
arrested Thomas and Raymond Kwok, co-chairmen of Sun Hung Kai,
and Rafael Hui, formerly the city’s No. 2 official, in one of
the highest-level investigations in the body’s 38-year history.
Walter Kwok, ousted as chairman in 2008, had applied to the  High
Court  then to prevent the board from removing him, alleging that
his brothers opposed inquiries into impropriety in the way the
company awarded construction contracts.  “This will certainly add more speculation from investors
as to what really went on in the company,” Alfred Lau, a Hong
Kong-based analyst at Bocom International Holdings Co., said by
phone today. “But this arrest alone won’t impact how we value
the company’s assets.” Lau rates the share a buy.  Lucy Chan, an external spokeswoman hired by Walter Kwok,
declined to comment beyond the content of the company’s
statement. Walter, who is a non-executive director at the
developer, was released on bail and his arrest won’t affect
operations, Sun Hung Kai said.  Deny Wrongdoing  Sun Hung Kai shares, suspended earlier today, have fallen
17 percent in  Hong Kong  trading since the March 29 arrests,
compared with a 2.1 percent decline in the  Hang Seng Property
Index. (HSP)  The stock, which resumed trading after the noon break,
fell 1.8 percent to HK$92.60 at the 4 p.m. close.  The ICAC arrested a senior member of a Hong Kong listed
company yesterday, the commission said in a statement today,
without identify the person.  The probe has increased public concern about real estate
policies implemented by the government as property price gains
made Hong Kong the world’s most expensive place to own a home.
Thomas and Raymond Kwok were arrested by the ICAC, as the
commission is known, on March 29 and later released.  Raymond Kwok  denied any wrongdoing at an April 4 press
conference with Thomas at the company’s headquarters, his first
and only comments since the arrest. As of yesterday, no charges
had been laid by the ICAC.  Thomas and Raymond Kwok, sons of the developer’s late co-
founder Kwok Tak Seng, took over running Sun Hung Kai, which has
a market value of $32 billion, in May 2008 after ousting their
older brother from the chairmanship following a court battle.
They replaced him with mother Kwong Siu-hing, who in turn passed
the title to them earlier last year.  In 2010, Kwong said through a statement issued by the
company that Walter Kwok had been ousted from the family trust
that controls Sun Hung Kai.  Family Trust  Walter Kwok said in a court filing in 2008 that his
brothers tried to remove him by claiming he suffered from mental
illness. He said he didn’t have any such disorder and was suing
his siblings for libel.  The former chairman took over the company after the death
of his father, who co-founded Sun Hung Kai with billionaire Lee Shau-kee, who now controls Henderson Land Development Co. and is
the city’s second-richest man, and Fung King Hei in 1963.  Listed on the Hong Kong stock exchange in 1972, Sun Hung
Kai benefited from a three-decade surge in  home prices  to become
the city’s biggest developer. Under Walter Kwok, the company’s
value had ballooned 10-fold, while assets rose to HK$264.5
billion ($34 billion) as of Dec. 31, 2007.  Taken Hostage  Sun Hung Kai co-owns the 118-floor International Commerce
Center, which at 484 meters (1,588 feet) is Hong Kong’s tallest
building. The developer also built luxury apartment projects
such as the Arch in West Kowloon and the Larvotto in the Island
South district.  Walter Kwok was taken hostage in the late 1990s and then
freed after an undisclosed sum was paid to Hong Kong gang boss
Cheung Tze-keung, nicknamed “Big Spender.” The Kwok family
never reported the crime to Hong Kong police.  Cheung was sentenced to death by a Chinese court in
November 1998 for his role in a string of kidnappings including
that of the eldest Kwok brother, the state-run Xinhua News
Agency reported at the time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kelvin Wong in Hong Kong at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net ;
Hwee Ann Tan at 
 hatan@bloomberg.net  