-- Swiss Re Profit Beats Estimates as Catastrophe Losses Drop
-- B y   C a r o l y n   B a n d e l
-- 2012-05-04T07:27:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-04/swiss-re-profit-beats-estimates-as-catastrophe-losses-drop-1-.html
Swiss Re Ltd. (SREN) , the world’s second-
biggest reinsurer, posted better-than-expected first-quarter
profit as catastrophe claims fell from a record level and
investment returns improved.  Swiss Re rose the most in almost two months in Zurich
trading after reporting  net income  of $1.14 billion following a
loss of $665 million a year earlier. That beat the $688 million
mean estimate of 12 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Natural disasters caused less than $3 billion of insured
losses in the industry in the first quarter, compared with
almost $53 billion a year earlier when earthquakes hit Japan and
 New Zealand , according to estimates from Aon Benfield, the
world’s biggest reinsurance broker. Swiss Re Chief Financial
Officer George Quinn expects the “trend of increasing prices”
to continue this year after “very strong” rate gains in
natural catastrophe-related business in Japan last month.  “It is an excellent set of results, mainly driven by
property and casualty reinsurance because of a benign first-
quarter in terms of large losses,” said Daniel Bischof, a
Zurich-based analyst with Helvea, who has a “neutral” rating
on Swiss Re shares. “We will see a positive market reaction.”  Swiss Re  rose  as much as 3.4 percent and was up 3.2 percent
to 59.70 francs ($65.25) as of 9:19 a.m. in Zurich trading. That
brought this year’s gain to 32 percent and made the stock the
second-best performer on the 28-company Bloomberg Europe 500
Insurance Index, which has climbed 8 percent.  Investment Returns  Earnings also rebounded as Zurich-based Swiss Re boosted
its return on investments to 4 percent from 3.9 percent in the
year-earlier quarter, according to Quinn.  “We’ve had a very quiet quarter in terms of
catastrophes,” Quinn said on a conference call. “The return on
investments that we reported today is very high in the current
market conditions and I would not expect to repeat that.”  Claims from natural and man-made disasters, including an
offshore fire and the grounding of the Costa Concordia cruise
ship in January, totaled about $73 million in the first quarter,
Swiss Re said, compared with $2.41 billion the firm reported in
the year-earlier period.  The company reported “successful” April renewals, which
were mainly focused on  Japan  and other Asian countries. Swiss Re
had about $3.48 billion of large natural catastrophe claims in
2011, which is giving the reinsurer leverage to boost prices.  “Overall we have seen a very substantial price increase,”
said Quinn. “It is the largest we have reported in a renewal
for as long as I can remember.”  April Renewals  Volumes rose by 14 percent for the April renewals and the
“fully economic price quality” of the renewed portfolio
improved by 17 percentage points, Swiss Re said.  Swiss Re said last month it expects margins to improve
because of new business at its life and health unit and a
“firming of the reinsurance cycle” at the property and
casualty division.  Swiss Re is targeting an average annual increase in
earnings per share of 10 percent until 2015 and a return on
equity averaging 700 basis points above the risk-free yield of a
five-year U.S. Treasury bond. A basis point is one-hundredth of
a percentage point.  Swiss Re gave comparative figures for 2011 after reporting
under a new structure, which provides a breakdown for its
reinsurance, corporate solutions and Admin Re units.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carolyn Bandel in Zurich at 
 cbandel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  