-- U.K. Government Seeks Legal Status in News Corp. Ethics Probe
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2012-05-04T10:47:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-04/u-k-government-seeks-legal-status-in-news-corp-ethics-probe.html
The U.K. government is seeking formal
legal representation at the media inquiry triggered by  News
Corp. (NWSA) ’s phone-hacking scandal after evidence disclosed at the
probe led to calls for Culture Secretary  Jeremy Hunt  to resign.  If the bid for “core participant” status is granted at a
hearing today in London, U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s
government will be allowed to question witnesses and receive
advance access to evidence and statements.  Hunt, a Conservative, is facing calls from the opposition
Labour party to resign after e-mails showed one of his aides
offered inside information to a News Corp. lobbyist when Hunt
was reviewing the company’s proposed takeover of the pay-
television company  British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc. (BSY)   Cameron called for the inquiry in July in response to
public outrage over phone hacking at News Corp.’s now-defunct
News of the World tabloid. The judicial probe is reviewing all
aspects of the U.K. media, including its ties to politicians,
after hacking victims said News Corp.’s close relationship with
government helped cover up the scandal.  Hunt’s adviser,  Adam Smith , resigned April 25, after the e-
mails were revealed to Judge Brian Leveson, who is overseeing
the inquiry. Smith said he had “gone too far” in his contacts
with News Corp. and Cameron denied requests for a separate
inquiry.  Evidence released by the inquiry showed News Corp. Chairman
Rupert Murdoch and his son James had dozens of meetings with
U.K. lawmakers, including Cameron. Both Murdochs testified
before Leveson last month, saying they didn’t discuss the BSkyB
bid in detail during the meetings.  News Corp. closed the News of the World in July to help
contain the scandal and abandoned the company’s 7.8 billion
pound ($12.6 billion) bid for the 61 percent of BSkyB it didn’t
already own.  Police investigations have led to at least 46 arrests,
while the scandal has expanded to include bribery and computer
hacking by journalists.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in  London  at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  