-- U.K. Home Prices Drop the Most in 1 1/2 Years as Recession Bites
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-05-04T07:28:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-04/u-k-home-prices-drop-the-most-in-1-1-2-years-as-recession-bites.html
U.K.  house prices  dropped the most in
1 1/2 years in April as a  stamp-duty exemption  for first-time
buyers ended and the economy fell into its first double-dip
recession since the 1970s, Halifax said.  Prices dropped 2.4 percent from March, the largest monthly
decline since September 2010, to an average 159,883 pounds
($258,700), the mortgage unit of  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  said
in a statement in  London  today. Prices had risen 2.2 percent in
March. From a year earlier, values were down 0.6 percent.  Surveys show the  property market  is struggling to gain
traction as banks limit lending and consumers are squeezed by
rising energy prices. Demand for homes was boosted earlier this
year as first-time buyers took advantage of a  tax exemption  on
purchases of homes costing less than 250,000 pounds before it
ended in March. Consumer confidence may be undermined after data
last week showed the economy shrank in the first quarter.  “We continue to expect little overall movement in prices
as the U.K. economic situation remains challenging,” Halifax
economist  Martin Ellis  said in the statement. The end of the
stamp duty holiday probably boosted home sales early this year
and “contributed to the volatility in  house prices .”  In the three months through April, values were down 0.3
percent compared with the previous quarter, and fell 0.5 percent
in the period from a year earlier, Halifax said.  Mixed Picture  Other surveys showed a mixed picture for the U.K. housing
market last month, with  Nationwide Building Society  saying that
prices were down 0.2 percent, and Hometrack Ltd. reporting that
values rose for a second month. Both said economic weakness may
put demand under pressure this year.  The  Bank of England  said mortgage approvals increased in
March after they fell to the lowest since the middle of 2011 the
previous month.  Consumer confidence  was unchanged this month and
is unlikely to improve after the economy fell into recession,
GfK NOP Ltd. said on April 27.  The central bank, which said yesterday it has completed its
latest round of bond purchases to support the recovery, will
announce its next policy decision on May 10. Policy makers will
have to assess the threat to the economy from faster-than-
targeted  inflation  and slowing manufacturing and services
activity.  Officials held their  stimulus target  at 325 billion pounds
last month and kept the benchmark  interest rate  at a record low
of 0.5 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  