-- U.S. Rape Probe Shocks Town Known as Montana’s Berkeley
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   O l d h a m   a n d   A m y   L i n n
-- 2012-05-04T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-04/u-s-rape-probe-shocks-town-known-as-montana-s-berkeley.html
As she tends her inn on the bank of
Montana’s Clark Fork River, Meg Estey says she welcomes the
federal government’s  investigation  of 80 reported rapes in three
years in the college town she calls home.  “I have never in my life felt concerned about my safety in
Missoula,” said Estey, an innkeeper at  Goldsmith’s Bed and
Breakfast . “This is alarming, knowing this is going on in your
community. To know the book is being opened and evaluated is a
good thing in our minds.”  The U.S. Justice Department  disclosed  the number of sexual
assault complaints on May 1, while announcing it will
investigate how local law-enforcement agencies and the
University of Montana responded to rape allegations.  The review is the latest in a string of sexual assault news
that has dominated local headlines in Missoula, population
67,000, since December.  Until this week, attention focused on 11 reported rapes in
18 months involving college students at the University of
 Montana  and a string of allegations against players on its
football team. The events led to an  investigation  commissioned
by the university and to campus forums, a new code of conduct
for athletes and the requirement that all students take online
tutorials on sexual assault.  The Justice Department said it is examining whether gender
discrimination affected investigations and prosecution of sexual
assaults by the university’s Office of Public Safety, the
Missoula Police Department and the Missoula County Attorney’s
Office.  ‘Serious Concerns’  “Late last year, the department became aware of serious
concerns that alleged sexual assaults of women, including but
not limited to students at the University of Montana, were not
being investigated in a prompt and adequate fashion,” said
 Thomas Perez , assistant attorney general for the  Justice
Department ’s civil rights division.  The news sent shockwaves through Missoula, where businesses
are preparing for the busiest season of the year in an area
famous for its scenic rivers and mountain views, nestled between
Yellowstone and Glacier national parks.  “Absolutely we are concerned,” said James Grunke, chief
executive officer of the  Missoula Economic Partnership . “We
want students, citizens and visitors to feel safe.”  “But this is not an ongoing criminal investigation, or
that there’s some sort of rapist running around Missoula,” he
added. “It’s a review of the process of how sexual assaults
were reported.”  County Attorney Responds  Missoula County Attorney Fred Van Valkenburg said he
thought federal investigators were overreaching.  “We don’t investigate the reports; we review the
investigation that’s been done by  law enforcement , and we decide
whether there is sufficient evidence to file charges,” Van
Valkenburg said in an interview. “We do a good job. We’re not
changing anything, and we don’t have anything to apologize
for.”  Missoula Mayor John Engen said city agencies would work
with the Justice Department.  “I’ve pledged the city of Missoula’s cooperation in
ensuring the investigation is thorough and complete,” Engen
said at a May 1 press conference in Missoula. “I have
tremendous faith in the men and women of the Missoula Police
Department and no knowledge of any failures on our part to
investigate sexual assaults against women.”  The investigation is similar to reviews that found a
pattern of gender discrimination in the New Orleans Police
Department and mishandling of sex crimes in the Puerto Rico
Police Department and the Maricopa County Sheriff’s Office in
 Arizona , the Justice Department said.  Three Rivers  Each year, about 2 million people visit Missoula --
situated at the confluence of three rivers and surrounded by
seven wilderness areas -- with half of those spending the night,
said Barbara Neilan, executive director of  Destination Missoula ,
the area’s convention and visitor’s bureau.  “This community is very unusual in Montana,” Neilan said
in a telephone interview. “It’s a very liberal, all
encompassing community of all types of people.”  Students walking to class May 2 amid swirling snowflakes
near the campus’ landmark clock tower said the rape
investigations shattered their sense of safety.  “When things like this happen, it kind of bursts your
bubble,” said Maddy Miller, 20, a sophomore majoring in social
work. “Coming from Cincinnati, I thought it would be 100
percent safer here.”  Miller said she now shies away from running at night on a
trail that parallels the Clark Fork River.  Missoula’s Reputation  In town, bar patrons said they were concerned the Justice
Department’s investigation would give the haven for artists and
writers -- festooned with maroon and silver signs celebrating
the university’s winning football team -- a bad name.  “I hate the thought that word is getting around that
Missoula is like this,” said Gary Daley, a 56-year-old
construction worker. “This is ruining our city’s reputation.”  Trouble in Missoula started as early as 2007, when members
of the university’s popular football team, known as the
Grizzlies, were arrested on charges including assault, robbery,
burglary and aggravated kidnapping.  In 2010, running back Beau Donaldson was accused of
sexually assaulting a woman sleeping on his couch after a party.
He was arrested in January and charged with sexual intercourse
without consent, according to an  affidavit .  Donaldson pleaded not guilty and is scheduled to go on
trial in September. His attorney, Milton Datsopoulos of
Missoula, didn’t respond to a telephone message seeking comment.  16,000 Students  The state’s oldest university, with about 16,000 students,
retained retired Montana Supreme Court Justice Diane Barz to
investigate the allegations. In a five-page  report  released on
Jan. 31, Barz recommended that all university personnel receive
training on how to report and respond to sexual-assault
allegations.  “The UM has a problem of sexual assault on and off campus
and needs to take steps to address it to insure the safety of
all students,” she said in the report.  In March, the university announced it wouldn’t renew the
contracts of Athletic Director Jim O’Day and head football coach
Robin Pflugrad, who led the team to an 11-3 record last season.  The Montana allegations are reminiscent of a scandal at the
 University of Colorado  at Boulder in 2004, when several women
said they were sexually assaulted by football players. After
months of investigations, including a grand jury report, the
school’s president resigned. The university settled with two of
the women.  ‘Under Fire’  “When you have so many incidents in such a short period of
time, there’s a big problem,” said Kimberly Hult, a partner at
Boulder-based law firm Hutchinson Black and Cook, who
represented one of the women. “Universities are increasingly
under fire for not taking strong action to protect women.”  Colorado  officials involved in the investigation said the
publicity surrounding such a rape probe leads to months of
distractions.  “There were thousands of e-mails and phone calls and open-
records-act requests,” said Ken McConnellogue, a vice president
for communications at CU-Boulder. “When you have something of
this magnitude, there’s no question it affects an organization
from top to bottom.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jennifer Oldham in Denver at 
 Joldham1@bloomberg.net ;
Amy Linn in Missoula, Montana, at   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey Taylor at 
 Jtaylor48@bloomberg.net  