-- S&P 500 Caps Worst Week in ’12 on Disappointing Jobs Data
-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2012-05-04T20:31:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-04/u-s-stock-futures-are-little-changed-before-jobs-report.html
U.S. stocks declined a third day,
giving the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index its worst week in 2012,
after data showing employers added fewer jobs than forecast
intensified concern about the pace of economic recovery.  Energy (S5ENRS)  shares in the S&P 500 slumped 2.2 percent after oil
fell below $100 a barrel for the first time since February.
 Chevron Corp. (CVX) ,  Bank of America Corp.  and  Intel Corp. (INTC)  dropped at
least 2.1 percent. American International Group Inc., the
bailed-out insurer, tumbled 3.8 percent as sales decreased at
its largest units. The  Nasdaq-100 Index (NDX)  slid 2.5 percent, the
most since November, as  Apple (AAPL)  Inc. slipped 2.9 percent.  The S&P 500 fell 1.6 percent to 1,369.10 at 4 p.m. New York
time, extending its weekly drop to 2.4 percent. The  Dow Jones
Industrial Average  slumped 168.32 points, or 1.3 percent, to
13,038.27 today. About  7.1 billion  shares changed hands on U.S.
exchanges, or 7 percent above the three-month average.  “The data point to sluggish job growth, declining labor
market participation and for those employed, stagnant purchasing
power,” Mohamed El-Erian, the chief executive officer of
Pacific Investment Management Co., said in an e-mail today.
“Consumption is less dynamic at a time when headwinds from
 Europe  and a potential fiscal cliff are still material.”  Stocks slumped as payrolls climbed 115,000, the smallest
gain in six months and below the estimate for a 160,000 advance.
The jobless rate unexpectedly fell to a three-year low of 8.1
percent as people left the  labor force . Concern about Europe’s
debt crisis also helped send stocks slower as services and
manufacturing output in the euro region shrank and France,
Germany and Greece prepared for elections this weekend.  More Stimulus  Equity futures  briefly rose  after the jobs report was
released this morning as some investors speculated the  Federal
Reserve  may consider additional steps to boost growth. If
economic data continue to disappoint, the Fed may announce a
third-round of asset purchases, or quantitative easing,
according to  Keith Wirtz , at Fifth Third Asset Management.  A negative reading in a measure of forecasting accuracy
shows data have been worse than economists expected. The
Citigroup Economic Surprise Index was at  minus 23.40  today. The
gauge a year ago plunged into negative figures ahead of an
economic soft patch that prompted the Fed, in an initiative
dubbed “Operation Twist,” to replace $400 billion of short-
term debt in its portfolio with longer-dated securities.  “The labor report may be the first beat on the drum for
QE3,” said Wirtz, who oversees $15 billion as chief investment
officer for Fifth Third Asset Management in Cincinnati. “As we
proceed into summer, watch the releases. Negative beats will
lead to Fed actions before Labor Day -- ironic by accident.”  More Than Doubled  Since reaching a 12-year low in  March 2009 (SPX) , the S&P 500 has
more than doubled amid government’s stimulus measures and as
corporate profits beat estimates for the 13th straight quarter.
The gauge has fallen 3.5 percent from an almost  four-year high 
on April 2 on weaker-than-forecast economic reports.  A three-day retreat trimmed this year’s rally in the S&P
500 to 8.9 percent. Nine out of 10 groups in the S&P 500 fell as
 technology  and energy shares slumped at least 2.1 percent. The
Morgan Stanley Cyclical Index of companies most-tied to the
economy lost 1.7 percent. Chevron sank 2.1 percent to $103.72.
Bank of America slid 3.3 percent to $7.74. Intel slid 2.3
percent to $27.90. Apple slipped 2.9 percent to $565.25.  AIG (AIG)  tumbled 3.8 percent to $32.83. Sales at Chartis, which
insures commercial property, corporate boards and airplanes,
fell 3.8 percent to about $8.82 billion as the company sought to
pare risks. Premiums, deposits and other considerations at the
SunAmerica life insurer slid about 13 percent to $5.6 billion.  Earnings Peak  CF Industries Holdings Ltd., the largest U.S. producer of
nitrogen-based fertilizers, retreated 6.9 percent to $183.91 on
bets quarterly earnings may be at a peak. Factory outages,
delayed imports and early crop planting have helped to drive
nitrogen-fertilizer prices higher, Charles Neivert, an analyst
at Dahlman Rose & Co., said in a note. Those market conditions
“will be hard to exceed or even replicate in the near future.”  Southwestern Energy Co. (SWN)  had the  biggest decline  in the S&P
500, sinking 7.2 percent to $28.73. The natural gas producer
reported first-quarter sales and earnings that missed analysts’
estimates.  LinkedIn Corp. (LNKD)  surged 7.2 percent to $117.30, the highest
price since its market debut in May 2011. The biggest
professional-networking website reported first-quarter sales and
profit that beat analysts’ estimates amid a jump in membership.  About  71 percent  of S&P 500 companies that reported results
since the start of the earnings season have topped projections,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Micron Gains  Micron Technology Inc. (MU)  added 1.2 percent to $6.55 amid
speculation that the memory chipmaker may try to acquire the
assets of Elpida Memory Inc. cheaply after a potential rival
dropped out of the bidding. Micron has no comment on rumor or
conjecture, said Dan Francisco, a spokesman for Micron.  Federal Reserve policy isn’t designed to prop up U.S. stock
prices as many people believe, according to  David Einhorn ,
president of Greenlight Capital LLC.  “The real Fed put is under the  bond market ,” the hedge-
fund manager wrote in a commentary yesterday on the Huffington
Post website. He was referring to a  put option , which sets an
asset’s minimum price for a later sale.  Stocks and bonds have often moved in opposite directions
during the past three months. The  S&P 500  and a Treasury note
and bond index, compiled by Bloomberg and the European
Federation of Financial Analysts Societies, were used in the
comparison.  Near Zero  “The Fed has all but guaranteed that it will do what it
takes to stop bond prices from falling” by promising to keep
its target interest rate near zero through 2014, according to
Einhorn, based in New York.  The Bloomberg/EFFAS index was 0.2 percent higher for the
year through yesterday after rebounding from losses in February
and March. Those declines followed gains in January that lifted
the indicator to a record.  Central bankers don’t understand investor psychology,
Einhorn wrote. “If you want to get people to sell bonds and buy
stocks, the best way to do that is to show them that bond prices
can, and do, fall.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rita Nazareth in  New York  at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  