-- U.S. Company Credit Swaps Rise After Payrolls Numbers Fall Short
-- B y   S r i d h a r   N a t a r a j a n
-- 2012-05-04T19:07:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-04/u-s-company-credit-swaps-rise-after-payrolls-numbers-fall-short.html
A gauge of corporate credit risk
increased by the most in back-to-back days in almost four weeks
as U.S. payrolls rose by the least in six months, raising
concern over the strength of the economic recovery.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses on corporate debt or to speculate on
creditworthiness, added 2.7 basis points to a mid-price of 98.8
basis points at 2:22 p.m. in  New York , according to prices
compiled by Bloomberg. The 4.9-basis point rise since May 2 is
the most since climbing 5.4 points on the two days ended April
10.  The gauge increased as a Labor Department report showed
payrolls rose by 115,000, less than the 160,000 forecast from
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. A slowdown in hiring may
restrain wage growth needed to stoke  consumer spending , which
accounts for about 70 percent of the economy.  “In an environment where there have been many question
marks put forth with regards to the efficacy of the recovery,
this report does loom large,”  Tom Porcelli , chief U.S.
economist at New York-based RBC Capital Markets LLC, said in a
telephone interview.  Weak jobs growth ahead of the  Federal Reserve ’s policy-
setting meeting in June lowers the hurdle for another round of
asset purchases by the central bank, Porcelli said in a report
earlier today.  The credit swaps measure, which typically rises as investor
confidence deteriorates and falls as it improves, has climbed
from an almost one-month low of 93.8 basis points on May 1. The
contracts pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet
its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis
point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sridhar Natarajan in New York at 
 snatarajan15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  