-- U.S. to Aid Philippines Defenses Amid China Conflicts
-- B y   G o p a l   R a t n a m
-- 2012-05-04T20:52:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-04/u-s-to-aid-philippines-defenses-amid-china-conflicts.html
The U.S. will assist the Philippines
in improving its defense capabilities as the island-nation faces
frequent disputes with  China  over fishing and mineral rights in
the  South China Sea , two U.S. officials said.  Philippines’ Secretary of Foreign Affairs Albert Del Rosario and Defense Secretary Voltaire Gazmin visited  Washington 
this week for the first so-called 2+2 meeting with their
counterparts,  Hillary Clinton  and Leon Panetta.  The U.S. is helping the Philippines draft a long-term
military modernization plan that calls for the Pentagon to
supply coastal patrol vessels and maritime radar as well as
assisting the country in obtaining equipment from U.S. allies in
the region, according to the U.S. officials, who spoke with
reporters yesterday on condition of anonymity to discuss
diplomatic matters.  The focus of Philippine cooperation with the U.S. is “to
build a minimum credible defense posture,” Del Rosario said in
a May 2 speech at the  Heritage Foundation  in Washington, after
the April 30 meeting with Clinton and Panetta.  Vessels from the Philippines and China were involved in at
least six disputes last year over which nation had access to
reefs and islands in the South China Sea, according to a report
by the International Crisis Group titled, “Stirring Up the
South China Sea.” The Brussels-based group says it works to
prevent conflict worldwide.  The Philippines calls the disputed area the West Philippine
Sea. The latest incident occurred on April 10, when two Chinese
ships stopped the Philippine Navy from inspecting Chinese
fishing boats near Scarborough Shoal in the South China Sea.  Korea, Japan, Australia  In addition to providing excess defense equipment to the
Philippines, the U.S. is assisting in discussions with  South
Korea ,  Japan  and Australia to obtain defense equipment from
them, the officials said.  The U.S. provided the Philippines with a used Coast Guard
cutter last year and plans to transfer another one later this
year, one of the officials said.  The U.S. offered $142.4 million to the Philippines in
fiscal 2012 including military and economic assistance,
according to data compiled by the Congressional Research
Service. The State Department, which provides such funding, is
seeking $144.4 million in fiscal 2013, according to
congressional data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gopal Ratnam in Washington at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  