-- UBS Must Face FHFA Claims Over Mortgage Bonds, Judge Says
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2012-05-05T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-04/ubs-must-face-fhfa-claims-over-mortgage-bonds-judge-says.html
UBS AG (UBSN)  must face claims from the
federal agency that oversees  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac  over
$6.4 billion in mortgage bonds purchased by the mortgage-finance
companies, a judge ruled.  U.S. District Judge Denise Cote in Manhattan refused to
throw out the Federal Housing Finance Agency’s securities law
claims while she dismissed negligent-misrepresentation claims,
according to a decision yesterday.  The FHFA sued UBS in July, accusing Switzerland’s biggest
bank of making misrepresentations about  mortgage loans 
underlying securities purchased by Fannie and Freddie, according
to an amended complaint. In September, the agency sued 17
financial institutions, including  Bank of America Corp.  and
JPMorgan Chase & Co., over losses on mortgage bonds.  UBS is reviewing the decision and “remains confident in
its defenses,”  Christiaan Brakman , a spokeman for the Zurich-
based lender, said in an e-mailed statement.  UBS had said in court papers that the lawsuit was an
attempt by Fannie and Freddie to shift blame for losses stemming
from “the nationwide housing crisis in which they played a
critical role.”  ‘Deepest Recession’  “The losses sustained on their real estate portfolio are
attributable to the deepest recession in 75 years,” Brakman
said about the companies.  The FHFA said UBS caused billions of dollars in damages to
Fannie and Freddie on loans that didn’t live up to their
promised quality. The agency plausibly alleged that offering
materials contained false statements about loan originators’
compliance with underwriting standards, Cote said in the
decision.  “FHFA is pleased with the court’s ruling in this matter
and will continue to pursue its claims against the parties,
which is important to the enterprises and taxpayers,” Stefanie
Johnson, a spokeswoman for the FHFA, said in an e-mailed
statement.  The case is Federal Housing Finance Agency v. UBS Americas
Inc., 11-5201, U.S. District Court, Southern District of  New
York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David McLaughlin in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  