-- Lugar’s Statesmanship at Risk in ’Surly’ Election Contest
-- B y   M a r k   N i q u e t t e
-- 2012-05-04T18:54:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-04/lugar-s-statesmanship-at-risk-in-surly-election-contest.html
Sitting in a strip-mall campaign
office with copies of checks from Sarah Palin and  Herman Cain 
tacked on the wall, Indiana Treasurer Richard Mourdock calls his
contest with Senator Richard Lugar a battle for the “heart and
soul of the Republican Party in the Senate.”  Lugar, a six-term senator and ranking Republican on the
Foreign Relations Committee, embodies a passing generation of
leaders distinguished for expertise and an ability to negotiate
with the other party. While he has been one of Indiana’s most
popular political figures, a poll released today shows he’s in
danger of losing the Republican primary on May 8.  Mourdock portrays the incumbent as having compromised too
much with Democrats and President  Barack Obama . He tells voters
it’s time for a Republican senator who will address the federal
debt and refuse to budge on conservative principles.  “Whether or not we’re going to have the ‘go along to get
along’ or the people that are going to really fight for the
conservative point of view is what this campaign is about,”
Mourdock, 60, said in an interview.  Mourdock led Lugar, 48 percent to 38 percent, in the poll
by Howey Politics  Indiana  and DePauw University. The survey of
700 likely Republican and independent voters was conducted April
30 and May 1 and had an error margin of plus-or-minus 3.7
percentage points.  35 Years  “U.S. Senator Richard G. Lugar’s iconic career of elected
public service appears to be in great jeopardy,” Brian Howey,
editor and publisher of Howey Politics Indiana, said in a
posting on his  website  today.  Lugar, 80, hasn’t faced such a primary challenge since he
joined the Senate 35 years ago. Mourdock has the backing of the
anti-tax Tea Party and national figures such as Palin, the 2008
Republican vice presidential nominee, and Cain, a former
presidential candidate.  The outcome may have implications for the direction of the
 Republican Party , said  Brian Vargus , a political science
professor at Indiana University-Purdue University Indianapolis.  The party has become more socially conservative during the
past three decades. Since the 2010 midterm elections, when
Republicans regained control of the U.S. House, that wing of the
party has gained even greater strength as moderates and
independents become more of a minority, Vargus said.  ‘Must Be Dealt With’  “What they’re basically trying to send is a very simple
message, and that is that they must be dealt with, they must be
listened to, that the party has to take into consideration who
they are and what they stand for,” he said.  Lugar’s campaign will be working over the weekend “to take
this primary back” by persuading a handful of Mourdock voters
in each of Indiana’s 5,000 precincts to back the incumbent
instead, the senator’s spokesman Andy Fisher said in an e-mail.  The campaign also will seek to turn out voters who have
supported Lugar in general elections but haven’t participated in
primaries, Fisher said. Indiana has an open primary system,
allowing voters of any party to request a Republican ballot.  At a news conference today, Lugar asked Indiana residents
of any political party who want him to remain in office to
“come out immediately, as fast as you can” to support him,
according to the  Indianapolis Star ’s website.  “I believe that right now if a majority of Hoosiers were
to vote in an election, that is all Hoosiers regardless of party
-- Republicans, Democrats, independents, I would win,” Lugar
said, according to the newspaper. “I want everybody in the
state to vote for me on Tuesday.”  Democratic Opponent  The winner of Tuesday’s primary will face Democratic U.S.
Representative Joe Donnelly in November.  Lugar says he’s best positioned to help Republicans take
control of the Senate and that he can get more done than a
freshman with a “my way or the highway” attitude.  “I have the temerity actually to talk to Democrats on
occasion,” he told reporters May 2 after touring Batesville
Tool & Die, a stamping plant for automotive parts, in
southeastern Indiana. Without a willingness to compromise, “in
terms of representation of this state, or the moving of any
policy with regard to this country, your effect will be zero,”
he said.  Lugar has been a supporter of Indiana businesses, said Jody Fledderman, president and chief executive officer of Batesville
Tool & Die. Indiana ranked sixth among all states in its
economic recovery in the fourth quarter of 2011 compared with
the previous year, according to the Bloomberg Economic
Evaluation of States.  ‘Brink of Bankruptcy’  Mourdock, a former coal-company geologist who was re-
elected state treasurer in 2010 with 62 percent of the vote,
said bipartisanship has taken the U.S. to the “brink of
bankruptcy.” Instead of working with Democrats, he said,
Republicans must hold to their principles to capture the White
House and secure majorities in Congress to rein in the debt.  Conservatives no longer will vote for candidates just
because they have an “R” after their name, said Monica Boyer,
co-chairwoman of Hoosiers for a Conservative Senate, a coalition
of 55 Tea Party groups.  The coalition is unhappy with Lugar’s record, including his
 votes  for Obama’s two U.S. Supreme Court nominees,  Sonia Sotomayor  and  Elena Kagan , his support for bailouts and for
legislation that would allow people brought to the U.S.
illegally before age 16 to gain legal residency under certain
conditions.  ‘Not a Conservative Label’  “You can put a label on that, but it’s certainly not a
conservative label,” Boyer, 36, a secretary from Warsaw,
Indiana, said in a telephone interview.  While Lugar said he “categorically disagrees,” this is a
“surly” environment for incumbents and Mourdock is making the
case that the veteran lawmaker’s age and tenure have left him
out of touch, said Howey of Howey Politics Indiana.  “This part of the country has lost faith in  Washington ,
and I think that this race is more of a referendum on  Richard
Lugar ,” Howey said.  Mourdock claims the support of most of Indiana’s 92
Republican county chairmen. Craig Dunn, chairman of the Howard
County Republican Party, once a “dyed-in-the-wool” Lugar
backer, was among the first to endorse the treasurer.  Lugar “got so embroiled with the foreign relations work
that the nuts-and-bolts work of a senator kind of went by the
wayside,” said Dunn, 55, an  investment adviser  from Kokomo.
“He took us for granted, and now we’re asking for a divorce.”  Residency Challenge  Dunn said the perception of Lugar being out of touch was
reinforced by a challenge to his state residency. A Democratic-
controlled county elections board ruled in March that he was
ineligible to vote in his home precinct because he and his wife
registered using the Indianapolis address of a home he sold in
1977. A settlement was reached allowing Lugar to change his
voter registration to a family farm in Indiana.  Criticism of Lugar has been “blown out of proportion,”
and the nation needs senators like him willing to reach across
the aisle, said Linda Barber, 61, a self-employed life coach and
massage therapist from Fishers in suburban Indianapolis.  “He’s just a man that’s bipartisan, and I think that’s
good,” Barber said while grocery shopping.  Lugar has the support of two independent committees, the
Indiana Values super-PAC -- led by a former chief of staff --and
Hoosiers for Economic Growth and Jobs. He’s been targeted by
attack ads financed by the super-PAC of FreedomWorks, which
supports the  Tea Party  movement, and a group that advocates
smaller government, the Club for Growth.  Lugar said winning the primary would show that Hoosiers
“want somebody who is a fighter for their interests, who has
been effective as a member of the Senate, both domestically and
worldwide.”  Mourdock said voters want to see a Republican “who’s maybe
less a statesman and more of a fighter.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Niquette in Columbus at 
 mniquette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  