-- United Energy in Talks to Buy Canadian Energy Producer
-- B y   G u o   A i b i n g
-- 2012-05-04T16:00:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-04/united-energy-in-talks-to-buy-canadian-producer-for-1-billion.html
United Energy Group Ltd. (467) , the Hong
Kong-based explorer controlled by Chinese billionaire Zhang Hongwei, is in talks to buy a Toronto-listed oil and gas company
for $1 billion, which would be its biggest purchase since 2007.  “We’ve had several rounds of discussions with our target
company this year and both sides are seriously considering the
terms,” Chief Financial Officer Thomas Pang  said in an
interview in Hong Kong yesterday. “We hope to get the deal done
within the year.”  Pang declined to identify the company, saying only it’s a
Toronto-listed independent energy producer with “strong”
conventional oil and gas output. The company has a “simple”
shareholding structure and the owners may want to sell to
retire, he said.  The explorer may also target energy companies based in
 North America  or  Europe  that are valued at about $1 billion and
have producing assets in those locations, Africa or Southeast
Asia, Pang said.  United Energy, which paid  BP Plc (BP/)  about $750 million for oil
fields in Pakistan in 2010, seeks assets to feed demand in the
world’s fastest-growing major economy. Funding will come from a
$5 billion  credit line  obtained from state-owned  China 
Development Bank Corp. in December 2010, which Pang said can be
used to pay for as much as 80 percent of an acquisition.  United Energy, which also owns assets in China, has climbed
27 percent this year, compared with a 14 percent increase in the
benchmark  Hang Seng Index. (HSI)  The stock closed unchanged at HK$1.67
in  Hong Kong  trading yesterday.  Natural gas in the U.S. was sold for less than 14 percent
of average Asian liquefied natural gas prices in March because
of increased output from shale reserves.  Canada Acquisitions  There were $8.7 billion in deals announced in Canada’s oil
and gas industry in the first quarter, the busiest start to the
year since 2009, when mergers and acquisitions in the sector
there peaked at $47 billion, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  United Energy plans to raise daily output at its onshore
fields in Pakistan to as much as 30,000 barrels by the year-end,
Pang said. Production from Pakistani assets was 24,700 barrels a
day as of March 31, according to an April 24 release.  The company is looking for a partner to explore offshore
assets in  Pakistan , in which it controls 75 percent and the
government owns 25 percent. United Energy can sell as much as 50
percent of its shares to a partner, Pang said.  “We have had discussions with several major offshore  oil
companies  in the past months and we hope a deal can be struck
soon,” Pang said. The company must invest at least $8 million
in the offshore fields by February 2013 to qualify for an
extension of the exploration rights from the Pakistan
government, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aibing Guo in Hong Kong at 
 aguo10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  