-- HMV Stock Jumps on Profit-Recovery Forecast: London Mover
-- B y   P a u l   J a r v i s
-- 2012-05-04T08:01:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-04/hmv-stock-jumps-on-profit-recovery-forecast-london-mover.html
HMV Group Plc (HMV) , the U.K. music retailer
that obtained support from its main banks in January, rose the
most in more than three months in London trading after saying
it’s confident of restoring profit in the coming year.  Pretax profit of at least 10 million pounds ($16.2 million)
is expected for the 12 months ending April 2013, compared with
 analyst estimates  of a 5 million-pound loss, the Maidenhead,
England-based company said today. HMV also said  net debt  at the
end of April was less than previously expected, tempering a
prediction that last year’s loss was worse than forecast.  “The expectation of a move to a decent level of profits in
2013 is a nice surprise,”  Philip Dorgan , an analyst at Panmure
Gordon, said in a note. He kept a hold rating on the stock after
what he termed “the first piece of good news in years.”  HMV rose as much as 24 percent to 4.6 pence, the  steepest
intraday gain  since Jan. 20, when the company said banks waived
a covenant test after support for the retailer from its main
music and film suppliers. The  stock  was trading up 15 percent at
4.25 pence at 8:43 a.m. as about 5.7 million shares changed
hands, more than the  daily average  in the last six months.  Net borrowings were about 168 million pounds at the end of
April, an improvement on previous forecasts, HMV said today,
adding that a strategic review of the HMV Live events unit is
continuing almost six months after it started.  Fiscal-Year Loss  The pretax loss in the year ended April 28 was about 16
million pounds, the company also said, citing a slow release
schedule for CDs and DVDs. The average of four  estimates 
compiled by Bloomberg was 5.3 million pounds. HMV is scheduled
to release detailed earnings figures in June, according to the
retailer’s website.  “The last year has been a difficult and challenging one
for HMV and this will be reflected in our annual results,”
Chief Executive Officer Simon Fox said in a statement.
“However, we are confident that the actions we have taken will
enable us to significantly improve our profit and cash
generation in the year ahead.”  Same-store sales at HMV’s main retail business declined 13
percent in the 17 weeks through April 28, contributing to a drop
of 12 percent for the fiscal year. Revenue has been weighed down
by a faltering economy and by competition from online retailers
and supermarkets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Paul Jarvis  in London at 
 pjarvis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sara Marley at 
 smarley1@bloomberg.net  