-- Veolia Quarterly Earnings Decline 12% as Water, Waste Slow
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2012-05-04T12:26:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-04/veolia-quarterly-earnings-decline-12-as-debt-rises-waste-slows.html
Veolia Environnement SA (VIE) , the French
waste and water utility burdened by rising debt, reported a 12
percent slump in earnings as a “difficult” economy hurt waste
operations and profit from domestic water contracts dropped.  Adjusted  operating income  fell to 543.5 million euros ($715
million) in the first quarter from 618.8 million euros a year
earlier, the Paris-based company said today in a statement. The
utility also booked provisions from its “transformation plan.”  Chief Executive Officer Antoine Frerot is seeking to revive
the world’s biggest water company by selling assets and cutting
costs, targeting a reduction in net debt to less than 12 billion
euros from 15 billion euros by the end of 2013. His strategy,
hampered by slowing economies in  Europe , departs from the
expansionary focus of predecessor  Henri Proglio , who took Veolia
to 77 countries from  Argentina  to  South Korea .  “Fears of a recession in Europe and the possible fall in
volumes of waste treated and pressures from local authorities on
water rates may weigh on margins,” Olivier Bails, an analyst at
CM-CIC Securities in Paris, wrote in a note today.  The European waste-collection business is in decline and
profit margins on French water contracts are narrowing,
Pierre-Francois Riolacci, Veolia’s vice president in charge of
finance, said today on a conference call.  Cost Cuts  The company confirmed an annual revenue growth target of
more than 3 percent from 2014, while adjusted operating  cash
flow  will increase by an average of more than 5 percent. Veolia
plans to sell 5 billion euros of assets this year and next, cut
operating costs by 120 million euros in 2013 and narrow its
geographic reach.  Frerot carried out a management shakeup in March to boost
investor confidence after the  shares  dropped 40 percent in 12
months on concern Veolia was struggling to rein in borrowings.
Veolia jumped as much as 6.4 percent today after saying it
received interest in its stake in Transdev, a mass-transit unit.  “More than earnings, the market is closely watching the
progress of the disposal program,” Bails said.  The costs of Veolia’s overhaul are expected to increase in
the second half from the first six months of the year, according
to Riolacci.  Water Contracts  Veolia, like competitor  Suez Environnement (SEV) , is under
pressure from French municipalities to lower the cost of water
to consumers when contracts come up for renewal.  “There was a decline in the French water business due to
contractual erosion,” Riolacci said. “At the time of a
competitive renewal, we will lose about 80 percent” of margins
on earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization.  Veolia also reported a “slight” drop in operating income
at its waste unit, citing a “difficult macroeconomic context”
and lower prices for recycled raw materials. Volumes of
commercial and municipal waste collected in  France  fell, while
those going to landfill and treatment plants rose, it said.  Free cash flow was a negative 519 million euros at the end
of the quarter, in part because the utility didn’t complete any
“significant” asset sales in the period, it said.  Suez Environnement, Europe’s second-biggest water company,
said last month that first-quarter earnings fell 4.5 percent as
a sluggish economy and a cold spell in February hurt its waste-
treatment business.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  