-- Veolia Environment Gains on Progress in Asset Sales: Paris Mover
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2012-05-04T11:32:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-04/veolia-environment-gains-on-progress-in-asset-sales-paris-mover.html
Veolia Environnement SA (VIE) , the world’s
biggest water company,  jumped  the most in two months in Paris
trading after receiving offers for its stake in the Transdev
transportation unit as well as U.S. and U.K. businesses.  Veolia climbed as much as 6.4 percent, the steepest
intraday gain since March, and traded 3.6 percent higher at
10.81 euros as of 1:10 p.m. local time. The stock is up 21
percent this year. The company earlier reported a 12 percent
drop in first-quarter profit.  “More than earnings, the market is closely watching the
progress of the disposal program,” CM-CIC Securities analysts
including Olivier Bails wrote in a note today. The brokerage
raised its rating on the shares to “hold” from “reduce.”  Chief Executive Officer Antoine Frerot plans 5 billion
euros ($6.6 billion) of asset sales by the end of 2013 and cost
cuts to reduce net debt to less than 12 billion euros. Veolia
received an additional expression of interest for its stake in
Transdev, the mass-transit unit it owns with Caisse des Depots
et Consignations.  Veolia was already in exclusive talks with a potential
buyer of the Transdev stake, Pierre-Francois Riolacci, vice-
president in charge of finance, said on a conference call. In
addition to this party, which has submitted an offer, another
possible acquirer has emerged, he said.  Refinancing  The utility will be working on the refinancing of the unit
this summer that involves talks with the CDC, according to
Riolacci. Negotiations are ongoing on the valuation and
governance of the mass-transit unit, he said.  While Veolia hasn’t named the bidder, Augustin de Romanet,
the former head of state-owned CDC, confirmed in March
“exclusive talks” are taking place with a fund owned by
 Natixis (KN)  SA, a French bank, to buy Veolia’s 50 percent stake in
Transdev,  Veolia Transdev was created after Veolia and CDC agreed to
merge their transport units in 2010. Natixis’s Cube
Infrastructure Fund has stakes in European transport, water and
energy companies.  Frerot’s strategy departs from the expansionary focus of
his predecessor  Henri Proglio , who took Veolia to 77 countries
from  Argentina  to  South Korea .  The utility is aiming to complete the sale of its stake in
Transdev as well as its U.K. water and U.S. waste companies this
year, Riolacci said.  Veolia “is not disappointed” in indicative valuations
from potential bidders for the U.K. and U.S. businesses, he
said. The utility has received non-binding offers for the
assets.  “It will be a bumpy road till the end,” Riolacci said of
the asset sales. He declined to identify potential acquirers.  Veolia expects to sign agreements to sell the U.K. and U.S.
assets in July and will then have to obtain approval from
regulatory and antitrust authorities, Riolacci said, adding that
he doesn’t expect “strong antitrust” objections.  Veolia also plans to sell its Marine Services business in
the  Gulf of Mexico  by the end of the year, Riolacci said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  