-- Vietnam Coffee Discount Vanished This Week, Volcafe Says
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2012-05-04T14:05:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-04/vietnam-coffee-discount-vanished-this-week-volcafe-says.html
The discount buyers were getting for
coffee from Vietnam, the largest producer of the robusta
variety, vanished this week, in the face of “big demand” and
farmers holding back beans, according to Volcafe Ltd.  Vietnamese beans for shipment in May and June were at the
same price as the futures on the NYSE Liffe exchange in London,
the coffee unit of commodities trader ED&F Man Holdings Ltd.
said in a report e-mailed today. That compares with a discount
of $10 a metric ton last week, according to the report.  “The local action stayed quiet due to the lack of selling
enthusiasm by the farmers, whose target price is above current
levels,” Volcafe said. “External demand is big and mainly for
second-half of the year shipments.”  Exporters are avoiding selling beans for later dates and
most business probably will be done between traders and
roasters, the Winterthur, Switzerland-based company said in the
report. Exports from the Southeast Asian nation continue to be
“high.”  In  Indonesia , the third-largest robusta grower, demand from
local factories and roasters is “very strong,” supporting
prices, according to the report. “Most of the exporters are
paying hefty premiums in order to obtain available coffee,”
Volcafe said.  Indonesian beans for shipment in May and June were at a
premium of $100 a ton above the price on NYSE Liffe, unchanged
from last week, data from the trader show. Bean arrivals at
ports in the country were about 5,500 to 6,000 tons in the week,
Volcafe estimated.  Robusta for July delivery climbed 1.6 percent to $2,006 a
ton by 2:35 p.m. on NYSE Liffe in London.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in  London  at 
 Ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 Ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 