-- Vietnam to Cut Taxes, Cap Loan Rates to Bolster Economy
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-05-04T12:38:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-04/vietnam-to-cut-taxes-cap-loan-rates-to-bolster-economy.html
Vietnam  will cut income tax, defer
sales tax payments and cap lending rates for some companies,
stepping up efforts to bolster a slowing economy.  Corporate income tax for small- and medium-sized companies
and labor-intensive enterprises will be cut by 30 percent, Vu
Duc Dam, chairman of the government office, told a briefing in
Hanoi today. Short-term commercial lending rates will be capped
at 3 percentage points above the deposit rate limit for some
sectors, according to a statement on the central bank website.  The new lending regulation will “help companies and
citizens reduce borrowing costs, recover and maintain production
and business operations, and support reasonable economic
growth,” the central bank said.  Vietnam’s economy expanded at the slowest pace since 2009
in the first quarter as bank lending declined and domestic
demand weakened, adding pressure for steps to boost growth.
Businesses will be allowed to delay value-added tax payments on
sales in April, May and June by six months, according to
officials at the briefing. The cost of land leases for some
businesses, including those in tourism, textiles and services,
will be reduced by 50 percent.  “This shows a consensus in the government on the need to
give immediate help to save businesses,” Vu Thanh Tu Anh,
director of research at the Fulbright Economics Teaching Program
in  Ho Chi Minh City , said before the announcement. More
“fundamental” policy changes are also required to reduce
uncertainty about the economy, Anh said.  Short-term commercial lending rates will be capped at 15
percent, or 3 percentage points above the current deposit rate,
for businesses in industries including exports, agriculture, and
small and medium-sized enterprises. The new lending rate
regulation takes effect May 8, according to the central bank
statement.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Nguyen Dieu Tu Uyen in Hanoi at 
 uyen1@bloomberg.net ;
Diep Ngoc Pham in Hanoi at 
 dpham5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  