-- Vivendi Punishes Shareholders Seeing Need for Breakup: Real M&A
-- B y   M a r i e   M a w a d ,   K a t i a   P o r z e c a n s k i   a n d   N a m i t h a   J a g a d e e s h
-- 2012-05-04T17:12:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-04/vivendi-punishes-shareholders-seeing-need-for-breakup-real-m-a.html
Vivendi SA (VIV)  would stand to boost the
lowest valuations of Chief Executive Officer  Jean-Bernard Levy ’s
seven-year tenure by breaking up businesses ranging from phone
providers to video games and  pay television .  The owner of the world’s largest music company was valued
in the last month at 3.1 times earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization, the cheapest since Levy became
CEO in April 2005 and added video games and doubled its mobile-
phone investment. Paris-based Vivendi’s  multiple  is lower than
93 percent of telecommunications carriers with market values of
at least $5 billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  While Vivendi for years has defended the benefits of owning
diverse businesses, investors have only placed a deeper discount
on the shares. As the $23 billion company considers overhauling
its structure, one option is to split its media assets from the
telecommunications and content distribution units, people with
knowledge of the matter said last week. Dividing Vivendi into
its  six main businesses  would value the combined entity at about
19.35 euros ($25.44) a share, 46 percent higher than the stock’s
20-day average, analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg show.  “Vivendi has been a business that’s lacked focus for many
years,”  Chris Marangi , a portfolio manager at Rye, New York-
based Gamco Investors Inc., which oversees almost $37 billion
including about 4 million  Vivendi shares , said in a telephone
interview. “Something drastic needs to be done to surface the
value that’s there.”  ‘Very Bleak’  Vivendi’s internal review is at an early stage, the people
said last week, declining to be named because the talks were
private. The board is due to discuss its options during a three-
day summit with top executives in June, one person said. On
April 26, the  shares  rose as much as 8.1 percent on the news.  A spokesman for Vivendi declined to comment in an e-mail.  The company is weighing alternatives as the stock is down
 33 percent  since Levy announced his latest deal in April 2011 --
the 7.95 billion-euro purchase of the rest of French phone
company SFR. Cheaper phone packages from new competitor  Iliad SA (ILD) 
have since cut into SFR’s profit forecast, and now Vivendi
doesn’t expect earnings for the entire company to grow again
until 2014.  “What’s happening in France is an extremely competitive
situation,” said Alexander Wisch, an equity analyst at S&P
Capital IQ Equity Research in  London . “SFR is definitely the
trickiest in the short- and mid-term, and it’s the biggest unit.
The guidance was very, very bleak.”  ‘Substantial Discount’  After posting the second-biggest  decline  in France’s
benchmark CAC 40 Index this year, Vivendi now has an enterprise
value of almost  32 billion euros  including 12 billion euros of
net  debt . At 3.6 times its Ebitda in the last 12 months, the
company is cheaper than 68 of the 73 other telecommunications
carriers with market capitalizations of at least $5 billion and
half the average multiple, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
Vivendi fell to 3.1 times on April 19.  “Vivendi’s stock market value shows a substantial discount
relative to the company’s assets, and there’s a clear consensus
that it’s too bad the company bought SFR at what today looks
like a high price,” said Dominique Daridan, a credit analyst at
Aurel BGC in Paris. “This has got investors asking questions
about how long Vivendi will keep its current structure.”  Vivendi’s shares began trading without the rights to their
dividends today. Excluding the 1 euro dividend, the stock rose
1.6 percent to 13 euros, the second-biggest gain in the  CAC 40
Index. (CAC)   ‘Not Taboo’  While analysts estimate the shares should trade at between
a 10 percent and 20 percent discount to the sum of Vivendi’s
parts, the disparity has been growing. Last month Chairman Jean- Rene Fourtou said the “conglomerate discount has become
gigantic, close to 40 percent.”  In a March 27  letter  to shareholders, Fourtou and Levy said
it’s a misconception that Vivendi is a portfolio of businesses
that have no connection. Still, questions about whether units
should be sold or the company broken into pieces are “not
taboo,” they wrote.  Separating Vivendi into its  six primary assets  -- SFR, pay-
TV operator  Canal Plus , Universal Music Group, video-game maker
 Activision Blizzard Inc. (ATVI) ,  Maroc Telecom (IAM)  in Africa and Brazilian
phone company GVT -- would yield a combined enterprise value of
about 38.8 billion euros, according to the average of six
analysts’ sum-of-the-parts models compiled by Bloomberg.  It would be worth 19.35 euros a share, eight estimates
compiled by Bloomberg show, which is 40 percent higher than
Vivendi’s closing price of  13.79 euros  yesterday.  ‘Music is Music’  “Telephony is telephony, music is music, gaming is
gaming,” said Wisch of S&P. “I see very little, if any,
synergies between the units that Vivendi owns. I don’t think
having a conglomerate structure is adding any value, and I’m not
alone in this view.”  Still, a split of media and distribution businesses is
unlikely to happen soon because of the slow growth confronting
SFR, Wisch said. The unit accounted for  42 percent  of Vivendi’s
28.8 billion euros in  revenue  last year.  “It’s very complicated,” Wisch said. “To separate one
from the other could mean you’re left with a very slow-growth
company and a very high-growth company. Maybe in the short term
it’s wise to keep things as they are.”  While dividing media and telecommunications businesses
could boost  shareholder value  by as much as 40 percent, the odds
of a split are at most 20 percent because the media assets don’t
fit together and would trade at a discount, according to Julien Roch, an analyst at Barclays Plc in London.  Media Assets  Vivendi has maintained its wide range of business units as
others have split apart. Rival phone companies in  Europe 
including Deutsche Telekom AG and  France Telecom SA (FTE)  have de-
emphasized media assets in favor of core telecommunications
businesses. In the U.S.,  Time Warner Inc. (TWX)  spun off its cable-
television business three years ago to focus on content.  “If you look at the number of companies that have that
construction that Vivendi has worldwide today, it’s quite
limited,” said John Strand, owner of Copenhagen-based Strand
Consult, which advises telecommunications carriers. “There’s a
list of conglomerates around the world which should be broken
up, and Vivendi’s probably on the top of that list.”  Levy joined the company in 2002 as chief operating officer
after an acquisition binge under former CEO Jean-Marie Messier
left Vivendi on the brink of collapse with 19 billion euros of
debt. After rising to CEO, Levy blocked Norwegian investor
Alexander Vik’s attempt to break up the company in 2006.  Breakup Attempt  Instead, Levy bought a controlling stake in the video-game
maker now known as  Activision Blizzard , acquired GVT Holding SA
and purchased the rest of wireless venture SFR that Vivendi
didn’t already own.  Last year’s deal valued all of SFR at 18 billion euros,
more than Vivendi’s entire market value of 17.2 billion euros as
of yesterday’s close. Analysts estimate a standalone enterprise
value for SFR at about 13.7 billion euros in a breakup scenario.  “The most pressing matter for Vivendi is to define a clear
strategy for SFR,”  Arnaud Scarpaci , a Paris-based  fund manager 
at Agilis Gestion SA, which owns Vivendi shares. “If they can’t
find answers to SFR’s problems, they could very well decide to
refocus on units that are doing better: Activision and
Universal. That could mean parting from SFR or Canal Plus.”  An alternative to splitting Vivendi’s communications units
from its content production may include a partial or complete
spinoff of Canal Plus, which is 20 percent owned by publisher
 Lagardere SCA (MMB) , the people said last week. Analysts on average
estimate Vivendi’s share of Canal Plus is worth about 5.1
billion euros on a standalone basis.  Canal Plus  Arnaud Lagardere, CEO of Lagardere, said this week a public
listing of its Canal Plus stake is the main scenario for the
company to exit its investment and may happen in the coming
months.  If Vivendi were to sell assets, Activision and Maroc are
the most obvious targets, Barclays’ Roch wrote in an April 27
note. Selling the Activision stake of about  60 percent  is the
most likely scenario and could boost Vivendi’s stock price by as
much as 20 percent, Roch wrote.  Activision, which is based in  Santa Monica , California, has
a market value of $14.2 billion. Maroc, which is  53 percent 
owned by Vivendi, has a market value of 113 billion dirhams ($13
billion).  “It doesn’t appear that Vivendi has demonstrated that
there are enough synergies between their various businesses to
justify keeping them together,” said Gamco’s Marangi. “The
situation is in a state of disequilibrium. The pieces would
command higher prices apart than together.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Marie Mawad in Paris at 
 mmawad1@bloomberg.net ;
Katia Porzecanski in  New York  at 
 kporzecansk1@bloomberg.net ;
Namitha Jagadeesh in London at 
 njagadeesh@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net ;
Kenneth Wong at +49-30-70010-6215 or  kwong11@bloomberg.net . 