-- Wal-Mart Directors Sued by Pension Fund Over Mexico Bribe Probe
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 2012-05-04T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-04/wal-mart-directors-sued-by-pension-fund-over-mexican-bribes-1-.html
Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) ’s board was sued
by a California pension fund over its mishandling of allegations
that the world’s largest retailer bribed Mexican officials to
help fuel the company’s growth in the country.  Wal-Mart directors and executives responsible for
overseeing the company’s Mexican unit should reimburse the
Bentonville, Arkansas-based retailer for damages the chain
suffered as a result of the bribery scheme, lawyers for the
 California State Teachers Retirement System  said in a lawsuit
filed yesterday in Delaware Chancery Court in Wilmington.  “The board’s prolonged failure to address detailed and
credible allegations of criminal activity” has caused the
retailer “substantial harm,” the pension fund said in the
complaint.  Both U.S. and Mexican prosecutors said last month they
started probes of the bribery allegations, first reported by the
 New York Times. (NYT)  The retailer’s growth in  Mexico  has turned the
company into the country’s largest private employer with more
than 209,000 employees.  The newspaper reported that officials of Wal-Mart’s Mexican
unit paid the bribes to win government building permits for
stores. Once the bribery allegations came to light, company
officials failed to act on the results of an internal probe or
inform authorities about the allegations, the California pension
fund said in the suit.  ‘Reviewing Closely’  “We are reviewing the lawsuit closely and thoroughly
investigating the issues that have been raised,”  David Tovar , a
Wal-Mart spokesman, said yesterday in a telephone interview.  It’s the second so-called derivative suit filed in state
court in  Delaware  by a Wal-Mart investor over the Mexican bribe
allegations in the past two weeks. Another investor filed a
Chancery Court suit on May 2 seeking records about the board’s
handling of the allegations.  Under derivative suits, any recovery would be returned to
Wal-Mart’s coffers rather than awarded to individual
shareholders.  The California pension fund contended in yesterday’s filing
that Wal-Mart officials may have violated the U.S.  Foreign
Corrupt Practices Act  of 1977 and other anti-bribery statutes in
connection with the payments to Mexican officials.  Twenty percent of the company’s more than 10,000 stores
worldwide are in Mexico, following  Wal-Mart de Mexico SAB ’s
rapid growth in the past 10 years.  Whistle-Blower  Once the bribery allegations were flagged to company
officials by a whistle-blower in late 2005, executives within
the Mexican unit sought to cover up the payments, the pension
fund said in the suit.  Wal-Mart officials never disclosed the bribery allegations
publicly or alerted law-enforcement officials until the  New York 
Times reported the claims last month, according to the
complaint.  The case is California State Teachers’ Retirement System v.
Wal-Mart Stores Inc., CA No. 7490, Delaware Chancery Court
(Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  