-- When Your 401(k) Provider Doesn't Vote Your Interests
-- B y   L e w i s   B r a h a m
-- 2012-05-04T18:49:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-04/when-your-401-k-provider-doesn-t-vote-your-interests.html
     Being laid off is bad enough. Seeing your 401(k) plan then
vote for your boss's mega-million-dollar compensation package
-- justified in part by his "initiating voluntary reduction in
executive ranks and other cost-cutting measures” -- might tip
anger into outrage.  Seeing a fund in a 401(k) plan approve executive
compensation packages that reward executives for laying off
employees -- aka plan participants -- is not uncommon. If you
work at a major public company, and your retirement savings
plan has an index fund, odds are it owns stock in your
employer. Come proxy time, that gives it a vote in how senior
executives at your company are paid. And most funds vote to
approve management's recommendations on executive pay.  For an example, look at Lockheed Martin, where some 8,000
employees got pink slips in the last two years. Chief
Executive Officer Robert Stevens received $21.9 million in
fiscal year 2010, according to the company’s April 2011 proxy
statement, in part because he took the cost-cutting actions
quoted above. By two estimates, from financial research firms
Obermatt and GMI, at the time of the proxy, Stevens was one of
the most overpaid CEOs in the U.S.  While the average company in the S&P 500 got an 87
percent approval rating on the compensation advisory vote in
their proxy -- known as a “say on pay” vote -- Lockheed got a
69 percent approval rating from shareholders. The company was
one of ten blue chips in the Fortune 100 to receive such a low
approval rating.  Bucking the trend and approving the compensation
package, as well as a new incentive package for CEO Stevens is
the State Street S&P 500 Index fund in the company's 401(k)
plan -- which many of those 8,000 laid-off employees likely
owned.  Conflicts of Interest  Fund experts such as John Bogle have long argued there is
a potential conflict of interest in mutual funds voting on
compensation packages at companies where they manage or want
to manage 401(k) funds. “The largest source of business for
mutual fund groups is the 401(k) business,” says Jackie
Cook, founder of Fund Votes, a Vancouver, Canada-based proxy
voting research firm. “Fund companies’ main challenge is not
to impress employees but to impress corporate managements who
administer these plans. So it’s not rocket science that mutual
funds skew their proxy voting in favor of management.”  SSgA Funds Management and Lockheed Martin declined to
comment for this article, save for an e-mail response from
SSgA spokeswoman Arlene Roberts stating that "in the case of
Lockheed Martin SSgA strictly adhered to the conflict of
interest policy" outlined in its proxy voting policy.  In 2011, Fund Votes, in conjunction with union the
American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees
(AFSCME), studied how the 26 largest fund families voted on
proxies relating to executive compensation. It found that
funds supported management compensation proposals 80 percent
of the time. By contrast, funds voted in favor of shareholder
proposals that would limit executive pay 48 percent of the
time.  The three largest fund families -- Vanguard, Fidelity and
American Funds -- voted 97 percent of the time against such
shareholder proposals. Since those three companies controlled
59 percent of the assets of the fund companies reviewed in the
report, they stood to benefit the most from companies’ 401(k)
business.  Say on Pay  In Lockheed’s case, the difference between fund families
that sell their products in Lockheed’s 401(k) and those that
own Lockheed stock but aren't in the plan is marked. On the
say-on-pay vote, an average of 30 percent of votes cast by
large U.S. mutual fund families were against it, Cook says. Of
the seven fund families in Lockheed’s 401(k), only American
Funds voted against it. (The vote was split, as some American
Funds supported the resolution.) American Funds’ Investment
Company of America Fund, the only American Fund which both
owns shares of Lockheed and is in its 401(k), voted for
management’s say on pay proposal, although it voted against
Stevens’ incentive package.  Since Lockheed cited successful cost-cutting as a
determining factor for Stevens' compensation, one could argue
that employees who invest in State Street's S&P 500 Index fund
or Investment Company of America are effectively paying
management fees to funds that encourage their bosses to fire
them. After all, labor is one of every company’s biggest
costs. “I don’t think most employees are aware of this irony
that their own investments are being used against their best
interests,” says Fund Votes' Cook.  Laura Lutton, the editorial director at Morningstar who
oversees fund stewardship grades, says while funds rarely vote
against management, "looking at a fund's proxy voting habits
wouldn't be on the top of my list" when figuring out what's a
good fund to own. For the average shareholder investing
through a 401(k), she says, "it's more important to have a
manager running that fund who is well-established, has
delivered good results in the past and is charging a fair
fee."  Compensation Cap  Not every fund routinely votes with management. “We have
an absolute cap on compensation,” says Adam Kanzer, who
oversees proxy voting at Domini Funds, a socially responsible
fund shop. If a CEO makes more than $10 million, the fund shop
just votes against it. "Above a certain amount the pay package
isolates the executive from employees, the real
world, shareholders, everything," says Kanzer. "I understand
you have to compete for talent, but I'd rather see the company
find an executive really committed to the company and its
long-term success than a pay package.”  The say-on-pay vote is what is known in securities’ law
as a “non-binding” vote that cannot be enforced. Unfavorable
votes can make a difference, however, as companies seek to
avoid bad publicity. “When you look at last year’s votes, with
companies that had poor votes you see changes to their
executive compensation this year," says John Keenan, a
corporate governance analyst at AFSCME. "Look at fund company
Janus. Its say-on-pay vote failed last year. The CEO’s salary
was reduced 70 percent as a result. They put a cap on his
compensation at $10 million.”  Lockheed itself has instituted changes because of last
year’s say-on-pay vote. The company's new proxy states:
“Recognizing that our say-on-pay approval level was less than
we expected, we broadened our efforts to obtain stockholder
feedback as part of the annual review of our executive
compensation program. Management met or talked with 26 of our
largest investors, who represent nearly half of the
Corporation’s outstanding shares, to obtain feedback on the
say-on-pay vote, executive compensation generally, and
governance matters.”  Among the changes are tighter restrictions on executive
jet perks, performance-based stock option bonuses that are
tied to return on invested capital and a shift toward a
narrower peer group in the defense industry for comparing
executive compensation.  Yet CEO Stevens still made $25.4 million last year.
Perhaps many Lockheed fund shareholders were not too insistent
about cutting Stevens' compensation, because the stock gained
20 percent in 2011. Although Lockheed’s earnings declined for
the year, analysts liked that profit margins expanded because
of the layoffs.  “Shareholders are often part of the problem and are very
short-term oriented in their thinking,” says Kanzer. “I’ve
heard from a lot of corporate executives that they get tons of
pressure from shareholders, in particular analysts, to hit
quarterly earnings targets, and that is preventing them from
making longer-term investments.” That’s too bad, because
making long-term investments often requires hiring employees
instead of firing them.
 