-- Why You Should Spurn Kentucky Derby Favorite: David Papadopoulos
-- B y   D a v i d   P a p a d o p o u l o s
-- 2012-05-04T15:04:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-04/why-you-should-spurn-kentucky-derby-favorite-david-papadopoulos.html
They call the  Kentucky Derby  the most
exciting two minutes in sports. It also may be the most
confusing.  A stampede of 20 horses racing farther than they ever have
before while trying to acclimate to the screams of 150,000 fans
creates random results (see Mine That Bird at 50-1 in 2009;
Giacomo at 50-1 in 2005).  Here’s my stab at solving the puzzle.  Bet against the favorite, Bodemeister (4-1). While his win
three weeks ago in the Arkansas Derby was the most brilliant
performance by any in this group, I’m taking a stand against
him. That race scored so highly on technical speed charts that a
regression following that taxing effort here seems probable. His
No. 6 post-position draw is also a negative because it places
him inside all the other early speed horses in the race, putting
him potentially at a tactical disadvantage.  Try to beat him with Gemologist (6-1). He’s undefeated in
five races (including two wins at Churchill Downs, the site of
the  Kentucky Derby ) and was just playing around with his
competition in the April 7 Wood Memorial in  New York , flicking
his ears around through the stretch and waiting for challengers.
That race suggests to me that we haven’t seen his best yet. And
the railbirds at Churchill this week are abuzz over his striking
appearance during morning gallops. He’s my pick.  I’ll try to pair him in exactas with Union Rags (9-2), the
horse trained by Michael Matz (he of Barbaro fame). His Florida
Derby flop wasn’t as bad as it looked and he’s been training
great since. He should be coming fast late.  There are a few longshots who have caught my eye: Alpha,
owned by Dubai ruler Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al-Maktoum; I’ll
Have Another; Daddy Nose Best and El Padrino. All seem like
candidates to surprise and pay big prices.  (David Papadopoulos, the team leader for Latin America
markets coverage at Bloomberg News, has been following
thoroughbred racing for more than two decades and was runner-up
in 2008 Eclipse Award voting for feature writing on the
industry.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jay Beberman at   jbeberman@bloomberg.net  