-- Yankees’ Rivera Says He’ll Return to Pitch After Knee Surgery
-- B y   R o b   G l o s t e r
-- 2012-05-05T12:41:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-04/yankees-rivera-vows-he-will-return-to-mound-after-knee-surgery.html
New York Yankees reliever  Mariano Rivera , the Major League Baseball career leader with 608 saves,
vowed to return to the mound after knee surgery.  Rivera, 42, tore a ligament in his right knee while
catching fly balls in center field during batting practice two
nights ago before a game at  Kansas City .  “I’m coming back,” he told reporters yesterday. “Write
it down in big letters. I’m not going out like this.”  Rivera will be examined by team doctor Christopher Ahmad
after the team returns to the New York following tomorrow’s game
in Kansas City, the Yankees said. The right-hander had asked if
he could continue to pitch wearing a brace, but that idea was
rejected, according to the team’s website.  Manager  Joe Girardi  said right-handers  David Robertson  and
 Rafael Soriano  will share the closer’s role for the time being.  “You’re probably going to see both of them at some
point,” Girardi said on the Yankees website. “I believe we
have capable arms down there. Mo is Mo. I’m not saying it’s easy
to replace him, but guys have to step up a little bit, given an
opportunity.”  Robertson pitched the ninth inning of last night’s 6-2 win
over the Royals, striking out the side in a non-save situation.  Rivera has a 76-58 record with 608 saves and a 2.21 earned
run average over an 18-year career spent entirely with the
Yankees. He’s totaled a record 42 postseason saves, more than
twice as many as any other pitcher, in helping  New York  win five
World Series titles and is 8-1 with a 0.71 ERA in 96 career
playoff appearances.  Rivera has a $30 million, two-year contract that expires at
the end of this season.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Gloster at   rgloster@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  