-- Yen Gains as Job Data, Europe Elections Fuel Haven Demand
-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 2012-05-04T21:11:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-04/yen-gains-versus-peers-as-jobs-elections-fuel-concern.html
The yen gained versus all of its 16
most-traded counterparts as investors sought safety after U.S.
payrolls increased less than forecast in April and before
elections in  Europe  that may result in leadership changes.  The euro fell for a fifth day versus the dollar, the
longest stretch since September, as France and Greece prepared
for elections May 6, spurring bets their commitment to austerity
may flag. U.S. employers added the fewest jobs in six months,
fueling concern the U.S. economic recovery is faltering and
increasing speculation the  Federal Reserve  may make more asset
purchases to spur growth. Higher-yielding currencies tumbled.  “The outlook for the U.S. economy is deteriorating, and
the likelihood for quantitative easing is increasing,” said
 Michael Woolfolk , senior currency strategist in  New York  at Bank
of New York Mellon Corp., the world’s largest custodial bank.
“There’s also the risks associated with the elections in Europe
over the weekend, so all the more reason to move to the
sidelines in more of a risk-off trade.”  The yen strengthened 0.4 percent to 79.85 per dollar at 5
p.m. New York time, approaching the 79.64 it touched May 1, the
strongest since Feb. 21. It gained 0.5 percent for the week.
Japan’s currency rose 0.9 percent to 104.49 per euro. The dollar
advanced 0.5 percent to $1.3084 per euro, gaining 1.3 percent
for the week.  The greenback appreciated 0.8 percent to $1.0182 against
the Australian dollar. The Aussie tumbled as much as 1.4 percent
to 81.19 yen, the weakest level since Feb. 1.  Oil Falls  Stocks and commodities slid as risk appetite shrank. Crude
oil for June delivery dropped below $100 for the first time
since Feb. 13, falling 3.8 percent to $98.62 per barrel in New
York. The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  retreated 1.6 percent.  The currencies of Canada and Mexico, whose largest trading
partner is the U.S., weakened after the jobs report. The
Canadian dollar fell 0.8 percent to 99.61 cents per  U.S. dollar ,
and Mexico’s peso lost 1.2 percent to 13.1680 to the greenback.  Nonfarm payrolls added 115,000 jobs, after a revised
increase of 154,000 in March that was more than initially
estimated, Labor Department figures showed today in  Washington .
The median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey was for a 160,000
rise. The jobless rate fell to 8.1 percent, from 8.2 percent.  “The headline employment report wasn’t great, but I don’t
think it’s going to change the foreign-exchange market’s very
narrow ranges,” said  Alan Ruskin , global head of Group-of-10
currency strategy at Deutsche Bank AG in New York. “It does
seem like the  U.S. economy  slowed down a bit from the winter,
but it’s not to the point where it’s necessarily going to change
key variables like whether the Fed is going to change
policies.”  ‘Do More’  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said last week the
central bank is “prepared to do more” if necessary to boost
the economy. He spoke at a press conference after his  Federal
Open Market Committee  refrained at a two-day meeting from new
stimulus moves and said in a statement the economy has been
expanding moderately.  The central bank bought $2.3 trillion of bonds in two
rounds of quantitative easing from December 2008 to June 2011 to
lower borrowing costs. The Dollar Index fell 14 percent during
that period.  France  and Greece hold elections this weekend, with French
voters casting ballots in the final round of the country’s
presidential race and Greeks set to decide on a new parliament.  Francois Hollande , the Socialist challenger for the French
presidency who is leading incumbent  Nicolas Sarkozy  in opinion
polls, has called for a re-negotiation of the budget pact
crafted by European leaders in March, saying it needs to place
more emphasis on growth.  ‘Keeping People Nervous’  In Greece, neither of two major political parties that have
supported the nation’s international bailouts -- New Democracy
and Socialist Pasok -- is likely to win an outright majority.  “There’s so many political events going through the
weekend and into next week that it’s keeping people nervous
about being long euros,” said  David Mann , regional head of
research for the Americas at Standard Chartered Plc in New York.
Long positions are bets a currency or security will gain.  The euro slumped 3.8 percent over the past six months, the
worst performer among 10 developed-nation currencies tracked by
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The dollar gained 2
percent, and the yen declined 0.3 percent.  A euro-area composite index based on a survey of purchasing
managers in services and manufacturing dropped to 46.7 from 49.1
in March, London-based Markit Economics said. That’s below an
initial estimate of 47.4 on April 23. A reading below 50
indicates contraction.  The  Dollar Index (DXY) , which Intercontinental Exchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback against the currencies of six major trade
partners, rose 0.4 percent to 79.508.  Net Longs  Futures traders are betting on the dollar to rise versus
its major peers for the first time since April 3. The difference
in the number of wagers by  hedge funds  and other large
speculators on a rise in the dollar versus those on a loss --so-
called net longs -- was 17,592 on May 1, compared with net
shorts of 38,416 a week earlier, Commodity Futures Trading
Commission data showed.  The dollar may test its low this week of 79.64 yen, reached
May 1, as it fails to approach its 21-day moving average against
the Japanese currency, according to Barclays Plc. The average is
80.85 yen, technical strategists led by Jordan Kotick wrote in a
note to clients today. The dollar, which last reached that level
April 27, has depreciated 0.5 percent against the yen this week.  The firm’s outlook remains bullish on the  currency pair ,
Kotick wrote. A sustainable recovery next week, with a close
above 80.85 yen, could lead the dollar to appreciate to 84 yen
and 89 yen, he wrote.  Markets in  Japan  were closed today and yesterday for Golden
Week holidays.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Robert Burgess  at 
 bburgess@bloomberg.net  