-- Yuan Completes Weekly Advance on U.S.-China Talks, Trade Surplus
-- B y   F i o n   L i
-- 2012-05-04T09:06:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-04/yuan-completes-weekly-advance-on-u-s-china-talks-trade-surplus.html
The  yuan  advanced this week, halting a
two-week loss, as U.S. and Chinese officials agreed on the need
for greater flexibility in the currency during talks in Beijing.  The two nations are in agreement that markets should
determine the yuan’s exchange rate,  Zhou Xiaochuan , governor of
 China ’s central bank, said at a briefing yesterday. U.S.
Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner reiterated that further
appreciation in the currency is important to aid a reshaping of
the world’s second-biggest economy. Commerce Minister  Chen Deming  estimated the trade surplus topped $10 billion in April.  “It’s almost like a habit for China to ease tensions at
high-level meetings with the U.S. by strengthening the yuan,”
said Kenix Lai, a Hong Kong-based foreign-exchange analyst at
 Bank of East Asia Ltd. (23)  “The trade surplus estimate was a
surprise, providing some short-term upside for the yuan.”  The yuan strengthened 0.06 percent this week to close at
6.3062 per dollar in Shanghai, according to the China Foreign
Exchange Trade System. The  People’s Bank of China  set its daily
 fixing  0.04 percent weaker at 6.2721. The currency is allowed to
trade 1 percent either side of the  reference rate .  The government is due to report the trade balance numbers
on May 10. The median estimate of economists in a Bloomberg News
survey is for $9.8 billion, up from $5.35 billion in March.  Geithner said today that the two countries are building
stronger economic ties and China’s reforms are “very
promising.”  Stable Rates  The yuan has traded in a 0.9 percent range of 6.2884 to
6.3471 this year. The  exchange rate  is “almost at
equilibrium,” according to an article by researchers at the
Chinese Academy of Social Sciences including Yang Shengming,
Feng Lei and Xia Xianliang published in today’s People’s Daily
newspaper. Maintaining stable currency rates and financing will
be important to stabilizing the job market and alleviating
unemployment, they wrote.  “It’s hard to see any breakthrough at the 6.3 level in the
near term,” said Lai. “Lack of improvement in  Europe ’s economy
continues to drag on Chinese export growth, limiting the room
for yuan appreciation.”  In Hong Kong’s offshore market, the yuan was little changed
this week at 6.3065 per dollar. Twelve-month non-deliverable
forwards traded at 6.3478, from last week’s 6.3490 and at a 0.7
percent discount to the onshore spot rate, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  One-month implied volatility for the currency, a measure of
exchange-rate swings used to price options, was unchanged at 2
percent and was down from 2.1 percent at the end of last week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fion Li in  Hong Kong  at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  