-- 3/11 First Responders in Japan’s Triple Disaster Overcome Fears, Shock
-- B y   J a c o b   A d e l m a n ,   C h i s a k i   W a t a n a b e   a n d   Y u j i   O k a d a
-- 2012-03-11T05:52:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-11/3-11-rescuers-in-japan-s-triple-disaster-overcome-fears-shock.html
Flight engineer Tsutomu Kimura had
his first look into the smoking ruins of the No. 3 reactor
building when his helicopter buzzed over the  Fukushima Dai-Ichi (9501) 
atomic plant three days after it exploded.  It was March 17, 2011, and Kimura’s job was to push the
button to dump 7,500 liters (1,979 gallons) of seawater onto the
yellow steel dome of the overheating nuclear containment vessel.
The blown-out five-story structure bore little resemblance to
pre-March 11 pictures he saw before take-off.  “What if another explosion occurs? What will happen to my
family?” Kimura thought at the time, he said in an interview
last month at the Ground Self-Defense Force’s  Camp Kisarazu  in
 Chiba prefecture , near Tokyo.  One year after the March 11 earthquake and tsunami left
more than 19,000 people dead or missing and caused the meltdown
of three nuclear reactor cores, soldiers and firemen recalled in
interviews of saving lives and burying bodies. More than 100,000
members of  Japan’s Self-Defense Forces  poured into northeast
 Japan  in the country’s biggest military mobilization since the
forces were set up in 1954.  The troops marched into a natural disaster along 400
kilometers (248 miles) of the coast caused by the biggest
recorded earthquake to hit Japan. It threw up a tsunami as high
as 39 meters that wiped out towns, tossed 400-ton trawlers
kilometers inland and drowned thousands.  The Japanese forces were joined by more than 24,500 U.S.
troops in what was named Operation Tomodachi, the Japanese word
for friend. Firefighters from all 47 prefectures in Japan joined
search and rescue efforts.  Deploying Troops  The SDF’s Colonel Minoru Tomii at Camp Sendai was
responsible to deploy soldiers in the Tohoku region at the
center of the disaster, including Fukushima.  While the army had contingency plans for natural disasters,
they weren’t adequate for the scale of devastation.       “We
didn’t have enough troops,” the 54-year-old officer said in an
interview at Camp Ogori in  Fukuoka prefecture , where he is now a
major general.  The physical strain and psychological pressure to find
survivors were compounded by communication delays. The SDF set
up its first combined army, navy and  air-force  task force, which
then had communication glitches because their customized radios
used different frequencies.  Saving Lives  “SDF troops came from all over Japan to save people,”
said Tomii’s superior officer Eiji Kimizuka. “As time passed,
that changed to recovering dead bodies,” said Kimizuka, who is
now the GSDF’s Chief of Staff, at a press conference on March 8.  Japan’s Self-Defense Forces  rescued  19,286 people  or 70
percent of the total number of survivors, and recovered 9,505
bodies, according to the Ministry of Defense.  Tomoharu Watanabe, a firefighter in Futaba county where the
Fukushima atomic plant is located, said his first tasks were
search and rescue. The nuclear disaster exposed him to more
dangerous work.  As the Fukushima reactors began failing, Futaba Fire Chief
Kazuo Abe told his men that they needed to deliver water to the
plant on March 13 to cool nuclear reactors. The firefighters
were to enter the atomic station a day after the first hydrogen
explosion blew up a reactor building.  “Some of them thought they might die,” Abe, 57, said in
an interview at the fire department’s temporary headquarters in
Kawauchi. “It was tough on the men.”  ‘Suicide Missions’  Watanabe was one of 21 men who went into the Fukushima
plant on March 16.  “I heard about Chernobyl, where some firefighters had to
go on suicide missions,” the 36-year-old said in an interview
at the fire station. “I thought I may get a dose of radiation,
but I knew I wouldn’t die if I used my equipment and knowledge
correctly.”  About 1,740 kilometers southwest of Fukushima at the Kadena
Air Base in Okinawa, Major Parkin Bryson, a helicopter pilot
with the U.S. Air Force’s 33rd Rescue Squadron, was working in
his office on March 11 when a colleague burst in to tell him of
the unfolding disaster.  Before dawn the following morning, Bryson was at Yokota Air
Base in western Tokyo. Over the next month, he and the HH-60G
helicopter’s three crew members would fly almost daily missions
up the coast.  During one stop in freezing temperatures about 14
kilometers north of the city of Ishinomaki, he found about 50
people sheltering in a  community center  with no heating. His
helicopter and two others carried the group to a heated shelter
40 kilometers away.  “The best part is just that you’re able to get them where
they need to go,” Bryson, 33, said in an interview at Kadena.  Cigarettes and Whiskey  Another search and rescue team member, Senior Airman
Nicholas Robillard, said his crewmates spotted a few people in a
wrecked town and landed to see if they needed anything.  “The only thing they asked for was cigarettes and whiskey
and gasoline,” Robillard, 24, said in an interview. The crew
was able to scrounge together a pack and a half of smokes, but
“no whiskey,” he said.  The relief effort was joined by the Air Force’s Okinawa-
based  353rd Special Operations Group , which is trained to
deliver supplies and humanitarian aid to no-go zones, such as
bombed-out airstrips.  For Lieutenant Colonel Eric Zimmerman, the challenge was to
get supplies into the city of Sendai, where the airport’s
runways were littered with wrecked cars and trucks.  Zimmerman wanted to fly a crew to a military airfield in
Matsushima, about 30 kilometers north of Sendai. They would then
travel overland to the commercial airport.  Shorter Runway  “We were like, ‘Well, if we get a couple guys on the
ground, they can look at that runway and mark off a piece that’s
usable and we can start flying airplanes into there,” Zimmerman
said in an interview at Kadena.  His team used MC-130 aircraft that can land on 3,000 feet
of runway, compared with 12,000 feet for a  Boeing Co. (BA)  747.  Before that mission could be undertaken, U.S. military
commanders had to convince Japanese authorities, Zimmerman said.  “They considered Sendai to be a complete loss, and they
weren’t going to have airplanes landing there for six months to
a year,” Zimmerman said. “We were anxious to demonstrate what
we could do. We were anxious to help.”  Five days after the quake, Zimmerman got the go-ahead for
the mission. Concerns on the U.S. side about radiation fallout
may have contributed to the delay, he said.  Son of Sendai  A team of 19 special operations airmen landed in Matsushima
on March 16 at 5:50 a.m. About half of the team carried on to
Sendai airport in a Humvee and a van. Japanese construction
workers helped them clear the airstrips.  By 2:30 p.m. the same day, Major Brian Helton landed the
first plane at Sendai airport since the quake.  “It looked like a parking lot of destroyed cars,” said
Helton, who also flew the first Air Force MC-130 into Port-au-
Prince’s airport after  Haiti ’s magnitude 7 quake in January
2010. For that landing, Helton got the nickname “Hero of
Haiti,” said Major Jeremy Bergin, who commanded some of the
flights to northeast Japan.  Now Helton has another nickname: “Son of Sendai.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jacob Adelman in  Tokyo  at 
 jadelman1@bloomberg.net ;
Chisaki Watanabe in Tokyo at 
 cwatanabe5@bloomberg.net ;
Yuji Okada in Tokyo at 
 yokada6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Langan at 
 plangan@bloomberg.net  