-- MagicJack Shares Climb as Economy Pushes Calls to Web: Israel Overnight
-- B y   L e o n   L a z a r o f f   a n d   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2012-03-11T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-11/magicjack-shares-climb-as-economy-pushes-calls-to-web-israel-overnight.html
MagicJack VocalTec Ltd. (CALL) , a pioneer
of phone call-over-Internet technology, climbed the most among
Israeli stocks traded in the U.S. last week on prospects demand
for cheaper calls will spur the company to report its first
profit this year.  Netanya, Israel-based MagicJack added 9.2 percent in U.S.
trading last week to $24, bringing its  advance  for the year to
76 percent, the best performance of the 25 stocks on the
 Bloomberg Israel-US 25 Index (ISRA25BN)  of the most-traded Israel companies
in  New York . The measure added 0.8 percent on March 9 to 85.41,
trimming its decline in the week to 0.3 percent.  MagicJack, which reports audited fourth-quarter results
this week, will turn a first profit of as much as $27.8 million
in 2012, according to  analyst estimates  collected by Bloomberg.
With the  U.S. economy  growing less than 2 percent in the past
three quarters, consumers are cutting costs by using cheaper
Internet calling offered by MagicJack and Microsoft Corp.’s
Skype Technologies SA, according to Eagle Global Advisors LLC.  “People, especially in a tough economic environment, look
for ways to reduce their expenditures, and companies like
MagicJack and Skype are those types of companies that attract
users due to their low costs,” said John Gualy, a partner at
Eagle Global Advisors in Houston and portfolio manager for the
 Timothy Plan Israel Common Values Fund (TPAIX) . “They’re going from
losing money last year to starting to generate good  cash flow 
this year.”  Gualy’s fund owned 11,500 shares in MagicJack at the end of
2011. He said the  Israel  Common Values Fund manages around $9
million.  CEO Says Undervalued  MagicJack shares still have room to climb and are
undervalued given the company’s potential to grow revenue by as
much as 30 percent this year, Chief Executive Officer Dan Borislow said in an interview on March 9. He said the company’s
MagicJack Plus device, which lets users make and receive calls
over the Internet without turning on a computer, will help
attract more customers.  “In the  United States , people are used to using
telephones, and unlike Skype we enable the use of a telephone,”
he said by phone from  West Palm Beach ,  Florida . “Really anyone
who has high speed Internet access, we have something to sell or
provide those people.”  The company, whose TV ads featured U.S. women’s soccer
player and Olympic gold medalist  Abby Wambach , will file audited
2011 results on March 14 or 15, Borislow said. The  net loss  in
the fourth quarter of 2011 is expected to be 9 cents a share on
sales of $29.6 million, the company said in a Feb. 16 statement.
The figures exclude one-time gains and charges as well as other
adjustments.  Nothing Different  “We don’t expect anything different at all from what we’ve
already put out,” Borislow said.  Revenue in the first quarter of 2012 may exceed $37 million
and earnings may be greater than 26 cents per share, the company
said in a Feb. 28 statement.  Short sellers are placing record wagers against MagicJack,
betting it will slump after posting the biggest gains among
Israeli companies traded in New York this year.  So-called short interest in the company had risen to 2.9
percent of the shares outstanding as of March 8, a more than
five-fold increase over the past three months, according to data
compiled by  Data Explorers , a New York-based research firm.  Short interest in  Vonage Holdings Corp. (VG) , the biggest U.S.
provider of phone services over the Internet, is 2.6 percent,
Data Explorers said. The shares have fallen 11 percent this
year.  ‘Landline Replacement’  As consumers get rid of landline phones to reduce their
bills, they may use mobile phones or services such as Skype that
don’t require extra hardware, Irene Berlinksy, a senior analyst
at research firm IDC said by phone from Philadelphia.  “Some people see them as a landline replacement,” she
said. “Other people, when they give up a home phone, they don’t
see a need for any kind of landline-type service. They just rely
on their wireless phone alone and in that case they don’t need
MagicJack.”  The  Bloomberg Israel-US 25 index  dropped 0.3 percent last
week.  SodaStream International Ltd. (SODA) , the Israeli manufacturer of
homemade soda machines, plunged 15 percent to $34.56, the
biggest weekly loss since December.  Investors are concerned the company will face rising
competition after Primo Water Corp. said it will introduce new
soft-drink machines at an industry show in  Chicago , said Jim Chartier, an analyst at Monness Crespi Hardt & Co. The
announcement by Winston-Salem, North Carolina-based Primo adds
to concern SodaStream’s growth may slow after the company said
global soda maker unit sales rose 8 percent in the fourth
quarter after surging 60 percent in the third.  Nasdaq Advance  The  Nasdaq Composite Index (CCMP)  advanced 0.4 percent last week,
extending its quarterly gain to 15 percent, the most since the
three months ended Sept. 30, 2009.  Israel, whose population of 7.8 million is similar in size
to  Switzerland ’s, has about 60 companies traded on the  Nasdaq ,
the most of any country outside the U.S. after  China . The nation
is also home to more startup companies per capita than the U.S.  Alon Holdings Blue Square-Israel Ltd. (BSI) , Israel’s second
largest food retailer, fell 7.9 percent to $3.28 last week.
 Shufersal Ltd. (SAE) , the country’s largest supermarket chain, dropped
to the lowest level since June 2009 after reporting that same-
store sales declined 4.1 percent in the fourth quarter, amid
protests against the cost of food that have curbed companies’
ability to raise prices.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net ;
Leon Lazaroff in New York at 
 llazaroff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  