-- Aldar Properties, Sorouh Say They Are Studying Abu Dhabi-Endorsed Merger
-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 2012-03-11T14:28:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-11/aldar-properties-sorouh-say-they-are-studying-abu-dhabi-endorsed-merger.html
Aldar Properties PJSC (ALDAR)  and  Sorouh
Real Estate Co. (SOROUH) , Abu Dhabi’s biggest developers, are considering
a merger that may create a company with $15 billion in assets.  The companies set up a team to study a possible merger with
the “blessing” of Abu Dhabi’s government, which owns stakes in
both, according to a joint statement today. The team “will
present its recommendations for the top management of both
companies within the next three months in coordination with the
concerned official authorities,” according to the statement.  “This will make perfect sense,”  Haissam Arabi , chief
executive officer of Gulfmena Investments, said by phone. “I
don’t see a reason for two mega, master developers with similar
business propositions or offerings to remain separate.”  Aldar and Sorouh shares have rallied this year after  Abu
Dhabi , the oil-rich emirate transforming itself into a business
and cultural hub, said it plans to resume stalled projects
including branches of the Louvre and Guggenheim museums.
Property prices in the emirate dropped by half from the market’s
peak in 2008 as the global credit crisis forced banks to curb
mortgage lending and speculators fled.  Shares Surge  Aldar, which is building thousands of homes and offices in
Abu Dhabi, received 36 billion dirhams ($9.8 billion) in
government support last year and the company sold assets
including a Ferrari theme park to the state. Rents in Abu Dhabi
will drop further in 2012 as property supply outstrips demand,
according to real-estate consultant CB Richard Ellis Group Inc.  “The consolidation is something positive for the market in
all sectors, not just the real estate, but also financial,”
said  Yazan Abdeen , who helps oversee about $250 million as a
 fund manager  at ING in Dubai. “This is part of a confession the
market is going through in realizing the real quality of the
assets.”  The United Arab Emirates property market is still fragile
after residential real-estate prices in Dubai slumped more than
60 percent from a mid-2008 peak. Developer Nakheel PJSC escaped
default with the help of an $8.6 billion bailout from the Dubai
government.  Tamweel PJSC (TAMWEEL) , which along with Islamic lender  Amlak PJSC (AMLAK) ,
provides almost 90 percent of all mortgages in the U.A.E.,
resumed lending after  Dubai Islamic Bank PJSC (DIB)  raised its stake
to 58 percent in September 2010 to help support the mortgage
market. The company had halted lending in October 2008 after the
global credit crisis blocked access to funds. Emirates NBD PJSC,
the U.A.E.’s biggest lender by assets, last year took over
unprofitable Dubai Bank PJSC, which was rescued by Dubai’s
government in May after loan losses increased.  Stocks Surge  Aldar shares surged 8 percent to 1.22 dirhams today,
bringing its gain for the year to 33 percent. The stock tumbled
60 percent in 2011.  Sorouh  (SOROUH) also rose 8 percent to 1.22 dirhams
today. It has risen  44 percent in 2012  after losing 48 percent
last year. That compares with a 7.7 percent rise in Abu Dhabi’s
 ADX General Index (ADSMI)  so far this year.  Aldar had total assets of  40 billion dirhams  at the end of
last year compared with 14 billion dirhams at Sorouh. The
company returned to a  full-year profit , beating analyst
estimates, after the company sold more land and properties to
the state. Sorouh’s 2011 profit  surged to 334.7 million dirhams 
from 7.44 million dirhams as income from rentals and housing
projects rose.  Aldar this month had its outlook raised to “positive”
from “negative” at Moody’s Investor Service. The company has a
market value of 4.98 billion dirhams while Sorouh’s is 3.2
billion dirhams.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  