-- Aldar Merger Discussions With Sorouh May Spark Consolidation in Emirates
-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 2012-03-12T06:38:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-11/aldar-sorouh-merger-talks-may-spark-consolidation-among-u-a-e-companies.html
Aldar Properties PJSC (ALDAR)  and  Sorouh
Real Estate Co. (SOROUH) ’s talks about merging into a developer with $15
billion in assets may spark consolidation among other United
Arab Emirates companies and push up real-estate shares.  “We will likely see a lot of market activity across real
estate names in both Abu Dhabi and Dubai and this news will help
the stocks in the short term,” said Sebastien Henin, who helps
oversee $100 million at The National Investor in Abu Dhabi. “We
should expect more mergers as the companies lead the way.”  The two builders, part of Abu Dhabi’s drive to remake
itself into a tourism and business hub, set up a team to study a
possible merger with the “blessing” of the emirate’s
government, which owns stakes in both, according to a joint
statement yesterday. The team will present a plan in the next
three months. Aldar and Sorouh shares both soared 9.8 percent
today to 1.34 dirhams, the highest intraday level since July 11,
at 10:31 a.m. in Abu Dhabi.  The shares have rallied this year after oil-rich Abu Dhabi
said it plans to resume stalled projects including branches of
the Louvre and Guggenheim museums. The  ADX Real Estate Index (ADRE)  has
surged 52 percent in 2012 after a 54 percent slump last year.
Property prices in the emirate dropped by half since the
market’s peak in 2008 as the global credit crisis forced banks
to curb lending and speculators fled.  “The consolidation is something positive for the market in
all sectors, not just real estate, but also financial,” said
 Yazan Abdeen , who helps oversee about $250 million as a  fund
manager  at ING Investment Management in Dubai. “This is part of
a confession the market is going through in realizing the real
quality of the assets.”  Construction Drive  Aldar and Sorouh are leading a construction drive in the
U.A.E. capital, sparked by government projects and investment.
Sorouh has been building thousands of homes, offices and retail
spaces around canals and parks on  Abu Dhabi ’s Reem and Lulu
islands. Aldar, also building thousands of homes and offices in
Abu Dhabi, received 36 billion dirhams ($9.8 billion) in
government support last year and sold assets including a Ferrari
theme park to the state. The government also agreed to retire
debt related to infrastructure on Yas Island.  The U.A.E. property market is still fragile after
residential real-estate prices in Dubai slumped more than 60
percent from a mid-2008 peak. Rents in Abu Dhabi will drop
further in 2012 as property supply outstrips demand, according
to real-estate consultant CB Richard Ellis Group Inc. Nakheel
PJSC, the builder of artificial islands off the coast of Dubai,
escaped default with the help of an $8.6 billion bailout from
the government.  No ‘Game Changer’  “This is not a game changer for the real estate sector, as
it remains depressed,” said The National Investor’s Henin.  Tamweel PJSC (TAMWEEL)  and Islamic lender  Amlak PJSC (AMLAK)  provided almost
90 percent of all mortgages in the U.A.E. before the market
slumped starting in 2009. Tamweel resumed lending for the first
time since October 2008 after  Dubai Islamic Bank PJSC (DIB)  raised its
stake in 2010 to help support the mortgage market. Emirates NBD
PJSC, the U.A.E.’s biggest lender by assets, last year took over
unprofitable Dubai Bank PJSC, which was rescued by Dubai’s
government in May after loan losses increased.  The merger talks are “a strong move to consolidate on the
extra capacity that both companies have, so that should be good
news,” said Mostafa El-Maghraby, an analyst at Kuwait-based
Global Investment House. “A lot is still not clear, so it is
difficult to say if this will be good for shareholders.”  Profit Surges  Aldar shares surged 46 percent so far this year after the
stock tumbled 60 percent in 2011.  Sorouh (SOROUH)  has risen 58  percent in
2012  after losing 48 percent last year. That compares with an
8.6 percent rise in Abu Dhabi’s  ADX General Index (ADSMI)  so far this
year. In Dubai, real-estate companies including  Arabtec Holding
Co. (ARTC)  and  Emaar Properties PJSC (EMAAR)  led a 1.4 percent rally in the
benchmark  DFM General Index (DFMGI)  today, with the companies rising 5.1
percent and 3.3 percent respectively.  Aldar had assets of  40 billion dirhams  at the end of last
year and Sorouh had 14 billion dirhams. Aldar posted a  full-year
profit  that beat analyst estimates after a year-earlier loss.
Sorouh’s 2011 profit  surged to 334.7 million dirhams  from 7.44
million dirhams as rental and housing income rose.  Aldar this month had its outlook raised to “positive”
from “negative” at Moody’s Investors Service. The company has
a market value of 5.47 billion dirhams while Sorouh’s is 3.52
billion dirhams.  “This will make perfect sense,”  Haissam Arabi , chief
executive officer of Gulfmena Investments, said by phone
yesterday. “I don’t see a reason for two mega, master
developers with similar business propositions or offerings to
remain separate.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net ;
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  