-- Manchester United Tops Premier League as Archrival City Loses at Swansea
-- B y   J a m e s   C o n e
-- 2012-03-11T18:08:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-11/manchester-united-tops-premier-league-as-archrival-city-loses-at-swansea.html
Manchester United  leads English
soccer’s Premier League after a 2-0 win over West Bromwich
Albion as archrival Manchester City lost 1-0 at Swansea City.  Wayne Rooney  got both goals at Old Trafford today for
defending champion United, which moves one point clear of City
after Luke Moore scored as Swansea won at the Liberty Stadium.  “The City defeat was a bonus I didn’t expect but I am happy
to be top because only a few weeks ago we were seven points
behind them,” United manager  Alex Ferguson  told reporters.  United has 67 points from 28 matches, City remains on 66,
with Tottenham, which lost 1-0 loss at Everton yesterday, on 53.
Chelsea is tied on 49 points with fourth-place Arsenal.  Norwich City tied 1-1 against last-place Wigan in today’s
other match.  United, aiming for a record-extending 20th league title and
13th since the inception of the Premier League, has now won four
straight league games. City’s defeat was its first in five
league matches.  West Brom wasted an opportunity to take an early lead at
United when Keith Andrews poked an effort wide as he slid in to
make contact with a cross from  Liam Ridgewell .  Goalkeeper  Ben Foster  then saved from United winger  Ashley Young  and Rooney fired over the bar from long range. United
keeper David de Gea made a save at the other end of the field,
diving to turn wide a low shot from Andrews.  Opening Goal  Rooney had another opportunity before grabbing the opening
goal on 35 minutes. The England striker touched in from a cross
by  Javier Hernandez .  The home team started to take control, with Hernandez
hitting a post and Rooney testing Foster with an overhead kick.  West Brom then had defender Jonas Olsson red-carded after
66 minutes and five minutes later Rooney secured the win from a
penalty kick awarded for a foul by Andrews on Young.  Manchester City  suffered only its fourth league defeat of
the season -- all of which have been in away matches.  A headed goal from Moore on 83 minutes settled the match,
soon after he entered the field as a substitute.  Swansea missed a chance to take an eighth-minute lead after
England goalkeeper  Joe Hart  fouled Wayne Routledge. Scott Sinclair took the spot kick, but Hart dived to his right to keep
the ball out of the net.  Attacking Change  City was struggling to test the Swansea defense and manager
 Roberto Mancini  made a change in the 37th minute, bringing on
striker  Sergio Aguero  for midfielder Gareth Barry.  Aguero fired wide early in the second half and Micah Richards had an effort stopped by Michel Vorm, while Steven
Caulker headed across goal for Swansea.  The goal came after Yaya Toure lost possession in midfield.
Routledge crossed the ball and Moore headed past Hart.  Vorm then denied Kolo Toure and Edin Dzeko, and City had a
goal ruled out for offside when Richards netted. Swansea also
had a late chance, but Sinclair was unable to find the net as
Hart rushed back toward his goal.  “There are 10 games to go, and it’s important we start to
score and win again,” Mancini told City’s website. “Some
players may be tired after seven months of the season, but I
think we have a lot of energy to get back to the top.”  Norwich ended a run of three successive defeats as it tied
against Wigan. Wes Hoolahan scored at Carrow Road for the hosts,
with Victor Moses earning Wigan a point.  In yesterday games, Chelsea defeated Stoke City 1-0, while
Sunderland beat Liverpool 1-0. Blackburn won 2-0 at
 Wolverhampton Wanderers , Bolton beat Queens Park Rangers 2-1,
and Aston Villa defeated Fulham 1-0. Arsenal hosts Newcastle
tomorrow.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Cone  in London at 
 jcone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  