-- Australia Must Find ‘Significant Savings’ in Budget, Treasurer Swan Says
-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 2012-03-11T13:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-11/australia-must-find-significant-savings-in-budget-treasurer-swan-says.html
Australia  needs to find
“significant savings” in the budget to be presented in May, as
the government remains determined to return to surplus in the
next fiscal year, Treasurer  Wayne Swan  said.  “One of the lingering effects of the global financial
crisis has been a massive writedown of tax receipts,” Swan
wrote in his weekly e-mailed economic note yesterday. “This
will inevitably flow through to the budget bottom line and
obviously means we will have to find significant savings in the
May budget.”  Business profits unexpectedly dropped in the three months
through December, by the most in two-and-a-half years as
earnings weakened at mining and financial companies. Australia
posted its first trade deficit in 11 months in January, as
weaker shipments of  iron ore  and coal contributed to the biggest
drop in total exports in almost three years.  Under the Treasury’s midyear review released in November,
government revenues were down A$140 billion ($148 billion) in
the five years to 2012-13 from the pre-crisis forecast, Swan
wrote today. There has been further weakness in company tax
receipts since then, according to the Treasurer. The country’s
terms of trade are also expected to gradually decline in the
years ahead, as global commodity production increases, he said.  ‘A Solid Result’  Australia’s economic growth slowed to 0.4 percent in the
fourth quarter from the previous three-month period, according
to figures released on March 7. The median estimate of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News was for  gross domestic
product  to expand by 0.8 percent.  The fourth quarter number was “a solid result” given the
European debt crisis, Swan said yesterday. Returning the budget
to surplus remains the right strategy for the economy, he said.  “Maintaining our fiscal rigor is absolutely essential at a
time when markets are punishing those without discipline,” Swan
said. It “provides the  Reserve Bank  with maximum flexibility to
respond to any further deterioration in the global economy.”  The  Reserve Bank of Australia  left its benchmark  interest
rate  unchanged at 4.25 percent on March 6 and reiterated that it
has scope to lower borrowing costs if demand weakens
“materially.” The central bank, which implemented two quarter-
percentage-point rate reductions in the final months of 2011,
said that monetary policy was “appropriate for the moment.”  Traders are betting that the central bank will lower its
policy rate, with a Credit Suisse  index  based on swaps
indicating that the cash target will be cut by 53 basis points,
or 0.53 percentage point, over the next 12 months.  Mining Tax  The South Pacific nation’s economic growth has been fueled
by a once-in-a-century mining bonanza as the expansion of  China 
and other emerging economies boosts demand for resources such as
iron ore and coal. The boom conditions for Australia’s miners
have hampered some other businesses as the nation’s currency has
surged in value, weighing on the competitiveness of the
manufacturing and tourism industries.  The Australian government is aiming to implement a new
mining tax and Swan urged independent and minor party lawmakers
to support the measure as parliament resumes this week. The
Minerals Resource Rent Tax will “help spread the benefits of
the mining boom to every corner of our economy,” Swan wrote
yesterday.  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) ,  Rio Tinto Group (RIO)  and other iron-ore
and coal producers, which negotiated the levy with the
government, face paying about A$11 billion in extra charges in
the first three years of the tax.  Swan, who is also Australia’s deputy prime minister and has
been treasurer since 2007, will deliver the government’s budget
on May 8 for the fiscal year starting July 1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nichola Saminather in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jim McDonald at 
 jmcdonald8@bloomberg.net  