-- Australian, N.Z. Dollars Decline Before U.S Retail Sales Data, Fed Meeting
-- B y   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a
-- 2012-03-12T15:26:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-11/australian-new-zealand-dollars-remain-lower-before-u-s-retail-sales-data.html
The Australian and New Zealand
dollars fell ahead of U.S. figures tomorrow forecast to show
retail sales rose, reducing the case for additional Federal
Reserve stimulus measures.  The  Federal Open Market Committee  meets tomorrow to set
monetary policy. New Zealand’s dollar declined against the yen,
halting a three-day advance, after Fonterra Cooperative Group
Ltd., the world’s largest dairy exporter, cut its milk price
target. The Aussie weakened against most of its 16 major peers
before a report tomorrow economists expect to show Australia’s
home loans declined.  “A positive retail number in the United States, and
something above expectation in particular, could be supportive
of the  U.S. dollar  and negative for the Australian dollar,”
said Hans Kunnen, Sydney-based chief economist at St. George
Bank Ltd. Lower milk prices are “not helpful for the New
Zealand dollar. Commodity prices and attitudes towards nations
that are linked into Asian growth have weakened a touch,” he
said.  Australia ’s dollar weakened 0.8 percent to $1.0496 at 11:24
a.m. in  New York . The Aussie fell 1.1 percent to 86.29 yen. New
Zealand’s dollar declined 0.7 percent to 81.59 U.S. cents. It
dropped 1 percent to 67.10 yen.  U.S. Retail Sales  Retail sales in the U.S. probably increased 1.1 percent in
February, the most in five months, according to the median
estimate of economists in a Bloomberg News survey before the
Commerce Department releases the figures tomorrow.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said on Jan. 25, after the
FOMC’s last meeting, that policy makers were considering
additional asset purchases to boost growth. The Fed has pledged
to keep its benchmark rate at almost zero through at least late
2014 and has previously purchased $2.3 trillion of securities in
two rounds of so-called quantitative easing.  Auckland-based Fonterra revised its forecast price for milk
to NZ$6.35 ($5.18) per kilogram of milk solids, from a NZ$6.50
estimate in December, the company said in a statement today.  The Aussie and kiwi also weakened as  China  reported on
March 10 a February trade shortfall of $31.5 billion, the
largest trade deficit since at least 1989. The People’s Bank of
China said in a press statement today that it will use  interest
rates  and exchange rates to manage the economy as  Europe ’s debt
crisis damps global demand.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariko Ishikawa in Tokyo at 
 mishikawa9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at   rswift5@bloomberg.net  