-- Bahrain Prosecutor Cuts Criminal Cases Against Medics, IAA Says
-- B y   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r
-- 2012-03-11T08:47:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-11/bahrain-prosecutor-cuts-criminal-cases-against-medics-iaa-says.html
The Bahraini public prosecutor will
pursue criminal cases against only five of 20 medics  charged
for their role in last year’s mass protests, the Information
Affairs Authority said.  The IAA said the evidence shows that five of the medics
were involved with the takeover of the Salmaniya Medical Complex
and related crimes during the demonstrations, according to an e-
mailed statement late yesterday.  The remaining cases will be transferred to the medical
disciplinary board as they involve breaching patient
confidentiality by allowing cameras into the hospital, leading
protests on the premises and discrimination against patients
based on their sect, the IAA said.  “Of the criminal cases involving medical professionals,
only five have been accused of serious criminal charges,” the
IAA said.  The 20 medics received sentences ranging from five to 15
years from a military tribunal on Sept. 29 for occupying
Salmaniya Medical Complex, possessing weapons and for seeking to
overthrow the government. On Oct. 5, Bahrain’s attorney general
said the medics would be retried in civilian courts.  Bahraini authorities detained hundreds of people, most of
them Shiite Muslims, in a crackdown on protesters who held
rallies in February and March of last year to demand
representative government and more rights from the country’s
Sunni rulers. At least 35 people were killed during the protests
and ensuing clashes. Tensions in the island nation have simmered
in Shiite areas throughout the past year and have spread to the
capital, Manama.  Demanding Rights  Bahrain’s Shiites represent two-thirds of the population,
according to the U.S. State Department, and have long demanded
rights equal to those of Sunnis, including appointments to
senior government and military posts.  Protests flared after the funeral of Fadhel Mirza, 22, who
died yesterday after being hit in the head with a tear-gas
canister when security forces raided his village, Diraz, on
March 1, Al-Wefaq, the largest Shiite group, said in an e-mailed
statement.  The police, in a statement reported by state-run Bahrain
News Agency yesterday, said the medical report indicated an
injury “caused by the impact of a solid body to the right side
behind the deceased’s ear.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donna Abu Nasr in Manama at 
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  