-- BRICs Fastest Inflation Accelerating Puts Subbarao on Hold: India Credit
-- B y   K a r t i k   G o y a l   a n d   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s
-- 2012-03-12T05:18:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-11/brics-fastest-inflation-accelerating-puts-subbarao-on-hold-india-credit.html
Indian inflation, the fastest among
the biggest  emerging markets , is poised to accelerate as oil
costs rise for a nation that depends on imports for 80 percent
of its energy requirements, interest-rate swaps show.  The cost of locking in rates for five years rose to 7.49
percent in Mumbai on March 9, the highest in almost five months,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Wholesale prices rose
6.7 percent last month after increasing 6.55 percent in January,
according to the median forecast of economists in a Bloomberg
survey before data due on March 14. That would compare with
levels of 6.2 percent in  Brazil , 3.2 percent in  China  and 3.7
percent in  Russia .  Reserve Bank of India Governor Duvvuri Subbarao on March 9
unexpectedly slashed the amount of deposits lenders need to set
aside as reserves to ease a cash squeeze in the banking system.
He will refrain from lowering borrowing costs at this week’s
policy meeting, a separate survey showed, as this year’s 16.8
percent rise in Brent threatens to fuel inflation in a nation
where 80 percent of the population lives on less than $2 a day.  “Oil prices are becoming a big concern and will aggravate
inflation,” Killol Pandya, the Mumbai-based head of fixed-
income investment at the local unit of Daiwa Asset Management
Co. that oversees $225 million, said in an interview on March 9.
“A rate cut is unlikely to happen this month.”  He predicts the yield on 10-year  government bonds  will
range from 8.20 percent to 8.40 percent this month.  Election Losses  The Reserve Bank will leave the benchmark repurchase rate
unchanged at 8.5 percent on March 15, according to all 11
economists in the Bloomberg survey. The monetary authority cut
the lenders’ reserve requirements by 75 basis points, or 0.75
percentage point, to 4.75 percent, it said in an e-mailed
statement on March 9. The move was the first such action outside
a policy meeting since July 2010 and will add 480 billion rupees
($9.6 billion) into lenders, it said.  Crude imports in the first 10 months of the current
financial year totaled $115.1 billion, 15 percent higher than
the bill for the whole of the previous fiscal year, according to
oil-ministry data. Brent oil, the benchmark that  India  uses,
rose as much as 0.4 percent to $125.98 per barrel on March 9,
before falling to $125.38 today. Fuel and power together have a
weighting of almost 15 percent in the wholesale-price index.  Millions of government employees went on strike on Feb. 28
to protest against spiraling costs. Prime Minister  Manmohan
Singh ’s ruling Congress party was routed in state elections held
last week, underscoring how the government is struggling to
escape blame for inflation. Onion prices, a principal ingredient
in Indian cuisine, doubled last year.  Comfort Zone  The central bank said in December that “from this point
on, monetary-policy actions are likely to reverse the cycle”
after inflation slowed to less than 9 percent for the first time
in a year. Now, the  Reserve Bank  will rethink that strategy,
according to  Credit Agricole  CIB, a unit of  France ’s second-
largest bank by assets.  “Inflation, after falling quite rapidly, has stabilized at
a level that is higher than the central bank’s comfort zone of 4
percent to 6 percent,” Dariusz Kowalczyk, a Hong Kong-based
strategist at Credit Agricole, said in an interview on March 9.  He predicts the Reserve Bank will cut the repurchase rate
by 75 basis points this year, compared with his previous
forecast of 100 basis points.  The fixed rate needed to receive floating payments for five
years using interest-rate swaps has climbed five basis points
this month and 37 basis points this year.  The yield on the benchmark 8.79 percent notes due November
2021 rose six basis points to 8.29 percent last week. The rate
has climbed from a nine-month low of 8.13 percent touched on
Feb. 2, trimming this year’s drop to 28 basis points.  Growth Concern  The rise in yields is widening the  difference  between the
debt securities and similar-maturity U.S. Treasuries. The yield
premium was 627 basis points today, compared with this year’s
low of 611 basis points touched on Feb. 21.  India’s benchmark  Sensitive Index (SENSEX)  of shares has dropped 0.7
percent this month on concern  Asia ’s third-biggest economy is
slowing. Fourteen out of 30, or 47 percent, of companies in the
Sensex reported net income for the three months through December
that trailed analyst estimates, compared with 40 percent in the
quarter earlier. Gross domestic product  rose  6.1 percent in the
three months through December, the seventh consecutive quarter
in which expansion cooled, government data showed on Feb. 29.  “Growth below 7 percent is sufficient to trigger a cut in
 interest rates  in March in view of the recent drop in
inflation,”  Robert Prior-Wandesforde , a Singapore-based
economist at Credit Suisse Group AG. “We are more confident of
that view now and expect the RBI to cut the repo rate by 175
basis points between March and January.”  Bond Risk  The rupee declined 0.2 percent today to 49.9650 per dollar.
The currency has retreated 1.9 percent this month, the worst
performance among Asia’s 11 most-traded currencies.  Rupee-denominated notes returned 2.1 percent this year,
trailing Indonesian debt and Philippine securities among Asian
markets monitored by HSBC Holdings Plc. Rupiah bonds earned 3
percent, the most in the region.  India’s bond risk is climbing on concern Finance Minister
 Pranab Mukherjee  will outline plans to increase subsidies to
curb inflation when he unveils the federal budget on March 16.  Credit-default swaps on  State Bank  of India, which some
investors consider a proxy for the sovereign, snapped a four-day
gain on March 9, according to CMA, which is owned by CME Group
Inc. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in privately
negotiated markets. The cost has surged 19 basis points this
month to 319. The swaps pay face value should a company fail to
adhere to its agreements.  The government’s expenditure on subsidies will spiral to
1.9 trillion rupees ($38 billion) in the fiscal year ending
March, 36 percent more than an estimate Mukherjee made in
February last year, according to Deutsche Bank AG.  “The RBI will be worried about the impact of the surge in
 oil prices  on inflation and subsidies,” Amol Agrawal, a Mumbai-
based economist at STCI Primary Dealer Ltd., said in an
interview on March 9. “The central bank may have to wait till
April to cut rates.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kartik Goyal in  New Delhi  at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net 
Sandy Hendry at   shendry@bloomberg.net  