-- China Slowdown Bolsters Case for Easing of Policy as Yuan Slides: Economy
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-03-12T05:31:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-11/china-slowdown-may-portend-easing-as-asia-considers-options-for-stimulus.html
China ’s economic growth slowed in
the first two months of the year, with both exports and domestic
demand moderating faster than analysts had forecast, building
the case for Premier Wen Jiabao to accelerate stimulus measures.  The world’s second-largest economy had the biggest trade
 deficit  last month in at least 22 years, the weakest January-
February factory-production gain since 2009 and retail sales
below the median economist estimate, government data showed
March 9 and 10.  Central bank Governor Zhou Xiaochuan said today that the
nation has large scope in theory for lowering banks’ reserve
requirements, and the yuan tumbled after officials weakened the
reference rate. Moderating inflation and Europe’s faltering
export demand may encourage the government to loosen credit and
pause on currency gains, with the yuan down 0.5 percent this
year against the dollar after climbing 4.5 percent in 2011.  “We are likely to see another cut sometime soon” in the
required-reserves ratio,  Brian Jackson , a Hong Kong-based
economist with Royal Bank of Canada, said in a Bloomberg
Television interview. “If you look at the January and February
numbers combined, whether it’s trade, whether it’s industrial
production, it all shows a pretty clear picture of things
continuing to slow down since the start of the year.”  The yuan fell 0.2 percent to 6.3239 as of 12:11 p.m. in
 Shanghai , the biggest decline since Jan. 20, after the central
bank weakened the daily reference rate by the most since August
2010. The MSCI Asia Pacific index of stocks fell 0.6 percent as
of 2:20 p.m. in  Tokyo .  Vietnam Cuts Rates  In Asia, officials are weighing the need to preserve
firepower for any deterioration in  Europe  with controlling
inflation.  Vietnam  cut benchmark rates today, reducing the
refinancing rate to 14 percent from 15 percent.  India  last week
unexpectedly reduced its cash reserve ratio and Australia’s
central bank said it has scope to lower rates, while South Korea
and  Indonesia  held off from stimulus.  Speaking at a briefing in Beijing as part of the annual
meeting of the National People’s Congress, Zhou said changes in
capital flows and foreign-exchange reserves were key factors in
decisions on bank reserve ratios, cut in February for the second
time in three months. He said that such reductions were not an
indication of policy loosening.  In a statement, the central bank reaffirmed a “prudent”
monetary policy, to be fine-tuned as needed, and said “new
ideas” will be used in managing the world’s largest foreign-
currency reserves of $3.18 trillion.  European Data  Stocks around the world rallied at the end of last week as
 Greece ’s private creditors agreed to a debt swap, the U.S.
reported job growth that exceeded forecasts and China’s data
spurred talk of new stimulus. The U.S. Standard & Poor’s 500
Index gained 0.4 percent on March 9.  In  Asia , a Malaysian report today may show that industrial
production growth slowed in January, according to the median
estimate in a Bloomberg survey of economists, while  Japan 
reported better-than-estimated machinery orders for January.  In Europe,  Italy  may report today that gross domestic
product shrank 0.7 percent last quarter from the previous three-
month period, confirming a preliminary estimate, according to
another survey of analysts. In the U.S., the Treasury Department
may say the government’s budget deficit widened in February.  China will keep the  exchange rate  “basically stable at an
appropriate and balanced level,” Wen, 69, said in the opening
speech to the National People’s Congress on March 5. He
announced an economic-growth target for 2012 of 7.5 percent,
down from the 8 percent goal in place since 2005.  Appreciation in the yuan will be “difficult,” said Shen Jianguang, a Hong Kong-based economist for Mizuho Securities
Asia Ltd., who previously worked for the  International Monetary
Fund  and  European Central Bank .  Rate, Ratio Cuts  Zhang Zhiwei, chief China economist at Nomura Holdings Inc.
in  Hong Kong , is forecasting an interest-rate reduction this
month and lower  reserve requirements  starting in April.  Zhou, 64, said inflation-adjusted  interest rates  may remain
negative for some time and that a too-rapid increase in the
benchmark one-year deposit interest rate, now at 3.5 percent,
would lead to large capital inflows, given that “some developed
countries are implementing very loose monetary policy and global
liquidity is quite ample.”  He didn’t discuss how so-called real interest rates turned
positive for the first time in more than two years with last
week’s report of 3.2 percent inflation in February.  In China, the February trade shortfall of $31.5 billion
reported March 10 by the  customs bureau  in Beijing was the first
in a year and four times the size of the previous largest
deficit.  Exports (CNFREXPY)  rose 18.4 percent from a year earlier, while
imports gained 39.6 percent.  No Conclusions  Zhou cautioned against making any conclusions from the
deficit, saying trade has seasonal distortions at the beginning
or end of the year. “We may need a relatively long time to
observe it,” he told reporters.  Data in the first two months are distorted by the timing of
a Lunar New Year holiday, which fell in January this year and
February in 2011. Analysts forecast a 31.1 percent increase in
overseas sales and a 31.8 percent rise in inbound shipments,
according to the median estimates in Bloomberg News surveys.  The rise in China’s consumer prices in February was the
least in 20 months. Industrial  production  gained 11.4 percent in
January and February, less than forecast.  Retail sales rose 14.7 percent in the first two months from
a year earlier, below the median economist estimate of 17.6
percent. New local-currency loans in February were 710.7 billion
yuan ($113 billion), the People’s Bank of China said March 9,
lagging behind the median forecast of 750 billion yuan.  ‘Timely’ Adjustments  Wen, in his work report to lawmakers last week, said the
government will “carry out timely and appropriate anticipatory
adjustments and fine-tuning” of fiscal and monetary policies.  Suntech Power Holdings Co., the largest maker of solar
panels, said increased competition and government subsidy cuts
will lead to a first-quarter drop in shipments, according to a
statement March 8 from the Wuxi, China-based company. Deliveries
in the first quarter will decline by about 30 percent from the
fourth quarter, it said.  “Clearly, exports are still not strong enough to shore up
8 percent to 9 percent growth for China,” said  Ken Peng , a
Beijing-based economist at BNP Paribas SA. “More policy support
is necessary in coming months to ensure sufficient funding for
investment.”  --Zheng Lifei and Li Yanping in Beijing, with assistance from
Shamim Adam in  Singapore . Editor: Paul Panckhurst  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zheng Lifei in Beijing at 
 lzheng32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  