-- Citigroup Names Peter Tague Co-Head of Mergers Worldwide With Mark Shafir
-- B y   A m b e r e e n   C h o u d h u r y   a n d   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n
-- 2012-03-12T01:08:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-11/citigroup-names-peter-tague-co-head-of-mergers-worldwide-with-mark-shafir.html
Citigroup Inc. (C) , ranked seventh
among mergers and acquisitions advisers last year, promoted
Peter Tague to co-head of its global M&A business.  Tague joins  Mark Shafir , who’s been sole head since 2008,
New York-based Citigroup said in a memo distributed last week
and obtained by Bloomberg News. Shafir will focus on his other
role, overseeing technology, media and telecommunications
 investment-banking , according to the memo.  Tague and Shafir “will be tasked with expanding the wallet
and market share of our M&A franchise and increasing our
participation in landmark and cross border transactions,”
Raymond J. McGuire, the head of investment banking, said in the
memo. Mark Costiglio, a spokesman for Citigroup, confirmed the
statement.  Citigroup’s advisory revenue dropped 5 percent to $684
million last year, or less than 1 percent of the bank’s net
revenue across all business lines. Tague was most recently a
vice chairman in the M&A group, and previously worked in an
internal strategy role.  Before that, he held positions overseeing the global
energy, power, and chemicals investment-banking group and
European merger advisory. Tague has worked at Citigroup or
predecessor firms since at least 1995, according to records on
the website of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  Tague advised Dow Chemical Co. on its $16.5 billion
acquisition of Rohm & Haas Co. in 2009, and  Apache Corp. (APA)  on its
$7 billion purchase of oilfields in the U.S.,  Canada  and Egypt
from  BP Plc (BP/)  in 2010. He counseled London-based Peninsular &
Oriental Steam Navigation Co. on its 2006 sale to Dubai Ports
World for $6.8 billion.  Ben Druskin, who was co-head of technology, media and
telecommunications investment banking along with Shafir, moved
to a new role as chairman of the group, McGuire said in the
memo.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ambereen Choudhury in London at 
 achoudhury@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  