-- Clinton’s Triumph at State Raises Bar for Next Act: Albert Hunt
-- B y   A l b e r t   R .   H u n t
-- 2012-03-11T15:29:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-11/clinton-s-triumph-at-state-raises-bar-for-next-act-albert-hunt.html
What a difference four years makes
if you’re Hillary Clinton.  In March 2008, though she would remain a presidential
candidate for several more months and win some big primaries,
she was defeated and discredited.  Barack Obama  was sweeping most
contests and House Speaker Nancy Pelosi said it was unacceptable
for then-Senator Clinton to try to use controversial rules to
wrest the nomination.  Obama’s campaign outperformed hers, starting with the
Clinton miscalculation that her support for the Iraq War would
be an asset. Her husband, former President  Bill Clinton , was
tarred for his overzealous support for her.  After the election, when the president-elect surprisingly
offered her the post of secretary of state and she surprisingly
accepted, there were more than a few predictions of disaster.
She now is completing what she has said will be the final year
of a successful stint as the top U.S. diplomat.  A testament to her standing is the opening she has to
become president of the  World Bank . Others, including former
Treasury Secretary  Larry Summers , are panting for the job. It
would be Clinton’s for the asking. No one matches her global
profile and political skills.  She’s not asking for it and wouldn’t take it.  Exhausting Run  In part, friends say, that’s because she’s exhausted after
a grueling year and a half running for president, followed by a
punishing schedule as secretary of state. Unstated is that on
Nov. 7, the day after the presidential election, she will be the
front-runner for the 2016 Democratic nomination, regardless of
who wins the presidency this time or whether she plans to run.  In contrast to four years ago, she’s the most popular
American, far outshining Obama. She’s celebrated as a diplomat
and rock star around the globe.  “She has made people all over the world more respect,
appreciate and understand America,” says one of her
predecessors,  Madeleine Albright . “She has made very clear what
American values are while at the same time understanding other
countries’ national interests.”  There are detractors. On  Afghanistan , she was on the
prevailing side in arguing to send more troops in 2010. As that
war continues to look like a quagmire, even some former
supporters of the war now wish Vice President Joseph Biden’s
more skeptical stance had won the day.  She’s played a less than major role in many of the
administration’s big decisions on defense and intelligence: the
killing of  Osama bin Laden , the use of drones and relations with
Pakistan, and even some of the debates about  Iran .  Moreover, great secretaries of state have close
relationships with presidents: George C. Marshall and  Harry Truman ,  Henry Kissinger  and Richard Nixon. The Clinton-Obama
relations are professional, cordial, not close. The “Team of
Rivals” line that this president’s advisers trumpet -- Obama is
like Abraham Lincoln in embracing former political opponents as
intimate advisers -- is more appearance than reality.  The White House national security advisers, whose primary
objective often seems to be protecting this president’s
political interests, have been a source of tension with the
secretary. This isn’t unusual. The only time, it is said, when
the secretary of state and NSC adviser enjoyed complete mutual
respect and regard was in 1973-75; that’s when Kissinger held
both jobs. (Actually the other time was in President George H.W.
Bush’s administration, when Brent Scowcroft had the job,
creating a model that every successor has unsuccessfully sought
to emulate.)  Morale Raiser  Still, she gets credit for lifting morale at the State
Department and making good appointments. Colleagues say she
still misses the friendship and counsel of the late Richard Holbrooke, who compensated for Clinton’s lawyerly bent by being
an idea machine and geostrategic thinker in the Kissinger and
Zbigniew Brzezinski mold.  She was a key figure in decisions leading to the toppling
of Libyan dictator  Muammar Qaddafi , and is deeply involved in
Asian affairs, including the relationship with  China .  The secretary has brilliantly projected America’s soft
power -- or “smart power,” as she prefers to say --emphasizing
the role of women, public/private partnerships, the use of
technology and social media and global health issues.  With a few exceptions, such as  Pakistan , U.S. relations
with most countries are better than they were four years ago.
Her personal diplomacy is omnipresent. There seemingly is no
place she won’t go to meet women’s groups, plant a mangrove
tree, kiss a baby or impress a politician.  She has spent 299 days on the road, traveling 731,680
miles, visiting 95 countries.  She bears little resemblance to candidate Clinton of 2008,
who often was stiff and distant; she had an especially cold,
distrustful relation with the press. Secretary Clinton is more
natural, even down-to-earth, excelling at personal relations
with world leaders. She is relatively open with reporters
showing a sometimes warm and funny side that wasn’t on display
four years ago.  When she steps down at the end of this presidential term,
friends says she wants a respite before any new undertaking.
She’s likely to park for a while at the William J. Clinton
Foundation. Well-informed Clintonites are divided over whether
she’ll seek the presidency again; most say, surprisingly, that
she has thought little about it and it’s an open question.  If she decides to run, she will need to assemble a much
better political operation than she had last time, when she
stubbornly stuck with her choices when even longtime loyalists
pleaded with her to change.  Another issue might be age; she’d be 69 right before
Election Day 2016. If she ran it would be a test of the
persistence of sexism, of whether age matters more for women
than for men. She would be younger than  Ronald Reagan  when first
elected or Bob Dole and  John McCain  when they were nominees or
Republican hopefuls  Newt Gingrich  and  Ron Paul  will be on
Election Day this year.  As this surprise-filled political season has demonstrated,
it’s hazardous to predict the climate four weeks from now, much
less four years. And, polls notwithstanding, a  Hillary Clinton 
political comeback would be an unlikely saga.  Then again the Clintons have made comebacks and unlikely
sagas their stock in trade.  ( Albert R. Hunt  is the executive editor for  Washington  at
Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from Bloomberg View.  To contact the writer of this column:
Albert Hunt in Washington at 
 ahunt1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 