-- Cotton Imports by China May Jump Amid State Stockpiling, Association Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-03-11T07:28:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-11/cotton-imports-by-china-may-jump-amid-state-stockpiling-association-says.html
Cotton (CCUIIQTL)  imports by  China , the
largest consumer, will increase this year as government buying
absorbs domestic production, according to the China Cotton
Textile Association.  “We’ve got a shortfall,” Sun Yingan, deputy president of
the association, said in an interview with Bloomberg News today
in Beijing. Shipments may gain to as much as 4 million metric
tons as state stockpiling has shrunk the amount available on the
domestic market, Sun said. The group has more than 700 members
whose yarn and cloth account for 60 percent of China’s output,
according to its  website .  Increased buying by China may help curb a 57 percent tumble
in prices over the past year after farmers boosted output to a
record. Imports may jump by 54 percent to 18.5 million 480-pound
bales (4 million tons) this year, according to a March estimate
by the  U.S. Department of Agriculture . China may turn to the
U.S. and Australia to secure supplies amid an Indian ban on
exports, according to Yong An Futures Co.  “Chinese textile companies are experiencing difficulties,
but I think some of the previous market estimates on China’s
weak cotton mill demand are overstated,” said Sun, who is also
chairman of Hubei Xiaomian Industry Group Co. “Textile
companies’ demand for cotton won’t fall by a large margin, there
will be a shortfall, which will be bridged by both imports and
government stockpile sales.”  State Stockpiles  Consumption may fall by 500,000 tons, from about 9 million
tons last year, Sun said. Domestic output may have been more
than 7 million tons in 2011 and with the government likely to
buy 3 million tons that leaves only about 4 million tons of new-
crop cotton, Sun said. The government had bought more than 2.8
million tons by March 9 to boost depleted inventories and
support domestic prices, according to a statement on the China
Cotton Reserves Corp’s website.  “Although the government has a large quantity of cotton
stockpiles now, when and how much it will sell remains a
question,” Sun said. “The government will weigh imports and
stockpile sales later this year. Either way, it will have to
satisfy the textile industry’s demand for cotton.”  Imports tumbled 16 percent in January to 326,400 tons from
a year earlier, according to Chinese customs data. Output in
China will fall 10 percent to 6.4 million tons, Birkenhead,
England-based researcher Cotlook said Feb. 16. Consumption will
rise 3.4 percent, it said. Global production in 2012-13 will
exceed demand by 1.9 million tons, it said.  Prices on March 6 gained to 94.24 cents, the highest level
since Feb. 17, after  India , the second-largest cotton shipper,
suspended exports to secure local supplies. The May-delivery
contract dropped 0.9 percent to 88.80 cents on ICE Futures U.S.
on March 9. India will keep a ban on exports as a meeting of
ministers to review the curbs failed to reach a decision this
week.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Feiwen Rong in Beijing at 
 frong2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Richard Dobson  at 
 rdobson4@bloomberg.net  