-- Covered Bond Debut Lures UniCredit as Banks Expand Lending: Turkey Credit
-- B y   J a s o n   W e b b   a n d   S i b e l   A k b a y
-- 2012-03-12T12:14:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-11/covered-bond-debut-lures-unicredit-as-banks-expand-lending-turkey-credit.html
Turkish banks are winning the
confidence of  Italy ’s biggest lender as it leads the nation’s
first sale of asset-back securities known as covered bonds.  UniCredit SpA’s Turkish joint venture is underwriting a
program for Istanbul-based  Sekerbank TAS (SKBNK)  to raise 800 million
liras ($448 million) through arranging the sale of securities
backed by loans to small and medium-sized businesses in Turkey.
UniCredit bought 117.6 million liras of the covered bonds to
sell on to foreign lenders after underwriting the equivalent of
408 million liras of the same debt last year, Sekerbank said in
a March 8 filing with the  Istanbul Stock Exchange .  Banks are seeking to broaden their funding sources after
lending in Turkey surged by more than twice the pace of deposits
last year in an economy expanding the second-fastest in the
Group of 20 after  China . Sekerbank’s covered bonds due between
one and five years were priced last year to yield 250 basis
points more than the London interbank offered rate. That’s less
than the 300 basis-point spread for euro-denominated covered
bonds due 2014 sold last August by OTP Bank Nrt., Hungary’s
biggest lender, which is ranked a level higher by Moody’s
Investors Service.  “There is potential for other Turkish banks to go the same
way as Sekerbank,” Sabrina Miehs, a credit analyst at  Standard
& Poor’s  in  Frankfurt , said in a phone interview. “There’s a
growing middle class and there are a lot of small and medium-
sized enterprise loans on the balance sheets of the banks, a lot
of other Turkish banks have the same portfolios.”  Lending Boom  Three more Turkish banks plan to sell covered bonds,
according to Milan-based UniCredit. The securities are backed by
mortgages or public-sector loans as well as guarantees from the
issuer.  Banks increased lending to businesses and consumers by a
record 39 percent in the year to last August and by 30 percent
overall in 2011. That was more than double the 13 percent
increase in their deposits, according to data released by the
Banking Regulation and Supervision Agency on its  website  in
February.  Turkish lenders are charging an average 14.5 percent in
annual interest on business credit, a jump from 8.7 percent last
year, according to data on the central bank’s website as of Feb.
24. Rates rose to a three-year high of 16 percent in January
after the central bank lifted banks’ reserve requirements to
crimp lending growth it said was feeding a record  current-
account deficit  of more than 10 percent of gross domestic
product.  Akbank  Akbank TAS (AKBNK) , the Turkish bank part-owned by  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,
may sell mortgage-backed covered bonds this year, Deputy Chief
Executive Hulya Kefeli said in an interview in Istanbul on Nov.
22.  The yield on Akbank’s dollar-denominated bonds due in 2018
dropped to a seven-month low of 5.94 percent on March 9,
compared with a yield of 8 percent for bonds due in 2020 with
the same rating of Ba1 from Moody’s Investors Service sold by
 Brazil ’s Banco Industrial e Comercial SA.  UniCredit sold Sekerbank’s covered bonds issued last year
to the  International Finance Corporation , the  European
Investment Bank , the European Bank for Reconstruction and
Development and the Netherlands’ Entrepreneurial Development
Bank, said Muge Eksi, head of  capital markets  in Istanbul at
UniCredit Menkul Degerler AS, a joint venture of the Milan-based
bank.  “So far we sold only to foreign investors,” Eksi said in
an e-mail on March 8. “We hope to sell more to Turkish
investors in the new offering. As the product gets to be better
known, the demand will definitely increase.”  Default Swaps  Yields on  two-year   government bonds  in lira climbed 11
basis points, or 0.11 percentage point, to 9.29 percent by 1:19
p.m. in Istanbul, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The extra yield that investors demand to hold  Turkey ’s
dollar-denominated bonds rather than U.S. Treasuries rose four
basis points to 312, while the average spread for developing-
nation debt was unchanged at 343, according to JPMorgan Chase &
Co.’s EMBI Global index.  The cost to insure Turkish bonds against non-payment using
credit-default swaps dropped two basis points to 220, the lowest
since August, according to data from CMA, which is owned by CME
Group Inc. and compiles quotes by dealers in the privately-
negotiated market. The spread is 178 for  Russia , rated three
levels higher by Standard & Poor’s, 182 for  Poland  and 158 for
 South Africa . The contracts would pay the buyer face value in
exchange for the underlying securities or cash.  The lira declined 0.6 percent to 1.7975 per dollar,
trimming this year’s rally to 4.9 percent. The cost to exchange
lira payments for dollars using two-year cross currency swaps
rose four basis points to 7.35 percent.  OTP Bonds  Sekerbank’s covered notes are backed by loans owed directly
to the bank. This differentiates them from other asset-backed
securities including the U.S. subprime mortgage debt that helped
trigger the global financial crisis, said Jose de Leon, a credit
analyst at Moody’s in  Madrid . Subprime home loans were spun off
from banks’ balance sheets and then packaged into bonds known as
collateralized debt obligations.  Moody’s rated the Sekerbank bonds A3, the seventh-highest
investment-grade ranking and six levels above the bank’s own Ba3
rating because of the collateral underlying the securities.  OTP’s covered bonds yielded 5.48 percent, according to bid
prices on Bloomberg from BNP Paribas SA, compared with 10.07
percent for the Budapest-based lender’s euro-denominated bonds
due in 2016.  Appetite  “There might be some appetite from Turkish domestic
investors for covered bonds,” de Leon at Moody’s said in a
phone interview on March 8. “The question is whether
international investors will want to go into Turkey.”  The Turkish government has helped stimulate the development
of a covered  bond market  with legislation modeled on European
laws, S&P’s Miehs said.  “The hope for Turkish banks is that there will be a local
investor market, so that Turkish banks will invest in Turkish
covered bonds,” she said. If that happens “it’s much more
probable that foreign investors also enter into the market,”
she said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jason Webb in  London  at 
 jwebb25@bloomberg.net ;
Sibel Akbay at 
 sakbay@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  