-- Don’t Let Corporations Slash Pension Payments: Roger Lowenstein
-- B y   R o g e r   L o w e n s t e i n
-- 2012-03-11T23:01:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-11/don-t-let-corporations-slash-pension-payments-roger-lowenstein.html
There is something about pensions
that makes their sponsors just want to say no. For months we
have been reading about cities and states failing to pay what is
due into  employee pension funds . Now corporate America is
getting into the act.  Big employers want Congress to give them a break on pension
funding. Business lobbies such as the  U.S. Chamber of Commerce 
and the  National Association of Manufacturers  have managed to
get a pension sweetener attached to a Senate highway bill that,
potentially, would reduce required contributions by billions of
dollars.  This is the same sort of short-term thinking that got
companies such as  United Airlines ,  Bethlehem Steel Corp. (BHMS)  and
 Delphi  -- or, to be more exact, their workers -- in trouble.
From the shelter of bankruptcy, these employers terminated their
pension plans, leaving inadequate funds to pay retirees. The
government-run Pension  Benefit Guaranty Corp.  pays $458 million
every month to more than 800,000 retired workers of about 4,300
failed companies. In many cases, insurance didn’t cover the full
amount and workers got stiffed.  152 Failed Plans  Last year, 152 additional failed plans were terminated and
added to the PBGC’s load. Among them:  Harry & David (0115868D)  and
 Wolverine Tube (WLV) . We don’t need to encourage a new crop of Harry &
Davids. (The PBGC dodged a bullet last week when AMR Corp., the
parent of the bankrupt  American Airlines , agreed not to
terminate at least three of its four employee plans.)  In the past, Congress has been an easy mark for pension
sponsors seeking relief. In fact, Congress has eased the rules
six times in the past decade, by the PBGC’s count. This is one
reason that, among the Standard & Poor’s 500 companies, those
that offer pensions were roughly $450 billion underfunded at
year-end 2011, according to David Zion, the resident pension
maven at Credit Suisse Group AG in  New York .  That’s the largest deficit in years. In 2002, after the
recession that began the prior year, pension sponsors in the S&P
fell to an estimated 82 percent of actuarial funding. They
rebounded but then lost ground during the financial crisis,
hitting 79 percent of required funding in 2008. Now, pension
funding has crashed to only 74 percent, meaning that a quarter
of the required assets aren’t there.  The reason for the problem this year is ultra-low interest
rates. Under the federal  Employee Retirement Income Security
Act , sponsors have to contribute enough to meet their future
obligations and to make up any deficit in a timely fashion.
Three numbers determine the level of contribution: the total
plan assets, the amount that retired workers will be owed in the
future and the “discount rate” at which that future obligation
is discounted back to the present. (The discount rate is
calculated by blending interest rates of bonds whose durations
roughly match the schedule of pension payments.)  As the discount rate falls, the present value of payments
soars. At  General Electric Co. (GE) , the discount rate fell to 4.2
percent at the end of 2011 from 5.3 percent at the end of 2010.
According to GE, that added $7.4 billion to its pension
obligation.  Zion estimates that pension contributions for all sponsors
in the  S&P 500  will rise by more than 70 percent in 2012, eating
up a big share of available cash at some. At  Weyerhaeuser Co. (WY) ,
the pension contribution in 2012 will be more than 40 percent of
trailing cash flow, calculated as the average of cash flow over
the last five years, Zion says. At  AK Steel Holding Corp. (AKS)  and
 Goodyear Tire & Rubber Co. (GT) , contributions in 2012 will be well
over half of trailing  cash flow , he says. And contributions are
likely to stay high. This is why companies want a break.
Nonetheless, granting it would be a terrible idea, in Zion’s
phrase, merely “kicking the can down the road.”  Not Discretionary  The provision in the  Senate bill  would keep the effective
discount rate within 15 percent of its average over the past 10
years. Business groups are wrapping their argument in the flag,
saying sponsors can use the extra cash to hire workers and make
investments. But a business’s first obligation is to the workers
it has already hired. Pension expenses are not discretionary,
and the amount owed in the present isn’t a future expense; it is
the current requirement to meet a future obligation.  Supporters of pension sponsors often say that, without
relief, companies may stop offering benefits in the future,
known as freezing their plans. This is no idle threat, as the
population of private-sector workers covered by pensions has
nose-dived, to about 16 percent.  This is no reason, however, to ease up on requiring that
ongoing plans be actuarially sound. If the economics of pensions
become too onerous, freezing plans is an appropriate and
realistic response. Workers are then free to negotiate other
benefits, quit their jobs, or accept that life will get worse.
Underfunding merely sustains the fiction that a plan is more
viable than it is.  Sponsors also maintain that current  interest rates  are
atypically low, resulting in unusually high payments. But
interest rates are what they are -- not even Congress can change
them. If rates do rise in the future, contributions then will
drop; no legislation will be needed.  Most sponsors will see some relief, anyway, when recent
stock-market gains are reflected in their asset totals. And
sponsors could have inoculated themselves against interest-rate
risk completely by investing plan assets in bonds of the same
duration as their pension obligations.  Tax Deductible  Had they done so, their assets and obligations would have
risen in lockstep. If, instead, sponsors took investing risk,
why should Congress grant them a favor, which will make next
year’s problem worse? Also, with rates so low, you wonder why
companies don’t simply borrow the money.  Congress has a soft spot for the idea of giving
corporations a break because pension contributions are tax-
deductible. Thus, those that contribute less to their pension
funds pay more in taxes. On that logic, companies might as well
cut contributions to zero. But the PBGC already faces a $26
billion deficit, and the agency estimates it will incur as much
as $250 billion in possible losses from underfunded sponsors in
the future. Permitting more underfunding hardly seems prudent.  For too long, the pervasive mentality among retirement
sponsors, both in the private and public sectors, has been that
pension payments can always be put off. This would be true only
if employees never aged. No one forced these companies to offer
their workers pensions. For those that did, let ’em pay the
actuarial rate.  ( Roger Lowenstein  is the author of, among other books,
“ While America Aged : How Pension Debts Ruined General Motors,
Stopped the NYC Subways, Bankrupted  San Diego , and Loom as the
Next Financial Crisis.” The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View.   To contact the writer of this article:
Roger Lowenstein at  elrogl@hotmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net  