-- Drydocks Expects Lenders Support for Debt Plan, Chairman Says
-- B y   A r i f   S h a r i f
-- 2012-03-11T11:25:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-11/drydocks-expects-lenders-support-for-debt-plan-chairman-says.html
Khamis Juma Buamim, chairman of
Dubai-based Drydocks World LLC, the  Middle East ’s biggest
shipyard, said he is confident that lenders will accept a
proposal made March 8 to restructure $2.2 billion of debt. He
spoke to reporters that day about the plan.  On the debt restructuring plan  “It’s a five-year debt payment. It’s a restructuring of
the debt for five years. It’s too early to talk about that
(haircut on loans), I can’t comment on that. We continue to pay
interest on the loans, we never stopped. We are confident that
this (the restructuring) is going to be achieved in the timespan
that we agreed with our lenders. We already have a working
capital facility. It’s a continuation of what we agreed a year
ago.  On whether Drydocks plans to sell its South East Asian business:  ‘‘We will explore all options available to us to ensure we
sustain our business, increase productivity and minimize risk.
We are looking at what is core and what is non-core. If you have
an operation that is not making money because it is not part of
your core philosophy and strategic design you will have to look
at it. You may JV it, you may sell it, you may modify it.  ‘‘This is a business that needs to be recapitalized,
redefined to ensure productivity. If tomorrow we find that there
is a reasonable offer that has an upside for us, we will always
consider that.  ‘‘We have an exit strategy in the  Far East , a part of it is
redefining our capacity there, efficiencies and looking into
what is core and non-core.  On 2011 results  ‘‘We had an Ebitda of $125 million in 2011. We have huge
capacity available to us and we must utilize it. Dubai’s
capacity utilization today is over 90 percent. Historically, it
used to be in the 70s. We have already reached capacity in the
conversion side in Dubai, capacity in the new build, repairs is
actually showing incredible progress. South  East Asia , we have
an excellent repair cycle in Singapore and Pertama, so it is all
going according to plan.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Arif Sharif in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  