-- Dubai Record Air Traffic Signals Rebound From Property Slump Accelerating
-- B y   Z a i n a b   F a t t a h   a n d   S t e f a n i a   B i a n c h i
-- 2012-03-12T10:10:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-11/dubai-record-air-traffic-signals-rebound-from-property-slump-accelerating.html
Gary Seabrook is busy tripling
capacity at the paint business he runs near the Dubai port
because he doesn’t want to miss out on any sales.  The general manager of  Caparol Paints  in the  United Arab
Emirates  and a Dubai veteran of 23 years has seen the booms and
bust, and his company is now investing as much as 40 million
dirhams ($10.9 million) so it can serve countries across the
Gulf and North Africa. Exports by companies based in Dubai
increased 15 percent last year, the Chamber of Commerce said.  “We’re going to expand our facility here to make it a
regional hub,” said Seabrook, 52, a native of  Zimbabwe . “We’re
coming out of the downturn and Dubai is coming back. It’s going
back to its roots of trade and tourism.”  Less than two centuries since tribesmen settled on the
Dubai Creek and 40 years after the creation of the United Arab
Emirates, the city may be coming of age. Three years ago it was
a microcosm of what went wrong in the world with its property
market bust, financial bailout and incomplete skyscrapers as
workers departed.  Now Dubai is cementing its role as a stable trading hub in
a region marked by violent upheaval over the past year. The
stock market gained more than anywhere else in the world last
month, its  DFM General Index (DFMGI)  surging 21 percent as companies
improved earnings and paid higher dividends.  Default Risk  Debt default risk perceptions for Dubai, which got a $20
billion bailout from neighboring Abu Dhabi in 2009 to help
restructure its debt, have receded this year partly on pledges
that the emirate’s main companies will manage to refinance debt
this year without government help. The yield on the government’s
debt is close to a seven-month low.  “Dubai is an unfinished city with half-built towers and
roads that don’t go anywhere,” said Jim Krane, a researcher at
 Cambridge University ’s Judge Business School and author of the
2009 book “City of Gold, Dubai and the Dream of Capitalism.”
“It can’t focus on the big and glitzy projects anymore because
it can’t afford them. Now it has to move into a new phase that
is more sustainable.”  The economy of Dubai may expand as much as 5 percent this
year after growing more than 3 percent in 2011, Sheikh Ahmed bin
Saeed Al Maktoum, the head of Dubai’s Supreme Fiscal Policy
Committee, said on Feb. 15. The city has no need to raise money
from international bond markets this year nor get support from
neighboring Abu Dhabi, the head of the Dubai ruler’s court,
Mohammed Al Shaibani, said in an interview last month.  Best Since 2008  “Dubai’s economy is the best it’s been since 2008,” said
Simon Cooper, chief executive officer of HSBC Holdings Plc’s
Middle East business. “Growth is not being driven just by real
estate, but also by trade and finance.”  Paul Foster was a real-estate executive in Dubai during the
boom years that produced palm-shaped islands and the world’s
tallest building before abandoning the city as prices collapsed.
He’s now back after two years in  London  and is working with
companies including Qatari Diar Real Estate Investment Co. and
state oil company  Saudi Aramco .  “The geographic location as the center of time zones makes
it an ideal place in terms of dealing with Asia and Europe,”
said Foster, 46, group head of asset performance and facilities
management at consultants EC Harris LLP. “The first time I came
here was because of the sheer excitement of the big projects.”  State Benefits  Emiratis make up less than 10 percent of Dubai’s
population. The locals enjoy state benefits in the form of
subsidies for housing and utilities. While foreign workers have
to pay for services, they get tax-free salaries.  The second largest of seven sheikhdoms in the U.A.E., Dubai
racked up $129 billion in debt transforming itself into a
financial and tourism hub, spawning the record-breaking  Burj
Khalifa tower  and malls housing the likes of  Louis Vuitton .  Hundreds of thousands of homes were built, along with
offices, hotels and malls along Dubai’s Sheikh Zayed Road as the
construction boom intensified after Dubai first allowed
foreigners to own homes in selected areas in 2002.  The collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in September
2008 put an end to that as credit dried up. In 2009,
conglomerate  Dubai World  roiled world markets when it sought to
delay repaying about $25 billion of debt. Since the global
credit crunch, developers across the U.A.E. suspended or
canceled around $500 billion worth of projects, twice as much as
in the other five  Gulf Cooperation Council  countries, Arqaam
Capital analyst Mohammad Kamal said.  Debt Repayments  Bank of America Merrill Lynch estimates the city and its
state-controlled companies still face about $10.3 billion in
debt repayments this year alone.  “There’s still a lot of debt overhang and corporate
restructurings to be worked through,” said  Khalid Howladar , a
senior credit officer at Moody’s Investors Service in Dubai.
“Deferral of the problem has been one approach, which buys more
time but still leaves a cloud of uncertainty over legacy issues
that constrain confidence.”  The civil unrest in the region and rising  oil prices  have
helped Dubai. Oil prices have almost tripled since the end of
2008 and governments across the Gulf pumped money into the
economy.  OPEC was estimated to have earned net oil export revenue of
$1.01 trillion last year, according to an August forecast by the
U.S. Energy Department. The GCC, which includes the U.A.E. and
neighboring  Saudi Arabia  and Qatar, last month accounted for 51
percent of OPEC’s crude production, according to Bloomberg data.  Fastest Expansion  The  Saudi Arabian economy , the Arab world’s largest,
expanded 6.5 percent in 2011, the fastest pace in eight years,
according to estimates by the  International Monetary Fund . Qatar
grew 19 percent, the fastest expansion in the world.  “Because of political turmoil you see money coming in to
Dubai in search of safety,”  Mark Mobius , who says he oversees
more than $50 billion at Templeton Emerging Markets Group, said
in a March 8 interview in Bloomberg’s Dubai office. “We’ve just
expanded our office here. We moved into a larger office and I
think you are going to see a lot more other people coming in
particular if Saudi Arabia opens up.”  The Dubai Financial Market General Index fell 1.1 percent
to 1,667.38 at the 2 p.m. close in the emirate today, bringing
the advance from a low on Jan. 16 to 28 percent. Last month, the
benchmark surpassed the 20 percent threshold some consider the
beginning of a  bull market , and had the top monthly gain among
benchmark equity indexes worldwide.  Airport Traffic  As uprisings toppled leaders in  Egypt ,  Tunisia , Yemen and
 Libya  and security forces quashed unrest in  Bahrain  and Saudi
Arabia’s Eastern Province, a record 51 million passengers passed
through Dubai’s airport last year. Dubai Airports said on Feb.
27 passenger traffic grew 14 percent in January from a year ago.  Dubai received 9.3 million tourists last year, up 10
percent from 2010, pushing up hotel revenue by 20 percent, the
emirate’s tourism department said March 7. The city’s largest
malls such as Dubai Mall and Mall of the Emirates are operating
at more than 90 percent occupancy rates, according to their
owners. Shopping accounted for about 30 percent of Dubai’s gross
domestic product last year, Standard Chartered Bank Plc
economist Philippe Dauba-Pantanacce estimated.  “Dubai is growing again in transportation, logistics, oil
services, tourism and retail and the economy is being better
managed and consolidated than a couple of years prior to 2008,”
said Ashok Aram, Deutsche Bank AG’s chief executive officer for
the  Middle East  and North Africa. “Both growth in the Gulf
region as well as regional political challenges are assisting
Dubai in its recovery.”  More Competitive  The decline in the cost of doing business is also making
Dubai, a city of 2 million people, more competitive, Aram said.  Office rents dropped more than 65 percent on average, said
Craig Plumb, head of research at Jones Lang LaSalle. Those in
the Dubai International Financial Center were cut by half in
2010. The number of companies operating in the business park
rose 7 percent last year, the center said.  The  Department of Economic Development  issued 14,360
business licenses last year, an increase of 3.9 percent on 2010.  “One of the department’s strategic objectives is to create
a suitable environment that retains Dubai as a destination of
choice for investors,” it said in the Feb. 22 statement.  Dubai is also continuing to invest in infrastructure to
finish what it started. Dubai ruler Sheikh Mohammed Bin Rashid
Al Maktoum approved a $7.8 billion expansion plan for Dubai’s
two airports to boost annual capacity to 75 million travelers by
2012 and to 90 million by 2018, Paul Griffiths, chief executive
officer of Dubai Airports, said in July 2011.  ‘Real City’  “If you have a job here, Dubai is a great place to be
now,” Ruth Sheehy, a graphic designer who lives in Dubai with
her husband. “Dubai feels more like a real city where people
can settle down. Before we all used the city for job growth and
money, but most planned to move on.”  The number of children born to expatriate parents in Dubai
jumped 54 percent in the five years ending 2010, the last year
for which data is available. At least 17,054 babies were born to
expatriate parents in Dubai in 2010, up from 11,067 in 2005,
Ministry of Health data shows.  Sheehy, who for years shared a home with two other friends,
was one of those who left the city in 2008. She returned in
2011, married and moved into an apartment with her husband, now
affordable after the market collapsed.  Seabrook at Caparol Paints, a unit of Deutsche Amphibolin
Werke Group,  Europe ’s third-largest paint manufacturer, employs
70 people at the plant in the Al Quoz industrial area. Caparol
began its operations in Dubai in 1999 and currently exports
almost as much as it delivers within the U.A.E.  The expanded facilities will include paint manufacturing, a
warehouse, research and a color design studio. They will move to
Dubai Industrial City next to the new airport.  “I’ve seen Dubai go up and down,” said Seabrook, who is
married with two teenage children. “I don’t think it will ever
be like it was before 2008, but I think it will regain its
regional status for trade and tourism.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zainab Fattah in Dubai at 
 zfattah@bloomberg.net ;
Stefania Bianchi in Dubai at 
 sbianchi10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  