-- Dubai Safe Haven to Lure Institutions to Stocks, Mobius Says
-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r   a n d   A l a a   S h a h i n e
-- 2012-03-12T11:57:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-11/dubai-safe-haven-to-attract-institutions-to-stocks-mobius-says.html
Dubai’s stock market, now in the
midst of a bull run, will attract more institutional investors
as its  property market  recovers and the United Arab Emirates
remains sheltered from regional turmoil,  Mark Mobius  said.  “Because of political turmoil you see money coming into
Dubai in search of safety,” Mobius, who oversees about $50
billion as executive chairman of Templeton Asset Management
Ltd.’s  emerging markets  group, said at an interview in
Bloomberg’s Dubai office on March 8. “It’s definitely going to
dawn on institutional investors.”  The  Dubai Financial Market General Index (DFMGI)  fell 1.1 percent
to 1,667.38 at the close in the emirate today after a 4.7
percent rally yesterday. That trimmed the advance from a low in
January to 28 percent. Last month, the benchmark surpassed the
20 percent threshold some consider the beginning of a  bull
market , and had the top monthly gain among benchmark equity
indexes worldwide.  Dubai and its neighbor  Abu Dhabi , holder of 7 percent of
the world’s oil reserves, have emerged as safe havens in the
Middle East and North Africa after a wave of popular uprisings
ousted leaders in Egypt, Tunisia and  Libya  last year. The
turmoil, which reached countries including Syria and the Persian
Gulf’s Bahrain, didn’t spread to the U.A.E., the second-biggest
Middle East economy. Dubai and Abu Dhabi are among seven
sheikhdoms that constitute the U.A.E.  “We’ve got all this money floating around; the first home
is the biggest markets,” Mobius said. “Then they look at
emerging markets, which is why they are outperforming again, and
then they look further afield into so-called frontier. This is
where the  Middle East  comes in.”  ‘Money Coming In’  Stock markets in Abu Dhabi and Dubai, home to the world’s
tallest skyscraper and artificial islands, gained this year as
companies posted improved earnings and after Dubai said it
expects two of its main companies to refinance debt without
government help. Dubai stocks  tumbled 17 percent  in 2011 on the
heels of the Middle East uprisings, out-performing the 49-
percent drop in Egypt  benchmark .  “Dubai has become a very interesting symbol of the Middle
East,” Mobius said. “We continue to add because we get more
money coming in,” he said, referring to stock markets in Dubai,
 Saudi Arabia  and Qatar.  Dubai’s stock market dropped in 2010 and 2011 as the
emirate contended with a real-estate crash that pushed  home
prices  down more than 60 percent from a mid-2008 peak. Abu Dhabi
extended a $20 billion bailout to Dubai in 2009 to help its
businesses restructure debts. Its state-linked companies face
about $10.3 billion in debt repayments this year, according to
Bank of America Merrill-Lynch estimates.  Beginning of Boom  Home prices have stabilized in Dubai and in Abu Dhabi, the
government said in January it plans to resume projects,
including branches of the Louvre and Guggenheim museums, after
reviewing their viability. Abu Dhabi real estate prices fell 45
percent from 2008 peaks. The  ADX General Index (ADSMI) , down 12 percent
last year, has advanced 8.9 percent so far in 2012.  “The boom is already beginning,” Mobius said. “The
property market is beginning to move again and the  capital
markets  are going to be growing. I think you are going to see a
lot more people coming, in particular if Saudi Arabia opens
up.”  The value of shares traded in Dubai has also improved, with
981 million dirhams ($267 million) exchanging hands on March 5,
the highest since April 2010.  Saudi Arabia’s  Tadawul All Share Index (SASEIDX) , the region’s
biggest bourse, has rallied 17 percent so far this year. The
kingdom’s Capital Market Authority is in talks with
international banks to open the nation’s stock exchange to
foreign investors early in 2012, three bankers familiar with the
matter said in October. Foreign, non- Persian Gulf  investors
currently can’t directly invest in Saudi shares.  Saudi Arabia, the Arab world’s largest economy, permits
non-resident foreigners to trade through share-swap transactions
and exchange-traded funds, with the market regulator approving
the first ETF in March 2010. The government allowed citizens of
neighboring Gulf states to trade in shares in 2007.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  