-- Dubai Investments to Exit Assets; Considers Sukuk Issuance
-- B y   T a m a r a   W a l i d
-- 2012-03-11T09:26:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-11/dubai-investments-to-divest-three-businesses-as-emirate-s-economy-recovers.html
Dubai Investments PJSC (DIC) , the owner
of stakes in more than 40 companies, plans to exit some of its
businesses as Dubai’s economy shows signs of a recovery, Chief
Executive Officer Khalid bin Kalban said.  “We have three companies under evaluation or due diligence
for private placements and by summer we can decide on exits,”
Kalban said an interview in Dubai on March 7. “The economy is
improving and the whole dust surrounding the financial situation
is settling. It’s a good opportunity to look again at divesting
some of the assets.”  Dubai Investments, which operates in businesses including
real estate, financial services and investments, slowed its
divestment plan after the financial crisis hit Dubai late 2008.
The company sold 40 percent of its private equity unit Masharie
LLC for 400 million dirhams ($109 million), it said in 2008. One
of the companies it will divest this year is part of Masharie,
Kalban said.  Growth is returning to Dubai as property developers
announce new projects and the number of tourists traveling to
the  Middle East ’s trade hub increases. Dubai’s economy may
expand as much as 5 percent this year after growing more than 3
percent in 2011, Sheikh Ahmed bin Saeed  Al Maktoum , the head of
Dubai’s Supreme Fiscal Policy Committee, said last month.
Passenger traffic at the emirates’ airport jumped 14 percent in
January from a year earlier to 4.85 million.  Dubai Investments shares  rallied 5.8 percent to 92 fils at
1:19 p.m. in the emirate. The stock has surged 52 percent this
year after losing 22 percent in 2011. That compares with a 23
percent gain for the benchmark  DFM General Index (DFMGI)  this year.  Sukuk Option  Dubai Investments may opt to issue a sukuk, or Islamic
bonds, to finance the expansion of the second  production line  at
its Emirates Float Glass Factory in Abu Dhabi, Kalban said. The
second phase of the facility, to be the largest in the U.A.E.
upon completion, will add another 600 tons a day of capacity,
bringing the total to 1,200 tons per day, he said.  The company was in talks with SACE, an Italian credit
agency, for a 600 million-dirham loan to finance the expansion
before  Europe ’s debt crisis delayed it, Kalban said. Regional
investors have shown interest in financing the project, he said.  “If this does not work, we could issue a sukuk -- that is
an option and could be an attractive one,” said Kalban. “It
would be in the region of $200 million. We are looking at the
terms and we will decide in a few months.”  Dubai Investments Park, a subsidiary that oversees a 2,400-
hectare complex of housing units, hotels, industrial outlets and
offices, recently raised 600 million dirhams loan from  Dubai
Islamic Bank PJSC (DIB)  and  Emirates Islamic Bank PJSC (EIB) , Kalban said.
This is being used for expansions within the park.  Real Estate Recovery  Dubai’s property market had one of the world’s biggest
reversals following the credit crisis three years ago, with  home
prices  slumping 64 percent since they peaked in mid-2008,
according to Deutsche Bank AG estimates. Since then, about $500
billion of projects were delayed or canceled in the  United Arab
Emirates . Dubai is the second-biggest sheikhdom in the U.A.E.  Rental prices started to recover at the end of 2011, with
an upward trend continuing in the first-quarter, said Kalban,
who estimated an increase of 5 percent. Kalban is also the
chairman of Dubai-based developer  Union Properties PJSC. (UPP)   “The private sector is going into buildings and real-
estate projects especially hotels because of the boom,” he
said. “Everybody is thinking we’ll build hotels as occupancy is
high.”  Activity is “fuelled by the lower cost of borrowing and
the lower  interest rate  on deposits and the semi-liquidity
available in the financial institutions,” Kalban said.  Fujairah Projects  Among companies launching projects are Al Habtoor Group
LLC, an owner of hotels in Dubai and Lebanon. Habtoor said
January it will spend $1.33 billion to build a hospitality
complex in Dubai, where hotel rooms may increase 36 percent in
four years. The developer will also open a 330-room hotel on the
Palm Jumeirah artificial island in about 20 months.  Nakheel PJSC, the Dubai developer bailed out by the
government in 2009, plans to spend 1.4 billion dirhams in 2012
to complete nine projects that had been suspended after the
crash, according to an Islamic bond prospectus in August.  In Fujairah, one of the U.A.E.’s northern emirates, Dubai
Investments is planning two projects. With Al Taif Investment, a
joint venture between the company and Fujairah Investment
Establishment, a 400 million dirhams mixed-use development is in
the works. It will include a four-star hotel, an  office tower , a
retail podium and conference hall.  Three banks “indicated their willingness to fund the
construction activity,” which should be completed in 2014,
Kalban said. Al Taif may invest about 30 percent, while the rest
will be bank financing, he added.  Fujairah Investments Park is also planned with work to
start “soon,” he said. The project will be done in phases to
test demand, with an initial investment of up to 20 million
dirhams on infrastructure.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tamara Walid in  Abu Dhabi  at 
 twalid@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  