-- Hedge Funds Trimmed Wagers Before Prices Rebounded
-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 2012-03-12T22:25:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-11/hedge-funds-trim-bullish-bets-before-prices-rally-on-economy-commodities.html
Hedge funds  reduced bets on higher
commodity prices for the first time in seven weeks after China
cut its growth target, just as prices rallied on signs the U.S.
economy is improving and Greece is containing its debt crisis.  Money managers reduced combined bullish positions across 18
U.S. futures and options by 1.1 percent to 1.17 million
contracts in the week ended March 6, Commodity Futures Trading
Commission data show. Investors cut bets on copper by the most
in two months and those on oil by the most since December. China
uses more copper and energy than any other nation.  Commodities fell 1.5 percent in the week ended March 6, a
day after  China  cut its economic-growth target to 7.5 percent,
from 8 percent, the lowest since 2004. Prices rebounded 2.1
percent in the following three days, extending this year’s
advance to 9.7 percent, as Greece and bond investors agreed to
the biggest sovereign restructuring in history and the U.S.
added more jobs than economists were expecting.  “The economy is looking better, and there’s a general
risk-on kind of sentiment,” said  Mihir Worah , who manages
Pacific Investment Management Co.’s $22 billion Commodity Real
Return Strategy Fund from  Newport Beach ,  California . “How do I
think investor sentiment is? Certainly, they’re voting with
their money, and we’re seeing steady inflows into our funds.”  Heating Oil  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot Index of 24 commodities
rose 0.4 percent last week, rebounding from a 1.6 percent
decline, led by cocoa, gasoil, heating oil and crude. West Texas
Intermediate fell 1.7 percent in the period covered by the CFTC
report before advancing 2.6 percent in the following three days.
Open interest, or contracts outstanding, across the members of
the S&P GSCI expanded 0.6 percent, compared with a 0.1 percent
contraction a week earlier, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
Today, the S&P GSCI gauge fell 0.4 percent to settle at 704.27
in  New York .  The MSCI All-Country World Index of equities fell 2.7
percent in the first two days of last week before rebounding 2
percent in the next three days, for a weekly drop of 0.7
percent. The dollar rose 0.8 percent against a basket of six
major trading partners in the week, and Treasuries lost 0.3
percent, a Bank of America Corp. index shows.  China will expand 8.5 percent this year, from 9.2 percent
in 2011, according to the median of 21 economist estimates
compiled by Bloomberg. That’s almost four times the projected
pace of the U.S. and compares with an estimated 0.4 percent
contraction in the economy of the 17-nation euro region.  Metal Exchange  About 40 percent of the world’s copper, 43 percent of its
aluminum and 46 percent of its nickel is consumed by China,
according to  Barclays Capital . The London Metal Exchange Index
of six industrial metals fell 3.9 percent in two days as Premier
 Wen Jiabao  cut the nation’s annual growth target in a state-of-
the-nation speech on March 5. The gauge rebounded 2.3 percent in
the final two days of the week.  The U.S. added 227,000 jobs in February, completing the
bets six months for payroll growth since 2006, the Labor
Department reported March 9. The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort
Index of household confidence in the U.S. rose to a four-year
high in the week ended March 4.  That boosted investor confidence after reports showed
 Europe  is slowing. Manufacturing output in the region shrank in
February by more than analysts expected, Markit Economics said
March 5. Gross domestic product in the euro area contracted 0.3
percent in the fourth quarter from the third and the region’s
economy may shrink 0.1 percent in 2012, European Central Bank
President  Mario Draghi  told reporters in  Frankfurt  on March 8.  Oil Consumption  Europe accounts for 18 percent global copper demand and 22
percent of oil consumption, data from Barclays and BP Plc show.
Copper dropped 1.1 percent to $3.8585 a pound in New York last
week, parings its annual gain to 12 percent. Crude rose 0.7
percent to $107.40 a barrel in New York, boosted by concern that
supplies will be curbed from  Iran , the second-biggest producer
in the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries.  The S&P GSCI rebounded after  Greece  reached a 95.7 percent
participation rate among investors for a debt exchange, after
the state got approval to activate collective action clauses.
While the net present value loss for investors was more than 70
percent on March 9, it eased concern about the regional
financial crisis that has roiled global markets.  “It removes one big stumbling block, which is the odds now
heavily favor Greece not having a messy default,” said  Cameron
Brandt , the director of research at Cambridge, Massachusetts-
based EPFR Global, which tracks investment flows. “The Greek
deal basically put most of the burden on private bond holders.”  Precious Metals  Investors put $214 million into commodities in the week
ending March 7, according to EPFR. Gold and precious metals
funds attracted $404 million, compensating for a $190 million
drop in industrial metals and agriculture, the research firm
estimates. The S&P GSCI Agriculture & Livestock Total Return
Index fell 1.5 percent in the week covered by the CFTC data on
prospects for rising global supplies of corn and wheat.  Investors in gold-backed exchange-traded products added to
holdings for a seventh consecutive week, taking the total to a
record 2,408.4 metric tons valued at $132.7 billion, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. The metal rose 0.1 percent to
$1,711.50 an ounce in New York last week, for an annual gain of
9.2 percent. Gold is advancing for a 12th consecutive year.  The advance in commodity prices in the second half of last
week may be a sign that speculators resumed adding to bullish
bets. The combined net-long position across 18 commodities has
more than doubled since reaching a 33-month low in December,
CFTC data show. Open interest jumped 13 percent in the first two
months of the year, the biggest two-month gain since 2006, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Emerging Markets  Investments in commodity ETPs rose by $5.9 billion in
January and February, New York-based BlackRock Inc., the world’s
largest asset manager, wrote in a report March 9. Commodities
attracted more than $20 billion in new money in the first two
months, compared with a decline of $10.1 billion in December,
Citigroup Inc. said in a report the same day.  Growth in  emerging markets  is “strong enough to maintain a
decent growth rate for most industrial commodities,” said Bill
Greiner, who helps manage $22 billion as the president and chief
investment officer at  Kansas City , Missouri-based Scout
Investments, a unit of UMB Financial. “The  U.S. economy , I
think we’re accelerating. GDP growth rates are accelerating. I
think that’s going to be sustainable.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney McFerron in Chicago at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  