-- Egypt Yield Dips Most in 5 Months as IMF Deal Nears: Cairo Mover
-- B y   A h m e d   A .   N a m a t a l l a
-- 2012-03-11T13:44:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-11/egypt-yield-dips-most-in-5-months-as-imf-deal-nears-cairo-mover.html
Egypt’s cost of borrowing for  nine-
months  fell the most since October and the country exceeded a
fundraising goal as it invited the  International Monetary Fund 
back to seal a $3.2 billion loan agreement.  The North African country paid an average yield of 15.841
percent, five basis points less than a sale of similar-maturity
bills last week, according to data posted on the finance
ministry  website . That’s the biggest decline since a sale on
Oct. 9.  The country accepted bids valued at 4.5 billion Egyptian
pounds ($746 million,) 29 percent more than it sought to raise,
marking the second straight auction at which the government
exceeded its debt sale goal.  The government will hold talks with the IMF in the second
half of March to secure the loan package it requested in
January, Planning Minister Fayza Aboulnaga said March 7. Last
week,  Egypt  also signed an agreement to borrow $400 million a
year for three years from the International Islamic Trade
Finance Corp. to help fund purchases of fuel and wheat.  “The government’s ability to obtain funds from sources
other than local banks is a good sign that it is decreasing
pressure on domestic funds,”  Alia Mamdouh , Cairo-based
economist at CI Capital said in a telephone interview. “An IMF
loan will further help yields drop. If it’s not secured, it will
have a significant impact not just on the yields but also on the
stock market and the pound because it would signal the inability
of the country to do what’s needed to garner the IMF’s
confidence.”  Economic Reforms  Egypt is awaiting parliamentary approval of an economic
program that cuts the  budget deficit  and public debt over the
next two years before submitting it to the IMF. The country
needs the loan to meet financing needs of about $11 billion by
June 2013, Finance Minister Momtaz el-Saieed said last month.  The rate on nine-month bills had surged more than two
percentage points since October to 15.923 percent last month,
the highest level since Bloomberg started tracking the data in
2006.  The country’s 5.75 percent dollar bonds due in 2020
advanced for a second day on March 9, pushing the yield lower by
14 basis points, or 0.14 percentage point, to 6.68 percent,
according to prices compiled by Bloomberg. That’s the lowest
level in almost four months.  The Egyptian pound was unchanged at 6.0311 to the dollar on
March 9, having lost 2 percent in the past 12 months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ahmed A Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  