-- Japan Remembers 3/11 Disaster, Faces Time-Consuming Recovery
-- B y   S t u a r t   B i g g s ,   K a n o k o   M a t s u y a m a   a n d   Y u j i   O k a d a
-- 2012-03-11T15:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-11/emperor-prays-trains-stop-as-japan-remembers-march-11-triple-disasters.html
Japan ’s Emperor led calls for Japan
to emerge stronger from the earthquake and tsunami that left
19,000 people dead or missing a year ago, amid warnings from
business leaders that reconstruction efforts are too slow.  Japan should “build a country where people can live
safely,” Emperor Akihito said during a speech at the National
Theater in  Tokyo  yesterday. The ceremony, one of hundreds taking
place to mark the anniversary of the disaster, was attended by
1,200 people including Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  and
families from the devastated Pacific coastline.  Twelve months after the magnitude-9 earthquake, more than
340,000 people are still living in temporary homes after a
tsunami as high as 39 meters (128 feet) washed away entire towns
and crippled a nuclear power plant. Only 6 percent of the 22.5
million tons of debris left by the water has been cleared, while
money allocated for reconstruction remains unspent due to
bureaucratic red-tape. Support for the government is slumping.  “The government’s activities haven’t progressed as fast as
we had hoped,”  Yasuchika Hasegawa , head of the Japan
Association of Corporate Executives and chief executive officer
of  Takeda Pharmaceutical Co. (4502) , said yesterday at a symposium
organized by the lobby group in Sendai, north of Tokyo. “The
recovery agency was only fully established last month, 11 months
after the disaster. I feel the recovery will be a very long,
time-consuming process.”  The disaster put the spotlight on Japan’s reliance on
nuclear power. The country may face an energy shortage of about
10 percent this summer without nuclear power, Noda said in a
press conference yesterday shown on national broadcaster NHK.
The government is still considering plans to deal with the
shortage, he said.  Exile From Fukushima  In Fukushima, where three reactors melted down at  Tokyo
Electric Power Co. (9501) ’s Dai-Ichi nuclear plant, residents face
decades away from their homes while the area is decontaminated.  The population of  Fukushima prefecture  may already have
fallen to 1.92 million from 2.02 million before March 11, and
could halve in the next 30 years, Hironori Saito, vice chairman
for the Fukushima Economic Research Institute, said at the
symposium in Sendai yesterday.  “This nuclear accident has had a tremendous impact on
agriculture, fisheries and tourism businesses,” Saito said.
“The big issue is how Fukushima’s population will change. More
than 160,000 people are unable to go back to their hometowns.”  Less than half of eligible households have applied for
compensation from Tokyo Electric because forms are too difficult
to understand, according to a survey by the government-backed
Nuclear Damage Liability Facilitation Fund.  ‘Forever Etched’  “The day of March 11th is forever etched on the hearts and
minds of every Tepco employee,” Toshio Nishizawa, president of
 Tokyo Electric , said in a statement yesterday. “All Tepco group
companies will further intensify their efforts to care for the
presently afflicted and provide the compensation due them in a
swift manner.”  About 30,000 people gathered in Tokyo’s Hibiya Park for a
one-minute silence at the “Peace on Earth” event, which
included celebrities such as Oscar-winning musician Ryuichi Sakamoto, organizers said. People listened to live music and
signed a petition to urge the government to abandon nuclear
power.  Only two of Japan’s 54 nuclear reactors remain online
following the accident in Fukushima, with the last scheduled to
be turned off for maintenance next month. Japan hasn’t decided
how to cut its nuclear dependence, Minister for Economy, Trade
and Industry Yukio Edano said last week.  Debris Disposal  Radiation fears are also hampering tsunami-hit regions
outside Fukushima. Residents around the country are blocking the
transportation and disposal of debris in their prefectures due
to potential contamination, preventing progress on
reconstruction, the Japan Association of Corporate Executives
said in a statement.  In Ishinomaki city, the 6 million tons of debris is
equivalent to about 120 years of its processing capacity.  The government plans to ask every prefecture, with the
exception of three in the disaster-hit Tohoku region, to accept
debris from the tsunami, Prime Minister Noda said yesterday.  Public support is below 20 percent for both the ruling
 Democratic Party  of Japan and the  Liberal Democratic Party , a
poll from NHK shows. The figures slid after the two focused on
leadership and election-timing battles instead of cooperating on
the post-quake recovery and food-safety standards.  DPJ support last month was at 17.6 percent, the first time
below 20 percent since the party formed in 1998, while the LDP’s
stood at 16.9 percent, according to a Feb. 10-13 NHK poll.
Levels have stayed below 20 percent since December. About half
of those polled said they don’t back any party.  Robust Towns  Towns and cities in Tohoku may be making a mistake by
rebuilding in a way that ignores the risk of tsunami, Sakamoto
said in an interview at the “Peace on Earth” event in Tokyo.  “We have to build more robust towns,” he said. “We can’t
bring them back to the shape they had before but we have to
think of a new way of building towns, new projects of
reconstruction that can adapt to the 21st century.”  Elsewhere in the capital, train services in Tokyo halted
temporarily to mark the anniversary.  Tokyu Corp. (9005) , which operates
bus and train services mainly in southwest Tokyo and  Kanagawa
prefecture (KANZ) , said it increased a planned stop to 4 minutes from 1
minute to allow passengers time for “silent prayers.”  Emperor Akihito called for Japan’s attention to remain on
the devastated region, to aid recovery efforts.  “It is my hope that the nation’s people will continue to
keep those affected by this disaster in their hearts as we
endeavor to improve conditions in the disaster zone,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stuart Biggs in Tokyo at 
 sbiggs3@bloomberg.net ;
Kanoko Matsuyama in Tokyo at 
 kmatsuyama2@bloomberg.net ;
Yuji Okada in Tokyo at 
 yokada6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Langan at 
 plangan@bloomberg.net  