-- Esmark Founder Bouchard Said to Agree to Buy HD Supply Unit
-- B y   S o n j a   E l m q u i s t   a n d   Z a c h a r y   R .   M i d e r
-- 2012-03-11T16:32:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-11/esmark-founder-bouchard-said-to-agree-to-buy-hd-supply-unit.html
Craig Bouchard, co-founder of
steelmaker Esmark Inc., is close to announcing a deal to buy HD
Supply Inc.’s pipe and valve distribution unit for about $500
million, said people with knowledge of the matter.  Bouchard plans to combine the business with his steel
distributor, Shale-Inland, said the people, who spoke on
condition of anonymity as the transaction hasn’t been disclosed.
TowerBrook Capital Partners LP, a New York-based private equity
firm, is investing in the combined company and will have a
majority stake, the people said.  The purchase gives Bouchard and TowerBrook a business that
sells industrial pipe, valves, and fittings for use in oil
refineries and power plants, with revenue of $569 million in the
year ended Jan. 30, 2011. Bouchard, 58, and his brother James
built Esmark into the fifth-biggest U.S. steelmaker through
acquisitions before selling it in 2008.  Bouchard founded Schiller Park, Illinois-based Shale-Inland
in 2010. Shale-Inland’s products include bumpers for Ford Motor
Co. vehicles and lids for cooking pans.  Quiana Pinckney, a spokeswoman for HD Supply, didn’t respond
to a request for comment outside regular business hours. Gemma Hart, an outside spokeswoman for Towerbrook, declined to comment.
TowerBrook is the former buyout arm of billionaire  George Soros ’s hedge fund firm. Spun off in 2005, the firm and manages
about $4.5 billion now, according to its website.  The Bouchards, sons of workers at Inland Steel Co., founded
Esmark in 2003 and built it through acquisitions, including the
hostile takeover of Wheeling-Pittsburgh Steel Corp. OAO
Severstal,  Russia ’s largest steel producer, bought Esmark for
$775 million in 2008.  HD Supply, based in Atlanta, is the former wholesale
distribution arm of  Home Depot Inc. (HD)  Private-equity firms Bain
Capital LLC, Carlyle Group LP and Clayton Dubilier & Rice LLC,
bought the company for $8.5 billion in 2007.  Deutsche Bank AG is advising HD Supply on the planned sale,
the people said, and  General Electric Co.’s (GE)  GE Capital unit is
providing financing to the buyers.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sonja Elmquist in New York at 
 Selmquist1@bloomberg.net ;
Zachary R. Mider in New York at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  