-- Euro Ministers Head Toward Final Approval of Second Greek Rescue
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e   a n d   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 2012-03-12T17:02:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-11/european-finance-ministers-set-to-approve-greek-aid-payout-examine-spain.html
Euro-area finance ministers will
move toward completing the next Greek bailout this week as they
meet in Brussels tonight.  Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker , who heads
the group of euro-region finance ministers, said he had “no
doubt” that a second bailout program for Greece would be
approved and he expected a final decision on March 14.  “As far as principles are concerned, there is no doubt
that the second Greek program will be approved,” Juncker said
today in Brussels before a meeting of the group.  Ministers from the 17 nations that share the euro are
gathering to review the 130 billion-euro ($170 billion) second
package for Greece after bondholders agreed last week to take a
loss on the country’s debt. They’re also looking at Spain’s
budget-cutting efforts and  Portugal ’s aid program, underscoring
their desire to prevent contagion.  Euro finance ministers agreed on March 9 that  Greece  had
met the terms for bailout funding and released 35.5 billion
euros in payments and interest to bondholders, while postponing
approval of the entire package.  Greek Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos said today that
he’s “very optimistic” the government will achieve 100 percent
participation in its debt swap with private investors.  ‘Full Implementation’  “I am very optimistic for a universal participation in the
PSI,” Venizelos said. “From our side, the target is now the
full implementation of the program and of course the return of
Greece to growth.”  The debt swap seeks to wipe more than 100 billion euros off
Greece’s books and contain an economic collapse in the country
as European overseers work to hold Greek leaders to their
commitments. The difficulties the government in  Athens  will
confront in meeting creditors’ demands have prompted speculation
that the country will need further assistance.  “Nobody can now exclude that Greece at a single moment may
need a third bailout,” German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  was cited as saying in an interview published in
Belgian newspaper De Morgen. “I have all confidence that the
measures that we have taken and that Greece must now implement -
- no simple exercise -- will bring the country on the road to
recovery.”  Firewalls  European leaders are due to tackle the prospect of
bolstering the region’s firewall later this month, a move that
has been opposed by  Germany . Pressure may increase after the
 International Monetary Fund  said it will scale back its aid to
Greece. Under Managing Director  Christine Lagarde , the IMF has
joined the U.S.,  Canada  and other nations in pressing European
leaders to do more to stave off the debt crisis.  Irish Finance Minister  Michael Noonan  said today that euro-
area firewalls are “very important” for his country.  “We always fear contagion from events outside our remit
and outside our control,” Noonan told reporters today.
“Firewalls in the future would be very important to us.”  Ministers today will also discuss Spain, where Prime
Minister  Mariano Rajoy  defied European Union allies by raising
the country’s 2012 budget-deficit goal after overshooting its
target last year. Rajoy earlier this month placed the target at
5.8 percent of gross domestic product from 4.4 percent.  The reasons for  Spain ’s fiscal slippage last year are
“perfectly clear,” Spanish Economy Minister Luis de Guindos
said after meeting with Schaeuble. De Guindos said he doesn’t
expect the euro-region ministers to issue a statement on Spain
after today’s session.  Spain expects to be able to clarify any misunderstandings
with European partners about the decision at the Brussels
meeting, a government official said on March 9. Spain is
committed to meeting next year’s target of 3 percent of GDP, the
official said, adding that Spain is unlikely to be sanctioned.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rebecca Christie in Brussels at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net ;
Rainer Buergin in Brussels at  rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  