-- Water Use by Farmers Will Rise 19% by 2050, UN Says
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2012-03-12T13:50:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-11/farmers-to-battle-water-scarcity-as-food-demand-grows-un-says.html
Farmers will need 19 percent more
water by 2050 to meet increasing demands for food, much of it in
regions already suffering from water scarcity, according to a
United Nations report.  “In many countries water availability for agriculture is
already limited and uncertain, and is set to worsen,” according
to the fourth United Nations World Water Development Report
published today. “Concerns about food insecurity are growing
across the globe and more water will be needed.”  The UN Food and Agriculture Organization has said food
output must rise 70 percent by 2050 to feed a world population
expected to grow to 9.3 billion from 7 billion now and as
increasingly rich consumers in developing economies eat more
meat. A quarter of world farmland is “highly degraded” by
intensive agriculture that has depleted water resources, reduced
soil quality or increased erosion, according to the agency.  The UN’s latest warning about water shortages comes as the
World Water Forum begins today in Marseille, where ministers,
industry representatives and non-government organizations will
discuss resource management, waste, health risks and  climate
change .  Fillon’s View  Mounting water shortages “are an unacceptable situation,”
French Prime Minister Francois Fillon told delegates in
Marseille, adding that while means exist to resolve water issues
indicators “like gross domestic product don’t reflect existing
problems.”  Agriculture accounts for about 70 percent of global
freshwater use and as much as 90 percent in some fast-growing
economies, according to the UN study. Groundwater can be “mined
to exhaustion” and in some areas availability has “reached
critical limits.”  “The scale of the problem could worsen,” Olcay Unver,
coordinator of the report, said at a press conference in Paris.
At least 12 countries in the  Middle East  and  South Asia  suffer
“absolute water scarcity,” with about two-thirds of freshwater
supply in the Middle East already coming from outside the
region.  Farming is the biggest cause of water stress in the Middle
East, and in Iraq, Oman, Syria and Yemen, it accounts for more
than 90 percent of usage, the UN said. The region already
imports as much as half its grain consumption and climate change
could cut agricultural productivity by a quarter by 2080.  Saudi Water  Saudi Arabia (SABIC)  is reducing grain production to reduce
unsustainable use of groundwater and encouraging companies to
lease tracts of land in  Africa  for growing, the report said.
 India  is growing maize, sugarcane, lentils and rice in  Ethiopia ,
 Kenya ,  Madagascar ,  Senegal  and  Mozambique  to feed its domestic
market.  “Acquiring rights to use land for growing in other
countries implies the right to use their water,” Unver said.
“Countries that can afford better technology can put additional
water stress where it already exists.”  Without new policies to manage water use, more than 40
percent of the world’s population will live in areas with high
water stress by 2050, according to the Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development, which also published a report ahead
of the Marseille conference.  Pricing Water  “We need to give water a price,” Xavier Leflaive, the
report’s author, said at a press conference in Paris.
“Governments have to act and in a strong way.”  The UN and OECD call for more efficient use of wastewater,
of which 80 percent is not collected or treated, according to
the UN.  “If we don’t take the challenge seriously we are on a
collision course with nature and in the end, what needs to be
done will take longer and cost more,”  Angel Gurria , secretary
general of the OECD, said in an interview in Marseille. Simple
methods such as lining irrigation canals would stop wastage, he
noted.  “Water tariffs are policy instruments that encourage more
intelligent use,” Leflaive said. “Industry more often pays for
the cost of water it consumes while farmers don’t.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Marseille at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  