-- Financial Repression Back to Stay: Carmen M. Reinhart
-- B y   C a r m e n   M .   R e i n h a r t
-- 2012-03-11T23:00:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-11/financial-repression-has-come-back-to-stay-carmen-m-reinhart.html
As they have before in the
aftermath of financial crises or wars, governments and central
banks are increasingly resorting to a form of “taxation” that
helps liquidate the huge overhang of public and private debt and
eases the burden of servicing that debt.  Such policies, known as financial repression, usually
involve a strong connection between the government, the central
bank and the financial sector. In the U.S., as in  Europe , at
present, this means consistent negative real interest rates
(yielding less than the rate of inflation) that are equivalent
to a tax on bondholders and, more generally, savers.  In the past, other measures also included directed lending
to the government by captive domestic entities (such as pension
funds or banks), explicit or implicit caps on  interest rates ,
regulation of cross-border capital movements, and (generally) a
tighter coordination between governments and banks, either
explicitly through public ownership of some institutions or
through heavy “moral suasion” by officials.  Central banks in both developed and developing countries
are being subjected to complementary pressures. Emerging markets
may increasingly look to financial regulatory measures to keep
international capital “out” (especially given the expansive
monetary policy stance pursued by the U.S. and Europe).
Meanwhile, advanced economies have incentives to keep capital
“in” and create a domestic captive audience to absorb the
financing for the high existing levels of public debt.  Common Cause  Concerned about potential overheating, rising inflationary
pressures and the related competitiveness issues, emerging-
market economies may continue to welcome changes in the
regulatory landscape that keep financial flows at home. Indeed,
this trend is already well under way. This concern means
advanced and emerging-market economies are finding  common cause 
in increased regulation and/or restrictions on international
financial flows and, more broadly, the return to more tightly
regulated domestic financial environments.  This scenario entails both a process of financial
deglobalization (the reappearance of home bias in finance) and
the re-emergence of more heavily regulated domestic financial
markets.  -- Public and Private Debt Overhang: Elevated levels of
public debt in the U.S. and elsewhere will probably be the most
enduring legacy of the post-2007 financial crises. For the
advanced economies, public debts had not approached these levels
since the end of World War II.  Figure 1 (attached), which traces the evolution of average
gross public debt for the 22 advanced economies from 1900 to
2011 demonstrates the magnitude of the policy challenges now
facing many (if not most) of these countries. However, these
numbers significantly understate the magnitude of the debt surge
in recent years by excluding record private borrowing --
particularly by banks -- which remains a major possible
contingent liability of governments.  Throughout history, debt-to-GDP ratios have been reduced in
five ways: economic growth, substantive fiscal adjustment or
austerity plans, explicit default or restructuring of private
and/or public debt, a surprise burst in inflation, and a steady
dose of financial repression that is accompanied by an equally
steady dose of inflation. It is critical to note that the last
two options -- inflation and financial repression -- are only
viable for domestic-currency debts (the euro area is a special
hybrid case).  Closed Channels  Some of these channels have been used in combination during
historical episodes of debt reduction. Fiscal adjustment,
however, is usually painful in the short run and politically
difficult to deliver. Debt restructuring leaves a troublesome
stigma and is also often associated with deep recessions.
Pretending that no restructuring will be necessary doesn’t make
the debt overhang disappear. For many, if not most, advanced
countries, concerns about those debt burdens will shape policy
choices for many years to come.  In this setting, monetary policy in the advanced economies
is likely to remain “overburdened” for some time.  Complicating the situation is the fact that the debt
overhang isn’t limited to the public sector, as it was
immediately after World War II. There is now a high degree of
leverage in the private sector, especially in the financial
industry and households. In addition, the recent buildup in
external leverage was greater than in past crises. This debt
overhang and the financial fragility it creates are a common
feature of most advanced economies, along with stubbornly high
unemployment. Concerns that higher real  interest rates  and
deflation will worsen an already precarious situation will
probably impose added constraints on monetary policy.  -- Negative Real Interest Rates, 1945-1980 and Post-2008:
One of the main goals of financial repression is to keep nominal
interest rates lower than would otherwise prevail. This effect,
other things being equal, reduces governments’ interest expenses
for a given stock of debt and contributes to  deficit reduction .
However, when financial repression produces negative real
interest rates and reduces or liquidates existing debts, it is a
transfer from creditors (savers) to borrowers and, in some
cases, governments.  This amounts to a tax that has interesting political-
economy properties. Unlike income, consumption or sales  taxes ,
the “repression” tax rate is determined by factors such as
financial regulations and inflation performance, which are
opaque -- if not invisible -- to the highly politicized realm of
fiscal policy. Given that  deficit reduction  usually involves
highly unpopular spending cuts and/or tax increases, the
“stealthier” financial-repression tax may be a more politically
palatable alternative.  Bretton Woods  Liberal capital-market regulations and international
capital mobility had their heyday before World War I, when the
gold standard was in force. However, the Great Depression,
followed by World War II, put an end to laissez-faire banking.
It was in this environment that the Bretton Woods arrangement of
fixed exchange rates and tightly controlled domestic and
international capital markets was conceived.  The result was a combination of very low nominal interest
rates and inflationary spurts of varying intensities across the
advanced economies. The obvious results were real interest rates
-- whether for Treasury bills (see attached Figure 2), central
bank discount rates, deposits or loans -- that were markedly
negative from 1945 to 1946.  For the next 35 years or so, real interest rates in both
advanced and emerging economies were, on average, negative.
Binding interest-rate ceilings on deposits (which kept real ex-
post deposit rates even more negative than real ex-post rates on
Treasury bills) “induced” domestic savers to hold  government
bonds . In addition to the effect of  capital controls , leakages
by investors in search of higher yields elsewhere were limited
because the incidence of negative returns on government bonds
and on deposits was, more or less, a universal phenomenon at
this time.  The frequency distributions of real rates for the period of
financial repression (1945 to 1980) and the years following
financial liberalization, shown in Figure 2, highlight the
universality of lower real interest rates prior to the 1980s and
the high incidence of negative real interest rates.  A striking feature of Figure 2, however, is that real ex-
post interest rates (shown for Treasury bills) for the advanced
economies have, once again, turned increasingly negative since
the outbreak of the crisis, and this trend has been
intensifying.  Real rates have been negative for about half of the
observations and below 1 percent for about 82 percent of the
observations. This turn to lower real interest rates has
occurred even though several sovereign borrowers have been
teetering on the verge of default or restructuring (with the
attendant higher risk premiums). Real ex-post central bank
discount rates and bank deposit rates have also become markedly
lower since 2007.  Negative Rates  Critical factors explaining the high incidence of negative
real interest rates after the crisis are the aggressively
expansive stance of monetary policy and heavy central bank
intervention in many advanced and emerging economies.  This raises the broad question of whether current interest
rates are more likely to reflect market conditions or whether
they are determined by the actions of official large players in
financial markets. A large role for non-market forces in
interest-rate determination is a central feature of financial
repression.  In the  U.S. Treasury market , the increasing role of
official players (or conversely the shrinking role of “outside
market players”) is made plain in Figure 3, which shows the
evolution from 1945 through 2010 of the share of “outside”
marketable U.S.  Treasury securities  plus those of so-called
government-sponsored enterprises, such as the mortgage companies
 Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac .  The combination of the  Federal Reserve ’s two rounds of
quantitative easing and, more importantly, record purchases of
U.S. Treasuries (and quasi-Treasuries, the government-sponsored
enterprises, or GSEs) by foreign central banks (notably  China )
has left the share of outside marketable Treasury securities at
almost 50 percent, and when GSEs are included, below 65 percent.  These are the lowest shares since the expansive monetary
policy stance of the U.S. regularly associated with the
breakdown of  Bretton Woods  in the early 1970s. That, too, was a
period  of rising oil, gold and commodity prices, negative real
interest rates, currency turmoil and, eventually, higher
inflation.  A similar situation prevails in the U.K., where the Bank of
England’s quantitative-easing policies since the crisis --
coupled with the requirement (since October 2009) that banks
hold a higher share of gilts in their portfolios to satisfy
tougher liquidity standards -- have reduced the share of
“outside” gilts to about 70 percent. If foreign official
holdings (by central banks) were included in this calculus, the
share of outside gilts would be considerably lower.  ECB Purchases  The  European Central Bank ’s purchases of the bonds of
 Greece , Ireland and Portugal amounted to about 76 billion euros
($100.9 billion) from May 2010 to March 2011 and account for
about 12 percent of the combined general government debts of
those three countries.  To summarize, central banks on both sides of the Atlantic
(and the Pacific, for that matter) have become even bigger
players in purchases of government debt, possibly for the
indefinite future. Meanwhile, fear of currency appreciation
continues to drive central banks in many  emerging markets  to
purchase U.S. (and, increasingly, European) government bonds on
a large scale. That means markets for government bonds are
increasingly populated by nonmarket players, calling into
question the information content of bond prices relative to
their underlying risk profile -- a common feature of financially
repressed systems.  -- Modern Financial Repression, 2008-2012: Advanced
economies face the common policy challenge of finding
prospective buyers for their abundance of government debt. Huge
purchases of such debt by central banks around the world have
played a clear role in keeping nominal and real interest rates
low. In addition, the Basel III rules provide for the
preferential treatment of government debt in bank balance
sheets.  Other approaches to creating or expanding demand for
government debt may be more direct. For example, at the height
of the financial crisis, U.K. banks were required to hold a
larger share of gilts in their portfolio. Figure 4 documents how
Greek, Irish and Portuguese banks among others have already
increased their exposures to domestic public debt.  Thus, the process where debts are being “placed” at below
market interest rates in pension funds and other more captive
domestic financial institutions is under way in several
countries in Europe.  Spain  recently reintroduced a de facto form
of interest-rate ceilings on  bank deposits .  It is difficult to sort out the exact motivations, but as
bank deposits have migrated from the periphery countries in
Europe to Germany and Scandinavia, among others, the amount of
disclosure, red tape and other requirements that are necessary
to make such transfers has been on the rise. Although some of
these requirements may be motivated by a government’s desire to
curb  money laundering  and  tax evasion , the measures also amount,
in some cases, to administrative capital controls.  Similar trends are emerging in Eastern Europe. The pension
reform adopted by the Polish parliament in March 2011 has been
criticized by the Polish Confederation of Private Employers,
which said the proposal is intended to hide part of the state’s
debt by grabbing the money of the insured and passing the buck
to future governments. Hungary has nationalized its prefunded
pension plans and excluded the cost of the reforms from public
debt figures. Bulgaria has taken similar measures.  Faced with a private and public domestic debt overhang of
historic proportions, policy makers will be preoccupied with
debt reduction, debt management, and, in general, efforts to
keep debt-servicing costs manageable.  In this setting, financial repression in its many
guises (with its dual aims of keeping interest rates low and
creating or maintaining captive domestic audiences) will
probably find renewed favor and will likely be with us for a
long time.  (Carmen M. Reinhart, a senior fellow at the Peterson
Institute for International Economics in  Washington , is the
author, with Kenneth S. Rogoff, of “This Time is Different:
Eight Centuries of Financial Folly.” This  commentary  draws on
work with  Jacob F. Kirkegaard  and  M. Belen Sbrancia . The
opinions expressed are her own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
Carmen M. Reinhart in Washington at  creinhart@piie.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 