-- Fukushima Evacuees Run Into Tepco Red Tape, ‘Sponger’ Web Attack
-- B y   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a   a n d   Y u j i   O k a d a
-- 2012-03-11T15:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-11/fukushima-evacuees-run-into-tepco-red-tape-sponger-attacks-on-payments.html
Less than half of the evacuees from
the Fukushima nuclear crisis have filed for compensation from
 Tokyo Electric Power Co. (9501)  because the application forms are too
complex, a survey shows.  One year after the nuclear disaster, 57 percent of
Fukushima evacuees still haven’t applied, according to the
survey by the government-backed Nuclear Damage Liability
Facilitation Fund. Applicants had difficulty in understanding
the forms, according to the  survey  made public on March 8.  The survey revives criticism of the power utility from
September when it sent out 60,000 compensation packages,
including a 56-page claim form to be filled in by each applicant
and a 156-page booklet to explain the claim form.  Inquiries to a government help center about compensation
claims almost doubled to 260 in December from a month earlier,
according to a Jan. 30  report  from the help center. Futaba Town
in the no-go zone around the Fukushima plant has issued its own
claim forms to help residents appeal to the dispute center.  “In direct negotiations, Tepco insists on its compensation
rules and make no concessions,” the report said.  “There is a
growing trend that Tepco refuses compensation for damages that
aren’t specified in the government’s interim guidelines, without
considering individual situations.”  Not Accepted  The survey by the government’s compensation fund said the
second-most common reason for not filing claims with the utility
known as Tepco was dissatisfaction with the guidelines and the
amounts of compensation.  “Even if I negotiate with Tepco directly, they absolutely
would not accept all of my claim,” said Masaki Otsuka, a 52-
year-old Futaba town resident who now lives in temporary housing
in Fukushima city.  Tepco is working on improving the process to reduce the
burden on those seeking compensation, Tsuyoshi Shiraishi, a
spokesman for the utility, said by phone on March 9. The utility
sent supplementary instructions in October, he said.  “The day of March 11th is forever etched on the hearts and
minds of every Tepco employee,” Tepco President Toshio Nishizawa said in a statement yesterday. “All Tepco group
companies will further intensify their efforts to care for the
presently afflicted and provide the compensation due them in a
swift manner.”  Helping Victims  The government is preparing a Tepco bailout package of as
much as 11 trillion yen ($135 billion), the largest in  Japan 
since the rescue of the banking industry in the 1990s, after the
March 11 quake and tsunami crippled the Fukushima Dai-Ichi
nuclear station.  As part of the package, Trade and Industry Minister  Yukio Edano  last month approved 689.4 billion yen in extra financial
support to help the utility make compensation payments.  “Helping the victims is our top priority,” Edano told
Tepco’sNishizawa and ordered the utility to improve its
compensation payment system in a Feb. 13 meeting.  Reiko Hachisuka, the head of the Okuma town’s chamber of
commerce and industry, said she’s infuriated with Tepco because
of the complicated compensation process and ignorance about the
circumstances of evacuees.  “I told them ’If you think you are giving money to
charity, you are making a big mistake,’” Hachisuka, 59, said in
an interview last month in a temporary dwelling in Aizuwakamatsu
city, about 94 kilometers west of her hometown.  Also worrying is that evacuees are being attacked by
anonymous postings on Internet chat boards for “sponging” off
the government, she said.  “Some people on the Internet call us  spongers , but for
people like us living with nothing, money is essential,” she
said. “We have left everything behind.”  Complaints Surge  At the government’s help center, the number of complaints
may surge as the utility last week started sending compensation
packages to residents who voluntarily left their homes. About
1.5 million people are eligible for payments for voluntary
evacuation, according to the Ministry of Education, Culture,
Sports, Science, and Technology.  Tepco has received a total of 680 billion yen in financial
support from the government. It has paid 428.2 billion yen in
compensation by March 2, it  said  in a statement on its website.
Of that, 151.5 billion yen was paid to individuals.  The government-backed bailout fund surveyed 2,252
households between Nov. 19 and Feb. 26 to investigate why the
number of compensation claims filed to Tepco failed to increase,
it said. Of the respondents, 1,279 households, or 57 percent,
haven’t filed claims, according to the survey.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tsuyoshi Inajima in Tokyo at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net ;
Yuji Okada in Tokyo at 
 yokada6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Langan at 
 plangan@bloomberg.net  