-- Gingrich Says He Won’t Step Aside, Will Win This Week
-- B y   C o t t e n   T i m b e r l a k e   a n d   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 2012-03-11T14:36:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-11/gingrich-says-he-won-t-acquiesce-to-santorum-will-win-this-week.html
Republican presidential candidate
 Newt Gingrich  says he won’t step aside for fellow conservative
 Rick Santorum . The former U.S. House Speaker also predicted he
would win the Alabama and Mississippi primaries.  “I think we are pulling ahead in both states,” Gingrich
said from Birmingham today on “Fox News Sunday.” He said he
wouldn’t drop out to help Santorum because the fellow Republican
ran up budget deficits and made compromises while he was a U.S.
senator from  Pennsylvania .  “I went to work to change  Washington ,” Gingrich said.
“This is somebody who had Washington change him. He had to go
along. I am not running to go along to get along.”  With Santorum and Gingrich each seeking momentum for their
candidacies with wins in this week’s Southern primaries, a vote
split between the pair might mainly benefit presidential front-
runner  Mitt Romney . Santorum supporters have urged Gingrich to
quit the race to consolidate the anti-Romney vote.  Romney has secured 453 of the 1,144 delegates needed to win
the nomination, including endorsements from Republican Party
leaders who automatically attend and can vote for anyone,
compared with 217 for Santorum, according to AP estimates.
Mississippi and Alabama together will send 90 delegates to the
Republican nominating convention in August.  Gingrich has won two primaries -- in  South Carolina  on Jan.
21 and in his home state of Georgia on March 6. Santorum, who
won the Kansas caucuses yesterday, has said his goal is to have
the Republican race become a two-person contest following the
 Alabama  and Mississippi primaries.  On Fox, Gingrich emphasized the “energy independence”
centerpiece theme of his campaign, promising to reduce gasoline
prices to $2.50 a barrel in two years, perhaps sooner, by
immediately proceeding with the Keystone oil pipeline as well as
drilling off the coasts of Texas and Louisiana. He said he is
aiming for “independence of the Middle East” so that the U.S.
doesn’t have to “bow to the Saudi king.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cotten Timberlake in Washington at 
 ctimberlake@bloomberg.net ;
Timothy R. Homan in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  