-- Glencore in $5.49 Billion Bid for Viterra, Telegraph Says
-- B y   S i m o n   C a s e y   a n d   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 2012-03-11T16:38:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-11/glencore-makes-5-49-billion-bid-for-grain-handler-viterra-telegraph-says.html
Glencore International Plc (GLEN)  made a
3.5 billion-pound ($5.49 billion) bid for  Viterra Inc. (VT) ,  Canada ’s
largest grain handler, The Sunday Telegraph reported, without
saying where it got the information.  The approach prompted a March 9 statement from Viterra,
saying the company had received expressions of interest from
third parties, the London-based newspaper said.  Chief Executive Officer Ivan Glasenberg wants to add
Viterra to Glencore’s expanding grain business even as the
trading company seeks to complete a takeover of Swiss metals and
coal producer  Xstrata Plc (XTA) , the Telegraph said. Glencore, the
largest publicly traded commodities trader, is offering 27.7
billion pounds in stock to acquire Xstrata in what would be the
world’s biggest mining takeover.  “Investors would be pleased to see they’re not missing
opportunities despite the larger merger,” London-based Fairfax
IS analyst  John Meyer  said in a telephone interview today. “If
Xstrata doesn’t happen, they’re getting on with growing the
business anyway.”  Holly Gibney, a spokeswoman for Viterra of Regina,
Saskatchewan, declined to comment. A spokesman for Baar,
Switzerland-based Glencore declined to comment when contacted by
Bloomberg News today.  Monopoly Ending  Buying Viterra would give Glencore the largest share of the
Canadian grain-handling market just as the Canadian Wheat
Board’s monopoly over wheat and barley grown in the west of the
country comes to an end. Viterra’s share of Canadian grain-
handling may rise to almost 50 percent in the next few years
from 45 percent, its Chief Executive Officer Mayo Schmidt said
in an interview on March 8.  Viterra said in January it expects to increase grain
volumes and earnings after the board’s control of supplies ends.
The Canadian government passed a law in December that will end
the monopoly and give farmers the choice to sell to other buyers
as of Aug. 1.  A deal with Glencore might also help the company’s
agricultural business to return to profit after a “difficult
year” said Fairfax’s Meyer. Moving into storage of wheat and
other logistics beyond just trading grains would likely help
boost their margins, he said.  Glencore said Feb. 7 that 2011 adjusted earnings before
interest and tax from its agricultural trading unit swung to an
$8 million loss from a $659 million profit a year earlier after
experiencing an “unprecedented cotton market.”  Gavilon Bid  Shares of Viterra rose 24 percent to C$13.58 in Toronto on
March 9 following the company’s statement, boosting its market
value to C$5.05 billion. Glencore climbed 0.9 percent to 409
pence in London trading.  As well as being a potential acquisition target, Viterra is
considering making a takeover offer of its own. Viterra and
Glencore are among companies exploring a bid for U.S. grain-
storage company Gavilon Group LLC, people familiar with the
matter said March 6.  Gavilon may also bid for Viterra, Fairfax’s Meyer said.  Viterra is based in the same province as  Potash Corp. (POT)  of
Saskatchewan Inc., which in 2010 fended off a $40 billion
hostile bid from  Australia ’s  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  The Canadian
government blocked BHP’s bid, saying the sale of the world’s
largest fertilizer company wouldn’t provide a “net benefit” to
the nation.  Canadian Review  Under Canada’s foreign-takeover legislation, known as the
Investment Canada Act, foreign acquisitions of companies with
assets worth more than C$312 million ($315 million) are reviewed
by the federal government to determine whether the transaction
is a “net benefit” to the country.  The federal government should block any foreign takeover of
Viterra under that law, just as it did with BHP, Pat Martin, a
New Democratic Party lawmaker, said by telephone on March 9.  Richard Walker, a spokesman for  Industry Canada , deferred
comment to colleagues at Canada’s agriculture ministry.
Agriculture Minister Gerry Ritz declined to comment on the
possible deal through his spokeswoman Meagan Murdoch.  “What I can say is that western Canadian farmers now have
the freedom to market their own grain based on what is best for
their own business, whether that’s on the open market or through
the viable Canadian Wheat Board,” Ritz said in an e-mail.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Simon Casey in New York at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net ;
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  