-- Greenland Ice Sheet More Sensitive to Global Warming Than Previously Known
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2012-03-11T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-11/greenland-ice-sheet-more-sensitive-to-global-warming-than-previously-known.html
Greenland’s ice sheet is more
sensitive to global warming than previously thought and may
already be approaching a critical threshold, researchers in
Spain and  Germany  found.  The ice sheet may lose its ability to grow once warming
reaches 1.6 degrees Celsius (2.9 degrees Fahrenheit) since pre-
industrial times, according to a study today in  Nature Climate
Change . That’s below the previous best estimate of 3.1 degrees,
the scientists at  Madrid ’s Complutense University and Germany’s
Potsdam Institute for Climate Impact Research found.  “We might already be approaching the critical threshold,”
Alexander Robinson, the paper’s lead author and an academic
affiliated with both institutions, said in an e-mailed
statement. “The more we exceed the threshold, the faster it
melts.”  The  United Nations  estimates the Greenland ice sheet
contains enough water to raise global sea levels by about seven
meters (23 feet), threatening coastal cities from  New York  to
London and Bangkok. Even so, the researchers said it could take
thousands of years for the entire sheet to melt.  Temperatures have warmed 0.8 degree since industrialization
began in the 18th century, an increase that marks the lower
limit of the 0.8 degree to 3.2 degree range of uncertainty
within which the melt threshold could be reached, according to
the paper.  With 2 degrees of warming, it would take 50,000 years to
melt the ice sheet, the scientists said. At 4 degrees, the time
frame decreases to 8,000 years, and at 8 degrees, it’s 2,000
years.  The researchers used computer models that were able to
replicate past growth and shrinkage of the Greenland ice sheet
to project what might happen in the future.  They factored in the effects of melting of the 3,000-meter
thick ice sheet below certain altitude thresholds, which makes
refreezing less likely, even with a return to previous
temperatures. They also included the warming effect caused by
exposure of dark land and sea areas that absorb more light
rather than reflect it, as ice does.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  