-- Greek Students Fight Stray Dogs and Despair Amid College Cuts
-- B y   O l i v e r   S t a l e y
-- 2012-03-11T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-11/greece-s-students-fighting-stray-dogs-and-despair-amid-college-budget-cuts.html
In the universities of Athens, the
city where Plato taught and Cicero studied, campuses are covered
in anarchist graffiti, stray dogs run through buildings and
students take lessons in Swedish with the aim of emigrating.  Higher education in  Greece , as in much of Europe, has been
battered by the recession and austerity measures. Budget cuts of
23 percent since 2009 mean buildings aren’t heated in the
winter, schools have slashed faculty salaries and newly hired
professors can wait more than a year to be appointed. Students
say it’s hard to be hopeful with youth unemployment surpassing
50 percent and protesters seizing university buildings.  “People are pessimistic and sad,” said Konstantinos
Markou, a 19-year-old law student, speaking in a lobby at the
 University of Athens , where dogs fought nearby and students say
drug dealers and users congregate. “The sadness is all around 
the air.”  Public spending on universities has been cut across the
region, with  Italy , Greece,  Hungary  and the U.K. seeing
reductions of more than 10 percent since 2008, according to the
 European University Association  in Brussels. The cuts are
especially damaging for countries in southern Europe
transitioning from low-productivity economies based on
agriculture and light manufacturing to knowledge-based economies
that demand an educated workforce, said  Gayle Allard , an
economist who studies employment trends at IE Business School in
 Madrid .  “For an economy like Italy or Spain or Greece, higher
education is a driver for turning yourself into a high-
productivity economy,” Allard said in an interview. “They’ve
got to break through this and that’s why education is more
important for them than for other countries.”  ‘Grim Prescription’  Universities in southern  Europe  trail those of their
northern neighbors and the U.S. in global rankings. In the Times
Higher Education 2011-2012 table of the world  Top 400 
universities, Pompeu Fabra University in Barcelona, at 186, is
the highest- ranked southern European school. The University of
Crete -- in the band of 276 to 300 -- is the only Greek
institution on the list. The  California Institute of Technology ,
in  Pasadena , is the top school.  There is a connection between investing in higher education
and economic growth, said Thomas Estermann, heads of the funding
and governance unit at the European University Association,
which numbers 850 members in 47 countries including universities
and groups related to higher education. For countries desperate
for growth, cutting education spending “is a pretty grim
prescription,” he said in an interview.  As universities in Greece reduce salaries and slow hiring,
young academics are rethinking their careers there, said
Leonidas Karakatsanis, 39, who received his Ph.D. in political
science last year from the University of Essex in  England  and
has a research fellowship at Panteion University in Athens.  Job Prospects Slim  “My initial plan was to spend some years abroad and return
back to Greece,” Karakatsanis said. “Now it seems like it’s
impossible to return to Greece. I’m starting to imagine myself
living abroad for the next 15 to 20 years.”  Professors at Greek universities are civil servants paid by
the state and their wages aren’t tied to their productivity.  Greece is facing its fifth straight year of economic
contraction and the country will be further hobbled by austerity
measures linked to its financial bailout by the European Union
and the  International Monetary Fund . On March 1, to help secure
a 130 billion euro ($171 billion) loan package, the Greek
parliament approved a 3.2 billion-euro spending-cut plan that
includes reductions in pensions and wages for government
employees.  Undergraduates are worried about the job market when they
graduate. The  unemployment rate  for active job seekers from 15
to 24 years old was 51 percent in December, according to the
government’s  statistics service . For all ages, it was 21
percent.  Angry and Disappointed  Elizabeth Iounnou, 22, an architecture student at the
 National Technical University  of  Athens , said that many of last
year’s graduates don’t have permanent jobs and that she worries
about her prospects. Her parents are suffering after a 20
percent pay cut “and when the time comes for us to work, it
will be worse,” she said.  The blame lies with politicians, and those that benefitted
from a corrupt political system, who stole her future, Iounnou
said.  “It is unfair,” she said. “I am angry and most of all I
am disappointed.”  Many students are hoping to study and eventually work
abroad. Nancy Athanasopoulou, 20, a law student, is taking
Swedish lessons with the hope of living and working in  Sweden .
In her language class of 20, only three plan to stay in Greece,
she said.  “The whole class is planning on leaving for Sweden,”
Athanasopoulou said. “We hear it has a good economy, good
salary, good working conditions.”  1970s Legacy  Greek universities face issues that go beyond financing,
students, professors and administrators say.  The higher-education system is a legacy of the student-led
revolt against the 1970s dictatorship, said Dimitri
Sotiropoulos, an associate professor of political science at the
University of Athens.  “In Europe, and in southern Europe in particular,
universities were always the hub of reform movements and even
revolutionary movements,” Sotiropoulos said in an interview.
“It was the only space where antifascist intellectuals could
express opinions.”  As a result, Greek students have a significant role in the
governance and administration of the universities, including a
say in the hiring of the rectors in charge, Sotiropoulos said.
That power is often exploited by political parties, which have
large and active youth branches, to fight reform, he said.  Low Graduation Rate  Greeks attend university and vocational schools at a higher
rate than students in  Germany ,  Spain  or  Switzerland , with 43
percent of college-aged Greeks enrolled in 2007, the most recent
year that statistics were available from the  Organization of
European Cooperation and Development  in Paris. Yet only 18
percent graduate, one of the lowest rates in Europe.  Greek students pay no tuition, a fact enshrined in the
constitution, so there’s no incentive to leave college, said
Alan Ruby, a senior fellow for international education at the
 University of Pennsylvania  in Philadelphia.  “Greece has a high consumption of higher education without
effective application,” Ruby said. “It’s not being used in
economically productive terms. The state is not getting a return
on investment.”  No Police  Another legacy of the 1970s youth movement was a
prohibition against police entering campus. Originally intended
to protect student protesters from police brutality, it meant
drug dealers and users could find asylum on campuses,
Sotiropoulos said. While that law was overturned last year, the
deans must invite police on campus, and because the deans were
elected by students, they are loath to do so, he said.  Greek higher education badly needs reform to create a
system that responds to the needs of Greece’s economy, said Anna Diamantopoulou, the former education minister who was named
minister of development and shipping on March 6. The government
is now trying to forge links between academia and private
industry, and encourage research collaborations outside Greece,
she said.  “Among the huge mistakes of our political system and
economy, one of our biggest was at the university,”
Diamantopoulou said in an interview at the education ministry.
“We lost excellence and inspiration.”  One government initiative is to capitalize on Athens’s
heritage and open a center for the study of philosophy to
attract foreign students, she said.  “We want to use philosophy as a national product,” she
said.  Larger Struggle  Legislation that passed in August by a wide majority
reduces the power of students, subjects professors to research
audits and, for the first time, creates outside governance
councils, all of which will help break up the calcified system,
Diamantopoulou said.  “What we want to see, what the Greek people want to see,
is Greek universities among the best in Europe,” she said.  While the reforms are desperately needed, the timing means
they are being lost in Greece’s larger struggle over austerity
measures, Sotiropoulos said.  “The restructuring has coincided with widespread
resistance to the new economic policies and to any policy that
looks like it,” he said.  Students are fighting the moves to limit their power, and
physically blocked voters from casting ballots that would create
the new councils, Sotiropoulos said. Rectors have no incentive
to force the changes, he said.  Not everyone agrees that the measures will work, especially
in the middle of a greater financial crisis.  ‘Reform Fatigue’  “Greece suffers from reform fatigue,” said Dimitris
Plantzos, an assistant professor of history and archeology, who
is taking a job at the University of Athens. “The idea to start
something new when the economy is collapsing doesn’t make
sense.”  The government is overreaching and trying to do too much
when more fundamental problems need to be solved, said Plantzos,
who received his Ph.D. at the University of Oxford in England.
The nation can’t hope to build elite universities until it can
provide a basic education, he said.  “Here in Greece, we cannot be Oxford and Cambridge,”
Plantzos said. “We need to pay our electricity bills first.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oliver Staley in London at 
 ostaley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lisa Wolfson at 
 lwolfson@bloomberg.net  