-- Greece Will Suffer Less If It Leaves Euro Now: Megan Greene
-- B y   M e g a n   G r e e n e
-- 2012-03-11T23:00:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-11/greece-will-suffer-less-if-it-leaves-euro-now-commentary-by-megan-greene.html
The mood on the ground in
 Athens  has shifted palpably over the past few months.
Everyone has firsthand stories of sorrow and bitterness to
tell, as austerity measures bite. They speak of retired
parents on rapidly shrinking pensions struggling to meet
higher taxes and prices, or of young siblings with multiple
masters degrees forced to work in  call centers  or cafes.  Despite this clear sense of despair and anger, the
vast majority of Greek citizens and politicians continue to
think that the alternative to austerity -- default and a
euro-area exit -- would be far worse. But this will -- and
should -- change because leaving the euro is the lesser
evil for Greece.  Returning to the drachma would be ignominious, an
admission of political failure. But, contrary to popular
belief, it need not destroy the country and may be the only
realistic way of spurring the kinds of structural reforms
that are essential if  Greece  is to make a lasting recovery.  Greece faces a stark choice about how to return to
growth. It can continue along its current path of endless
austerity aimed at engineering an internal devaluation. For
a country that cannot control its exchange rates, this is
the only way to regain competitiveness relative to other
countries.  Decade of Depression  This option would probably involve a decade of
depression and is therefore likely to be politically
untenable. Greece has a relatively recent history of
profound civil unrest, which could return. The protests
currently being staged in Syntagma Square are not nearly
the caliber of those Greece knew during its period of
military dictatorship. Reforms would be fought at every
turn and things could get much worse.     The alternative to
internal devaluation is for Greece to default on its debts
and abandon the common currency. A new drachma would
depreciate massively, boosting Greece’s competitiveness
almost overnight.  Exiting the euro area is not an easy option. It would
spark a sovereign default, a run on banks, bank defaults
and  capital controls . But increasingly, these things look
like they may happen in Greece whether the country sticks
with the euro or not. If all the worst effects of
abandoning the euro are likely to happen regardless, then
Greece may as well benefit from a nominal devaluation.  Many Greeks argue that their country does not have any
export industries that could gain from such a nominal
 currency devaluation . The biggest industry -- shipping --
books almost all of its profits offshore, so making
shipping cheaper would hardly benefit the Greek economy.  Still, Greece has a vibrant  tourism industry  that
contributes about 18 percent of gross domestic product and
has lost business to cheaper holiday destinations in  Turkey 
and North Africa. Agriculture, manufacturing and
pharmaceuticals are also sizeable Greek export industries.
All of these sectors -- and therefore GDP growth generally
-- would benefit if relative prices on Greece’s products
and services were to plummet.  In addition, there’s no reason to believe Greece would
be left without a financial lifeline if it exited the euro
area. Its departure would be handled like a divorce, in
which Greece and the so-called troika -- the  European
Central Bank , the European Commission and the  International
Monetary Fund  -- acknowledge that their relationship no
longer works. The troika would provide some bridge
financing to ease the turmoil that an exit would inevitably
entail for Greece.  Post Default Lifeline  This financing would continue to be conditional on the
same structural reforms that the three institutions are
currently demanding. After a default and euro-area exit,
however, the Greek government would have much greater
incentives to deliver.  Currently, the cost of failure to reform is criticism
from the troika and demands for more austerity. After a
default and euro exit, failure to reform would probably
mean a loss of bridge financing at a time when it was
urgently needed to cushion a financial shock. That could
trigger dire consequences. Greece could succumb to severe
social unrest. The country is not self-sufficient in food -
- if hyperinflation were allowed to set in, food shortages
and malnutrition could ensue.  The threat of such a prospect might finally provide
the impetus for a Greek government to get down to doing the
hard work of structural reform, not because outsiders are
telling them to, but because Greeks themselves see the
options and commit to reforms.  This process is crucial if Greece aspires to healthy
and sustained rates of economic growth. Too much of the
economy is tied up in red tape. Doing business has to be
made easier.  One example of the bureaucracy involved in
running an enterprise in Greece is a new bookstore-cafe I
visited recently in Athens. The owner had spent almost a
year jumping through the hoops required to open her
business, now a month old. I ordered a coffee at the cafe
and the waitress walked immediately over to the bar across
the street to pick one up. Despite months of trying, the
owner had been unable to get a license to make coffee on
the premises. Shortly after, I watched a customer get
turned away when she tried to purchase a book. It was 6:05
p.m., and it is illegal to sell books after 6 p.m. in
Athens. I was in a bookstore-cafe that could neither make
coffee nor sell books.  Doing business in Greece involves layers of
bureaucracy, which provides guaranteed incomes for
cushioned professions such as notaries, lawyers, tax
collectors, architects and inspectors, but produces little
value. At least half of the members in the Greek parliament
hail from these professions and consequently are
incentivized to perpetuate a status quo that impedes
launching, running or finding investment for businesses.  On my recent visit to Athens, a number of bright,
young, foreign-educated Greeks spoke to me about their
hopes of forming new political movements, untainted by the
main Pasok and New Democracy parties. When I asked why this
has yet to happen, they responded that Greece must sink
further before it will be ready to revive itself.  “We are all on the sidelines, waiting for Greece to
hit bottom,” one young man said to me. “We do not want to
mobilize and get involved now because the house of cards
could come crashing down on top of us. We will wait until
the collapse has happened and then we can finally start
rebuilding anew.”  It is hard to imagine Greece’s current political class
facing up to the country’s huge problems without the threat
of economic collapse as the alternative. Nor are there
obvious signs of new blood coming through the established
ranks. But a Greek default and exit may trigger the
emergence of a desperately needed new breed of politicians.  (Megan Greene is head of European economics at Roubini
Global Economics. Read more from Greene at
www.economistmeg.com.  The opinions expressed are her own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
Megan Greene at  megangreene01@yahoo.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Marc Champion at  mchampion7@bloomberg.net  