-- IBM Tapping ‘Gusher of Data’ to Reach 2015 Targets, CEO Says
-- B y   B e t h   J i n k s
-- 2012-03-12T17:15:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-11/ibm-well-on-track-to-achieve-2015-growth-targets-new-ceo-says.html
International Business Machines
Corp. (IBM)  is tapping a “gusher of data” to achieve its 2015 growth
targets, Chief Executive Officer Virginia “Ginni” Rometty said
in her first annual letter to shareholders.  The world’s largest computer-services provider is “well on
track” to its goal of generating at least $20 a share in
operating earnings by 2015, up from $13.44 last year, Rometty
reiterated in the 2011  annual report  published over the weekend.  Rometty became the first female CEO in the company’s 100-
year history in January. She succeeded  Sam Palmisano , inheriting
a five-year plan that includes boosting software to half of
IBM’s earnings, with a focus on programs that help businesses
analyze and project trends, as well as on cloud computing and
emerging growth markets. Palmisano remains as chairman.  “We are uniquely positioned to deliver the benefits of a
vast new natural resource -- a gusher of data from both man-made
and natural systems that can now be tapped to help businesses
and institutions succeed in an increasingly complex and dynamic
global economy,” Rometty wrote. “Our strong strategic
positioning, solid balance sheet, recurring revenue, robust
profit streams and unmatched global reach give us confidence
that we will achieve success in the next five years.”  IBM  rose  0.2 percent to $200.96 at 1:13 p.m.  New York  time.
Last week, the Armonk, New York-based company’s shares closed
above $200 for the first time, factoring in stock splits.  Job Cuts  IBM will continue to make  acquisitions  and divestitures and
“invest in market opportunities and drive productivity,”
according to the annual report. The company said “workforce
rebalancing charges,” which includes job cuts, will increase
this year to the level they were in 2010.  “The company will continue to rebalance its workforce to
opportunities and skills aligned with its key investments and
hire resources to drive growth initiatives,” IBM said.  IBM didn’t provide details of job cuts. In 2010, it booked
$641 million of “workforce rebalancing charges.” That figure
fell to $440 million in 2011, the annual report shows.  About 1,650 jobs were cut in the U.S. and  Canada  last
month, according to an employee advocacy group  Alliance@IBM ,
which has been trying to organize IBM employees. Redundant
employees may apply for other positions within IBM, severance
documents show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Beth Jinks in New York at 
 bjinks1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net . 