-- Tiger Woods Withdraws With Left Leg Injury During Final Round of Cadillac
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-03-11T23:42:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-11/tiger-woods-withdraws-with-left-leg-injury-during-final-round-of-cadillac.html
Tiger Woods  withdrew from golf’s
Cadillac Championship because of tightness in his left Achilles
tendon, putting his appearance in next month’s Masters
Tournament in question.  Woods said after pulling out of the World Golf
Championships event after 11 holes of today’s final round that
he’ll have the injury examined early this week.  “I felt tightness in my left Achilles warming up this
morning and it continued to get progressively worse,” Woods
said in an e-mailed statement. “After hitting my tee shot at 12,
I decided it was necessary to withdraw.”  Woods has had four operations during his career on his left
knee, most recently in 2008 when he had reconstructive surgery
to repair a torn anterior cruciate ligament. He missed the U.S.
and British Opens last season after injuring his left knee and
Achilles tendon at the  Masters Tournament .  “In the past, I may have tried to continue to play,”
Woods said in his statement today. “This time I decided to do
what I thought was necessary.”  Woods was playing in his third straight event on the U.S.
PGA Tour, less than a month before the Masters, golf’s first
major championship of the season. His next scheduled tournament
is the Arnold Palmer Invitational in Orlando, Florida, from
March 22-25.  The Masters is scheduled for April 5-8 at Augusta National
Golf Club in Augusta, Georgia, and Woods was listed this week as
a 5-1 favorite by the Las Vegas Hotel & Casino’s sportsbook.  Woods, whose 14 major titles trail only  Jack Nicklaus ’s 18,
was 6-under par for the tournament and 3-over for the final
round when he stopped playing today.  He changed shoes after completing nine holes at the TPC
Blue Monster course at the Doral Golf Resort and Spa in Miami
and made bogeys on three of his final five holes.  After hitting his tee shot on the par-5 12th hole, Woods
was taken on a  golf cart  directly from the course to the parking
lot. He got in a courtesy car with caddie  Joe LaCava , received
ice packs from PGA Tour medical personnel and left the property.  Sex Scandal  Woods won the most recent of his 71  PGA Tour  events in
September 2009, two months before a one-vehicle accident near
his Florida home led to revelations of extramarital affairs and
the end of his marriage.  He took a break of almost three months last season
following the Masters, where he tied for fourth and hurt his
left knee and Achilles tendon. After sitting out the next two
major championships, Woods missed the cut for weekend play at
the  PGA Championship .  Woods helped the U.S. capture the Presidents Cup team
competition in Australia and won a limited-field tournament he
hosts in  California  in December, his lone stroke-play victory
over the past two years.  He tied for third in his 2012 season-opening event in  Abu
Dhabi  in January and was runner-up alongside Tom Gillis at the
Honda Classic March 4 after shooting a final-round 62.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 