-- India Ends Cotton-Export Ban on Growers, China Protest
-- B y   T u s h a r   D h a r a   a n d   P r a t i k   P a r i j a
-- 2012-03-12T07:23:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-11/india-decides-to-end-cotton-export-ban-after-protests-from-growers-china.html
India , the world’s second-biggest
cotton producer, scrapped a one-week-old ban on exports after
protests from growers, traders and  China , the nation’s largest
customer. Prices dropped.  “Keeping in view the interests of the farmers, industry,
trade, a balanced view has been considered by the Group of
Ministers to roll back the ban,” Trade Minister  Anand Sharma 
said in an e-mailed statement yesterday. Shipments of as much as
3.5 million bales registered with the ministry prior to the ban
will need to be revalidated, Commerce Secretary  Rahul Khullar 
said today. Fresh registrations will not be permitted until
further notice, he told reporters in New Delhi.  India barred exports to secure domestic supplies after
sales exceeded the government’s estimate of the country’s
exportable surplus. The resumption of shipments may add to
global supplies and pressure futures, which have fallen 55
percent in New York in the past year.  The Directorate General of  Foreign Trade  will revalidate
the permits issued prior to the ban in less than 10 days and a
panel of ministers headed by Finance Minister  Pranab Mukherjee 
will meet in two weeks to discuss exports, said Kiran Dhingra,
textiles secretary.  “This will help farmers get a higher price immediately, at
least 10 percent more, and encourage cotton planting for next
year,” Dhiren Sheth, president of the Cotton Association of
India, said in a phone interview yesterday. “The government
decision will help avoid disputes and arbitration in
international markets.”  India Prices  Cotton in India climbed the most in more than a week today.
The April-delivery contract surged as much as 3 percent to
848.50 rupees ($17) per 20 kilograms and traded at 834 rupees at
12:04 p.m. Mumbai time on the National Commodity & Derivatives
Exchange of India Ltd.  Futures in  New York  fell for a fifth day, the longest
streak since September. The May-delivery contract dropped as
much as 0.9 percent to 88.01 cents a pound in on ICE Futures
U.S. before trading at 88.06 cents at 12:06 p.m. in Mumbai. The
ban drove prices up by the daily limit on March 5 and to 94.24
cents the following day, the highest level since Feb. 17.  India suspended sales after shipments surged to about 9.5
million bales of 170 kilograms each, more than the surplus of
8.4 million bales estimated by the government. Traders had
registered to ship 12 million bales, the Textiles Ministry said.  Opposition Protests  The government came under pressure to withdraw the curbs
after Agriculture Minister  Sharad Pawar  said the prohibition
would hurt planting prospects and an industry group in China
said the move damaged international trade.  Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  reversed another policy in
December. The government on Dec. 7 suspended a decision to allow
as much as 51 percent overseas ownership of multibrand retail
stores after protests by opposition and some allies paralyzed
parliament. Singh vowed in a December interview to pursue the
proposals after regional elections.  The world will have a record trade surplus of 2 million
bales of 480 pounds (218 kilograms) if India exported all the
cotton registered, Morgan Stanley analysts led by  Hussein Allidina  said in an e-mailed report on March 9. The brokerage
lowered its 2011-2012 price estimate to 90 cents a pound from
$1, citing weak global demand.  The Liverpool, England-based International Cotton
Association, which handles contract arbitration, has said the
prohibition will “have a major, detrimental impact” on global
trade. India is set to supply 17 percent of global exports in
2011-2012, the U.S. Department of Agriculture estimates.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tushar Dhara in  New Delhi  at 
 tdhara1@bloomberg.net 
Pratik Parija in New Delhi at 
 pparija@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  