-- IPhone Fails to Gain China Share as Samsung Lead Triples: Tech
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-03-11T16:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-11/iphone-fails-to-gain-china-share-as-samsung-lead-triples-tech.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  got a second partner in
China to sell the iPhone in the world’s biggest mobile-phone
market. The deal may be too late to catch  Samsung Electronics
Co. (005930) , with a market share that’s three times larger and growing.  China Telecom Corp. (728)  began selling the iPhone last week as
Apple tries to build on its 7.5 percent share of the country’s
smartphone sales. Samsung controlled 24.3 percent of the market
for phones that can play videos and games, according to Gartner
Inc., using a strategy of allying with all three of the nation’s
third-generation networks since such services started in 2009.  Succeeding in China is important for Apple as shipments of
smartphones in the country are projected to jump 52 percent this
year to 137 million units, overtaking the U.S. for the first
time as the world’s biggest market. Unlike  Samsung’s strategy  of
partnering with all carriers, Apple has limited its own success
by not making a device compatible with the nation’s biggest
operator,  China Mobile Ltd. (941)   “I don’t expect Apple to replace Samsung any time soon,”
Gartner analyst Sandy Shen said in an interview. “China Telecom
is the nation’s smallest carrier, so the extent to which they
can help Apple is quite limited.”  The 16.8 percentage-point gap in China between Cupertino,
California-based Apple and Samsung almost doubled from the third
quarter. While Samsung is No. 1 and Apple No. 5 in China, the
global story is different: Worldwide, Apple passed its Suwon,
South Korea-based competitor to become the biggest smartphone
vendor in the fourth quarter, according to Gartner.  China Mobile  Apple’s partnerships  with China’s second- and third-largest
carriers give it access to about 34 percent of the nation’s 988
million mobile users, while Samsung targeted the whole market.
iPhones aren’t sold to China Mobile’s 655 million subscribers, a
number almost equal to the combined population of the U.S.,
 Brazil  and  Mexico .  “Having access to more subscribers gives vendors like
Samsung an advantage,” said Teck Zhung Wong, a Beijing-based
analyst with IDC China, who forecast the 52 percent jump in
smartphone sales this year. “If Apple is going to continue to
grow in the Chinese market, it has to consider very seriously a
handset with China Mobile.”  China Telecom had a total of 129.3 million wireless users
at the end of January, including 38.7 million 3G subscribers.  Apple introduced  the iPhone  in 2007 in the U.S. exclusively
with  AT&T Inc. (T)  and added a second carrier partner last year in
 Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ)   Pelting Eggs  Apple chose not to make a phone with China Mobile because
the operator had a unique 3G standard called TD-SCDMA, even
after the Chinese company’s Chairman  Wang Jianzhou  met with the
then Chief Executive Officer  Steve Jobs  in early 2010. Wang told
the company’s annual meeting in May that he didn’t expect Apple
to introduce an iPhone until the carrier rolled out the fourth-
generation TD-LTE network by end of this year.  China Unicom (Hong Kong) Ltd. (762)  was the nation’s first
carrier to offer the iPhone with a service contract in October
2009.  Even though Apple trailed Samsung,  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) , Huawei
Technologies Co. and  ZTE Corp (000063)  in China’s smartphone market,
people still crave an iPhone.  Apple’s oldest store in China was pelted with eggs from a
crowd of customers on Jan. 13 when the shop, in Beijing’s
Sanlitun district, failed to open on the first day of sales for
the iPhone 4S. After police sealed off the area to remove more
than 500 people, Apple said it would suspend sales of iPhones at
all its stores.  ‘Didn’t Bet High Enough’  The maker of iMac computers and iPad tablets underestimated
the “staggering” demand for the iPhone 4S when it started
sales in China in January, Chief Executive Officer  Tim Cook  said.
“We thought we were betting bold,” Cook said Jan. 24. “We
didn’t bet high enough.”  The iPhone 4S has been “an incredible hit” with customers
around the world, Apple spokeswoman Carolyn Wu said in an e-mail.
Apple “can’t wait to get it into the hands of even more
customers in  China ,” Wu said, declining to comment further on
the company’s handset strategy in China.  Samsung’s approach  to China is “the same” as other
markets, Juha Park, senior vice president of product strategy,
said in an interview in Barcelona.  “We make product innovation and make our brand very
desired in the market,” Park said. “That’s what we do to
become a major player. We have been doing quite strong growth in
the China market.”  Unlocked IPhone  Even without an agreement with Apple or a device that’s
compatible with its high-speed 3G network, China Mobile still
has 15 million iPhone users, spokeswoman Rainie Lei said. Those
China Mobile users buy unlocked devices and surf the web at
slower 2G speeds, or else connect to Wi-Fi hotspots for a faster
connection.  China Telecom projects that the iPhone will “significantly
enhance its long term sustainable growth and value creation
despite the short term pressure on its profitability,”
spokeswoman Lisa Lai said in an e-mail.  “For China Telecom, its 4S launch comes late and the low-
hanging fruit may already be exhausted,” said Lisa Soh, a Hong
Kong-based analyst at Macquarie Group Ltd.  The egg pelting also resulted in Apple losing one advantage
it had over Samsung -- its own retail stores stopped selling
iPhones. Apple said at the time the move was “for the time
being.” Apple’s Wu said the phones remain available through
Apple’s online store in China, and declined to provide an update
on when the shops would resume sales of the devices.  That leaves Samsung free to further widen its gap.  “It’s just one country, but it’s such a big market and its
portion in the global market is huge, so Samsung is trying to
act fast to capture the market,” said Kim Young Chan, a Seoul-
based analyst at Shinhan Investment Corp. “Dealing with
different network standards will give them a pretty valuable
competitive edge.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net ;
Jun Yang in Seoul at 
 jyang180@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  