-- Iran-Israel History Suggests a Different Future: Pankaj Mishra
-- B y   P a n k a j   M i s h r a
-- 2012-03-11T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-11/iran-israel-history-suggests-a-different-future-pankaj-mishra.html
Apparently, it is reckless to think
that India could bring about a rapprochement between  Iran  and
the U.S.  That, at least, is the view of some readers of my last
column on India’s lenient attitude toward  Iran’s nuclear
program . They reprimanded me for being naive. For Iran, run by
Islamic fundamentalists committed to the destruction of Israel,
desires no such reconciliation with the country Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini indelibly called the “Great Satan.”  Alas, such a view, which sees fixed essences where there is
movement and change, will always grievously misread geopolitical
situations.  True, a regime such as Iran’s, which is discredited in the
eyes of its people, will stoke internal and foreign animosities
in order to survive; it can no more abandon such tendencies than
a leopard can change its spots. And  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad  has
taken such strategic zealotry to an obscene level -- to the
point where his oft-expressed desire to see Zionism wiped off
the map makes it seem as though Iran has a foreign policy
committed to genocide (and suicide).  But Ahmadinejad’s position, as recent elections in Iran
reveal, is far from secure among even hardliners. Syria, Iran’s
closest ally, is beset by civil war; Hamas, a crucial Iranian
client, seems to be breaking away from its patron.  Friends Become Enemies  It is also true that in 2003, Iran’s apparently
intransigent ayatollahs considered a “Grand Bargain” -- a
proposal to restart relations that was rejected out of hand by
the drum majors in George W. Bush’s administration who initiated
what are now increasingly loud beats of war. Recent history
furnishes an even more complex picture of a country, which,
according to  Benjamin Netanyahu , is run by a “messianic,
apocalyptic cult.” It shows that Iran’s motivations can only be
adequately assessed in the context of its longstanding ambitions
as a regional power. Certainly, they cannot be reduced to the
fantasies of a crude populist like Ahmadinejad.  To take an even moderately long view of geopolitical
tensions is to recognize how quickly friends turn into enemies
and vice versa. For many Indians in the 1970s and 1980s, there
was no meaner or more resourceful international adversary than
the U.S.; Prime Minister Indira Gandhi ranted then as
frequently, if less intensely, than Ahmadinejad now about the
CIA’s conspiracies against her. But within two decades, and over
the course of several different governments,  India  agreed to be
adopted by the U.S. as a strategic counterweight to  China  in
 Asia .  The example of Iran, too, reveals how ambitions for
regional and international eminence can outlast change of
regimes and ruling ideologies. For much of his long reign, the
Shah of Iran maintained cordial relations with Israel, buying
arms from and selling oil to a country that much of the Muslim
world shunned.  This might seem unexceptional. After all, the shah was a
close U.S. friend and military client; Iran’s nuclear energy
program, started in the 1970s, received U.S. support.  But even the shah, as he developed grandiose visions of
himself and Iran’s leadership of the Islamic world in the 1970s,
knew that he could not woo the Arabs, traditional rivals of the
Persians, without distancing himself from  Israel . He backed Arab
nations in their war with Israel in 1973, and denounced Israel’s
occupation of the  West Bank . In 1975, Iran voted in favor of an
Arab resolution at the  United Nations  that declared Zionism to
be a form of racism. The shah even came to oppose the U.S.
military presence in the  Persian Gulf .  Neighborhood Hegemony  Iran in the last years of the shah manifested a striving
for local hegemony that transcended the country’s strongest
alliances with the U.S. and Israel. Khomeini’s regime went on to
reveal how even messianic ideologies can bow to long-established
imperatives and dramatically different security environments.
Intoxicated with anti-Westernism, Iran’s Islamic revolutionaries
initially junked the shah’s expensive armory and closed down his
nuclear program, deeming both to be excrescences of the Great
Satan. But Saddam Hussein’s brutal and initially successful
assault on Iran soon brought them back to the real world.  The ayatollahs turned to those they condemned as
irrevocably evil: In another example of the ever-shifting sands
of international relations, an increasingly Likudnik Israel came
to the rescue of the beleaguered Islamic Republic of Iran.
An agreement signed between the two countries in Paris in 1980
ensured Israeli arms for Iran at market prices while
guaranteeing the safety and emigration rights of the tens of
thousands of Jews residing in Iran. Despite U.S. protests,
Israel remained Iran’s most reliable arms supplier for much of
the 1980s -- the time when the West was supporting  Iraq .  In the 1980s, Saddam’s chemical warfare against Iranians,
mostly overlooked by Western countries, convinced the Iranians
that they had to build a nuclear deterrent. Over those years,
radicals within the regime also sought to revive the shah’s plan
for Iranian leadership of the Islamic world; they ratcheted up
the anti-Zionist rhetoric and built such proxies as Hezbollah
and Hamas. Finding an opportunity in Saddam’s fall, they created
a political bastion for themselves in their once vicious rival
Iraq.  But these plans for exporting Iran’s essentially Shiite
revolution have run into the complications of the Arab Spring.
Emboldened by the fall of the pro-American  Hosni Mubarak  in
 Egypt , Tehran has subsequently watched with disquiet the
isolation of  Syria ’s Bashar al-Assad and the potential loss of
Hamas, not to mention the rise of the Taliban in Afghanistan.  Liberation Mythology  Presumably, the Iranian regime can already go some way
toward wiping Zionism off the map by launching missiles loaded
with biological and chemical weapons at Israeli cities. Such an
attack would cause extensive devastation, including among the
Palestinians whose cause Tehran stridently advocates. Israel’s
response would be swift and terrible, more than fulfilling any
craving for a grand self-immolation nursed by the messianic,
apocalyptic mullahs.  But the Iranian regime is struggling to regain its
geopolitical advantages in what it sees, correctly, as a
multipolar world -- one in which the U.S. and its allies will
have limited influence. This is hardly the time for the outside
world to misread Iran’s strengths and weaknesses, or to ignore
the link between its quest for nuclear capability and the larger
Iranian quest for regional pre-eminence, a realization of
national and civilizational destiny.  Loose talk in the U.S. of “regime change,” accompanied as
usual by circa 1945 visions of cheery flower-laden Iranians
greeting American tanks in Tehran, ignores the continuity of
aims between the shah and the Islamic governments. Iran would
give them up only when the country itself, as we know it, ceases
to exist -- an unconscionable idea that cannot be separated from
visions of a wider apocalypse in the region.  Any rapprochement between Iran and the U.S. will have to
acknowledge Iran’s centrality in its region -- just as the U.S.
eventually recognized India’s in  South Asia  after a series of
futile alliances with  Pakistan . But the U.S. has never been
further away from this possibility, as Republican candidates
line up to prove themselves more trigger-happy than the next.
Suddenly, entire countries, indeed civilizations, with complex
histories are being depicted as potentially uncomplaining, even
grateful, victims of aerial bombing.  Last week President  Barack Obama  rightly expressed alarm
over the bizarre “casualness” of this bellicosity, which stands
to doom tens of millions of lives. More such urgent injections
of sanity may be needed to counter the Ahmadinejad-ization of
foreign policy discourse, and to prevent the world from
lurching, while still stumbling out of two unfinished wars, into
a third and probably most disastrous conflict.  ( Pankaj Mishra , whose new book, “From the Ruins of Empire:
The Revolt Against the West and the Remaking of Asia,” will be
published in August, is a Bloomberg View columnist, based in
 London  and Mashobra, India. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Pankaj Mishra at  pmashobra@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Gibney at   jgibney5@bloomberg.net . 