-- Japanese Machinery Orders Signal Investment to Aid Rebound
-- B y   A n d y   S h a r p
-- 2012-03-12T00:51:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-11/japan-machinery-orders-signal-investment-to-aid-economic-rebound.html
Japan ’s machinery orders rebounded
in January, signaling that company investment will help to drive
a return to growth in the world’s third-biggest economy.  Bookings (JNMOCHNG) , an indicator of future  capital spending , rose 3.4
percent from a month earlier, the Cabinet Office said in Tokyo
today. The median estimate of 30 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News was for a 2.3 percent increase. In December,
orders fell 7.1 percent.  The Nikkei 225 Stock Average exceeded 10,000 for the first
time in seven months on March 9 as Greece secured a rescue
package, boosting prospects for European demand for Japanese
exports. A weakening of the yen since the start of February will
aid exporters such as  Panasonic Corp. (6752)  and  Sony Corp. (6758)  and the
economy is set for a boost from reconstruction work after the
earthquake a year ago.  “Global manufacturing activity is gaining momentum, and
that’s positive for  capital investment  in Japan,” said  Hiroshi Shiraishi , an economist at BNP Paribas in Tokyo. “We’re also
seeing signs of improved overseas demand, particularly from  Asia 
and the U.S., so that’s also good news.”  The Nikkei rose 0.4 percent after the report, with
machinery makers including  Fanuc Corp. (6954)  and  Tokyo Electron Ltd. (8035) 
among companies posting the largest advances. The yen traded at
82.25 per dollar at 9:50 a.m. in Tokyo. It has retreated more
than 7 percent since touching a postwar high of 75.35 in
October.  ‘Revitalize’  “Japanese corporations will revitalize their attitude to
investment” when the global economy is seen to be recovering,
 Masamichi Adachi , senior economist at JPMorgan Securities in
 Tokyo  and a former central bank official, said before the
report. “If the currency does not appreciate further, that will
support corporate sentiment and spending.”  Retail sales and industrial production exceeded economists’
estimates in January and a bigger-than-anticipated gain in
capital expenditure drove a revision of fourth-quarter gross
domestic product last week to show a 0.7 percent contraction,
rather than the 2.3 percent decline initially reported.  JPMorgan forecasts the economy will expand 1.7 percent in
2012, with Nomura Securities predicting a 0.9 percent gain.  The  Bank of Japan  is meeting today and tomorrow to decide
whether more stimulus is needed after unexpectedly boosting an
asset-purchase program last month, a move that helped to weaken
the yen. Signs of progress in taming  Europe ’s debt crisis have
also reined in the currency, which is viewed as a haven for
investors and reached a post-World War II record of 75.35 per
dollar in October.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Sharp in Tokyo at 
 asharp5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  