-- Japan’s Parties See Record-Low Backing at Earthquake Anniversary
-- B y   J o h n   B r i n s l e y   a n d   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a
-- 2012-03-11T15:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-11/japan-s-parties-see-record-low-backing-at-earthquake-anniversary.html
One year after  Japan ’s most
powerful earthquake ever, the nation’s top two political parties
have record-low approval ratings, signaling widespread
discontent at the government’s response to the disaster.  Public support is below 20 percent for both the ruling
 Democratic Party  of Japan and the  Liberal Democratic Party  for
the first time since the DPJ was formed in 1998,  poll data  from
broadcaster NHK show. The figures slid after the two focused on
leadership and election-timing battles instead of cooperating to
speed post-quake recovery and ensure food-safety standards.  “They’re like children fighting in the sandbox,” said
 Gerald Curtis , a professor of Japanese politics at  Columbia
University  in  New York . “The public has decided: either the
government is lying to us, or they’re incompetent.”  Voter discontent increases the odds of a third party
capturing support, with speculation focused on  Osaka  Mayor Toru Hashimoto, who calls for increased local autonomy and direct
elections for prime minister. The political fragmentation has
hamstrung efforts to address long-term challenges, from reining
in record debt to funding pensions for Japan’s aging and
shrinking population.  The LDP has delayed legislation through no-confidence
motions and boycott threats in an effort to force early
elections. At the same time, the DPJ has lacked continuity of
leadership, with Yoshihiko Noda the party’s third prime minister
since it took power in September 2009.  Running Even  DPJ support last month was at 17.6 percent, with the LDP at
16.9 percent, according to a Feb. 10-13 NHK poll. Levels have
held below 20 percent since December. About half of those polled
said they don’t back any party.  Japan has only  cleaned up  six percent of the 22.5 million
tons of debris from the March 11 earthquake and tsunami that
left more than 19,000 dead or missing and prompted the worst
nuclear crisis in a quarter century, environment ministry data
show.  While the discovery in December of radioactive cesium in
baby formula exacerbated concern about the safety of Japan’s
food supply, parliament held no hearings on the matter.
Legislators instead focused on censuring the defense minister
for a deputy’s remarks linking the relocation of a U.S. Marine
base on Okinawa to a series of sexual assaults by American
soldiers on the island.  “Every party, every lawmaker should be focused on
reconstruction and debating concrete proposals in parliament,”
said Iwate Governor Takuya Tasso, whose prefecture, where 6,000
people were killed or are missing, was one of the worst hit.
“There’s no sense of urgency at all.”  Tax Debate  LDP leader Sadakazu Tanigaki has rejected calls to
negotiate over a plan his party originally proposed to double
the  consumption tax  to 10 percent unless Noda dissolves the Diet
and calls new elections. Noda said on March 3 that he believed a
compromise was possible while denying reports he met secretly
with Tanigaki to discuss a deal.  Failure to reach an agreement risks pushing up bond yields,
at a time when Japan enjoys the world’s second-lowest borrowing
costs even with debt that is more than twice gross domestic
product.  Lawmakers acknowledge the public’s discontent. Deputy
Premier  Katsuya Okada  told reporters last month it’s
“impossible” for a government that calls for raising taxes to
get high approval ratings.  LDP politicians, whose party ran Japan for all but 10
months between 1955 and 2009, say since the DPJ went back on
pre-disaster pledges to rein in spending and not raise taxes, an
election must be called regardless of the merits of any policy.  ‘Hate Us’  “I understand the argument that raising the  sales tax  is
good for Japan and markets and helps prevent a downgrade in our
sovereign debt rating,” LDP lawmaker Ichita Yamamoto said in an
interview. “But the DPJ broke its promise.” He adds that he
doesn’t expect his party to return to power either, as “many
people still hate us. It’s serious.”  The dissatisfaction leaves an opening for smaller groups,
such as Hashimoto’s “One Osaka,” or Your Party.  Hashimoto stepped down as governor of Osaka then became
mayor in a November election, winning on a platform of merging
the two positions. In addition to calling for voters to elect
the prime minister directly, he advocates eliminating the upper
house of parliament, leaving a unicameral legislature.  Your Party, formed in 2009 by disaffected LDP politicians,
will work with Hashimoto’s regional group, party leader  Yoshimi Watanabe  said in January. Watanabe’s group has support of 2.9
percent, according to the NHK poll.  Voters’ Pox  “Voters’ attitude to the DPJ and LDP is ‘a pox on both
your houses,’” said Stephen R. Reed, a political science
professor at Tokyo’s Chuo University. “While there’s unlikely
to be only one third-party alternative, everyone is looking at
Hashimoto right now.”  Noda has repeatedly said he won’t dissolve parliament and
call early elections, and intends to submit the tax bill this
month. While the DPJ-dominated lower house last week passed his
90.3 trillion yen budget for the fiscal year beginning April 1,
it may not pass the opposition-controlled upper house approval
by the end of March. The next election must be called by August
2013.  Your Party legislator Kota Matsuda, former president of
Tully’s Coffee Japan Co., said new voices and approaches should
be considered.  “Under the current situation nothing is moving and
frustration is building,” Matsuda said. “We have to find a way
to take political power.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Brinsley in  Tokyo  at 
 jbrinsley@bloomberg.net ;
Takashi Hirokawa in Tokyo at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  