-- Kentucky Is Favored to Give Coach Calipari His First NCAA Tournament Title
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-03-12T06:24:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-11/kentucky-north-carolina-syracuse-michigan-st-receive-no-1-ncaa-seeds.html
The  University of Kentucky  is
favored by Las Vegas oddsmakers to win college basketball’s
national championship and deliver  John Calipari  his first career
title. The Wildcats’ coach says he’s less confident.  Kentucky earned one of four No. 1 regional seeds in the
National Collegiate Athletic Association men’s tournament
yesterday, joined by the University of North Carolina, Michigan
State and  Syracuse University .  The Wildcats (32-2) received the No. 1 overall seed in the
field of 68 schools even though they had a 24-game winning
streak snapped yesterday with a 71-64 loss to Vanderbilt in the
Southeastern Conference tournament final.  “The thought that we’re invincible, that’s done now,”
said Calipari, who previously took the University of
Massachusetts and University of Memphis to the NCAA tournament’s
Final Four. “We’re going to be in a dogfight. That’s the way
you have to approach this. Each game is like your last.”  The tournament, which last year expanded to 68 teams from
65, starts in Dayton, Ohio, with two games tomorrow and two more
March 14 before full play begins March 15. The title game is
scheduled for April 2 at the Louisiana Superdome in  New Orleans .  Kentucky , the No. 1 seed in the South Regional, will open
against Mississippi Valley State or Western Kentucky on March 15
in Louisville, Kentucky. Vanderbilt, after knocking off
Kentucky, is a No. 5 seed and faces Ivy League-champion Harvard
University in its first game.  9-5 Favorite  A No. 1 seed for an 11th time, the third most all-time
behind North Carolina and Duke, Kentucky is the 9-5 favorite to
win the tournament, according to the Wynn Las Vegas sportsbook.  “There’s been a lot of money bet on Kentucky throughout
the season and it probably will continue throughout the
tournament too,” Johnny Avello, Wynn’s director of race and
sports operations, said in a telephone interview.  North Carolina  and Syracuse are 6-1, followed by the
 University of Missouri  at 8-1 and Michigan State at 9-1.
Defending champion  Connecticut , a possible second opponent for
Kentucky, has odds of 60-1. Harvard, the 12th seed in the East
regional, isn’t listed individually by the Wynn, yet would
probably have championship odds of 1,000-1, Avello said.  “In reality they need to be about 20,000 to 1,” Avello
said of Harvard, which is making its first tournament appearance
since 1946. “They’re a good team, but you’ve got to win six
games and they’re going to be an underdog in every game. For the
middle seeds, every win is a remarkable accomplishment.”  Last Favored Champion  The oddsmakers’ favorite last won the NCAA tournament in
2007, when the University of  Florida  captured the title.  The other top teams in Kentucky’s region are second-seeded
 Duke University , No. 3 Baylor University and No. 4  Indiana .
Wichita State is seeded fifth in the South and plays its first
game against No. 12 seed Virginia Commonwealth University, which
advanced to the Final Four last season.  “There is some pretty good Final Four and championship
royalty there,” CBS college basketball analyst Clark Kellogg
said on a conference call. “But I don’t see it being a region
of real resistance. Kentucky is still clearly the favorite.”  North Carolina is the No. 1 team in the Midwest, gaining a
top regional seeding for a record-extending 14th time. North
Carolina’s top competition in the Midwest comes from the second-
seeded University of  Kansas , No. 3  Georgetown University  and No.
4 University of Michigan.  Tar Heels’ Opener  The Tar Heels’ first opponent, scheduled for March 16 in
Greensboro, North Carolina, will be Lamar University or the
University of  Vermont .  Michigan State (27-7) got the top seed in the West Regional
after beating  Ohio  State 68-64 yesterday to capture its first
Big Ten Conference tournament title since 2000. The Spartans
will play March 16 in Columbus, Ohio, against No. 16 seed Long
Island University in  Brooklyn .  Missouri, which went 30-4 and won the Big 12 Conference
tournament title, is the No. 2 team in the West behind Michigan
State. Marquette University is the third seed, followed by the
University of Louisville and the University of  New Mexico .  In the East, Syracuse (31-2) is a top regional seed for a
third time and will play the University of North Carolina-
Asheville on March 15 in Pittsburgh. Ohio State is the second
seed in the East behind the Orange, followed by No. 3 Florida
State, No. 4 Wisconsin and Vanderbilt, which won its first
Southeastern Conference title since 1951.  The draw opens things up for Syracuse to get to the Final
Four, according to ESPN analyst and former St. John’s coach Fran Fraschilla.  “This is the best chance they’ve had in a number of
years,” he said.  Automatic bids went to 31 conference champions and the
remaining 37 participants received at-large invitations.  The  University of California  at Berkeley, University of
South Florida, Iona College and Brigham Young University were
the last teams to land at-large spots. Under the 68-team format,
those four schools are among those that play in Dayton, Ohio,
for a seeded spot in the field.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  