-- Kenya Bus-Station Blasts Leave Six Dead, 68 Hurt, Red Cross Says
-- B y   P a u l   R i c h a r d s o n
-- 2012-03-11T10:26:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-11/kenya-bus-station-blasts-leave-six-dead-68-hurt-red-cross-says.html
The number of people killed in a
series of grenade blasts yesterday in the Kenyan capital,
Nairobi, increased to six, while another four people are
missing, the  Kenya  Red Cross said.  The death toll rose after one of 69 people admitted to the
hospital succumbed to injuries, the medical charity said in a
statement on its  Twitter  account today, citing Internal Security
Minister George Saitoti.  Police suspect “sympathizers of al-Shabaab,” the Somali
Islamist militant group linked to al-Qaeda, were responsible for
the attack in which at least three hand grenades were thrown out
of a moving vehicle at passengers at a bus station on the fringe
of the city center, Charles Owino, deputy spokesman for the
Kenyan police, said by phone today.  Al-Shabaab threatened to carry out attacks in Kenya after
the East African nation deployed its army in southern Somalia in
mid-October to fight the militants. Two weeks after the
incursion began, one person died and at least 20 were injured in
two separate bomb blasts in Nairobi that the police blamed on
terrorists. Elgiva Bwire Oliacha, a 28-year-old man who said he
was a member of al-Shabaab, pleaded guilty in court on Oct. 26
to nine charges, including being responsible for the blasts  Yesterday’s attack took place around 7:30 p.m. when the
attackers “knew it was dark and it was not very easy to capture
them,” Owino said. “But we can assure the public that we are
going to use all the investigation facilities we have available
to make sure we catch them.”  Kidnappings, Murders  Al-Shabaab has waged a campaign to topple Somalia’s United
Nations-backed government since 2007 and establish an Islamic
state. The group last month became part of al-Qaeda. Kenya’s
incursion into Somalia came after several foreign tourists and
aid workers were murdered and abducted on Kenyan territory.
Kenya blames al-Shabaab for the attacks, a charge the militants
have denied.  In 1998, near-simultaneous blasts of the U.S. embassies in
Nairobi and  Dar es Salaam , the commercial capital of neighboring
 Tanzania , killed 224 people. Ahmed Khalfan Ghailani, an al-Qaeda
operative, was sentenced to life in prison in January 2011 for
his role in the attack. Khalid al-Fawwaz, an alleged member of
the group, has been indicted in the bombings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Paul Richardson  in Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at   asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 