-- Obama Campaign Plans Bid to Capture Women’s Vote in November
-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 2012-03-11T22:23:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-11/obama-campaign-plans-bid-to-capture-women-s-vote-in-november.html
President  Barack Obama ’s re-
election campaign is planning to seize upon the recent partisan
bickering over health care, contraception and abortion to garner
the women’s vote in the November presidential election.  The Chicago-based campaign plans a “Nurses for Obama”
event March 13, including mailings in many states and 16 phone
banks in  New Hampshire  to urge support for the health-care
overhaul law signed by the Democratic president almost two years
ago, according to a campaign official, who wasn’t authorized to
speak publicly about campaign strategy.  The campaign  website  gives details on the benefits of the
health-care law, a frequent target of Republican candidates who
say it should be repealed, including requirements that new
health insurance plans cover women’s preventative services,
mammograms and  birth control  pills.  The women’s vote is important to both parties because,
since 1986, women have voted more than men, at least in
congressional races, according to Census Bureau figures. In the
2010 midterm elections, 42.7 percent of eligible women voters
cast ballots while 40.9 percent of the men did so,  The special focus on women in the days ahead, first
reported by the New York Times and confirmed by an Obama
campaign official, follows confusion created by Republican
presidential candidate  Mitt Romney  over his stance on whether
employers can opt out of health-care coverage involving
contraception.  Control of Contraception  “If you’re a woman, who do you think should have control
over your choice to use contraception: You or your employer?”
said  Stephanie Cutter , Obama deputy campaign manager, in a Feb.
29 e-mail.  A debate in the Virginia legislature over a bill that
required an extra medical procedure before an abortion trigged
protests in Richmond, the state capital, and argument from
Democrats that the step would be unconstitutional and that its
intent was to discourage women from having abortions.  In the March 13 primaries in Mississippi and  Alabama ,
Republican candidates  Rick Santorum  and  Newt Gingrich  competed
for support from evangelical Christians, who oppose abortion
rights and gay marriage, and from anti-tax Tea Party supporters.
By remaining in the race, Gingrich is splitting that vote rather
than allowing it to consolidate behind Santorum, the former
Pennsylvania senator’s aides said.  Cultural Issues  “I think these cultural -- don’t like to use the term wars
-- these cultural, divisive, wedge issues, the rollback of
 women’s rights  and other health, rollback-averting rights,
rollback of workers’ rights, all of these things that take us
back are not strengthening our economy and creating jobs,”
Maryland Governor  Martin O’Malley , a Democrat, said today on
NBC’s “Meet the Press.”  Obama offered support to a Georgetown University law
student in a telephone call the day after radio host  Rush
Limbaugh  called her a “slut.” The student told Congress in
testimony she favored the Obama administration’s policy
requiring insurers to provide birth control to women. Limbaugh
has apologized for the remarks.  Obama, at a press conference March 6, wouldn’t say whether
Limbaugh’s remarks will result in greater support for Democrats,
adding that the women’s vote is “not going to be driven by one
statement by one radio announcer.”  “I’m not somebody who believes that women are going to be
single-issue voters; they never have been,” Obama said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Komarow at   skomarow1@bloomberg.net  