-- Mobius Rules Out Chavez-Style Policy in Egypt as Stocks Soar
-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e   a n d   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 2012-03-12T12:52:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-11/mobius-rules-out-chavez-style-policies-in-egypt-as-stocks-soar.html
Islamist parties that have taken
control of Egypt’s parliament are unlikely to follow in the
footsteps of leaders like Venezuelan President  Hugo Chavez  by
seizing private assets,  Mark Mobius  said.  Concerns, particularly in the U.S., that an Islamist-led
government in Egypt may alienate foreign investors are
unwarranted, said Mobius, who oversees more than $50 billion in
emerging-markets assets as executive chairman of Templeton
Emerging Markets Group. Egypt’s benchmark stock index has surged
44 percent and is the world’s best-performing measure this year,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “What we have to be careful about is a growth of extreme
nationalism,” he said in an interview on March 8 in Dubai. “As
soon as there is a sign of that then the game is over like what
happened in Venezuela. We were completely out of  Venezuela  as
soon as Chavez came in because we knew that assets will be
confiscated. But I don’t see that happening in Egypt.”  The Freedom and Justice Party and the Nour Party, two
Islamist groups that won about 70 percent of seats in parliament
in the first elections after last year’s uprising, have said
they would encourage foreign investment. Chavez, who took office
in 1999, has taken over assets in the energy, metals, cement and
telecommunications industries. Trading volumes on Venezuela’s
main stock gauge plunged from 4.96 billion shares in 1999 to
11.2 million last year, and foreign direct investment fell in
four out of the last five years, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  ‘Not Expensive’  Venezuela’s benchmark stock measure rallied 38 percent this
year, trailing  Egypt ’s EGX 30 Index. The surge left the 30
companies listed on the Egyptian measure trading at 7.9 times
estimated earnings compared with 10.7 times for the MSCI
Emerging Markets Index.  “Stocks are not expensive so therefore there is an
opportunity to continue to hold at least and then with
corrections on the way there will be opportunities to buy,”
Mobius said, referring to shares in the North African country.  Orascom Telecom Holding SAE, a mobile-phone operator in
Egypt, has surged 147 percent this year. The shares are trading
at three times estimated earnings.  “People have begun to differentiate after the initial
turmoil, so you have seen heavily weighted stocks in the index
like Orascom Telecom go up,” Mobius said.  Managed Float  The stock gauge plunged 49 percent last year, the worst
since 2008, after a popular uprising ended the three-decade rule
of President  Hosni Mubarak  in February. Foreign investors also
dumped government debt securities, pushing yields to record
highs. Net official reserves tumbled about $20 billion to $15.7
billion in February from the end of 2010, central bank data
show.  The Egyptian pound, subject to a managed float, has
weakened 3.8 percent against the dollar since the end of 2010.
Mobius said there was a “good chance” for the pound to extend
its decline, saying it would be a “mistake” for Egyptian
authorities to “overly control the currency.”  “A weak currency is not a bad thing because it increases
tourism and increases exports, etc, etc, which is what they need
so I am not too alarmed by that,” he said. “As you know a good
company that’s earning money and adjusting to inflation will
make money with a depreciating currency.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net ;
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  