-- Hong Kong Exchange Wins Nod From Brokers on Risk Management
-- B y   F i o n   L i
-- 2012-03-11T11:43:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-11/hong-kong-exchange-wins-nod-from-brokers-on-risk-management-1-.html
Hong Kong Exchanges and Clearing
Ltd.  will proceed with an overhaul of risk management next month
after most brokers agreed to the changes, according to Charles
Li, chief executive officer.  The world’s largest-listed bourse operator by market value
will ask clearing participants to pay margins and contribute to
a new guarantee fund, Li said at a press conference in  Hong Kong 
today. It will also revise the price movement and collateral
assumptions in the cash and derivatives markets, according to
Li.  Hong Kong Securities and Futures Commission  said  it
supports the exchange’s move to implement the reforms.  Hong Kong Exchanges  consulted brokers  on tighter risk-
management measures after the default of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc.’s related securities caused losses during the 2008
financial crisis.  “Most brokers support our reform as it brings our risk-
management measures to the international standards,” Li said.
“The new measures will give us a strong defense line.”  The brokers will pay the margin on their net positions and
the exchange will use market volatility as a gauge for
determining the deposit, according to Li. The clearinghouse
would also create a fund that uses stress testing to link the
size of the fund to the likelihood of a default.  Alleviation Measures  To alleviate the financial burdens on smaller brokerages,
the exchange will give a margin credit of as much as HK$5
million and a guarantee fund credit of as much as HK$1 million
to all clearing participants, Li said. About 80 percent of the
participants will not have to pay margin or contribute to the
dynamic fund as a result, Li said.  The exchange is in talks with the securities and futures
regulator on whether the contributions to the dynamic fund can
be counted as liquid capital under the Financial Resources
Rules. “There’s a chance that SFC will not accept these
contributions as liquid capital but we want to try our best
before we say sorry to the brokers,” Li said.  The exchange will impose 22 percent price movement
assumptions on securities and stock options, and 20 percent
assumptions on futures and futures options in stress tests,
according to Li.  HKEx aims to implement changes in collateral next quarter,
while starting the rest in the third quarter, Li said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fion Li in Hong Kong at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Western at 
 nwestern@bloomberg.net  