-- Monti Targets Italy Labor Law Revamp as Jobless Youth Join Trapped Fireme
-- B y   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i
-- 2012-03-12T14:23:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-11/monti-targets-italy-labor-law-revamp-as-jobless-youth-join-trapped-firemen.html
Riccardo Coladarci, a firefighter
in  Rome  for seven years, is trapped and says now it’s time for
him to be saved. His temporary job contract doesn’t offer sick
days or vacation and pays about 9,000 euros ($12,000) a year,
barely enough to make ends meet in Italy.  “I’m not even entitled to a flame-resistant shirt,” the
29-year-old Rome resident said about his employment agreement.  Young Italians are the have-nots of a two-tier  job market 
that Prime Minister  Mario Monti  is seeking to overhaul to boost
employment and growth in the euro area’s second most-indebted
economy. While mostly older workers enjoy open-ended contracts
with strict limits on firing, young laborers often make do with
short-term deals that leave them as the first to go when
employers cut costs amid  Italy ’s fourth recession since 2001.  Coladarci is on a rolling contract that expires every 20
days, while his mother has kept her state job for more than
three decades. “Things were very different” before a surge in
public debt in the 1980s choked  economic growth , he said. “My
family was able to buy a house and send my brothers and me to
school.”  Monti’s labor plan may prove his toughest task since taking
office in November, after helping to restore investor confidence
in Italy with 20 billion euros of austerity measures and steps
to boost competition and cut red tape. A decade ago, unions
mobilized millions of workers to quash a similar labor law
overhaul by former Premier  Silvio Berlusconi , after militants
murdered two economists who sought to ease rigid firing rules.  Talks Resume  The government, unions and employers have been locked in
talks on a deal since January, and Monti has pledged to impose
changes if a negotiated deal isn’t reached this month. The
negotiations led by Labor Minister Elsa Fornero resume today at
4 p.m. in Rome.  “We have to get away from a dual labor market where some
are overly protected while others totally lack protection,”
Monti, a former European Union competition commissioner, told
Parliament after being appointed on Nov. 16.  Burdened by 1.9 trillion euros in  debt , or 120 percent of
gross domestic product, Italy’s economy has lagged behind the
rest of Europe,  expanding  an average 0.4 percent annually in the
10 years through 2010, compared with 1.2 percent in the euro
region. The jobless rate rose to 9.2 percent in January, the
highest since 2001, with about a third of youth out of work.  “We just keep getting doors slammed in our face,” said
Veronica Montuschi, a 26-year-old from Rome who’s still looking
for a job a year after graduating in political science. “We do
a thousand interviews, we never get a job offer.”  Jobless Benefits  Monti, aided by the  European Central Bank ’s unlimited
three-year loans to banks, has helped steer Italy out of the eye
of the debt-crisis storm. The yield on Italy’s 10-year benchmark
bond was 4.89 percent at 3:17 p.m. in Rome, down from a euro-era
high of 7.26 percent on Nov. 25.  Monti’s plan envisages boosting the prospects of young
Italians and women by easing firing rules, encouraging the use
of apprentice contracts and increasing jobless benefits. The
part of the labor code known as Article 18, which bans firing
without just cause and forces employers rehire and compensate
workers deemed unfairly released, is the thorniest issue.  “Weakening it wouldn’t improve economic efficiency, but
send the message that ‘anything goes,’” Susanna Camusso, head
of the biggest union, CGIL, told RAI television on Feb. 19.  Employers say the law, passed in the 1970s, discourages
hiring by making it harder to reduce staff when business sours.  The government’s “idea is to lower the cost of firing”
and “increase productivity, economies of scale and output
growth,”  Silvio Peruzzo , an economist at Royal Bank of Scotland
Plc in  London , said in an e-mail. “If the reform goes through,
it will be easier for Italians to find a job in the future.”  Economists Murdered  Berlusconi backed down from his attempt to revamp Article
18 in 2002 after millions took to the street in protest. The
demonstration came four days after  Marco Biagi , a government
adviser on labor law, was gunned down on Father’s Day outside
his home in Bologna. The killing was claimed by the New Red
Brigades, which took their name from the 1970s terrorist group,
and followed the group’s 1999 slaying in Rome of another labor
expert, Massimo D’Antona.  Concerns about violence remain. Envelopes with bullets
addressed to Fornero, union leaders and employers’ lobby head
 Emma Marcegaglia  were intercepted by mail workers in January.  Lack of Protests  So far this time there have been no large protests over the
overhaul proposed by Monti, who took over amid a record surge in
Italy’s borrowing costs as contagion from the Greek  crisis 
threatened to break up  Europe ’s single currency union.  Montuschi, the university graduate, said young workers no
longer identify with traditional labor interests. “The unions
only protect workers under a permanent contract,” she said.
“They couldn’t care less about those still looking for a job.”  To boost hiring, the government wants to encourage the use
of apprentice contracts that provide greater protection than
most temporary contracts, while offering reduced benefits and
lower pay than permanent jobs. When they expire, the company can
choose to walk away or retain the employee full-time.  The government also seeks to ensure more workers can
receive jobless benefits. Currently, most benefits are reserved
for employees of large companies through special funds known as
CIG, which subsidize reduced hours or temporary layoffs.  Forecast Recession  Fornero has said she wants to curtail the use of CIG as a
social buffer for workers with little hope of further
employment. She said last month that the new system may not be
introduced until next year due to the economy, which the
European Commission forecasts will  contract  1.3 percent in 2012.  The overhaul may provide as much as 2 billion euros for
income support to workers who have lost their jobs, newspaper
Repubblica reported today, without saying how it got the
information.  Caterina Gurzi, 55, an assembly line worker at a Fiat SpA
car factory in Turin, has received CIG funds for more than a
year, and under Monti’s pension revamp, she will have to work
longer to retire. Still, her jobless daughter, 31, has it worse,
she said.  “She’ll never get a pension,” Gurzi said in an interview.
“The thinking used to be to take away from the parents and give
to the kids, but now it seems to be the exact opposite.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chiara Vasarri in Rome at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at   jcolten@bloomberg.net ; 