-- Operation Twist’s Effect on U.S. Yields Comparable to Fed Easing, BIS Says
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2012-03-11T20:00:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-11/operation-twist-s-affect-on-u-s-yields-comparable-to-fed-easing-bis-says.html
The  Federal Reserve ’s  extension  of
the average maturity of its holdings is comparable to its two
rounds of asset purchases in lowering borrowing costs, according
to the  Bank for International Settlements .  The program known as Operation Twist may lower the Treasury
10-year note  yield  by about 85 basis points, or 0.85 percentage
point, compared with a reduction of 164 basis points under the
Fed’s $2.3 trillion purchases of assets known as quantitative
easing, a report from the Basel, Switzerland-based BIS said.  Operation Twist “may have a significant impact on the 10-
year Treasury bond yield, comparable to that of outright asset
purchases,” Jack Meaning, an economics doctoral candidate at
the University of Kent, and Feng Zhu, a BIS economist, wrote in
the report, which was released today.  They said part of Operation Twist’s reduction of yields may
be erased by the Treasury Department, which has increased its
average debt  maturity  to 62.8 months, the highest level since
2002. The U.S. government’s increase in the average maturity of
outstanding debt added 41 basis points to the 10-year note yield,
Meaning and Zhu wrote.  The Treasury moved to cut back on its issuance of bills and
two- and three-year notes as the financial crisis eased after
boosting short-term borrowing to contain the worst financial
crisis since the Great Depression.  Operation Twist  The central bank said in September that it would sell $400
billion of short-term debt in its holdings and buy an equal
amount of longer-maturity Treasuries. The program is known as
Operation Twist after a similar effort in 1961 to contain
borrowing costs for companies and consumers. The Fed remains the
top holder of  U.S. government debt , with $1.66 trillion on its
 balance sheet .  Increasing the maturity of the Fed’s holdings by one month
drives 10-year yields down by about 3.4 basis points, the BIS
report said. Treasuries due in 10 years yielded 2.05 percent on
March 9, compared with a high last year of 3.74 percent on a
closing basis. U.S. government debt maturing in  30 years  yielded
3.20 percent, having decreased from 4.77 percent.  “Operation Twist has been successful,” Dan  Orlando ,
managing director and head of U.S. government trading at
Deutsche Bank AG in New York, said in a March 8 interview.
“They’ve been able to drive investors into other asset
classes.”  Marketable Debt  The government has $10.2 trillion of  marketable  debt
outstanding, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The amount has
climbed from $4.5 trillion in January 2008 before the outbreak
of the financial crisis.  “The average maturity of U.S. federal government debt is
on the low side among developed-market sovereigns,”  John
Chambers , managing director of sovereign ratings at  Standard &
Poor’s , wrote March 9 in an e-mail message. New York-based S&P
lowered the U.S. rating to AA+ in August.  Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch Ratings assign the U.S.
their top grades with a negative outlook.  “We view the U.S. as being somewhat exceptional in not
having as much vulnerability as other governments do to
refinancing risk, no matter what the maturity is, because of the
status of the Treasury market as the benchmark of the global
markets,”  Steven Hess , senior credit officer at Moody’s, said
March 8 in an interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Detrixhe in  New York  at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  