-- Hot Red Tchibo Machines Take On Nestle in Coffee: Retail
-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 2012-03-12T16:07:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-11/hot-red-tchibo-machines-wrestle-nestle-in-coffee-wars-retail.html
Tchibo GmbH, one of Germany’s
oldest and largest coffee companies, wants to generate
excitement for its brand with a new premium single-serve coffee
maker in colors including hot-red and aubergine.  The bright colors are part of a marketing strategy aimed at
convincing German coffee drinkers to pick Tchibo over other
brands in the crowded world of premium coffees dominated by such
global giants as Nestle SA, Kraft Foods Inc. and, increasingly,
 Starbucks (SBUX)  Corp. The machines are also Hamburg-based Tchibo’s
latest bid to capture a portion of the rapidly growing high-
margin single-serve capsule market.  “It’s now vital that Tchibo fights back against the likes
of  Nestle, (NESN) ” said Mark Josefson, an analyst at Silvia Quandt
Research GmbH in Frankfurt. “A large part of growth in the
coffee market comes from capsule coffee, so Tchibo has to be
aggressive to compete in that market.”  The capsule market is heating up. Nestle, the world’s
largest food company and maker of Nespresso, plans to step up
production. Starbucks, based in Seattle, said last week it will
introduce the Verismo single-cup brewer this year to take on
U.S. rivals such as  Green Mountain (GMCR)  Coffee Roasters Inc.  Closely held Tchibo sells most of its coffee in
supermarkets and in 820 of its owns stores, yet it sees an
increasing portion of its future sales in capsules.  “We expect the whole capsule market to grow 30 percent to
35 percent and we expect to grow even more than this,” said
Hamid Dastmalchian, director of Tchibo’s Cafissimo unit.  New Design  Capsules now represent a quarter of Germany’s 3.9 billion-
euro ($5.1 billion) coffee market, about six times more than in
2005, and may account for a third by 2015, Euromonitor
International estimates. Still, it’s not only there that
competition is raging.  The company, which introduced the  Cafissimo  capsule system
almost two decades after Vevey, Switzerland-based Nestle started
selling Nespresso machines to households, plans to come up with
new ranges and colors this year to keep up with competitors.  A new design for the  Cafissimo Classic  machine, priced at
99 euros, was unveiled this month and Tchibo plans to expand its
premium Grand Classe range, an alternative to Nestle’s Grand
Cru, in the first half. German sales of Nespresso increased by
more than 50 percent in 2010 after the brand introduced Grand
Cru, according to Euromonitor.  Faster Than Beer  Germany ’s coffee market is a big catch, almost four times
that of the U.K. and almost twice that of  France  in 2010,  Boston
Consulting Group  estimates. Average sales growth of 4.6 percent
a year from 2005 to 2010 was 10 times faster than beer and
almost three times that of wine, Boston Consulting Group
estimates. Germans drank 6.4 kilograms (14.1 pounds) of coffee
each in 2010, compared with 5.7 kilograms for the French,
according to the European Coffee Federation.  Capsules represent a smaller, though faster-growing, part
of the market as consumers turn to machines that can deliver
espresso quickly and conveniently. Sales were $976 million in
2011, Euromonitor estimates. Cafissimo, introduced seven years
ago, accounted for 0.5 percentage point of German coffee
spending in 2010, less than Nespresso’s 0.8 percent, while  Kraft
Foods Inc.’s (KFT)  Tassimo and Nestle’s Dolce Gusto represent 1.7 and
1.1 percent, respectively, Euromonitor said.  Kraft leads the overall coffee market, accounting for about
19 percent of retail sales, ahead of Tchibo and discounter Aldi
Group with 14 percent each, the research company estimates.  Phones, Holidays  For Tchibo, whose stores also sell items ranging from
clothes and kitchenware to phone contracts and holiday packages,
the growth of capsule sales has led to increased competition.  Nestle said Feb. 24 it plans to spend 220 million euros
building a factory in Germany to make Nescafe Dolce Gusto pods.
The plant in Schwerin, in the north of the country, will produce
about 2 billion coffee capsules a year.  The planned expansion “illustrates our deep trust in the
German market,” said Laurent Freixe, head of Nestle’s European
business. Germany is Nestle’s fourth-biggest market worldwide
and the world’s largest market for Dolce Gusto.  Green Mountain , the Waterbury, Vermont-based maker of
Keurig single-serve brewers and capsules, said last month it
will begin selling a higher-priced coffee machine in a bid to
compete with Nestle’s latte and cappuccino makers.  Rival Capsules  Ethical Coffee Co., a Swiss company founded in 2008 by
former Nespresso head Jean-Paul Gaillard, entered the German
market in October after flooding French and Swiss grocery
shelves with capsules that work in the Nestle unit’s machines.  “Since private labels are able to provide capsules for the
originally closed systems, competition is getting much
tougher,” Ivan Bascle, a partner at The Boston Consulting Group
in Munich, said in an interview.  About 10 percent of German coffee drinkers only buy single-
serve coffee and Tchibo expects that ratio to increase to about
15 percent this year, according to Dastmalchian.  “Tchibo had to be in the capsule market to retain traffic
particularly in the shops,” said Joerg Frey, an analyst at M.M.
Warburg in Hamburg. “It is such a developed market that you
have to invest money to make it work.  Tchibo released a 69-euro machine, the Cafissimo DUO, in
June last year, advertising it as the smallest on the market to
compete with  Nespresso’s Pixie , which is priced at 149.99 euros
on the brand’s website. Cafissimo also became the first brand to
offer 100 percent sustainable coffee for single-serve coffee
capsules, Dastmalchian said.  “The brand is well-known for quality coffee and has all
those points of sale, so it has the competence to take on
competitors,” Silvia Quandt’s Josefson said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Cruz in  Frankfurt  at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sara Marley at   smarley1@bloomberg.net  