-- How to Stop Medicare’s Fraud Siphon: View
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-03-11T23:00:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-11/how-to-stop-medicare-s-multibillion-dollar-fraud-siphon-view.html
For more than two decades, the U.S.
Government Accountability Office has designated Medicare a
“ high-risk program ” because of its “susceptibility to
mismanagement and improper payments.”  Criminal charges filed last month in  Dallas  in a $375
million Medicare fraud case suggest the program won’t be losing
its “high-risk” designation anytime soon.  It’s difficult to understand how a criminal enterprise can
bilk Medicare of a sum like $375 million (or $295 million, to
take another  recent example ). At least part of the answer is
that Medicare is where the money is -- lots of it. Medicare
serves some 48 million older and disabled Americans at a cost of
more than $500 billion per year, making it the third-largest
federal budget item after defense and Social Security.  Actually, the system is a bit of a bureaucratic miracle,
processing 4.5 million fee-for-service claims every business
day, paying 95 percent of providers within 30 days of billing
and doing all this with a fraction of the overhead of private
insurers. It also loses a fortune to crooks.  The government  estimates  that improper payments, which
include error and fraud, in the fee-for-service element of
Medicare equaled $28.8 billion last year. Medicare Advantage, a
supplemental program offered by private insurers, accounted for
an additional $12.4 billion -- four times the annual budget of
the National Park Service, which has 21,000 employees.  Yet neither Congress nor the Obama administration --
professed enemies of waste, fraud and abuse -- has taken up the
cause with the urgency it requires. Overhauling Medicare’s
payment system is a daunting task, in part because of the way
it’s structured. The system was designed to correct errors, not
root out fraud. Hospitals and doctors, politically powerful and
perennially peeved at low Medicare reimbursement rates for their
services, demand prompt repayment and minimal administrative
hassles. The system largely delivers -- at least on the first
part. But the cost of routine payment for service may be
unsustainable. More scrutiny, inevitably resulting in more
payment delays, is necessary to safeguard the public’s money.  In recent years, the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid
Services has begun addressing the epidemic, gradually adopting
more aggressive fraud detection efforts. The CMS says it is
dedicated to supplanting its “pay and chase” model, by which it
first pays the bills and later chases down overpayments and
irregularities. Predictive technologies similar to those used in
the credit-card industry now hunt for patterns of suspicious
behavior and flag them for analysts. Private contractors who
uncover fraud win a bounty.  These advances, while encouraging, remain unequal to the
task. The vast data systems used by CMS are not coordinated
across regions and functions, and integration with law-
enforcement data is far from complete.  Meantime, old habits persist. For example, the way in which
CMS corrects errors inadvertently shows criminals how better to
exploit the system. If a fraudulent provider submits a claim for
a patient who is already dead, for example, the system
automatically denies the claim, flagging the error for the
crook, who then knows to delete the name from a list of bogus
patients. Thousands of phony claims can be promptly paid
provided they conform to billing protocol; some frauds extend
for years.  What can be done? We like  legislation  by Senators  Tom Coburn  of  Oklahoma  and Tom Carper of  Delaware , which directs the
government to increase its data integration by sharing
information across federal and state law-enforcement agencies
and including Medicaid data in the CMS Integrated Data
Repository, among other efforts. The bill would also expand
prepayment review of Medicare claims and mandate such reviews
for claims for durable medical equipment, such as power
wheelchairs.  Although large-scale fraud perpetrated by organized crime
must be aggressively countered, Medicare can also take steps to
address smaller crimes by individual doctors, hospitals and
medical equipment and device suppliers. A good start would be to
make it possible for private citizens and news organizations to
determine which doctors are billing how much for which
procedures. Such public disclosure is currently prohibited, but
Senator  Charles Grassley  of  Iowa  and other lawmakers have
expressed interest in changing the law.  Due to rising health costs and an aging population,
Medicare spending will inevitably  grow , increasing the burden on
public finances. To protect both taxpayers and beneficiaries,
Medicare must become a more efficient supervisor of  health
services . To do that, it’s going to have to become a better
crime fighter, too.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 