-- Philippines May Pause After Two Rate Cuts, Tetangco Says
-- B y   M a x   E s t a y o   a n d   C l a r i s s a   B a t i n o
-- 2012-03-12T09:33:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-11/philippines-central-bank-may-pause-after-its-two-rate-cuts-tetangco-says.html
The Philippine central bank may
pause after reducing the benchmark interest rate at both of its
meetings so far this year as elevated  oil prices  threaten to
spur inflation, Governor Amando Tetangco said.  “Pausing gives us time to digest and monitor the impact of
past policy actions and to consider other relevant data,”
Tetangco said in an e-mailed reply to questions March 10. “A
pause is always on the table, as are other policy moves.”  Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas cut  interest rates  by a
quarter-percentage-point at each of its past two policy meetings,
taking the  overnight borrowing rate  to 4 percent, the lowest
level in a year. The  Philippines  reduced borrowing costs in a
bid to shore up  faltering growth  and stave off the destabilizing
effects of  Europe ’s debt crisis on the global economy.  Crude oil prices have gained about 8 percent so far this
year, a jump that risks spurring price pressures in a nation
that imports almost all its requirements, even as inflation
cooled to its slowest pace in more than two years in February.  “Second-round effects cannot be ruled out, especially if
price hikes are persistent, so we are watching the situation
carefully,” Tetangco said.  The yield on the 8 percent bond due July 2031 rose for the
first time in five days, climbing nine basis points to 5.73
percent, according to Tradition Financial Services at 3:36 p.m.
The  Philippine Stock Exchange (PCOMP)  Index halted two days of gains.  Transportation Fares  The  Land Transportation  Franchising and Regulatory Board
may decide on a 0.50-peso increase in minimum transportation
fares this week, Chairman Jaime Jacob said in a mobile phone
message yesterday. The minimum fare in jeepneys, a common form
of Philippine public transport, is currently 8 pesos ($0.19)  While the central bank included a “modest” fare
adjustment on its within-target inflation forecast this year,
any “pass through” impact of oil prices tends to be
significant, Tetangco said. The next policy meeting will be on
April 19.  Consumer prices  rose 2.7 percent from a year earlier in
February, the slowest pace since September 2009. Oil for April
delivery climbed to $107.40 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  on March 9. It fell from a one-week high today after
exports growth in  China  slowed more than forecast.  “Petroleum products are considered as input costs to
production and in transporting people and goods that ultimately
affect headline inflation,” Economic Planning Secretary
Cayetano Paderanga said in a statement yesterday. The government
is “mindful of the renewed volatility” in prices, he said.  ECB, Fed  Following  Greece ’s successful debt swap and the
implementation of its second bailout package investors will
“more closely monitor” the policy actions of the  European
Central Bank , Tetangco said in a separate e-mail. They’ll also
watch whether improvements in the  U.S. economy  may forestall the
need for further quantitative easing by the  Federal Reserve , he
said.  The Philippines will assess “whether there would be
significant changes in the direction and speed of capital flows,
to see if there would be a need to adjust the stance of
policy,” the governor said.  U.S. employers took on more workers than forecast in
February, completing the best six months for payroll growth
since 2006 and showing more improvement in the labor market, a
March 9 report showed. The jobless rate held at a three-year-low
of 8.3 percent.  The Philippine peso, which has climbed almost 3 percent
this year on the back of remittances and overseas investments,
could serve to moderate the impact of higher prices for imported
oil, Tetangco said. The currency fell 0.2 percent today to
42.658 per dollar, according to Tullett Prebon Plc.  “Persistent high oil prices bear close watching,”
Tetangco said. “The uncertainty in global oil prices indeed
constitutes an upside risk to the inflation outlook. The BSP is
prepared to undertake any required monetary policy action when
necessary.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Max Estayo in Manila at 
 mestayo@bloomberg.net ;
Clarissa Batino in Manila at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net  