-- Portugal Should Follow Greece’s Example on Debt Relief: View
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-03-11T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-11/portugal-should-follow-greece-s-example-on-debt-relief-view.html
Greece  has taken a big step toward
getting the debt relief it needs to fix its economy and stay in
the euro area. Now the question is whether other strapped
countries that use the single currency should follow its lead.  Despite the Greek deal’s flaws -- and they are many -- it
offers a model that some other sovereigns will inevitably be
tempted to experiment with, no matter how much European
officials insist on Greece’s uniqueness. The legal precedent is
set: By retroactively inserting so-called collective-action
clauses in its debt contracts, the government managed to coerce
95.7 percent of its private creditors into participating. As a
result, Greece will lop about 100 billion euros ($131 billion)
off a  debt burden  of more than 350 billion euros.  To some extent, it is in Europe’s best interests to
encourage such managed defaults by governments that can’t afford
their debts. The primary uncertainty weighing on the region’s
markets and economy is the extent to which governments will
ultimately need to renege on their debts, and how much banks
will lose as a result. Emergency financing from the  European
Central Bank  is no more than a temporary solution. Postponing
the final reckoning will only increase the economic pain and the
cost of the inevitable bailouts.  Who, then, should default? Let’s take a tour of the most
likely candidates.  Portugal is the prime one. Estimates of  interest rates  and
economic growth from the  International Monetary Fund  suggest
that, in order to keep its  debt burden  stable, the government
would need to run a primary  budget surplus  (excluding debt
payments) of nearly 2 percent of gross domestic product -- a
feat it has achieved in only three of the past 17 years. If it
wrote down its debts by 40 percent, the required surplus would
be a much more manageable 1 percent of GDP. Markets seem amply
prepared for such an outcome: As of Friday,  Portugal ’s 10-year
bonds were trading at a 47 percent discount to face value.  Ireland, too, could use some debt relief, though probably
not the kind of writedowns that might impair its access to
credit markets. Instead, the ECB should consider adjusting the
terms of 30 billion euros in promissory notes Ireland’s central
bank took on when it bailed out Anglo-Irish Bank -- an operation
that was less crucial for Ireland’s banking system than for the
bank’s euro-area creditors. The ECB is understandably reluctant
to forgive the debt, which has saddled the government with an
annual tab of 3 billion euros over the coming 15 years. But in
the hope of boosting growth, it should extend the repayment
period to reduce Ireland’s annual payments.  Spain ’s immediate problem is its budget  deficit , not its
level of debt. So for now it does not need a Greek-style deal.
And  Italy ? Thankfully, its  obligations  are just barely within
its means, which is a good thing, for an Italian default would
probably be more than the European banking system and the euro
could bear.  Hence, the bloodletting doesn’t need to go much beyond
Portugal. The government’s debts amount to only about half those
of Greece, so a Portuguese restructuring doesn’t have to be too
painful. The ECB, though, would need to prevent contagion from
spreading to governments such as Spain and Italy. That would
require a large enough guarantee to cover the medium-term
borrowing needs of all euro-area countries likely to come under
market attack -- at least 3 trillion euros, by our  estimate .
That’s far more than European nations have so far committed to
any rescue fund.  Europe ’s leaders should not let themselves be fooled by the
recent lull in market turmoil. Capital flight from Italy has
been accelerating, and the ECB’s operations have encouraged
banks to get more heavily invested in the debts of financially
troubled governments. The sooner Europe faces reality, the more
credible its efforts to resolve its fiscal problems will be.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 