-- Retail Sales Likely Rose on Autos, Fuel
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2012-03-11T05:00:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-11/retail-sales-in-u-s-probably-rose-by-most-in-five-months-on-auto-demand.html
Retail sales in the U.S. probably
rose in February by the most in five months, spurred by the
strongest demand for automobiles since 2008, economists said
before reports this week.  The 1.1 percent rise would follow a 0.4 percent gain in
January, according to the  median  forecast of 67 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News ahead of Commerce Department figures
due March 13. Industrial production picked up in February, while
inflation excluding food and energy remained in check.  Sales at retailers like  Gap Inc. (GPS)  and  Target Corp. (TGT)  last
month beat analysts’ estimates, a sign an improving job market
is helping bolster  consumer spending , the biggest part of the
economy. A pickup in payrolls, accompanied by limited wage
growth, may not be enough to satisfy Federal Reserve officials,
who this week will probably reaffirm their commitment to keeping
 interest rates  low through 2014.  “Retail sales could be pretty strong for February,” said
 Omair Sharif , an economist at RBS Securities LLC in  Stamford ,
 Connecticut . “The better job growth numbers are helping. Fed
policy makers are going to sit back and take stock” rather than
make any new moves.  Employers boosted payrolls more than forecast in February,
capping the best six-month streak of job growth since 2006. The
227,000 increase followed a revised 284,000 gain in January that
was bigger than first estimated, a Labor Department report
showed on March 9. The jobless rate held at a three-year low of
8.3 percent.  Auto Sales  Cars last month sold at the fastest pace in four years, led
by Chrysler Group LLC and a surprise gain from  General Motors
Co. (GM)  Light-vehicle sales accelerated to a  15 (SAARTOTL)  million annual rate,
the strongest since February 2008, according to Ward’s
Automotive Group.  “There are a number of factors that are helping release
this pent-up demand,”  Don Johnson , vice president of GM’s U.S.
sales, said on a March 1 conference call with analysts. “They
include stronger employment, good credit availability, and both
of those are leading to improving consumer sentiment.”  The retail sales data, which aren’t adjusted for prices,
will also reflect increasing gasoline costs.  Regular (3AGSREG)  fuel in
February averaged $3.56 a gallon, or 18 cents more than January,
according to AAA, the nation’s biggest auto organization. It’s
climbed further this month, reaching $3.77 on March 4, the
highest since June.  Gap, the largest U.S. apparel chain, and Target, the
country’s second-largest discount retailer, were among merchants
whose February sales gains at stores open at least a year
exceeded analysts’ average estimates. Warm weather may have
helped to spur demand for spring merchandise.  Warmer February  The average temperature was 38.2 degrees Fahrenheit (3.4
Celsius) last month, 3.6 degrees warmer than the 20th century
average and the 17th warmest February in 118 years.  The results at store chains are in sync with a pickup in
shoppers’ moods. The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan
preliminary index of  consumer sentiment  rose to a one-year high
in March, economists in the Bloomberg survey projected ahead of
the March 16 report.  Investors have driven up retailers' shares as the job market
heals. The Standard & Poor’s Supercomposite  Retailing Index (S15RETL) ,
which includes Gap and Macy’s Inc., has climbed 14 percent so
far this year, compared with a 9 percent advance for the broader
 S&P 500. (SPX)   Fed policy makers, meeting on March 13, may reiterate a
plan to keep interest rates low at least through late 2014.
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , in his semiannual monetary policy
report to Congress, said maintaining monetary stimulus is
warranted even with employment gains and a lower  jobless rate .  Bernanke on Jobs  While there are “some positive developments in the labor
market,” Bernanke told lawmakers on March 1, “the pace of
expansion has been uneven.” The rise in gasoline prices “is
likely to push up inflation temporarily while reducing
consumers’ purchasing power,” he said.  The recent increase in oil and fuel costs will be reflected
in last month’s price gauges from the Labor Department. The
 consumer price index , the broadest of the three measures,
climbed 0.4 percent, the most since April, economists in the
Bloomberg survey predicted. The report is slated for March 16.  Manufacturing continues to bolster the economic expansion,
a Fed report may show the same day. Industrial output at
factories, mines and utilities climbed 0.4 percent in February
after being little changed, according to the Bloomberg survey
median.  Growth at factories extended into this month, gauges of
manufacturing in the New York and Philadelphia regions may also
show on March 15, economists said.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  