-- Oligarch’s Dirty Cash Sloshes Around Globe, Flunky Flees: Books
-- B y   J a m e s   P r e s s l e y
-- 2012-03-11T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-11/russian-oligarch-s-dirty-money-sloshes-around-globe-as-flunky-flees-books.html
Tax havens are like plumbing: They
flush money around the globe so efficiently that few people
notice -- until someone like  Chris Morgan Jones  writes a
thriller about a sinister energy magnate in  Vladimir Putin ’s
 Russia .  Morgan Jones, whose CV includes 11 years at  Kroll Inc. (KROL) ,
brings the banality of offshore crime to life in “ The Silent
Oligarch ,” an understated debut that carries a special
resonance in the wake of Putin’s bare-knuckled presidential
victory.  The plot hinges on three men -- one bad, one good and one
gutless -- whose work revolves around the billions of dollars
and other assets that slither in and out of opaque jurisdictions
stretching from the  Cayman Islands  to Vanuatu. Like the spies in
a John le Carre novel, they are surprisingly plausible.  The bad guy is Konstantin Malin, a sallow-skinned career
bureaucrat ensconced in Russia’s Ministry of Natural Resources
when not residing at his compound on a seaside cliff with
terraced gardens on the Cote d’Azur. A fleshy man with dead
eyes, Malin looks “like a Russian wrestler in retirement.”  Malin controls much of the country’s oil-and-gas industry,
making him wealthy and terrifying by turns as he buys up assets
in neighboring countries -- refineries in  Bulgaria , petroleum
fields in the Caspian, PVC makers in  Turkey .  The good guy is Ben Webster, a former Moscow reporter for
the Times who now works in  London  for a business-intelligence
consultancy called Ikertu.  Avenging a Death  A decade earlier, Webster saw a young, idealistic Russian
colleague get her throat slashed for asking too many questions
about too many powerful people. No wonder his hair has gone
gray. When a client hires Webster to expose Malin as a crook, he
glimpses a chance to avenge her death.  The gutless wonder is Malin’s front man, Richard Lock. He’s
the plumber in this story. A Dutch-born lawyer, he has spent 15
years washing the Russian’s money and investments through a
chain of shell companies. Tied to Malin through marriage and
vapid greed, Lock is a master of “routine, dishonest
transactions.” He tracks the offshore network on a whiteboard
in his Moscow office.  “It looked like a technical drawing, unknowably arcane:
hubs and spokes and clusters covered the board, changing and
proliferating as Malin’s operations multiplied,” Morgan Jones
writes. “Lock knew it all. He knew each company, each bank
account, each company director; he knew the filing requirements
territory by territory; he knew when money had to leave one
place and be due in another.”  Questioning Lock  As Webster begins disentangling this chain, Lock comes
under pressure from legal proceedings in  New York  and Paris,
piquing the interest of journalists. Could Lock comment on
allegations that an Irish company linked to him is a money-
laundering operation? Then a former colleague dies in mysterious
circumstances in Budapest.  His “evasive half-life” is catching up with him.  Before long, Lock is on the run, with Webster, Russian
goons and the law in pursuit. Not to mention bodyguards and
counter-surveillance teams. The chase takes him to the Ritz-
Carlton on Grand Cayman, through rainy streets in London, down
Dutch highways at night and into the ice and snow of Berlin.  Morgan Jones handles the large cast of characters and
shifting venues with grace. The prose is stripped to bare
essentials: Early on, he describes a grim Kazakh factory town
where “black smoke leaks from a dozen pairs of chimneys.”  Earning Our Sympathy  His real triumph, though, lies in how he gradually makes us
sympathize with Lock. As the book opens, we see the second-rate
lawyer for what he is: a complacent bagman who thinks of little
beyond his own creature comforts. Sunbathing in  Monte Carlo , he
feels “his whole body glow amber” and wonders if he should
have another drink.  Bit by bit, though, we learn how his weakness and lack of
ambition have turned him into a stooge with a perpetual
backache. “Liberty would have been wasted on him,” he reflects
in self-loathing. As the chase intensifies, the most compelling
question becomes whether -- and how -- he can win back some
measure of freedom and dignity.  “The Silent Oligarch” is from Penguin Press in the U.S.
and is available from Mantle in the U.K. under the title “An
Agent of Deceit” (312 pages, $25.95, 16.99 pounds). To buy this
book in  North America , click  here .  (James Pressley writes for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
James Pressley in Brussels at 
 jpressley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 