-- Russia to Try Browder With Dead Hermitage Lawyer for Tax Evasion
-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 2012-03-11T13:26:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-11/russia-seeks-trial-of-browder-with-dead-hermitage-lawyer-for-tax-evasion.html
Russia plans to try  William Browder , head of London-based Hermitage Capital Management Ltd.,
for tax evasion, along with Sergei Magnitsky, the fund’s lawyer
who died in custody in 2009, RIA Novosti said.  “Magnitsky and Browder are both accused of severe crimes,
which deprived the state of several hundred million rubles,”
Alexander Yagodin, a senior Interior Ministry official, said in
an  interview  with RIA Novosti, published today on the state-
controlled news service’s website. Calls by Bloomberg to the
ministry’s investigative branch weren’t answered today.  Yagodin denied that Magnitsky, who President  Dmitry Medvedev ’s human rights commission said was facing fabricated
charges when he was beaten to death, had uncovered corruption by
Interior Ministry officials. The Hermitage lawyer said he was
abused and denied medical care in an effort to force him to drop
fraud allegations against officials before his death in November
2009 after almost a year in pre-trial detention.  International pressure is increasing over the Magnitsky
case, which has reinforced concerns about corruption and the
lack of rule of law in  Russia . U.K. lawmakers on March 7
approved a cross-party motion urging the government to bar entry
to 60 officials allegedly involved in the lawyer’s death. The
U.S. imposed a similar visa ban on a number of Russian officials
in July.  ‘False Promises’                     Medvedev, who’s set to hand over the presidency to  Vladimir Putin  in May after the Russian prime minister was elected to a
new six-year term in the Kremlin, made the fight against
corruption and “legal nihilism” the hallmark of his four years
in office. Putin, who served as president from 2000 to 2008,
pledged during his election campaign this year to combat graft.  “If this is how Putin is dealing with the most well-
documented corruption case in modern Russian history, it lays
bare how false and insincere his campaign promises were,”
Browder, who denies  tax evasion , said today by e-mail. “Before,
the Russian government covered up Magnitsky’s false arrest,
torture and murder. Now they are going so far as covering up the
corruption scandal he uncovered.”  Browder, a U.S.-born British citizen, said he hasn’t yet
received details of the prosecutors’ case against him. The
biggest foreign investor in Russia when authorities stripped him
of his visa in 2005, citing national security concerns, Browder
has been campaigning for the prosecution of Russian officials he
blames for the death of Magnitsky.  Rubber Batons  Relatives of the lawyer, who was 37 when he died of heart
failure, found broken bones in some of his fingers and bruising
on his body, according to a report last year by the presidential
human rights commission. Instead of receiving urgent medical
treatment on the day of his death, Magnitsky was handcuffed,
hauled away by psychiatric nurses and bludgeoned with rubber
batons, the council said.  Investigators have charged two prison medical officials
with negligence for failing to provide care to Magnitsky, while
exonerating officials involved in prosecuting the lawyer.  In 2009, Russia put Browder on its international wanted
list, seeking to question the investor on suspicion of
conspiring with Magnitsky to evade 500 million rubles ($17
million) of taxes.  Hermitage says Interior Ministry officials seized documents
from its Moscow offices in June 2007 that enabled them to re-
register ownership of three Russian units and fraudulently claim
$230 million in tax rebates in December 2007.  ‘No Reason’  Alexander Bastrykin , who heads the federal Investigative
Committee, said in a September 2010 interview with the official
Rossiiskaya Gazeta newspaper that there was “no reason” to
believe Magnitsky’s death was connected to those prosecuting the
criminal case against him.  “President Medvedev would have us believe that Russia is
now a country of the rule of law, but we know very well that in
practice that is sadly not the case,” Malcolm Rifkind, the
former Conservative U.K. foreign secretary,  said  in parliament
on March 7. “Russia is moving toward being a society that might
very well be tolerating a relationship between the Russian state
and organized crime that is deep and serious, and which extends
to the highest levels of Russian society.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  