-- Santorum: Romney Would Force GOP to Forfeit Health Care
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m   a n d   C o t t e n   T i m b e r l a k e
-- 2012-03-11T16:05:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-11/santorum-says-romney-would-force-party-to-forfeit-health-care.html
Republican presidential candidate
 Rick Santorum  said the nomination of rival  Mitt Romney  would
force the party to forfeit its most potent issue in a general
election campaign against Democratic President  Barack Obama :
Obama’s health care law.  Santorum, who trails Romney in the delegate count for the
Republican nomination, said the former  Massachusetts  governor
passed a health-care law with the same insurance mandate that
Obama’s plan imposed nationwide.  With Romney as the candidate, “it will not make the
contrast with Barack Obama that we need to win this election,”
Santorum said on NBC’s “Meet the Press” today. Santorum, who
won 51 percent of the vote in the Kansas caucuses yesterday,
also said he can sway uncommitted delegates to overcome Romney’s
lead and win the nomination.  Even after winning the majority of the states that held so-
called Super Tuesday contests on March 6, Romney and his
campaign have presented the March 13 contests in Mississippi and
 Alabama  as unfriendly turf for the former Massachusetts governor
because of his northern upbringing and background. Romney has
likened it to playing an “away game.”  Those states together will send 90 delegates to the
Republican nominating convention in August. Romney has secured
453 of the 1,144 delegates needed to win the nomination,
including endorsements from Republican Party leaders who
automatically attend and can vote for anyone, compared with 217
for Santorum, according to AP estimates.  ‘Mathematical’ Victory  “Mathematically, this is over, but emotionally it is
not,” South Carolina Republican  Senator Lindsey Graham  said on
ABC News’ “This Week” today. “It’s Romney’s to lose and,
quite frankly, every time he had his back against the wall, he’s
performed.”  Republican lawmakers and supporters said today they worried
that the drawn-out primary may undercut the eventual nominee’s
standing in the short term.  Romney will “limp over the finish line,” former
Republican presidential candidate  Steve Forbes  said on CNN’s
“State of the Union” today. “A brawl like that never makes
the fighters look good. But, I think at the end of the day, if
Romney emerges as the nominee, it will make him stronger.”  Two-Person Race  Santorum, 53, a former Pennsylvania senator, has said his
goal is to have the Republican race become a two-person contest
following the Alabama and Mississippi primaries. The third-place
 Newt Gingrich  said today that he isn’t leaving the race any time
soon, as he predicted a win in both southern primaries this
week.  “I think we are pulling ahead in both states,” Gingrich
said from Birmingham today on “Fox News Sunday.” He wouldn’t
drop out to help Santorum because the fellow Republican ran up
budget deficits and made compromises while he was a U.S. senator
from  Pennsylvania , said Gingrich.  Today Santorum leveled direct fire at the front runner,
saying Romney misrepresents his health-care plan in
Massachusetts even as he tries to criticize Obama’s plan.  “He repeatedly did not tell the truth,” Santorum said,
referring to Romney’s statements on the campaign trail that he
opposed a federal mandate for health care. “He’s repeatedly had
big government solutions and then gone out and told the public,
bald face, that he didn’t do the things that he did.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  