-- Sarkozy Struggles to Advance Past Hollande as French Vote Nears
-- B y   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i
-- 2012-03-11T23:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-11/sarkozy-struggles-to-advance-past-hollande-as-french-vote-nears.html
Since announcing his candidacy on
Feb. 15, President  Nicolas Sarkozy  has accused his main opponent
of lying and of not loving  France ; announced new proposals on
company taxes, immigration and labor, and threatened to withdraw
from some European accords.  His rankings in the polls have barely budged.  With 42 days before the first round of the elections,
Sarkozy has trailed Socialist candidate Francois Hollande in
every poll the past four months, risking making him the eighth
euro-area leader to be ousted since 2010. An Ifop poll for Paris
Match magazine released over the weekend said he’d lose to
Hollande by 55 percent to 45 percent in the presidential
elections, a similar margin to every other poll.  “Sarkozy is having a hard time holding on to the right
while attracting the center,” said  Laurent Dubois , a professor
at Institute of Political Studies in Paris. “He doesn’t have
either the record or the popular personality to run on. He’s
reduced to attacking Hollande, which doesn’t make for a very
attractive campaign that brings people together.”  In his latest attempt to revive his campaign, Sarkozy
yesterday held a rally attended by about 50,000 of his flag-
waving supporters where he threatened to withdraw France from
the Schengen open-borders treaty if wasn’t reworked to better
control illegal immigration and called for a “Buy European Act”
modeled on similar U.S. laws for some public contracts.  “I don’t see why if America, the most free-market country
on earth, has one, why  Europe  can’t,” he said at the election
rally near Paris. He also called for a European version of the
U.S.’s “Small Business Act,” which helps small and mid-sized
companies win public contracts.  ‘President of the Rich’  Faced with an unemployment rate of almost 10 percent,
Sarkozy has found it difficult to show that his first term was a
success even though he’s pointed out that France has fared
better than countries such as the U.K. and Spain.  “The dislike that many French have for him is set in
stone,” said Francois Miquet-Marty, at pollster Viavoice.  Miquet-Marty said the dislike of Sarkozy is linked to what
are seen as un-kept promises on purchasing power and jobs, and
his image of being the “president for the rich” because of tax
cuts he enacted and his friendship with many business leaders.  France’s unemployment rate was 9.8 percent in the fourth
quarter of last year, up from a low of 7.5 percent at the start
of 2008. While joblessness has risen more in Britain and Spain,
Sarkozy built his 2007 election on promises to create jobs,
Miquet-Marty said.  Not Appreciated  In a March 6 television interview, Sarkozy said he
regretted celebrating his 2007 election with a party at an
expensive Paris restaurant and for holidaying on a yacht owned
by businessman  Vincent Bollore , saying at the time he was
disoriented because of his troubled second marriage. Sarkozy
divorced in late 2007 and in 2008 married singer  Carla Bruni ,
with whom he now has a daughter.  Sarkozy, 57, is paying the price for making himself the
subject during his victorious 2007 campaign, where he made his
energy and pugnacious temperament a key part of his attraction,
Miquet-Marty said.  “He successfully built his 2007 campaign around his image
but his temperament is no longer appreciated by the French,” he
said. “He’s trying to overcome that by talking about values and
making policy proposals but it’s not easy. In a presidential
election you elect a person.”  Unpopular  Seventy-four percent of the French say their opinion of
Sarkozy is set in stone, and of those, 73 percent have a
negative opinion, according to a March 6 poll for Liberation by
Viavoice. Only 35 percent have a positive image of Sarkozy, a
number that’s barely budged in a year, the poll said, and 67
percent don’t want him to win re-election.  The poll involved 1,001 people questioned by telephone,
with a margin of error between 1.4 percent and 3.1 percent.  The first round of the elections will be held on April 22.
Under France’s election system, the top two vote-getters face
off in the decisive second round.  According to the Ifop poll, Sarkozy would gather 27 percent
of the votes and Hollande 29 percent in a first round, with the
president gaining 1.5 percentage points from a week earlier
while the Socialist contender held steady. The poll involved 922
people and has a margin of error of 3 percent.  A Sarkozy loss would follow those by leaders in Ireland,
 Portugal ,  Greece ,  Italy ,  Spain , Slovenia and Slovakia, and make
him the second French president after Valery Giscard D’Estaing
to lose a re-election bid.  Not Giving Up  Sarkozy’s supporters say they haven’t given up. “Sarkozy
can and will probably be re-elected,” Foreign Minister  Alain Juppe  said on Europe 1 radio yesterday. “We’re realizing the
total lack of credibility of the Socialist candidate.”  At the rally yesterday, Sarkozy claimed credit for
sheltering France from the euro-region’s crisis. He said
France’s strong role had help save Greece.  “For the past five years I’ve put everything into
protecting the French people from crises,” he said at the rally
yesterday attended by actor Gerard Depardieu and former First
lady Bernadette Chirac, who spoke in his support.  Sarkozy said France will suspend its involvement in the
Schengen system of European open borders if changes are not made
within the next 12 months to control illegal immigration. France
will introduce its own legislation, he said.  “The main concerns of the French have to do with jobs, but
instead all Sarkozy has been offering are wedge issues such as
immigration,” Dubois said.  Hollande Margin  Hollande is a lawmaker from central France who has never
held a Cabinet post. He’s called for an immediate withdrawal of
French troops from  Afghanistan  and for a 75 percent tax band on
income over 1 million euros ($1.3 million). He also wants to
renegotiate the European fiscal treaty.  “We expect  Francois Hollande  to be the next host in the
Elysee palace given his considerable winning margin in the
polls,” said a March 9 note to investors by Citigroup Global
Markets senior economist Guillaume Menuet. “Historically,
voting intentions crystallize in March, leaving Sarkozy a window
of just a few weeks for an unlikely political comeback.”  The recent easing of the European debt crisis has also
worked against Sarkozy, Menuet said, with the irony that Sarkozy
was one of the leaders most outspoken in pushing for greater
involvement of the  European Central Bank .  “The reduction in market stress has lowered his chances of
re-election in our view,” Menuet wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gregory Viscusi in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net  