-- Schumer Says Benefits for Transit Commuters Will Be in Transportation Bill
-- B y   S t e v e n   S l o a n
-- 2012-03-11T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-11/schumer-says-transit-benefits-will-be-in-transportation-bill.html
Senator  Charles Schumer , a New York
Democrat, is calling on the Republican-controlled U.S. House of
Representatives to pass legislation including expanded tax
benefits for transit riders that lapsed Dec. 31.  Last year workers were able to set aside $230 a month
before taxes to cover the cost of their transit commutes. Since
expiring on Dec. 31, the benefit has been capped at $125 a
month. Schumer has attached a provision to the highway bill the
Senate is considering this week that would raise the monthly
benefit to $240 through 2012 and make it retroactive to Jan. 1.  Schumer, the Senate’s third-ranking Democrat, is scheduled
to discuss the transit benefit in an appearance this morning at
Pennsylvania Station in  Manhattan .  “Today is a huge victory for the hundreds of thousands of
 New Yorkers  that rely on the commuter tax break to reduce their
commuting costs and I’m urging the House to now do its part and
pass this crucial legislation,” Schumer said in a statement
before the event.  Workers already can set aside $240 before taxes to pay for
some parking expenses. Schumer has said the higher parking
benefit encourages employees to use their cars to get to work
instead of taking transit.  His comments today come as House Republican leaders are
showing more openness to discussing transit benefits. They
agreed last week to abandon a proposal in their version of the
highway bill that would have ended guaranteed federal funding
for mass transit.  House Republicans  haven’t been able to agree on the size
and scope of a highway bill. Speaker  John Boehner , an Ohio
Republican, said March 6 that using the Senate bill as a
framework for a House measure is an “option” if the impasse
continues.  The Senate transportation bill is S. 1813.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Sloan in Washington at 
 ssloan7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  