-- U.S. Soldier Kills, Wounds 16 Afghan Civilians in Rampage Outside His Base
-- B y   E l t a f   N a j a f i z a d a
-- 2012-03-11T12:58:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-11/u-s-soldier-kills-wounds-16-afghan-civilians-in-rampage-outside-his-base.html
A U.S. soldier was arrested in
 Afghanistan  after opening fire on civilians outside a base in
southern Kandahar province, Afghan and NATO officials said.  More than 16 civilians were killed or wounded in the
attack,  Zalmai Ayoubi , a spokesman for the province, said by
telephone today. The gunman, who wasn’t identified, was captured
and he’s now being questioned by the Afghan police, Ayoubi said.  NATO’s  International Security Assistance Force , or  ISAF ,
confirmed the shootings and the arrest of a service member. The
incident occurred today between 4 a.m. and 5 a.m. in the
Panjwayi district of Kandahar.  “A  United States  service member was detained today in
connection to an incident that resulted in Afghan casualties,”
ISAF said in an e-mailed statement today. “This is a deeply
regrettable incident.” U.S. and Afghan authorities are
investigating and will release more information later, according
to the statement.  The shooting occurred a month after U.S. soldiers
unintentionally burned several copies of the Koran, Islam’s
scripture, in an airbase north of the capital, Kabul. The
burning sparked deadly protests in which Afghan forces killed
six U.S. soldiers in retaliation and more than 30 civilian were
killed.  The  BBC  reported that the soldier killed at least 16
civilians and wounded five without saying where it got the
information.  “The United States extends its deepest condolences to the
families of the victims of today’s tragic shooting incident in
Kandahar province,” said a statement released by the embassy in
Afghanistan. “U.S. forces are providing the highest level of
care for those injured. The incident is under investigation and
a United States service member has been detained.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eltaf Najafizada in Kabul at 
 enajafizada1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  