-- U.S. Athletes to Win Most Olympic Golds in London, Economic Model Predicts
-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y
-- 2012-03-11T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-11/u-s-athletes-to-win-most-olympic-golds-in-london-economic-model-predicts.html
U.S. athletes will win the most
gold medals at this year’s  Olympic Games  in London, according to
an economic model that ignores sporting ability.  The U.S. will top the podium 34 times, trailed by China
with 33 gold medals,  Russia  with 25 and host  Great Britain  with
20,  projects  Daniel Johnson, a professor of economics at
Colorado College in  Colorado Springs . Add in silver and bronze
medals and the U.S. will again have the biggest medal haul with
99, followed by Russia with 82 and China with 67, he said.  Johnson’s model focuses on per-capita income, population
and the advantage of hosting the games or living nearby. Based
on six decades of historical data it purports to have a success
rate of 95 percent for predicting gold medals and 96 percent for
all top-three finishes.  “The Olympics are a celebration of the exceptional,” said
Johnson in a report to be released today. “The fact that an
economic model can predict medal counts so accurately simply
points to the fact that there are underlying patterns that favor
certain nations over others.”  At the last Olympics in Beijing, Johnson’s model correctly
forecast the U.S. would win the most medals, which it did with
110 compared with the predicted 103. It was also right in
projecting that  China  would celebrate the most gold medal
victories, taking home 51 versus the 44 estimated.  Johnson has written in the past that economic strength can
translate into Olympic glory because the fitter a nation’s
economy, the more money it has to spend on training, diet and
sporting infrastructure. The London games begin July 27.  “The countries that take the most medals are often the
most vibrant economies or at least economics that can
organize,” Stephen Jen, a former International Monetary Fund
economist and now managing partner at SLJ Macro Partners LLP in
London, said in a Feb. 27 report. “Training a world-class
athlete is not easy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Kennedy in  London  at 
 Skennedy4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  