-- UN Special Envoy Annan Leaves Syria Without Cease-Fire After Assad Talks
-- B y   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r   a n d   Z a i d   S a b a h   A b d   A l h a m i d
-- 2012-03-12T10:46:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-11/un-special-envoy-annan-says-he-is-optimistic-after-meeting-syria-s-assad.html
United Nations envoy  Kofi Annan 
left Syria without reaching an agreement with President Bashar al-Assad for a cease-fire in the year-old uprising amid reports
dozens more people were killed yesterday by government forces.  Assad rejected overtures to talk with opposition groups he
labeled terrorists in two days of talks with Annan. A deal will
be “tough, but we have to have hope,” Annan said in televised
remarks to reporters in Damascus yesterday.  The former UN secretary-general submitted proposals aimed
at halting the violence in Syria, where more than 7,500 people
have died since anti-government protests started in March 2011,
according to UN estimates. The U.S. is drafting a new Security
Council resolution after  Russia  and  China  blocked a measure
supporting an Arab League plan for Assad to step down.  Security forces killed at least 130 people yesterday,  Al
Jazeera  television reported, citing activists. Among them were
20 women and 25 children in the Karam Al-Zaitoun neighborhood of
Homs, according to Abu Jaafar al-Homsi, an activist from the
city.  Video on Al Jazeera showed a room filled with dead children
covered with blankets, their necks showing signs of knife
wounds. Dozens of girls were kidnapped from the neighborhood,
according to Bassam Jaara, a member of the Syrian National
Council, the leading opposition group.  ‘Grisly Crime’  The Syrian National Council, in a statement posted on its
Facebook page, denounced the “grisly crime” in Homs and called
on the UN Security Council to take the necessary measures to
stop all kinds of “genocide, including an urgent and decisive
intervention that would bar the regime from using death and
destruction machines.”  Syria ’s state-run news agency SANA said the images from
Homs were of “crimes committed by the armed terrorist groups
who kidnapped and killed civilians in Homs.” It said those
groups escalate “their crimes ahead of UN Security Council
sessions to elicit anti-Syria stands.”  Syria’s government intends to fight armed opposition groups
until their “total annihilation,” Riad Haddad, the country’s
envoy to Russia, told reporters in Moscow today.  Boxing Champ Killed  An armed “terrorist” group shot and killed boxing
champion Ghiath Tayfour in Aleppo yesterday, SANA reported. In
Idlib, about 1,000 rebel fighters were trying to hold off the
army yesterday, Al Jazeera said.  Assad said he’s ready to help with “honest efforts” to
end the violence. Annan cautioned Assad about ignoring the
democratic changes of the “Arab Spring” in the region that led
to the toppling of leaders in  Tunisia ,  Egypt ,  Libya  and Yemen.  Annan told reporters he cited an African proverb to the
Syrian president: “You cannot turn the wind, so turn the
sail.”  Bassma Kodmani, a member of the Syrian National Council,
told the  BBC  from Istanbul that Assad “stepping down is a first
condition of any discussion, any negotiation.”  Annan also met with members of the Damascus-based
opposition, said Mahmoud Merei, head of the Arab Organization
for Human Rights. Discussions centered on finding a political
solution to the crisis and getting humanitarian aid to areas
affected by the violence, Merei, who attended the meeting, said
by telephone from Damascus yesterday.  International Mediation  Mouna Ghanem, one of the opposition leaders who met with
Annan, told Al Jazeera by telephone that activists proposed an
international mediation group.  The UN Security Council probably won’t agree this week on a
resolution calling for a cease-fire and access for humanitarian
aid in Syria because of Russian opposition, French Foreign
Minister  Alain Juppe  said.  U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  is scheduled to
continue diplomatic efforts today in  New York  with Russian
Foreign Minister  Sergei Lavrov .  Saudi Foreign Minister Saud al-Faisal told journalists in
Riyadh yesterday that Syria’s government must be persuaded that
there isn’t a military solution to the conflict.  Assad’s government has stepped up a violent campaign to
crush the resistance since China and Russia vetoed a Security
Council resolution last month that called for him to step down.
Russia is a major arms supplier to Syria and maintains a naval
base in the port of Tartous.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Donna Abu-Nasr in Manama at 
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net ;
Zaid Sabah Abd Alhamid in Washington at 
 zalhamid@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  