-- VW’s Funding Lead Over Peugeot Widens as Cash Pile Swells: Cars
-- B y   C h r i s   R e i t e r
-- 2012-03-12T08:56:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-11/vw-s-funding-lead-over-peugeot-widens-as-cash-pile-swells-cars.html
For  Volkswagen AG (VOW3) , there are 17
billion reasons why a financial edge over indebted European
competitors makes it easier for the carmaker to raise money to
finance auto loans, and they all add up to a huge cash pile.  Volkswagen, which today at its annual press conference
forecast stable 2012 profit, had net liquidity in its auto
operations of 17 billion euros ($22.3 billion) at the end of
2011, compared with  PSA Peugeot Citroen (UG) ’s net debt of 3.36
billion euros and  Renault SA (RNO) ’s 299 million-euro debt.  “VW has the opportunity to be more aggressive on financing
than the French carmakers because it can raise money cheaper,”
said Philippe Houchois, a London-based analyst with UBS. “It
adds to the brand and cost advantages that VW already has.”  Auto companies face increasing pressure to finance their
own sales, as commercial banks in Europe move to cap their
exposure to auto loans because of the region’s sovereign debt
crisis. VW’s financial advantage will make it even tougher for
the French carmakers to compete with VW’s nine-brand behemoth.
Peugeot announced plans last month to team with  General Motors
Co. (GM) , while Fiat SpA in  Italy  said the region needs more
consolidation to take on Volkswagen.  The Wolfsburg, Germany-based carmaker, which posted record
profit last year after selling 8.27 million vehicles, is rated
A3 by Moody’s Investors Service, four levels higher than both
Peugeot and Renault. That translates into savings when drumming
up cash from investors.  Stripped-Down Golfs  If the carmakers raise 100 million euros, the equivalent of
about 5,900 stripped-down VW Golfs, Peugeot would have to pay
about 2 million euros more in annual interest than Volkswagen,
while Renault’s financing costs would be 1.4 million euros more
a year, according to data from Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s
European autos index. While Fiat is another level lower than the
French carmakers at Ba2, the Italian manufacturer relies on a
joint venture with  Credit Agricole SA (ACA)  for auto loans.  “We’re in a favorable financial position and we intend to
use this advantage in the market,” said Christian Dahlheim,
head of European sales for VW’s financial services unit. “Our
goal is to finance every second Volkswagen car sold by 2018, but
we don’t have a problem if we get there sooner.”  The unit currently underwrites about one-third of the
carmaker’s sales in Europe, excluding its home market in
Germany, where the rate is above 50 percent. The share of in-
house financing climbed from 20 percent three years ago,
Dahlheim said. In  emerging markets  like India and  China , where
cash sales are more common, the  Volkswagen (VOW3)  unit provides loans
and leasing packages for less than 20 percent of sales, he said.  Expanded Offerings  To meet its goal, Volkswagen Financial Services is
expanding its offerings. Last year, it began selling extended
warranty packages in  Germany  and  France  and is considering
expanding its insurance offering for commercial leasing clients
beyond Italy and the Netherlands, Dahlheim said, adding that
insurance for private customers is also under discussion.  The cost of insuring Volkswagen’s debt with credit-default
swaps has fallen 41 percent this year to 102 basis points,
according to CMA, a data provider owned by CME Group Inc. A
decline in the contracts, which investors use to speculate on a
company’s ability to repay debt, indicates improvement in
perceptions of  credit quality .  The price of VW’s default swaps compares with 304 basis
points to insure the debt of Renault, 470 basis points for
contracts on Peugeot and 767 for  Fiat (F) , according to CMA. A basis
point on a swap protecting 10 million euros of debt for five
years is equivalent to 1,000 euros a year.  Comfortable Lead  VW’s financing edge should help the carmaker maintain a
comfortable lead in the European market, where one in every five
autos bought in the region stems from the German auto group,
which also sells Audi, Skoda and Seat models. VW plans to spend
a record 62.4 billion euros over the next five years to develop
new models and expand production. An additional 14 billion euros
is earmarked for its ventures in China.  VW’s European market share is projected to remain steady at
about 21 percent this year and in 2013, according to IHS
Automotive. Peugeot,  Europe ’s number two, will probably see its
share fall to 12 percent next year from 13.2 percent in 2012,
while Renault may increase its share to 10.6 percent from 9.6
percent, aided by the budget Dacia brand, IHS forecasts.  Sales Incentives  The cheaper financing may help Volkswagen spend less on
sales incentives, improving the profitability of its vehicles.
Audi and the VW brand had the lowest incentives in Germany in
January, averaging 8.5 percent off the list price for Audi and
9.9 percent for VW, according to a survey by industry researcher
Autohaus PulsSchlag. Fiat had the highest incentives at 13.3
percent, followed by the French manufacturers, with an average
discount rate of 12.8 percent.  Renault, which last year exceeded its 500 million-euro
target for automotive free  cash flow , is keeping pace in terms
of matching financing offers, sales chief Jerome Stoll said at
the  Geneva Motor Show  last week.  The Boulogne-Billancourt-based carmaker’s banking arm has
been able to refinance “in a competitive way,” said Stoll.
“We are benefiting from this offer and are able to pass this to
the customers.”  Peugeot is under more pressure. The Paris-based
manufacturer plans to raise 1 billion euros in a share sale,
pricing the stock at a 42 percent discount to the last closing
level prior to the March 6 announcement. In January, the company
said it plans to sell 1.5 billion euros of assets, including
property and a stake in its Gefco trucking unit after net debt
more than doubled.  Junk Rating  “The pressure on car-maker finances is evident at
Peugeot,” UBS’s Houchois said. “The planned asset sale and
rights issue are driven in part by an effort to protect its
bank. If Peugeot’s credit rating dropped further, it risked
losing control of the bank. There are no easy buyers out there
now.”  Moody’s downgraded Peugeot to a non-investment grade Ba1
rating on March 1, citing concerns about deteriorating finances.
The company’s car-manufacturing unit, which builds the Peugeot
208 hatchback and Citroen C4 sedan, reported a recurring
operating loss of 92 million euros in 2011, compared with a
profit of 621 million euros a year earlier. For its part,
Peugeot is keen to maintain control of the bank.  “The sales financed by our bank have grown and continue to
grow,” Peugeot’s Chief Financial Officer Jean-Baptiste de Chatillon said in February. “Classic banks are not particularly
interested by this business, so we are very confident that our
activities in this area will remain a cash pillar for the
group.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Reiter in Berlin at 
 creiter2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  