-- M&G Real Estate Seeks A$1 Billion From Australian Pensions
-- B y   I a i n   M c D o n a l d
-- 2013-11-05T01:56:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-05/m-g-real-estate-seeks-a-1-billion-from-australian-pensions.html
M&G Real Estate, a property
investment unit of  Prudential Plc (PRU) , wants to raise about A$1
billion ($951 million) in the next three years from Australian
pension funds as they boost allocations to foreign assets.  M&G, previously called Prupim with 17 billion pounds ($27
billion) in assets primarily in the U.K., has met with pension
or superannuation funds in  Australia , and will meet another
asset consultant this week, said Chris Andrews, head of client
relationships and marketing at the London-based manager.  Australian superannuation funds held A$1.6 trillion of
assets at the end of June, with property accounting for 10
percent of the holdings, according to the  Australian Prudential
Regulation Authority , which didn’t distinguish between domestic
and foreign-held assets in its data. The Australian All
Ordinaries Index, tracking 502 of the nation’s biggest
companies, had a combined market capitalization of A$1.6
trillion as of yesterday.  “A number of the funds have communicated that they feel
they’re at a tipping point,” Andrews, based in  Singapore , said
in a telephone interview on Nov. 1. “International markets now
need to be considered in a way that they haven’t been in the
past because of the growth of the domestic capital and now the
influx of international capital that is competing.”  M&G Real Estate is focused on Australia’s public-sector and
industry-based retirement funds and wants to partner with the
pensions in direct transactions, Andrews said. Among them, some
of the larger funds are seeking to invest between A$100 million
and A$400 million, he said.  “We could easily see ourselves managing A$1 billion on
behalf of Australian funds,” he said.  Exploratory Visits  M&G Real Estate said in May it formed a partnership with an
Asian institutional investor to acquire a 70 percent stake in
the long leases of three Tesco Plc stores with a combined market
value of 237 million pounds. The deal involved the purchase of
units in a Jersey Property Unit Trust, which owned a portfolio
of properties currently controlled by Tesco Pension Fund and
located in Beckton in  London ’s east, Durham and Swindon, M&G
said, without naming the partner in  Asia .  “A lot of the superannuation funds are going out on
exploratory visits to go and see managers in the U.K., in Asia,
in the U.S., to understand what the opportunity is for them to
invest in those markets,” Andrews said.  The primary interest by the pensions for investments has
been in the U.K., Chris Perkins, London-based head of business
space, said in the same interview, adding that for the rest of
 Europe , people have had “question marks over the direction of
the European market.”  The public-sector funds allocated 1 percent of assets to
publicly traded property and 10 percent to unlisted property as
at June 30, while industry-based funds allocated 3 percent to
listed property and 7 percent to unlisted, according to APRA.  “We’re talking to people who are saying ’we anticipate 20
percent to 30 percent of our real estate will need to be
offshore,’” Andrews said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Iain McDonald in Sydney at 
 imcdonald7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  