-- T-Mobile Sales Beat Analysts’ Estimates as Subscribers Surge
-- B y   S c o t t   M o r i t z
-- 2013-11-05T21:25:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-05/t-mobile-beats-sales-estimates-as-monthly-subscribers-increase.html
T-Mobile US Inc. (TMUS) , the fourth-largest
U.S. wireless carrier, reported third-quarter sales that
exceeded analysts’ estimates as its cheaper service plans and
phone-upgrade strategy attracted customers.  Sales rose to $6.69 billion, an increase of 8.7 percent
when adjusted to account for T-Mobile’s merger with MetroPCS
Communications Inc., according to a statement today from the
Bellevue, Washington-based company. Analysts  projected  $6.58
billion, the average of estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  T-Mobile, which merged with MetroPCS six months ago, added
648,000 new monthly subscribers, topping the 401,000 average
estimate and gaining for a second straight quarter. T-Mobile has
benefited from offers such as zero-down financing on phones and
a $10-a-month service that lets customers upgrade their devices
more often -- a program that rivals such as Verizon Wireless,
 AT&T Inc. (T)  and  Sprint Corp. (S)  have now adopted.  “It’s surprising how quickly the new offers took hold with
consumers,” said  Todd Rethemeier , an analyst at Hudson Square
Research in New York. “The true test will be a few quarters
out, when we’ll see if they are able to hang on to these new
customers.”  T-Mobile was little changed in New York trading, closing at
$28.12. The  shares  have climbed 70 percent since May 1,
following the MetroPCS merger. Deutsche Telekom also was little
changed today, closing at 11.72 euros in  Frankfurt .  Smartphone Gains  The company now expects to add 1.6 million to 1.8 million
subscribers this year, up from a prior forecast of 1 million to
1.2 million.  T-Mobile, which is 74 percent owned by  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) ,
also was helped by the addition of Apple Inc.’s iPhones in
April. The company sold 5.6 million smartphones -- 88 percent of
total phone sales in the quarter. Smartphone owners now
represent 78 percent of T-Mobile’s customers.  The  net loss  was $36 million, following a second-quarter
net loss of $16 million. The average phone bill for monthly
subscribers shrank about 3 percent to $52.20 from the second
quarter as more customers opted for cheaper plans. Analysts had
projected $52.86, according to a survey of seven estimates by
Bloomberg.  The company reaffirmed its 2013 forecast for adjusted
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization,
including MetroPCS results. The company expects $5.2 billion to
$5.4 billion. It also reiterated that capital spending will
total between $4.2 billion to $4.4 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Moritz in New York at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  