-- Abercrombie Falls as Third-Quarter Sales Trail Estimates
-- B y   L i n d s e y   R u p p
-- 2013-11-06T21:37:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-05/abercrombie-falls-as-third-quarter-sales-trail-estimates.html
Abercrombie & Fitch Co. (ANF)  fell the most
in more than two months after posting fiscal third-quarter sales
that trailed analysts’ estimates as teens restrained spending on
clothing.  The stock dropped 14 percent to $33.13 at the close in New
York for the biggest decline since Aug. 22. Shares of  New
Albany , Ohio-based Abercrombie have retreated 31 percent this
year, compared with a 24 percent gain for the Standard & Poor’s
500 Index.  Comparable-store sales fell 14 percent in the quarter ended
Nov. 2, the company said in a statement yesterday. Analysts on
average estimated a 13 percent decline, according to projections
compiled by Bloomberg. Net sales slid 12 percent to $1.03
billion, missing the average estimate of $1.07 billion.  Chief Executive Officer Mike Jeffries has been struggling
to reconnect with the chain’s teenage customers who have become
less enamored of its fashions, half-naked models and noisy
stores. Consumers are also limiting purchases of non-essential
items amid uncertainty in the economy. Full-year earnings will
be as much as $1.50 a share on an adjusted basis, excluding
charges, Abercrombie said, below the $1.97 estimate of analysts.  The projection “throws out any hope that the holiday
season can bail them out,”  Dorothy Lakner , a New York-based
analyst at Topeka Capital Markets, said in an interview. “There
was still some expectation that we’d seen the worst and things
were going to get better,” said Lakner, who has a hold rating
on the shares.  Gilly Hicks  Abercrombie also said it plans to close all standalone
stores of its Gilly Hicks lingerie brand by the end of the first
quarter of the next financial year. The closings will result in
pretax charges of about $90 million to $100 million, the company
said. Abercrombie operates 20 Gilly Hicks stores in the U.S. and
eight internationally, according to an Aug. 22 statement.  The company said adjusted third-quarter profit, excluding
charges, will be at the higher end of its prior guidance of 40
cents a share to 45 cents a share. Analysts estimate 40 cents on
average. Abercrombie will release full third-quarter results on
Nov. 21.  “Our objective is to get stabilization of comparable sales
in next 12 to 18 months,” Chief Financial Officer Jonathan Ramsden said in a phone interview. “The environment is
difficult. It’s an open question as to whether what’s transpired
since back-to-school is a reset, or is it just a temporary
phenomenon caused by factors that are going to abate over
time.”  Closing Stores  Abercrombie will continue to close underperforming stores
in all of its brands at a pace of about 40 per year, according
to a presentation to analysts today. The company will expand its
product assortment online, including its offering of third-party
collaborations. The retailer is also redesigning Hollister
storefronts, replacing porches and shutters with glass windows
and video screens.  Gilly Hicks, described by the company as the “cheeky
cousin” of Abercrombie, was developed to sell underwear and
pajamas to girls and women ages 14 to 35. Abercrombie said it
will continue to sell Gilly Hicks apparel through the brand’s
website and in its Hollister stores.  Jeffries, whose contract expires in February 2014, said the
company has a lot of talent from which to select a successor. He
didn’t comment on the contract negotiations.  “I expect to be here,” Jeffries, 69, said at the meeting
with analysts. “I’m totally energized by our opportunities.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lindsey Rupp in  New York  at 
 lrupp2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  