-- Lacker Predicts 2% Growth in 2014 With No New Source of Vitality
-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 2013-11-05T20:28:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-05/lacker-predicts-2-growth-in-2014-with-no-new-source-of-vitality.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond
President  Jeffrey Lacker  said the  U.S. economy  will probably
grow just 2 percent next year, with no new source of strength.  “My outlook is for something around 2 percent, pretty
close to 2 percent next year,” Lacker said today to reporters
after a speech in Charlotte, North Carolina. “My baseline
doesn’t have a pickup in growth next year. I just don’t see
where it is likely to come from.”  Lacker’s forecast is far below the 2.9 percent to 3.1
percent estimate among Federal Open Market Committee
participants at a Sept. 17-18 meeting. Economists in a Bloomberg
survey last week predicted a report will show the economy
expanded 2 percent in the third quarter, down from 2.5 percent
the previous quarter. The Commerce Department plans to release
its initial estimate of third-quarter growth on Nov. 7.  Lacker affirmed his call for a reduction in stimulus,
saying gains from the central bank’s $85 billion in monthly  bond
purchases  are “uncertain.”  The Richmond Fed chief dissented against every FOMC
decision in 2012 and doesn’t vote on policy this year. The
committee last week decided to press on with monthly bond
purchases, saying it needs more evidence the economy has
improved.  A partial shutdown of the government reduced growth by 0.3
percentage point this quarter, according to the median estimate
in an Oct. 17-18 Bloomberg survey. The impact from the shutdown
will prove “transitory,” Lacker said to reporters.  Small Boost  The Fed’s asset purchases, or so-called quantitative
easing, probably won’t give the economy much of a boost, Lacker
said in response to audience questions.  “Our ability to provide stimulus through balance sheet
expansion is uncertain,” he said, warning inflation may surge
because of excessive bank lending sometime in the future.  Lacker, 58, has been president of the Richmond Fed since
2004. He was previously the regional bank’s director of
research. His district includes  Maryland , Virginia,  North
Carolina ,  South Carolina  and most of  West Virginia .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steve Matthews in Atlanta  at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  