-- Lada Maker Appoints Ex-GM Manager to Run Russian Company
-- B y   M a t h i e u   R o s e m a i n
-- 2013-11-05T06:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-05/lada-maker-appoints-ex-gm-manager-to-run-russian-company.html
OAO AvtoVAZ (AVAZ)  appointed Bo Andersson, a
former top purchasing manager at  General Motors Co. (GM) , as chief
executive officer, the first non-Russian to lead the maker of
Lada cars as it deepens ties with the Renault-Nissan alliance.  Andersson, 58, will take the post on Dec. 31 and succeed
Igor Komarov, who is leaving the industry, Togliatti-based
AvtoVAZ said today in a statement following a board meeting
yesterday led by Renault-Nissan CEO Carlos Ghosn.  Andersson, a Swedish national who’s currently CEO of
Russian truckmaker  GAZ Group (GAZA) , will be the first foreign-born
head of the country’s biggest automaker since its founding 47
years ago during the Soviet Union.  The new CEO’s mission will be to achieve a target set by
Ghosn of a 40 percent combined market share in Russia for
 AvtoVAZ (AVAZ) ,  Renault SA (RNO)  and  Nissan Motor Co. (7201)  by 2016. Renault,
 France ’s second-biggest carmaker, and Yokohama, Japan-based
Nissan are in the process of acquiring indirect 74.5 percent
control of AvtoVAZ under an agreement signed late last year that
pledges the buyers to invest 23 billion rubles ($710 million).  Andersson left Detroit-based GM in 2009, when billionaire
Oleg Deripaska recruited him to help restore earnings at GAZ.
During his four-year tenure, Andersson reorganized the Soviet-era factory at GAZ’s headquarters in Nizhny Novgorod to make
production more competitive, convincing GM, Volkswagen AG and
Daimler AG to build  vehicles  on its assembly lines.  Russian Investments  “Our investments in Russia and specifically in AvtoVAZ
will be a significant contributor to the overall global growth
of the alliance,” Ghosn said in the statement. “Andersson is a
talented and experienced automotive executive with a wealth of
experience in key markets.”  Russian Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev appointed Komarov
deputy director general of the country’s Federal Space Agency on
Oct. 24. Oleg Lobanov, who has been AvtoVAZ’s executive vice
president in charge of finance and corporate development, will
run the company on an interim basis until Andersson takes over.  Renault, which is based in the Paris suburb of Boulogne-Billancourt, bought an initial 25 percent of AvtoVAZ stock in
2008. The French manufacturer and Nissan are acquiring their
controlling stake in AvtoVAZ by taking 67 percent of a joint
venture with state-owned defense and industrial holding company
Russian Technologies Corp.  The French and Japanese partners created a component-procurement venture with AvtoVAZ in September. The business is
modeled on the 12-year-old Renault-Nissan purchasing
organization, which holds a 50 percent stake in the new Russian
entity, with AvtoVAZ owning the other half. The three carmakers
are planning joint annual production capacity in  Russia  of 1.7
million vehicles by 2016.  Global Alliance  Renault has been Nissan’s partner in sales and production
since 1999 and currently owns a 43 percent stake in the Japanese
manufacturer. Nissan owns 15 percent of Renault.  Nine-month Russian deliveries by Renault, Nissan and
AvtoVAZ fell 9 percent from a year earlier to 606,857 vehicles,
according to  figures  compiled by the Moscow-based Association of
European Businesses in Russia. Their combined market share
narrowed to 29.6 percent from 30.2 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathieu Rosemain in Paris at 
 mrosemain@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  