-- Hagel Calls for Smaller Force to Protect Technology Edge
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2013-11-05T13:17:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-05/hagel-calls-for-smaller-force-to-protect-technology-edge.html
U.S. Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel
today argued for troop reductions to preserve spending on
advanced technology from defense contractors amid more than $500
billion in automatic budget cuts scheduled through 2023.  “In some cases we will make a shift, for example, by
prioritizing a smaller, modern, and capable military over a
larger force with older equipment,” Hagel said in remarks
prepared for an address before the  Center for Strategic &
International Studies , a policy research group in  Washington .  The statement reflects a determination in the Pentagon to
protect sophisticated and costly weapons, such as  Lockheed
Martin Corp. (LMT) ’s F-35 fighter, that are seen as giving the U.S.
military a competitive advantage.  Hagel straddled the options in July, when he presented
results of a “Strategic Choices and Management Review.” At
that time, he said the Pentagon would have to make the choice
between a “much smaller” force and a decade-long
“modernization holiday” unless Congress and the president
reached an agreement to call off the automatic cuts known as
sequestration.  Today, he said the reduction in forces is also being driven
by the drawdown of troops in the wars in Iraq and  Afghanistan 
and the need to focus on cyberdefense, space, special operations
and surveillance technologies.  “As our potential adversaries invest in more sophisticated
capabilities and seek to frustrate our military’s traditional
advantages -- including our freedom of action and access -- it
will be important to maintain our decisive technological edge,”
Hagel said.  Long-Range Bomber  In addition to the F-35 fighter, the Pentagon’s costliest
program, a reduction in forces may protect planned spending for
systems such as a new long-range bomber and upgrades in
submarine cruise missiles.  Outlining his vision for the role of the U.S. military as
an instrument of national power, Hagel embraced the concept of
serving as a back-up to the “soft power” of the State
Department’s diplomacy, a concept that was pushed strongly by
 Robert Gates  when he was defense secretary.  Hagel called on the military to “carefully reconsider the
mix between capacity and capability, between active and reserve
forces, between forward-stationed and home-based forces, and
between conventional and unconventional warfighting
capabilities.”  He questioned dependence on the reserves, especially in the
early phases of a conflict, “tempered by the knowledge and
experience that part-time units, in ground forces especially,
cannot expect to perform at the same levels as full-time units,
at least in a conflict’s  early stages.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  