-- Thai Street Protests May Convince Senators to Kill Amnesty Bill
-- B y   S u t t i n e e   Y u v e j w a t t a n a   a n d   A n u c h i t   N g u y e n
-- 2013-11-05T08:45:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-05/thai-street-protests-may-convince-senators-to-kill-amnesty-bill.html
Thailand ’s Senate may reject a
proposed amnesty law for political offenses when it meets from
Nov. 11, after thousands of people joined protests across the
country yesterday to oppose the legislation.  The government, which has said the law would help heal
social divisions, will accept the Senate’s decision, Prime
Minister Yingluck Shinawatra said today in a televised address.
Two members of the 150-seat upper house said more than 50
percent of senators would vote to reject the bill next week.  “Many senators are in a panic because they’re afraid of
the public’s reaction,” Senator Prasarn Marukpitak today told
the Blue Sky television network, which is affiliated with the
opposition Democrat party. “Some say the public trend is so
strong, they can’t go against it. So they can either reject the
draft law or abstain.”  Democrat lawmakers led marches through Bangkok’s streets
yesterday, paralyzing traffic in the Silom business district and
near the Grand Palace, one of Thailand’s top tourist
attractions. The legislative push has weighed on Thai stocks and
the baht amid concern it will reignite political clashes in a
country that has been wracked by street violence since a 2006
coup that ousted Thaksin Shinawatra as leader.  “I don’t want to see the amnesty law used as a political
tool to create disputes,” Yingluck, Thaksin’s sister, said in
the speech. “This government will work for the country’s
benefit and will not use its majority to go against the people’s
wishes.”  Soldiers, Politicians  In its initial draft, the law would have freed members of
the public charged over political clashes since the 2006 coup. A
parliamentary committee amended the draft to include soldiers
and politicians who oversaw deadly crackdowns on protesters, and
people charged on the basis of investigations by state agencies
established after the coup.  “I have more confidence than a week ago that most senators
will reject this law,” Boonchai Chokwatana, an appointed
senator and chairman of Saha Pathanapibul Pcl, said today in an
interview with Blue Sky. “Large demonstrations against the bill
in every part of the country prompted many elected senators to
listen to the voice of their voters.” Paiboon Nititawan, an
appointed senator, said at a media briefing today that about 104
senators will reject the draft.  At least 32,000 people joined protests in Bangkok and 17
other provinces yesterday, police spokesman Piya Uthayo said.
Students and lecturers from Chulalongkorn University are staging
a separate protest in central Bangkok today, he said.  Yingluck said the bill wouldn’t apply to corruption cases,
and denied that it would let Thaksin recover 46.4 billion baht
($1.48 billion) seized by the courts in 2010. Thaksin fled abuse
of power charges that stemmed from a military-appointed panel
for helping his wife buy land from the government.  “Distorted information led people to believe this is a
financial law,” Yingluck said. “If this is a financial law,
the prime minister would have to sign it, and I haven’t signed
anything. This law is to grant amnesty to those affected by
political movements and the coup.”  Parties linked to Thaksin have won the past five elections
on support from rural areas, including the 2011 vote that
brought his sister to power.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Suttinee Yuvejwattana in Bangkok at 
 suttinee1@bloomberg.net ;
Anuchit Nguyen in Bangkok at 
 anguyen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  