-- Thai Senate to Stop Amnesty Bill to Quell Unrest: Southeast Asia
-- B y   S u t t i n e e   Y u v e j w a t t a n a   a n d   A n u c h i t   N g u y e n
-- 2013-11-06T08:55:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-05/thai-senators-block-amnesty-bill-to-quell-unrest-southeast-asia.html
Thailand ’s Senate is set to reject a
proposed amnesty law for political offenses on Nov. 11 after
weeklong street protests raised concerns its passage would
reignite political violence.  Opposition from the public, universities and business
groups convinced a majority of Thailand’s 149 senators to block
the legislation, Senate Speaker Nikom Wairatpanij said at a
media briefing in Bangkok yesterday. More than 32,000 people
joined demonstrations in the capital and 17 other provinces on
Nov. 4, according to police estimates, with the push for the
amnesty law weighing on Thai stocks and the baht.  The legislative failure would be a setback for  Thaksin Shinawatra , who was ousted as prime minister in a 2006 coup and
has guided policy from abroad since his sister, Yingluck, won
elections in 2011. Yingluck struggled to convince the public
that the bill aimed to heal social divisions caused by the coup
rather than help Thaksin return to Thailand and recover part of
a fortune that was seized after he fled a jail term in 2008.  “I don’t want to see the amnesty law used as a political
tool,” Yingluck said yesterday in a televised speech. “This
government will work for the country’s benefit and will not use
its majority to go against the people’s wishes.”  Parties linked to Thaksin have won the past five elections
on support from rural areas, and Yingluck’s Pheu Thai party
commands a majority in parliament.  Parliamentary Majority  “It was a major part of his strategy, using his party and
majority vote in parliament,” Ora-Orn Poocharoen, an assistant
professor at the Lee Kuan Yew School of Public Policy in
 Singapore , said of Thaksin. “Unfortunately, he hasn’t got buy-in from everybody, and even people in his party and the
coalition party -- they’re shaking their heads saying why did we
do this? Why did we stab ourselves when the government was
actually doing quite well?”  The legislative push has hurt stocks and the baht amid
concern it will spark fresh clashes in a country where past
protests by Thaksin’s supporters and opponents have led to an
airport seizure, business center blockages and arson attacks.  The benchmark SET Index jumped late yesterday to end 2
percent higher, the biggest gain in six weeks, and the baht
reversed an earlier decline after senators briefed the media on
plans to block the bill. The  SET Index (SET)  rose 1.2 percent to
1,431.79 as of 3:55 p.m. in Bangkok. The baht fell 0.2 percent
to 31.300 per dollar.  Red Shirts  In its initial draft, the law would have freed members of
the public charged over political violence since the 2006 coup.
A parliamentary committee widened the draft to include soldiers
and politicians who oversaw deadly crackdowns on protesters, and
people charged on the basis of investigations by state agencies
established after the coup.  The amendments angered Thaksin’s opponents, who claimed the
law would whitewash crimes he committed while in power. Some
members of a pro-Thaksin group known as the Red Shirts also
criticized the bill for protecting opposition Democrat party
leaders who ordered the army to use live ammunition to disperse
protesters while in power in 2010.  The amnesty law wouldn’t apply to people charged for lese-majeste, which mandates jail sentences as long as 15 years for
defaming, insulting or threatening the king, queen, heir
apparent or regent.  “If the bill fails, then Thaksin will have to recalculate
his strategy,” said Pavin Chachavalpongpun, an associate
professor at  Kyoto University . “The next step is to heal the
rift that he has created among the  Red Shirts ,” he said. “He
wants to come home, he wants his money back.”  Thaksin’s Fortune  Yingluck said the bill wouldn’t apply to corruption cases,
and denied it would let Thaksin recover 46.4 billion baht ($1.48
billion) seized by the courts in 2010. Thaksin fled abuse of
power charges that stemmed from a military-appointed panel for
helping his wife buy land from the government.  Thaksin, in a statement distributed today by his legal
adviser Noppadon Pattama, said the purpose of the amnesty bill
was to restore a sense of fairness after the coup, which
“clearly violated the rule of law and tore up the
constitution.”  Thaksin said his opponents were spreading “distorted
information” that an amnesty would allow him to reclaim the
seized funds. “I will accept the pain, hoping the nation will
move forward,” he said, without specifically ruling out a
return to the country.  Street Protests  Lawmakers from the Democrat party led marches through
Bangkok’s streets on Nov. 4, paralyzing traffic in the Silom
business district and near the Grand Palace, one of Thailand’s
top tourist attractions. At least 32,000 people joined protests
in Bangkok and 17 other provinces, police spokesman Piya Uthayo
said, while thousands of university students and staff took part
in a separate rally in central Bangkok yesterday.  A rejection by the Senate next week would see the bill
returned to the lower house for as long as 180 days. The
government will accept the Senate’s decision, Yingluck said.  The Democrat party pledged to continue its occupation of
Bangkok’s Democracy Monument until the government scraps all
efforts at passing amnesty legislation, party leader and former
Prime Minister  Abhisit Vejjajiva  said late yesterday.  “This amnesty bill has been carefully drafted by the Pheu
Thai party to help Thaksin,” Abhisit said in a speech to
supporters at Democracy Monument. “So we cannot trust their
words until they withdraw this law from the parliament.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Suttinee Yuvejwattana in Bangkok at 
 suttinee1@bloomberg.net ;
Anuchit Nguyen in Bangkok at 
 anguyen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  