-- Thailand’s Ananda Said to Cancel First Perpetual Dim Sum Bonds
-- B y   R a c h e l   E v a n s   a n d   B o r i s   K o r b y
-- 2013-11-05T20:57:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-05/thailand-s-ananda-said-to-cancel-first-perpetual-dim-sum-bonds.html
Ananda Development Pcl (ANAN) , the Thai
builder that planned to sell the first-ever Dim Sum bonds with
no fixed maturity, has pulled the offering as proposed yields
failed to meet the company’s expectations.  The developer, which constructs condominiums near Bangkok
subway stations, started marketing the unrated notes last week
at about 9.5 percent, a person with knowledge of the issue said
at the time. That sale now isn’t going ahead because pricing
didn’t meet company expectations and Ananda has no urgent need
for money, two people with knowledge of the matter said today,
asking not to be identified because the details are private.  Ananda Development was attempting to sell bonds at a time
when investors are pulling money from the nation as protests
escalate over a government proposal to grant amnesty to people
involved in political clashes since 2006. A  Finance Ministry 
official said yesterday that the government’s plan to restart
dollar bond sales is in part contingent on political tensions
easing. Average yields on 10-year Thai notes have climbed 0.11
percentage point in the past month and touched 3.99 percent Nov.
1, the highest since Sept. 23.  “The Thai government has to instill confidence in
investors that this amnesty program isn’t going to happen,”
Robert Abad, who helps manage $51 billion in emerging-market
debt at Western Asset Management Co., said in a telephone
interview. “It’s already leading to protests, and could lead to
further investor concern.”  Street Protests  Thailand ’s Senate is set to reject a proposed amnesty law
for political offenses on Nov. 11 after weeklong street protests
raised concerns its passage would reignite political violence.
Opposition from the public, universities and business groups
convinced a majority of Thailand’s 149 senators to block the
legislation, Senate Speaker Nikom Wairatpanij said at a media
briefing in Bangkok yesterday.  More than 32,000 people joined demonstrations in the
capital and 17 other provinces Nov. 4, according to police
estimates. The legislative failure would be a setback for
 Thaksin Shinawatra , who was ousted as prime minister in a 2006
coup and has guided policy from abroad since his sister,
Yingluck, won elections in 2011. Yingluck struggled to convince
the public that the bill aimed to heal social divisions rather
than help Thaksin return to Thailand and recover part of a
fortune seized after he fled a jail term in 2008.  Foreign investors have sold $393 million more local bonds
than they bought since the beginning of last week through Nov.
4, Thai Bond Market Association data show.  ‘Right Issuer’  Ananda Development, which is yet to sell foreign-currency
bonds, chose to offer yuan-denominated debt as swapping the
proceeds back to baht would be more economical than switching
dollars, a person with knowledge of the matter said last week.
Perpetual bonds, which due to their equity-like features carry
accounting, tax and ratings benefits, would have helped the
company maintain its debt-to-equity ratio, the person said.  “This is not necessarily the right issuer to be selling
this type of security with that structure,” Hayden Briscoe, an
Asia-Pacific fixed-income director at AllianceBernstein  Hong
Kong  Ltd. said last week, before the sale was shelved.  Ananda Development had planned to sell its bonds as soon as
Oct. 31, a person with knowledge of the matter said at the time.  Chinese and Hong Kong issuers increased their share of the
offshore yuan market to 64 percent this year, excluding
certificates of deposit, up from 58 percent in 2012, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Planned Coupon  Borrowers pay an average 5.53 percent to sell junk and
unrated Dim Sum debt, 177 basis points less than speculative-grade companies in Asia pay for notes in the U.S. currency, HSBC
Holdings Plc indexes show. A basis point is 0.01 percentage
point.  The planned coupon for Ananda Development’s Dim Sum bonds
would have been the highest on offshore  yuan  securities since
Flying Financial Service Holdings Ltd., a Chinese pawn loan
provider, sold debt in August, Bloomberg data show. Only 10
percent of Dim Sum bonds issued this year pay a coupon of more
than 7 percent.  Thailand’s government will offer $1 billion to $1.5 billion
of five- or 10-year securities in 2014 and will market notes
denominated in the greenback every year over the next decade,
Chularat Suteethorn, the head of the Finance Ministry’s public
debt management office, said yesterday. The timing of next
year’s sale will depend on whether political tensions abate, and
on the outlook for U.S. interest rates and the baht, she said.  Thailand’s top-performing equity fund manager has reduced
holdings of domestic shares on expectations that protests
against the government’s amnesty bill will spur prolonged
political conflict and curb economic growth.  BBL Asset Management Co., which runs seven of the 10 best-performing Thai equity funds during the past three years, has
raised cash holdings since mid-October, Voravan Tarapoom, chief
executive officer at Bangkok-based BBL, which oversees about $10
billion, said in an e-mail. The benchmark SET Index plunged 2.9
percent Nov. 4, the most since Sept. 23.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rachel Evans in Hong Kong at 
 revans43@bloomberg.net ;
Boris Korby in  New York  at 
 bkorby1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katrina Nicholas at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net  