-- Taiwan Five-Year Bonds Snap Three-Day Decline as Inflation Slows
-- B y   J u s t i n a   L e e
-- 2013-11-05T02:55:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-05/taiwan-five-year-bonds-snap-three-day-decline-as-inflation-slows.html
Taiwan’s five-year bonds gained for
the first time in four days, lowering the yield from a three-week high, after a report showed inflation cooled. The local
dollar strengthened.  Consumer  prices  rose 0.6 percent last month from a year
earlier, the least since July and less than the median estimate
in a Bloomberg survey for a 1.05 percent increase. There’s “no
urgency” for policy makers to raise  interest rates  as price
pressures ease,  Frances Cheung , a senior strategist in  Hong Kong 
at Credit Agricole CIB, wrote in a report today. U.S. Treasuries
halted a three-day decline after Federal Reserve Governor Jerome
Powell said monetary policy will probably remain accommodative
for some time.  “CPI data missed estimates,” said Ian Wang, a bond trader
at Chang Hwa Bank in Taipei. “U.S. Treasuries have stopped
falling and Taiwan’s economic performance remains mediocre, so
some buyers have emerged in the government debt market, despite
talk of the Fed tapering earlier that next year.”  The yield on the 1.25 percent government notes due October
2018 slipped one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 1.128
percent as of 10:15 a.m. in Taipei, according to Gretai
Securities Market.  The rate climbed to the highest level since Oct. 16
yesterday as improved economic data from the U.S. fueled
speculation the Fed may pare stimulus that has boosted demand
for emerging-market assets.  Currency Market  Taiwan ’s dollar strengthened 0.4 percent against the
greenback to NT$29.401, prices from Taipei Forex Inc. show. The
currency lost 0.3 percent in the final eight minutes of trading
yesterday amid suspected central bank intervention. The monetary
authority has sold the local dollar in the run-up to the close
on most days since March 2012, according to traders who asked
not to be identified.  The central bank asked a Middle Eastern sovereign wealth
fund to break up a $1 billion planned investment in local stocks
into batches of $100 million to reduce volatility in the
 currency market , Spencer Lin, head of the foreign exchange
department, said today.  One-month non-deliverable forwards were little changed at
NT$29.365 per dollar, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
One-month implied volatility, a gauge of expected moves in the
 exchange rate  used to price options, decreased one basis point
to 3.15 percent.  The  overnight interbank lending rate  was steady at 0.388
percent, a weighted average compiled by the Taiwan Interbank
Money Center showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Justina Lee in Hong Kong at 
 jlee1489@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  