-- Alberta Moves Closer to Pipeline With B.C. on Agreement
-- B y   J e r e m y   v a n   L o o n   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e
-- 2013-11-05T22:52:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-05/alberta-oil-royalties-not-on-table-in-discussions-b-c-says.html
Alberta and British Columbia moved
closer to an agreement allowing  Enbridge Inc. (ENB)  to build a
pipeline that would bring bitumen to Canada’s Pacific coast from
the  oil sands .  The two signed a framework deal that sets the ground rules
for development of pipeline projects in the nation’s westernmost
province. Oil royalties are “not on the table,” according to
British Columbia Premier Christy Clark.  Alberta and British Columbia are discussing ways to share
the financial benefits from Enbridge’s Northern Gateway oil-sands pipeline project. The Calgary-based company, Canada’s
largest oil-pipeline operator, is proposing to build a 1,177-kilometer (732-mile) conduit through British Columbia from
Alberta to transport bitumen to Asian customers.  “We don’t know what form the economic benefits will
take,” Clark said.  Officials from both provinces continue to work on the
issue, she said. British Columbia wants to protect royalties,
which might be worth as much as C$1 trillion ($957 billion) from
liquefied natural gas projects in the coming decades, Clark
said.  Alberta  is seeking to diversify the market for its bitumen,
which requires about C$20 billion in annual investment and risks
remaining land-locked amid rising production.  ‘Social License’  Alberta agreed today to five conditions set out by British
Columbia to protect the province’s environment and economy.
Winning the “social license” to operate new oil pipelines in
the province includes spill response on the Pacific coast and
sharing benefits with local communities and aboriginal groups,
Clark said.  “These are five things that matter to British Columbia and
to Alberta,” Alberta Premier Alison Redford said today at a
conference organized by the Vancouver Board of Trade in the
city. “We’re moving ahead on all five of those points.”  Enbridge’s Northern Gateway has faced opposition from
aboriginal and environmental groups along its proposed route
through central British Columbia.  The province said in May it can’t support Northern Gateway
because the plans fail to address the risk of spills on land or
sea.  Canada ’s National Energy Board regulator has until the end
of the year to make a recommendation on the project.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeremy van Loon in Calgary at 
 jvanloon@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Donville in Vancouver at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chris Fournier at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net ;
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  