-- Ally’s Net Income Declines 76% as Mortgage Costs Linger
-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 2013-11-05T17:49:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-05/ally-s-net-income-declines-76-as-mortgage-costs-linger.html
Ally Financial Inc. (ALLY) , the auto finance
firm majority-owned by U.S. taxpayers, said third-quarter profit
fell 76 percent as the company settled U.S. claims for soured
mortgages and stopped making new home loans.  Net income declined to $91 million from $384 million a year
earlier, the Detroit-based bank said today in a statement.
Results included a charge for last month’s accord over faulty
home loans sold to U.S.-backed firms in the run-up to the 2008
financial crisis. Core pretax income slid to $269 million, or
$271 million excluding certain one-time expenses, compared with
$373 million a year earlier, Ally said.  Chief Executive Officer  Michael Carpenter  has sought to cap
Ally’s costs from soured mortgages that led to a $17.2 billion
government bailout and left the U.S. Treasury Department with a
74 percent stake. He’s resolving claims tied to the bankruptcy
of the Residential Capital mortgage unit and refocusing Ally on
its auto loans and online bank.  “Ally’s overall  financial profile  continues to improve as
our strategic transformation nears completion,” Carpenter, 66,
said in the statement. Priorities include improving
profitability and paying back the U.S., he said. Ally said its
pipeline of pending home loans now stands at zero, and  Jeff
Brown , senior executive vice president for finance, said the
U.S. accord represents the last significant mortgage expense.  U.S. Stake  The firm, which doesn’t have publicly traded shares,
originally filed for an initial stock offering and then put off
the sale until ResCap’s status and Ally’s liability were
resolved. Carpenter said today during a conference call that the
market for public offerings is strong, and it might be possible
for private investors to buy out the Treasury’s stake.  Disputes with the government also involved automotive
loans, with the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau probing
retail financing, Ally said at midyear. In a securities filing
today, Ally said the investigation covers lending bias tied to
its dealer customers, and the lender may face settlements,
fines, penalties, adverse regulatory actions and changes in
business practices.  The agency’s staff told Ally the firm failed to prevent
independent dealers from using practices that violate anti-discrimination provisions of the Equal Credit Opportunity Act,
according to the filing. Ally said discussions with CFPB are
underway, and that it couldn’t estimate the potential impact.  Industry Probe  Finance arms of Toyota Motor Corp. and Honda Motor Co. have
acknowledged similar inquiries and said the  Department of
Justice  is involved. As many as five other auto lenders
affiliated with manufacturers have received similar requests for
data that may be related to the borrowers’ racial background,
people briefed on the matter said in September.  Sam Gilford, a CFPB spokesman, said in an e-mail that he
can’t confirm or deny enforcement matters.  Income from continuing operations in the automotive finance
 segment  was $339 million, little changed from a year earlier.
Insurance income rose to $83 million from $13 million and the
mortgage segment swung to a loss of $5 million from last year’s
$331 million profit.  The auto industry’s U.S. sales ran at a 15.3 million annual
pace in September, according to seasonally adjusted data from
researcher Autodata Corp., up from 14.8 million a year earlier.  Ally provided $9.6 billion in U.S. consumer auto financing
in the third quarter, “despite intense competition” and a drop
in loans subsidized by automakers, according to the statement.  The accord with the  Federal Housing Finance Agency  and
Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. cost the firm $170 million,
equal to $107 million after taxes. The agreement ends all
pending litigation and guarantees the agencies won’t object to
the reorganization plan for ResCap, once among the nation’s
largest subprime home lenders.  Ally said in August it was raising $1 billion in a private
placement as part of a plan to pay $5.9 billion to buy back
preferred shares held by the U.S. The private-placement must be
completed by Nov. 30.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dakin Campbell in  New York  at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Eichenbaum at 
 peichenbaum@bloomberg.net  