-- Americans Are Biggest World Cup Ticket Buyers Outside of Brazil
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2013-11-05T14:54:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-05/americans-are-biggest-world-cup-ticket-buyers-outside-of-brazil.html
Brazilian, American and British
soccer fans bought the most seats in the first phase of
ticketing for next year’s  World Cup  in the South American
country.  Almost 900,000 tickets were sold to residents of 188
countries, organizers said today in an e-mailed statement.
Brazilians got 72 percent of the tickets following a lottery of
6.2 million requests.  The month-long competition will be held in 12 stadiums
across  South America ’s biggest country between June and July.
Soccer governing body  FIFA , which is responsible for the
tournament, said last month it was delaying the ticket draw
following a request from the Brazilian government to oversee it.  “The whole draw procedure worked smoothly,”  Thierry Weil, FIFA’s marketing director, said in an e-mailed statement.
“Of course, we would have liked to please even more football
fans at this stage, but there will be other ticket sales
windows, with the next one starting in less than a week. By
using the electronic random selection draw, we were able to
guarantee that the whole procedure remained fair and all
applicants had an equal chance.”  Ticket holders will find out in December who they’ll get to
watch when the tournament draw takes place in Bahia. Brazilian
residents got 625,276 tickets, a third of which went to groups
eligible for discounts including students, people aged over 60
and those on welfare benefits.  Residents in the U.S. obtained 66,646, more than those in
any other country outside of  Brazil . The next largest allocation
went to  England , where fans will receive 22,257 tickets. Both
countries qualified for the 32-team World Cup earlier this year.
The remaining six participants will be known following final
playoff matches later this month.  The next sales period starts Nov. 11 when 228,959 tickets
will be available on a first-come first-served basis until Nov.
28. The final 2 million tickets will be sold after the Dec. 6
draw.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  