-- AMG Third-Quarter Profit Increases 20% on Market Rally
-- B y   C h a r l e s   S t e i n
-- 2013-11-05T12:49:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-05/amg-third-quarter-profit-increases-20-on-market-rally.html
Affiliated Managers Group Inc. (AMG) , the
company that owns stakes in more than two dozen money managers,
said third-quarter profit rose 20 percent as client deposits and
a stock-market rally boosted assets.  Economic net income, which excludes certain taxes and
expenses, climbed to $121.8 million, or $2.19 a share, in the
three months ended Sept. 30, compared with $101.2 million or
$1.91 per share, a year earlier, the Beverly, Massachusetts-based firm said today in a statement. Adjusted earnings beat the
 $2.15-a-share estimate  of nine analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  AMG, which owns a collection of boutique money managers
specializing in stocks,  hedge funds  and private equity, is
benefiting from an investor shift into equities and alternative-investment products. In a reversal of a trend that started in
2008, clients have been shying away from bond funds while adding
money to equities this year.  “As we finally see money coming back into equities, I
think AMG will be a direct beneficiary,” Alexander Paris, an
analyst with Barrington Research in  Chicago , said in a telephone
interview before the results were announced.  AMG shares gained 52 percent this year through yesterday,
compared with an increase of 37 percent for the 20-member
 Standard & Poor’s  index of asset managers and custody banks.  AMG’s economic net income is a measure that doesn’t conform
to generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP. Under
those rules,  net income  for the quarter was $75.2 million, or
$1.37 per share, compared with $54.9 million, or $1.04, a year
earlier.  AMG Assets  Assets at AMG rose 8.3 percent to $508.4 billion during the
quarter, compared with the 7.4 percent increase in the MSCI All-Country World Index.  Investors added $149 billion to U.S. equity mutual funds in
the first nine months of 2013 and $4.9 billion to bond funds,
data from Chicago-based  Morningstar Inc. (MORN)  show. Hedge funds
attracted an estimated $44.2 billion in the third quarter, the
largest quarterly allocation since the first quarter of 2011,
according to eVestment, a data firm based in Atlanta.  Led by Chief Executive Officer Sean Healey, AMG buys stakes
in money-management firms and provides them with distribution
and back-office help. The owners of the firms retain a stake in
the business and autonomy in managing money.  AMG last acquired a holding in April 2012, when it bought a
stake in Yacktman Asset Management, the Austin, Texas-based firm
founded in 1992 by  Donald Yacktman . The two stock mutual funds
Yacktman runs gathered $4.4 billion this year through Sept. 30,
Morningstar data show.  “What we have learned over the years is that we need to be
patient and wait for the opportunities with the very best firms
to develop,” Healey said in a July 30 conference call,
explaining why the company has not made any recent acquisitions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Charles Stein  in Boston at 
 cstein4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  