-- Hannover Re Profit Falls on Lower Investment Income
-- B y   O l i v e r   S u e s s
-- 2013-11-05T07:32:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-05/hannover-re-profit-falls-on-lower-investment-income.html
Hannover Re , the world’s third-biggest reinsurer, said third-quarter profit fell 23 percent on
lower investment income, beating analysts’ estimates.  Net income fell to 205.5 million euros ($277 million) from
265.5 million euros a year ago, the Hanover, Germany-based
company said in a  statement  today. That compared with a 196.3
million-euro average estimate of six analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg.  Hannover Re, led by Chief Executive Officer  Ulrich Wallin ,
confirmed its target for full-year profit of about 800 million
euros and said it aims to earn 850 million euros next year. That
compares to record earnings of 858 million euros last year.  “Despite challenging market conditions, and particularly
in view of the low interest rate level, we generated group net
income of 613 million euros and are thus well on track to
achieve our full-year target,” Wallin said in the statement,
commenting on the company’s earnings in the first nine months.  Hannover Re (HNR1)  said in September that it expects global
reinsurance rates to remain little changed in January, when
reinsurers typically renew a majority of annual property and
casualty contracts. Reinsurers, which help primary insurers such
as Allianz SE shoulder risks in return for a share of premiums,
face challenges from low  interest rates  and an abundant supply
of capital for their coverage that weighs on prices.  Investment Income  Net investment income from Hannover Re’s 31.8 billion euros
in assets under management declined 27 percent to 364.2 million
euros in the quarter. The year earlier figure was boosted by the
sale of real estate in the U.S. and gains from instruments used
to hedge against inflation and derivatives associated with
securities deposits held by U.S. life-insurance clients. The
reinsurer said it sticks to a target for 3.4 percent return on
investment this year and expects 3.2 percent in 2014.  The company’s annual budget of 625 million euros for major
claims compares to an actual claims figure of 446.7 million
euros for the first nine months of the year.  Hannover Re said last month that hailstorm Andreas, which
hit  Germany  in July, may result in a “disproportionately
slight” net loss of about 64 million euros.  Insured losses from floods and hailstorms in Germany may be
as high as 5 billion euros, the company said two weeks ago.
Hailstorm Andreas is expected to cost the  insurance industry  2.5
billion euros, while a June hailstorm named Manni may cost 500
million euros and another that struck in August 200 million
euros, Hannover Re said. The reinsurer said it expects industry
losses of 1.8 billion euros from the floods in May and June.  Hannover Re’s shares rose 0.8 percent this year, compared
with a 23 percent gain for the Bloomberg Europe 500 Insurance
Index. German insurer  Talanx AG (TLX) , which last year sold shares in
an initial public offering, owns 50.2 percent of Hannover Re.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oliver Suess in Munich at 
 osuess@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  