-- Apollo Said to Seek Increasing Fund Size to $17.5 Billion
-- B y   S a b r i n a   W i l l m e r
-- 2013-11-05T17:56:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-05/apollo-said-to-seek-increasing-fund-size-to-17-5-billion.html
Apollo Global Management LLC (APO) , the
private-equity firm run by  Leon Black , is seeking permission
from investors to raise the limit on its new buyout fund to
$17.5 billion to meet client demand, according to three people
familiar with the matter.  Apollo, which had initially sought to cap Apollo Investment
Fund VIII LP at $15 billion, is trying to increase the amount
after investors expressed interest in putting in as much as $20
billion, said the people, who asked not to be identified because
the New York-based firm’s plans are private.  If the new limit is approved, Apollo’s buyout fund would
be the largest since TPG Capital gathered $18.9 billion in 2008
for its flagship private-equity pool, according to data from
London-based Preqin Ltd. Apollo, buoyed by strong performance of
its previous funds, is attracting commitments in a competitive
market where investors are cutting down on their relationships
with private-equity firms.  At $17.5 billion, Apollo’s new fund would be 19 percent
larger than the prior vehicle that raised $14.7 billion in 2008.
Investors in private-equity funds, called limited partners,
typically like firms to limit their offerings to a certain size
as they fear that performance might suffer if their funds become
too large. Apollo needs approval to change the size of the fund
from clients that have already made commitments.  Charles Zehren , a spokesman for Apollo at Rubenstein
Associates, declined to comment on the fundraising.  LyondellBasell Investment  The performance of the firm’s 2008 fund has been bolstered
by Apollo’s most profitable investment, Rotterdam-based
 LyondellBasell Industries NV (LYB) , whose debt the firm started
accumulating in 2008. The world’s largest manufacturer of
polypropylene filed for bankruptcy in 2009, and as the company
recovered, Apollo swapped its debt for equity and bought more
shares. The firm started selling its stake in September of last
year and had produced $5.5 billion on top of $1.5 billion
received in dividends, on a $2 billion investment as of June.  The 2008 fund was generating a 28 percent net internal rate
of return as of June 30, according to the firm’s earnings report
for the second quarter.  The firm last year started marketing the latest fund with a
$12 billion target. That is different from the limit, known as
the hard cap, which is the maximum amount a fund can raise if
demand exceeds the target. Apollo told prospective investors in
August their stakes in the fund might get cut back if they wait
too long to commit, people familiar said at the time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sabrina Willmer in  New York  at 
 swillmer2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  