-- Apple Got Up to 5,542 Data Requests From U.S. Law Enforcement
-- B y   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o
-- 2013-11-06T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-05/apple-got-up-to-5-542-data-requests-from-u-s-law-enforcement.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  said it received as many
as 5,542 information requests from U.S. law enforcement agencies
in the first half of 2013, and said it would disclose more about
data inquiries if not for a government “gag order.”  Of the requests, 1,000 to 2,000 were for personal account
information from iTunes, iCloud, e-mail, photos and other
content stored online, according to a  report  published yesterday
on the company’s website. The other 3,542 inquiries weren’t
related to national security, and sought information about
specific devices, including those that may have been stolen or
lost, Apple said.  Apple, the world’s  most valuable  company, criticized the
U.S. government for barring it from sharing more information
about the account inquiries. The iPhone maker joins Yahoo! Inc.,
Google Inc., Facebook Inc. and Microsoft Corp. in seeking more
leeway to publish details about the requests and what customer
information they are turning over. Disclosures about the
capabilities of the National Security Agency to track online
communication is a challenge for the companies, whose businesses
are based on customer trust and users’ ability to safely share
information on devices like iPhone.  “We strongly oppose this gag order, and Apple has made the
case for relief from these restrictions in meetings and
discussions with the White House, the U.S. Attorney General,
congressional leaders, and the courts,” Apple said in the
report. “Despite our extensive efforts in this area, we do not
yet have an agreement that we feel adequately addresses our
customers’ right to know how often and under what circumstances
we provide data to law enforcement agencies.”  Account Requests  Apple said it prepared the report to provide transparency
to customers about its privacy protections. The company said its
safeguards include encrypting messages and conversations through
its services, and it doesn’t store location data or searches
“in any identifiable form.”  “Our business does not depend on collecting personal
data,” Apple said. “We have no interest in amassing personal
information about our customers.”  The company said account requests usually involve sharing
user information such as a name and address, and it is asked to
provide stored photos or e-mail “in very rare cases.”  “We consider these requests very carefully and only
provide account content in extremely limited circumstances.”  Apple said the government allows it to share information
about the law-enforcement requests only in broad ranges,
including the number of national security orders, the number of
accounts affected by the orders, and whether content, such as e-mails, was shared. For example, the company can only disclose
the account requests it receives in increments of 1,000.  Amicus Briefs  Apple said it has filed an  amicus brief  at the Foreign
Intelligence Surveillance Court in support of cases requesting
greater transparency, and plans to file a brief at the  U.S.
Court of Appeals  regarding a case involving transparency and
national security letters.  The most requests in the period from Jan. 1 to June 30 came
from the U.S., followed by  Germany ,  Singapore ,  Australia  and the
U.K., according to the report.  The  shares  of Apple, based in Cupertino,  California , fell
less than 1 percent to $525.45 at yesterday’s close in  New York .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Satariano in  San Francisco  at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  