-- Hardliners Assail U.S.-Iran Thaw From Both Sides
-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i
-- 2013-11-06T18:30:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-05/hardliners-assail-u-s-iran-thaw-from-both-sides.html
Preparing for Iran’s annual rally to
mark the 1979 takeover of the U.S. Embassy, Mostafa Afzalzadeh
said he wouldn’t let recent overtures between the countries stop
him from attending and chanting “Death to America.”  “These games won’t fool people,” said Afzalzadeh, a
documentary filmmaker, in a phone interview last week. The
comment found an echo in  Washington , where Senator  Mark Kirk  was
among lawmakers saying sanctions on Iran need to be tightened
regardless of talks due to resume in Geneva tomorrow, and the
administration’s pleas to give them time. “It just seems a long
rope-a-dope,” said Kirk, an Illinois Republican.  Since Iran’s new President Hassan Rouhani visited  New York 
in September, the two countries have held their highest-level
contacts in decades and welcomed a new seriousness in nuclear
diplomacy. Optimism over a thaw helped push oil to a five-month
low. Yet in both countries there’s opposition to the détente
that has the potential to derail it.  That was especially visible in Tehran on Nov. 4 at one of
the biggest anti-U.S. protests in years, where demonstrators
burned American flags. In the buildup, posters appeared around
the capital showing a U.S. negotiator holding a shotgun under
the table, or a  Doberman  on a leash.  Wrong Time  Leaders on both sides are seeking to win over or rein in
the skeptics. President  Barack Obama  sent top officials to
Congress on Oct. 31 to persuade lawmakers such as Kirk that it’s
the wrong time to push for tougher sanctions. Supreme Leader
 Ayatollah Ali Khamenei  said Nov. 3 that Iran’s negotiators,
criticized in conservative media for being too soft, “have a
mission and they are carrying it out.” The anti-U.S. posters in
Tehran were pulled down before the rally.  Khamenei’s seal of approval means few in Iran openly oppose
dialogue with the U.S. or the nuclear talks. Even participants
in the Nov. 4 rally like Mehdi Meshkini, a 27-year-old volunteer
with the hardline Basij militia, say they’re in favor.  In a phone interview, Meshkini said Iran’s diplomacy is
part of a “framework of resistance,” and the chant of “Down
with the U.S.” at the protest is “a peace message, not a war
message,” targeting American interventions in the  Middle East .  The displays of anti-Americanism can derail diplomacy,
offering ammunition to those on the other side who also don’t
want it to work, said Stephen Kinzer, author of “All The Shah’s
Men: An American Coup and the Roots of Middle East Terror,” a
study of ties between the countries that focuses on the U.S.-
backed coup that toppled Iran’s elected leader in the 1950s.  ‘Bit More Subtle’  Images of burning flags and chanting crowds “will be
portrayed as proof that the overture Iran is making is only
cosmetic and not serious,” and that’s what the protest
organizers want, Kinzer said. “They will encourage the ‘death
to Iran’ chanters in the U.S., who are a little bit more subtle
in their chanting, but are doing all they can to make sure that
reconciliation does not happen.”  Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu , who’s among
those warning against any rapprochement with Iran, cited the
anti-American chants at the Nov. 4 rally in a Twitter message
today, saying they showed “the true face of this regime.”  Rouhani took office in August after winning election on a
pledge to ease Iran’s international isolation and roll back
sanctions that have squeezed its economy, pushing  oil output  to
the lowest since 1990. The curbs were imposed by the U.S. and
allies to rein in a nuclear program they say has military
intent.  Israel  and the U.S. have threatened to use force to stop
Iran getting atomic weapons if diplomacy doesn’t work. Iran says
its program is for civilian purposes.  ‘Another War’  While four in five Iranians believe sanctions have hurt
their livelihoods, more than half say Iran should maintain its
nuclear program in the face of international pressure, according
to a  Gallup poll  published today. That highlights the role of
Iranian nationalism in the dispute, Gallup said.  The talks that got under way in Geneva last month were
described as substantial by Western diplomats. Mohammad Javad Zarif, Iran’s foreign minister, told France24 television
yesterday that this week’s session may result in an accord.  Memories of the 1979 hostage-taking stir emotions on both
sides yet they won’t affect the calculations of leaders, said
Ervand Abrahamian, professor of Iranian and Middle Eastern
history and politics at  Baruch College  in New York.  “Both Obama and Rouhani are enough of realists to know
they’re not going to get into discussions about bad feelings of
the past,” he said. They’re focused instead on the nuclear
issue because “it can result in another war in the Middle East,
and that’s not something either Iran or the U.S. wants.”  ‘Down With You’  The Nov. 4 rally wasn’t the only recent expression of
Iranian mistrust.  Kayhan  newspaper, seen as close to Khamenei,
pointed to the scandal over U.S. spying as an illustration of
American deceit. The U.S. “doesn’t even have pity on its
closest allies,” it said in an Oct. 30 editorial. Last month,
authorities announced a  competition  for artwork illustrating
American imperialism and duplicity, with prizes of more than
2,500 euros ($3,370).  Friday prayer leaders in Iranian cities on Nov. 1 urged
negotiators to take a tough line. “Experience has shown that
America doesn’t give anything away through negotiations,”
Ayatollah Ahmad Khatami told worshippers in Tehran, according to
Shargh newspaper.  Meshkini, the student and Basij volunteer, complained that
the American approach is two-faced. “In the morning, we hear
officials in the White House say ‘we’re into negotiations,’ and
at night they slap appalling sanctions on us,” he said.  Asked about a similar contrast in  Iran , where officially
organized anti-American protests coexist with promises of a
diplomatic breakthrough, he saw no problem.  “The presence in the street is a type of diplomacy,” he
said. “The foreign minister can tell them: our people are
saying ‘down with you,’ so change your policies. Our chants are
backing our negotiating team. I don’t see a contradiction.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladane Nasseri in Dubai at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  