-- Argentine Stocks Rise on Speculation Country to Boost Reserves
-- B y   C a m i l a   R u s s o
-- 2013-11-05T21:37:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-05/argentine-stocks-rise-on-speculation-country-to-boost-reserves.html
Argentina ’s benchmark  stock index 
rose the most in more than five months on speculation the
central bank will announce a measure today that will help boost
foreign reserves, shoring up the country’s finances and
supporting economic expansion.  The Merval rose 5.4 percent at the close in Buenos Aires,
the biggest increase since May 15.  Grupo Galicia SA (GGAL)  surged 10.7
percent, the best performer in the 13-member index, while Banco
Macro SA rose 9.9 percent and YPF SA climbed 6.7 percent before
reporting an 87 percent increase in profit in the third quarter.  The central bank’s board approved a resolution to restrict
local lending to the seven largest grains exporters, forcing
them to obtain foreign currency financing, which may bring $2
billion into Argentina by year end, said two people familiar
with the plan, who asked not to be named because the resolution
hasn’t been made public. Reserves have tumbled $10 billion to
$33.3 billion this year to a six-year low as the nation
increases energy imports and uses the funds to pay foreign debt.  “This is positive because it should provide significant
dollar inflows after reserves dropped drastically in the last
two weeks,” Alejandro Bianchi, the head of investment at  Buenos
Aires  brokerage Invertironline.com, said in a telephone
interview. “It would help alleviate concern about the peso and
local financing.”  The Merval’s gain today was the biggest among world equity
benchmarks after the Cyprus General Market Index, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Banks will only be able to lend 0.3 percent of their total
lending portfolio to companies that export 75 percent of their
output and have more than 200 million pesos of outstanding bank
loans, the people said.  A central bank press official declined to comment.  While the peso has tumbled 17.5 percent this year to
5.9553, the worst performer in  emerging markets , the Merval has
returned 93 percent in 2013, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Camila Russo in Buenos Aires at 
 crusso15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  