-- Marijuana Vote in Colorado Weighs 25% Tax for Recreation
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   O l d h a m
-- 2013-11-05T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-05/marijuana-vote-in-colorado-weighs-25-tax-for-recreation.html
Just two months before  Colorado 
retailers begin selling marijuana for the first time in the
U.S., voters will weigh in today on a 25 percent tax to help
fund enforcement efforts intended to forestall federal
intervention.  As the drug emerges from prohibition in Colorado, state
officials and even existing medical marijuana dispensary owners
say taxes are necessary to ensure there’s money to cope with
uncertainties likely to crop up in a new industry being watched
worldwide.  “We don’t want to be at odds with the federal government
and have them swooping down into our state,” said state Senator
Cheri Jahn, a Democrat from Wheat Ridge who worked on a task
force that devised regulations for the new industry.  “We worked really hard to make sure we had tight statutes
so there could be tight enforcement,” Jahn said. “Without
funding, that cannot happen.”  The proposed pot taxes are among several ballot measures in
Colorado today. Other issues include a $950 million state
income-tax increase to finance education, local initiatives to
restrict oil and gas drilling, and whether voters in 11 counties
want to secede from the state after lawmakers passed the
toughest gun-control laws in a decade.  Polls show a majority of voters approve of a proposed 15
percent excise tax on the wholesale price of retail marijuana
that will go partly to fund school construction and a 10 percent
sales tax to finance regulatory efforts. Even so, the passage of
Proposition AA in a state with a long  anti-tax  history is not a
sure thing.  New Taxes  If new taxes aren’t approved, money to police a product
that is still illegal under federal law would come from the
general fund, state officials warn. The department charged with
regulating the state’s medical marijuana industry has said it
doesn’t have sufficient resources to meet the demands of the
existing 1,400 or so pot-related businesses.  The 25 percent tax burden will come on top of local levies
and a 2.9 percent state sales tax. A dozen  municipalities  are
asking residents to vote on additional taxes on retail marijuana
sales. If voters approve them, levies on cannabis could climb to
as high as 35 percent in some areas.  The city of Denver, home to the state’s largest number of
medical marijuana dispensaries, is asking residents to approve a
3.5 percent local sales tax to pay for retail marijuana
regulation.  ‘Enforcement Apparatus’  “Ultimately the whole enforcement apparatus will fall on
the municipal government,” said Denver Mayor Michael Hancock, a
first-term Democrat.  “We’re going to need to make sure we have proper staffing
to handle licensing and proper monitoring with enough
inspectors,” he added. “We also have festivals and we have to
keep the paperwork in line for those and special police officers
who require special training, along with firefighters and
medical health personnel.”  Taxation ballot initiatives are among the last steps in a
series of actions to implement constitutional  Amendment 64 ,
approved by a majority of voters in 2012, allowing those 21 and
older to possess up to an ounce of marijuana. Washington state
also legalized pot last year. Recreational marijuana sales there
will include a 25 percent tax each on producers, processors and
retailers.  Pot Regulations  After weeks of debate, the Colorado legislature approved a
bill to regulate the industry -- amending it 130 times -- in the
session that ended May 8. The legislation reflected many of the
58 recommendations made by a task force convened by Governor
John Hickenlooper last December.  The ballot initiative puts the state’s existing medical-marijuana firms, who initially are the only ones who will be
allowed to apply for licenses to sell recreational pot, in a
rare position of asking for a tax on their business.  “It’s unusual, but we’re in a lot of unusual positions in
this industry,” said Andy Williams, president of Denver-based
dispensary Medicine Man. “Marijuana is under the spotlight.
It’s changing peoples’ attitudes and perception of the industry
and showing the federal government we can handle this change.”  The federal government said in August it won’t interfere in
the new recreational marijuana industry in Colorado and
 Washington  if the states do a good job at regulating it.  The campaign for the marijuana tax was backed by
Hickenlooper, a first-term Democrat, and Attorney General John Suthers, a Republican, and the state’s largest medical-marijuana
dispensaries. Opponents included small business owners,
activists and students.  Pot Giveaways  Proponents raised about $67,000, compared with about $3,800
by opponents who took their case to the public by holding two
free pot giveaways where they handed out 1,600 joints. Those in
favor of Proposition AA, meanwhile, traveled the state speaking
to local Lions and Rotary clubs in an effort to persuade older
voters to approve new taxes.  “My biggest concern with this, since there are a number of
other tax measures that Coloradans are voting on, is that when
voters get to the voting booth they will be inclined to vote no
on everything,” said Joe Megyesy, communications director for
the  Yes on Proposition AA  campaign.  Some owners of smaller medical-marijuana businesses say
additional taxes would harm them just as they’re trying to
comply with new  retail regulations . These rules require them to
pay licensing fees twice if they want to sell products at retail
and to separate production of their goods.  This is a costly endeavor for entrepreneurs like Jessica
LeRoux who sells dispensaries handmade cheesecakes, chocolates
and salty snacks infused with marijuana.  ‘Baked Product’  “When you’re making a baked product and your overhead is
eight times more than a strip club and you have more cameras
than a casino, the market is already over-regulated,” said
LeRoux, whose Denver-based company, Twirling Hippy Confections,
is five years old.  LeRoux and other tax opponents say high taxes on a new
industry will deter tourists. It may also prompt Coloradans to
grow their own pot -- Amendment 64 allows the cultivation of as
many as six plants a person -- or force them to go to the black
market, they say.  “We want to give the marijuana industry a fair chance,”
said Larisa Bolivar, executive director of the  No on Proposition
AA  campaign, “and not overtax it so people go back to the black
market, which in Colorado is thriving. Consumers are already
telling me, ‘I will just go to my neighbor.’”  Black Market  Even with additional taxes added on, said Megyesy, the
price of marijuana would still be below the black market. The
levies would add about $7 to the $25 to $30 price for an eighth
of an ounce of medical marijuana, which sells underground for
$50, he added.  A nonpartisan voter guide compiled by the state’s
legislative council estimates the taxes will bring in $67
million per year. About $27.5 million of this would go to school
construction and $6 million to local governments, leaving $33.5
million for state regulators.  The $950 million statewide income-tax increase to fund
education being considered today is backed by some prominent
local businesses and  New York  Mayor Michael Bloomberg, who is
majority owner of Bloomberg LP. Bloomberg has given $1 million
to the school campaign.  Energy companies are opposing the local drives to limit
energy drilling. About 99 percent of the funding for committees
opposed to the measures in four Colorado towns came from energy
companies such as The Woodlands, Texas-based Anadarko Petroleum.
Questions on the ballot in 11 Colorado counties asking residents
if they wish to secede were promoted by local county
commissioners.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Oldham in Denver at 
 joldham1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at   smerelman@bloomberg.net  