-- MarketAxess Names Ex-JPMorgan Banker Cruger to Board
-- B y   F a n n i   K o s z e g
-- 2013-11-05T21:46:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-05/marketaxess-names-ex-jpmorgan-banker-cruger-to-board.html
MarketAxess Holdings Inc. (MKTX) , the owner
of an electronic bond and derivatives-trading system, named
former  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  investment banker William Cruger to
its board.  Cruger, 55, was vice chairman of  investment banking  for
JPMorgan before leaving the firm in June, New York-based
MarketAxess said today in a statement. He joins former Goldman
Sachs Group inc. partner Jane Chwick, who was named to the
electronic trading firm’s board last month.  “Bill has been a trusted partner and investment-banking
adviser to MarketAxess since the firm’s inception,” Chief
Executive Officer Rick McVey said in the statement. “He is
widely respected as one of the leading market structure experts
in the global exchange and electronic-trading space.”  Electronic bond trading is gaining momentum as new
regulations curbing risk prompt banks to trim inventories of
corporate debt, reducing their willingness to act as middlemen
between buyers and sellers. Goldman Sachs has expanded its
GSessions electronic-trading system, while  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , the
world’s largest asset manager, decided this year to route some
of its trades through MarketAxess’s computerized system.  Cruger, who advised Raymond James Financial Inc. on its
$930 million deal to acquire Morgan Keegan & Co. last year, is
at least the second senior adviser to exchanges and other
securities businesses to leave New York-based JPMorgan in recent
months. Joseph Molluso left to join electronic trading firm
Virtu Financial LLC as its chief financial officer, the New
York-based firm said in September.  Cruger held various senior positions at JPMorgan before
being named vice chairman of investing banking including
managing director in the financial institutions group from 1996
to 2011, according to the statement. He earlier ran the firm’s
investment-banking practices in Asia and Latin America.  Bloomberg LP, the parent company of  Bloomberg News ,
competes with MarketAxess to provide electronic-trading systems
for fixed-income markets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fanni Koszeg in  New York  at 
 fkoszeg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Eichenbaum at 
 peichenbaum@bloomberg.net  