-- M&S Edges Toward Revival as Decline in Clothing Sales Eases
-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 2013-11-05T10:59:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-05/marks-spencer-edges-toward-revival-as-clothes-sales-drop-eases.html
Marks & Spencer Group Plc (MKS)  reported
the smallest decline in general-merchandise sales in more than
two years, signaling that a new women’s clothing collection may
be helping the U.K.’s largest clothing retailer regain shoppers.  Sales at stores open at least a year fell 1.3 percent in
the quarter ended Sept. 28, the London-based company said in a
statement today. That beat the median  estimate  of 17 analysts
for a 1.5 percent drop. M&S also reported an 8.9 percent slide
in first-half underlying pretax profit, missing estimates, as
one-time costs for introducing the new range weighed on margins.  The fall-winter collection, including designs such as 199-pound ($318) body-hugging leather dresses, “has been well
received by customers, and we have seen some early signs of
improvement,” Chief Executive Officer  Marc Bolland  said.  The CEO is counting on the revamped range to reverse nine
straight quarters of declining same-store sales in general
merchandise as shoppers defect to rivals such as the budget
Primark chain. Primark’s profit rose 44 percent as sales gained
22 percent, owner  Associated British Foods Plc (ABF)  said today.  Marks & Spencer  gained  as much as 4.3 percent in  London 
trading, the most since July 4. The stock was up 3.2 percent at
502.5 pence as of 10:57 a.m.  “There just seems to be a sense of relief that on the
clothing front at least it seems to be going in the right
direction,” said  Bryan Roberts , an analyst at Kantar Retail in
London. “They are of course not out of the woods, but it’s an
improvement and they also have Christmas to look forward to.”  New Collection  Second-quarter same-store sales in the retailer’s food
division rose 3.2 percent, M&S also said, slightly stronger than
the 3 percent median estimate of 17 analysts.  M&S said today it is targeting a “steady improvement” in
performance as customers notice changes to the fashion offer,
store interiors and a new advertising campaign.  The revamped fall-winter clothing collection arrived in M&S
stores in early September, backed by an ad campaign featuring
“Britain’s Leading Ladies.” A subsequent campaign was led by
Academy Award-winning actress  Helen Mirren  and Grace Coddington,
the creative director of American Vogue.  The company increased the stock of its advertised lines by
50 percent compared with any other advertised lines before,
“and over the six weeks we sold through 80 percent,” Bolland
told journalists on a conference call.  ’Price sensitive’  Still, the range is “an evolution rather than a
revolution,” according to Sanford C. Bernstein analyst Jamie Merriman, who cut the stock to underperform on Oct. 8. “While
M&S’s core customers, women aged 50 to 70, like the product,
they are price sensitive and did not see enough change in the
product to cause them to increase spend.”  M&S said it’s “cautious” on the outlook for the rest of
the year given continued pressure on disposable incomes.  “While  consumer confidence  appears to be improving, there
is little evidence as yet of this translating to increased
spending in the retail sector,” the company said. “Our overall
expectations for the full year remain unchanged.”  First-half underlying pretax profit fell to 261.6 million
pounds, compared with the 273 million-pound average  estimate  of
16 analysts in a Bloomberg News survey.  Gross margin in the U.K. general-merchandise unit narrowed
by 1 percentage point, which was “somewhat higher than
planned,” M&S said, citing the introduction of the new clothing
range and the revised timing of the mid-season clearance event.
“We’re now expecting the margin to be up in the second half in
GM,” Chief Financial Officer Alan Stewart told reporters.  Stronger clothing sales may also not be far off, said
 Richard Black , who helps manage 400 billion pounds at Legal &
General, the biggest manager of U.K. pension assets, who holds
Marks & Spencer stock and says he’s a buyer.  “It looks increasingly likely that they can turn the
corner in the next quarter,” Black said. “They had a lot of
investments in logistics, systems, distribution, that’s coming
through, plus they had such a tough Christmas last year.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  