-- Most Asian Stocks Drop Before China Meeting; HSBC Climbs
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2013-11-05T08:43:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-05/asian-stocks-climb-first-time-in-four-days-on-hsbc-profit.html
Most Asian  stocks  dropped ahead of a
meeting of  China ’s top party officials this weekend.  HSBC (5) 
Holdings Plc gained after  Europe ’s largest lender posted higher
earnings.  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd. paced declines
among mainland lenders listed in  Hong Kong .  Nissan Motor Co. (7201) 
sank 10 percent, the most since 2008, after the Japanese
carmaker cut its profit forecast.  Kubota Corp. (6326)  rose 7.9 percent
in  Tokyo  as the tractor maker reported profit that topped
estimates. HSBC Holdings Plc added 1.5 percent in Hong Kong
after third-quarter pretax profit increased 30 percent.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index was little changed at 141.10 as
of 5:21 p.m. in Tokyo, having swung between gains of as much as
0.5 percent and losses of 0.2 percent. Hong Kong’s Hang Seng
Index lost 0.7 percent. China’s leaders meet in Beijing Nov.
9-12 to map out reforms as the world’s second-largest economy
heads for its slowest growth in more than two decades.  “All eyes are on the third party plenum,” Tim Moe, a Hong
Kong-based strategist at Goldman Sachs Group Inc., told
Bloomberg TV. “The market has priced in a fair amount of
expectation about this and therefore from a tactical standpoint,
the market is vulnerable to profit taking.”  Taiwan’s Taiex Index declined 1.1 percent and South Korea’s
 Kospi index  slid 0.6 percent.  India ’s S&P BSE Sensex index
dropped 1 percent. The Philippine Stock Exchange Index lost 0.4
percent.  Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index added 0.8 percent,
maintaining gains after the central bank held its benchmark rate
at a record-low 2.5 percent. That matched the prediction of all
31 economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News , with 13 forecasting an
increase by the fourth quarter of next year.  Regional Indexes  China’s Shanghai Composite Index added 0.4 percent,
reversing losses of as much as 1.2 percent. Singapore’s Straits
Times Index climbed 0.1 percent. New Zealand’s NZX 50 Index
advanced 0.6 percent to close at a record high. Malaysian and
Indonesian markets are shut today.  Japan ’s Topix index slid less than 0.1 percent on reopening
from a three-day weekend. More than 500 companies on the 1,746-member Topix release earnings this week, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Of the companies on the MSCI Asia Pacific Index that have
reported  quarterly results  this season and for which Bloomberg
compiles estimates, about half exceeded analysts’ estimates on
profit, while 53 percent posted better-than-expected revenue.  The euro rebounded from a six-week low versus the dollar
yesterday as expanding manufacturing in the euro region fueled
speculation the  European Central Bank  won’t cut  interest rates 
this week. A HSBC and Markit Economics China services index
released today showed expansion in October, after an official
non-manufacturing gauge rose to the highest level this year. The
 Institute for Supply Management  issues its U.S. non-manufacturing index today.  Earnings Optimism  “The global economy continues to improve and that’s
supporting a profit upswing,”  Shane Oliver , Sydney-based head
of investment strategy at AMP Capital Investors Ltd., which has
about $130 billion under management, said by telephone. “We’ve
still got very easy monetary conditions and lots of investors
sitting on the sidelines in cash still getting very low returns.
Equities remain the place to be.”  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index climbed the past two months,
pushing valuations on the measure to 13.6 times  estimated
earnings  as of yesterday, up from a multiple of 12.7 at the end
of August, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That
compares with a current multiple of 16 for the Standard & Poor’s
500 Index and 14.9 on the Stoxx Europe 600 Index, the data show.  U.S. Stocks  Futures on the  S&P 500  slipped 0.1 percent. The equity
index gained 0.4 percent yesterday as Exxon Mobil Corp. and U.S.
Steel Corp. led a rally in commodity shares while investors
awaited data on employment and economic growth. The S&P 500 has
advanced 24 percent in 2013, poised for its best yearly rally in
a decade, and is up more than 161 percent from the bear-market
low reached in 2009.  Chinese lenders listed in Hong Kong fell. ICBC, as the
nation’s biggest lender is known, lost 1.3 percent to HK$5.34.
China Construction Bank Corp. declined 1 percent to HK$6.02.  Nissan slumped 10 percent to 861 yen. At a time when the
weaker yen is supposed to be bolstering Japanese exporters’
earnings, Nissan last week cut its full-year net income forecast
by 15 percent after demand in  emerging markets  slowed and recall
costs mounted. Analysts at Deutsche Bank AG, Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. and Credit Suisse Group AG cut their investment ratings on
the stock.  Doosan, Kubota  Doosan Infracore Co., South Korea’s largest construction
equipment company, declined 8.3 percent to 13,250 won in Seoul
after a report of a possible $400 million depositary-receipt
sale sparked concern shareholdings would be diluted.  Kubota surged 7.9 percent to 1,550 yen after its first-half
preliminary net income rose to 67 billion yen, topping its own
previous forecast of 50 billion yen ($509  million).  HSBC gained 1.5 percent to HK$86.35 after reporting
results. Chief Executive Officer  Stuart Gulliver  said the lender
saw “reasons for optimism” amid a broadening economic
recovery. Mizuho Securities Asia Ltd. raised its rating on HSBC
to buy from neutral.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah McDonald at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net  