-- Dow Average Rises to Record as Treasuries, Oil Advance
-- B y   S t e p h e n   K i r k l a n d   a n d   L u   W a n g
-- 2013-11-06T21:19:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-05/asian-futures-decline-as-u-s-retreats-while-oil-tumbles.html
Stocks rose, sending the  Dow Jones
Industrial Average  to a record, and Treasuries climbed as
Federal Reserve officials said weakness in the  U.S. economy 
warranted continued stimulus. Oil led commodities up from a
four-month low while the yen and dollar weakened.  The Dow advanced 128.66 points, or 0.8 percent, to
15,746.88 by 4:15 p.m. in  New York . The  Standard & Poor’s 500
Index (SPA)  added 0.4 percent after earlier touching a record closing
high. Ten-year Treasury yields fell three basis points to 2.64
percent. The dollar declined against 12 of 16 major peers while
the yen weakened against all 16. The S&P GSCI gauge of 24
commodities rallied 0.5 percent as New York-traded oil rose the
most in five weeks on an increase in U.S. gasoline demand.  U.S. growth and payrolls figures this week may help
investors gauge the outlook for Fed policy as two papers from
central bank officials said the level of slack in America’s
economy justifies an accommodative stance. Company earnings
fueled a global stock rally after ING Groep NV, the biggest
Dutch financial-services company, reported net income that beat
analysts’ estimates and  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) , the world’s largest
automaker, raised its full-year profit forecast by 13 percent.  “The central bank has decided they will reward risk
behavior and that’s what we’re going to get,” Bill Mann, chief
investment officer at Motley Fool Asset Management in
Alexandria,  Virginia , said in a phone interview. His firm
manages $560 million. “The market will keep hitting their highs
until the stimulus reverses itself.”  Annual Rally  The  S&P 500  has rallied about 24 percent in 2013, set for
its best yearly gain in a decade. The  benchmark index  for U.S.
stocks traded at about 16.8 times member company reported
earnings at its last record reached Oct. 29, the highest
valuation in more than three years. The Stoxx Europe 600 Index
is up 16 percent this year while the MSCI All-Country World
Index has gained 17 percent.  The S&P 500 rebounded from yesterday’s 0.3 percent drop as
eight of its 10 main industry groups advanced, led by utility,
telephone, consumer-staples and technology companies.  Microsoft Corp. climbed 4.2 percent as Nomura Holdings Inc.
said the  software company  may exit its money-losing consumer
business under a new chief executive officer.  Ralph Lauren Corp. (RL)  climbed 5.5 percent after the apparel
maker boosted the lower end of its sales forecast and increased
dividends.  Tesla Motors Inc. (TSLA)  tumbled 14 percent, leading the
Nasdaq-100 Index 0.1 percent lower, as vehicle sales missed some
analysts’ estimates. Abercrombie & Fitch Co. slumped 13 percent
after posting sales that trailed expectations.  Economic Data  The Conference Board’s index of U.S. leading indicators, a
gauge of the outlook for the next three to six months, increased
0.7 percent in September, data today showed. The median forecast
of economists surveyed by Bloomberg called for a gain of 0.6
percent.  A government report tomorrow is forecast to show the U.S.
economy grew at a 2 percent annualized rate in the third
quarter, compared with a 2.5 percent increase in the previous
three months. Economists predict data Nov. 8 will show payrolls
climbed by 120,000 in October and the  unemployment rate 
increased to 7.3 percent from 7.2 percent in the previous month,
according to a separate survey.  Fed policy makers last week signaled diminishing concern
over higher borrowing costs as they maintained their $85
billion-a-month bond buying program and sought more evidence of
sustained growth before tapering the record stimulus. The Fed
won’t reduce the pace of purchases until its March 18-19
meeting, according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg survey
of economists conducted Oct. 17-18.  Fed Papers  William English , head of the Fed’s Division of Monetary
Affairs, wrote that the strategy of not raising  interest rates 
when unemployment is above 6.5 percent has provided effective
stimulus, and that an even lower threshold could be helpful. A
paper by David Wilcox, the research and statistics chief, says
that slack in the economy argues for loose policy at a time of
contained expectations for inflation.  The  U.S. Treasury  will sell $10 billion to $15 billion of
its first floating-rate notes Jan. 29. The debt will have a two-year maturity and be the Treasury’s first new security in 17
years, the department said today in its quarterly refunding
announcement.  Note and bond sales next week will total $70 billion, the
lowest since February 2009 and less than the $72 billion
auctioned last quarter, the Treasury said.  The Stoxx 600 advanced 0.4 percent to the highest level
since May 2008. ING jumped 3.5 percent.  Alstom SA (ALO) , the French
maker of power equipment and trains, rallied 5.8 percent after
operating profit topped estimates. Vestas Wind Systems A/S
surged 15 percent to a two-year high after the world’s largest
wind-turbine maker boosted its outlook for 2013.  Euro Outlook  The euro climbed 0.4 percent to $1.3521 and added 0.5
percent versus the yen as data showed the region’s services
output increased more than initially estimated, boosting
speculation that the  European Central Bank  will refrain from
cutting interest rates tomorrow.  The euro may strengthen to a two-year high versus the
dollar should it hold a key level of support, according to Bank
of America Corp., citing technical indicators.  The 17-nation currency’s ability to not weaken beyond
$1.3412 to $1.3452 will confirm a longer-term bullish trend for
the euro,  MacNeil Curry , head of foreign-exchange and interest-rates technical strategy in New York at Bank of America Merrill
Lynch, wrote in a client note yesterday. Should the euro can
appreciate beyond its October high to $1.3835, it will test
$1.40, which would be the strongest level since October 2011.  Toyota Earnings  Japan’s  Topix Index (TPX)  advanced for the first time in four
days, rising 0.8 percent. Toyota increased 0.5 percent as NHK
reported the company would raise its earnings forecast. The
company lifted its full-year profit projection by 13 percent in
a statement as Tokyo markets closed.  Japan’s yen weakened the most against the Norwegian and
Swedish currencies, losing at least 0.7 percent. The Bloomberg
U.S. Dollar Index, which tracks the greenback against 10 major
peers, fell 0.3 percent, declining for the second time in nine
days.  German manufacturing orders, adjusted for seasonal swings
and inflation, jumped 3.3 percent from August, when they fell
0.3 percent, the  Economy Ministry  said today. Economists
forecast a gain of 0.5 percent, according to the median of 37
estimates in a Bloomberg News survey.  Emerging Markets  Italian  bonds  reversed early gains, sending 10-year yields
up four basis points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 4.21 percent.
The nation sold 22.3 billion euros ($30 billion) of government
inflation-linked bonds aimed at retail investors, setting a new
record and allowing the Treasury to potentially cut the size of
bond auctions for the rest of the year.   The yield on 10-year Portuguese bonds dropped 20 basis
points to 5.89 percent.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index was little changed after a
four-day slump. Egypt’s EGX 30 Index jumped 2.4 percent to the
highest level since January 2011 as trading resumed after a
holiday yesterday and the trial of deposed President Mohamed Mursi was adjourned until January. The Shanghai Composite Index
dropped 0.8 percent before the start of a Communist Party
meeting later this week.  The S&P GSCI index rebounded from the lowest close since
June 26 reached yesterday, climbing for the first time in seven
days. West Texas Intermediate oil gained 1.5 percent, the most
in five weeks, to $94.80 a barrel. Gasoline jumped 1.2 percent
and natural gas increased 1 percent.  Metals Moves  The Energy Information Administration reported gasoline
consumption in the U.S. climbed 2.6 percent last week to 9.29
million barrels a day. Supplies decreased by 3.76 million
barrels, more than nine times the 400,000-barrel decrease
forecast by analysts in a Bloomberg survey. Oil stockpiles
jumped for a seventh week.  Gold futures gained 0.7 percent, the biggest advance in
almost two weeks, to settle at $1,317.80 an ounce as a weakening
dollar signaled investors are speculating tomorrow’s government
reports will indicate sluggish U.S. economic growth. Palladium
extended a rally to the highest price since August.  Coffee fell to the lowest level since December 2008 on
speculation bigger crops in Brazil, the world’s largest grower,
will compound a global glut. Sugar and cocoa also declined,
while cotton and orange juice gained.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Kirkland in London at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net ;
Lu Wang in New York at 
 lwang8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  