-- AB Foods Forecasts Stagnant EPS as Sugar Weighs on Outlook
-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g   a n d   M a t t h e w   B o y l e
-- 2013-11-05T10:53:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-05/associated-british-foods-sees-sales-gaining-on-primark-growth.html
Associated British Foods Plc (ABF)  said
earnings per share in the current fiscal year will fail to grow
as declining profit from the sugar business offsets growth at
the Primark clothing chain.  Adjusted earnings per share rose 13 percent in the 12
months ended Sept. 14 to 98.9 pence, and AB Foods expects a
“similar” result this year, the London-based company said
today. Primark’s adjusted operating profit rose 44 percent to
514 million pounds ($825 million), topping the 435 million
pounds of earnings from its sugar division. The stock fell as
much as 3.6 percent, the steepest intraday drop in two months.  “Management’s tone around 2014 seems cautious,” said
Andrew Wood, an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein, who had
forecast 3 percent earnings per share growth. “We would expect
to reduce our estimates.”  The sugar industry has been weighed down by price pressure
caused by accelerating imports from outside the European Union.
Primark’s discount fashions have seen the chain become a
favorite with U.K. shoppers wanting the latest designs at cheap
prices. The retailer is also expanding across Europe, helping
sales gain 22 percent to 4.27 billion pounds.  Shares in AB Foods traded 2.6 percent lower at 2,196 pence
as of 10:49 a.m. in London trading. The stock is up 40 percent
this year.  Sweet Sugar  “Sugar was in line with our expectations and it was a
remarkable year for Primark,” Chief Executive Officer George Weston said in the statement. The company won’t spin off
Primark, the CEO said in an interview today.  Primark’s like-for-like sales increased 5 percent for the
year, meeting analysts’ estimates. The chain plans to open its
first French store in Marseille just before Christmas, followed
by stores in Dijon and three just outside Paris next year. The
company will expand in existing European markets, Weston said,
and it has no plans to offer shopping online.  “There is lots and lots of scope in our existing
markets,” the executive said. “We’ve just entered  France  as
our ninth market. There are only 10 stores in Germany, against
161 stores in the U.K.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Boyle in London at 
 mboyle20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  