-- Attention-Deficit Expansion Merits Monitoring: Analysis
-- B y   T r i s t a   K e l l e y
-- 2013-11-05T23:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-05/attention-deficit-expansion-merits-monitoring-analysis.html
Expanding the criteria used to
diagnose attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder led to a surge
in drug prescriptions that may be “unnecessary and possibly
harmful” for some children, researchers said.  The broadening of diagnostic criteria in The American
Psychiatric Association’s  Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of
Mental Disorders , known as the DSM, has been an “important
contributor” to the growing prevalence of ADHD, according to an
analysis led by Rae Thomas, a senior research fellow at  Bond
University  in  Australia  and a psychologist who has worked with
children and families for more than 20 years.  The looser definition in the most recent edition of the
DSM, used in many parts of the world to classify mental
disorders, is “likely to increase what is already a significant
concern about over-diagnosis,” Thomas and her colleagues  wrote 
today in the British Medical Journal.  Mental-health disorders are susceptible to over-diagnosis
because interpretations of observed or self-reported behavior
are subjective, and prevalence can vary widely, the researchers
said. In the U.S., the majority of children diagnosed with ADHD
receive medication. Prescriptions in the U.S. for stimulants
have increased steadily from 1996 to 2008.  In Australia, prescribing rates rose 73 percent from 2000
to 2011, while U.K. ADHD pill prescriptions from 2003 to 2008
doubled among children while gaining fourfold among adults.  “Despite this, there is very little data on the long-term
benefits of treatment,” the researchers said.  ADHD medications can cause  weight loss , liver damage and
suicidal thoughts, and may suppress growth during puberty, while
the long-term effects of the treatments are unknown, they said.
Meanwhile, drug costs resulting from inappropriately diagnosed
ADHD in the U.S. are estimated to be as high as $500 million,
they said.  For mild and moderate cases, the researchers propose “a
stepped, diagnostic approach to reduce unnecessary diagnoses
without risking under-treatment of those who really need
psychiatric help.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Trista Kelley in London at 
 tkelley2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  