-- Aussie Falls After Stevens Says Currency ‘Uncomfortably High’
-- B y   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o
-- 2013-11-05T05:49:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-05/australian-dollar-holds-biggest-gain-in-2-weeks-before-rba-meet.html
The Australian dollar fell after
Reserve Bank Governor  Glenn Stevens  said the currency is
“uncomfortably high” after he and his board refrained from
cutting borrowing costs at a policy meeting today.  The Aussie slid versus all of its 16 major counterparts as
Stevens made the comment after saying last week that the
currency may become “materially lower.” New Zealand’s dollar
weakened after Asian stocks reversed earlier gains.  “The RBA is still very much in a wait-and-see neutral
stance,” said Greg Gibbs, a senior foreign-exchange strategist
at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in Singapore. “The currency
is responding to comments similar to those made by Stevens last
week.”  Australia’s currency fell 0.4 percent to 94.73 U.S. cents
at 4:39 p.m. in Sydney after climbing 0.8 percent yesterday, the
biggest advance since Oct. 17. It dropped 0.6 percent to 93.25
yen after touching 93.87, a one-week high. New Zealand’s kiwi
dollar lost 0.2 percent to 82.70 U.S. cents after rising 0.2
percent yesterday. The MSCI Asia Pacific Index of shares slid
0.2 percent after climbing as much as 0.5 percent.  Reserve Bank  of Australia officials kept the cash rate at a
record-low 2.5 percent today, as predicted by all 31 economists
 surveyed  by  Bloomberg News  before the decision.  “The Australian dollar, while below its level earlier in
the year, is still uncomfortably high,” Stevens said today in a
statement. “A lower level of the  exchange rate  is likely to be
needed to achieve balanced growth in the economy.”  Biggest Gain  The Aussie has risen 4.7 percent in the past three months
against a basket of nine other developed-nation currencies
tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes, the biggest
gain within the group. Its New Zealand counterpart has climbed
4.2 percent, the second-largest advance.  “ Governor Stevens  is set to warn that the strength of the
currency could warrant further policy easing in the months
ahead,”  Mitul Kotecha , the head of foreign-exchange strategy at
 Credit Agricole SA (ACA)  in  Hong Kong , wrote in an e-mailed note to
clients before the RBA decision. “However, such warnings may
sound hollow given worries about house price inflation and
recently firmer data.”  The statistics bureau said yesterday its  house price index 
for Australia gained 7.6 percent in the third quarter from 12
months earlier, the steepest advance in three years. The  trade
balance  probably shrank to a negative A$500 million ($474
million) in September from a A$815 million shortfall the
previous month, according to the median economist forecast
before tomorrow’s data.  The yield on Australian government debt due in a decade was
little changed at 4.14 percent after reaching 4.16 percent
yesterday, the highest since Oct. 17. Three-year  government
bonds  yielded 3.12 percent from 3.13 percent yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristine Aquino in Singapore at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Garfield Reynolds at 
 greynolds1@bloomberg.net  