-- Bankrupt San Bernardino’s Politicians Face Election Today
-- B y   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 2013-11-05T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-05/bankrupt-stockton-s-politicians-face-housecleaning-vote.html
The mayor, the entire City Council
and city attorney in bankrupt San Bernardino,  California , may be
replaced in an election today with implications for the recovery
of the city east of Los Angeles.  Some of the politicians may be thrown out by recall drives.
Others, such as Mayor Patrick Morris, chose not to run again.
Still others face re-election challenges, such as a council
member charged with a felony for stalking. Another resigned
after pleading guilty to perjury.  The potential housecleaning reflects the political and
personal turmoil in the city of 210,000 that filed for
bankruptcy in August 2012 after a $46 million budget shortfall.
It’s the third-largest U.S. city to seek court protection after
Detroit and Stockton, California.  “When the city of San Bernardino is in as bad a shape as
it is, you have to have a leadership change, no matter who your
friends are,” said Scott Beard, the leader of the recall
effort, referring to a council member who’s a neighbor. “We
have to do everything we can to help the city, even if it costs
me a very good friendship, and I feel very bad about that.”  Even before its Chapter 9 filing, the city about 60 miles
(100 kilometers) east of  Los Angeles  was known for a rough-and-tumble brand of local politics. In March 2012, San Bernardino
City Manager Charles McNeely and two other officials resigned,
with McNeely citing “toxic” and “horrendous” infighting
among elected officials, the Press-Enterprise newspaper of
Riverside  reported .  The bankruptcy spurred an effort to recall City Attorney
James Penman and all of the council members who aren’t up for
re-election today.  Union Power  Beard, a 52-year-old developer, said police and firefighter
unions hold too much power at City Hall. He said agreements
between the unions and the council helped push San Bernardino to
bankruptcy, pointing to a 2006 council vote that lowered the
retirement age for safety workers to 50 from 55.  “The real culprit in the room is the police retirement and
the benefits they’ve managed to negotiate, which are
ridiculous,” Beard said.  San Bernardino Police Officers Association President Steve
Turner and San Bernardino City Firefighters Local 891 President
Scott Moss didn’t respond to telephone calls and e-mails seeking
comment on Beard’s assertions.  Council member Wendy McCammack, 55, is simultaneously
defending herself against the recall and running for mayor. She
voted for the lower  retirement age  and $50.4 million in pension
bonds in 2005 to defer retirement obligations. The city has
defaulted on the bonds.  Good Neighbor  Elected in 2001, McCammack said she lives four houses from
Beard and considered him a good friend. Beard hosted two
fundraisers for her previous campaign and her daughter, Chelsea,
babysat Beard’s grandchildren, McCammack and Beard said in
separate interviews.  Then in April, both said, Beard told her over dinner and
drinks that he was going to spearhead an effort to remove her
and the rest of the city’s leadership from office.  “I was incredulous,” McCammack said.  McCammack said Beard was seeking her recall because she was
“standing in the way” of a water deal he wants to broker with
the city. Beard, who helped negotiate a 30-year contract for the
water system of neighboring Rialto in 2011, denied any plans to
do the same in San Bernardino.  McCammack said the departing mayor, Morris, drove San
Bernardino into bankruptcy. Morris said McCammack and two other
targets of the recall, Councilman John Valdivia and attorney
Penman, ignored warning signs of the bankruptcy and continued to
reward unions that bankrolled their campaigns.  Not Responsible  Valdivia said he takes orders from his constituents, not
unions, and had no responsibility for the bankruptcy because he
didn’t take office until March 2012.  Penman, depicted as  City Hall ’s puppetmaster in a pro-recall mailer, said Morris squandered a  budget surplus  and
ultimately bears the blame for the bankruptcy. San Bernardino’s
elected lawyer since 1987, Penman called the mailer “cute” and
denied manipulating elected officials.  McCammack said she acts independently of the unions. She
said union leaders have withdrawn support as she pushed for cuts
during the bankruptcy process, such as requiring police and
firefighters to  contribute  almost 14 percent of their salaries
toward pensions and other benefits.  Another mayoral candidate, Councilman Chas Kelley, dropped
out of the race and resigned from the council Oct. 17 after
pleading guilty to filing fraudulent campaign-finance
statements, a felony. Kelley and his attorney, Greg Kassel,
didn’t respond to telephone calls seeking comment.  Sex Partners  Councilman  Robert Jenkins  was  accused  the same day of
posting advertisements on a website seeking sex partners, then
directing respondents to two other men, and with creating a
false police internal memorandum, according to a  statement  by
the Riverside County District Attorney’s office. He continues to
run for a second term and hasn’t entered a plea. His lawyer,
Virginia Blumenthal, said Jenkins “is looking forward to
proving his innocence in court.”  The city’s police chief, Robert Handy, announced Oct. 24
that he was quitting to take a similar position in  Huntington
Beach , a smaller city about 60 miles southwest of San
Bernardino. Hired in October 2011, Handy was San Bernardino’s
longest-serving department head.  The city had 9.4 violent crimes per 1,000 residents in
2012, a 7 percent increase from 2011, according to FBI
 statistics . The national rate was 3.9 violent crimes per 1,000
people.  In an interview in his office, Handy said the bankruptcy,
recall election and related politics have taken a toll on city
employees.  “It’s a very difficult political environment here,” the
45-year-old chief said. “Politics affects every single decision
made in the community. That makes it very difficult to make
decisions in the best interest of the community.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Nash in San Bernardino, California at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  