-- Bank Merger Talks Heat Up as Danish Buyers Outnumber Sellers
-- B y   F r a n c e s   S c h w a r t z k o p f f
-- 2013-11-06T07:41:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-05/bank-merger-talks-heat-up-in-denmark-as-buyers-outnumber-sellers.html
Banks in  Denmark  looking for smaller
lenders to purchase say too few are willing to be sold, driving
prices higher and stalling the industry consolidation the
government says is needed to emerge from the crisis.  “There are more buyers than sellers,” Lasse Nyby, chief
executive officer of  Spar Nord Bank A/S (SPNO) , Denmark’s fourth-largest listed lender, said in an interview in Copenhagen. “I
can’t eliminate the possibility there will be price wars. We
have made bids six times and succeeded only twice.”  Five years after Denmark’s housing bubble burst, the
nation’s banks are still struggling to wind down bad loans and
turn a profit. A 20 percent drop in property prices since the
market peaked in 2007 has wiped out 62 community banks. After
trying to discipline the industry with bail-in legislation,
lawmakers have since urged consolidation to work around burden-sharing rules that alarmed foreign investors.  According to Nyby at Spar Nord, a number of Danish banks
won’t be able to survive unless they either issue shares or
agree to be bought.  “Some of the smaller banks at the moment are struggling to
meet the stricter capital requirements,” he said. “They’re
looking at their books and deciding whether they should dilute
owners by issuing shares, or team up with another bank.” Nyby
says “it’s all driven by capital requirements.”  Shrinking Economy  Banks in a position to make acquisitions are looking for
ways to build revenue amid record-low  interest rates  and as the
economy struggles to grow.  Gross domestic product  in
 Scandinavia ’s weakest economy contracted 0.1 percent in the
first six months, after shrinking 0.4 percent in 2012.  “I want very much to take part in consolidation if it’s
possible,” Karen Froesig, CEO of  Sydbank A/S (SYDB) , Denmark’s third-largest listed bank, said by phone. “I don’t think there are
many healthy banks that right now want to be swallowed up. If
there are, I’d like to have a coffee with them right now.”  Shares of targets have climbed amid expectations of rising
prices.  DiBa Bank A/S (DIBA) , which said last month it has put itself
up for sale to address its capital hurdles, has surged 189
percent since an April low.  Vestjysk Bank A/S (VJBA)  has seen its share
price soar 70 percent since a March low. The government, which
holds a 67 percent stake in the bank after a conversion of state
hybrid capital, has said it doesn’t intend to be a long-term
owner.  Stricter Rules  Jyske Bank A/S (JYSK) , Denmark’s second-largest listed bank, in
January purchased Sparekassen Lolland A/S after the smaller
lender failed a regulatory inspection. Sydbank bought Toender
Bank A/S in 2012 after the Financial Supervisory Authority said
it found more impaired assets than the lender had equity to
absorb.  Smaller banks are also merging. Lollands Bank A/S and
Vordingborg Bank A/S said in August they plan to combine. The
FSA said Oct. 31 that “challenged” banks now account for 3.5
percent of the Danish loan market, compared with 3.2 percent in
June 2012.  Danish lawmakers, who in September agreed on stricter
 capital requirements  for seven banks deemed systemically
important to the $340 billion economy, are now signaling they
will no longer strive to outdo the European Union in setting
stricter bank rules. Business Minister Henrik Sass Larsen said
in an interview this month Denmark should follow the EU’s
timetable on financial regulation.  Aside from increasing their lending operations through
takeovers, banks are also looking for other ways to build
revenue. One model involves persuading depositors to shift their
savings into higher-yielding accounts, Nyby said.  “It’s an effective boost to our top line in an low-interest environment,” he said. “We’ve shifted about 5 percent
of our deposit base since the start of the year and we haven’t
had to hire more staff.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frances Schwartzkopff in Copenhagen at 
 fschwartzko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net  