-- Barclays to Fire One-Third of U.K. Private Bankers
-- B y   G i l e s   B r o o m
-- 2013-11-05T14:41:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-05/barclays-to-fire-one-third-of-u-k-private-bankers.html
Barclays Plc (BARC) , Britain’s second-biggest lender by assets, plans to fire almost 100 U.K. private
bankers as it cuts costs at its  wealth-management  unit and will
close a separate call center.  The bank will reduce the number of relationship managers to
about 180 from 275, Will Bowen, a spokesman for London-based
Barclays, said in an e-mail today. The bankers, who oversee some
of Barclays’s accounts with rich individuals and families in the
U.K., may leave the company by February, he said.  “We are making changes to the way we service our affluent
clients in the U.K., and as a consequence a number of private-banking and support roles will no longer be required,” Bowen
said. “Wealth and  investment management  continues to be a key
area of growth within Barclays.”  Barclays is cutting wealth-management services as it seeks
to improve profitability, a person with knowledge of the matter
said in September. The business known as Wealth & Investment
Management will reduce the number of countries in which clients
receive services to 70 from as many as 200, the person said. The
bank is the U.K.’s second-largest wealth manager with more than
50 billion pounds ($80 billion) of client assets, according to
PAM Insight, a London and Geneva-based research firm.  Less Affluent  Barclays also plans to stop servicing customers with less
than 500,000 pounds of invested assets with the same degree of
relationship management offered to millionaires in an effort to
reduce the cost of advising less affluent clients.  The cuts in private banking, which were reported yesterday
by Citywire, follow the departures in September of executives
including Emmanuel Fievet, the former head of wealth management
for the U.K. and  Europe , and Stefanie Drews, who ran the bank’s
business for ultra-wealthy clients and family offices.  Patrick Ramsey , head of  Switzerland , quit in July.  Barclays is also closing a consumer-banking call center in
Coventry,  England , by June 2014, the bank said in a statement
today. As many as 350 jobs may be eliminated, Unite, a labor
union, said in a statement. Some positions will be relocated to
other sites, according to the bank.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Giles Broom in Geneva at 
 gbroom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  