-- Manchester City Joins Bayern in Advancing in Champions League
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2013-11-06T00:08:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-05/bayern-munich-joins-man-city-in-advancing-in-champions-league.html
Manchester City and Bayern Munich
became the first teams to advance to the round of 16 in soccer’s
 Champions League , as Cristiano Ronaldo tied a record for goals
in the group stage.  Alvaro Negredo scored three times last night as Manchester
City beat CSKA Moscow 5-2, while substitute Mario Mandzukic gave
title-holder Bayern a 1-0 win at Viktoria Plzen that matched the
Champions League record for consecutive victories.  “It is historic for the club,” City captain Yaya Toure
told  Sky Sports  after the English team reached the knockout
stage of Europe’s elite club competition for the first time. “I
hope we can win it. The target is to go as far as possible.”  The victories guarantee Bayern and City will finish first
or second in Group D, with two games left. The top two teams in
each of the eight groups advance to the last 16.  Manchester
United  stayed atop Group A after a 0-0 draw at Real Sociedad.  Ronaldo scored his competition-leading eighth goal in Real
Madrid’s 2-2 draw at Juventus. The Portuguese forward tied the
record for group-stage goals shared by Hernan Crespo, Filippo
Inzaghi and Ruud van Nistelrooy.  Zlatan Ibrahimovic’s seventh Champions League goal this
season earned Paris Saint-Germain a 1-1 draw at winless
Anderlecht. Real and PSG, who won their first three matches,
lead their groups with 10 points.  Copenhagen and Olympiacos won 1-0, while Shakhtar Donetsk
and  Bayer Leverkusen  played out a scoreless draw. Eight games
will be played tonight including Arsenal at  Borussia Dortmund 
and Barcelona hosting AC Milan.  Bayern’s Breakthrough  Bayern Munich  had to wait until the 65th minute to score in
the Czech Republic as Mandzukic headed in Philipp Lahm’s cross.
Bayern matched Barca’s 2002-03 team by winning nine straight
games and leads its group with the maximum 12 points.  “Matching Barcelona’s record is great for us, but we were
really hoping for a better performance,” Bayern goalkeeper
 Manuel Neuer  said on the website of tournament organizer UEFA.  Manchester City booked its first appearance in the knockout
stage with the home win over CSKA.  Sergio Aguero  scored twice in the opening 20 minutes and
Negredo made it 3-0 before halftime. Negredo then scored twice
in the second half, completing his hat trick in stoppage time.  Fernando Llorente ’s 65th-minute goal gave Juventus the home
draw with Group B leader Real Madrid.  Arturo Vidal  had put the
Italian champion ahead with a first-half penalty before Ronaldo
and Gareth Bale scored for record nine-time European Cup winner
Real after halftime.  Real has a six-point lead over Copenhagen and Galatasaray
with Juventus seven points back. Copenhagen beat Galatasaray 1-0
in Denmark on Daniel Braaten’s sixth-minute goal.  Anderlecht’s Firsts  Anderlecht earned its first point, and scored its first
goal in Group C, with the away draw in Paris. Olympiacos moved
into second place with seven points after beating Benfica on a
goal from Kostas Manolas.  The Group A positions remained the same following a pair of
scoreless draws.  Robin van Persie  missed a second-half penalty kick for
Manchester United at Real Sociedad. United, which had Marouane Fellaini sent off for a second yellow card in stoppage time,
tops the group with eight points.  “We should have won, we had enough chances,” United
manager  David Moyes  told ITV. “We had a good chance to go clear
in the group and take three points and we should have.”  Bayer Leverkusen’s draw at Shakhtar Donetsk kept it second
with seven points, two more than its Ukrainian opponent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  