-- Bears Defeat Packers After Aaron Rodgers Suffers Shoulder Injury
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-11-05T05:40:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-05/bears-defeat-packers-after-aaron-rodgers-suffers-shoulder-injury.html
Josh McCown threw two touchdown
passes to lead the  Chicago Bears  to a 27-20 victory against the
 Green Bay Packers , who lost starting quarterback  Aaron Rodgers 
with an injury to his non-throwing shoulder.  McCown, making his first National Football League start
since 2011 in place of  Jay Cutler , outplayed Seneca Wallace in
the matchup of backup quarterbacks to end the Packers’ 10-game
regular-season winning streak at Lambeau Field in Green Bay,
Wisconsin.  McCown passed for 272 yards and threw a six-yard touchdown
pass to Alshon Jeffery with two minutes, 46 seconds left in the
third quarter to give the Bears (5-3) the lead for good.  The Packers (5-3) had their four-game winning streak
snapped without Rodgers and are now tied with the Bears and
 Detroit Lions  atop the National Football Conference’s North
Division. It’s not yet known how much time Rodgers will miss.  “They want to run more tests,” Packers coach  Mike McCarthy  said during a news conference after last night’s game.
“They don’t have an exact diagnosis. We’ll have more
information for you probably tomorrow.”  The NFL’s 2011 Most Valuable Player, Rodgers was injured on
the game’s opening drive when he was sacked by Bears defensive
end Shea McClellin on a 3rd-and-8 play from the Chicago 9-yard
line. Rodgers, who landed on his left shoulder, was taken to the
locker room for tests and later returned to the Packers’
sideline in a hat and hooded sweatshirt.  Rodgers has only missed one game because of injury -- on
Dec. 19, 2010 -- since becoming the Packers’ starter in 2008.  No Timeline  “No timeline, no exact diagnosis,” McCarthy said when
asked if Rodgers might have suffered a long-term injury such as
a broken collarbone. “That’s where we’re at.”  Wallace, the only other quarterback on  Green Bay ’s active
roster, completed 11 of 19 passes for 114 yards, threw one
interception and was sacked on the game’s final two plays. The
Packers got 150 yards rushing and a touchdown from running back
Eddie Lacy, while James Starks scored on a 32-yard run.  “We ran the ball very well, but we were not very
productive in the passing game,” McCarthy said.  Matt Forte  rushed for 125 yards and a touchdown for the
Bears, who snapped a six-game losing streak against the Packers.  Cutler, who suffered a groin injury in Week 7, plans to
return for Chicago’s Nov. 10 game against the Lions after
initially being projected to miss a minimum of four weeks, ESPN
reported, citing an unidentified person familiar with the
situation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  