-- Beijing to Reduce New Vehicle License Plates by 38%, Daily Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-11-05T06:09:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-05/beijing-to-reduce-new-vehicle-license-plates-by-38-daily-says.html
China ’s capital will reduce the
number of new passenger vehicles allowed on the city’s roads by
38 percent next year as part of efforts to ease pollution and
traffic congestion, according to the Beijing Daily.  Beijing will cut the annual number of new license plates to
150,000 in 2014 from 240,000 now, according to the report posted
on the  city government’s website  today. By 2017, 90,000 of the
plates will go to conventional autos, with the rest reserved for
new-energy vehicles, the report said.  China’s leaders are working to clean up its air and water
to ease public anger over environment degradation, which has
become the top cause of social unrest in the country. The latest
measures are part of a plan to limit the number of vehicles in
Beijing to 6 million by the end of 2017, and the most stringent
to be introduced in a major Chinese city since Guangzhou capped
the number of new license plates in July 2012.  “They have a target to control the total vehicle number to
6 million, so they have to reduce the number of vehicles
registered every year,” said  John Zeng , the Shanghai-based
managing director of researcher LMC Automotive. “It will make
sales in cities more difficult.”  Beijing will also formulate a plan to restrict the number
of large commercial vehicles and study the mechanics of a
traffic congestion charge, according to the newspaper.  The capital released a proposal last month to cope with
severe levels of pollution. Under the plan, the city will order
30 percent of government cars off roads, close kindergartens,
middle and primary schools, and halt some industrial production
when such pollution is forecast.  Beijing introduced a license-plate lottery in January 2011,
with a monthly quota of 20,000 new vehicle licenses. Shanghai
and Guangzhou also impose restrictions on vehicle ownership,
while another eight cities are also considering imposing
restrictions, the state-backed China Association of Automobile
Manufacturers said in July.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Alexandra Ho in Shanghai at 
 aho113@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  