-- BG Group Chairman Gould Said to Join Saudi Aramco Board
-- B y   W a e l   M a h d i
-- 2013-11-05T14:15:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-05/bg-group-chairman-gould-said-to-join-saudi-aramco-board.html
Andrew Gould, the chairman of  BG
Group Plc (BG/) , joined the board of state-run Saudi Arabian Oil Co.,
known as Saudi Aramco, according to two people with knowledge of
the appointment.  Gould, 66, will serve a three-year term and attended his
first board meeting in the summer of this year, the people said,
declining to be identified because the appointment hasn’t been
made public. Gould replaced David O’Reilly, a former chairman
and chief executive officer of  Chevron Corp. (CVX) , who served on the
Aramco board from 2010 until earlier this year, the people said.  Kim Blomley, external communications manager at Reading,
England-based BG Group, declined to comment on Gould’s board
positions at other companies, replying to a question today by e-mail. Media officials at Aramco headquarters in Dhahran,  Saudi
Arabia , weren’t immediately available when Bloomberg called
today for comment.  Aramco is the world’s largest crude oil exporter and is
exploring for natural gas in places such as the Red Sea. BG
Group operates in more than 20 countries, exploring, producing
and transporting gas, including tanker shipments of liquefied
natural gas.  Gould was chairman and chief executive officer of
 Schlumberger Ltd. (SLB) , the world’s largest oilfield-services
provider, from 2003 until retiring as CEO in 2011 and stepping
down as chairman in April 2012, according to Schlumberger’s
website.  He also has professional links to educational institutions
in Saudi Arabia, according to BG’s website. Gould joined the
board of trustees at King Abdullah University of Science and
Technology in Thuwal, Saudi Arabia, and is on the international
advisory board at King Fahd University of Petroleum and Minerals
in Dhahran.  Aramco’s 2012 Annual Review shows other board members
include Peter Woicke, a former director of the World Bank, Mark Moody-Stuart, the former chairman of  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) , and
Saudi Minister of Petroleum  Ali al-Naimi .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wael Mahdi in Manama at 
 wmahdi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  