-- BMW Sees i3 Spending Weighing on Automotive Profitability
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h   R a u w a l d
-- 2013-11-05T13:03:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-05/bmw-posts-narrower-than-expected-profit-decline-on-higher-demand.html
Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) , the
world’s biggest maker of  luxury vehicles , forecast weaker auto
profitability in the fourth quarter after investments to roll
out new models like the i3 electric car weighed on results.  Spending will exceed targets this year and continue at a
high rate in 2014 as BMW broadens its lineup and builds new
factories, the Munich-based company said today. The outlays led
to third-quarter earnings before interest and taxes falling 3.7
percent to 1.93 billion euros ($2.6 billion).  “Our target is to assure the long-term competitiveness of
the BMW group,” Chief Financial Officer Friedrich Eichiner said
today on a conference call. “That is more important than short-term profit.”  The maker of BMW, Mini and Rolls-Royce vehicles failed to
keep pace with earnings gains at  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  and  Daimler AG. (DAI) 
BMW is developing the battery-powered i3 city car and the plug-in hybrid i8 sports car to introduce its eco-friendly “i”
subbrand. The expansion is part of the company’s effort to
maintain an edge over Audi and Mercedes-Benz, which have both
vowed to surpass BMW in sales by the end of the decade.  BMW fell as much as 4.8 percent to 79.56 euros, the
 steepest  drop since June 20, and was down 3.2 percent at 2:01
p.m. in Frankfurt trading. The stock has  gained  11 percent this
year, valuing the company at 52 billion euros.  Spending Burden  In the first nine months of 2013, BMW spent 4.3 billion
euros on expanding its production network and rolling out new
models and profit will take an additional 500 million-euro hit
in the fourth quarter, Eichiner said today. BMW will exceed its
target of spending 7 percent of revenue on  capital expenditures 
for the full year, he said.  While the investments are “money well spent in the long
run,” the earnings show why Mercedes’s momentum makes Daimler
more appealing for investors, said  Daniel Schwarz , a Frankfurt-based analyst at Commerzbank AG.  Third-quarter Ebit at the manufacturer’s auto division fell
6 percent to 1.55 billion euros. That resulted in the profit
margin narrowing to 9 percent from 9.6 percent a year ago.
Fourth-quarter automotive profitability will be at the lower end
of a target range of 8 percent to 10 percent, BMW said today.  BMW maintained a  forecast  of 2013 pretax profit “on a
similar level” to last year’s 7.82 billion euros as investment
offsets record deliveries. Nine-month pretax profit slipped 0.3
percent to 6.02 billion euros, as research and development
spending jumped 14 percent to 3.2 billion euros to meet tighter
emissions standards.  Long-Term Focus  “We are making these investments from a position of
strength and we are making them early,” Chief Executive Officer
 Norbert Reithofer  said on the conference call. “This is
consistent with the long-term focus of the BMW group.”  BMW is under increasing pressure to keep ahead of German
competitors. Daimler’s Mercedes-Benz Cars division, which also
includes the Smart city-car brand, reported a 23 percent surge
in third-quarter Ebit. Operating profit at Volkswagen jumped 20
percent as earnings from the Porsche sports-car brand partly
offset investment to expand Audi.  Mercedes gained ground against BMW and Audi in September as
the introduction of the CLA coupe helped demand almost double
for the company’s compact models. Nine-month sales by Mercedes
rose 10 percent to 1.06 million cars and SUVs, compared to a 9
percent gain at the BMW brand to 1.21 million deliveries and 7.6
percent growth at Audi to 1.18 million.  Deliveries Rise  BMW sales, including Mini and Rolls-Royce, rose 11 percent
to 481,657 vehicles in the third quarter, boosted by demand for
the 3-Series line, which has been expanded to include a GT
version. The new 4-Series coupe shares underpinnings with BMW’s
best-selling model.  To defend its lead, BMW is introducing 25 models in 2013
and 2014, with 10 of them, such as the Rolls-Royce Wraith,
having no predecessor. Mercedes plans 13 all-new models by the
end of the decade, while Audi is widening its SUV lineup.  The i3 city car, which will cost 34,950 euros in  Germany 
and $41,350 in the U.S., goes on sale in  Europe  on Nov. 16,
followed by the U.S. and  China  in the first half of next year.
Customers had already reserved more than 8,000 i3s, and the
company is considering boosting production capacity for the car.  “Once BMW i start-up costs start diminishing, focus will
return to growth,”  Arndt Ellinghorst , a London-based analyst
with International Strategy and Investment Group, said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christoph Rauwald in Frankfurt at 
 crauwald@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  