-- Boeing in Union Talks to Assemble 777X, Build Wing in Washington
-- B y   J u l i e   J o h n s s o n
-- 2013-11-05T01:32:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-05/boeing-in-union-talks-to-assemble-777x-build-wing-in-washington.html
Boeing Co. (BA)  is in “intensified”
talks with its largest union to assemble its upgraded 777 twin-aisle jet and build the plane’s carbon-fiber wing in  Washington ,
in exchange for a long-term labor agreement.  The  International Association of Machinists & Aerospace
Workers  has sought to keep production of Boeing’s top-selling
wide-body plane in the Puget Sound region and those discussions
have gained urgency in the past week, Frank Larkin, a union
spokesman, said in a phone interview today.  “We have been having discussions with Boeing about the
777X since the plane was announced,” Larkin said. “Those
discussions have intensified recently.”  The jet is expected to be unveiled at the Dubai Airshow
this month and Boeing is in talks with four airlines for
commitments valued at as much as $87 billion, people familiar
with the matter have said. The decision as to where the jet will
be built is approaching, giving new impetus to the talks, Larkin
said.  “Talks are under way,” Doug Alder, a Boeing spokesman,
also said by telephone.  Tom Wroblewski , president of District 751, which represents
about 32,000 workers in Washington and Oregon, is leading
discussions with Boeing executives that include Ray Conner,
president and chief executive officer of Boeing’s commercial
airplane unit. Thomas Buffenbarger, international president of
the union, is also involved, Larkin said.  The Chicago-based planemaker last week said it had assigned
much of the design work for the jet away from the Seattle area,
with tasks split among engineering centers in  South Carolina ,
Alabama,  California , Pennsylvania and Missouri and supported by
a facility in Moscow.  The machinists union has been concerned that Boeing will
shift 777X production from its Washington manufacturing base.
Media reports have said the company is considering a  plant  in
North Charleston, South Carolina and a  factory  in  Long Beach ,
California, to assemble the plane.  Reuters reported the discussions between Boeing and the
machinists union earlier today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Johnsson in Chicago at 
 jjohnsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  