-- Borsa Istanbul CEO Says Nasdaq OMX May Buy Exchange Stake
-- B y   B e n j a m i n   H a r v e y   a n d   T a y l a n   B i l g i c
-- 2013-11-06T14:24:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-05/borsa-istanbul-ceo-says-nasdaq-omx-contemplating-buying-a-stake.html
Ibrahim Turhan, the chief executive
officer of Borsa Istanbul, said the Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. is
considering buying a stake in the bourse as part of a
partnership that will be announced as early as next month.  “It is a large-scale and very comprehensive partnership,”
Turhan said in an interview at the exchange’s headquarters
yesterday. “This partnership may include an equity stake,” he
said, declining to comment on the size of the sale. Nasdaq’s CEO
 Robert Greifeld  is expected to sign the deal in Istanbul Dec.
11, Turhan said.  Turkey ’s Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan , now in his
11th year in power, has given Turhan and other officials a
mandate to deepen the  capital markets  in Istanbul, a city of 15
million people. The local bourse completed its merger with the
Turkish Derivatives Exchange, known as TurkDex, on Aug. 5, and
the Istanbul Gold Exchange on April 3.  Greifeld is seeking to diversify the New York-based
exchange to offset a decline in  stock trading . He said on a
conference call on Oct. 23 that he would also evaluate a
purchase of  NYSE Euronext (NYX) ’s European equities business should it
become available for sale.  The  Nasdaq  deal would provide the Borsa Istanbul with the
technology to become a regional platform for other exchanges and
facilitate trading, Turhan said. The Turkish exchange will
encourage dual listings in Istanbul, he said.  Sole Provider  “It will be the largest and most important bourse or
exchange between central  Europe  and central  Asia ,” Sandy
Frucher, the vice chairman of Nasdaq said by phone yesterday.
“They, and hopefully with us, will be creating a very, very
important financial center.”  Istanbul’s bourse has a market capitalization of $280
billion, according to information provided by the exchange, with
about 600 million shares traded on Nov. 4, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The $272 billion government debt market
is about twice the size of  Russia ’s and local companies have
sold $44 billion in debt in 2013, 20 percent more than in the
same period last year.  Nasdaq is the second-largest U.S. stock exchange operator
and reported third-quarter profit of $113 million on Oct. 23.  “We are trying to build a financial supermarket where on
the shelves, all products should be available,” said Turhan,  a
former deputy governor of the Turkish central bank, who was
appointed chief of the exchange on Jan. 1, 2012.  The Borsa Istanbul National 100 Index advanced 0.9 percent
at 4:20 p.m. in Istanbul today, climbing for the first time in
six days. The measure has tumbled 19 percent from its May 22
record. It gained 53 percent last year, the second-best
performance in the world after Venezuela’s stock market index.  ‘Complete Market’  The Turkish exchange is also seeking regional expansion and
is in talks with exchanges in eastern European countries from
Albania to  Croatia . Borsa Istanbul already has an agreement with
the Bishkek in Kyrghzstan and Baku in  Azerbaijan , Turhan said.  “When I took the position, the market was heavily
dependent on two instruments: cash equity and the government
bond market,” Turhan said. “Now it is a complete market,” he
said, and will be expanded to include instruments including
electricity and commodities trading contracts.  Turkish officials are in contact with the  European Energy
Exchange , a subsidiary of  Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1) , for expanding
energy trading capacities. Timing of the roll-out for
electricity trading will depend on the Energy Ministry and
Turkish energy markets regulator, he said.  Negotiations with the Ministry of Agriculture to boost
liquidity in the commodities exchange are also continuing, he
said. Turkey will focus on building capacity in trading iron and
steel, of which Turkey is the world’s sixth-biggest producer and
fourth-biggest exporter, he said.  Euroclear Talks  “My goal is to create an environment where a steel
producer will be able to hedge itself against electricity price
volatility,” he said. “The company will only need to focus on
its own business,” he said.  Talks with Euroclear Bank SA, the world’s biggest bond
settlement system, are in technical stages with the  Finance
Ministry , and a deal is possible within six months of the
completion of that stage, Turhan said. An agreement could
increase the stock of securities available in Turkey by “at
least 40 to 50 percent,” he said.  “There are still a good number of investors, especially
institutional investors, who don’t have direct access to
Turkey,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Benjamin Harvey in Istanbul at 
 bharvey11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  