-- Brazil Real Tumbles on Concern Government Lax on Budget Deficits
-- B y   B l a k e   S c h m i d t
-- 2013-11-05T20:42:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-05/brazil-swap-rates-surge-on-tombini-inflation-comment-real-drops.html
Brazil ’s real fell the most among
emerging-market currencies and swap rates surged on concern the
government isn’t doing enough to control budget deficits and
avoid a credit rating cut.  The real dropped 1.9 percent to 2.2890 per U.S. dollar,
deepening its one-month selloff to 3.4 percent, the worst among
16 major currencies tracked by Bloomberg. Swap rates on
contracts maturing in January 2016 climbed 15 basis points, or
0.15 percentage point, to a two-year high of 11.54 percent on
concern that widening budget shortfalls will lead to an increase
in borrowing costs.  Government officials defended their fiscal policy after a
report last week showed that the deficit swelled in September to
almost the widest level since the global financial crisis in
December 2008. Treasury Secretary Arno Augustin said Brazil will
meet its targets amid a “speculative attack” fueled by media
reports suggesting the government has lost control of its
budget, according to Agencia Estado.  “This is the market’s response to a government without
credibility and without anyone in command,” Paulo Petrassi,
managing partner at Leme Investimentos, said in a phone
interview from Florianopolis, Brazil. “The market is reacting
to the authorities’ response to worsening fiscal data.”  Brazil reported last week a budget deficit of 22.9 billion
reais in September, wider than the 19.3 billion reais median
forecast of economists. The gap was 23.3 billion reais in
February, the deepest since the global financial crisis in
December 2008. As a percentage of gross domestic product, the
deficit increased to 3.3 percent, the largest since 2009.  Rating Outlooks  Standard & Poor’s and Moody’s Investors Service lowered
their outlooks this year on Brazil’s credit, which both
companies rate at two levels above junk.  Brazil’s Chief of Staff Gleisi Hoffmann said in an
interview with Folha de S. Paulo that she supports a proposal to
adopt a range for the primary budget surplus target, which
excludes interest payments. The presidential press office didn’t
respond to a request for comment.  Swap rates rose earlier after central bank President
Alexandre Tombini said yesterday in Fortaleza, Brazil, that
policy makers must be “especially vigilant” on inflation,
adding to speculation that policy makers will increase the
target lending rate to 10 percent this month. High inflation
reduces the potential for economic growth and the generation of
jobs and income, Tombini said.  “The logical interpretation is that policy makers will
continue their monetary tightening following Tombini’s latest
comments,” Cristiano Oliveira, the chief economist at Banco
Fibra SA in Sao Paulo, said in a telephone interview.  Borrowing Costs  The central bank raised the  benchmark rate  by 2.25
percentage points to 9.50 percent this year, the most among 49
nations tracked by Bloomberg. After policy makers increased
borrowing costs by a half-percentage point for a fourth straight
time, annual inflation slowed to 5.75 percent through mid-October, still higher than target.  The central bank announced on Aug. 22 a $60 billion
intervention program of currency-swap and credit-line auctions
to buoy the currency and curb import price increases. Brazil
extended the maturities on only about $6 billion of the $8.9
billion of swaps that matured Nov. 1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Blake Schmidt in Sao Paulo at 
 bschmidt16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  