-- Brazil Soybean Planting Progresses as Argentina Needs More Rain
-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 2013-11-05T14:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-05/brazil-soybean-planting-progresses-as-argentina-needs-more-rain.html
Soybean planting in  Brazil , set to
become the world’s top producer, has progressed in recent weeks
under favorable weather conditions while  Argentina  needs more
rainfall for early crop development, Oil World said.  Brazil’s harvest may be a record 87.3 million metric tons
and production “could turn out higher if very good weather is
experienced from now on,” the Hamburg-based researcher said in
an e-mailed report. Soybean planting was 60 percent complete as
of Oct. 31, with southern areas benefiting from drier weather
that allowed fieldwork to progress, according to the report.  “Weather conditions and soil moisture supplies are
generally favorable,” Oil World said. “Current indications
confirm expectations of another record crop being in the making,
with plantings for the 2014 crop expected to be boosted by at
least 1.2 million hectares nationwide.”  Soybean futures slumped 7.2 percent since the beginning of
September on the Chicago Board of Trade as prospects improved
for the U.S. harvest while South American farmers prepared to
expand production. Brazil may overtake the U.S. as the world’s
top soybean grower in the 2013-14 season, the U.S. Department of
Agriculture estimates.  In Argentina, the third-biggest producer, crops benefited
from recent rain in the provinces of Cordoba, Chaco,  Santa Fe 
and Entre Rios, Oil World said. Rainfall was still about one
third of normal from January through October in Argentina’s main
soybean and corn growing areas, creating “a severe shortage”
of subsoil moisture, according to the report.  Moisture Critical  “Subsoil moisture is critically low after almost three
months of dryness, primarily in August and September and most of
October,” Oil World said. If moisture is “not at least partly
replenished until end-December, this will have a detrimental
impact on crops when it becomes seasonally drier again in
January/February 2014.”  Argentine farmers have planted 930,000 hectares (2.3
million acres) of soybeans, or about 4.6 percent of their
intended area, ahead of last year’s delayed 3.6 percent pace,
Oil World said, citing the Bolsa de Cereales de  Buenos Aires .
Corn and sunflower seed sowing may be smaller than originally
intended, as it’s too late to plant sunflowers in northern areas
where fieldwork was delayed.  Argentina’s sunflower seed production may be 2.9 million to
3 million tons, the lowest in at least 10 years, because of dry
weather and lower plantings, according to the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney McFerron in London at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  