-- BRF Plans More Divestments in Turnaround Bid: Corporate Brazil
-- B y   J u l i a   L e i t e
-- 2013-11-05T20:05:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-05/brf-plans-more-divestments-in-turnaround-bid-corporate-brazil.html
BRF SA (BRFS3) ,  Brazil ’s biggest food
producer, plans to divest more local assets after last week’s
sale of two beef plants while expanding its overseas business,
Chief Executive Officer Claudio Galeazzi said.  Galeazzi, who was appointed CEO in August, is selling
assets and cutting costs as Brazil’s faltering economic
expansion and an oversupply in international markets caused the
company to miss third-quarter revenue  forecasts  by the widest
margin since 2009. Selling the beef plants to Minerva SA freed
up 170 million reais ($74 million) in working capital and will
allow BRF to focus on areas where it has the most expertise, he
said in an interview in New York yesterday.  “The company is in a new cycle now,” Galeazzi said. “We
need to focus, and need to divest everything that doesn’t add
value.”  BRF, the world’s largest meat processor by market value,
plans to focus on its core businesses of processed and packaged
foods such as TV dinners as well as food-service condiments and
toppings while shifting away from areas including
slaughterhouses and poultry farms. The company is also
accelerating its pace of international expansion and wants to
increase domestic sales of “in natura” products including
whole cuts of chicken, beef and pork, according to Galeazzi.  “We’ll probably have some divestments in the next six to
12 months,” he said. “We’re looking at it much more closely
now.”  Plant Sale  The plants BRF sold to Minerva are in Mato Grosso, which
processes more cattle than any other state in the country,
according to data compiled by the Brazilian meat exporters’
association, Abiec. BRF will get a 15 percent stake in Minerva
and two seats on its board, according to a regulatory filing
last week disclosing details of the transaction.  “It makes a lot of sense,”  Luis Miranda , an analyst at
Banco Santander SA, said about the sale by phone from  Santa Fe ,
 Mexico . “It’s part of the operating improvements and focusing
on core operations, given that beef is not a key raw material
for the company.”  Galeazzi was appointed amid a change in the company’s
structure as Abilio Diniz, the former chairman of the Cia.
Brasileira de Distribuicao Grupo Pao de Acucar supermarket
chain, took over as BRF’s chairman on April 9.  BRF rose 1.1 percent to 52.49 reais at the close of trading
in  Sao Paulo  today. The benchmark Ibovespa dropped 1.1 percent.  ‘Created Doubts’  Brazil’s gross domestic product will expand 2.5 percent
this year, according to a central bank survey of about 100
economists published yesterday, compared with a median forecast
of 3.5 percent in a December 2012 survey. The  International
Monetary Fund  in October cut its 2014 growth forecast for  Latin
America ’s largest economy, citing concern that accelerating
inflation may damp consumption.  While BRF’s adjusted net income tripled to 287 million
reais in the three months through September from a year earlier,
it trailed the average  estimate  of 362 million reais among 10
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Sales were 4.4 percent below the
average forecast of 13 analysts, the biggest miss since the last
quarter of 2009, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The results of the last quarter really scared the
market,” Nataniel Cezimbra, an analyst at Banco do Brasil SA,
said by phone from Sao Paulo. “It created doubts about volume
of sales, pricing and competitiveness, both abroad and in the
domestic dynamics.”  BRF is still determining which regions it will move into,
Chief Financial Officer Leopoldo Saboya said. The expansion will
probably focus on a few key markets and be done through mergers
and acquisitions with companies that have strong local brands
and processing capacity, according to Galeazzi.  “It wouldn’t be smart to have organic growth in these
countries,” he said. “It’s a long process. This way, we won’t
just be a commodities exporter, but have this local presence
that allows us to acquire raw materials regionally, and use our
exports to find an adequate balance.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julia Leite in  New York  at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  