-- Caesars Bonds Fall on Report Company May Limit Debtholder Claims
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2013-11-06T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-05/caesars-bonds-fall-on-report-company-may-limit-debtholder-claims.html
Caesars Entertainment Corp. (CZR)  bonds
fell after  Fitch Ratings  said the casino company, struggling
with $23.5 billion in debt, may seek to limit bondholder claims
on some assets to obtain better terms in a debt restructuring.  Caesars Entertainment Operating Co.’s $3.3 billion of 10
percent second-lien notes maturing in December 2018 fell 2 cents
on the dollar to 48 cents yesterday, lifting the yield to 30.84
percent, according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of
the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority. The notes have
plunged from 70.5 cents in January.  The casino company may seek to take away guarantees
associated with $5.5 billion of second-lien debt at the Caesars
Entertainment Operating unit, Fitch said today in a note.
Eliminating the guarantees, which give investors a claim on the
parent company’s assets, would weaken the second-lien holders’
negotiating power in a restructuring, Fitch analysts said.  Caesars Entertainment Operating owns most of the company’s
casinos. Caesars will probably repay some debt and ask creditors
to surrender claims to its other assets, which include the
properties not owned by the division and an online gambling
unit, Fitch said. Second-lien holders may be powerless to stop
the change and also stand to get little if Caesars files for
bankruptcy, the rating firm said.  “The second liens could get zero,” Alex Bumazhny, a Fitch
analyst, said in a telephone interview.  Stephen Cohen , a Caesars spokesman, declined to comment on
the Fitch report.  The casino company would be able to eliminate $570 million
a year in interest and avoid bankruptcy by exchanging the
second-lien Caesars Entertainment Operating debt for stock,
Fitch said.  Speculation Cited  “If they’re able to exchange the second-lien debt for
equity, then you’re left with a financially stronger entity,”
Michael Paladino, another Fitch analyst, said in a telephone
interview. “The question we were trying to answer is, Is it
possible the guarantee is going away for the second-lien
holders? There’s a lot of legal interpretation around the
nuances of having the guarantee fall.”  Fitch issued the report in response to “widespread
speculation” among investors that the Las Vegas-based company
will attempt to exchange debt for equity next year. The interest
savings roughly equal the projected 2015 cash outflow at the
subsidiary, Fitch said.  Leveraged Buyout  Caesars, the largest owner of casinos in the U.S., amassed
its debt in a 2008 leveraged buyout led by  Apollo Global
Management LLC (APO)  and TPG Capital. The two firms have been
restructuring the company’s balance sheet ever since, including
selling stock to raise money and exchanging mortgage-backed
securities for longer-term debt.  The company distributed rights to shareholders allowing
them to purchase stock in Caesars Acquisition Co., which will
hold a stake in two casinos and the online gambling business.  Apollo and TPG have said they plan to purchase $600 million
of shares in the new venture. That transaction is expected to
close on Nov. 18.  Caesars  rose  2.8 percent to $17.53 yesterday in  New York .
The stock has fallen 32 percent  since  Sept. 17.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in  Los Angeles  at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  