-- Canada Heavy Oil Near Record Discount on Midwest Refinery Outage
-- B y   E d w a r d   W e l s c h
-- 2013-11-05T21:18:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-05/canada-heavy-oil-near-record-discount-on-midwest-refinery-outage.html
Canadian heavy crude weakened to near
a record discount as a crude unit at a U.S. refinery that buys
the grade remained closed because of a fire.  Citgo Petroleum Corp.’s Lemont, Illinois,  refinery  shut the
unit after the fire on Oct. 23 and is expected to partially
restart operations this week.  Fernando Garay , a company
spokesman in Houston, had no update on the timing of the restart
when contacted by e-mail today.  Western Canadian Select heavy crude declined against U.S.
West Texas Intermediate oil for a sixth day, dropping $1.25 a
barrel to a $42 discount, the widest since a record of $42.50
reached on Dec. 14, according to data compiled by Bloomberg at
at 3:41 p.m.  New York  time.  “I think a big part of it is the shutdown of Citgo’s
Lemont refinery, which, according to my estimates, accounted for
about 10 percent of Canadian heavy sour exports to U.S.
refineries,”  Stephen Schork , president of The Schork Group Inc.
energy research firm, said in a phone interview from Villanova,
 Pennsylvania . “That’s a significant amount of demand
destruction in the U.S. market.”  Also putting pressure on Canadian crudes was the lack of
space on export pipelines out of  Alberta , the country’s main
producing province. The largest oil export system,  Enbridge
Inc. (ENB) ’s 2.5 million-barrel-a-day Mainline, is overbooked on seven
lines connecting crude from Alberta to the U.S. Midwest. The
Calgary pipeline company reported overbooked conditions to
shippers in a notice last week.  Mainline lines 2 and 3 from Alberta to Superior, Wisconsin,
carry as much as 832,000 barrels a day of light oil and were
overbooked by 17 percent, Enbridge said. Line 4 along the same
route, carrying as much as 796,000 barrels a day of heavy oil,
was overbooked by 13 percent.  Syncrude Canadian light oil for December delivery was
unchanged at a $16 discount to WTI, remaining at its largest
discount since March 13, 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edward Welsch in Calgary at 
 ewelsch1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  