-- CBA First-Quarter Profit Rises 14% on Lower Bad Debt Charges
-- B y   N a r a y a n a n   S o m a s u n d a r a m
-- 2013-11-05T22:37:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-05/cba-first-quarter-profit-rises-14-on-lower-bad-debt-charges.html
Commonwealth Bank of Australia , the
nation’s largest lender by market value, reported first-quarter
cash profit climbed 14 percent on lower bad debt charges.  Unaudited cash profit,  which excludes one-time items, was
A$2.1 billion ($2.0 billion) in the three months to Sept. 30,
the Sydney-based lender said in a statement today. That compared
with A$1.85 billion reported in the year earlier quarter.
Unaudited net income was also A$2.1 billion compared with A$1.8
billion a year earlier.  Chief Executive Officer Ian Narev is ratcheting up CBA’s
focus on gaining market share after stabilizing its net interest
margins. The bank, which issues one in every four mortgages in
the country, expanded home lending by 5.2 percent in the year
through August, according to the  Australian Prudential
Regulation Authority . It also increased its business lending
share to 17.9 percent as at June 30 from 17.7 percent a year
earlier, CBA filings show.  “The results put CBA on course to meet full-year earnings
expectations,”  David Ellis , Sydney-based analyst at Morningstar
Inc. said by phone. “CBA, like its competitors, is gaining from
falling bad debts and by capping cost growth. Its capital is not
as strong as its peers though.”  CBA set aside A$228 million for bad debts in the quarter,
the lender said in the statement. That compared with A$291
million reported a year earlier.  Interest Margin  Net interest margin, a measure of lending profitability,
was “marginally lower” in the quarter compared with the prior
half year, the lender said, reflecting deposit margin
compression in a lower interest-rate environment. A fall in
margins has marred the record-profit run for the so-called four
pillar Australian banks, named after a law that prevents merger
with each other.  Growth in mortgages, which is CBA’s biggest segment,
remained modest in the quarter with the bank’s lending growing
slightly faster than the industry average, it said.  Australian mortgages expanded 4.8 percent in the year to
September to the highest level since August 2012, while business
credit grew 1.1 percent, central bank data show.  Demand for mortgages is  increasing  after the central bank
dropped rates by 225 basis points since late 2011 to a record
2.5 percent and banks cut  mortgage rates  to a four-year low.
 House prices  in the eight capital cities climbed an average 7.6
percent in the September quarter from a year earlier, government
data showed Nov. 4.  Customer Deposits  Customer deposits made up 64 percent of CBA’s total funding
in its first quarter, up from 63 percent as at June 30, the
lender said. Common equity tier 1  capital , a measure of a bank’s
ability to absorb losses, was 7.8 percent as of Sept. 30., down
from 8.2 percent three months earlier, the lender said.  Trading income remained at “relatively strong levels” and
revenue grew faster than costs in the quarter, it said.  CBA results follow record full-year earnings for its main
competitors. CBA’s fiscal year ends in June compared with  Sept.
30 for the others.  Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ) 
posted Oct. 29 a 13 percent increase in second-half profit.
 National Australia Bank Ltd. (NAB)  reported a 16 percent gain Nov. 1
and  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  posted a 5 percent increase Nov. 4.  “The four banks are focusing on business simplification
and improving their cost-to-income ratio,” Morningstar’s Ellis
said. “Going forward, for a modest growth in revenue, the banks
will get disproportionate earnings leverage.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Narayanan Somasundaram in Sydney at 
 nsomasundara@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  