-- Charlie Trotter, Chicago Restaurateur, TV Chef, Dies at 54
-- B y   R y a n   S u t t o n
-- 2013-11-06T21:35:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-05/charlie-trotter-chicago-restaurateur-with-tv-show-dies-at-54.html
Charlie Trotter , the  Chicago  chef and
philanthropist who helped usher American diners into an era of
tasting menus and mandatory service charges, has died. He was
54.  He died yesterday in Chicago, Frank Shuftan, a spokesman
for the Cook County Medical Examiner’s office, said in a
telephone interview. An autopsy found no signs of trauma or foul
play, he said today in an e-mail. A final report is pending.  “We are incredibly shocked and deeply saddened by the
unexpected loss of Charlie at our home in  Lincoln Park ,”
Trotter’s wife, Rochelle, said in a statement. “He was much
loved, and words cannot describe how much he will be missed.”  She called her husband “a trailblazer” who “introduced
people to a new way of dining.”  The chef closed Charlie Trotter’s, his townhouse restaurant
in Chicago’s Lincoln Park district, after a 25-year run in
September 2012, citing plans to enter the  University of Chicago 
to study philosophy. The restaurant won 11 James Beard
Foundation Awards and other honors including Wine Spectator
magazine’s “America’s Best Restaurant” for 2000. Trotter also
opened restaurants in  Las Vegas  and in Los Cabos, Mexico, which
also closed.  He wrote more than a dozen cookbooks and hosted “The
Kitchen Sessions with Charlie Trotter” on  PBS .  Menu Prices  Trotter was among the first chefs to serve extravagant,
multi-course meals at a single price, James Beard Foundation
president Susan Ungaro said in 2012, according to the  Associated
Press .  His restaurant charged $195 for its tasting menu, or $150
for its sampling of vegetables, not including an 18 percent
service fee. Meals would consist of eight or more courses,
though the chef’s goal was more to sate than to stuff.  “I do not want guests walking out of the restaurant
feeling as if they over-indulged because of excessive cream,
butter and alcohol,” Trotter wrote on his restaurant’s  website .
“I want them to feel stimulated and alert, knowing they will be
able to look forward to breakfast the following morning.”  Trotter’s philanthropy ranged from feeding the poor in the
restaurant’s neighborhood to making dishes for fundraisers
hosted by nonprofits such as the Make-a-Wish Foundation and
Meals on Wheels Chicago. His Charlie Trotter Culinary Education
Foundation has raised more than $3 million for students seeking
culinary careers.  During its final decade of operating, Trotter saw younger
Chicago chefs and restaurateurs like  Grant Achatz  of Alinea
overtake the culinary spotlight. Trotter’s had two Michelin
stars; Alinea had and still has three.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ryan Sutton in  New York  at  rsutton1@bloomberg.net  or
qualityrye on  http://twitter.com/qualityrye   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Charles W. Stevens at 
 cstevens@bloomberg.net ;
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 