-- Chief Executives’ Confidence in U.S. Declines to One-Year Low
-- B y   B e n   S c h e n k e l
-- 2013-11-05T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-05/chief-executives-confidence-in-u-s-declines-to-one-year-low.html
Confidence among U.S. chief
executives dropped in the third quarter to the lowest level in a
year on concerns political infighting in  Washington  will hurt
the economy, according to a private survey.  The Young Presidents’ Organization index of sentiment fell
to 60.5, the weakest since the same three months last year, from
62 in the previous three months. Readings greater than 50
indicate that respondents were more optimistic than pessimistic.  “Many economists continue to anticipate somewhat more
rapid expansion in the  U.S. economy  for 2014,” Stephen Slifer,
chief economist at NumberNomics LLC, said in a statement. “That
seems to be at odds with the YPO leaders in this latest survey,
who may see unresolved political issues and continued economic
uncertainty offsetting the positive factors.”  Some 38 percent of chief executives surveyed said the
economy had improved from six months earlier, down from 49
percent in the previous three months.  Respondents in the  construction industry  were the most
upbeat, with 52 percent saying economic conditions were better
than in the previous six months. Still, the share is down from
65 percent in the second quarter, which may reflect an increase
in  mortgage rates .  The share of U.S. respondents anticipating better business
conditions in the next six months declined by almost 10
percentage points to 42 percent.  While sentiment fell in the U.S., the group’s global
measure improved. The index for the European Union climbed to
the highest since the first quarter of 2011.  The nonprofit service organization’s findings were based on
responses from 2,113 chief executives worldwide, including 745
in the U.S., to an electronic survey conducted during the first
two weeks of October.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Schenkel in Washington at 
 bschenkel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  