-- Chile’s Economy Contracted by Most in Seven Months in September
-- B y   J a v i e r a   Q u i r o g a
-- 2013-11-05T12:20:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-05/chile-s-economy-contracted-by-most-in-seven-months-in-september.html
Chile’s economy contracted at the
fastest pace in seven months in September, the month before the
central bank voted unanimously to cut interest rates, according
to the minutes of its Oct. 17 meeting.  The Imacec index, a proxy for gross domestic product,
shrank 0.8 percent from August on a seasonally adjusted basis,
the central bank said in a report posted on its website today.
From a year earlier, the economy grew 3.9 percent, compared with
the 4.0 percent median forecast of 17 economists polled by
Bloomberg.  Central bankers cited weaker domestic demand and a slowing
economy for last month’s rate cut, according to the minutes
released today. A consumer spending boom may be easing, with
retail sales climbing 7 percent in September from the year
earlier, compared with 12 percent the month before. As the
prospects for slower growth mount, the central bank cut its
benchmark interest rate a quarter point to 4.75 percent in
October for the first time in 21 months.  “This year growth has decelerated moderately, while
showing the lowest unemployment numbers in 30 years, reflecting
a robust economy that has managed to resist a very complicated
external situation,” Finance Minister Felipe Larrain told
reporters yesterday.  The jobless rate was unchanged at 5.7 percent in the three
months through September, down from 6.5 percent in the year-earlier period.  Policy makers reduced their growth forecast for this year
on Sept. 4 to between 4 percent and 4.5 percent from 4 percent
to 5 percent, citing weaker external conditions and a slowdown
in the first half of the year.  Consumer spending and investment in the mining industry
sustained growth of 4.3 percent in the first half of the year,
down from 5.6 percent last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Javiera Quiroga in Santiago at 
 jquiroga5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  