-- China Repo Rate Slips for a Fourth Day as PBOC Injects Funds
-- B y   K y o u n g w h a   K i m
-- 2013-11-05T02:21:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-05/china-repo-rate-slips-for-a-fourth-day-as-pboc-injects-funds.html
China ’s benchmark money-market rate
declined for the fourth day, slipping to a two-week low as the
central bank pumped cash into the financial system.  The People’s Bank of China conducted 8 billion  yuan  ($1.3
billion) of seven-day reverse repurchase agreements today,
according to a trader at a primary dealer required to bid at the
auctions. The central bank added a net 29.1 billion yuan via
money-market operations last week, after draining 102.5 billion
yuan in the two weeks ended Oct. 25, show  data  compiled by
Bloomberg. The PBOC resumed reverse repos on Oct. 29 after a
two-week suspension, helping bring money-market rates down from
four-month highs.  The  seven-day repurchase rate , a gauge of funding
availability in the banking system, declined 19 basis points, or
0.19 percentage point, to 4.23 percent as of 10:04 a.m. in
 Shanghai , according to a daily fixing by the National Interbank
Funding Center. That’s the lowest level since Oct. 23.  “In more evidence of easing of another mini liquidity
squeeze, money-market rates continued to retrace last week’s
spike,” Prakash Sakpal, Singapore-based strategist at ING Groep
NV, wrote in a research note today. “We guess the current spike
will result in it settling a little north of 4 percent.”  One-year  interest-rate swaps , the fixed payment needed to
receive the floating seven-day repo, rose one basis point to 4.2
percent in Shanghai.  The yield on the government’s benchmark 10-year bonds fell
one basis point today and five basis points from a week earlier
to 4.19 percent, according to data provided by the Interbank
Funding Center. The rate on one-year notes added three basis
points today to 3.93 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kyoungwha Kim in Singapore at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  