-- China’s Stocks Advance as Agriculture and Technology Shares Gain
-- B y   W e i y i   L i m
-- 2013-11-05T07:55:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-05/china-s-stock-index-futures-fall-before-private-services-report.html
China’s stocks  rose as agricultural
companies rallied on speculation the government will introduce
reforms to boost the industry. Technology shares climbed after
 falling  the second most among 10 sectors in the past month.  Heilongjiang Agriculture Co. and Zhongken Agricultural
Resource Development Co. jumped by the daily limit of 10
percent. Leshi Internet Information & Technology (Beijing) Co.
surged 8.8 percent to lead gains for the ChiNext index of small-company shares. Industrial Bank Co. and Bank of Beijing Co. slid
at least 1 percent as the banking regulator urged lenders to
handle credit risks in industries with overcapacity problems.  The  Shanghai  Composite Index rose 0.4 percent to 2,157.24
at the close, erasing a loss of as much as 1.2 percent. Premier
 Li Keqiang  was cited by the Xinhua News Agency as saying it’s
very important to make farmers wealthy and reforms are needed
for the development of modern agriculture. Policy makers,
planners and government advisers are drafting proposals on how
to implement Li’s urbanization vision that will be presented to
the Communist Party’s top leaders at a meeting from Saturday.  “Investors seem to be anticipating what sector can receive
support in the third plenum,” said Gerry Alfonso, a trader at
Shenyin & Wanguo Securities Co. from Shanghai. “The
agricultural sector, which is also likely to receive policy
support, outperformed.”  The CSI 300 Index advanced 0.1 percent to 2,383.77 today,
while the ChiNext rallied 3.1 percent and the  Hang Seng China
Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  slid 0.4 percent. The Shanghai index has
fallen 4.9 percent this year and trades at 8.5 times projected
profits for the next 12 months, lower than the seven-year
average of 15.3, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Trading volumes for the index were 30 percent below the 30-day
average, data showed.  Farm Stocks  Heilongjiang Agriculture jumped 10 percent to 12.87 yuan
and Zhongken Agricultural surged 10 percent to 8.27 yuan.
farmers wealthy, Xinhua cites Li as saying  Premier Li is encouraging farmers to try various forms and
sizes of businesses, Xinhua reported, citing comments made
during a visit to farms in the province of Heilongjiang.  A gauge of technology companies in the CSI 300 added 1.7
percent, the biggest advance among 10 industry groups. Neusoft
Corp. a software maker, jumped 6.1 percent to 14.09  yuan . The
technology measure has fallen 5.9 percent since the start of
last month.  Leshi Internet Information, an online video company, led a
rally on the ChiNext, jumping 8.8 percent to 38.60 yuan. Huayi
Brothers Media Corp. advanced 6.5 percent to 24.10 yuan.  “There’s bargain hunting after some blue-chip stocks and
small caps had fallen too much,” said Deng Wenyuan, an analyst
at Soochow Securities Co. “Investors are also eyeing companies
they think will benefit from reforms announced from this week.
With a lack of volume, the market’s gains are capped.”  Preferred Shares  A measure of financial stocks including banks and
developers in the CSI 300 fell 0.5 percent, the biggest loss
among industry groups. Industrial Bank dropped 2 percent to
11.49 yuan. Bank of Beijing declined 1.1 percent to 7.87 yuan.  Banks will be asked to support a reduction in overcapacity,
 Shang Fulin , chairman of the  China  Banking Regulatory
Commission, said yesterday at a meeting, according to his speech
posted on the regulator’s website.  China’s top four banks posted their biggest increase in
soured loans since at least 2010 as a five-year credit spree
left companies with excess manufacturing capacity and slower
profit growth amid a cooling economy. The rise in defaults adds
to concern bank profitability may slip as policy makers trim
output at cement plants to paper makers that have gorged on
credit since 2008, while urging lenders to build buffers to
cover loan losses.  HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics released their
services  Purchasing Managers ’ Index for October. The index rose
to 52.6 from 52.4 in September. A number more than 50 indicates
an expansion. The official non-manufacturing  PMI (CPMINMAN)  rose to 56.3
from 55.4 in September, according to a Nov. 3 report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Michael Patterson  at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net  