-- Cold to Give Way to Higher Temperatures by Mid-Month
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2013-11-05T13:09:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-05/cold-to-give-way-to-higher-temperatures-by-mid-month.html
Cold snaps like the one that’s
bringing snow to the northern Great Plains and Midwest may lower
temperatures in the the eastern U.S. for the next 10 days, said
 Matt Rogers , president of Commodity Weather Group LLC.  Temperatures are expected to remain seasonal to about 3
degrees Fahrenheit (1.7 Celsius) below normal across most of the
U.S. for the rest of this week, then jump to at least 5 degrees
above normal across the East from Nov. 15-19, said Rogers, in
Bethesda, Maryland.  Cold air from around Alaska dominates the extended
forecast, “with strengthening warming seen from the Midwest,
East and South for this period,” Rogers said.  Below-normal temperatures, especially in Eastern and
Midwestern cities, tend to increase energy consumption as more
people heat homes and businesses. November marks the start of
the U.S. heating season, when natural gas demand peaks.  Power generation accounts for 32 percent of U.S. gas use,
according to the Energy Information Administration, the Energy
Department’s statistical arm. About 49 percent of all homes use
the fuel for heating.  MDA Weather Services in Gaithersburg, Maryland, is also
predicting warmer weather for Nov. 15-19. “The exact amount and
strength of warmth remains a little more uncertain,” MDA said.  Winter weather advisories stretch today from  Wyoming  to
Michigan’s Upper Peninsula as that area faces the threat of
heavy snow, according to the  National Weather Service . Snow is
also forecast for parts of  Colorado  and  New Mexico .  As much as 5 inches (13 centimeters) may fall in
Minneapolis by late today, the weather service said.  The normal average temperature in  New York  on Nov. 14 is
about 49 degrees, according to  MDA . In Boston, it’s 45; in  St.
Louis , 48; Dallas, 57; Houston, 63; Chicago, 41; Burbank,
California, 60; and in Calgary, it’s 28.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  