-- Colombia’s Isa Said to Buy NQT in Brazil for $88 Million
-- B y   C r i s t i a n e   L u c c h e s i
-- 2013-11-05T18:06:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-05/colombia-s-isa-said-to-buy-nqt-in-brazil-for-88-million.html
Interconexion Electrica SA ESP (ISA) , a
Colombia-based energy and telecommunications company, acquired
Nelson Quintas Telecomunicacoes Ltda. for about 200 million
reais ($88 million) to obtain a fiber-optic network in Rio de
Janeiro, according to two people familiar with the matter.  The deal has been completed and may be announced as soon as
this week, the people said, asking not to be identified because
the acquisition hasn’t been made public yet.  Telecommunications companies are amassing fiber-optic
networks to offer faster Internet speeds to corporate clients.
In Brazil, Rio-based Tim Participacoes SA acquired AES Atimus
Group in 2011 for 1.52 billion reais and said this year it’s
looking for similar transactions to gain more fiber.  Isa, as Medellin-based Interconexion is known, purchased
NQT through its Internexa unit from Porto-based Nelson Quintas &
Filhos, which according to its website owns the biggest
privately owned fiber-optic network in Rio. ISA already operates
in Sao Paulo, Brazil’s biggest market for fiber optics, through
the Internexa unit.  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  is advising Isa on the acquisition, and
 Credit Agricole SA (ACA)  is advising NQT, the people said.  Isa, NQT and Credit Agricole officials didn’t immediately
respond to requests for comment. An official at HSBC declined to
comment and asked not to be identified in keeping with company
policy.  Regional Operation  Isa’s technology includes fiber optics, satellite
transmission and microwave-supporting networks, according to its
website. The company is creating a regional network by
integrating operations in Colombia with Transnexa, its
subsidiary in  Ecuador , and Internexa in  Chile  and  Peru ,
according to the website.  Internexa has access to more than 12,000 kilometers (7,458
miles) of fiber-optic networks in Colombia, Ecuador, Peru, Chile
and  Venezuela  and plans to acquire 6,000 kilometers in  Brazil 
and Argentina. As a so-called carrier of carriers, the company
sells or leases bandwidth on its own infrastructure to other
telecommunications carriers to resell to their customers.  In Brazil, ISA also owns Cia de Transmissao de Energia
Eletrica Paulista. The company is also one of the largest
international transporters of electric energy in Latin America,
with a network of 40,805 kilometers of high-voltage transmission
circuits in Colombia, Peru, Bolivia and Brazil and international
connections between Venezuela and Colombia, Colombia and
Ecuador, and Ecuador and Peru, according to the website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cristiane Lucchesi in Sao Paulo at 
 clucchesi5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Eichenbaum at 
 peichenbaum@bloomberg.net  