-- Commodities Head for Longest Slump in Seven Months
-- B y   D e b a r a t i   R o y
-- 2013-11-05T22:20:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-05/commodities-head-for-longest-slump-in-seven-months.html
Commodities capped the longest slump
in seven months, paced by energy and agriculture, on signs of
ample supplies of crude oil and grains amid increasing
speculation that the Federal Reserve will scale back stimulus.  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot Index of 24  raw materials 
declined 0.6 percent to settle at 606.77 at 3:42 p.m. New York
time, the sixth straight decline and the longest skid since
April 5. Earlier, the measure touched an 18-week low at 606.39.
West Texas Intermediate crude was the cheapest in four months,
and corn extended a slide to the lowest since August 2010.  The U.S. Institute for Supply Management’s gauge of service
industries advanced more than forecast in October, increasing
the odds that the Fed will taper monthly bond purchases. A
government report tomorrow will probably show crude supplies
rose for the seventh straight week after production climbed to a
24-year high. The corn crop was forecast to climb to an all-time
high this year.  “The tapering worries seem to be slowly gripping the
market,”  Bart Melek , the head of commodity strategy at TD
Securities in Toronto, said in a telephone interview. “The
supply situation is comfortable for many commodities, which is
not great for prices.”  The GSCI index has dropped 6.2 percent this year, heading
for the first decline since 2008. Corn has plunged 39 percent,
silver and coffee tumbled 28 percent, and gold fell 22 percent.  The next big move in commodities probably will be lower
because the rebound in global industrial production since the
fourth quarter of 2011 is peaking, Credit Suisse AG said
yesterday in a note.  Borrowing Costs  On Oct. 30, the Fed signaled diminishing concern over
higher borrowing costs and cited “underlying strength” in the
economy. That opens the possibility of lower debt purchases as
soon as December, Citigroup Inc. and Barclays Plc said.  Today, WTI futures for December delivery on the  New York 
Mercantile Exchange dropped as much 1.6 percent to $93.07 a
barrel, the lowest since June 24.  On the  Chicago  Board of Trade, corn futures for December
delivery fell as much as 0.5 percent to $4.24 a bushel, the
lowest for a most-active contract since Aug. 26, 2010. The U.S.
2013 crop may reach a record 14.03 billion bushels, 1.3 percent
more than the government estimated in September, according to a
Bloomberg survey of analysts.  Soybeans in Chicago dropped to an 11-week low on
speculation that a late U.S. harvest will allow farmers to
collect bigger crops than the government forecast.  “Yields are better than had been expected,” Dennis Gartman, an economist based in Suffolk,  Virginia , said in his
daily Gartman Letter. “Corn and soybean crops will be
manifestly larger this time than reported” two months ago by
the Department of Agriculture, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Debarati Roy in New York at 
 droy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  