-- Congo’s M23 Says Rebellion Over After Government Victories
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   K a v a n a g h
-- 2013-11-05T15:34:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-05/congo-s-m23-declares-end-to-rebellion-after-government-victories.html
The  Democratic Republic  of Congo’s
M23 rebels declared an end to their 20-month rebellion in the
east of the country and said they’re preparing to disarm and
surrender to the government.  The group will “pursue, by purely political means, the
search for a solution to the deep causes that resulted in its
creation,” according to a statement signed by M23 President
Bertrand Bisimwa and e-mailed today.  M23 rebels began deserting Congo’s army in March 2012,
after accusing the government of failing to respect a 2009 peace
agreement under which they were integrated into the armed
forces. The fighters seized the eastern trading hub of Goma for
11 days last November before withdrawing under international
pressure to begin peace talks.  Congo’s army began to take back rebel positions north of
Goma in August with support from a new United Nations
intervention brigade. The UN has about 19,000 peacekeepers in
Congo. Heavy fighting resumed Oct. 25 after another breakdown in
peace talks, and the army took M23’s final stronghold of
Bunagana on Oct. 30.  “We’ve accomplished our mission,” Congolese army
spokesman Lieutenant-Colonel Olivier Hamuli said by phone from
Chanzu in eastern Congo. “Now we’ll go after the other armed
groups.”  Congo has struggled to put an end to conflict in its
mineral-rich east, which began in the mid-1990s in the aftermath
of neighboring  Rwanda ’s genocide. Dozens of Congolese and
foreign armed groups are still active in the region, which is
rich in tin ore, gold and coltan, an ore used in smartphones and
laptops.  Rwandan Backing  The M23 was the most recent incarnation of a series of
rebellions backed by Rwanda, according to Congo’s government.
Rwanda denies supporting the rebels, who, like Rwanda’s
government, are mainly led by ethnic-Tutsis.  Hamuli said the next target for the army was the Democratic
Forces for the Liberation of Rwanda, or FDLR, a group of mainly
ethnic-Hutu rebels that opposes the Rwandan government. Rwanda
says some FDLR members were involved in the 1994 genocide, in
which an estimated 800,000 people died. The eradication of the
FDLR was one of M23’s main demands.  The group also sought the return of tens of thousands of
Congolese Tutsi refugees who’ve been living in camps in Rwanda
for more than a decade. Other demands included more protection
for minority groups, decentralization of political power to the
provinces, and an economic development program for the east.  Signed Agreement  The rebels still must sign an agreement with the government
and present their forces to Congolese authorities to officially
end the rebellion, Congo’s Media Minister  Lambert Mende  said by
phone from Kinshasa, the capital.  The government will announce soon how M23 rebels who aren’t
subject to war crimes charges will rejoin society, he said. The
country will then continue a political process to consider the
concerns of M23 and other groups in eastern Congo, Mende said.  “We need to revisit the deep cause of these conflicts that
have touched the east for many years,” he said.  The UN, U.S., European Union and  African Union , in a joint
statement, called the end of the rebellion “an important step
in ensuring sustainable peace in eastern DRC and the Great Lakes
region” of Central Africa.  “It must be clear that this is only one step towards
addressing the persistent conflict and instability, and to
ensure an end to all illegitimate armed actors in the DRC,
including the FDLR,” according to the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Kavanagh in Kinshasa at 
 mkavanagh9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  