-- Cotton Slumping as Glut Expands Record China Hoard
-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n ,   L u z i   A n n   J a v i e r   a n d   M a r v i n   G .   P e r e z
-- 2013-11-05T19:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-05/cotton-slumping-as-glut-expands-record-china-hoard-commodities.html
China  is hoarding a record amount of
cotton to aid farmers as global production exceeds demand for a
fourth consecutive year, increasing the risk of a supply surge
that would tip prices into a bear market.  The biggest producer and user will have 12.7 million metric
tons in inventory by July 31, 62 percent of the global total and
enough to make about 71 billion t-shirts, the U.S. Department of
Agriculture estimates. The government may end its stockpiling
program the following season, Macquarie Group Ltd. says. Prices
will drop 8.5 percent to 69.5 cents a pound in a year, according
to the median of 12 analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  While growers in the U.S. and  Brazil  pared output as prices
tumbled from a record $2.197 in 2011, Chinese farmers boosted
production as the state absorbed excess crops. The government
bought supply equal to about 85 percent of domestic output last
year and the nation will import 2 million tons less this season,
accounting for all the contraction in global shipments seen by
the USDA. Cheaper cotton boosted margins for Levi Strauss & Co.,
 Hanesbrands Inc. (HBI)  and other clothing companies.  “The size of the reserve is one issue, transparency is
another issue, and both are contributing to anxiety in the
market,” said Terry Townsend, the executive director of the
International Cotton Advisory Committee in  Washington . “We hope
that China embarks on an orderly liquidation over a number of
years so the market can reach equilibrium. Everyone is
speculating on what the government will do.”  Apparel Council  Cotton fell almost 19 percent to 75.95 cents a pound on ICE
Futures U.S. in New York since reaching a 16-month closing high
of 93.32 cents on Aug. 16, taking it within 2 percentage points
of a bear market. That pared this year’s advance to 1.1 percent
as the Standard & Poor’s GSCI gauge of 24 commodities dropped
6.1 percent. The MSCI All-Country World Index of equities gained
16 percent, and the Bloomberg U.S. Treasury Bond Index lost 2.1
percent.  The China National Textile & Apparel Council said in June
the government may change its reserve policy in 2014 in favor of
direct subsidies to farmers instead of buying crops. The program
pays farmers 20,400  yuan  a ton for cotton, equal to about $1.52
a pound, or about twice the futures price in New York.  The nation may abandon the policy in 2014-15, said  Kona Haque , an analyst at Macquarie in London. The program and
China’s imports are the “most important factor in the market,”
said Aakash Doshi, an analyst at Citigroup Inc. in New York.  ‘Economically Unfeasible’  “The program right now is economically unfeasible,” said
John Flanagan, the president of Flanagan Trading Corp. in
Fuquay-Varina, North Carolina. “They have so many bales of
cotton right now, that it serves no good purpose. They can
achieve the same thing by just directly subsidizing.”  China may start selling some of its reserves later this
year or in 2014, Gao Fang, the secretary general of the China
Cotton Association, told a conference in Liverpool,  England , on
Oct. 24, without giving figures. China sold about 4.2 million
tons from reserves in the season that ended July 31, according
to Cotlook Ltd., a Birkenhead, England-based research company.  A change in China’s reserve policy “doesn’t mean dumping
stocks,” said Antonio Esteve, the chief executive officer of
the cotton group at Ecom Agroindustrial Corp. Ltd, a trading
company based in Pully, Switzerland. Esteve said he expects an
“orderly feed back to the market.”  Drought Conditions  Sales from Chinese stockpiles would come as global output
drops 3 percent to 117.42 million bales (25.58 million tons)
this season, according to the USDA. The agency predicts that
demand will rise 2.1 percent to 108.7 million bales. A bale
weighs 480 pounds and has enough fiber to make 1,217 t-shirts,
the National Cotton Council of America says. A fourth surplus
would be the longest streak since 1999, according to the USDA,
which is scheduled to update supply and demand forecasts Nov. 8.  Production in the U.S., the biggest exporter, will drop 26
percent to a four-year low of 2.81 million tons after some areas
suffered drought conditions and farmers reduced planting, the
USDA estimates. Chinese growers also are starting to curb
output, with the harvest predicted to be 5.7 percent smaller at
7.19 million tons this season. Output would still have almost
doubled in two decades, USDA data show.  Cotton accounts for 31 percent of global fiber consumption
and that may drop to 27 percent by 2025 as clothes makers favor
cheaper products including polyester, the International Cotton
Advisory Committee’s Townsend said.  Levi’s Jeans  Hanesbrands, the maker of Hanes underwear and Playtex bras,
sees favorable cotton prices for at least the “next couple of
quarters,” Chief Financial Officer Richard Moss said on a
conference call with analysts Oct. 30. Shares of the Winston
Salem, North Carolina-based company jumped 88 percent to $67.47
since the end of last year and will climb to $74.56 in 12
months, according to the average of nine analyst forecasts.  Levi Strauss, the San Francisco-based maker of Levi’s jeans
and Dockers apparel, reported that gross margins improved in the
nine months ended Aug. 25 mainly because of cheaper cotton.
Prices at about 80 cents a pound should ensure adequate supply,
Michael Casey, chief executive officer of  Carter’s Inc. (CRI) , the
Atlanta-based maker of OshKosh B’gosh children’s clothing, said
on a conference call Oct. 24.  Global cotton stockpiles will expand 10 percent to 20.64
million tons by the end of the season in July, enough to meet
more than 10 months of global demand, the USDA says. That’s the
highest level of inventories relative to consumption in agency
data going back more than a half century.  There are already signs that China may be amending its
cotton policy. This season’s buying program began Sept. 9 and
purchases reached 1.08 million tons by Oct. 31, about a third
less than last year, according to data from Cotlook.  “There are a lot of rumors but I don’t think any hard
facts,” said Jean-Marc Derossis, a managing director at Plexus
Cotton Ltd., a Liverpool-based merchant. “First they will stop
building stocks, which they’re probably in the process of doing.
The second step is to reduce stocks.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Whitney McFerron in  London  at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net ;
Luzi Ann Javier in New York at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net ;
Marvin G. Perez in New York at 
 mperez71@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  