-- Croatia May Turn to IMF as Debt Grows ‘Risky,’ Linic Says
-- B y   J a s m i n a   K u z m a n o v i c
-- 2013-11-06T08:59:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-05/croatia-may-turn-to-imf-as-debt-costs-rise-linic-tells-globus.html
Croatia  may seek assistance from the
International Monetary Fund as next year’s borrowing needs
become “enormous and very risky,” Finance Minister Slavko Linic said.  The European Union’s newest member needs to borrow 44
billion kuna ($7.7 billion) next year to refinance debt and
service a budget gap of 16 billion kuna, Linic told Zagreb-based
weekly magazine Globus. Government spokeswoman Zinka Bardic
confirmed Linic’s statements by phone.  “At a high interest rate of 5 to 7 percent, depending on
whether we will borrow at home or abroad, for us this is an
enormous and very risky level of debt,” Linic said in an
interview. “In cooperation with the IMF, borrowing conditions
would be much more favorable. And we will need any help we can
get.” He said aid was a “possibility that we cannot dismiss.”  Croatia, whose $63 billion economy hasn’t grown since 2008,
has been hobbled by rising interest payments, debt held by state
companies, a bloated public sector and unemployment approaching
20 percent. Prime Minister  Zoran Milanovic ’s 22-month-old
government cut its 2013 growth forecast on Sept. 26 to 0.2
percent as the country will fail to benefit from its first year
in the world’s largest trading bloc.  The yield on Croatia’s dollar bond maturing in 2023 rose to
5.907 percent at 9:43 a.m. in Zagreb from the previous close of
5.883 percent. Croatia last tapped international markets in
March, selling $1.5 billion of 10-year bonds at 5.625 percent.  ‘Dangerous’ Cuts  Croatia’s economy should grow 1.3 percent next year, fueled
by state investment, Linic said. That differs from a European
Commission forecast made yesterday for 0.5 percent growth in
2014 and a contraction of 0.7 percent this year.  The Adriatic nation’s second-quarter budget deficit of 7.2
percent of gross domestic product is the fourth-highest in the
bloc, after  Greece , Spain and Ireland, according to Bloomberg
calculations based on Eurostat data released on Oct. 22. The
European Commission estimates a 2014 gap of 6.5 percent of GDP.  The Commission will initiate a report on Croatia’s
excessive deficit, triggering the EU’s monitoring system for
budget offenders, which applies to economies where the gap
exceeds 3 percent of GDP, Olli Rehn, the EU’s commissioner for
economic and monetary affairs, said yesterday. Linic said he’d
argue against further spending cuts as a way to rein in the
deficit.  “Further merciless cuts will be dangerous,” Linic, who’ll
present the 2014 budget at a cabinet session next week, told
Globus. “You can always find space to cut, but at what price?
In the current conditions, that could be very, very risky.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jasmina Kuzmanovic in Zagreb at 
 jkuzmanovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  