-- Democrats Seek Support for Bills to Offset Obamacare Woes
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r
-- 2013-11-05T22:00:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-05/democrats-seek-support-for-bills-to-offset-obamacare-woes.html
Two Democratic senators from states
that lean Republican are rallying support for proposals that
would delay penalties or let people keep existing health plans
after flaws hobbled the federal online exchanges.  Senate Democratic leaders aren’t saying whether they will
allow votes on the proposals by  Mary Landrieu  of  Louisiana  on
existing policies or  Joe Manchin  of  West Virginia  to delay fines
for a year. The efforts underscore Democrats’ anxiety over the
failures of the online exchanges  “We’ll have to see: There are hundreds of bills introduced
every week and we have to sort through those that have the
opportunity to be voted on,” Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid ,
a Nevada Democrat, told reporters today when asked whether he’d
allow a vote on Landrieu’s bill.  Since opening Oct. 1, the online website serving 36 states
has been plagued by delays, error messages and hang-ups that
prevented customers from completing applications. The flaws
unleashed a fresh round of criticism from Republican opponents.  Manchin, who represents a state where four in 10 primary
voters last year backed a convicted felon over President  Barack Obama , will meet tomorrow with senators he’s trying to persuade
to back a proposal delaying the penalty for individuals who fail
to sign up by March 31.  The penalty -- $95 or 1 percent of a person’s annual
income, whichever is greater -- is a core provision of the law
the White House has resisted changing.  Bipartisan Effort  “We’re still talking to our different colleagues on both
sides,” Manchin said today in an interview at the Capitol,
adding, “I’d like for it to be as bipartisan as possible.”  Manchin plans to introduce the bill by week’s end, his
spokesman Jonathan Kott said in an e-mail.  Manchin said his concern about delays in the enrollment
process “hasn’t changed” since he started working several
weeks ago with Georgia Republican Johnny Isakson to craft the
proposal.  “The product’s poor, and you’ve got to have the thing
fixed,” Manchin said. Party leaders haven’t said whether the
plan would get a vote, he said.  Landrieu, who is seeking a fourth term in 2014 in a state
Obama lost last year by 17 percentage points, yesterday
introduced legislation requiring that individuals be allowed to
keep their current health plans as long as they stay up-to-date
on payments.  Republicans have seized on reports that hundreds of
thousands of Americans got notices that their existing plans had
been canceled because of the law, contradicting Obama’s pledge
that people who liked their coverage could keep it.  Keeping Promise  “A promise was made and this legislation will ensure that
this promise is kept,” Landrieu said in a statement. “People
should be able to keep their plans if they want to.”  Landrieu was among the 10 Democratic senators who signed a
letter to the administration, later endorsed by an 11th senator,
seeking an extension of the insurance exchange’s open enrollment
period beyond the March 31 deadline.  Health and Human Services Secretary  Kathleen Sebelius , who
will testify tomorrow before the Senate Finance Committee, and
Obama have pledged that the website will be repaired and
Americans will have enough time to enroll.  New Hampshire  Democrat Jeanne Shaheen, a Democrat seeking
re-election next year, drafted the letter and said today that
her concerns are unabated.  “I want to make sure that people in New Hampshire and
across the country, my constituents that need health care, are
going to be able to get it,” Shaheen said.  17,000 Registrations  Shaheen, who was among the Democrats who questioned White
House Chief of Staff  Denis McDonough  and other officials about
the website at a Capitol lunch Oct. 31, said she is “reviewing
several pieces of proposed legislation,” yet hadn’t signed on
to any so far.  Marilyn Tavenner , head of the Centers for Medicare and
Medicaid Services who also was at the meeting, today told a
Senate panel that signup delays are easing and the exchange can
register 17,000 customers per hour “with almost no errors.”  Alaska Democrat  Mark Begich , who is seeking a second term
next year in a state Obama twice lost by double digits, said
he’s noticed improvement in the application process.  “They’ve definitely gotten better the last few days -- the
last week, I’d say -- which is good,” Begich said in an
interview today at the Capitol. “But there’s still more
improvements that they have to do and making it more accessible
for everyday people to get access to.”  ‘Red States’  Senate Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell , who faces a primary
challenger backed by the  Tea Party , today took note of
Democrats’ complaints about the exchanges.  “What’ll be really interesting to see in the Senate is the
number of Democrats in very red states who are up in ’14, and
what they start demanding of the majority leader and the
administration, in terms of adjustments to this law,” McConnell
said.  Kentuckians for Strong Leadership, a super political action
committee that’s backing McConnell’s re-election, is beginning
an ad this week that invokes Obama’s pledge that Americans can
keep their health-care plans if they like them and calls
Democrat Alison Grimes -- McConnell’s general election opponent
if he survives the primary -- an “Obama supporter.”  “When liberals don’t tell the truth,  Kentucky  gets
burned,” the ad states.  Reid disputed that enrollment problems would adversely
affect Senate Democrats in elections next year.  “Senator McConnell, if he were wise, what he would start
worrying about is his Republican senators and not worry about my
Democratic senators,” Reid said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  