-- Detroit Union Lawyer Avoided Key Questions, Judge Says
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2013-11-05T16:28:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-05/detroit-union-lawyer-avoided-key-questions-judge-says.html
The judge in Detroit’s bankruptcy
told the top lawyer for the  United Auto Workers  that he failed
to answer the two most important questions he was asked in a
trial on whether the city can remain under court protection.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Steven Rhodes today repeatedly tried
to force the general counsel for the UAW, Michael Nicholson, to
say whether the union had negotiated with the city over proposed
cuts to pension benefits and health-care benefits for retirees.  “I want to tell you, sir, this question and the last
question were probably the two most important questions you were
asked here today,” Rhodes told Nicholson, a union witness.  When Nicholson began answering by accusing Detroit’s
emergency manager, Kevyn Orr, of ignoring UAW proposals, Rhodes
interrupted him.  “You are not answering the question,” the judge said.  Nicholson later asked Rhodes if he could take a break from
his testimony. After the break, Nicholson told Rhodes that he
made a proposal about negotiating to the city and was told there
wasn’t enough time.  The city and its public-employee unions have accused each
other of failing to negotiate before  Detroit  filed its
$18 billion bankruptcy case in July.  Rhodes is overseeing a trial to decide whether the city is
eligible to remain in bankruptcy, where it is protected from
lawsuits and other actions that may interfere with its
restructuring efforts. Union and retiree groups want the
bankruptcy case thrown out.  Legal Tests  The city must show that it’s insolvent, that it’s entitled
under state law to file for bankruptcy, that it tried to
negotiate with creditors or was unable to do so, and that it
intends to file a plan to adjust its debts.  Orr testified that the bankruptcy was necessary partly
because the unions refused to negotiate with him over cuts to
retiree pension and health-insurance benefits.  Union and retiree lawyers put on three witnesses yesterday
to bolster their allegation that Orr never tried to negotiate
and to undercut his claims that talks with former workers were
impractical.  Lawyers for the unions and retirees claim state officials
have been pushing for a bankruptcy as way to cut pensions that
are otherwise protected by the  Michigan  Constitution.  The case is In re City of Detroit, 13-bk-53846,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Eastern District of Michigan (Detroit).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Detroit
at   schurch3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net . 