-- Djokovic Favored to End Tennis Season With Fourth Straight Title
-- B y   B e n   P r i e c h e n f r i e d
-- 2013-11-05T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-05/djokovic-favored-to-end-tennis-season-with-fourth-straight-title.html
Novak Djokovic enters this week’s ATP
World Tour Finals favored to finish a disjointed tennis season
with his fourth straight tournament victory.  Djokovic, who began 2013 by capturing his sixth Grand Slam
singles championship at the Australian Open, is the top choice
of bookmakers on  oddschecker.com  to retain his title at the
season-ending event, which started yesterday in  London .  Riding a 17-match winning streak that’s taken in titles at
the China Open in Beijing and tournaments in Shanghai and Paris,
the Serb said he arrives at the eight-man London event at the
peak of his powers.  “After the  U.S. Open  I just managed to feel well on the
court again, to reconnect with myself, to enjoy and to get that
right stability and concentration throughout the whole match,”
said Djokovic, who beat  David Ferrer  in the Paris Masters final
two days ago. “Results have helped me, of course, to build that
confidence and now I’m feeling good about myself on the court.”  Djokovic, 26, has had his ups and downs this season. After
starting off by becoming the first man in tennis’s 45-year-old
professional era to win three straight Australian Opens, he
captured titles in Dubai and on the clay of  Monte Carlo . Those
victories were interspersed with defeats to Juan Martin Del Potro,  Tommy Haas , Grigor Dimitrov and Tomas Berdych.  At the  French Open , Djokovic was beaten by  Rafael Nadal  in
the semifinals, losing 9-7 in the fifth set. One month later, he
was defeated by  Andy Murray  in the Wimbledon final. He reached
his third major final of the year at the U.S. Open in New York,
where he lost to Nadal in four sets.  That was his most recent defeat, and while he ceded the No.
1 ranking to Nadal of  Spain  last month, his recent run gives him
the chance of a seventh ATP title in 2013. That would be his
second-best career tally behind the 10 he won in 2011.  Year-End No. 1  Djokovic could also take the year-end No. 1 spot for the
third straight season if Nadal fails to win two matches at the
O2 arena this week.  Djokovic, who must win two round-robin matches and the
title for a chance at the top ranking, begins play against  Roger Federer  of  Switzerland  today, while Nadal faces Ferrer.
Switzerland’s  Stanislas Wawrinka  beat Berdych of the Czech
Republic 6-3, 6-7 (0-7), 6-3 to open the weeklong event
yesterday before Del Potro of Argentina defeated France’s
Richard Gasquet 6-7 (4-7), 6-3, 7-5.  The field is split into two groups of four, with the two
players with the best results from each progressing to the
semifinals. World No. 4 Murray will miss the tournament while he
recovers from back surgery.  Second Favorite  Djokovic is an 11-10 chance with bookmaker Ladbrokes Plc to
win the World Tour Finals, meaning a successful $10 bet returns
$21 including the stake.  Nadal is the second-favorite at 9-4 and can cap his
comeback from injury by winning the season-ending championship
for the first time. After exiting Wimbledon in the second round
in 2012, the 27-year-old had a seven-month layoff, an absence
that dropped him to fifth in the rankings. Since returning in
February he’s won 10 trophies, including Grand Slam titles in
Paris and  New York , and surged to No. 1.  Nadal told reporters yesterday that rising to the top of
the rankings following his injury was the toughest achievement
of his career, and that staying fit is now his priority.  “Being No. 1 is not a goal anymore,” he said. “Today the
goal is to be healthy, be competitive. It makes me much more
happy to go to a tournament, to win a good tournament, than to
be No. 1.”  First-Round Loss  Nadal’s only major blip this year was a first-round upset
at Wimbledon by Belgian Steve Darcis, a player ranked 135 at the
time. After that defeat, the 13-time major champion won 22
straight matches before losing to Djokovic in last month’s China
Open final.  Federer enters an event he’s won a record six times ranked
seventh. The 17-time Grand Slam champion has just one tournament
victory this year, on grass in Halle,  Germany . The 32-year-old
split with his coach Paul Annacone last month after failing to
reach the final of any of the four majors for the first time
since 2002.  Federer’s 12th straight appearance at the Tour Finals,
which players qualified for with their results this season, is a
record matched only by  Ivan Lendl .  “I usually play good tennis here,” Federer told
reporters. “I don’t know why, but it gets the best out of me.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Priechenfried in London at 
 bprie@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  