-- Djokovic Joins Nadal in Winning Opening Match at ATP Tour Finals
-- B y   B e n   P r i e c h e n f r i e d
-- 2013-11-06T02:52:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-05/djokovic-joins-nadal-in-winning-first-match-at-atp-tour-finals.html
Rafael Nadal  and Novak Djokovic won
their opening matches at the ATP World Tour Finals as the pair
vie to finish the year as the top-ranked player in men’s tennis.  Nadal, who entered the season-ending tournament needing two
wins to retain the No. 1 spot, beat fellow Spaniard David Ferrer
6-3, 6-2 yesterday at the O2 arena in  London . Djokovic, who
started the year atop the rankings, defeated six-time champion
Roger Federer 6-4, 6-7 (2-7), 6-2 in the night match.  Nadal faces Stanislas Wawrinka of  Switzerland  today in his
second Group A match at the event, which brings together the top
eight men. Nadal has never won the tournament, while Djokovic of
 Serbia  is defending the title as the bookmakers’ favorite.  “I always came here with motivation to play well,” Nadal,
27, told reporters yesterday. “I had a few chances without
positive end. But I’m going to try myself to play a good match
tomorrow and create another chance to be in the semifinals.”  The 13-time Grand Slam singles champion said two days ago
that holding the tournament on indoor hard courts for the eighth
straight year is unfair on players like him who prefer outdoor
conditions and surfaces like clay.  Nadal returns to the court today against an opponent who
has had an extra day off. Switzerland’s Wawrinka won his opening
match against Tomas Berdych of the  Czech Republic  two days ago.
Ferrer and Berdych meet in today’s other match.  No Day Off  “It’s always great when you win a match, then have a day
off to confirm the feelings, to keep doing the things that you
need to keep playing well,” Nadal said. “I would prefer to
have one more day off, but that’s what it is.”  Ferrer beat Nadal four days ago in Paris, though struggled
to hold his serve yesterday. Nadal, who has now won 21 of their
26 meetings, took six of his seven break point opportunities in
the 1 hour, 14 minute match. Ferrer also had 33 unforced errors.  The night session pitted Djokovic against Federer for the
second time in four days, this time before a crowd of 17,800,
the first sellout of the event.  The  Group B  match went with serve until the 10th game, when
Djokovic took advantage of unforced errors to win the first set.  The second set went to a tiebreaker, which 17-time major
champion Federer won comfortably to take the match to a decider.
Djokovic broke the Swiss in the first game of the final set, and
added another break to go up 4-1 before serving out the victory
in two hours, 22 minutes.  “It was probably the toughest start I could get for this
tournament,” Djokovic, 26, said in a news conference. “It was
always going to be a tough match for both of us. When I needed
to in the third, I served well.”  Winning Run  Djokovic, who hit 29 winners to Federer’s 27 and made 12
fewer unforced errors, is seeking to end the season with his
fourth straight title following tournament victories in Beijing,
Shanghai and Paris.  He’s now won 18 matches in a row and next faces  Argentina ’s
Juan Martin del Potro tomorrow, when Federer takes on  Richard Gasquet  of  France . Del Potro beat Gasquet two days ago in the
Group B opener.  The Tour Finals divides the eight players into two groups,
with the two with the best results from each group qualifying
for the semifinals. World No. 4  Andy Murray  isn’t playing while
he recovers from back surgery.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Priechenfried in London at 
 bprie@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  