-- Dollar Bottom Detected in Biggest Flows Since 2009: Currencies
-- B y   A n d r e a   W o n g
-- 2013-11-05T17:29:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-05/dollar-bottom-detected-in-biggest-flows-since-2009-currencies.html
The dollar, after falling to its
lowest levels since February against major peers, is attracting
the biggest wagers by money managers in almost five years on
signs the  U.S. economy  is gathering pace.  Pension funds and institutions bought the most dollar-denominated assets in late October since at least January 2009,
according to Bank of America Corp. data that don’t cite actual
volumes, as the Bloomberg U.S.  Dollar Index  fell more than 5
percent from its high for the year in July. The purchases were
mainly against the pound and euro.  Growth in the U.S. will accelerate in every quarter of
2014, starting at 2.6 percent and building to 3 percent, while
in the Group of 10 overall it’s forecast to be about 2 percent
for most of the year, Bloomberg surveys of economists show. A
stronger economy may keep U.S. inflation levels higher than in
other major nations, allowing the  Federal Reserve  to lead the
world in reducing monetary stimulus that has weighed on the
greenback, according to Bank of America and Societe Generale SA.  “The fundamentals story, as far as the dollar’s concerned,
remains very strong,” David Woo, the global head of rates and
currencies at Bank of America in  New York , said in a Nov. 1
phone interview. “The biggest story in financial markets in
2014 will be about inflation, particularly about inflation
divergence,” and “there’s no question that” the U.S. is
“going to be the first one to tighten policy,” he said.  Fed Delay  Since falling to 997.94 on Oct. 23, the Bloomberg Dollar
Index has jumped 1.8 percent to 1,015.53 at 12:28 p.m. in New
York. The gauge, which measures the greenback against the euro,
yen, pound and seven other currencies, has ranged this year from
as low as 984.07 in January to 1,056.33 in July.  While the Fed decided last week to wait for the economy to
improve further before cutting its $85 billion of monthly bond
purchases, Bank of America says it’s watching inflation for
signs of when growth may overhaul peers. Deutsche Bank AG, the
biggest currency trader, says tapering may start next month.  The widest gap between annual consumer-price inflation in
the U.S. and the 17-nation euro region this year is prompting
investors to demand higher yields to own Treasuries rather than
German bunds, boosting the appeal of the dollar. Inflation eats
into the fixed-rate coupons paid by bonds.  Two-year U.S. government notes yield 0.3 percent, 17 basis
points, or 0.17 percentage point,  more than  German securities,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Slowing Inflation  Annual consumer-price inflation in the U.S. slowed to 1.2
percent in September, in line with the estimate of 44 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg and down from 1.5 percent the previous
month, the Labor Department in  Washington  said Oct. 30. The
following day, the European Union’s statistics office estimated
the pace of euro-area  price gains  eased to an almost four-year
low of 0.7 percent in October, from 1.1 percent the prior month.  Inflation is a useful measure of how well an economy is
recovering, said  Sebastien Galy , a senior foreign-exchange
strategist at SocGen in New York.  “It’s like you’re aquaplaning with your car,” Galy said.
“Until you reach the friction point, the car isn’t heating up.
That’s what’s happening in the EU and U.S.”  Euro, Pound  The dollar has strengthened to $1.3471 per euro from
$1.3832 on Oct. 25, which was the weakest level since November
2011. It has also gained versus the  pound , reaching $1.6039 from
$1.6257 on Oct. 23.  Banks from Credit Suisse Group AG to  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC) 
lowered their forecasts for the U.S. currency versus its major
peers last month amid a 16-day government shutdown and a dispute
over raising the nation’s borrowing limit.  With the fiscal crisis now resolved, the door is open for
the dollar to build on its rally, according to  Alan Ruskin ,
Deutsche Bank’s global head of Group-of-10 foreign exchange.  “The economy will remain pretty resilient to the fiscal
drag and the distortion of the government shutdown,” New York-based Ruskin said in a Nov. 1 e-mail.  When the Fed maintained the pace of its bond purchases on
Oct. 30, policy makers said they needed to assess the economy
after last month’s jitters. The odds of the central bank paring
stimulus in January rose to 45 percent, from 25 percent before
last week’s statement, Citigroup said.  ECB Rates  Speculation that the  European Central Bank  will keep its
main  interest rate  at the record-low 0.5 percent it has
maintained since May would probably reverse the dollar’s gains,
said  Greg Anderson , the head of global foreign-exchange strategy
at Bank of Montreal in New York. The ECB meets Nov. 7.  “I’m not sure if the ECB will do anything now, because the
pressure was already taken off” since the euro weakened,
Anderson said in a Nov. 1 phone interview. “If the euro was at
$1.39 when the ECB meets, they would’ve cut.”  While growth and jobs data in the U.S. this week “could
put a December taper back on the table, it will only raise the
odds from 10, to 20 or 30 percent,” Anderson said in reference
to the Fed. Bank of Montreal sees the dollar weakening to $1.39
per euro by year-end, compared with a median estimate of $1.33
in a Bloomberg survey of about 80 analysts.  Gross domestic product growth in the world’s largest
economy slowed to an annualized 2 percent in the third quarter,
from 2.5 percent in the previous period, economists surveyed by
Bloomberg said before a Commerce Department report on Nov. 7.
The  jobless rate  rose to 7.3 percent in October from 7.2 percent
the prior month, according to a separate survey before a Labor
Department report the following day.  Fund Flows  Bank of America’s index tracking proprietary data on
investor sales and purchases fell to a reading of 0.1 last week,
from 0.7 in the period ending Oct. 25, which was the highest
since the U.S. lender started compiling the data in 2009.  The week before that, what are known as real-money
investors, including pension funds, real-estate investment
trusts and insurance and asset-management companies, had net
outflows of dollar-denominated assets, the data show.  Options traders are the most bullish on the dollar versus
the euro since Oct. 11, according to 25-delta risk reversal
rates compiled by Bloomberg. The premium on three-month options
giving the right to sell the euro against the greenback,
compared with those allowing for purchases, increased to 0.87
percentage points, from a nine-month low of 0.36 on Oct. 28.  “Air is leaking out of Treasuries and the euro,” said
Deutsche Bank’s Ruskin. That’s “going to keep the dollar
momentum positive,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Wong in  Hong Kong  at 
 awong268@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  