-- Dollar to Gain Versus Euro on Rate-Cut Speculation, RBC Says
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2013-11-05T17:19:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-05/dollar-to-gain-versus-euro-on-rate-cut-speculation-rbc-says.html
The dollar will rise versus most of
its major counterparts over the next year and find particular
strength versus its European peers as rate-cut expectations
increase, according to  Adam Cole  of Royal Bank of  Canada .  The foreign-exchange market is wary of the “minority
expectation” that the  European Central Bank  will trim borrowing
costs at its Nov. 7 meeting, according to Cole. The prospect of
prolonged ECB dovishness would weigh on the shared currency and
its European peers, he said.  “The gains for the dollar will primarily be against the
European currencies as a group,” Cole, head of Group of 10
currency strategy at RBC in  London , said in an interview on
 Bloomberg Radio ’s “The First Word” with Bob Moon. “In 12
months’ time, we’ll look back and the dollar will, across the
board, be stronger against most major currencies.”  RBC forecasts the dollar will rise to $1.25 per euro by the
end of 2013, according to a Bloomberg survey.  The greenback appreciated 0.3 percent to $1.3476 per euro
today after earlier climbing as much as 0.5 percent.  The ECB will probably leave its key  interest rate  at 0.5
percent after its Nov. 7 meeting, according to the median
forecast in a Bloomberg survey. The combined economy of the 17
countries using the single currency escaped from recession in
the second quarter even as a report last week showed record
unemployment in September.  The dollar gained 0.8 percent in the past week among 10
developed-nation currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The euro dropped 1.4 percent, Sweden’s krona
tumbled 1.6 percent and the Swiss franc fell 0.8 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in  New York  at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  