-- ECB to Respond to EU Lawmakers' Letter Within Six Week
-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 2013-11-05T13:11:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-05/ecb-to-respond-to-eu-lawmakers-letter-within-six-week.html
The  European Central Bank  says it
will address concerns voiced by European Union lawmakers over
the separation of monetary policy and banking supervision in the
coming weeks.  The ECB will follow common practice and answer a letter
sent to President  Mario Draghi  within five to six weeks, a
spokeswoman for the Frankfurt-based institution said.  The European Parliament backed a plan on Sept. 12 to set up
a single supervisor after settling a dispute over how much
access lawmakers get to the minutes of the ECB’s supervisory
board. The central bank will assume oversight powers over
lenders in the 17-nation euro area in November next year and has
collected applications for the job of chief supervisor.  The letter lawmakers sent to Draghi is dated Oct. 28 and
signed by  Sharon Bowles , chairwoman of the parliament’s Economic
and Monetary Affairs Committee, according to a person familiar
with its content.  It contains more than 10 questions about how the ECB will
ensure supervisory tasks won’t infringe on setting monetary
policy, according to the person, who asked not to be identified
because the letter isn’t public. The questions cover topics
including how the supervisory chair will be involved in
selecting senior managers, how the five working groups preparing
technical aspects of the new body are set up and who reports to
whom, the person said.  Germany ’s Boersen-Zeitung first reported on the letter
today, saying the ECB’s plan to handle legal services may create
a problem because the supervisory division will remain part of
the Legal Services directorate.  The ECB is setting up four new departments for bank
supervision, each under a director general. ECB Executive Board
member Joerg Asmussen said on Oct. 15 that the bank will hire
approximately 1,000 new staff to carry out oversight tasks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  