-- Ecuador Judge Says $19 Billion Chevron Ruling Was His Own
-- B y   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e
-- 2013-11-05T20:32:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-05/ecuador-judge-says-19-billion-chevron-ruling-was-his-own.html
A former Ecuadorean judge who issued
a $19 billion pollution ruling against Chevron Corp. told a U.S.
court that he worked alone on the case and denied the company’s
allegation that his decision was ghostwritten.  Nicolas Zambrano, the former judge, testified in a trial in
federal court in Manhattan today that the only help he received
in preparing his 188-page ruling issued in 2011 came from an
18-year-old secretary who typed his dictation and conducted
Internet research for him.  Chevron claims in a racketeering case before U.S. District
Judge  Lewis Kaplan  that the plaintiffs in the environmental case
won the ruling through bribery and fraud. The  San Ramon ,
California-based energy company alleges that Zambrano and
another former Ecuadorean judge, Alberto Guerra, were bribed to
steer the case in favor of the plaintiffs and the $19 billion
judgment was actually written by the plaintiffs and Guerra.  “No one has helped me to write the judgment,” Zambrano
said through a translator today when questioned by a lawyer for
Chevron, Randy Mastro. “I was the one who explicitly drafted
it.”  The former judge, who also served as a prosecutor in
 Ecuador , said he spent “many hours, many days” on the ruling.
He was unable to answer questions Mastro asked about specifics
in the judgment, such as the identity of a substance that had
been described in the document as “the most powerful
carcinogenic agent” and information described as “statistical
data of the highest importance to delivering this ruling.”  Internet Research  After Zambrano said he couldn’t read or speak English or
French, Mastro asked how he had managed to cite U.S., Australian
and French legal authorities in the judgment.  “As I stated in my deposition, the young woman who would
help me type the judgment, she was the one going on the
Internet” and she “chose the Spanish option,” Zambrano said.
“That is how I would become aware or informed of the subject I
was interested in. She would print them so I could read them
later.”  Guerra testified Oct. 23 that Zambrano routinely paid him
to ghostwrite rulings in his cases, including the Chevron
ruling. Guerra also said that Zambrano had been promised
$500,000 by the plaintiffs from the proceeds of the judgment and
had told Guerra he could also get a share.  Draft Orders  Zambrano testified that Guerra aided him in preparing
drafts of court orders, although not in the Chevron case.
Zambrano denied paying Guerra for his help. He previously has
denied accepting bribes to issue a ruling in favor of the
plaintiffs.  Chevron, the second-largest U.S.-based energy firm, claims
that lawyers for the plaintiffs, led by  Manhattan  attorney
Steven Donziger, engaged in a scheme to extort money from the
company during a 20-year legal battle over pollution in an
Ecuador oil concession.  The company is seeking an order barring lawyers for the
Ecuadoreans from trying to enforce the 2011 pollution judgment
in countries where Chevron has assets.  Guerra now lives in the U.S. and receives $12,000 per month
from Chevron along with other benefits through at least 2015
under an agreement with the company.  Drilling Wastes  In the environmental case, Donziger and other lawyers for
indigenous people in Ecuador’s Lago Agrio region sought damages
for Texaco Inc.’s alleged dumping of toxic drilling wastes from
1964 until about 1992. The lawsuit continued against Chevron
when it acquired Texaco in 2001.  Chevron contends that state-owned Petroecuador, a former
Texaco joint-venture partner, is responsible for most of the
pollution and that Texaco already paid to clean up its share.  Donziger claims he did nothing illegal in Ecuador and that
his tactics were no different from Chevron’s.  The racketeering case is  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  v. Donziger, 11-cv-00691, U.S. District Court,  Southern District of New York 
(Manhattan). The appeals court case is In Re Naranjo, 13-00772,
 U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Second Circuit (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christie Smythe in Brooklyn at 
 csmythe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  