-- Legal & General Increases Cash as Acquisitions Boost Growth
-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 2013-11-05T17:20:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-05/legal-general-s-cash-generation-beats-estimates-600-jobs-cut.html
Legal & General Group Plc (LGEN) , the
largest manager of U.K. pension assets, reported a 20 percent
increase in cash generation as acquisitions helped boost its
annuities and savings-protection units.  Net cash, defined as earnings before dividends and
reinvestment, rose to 740 million pounds ($1.2 billion) in the
nine months to Sept. 30 from 616 million pounds a year earlier,
the London-based company said today. That beat the 737 million-pound average estimate of 13 analysts surveyed by the company.  Chief Executive Officer Nigel Wilson said the company is
seeking more acquisitions to capitalize on global pension
changes and an aging population. He has bought four businesses
this year, including Lucida Ltd., a bulk annuity buyout firm,
and Cofunds Holdings Ltd., an electronic savings portal.  “This has been a record quarter for assets, sales and
cash,” Wilson said in a conference call with journalists from
 London . “Our growth strategy is delivering, and we have the
capital and appetite to do more to further enhance growth.”  The company tripled its sales of annuity products to 2.3
billion pounds in the three months to Sept. 30. Lucida
contributed 1.4 billion pounds of premiums, according to
analysts at Barclays Plc.  Job Cuts  The insurer also said it’s cutting about 600 of the 7,000
jobs at its Legal & General Assurance Society unit after merging
its protection and savings operations.  Cofunds, which recorded 3.3 billion pounds of new inflows
in the third quarter, helped the insurer increase assets under
administration in its savings business by 6.3 percent to 102
billion pounds.  The shares  fell 2.2 percent to 213.10 pence in London after
rallying 10 percent last month. Insurance stocks dropped after
 RSA Insurance Plc (RSA)  said it will miss its profitability target on
losses stemming from last week’s European windstorms.  Legal & General shares have climbed 46 percent this year,
making it the third-best performer in the U.K.’s FTSE 350
Insurance Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  