-- Heidelberger Druck Surges on Fuji Partnership: Frankfurt Mover
-- B y   S h e e n a g h   M a t t h e w s
-- 2013-11-05T10:48:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-05/heidelberger-druck-surges-on-fuji-partnership-frankfurt-mover.html
Heidelberger Druckmaschinen AG (HDD) , the
world’s largest printing-press maker, had the biggest gain in
three months in Frankfurt trading as a digital partnership with
Fujifilm Corp. signaled the company is moving beyond cost cuts
to boost its profit margins.  The shares gained as much as 11 percent, the biggest
intraday increase since Aug. 13, to 2.15 euros. Trading volume
was more than double the three-month daily average.  Heidelberger Druck’s first foray into digital printing
ended in 2004, when it aborted a five-year experiment by selling
its digital business to Eastman Kodak Co. after losses
ballooned. Chief Executive Officer Gerold Linzbach, who took the
helm a year ago, is targeting digital sales potential of more
than 200 million euros ($270 million) within three years from
today’s partnership.  “Heidelberger Druck isn’t out of the woods yet, but the
new CEO’s signature is clearly visible,” said Holger Schmidt,
an analyst at Equinet AG in  Frankfurt  with a buy rating on the
stock, by phone. “It’s all going in the right direction. The
full picture is clearly a positive one.”  The company, based in Heidelberg, affirmed its forecast to
generate a profit for the year ending March 31 after narrowing
its loss in the second quarter to 9 million euros from 31
million euros. Under the terms of the partnership, Heidelberger
Druck will gain access to Fujifilm’s inkjet technology and its
partner will in return benefit from the German company’s
engineering and manufacturing activities, Heidelberger Druck
said.  “This marks a significant step forward in our corporate
strategy,” Linzbach said in a statement. “Our goal is to also
become a global player in the digital printing applications
market.”  The  stock , which lost 29 percent of its value in the five
years through Oct. 31 compared with a 104 percent increase in
the CDAX Index that represents all companies listed on the
Frankfurt Stock Exchange, was up 8.8 percent as of 11:18 a.m.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sheenagh Matthews in Frankfurt at 
 smatthews6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  