-- U.S. List Helps Heirs Track Nazi-Loot Art in Munich Cache
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   H i c k l e y
-- 2013-11-06T11:37:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-05/heirs-to-nazi-loot-in-munich-helped-as-art-list-revealed.html
A list of art compiled by U.S. troops
in 1950 may help Jewish heirs identify works looted by the Nazis
that wound up in a squalid Munich apartment, researchers from
the Holocaust Art Restitution Project said.  U.S. troops vetted Hildebrand Gurlitt’s collection --
including works by  Max Beckmann  and  Edgar Degas  -- and handed it
back to him 63 years ago, according to a custody receipt that
Marc Masurovsky and Willi Korte, researchers at HARP, found
yesterday in the National Archive in  Washington .  The artworks, listed over five pages, were held by the
allies and returned in 1950. They may have formed the basis of
the collection of Cornelius Gurlitt, Hildebrand’s son.
Prosecutors said they won’t publish an inventory of the 1,400
works seized in Gurlitt’s Munich apartment. Groups representing
the heirs of Jewish victims of Nazi persecution protested the
secrecy.  “A great many people don’t know what is missing from their
collections,” Wesley Fisher, Director of Research at the
 Conference on Jewish Material Claims Against Germany , said by
telephone from  New York . “This secrecy is not going to help
families. Many of the items that clearly seem to have come from
France may have been seized or lost in forced sales.”  Authorities seized Cornelius Gurlitt’s cache of more than
1,400 paintings, lithographs, drawings and prints as part of an
investigation on suspicion of  tax evasion  in a three-day
operation in March 2012.  Picasso, Kokoschka  It took 1½ years to announce the hoard. Though refusing to
provide a list of the works, the Augsburg prosecutor said it
includes works by Beckmann,  Pablo Picasso , Oskar Kokoschka,
Franz Marc,  Pierre-Auguste Renoir  and Max Liebermann.  The German government is examining ways to help Augsburg
prosecutors publish details of at least those works that are 
known to have been looted, said Steffen Seibert, Chancellor 
 Angela Merkel ’s chief spokesman. He said government 
provenance researchers are helping with law enforcers’ 
enquiries.  Seibert said the government is committed to finding just
and fair solutions to the problem of looted art in private 
as well as public collections.  Paintings on the five-page list from the National Archive
include Beckmann’s “Lion Tamer,” which Cornelius Gurlitt sold
via Kunsthaus Lempertz in Cologne in 2011 after settling with
the heirs of Alfred Flechtheim, a Jewish dealer persecuted by
the Nazis and forced to flee  Germany .  Further Works  “Against the backdrop of the current revelations about the
Gurlitt collection, the Flechtheim heirs are looking into
whether there are any further works that used to be in
Flechtheim’s possession in the seized trove of paintings,” the
heirs said in a statement sent by e-mail by the lawyer Markus
Stoetzel.  The list obtained by Korte and Masurovsky also includes a
Degas nude, several Beckmann oils, two Courbet paintings and an
Otto Dix self-portrait -- probably the same one investigators
projected onto a screen at a news conference in Augsburg.  Other works in Gurlitt’s collection in 1950 included
paintings by Emil Nolde, Hans Thoma, Otto Mueller, George Grosz,
Karl Schmidt-Rottluff, August Macke and the Italian painter
Guardi.  “He liked  Old Masters , German expressionists and French
19th-century paintings,” Masurovsky said. “Gurlitt had a wide
range.”  Duress Sales  Some works from the Munich stash were seized by the Nazis
from German museums, while others may have been sold by Jewish
owners under duress, said Meike Hoffmann, the investigating art
expert. She declined to comment on estimates valuing the hoard
at 1 billion euros ($1.35 billion).  Masurovsky said Gurlitt regularly acquired works at the Jeu
de Paume in Paris, where the Nazis assembled art looted from
French Jewish families during the occupation. Under agreements
between the Allies, art looted from France was returned to the
French government after World War II.  “I am wondering when the German government is going to
call  France  about returning some of this,” Masurovsky said.
“There are clearly some works in the collection that came from
France.”  Hildebrand Gurlitt (1895-1956) was one of just four art
dealers permitted by the Nazi authorities to sell artworks
seized as “degenerate” from German museums from the end of
1938 to 1941.  Though they were instructed to sell them abroad for hard
currency, the four passed many on to fellow German dealers or
kept them for themselves, according to the Free University’s
“Degenerate Art” website.  Muse highlights include  Scott Reyburn  and  Katya Kazakina  on
the art market,  Ryan Sutton  on New York dining and  James Russell 
on architecture.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catherine Hickley in Berlin at 
 chickley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 