-- Melco Crown Profit Misses Estimate on Lower Win Rate
-- B y   V i n i c y   C h a n
-- 2013-11-05T13:22:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-05/melco-crown-profit-misses-estimate-on-lower-win-rate.html
Melco Crown Entertainment Ltd., (MPEL)  the
Macau casino venture between Australian billionaire James Packer
and entrepreneur Lawrence Ho, posted third-quarter earnings that
missed estimate on a lower win rate from high-stakes gamblers.  Adjusted Ebitda, or earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization, rose 39 percent to $315.2
million, Melco Crown said in a statement to Hong Kong’s stock
exchange, less than the $328 million average estimate from four
analysts compiled by Bloomberg, Net income climbed to $179.4
million from $104.9 million a year earlier, the company said.  “Adjusted EBITDA was driven by significant growth in the
mass market table games segment at City of Dreams, as well as
improved group-wide rolling chip volume and a committed approach
to controlling costs, partially offset by a lower rolling chip
win rate,” Melco said in the statement.  VIPs, or high-stake gamblers, account for about two-thirds
of the casino revenue that flows into Macau.  Melco Crown is building its Studio City casino resort on
Macau’s Cotai strip, the city’s answer to the Las Vegas Strip.
The Hong Kong-based company is taking on larger competitors,
including  Sands China Ltd. (1928)  and  Galaxy Entertainment Group Ltd. (27) ,
which have been adding new attractions on Cotai to profit from
the faster-growing mass gambling segment.  City of Dreams, Melco Crown’s flagship casino in the
world’s largest gambling hub, attracts mainland visitors with
popular shows such as “The House of Dancing Water” which
features motorcycle stunts and the cabaret-style “Taboo” show.  Melco Crown climbed 1.8 percent to close at HK$88.15 in
Hong Kong trading, before the earnings announcement. The stock
has more than doubled this year, beating the city’s benchmark
Hang Seng Index’s 1.7 percent gain.  Mass-Market, Slots  City of Dreams’ mass-market table-game revenue increased 36
percent to $1.21 billion while slot-machine handle gained 52
percent to $1.24 billion. VIP rolling-chip volume gained 17
percent to $22.8 billion. Rolling chip win rate fell to 3
percent from 3.2 percent a year earlier.  The company is expanding both at home and overseas as it
sees capacity constraints in Macau, including land and labor
shortages. In the  Philippines , Melco is partnering with  Belle
Corp. (BEL)  to develop and operate a casino resort in  Manila  which is
expected to cost $1 billion. Belle holds one of four casino
licenses in the Southeast Asian nation.  Lawrence Ho, a son of casino mogul Stanley Ho, is investing
in two Russian casino resorts through his other two companies,
 Melco International Development Ltd. (200)  and  Summit Ascent Holdings
Ltd. (102)   Casino revenue in Macau, the only place in  China  where
casino gambling is legal, jumped 32 percent to a record 36.5
billion patacas ($4.6 billion) in October, boosted by mainland
Chinese visitors who spent their weeklong National Day holidays
in Macau.  Gambling revenue in the former Portuguese enclave grew 18
percent to 297.1 billion patacas in the first 10 months of this
year, close to the $38 billion revenue it raked in last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vinicy Chan in Hong Kong at 
 vchan91@bloomberg.net  