-- Emerging Stocks Decline on Europe as Brazil’s Real Slumps
-- B y   J u l i a   L e i t e ,   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a   a n d   I a n   S a y s o n
-- 2013-11-05T21:53:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-05/emerging-stocks-slide-for-fourth-day-as-sensex-falls-from-record.html
Emerging-market stocks dropped to a
one-month low, led by Turkish equities, on concern that a slower
expansion in the euro area will crimp global growth.  Brazil ’s
real fell the most among the world’s major currencies.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index slipped 1.1 percent to
1,016.30, the lowest since Oct. 10. Benchmark equity gauges from
Turkey to India and Mexico slid at least 1.2 percent. The real
sank 1.9 percent, leading losses among 31 major currencies
tracked by Bloomberg, and Brazil’s swap rates rose to a two-year
high, on bets the central bank will boost borrowing costs.  Stocks joined a global slump in equities after the European
Union trimmed its  forecast  for euro-area growth next year and
raised its unemployment estimate as the economy struggled to
regain momentum after a record-long recession. European Central
Bank President  Mario Draghi  speaks before a policy meeting this
week.  Service industries  in the U.S. expanded in October at a
faster pace than forecast, showing the biggest part of the
economy was holding up as the federal government shut down.  “There’s a little bit of skepticism as to how bold the ECB
might be on Thursday,” Brian Jacobsen, who helps oversee $236
billion as chief portfolio strategist at Wells Fargo Advantage
Funds in  Menomonee Falls , Wisconsin, said by phone. “The ISM
number coming in pretty decently perhaps got a few people
concerned the Fed tapering might commence in December rather
than March.”  All  10 groups  in the MSCI Emerging Markets Index dropped
today, led by consumer, commodity and financial shares. The
broad measure trades at 10.6 times projected earnings, compared
with the  valuation  of 14.3 for the MSCI World Index.  Emerging ETF  The iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index exchange-traded
fund retreated 2 percent to $41.88. The Chicago Board Options
Exchange Emerging Markets ETF Volatility Index, a measure of
options prices on the fund and expectations of price swings,
rallied 8.8 percent to 23.83.  Brazil’s Ibovespa retreated from a one-week high as  Gafisa
SA (GFSA3)  led homebuilders lower after central bank President Alexandre Tombini said policy makers must be “especially vigilant” on
inflation. The real depreciated to the weakest level in almost
two months. Mexico’s IPC index sank the most since Sept. 30.  Most  Russian stocks  declined as crude oil fell and
pipemaker OAO TMK dropped 4.3 percent on concern it will be cut
from a gauge tracked by equity investors. The world’s biggest
pipemaker by output may be removed from MSCI Inc.’s Russia
Index, VTB Capital said Oct. 31.  Turkey, Poland  The Borsa Istanbul National 100 Index retreated 2 percent,
the most among major emerging-market gauges, as  Turkiye Halk
Bankasi AS (HALKB)  led declines in lenders. Benchmark gauges in the
 Czech Republic  and  Poland  dropped at least 1 percent.  South Africa’s rand weakened to a two-month low against the
dollar because of concern that slowing growth in the euro region
will weigh on exports as labor disputes in the mining industry
dent investor confidence.  Indian (SENSEX)  stocks fell for the first time in six days, led by
technology and consumer companies, after benchmark indexes
climbed to records in a holiday trading session on Nov. 3.  Tata
Consultancy Services Ltd. (TCS) , the biggest software exporter,
dragged a gauge of technology companies to the lowest level
since Oct. 24. Cigarette maker  ITC Ltd. (ITC)  sank to a two-month low,
pacing declines among consumer shares.  The Shanghai Composite Index advanced, erasing a loss of as
much as 1.2 percent. Premier  Li Keqiang  was cited by the Xinhua
News Agency as saying it’s very important to make farmers
wealthy and reforms are needed for the development of modern
agriculture. Heilongjiang Agriculture Co. jumped by the daily
limit of 10 percent.  The premium investors demand to own emerging-market debt
over U.S. Treasuries fell three basis points, or 0.03 percentage
point, to 315 basis points, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julia Leite in  New York  at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net ;
Lyubov Pronina in London at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net ;
Ian Sayson in Manila at 
 isayson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  