-- Encana to Cut Workforce, Dividend and Form Royalty Firm
-- B y   R e b e c c a   P e n t y   a n d   J e r e m y   v a n   L o o n
-- 2013-11-05T21:12:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-05/encana-to-cut-workforce-dividend-and-form-new-royalty-company.html
Encana Corp. (ECA) ,  Canada ’s largest
natural gas producer, will cut its workforce by 20 percent,
slash its dividend and sell shares in a new royalty company as
it seeks to boost cash flow.  Encana is focusing spending for 2014 on five oil and
liquids areas -- the Duvernay, Montney, DJ Basin, San Juan Basin
and Tuscaloosa Marine Shale -- the Calgary-based company said
today in a statement. At least 800 jobs will be lost, based on
the size of the workforce in 2012 as reported on the company’s
website.  Doug Suttles , who became chief executive officer in June,
said at a September investor conference the company needed to
“clean up its portfolio” and would review its dividend as part
of a strategic review. Encana, which has maintained a 20-cent
quarterly payout since 2009, today announced a 7-cent dividend.  “The previous Encana was broken in my view so this is a
bold step in the right direction,” Mason Granger, a portfolio
manager who oversees C$400 million ($383 million) at Sentry
Investments Inc. in Toronto, said by e-mail. “In a refocused
company what we need to see now is solid execution on these five
core plays that actually delivers returns to shareholders.”  Encana  rose  3.1 percent to C$19.17 as of 4:01 p.m. in
Toronto, the biggest increase since Sept. 12.  The shares have the potential to gain 11 percent in the
next 12 months, according to the average of 22 estimates
compiled by Bloomberg. The stock has seven buy, 15 hold and four
sell ratings by analysts.  Shut Office  Encana will put 5 million acres (2 million hectares) of
land in its Clearwater business in  Alberta  into a separate
company, with an initial public offering due in mid-2014. Encana
will close an office in Plano,  Texas , and keep its offices in
Calgary and Denver.  Encana will retain a “significant percent” of the
Clearwater business “early on,” Suttles said today on a
conference call with analysts. Encana will consider selling more
assets depending on market conditions, he said.  The value of the Clearwater lands could be as much as
C$2.47 billion,  John Stephenson , a portfolio manager at First
Asset Investment Management Inc. in Toronto which manages about
C$2.7 billion, said today. “The purpose of the IPO is to unlock
value,” Stephenson said.  The Clearwater business extends from the U.S. border to
central Alberta, the company said on its website. Encana in
April 2012 entered into an agreement with a subsidiary of Toyota
Tsusho Corp. in which the Japanese company committed to invest
C$600 million in return for a stake in Clearwater.  Beat Estimates  Encana last month reported third-quarter results that beat
analysts’ estimates after oil and petroleum liquids output
increased. The company has been directing more spending to oil
production after North American gas prices hit a 10-year low
last year.  Encana will retain some gas properties outside the
company’s primary areas of focus, in case prices rise, Suttles
said.  “In essence what we want to do is retain some optionality
in our portfolio,” he said. “We want to be able to move,
depending on market conditions and results, capital around where
appropriate.”  The gas producer’s stock decline began after natural gas
prices started a slide in 2008, a year before Encana spun off
its oil-sands business to create Cenovus Energy Inc. To cope
with falling gas prices, Encana has pursued a strategy of
selling stakes in joint ventures to fund an expansion of its
holdings in unconventional shale gas formations in regions such
as northeastern British Columbia.  Encana plans to boost  cash flow  at three times the rate of
production and will expand  capital spending  each year to 2017 as
it brings in more money, Suttles said. Capital spending next
year will be $2.5 billion.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rebecca Penty in Calgary at 
 rpenty@bloomberg.net ;
Jeremy van Loon in Calgary at 
 jvanloon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  