-- Endo Health Agrees to Buy Paladin Labs for $1.6 Billion
-- B y   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t   a n d   M e g   T i r r e l l
-- 2013-11-05T21:14:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-05/endo-solutions-agrees-to-buy-paladin-labs-for-20-premium.html
Endo Health Solutions Inc. (ENDP) , a maker
of painkillers facing declining revenue for its main treatments,
agreed to buy Canadian drug company  Paladin Labs Inc. (PLB)  for about
$1.6 billion to expand in that country and  emerging markets .
Endo shares soared the most in 13 years.  The purchase, mostly through stock, values each Paladin
Labs share at C$77, a 20 percent premium to yesterday’s closing
price, Malvern, Pennsylvania-based Endo said in a statement
today. The deal “immediately” will add to Endo’s 2014 adjusted
earnings per share, it said.  The deal gives Endo access to the Canadian market, where
Paladin has recorded average sales growth of 28 percent over the
past five years, selling treatments for pain and allergy
developed by itself or by other companies. Endo is facing
declining revenue because of generic competition for drugs
including the Lidoderm and Voltaren Gel painkillers.  “Relative to other specialty pharma M&A comparables, the
deal looks somewhat expensive,” Jason Gerberry, an analyst with
Leerink Swann, wrote in a research note today. “But the
acquisition of Paladin is both immediately accretive and the
NewCo shares will be held by an Irish holding company -- so tax
benefits are likely greater than comp deals.”  Quarter’s Results  Endo also reported third-quarter profit that topped
analysts’ estimates and boosted its 2013 forecast. Earnings
excluding one-time items were $1.34 a share, topping the $1.11
average of 19 estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Net income
declined 26 percent to $40 million, or 33 cents.  The company forecast profit of as much as $4.75 a share,
from a previous projection of up to $4.55.  Endo shares surged 29 percent to $56.22 at the close in  New
York , their biggest increase since the shares began trading in
2000. The stock has more than doubled this year. Paladin shares
jumped to C$95.43.  Acquisitions “will continue to play a key role in
maximizing our growth potential,” Endo Chief Executive Officer
Rajiv De Silva said in the statement. Paladin’s leading products
serve “growing drug markets” for treatments of attention
deficit hyperactivity disorder, pain and allergies.  Both Endo and Paladin will be bought by a newly formed
Irish holding company called New Endo, of which Endo Health
shareholders will hold about 77.5 percent and Paladin investors
22.5 percent. New Endo will be led by Endo’s current management,
while Paladin will be operated by its current managers and keep
its head office in  Montreal , Endo said.  The company anticipates its new structure will lower its
 tax rate  to 20 percent over time, De Silva told analysts on a
conference call today.  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , Skadden Arps Slate Meagher & Flom LLP,
Torys LLP, Houlihan Lokey and  KPMG  advised Endo, and Deutsche
Bank and RBC Capital Markets LLC agreed to provide committed
financing for the deal.  Paladin was advised by  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) , Davies Ward
Phillips & Vineberg LLP and EY.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Simeon Bennett in Geneva at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net ;
Meg Tirrell in New York at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  