-- Energy Future Default Possible by Year-End, CreditSights Says
-- B y   M a r k   C h e d i a k
-- 2013-11-05T21:45:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-05/energy-future-default-possible-by-year-end-creditsights-says.html
Energy Future Holdings Corp. may
violate a debt covenant by the end of this year, potentially
allowing for secured creditors to force a default and take over
its power generation and retail units, according to debt
researcher CreditSights Inc.  The secured debt to earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization ratio for the company’s Texas
Competitive unit is approaching a level that could trip a
covenant violation by as soon as the fourth quarter,
CreditSights analysts  Andy DeVries  and  Charles Johnston  wrote
today in a note to investors. Secured creditors could use such
an event to take over the unit, the analysts wrote.  Auditors may raise doubts about Energy Future’s ability to
remain a going concern in regulatory filings due 60 days after
the end of 2013, which would also trigger a default, according
to the note.  Energy Future spokesman  Allan Koenig  declined to comment on
the CreditSights report.  Energy Future, which was bought in 2007 for $48 billion by
private equity firms including  KKR & Co. (KKR) , TPG Capital and
Goldman Sachs Capital Partners, has been negotiating with
creditors to restructure some or all of its units excluding its
power line utility Oncor Electric Delivery. The company made a
$270 million interest payment on Nov. 1 to unsecured lenders
after failing to reach a reorganization agreement, Chief
Financial Officer Paul Keglevic said today during a conference
call with investors.  Energy Future’s payment “bought the company very little
time,” DeVries and Johnston of CreditSights said.  ‘Consensual Restructuring’  The company remains in discussions with advisers of
creditor groups on a potential “consensual restructuring,”
Keglevic said. As of Sept. 30, Energy Future, which is based in
 Dallas , had almost $2 billion in available liquidity, Keglevic
said.  “We’ll continue to consider and evaluate a range of future
changes to our  capital structure , which may include filing a
voluntary case under Chapter 11 of the United States  Bankruptcy
Code  for some or all of EFH Corp. and its subsidiaries,
excluding” Oncor, he said during the call.  Texas Competitive’s $1.83 billion of 10.25 percent bonds
due Nov. 1, 2015, which paid a coupon last week, traded at 7.9
cents on the dollar at 2:45 p.m. in New York, according to
Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Chediak in  San Francisco  at 
 mchediak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  