-- Merck Seen Unlocking $13 Billion With Breakup: Real M&A
-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e
-- 2013-11-05T21:40:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-05/merck-seen-unlocking-13-billion-with-breakup-real-m-a.html
Merck & Co. (MRK) , the second-biggest U.S.
drugmaker, may be coming around to the idea of separating its
businesses after the breakup of larger rival  Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  boosted
 shareholder value  by $50 billion.  Merck Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Ken Frazier said
last week that he’s evaluating whether the  animal-health  unit
and consumer products would be better off outside the $134
billion company. Slimming down to focus on human medicines would
follow in the footsteps of Pfizer, which spun off its animal-health unit and sold its baby formula business.  Novartis (NOVN)  AG also
has identified its animal-health division as a top candidate to
sell,  Bloomberg News  reported yesterday.  Shares of Merck have trailed every other large drugmaker in
the past 12 months and  underperformed  the  Standard & Poor’s  500
Health Care Index since 2010, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The  Whitehouse Station , New Jersey-based company is
firing 20 percent of its workers and grappling with declining
sales and setbacks on experimental medicines. As some rivals
boost investor returns through spinoffs and unit sales, Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. estimates that there’s almost $13 billion of
unrealized value within Merck’s conglomerate structure.  “You have a road map laid out by Pfizer,” said David Heupel, a Minneapolis-based  fund manager  at Thrivent Financial
for Lutherans, which oversees $12 billion in equity assets
including Merck shares. “You don’t have to be the first company
to go down that path and hope that it creates value because we
have some proof that it does.”  Portfolio Evaluation  Medicines for animals, such as antibiotics and vaccines,
generated $3.4 billion of sales last year, 7.2 percent of
Merck’s $47 billion of total  revenue . Consumer-care products,
such as Coppertone suntan lotion, Claritin allergy medicine and
the Dr. Scholl’s foot-care line, had $1.95 billion of sales.  Merck is evaluating those units to determine whether they
“produce the most value inside our portfolio or outside our
portfolio,” Frazier, who has been CEO of Merck since January
2011, said on an earnings conference call Oct. 28.  “We continue to evaluate all of our businesses --
including Animal Health and Consumer Care -- and currently view
them as important components of our diverse portfolio,
contributing both top and bottom line growth,” Steve Cragle, a
spokesman for Merck, said in an e-mail yesterday. “If we were
to view them as being more productive outside of Merck, we would
consider alternatives.”  Pfizer Breakup  Pfizer sold its infant-nutrition business to  Nestle SA (NESN)  for
$11.9 billion in 2012, and then this year spun off its animal-health unit as a separate publicly traded company called  Zoetis
Inc. (ZTS)  Pfizer stockholders received shares of Zoetis.  Since first announcing the sale to Nestle, Pfizer’s market
value has climbed by about $37 billion, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. Including Zoetis’s current $16 billion market
value, that’s a $53 billion increase for Pfizer shareholders.  Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. (BMY)  decided to become a pure-play
drugmaker by spinning off its baby-formula business,  Mead
Johnson Nutrition Co. (MJN) , in 2009.  Abbott Laboratories (ABT)  also split
off  AbbVie Inc. (ABBV)  less than a year ago to separate its non-pharmaceutical businesses from its best-selling arthritis drug
Humira.  Novartis, Europe’s biggest drugmaker by sales, is working
with Goldman Sachs on a portfolio review, according to people
familiar with the matter, who asked not to be named because the
process is confidential. In addition to animal health, the $208
billion company is also considering selling its over-the-counter
medicines unit and the vaccines operation, they said this week.  ‘Intense’ Pressure  While Pfizer, Bristol-Myers and Novartis gained at least 22
percent in the past year, Merck has  fallen  0.6 percent, making
it the worst performing large pharmaceutical stock,  data 
compiled by Bloomberg show.  “Merck management is responding to intense shareholder
pressure,”  Mark Schoenebaum , a New York-based analyst at
International Strategy & Investment Group LLC, said in an e-mail
yesterday. Like Pfizer’s Zoetis, Merck’s animal-health business
“could definitely stand on its own.”  The unit is tucked inside a company that’s  valued  at 9.8
times its trailing 12-month earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
Zoetis fetches twice that.  Value Potential  “Merck has pretty attractive assets in its consumer and
animal-health businesses,” Heupel of Thrivent said in a phone
interview. “We’re comfortable in the belief that they would be
worth more  spun off , sold or divested than under Merck right
now.”  When valuing Merck’s units separately, they add up to $50 a
share, according to  Jami Rubin , a New York-based analyst at
Goldman Sachs. With the stock at $45.72 yesterday, her estimate
implies about $12.5 billion of value could be unlocked by
breaking the company into pieces.  Today, Merck shares fell 0.8 percent to $45.36.  The downside to selling or spinning off assets is that
Merck would be giving up  cash flow  at a time when its core drug
business faces challenges, Rubin wrote in an Oct. 29 report.
Sales of its best-selling product, diabetes pill Januvia, fell 5
percent in the third quarter.  Merck’s “management sounds like it will execute a deal
soon,” such as divesting the animal-health or consumer units,
or making an acquisition in oncology, Alex Arfaei, a New York-based analyst at Bank of Montreal, wrote in an Oct. 28 report.  Acquisition Money  Valeant Pharmaceuticals International Inc. (VRX) , the most
acquisitive health-care company in the past three years, could
buy some of Merck’s products in  emerging markets  or the
company’s consumer products to complement its own over-the-counter business, Arfaei said.  Laurie Little, a spokeswoman for Laval, Quebec-based
Valeant, didn’t respond to a phone call or e-mail seeking
comment.  Merck could use the money from a unit sale to acquire or
partner with a growing biotechnology company focused on human
health care, said Herman Saftlas, a New York-based equity
analyst at Standard & Poor’s. That said, Merck seems less
willing to part with some of its smaller businesses than Pfizer
was, he said.  “It’s on the table, but whether it’s going to happen, I
have high doubts,” Safltas said in a phone interview. “Pfizer
was planning this for many years and sliced and diced the
company very carefully into different portions that could be
easily siphoned off. As far as Merck, this is the first time
we’re hearing about something like this.”  While Merck may be able to unlock as much value by driving
sales growth of Januvia and better developing its pipeline, the
company may be pushed to drive value faster, said Vamil Divan, a
New York-based analyst at Credit Suisse Group AG.  Streamlining operations “is the focus of the whole
industry right now,” Divan said in a phone interview.
“Frazier’s under pressure to get the stock working again, so he
has to be more open to these ideas.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Lachapelle in  New York  at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net  