-- There’s a Better Way to Pay Doctors
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-11-05T18:28:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-05/there-s-a-better-way-to-pay-doctors.html
Congress may soon vote on a bill
changing how, and how much, Medicare pays doctors. That’s a good
idea -- so long as taxpayers benefit, too.  The impetus for the change is a problem that Congress
itself created. In 1997, lawmakers tried to keep down Medicare
spending by limiting the growth of doctors’ payments. That was
the idea, anyway; every year  since 2003 , physicians have
successfully lobbied Congress to override the pay cuts imposed
by the 1997  formula , a move that came to be known as the “doc
fix.”  The result is a status quo that serves nobody’s interests.
Doctors worry each year about a sudden drop in rates. Congress
is forced to look for new money each year to offset the cost of
preventing that drop. The federal government must make budget
projections that reflect Medicare cuts that are never going to
happen. Meanwhile, the purpose of the 1997 law -- reining in
Medicare spending -- remains unmet.  The  proposal  before Congress would deal most effectively
with the first of these problems. It would repeal the 1997
formula, permanently removing the threat of payment reductions.
In their place, the measure would help Medicare catch up with a
shift that private health insurers have already started:
changing the way doctors are paid, by emphasizing the quality
and cost of care over quantity of services.  This makes sense. Under the traditional payment model,
doctors and other health-care providers get a fee for each
service they provide. That creates a financial incentive to
perform tests or procedures that might not be medically
necessary, but no comparable inducement for healing patients
quickly and efficiently.  Many large private insurers are already starting to abandon
the fee-for-service system. By the end of last year, more than
half the primary-care providers in  WellPoint Inc. (WLP) ’s network
worked under some sort of value-based purchasing program; for
 Humana Inc. (HUM) , that figure was 84 percent.  One drawback to the proposal in Congress is that it moves
too gradually. Starting in  2016 , doctors who shift to a new
payment arrangement would get a 5 percent bonus. There’s no
penalty for not taking part: The law would simply freeze the
current payment rates. Nor are there any targets for doctor
participation, and those who want to keep using fee-for-service
can do so indefinitely.  The slow pace of change isn’t the only area where the
proposal could be improved. It offers the bonus even to
physicians whose costs remain unchanged, which is hard to
justify if part of the purpose of the new program is to reduce
medical costs. The new system would cost approximately $150
billion over 10 years, initial estimates suggest -- but there’s
no indication how it should be paid for. Most important, there’s
no guarantee that new payment method would make Medicare more
cost-efficient.  Still, all these caveats amount to issues to be addressed,
not reasons to stick with the status quo. The financial stakes
are too great not to embrace reform: Medicare spent  $131 billion 
on physician and clinical services last year alone, a figure
that’s projected to almost double by 2022. Changing the way
doctors are paid is more necessary than ever.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 