-- ERM Power Says Macquarie Generation Would Accelerate Growth
-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 2013-11-05T05:09:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-05/erm-power-says-macquarie-generation-would-accelerate-growth.html
ERM Power Ltd. (EPW) , shortlisted by
 Australia ’s most populous state to bid for two government-owned
power stations, said owning the assets would help speed the
company’s growth in electricity sales.  “It certainly represents a transformational opportunity,”
Philip St Baker, chief executive officer of Brisbane-based ERM
Power, said today in a phone interview after the company said it
had been shortlisted by the New South Wales government. “It
does present an opportunity to accelerate the growth of the
company going forward, over and above an already attractive
trajectory.”  ERM, Australia’s fourth-largest electricity retailer, has
submitted an initial bid for Macquarie Generation and will study
its finances before deciding whether to make a final offer, St
Baker said.  AGL Energy Ltd. (AGK)  and Shenhua Group Corp. also were
shortlisted for the owner of the Liddell and Bayswater coal-fired power stations in the  Hunter Valley , the Australian
Financial Review reported today, without saying where it got the
information.  The assets may fetch as much as A$1.5 billion ($1.4
billion), people with knowledge of the matter said in August.
They said AGL Energy and Shenhua were among expected bidders.  Karen Winsbury, a spokeswoman for AGL in  Melbourne ,
declined to comment. The New South Wales government also
declined to comment.  Shares of ERM  rose 3.2 percent to A$2.89 as of 3:08 p.m. in
Sydney, while Australia’s benchmark S&P/ASX 200 Index climbed
0.9 percent.  ERM expects a 28 percent increase in electricity sales for
fiscal 2014 after a 34 percent gain last year, according to St
Baker.  ERM expects to bid without a partner to “fully leverage”
the potential Macquarie Generation opportunities, he said,
declining to say when the company aims to lodge a final bid for
the largest electricity supplier in New South Wales state.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Paton in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  