-- Eskom Reduces Coal Purchases as It Overhauls Power Plants
-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 2013-11-05T13:34:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-05/eskom-reduces-coal-purchases-as-it-overhauls-power-plants.html
Eskom Holdings SOC Ltd., supplier of
95 percent of  South Africa ’s power, said it has begun scaling
back coal purchases as it takes plants offline for maintenance
during the summer months when electricity demand wanes.  “Because we are getting into maintenance season we take a
lot of coal onto stock,” Eskom Chief Executive Officer  Brian Dames  said in an interview in Cape Town today. “Currently
stocks sit at about 46 days. You cut back your higher-cost lines
and supplies.”  Eskom, which uses coal to generate 85 percent of its power,
is cutting costs as it implements a 500 billion-rand ($50
billion) spending program to replace equipment and add capacity
through 2017. The utility strained to meet power demand during
the winter after deferring maintenance on some aging stations
because of higher unplanned shutdowns in the summer.  Eskom has avoided blackouts since 2008 and hasn’t refused
to connect any new customers to the  power grid , with reserve
margins only running to single digits at night, Dames told
lawmakers. The utility’s should bring its coal-fired Medupi
plant in Limpopo province online as planned next year, and
activate its Kusile plant in Mpumalanga province in 2015, he
said.  Eskom halted all its construction projects on Nov. 1, the
day after an accident at the Ingula hydropower project near the
eastern town of Ladysmith killed six contract workers. While the
company has resumed work on the Medupi and Kusile facilities,
which will have generation capacity of about 4,800 megawatts
each once completed, Ingula remains closed until investigations
have ended, the company said on its Twitter feed.  The bodies of three Filipinos who died when three
construction platforms, each weighing about eight tons, fell
down a vertical-incline tunnel will be repatriated this week,
Dames said. Three people injured in the accident remain in
intensive care, he said.  One megawatt of capacity is enough to supply 2,000 average
European homes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Cohen in  Cape Town  at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  