-- Testosterone Drugs Raise Heart Risk in $1 Billion Market
-- B y   N i c o l e   O s t r o w
-- 2013-11-06T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-05/testosterone-drugs-raise-heart-risk-in-1-billion-market.html
Testosterone replacement drugs, a
$1.6 billion market for AbbVie Inc., Eli  Lilly (LLY)  & Co. and others,
boosted the odds of having a heart attack, stroke or dying by 29
percent in one of the first studies weighing the therapies’
cardiovascular risk.  Researchers assessed data from 8,709 men treated in the
U.S. Veterans Affairs health system, many with underlying
illnesses including prior heart attacks and diabetes. While the
study didn’t identify reasons for the increased risk,
testosterone worsens sleep apnea and affects blood platelets,
linked to atherosclerosis and coronary plaque.  The authors urged more study on testosterone.  Anne Cappola ,
an associate editor for the  Journal of the American Medical
Association , which published yesterday’s study, said men need to
be made aware of the risks by their doctors, and questioned how
the supplement is marketed.  Some “think it’s the fountain of youth,” Cappola said in
a telephone interview. “It’s going to give them back sexual
performance, strength and endurance. The direct marketing of
testosterone is playing into that. There needs to be that other
voice saying there’s no medication out there with all benefit
and no risk. There’s always a trade off.”  Testosterone treatments are given through gels, patches and
injections. Prescriptions for the supplements rose more than
five-fold to 5.3 million in 2011 from 2000, the authors said.  Five Million  About 5 million American men don’t produce enough of the
hormone, according to the  National Institutes of Health . A study
in  Europe  published a decade ago found 1 in 5 men older than 50
has moderate-to-severe symptoms of testosterone deficiency.
Fewer than 2 percent of cases outside the U.S. get treated,
Malcolm Carruthers at  London ’s Centre for Men’s Health, wrote in
a paper published in 2009.  AbbVie’s Androgel may generate $1.14 billion this year for
the North Chicago, Illinois-based drugmaker, an increase from
$874 million in 2011, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Lilly’s Axiron is expected to produce $168 million in 2013 sales
from $24 million in 2011 when the Indianapolis-based company
introduced the drug. Parsippany, New Jersey-based Actavis Plc
doesn’t list revenue for the Androderm patch.  AndroGel is approved by U.S. regulators to treat adult men
with low or no testosterone who have been diagnosed with the
condition, called  hypogonadism , by a doctor. The drug has more
than 10 years of “clinical, safety, published and post-marketing data, with its therapeutic risks well-documented in
the prescribing label,” David Freundel, an  AbbVie (ABBV)  spokesman,
said in an e-mail.  “We encourage discussion between physicians and patients
that leads to proper diagnosis based on symptoms, lab tests and
a patient’s other health needs,” Freundel said.  Broader Issues  In an accompanying editorial, Cappola, an associate
professor at the  University of Pennsylvania  in Philadelphia,
said it remains unclear whether the finding can be generalized
to a broader population of relatively healthy men. This includes
those with so-called low T syndrome, where testosterone falls
under certain levels, for anti-aging purposes or in younger men
taking it for physical enhancement, she wrote.  An  earlier study  of testosterone supplements used in
elderly males, funded by the U.S. National Institute on Aging
and run at Boston Medical Center, was stopped in 2009 because an
audit found it caused more heart attacks and high  blood
pressure .  Teresa Shewman, a Lilly spokeswoman, said the company is
aware of cardiovascular events in men taking testosterone
therapies.  ‘Accurate’ Advertising  “Lilly works with the scientific community and regulatory
bodies to further understand and communicate the risks and
benefits of testosterone replacement therapy,” Shewman said.
“As a company responsible for developing medicines, Lilly is
committed to providing advertising that is truthful, accurate
and balanced. We encourage men to talk with their physician to
weigh the benefits and risks before taking any prescription.”  The risk noted in yesterday’s study was similar for men who
had underlying heart conditions and those who didn’t, said
Michael Ho, the senior researcher and a cardiologist at the
 Veterans Affairs Eastern Colorado Health Care System  in Denver,
who called the findings “a potential signal’ suggesting more
research is needed,  ‘‘I don’t know if the findings of this study would
necessarily say that all men should not be on testosterone
therapy,” Ho, who is also an associate professor of medicine at
the  University of Colorado  at Denver, said in a telephone
interview. “It provides additional information that they can
talk to their physician about.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Ostrow in  New York  at 
 nostrow1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  