-- Etisalat to Buy Vivendi’s Maroc Stake for $5.7 Billion
-- B y   S t e f a n i a   B i a n c h i   a n d   M a r i e   M a w a d
-- 2013-11-05T14:34:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-05/etisalat-extends-talks-with-vivendi-on-maroc-telecom.html
Emirates Telecommunications Corp. (ETISALAT) ,
the United Arab Emirates’ most valuable company, agreed to
acquire Vivendi SA’s controlling stake in Maroc Telecom SA for
about 4.2 billion euros ($5.7 billion) in the  Middle East ’s
largest takeover of a phone carrier.  The purchase price for the 53 percent holding, at 100
Moroccan dirhams a share in cash, includes a 7.4-dirham dividend
to be paid to Vivendi, the Abu Dhabi-based carrier also known as
Etisalat  said  today. In a separate release, Vivendi said it
expects the deal to be completed in early 2014.  The takeover will hand Etisalat control over the biggest
wireless carrier in  Morocco , adding to its African operations
that include  Egypt  and Nigeria. For Vivendi, selling
telecommunications assets is a key part of the Paris-based
company’s plan to transform into a new entity built around
music, pay-television, European cinema and Internet in  Brazil .  “This acquisition is positive for Etisalat given its
existing strong presence in North  Africa ,” Shrouk Diab, an
analyst at NBK Capital in Dubai, said by telephone. “If managed
properly, Etisalat could derive a lot of cost synergies and
revenue from the operations there.”  The price values Maroc Telecom at 6.2 times the company’s
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization,
compared with a median of 9.5 times among its peers, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Overseas Expansion  Etisalat climbed 0.4 percent to close at 11.70 dirhams in
Abu Dhabi, after rising as much as 1.3 percent. Vivendi was
little changed at 18.71 euros at 3:23 p.m. in Paris.  Maroc Telecom closed at 98 dirhams in Casablanca yesterday.
In Paris trading today, the shares fell as much as 4.9 percent.  Telecommunications companies in the Gulf Arab region are
expanding abroad as domestic markets become saturated. Qatar’s
Ooredoo, formerly known as  Qatar Telecom , also bid for Maroc
Telecom before withdrawing its offer in June because of what it
called a “lengthy” sale process.  Since last year, Ooredoo has spent about $4 billion
acquiring stakes in Kuwait’s National Mobile Telecommunications
Co., Iraqi mobile operator Asiacell and Tunisiana SA.  Etisalat operates in 15 countries in the Middle East,
Africa and Asia, according to its  website . In Africa, where it
has units in Sudan, Nigeria and Niger, its subscriber base grew
6 percent to 12 million users during the first nine months of
the year.  Zain Fallout  Etisalat shut down its Indian unit, Etisalat DB, last year
after  India ’s  Supreme Court  revoked 122 licenses in a corruption
probe. The company also filed a lawsuit against the promoters of
Swan Telecom in India. Two years ago, Etisalat ended talks to
buy a majority stake in Zain, Kuwait’s biggest phone company,
for $12 billion.  “The acquisition, if completed, would be Etisalat’s
biggest in terms of buying into an existing operation,” said
Sanyalaksna Manibhandu, an analyst at NBAD Securities LLC.  At home, Etisalat has lost market share to Emirates
Integrated Telecommunications Co., also known as Du, after its
monopoly over the U.A.E. market ended in 2007. Etisalat’s third-quarter income fell 18 percent to 1.83 billion dirhams ($498
million). Chairman Eissa Al Suwaidi said the operator is
retaining and growing customers across all operations, and
particularly in its domestic market.  Deal Financing  Al Suwaidi is a director of the Emirates Investment
Authority, Etisalat’s main shareholder, and sits on the boards
of the  Abu Dhabi  Investment Council, Abu Dhabi National Oil
Company for Distribution and International Petroleum Investment
Company, according to the  EIA ’s website.  Etisalat has commitments from 17 lenders to provide about 6
billion euros of loans to fund the acquisition, according to
three people with knowledge of the matter. The company plans to
sign the financing this month, and may decide to reduce the size
of the facility to reflect the lower cost of the purchase, the
people said.  The carrier has a consolidated cash balance of 11.9 billion
dirhams ($3.2 billion), an October statement showed.  Maroc Telecom’s nine-month revenue fell 4.7 percent to 21.5
billion dirhams from a year earlier because of lower earnings in
its home market and intensifying competition.  $250 Billion  The acquisition is subject to conditions including
shareholders’ agreement with Morocco as well as competition and
regulatory approvals, Etisalat said in its statement.  Globally, more than $250 billion in deals for the
telecommunications industry have been announced this year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Today, Czech
billionaire  Petr Kellner ’s PPF Group agreed to buy a controlling
stake in the country’s biggest phone company from  Telefonica SA (TEF) 
for about $3.4 billion.  With the sale of Maroc Telecom -- a few months after
divesting a stake in video-game maker  Activision Blizzard Inc. (ATVI) 
and weeks after resolving a legal battle with Lagardere SA over
Canal Plus -- Vivendi gets cash to help repay debt and edges a
step closer to refocusing business on media by narrowing down
its telecommunications investments.  Bowing to investor pressure to overhaul its structure,
Vivendi is conducting a study to separate its French mobile-phone unit SFR as it assembles the remainder of its businesses
into a new international media group based in France.  Vivendi (VIV)  plans to decide by early next year how to allocate
its cash from the deals, as well as how to split off SFR from
the rest of the businesses and who will lead the future media
group. Vivendi also owns record label  Universal Music Group  and
Brazilian Internet unit GVT.  Moelis & Co. is advising the Emirates Investment Authority
on the transaction.  BNP Paribas SA (BNP)  is Etisalat’s adviser, while
 Lazard Ltd. (LAZ)  and  Credit Agricole SA (ACA)  are working with Vivendi.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stefania Bianchi in Dubai at 
 sbianchi10@bloomberg.net ;
Marie Mawad in Paris at 
 mmawad1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net ;
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  