-- EU Floats Probe of Germany as Trade Surplus Seen Rising
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e   a n d   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r
-- 2013-11-05T12:35:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-05/eu-forecasts-bigger-german-trade-surplus-amid-policy-criticism.html
The European Union threatened a probe
of  Germany ’s trade surplus, adding to criticism from the U.S.
and the  International Monetary Fund  that the German reliance on
exports is hindering  Europe ’s economic recovery.  The review would follow the European Commission forecast
today that Germany’s current-account surplus will reach 7
percent of output this year and 6.6 percent in 2014. That’s up
from a May estimate of 6.3 percent and 6.1 percent respectively.  “We will discuss this question next week,” EU Economic
and Monetary Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn  told reporters in
Brussels after the commission published economic forecasts. He
said Germany has exceeded the EU guideline of a 6 percent
surplus limit since 2007.  Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s government bridled last week at
a U.S. Treasury  report  that rebuked German surpluses as a drain
on European and global growth. Germany, which accounts for
almost a third of the euro-area economy and views itself as a
model for the 17-member bloc, said last week the critique was
“not justified” and that exports were a sign of strength.  Rehn added to calls for Germany to do more to boost
consumption and foster higher wages. He recommended tax cuts,
reductions in social contributions and infrastructure spending.  “To open the bottlenecks to the growth of domestic demand,
Germany should create conditions for sustained wage growth,”
Rehn said. He said a review of Germany was not “such a
particular exercise” and that  Netherlands , Finland, Denmark and
 Sweden  have confronted such probes before.  Fines Possible  Ultimately, countries can be fined for failing to correct
imbalances under a euro-area law designed to strengthen Europe’s
competitiveness -- a regulation that Germany endorsed as part of
the response to the debt crisis.  The IMF also reprimanded Germany for its surpluses last
week, urging Merkel’s government to curtail its export surplus
to an “appropriate rate” to help its euro-area partners cut
deficits.  Germany’s Economy Ministry said on Oct. 31 that surpluses
“are a sign of the competitiveness of the German economy and
global demand for quality products from Germany.”  Today’s report by the commission said that domestic
consumption will be the main source of German growth. Low
 interest rates , climbing wages and a steady labor market will
help foster  consumer spending , it said.  “Domestic demand is projected to continue to act as the
main growth driver over the forecast horizon” as export growth
slows, the commission said as part of its autumn forecast.  Waning export growth because of slowing economies outside
the EU and an appreciating euro will be more than offset by
domestic consumption, the commission said.  It forecast economic growth of 0.5 percent this year and
1.7 percent in 2014 and “a further gradual reduction in the
 unemployment rate ” to 5.3 percent next year, with the budget
recording a surplus of 0.1 percent.  Real unit labor costs will decline 0.2 percent this year
and next after an increase of 1.6 percent in 2012, it said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net ;
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  