-- EU Forecasts a ‘Mild’ Italy Recovery Starting This Quarter
-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o   a n d   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i
-- 2013-11-05T09:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-05/eu-forecasts-a-mild-italy-recovery-starting-this-quarter.html
The Italian economy will begin to
recover this quarter after a “moderate” contraction in the
third quarter, the European Commission said today.  “Improved business confidence since the early summer,
mainly driven by a positive assessment of export orders,
foretells a gradual mild recovery in output as from the fourth
quarter of 2013,” the Brussels-based commission said today in
its autumn forecasts.  That’s in line with the Italian government’s outlook, which
sees the economy recovering in the current quarter from its
longest recession since World War II.  Italy  will keep its
deficit target within the 3 percent limit this year and reduce
it to 2.7 percent next year, according to the commission’s
forecasts. Italian Prime Minister Enrico Letta’s government is
targeting a deficit of 2.5 percent of GDP next year, according
to its budget plan.  The country’s gross domestic product will contract 1.8
percent this year, in line with government estimates, according
to the EU. The commission predicted a 1.3 percent contraction in
its previous forecasts in May. The EU expects the Italian
economy to expand 0.7 percent in 2014, while the government sees
a 1.1 percent rise next year.  Italy entered the recession in 2011 as a global slowdown
aggravated the effects of waning productivity. The contraction
got deeper as domestic demand weakened amid the mix of tax
increases and public spending cuts passed by Letta’s
predecessor,  Mario Monti , to contain the euro region’s second-biggest debt.  The commission warned that Italy may miss its balanced
budget target in 2015 without new measures. The EU expects the
structural deficit to narrow 0.7 percent next year and widen to
0.9 percent in 2015.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net ;
Chiara Vasarri in Rome at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net ;
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  