-- European Stocks Drop From Five-Year High as BMW, RSA Fall
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   M o r g a n
-- 2013-11-05T17:27:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-05/european-stock-index-futures-gain-bmw-vivendi-may-move.html
European stocks  fell from a five-year
high as the European Commission cut its growth forecast for the
euro area and Bayerische Motoren Werke AG retreated after
reporting results.  BMW, the world’s largest maker of  luxury vehicles , slid the
most in two months as profit declined. RSA Insurance Group Plc
sank 6.3 percent as the U.K.’s biggest non-life insurer by
market value said it will miss its profitability target after
last week’s storms. Beiersdorf AG rose the most in a year after
the maker of Nivea hand cream increased its sales forecast.  The Stoxx  Europe  600 Index fell 0.2 percent to 321.89 at
the close of trading. The benchmark gauge has still soared 15
percent in 2013 as the  Federal Reserve  maintained stimulus
measures and the  European Central Bank  cut  interest rates  to a
record low. The ECB will make its next announcement on monetary
policy on Nov. 7.  “We have got some blurred economic signals here: not cold,
not hot, but lukewarm,” Witold Bahrke, who helps oversee $55
billion as a senior strategist at PFA Asset Management in
Copenhagen, said by phone. “This together with a backdrop of
strong performance in equities over the past two weeks and year
is not enough to support the liquidity-on rally.”  Bank of America Corp., UBS AG and Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc forecast the ECB will cut its benchmark  interest rate 
this week, according to a Bloomberg survey of 70 economists. The
rest predict no change.  European Economy  The executive arm of the European Union trimmed its
forecast for euro-area growth next year as the economy struggles
to gain momentum with the debt crisis dragging into a fifth year
and unemployment at a record. Gross domestic product in the 17-nation currency bloc will rise by 1.1 percent in 2014, less than
the 1.2 percent forecast in May.  The commission forecast that  France ’s budget deficit will
be 3.7 percent of GDP in 2015, which would mean it misses a
deadline to reduce the shortfall to 3 percent by then.  A U.S. government release on Thursday is forecast to show
the world’s largest economy grew at a 2 percent annualized rate
in the third quarter, compared with a 2.5 percent increase in
the previous three months. Economists predict a report the next
day will show U.S. payrolls climbed by 120,000 in October,
according to a separate survey.  “The U.S. non-farm payrolls at the end of the week will
bring economic matters back in focus, following  interest-rate 
decisions from the  Bank of England  and ECB where no changes are
expected,”  Richard Hunter , head of equities at Hargreaves
Lansdown Plc in  London , wrote in an e-mail.  Benchmark Indexes  National benchmark indexes fell in 14 of the 18 western
European markets. The U.K.’s  FTSE 100 (UKX)  and Germany’s DAX lost 0.3
percent, while France’s CAC 40 retreated 0.8 percent.  BMW slid 2.9 percent to 81.20 euros, its biggest drop since
Aug. 27. The automaker reported a 3.7 percent decline in third-quarter earnings before interest and taxes as spending on
expansion offset stronger demand for the 3-Series sedan.  RSA plunged 6.3 percent to 121 pence, the largest slide in
eight months, after saying wind damage in Europe and adverse
weather in  Canada  will push return on equity below 10 percent
for the year. That compares with a previous target range in
August of 10 percent to 12 percent.  Orange SA (ORA) , the phone company formerly known as  France
Telecom , retreated 3.9 percent to 9.75 euros as Bouygues SA
unveiled a new Internet and calls package for 15.99 euros a
month. The price is “particularly aggressive,” Jacques de Greling, an analyst at Natixis SA, wrote in a report.  Bouygues declined 3 percent to 28.24 euros, the largest
retreat in two months. Orange said it has no plans to change its
pricing structure.  Beiersdorf Advances  Beiersdorf climbed 5.3 percent to 73.44 euros after saying
sales will rise 6 percent to 7 percent this year. The Hamburg-based company had previously forecast revenue would increase 5
percent to 6 percent.  Marks & Spencer Group Plc (MKS) , the U.K.’s largest clothing
retailer, advanced 4.5 percent to 509 pence after reporting the
smallest decline in general-merchandise sales in more than two
years. Sales at stores open at least a year fell 1.3 percent in
the quarter ended Sept. 28, M&S said. That beat the median
estimate of 17 analysts for a 1.5 percent drop.  A gauge of mining companies rose the most among the 19
 industry groups  in the Stoxx 600. Anglo American Plc, owner of
the world’s biggest platinum mine, gained 2.8 percent to 1,536
pence and Glencore Xstrata Plc, the world’s fourth-largest
commodity producer, advanced 1.9 percent to 341.8 pence.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Morgan in Frankfurt at 
 jmorgan157@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  