-- Euro Rallies on Prospects ECB to Hold; Kiwi Rallies
-- B y   A n d r e a   W o n g
-- 2013-11-06T22:09:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-05/euro-lower-before-retail-sales-ecb-kiwi-at-week-high-on-jobs.html
The euro rose against the dollar and
the yen as a gauge showed the region’s services output increased
more than initially estimated, boosting speculation the  European
Central Bank  will refrain from cutting interest rates tomorrow.  The  dollar  fell from almost a seven-week high before data
tomorrow that analysts said will show gross-domestic-product
growth slowed last quarter and as two Federal Reserve research
papers said slack in the economy justified an accommodative
stance. The yen slid as  Japan ’s  Topix Index (TPX)  of shares rose 0.8
percent, damping demand for the currency as a haven.  New
Zealand ’s currency climbed to a two-week high on jobs gains.  “There’s quite a bit of uncertainties ahead of the ECB
meeting,” Brian Daingerfield, a  Stamford , Connecticut-based
currency strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc’s RBS
Securities unit, said in a telephone interview. “There’s some
concern about maybe the market might have gone a little bit too
far with euro weakness ahead of this meeting.”  The euro strengthened 0.3 percent to $1.3513 at 5 p.m. New
York time after declining to $1.3442 on Nov. 4, the weakest
level since Sept. 18. The common currency rose 0.4 percent to
133.31 yen. The dollar strengthened 0.2 percent to 98.66 yen.  The Bloomberg U.S. Dollar Index, which tracks the greenback
against 10 major currencies, dropped 0.3 percent to 1,013.48
after rising to 1,017 on Nov. 4, the highest since Sept. 18.  Kiwi Gains  New Zealand’s dollar, known as the kiwi, strengthened for a
fourth day versus the dollar after  Statistics New Zealand  said
employment in the nation rose 1.2 percent in the third quarter,
compared with a 0.4 percent gain in the previous three months.  The kiwi climbed 0.1 percent to 83.77 U.S. cents after
advancing to 84.15 cents, the highest level since Oct. 24.  India ’s rupee fell the most in two months, and  Indonesia ’s
rupiah fell for a seventh day, the longest losing streak since
August, on concern the Fed will pare stimulus earlier than
anticipated.  “The rupiah is more exposed to the rising Fed tapering
concern because of the weak external balance,” said Saktiandi Supaat, head of foreign-exchange research at  Malayan Banking
Bhd. (MAY)  in  Singapore . “The currency is likely to remain volatile
until the year-end due to the uncertain global environment.”  The rupee fell 1.3 percent to 62.40 per dollar in Mumbai,
biggest drop since Sept. 3. The rupiah declined 0.5 percent from
Nov. 4 to 11,410 per dollar in Jakarta, prices from local banks
show.  ECB Meeting  The ECB will leave its main refinancing rate at a record
low 0.5 percent tomorrow, according to 67 of 70 economists
 surveyed  by  Bloomberg News . Bank of America Corp., Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc and UBS AG predict the ECB will reduce
borrowing costs by 25 basis points to a record.  “The euro was lower in recent sessions because of the
increased expectation the ECB will cut rates tomorrow -- we
don’t think they’re likely to,” Eric Viloria, a senior currency
strategist at Gain Capital Group LLC in New York, said in a
phone interview. “They’ll probably hint at a rate cut in the
future.”  The euro-area  index  of the services industry was at 51.6
last month, London-based Markit Economics said today, exceeding
its initial estimate of 50.9. The gauge has been above 50,
indicating expansion, for three months.  The 17-nation currency may rise to a two-year high if it
holds a key level of support around $1.3412 to $1.3452,
according to MacNeil Curry of Bank of America.  “Euro-dollar is still in an uptrend,” Curry, head of
foreign-exchange and  interest-rates  technical strategy in New
York at Bank of America Merrill Lynch, said today in a phone
interview. “All we’ve done is sell off very aggressively to
previous support. If we take out $1.3835, we have a decent shot
at $1.40,” a level last touched in October 2011.  Fed Stimulus  U.S. gross domestic product grew at a 2 percent annualized
rate in the third quarter, down from 2.5 percent in the previous
three months, according to a Bloomberg survey before the data is
released tomorrow. Nonfarm payrolls rose by 120,000 workers last
month after a 148,000 gain in September, Labor Department
figures may show Nov. 8, based on a separate survey.  The Fed’s policy of seeking to drive down the U.S.
 unemployment rate  is effective, according to two separate papers
by top Fed officials posted on the International Monetary Fund’s
website.  William English , head of the Division of Monetary Affairs,
wrote that the strategy of not raising interest rates if
unemployment is above 6.5 percent had provided effective
stimulus, and that an even lower threshold could be helpful. A
paper by David Wilcox, the research and statistics chief, said
that slack in the economy argued for loose policy at a time of
contained expectations for inflation.  Options Trading  Volume in over-the-counter foreign-exchange options on the
dollar-yen  exchange rate  amounted to $8.1 billion today, the
largest share of currency trades at 22 percent, according to
data reported by U.S. banks to the Depository Trust Clearing
Corp. and tracked by Bloomberg. The total was 2 percent less
than the average trading for the pair for the past five
Wednesdays at a similar time.  Options on the euro-dollar rate totaled $8 billion, or 22
percent of the total, with trading in the pair 21 percent above
average. Total options trading was $37 billion today, from $42
billion yesterday.  The euro strengthened 5.5 percent this year, the best
performer of 10 developed-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The dollar advanced 2.7 percent
and the yen slumped 11 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Wong in  New York  at 
 awong268@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  