-- Levinson Said to Talk With Fortress on Spinoff Hedge Fund
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   R u h l e   a n d   K e l l y   B i t
-- 2013-11-05T16:20:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-05/levinson-said-to-talk-with-fortress-on-spinoff-hedge-fund.html
Adam Levinson, chief investment
officer of  Fortress Investment Group Inc. (FIG) ’s Asia Macro funds, is
in talks with the $58 billion alternative-asset manager about
starting his own hedge-fund firm, according to one person
familiar with the matter.  No decision has been made and a possible spinoff may not
take place until early 2015, said the person, who asked not to
be identified because the information is private. Fortress would
probably own a portion of the firm and provide back-office
support and research, according to the person.  Gordon Runte, a spokesman for New York-based Fortress,
declined to comment on the discussions, as did Levinson.  The move would mark the first time Fortress, the first
publicly traded private-equity and hedge- fund manager  in the
U.S., is seeding a spinoff, said another person familiar with
the matter. Levinson, 43, chief executive officer of Fortress’s
 Singapore  unit, manages $1.8 billion in the Fortress Asia Macro
Fund, which rose 13 percent this year through Oct. 25, one of
the people said. The fund gained 21 percent in 2012, while the
HFRI Macro Index was almost unchanged.  Macro hedge funds seek to profit from macroeconomic trends
by trading currencies, stocks, bonds and commodities.  Tudor, Goldman  Levinson started the Asia-focused macro hedge fund in March
2011 after moving to Singapore, where he works with about 20
others, from  New York . He started at the firm in June 2002 as
co-CIO of the Fortress Macro Funds, which Michael Novogratz,
principal at Fortress, founded and co-runs. That $3.4 billion
flagship hedge-fund strategy rose 10 percent this year through
Oct. 25, according to one of the people, and 18 percent in 2012.  Levinson was previously a fund manager at  Paul Tudor Jones ’s hedge-fund firm Tudor Investment Corp. and a proprietary
trader at Goldman Sachs Group Inc., spending nine years in the
bank’s  Hong Kong , Tokyo and London offices managing portfolios
focused on Group-of-10 and emerging-market risk.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kelly Bit in New York at 
 kbit@bloomberg.net ;
 Stephanie Ruhle  in New York at 
 sruhle2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  