-- Ex-Madoff Workers Seek to Embarrass SEC, Prosecutors Say
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2013-11-06T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-05/ex-madoff-workers-seek-to-embarrass-sec-prosecutors-say.html
Five ex-employees of  Bernard Madoff 
on trial accused of aiding his $17 billion fraud seek to
“embarrass” U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission witnesses
by asking about bungled Madoff audits, prosecutors say.  The questions, to be asked on cross-examination, should be
barred because the SEC employees who will testify began probing
only after Madoff’s arrest on Dec. 11, 2008, and weren’t
involved in earlier reviews that failed to uncover the Ponzi
scheme, prosecutor Randall Jackson said Nov. 4 at a hearing.  The proposed questioning is “pure harassment designed to
attempt to embarrass either the SEC or particular witnesses,”
another prosecutor, Matthew Schwartz, said in a court filing.
“The defendants should not be permitted to turn the trial into
a referendum on the investigatory practices of the SEC.”  The five former employees are accused of helping Madoff
hide his fraud from customers and regulators for years, and
getting rich in the process. It’s the first criminal trial
stemming from the  Ponzi scheme  that prosecutors say started in
the early 1970s and imploded at the peak of the financial
crisis.  U.S District Judge Laura Taylor Swain will decide later
whether to narrow the defense’s cross-examination of SEC staff
or allow the lawyers to explore the agency’s actions to make a
point about their clients, who have all pleaded not guilty. The
U.S. hasn’t said when the SEC witnesses will testify.  “The defendants must be free to explore the full
circumstances of the SEC audits in order to establish that these
audits failed for reasons separate and apart from the charged
conduct,” defense lawyers said Oct. 30 in a letter to Swain
placed in court files.  Five Defendants  The defendants are Annette Bongiorno, who ran the
investment advisory business at the center of the fraud; Joann Crupi, who managed large accounts; Daniel Bonventre, who oversaw
the broker-dealer unit; and computer programmers George Perez
and Jerome O’Hara, who allegedly automated the creation of
millions of fake documents to trick customers and regulators.  The SEC since 1992 missed at least six opportunities to
uncover the world’s biggest Ponzi scheme after assigning
inexperienced lawyers to inquiries, conducting inspections that
were too narrow and failing to press Madoff when catching him in
lies, the agency said in a 2009 internal report about the
failures.  The report, by then-SEC Inspector General H.  David Kotz ,
found the agency failed to make a “thorough and competent”
probe of Madoff’s firm, even after receiving detailed complaints
suggesting its investment returns were impossible.  John Nester , a spokesman for the SEC, declined to comment
on the dispute over questioning of the agency’s witnesses.  Trained Regulators  The five defendants argue they couldn’t have detected a
fraud so sophisticated that it was missed by trained regulators.
The U.S. claims the SEC overlooked the scheme partly because the
defendants conspired to trick the agency, thus making the
failure irrelevant to their guilt or innocence.  Arguments over the scope of such questioning take place
only in court filings or when the jury isn’t present. Swain said
the trial, in its third week of testimony, may last five months.  Madoff, 75, pleaded guilty in 2009 and is serving a 150-year prison sentence in  North Carolina . About half a dozen
others have pleaded guilty since then and are to testify.  The defense argues that the cooperating witnesses, who
haven’t been sentenced, will lie about others to get less time
behind bars.  Defense lawyers are also seeking permission to tell the
jury about the guilty pleas of Madoff co-conspirators who aren’t
testifying in the trial, including Madoff’s brother  Peter Madoff , who worked for the company for decades and is serving a
10-year sentence.  ‘Directly Relevant’  “The evidence of Peter Madoff’s plea and 10-year sentence
is directly relevant to the state of mind and motivation of the
government’s cooperating witnesses,” the defense attorneys said
in their filing. “Obviously, the cooperating witnesses are
seeking desperately to avoid a similar fate.”  The trial continued yesterday with the defense’s cross-examination of David Kugel, one of the former Madoff employees
who pleaded guilty and is cooperating with the U.S. He testified
last week that he gave fake trading data for years to Bongiorno
and Crupi, who are accused of using the information to make fake
customer account statements look real.  Bongiorno’s lawyer, Roland Riopelle, yesterday asked Kugel,
a former trader for Madoff for 38 years who rose to supervise
the trading floor of the broker-dealer unit, whether the
financial markets were doing badly in 2008. Kugel said he was’t
sure.  Lehman Filing  Kugel said he couldn’t remember when Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. filed for bankruptcy and had to be reminded of the
disappearance of Bear Stearns Cos. before recalling the state of
the economy around the time Madoff’s firm collapsed.  Asked by Riopelle if the economic crisis unfolding had
anything to do with his decision to withdraw $3 million from his
inflated Madoff investment account in July 2008, and another
$1.7 million a few months later, and put the money in insured
certificates of deposit at several banks, he said no.  “Better safe than sorry,” Kugel said.  The case is U.S. v. O’Hara, 10-cr-00228, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in New York at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  