-- Texas Hires Patterson to Run Richest College Athletics Program
-- B y   C u r t i s   E i c h e l b e r g e r
-- 2013-11-05T19:50:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-05/texas-hires-patterson-to-run-richest-college-athletics-program.html
The University of  Texas  hired Steve
Patterson as athletic director, bringing him back to the school
where he played basketball and earned undergraduate and law
degrees to run the richest program in college sports.  Patterson, 55, a former executive in the National
Basketball Association and the National Football League who has
been Arizona State’s top sports administrator, will succeed 76-year-old DeLoss Dodds, who is retiring after 32 years.  The hiring of Patterson was announced by the Austin, Texas-based university in a news release. Patterson was picked over
West Virginia Athletic Director Oliver Luck, the Dallas Morning
News said, citing people familiar with the search that it didn’t
identify.  “Steve Patterson emerged as the perfect candidate to build
on Texas’s athletic success and DeLoss Dodds’s legacy,”
University President Bill Powers said in the release. “Steve
helped build an NBA championship team and brought the Super Bowl
game to Houston. Far more important, he’s run a winning program
at  Arizona  State that places students first and is committed to
their lifelong success.”  Patterson has been Arizona State’s vice president for
university athletics since March 2012. He previously was a top
executive with the NBA’s Houston Rockets and Portland Trail
Blazers and the NFL’s Houston Texans, and was president of Pro
Sports Consulting, which helped companies and individuals that
operated or wanted to acquire sports properties.  He’ll assume control of the richest college athletic
program in the U.S., with revenue of $163.3 million in fiscal
2011-12, according to the school’s financial reports.  Last Championship  The Texas football team is 6-2 this season, 5-0 in the Big
12 conference to top the standings with No. 6 Baylor (7-0, 4-0).
The Longhorns last played for the national title in 2009, losing
to  Alabama , 37-21.  Texas upset No. 15 Oregon State in last year’s Alamo Bowl
in San Antonio, Texas, 31-27. Among the issues Patterson will
face are the futures of football coach Mack Brown and basketball
coach Rick Barnes, ESPN said.  Dodds built the Texas athletic department to its current
state; formed the Longhorn Network, a television channel
anchored by the school’s sports programs; and spent more than
$400 million on facility upgrades.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Curtis Eichelberger in Wilmington at 
 ceichelberge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup in  New York  at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  