-- Mexico Parties Said to Seek Oil License Contracts in Bill
-- B y   N a c h a   C a t t a n   a n d   A d a m   W i l l i a m s
-- 2013-11-05T23:16:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-05/mexico-parties-said-to-seek-oil-license-contracts-in-bill.html
Mexico ’s two largest parties reached
a preliminary accord that would give companies more control in
new oil field contracts than the government is proposing, said
three people with direct knowledge of the agreement.  The ruling PRI and opposition PAN parties will support a
new measure to allow the state to decide the type of contracts
to be offered for each project, including service contracts,
profit and production sharing and licenses, two of the people
said, asking not to be identified as talks are private. Like the
concession model proposed by PAN, licenses would grant broader
operational control of projects than the govenment’s initial
profit-sharing model and allow companies to manage oil directly.  President Enrique Pena Nieto is seeking to end a 75-year
state monopoly on pumping crude and to attract investment from
companies like  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  and  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  to boost the
$95 billion industry. The government says the bill, now before
the Senate, would lift economic growth 1 percentage point by
2018 and help state-run Petroleos Mexicanos return to output
growth.  “If the bill that Congress decides is a bit more
aggressive in terms of legal structures beyond profit sharing,
or production sharing or licenses, we’re ready for that,” Chief
Executive Officer Emilio Lozoya said in an Oct. 31 interview.
“What we have been advocating as the sole operator in the
country is whatever legislation gives long-term legal certainty
to investors.”  Representatives of the PAN and PRI parties didn’t
immediately respond to requests for comment.  Political Landscape  Third-quarter crude production of 2.506 million barrels per
day was 1.6 percent lower than the same period a year earlier.
Pemex, as  Petroleos Mexicanos  is known, lost 39.2 billion pesos
($3.05 billion) in the third quarter.  Allowing companies to explore and drill for gas and oil in
Mexico requires a constitutional amendment that could only pass
with a two-thirds majority in both the lower house and Senate.  The PAN, Mexico’s largest opposition party, along with Pena
Nieto’s  Institutional Revolutionary Party , or PRI, and its
allies, have enough votes to approve a charter change. Both
parties have said talks are advancing in congress on an
electoral reform that the PAN has said is a requirement for it
to pass an energy bill. The third-largest party, the Democratic
Revolution Party, is against a constitutional change in energy.  Pena Nieto presented his energy overhaul Aug. 12 that
limited contracts to risk-sharing accords with cash payments.
The PAN presented its own version in July that offers
concessions, allowing companies to book reserves directly on
balance sheets. The preliminary agreement will seek to have as
many contract options as possible, including those where
producers are paid with oil, the three people said.  Biggest Reserves  Mexico has the biggest proven oil reserves in  Latin America 
after Venezuela and  Brazil , with 13.87 billion barrels, and
shale-gas resources that may be as much as 460 trillion cubic
feet, according to data compiled by Pemex.  Pemex is interested in raising capital through real-estate
trusts, known as Fibras, or structured securities known as CKDs,
as soon as the first quarter of 2014, Pemex’s Lozoya said.  Without a reform, Pemex would need an estimated $1 trillion
of investment for extraction of prospective reserves in the next
50 years, Lozoya said. To do so, current annual investment must
be increased to $62 billion from $25 billion.  Analysts forecast 2013 economic growth of 1.24 percent this
year after a 3.9 percent expansion in 2012, according to a
central bank monthly survey published Nov. 1.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nacha Cattan in Mexico City at 
 ncattan@bloomberg.net ;
Adam Williams in Mexico City at 
 awilliams111@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net ;
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  