-- Mexico Peso Falls Most in Two Weeks as Fed Concern Sinks Demand
-- B y   B e n   B a i n
-- 2013-11-05T16:22:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-05/mexico-peso-falls-most-in-two-weeks-as-fed-concern-sinks-demand.html
Mexico ’s peso declined as U.S.
service industry growth added to concern that the Federal
Reserve will curtail a record stimulus program that has buoyed
emerging-market assets.  The currency depreciated 1 percent to 13.1289 per U.S.
dollar at 10:07 a.m. in Mexico City, the biggest drop on a
closing basis since Oct. 23. Yields on benchmark peso bonds
maturing in 2024 climbed nine basis points, 0.09 percentage
point, to 6.11 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The peso slipped along with most emerging-market currencies
today after a U.S. report showed service industries expanded in
October at a faster pace than forecast. Mexico sends almost 80
percent of its exports to its northern neighbor.  “For the economic growth of Mexico this is good news,”
 Rafael Camarena , an economist at Grupo Financiero Santander
Mexico SAB in Mexico City, said in a telephone interview. “But
in the very short term, what the market might be reading
possibly is that the Federal Reserve has to review its monetary
stimulus programs.”  The record stimulus from U.S. policy makers helped push
foreign holdings of Mexican fixed-rate government bonds to an
all-time high last month, according to central bank data.  Mexico Deputy Finance Minister  Miguel Messmacher  said today
in an interview with Radio Formula that he sees a
“significant” growth boost in 2014 from legal changes that the
government is trying to push through Congress.  The government has cut its 2013 growth forecast for Latin
America’s second-biggest economy to 1.7 percent from a 3.5
percent projection at the the start of the year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Bain in Mexico City at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  