-- ExlService Falls After Confidentiality Breach
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r   a n d   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2013-11-05T21:20:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-05/exlservice-falls-after-confidentiality-breach.html
ExlService Holdings Inc. (EXLS)  tumbled the
most since its 2006 public offering after losing a deal with
 Travelers Cos. (TRV)  that accounted for almost 10 percent of revenue
because of a failure to protect the insurer’s confidential data.  ExlService, which provides offshore business-process
services, plunged 20 percent to $23.36 at 4 p.m. The company has
dropped about 12 percent this year.  The vendor said yesterday that Travelers ended a contract
after ExlService’s employees shared a confidential document
externally. Travelers accounted for 9.6 percent of ExlService’s
 revenue  in the three months through Sept. 30. The end of the
agreement may lower the New York-based company’s revenue by $14
million to $28 million next year, according to a filing
yesterday.  The announcement “could create a PR issue for EXLS and
freeze its deal pipeline in the near term,” analysts at
JPMorgan Chase & Co. led by Tien-tsin Huang, said in a research
note today, using the company’s ticker symbol. They reduced
their rating on the shares to underweight from neutral. The
analysts “recommend investors avoid the stock until more
clarity is gained on the potential fallout of such a loss.”  ExlService said it fired employees involved in the
confidentiality breach, without saying how many were involved.
The company also said it’s required to provide Travelers with
“disentanglement services” at its own expenses for as long as
18 months. Patrick Linehan, a spokesman for New York-based
Travelers, the lone property insurer in the  Dow Jones Industrial
Average , declined to comment yesterday on the filing.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zachary Tracer in  New York  at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net ;
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  