-- MF Global Trustee Can Distribute 100% of Customer Funds
-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 2013-11-05T21:49:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-05/mf-global-trustee-can-distribute-100-of-customer-funds.html
MF Global Inc.’s trustee will get
court approval to complete distributions to former customers of
the failed brokerage, allowing all missing funds to be returned
by the end of the year.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Martin Glenn said today he’s prepared
to approve a plan to make the final determination of what 26,000
former customers are owed and distribute the money to them. The
motion will ensure customers are paid by Dec. 31, satisfying all
claims more than two years after the brokerage failed.  ``That’s quite an accomplishment,’’ Glenn said at a hearing
in  Manhattan . At the outset of the case, nobody thought that
customers would recover everything they lost, he said.  MF Global Holdings Ltd., the brokerage’s parent company,
filed for bankruptcy on Oct. 31, 2011, after a wrong-way
$6.3 billion bet on bonds of some of  Europe ’s most indebted
nations. The company listed assets of $41 billion and debts of
$39.7 billion. More than $1.6  billion in customer funds that
should have been segregated were missing.  The trustee, James Giddens, marshaled more than
$5.3 billion in assets from MF Global’s former exchanges and
depositaries, which he said were clearly customer property. He
has already made interim distributions to customers. The final
distributions will require him to advance funds from the
company’s general bankruptcy estate.  General Creditors  Determining what customers are owed will establish the size
of the estate for general creditors, allowing them to be repaid
as well, Giddens told Glenn, adding that $3 billion in customer
claims have yet to be resolved.  James Kobak, a lawyer for Giddens, said there is only
$837 million in the general estate, and he hopes the amount will
be “fortified” by further recoveries. The only potential
source of more recoveries is a lawsuit brought by customers that
claims mismanagement led to its downfall.  Giddens’s request to distribute 100 percent of what
customers are owed had support from the U.S. Commodity Futures
Trading Commission and representatives of the ex-customers who
sued MF Global’s former managers.  The defendants in that case, including former auditor
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, ex-New Jersey Governor and onetime
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. Co-ChairmanJon Corzine, and senior
executives Bradley Abelow and Henri Steenkamp, objected to the
distributions.  Shortfall Finding  The distributions will improperly allow Giddens to assign
funds that could be part of general creditors’ estate and
require the court to find that there is a shortfall in the
customers’ estate of at least $632 million, lawyers for PwC and
the defendants said in court papers.  Glenn said Corzine and others can make what arguments they
want before a district court judge, and he didn’t want to
delay customer distributions.  The CFTC has said that PwC, Corzine and the other
defendants shouldn’t be able to use money that would flow to
creditors to cover the damages they caused to former customers.
The defendants ’ objection relies on a misinterpretation of CFTC
rules that would allow them to indemnify themselves against such
damages using assets that belong to general creditors, the CFTC
said in court papers.  The holding company’s Chapter 11 case is In re MF Global
Holdings Ltd., 11-bk-15059,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern
District of  New York  (Manhattan). The liquidation of the broker
is In re MF Global Inc., 11-bk-02790, in the same court.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at 
 adunn8@bloomberg.net  