-- FAA Rules Make Pilot Training More Real to Limit Crashes
-- B y   A l a n   L e v i n
-- 2013-11-05T18:25:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-05/faa-rules-make-pilot-training-more-real-to-limit-crashes.html
Airline pilots will get more
realistic and expanded simulator training under the most
significant revision to U.S. aviation-safety regulations in 25
years.  Pilots will receive more instruction on hazards such as
recovering when planes go out of control, handling cross winds
and working together as a team, under a rule U.S. transportation
regulators adopted to attack the biggest killers in aviation,
the  Federal Aviation Administration  said today.  “Today’s  rule  is a significant advancement for aviation
safety and U.S. pilot training,” U.S. Transportation Secretary
Anthony Foxx said in a release.  Congress ordered some provisions of the rule following a
2009 crash near Buffalo that killed 50 people when a pilot
misunderstood a cockpit warning and began a series of violent
maneuvers that sent the plane plummeting. Family members of the
victims had pushed for the rule changes and Foxx praised their
efforts.  The rule, which had been under development at FAA since
2004, is also a response to recommendations by the U.S. National
Transportation Safety Board. The NTSB had called for many of the
training enhancements in findings it issued after accidents,
including the Feb. 12, 2009, crash of the regional turboprop
approaching Buffalo operated by Pinnacle Airlines Corp.’s former
Colgan unit.  $689 Million Saved  FAA Administrator Michael Huerta is also summoning airline
safety officials to  Washington  on Nov. 21 to discuss how to
voluntarily make additional safety improvements.  “While the rule marks a major step toward addressing the
greatest known risk areas in pilot training, I’m also calling on
the commercial aviation industry to continue to move forward
with voluntary initiatives to make air-carrier training programs
as robust as possible,” Huerta said in a release.  The FAA estimated the rule changes would cost airlines from
$274 million to $354 million, while saving $689 million by
preventing accidents and deaths.  Airlines had said the proposal should be scrapped because
it would be more costly than FAA predicted, according to public
comments by the Washington-based trade group Airlines for
America. Much of the safety benefits the FAA sought have already
occurred because of other technology improvements, the group
said.  The FAA studied 178 U.S. airline accidents from 1988 to
2009 linked to pilot deficiencies that killed 492 and seriously
injured 196, according to its original 2011 proposal.  Stall in Flight  The rule is aimed at pilot-induced crashes such as when a
functioning plane goes out of control, the largest killer in
commercial aviation around the world from 2003 through 2012,
according to an analysis by  Boeing Co. (BA)  Such accidents killed
1,698 people during that time, nearly twice as many as the next
category and more than one-third of all 4,408 deaths.  The NTSB and  France ’s Office of Investigations and Analysis
have found in recent accidents that pilots couldn’t recover from
aerodynamic stalls, which cause a plane’s wings to lose lift and
plunge, because they hadn’t been adequately trained in
simulators.  Like the Colgan flight crew, a pilot on  Air France (AF)  Flight
447, which went down in the Atlantic Ocean on June 1, 2009,
killing 228 people, pointed the plane’s nose skyward in response
to a cockpit alarm, causing it to stall and then fall into the
ocean. The correct response to a stall is to push a plane’s nose
down, increasing speed and airflow over the wings.      Advances
in mathematical models used for simulators allowed them in
recent years to accurately replicate a stall, opening the door
to new training, Lou Nemeth, chief safety officer at simulator
manufacturer  CAE Inc. (CAE)  of  Canada , said in an interview last year.  Teamwork Encouraged  While the FAA’s rule won’t apply to airline pilots outside
the U.S., other nations often follow the agency’s lead. Other
recent accidents, such as the July 6 crash of an  Asiana Airlines
Inc. (020560)  plane attempting to land in  San Francisco , also are focused
on pilot actions. Three people died when the plane struck a
seawall short of the runway. The NTSB hasn’t issued its findings
on the accident.  Other provisions of FAA’s rule require more realistic
training that puts captains and co-pilots together in a
simulator. In addition to traditional pilot skills, they will be
taught how to better monitor another pilot who is at the
controls, according to the release.  The training is one of several efforts to improve how
pilots handle stalls and a loss of control. The FAA in 2012
issued an advisory for pilots on how to recover from such
events.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Levin in Washington at 
 alevin24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  