-- Failure to Cut Carbon Seen Keeping Dirty Plants Operating
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2013-11-05T09:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-05/failure-to-cut-carbon-seen-keeping-dirty-plants-operating.html
Failure to tackle excessive
greenhouse-gas output threatens to keep polluting power stations
and factories operating for decades to come, raising the costs
of tackling climate change beyond 2020, the  United Nations  said.  At best, greenhouse-gas output by the end of this decade
will be about 18 percent above levels needed to contain warming
to 2 degrees Celsius (3.6 Fahrenheit) since industrialization,
the UN Environment Program said today in a report.  There’s growing evidence that the planet will struggle to
keep warming to safe levels. UN scientists said in September
that humans have already emitted more than half the carbon
compatible with the 2-degree target. Diplomats guiding climate-treaty talks since 1991 say a new deal planned for 2015 is
unlikely to put the Earth on the necessary path.  “There is a real need for increased ambition by all
countries: ambition which can take countries further and faster
toward bridging the emissions gap and a sustainable future,”
 Christiana Figueres , executive secretary of the UN Framework
Convention on Climate Change, said in a statement.  The UNFCCC, which guides international climate
negotiations, has scheduled the next round for Nov. 11-22 in
Warsaw as countries work toward a new global deal in 2015 in
Paris. Figueres and her predecessors Yvo de Boer and Michael
Zammit Cutajar have said that a 2015 accord alone is unlikely to
put the planet on a 2-degree pathway.  Emissions Outlook  Assuming governments and companies stick to their business-as-usual spending on low-carbon projects, emissions will rise to
59 gigatons (59 billion tons) in 2020, today’s report shows.
That’s 1 gigaton more than the UN estimated a year ago and
compares with the 50 gigatons emitted in 2010. A 44-gigaton
level is needed in 2020 to keep to the 2-degree goal, UNEP says.  Even if all nations meet pledges to cut emissions by 2020,
the total level will still be 8 gigatons to 12 gigatons too
high, UNEP said. That would lead to longer use of polluting
plants such as coal-fired power stations, and a greater
dependence on unproven technologies after 2020 to bring
emissions down more steeply, it said.  “Delayed actions means a higher rate of  climate change  in
the near term and likely more near-term climate impacts, as well
as the continued use of carbon-intensive and energy-intensive
infrastructure,” UNEP Executive Director Achim Steiner said in
the statement. “This ‘lock-in’ would slow down the introduction
of climate-friendly technologies.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  