-- Fifth Third Names CFO as SEC Seeks Ban on Predecessor
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   D e x h e i m e r   a n d   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k
-- 2013-11-06T05:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-05/fifth-third-names-new-cfo-as-sec-seeks-1-year-ban-on-predecessor.html
Fifth Third Bancorp (FITB)  said the U.S. is
seeking to ban former interim finance chief Daniel T. Poston
from practicing before securities regulators for one year after
finding accounting irregularities tied to commercial loans.  The dispute concerns how Fifth Third,  Ohio ’s biggest bank,
accounted for certain loans in 2008, the Cincinnati-based
company said yesterday in a statement. Former Treasurer Tayfun Tuzun was appointed chief financial officer, effective Oct. 31,
and Poston was named chief strategy and administrative officer,
the lender said.  “This is obviously an agreement in principle that we hope
to achieve closure to as soon as possible,” Larry Magnesen, a
bank spokesman, said in a phone interview. Poston’s role change
is “not a demotion” and he will continue reporting to Chief
Executive Officer Kevin Kabat, Magnesen said.  Poston is in discussions that would require him, “without
admitting or denying any factual  allegations ,” to agree to a
cease-and-desist order, a civil money penalty, and a one-year
ban from practicing before the SEC, according to the statement.
Under such a ban, Poston would no longer represent the company
in any interactions with the SEC.  Fifth Third, also without admitting or denying any factual
allegations, would consent to a finding that the company didn’t
properly account for a portion of its commercial real estate
loan portfolio and pay a penalty. The amount, which wasn’t
specified, would be covered by reserves, the lender said.  Magnesen said Poston had no comment, and Poston didn’t
respond to an e-mailed request for an interview.  John Nester , an
SEC spokesman, declined to comment.  Classifying Loans  The SEC, which began its probe about three years ago, has
been investigating whether some of Fifth Third’s loans should
have been designated as held-for-sale in the third quarter of
2008, at the height of the financial crisis, instead of the
fourth quarter of that year, the company said. Reclassifying
loans as held-for-sale instead of held-to-maturity means the
assets have to be marked to market.  In August, Fifth Third restated second-quarter results,
saying earnings were $12 million less than previously reported
as it added to a reserve for  litigation  costs. The company sees
no need to restate 2008 results, Magnesen said.  Fifth Third climbed 1.6 percent to $19.14 yesterday in  New
York  and has advanced 26 percent this year, outpacing the 25
percent gain for the KBW Bank Index of 24 U.S. lenders.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Dexheimer in New York at 
 edexheimer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  