-- Freddie Mac Said to Sell $630 Million of Risk-Sharing Securities
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   D e R e z a
-- 2013-11-05T21:35:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-05/freddie-mac-said-to-sell-630-million-of-risk-sharing-securities.html
Freddie Mac , the government-controlled mortgage-finance company, issued $630 million of
securities in its second sale of notes tied to the risk of
homeowner defaults at a lower cost than in its initial offering.  The transaction includes $245 million of securities that
Moody’s Investors Service grades Baa1 and Fitch Ratings ranks
BBB-. Those notes were sold at floating yields of 1.45
percentage points more than the one-month London interbank
offered rate, according to a person with knowledge of the deal.
In the company’s July deal, the safest types of bonds it sold
offered a spread of 3.4 percentage points.  U.S. regulators see sales of the debt by McLean, Virginia-based  Freddie Mac (FMCC)  and competitor  Fannie Mae (FNMA)  as a way to reduce
the roles of the two taxpayer-backed companies and assess
whether they are charging enough to guarantee their traditional
mortgage bonds. The risk-sharing deals also resemble provisions
in legislation introduced this year that would overhaul the $9.3
trillion U.S. mortgage-finance system. The bill, by Senators  Bob Corker , a Republican from Tennessee and Democrat Mark Warner of
Virginia, was praised by President  Barack Obama .  A riskier, unrated $385 million portion of the Freddie Mac
deal was sold today at a spread of 4.25 percentage points,
according to the person, who asked not to be named because they
weren’t authorized to speak publicly about the transaction. That
compares with 7.15 percentage points for similar debt sold in
July.  Fannie Mae  completed its inaugural offering of $675 million
of risk-sharing notes last month.  A rally in the securities sold earlier by the companies
lost steam last week as Freddie Mac prepared to add to supply in
the market. The riskier of bonds sold in its July deal fell to
117.3 cents on the dollar as of 2:38 p.m. in  New York , from
118.5 cents on Oct. 30, according to Trace, the bond-price
reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jody Shenn in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net , or
Christopher DeReza in New York at 
 cdereza1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  