-- Freemans Feeds, Tailors Wall Street, Stars, Hip Techies
-- B y   J a m e s   T a r m y
-- 2013-11-05T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-05/freemans-feeds-tailors-wall-street-stars-hip-techies.html
Taavo Somer owns the Freemans empire
downtown: He’s got a clothing store, a barbershop, four
restaurants and a creative agency, all of which help make
flannel, jeans and facial hair ubiquitous.  He’s not through yet:  Freemans Sporting  Club now offers a
bespoke suit division, and they’re almost doubling the space of
their Lower East Side store.  Somer is also opening a retail space on Dean Street in
Brooklyn this month, and a bar in his compound in early 2014.  I met with him outside of  Barbershop , his newly renovated
tonsorium on Rivington Street. Wearing a blue button-down shirt,
dark jeans, a blue bandanna across his forehead and a gold Rolex
Submariner, he toured me through the operation.  Tarmy: How many people work for you?  Somer: I don’t know. I’m going to guess probably 350? Our
Christmas parties are pretty packed.  Tarmy: Has your company grown past your ability to manage
everything directly?  Somer: The concept behind Friends and Family, my creative
agency, is to build a collective where I’m behind it, but other
people are experts. We have a 7,500-square-foot shop on Dean
Street in  Brooklyn  which we’re making into our office, woodshop,
and a retail space.  Bespoke Suits  Tarmy: Why bespoke suits?  Somer: We’d been doing suiting with  Martin Greenfield 
tailors for eight years, so we had an established customer base
willing to spend $2,500 or $3,500 for a made-to-measure suit.  Bespoke suits cost $4,000 to $5,000. So when we introduced
them, it was sort of a no-brainer for our customers to evolve
from made-to-measure to bespoke.  Right now our tailor has about 90 of them in production. We
can do about 20 suits a month.  Tarmy: Who are your customers?  Somer: We get a lot of artists and actors, film stars, food
critics, guys in tech and obviously people on  Wall Street .  Tarmy: You’re also expanding ready-to-wear?  Somer: We have the Freemans suit, which retails for $1,250.
We sold about 100 online in the first few weeks of May. That’s
where we see our future in the tailoring sector.  Tarmy: What’s your company’s overall gross?  Somer: Somewhere between $14 million and $20 million.  Tarmy: Is a large part from your restaurants?  Somer: Freemans is definitely an engine. But the barbershop
is also a good revenue source. And our margin is around 75% on
tailored apparel.  No Reservations  Tarmy: Both  Freemans  and  Peels  refuse to take reservations.
Will that ever change?  Somer: We take reservations for six or more, and at  Isa ,
our restaurant in Williamsburg, we’re a little bit more
flexible.  But it’s a fine line. We have to encourage walk-ins.  Tarmy: My friends have begun to revolt -- if they’re told
to wait more than 20 minutes, they just find somewhere else.  Somer: I’ve worked the door at Isa and at Freemans. Back in
2005, people would gladly wait an hour and a half, two hours.
Now at Isa, if I say it will be 10 minutes it’s like I just shot
their dog.  Tarmy: The other backlash is against noise. People are
beginning to stand up to unbearable decibel levels.  Too Quiet  Somer: There are a million details that go into a
restaurant or any sort of retail space. We think about
acoustics, but if it’s too quiet people complain because you
feel like you’re in a library or a stodgy country club.  Tarmy: Sure. But there’s a difference between a pleasant
murmur and having to scream to be heard by people next to you.  Somer: Even at Freemans there’s a fabric wall that no one
even notices -- behind the wall we have an inch and a half of
sound absorbing, really gross product that everyone hates.  Tarmy: Would you do something like that at Peels?  Somer: Maybe we can do an open-source design experience.
Let all of the critics make a data room where they can design
their perfect restaurant and see what comes out of it.  They’d probably all complain about it once it’s finished.  (James Tarmy is a reporter/writer for Muse, the arts and
culture section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer responsible for this story:
James Tarmy at 
 jtarmy@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 