-- G4S Drops on `Challenging' Business Prospects in Europe
-- B y   N a t a s h a   D o f f
-- 2013-11-05T10:16:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-05/g4s-drops-on-challenging-business-prospects-in-europe.html
G4S Plc (GFS)  fell the most in two months
after the world’s biggest security-services provider said nine-month revenue failed to rise in developed markets because of
sluggish European economies and lower U.S. government spending.  G4S dropped as much as 3.5 percent, the steepest intraday
slide since Aug. 28, and was trading down 3 percent at 246.5
pence as of 10:13 a.m. in London. The decline was the sixth
biggest on the  FTSE 100 (UKX)  index of the U.K.’s biggest companies.  Group organic revenue, which excludes acquisitions or
disposals, rose 4.8 percent as sales in emerging markets jumped
14 percent, more than making up for lack of growth in developed
economies, Crawley, England-based G4S said in a statement.
Business will remain “challenging” in Europe and the U.S. in
the fourth quarter, it said. G4S separately outlined plans to
reorganize as many as 35 underperforming divisions.  “The company has to make steady progress on trading and
demonstrate that it is making the right moves” in business
strategy “to make strong progress with the share price,”
analysts at Whitman Howard Ltd. said today in an e-mail.  The 17 nations sharing the euro emerged as a group from an
18-month recession in the second quarter, though the economies
of some countries, including Italy and  Greece , have continued to
shrink. A partial U.S. government shutdown last month amid a
budget dispute has prompted economists to scale back fourth-quarter growth forecasts for the country.  Business Strategy  G4S has focused on adding business in  emerging markets ,
which now account for more than 40 percent of group earnings.  The company has a target of increasing organic sales by 5
percent to 8 percent a year, and it’s studying operations to
make sure they’re achieving goals, G4S said.  “We’ve identified 35 businesses which today are
underperforming or lack materiality, not only today, but when we
look forward to 2016 as well,” Chief Executive Officer Ashley Almanza said today on a conference call. “Our goal is to
perform a closer, more detailed review of those businesses to
determine whether or not we can grow them to a material scale,
we can restructure them, or alternatively, recycle the capital
to other parts of the business” with better earnings prospects.  The company has suffered a series of blows to its
reputation in the U.K. over the past year. Almanza replaced Nick Buckles as CEO in June after the security services provider
failed to provide enough guards for last year’s  London  Olympics.
The U.K. Serious Fraud Office has opened a criminal
investigation into G4S over allegations the security services
provider overcharged for electronic monitoring services,
including billing for dead people. Almanza reiterated today that
G4S is cooperating with the probe.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natasha Doff in London at 
 ndoff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Risser at 
 drisser@bloomberg.net  