-- Gay Maine Candidate’s Coming Out May Help Topple LePage
-- B y   A n n i e   L i n s k e y
-- 2013-11-05T17:58:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-05/gay-maine-candidate-s-coming-out-may-help-topple-lepage.html
Paul LePage,  Maine ’s Republican
governor, stridently opposed last November’s referendum that
legalized same-sex marriage in his state and later used a crude
reference to sodomy to criticize an adversary. Now, he’s in
danger of losing his job next year to an opponent who revealed
his homosexuality yesterday in a newspaper article.  The declaration by Democratic U.S. Representative Michael Michaud, a leading contender in the 2014 election for governor,
keeps Maine -- known for lobster, vacation spots and sober
politics -- in the vanguard of America’s swift cultural shift.
Residents in 2010 elected LePage, a favorite of Tea Party groups
who promised to tell President  Barack Obama  to “go to hell.”
Two years later, same-sex marriage won by popular vote. Next
year, the state may elect the first openly gay governor.  Michaud, 58, who represents the more rural of Maine’s two
districts, made his sexual preference known yesterday in an op-ed piece he sent to the state’s three largest newspapers. In it,
he accused opponents of engaging in a whisper campaign against
him.  “They want people to question whether I am gay,” he
wrote. “Yes, I am. But why should it matter?” Local media
reported that he told his mother only hours before the article
was published.  ‘Personal Decision’  In an interview with the  Portland  Press Herald, Michaud,
who is from a Catholic family, elaborated on why he made the
announcement.  “It’s a personal decision,” he said. “It’s one I wish I
didn’t have to make. I thought it was important for me to let
the people of the state of Maine know upfront.”  A Michaud victory would be another in a mounting list of
successes for the gay-rights movement, including one yesterday
when the U.S. Senate agreed to vote on banning workplace
discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation.  This year, the U.S. Supreme Court struck down the Defense
of Marriage Act, a 1996 law that kept the federal government
from providing benefits to same-sex couples. The number of
states allowing gay marriage has more than doubled in the past
year to 14, including New Jersey, where Republican Governor
Chris Christie declined to fight a court ruling allowing it.  ‘Moving Forward’  “The country is moving forward in acceptance toward our
community in an extraordinarily rapid way,” said Marc Solomon,
the national campaign director for Freedom to Marry, a New York-based gay-rights organization. “There is some real pride a lot
of people have in showing that America is an open and accepting
place.”  Michaud’s disclosure makes him the seventh openly gay
member of the U.S. House of Representatives. The Senate’s Tammy Baldwin, a Wisconsin Democrat, is gay. Among local officials,
Houston Mayor Annise Parker, who leads the country’s fourth-biggest city, is a lesbian. If he wins, Michaud could be the
first openly homosexual person elected to governor in the U.S.  In  Maryland , where Democratic state Representative Heather Mizeur is an openly gay candidate for governor, the Democratic
establishment is rallying behind Lieutenant Governor Anthony Brown.  In Michaud’s campaign, being gay could be an asset rather
than a liability, according to political analysts. He’s well
known and liked in the northern reaches of the state, which he
has represented for a decade, yet he has had trouble generating
enthusiasm from Democrats in Portland and southern counties.  “Mike is seen as a fairly conservative guy,” said Dennis Bailey, who was a spokesman for U.S. Senator Angus King, a
political independent, when King was governor. “In the southern
district, where voters tend to be more liberal, Mike was viewed
with some suspicion. This helps secure those voters.”  Voter Support  Losing traditional supporters in the north isn’t a large
concern because of the depth of Michaud’s popularity in his
district, Bailey said. Besides, he said, rumors that Michaud was
gay had long circulated in state politics.  LePage, 65, won in 2010 with 38 percent of the vote in a
five-way race. The governor dropped in voter surveys after a
summer of verbal misfires, including alluding to sodomy while
criticizing Democratic lawmaker Troy Jackson, who opposed him
during a budget battle.  “Senator Jackson claims to be for the people, but he’s the
first one to give it to the people without providing Vaseline,”
LePage told a local television station.  Next year’s ballot will have three major candidates. LePage
is running, as is Eliot Cutler, an independent. Cutler, 67, came
in second in 2010, taking 36 percent of the vote.  An August survey by Public Policy Polling in Raleigh, North
Carolina, had Michaud with 39 percent, LePage with 35 percent
and Cutler with 18 percent, with a 3.2 percentage point margin
of error. Obama, a Democrat, won the state twice.  Early Positioning  “Cutler had been trying to run to Michaud’s left and show
that Michaud is inadequately progressive on social issues,”
said Amy Fried, who teaches politics at the University of Maine
in Orono. “This announcement undercuts that.”  Cutler’s campaign said in a statement that Michaud’s
declaration “has no bearing whatsoever on a candidate’s
qualifications to be governor.”  Brent Littlefield, a political adviser to LePage, had no
comment.  Mill Worker  Analysts said Michaud would lose any advantage if his
campaign dwells on the issue.  “He is not going to be the ‘gay candidate,’” said Bailey,
the president of Savvy Inc., a political consulting firm in
Portland. “He will work very hard to be the mill worker from
northern Maine. His intent is to get this out early and be done
with it. I don’t think Mike will be raising the rainbow flag
anytime soon.”  Another benefit for Michaud could be fundraising. The
measure to approve same-sex marriage in Maine drew $8.8 million
from groups backing gay rights, according to the National
Institute on Money in State Politics, a Helena, Montana-based
nonprofit that tracks spending on ballot questions. The 2012
initiative won with 51 percent of the vote, overturning a ban
backed by 53 percent of voters in 2009.  Support from national gay-rights groups came quickly.  “We applaud congressman Michaud and look forward to
working with him in the future,” said Chuck Wolfe, chief
executive officer of the Washington-based Gay & Lesbian Victory
Fund.  The group raised $4 million last year for gay and lesbian
candidates, according to Jeff Spitko, a spokesman.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Annie Linskey in Boston at 
 alinskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  