-- Nazi-Seized Stash in Munich Includes Unknown Chagall, Dix
-- B y   E v a   v o n   S c h a p e r   a n d   C a t h e r i n e   H i c k l e y
-- 2013-11-05T15:12:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-05/german-authorities-searched-munich-art-apartment-in-2012.html
A stash of art uncovered in a Munich
apartment includes works that were previously unknown, among
them a Marc Chagall gouache and a self-portrait by  Otto Dix , the
art historian examining them said.  The cache of more than 1,400 paintings, lithographs,
drawings and prints was seized by authorities investigating
Cornelius Gurlitt on suspicion of  tax evasion  in a three-day
operation in March 2012. It includes works by  Max Beckmann ,
 Pablo Picasso , Oskar Kokoschka, Franz Marc,  Pierre-Auguste Renoir  and Max Liebermann, prosecutors said.  Some works were seized by the Nazis from German museums,
while others may have been sold by Jewish owners under duress,
said Meike Hoffmann, the investigating art expert. She declined
to comment on estimates valuing the stash at 1 billion euros
($1.35 billion). Reinhard Nemetz, the Augsburg chief prosecutor,
said authorities won’t publish a list of the art online.  “We would prefer to have people coming to us to tell us
which pictures they are missing than making them public and
having 10 claimants for each one,” Nemetz said at a news
conference today in Augsburg.  Aryan Vision  The Nazis seized more than 20,000 modern artworks that they
saw as “degenerate,” or contrary to Aryan ideals, from German
museums. They also stole hundreds of thousands of artworks from
Jewish families.  “How are we supposed to know if pictures belonging to our
clients are among them if they don’t publish the list?” said
Fritz Enderlein, a lawyer representing the heirs of Robert
Graetz, a Jewish collector who was murdered at Auschwitz.  The trove also includes a long-lost Courbet painting that
was auctioned in 1949 and a Franz Marc landscape with horses,
Hoffmann said. A Matisse is known to have been seized in  France 
from the Rosenberg family, she said.  An Ernst Ludwig Kirchner was confiscated from Mannheim by
the Nazis, and the trove also includes an Albrecht Duerer
engraving and a 16th-century painting, she said. Other artists
represented include August Macke, Emil Nolde, Carl Spitzweg and
Henri de Toulouse-Lautrec, prosecutors said.  Nazi Law  The Nazis auctioned the “degenerate” artworks they seized
from museums starting in 1938. The museums have no legal
recourse to claim the works because a Nazi law allowing their
seizure without compensation has never been repealed.  “These are not a case for restitution,” Hoffmann said.  Cornelius Gurlitt was held by officials investigating
possible  money laundering  during a random check on a train from
 Switzerland  to Munich on Sept. 22, 2010. That investigation led
to his home on Feb. 28, 2012.  The 90-square-meter Munich apartment is where Gurlitt kept
the artworks handed down by his father, Hildebrand, according to
Focus magazine, which first reported the story. Investigators
said the paintings were all in one room, stored correctly in a
special-purpose cabinet. Hoffmann said they need cleaning but
are otherwise in good condition.  Garbage Piles  The investigators declined to comment on Focus magazine’s
description of piles of garbage and outdated food packets in the
apartment. Gurlitt, who reports said is 80, didn’t answer phone
calls to his Salzburg home.  Based in Hamburg before World War II, Hildebrand Gurlitt
(1895-1956) was one of just four art dealers permitted by the
Nazi authorities to sell artworks seized as “degenerate” from
German museums from the end of 1938 to 1941.  Though they were instructed to sell them abroad for hard
currency, the four passed many on to fellow German dealers or
kept them for themselves, according to the Free University’s
“Degenerate Art” website.  Nemetz said prosecutors are investigating whether the works
were misappropriated and are considering whether to turn around
the burden of proof of ownership because of “inconsistencies in
some of the documentation.” He said some documents suggested
paintings found in the apartment had been sold.  Authorities are not currently in touch with Gurlitt and he
has not been arrested, Nemetz said. The investigations are
“legally and factually time-consuming and complex, and are
taking time,” he said.  Muse highlights include  Martin Gayford  on European art,
 Greg Evans  on U.S. television,  Amanda Gordon’s  Scene Last Night
and  Philip Boroff  on U.S. theater.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eva von Schaper in Munich at 
 evonschaper@bloomberg.net  or
Catherine Hickley in Berlin at 
 chickley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 