-- German Economic Model Wins Backing in Merkel Coalition Talks
-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a   a n d   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2013-11-05T15:37:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-05/german-economic-model-wins-backing-in-merkel-coalition-talks.html
Chancellor Angela Merkel’s bloc and
the Social Democratic Party checked foreign affairs off their
coalition-talks agenda after settling the outlines of European
policy.  The two sides agree “that the export strength and
competitiveness of the German economy as well as strength of
domestic demand are important for our country,” Hermann Groehe,
the general secretary of Merkel’s Christian Democratic Union,
said after negotiators met in Berlin today. “We encourage
others to work on their competitiveness.”  The CDU, its Christian Social Union Bavarian affiliate and
the SPD broadly agree on  Germany ’s international role, including
the importance of ties with the U.S.,  France  and Germany’s
eastern neighbor  Poland , where relations have taken “an
encouraging turn,” Groehe told reporters.  Merkel, who won Germany’s biggest election victory since
1990 on Sept. 22, is building her third-term agenda around an
alliance with the SPD that she aims to seal by mid-December.
Contentious topics such as the national minimum wage demanded by
the SPD, budget priorities and Cabinet posts have yet to be
resolved.  The three parties have a “high level of commonality” on
the economy and restricting  arms exports , Groehe said.
Differences persist in the “vision of where we want Europe to
be headed,” Andrea Nahles, the SPD’s general secretary, said at
the joint news conference.  No financing is agreed yet, said Alexander Dobrindt, her
CSU counterpart. “We know that the financial room for maneuver
is tight” and Germany needs “stable finances,” he said. All
policy matters that involve financing will be considered
separately, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net ;
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  