-- Gibson Dunn, Cravath on Tri Pointe Deal: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2013-11-05T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-05/gibson-dunn-cravath-on-tri-pointe-deal-business-of-law.html
Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher LLP counseled
 Tri Pointe Homes Inc. (TPH) , a developer backed by investor Barry Sternlicht, in its deal to buy  Weyerhaeuser Co. (WY) ’s residential
real estate unit in a transaction valued at about $2.7 billion.  Cravath, Swaine & Moore LLP was counsel to Weyerhaeuser.  Gibson Dunn corporate partner Michael Flynn led the team,
which included partners Scott Knutson, tax; Sean Feller,
executive compensation and employee benefits; James Moloney, co-chairman of the firm’s securities regulation and corporate
governance practice group; Meryl Young, co-chairwoman of the
firm’s securities litigation practice group; and Robert Palmer,
securities litigation.  The Cravath team included partners Richard Hall and Erik R. Tavzel, mergers and acquisitions, as well as partners James C. Vardell III on banking and Andrew J. Pitts on securities.  Allen Matkins Leck Gamble Mallory & Natsis LLP’s Keith
Bishop and Drew Emmel provided company counsel for Tri Pointe.
Delaware counsel for Tri Pointe Homes was Rolin Bissell of Young
Conaway Stargatt & Taylor LLP.  The deal will be structured as a tax-free Reverse Morris
Trust, Weyerhaeuser said yesterday in a statement. Weyerhaeuser
shareholders will receive 130 million shares, which is 80.5
percent of the combined company, while  Irvine , California-based
Tri Pointe, a residential-property developer, will get 19.5
percent. Weyerhaeuser, a Federal Way, Washington-based owner of
U.S. timberlands, will also get about $700 million in cash.  Weyerhaeuser, which owns more than 6 million acres of
timberland, said in June that it would explore alternatives for
the unit, which is called Weyerhaeuser Real Estate Co.
Weyerhaeuser agreed that month to acquire Longview Timber LLC
for $2.65 billion to add woodlands in Oregon and Washington.  Tri Pointe, 38 percent owned by Sternlicht’s Starwood
Capital Group LLC, in January became the first U.S. homebuilder
to go public since 2004. Sternlicht will remain Tri Pointe’s
chairman, according to yesterday’s statement.  The Weyerhaeuser deal will add about 27,000 lots in  Texas ,
 Arizona ,  California ,  Nevada  and other states to Tri Pointe’s
assets and make it one of the 10 largest homebuilders in the
U.S., according to a separate statement from Tri Pointe. The
transaction is expected to close by the end of June.  For more, click here.  News  U.K. Business Lawsuits Rise as Lehman Claims Deadline Looms  U.K. business lawsuits increased 23 percent in the past
year as lawyers try to beat a 2014 deadline to bring claims
related to the financial crisis.  Cases filed at  London ’s Commercial Court, where most
business disputes in the British capital are heard, reached
1,393 in the year ended Sept. 30,  Reynolds Porter Chamberlain
LLP  said in a statement.  Most legal disputes over contractual claims in the U.K.
must be filed within six years of an alleged breach. RPC, based
in London, said claims rose because it has been more than five
years since the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in
September 2008 roiled financial markets worldwide.  “The financial crisis exposed businesses to huge losses on
everything from complex financial transactions to the most
straightforward of commercial agreements,” said Geraldine
Elliott, a lawyer at RPC. “A lot of businesses are very busy
looking for ways to unpick transactions that lost their business
large sums of money after Lehman Brothers collapsed.”  An increase in wealthy foreigners bringing disputes to
London has also contributed to the rise, the report said.  Ukrainian billionaire Victor Pinchuk filed a suit in
London’s High Court in May against two other magnates from his
country over shares in an iron ore company. Russian billionaires
Roman Abramovich and Oleg Deripaska both defended claims brought
by former business partners at the U.K. courts in 2012.  Florida’s Crist Says He Wants to Reclaim Governor’s Office  Charlie Crist,  Florida ’s former Republican governor who
fled the party to become a Democrat, told supporters he wants to
reclaim the office next year, setting up a campaign-spending
spree that may eclipse the more than $100 million spent in
2010’s record-breaking race.  Crist, a lawyer at Tampa-based Morgan & Morgan, said at a
rally in St. Petersburg yesterday that he wants to oust his
successor, Republican Governor Rick Scott, whose approval rating
in Quinnipiac University polls has been below 50 percent since
he was elected in 2010. Crist, 57, said he would fight for the
middle class, and described Scott as beholden to lobbyists and
big businesses.  Scott, a former chief executive officer at  HCA Holdings
Inc. (HCA) , has raised more than $18.7 million for next year’s race.
As he traveled to  Japan  on Nov. 2 for a trade mission, his re-election committee spent more than $500,000 on a two-week blitz
of television ads targeting Crist.  The larger states of California, Texas and New York are
more predictably Democratic or Republican. That makes Florida,
the fourth-most-populous in the nation, a barometer. Donors from
across the U.S. plan to pour resources into its governor’s race,
to lay the groundwork for the next presidential election.  Scott listed his net worth at $218 million in 2010 and
$83 million in a disclosure report this year. Crist listed his
net worth at about $441,500 just before leaving office in
January 2011. He entered the race Nov. 1 and has yet to file a
new disclosure.  For more, click here.  Firm News  Ropes & Gray Global M&A Co-Leader Lidbury Relocates to Asia  James Lidbury, co-leader of Ropes & Gray LLP’s mergers and
acquisitions practice, relocated to Hong Kong to enhance
services to private-equity investors and corporations pursuing
cross-border investments and combinations involving Asia, the
firm said in a statement.  Lidbury has led Ropes & Gray’s Chicago office since it
opened more than five years ago. He has experience in M&A and
private equity, advising clients on mergers and leveraged
buyouts.  Over the past year, he has focused particularly on advising
clients on Asia deals, including representing a Blackstone-led
buyer group in the $625 million going-private transaction of
Nasdaq-listed, Beijing-based Pactera Technology International
Ltd., the firm said.  “Global investors are dedicating more resources to
investment opportunities in the Asia-Pacific Region,” Lidbury
said in a statement. “We have been encouraged by clients to do
the same and I hope to complement our deeply experienced and
talented Asia-based team with the U.S. legal and business
perspective that I can bring to the table.”  Ropes & Gray opened a Hong Kong office five years ago. The
firm opened in  Shanghai  two years ago and also has offices in
 Tokyo  and  Seoul .  Ropes & Gray has more than 1,100 lawyers and professionals
at offices in Asia, London and the U.S.  Moves  Manatt Hires Government Lawyer as President of Consulting Arm  Manatt, Phelps & Phillips LLP announced that former
government lawyer Michael C. Camuñez joined the firm as
president of ManattJones Global Strategies LLC, its consulting
unit.  He will also be a partner in the law firm’s government and
regulatory policy division, working in the  Washington ,  Mexico 
City and Los Angeles offices.  Camuñez held federal government positions from 2009 to 2013
including, most recently, assistant secretary of commerce for
market access and compliance in the International Trade
Administration at the U.S. Commerce Department.  In that role, he oversaw six regional and policy deputy
assistant secretaries and a staff of more than 220 international
trade specialists responsible for bilateral trade and investment
relations with more than 180 countries, the firm said.  He played a critical role in rebalancing U.S. economic
policy toward Mexico, leading efforts to update and modernize
initiatives to deepen U.S.-Mexico trade and investment, the firm
said. He also worked concurrently as a commissioner on the U.S.
Helsinki Commission.  Before joining the Commerce Department, Camuñez was a
senior member of the White House staff, where he was special
counsel to the president in the Office of the White House
Counsel. Before his government work, Camuñez was a partner at
O’Melveny & Myers LLP.  “Having someone of Michael’s caliber and unique
experience in the political, legal, economic and international
arenas is a major coup for Manatt,” George David Kieffer,
chairman of the government and regulatory policy division, said
in a statement. “His work in the Obama administration advising
on international trade policy gives him insight and perspective
into cross-border business that will be a tremendous asset to
our clients.”  Manatt has lawyers at offices in California, New York and
Washington.  Paul Hastings Lands U.K. Real Estate Partner David Ryland  Paul Hastings LLP announced that U.K. real-estate partner
David Ryland joined the London office. He was previously at SJ
Berwin, which officially merged with King & Wood Mallesons on
Nov. 1.  Ryland specializes in commercial real estate matters with
an emphasis on U.K. and European property funds, property
finance, hotel transactions and development, the firm said.  “The synergies between his practice and our own give us
many opportunities to add to the comprehensive service we
already offer to our clients in Europe,” Philip Feder, chairman
of the global real estate department at Paul Hastings, said in a
statement.  Paul Hastings has lawyers at offices in Asia, Europe, and
the U.S.  Former SEC Assistant Director McTiernan Joins Hogan Lovells  Hogan Lovells  LLP announced that Michael McTiernan joined
its corporate practice as a partner. He previously worked for
the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission in the Division of
Corporate Finance, most recently as assistant director of the
real estate group.  McTiernan has experience in federal securities law
compliance issues for real estate investment trusts and other
public companies. He will focus his practice on advising REITs
and other real estate companies on securities matters, including
in connection with initial public offerings, follow-on
offerings, mergers and acquisitions, periodic reporting and
corporate governance matters, and representing underwriters, the
firm said. He also will advise public companies in other sectors
on general securities law issues.  “Mike’s extensive experience and in-depth knowledge of the
securities-law issues impacting the REIT industry is a terrific
complement to our well-established REIT practice,” Warren Gorrell, co-chief executive officer of the firm, said in a
statement.  Hogan Lovells has more than 2,500 lawyers in more than 40
offices in the U.S., Europe, Latin America, the Middle East and
Asia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  