-- Glaxo to Lupin Fight Traders to Revive Margins: Corporate India
-- B y   A d i   N a r a y a n   a n d   K e t a k i   G o k h a l e
-- 2013-11-06T04:36:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-05/glaxo-to-lupin-fight-traders-to-revive-margins-corporate-india.html
Drugmakers from  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK) 
to  Lupin Ltd. (LPC)  are grappling with Indian distributors, whose
demand for maintaining commissions threatens to erode profits
after the South Asian nation imposed price controls.  Talks are under way after traders temporarily boycotted
some treatments until their demands were met, Nilesh Gupta,
managing director of Lupin, a maker of anti-tuberculosis
medicines, said in an interview. Distributors want the terms of
their commission to be restored after drugmakers slashed margins
for traders following India’s move to cap prices of 348
essential remedies.  Drugmakers may resort to new medicines and vaccines that
don’t face caps to revive margins in the world’s second-most
populated nation. India’s $12 billion drug market shrank for the
first time in September, after growing at an average 7.2 percent
in the first eight months of the year, according to data from
the  All India Organization of Chemists & Druggists .  Wholesalers “were going slow, there were boycotts, they
selectively decided to boycott companies,” Lupin’s Gupta said
in a phone interview. “They’ve basically been giving us and
other companies a pretty hard time, and that kind of messed up
the order flow.”  India ’s government in December announced details of a
policy aimed to make drugs more affordable. The policy set the
prices of the essential medicines at the average of all brands
that have a market share higher than 1 percent.  ‘Given Back’  Retailers and wholesalers receive a proportion of the
drug’s retail price as their commission. Traders say that
drugmakers reduced the percentage value of their fees while
cutting prices as mandated by the government.  “Without telling us, without giving us any notice, they
have reduced our margin,” Jagannath Shinde, president of the
pharmacists’ trade body, said Oct. 18. “Our margin has been
snatched, and we are asking that it be given back.”  Glaxo’s Indian unit  Glaxosmithkline Pharmaceuticals Ltd. (GLXO) ’s
profit is estimated to have dropped for a second straight
quarter after the price of its best-selling antibiotic treatment
 Augmentin  fell more than 40 percent, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. More than a third of the company’s domestic
portfolio falls under price control now, from about 23 percent
earlier, according to an Aug. 8 report from Tata Securities Ltd.  Most Affected  Net income is projected to have fallen 15 percent to 1.29
billion rupees ($21 million) in the three months ended Sept. 30,
according to the  median  of 14 analysts’ estimates compiled by
Bloomberg. The Mumbai-based company will report third-quarter
earnings on Nov. 11.  Glaxo’s  shares  have risen 14 percent this year. They fell
0.7 percent to 2,465.05 rupees as of 10:01 a.m. in Mumbai.
Lupin, which earned 27 percent of its  revenue  from India in the
year ended March 31, has advanced 44 percent this year.  “The multinationals are affected the most from the drug
pricing rules because all their business comes from domestic
sales,” Hitesh Mahida, an analyst at Fortune Equity Brokers
India Ltd., said in an interview. “Indian companies have a lot
of exports that offset any impact from the local business.”  When prescribing medication, Indian doctors typically refer
to brands rather than chemical names. Pharmacists are prohibited
from substituting one generic for another, even if it’s cheaper,
so drugmakers try to persuade doctors to think of their brands
first.  Price Range  About 90 percent of prescriptions are generics, which the
manufacturers seek to differentiate with unique names -- making
them branded generics.  Ranbaxy Laboratories Ltd. (RBXY) , the unit of
 Japan ’s Daiichi Sankyo Co., sells its version of Glaxo’s
Augmentin as Moxiclav, while Cipla Ltd. markets it as Novamox,
and Mankind Pharma Pvt. retails it as Moxikind. Before the
government’s price controls took effect, Augmentin was among the
nation’s top three best selling drug by revenue.  Prices of the brands can differ by as much as 75 percent
for 10 tablets, according to drug encyclopedia MIMS. A pack of
six tablets of Augmentin used to cost about 250 rupees earlier
this year, before it was reduced to 142 rupees after the
government policy took effect.  An e-mail seeking comment sent to Rupali Kalav, a
spokeswoman for Glaxosmithkline Pharmaceuticals in Mumbai,
received an automated out-of-office reply.  Revenue from India’s 50 largest drug makers dropped 1.8
percent in September, according to the  AIOCD .  Drug sales will recover in the next few months, AIOCD’s
Shinde said. The pharmacists’ trade organization is working with
drugmakers to restore their commissions to the earlier levels,
and an agreement is expected to be reached soon. As many as 40
companies have restored the fees, he said.  Market Share  Glaxo’s market share in India fell to 3.8 percent in
September from 4.2 percent in June, while that of Pfizer Inc.’s
Pfizer Ltd. and Wyeth Ltd. units combined slipped to 2.7 percent
from 2.8 percent in the same period.  Sun Pharmaceutical
Industries Ltd. (SUNP) , owned by billionaire Dilip Shanghvi, saw its
share grow from 5.1 percent to 5.5 percent.  The price controls have affected companies selling
antibiotics, pain killers and treatments for acute conditions,
said Surya Narayan Patra, an analyst at Phillip Securities Ltd.
in Mumbai. Companies such as Sun and Lupin, that focus more on
medicines for long-term conditions like diabetes and heart
disease, were less affected, and are hence more valued by
investors, he said.  “In pharma itself, investors are selectively playing” on
these stocks, Patra said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Adi Narayan in Mumbai at 
 anarayan8@bloomberg.net ;
Ketaki Gokhale in Mumbai at 
 kgokhale@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  