-- Goldman Sachs Asia Fund Chairman Bolitho to Leave Company
-- B y   B e i   H u
-- 2013-11-05T12:14:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-05/goldman-sachs-asia-fund-chairman-bolitho-to-leave-company.html
Oliver Bolitho, chairman of Goldman
Sachs Group Inc.’s fund management division in  Asia , is leaving
after 15 years at the company, according to an internal memo.  Bolitho will become an advisory director after his
retirement at the end of the year, according to the Nov. 4 memo
obtained by Bloomberg. Christopher Jun, a spokesman for Goldman
Sachs in Seoul, confirmed the contents of the memo.  Bolitho, a U.K. citizen, served as head of Goldman Sachs’s
U.K. and Irish institutional business from 2001 until moving to
Hong Kong in 2007 to run the fund business in Asia outside of
 Japan . A partner since 2008, Bolitho became chairman of Goldman
Sachs Asset Management last year.  His departure comes almost a year after Goldman Sachs Asset
Management moved Sheila Patel to  Singapore  from  London  to lead
the fund business in Asia outside of Japan and said that Bolitho
would report to Patel.  Goldman Sachs had $878 billion of assets under management
as of Sept. 30, according to the New York-based company’s third-quarter earnings report. The company doesn’t report how much of
that is in Asia.  AsianInvestor, a Hong Kong-based trade journal, reported
Bolitho’s pending departure on its website earlier today.  Goldman Sachs Asset Management runs hedge funds, private
equity and real estate investments alongside those in fixed
income, stocks, money markets and commodities, according to its
 website . The unit employs more than 700 investment specialists
in 32 offices worldwide.  Goldman Sachs agreed to  buy  Benchmark Asset Management Co.,
India’s largest provider of index-tracking funds, in March 2011,
after setting up its own mutual-fund unit in the country in
2008.  It also teamed up with  RHB Capital Bhd. (RHBC) , Malaysia’s fifth-largest banking group, in 2010 to jointly develop fund
management products.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bei Hu in  Hong Kong  at 
 bhu5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  