-- Green Plains Jumps After Buying Two Plants From BioFuel
-- B y   L u c i a   K a s s a i
-- 2013-11-05T22:09:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-05/green-plains-jumps-after-buying-two-plants-from-biofuel.html
Green Plains Renewable Energy Inc. (GPRE) ,
the fourth-largest U.S. ethanol maker, rose the most in three
months after buying two plants from  BioFuel Energy Corp. (BIOF)  for
$101 million.  BioFuel, backed by investors David Einhorn and Daniel Loeb,
is selling the plants in Fairmont,  Minnesota , and Wood River,
 Nebraska , Green Plains said in a statement today. The combined
capacity of the two distilleries is 220 million gallons a year,
or about 14,000 barrels a day.  Green Plains soared 85 cents, or 5.7 percent, to settle at
$15.72 in New York, posting the biggest gain since July. The
shares have almost doubled in 2013. BioFuel sank 58 cents, or 18
percent, to $2.66, the largest decline in almost two years. The
shares are down 28 percent in 2013.  “It looks like an interesting acquisition given the
valuation implied,” said Matthew Farwell, a New York-based
analyst at Imperial Capital LLC who holds an outperform
 recommendation  on Green Plains. “The ethanol margin environment
has improved due to the full corn harvest and ethanol’s discount
to gasoline increased the appeal to blenders.”  BioFuel will transfer the plants to a group of lenders
represented by First National Bank of Omaha as part of a
defaulted loan of about $170.5 million of principal, according
to the statement and  information  on its website. After the
transfer is concluded, Green Plains will buy the plants from the
group of lenders, according to the statement.  Hedge fund Greenlight Capital Inc., led by co-founder
Einhorn, is Biofuel’s largest  shareholder  with a 26.2 percent
stake, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Third Point LLC,
headed by Loeb, owns 19.2 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucia Kassai in Houston at 
 lkassai@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  