-- Li Says China Needs 7.2% Expansion to Maintain Job Growth
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-11-05T09:44:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-05/li-says-china-needs-7-2-expansion-to-create-jobs-as-party-meets.html
Premier  Li Keqiang  said  China  needs
7.2 percent growth to keep unemployment stable and signaled
reluctance to widen the  budget deficit  or ease monetary policy
to ensure expansion.  Expansion at that pace would create 10 million jobs a year
to maintain the urban registered jobless rate at about 4
percent, Li said in an Oct. 21 speech to the All-China
Federation of Trade Unions published yesterday on its website.
China’s  growth  has entered a stage of medium-to-high speed,
meaning about 7.5 percent or above 7 percent, Li said.  The comments, consistent with other government statements
this year, provide more context for targets in the coming years
ahead of the Communist Party’s four-day conclave starting Nov. 9
that will consider reforms aimed at maintaining the pace of
growth. Leaders are entering the summit with the economy on an
upswing, indexes of manufacturing and services in October show.  “Using the deficit and issuing money to stimulate
investment can produce results that year, but corresponding
operational room is needed to implement fiscal and monetary
policies,” Li said. “More importantly, this kind of short-term
stimulus is hard to sustain.”  A July commentary from the official Xinhua News Agency said
China needs growth of at least 7.2 percent to keep urban
unemployment at about 5 percent, citing “authoritative”
estimates. Li told economists that 7 percent is the “bottom
line” and the nation can’t allow growth below that, the Beijing
News reported that same month.  Extinguish Fire  Speaking about the money-market liquidity crunch in June,
Li said in the Oct. 21 speech that the government didn’t panic
and stuck to fiscal and monetary policies. Widening the deficit
and loosening  money supply  would have been like “trying to
extinguish a fire with wood” and may have resulted in bigger
difficulties, he said.  Citing the nation’s outstanding M2  money supply  of more
than 100 trillion  yuan  ($16 trillion) as of March, about double
gross domestic product, Li said that “there’s a lot of money in
the ‘pool’ and issuing more money may lead to inflation.”  A  gauge  of China’s service industries improved in October,
HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics said today, two days
after the government said its non-manufacturing  Purchasing
Managers ’ Index rose to the highest level this year.  Separately today, the People’s Bank of China said the
nation will maintain a “prudent” monetary policy. Inflation
may accelerate in the fourth quarter and China can’t be
“blindly optimistic” about prices, the central bank said today
in a third-quarter monetary-policy report.  The consumer-price  index  rose 3.1 percent in September from
a year earlier, the fastest pace since February, according to
previously reported data.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Scott Lanman in Beijing at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net ;
Regina Tan in Beijing at 
 rtan87@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  