-- Liberty Global Quarterly Loss Widens as Investments Suffer
-- B y   K r i s t e n   S c h w e i z e r   a n d   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2013-11-06T11:28:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-05/liberty-global-posts-wider-quarterly-loss-as-investments-suffer.html
Liberty Global Plc (LBTYA) , the cable company
controlled by billionaire  John Malone , reported a wider
quarterly loss after debt and interest expenses grew.  The net loss widened to $830.1 million, or $2.09 a share,
from $22.4 million, or 8 cents, a year earlier, the London-based
company said in a statement yesterday. Revenue rose 74 percent
to $4.37 billion, missing analysts’ $4.42 billion average
estimate, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Liberty Global blamed the loss on its investments in
derivative instruments, as well as higher expenses from interest
and income taxes. Malone said in July that he’s willing to take
on debt to expand his European operations because he expects the
cost of paying back loans to decline as economies improve and
inflation rates rebound from crisis levels. The company
generated about 90 percent of its  revenue  from Europe last year.  Interest expenses increased to $605.7 million from $351.8
million a year earlier while debt and lease obligations more
than doubled to $854.1 million from $363.5 million, the company
said. Losses from derivative investments, investments that can
be used to hedge risk, rose to $675 million from $569.9 million.
Earnings last year were helped by a sale of interest in Austar
United Communications in the second quarter.  Liberty Global shares  fell as much as 1.7 percent to $74.74
in extended trading after the close in New York. The stock had
climbed 21 percent this year.  Virgin Media  As part of the company’s expansion,  Liberty Global  bought
the U.K.’s Virgin Media Inc. this year. Dutch pay-TV provider
 Ziggo NV (ZIGGO)  said last month it rejected a takeover offer from
Liberty Global, and Malone’s company was outbid for Germany’s
 Kabel Deutschland Holding AG (KD8)  by  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  in June.  Liberty Global maintained its stock-buyback program during
the merger campaign, repurchasing $500 million worth of shares
last quarter.  “We remain on track to complete our two-year target for
$3.5 billion of buybacks by mid-2015,” Chief Executive Officer
Mike Fries said in yesterday’s statement.  Liberty Global added 314,000 subscribers last quarter. That
beat the 223,000 additions that  Vijay Jayant , an analyst with
ISI Group, predicted. Customer additions in western Europe are
improving as competitive pressures in some markets abate and the
company lost fewer analog cable TV customers than expected,
Jayant said in a note to investors.  U.K. Subscribers  Higher sales of triple-play packages, which combine phone,
TV and  Internet service , contributed to customer additions,
Liberty Global said.  In the U.K., Virgin Media lost 6,800 customers after  BT
Group Plc (BT/A)  began offering free access to premium sports programs
for its broadband customers. TV and phone customers fell by
12,600 and 24,400 respectively, while 30,200 signed up for
Internet service, Virgin Media said in a statement on its
 website . An agreement to offer BT Sport channels to Virgin
customers helped mitigate losses.  Liberty Global said it expects to recognize as much as $360
million in cost savings from the deal, double its initial
forecast.  Liberty Global agreed on Oct. 28 to sell its Chellomedia
international content unit to  AMC Networks Inc. (AMCX) , the owner of
the U.S. cable-TV channel that broadcasts “Breaking Bad” and
“Mad Men,” for 750 million euros ($1 billion), as Malone’s
company focuses on acquiring rivals in Europe and building out
network capacity.  In September, Liberty Global was the first cable company to
team up with subscription-video service  Netflix Inc. (NFLX) , allowing
the streaming site to be included on the  Virgin Media  platform
in the U.K. Netflix later signed similar deals with cable
operators in Sweden and Denmark.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kristen Schweizer in London at 
 kschweizer1@bloomberg.net ;
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  