-- Miliband Says Cost of Living to Decide U.K. 2015 Election
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2013-11-05T11:35:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-05/miliband-says-cost-of-living-to-decide-u-k-2015-election.html
Ed Miliband, the leader of the U.K.’s
opposition Labour Party, said the 2015 general election will
turn on the cost of living, pointing to his own pledges to hold
down energy bills and encourage companies to pay higher wages.  In a speech in  London , Miliband summarized his party’s
pledges to cap energy bills, interest rates on unsecured loans,
rail fares and real-estate fees. He also repeated a promise to
offer a tax break to companies that pay the non-statutory
“living wage,” which is set by academics at Loughborough
University.  “We have to permanently restore the link between growth
and living standards for all of Britain’s working people,”
Miliband said. “Growth without national prosperity is not
economic success.”  Miliband’s party is leading Prime Minister David Cameron’s
Conservatives by about 7 percentage points in opinion polls,
with about 18 months to go until the next election. While
Britain’s economic recovery has been accelerating this year,
average annual earnings growth has slowed to 0.7 percent, less
than a tenth of the rate by which energy suppliers have raised
their prices in the past few weeks.  “The next general election will offer a big choice -- a
choice about whether we tackle the cost-of-living crisis or
shrug our shoulders,” Miliband said. “There is a Tory vision
for Britain that has low expectations for what most people
should be able to expect. Payday lenders can prey on the
vulnerable, millions of families see stagnating living
standards, energy companies can just carry on as they are,
ripping off consumers. My vision is different.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  