-- Imperial Tobacco Annual Profit Little Changed Amid Price Hikes
-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g   a n d   M a t t h e w   B o y l e
-- 2013-11-05T07:11:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-05/imperial-tobacco-annual-profit-little-changed-amid-price-hikes.html
Imperial Tobacco  Group Plc,  Europe ’s
second-biggest tobacco company, said full-year profit was little
changed as the maker of Davidoff cigarettes increased prices to
combat falling shipments in Europe.  Adjusted operating profit was 3.18 billion pounds ($5.1
billion) in the 12 months ended Sept. 30 from 3.16 billion
pounds a year earlier, the Bristol, England-based company said
today in a statement. That compares with the 3.19 billion-pound
average estimate of 12 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Imperial Tobacco  shares  have fallen almost 3 percent this
year compared with an 11 percent gain for the MSCI World Tobacco
Index, held back partly by the company’s lack of an electronic
cigarette offering or other nicotine replacement products,
according to Berenberg Bank analyst  Erik Bloomquist . Imperial
agreed to acquire Dragonite Ltd.’s electronic cigarette unit in
September for $75 million.  The company forecast  “modest” 2014 earnings per share
growth at constant rates of currency exchange and that it will
increase its dividend by at least 10 percent.  Investor sentiment toward Imperial Tobacco has been weighed
down by concern that e-cigarettes will continue to encroach on
traditional cigarettes in mature markets, Bloomquist said.  Rival  British American Tobacco Plc (BATS)  this year introduced its
own e-cigarette, called Vype, in the U.K. and is awaiting
approval for an aerosol-based nicotine delivery device that
could go on sale in the country as soon as next year.  Philip Morris International Inc. (PM)  plans to sell cigarettes
which heat, rather than burn tobacco in another four years. It
also has plans for more traditional e-cigarettes.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Boyle in London at 
 mboyle20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  