-- India’s Mars Probe Lifts Off in Race to Beat China to Planet
-- B y   A n d r e w   M a c A s k i l l   a n d   G a n e s h   N a g a r a j a n
-- 2013-11-05T11:28:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-05/india-s-mars-probe-lifts-off-in-race-to-beat-china-to-red-planet.html
India  began its first mission to
Mars, seeking to beat  China  to the red planet and showcase the
South Asian nation’s push for technological development.  A rocket blasted off at 2:38 p.m. local time from southern
Andhra Pradesh state carrying a satellite that Indian scientists
plan to put into orbit around Mars, a feat only the U.S.,  Europe 
and  Russia  have achieved. The journey of about 423 million miles
(680 million kilometers) will take almost a year, according to
the  Indian Space Research Organization .  “In September 2014 we expect this spacecraft to be around
Mars, and the challenge then is to precisely reduce the velocity
and get into the orbit,” ISRO’s Chairman  K. Radhakrishnan  said
after the launch. Accomplishing the mission would be a turning
point for the country, he’s previously said.  Mangalyaan, which means “Mars craft” in Hindi, is
orbiting the Earth initially before heading to the red planet to
investigate the Martian surface and atmosphere. Prime Minister
 Manmohan Singh  has rebuffed critics who say a poor country such
as India can ill-afford the project’s 4.5 billion-rupee ($73
million)  price tag , arguing that technological advances bolster
development prospects.  About half of the more than three dozen missions to Mars
over the last five decades have failed, according to  NASA .  The mission aims to map the Martian surface, study the
atmosphere and search for methane gas, a sign that the planet
can support life, according to the ISRO, a government agency.  ‘Trickle Down’  Radhakrishnan said there would be a “trickle down” of
technology from the research and design of the orbiter that will
benefit the economy.  India spends about $1.1 billion a year on its space
programs, compared with $17.9 billion in the  U.S .  Japan  failed
in its 1998 bid to send a satellite to orbit Mars. China’s probe
failed about two years ago.  Two-thirds of India’s 1.2 billion people live on less than
$2 a day. The country has the world’s highest percentage of
malnourished children except for  East Timor , according to the
2012 Global Hunger Index.  The nation launched its first space rocket in 1963 and its
first satellite in 1975. An unmanned mission to the moon that
ended in 2009 showed water formation there may be ongoing.  India and China have become competitors in the space
industry over the past decade. China has taken the lead, putting
its first woman astronaut into space as it strives toward goals
such as establishing a manned space station. India’s satellites
form one of the largest communications systems in the world.  While few officials will admit it, there is a race for
“space-related power and prestige” in  Asia  and India is
concerned about China’s rise, according to  James Moltz , a
professor at the Naval Postgraduate School in Monterey,
 California .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew MacAskill in  New Delhi  at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net ;
Ganesh Nagarajan in Chennai at 
 gnagarajan1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Ten Kate at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net  