-- Ineos-Solvay PVC Venture Said to Face In-Depth EU Probe
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e   a n d   A n d r e w   N o e l
-- 2013-11-05T12:22:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-05/ineos-solvay-pvc-joint-venture-said-to-get-in-depth-eu-probe.html
Ineos Group Holdings and  Solvay SA (SOLB) ,
Europe’s two biggest makers of polyvinyl chloride, face an in-depth European Union probe into their 4.3 billion-euro ($5.8
billion) PVC merger, two people familiar with the matter said.  The European Commission will decide to extend its
competition review by 90 working days before today’s deadline,
according to the people who didn’t want to be identified because
the decision isn’t public. The companies’ offer to sell a PVC-production plant in  Germany  wasn’t sufficient to alleviate
regulatory concerns, the people said.  The proposed combination, announced in May, would allow the
enlarged business to cut costs in areas from transport to
marketing and raise profitability amid a European industry
suffering from inflated raw material and energy costs. The PVC
market is facing overcapacity and weak demand in Europe,
prompting companies in the labor-intensive and power-hungry
industry to explore mergers. Solvay has said it plans to exit
the PVC venture at a later stage.  “A lot of jobs downstream depend on PVC, and the industry
is going through a very tough time,” said Paul Hodges, chairman
of International EChem, which advises chemical companies on
strategy. “It’s a perfect storm domestically in Europe, with a
combination of high oil prices and construction being in a bad
way, whilst U.S. producers have an enormous feedstock advantage
in export markets due to shale gas.”  Solvay shares fell 1.4 percent to 115.35 euros in Brussels
trading, as of 1:10 p.m.  Possible ‘Benefits’  Caroline Jacobs, a spokeswoman for Solvay in Brussels, said
the company was confident that EU regulators would ultimately
approve the deal. The commission “may require” that the
benefits of the commitments “be demonstrated in a phase 2
review,” she said.  Richard Longden , a spokesman for Rolle, Switzerland-based
Ineos, declined to immediately comment. Antoine Colombani, a
spokesman for the commission, the EU’s antitrust authority,
declined to comment on the decision.  Strategic Value Partners LLC’s Vestolit GmbH was among
bidders for the Ineos plant in Schkopau, Germany, that the
companies offered to sell, two people said last month. The site
is valued at about 60 million euros, they said.  With low energy and raw-material costs in the U.S., there’s
also scope for players there to transport semi-finished vinyl
materials to Europe for final processing at local plants. U.S.
companies in the industry include Westlake Chemical Corp.  “In terms of potential buyers, the best fit is clearly
with a European player,” Hodges said. “With Kem One out of the
running due to their administration, Vestolit have an obvious
interest as an existing German producer with currently just the
Marl site.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net 
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  