-- Liquidity Drought Allayed in Fed-Fueled Trading: Credit Markets
-- B y   L i s a   A b r a m o w i c z
-- 2013-11-05T15:42:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-05/liquidity-drought-allayed-in-fed-fueled-trading-credit-markets.html
Corporate bond trading volumes are
surging the most since 2008 as buyers wager they’ll be able to
reap more gains before the Federal Reserve starts tapering
stimulus that’s fueled a record rally in the debt.  Average daily  trading  of investment- and speculative-grade
debt surged to $19.5 billion in October, up 18 percent from the
previous 90-day period, according to  Trace (NTMBIV) , the bond reporting
system of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority. The
 Bloomberg USD High Yield Corporate Bond Index (BUHY)  gained 2.3 percent
last month, the most since January 2012.  “The sentiment in the market has improved a bit because
there’s more confidence that the Fed isn’t going to allow rates
to shoot up anytime soon,” said David Breazzano, president of
Waltham, Massachusetts-based DDJ Capital Management LLC, which
oversees more than $6 billion in speculative-grade assets.
“There’s no doubt in my mind that the credit cycle is still
alive and well and we are going to have a correction.”  While it’s getting easier to trade bonds as sentiment
improves, liquidity tends to disappear when needed most,
according to a July  report  by the U.S. Treasury’s Borrowing
Advisory committee. Trading declined 14 percent in the second
quarter from the first three months of 2013 as speculation
mounted that the Fed would begin trimming $85 billion of monthly
debt purchases that’s helped propel a 66.3 percent gain in
company debentures since the end of 2008.  ‘Punitive Cost’  The central bank will maintain the pace of its stimulus
through March after a partial shutdown of the federal government
in October weakened the world’s largest economy, according to
the median estimate of 40 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  “There’s just an expectation that if you stay on the
sidelines as an investor it’s a very punitive cost,” said
 Thomas Chow , a Philadelphia-based money manager at Delaware
Investments who helps oversee about $135 billion, said in a
telephone interview. “Corporates are a good risk right now
relative to other opportunities in the market.”  Elsewhere in credit markets, the cost of protecting
corporate debt from default in the U.S. increased, with the
Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index, which
investors use to hedge against losses or to speculate on
creditworthiness, adding 1.5 basis points to a mid-price of 74.7
basis points as of 10:29 a.m. in New York, according to prices
compiled by Bloomberg.  Financial Conditions  The measure typically rises as investor confidence
deteriorates and falls as it improves. Credit-default swaps pay
the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point
equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of
debt.  A gauge of the health of U.S. financial conditions rose to
a record. The Bloomberg U.S. Financial Conditions Index, which
combines everything from money-market rates to yields on
government and corporate bonds to volatility in equities,
increased 0.03 to 1.67. That’s the highest level for the gauge
in data dating back to January 1994.  Bonds of  AT&T Inc. (T)  are the most actively traded dollar-denominated corporate securities by dealers today, accounting
for 6.4 percent of the volume of dealer trades of $1 million or
more, according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority. The Dallas-based
telephone company said it plans to borrow in euros to help fund
a tender offer that may exceed $4 billion.  Trading Surge  High-yield bonds are leading the surge in trading, with an
average daily volume of $6.18 billion in October, up 27 percent
from $4.87 billion in the three months ended Sept. 30, Trace
data show. Speculative-grade securities are rated below Baa3 by
Moody’s Investors Service and lower than BBB- at Standard &
Poor’s.  Investment-grade volumes increased 15 percent to $13.33
billion from $11.59 billion.  That’s a reversal from the third quarter, when volumes
plunged 14 percent to $16.5 billion on average from the first
half of the year as concern grew that the Fed would start
tapering  quantitative easing  as soon as its September meeting.  In October 2008, the month after the failure of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc., corporate-debt trading rose to $13.39
billion on average each day from $10.1 billion in the prior 90-day period, Trace data show. That month, the Bank of America
Merrill Lynch U.S. Corporate & High Yield Index dropped 9.2
percent, the worst monthly loss on record.  Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke rattled fixed-income markets
on May 22 by telling Congress that the central bank may reduce
the pace of its purchases of Treasuries and mortgage bonds if
the economy showed sustained improvement.  Bank Revenue  The Bank of America Merrill Lynch U.S. Corporate & High
Yield Index plunged 3 percent in the three months ended June 30,
the biggest quarterly loss since 2008.  The five biggest U.S. investment banks saw their combined
revenue from fixed-income, currencies and commodities trading
drop 25 percent in the third quarter from a year earlier,
according to Bloomberg Industries data.  The selloff “was not a call on the fundamentals,” said
Chow of Delaware Investments. “There are a good amount of
opportunities from fundamentally strong companies that continue
to be cautious with their cash balances.”  Yields on the dollar-denominated debentures rose to an
almost 15-month high of 4.37 percent on Sept. 5 from the record
low of 3.35 percent on May 2, Bank of America Merrill Lynch
index data show. Yields have since fallen to 3.93 percent as of
yesterday.  Corporate-bond funds reported $6.8 billion of deposits in
October, after hemorrhaging $13.6 billion in June, according to
data compiled by  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc. (RBS)   Trading ‘Frenzy’  “You’ve seen a frenzy of activity to try to put money to
work,” said Jason Rosiak, head of portfolio management at
Newport Beach, California-based Pacific Asset Management, the
Pacific Life Insurance Co. affiliate that oversees $4.3 billion
in corporate credit. As new debt sales fail to satiate demand
from fund managers who are receiving inflows, “they’re being
driven to the secondary market.”  Companies sold $129.6 billion of bonds in the U.S. in
October, down from $219.5 billion in September, Bloomberg data
show. They’ve raced to take advantage of below-average yields
this year, with total issuance reaching $1.38 trillion, 5
percent more than in the corresponding period last year, the
data show.  Expanding Market  While trading has surged more this October than in similar
periods during the previous four years, volumes have been unable
to keep pace with a U.S. corporate-bond market that’s expanded
72 percent since the end of 2008, to $5.54 trillion from $3.22
trillion, Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data show.  As a result, there’s “potential for significant
dislocation when investor flows reverse,” according to a
presentation for the the Treasury advisory committee’s report in
July.  The Fed could maintain the pace of its stimulus even as the
job market improves, said James Bullard, president of the Fed
Bank of St. Louis yesterday. The number of Americans filing
jobless claims decreased by 10,000 to 340,000 in the week ended
Oct. 26, compared with an average 330,000 a week in August,
according to the Labor Department.  “We’re more conservative than we often are because we’re
not being paid to do otherwise,” Breazzano said. “You’re not
getting paid to take a lot of risk anymore.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Abramowicz in New York at 
 labramowicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  