-- Iran Oil-Export Capacity Slides 22% According to Ship Signals
-- B y   R o b   S h e r i d a n
-- 2013-11-05T13:40:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-05/iran-oil-export-capacity-slides-22-according-to-ship-signals.html
The combined carrying capacity of  oil
tankers  leaving Iranian ports last month dropped 22 percent from
September, vessel-tracking data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The implied capacity of departing ships declined to the
equivalent of 1.02 million barrels a day from 1.30 million
barrels, according to signals gathered by IHS Maritime, a
Coulsdon, England-based research company. The data may be
incomplete because not all ship transmissions are captured.  U.S. and European sanctions are curbing  Iran ’s oil exports
in an effort to pressure the Middle East country’s leaders to
stop their nuclear program. Shipments dropped from more than 2
million barrels a day in 2011, before the latest rules took
effect, according to figures from the website of the Joint
Organizations Data Initiative.  The table below shows estimated vessel capacities in
millions of barrels a day, based on signals from tankers that
stopped at Iranian ports as well as movements near the nation’s
terminals by its own tankers and Asian ships that previously
loaded Iranian cargoes since the European Union’s embargo began
in July 2012.  The tallies assume standard cargo sizes of 2 million
barrels each for very large crude carriers, 1 million for
Suezmax tankers and 650,000 for Aframaxes. Japanese VLCCs that
also stopped at other terminals in the  Persian Gulf  were assumed
to load 1 million barrels in Iran.  The table also shows estimates from the  International
Energy Agency , the Paris-based adviser to 28 industrialized
countries. The IEA counts cargoes once they are received in
importing countries, whereas the ship-tracking data compiled by
Bloomberg tally exports when they leave Iran.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Sheridan in London at 
 rsheridan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  