-- Iran Culture Minister Wants Social Media Ban Lifted
-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i
-- 2013-11-05T13:35:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-05/iran-culture-minister-wants-social-media-ban-lifted.html
Iran ’s government should legalize
access to social-networking websites including Twitter and
Facebook, Culture and Islamic Guidance Minister Ali Jannati
said.  “Not only Facebook, but other social networks should be
accessible and the illegal qualification should be removed,”
Jannati said, according to the official  Islamic Republic News
Agency .  Iran currently blocks access to websites it considers
politically sensitive and to social-networking sites, which
activists used in 2009 to organize street protests after a
disputed presidential vote. President Hassan Rouhani, who was
elected in June and has a Twitter account with more than 122,000
followers, has pledged to allow more social and press freedom
and reduce state “policing” of Iranians’ private lives.  Several Iranian officials including Foreign Minister
Mohammad Javad Zarif and Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Marzieh Afkham have  Facebook (FB)  or Twitter accounts, or both.  The existing ban has spurred some Iranians to use virtual
private networks to circumvent the controls through computers
located abroad. About 2 million Iranians have Facebook accounts,
half of them in the capital, Tehran, deputy parliamentary
speaker Mohammad Hassan Aboutorabi-Fard said in January.  Screening Committee  Jannati said he doesn’t control Internet bans, which are
overseen by a screening committee that’s not under his
ministry’s direct supervision. The Culture Ministry has one
representative on that committee, he added, without elaborating.  The president’s conservative rivals say young people can be
corrupted by Western-style TV shows, which Iranians also access
illegally through satellite channels, or Western websites such
as Facebook.  Facebook is a “calamity” in the life of married couples
and may result in their divorce, Iran’s Khabaronline news
website said in an Oct. 21 editorial. Time spent on social
networks, where one can interact with people outside the family,
can weaken relations and lead to alienation, it said.  Since Rouhani’s term began in August, journalists have
taken advantage of new freedoms he has backed. Articles
appearing in local media in recent weeks have debated subjects
once taboo, ranging from the impact of sanctions to the
usefulness of the decades-old revolutionary slogan, “Death to
America.”  American Opinions  Newspapers have also published a string of prominent
stories about opinion makers from the U.S., long dubbed the
“Great Satan” in Iran’s official discourse. Interviewees have
included Brookings Institute analyst Suzanne Maloney, former
White House adviser Gary Sick and Alan Eyre, the Persian-speaking spokesman at the State Department.  The red lines are not always clear. The Bahar daily
newspaper was shut down last month over an article questioning
principles of Shiite Islam.  Jannati, a former ambassador to  Kuwait  and the son of the
influential Ayatollah Ahmad Jannati, was approved as culture
minister by the Parliament in August.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladane Nasseri in Tehran at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  