-- Martin O’Neill and Roy Keane Hired to Coach Ireland Soccer Team
-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 2013-11-06T00:00:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-05/ireland-hires-o-neill-keane-to-coach-national-soccer-team.html
Martin O’Neill  was hired as Republic
of Ireland soccer coach, replacing Giovanni Trapattoni who left
after failing to lead the team to the 2014 World Cup. Former
Ireland captain Roy Keane was appointed as his assistant.  The duo will take charge for Ireland’s next game, a Nov. 15
exhibition match against  Latvia  in Dublin, the  Football
Association of Ireland  said last night.  “Martin was the board’s preferred candidate from the
outset and to have someone of the caliber of Roy Keane as his
assistant manager is a real plus,” FAI President Paddy McCaul
said in a  statement .  O’Neill, 61, was fired by Sunderland in March. He’s also
managed Wycombe, Norwich, Leicester, Celtic and  Aston Villa  in
his 23-year coaching career. As a player, he captained  Northern
Ireland  at the 1982 World Cup after winning the European Cup
with Brian Clough’s Nottingham Forest.  Keane, 42, is a former Ireland skipper who played for
 Manchester United  for 12 years through 2005 and has coached
Sunderland and Ipswich. He walked out of the 2002 World Cup
after falling out with then Ireland coach Mick McCarthy over
training facilities.  “I think I’m the bad cop and he’s the bad, bad cop,”
O’Neill said last night on ITV, for whom both he and Keane were
working as analysts for Manchester United’s Champions League
match against Real Sociedad.  Trapattoni ended a five-year stint as Ireland coach in
September after defeats against Sweden and Austria all but ended
its chances of reaching the  World Cup . The team finished fourth
in its group, with 14 points from 10 matches.  Ireland lost all three games at the 2012 European
Championship. Qualification for the next edition in 2016 begins
in 10 months.  “I’m honored Martin has asked me to work with him,” said
Keane. “I’m looking forward to working with the players and
getting to the Euros.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Duff in Madrid at 
 aduff4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  