-- Surprise Services Pickup Shows Overcoming Shutdown: Economy
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   J a m r i s k o
-- 2013-11-05T21:36:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-05/ism-non-manufacturing-index-rose-to-55-4-in-october-from-54-4.html
Service industries  in the U.S.
unexpectedly accelerated in October, a sign the biggest part of
the economy is overcoming the policy gridlock that partially
shut down the federal government.  The  Institute for Supply Management ’s non-manufacturing
 index  increased to 55.4 from 54.4 in September, the Tempe,
Arizona-based group said today. Readings greater than 50
indicate growth. The median  estimate  in a Bloomberg survey of
economists was for a drop to 54.  The report showed employment at service providers from
retailers to accountants picked up last month, a sign growing
sales are helping business leaders look beyond the fiscal debate
in  Washington . Combined with the purchasing managers’  factory
gauge , the data point to an economy that is gaining strength
into the  holiday shopping season .  “It appears that activity held up pretty well despite the
government shutdown,” said  Ryan Wang , an economist at HSBC
Securities USA Inc. in  New York . “Housing continues to be cited
as an underlying source of growth for both manufacturing and
non-manufacturing firms. Activity continues to expand at a
steady pace.”  Stocks declined, snapping two days of gains for the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, as investors awaited data later
this week on economic growth and employment. The  S&P 500  fell
0.3 percent to 1,762.97 at the close in New York.  Economists’ Estimates  Estimates of the 79 economists in the Bloomberg survey for
the October reading ranged from 52 to 56.3. Since July 2009, a
month after the last recession ended, the index has averaged
53.9 through last month.  The figure includes industries make up almost 90 percent of
the economy, ranging from utilities and retail to health care,
housing and finance.  “The shutdown has definitely impacted some of the psyche,
but we’re not seeing it in the numbers,”  Anthony Nieves ,
chairman of the survey, said on a call with reporters following
the release. “It may translate into a slowing down the road,
but as it stands right now, it didn’t translate into the
numbers.”  Retail and real estate were among 10 industries that
reported growth in October, while construction firms,
transportation companies and food services were among the eight
that indicated contraction, today’s figures showed.  The ISM’s measure of business activity increased to 59.7
from 55.1, the report showed. A gauge of employment in non-manufacturing industries rose to 56.2 from 52.7.  The group’s measure of  new orders  in the service industries
decreased to 56.8 last month from 59.6 in September.  Factory Gauge  The ISM’s manufacturing  index , released last week,
unexpectedly rose to 56.4, the highest since April 2011, from
56.2 a month earlier as improving export markets accompanied a
boost in domestic demand.  A report in the U.K. today showed services unexpectedly
accelerated in October at the fastest pace in 16 years as the
economy showed signs of pulling away from the rest of  Europe . A
gauge of activity rose to 62.5 from 60.3 in September, Markit
Economics said today in  London .  The report came as the European Commission forecast the
U.K. economy will grow 2.2 percent next year, twice the pace of
the euro area and more than Germany and France. The euro area
will grow 1.1 percent in 2014, less than the 1.2 percent
forecast in May, the European Commission projected.  In the U.S., gains this year in homebuilding have boosted
services providers such as real-estate companies and home-improvement retailers. Today’s report showed the real estate and
finance and insurance industries among those reporting growth in
October.  Mortgage Rates  Further progress depends in part on borrowing costs. The
rate on 30-year home loans averaged 4.1 percent in the week
ended Oct. 31, the lowest since June. It reached a two-year high
of 4.58 percent in the week ended Aug. 22.  The  Federal Reserve  will probably keep its main interest
rate “quite low for quite some time,” possibly until 2016,
amid languid economic growth, said  Eric Rosengren , president of
the  Federal Reserve Bank of Boston .  “You could easily imagine if we have relatively slow
growth in the overall economy, even though it picks up from
where we are now, that it could be 2016,” Rosengren, who votes
on monetary policy this year, said today on CNBC television.
“You’d certainly need to have growth 3 percent or faster if
you’d want to see short-term rates rising at that point.”  Weyerhaeuser Co. (WY) , a timber supplier and developer based in
Federal Way, Washington, expects to close more than 1,100 homes
in the last three months of this year, up about 35 percent from
a year ago, President and Chief Executive Officer Doyle Simons
said.  Housing Fundamentals  “We continue to be encouraged as long-term favorable
housing fundamentals remain in place,” Simons said on an Oct.
25 earnings call. “With that said, the housing recovery appears
to have taken a slight pause due to higher  home prices , higher
 interest rates , although still very low by historical standards,
slowing job growth and the antics of our government.”  Standard Pacific Corp. (SPF)  said on Oct. 31 that orders for
homes increased 12 percent in the third quarter from the same
three months last year, the smallest year-over-year gain since
the second quarter of 2011. The  Irvine , California-based builder
also said it delivered 1,217 homes during the period, the most
since the second quarter of 2008.  “Rapid home price appreciation, increased interest rates,
and economic and political uncertainty have all contributed to
an environment that has impacted  consumer confidence  and
tempered the robust demand we experienced during the first half
of the year,” Scott Stowell, president and chief executive
officer at Standard Pacific Corp., said on a Nov. 1 earnings
call.  Uneven Recovery  “We have always maintained that the housing market
recovery would likely be an uneven one and that there would be
bumps along the road to recovery. But we are certainly
experiencing a few of those bumps now. When looking longer term,
we continue to maintain a cautious but positive outlook. The
fundamentals for housing still look good,” Stowell said.  Auto dealers have also enjoyed stronger demand this year,
putting the industry on pace for its best year since 2007. At
the same time, sales have cooled the last two months after
climbing in August to the highest since November 2007.  Purchases (SAARTOTL) 
of cars and light trucks sold in October at a 15.2 million
annualized rate, little changed from the previous month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Jamrisko in Washington at 
 mjamrisko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  