-- Historical Foe U.K. Rolls Out Red Carpet to French Firms
-- B y   F r a n c o i s   d e   B e a u p u y
-- 2013-11-05T23:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-05/historical-foe-britain-rolls-out-red-carpet-for-french-companies.html
U.K. Prime Minister David Cameron 17
months ago said he’d “roll out the red carpet” for the French.
In the last few weeks, he has put his money where his mouth is.  France ’s biggest industrial groups are being welcomed across
the  English Channel  by their country’s historical foe. On Oct.
21,  Electricite de France SA  secured a $26 billion deal to build
the U.K.’s first nuclear reactors in 18 years, bringing business
for Areva SA,  Alstom SA (ALO) ,  Bouygues SA (EN)  and Groupe Gorge. On Nov.
1,  Groupe Steria (RIA)  won a U.K. government back-office contract
valued at 1 billion pounds ($1.59 billion), its biggest ever.  While Cameron’s comment in June 2012 had been a playful
remark to lure entrepreneurs facing taxes from the then newly
elected Socialist President  Francois Hollande , French companies
are finding that they’re not excluded from British hospitality.
With the U.K. economy set to grow almost twice as fast as France
next year, according to the  International Monetary Fund , the
companies are getting a much-needed helping hand as they seek to
claw out of  Europe ’s slump.  “It seems to be one of the few western economies that has
regained some dynamism,” said Emmanuel Babeau, chief financial
officer of  Schneider Electric SA (SU) , which agreed in July to buy
British automation-equipment maker Invensys Plc for 2.4 billion
pounds. “The backdrop created for companies is favorable,
allowing a pickup in investment, which is what western Europe
cruelly lacks as it remains very depressed.”  Old Enemies  The support France is getting from its neighbor belies the
prickly, love-hate relationship the nations have had over the
centuries. From the French bristling over Napoleon’s defeat at
Waterloo in 1815 to former President  Jacques Chirac ’s slandering
of British cooking, the ties have always been complex.  The British press was quick to pick on the country’s
millennial rival, with the  Daily Mail  bemoaning the “loss of
control to foreigners” over energy with the EDF deal.  To ensure that EDF -- with partners Areva, the world’s
largest builder of atomic reactors, and two Chinese companies --
would invest 16 billion pounds to build the two nuclear plants
in southwest England, Cameron’s government agreed to guarantee
power-purchase prices for 35 years.  “New nuclear reactors will transfer billions of pounds a
year from British consumers to France and China,”  the Telegraph 
said. “Needing the approval of Presidents  Xi Jinping  and
Francois Hollande to keep the lights on is a humiliating
admission of national decline,” wrote  the Mirror .  Bright Spot  In spite of the vitriol, for French companies the U.K. has
become a bright spot in an otherwise gloomy region. France has a
rare  trade surplus  -- its biggest -- with the U.K. It swelled 14
percent to 6.4 billion euros last year, while its deficit with
nations using the euro widened 11 percent to 42 billion euros.  French companies are boosting operations in the U.K. as
Cameron works on trimming corporate taxes to 20 percent by 2015.
The U.K. last year got 3.3 billion euros of  direct investment 
from France, or 12 percent of the French total, Bank of France
figures show. That’s almost double French investments in China
or Brazil.  Hollande, meanwhile, is raising the top corporate tax on net
income for large companies to 38 percent next year.  Taxes in France have risen by 70 billion euros in the last
three years and will take the tax burden this year to 46 percent
of gross domestic product. That’s up two percentage points from
2011 when it was already the  third-highest  in the world behind
Denmark and Sweden, according to the Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development.  Going Nuclear  Additionally, the push by the U.K. to build nuclear reactors
comes at a time when France, which gets 75 percent of its
electricity from the source -- the highest proportion in the
world -- is cutting back. Hollande has decided to shut down a
nuclear reactor in France and shrink such energy to 50 percent
of the country’s power supply by 2025, effectively hurting
companies that have developed nuclear expertise over the years.  “I admire the British government for its sensible decision
to invest in third-generation nuclear plants in the current
environment,” said Raphael Gorge, chief executive officer of
 Groupe Gorge (GOE) , which makes doors for atomic plants and drones.
“I’m disappointed by France’s decision to shut down a nuclear
plant that could get an extension, and not replace old plants.”  The U.K. deal may ring in as much as 100 million euros for
the company and also bring business for Redhall Group, a U.K
firm in which Groupe Gorge has a 19 percent stake.  If the British nuclear program is re-launched and six to 10
reactors are built, “the U.K. will become our top export market
in Europe,” Gorge said.  Areva, Alstom  For Areva, the U.K. contract is worth more than 2 billion
euros ($2.7 billion), according to Chief Operating Officer
Philippe Knoche.  Areva (AREVA) ’s first reactor sale in six years may
also come with an order for nuclear fuel, he said.  For its part, Alstom will be building two turbine islands
at Hinkley Point, which will be larger than the contract it got
seven years ago from EDF for a similar nuclear station in
France, said  Patrick Fragman , the company’s nuclear unit head.  British plans to modernize its infrastructure in energy,
waste, rail and roads play into the strength of French
companies. On Oct. 22, GDF Suez SA, France’s biggest natural gas
supplier, agreed to buy assets from Dart Energy Ltd. to tap the
U.K. shale market. Shale gas production is banned in France.  Earlier this year, Total SA, France’s largest oil company,
said it’s spending 3.3 billion pounds to build a plant to
process gas from fields off the Shetland islands.  Building Boom  The U.K. has two infrastructure plans “representing
hundreds of billions of investments over the next 10 year or
so,” said John Stanion, Chairman of  Vinci (DG)  Construction U.K.  Vinci, Europe’s biggest construction company, last year won
orders worth more than 3.5 billion euros for multi-year road
maintenance in the U.K., and a contract to transform a terminal
at  London  Gatwick airport. This year, Vinci, based near Paris,
won a contract to build a part of the campus at Swansea
University, and a new tranche of the Crossrail link across
London, Europe’s largest engineering project.  Construction volumes in the U.K. will grow at more than
double the average rate in western Europe to 2025 as it
modernizes ageing infrastructure and builds new homes to prevent
a widening housing deficit, while euro-area economies remained
burdened by debt and taxes, Global Construction Perspectives and
Oxford Economics wrote in July.  “In the housing market, we’re seeing strong growth as the
government is helping first-time home buyers,” said Stanion.
“There’s an enormous amount of money coming into the London
residential market, from overseas, from Europe, eastern Europe,
 Russia ,  Turkey , China, India, the far east, you name it.”  ‘No Barriers’  Since 2010, the U.K. accounts for 6 percent of Vinci’s
revenue, the same percentage as  Germany , whose economy is 40
percent larger than Britain’s.  To better tap the U.K. market, Paris-based Bouygues --
which got a contract worth more than 2 billion pounds for
Hinkley Point reactors together with U.K. engineering group
Laing O’Rourke -- bought British builders Leadbitter Group in
2011 and Thomas Vale in 2012.  Cie. de Saint-Gobain SA , Europe’s
biggest supplier of building materials, bought Build Center in
2011 and insulation-foam maker Celotex last year.  “One of the characteristic of the U.K. construction market
that sets it apart from the rest of Europe is that it’s a very,
very, open market,” said Vinci’s Stanion.  That has helped French companies. And although President
Hollande bridled at Cameron’s comments last year, suggesting
they weren’t “noble,” he and the French economy may end up
being grateful for the British premier’s red-carpet invitation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Francois de Beaupuy in Paris at 
 fdebeaupuy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net ;
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net  