-- Lithuania on Track to Adopt Euro as EU Sees Deficit Reach Limit
-- B y   M i l d a   S e p u t y t e
-- 2013-11-05T12:36:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-05/lithuania-on-track-to-adopt-euro-as-eu-sees-deficit-reach-limit.html
European Union forecasts indicate
 Lithuania  is meeting all economic criteria to join the euro area
in 2015 even as an upwardly revised budget deficit underscores
the challenges of qualifying for entry by the target date.  Consumer-price growth , which has blocked Lithuania’s
currency switch in the past, will probably slow to 1.4 percent
this year, compared with 2.1 percent predicted in May, the
Brussels-based European Commission said in a  report  released
today. This year’s budget deficit is forecast at 3 percent of
economic output, the highest allowed for euro entry.  The Baltic nation became the only candidate rejected for
euro adoption in 2006 because it topped the currency union’s
inflation ceiling by 0.1 percentage point. While lower commodity
costs are helping Lithuania bring price growth below the euro
region’s limit, a swelling fiscal gap shows the government will
remain under pressure to keep public finances in check.  A slowdown in  inflation (LICPIYOY)  is “reflecting weaker growth in
food and energy prices,” the commission said. “The moderating
trend is expected to reverse this autumn due to the base effect,
and inflation is set to pick up further over the forecast
horizon on the back of accelerating inflation in the service
sector, which is sensitive to wage increases.”  Inflation is set to accelerate to 1.9 percent next year,
slower than the 2.7 percent pace predicted earlier, according to
the report. Price growth will probably accelerate to 2.4 percent
in 2015, the commission said.  Five Tests  To join the euro area, inflation must be within 1.5
percentage points of the average in the three EU countries with
the lowest rates. Countries must also meet targets for deficits,
debt, long-term  interest rates  and exchange-rate stability.  Lithuania would be the last Baltic country to adopt the
euro, with Estonia having joined the currency area in 2011 and
 Latvia  set to become its 18th member on Jan. 1, 2014.  Lithuanian consumer prices rose 0.4 percent from a year
earlier in September, the slowest pace since April 2010. Average
inflation for the previous 12 months, a gauge the European
Commission watches, was 1.8 percent, 0.4 percentage point lower
than the threshold for euro adoption.  Even so, the deficit may narrow at a slower pace than
previously estimated, shrinking to 3 percent of gross domestic
product this year from 3.2 percent in 2012. The commission had
earlier forecast a gap of 2.9 percent of GDP in 2013.  ‘Limited Progress’  “Only limited progress in fiscal consolidation” is seen
“despite favorable economic environment,” the commission said.
“Despite robust economic growth, the fiscal position remains
unchanged.”  The budget gap is projected at 2.5 percent of economic
output in 2014 and 1.9 percent in 2015.  The commission also raised Lithuania’s  economic growth 
forecast to 3.4 percent this year, from 3.1 percent seen
earlier, and kept 2014’s estimate unchanged at 3.6 percent.
Growth may accelerate to 3.9 percent in 2015.  “We are absolutely ready” to meet the criteria and adopt
the euro, Lithuanian President Dalia Grybauskaite told reporters
Oct. 31.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Milda Seputyte in Vilnius at 
 mseputyte@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  