-- Japan Calls South Korean Focus on Wartime History Unfortunate
-- B y   I s a b e l   R e y n o l d s   a n d   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a
-- 2013-11-05T05:03:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-05/japan-calls-south-korean-focus-on-wartime-history-unfortunate.html
South Korea ’s continued expressions
of concern over  Japan ’s historical role in Asia are “extremely
unfortunate,” Deputy Chief Cabinet Secretary Katsunobu Kato
told reporters today.  His comments came in response to an interview by South
Korean President Park Geun Hye with the BBC in which she said it
might be better not to hold a summit with Japanese Prime
Minister Shinzo Abe until more progress is made on disagreements
over Japan’s 1910-1945 occupation of the Korean peninsula.  Abe has not held a summit with South  Korea  since he took
office in December, as renewed anger over a territorial dispute
added to resentment in Korea over differing interpretations of
history. The U.S. has urged Japan to smooth over such
disagreements to enable better regional cooperation at a time of
 China ’s rising influence in the region.  “Japan has continuously explained to South Korea its point
of view on problems of the past, including its view of history
and of the comfort woman issue,” Kato said in Tokyo. “We would
like them to accept this.”  While Park, who is on a trip to  Europe , told Le Figaro in
an interview published Nov. 3 that she’d be willing to meet with
North Korean leader Kim Jong Un if she thought a summit could
produce concrete results, she separately told the  BBC  it’s too
soon to talk about visiting “important partner” Japan.  Comfort Women  South Korea has called on the Japanese government to
compensate women who were forced to work in Japan’s military
brothels during the occupation. Japan apologized in 1993 and
subsequently set up a fund that some victims rejected because it
was funded through private donations.  “We will continue to make efforts from a broad perspective
to build a cooperative relationship with South Korea,” Kato
said. The countries’ foreign ministers have twice held talks
since Park took office in February.  Deputy ministers from China, Japan and South Korea will
meet in  Seoul  on Nov. 7 for discussions on the annual trilateral
summit, which didn’t happen this year due to rancorous ties,
Japanese broadcaster NHK reported yesterday without saying where
it got the information.  A deeper reconciliation between Japan and its neighbors
might yield “great things,” Kurt Tong, the U.S. charge
d’Affaires in  Tokyo , told a symposium last week.  “Addressing historical differences would help the fabric
of the region, including by promoting effective trilateral
cooperation among our important allies and thereby making us all
stronger and more secure,” he added.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Isabel Reynolds in Tokyo at 
 ireynolds1@bloomberg.net ;
Takashi Hirokawa in Tokyo at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  