-- Jefferson County Details $1.74 Billion Sale to Exit Court
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e   a n d   M a r t i n   Z .   B r a u n
-- 2013-11-05T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-05/jefferson-county-borrowing-1-74-billion-to-exit-court.html
Alabama’s Jefferson County is set to
sell about $1.74 billion of sewer-refinancing debt this month as
part of a plan to exit court protection almost two years after
what began as the largest U.S. municipal bankruptcy.  Citigroup Inc. (C) , as lead underwriter, will price the
warrants as soon as Nov. 19, according to a person with direct
knowledge of the transaction who asked not to be identified
yesterday in discussing it before sale results are final. A
period for individuals to place orders for the securities will
begin the day before pricing is set, the person said.  In July, Citigroup said it would market the Jefferson
County debt to short-term investors and present potential buyers
with a picture of securities that are poised to gain over the
next five years as the sewer system’s finances improve, the
bank’s underwriting proposal shows. The county of 660,000
residents is home to Birmingham,  Alabama ’s most-populous city.  “Our targeted buyers for the warrants will not be long-term holders as is often the case with high-grade municipal
bonds, but rather savvy short-term buyers who recognize the
significant potential for improvement in the county and its
warrants over time,” according to Citigroup’s proposal. The New
York-based bank holds some Jefferson County sewer debt, which
will be purchased with proceeds from the refinancing, according
to a preliminary sale document released late yesterday.  Revised Agreement  The offering is a result of a deal reached Oct. 30 between
the county and its creditors to reduce the amount of money the
county must pay on its obligations. The accord replaced a
proposed settlement reached in June, which became unworkable as
 interest rates  rose over the past several months.  The warrants mature from October 2015 to 2053, according to
the sale document. Paying off the debt will cost the county an
estimated $6.67 billion, based on an interest cost of about 6.9
percent, the document shows. By comparison, 30-year U.S.
Treasury bonds carried a yield of almost 3.7 percent yesterday.  Sewer rates will rise almost 7.9 percent each year from
2014 through 2017, and by almost 3.5 percent thereafter through
2053, according to the document. The system’s operating revenue
over expenses fell about 1 percent to $101.5 million in 2012
from the previous year and down 8.5 percent from 2008.  Under covenants spelled out in the sale document, the
county will adjust sewer-system fees and charges if the
operation fails to meet required debt-coverage ratios during a
fiscal year. The changes must be made during or before the
following fiscal year.  Rate Tie-In  If the system doesn’t meet the required coverage ratios for
two consecutive years, it must hire an independent consultant to
recommend revised rates and charges to improve its results. The
ratio of available revenue to projected debt service for fiscal
2014 is about 1.8  The issue is divided between $500 million of senior debt
and about $1.24 billion of subordinate debt. For the senior
warrants, net income available to cover payments must be at
least 125 percent of debt-service requirements, while that ratio
is 110 percent for subordinate debt, the document shows.  About $1.13 billion of the debt will carry fixed interest
rates, the sale document shows, while $485.6 million will be in
the form of zero coupon warrants that may be converted to fixed
rates. The remaining $127.6 million will be zero-coupon
securities.  Debt Ratings  About a third of the debt to be sold, or $500 million, will
be insured by Assured Guaranty Municipal and will carry an AA-grade from  Standard & Poor’s , the document shows. Ratings on the
rest of the securities may be set as soon as today.  Jefferson County sought  bankruptcy protection  on Nov. 9,
2011, listing more than $3 billion in obligations. It was the
biggest municipal bankruptcy in U.S. history until this year,
when  Detroit , laden with more than $18 billion in debt and other
commitments, sought court protection in July.  Yields on BBB rated revenue bonds maturing in 30 years
averaged about  5.5 percent  yesterday, up from 5.4 percent Nov. 1
and down from almost 6 percent on Sept. 3, the most since at
least March, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Kaske in  New York  at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net ;
Martin Z. Braun in New York at 
 mbraun6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  