-- JFK’s Risky Lives; Paul Tears Up for Hendrix: Greg Evans
-- B y   G r e g   E v a n s
-- 2013-11-05T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-05/jfk-s-risky-lives-paul-tears-up-for-hendrix-greg-evans.html
Addison’s disease, star-struck
interns and near-apocalypse:  John F. Kennedy ’s old secrets don’t
pack a lot of punch these days.  Despite the dearth of anything new to say (but an excuse to
say it nonetheless, with this month’s 50th anniversary of
Kennedy’s assassination), PBS’s “ JFK ” is as close to essential
viewing as TV’s latest round of Kennedy memorials is likely to
get.  An installment of the intermittent “ American Experience ”
series about U.S. presidents, “JFK” stuffs an impressive
amount of life story in its four hours.  The two-part documentary, directed by Susan Bellows, is
courteous and not fawning. Its report card on his presidency
might be summed up as “incomplete” and the archival footage
alone makes the show exceptional.  “JFK” (also available Nov. 19 on DVD) begins with a quick
dip into the 1962 Cuban Missile Crisis, the nuclear
brinksmanship still as chilling as ever.  High stakes established, the film flashes back to the
scion’s sickly youth (his lifelong and long-hidden Addison’s
disease required debilitating steroid treatments and, during his
presidency, injections of painkillers and amphetamines from the
infamous Max “Dr. Feelgood” Jacobson).  Grudging Progress  Kennedy’s public history is thoughtfully covered: The
sinking of PT 109, the unseating of Senator Henry Cabot Lodge,
the disastrous Bay of Pigs invasion, the initially grudging
progress on  Civil Rights  and the folly in  Vietnam .  Despite the anniversary, the assassination itself gets
short shrift. The events are passed over almost wordlessly, with
the familiar funeral footage telling the story (and no mention
whatsoever of conspiracy theories).  On the personal side, “JFK” probes the health issues, the
sibling rivalries and, inevitably, the risky extramarital
flings. (Why didn’t his political enemies reveal the dalliances?
“Mutually assured destruction,” the documentary succinctly
posits).  “American Experience,” though, could use a dash of
Kennedy’s risk-taking.  If the format -- clips, sonorous narration, familiar
talking heads -- can’t be entirely revamped, can’t we at least
hear something other than the elegiac, Ken Burns-style music
that’s become history’s soundtrack?  “JFK” airs Monday, Nov. 11 and Tuesday, Nov. 12 on PBS’s
“American Experience” at 9 p.m.  New York  time. Rating: ***1/2  Jimi Hendrix  Paul McCartney  was in a modest West End club in 1967 when
Jimi Hendrix played a fiery rendition of “Sgt. Pepper’s Lonely
Hearts Club Band,” three days after the Beatles themselves
unveiled the tune.  “I get very emotional just remembering it,” says a
flattered McCartney in “ Jimi Hendrix -- Hear My Train A
Comin’ .”  Presented as part of the Hendrix Estate’s year-long
commemoration of what would have been the guitarist’s 70th
birthday, “Train” debuts this week as both an installment of
PBS’s “ American Masters ” series and in expanded DVD/Blu-Ray
versions.  Generous with performance clips -- including previously
unreleased footage from the 1968 Miami Pop Festival, two years
before his death -- “Train” is a joy, musically.  Directed by Bob Smeaton (“ Festival Express ”) with the
support of the estate -- a mixed blessing for rock historians,
if not viewers -- the film is a tidy summing-up, with clips of
classic performances from Monterrey to Woodstock and the Isle of
Wight.  Miami Pop  Lesser known gigs like Miami Pop and grainier footage from
Hendrix’s London club era make “Train” a must-ride for
aficionados.  Smeaton makes good use of the estate’s access and archives.
The long list of interviewees includes family members,
girlfriends and bandmates, along with rock luminaries like
McCartney and Steve Winwood).  As is typical with “American Masters,” though, “Train”
(or at least the PBS version provided for review) is respectful
to a fault, coyly declining to broach harsher truths and full
humanity.  But when Hendrix plays, this revealing “Train” soars
right along with him.  “ Jimi Hendrix  -- Hear My Train A Comin’” airs Tuesday
[NOV 5] on PBS’s “American Masters” at 9 p.m. New York time.
Rating: ****  ( Greg Evans  is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Broadway box office  and  art .  To contact the writer on the story: Greg Evans at
 gregeaevans@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 