-- JGBs Declared Dead by Mizuho as Kuroda Hides Risks: Japan Credit
-- B y   M a s a k i   K o n d o ,   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a   a n d   Y u m i   I k e d a
-- 2013-11-05T06:49:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-05/jgbs-declared-dead-by-mizuho-as-kuroda-hides-risks-japan-credit.html
Mizuho Securities Co. said  Bank of
Japan  dominance has killed the nation’s sovereign bond market,
leaving it unable to reflect either the success of stimulus
policies or fiscal risks.  Monthly trading of Japanese  government bonds  among the
biggest holders including banks and insurers shrank to 37.9
trillion yen ($385 billion) last quarter, the least on record
going back to 2004, according to Japan Securities Dealers
Association  data . Totan Research Co. and Spiro Sovereign
Strategy also said BOJ monetary stimulus is cutting the tie
between economic fundamentals and bonds, which yield 0.6 percent
for 10 years, the least in the world.  “The JGB market is dead with only the BOJ driving bond
prices,” said  Tetsuya Miura , the chief bond strategist at
Tokyo-based Mizuho, one of the 23 primary dealers obliged to bid
at government auctions. “These low yields are responsible for
the lack of fiscal reform in the face of Japan’s worsening
finances. Policy makers think they can keep borrowing without
problems.”  Even with a planned sales-tax increase in April, Japan’s
government has yet to present detailed proposals on how to
consolidate its finances, the  International Monetary Fund  said
last month. The BOJ’s decision last week to press on with
unprecedented bond buying helped cut the five-year JGB yield to
an almost seven-month low of 0.19 percent, below the 2 percent
inflation rate that central bank Governor Haruhiko Kuroda said
is likely to be achieved in 2015.  Spending Contained  The dropoff in trading contrasts with last year, when the
monthly average of JGB sales and purchases among lenders, life
and casualty insurance companies jumped to a record 98 trillion
yen in the second quarter, the JSDA data show.  Finance Minister Taro Aso said on Nov. 1 that declines in
bond yields weren’t expected.  The cabinet unveiled a 5 trillion-yen economic plan on Oct.
1 to offset impacts from a sales tax increase to 8 percent from
5 percent in April. Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, counting on
fiscal and monetary stimulus to end 15 years of deflation, has
yet to decide on whether to go ahead with the second planned
increase to 10 percent by 2015.  The tax change “is a welcome step,” the IMF said in its
 Fiscal Monitor  report released Oct. 9. Even so, the planned
stimulus measures “put a premium on developing a concrete and
credible medium-term plan as quickly as possible.”  Quadrillion Yen  Japan ’s public debt has ballooned to more than 1
quadrillion yen and is estimated by the Washington-based IMF to
grow to the equivalent of 244 percent of the nation’s gross
domestic product this year. That compares with a ratio of 106
percent in the U.S.  The BOJ is likely to step up its easing program between
April and June next year to shield the economy from the higher
levy, according to 25 of 34 economists in a Bloomberg survey
conducted Oct. 23-28.  The central bank  said  last week the country is on track to
hit its 2 percent inflation target. Prices excluding fresh food
are projected to rise 1.3 percent in the year from April, the
BOJ expects, after accounting for the effect of the sales-tax
increase.  Higher costs of living typically erode real yields, or what
bondholders earn after inflation, damping the appeal of the
currency needed to buy them. The  difference  between 10-year JGB
yields and the most recent inflation rate in  Tokyo  was about 0.3
percentage point, near the lowest since December 2008.  Real Yields  “The BOJ’s priority is to lower Japan’s real interest
rates and ensure an end to deflation, even if they have to
sacrifice liquidity and trading volumes in the  bond market ,”
Takatoshi Kato, a former top currency official at Japan’s
Ministry of Finance said in an interview on Oct. 31 in Tokyo.  “The decline in real yields would be a factor to weaken
the yen,” according to Kato, who is now the president of
Japan’s Center for International Finance.  The yen has tumbled 18 percent against the dollar in the
past year to trade at 98.44 as of 3:45 p.m. in Tokyo today, the
worst performance among 16 major counterparts. The currency will
weaken to 110 per dollar by the end of next year, according to
the median estimate of analysts in a Bloomberg poll.  Price Swings  The BOJ’s decision on April 4 to double monthly bond buying
to more than 7 trillion yen and remove limits on maturities that
it acquires initially triggered a jump in market volatility. The
benchmark five-year  yield  fell to a record 0.095 percent on
March 4 before surging to a two-year high of 0.455 percent on
May 15. It has declined since then as the central bank kept
buying debt.  “Market functions are sacrificed for the sake of ending
deflation,” said  Izuru Kato , the Tokyo-based president of
Totan, a research unit of money-market broker Tokyo Tanshi Co. A
reduction in monetary stimulus could cause a drop in bond
prices, which “will make it difficult for the BOJ to normalize
policy,” he said.  Such a risk has already been seen in the U.S., where
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s comment in May on the
possibility of slowing bond purchases spurred an almost 1
percentage point surge in 10-year Treasury yields in the
following months.  Historical price  volatility  of JGBs dropped to 1.56 percent
last week, a level unseen since Feb. 8 and down from a five-year
high of 3.98 percent on June 25.  “Liquidity has evaporated as the BOJ has gobbled up most
of the market,”  Nicholas Spiro , the London-based managing
director of Spiro Sovereign Strategy, wrote in an e-mail. “To
all intents and purposes, there is no JGB market.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Masaki Kondo in Singapore at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net ;
Mariko Ishikawa in Tokyo at 
 mishikawa9@bloomberg.net ;
Yumi Ikeda in Tokyo at 
 yikeda4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Garfield Reynolds at 
 greynolds1@bloomberg.net  