-- Justices Hearing Poison Case Suggest Curbs on Congress
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 2013-11-05T17:55:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-05/justices-suggest-they-may-curb-congress-s-power-in-poison-case.html
U.S.  Supreme Court  justices indicated
they are likely to put new limits on Congress’s power, as they
weighed the case of a microbiologist who was prosecuted under a
chemical-weapons law for trying to poison her husband’s lover.  Hearing arguments today in Washington, a majority of the
justices suggested that they viewed Carol Anne Bond’s crimes as
local ones that shouldn’t have opened her to prosecution under a
federal law enacted to implement a chemical-weapons treaty.  It is “unimaginable that you would bring this
prosecution,” said Justice Anthony Kennedy midway through a
rapid-fire session highlighted by questions about  Lance Armstrong  and one justice’s distribution of Halloween candy.  The case poses the most important test of the federal
government’s authority since the Supreme Court upheld President
 Barack Obama ’s health-care law last year. The central question
is whether Congress can use its constitutional power to
implement treaties to regulate local conduct that otherwise
would be beyond the federal government’s reach.  Bond’s lawyer,  Paul Clement , contended that a treaty can’t
give Congress “police power” the U.S. Constitution normally
reserves to the state. Today’s hearing indicated that as many as
six members of the court may agree with that contention.  1997 Treaty  Federal prosecutors charged Bond with violating the 1998
Chemical Weapons Convention Implementation Act,  a law  that
carries out a 1997 treaty covering the development, production,
stockpiling and use of chemical weapons. The treaty, which
supplements an earlier accord that applies in wartime, was
designed in part to protect against the use of chemicals by
terrorists.  The Obama administration, backed by the  chemical industry ,
is defending the prosecution. The administration says Bond’s
argument would undermine the president’s ability to reach
agreements with other countries and cut against a centuries-old
understanding of the Constitution’s treaty power.  Several justices suggested the administration’s argument
would turn the chemical-weapons law into a sweeping override of
the rights of the states. Justice  Stephen Breyer  said he could
point to a list of chemicals “a thousand miles long” --
including the performance-enhancing drugs used by cyclist Lance
Armstrong -- that might be covered under the law as interpreted
by the administration.  Halloween Treats  Alito drew laughter when he said he and his wife
“distributed toxic chemicals to a great number of children” a
few nights earlier on Halloween.  Alito said an ordinary person would be “flabbergasted” to
learn that Bond’s conduct was considered a use of chemical
weapons.  The administration drew support from Justices Sonia Sotomayor,  Ruth Bader Ginsburg  and  Elena Kagan . Sotomayor
pointed to a 2005 Supreme Court decision allowing federal
prosecutions over locally grown medical marijuana.  “If it’s OK to regulate the possession of marijuana, a
purely local crime, why is it unconstitutional to regulate the
use of something that can kill or maim another human being?”
Sotomayor asked.  U.S. Solicitor General Donald Verrilli told the justices
that the constitutional framers put the matter of treaties
“exclusively in the hands of the national government.”  Daytime Drama  The clash comes to the court through a tale worthy of a
daytime drama. Bond, a Pennsylvania resident, learned in 2006
that her husband had impregnated her closest friend, Myrlinda
Haynes.  Bond then stole a bottle of an arsenic-based substance from
her employer, the chemical maker Rohm & Haas Co. She used the
Internet to order a second toxic chemical, potassium dichromate,
which is commonly used in printing photographs.  Bond, now 42, tried to poison Haynes 24 times over the next
several months, spreading the chemicals on her doorknob, car
door handles and mailbox. Although Haynes usually avoided
touching the substances, on one occasion she suffered a chemical
burn on her thumb. Postal inspectors eventually installed
surveillance cameras and identified Bond as the perpetrator.  Dow Chemical Co. (DOW)  bought Rohm & Haas in 2009.  Bond pleaded guilty and was sentenced to six years in
prison, while reserving her right to appeal and try to overturn
the conviction. Had she been prosecuted under Pennsylvania state
law for assault, she would have served no more than two years
and one month, according to her lawyers.  Bird Protection  A 1920 Supreme Court opinion suggested Congress has broad
authority when implementing a treaty. The case centered on a law
implementing a treaty to protect birds that migrated between the
U.S. and  Canada . Writing for the court, Justice Oliver Wendell Holmes said a treaty “may override” the powers normally
reserved for the states.  Although Clement said in court papers that the court may
need to overrule that decision, he also offered narrower options
to the justices. He said today that the court could interpret
the chemical-weapons law so that it applies only to “warlike
conduct,” and not to Bond’s actions.  Bond’s case is before the Supreme Court for the second
time. The justices  ruled  in 2011 that she had the legal right to
challenge her conviction as unconstitutional.  The case is Bond v.  United States , 12-158.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in  Washington  at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net  