-- Kenya Central Bank Governor Sees Inflation Slowing to Target
-- B y   D a v i d   M a l i n g h a   D o y a
-- 2013-11-06T06:08:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-05/kenya-central-bank-governor-sees-inflation-slowing-within-target.html
Kenyan central bank Governor Njuguna Ndung’u said adequate food and energy supplies in the next few
months should guide inflation to within its target range as the
shilling is poised to remain stable.  “Food supply is going to be as predicted given the short
rains now starting; secondly, we are not going to have energy
prices disturbing the economy given the trends we have seen so
far internationally,” Ndung’u, 54, said in an interview on Nov.
4 in the capital, Nairobi. “We are not anticipating any supply
shocks in the coming few months, so essentially we are confident
that we will come back to the target.”  The annual  inflation  rate of East Africa’s biggest economy
declined to 7.8 percent in October from 8.3 percent in
September, exceeding the upper limit of the central bank’s 2.5
percent to 7.5 percent target band for a second consecutive
month. The central bank’s Monetary Policy Committee yesterday
left its policy rate unchanged for a third successive meeting at
a two-year low of 8.5 percent, saying price pressures are under
control and that the market expects the economy will grow.  Gross domestic product is forecast by the government to
rise by 5.5 percent to 6 percent this year from 4.6 percent in
2012. Treasury Secretary Henry Rotich last month said he sees
limited economic impact on the country from a four-day attack by
Islamist militants on a Nairobi shopping mall in September that
left at least 67 civilians and security forces dead.  Target Breach  Inflation breached the target range after the government
applied a 16 percent value-added tax to a wider range of
products in September, triggering a one-time rise in consumer
prices, not an underlying shift, Ndung’u said.  “VAT was a one-off, a blip for one month,” he said.
“There were no fundamentals driving inflation.”  Kenya ’s government also cut fuel prices last month as a
stronger shilling curbed import costs. The currency declined 0.1
percent to 85.45 per dollar by 8:37 a.m. in Nairobi, paring its
gain since the start of September to 2.4 percent.  “Stability in the exchange rate comes because confidence
in the market is returning,” Ndung’u said. “We have seen
increases of foreign-exchange inflows including remittances.”  The shilling has gained 25 percent since trading at a
record low of 106.75 per dollar in October 2011 following a
drought that drove up food prices. Inflation soared to 20
percent and the bank raised borrowing costs to a record 18
percent to help bolster the currency and curb price pressures.
Food is the largest component in the consumer-price basket with
a 36 percent weighting.  Confidence Improving  Confidence in the economy is improving after peaceful
elections in March, Ndung’u said. The vote was the first since a
disputed election in December 2007 in which more than 1,100
people died in two months of ethnic clashes. President Uhuru
Kenyatta, a former finance minister and deputy prime minister,
replaced Mwai Kibaki in this year’s largely peaceful election.  Growth on an annual basis slowed in the second quarter to
4.3 percent compared with 5.2 percent between January and March,
according to the latest data from the country’s statistics
bureau. Economic expansion, like in other  emerging markets , is
stoking investor interest, Ndung’u said.  “I would not be worried with second-quarter growth in
Kenya because it is not a good reflector of how growth should
be,” Ndung’u said. “The government was forming, there were so
many transitional issues, and in the first month there was a
petition” challenging the vote results.  “All these aspects tend to give the market an excuse to
develop a waiting option until the path of government policy is
clear and communicated,” he said. “That is why we can start
looking at the third and fourth quarters of 2013 to make a full
assessment.”  Sovereign Bond  Kenya is preparing to issue its first sovereign bond by
early next year to raise as much as $2 billion, partly to pay
off a $600 million syndicated loan and to invest in
infrastructure development including railways and power
generation.  “There are many people investing in emerging markets for
various reasons,” said Ndung’u. “The frontier and emerging
markets are where returns are positive in real terms.”  Kenya’s current account deficit was at about 7.5 percent of
gross domestic product in September, compared with 10.5 percent
in December 2012, narrowing after the bank changed the way the
calculation is done, Ndung’u said.  “This is the true reflection of the current account
deficit” that follows “the correct computations,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Malingha Doya in Nairobi at 
 dmalingha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  