-- Kimberly Mounts, ‘Rising Star’ Hedge Fund Adviser, Dies at 48
-- B y   L a u r e n c e   A r n o l d
-- 2013-11-06T00:00:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-05/kimberly-mounts-rising-star-hedge-fund-adviser-dies-at-48.html
Kimberly Mounts, named a hedge fund
“rising star” by Institutional Investor magazine in 2012 for
her stewardship of MAP Alternative Asset Management Co. in
 Newport Beach ,  California , has died. She was 48.  She died of cardiac arrest on Oct. 25 at Hoag Hospital in
Newport Beach, according to her brother, Scott Mounts.  She had been in a drug-induced coma since Oct. 20, when she
first went into cardiac arrest following a workout at her gym,
her brother said. “She was a vegetarian, didn’t drink, didn’t
smoke and worked out religiously,” he said yesterday in a
telephone interview.  A chartered alternative investment analyst, Mounts founded
MAP Alternative Asset Management in 2006 following jobs in  New
York  at  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and Morgan Stanley, where she
specialized in fixed-income derivatives.  MAP, with fewer than 10 employees, is an  investment adviser 
with input on more than $35 billion in client assets,
specializing in  managing risk  in fixed-income portfolios,
according to Marco Ricciardulli, a senior consultant. Clients
include large public and corporate pensions. A planned fixed-income fund of hedge funds, with a focus on emerging managers,
has yet to open, Ricciardulli said.  The firm’s work is an example of “ affirmative investing ”
by pension funds and other institutional investors who seek, by
practice or law, to give part of their business to women-owned
and minority-owned investment companies.  ‘Cultural Diversity’  In a  notice  it placed on the website of the Association of
Asian American Investment Managers, for instance, Mounts’ firm
said it was “seeking minority and women-owned hedge funds for
their database and consideration by one of their Fortune 100
corporate pension clients.”  The notice continued, “There are no minimum requirements
in relation to assets under management, track record or history.
All strategies and domiciles will be considered.”  In naming Mounts one of its 2012 “hedge fund rising
stars,” Institutional Investor cited her expertise in  credit
derivatives  as well as her “interest in cultural diversity,”
 noting  that her firm “identifies hedge-fund firms owned by
high-profile women or minority members.”  Mounts was a founding member of the Southern California
chapter of 100 Women in Hedge Funds and was active in 85 Broads
and Broads Circle.  White House  “By being involved in these networks for professional
women, I hope to open doors for other women and help them
recognize the opportunities that are out there,” she said,
according to  an article  on theglasshammer.com, a website for
female business executives.  Mounts was among 150 business leaders invited to  Washington 
in November 2011 for a forum on jobs and the economy hosted by
the White House Business Council.  Judith Kimberly Mounts was born on Sept. 18, 1965, in
Duarte, California, one of seven children of Robert Francis
Mounts and the former Joan Francis Steiger.  She graduated from the  University of California  at  Los
Angeles  in 1988 with a bachelor’s degree in electrical
engineering. She went to work as a systems engineer on a secret
satellite program, working with the U.S. Army and large defense
contractors, according to the profile on theglasshammer.com.  She moved to New York and joined Morgan Stanley as an
information-technology analyst on the mortgage-backed securities
desk.  Derivatives Background  In 1998 she received a master’s in business administration
from the  University of Pennsylvania ’s  Wharton School , then
returned to Morgan Stanley to work on fixed-income derivatives
-- “creating, analyzing and solving complex financial
transactions,” she said, according to the profile.  At Goldman Sachs from 1996 to 2000, Mounts helped structure
and price derivatives for hedge funds and institutional
investors.  On LinkedIn.com, she listed her title at Goldman Sachs as
vice president, and at  Morgan Stanley (MS)  as associate.  She was married and divorced, her brother said.  In addition to her brother, survivors include her mother
and four sisters, Mary Williams, Katherine Mounts, Susan
Simmons, and Linda Rasic. A second brother, Robert Francis
Mounts,  died in March .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurence Arnold in Washington at 
 larnold4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Charles W. Stevens at 
 cstevens@bloomberg.net  