-- KKR Said to Buy Stake in Semiconductor Maker Marvell Tech
-- B y   K i e l   P o r t e r ,   J o d i   X u   a n d   I a n   K i n g
-- 2013-11-05T21:24:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-05/kkr-said-to-buy-stake-in-semiconductor-maker-marvell-tech.html
KKR & Co. (KKR)  has acquired almost 5
percent of computer chipmaker  Marvell Technology Group Ltd. (MRVL) , two
people with knowledge of the matter said.  KKR sees the Hamilton, Bermuda-based company as undervalued
and has discussed its holding with the company’s co-founders,
Chief Executive Officer Sehat Sutardja and his brother Pantas,
said one person, who asked not to be identified as the
information is private. One scenario New York-based KKR is
considering is a leveraged buyout of Marvell, though no such
deal is imminent, the person said.  Marvell’s  stock  rose 8.5 percent to $13.04 at the close in
 New York , the biggest one-day gain since May 2011. The shares
have climbed 80 percent this year.  Marvell’s ability to generate cash, its lack of debt and
ability to borrow cheaply make the company a good candidate for
a transaction, according to  Doug Freedman , an analyst at  RBC
Capital Markets  in  San Francisco . The large stake still held by
the founders would also simplify the process, he said.  “The fundamentals at Marvell are some of the best in the
semiconductor industry right now,” said Freedman, who
 recommends  buying the stock. “It is very tightly held by
ownership, which makes it an easier leveraged buyout.”  A 5 percent stake, which would have to be publicly
disclosed, is valued at about $296 million, based on Marvell’s
market value of $5.9 billion yesterday. The Sutardja brothers
own over  20 percent  of the company, while Greenlight Capital
Inc., the hedge fund run by  David Einhorn , owns another 9
percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Cash Position  Kristi Huller, a spokeswoman for KKR, and Sukhi Nagesh, a
spokesman for Marvell, declined to comment. Sehat Sutardja
didn’t reply to a phone call and e-mail seeking comment.  The company has $1.7 billion of cash and equivalents, it
said in August. It has no  debt  and reported net income of $61.8
million on $807.1 million of sales in its latest quarter.  Marvell, which designs processors used in communications
equipment and mobile phones, has gained 65 percent this year
through yesterday. Shares tumbled late in 2012, when a federal
jury in Pittsburgh ordered the company to pay a $1.17 billion
award for infringing Carnegie Mellon patents covering integrated
circuits.  The decision, the fourth-largest U.S. patent verdict ever
according to data compiled by Bloomberg, was upheld by a judge
in September. Marvell has pledged to appeal the decision.  KKR Deals  KKR, which had $90.2 billion in assets under management at
the end of the third-quarter, has announced only one technology
related takeover in the last year, data shows. The company in
September agreed to buy Mitchell International Inc., a company
that provides technology to insurance firms and collision-repair
facilities.  KKR’s biggest technology  deal  was its $27.5 billion buyout
of First Data Corp., a debt- and credit-card processor, in 2007.
Its technology holdings include financial-software supplier
SunGard Data Systems Inc. and chipmaker  NXP Semiconductor NV. (NXPI)   To contact the reporters on this story:
Kiel Porter in London at 
 kporter17@bloomberg.net ;
Jodi Xu in New York at 
 jxu205@bloomberg.net ;
Ian King in San Francisco at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Aaron Kirchfeld at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  