-- Knox Defense in Murder Retrial May Get Boost on Forensics
-- B y   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i
-- 2013-11-05T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-05/knox-defense-in-murder-retrial-may-get-boost-on-forensics.html
Amanda Knox’s defense in her retrial
on a murder charge may get a boost today when a team of
forensics experts takes the stand in an Italian court to present
its findings on a kitchen knife that may have been used in the
2007 killing of her roommate.  While traces of Knox’s DNA have been found on the knife
prosecutors say was the weapon used to murder U.K. national
Meredith Kercher, the knife holds no forensic traces from the
victim, according to a defense lawyer who read the forensics
report.  An appeals court in Florence ordered new tests to be
conducted after forensic evidence from the 2009 trial that
convicted Knox was thrown out as inadmissible in her 2011
appeals case. Knox and her former boyfriend Raffaele Sollecito
were freed in that trial after nearly four years in prison.  Based on the experts’ report, “that knife seems less and
less likely to be the murder weapon,” Luciano Ghirga, a lawyer
for Knox, said by phone.  Lawyers for the victim’s family disagree. “The test
confirms that this knife was used by Amanda Knox, but we must
recall that at the time, on the tip of the knife,” traces of
the victim were also found, Francesco Maresca, an attorney for
the Kercher family, was cited as saying by  Corriere della Sera 
last week.  Knox, who’s said she’s “haunted” by her time in an
Italian jail, won’t return from the U.S. for the retrial.
Sollecito will be at today’s hearing, his father told state-run
Rai television this month.  Exchange Student  Seattle native Knox, now 26, was an exchange student in
Perugia, a city of 170,000 in central  Italy , at the time of
Kercher’s killing. Both Knox and Sollecito, now a 29-year old
computer studies graduate, were convicted of murder and
sentenced to 26 years and 25 years in prison respectively in the
original case, before the decision was overturned. Earlier this
year Italy’s highest court approved a prosecutor’s request to
void the appeals court verdicts and try Knox and Sollecito
again.  The original trial garnered global media attention and
divided opinion along national lines, with U.S. newspapers
including the  New York  Times arguing for acquittal and U.K.
dailies portraying Knox as a seductive temptress with a violent
streak.  Kercher, a 21-year-old London native and Leeds University
exchange student, was found dead in her bedroom, with her throat
slashed, on Nov. 2, 2007, in the house she shared in Perugia
with Knox and two other women. Prosecutor Giuliano Mignini said
at the original trial that Knox had masterminded a drug-fueled
sex game involving Sollecito and Rudy Guede, an Ivorian-born
Italian citizen, which turned violent, leading to the murder.  Fast Track  Guede was found guilty in a separate “fast-track” trial
in 2008 and sentenced to 30 years. His sentence was reduced to
16 years in a 2009 appeal.  In a pre-recorded interview broadcast on Rai Oct. 15, Knox
said she was confident the appeals court would find her
innocent. “I am paying for the mistakes of the police, of the
investigators who don’t want to admit that they are wrong,” she
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chiara Vasarri in Rome at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  