-- ArcelorMittal S. Africa Rises on Deal: Johannesburg Mover
-- B y   K e v i n   C r o w l e y   a n d   A n d r e   J a n s e   v a n   V u u r e n
-- 2013-11-06T13:03:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-05/kumba-arcelormittal-south-africa-reach-iron-ore-accord.html
ArcelorMittal (MT)   South Africa  Ltd.
surged in Johannesburg trading after the continent’s largest
steelmaker ended a three-year pricing dispute with raw material
supplier  Kumba Iron Ore Ltd. (KIO)   The stock rose as much as 10 percent and was up 6.6 percent
at 40.23 rand by 2:32 p.m. in Johannesburg, heading for its
biggest daily gain since June 4. About 943,000 shares were
traded, more than twice the three-month daily average.  Anglo American Plc (AAL) ’s Kumba will sell as much as 6.25
million metric tons of iron ore a year to ArcelorMittal South
 Africa , a unit of the world’s largest steelmaker, from its
Sishen and Thabazimbi mines at the cost of production plus a 20
percent margin, the companies said in a statement yesterday.
AMSA dropped 3.7 percent yesterday in Johannesburg trading.  “People might have looked at cost plus 20 percent and
thought that was bad,” Campbell Parry, an analyst at Abax
Investments (Pty) Ltd. in  Cape Town , said by phone today. “Once
they sliced and diced the numbers last night they realized it
was not such a bad deal at all.”  Kumba in March 2010 canceled a 2001 accord to supply AMSA
with 6.25 million tons annually from the Sishen mine, Africa’s
biggest  iron-ore  operation. Kumba ended the deal, in which the
raw material was sold at cost plus 3 percentage points, after
AMSA’s mining right over the operation expired the year before.  Kumba rose 1 percent to 443.39 rand, adding to a 2.3
percent gain yesterday after the announcement.  Price Agreement  The new pricing agreement follows a one-year deal where
Kumba agreed in December to supply AMSA as much as 4.8 million
tons of iron ore from Sishen at an average price of $65 a ton.
AMSA also kept sourcing ore from the Thabazimbi mine in Limpopo
province at cost plus 3 percentage points, paying about $108 a
ton in 2012 as the mine neared the end of its lifetime.  The purchases meant an average payment of $85 to $90, Chief
Executive Officer Nonkululeko Nyembezi-Heita said yesterday.  “Our estimate indicates that in this deal, at that time,
we would have been paying between $60 and $65” a ton, Nyembezi-Heita said. The new deal would last for the life of Sishen,
estimated at 18 years, and will be subject to a ceiling equal to
the level Kumba is able to earn for exported output, she said.  “The agreement is an entitlement to buy,” Nyembezi-Heita
said. “If we can get iron ore at a better price, then that’s
what we’re going to do without having any obligation to Kumba”
from the third year of the deal, which takes effect Jan. 1.  Losing Rights  The deal might lapse should Kumba lose part of its mining
right for Sishen, which remains the subject of a dispute in
South Africa’s highest court. The state in September asked the
 Constitutional Court  to overturn rulings preventing it from
granting a partial prospecting permit to Imperial Crown Trading
289 (Pty) Ltd. A former shareholder of ICT, Jagdish Parekh, was
a business associate of President  Jacob Zuma ’s son, Duduzane.  The Department of Mineral Resources granted the partial
right to ICT after AMSA’s permit expired. The right was again
revoked in Kumba’s favor by the North Gauteng High Court in
 Pretoria  in December 2011, after which the  Supreme Court  of
Appeal upheld the decision in March 2013.  The Constitutional Court is yet to announce its judgment.  The agreement would allow Kumba to extend production at its
Thabazimbi mine, which previously had about two to four years of
life remaining, Kumba CEO Norman Mbazima said.  The deal “moves the risks and rewards towards Kumba as it
takes ownership of Thabazimbi and seeks to optimize sales
channels,” Investec said in a note to clients.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kevin Crowley in Johannesburg at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net ;
Andre Janse van Vuuren in Johannesburg at 
 ajansevanvuu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  