-- Kumba, ArcelorMittal South Africa Reach Iron-Ore Pact
-- B y   K e v i n   C r o w l e y
-- 2013-11-05T14:50:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-05/kumba-arcelormittal-south-africa-reach-iron-ore-pact.html
Anglo American’s Kumba  Iron Ore  unit
reached an agreement to supply the raw material to  ArcelorMittal
South Africa Ltd. (ACL) , the continent’s largest steelmaker, ending
disputes between the companies.  The price of as much as 6.25 million metric tons of iron
ore sold annually to AMSA by Kumba’s Sishen Iron Ore unit will
reference costs of production plus a 20 percent margin and will
be subject to a ceiling equal to Sishen’s so-called export
parity price, the Pretoria-based company said in a statement
today. The accord starts on Jan. 1 and replaces a one-year
arrangement reached in December last year. It also includes any
volumes from Kumba’s Thabazimbi mine.  “There is an agreed floor price for 1.6 million tons and
and 2 million of iron ore for the first two years of the
agreement,” the company said.  Kumba in March 2010 canceled a 2001 agreement to supply
AMSA with 6.25 million tons of material annually from the Sishen
mine in  South Africa ’s Northern Cape province, the continent’s
biggest iron-ore operation. Kumba terminated the pact, in which
the steelmaking ingredient was sold at cost plus 3 percentage
points, after  ArcelorMittal (MT)  South Africa’s mining right over the
operation expired the previous year.  Kumba’s Sishen Iron Ore Co. controls and operates the
Sishen mine, while  Exxaro Resources Ltd. (EXX)  owns 20 percent of
SIOC, as the unit is known.  The agreement is subject to conditions, including that SIOC
retains the entire Sishen mining right.  Kumba climbed after the announcement, rising 2 percent to
437.72 rand by 4:47 p.m. in Johannesburg. ArcelorMittal South
Africa declined 4.1 percent to 37.58 rand.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Crowley in Johannesburg at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  