-- NamPower to Lend Zimbabwe Power Utility Cash to Guarantee Supply
-- B y   F e l i x   N j i n i
-- 2013-11-05T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-05/nampower-to-lend-zimbabwe-power-utility-cash-to-guarantee-supply.html
Namibia Power Corp. said it will loan
funds to  Zimbabwe ’s power utility to refurbish and raise
generation capacity of two thermal power plants in return for
guaranteed supplies of electricity.  NamPower, as the Windhoek-based state-owned company is
known, has agreed in principle to upgrade the facilities to
secure guaranteed electricity until 2018, when Kudu, a $1.2
billion, 800-megawatt gas-to-power plant it’s developing, should
start operating, Managing Director Paulinus Shilamba said by
phone on Nov. 4. He declined to say how much it would lend.  The southwest African nation, the world’s biggest miner of
offshore diamonds and fifth-largest uranium producer, imports
about 53 percent of its electricity requirements from
neighboring countries, NamPower said in its 2012 annual report.  “We have identified an investment opportunity at the two
power stations, which we also want to form part of our short-term critical supply project,” he said. “We have a strong
balance sheet and are able to finance a deal of this nature.”  Zimbabwe Power Co. , the Harare-based electricity-generation
unit of the country’s ZESA Holdings Pvt Ltd. utility, plans to
raise generation capacity at the plant in Harare, the capital,
to 120 megawatts from 50 megawatts, and at the facility in
Bulawayo to 90 megawatts from 30 megawatts, Newsday reported on
Oct. 28. One megawatt of capacity is enough to supply 2,000
average European homes.  ZPC needs $180 million to boost generation capacity at the
two power plants, ZPC said.  New Agreement  Preliminary investigations conducted by NamPower showed the
“power stations are not in bad shape and with minimal
investment can be brought into operation,” Shilamba said.
NamPower wants the deal structured along a 2007 agreement in
which it loaned ZESA $40 million to refurbish four units at the
coal-fired Hwange plant, securing supplies of 150 megawatts over
five years, he said.  “Our deal with ZESA over Hwange power station is ending in
2014 and our expectation is that it should be the benchmark if
we finalize an agreement to loan them money to refurbish the two
stations,” Shilamba said.  He wouldn’t disclose how much power the Namibian utility
plans to secure from Zimbabwe.  “It has to be a win-win deal for both of us,” Shilamba
said. “If we invest money it means we expect to benefit.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Felix Njini in Windhoek via Cape Town at 
 dgriffiths1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  