-- Netanyahu Fuel Initiative to Boost Israel Growth, Official Says
-- B y   A l i s a   O d e n h e i m e r   a n d   G w e n   A c k e r m a n
-- 2013-11-05T14:10:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-05/netanyahu-fuel-initiative-to-boost-israel-growth-official-says.html
Israel ’s program to break the
country’s dependence on oil for transportation may add more than
a percentage point each year to national output by offering
cheaper fuel alternatives, a government official said.  The program’s aim is to reduce the share of oil in the
country’s transportation sector by 60 percent by 2025, program
head Eyal Rosner said in a Nov. 3 interview in his Tel Aviv
office. To do so, the government, at Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu ’s initiative, has earmarked $420 million over 10 years
to encourage researchers, investors and companies from around
the world to study and develop alternative fuels. Israel will be
a test bed for experiments designed to yield solutions that
change the way the world powers its vehicles, Rosner said.  “We want to serve as a catalyst, so the  world  will be in
better shape in terms of its dependency on oil,” said Rosner,
who was picked to head the program in May 2012. “If we come up
with a solution that can replace oil, we pretty much solve the
dependency problem.”  Weaning the country off oil is a significant move for
Israel, a country that until recent natural gas finds depended
almost entirely on imports to meet its energy needs. Because its
oil-rich Arab neighbors won’t sell it fuel, Israel has had to
haul crude from countries as far away as  Mexico  to power its
cars, trucks, trains and planes. It now buys most of its fuel
from the former  Soviet Union , according to a government website.  Boost Growth  Israel’s cabinet approved funding of the program in January
2011. By 2025, if alternative fuels replace crude oil as
forecast, the switchover will contribute more than 1 percentage
point to  gross domestic product , largely through savings to
consumers and industry, Rosner forecast.  A pilot program to run trucks in Israel on compressed
natural gas is set to take off within a year, he said. The
introduction of gasoline blended with 15 percent methanol at
pumping stations is set for 2015, he said.  In recent years, Israel has discovered about 29 trillion
cubic feet of offshore gas, a development that has eased its
reliance on imported energy. Rosner said he hopes to use some of
that gas to fuel vehicles, making the discovery a potential game
changer for Israeli transportation.  The Israeli government fuel  program  is designed to
galvanize the alternative  energy industry  in much the same way
that Israeli startups have become innovation powerhouses in
communications and information technology.  The government-sponsored projects won’t focus on a
particular technology and will make funds available to an array
of alternative fuel ventures, Rosner said. A main role will be
to give businesses the financial lifeline they need to invest in
new fuels and develop a market for them, Rosner said.  “It isn’t our job to decide which technology will win,”
Rosner said. “The market should decide.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alisa Odenheimer in Jerusalem at 
 aodenheimer@bloomberg.net ;
Gwen Ackerman in Jerusalem at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  