-- New Zealand Jobs Growth Adds to Case for RBNZ Rate Rise
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2013-11-06T02:50:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-05/new-zealand-jobs-growth-surges-adding-to-case-for-rate-rise.html
New Zealand  employers hired workers
at more than double the pace economists forecast in the three
months through September, adding to the case for an interest-rate increase early next year. The kiwi rose.  Employment increased 1.2 percent, or by 27,000 jobs, from
the second quarter, the most since early 2007,  Statistics New
Zealand  said in a report today in Wellington. The median
forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of seven economists was for
a 0.5 percent gain. The jobless rate fell to 6.2 percent from
6.4 percent, matching economists’ median forecast.  Faster jobs growth and rising business confidence suggest
pressure will build on wages and inflation in coming quarters,
adding to signs  Reserve Bank  of New Zealand Governor Graeme Wheeler may start raising rates from a record-low 2.5 percent as
early as March. Last month, he signaled that borrowing costs
will need to increase in 2014 as domestic demand picks up and
inflation accelerates.  “The strengthening economy is starting to flow through
into the demand for labor,”  Mark Smith , senior economist at ANZ
Bank New Zealand Ltd. in Wellington, said in an e-mailed note.
“Pressures on capacity will eventually flow through into
generalized wage inflation and rate increases, but this remains
an early 2014 story.”  The kiwi dollar rose after the report. It bought 83.61 U.S.
cents at 3:45 p.m. in Wellington, from 83.29 cents before the
data were released.  Overheated Housing  Wheeler has resisted rate increases this year to tackle
what he has described as an overheated housing market, citing
low inflation and the risk the currency will gain, hurting
exports. Twelve of 15 economists surveyed last month expected a
rate rise in March, although two now expect a second-quarter
move, citing recent currency gains.  The odds of a rate rise by March increased to 67 percent
from 51 percent late yesterday, according to interest rate swaps
data compiled by Bloomberg.  House prices  rose 8.4 percent in September from a year
earlier, near the fastest pace since early 2008, according to
QuotableValue New Zealand, a government-owned property research
company. Business confidence in October remained near a 14-year
high, ANZ Bank New Zealand Ltd. said last month.  The  labor force participation rate  climbed to 68.6 percent
from a revised 68.1 percent in the second quarter. Economists
forecast 68 percent. More people were seeking work and
successfully finding jobs, leading to the highest participation
since early 2012, the statistics office said.  Deficit Narrows  Elsewhere,  Australia ’s  trade deficit  narrowed more than
expected in September as imports declined.  Indonesia ’s economy
probably expanded 3.01 percent in the third quarter from the
previous three months, according to economists surveyed by
Bloomberg.  In  Japan , minutes released today by the central bank from
an Oct. 3-4 meeting showed some board members’ view that
consumer-price increases may “pause” in coming months, a
development that could undermine confidence in Prime Minister
Shinzo Abe’s efforts to pull the nation out of deflation.  Later, reports will show U.K. industrial production rose in
September after unexpectedly slumping the most in almost a year
in August, while  euro zone  retail sales fell for the first time
in three months in September, economists predicted. The
Conference Board index of U.S. leading indicators probably rose
at a slower pace in September, according to an economists’
survey.  Auckland Surge  Employment in New Zealand rose 2.4 percent from the year-earlier quarter, the fastest pace since 2007. Economists
forecast 1.6 percent. Jobs growth was led by retailing,
accommodation and construction, the report showed, without
adjusting for seasonal patterns.  Employment (NZLFQOQ)  in Auckland, home to
a quarter of the nation’s 4.5 million people, jumped 8 percent
from a year earlier.  Non-government ordinary time wages rose 0.4 percent from
the second quarter, the statistics agency said in the Labor Cost
Index report also released today. From a year earlier, wages
rose 1.6 percent, the slowest pace in three years.  Wages in Canterbury increased 0.9 percent amid a shortage
of construction workers, today’s report showed. The economy is
being underpinned by a NZ$40 billion ($32 billion) rebuild of
earthquake-damaged Christchurch and the surrounding Canterbury
region, where companies are hiring to assist with the
construction of homes, roads and commercial buildings damaged in
quakes in 2010-11.  Wages in the rest of New Zealand gained 0.2 percent.
Construction industry wages in Canterbury rose 1 percent and
were little changed in the remainder of the country.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  