-- New Zealand Gets Attacking Boost for Soccer World Cup Playoff
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-11-05T00:29:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-05/new-zealand-gets-attacking-boost-for-soccer-world-cup-playoff.html
New Zealand  selected fit-again
forwards  Shane Smeltz , Chris Wood and Marco Rojas for this
month’s  World Cup  playoff against Mexico as the All Whites seek
a second straight appearance at soccer’s global championship.  The attacking trio missed last month’s 0-0 draw against
 Trinidad & Tobago  because of injuries, though were today named
in a 23-man squad for the two-match series with Mexico. Full-back Storm Roux, who plays for Australian A-League champions
Central Coast Mariners, was called up for the first time.  Mexico, which finished fourth in the North and Central
America and the Caribbean qualifying region, will host the
opener Nov. 13 in Mexico City with the second game taking place
a week later in Wellington. The winner over the two matches
advances to next year’s World Cup in Brazil.  New Zealand was the only team not to lose a match at the
2010 edition in South Africa, drawing with Slovakia, Italy and
Paraguay. The All Whites advanced to the intercontinental
playoff by winning all six of their matches in Oceania’s final
qualifying group.  NEW ZEALAND SQUAD:  Goalkeepers: Glen Moss (Wellington Phoenix), Jacob Spoonley
(Wellington Phoenix), Tamati Williams (Auckland City).  Defenders: Andrew Durante (Wellington Phoenix), Tony
Lochhead (unattached), Winston Reid (West Ham United), Storm
Roux (Central Coast Mariners), Ben Sigmund (Wellington Phoenix),
 Tommy Smith  (Ipswich Town), Bill Tuiloma (Marsellie), Ivan
Vicelich (Auckland City).  Midfielders: Leo Bertos (Wellington Phoenix), Aaron Clapham
(Canterbury United), Jeremy Christie (unattached), Craig
Henderson (Mjallby), Chris James (Kuopion Palloseura), Michael
McGlinchey (Central Coast Mariners).  Forwards: Kosta Barbarouses (Melbourne Victory), Jeremy
Brockie (Wellington Phoenix), Rory Fallon (St. Johnstone), Marco
Rojas (Vfb Stuttgart), Shane Smeltz (Perth Glory), Chris Wood
(Leicester City).  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Baynes at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net  