-- News Corp. Editor Said Tabloid Had Dowler Tapes, Prosecutor Says
-- B y   J e r e m y   H o d g e s
-- 2013-11-05T14:11:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-05/news-corp-editor-said-tabloid-had-dowler-tapes-prosecutor-says.html
The managing editor of  News Corp .’s
News of the World tabloid told police in 2002 that reporters had
a tape of voice mails taken from a murdered schoolgirl’s phone,
prosecutors said as the second day of testimony at the U.K.
phone-hacking trial continued to focus on Milly Dowler.  Stuart Kuttner, the 73-year-old former managing editor of
the tabloid on trial for phone hacking, told police in Surrey,
England, his reporters had accessed the voice mail of the school
girl, who was later found murdered, Mark Bryant-Heron, a
prosecution lawyer, said in court today.  The discovery in 2011 that Dowler’s phone had been hacked
by the newspaper triggered public outrage that led  News Corp. (NWSA) 
Chairman  Rupert Murdoch  to close the News of the World. Kuttner,
along with former News of the World editors Rebekah Brooks and
 Andy Coulson , is one of eight defendants facing a range of
charges stemming from wrongdoing at News Corp. U.K. papers.  The tabloid published a story on April 14, 2002, saying
Dowler’s phone had been targeted by a prank caller, with the
text of a voice-mail message from a recruitment agency seemingly
offering Dowler a job. Later editions excluded the quote,
Bryant-Heron told jurors in London today.  At the time Dowler’s phone was hacked, Brooks was in Dubai
and kept in regular contact with Coulson, who was then the
deputy editor, the prosecution said.  Brooks is also charged with hiding evidence along with her
husband, Charlie, her former assistant  Cheryl Carter , and News
U.K.’s former head of security, Mark Hanna. All eight have
pleaded not guilty to the charges.  Ian Edmondson, a 44-year-old former news editor at the
tabloid, is charged with hacking while one-time royal reporter
 Clive Goodman  is on trial on conspiring misconduct in a public
office.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeremy Hodges in London at 
 jhodges17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  