-- Nigeria’s Lagos Has Record Bond Approved for Biggest City
-- B y   C h r i s   K a y
-- 2013-11-05T13:09:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-05/nigeria-s-lagos-has-record-bond-approved-for-biggest-city.html
Plans to sell a record amount of
bonds by  Nigeria ’s Lagos state, which holds sub-Saharan  Africa ’s
biggest city, were approved by the country’s markets regulator.  The Nigerian Securities and Exchange Commission cleared the
region’s government to sell 87.5 billion naira ($553 million) of
bonds maturing in November 2020, the second and final tranche of
a 167.5 billion-naira issuance program that started in November
last year, Lagos-based Chapel Hill Denham, the lead book runner,
said in an e-mailed statement today.  Lagos’ population probably rose 29 percent since 2006 to
about 22 million people, according to the local government. It
has the smallest inland area and is the most densely populated
of Nigeria’s 36 states. The region’s administration, led by
Governor Babatunde Fashola, is investing in infrastructure to
meet the needs of a population it estimates is increasing 3
percent a year. About 70 percent of Lagosians live in slums,
according to London-based  Amnesty International .  The bond “will contribute to the completion of ongoing
infrastructure projects to enhance the provision of social
services aimed at improving the living standards of Lagosians,”
Ayo Gbeleyi, the state’s commissioner for finance, said in the
statement.  The proceeds will be used to fund projects including the
Lagos-Badagry expressway, a metropolitan railway, mother-and-child care centers and to buy back the entire shareholding of
the  Lekki Concession Company , which was set up to build roads in
the region, according to the statement.  Price Guidance  Book building for the notes will open next week with
targeted investors including pension funds, banks, money
managers and high-net-worth individuals, Chapel Hill Denham said
in the statement.  “This is the largest bond that Lagos state has ever sold,
but we still believe it will be oversubscribed,”  Samir Gadio , a
London-based emerging-markets strategist at Standard Bank Group
Ltd., said by e-mail today. Demand may be higher than the offer
because “there is excess liquidity in the system and because of
the state’s track record in the market and ability to generate
significant internally generated revenue,” he said.  Price guidance for the issue is 13 percent to 13.75
percent, Gadio said. Lagos sold 80 billion naira of debt last
year with an interest rate of 14.5 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Kay in Lagos at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  