-- Nissan Drops Most Since ’08 After Cutting Forecast: Tokyo Mover
-- B y   M a   J i e
-- 2013-11-05T07:44:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-05/nissan-drops-after-carmaker-reduces-profit-forecast-tokyo-mover.html
Nissan Motor Co. (7201) ,  Japan ’s second-biggest carmaker, tumbled the most in almost five years in Tokyo
trading after the company lowered its profit forecast.  The  stock  fell 10 percent to close at 861 yen, the biggest
decline since December 2008. Nissan had the largest drop in the
Nikkei 225 Stock Average, which climbed 0.2 percent.  At a time when the weaker yen is supposed to be bolstering
Japanese exporters’ earnings, Nissan last week cut its full-year
net income  forecast  by 15 percent after demand in  emerging
markets  slowed and recall costs mounted. Analysts at Deutsche
Bank AG, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Credit Suisse Group AG cut
their investment  ratings  on the stock.  “The impression was really bad as the downward revision
was even bigger than we expected,” said  Koji Endo , an auto
analyst at Advanced Research Japan in Tokyo. “They have to
regain market confidence.”  Nissan cited unfavorable emerging-market exchange rates,
such as the  Indian rupee , in cutting its outlook. The company
also said changes in government policies in countries such as
Thailand and  Brazil  are part of the reasons that the company
reduced its full-year global sales forecast to 5.2 million
units, compared with an earlier forecast of 5.3 million.  Management Overhaul  Recall costs were another reason for the earnings revision.
Nissan said on Sept. 26 it would recall 910,000 vehicles
globally, including the Serena minivan and X-Trail SUV, over an
accelerator glitch. The recall will cost the company about 15
billion yen ($152 million), weighing down the company’s
quarterly profit, according to Kota Yuzawa, an analyst with
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. in Tokyo.  Nissan reported earnings Nov. 1. Japanese markets were shut
yesterday for a holiday.  Carlos Ghosn , chief executive officer at both Nissan and
Renault SA, also announced he’ll get rid of Nissan’s chief
operating officer position -- currently held by Toshiyuki Shiga
-- two months after doing so at the French carmaker he also
runs.  Ghosn said Shiga’s responsibilities will be split among
three executives and denied the management overhaul was a
“punishment for anyone” or a move toward picking a successor.  Nissan will stick to its mid-term targets -- 8 percent
global market share and an operating margin of 8 percent by
March, 2017 -- and the downturn in emerging markets won’t last
long, Ghosn said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ma Jie in  Tokyo  at 
 jma124@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  