-- Nokia, Twitter, Victoria’s Secret: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2013-11-05T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-05/nokia-twitter-victoria-s-secret-intellectual-property.html
Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  said  Samsung Electronics
Co. (005930) , the world’s largest mobile-phone maker, agreed to license
its patents for five more years, a boon for the Finnish company
as it seeks to rebuild revenue after selling its handset unit.  Samsung agreed to pay Nokia additional compensation
starting Jan. 1, according to a statement from Espoo, Finland-based Nokia yesterday. The amount will be settled in a binding
arbitration expected to be concluded in 2015. The previous
agreement was set to close at the end of this year.  Patents will be one area of focus for Nokia after the
former mobile-phone market leader agreed to sell its handset
division to  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  in September. Without phones, the
company’s largest business will be  network equipment , and it is
also retaining patents to generate licensing income.  “This deal demonstrates the opportunities for the new
Nokia in intellectual property rights,” said Sami Sarkamies, an
analyst at  Nordea Bank AB (NDA)  in Helsinki. “It’s significant
because it relates to Samsung, the client with the biggest
potential in such rights. It’s good timing for Nokia and shows
they will be able to benefit from the device-unit divestment
from the first day.”  Samsung, based in Suwon,  South Korea , overtook Nokia as the
largest mobile-phone maker last year and has also become the
biggest producer of smartphones, the most lucrative and fastest-growing part of the handset market. Malin Roennmark, a Samsung
spokeswoman in  Stockholm , confirmed the agreement, declining to
comment further.  Mark Durrant, a Nokia spokesman, declined to comment on the
terms of the deal. He said Nokia has average annual revenue of
about 500 million euros ($675 million) from agreements with more
than 50 licensees.  “This extension and agreement to arbitrate represent a
hallmark of constructive resolution of licensing disputes, and
are expected to save significant transaction costs for both
parties,” Paul Melin, Nokia’s chief intellectual property
officer, said in the statement.  Twitter Accused by IBM of Infringing Patents  Twitter Inc., which is set to price its shares tomorrow and
begin trading the  New York Stock Exchange (NYX) , said it has been
accused of infringing patents held by  International Business
Machines Corp. (IBM)   The San Francisco-based operator of the microblogging site
said in a regulatory filing yesterday that IBM wrote the company
“alleging that we infringe on at least three U.S. patents held
by IBM, and inviting us to negotiate a business resolution of
the allegations,” according to the filing.  In dispute are IBM’s patents 7,099,862, which relates to a
networking technique based on common contacts; 7,072,849,
covering a method of showing advertisements without interfering
with an interactive site; and 6,957,224, pertaining to the use
of interconnected computers to reduce Web traffic.  Armonk, New York-based IBM, which has been the biggest
recipient of U.S. patents for the past two decades, gets about
$1 billion a year in licensing revenue. The company rarely files
infringement lawsuits. It spent four years talking with
 Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  before suing over Internet-commerce related
patents in October 2006. The companies settled seven months
later with Amazon.com paying an undisclosed amount.  Twitter had just nine patents and 95 pending applications
as of Sept. 30, far fewer than its competitors or other
companies in the industry. The company said that could make it a
target for litigation, and it would be limited in its ability to
fight back by asserting its own patents.  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Victoria’s Secret Sued for Infringing Hanky Panky’s Trademarks  L Brands Inc. (LTD) ’s Victoria’s Secret unit was sued for
trademark infringement by a self-described maker of “ultra sexy
lingerie.”  New York-based  Hanky Panky Ltd.  accuses Victoria’s Secret
of infringing two of its registered U.S. trademarks, “After
Midnight” and “Indulge Your Inner Flirt.”  Victoria’s Secret is offering an “After Midnight”
collection of an  aphrodisiac candle ,  aphrodisiac massage oil , a
perfume product and a room spray, according to the complaint
filed Oct. 31 in federal court in  New York .  Hanky Panky also objects to Victoria’s Secret’s ad used
with a line of sleepwear that urges potential buyers to
“ indulge your inner flirt .”  This use of the phrases by Victoria’s Secret “betrays a
studied and deliberate misappropriation of Hanky Panky’s
valuable  intellectual property ,” according to court papers.  Hanky Panky also complained that because of Victoria
Secret’s larger size, advertising budget and resources,’’ the
larger company’s use of the two phrases will “overwhelm and
swamp” Hanky Panky’s.  The New York-based lingerie company asked the court to bar
Victoria’s Secret’s use of the disputed trademarks, together
with an order for the destruction of all promotional material
containing them.  Hanky Panky also seeks money damages, including
compensation for the cost of corrective advertising aimed at
mitigating any consumer confusion resulting from the
unauthorized use of its marks. Additionally, Hanky Panky asked
for awards of attorney fees and litigation costs, and for a
tripling of the damages in order to punish Victoria’s Secret for
its actions.  Victoria’s Secret, based in Columbus,  Ohio , didn’t respond
immediately to an e-mailed request for comment.  The case is Hanky Panky Ltd. v. Limited Brands Inc., 1:13-cv-07742-PAC, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
( Manhattan ).  Titan Trademark Challenge to Saint Sent Back for Reconsideration  Titan Industries Ltd., (TTAN)  a Bangalore, India-based maker of
watches and jewelry must face further scrutiny in its opposition
to a trademark filed by competitor  Saint Watches Ptv. Ltd. ,
 India ’s Business Standard  reported .  India’s Intellectual Property Appellate Board has ruled
that the deputy Registrar of Trademarks must consider one more
issue raised by Saint Watches in the registrar’s dismissal of
Titan’s opposition, according to Business Standard.  Saint Watches is arguing that Titan didn’t file its notice
of opposition within the required time period, the newspaper
reported.  Previously the deputy registrar said the two companies’
locals were sufficiently dissimilar as to prevent the
possibility of deception or confusion, according to Business
Standard.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  TorBoox to Dump 41,000 EBooks Onto Internet Free of Charge  TorrentFreak, the anti-copyright news site,  reported  that a
German website that offers unauthorized downloads of e-books
said it planned to dump about 41,000 books onto the Internet
free of charge beginning yesterday.  The site,  TorBoox , told TorrentFreak it had tried
unsuccessfully to affiliate with the German publishers’
association to make a deal to offer the books legally for a flat
rate.  TorBoox had set up a paywall and users who paid 3.33 euros
($4.50) a month could download as many books as they wanted,
according to TorrentFreak.  The TorBoox operator told TorrentFreak he’s quitting
because so much money came in that a “decent and reasonable
ending” to the venture became “out of sight,” and the attempt
to go legitimate had failed.  Tokyo Court Says Japanese Copyright Group Blocks Others’ Entry  The Tokyo High Court ruled that the  Japanese Society for
Rights of Authors, Composers and Publishers  has made it
“extremely difficult’ for rival copyright management groups to
enter the market,  Japan  Times  reported .  The court canceled an order by Japan’s Fair Trade
Commission, withdrawing a cease and desist order it issued
against the rights group for allegedly violating that country’s
anti-monopoly law, according to the newspaper.  E-License, a competitor, had the grounds to challenge
JSRAC, the court ruled, according to Japan Times.  The court found that JASRAC’s flat-rate payment system made
it unattractive for broadcasters to use music managed by other
groups such as E-license, Japan Times reported.  For more copyright news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland,  California , at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 