-- Nordic Consumers Drive Economic Expansion, Commission Forecasts
-- B y   K a t i   P o h j a n p a l o
-- 2013-11-05T09:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-05/nordic-consumers-drive-economic-expansion-commission-forecasts.html
Swedish and Danish consumers are
helping their economies expand amid sluggish exports to the
struggling euro area, the European Commission said.  Sweden ’s economy, the Nordic region’s biggest, will grow
2.8 percent in 2014 and 3.5 percent in 2015, the commission said
in a report published today. That’s faster than any other
European Union member with the exception of the three Baltic
countries. It also exceeds May forecasts for 1.5 percent and 2.5
percent growth, respectively.  “Unlike in previous recoveries which were typically
export-driven, the main push for growth is expected to come from
domestic demand,” the Brussels-based commission said of Sweden.
In  Denmark , “growth is expected to be mainly driven by domestic
demand, supported by mildly positive growth contributions from
net exports.”  Sweden’s consumers have stepped in to propel the economy as
slack growth in the euro area and a strong krona weigh on sales
abroad. The Riksbank last month signaled a delay in raising its
key rate from 1 percent as it predicts inflation won’t reach the
2 percent target until the end of next year.  Denmark’s economy will expand 1.7 percent in 2014 and 1.8
percent in 2015, the commission forecast. Unemployment will
decline to 7 percent by 2015 from 7.3 percent this year,
according to the commission. Sweden’s jobless rate will peak at
8.1 percent this year before falling to 7.4 percent in 2015.  Record Debt  High private debt levels make the two countries vulnerable
and there’s potential for a fall in  house prices  in Sweden, the
commission said. Sweden’s household debt has almost doubled over
the past 20 years to more than 170 percent of disposable
incomes, according to the central bank. Danish households have
the world’s biggest debt load relative to incomes at 310
percent, according to estimates by the Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development.  Finland, the worst-performing Nordic economy and the only
one using the single currency, isn’t buoyed by its consumers as
job cuts by companies sap confidence. The AAA rated economy will
contract 0.6 percent this year, which is deeper than the 0.4
percent drop forecast for the euro area. Growth is seen at 0.6
percent in 2014 and 1.6 percent in 2015, also lagging behind a
recovery in the euro area as well as its Nordic peers.  Slow growth means Finland’s debt to gross domestic product
will breach the 60 percent EU rule in 2014 even after government
austerity measures. The government is also cutting corporate
taxes by 4.5 percentage points next year to stimulate growth.  A three-year wage deal agreed on last month will weigh on
Finnish consumption in the short term, while helping to
strengthen net exports, employment and growth in the medium
term, the commission said.  The economy of Iceland, which has halted talks to join the
EU, is seen growing 2.3 percent in 2014 and 2.5 percent in 2015,
according to the commission.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kati Pohjanpalo in Helsinki at 
 kpohjanpalo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  