-- NQ Drops on Piper Jaffray Rating Halt: China Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2013-11-05T21:57:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-05/nq-mobile-drops-after-ipo-piper-jaffray-suspends-rating.html
NQ Mobile Inc. (NQ) , the Chinese mobile-services provider that sank 62 percent in the three days after
 Muddy Waters LLC  said it inflated sales, plunged in New York as
 Piper Jaffray Cos. (PJC)  suspended its rating on the stock.  American depositary receipts of NQ Mobile tumbled 20
percent, the biggest slide since Oct. 24. The Bloomberg China-US
Index of the most traded Chinese stocks in the U.S. fell 1.3
percent to 102.52 yesterday.  E-Commerce China Dangdang Inc. (DANG) , the
nation’s biggest online bookseller, slipped to a two-month low,
while  Mindray Medical International Ltd. (MR)  dropped to the lowest
level since February after the company cut its sales forecast.  NQ Mobile has plunged 58 percent since Oct. 24 when Muddy
Waters, the research firm founded by short seller  Carson Block ,
said in a report that the company inflated revenue and
misrepresented cash balances. NQ Mobile has denied the
allegations. Piper Jaffray, the investment bank and asset
manager founded in 1895, suspended the equivalent of a buy 
rating  on the stock. It was the lead manager of NQ Mobile’s
initial public offering in May 2011.  “Obviously it would cause tremendous concern, especially
if it’s the IPO lead manager,” Erik Lam, director of Asian
equity sales at Auerbach Grayson & Co. in New York, said by
phone. “That certainly doesn’t sound positive.”  None of the three analysts in the Piper Jaffray note could
be reached by phone when contacted by Bloomberg News. Piper
Jaffray investor relations manager Tom Smith didn’t reply to a
phone call and an e-mail seeking comment.  ETF Slides  The  iShares China Large-Cap ETF , the largest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., dropped 1.6 percent to $37.28
in New York, snapping a six-day rally. The Standard & Poor’s 500
Index slipped 0.3 percent as investors awaited this week’s data
on economic growth and employment.  NQ Mobile’s ADRs plunged to $9.52 after tumbling the most
since a 47 percent plunge on the day of the Muddy Waters report.
Ten-day  volatility  on the shares surged to a record 416
yesterday, from 83 on Oct. 23.  “We are suspending our rating, price target and estimates
for NQ Mobile until we have more deeply investigated various
allegations against the company made by third parties,” Mark Murphy, a San Francisco-based analyst at Piper Jaffray, wrote in
an e-mailed report today. The company’s last rating on NQ Mobile
was the equivalent of a buy.  NQ Mobile signed an agreement with  China Unicom Hong Kong
Ltd. (762)  to offer its NQ Family Guardian software in the mobile-phone carrier’s WoStore, according to a statement by the
Beijing-based provider yesterday.  Dangdang Forecast  Block issued an 81-page report on Oct. 24 calling NQ Mobile
a “massive fraud” and claiming that its largest customer is
itself. He said last week the stock will be delisted within a
year.  ADRs of Dangdang, as the book retailer is known, slumped
3.9 percent to $8.33, the lowest close since Sept. 6.  Beijing-based Dangdang is  scheduled  to report third-quarter
earnings on Nov. 14, it said in a statement dated Nov. 4. The
company cut its third-quarter sales estimate by as much as 4
percent on Oct. 21.  Mindray, a medical device manufacturer based in Shenzhen,
fell 1.9 percent to $36.42, the lowest close in eight months.
Trading volume was three times the 90-day average compiled by
Bloomberg.  Mindray’s third-quarter adjusted net income of 47 cents a
share missed the 48-cent average projection of five analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg. The company forecast its 2013 revenue
growth will grow at least 13 percent from a year earlier,
according to its statement on Nov. 4. That compared with its
previous estimate of 18 percent.  Vipshop Holdings Ltd. (VIPS) , an online clothing retailer based in
 Guangzhou , sank 3.4 percent to $76.32, sliding the most since
Oct. 28. BNP Paribas SA cut its recommendation on Vipshop to
hold from a buy yesterday.  The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  in Hong Kong,
retreated 0.5 percent from a six-week high to 10,637.15, while
the  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  climbed 0.4 percent to 2,157.24.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  