-- Obamacare Site Can Handle 17,000 People an Hour, CMS Says
-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 2013-11-05T17:54:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-05/obamacare-site-can-handle-17-000-people-an-hour-cms-says.html
The U.S. health-insurance exchange is
seeing improvement and can now register 17,000 customers per
hour “with almost no errors,” an Obama administration official
said at a Senate hearing where the website’s underperformance
was targeted by both political parties.  Fixes included speeding up the site so insurance plans are 
displayed “in just seconds,”  Marilyn Tavenner , head of the 
Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services,  said in remarks 
to the Senate Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee 
today. The agency also doubled the number of  servers and 
replaced a virtual database with a physical one as  it tries 
to reach a goal of 800,000 sign-ups in the first month.  Tavenner’s comments weren’t good enough for some
Republicans on the committee, as well as some Democrats who 
voted for the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act of
2010. Canceled policies, “sticker shock” on the price of new
plans and website outages have shaken the faith of potential
customers, said Senator Barbara Mikulski, a Maryland Democrat.  “What I worry about is that there’s such a crisis of
confidence people won’t enroll, and the very people we need to
enroll, particularly our young people, to make this whole system
work, won’t happen,” Mikulski said.  Site Architecture  Since opening Oct. 1, the federal online exchange serving
36 states has been plagued by delays, error messages and hang-ups that have prevented customers from completing applications.  Tavenner wouldn’t provide current enrollment figures,
saying the Obama administration plans to release a report next
week, though initial sign-ups may be low before picking up in
December.  “We are seeing improvements each week, and by the end of
November, the experience on the site will be smooth for the vast
majority of users,” Tavenner said. Her agency is doing
“software upgrades pretty much several times a week” and
focusing on “the internal architecture of the site.”  The inability of customers to navigate the federal site,
register their information and buy plans puts the government at
risk of missing congressional projections for signing up 7
million people in plans through the exchanges for 2014.  “This law is more than a website that won’t work -- it is
a law transforming our health-care delivery system in the wrong
direction,” said Senator  Lamar Alexander  of  Tennessee , the top
Republican on the committee. He cited “increasing premiums,
canceling insurance plans, destroying relationships with
doctors, raising taxes, forcing people into Medicaid.”  Initial Surge  U.S. officials blamed the turnout of millions of Americans
on the first day for the problems, saying the unexpectedly high
numbers overwhelmed the system. Tavenner said today her agency
underestimated demand and is now focusing on “performance and
speed” of the site.  “We had to go back and catch up and add additional
capacity and improve performance,” she said.  This is Tavenner’s second appearance before Congress in a
week as lawmakers investigate what went wrong with the exchange
website that is supposed to let people compare and buy health
plans, aided by tax credits. Tavenner, at a House committee
hearing Oct. 29, blamed outside contractors for the website
woes, though she did apologize for the exchange’s flaws.  Kathleen Sebelius , the U.S. Health and Human Services
Secretary, told a separate panel a day later that her agency is
working to achieve “an optimally functioning” exchange by the
end of November. Sebelius is scheduled to testify again tomorrow
before the Senate Finance Committee.  Contract Bids  Some of the website problems can be traced back to the race
to construct an online insurance exchange by Oct. 1 that spurred
the Obama administration to use an expedited bidding system that
limited its choice of a builder to just four companies,
including  CGI Group Inc. (CJ5A)   Eighteen months elapsed after passage of the 2010  health-care overhaul  before CGI was selected to begin work, government
documents show. That left Montreal-based CGI two years to create
a website,  healthcare.gov , designed to link consumers with
insurers while drawing data from a variety of U.S. agencies,
including the  Internal Revenue Service .  The Obama administration has identified a number of
software flaws that led to the problems, criticized CGI’s
handling of the work, named another  software company  to
supervise their work and pulled in engineers from Google Inc.,
 Red Hat Inc. (RHT)  and  Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  to help get the website working
smoothly by the end of this month.  New Supervision  The bidding shortcut the administration used limited the
companies that could bid to build the website to a pre-approved
list of 16 vendors selected in 2007 for an umbrella contract to
work on unspecified systems for the U.S. Centers for Medicare
and Medicaid Services. Only four of the 16 companies bid for the
work, including CGI. The other bidders weren’t identified.  CGI has been paid $104 million already and while no
penalties are built into its contract, Sebelius said on Oct. 30
that “paying for work that isn’t complete is not something that
we will do.”  CGI is due $197 million through the end of March, Sebelius
said. The entire website project is budgeted to cost $630
million, said Julie Bataille, a spokeswoman for the Centers for
Medicare and Medicaid Services, on a Nov. 1 conference call.  The company’s work is now being supervised by Quality
Software Services Inc., a unit of  UnitedHealth Group Inc. (UNH)  named
lead contractor for the project two weeks ago. QSSI built a
piece of the healthcare.gov infrastructure, a “data services
hub” that feeds information from federal agencies to CGI’s site
and state-run insurance websites.  Tavenner said today QSSI is now “working with me
directly.”  Units of CGI and UnitedHealth told the House Energy and
Commerce Committee last month that a branch of the health agency
was responsible for the end-to-end testing of the site that
should have been done months earlier. The government conducted
final tests just days before the site went public, while similar
projects are tested for months, the contractors said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Wayne in Washington at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  