-- Obama’s 39% Gallup Rating Lowest Amid Health Care Fallout
-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2013-11-05T20:51:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-05/obama-s-39-gallup-rating-lowest-amid-health-care-fallout.html
President  Barack Obama ’s rating in
the daily Gallup poll has fallen to its lowest level since
October 2011 as his administration continues to be tarnished by
the rocky debut of his health-care program.  The Democrat’s approval rating stands at 39 percent in the
survey, down since the start of October when the rollout of
online health exchanges began. The last time his Gallup approval
rating was at or above 50 percent was in late June.  “Obama had been able to ride out the shutdown pretty well
and Republicans took the blame for that,” said  David Redlawsk ,
a political science professor at  Rutgers University  in  New
Brunswick ,  New Jersey . “Unfortunately for him, Obama became the
next focus amid the utter disaster that was the rollout of
healthcare.gov.”  Redlawsk said the situation is “absolutely” hurting the
president’s standing with Americans, although it is too early to
say that it will damage Democratic prospects in the 2014
elections.  “If by next spring people are taking about how great it is
to have insurance, that will count for a heck of a lot more than
right now,” he said.  U.S. presidents are typically  less popular  in their second
terms and Obama is no exception.  His current rating remains above the 37 percent second-term
average recorded by former President  George W. Bush  in the
Gallup survey. Former President  Richard Nixon , who left office
in August 1974 amid the Watergate scandal, averaged 34 percent
in his second term.  Katrina Damage  Republicans are comparing this point of Obama’s presidency
with Hurricane  Katrina , when Bush’s botched response to the 2005
storm that ravaged the  Gulf Coast  and led to more than 1,800
deaths damaged his public standing.  Obama’s second-term woes also have included Edward Snowden’s disclosures of National Security Agency telephone and
Internet surveillance and opposition to his request to use force
in  Syria .  The health-care law remains the centerpiece of a first-term
Obama agenda that included an $830 billion economic stimulus,
ramped-up support for clean-energy production, and the most far-reaching financial-regulatory law since the Depression.  Expansive Agenda  He has set an expansive second-term agenda that includes a
revamp of immigration policy, action to control  climate change ,
greater access to pre-kindergarten education, and a boost in
infrastructure spending. Much of that agenda has been impeded by
the Republican-run House and the deadlock over taxes and
spending that led to a 16-day federal government shutdown.  The federal health-care website remains hobbled by software
errors and was overwhelmed by higher-than-anticipated consumer
demand after it opened on Oct. 1. About 8.6 million people
visited the site in the first week, running into long waits that
kept many from checking insurance options.  Republicans have fought the health-care legislation at
every turn, seeking to make it a symbol of government overreach.
Republican-controlled state legislatures and governors have
refused funding to expand Medicaid coverage for the poor, as
provided for under the law, and declined to set up exchanges --
the marketplaces where individuals can buy insurance -- leaving
that job to the federal government.  Gallup tracks daily the percentage of Americans who approve
or disapprove of the job Obama is doing as president, based on
telephone interviews with approximately 1,500 adults and with a
margin of error of plus or minus 3 percentage points. The 39
percent approval was based on interviews conducted Nov. 2-4.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John McCormick  in Chicago at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  