-- Obama Enlisting Executives for Renewed Immigration Push
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v   a n d   J u l i a n n   F r a n c i s
-- 2013-11-05T20:44:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-05/obama-enlisting-executives-to-renew-pressure-for-immigration-law.html
President  Barack Obama  urged a group
of business leaders including McDonald’s Corp. Chief Executive
Officer Donald Thompson and Marriott International Inc. CEO Arne Sorenson to put pressure on congressional Republicans to pass a
new immigration law by year’s end.  Rewriting U.S. immigration law would be “a substantive win
for the U.S. economy and the American people and the businesses
that are represented here,” Obama said as he and Vice President
Joe Biden started a White House meeting today with eight chief
executives the administration is enlisting to assist in the
push.  Also attending were Roger Altman, co-founder of Evercore
Partners Inc., and CEOs Stephen Schwarzman of Blackstone Group
LP, Greg Brown of Motorola Solutions Inc., Joe Echevarria of
Deloitte LLP, Marillyn Hewson of Lockheed Martin Corp., and Ed Rust of State Farm Mutual Automobile Insurance Co., according to
a list provided by the White House.  The president is seeking to pressure Congress to act as the
issue of immigration has gotten overshadowed by the government
shutdown and the flawed rollout of the enrollment website for
the president’s health-care expansion.  “They seemed to be opening up and involving even more
businesses in the dialogue and discussion and I think that’s
important,” Thompson said after leaving the meeting.  Obama is backing legislation passed in June by the
Democratic-majority Senate that creates a path to citizenship
for 11 million undocumented workers and is urging the House of
Representatives to approve it.  Economic Impact  The White House  cites  a Congressional Budget Office
estimate that the legislation would boost average annual gross
domestic product growth by a projected 0.3 percentage points
over the next 20 years, compared with current law. The CBO also
said that enacting the Senate immigration bill would reduce the
 federal budget  deficit by almost $850 billion over 20 years.  Among its provisions, the Senate bill would make permanent
the EB-5 immigrant investor program that grants permanent
resident status to foreigners who invest above a minimum
threshold in new job-creating commercial enterprises in the U.S.  House Speaker John Boehner of  Ohio  and his Republican
caucus show no signs of embracing the Senate approach.  Step-by-Step  “If the president insists on one huge bill that people
don’t understand, we aren’t going to get very far,”  Brendan Buck , a Boehner spokesman, said.  “The speaker has made clear publicly and privately that,
while it’s important we address immigration reform, the House is
not going to consider any massive, Obamacare-style bill,” Buck
said in an e-mail. “Instead, we remain committed to a common
sense, step-by-step approach that gives people confidence
immigration reform has been done right.”  A spokesman for Senator Jeff Sessions of  Alabama , ranking
Republican on the Budget Committee, said the legislation would
give companies of a flood of cheap labor at a time when
unemployment is still high.  “This plan will lower wages at a time when millions are
barely able to get by,” the spokesman, Stephen Miller, said in
an e-mail. “It is special-interest politics at its worst.”  Obama said that while the “politics are challenging” in
the Republican-controlled House, changing the law is gathering
bipartisan support.  Obama is preparing for two trips this week that will
include fundraising on behalf of Democrats in Texas and  Florida ,
two of the nation’s most populous states, each with significant
Hispanic populations.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Talev in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net ;
Juliann Francis in Washington at 
 jfrancis31@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  