-- Localities Seek Approval for $18 Billion of Bonds: Muni Credit
-- B y   D a r r e l l   P r e s t o n
-- 2013-11-05T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-05/localities-seek-approval-for-18-billion-of-bonds-muni-credit.html
U.S. localities are asking voters to
approve about $18 billion of bonds for schools, hospitals and
streets, less than half the 2007 record for an off-year
election, showing officials’ reluctance to take on borrowing.  The proposed debt is 9 percent above the similar electoral
period two years ago and almost double the 2009 figure,
according to New York-based Ipreo, a financial-market data
provider. Yet the tally is still catching up to 2007’s $28.6
billion, before the longest recession since the 1930s eroded tax
revenue. If approved, the securities would finance work near
Denver’s airport, parks and utilities in Columbus,  Ohio , and
revamp a hospital in Miami.  Even with yields more than a percentage point below their
five-decade  average , cities and states have been slow to borrow
as they rebuild reserves depleted during the financial crisis,
said Eric Friedland, head of muni credit research in  New York  at
Schroder Investment Management North America. At about $3.7
trillion, the municipal market has  shrunk  two years in a row for
the first time since 1996, Federal Reserve data show.  “Though there has been a general improvement that makes it
easier to afford to do more, there’s still a spirit of fiscal
austerity,” said Friedland, whose firm handles about $3 billion
of munis. “There’s a lot of pressure not to issue.”  Ballot Approach  Today’s ballot is an off-year general election, featuring
no presidential vote. Local officials typically pack the most
financing requests into presidential polling years, when voter
turnout is greatest.  A year ago, when President  Barack Obama  won re-election,
localities put $37 billion of debt on ballots, of which 87
percent passed. The record for bond votes in a November general
election was $78.6 billion in 2006.  Municipalities have sold about $255 billion of fixed-rate,
long-term debt this year, 15.5 percent less than in the same
period of 2012, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Phil Fischer, head of municipal research at Bank of America
Merrill Lynch & Co., and Chris Mauro, head of muni strategy at
 RBC Capital Markets , last month projected 2013 issuance at $325
billion to $330 billion. That would be the second-smallest total
in the past five years.  Revenue is rebounding along with the expanding national
economy following the 18-month recession that ended in June
2009.  Collection Comeback  In the fiscal year that ended June 30 for most states, the
governments’ collections climbed 5.3 percent from the year
before, swelling reserves, according to the Denver-based
 National Conference of State Legislatures . At the same time,
cities project their first revenue increase since 2006,
according to the Washington-based  National League of Cities .  Borrowing is falling short of what it would take to repair
the nation’s roads and bridges. The U.S. needs an estimated $3.6
trillion investment in infrastructure by 2020, according to the
American Society of Civil Engineers.  “State and local borrowers have been deleveraging and not
investing enough in infrastructure,” said Fischer at Bank of
America. “We’re not going to get the issuance we need to meet
critical needs.”  This year’s proposed borrowings include $830 million for
Jackson Health System, Miami-Dade County’s flagship public
hospital, and about $1 billion for developments around Denver
International Airport.  Astrodome Appeal  Houston’s home county is asking voters to approve $217
million of bonds to renovate the Astrodome, once a stadium for
 Major League Baseball ’s Astros, into a convention center.  In a statewide borrowing question, Texas voters today will
consider whether to change their constitution to allow use of $2
billion from reserves to help finance water projects.  In  California , voters are considering a $394 million bond
referendum to rebuild Marin General Hospital in the county
across the Golden Gate Bridge from  San Francisco . The facility
opened in 1952 and serves a county that has grown by almost five
times to 250,000 people since the hospital was designed. The
work is also being done to comply with state laws for earthquake
preparedness.  The site sometimes diverts patients to other facilities and
operating rooms are too cramped to fit doctors, modern
technology and the necessary staff, said Jon Friedenberg, chief
fund and business development officer for the venue.  In  Colorado , the Panorama Metropolitan District is seeking
$70 million for streets, parks, water and other infrastructure
in the development in Lakewood, outside Denver.  “Development has been on hold for a long time,” said A.J.
Beckman, manager for Special District Management Services Inc.,
which oversees the community. “Some developers are looking at
breaking new ground, and they just want to be ready.”  Following are the largest bond issues before voters,
according to Ipreo and reports from local press or unofficial
tallies from districts:  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Darrell Preston in Dallas at 
 dpreston@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  