-- Hollande Fails to Reverse French Competitiveness Slide, EU Says
-- B y   M a r k   D e e n
-- 2013-11-05T09:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-05/hollande-fails-to-reverse-french-competitiveness-slide-eu-says.html
President  Francois Hollande  hasn’t
managed to reverse a slide in France’s competitiveness with
changes to labor laws and payroll taxes, the  European Commission 
said.  “The recent competitiveness reforms are expected to
gradually reduce the pace of losses in export market shares,
although without fully reversing the trend,” the European
Union’s executive arm said in a report. “Export growth is
therefore projected to remain slightly below that of world
demand.”  The comments underline how  Europe ’s second-largest economy
is struggling to recover in the wake of the financial crisis and
recession.  Gross domestic product  will expand 0.2 percent this
year and 0.9 percent next year, before growing 1.7 percent in
2015, the Commission said. That’s in line with the Hollande
government’s own forecasts.  “Entrepreneurs are likely to give priority to the
restoration of their profit margins before considering
investing,” the Commission said. “Only in 2015, with the
increase in aggregate demand together with strengthened
profitability, should a firm pick up in investment take place.”  The lack of growth means that there may be a further
moderate increase in unemployment, which is set to reach 11.3
percent in 2015 after hitting 11 percent this year, the
Commission said.  Hollande will also fail to reduce  France ’s budget deficit to
3 percent of GDP in 2015 as promised unless he takes further
action, the Commission predicts. The deficit will drop to 3.8
percent of GDP next year from 4.1 percent this year, according
to its forecasts.  That means the public debt will keep rising. Government
borrowing will amount to 96 percent of GDP in 2015, up from 93.5
percent this year and 95.3 percent next year, the Commission
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  