-- Hong Kong Gives Philippines Deadline on Hostage-Victim Talks
-- B y   S i m o n   L e e
-- 2013-11-05T06:32:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-05/hong-kong-will-act-against-philippines-if-progress-not-made.html
Hong Kong  will take action against
the  Philippines  unless substantial progress is made within a
month on compensation talks with victims of a deadly 2010
hostage crisis, Chief Executive Leung Chun-ying said.  Some progress has been made in the talks between the
Chinese city and the Philippines, Leung said in a briefing
today, without specifying what actions Hong Kong may take.  “We still have a long way to go,” Leung said. “I fully
understand the disappointment among the victims and the
families, which is shared by the community at large.”  Eight members of a Hong Kong tour group were killed in 2010
in  Manila  when a former police officer took them hostage on a
bus and opened fire after hours of failed negotiations to
release them. Some lawmakers in the former British colony are
calling for measures including tightening employment permits for
Filipinos, the second-biggest foreign ethnic group in the
Chinese city.  The deadliest attack on foreign tourists in the
Philippines, broadcast live on television, has remained a thorn
in relations. The Hong Kong government has told citizens to
avoid travel to the the Southeast Asian nation and expressed
disappointment that officials weren’t more severely punished for
mishandling a rescue attempt.  Leung and Philippine President  Benigno Aquino  agreed during
the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation summit in Bali last month
to discuss the issue. Still, Aquino has refused to apologize,
 China ’s official Xinhua News Agency reported Oct 23.  Apology Wanted  “Whatever their action will be, we hope this will not
affect our friendship,” Herminio Coloma, communications
secretary of Aquino, told reporters in Manila today. “We hope
that in the coming days, friendship and cooperation between the
people of the Philippines and the people of Hong Kong will
flourish.”  The Manila city government has sent a representative to
Hong Kong to discuss compensation and an apology, with both
sides unable to reach an agreement on the amount.  Hong Kong lawmakers will tomorrow debate a non-binding
 motion  calling for sanctions against the Philippines, including
the suspension of talks on air rights and trade, as well as
cultural exchanges.  “I now announce the Hong Kong government will take
necessary actions unless substantial progress is made within one
month,” Leung said.  Filipinos made up about 1.9 percent of the population in
Hong Kong, with most of them working as domestic helpers,
according to the 2011 census.  The Philippines is looking forward to a speedy resolution
of the issue, Xinhua reported yesterday, citing the Department
of  Foreign Affairs  in Manila.  Former senior inspector Rolando Mendoza, armed with an M-16
assault rifle, had seized a bus load of tourists in August,
2010, and demanded his reinstatement after he was fired. He was
shot in the head by a sniper, after an attempt to storm the bus
failed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Lee in Hong Kong at 
 slee936@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hwee Ann Tan at 
 hatan@bloomberg.net  