-- Hong Kong Lawmakers Weigh Probe Into Granting of TV Permits
-- B y   S i m o n   L e e
-- 2013-11-06T05:24:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-05/hong-kong-lawmakers-weigh-inquiry-into-tv-permits-after-protests.html
Hong Kong  lawmakers are set to vote
on a motion to probe Chief Executive Leung Chun-ying’s rejection
of a startup’s application for a free-to-air television permit,
a move that sparked protests demanding an explanation.  The proposed inquiry, scheduled to be voted on today, will
look into why the government gave broadcast permits to  PCCW Ltd. (8) 
and  I-Cable Communications Ltd. (1097) , both controlled by
billionaires, while rejecting  Hong Kong Television Network Ltd. (1137)   Tens of thousands marched in protest last month against
Leung’s decision, pushing his popularity to near-record lows.
The outcry over the licenses, the first granted in almost four
decades, highlights the demand for choice in a market dominated
by  Television Broadcasts Ltd. (511)  and concerns that Hong Kong’s
policies lack accountability.  “There has never been a clear explanation and the
rationale doesn’t make sense,” Charles Mok, a lawmaker
representing the information technology sector, said by
telephone before the vote. “We want to see the documents.”  Leung has struggled to gain broad public support since
taking office in July last year, when he defeated front-runner
 Henry Tang , who had the support of tycoons including Asia’s
richest man  Li Ka-shing . Opposition lawmakers have since sought
to pass votes of no confidence against Leung for his missteps.  The city said yesterday that a consultancy report showed
Hong Kong’s free-to-air television market is unable to support
five operators. Applicants were assessed based on their
financial soundness, investment plans, and technical and program
content, it said.  Advertising Pie  Shares of Hong Kong Television fell 0.4 percent to HK$2.43
at 1:10 p.m. local time, taking the decline since its
application was rejected to 21 percent. The company’s staff
union is calling for a protest outside government headquarters
at 6 p.m. tonight.  Advertisers spent an estimated HK$13 billion ($1.7 billion)
in Hong Kong last year, with television accounting for about a
third of that, Bank of America Corp.’s Merrill Lynch unit said
in a February report, citing Magna Global.  Television Broadcasts’ flagship channel has a 93 percent
audience share during prime time on weekdays, according to its
2012 interim report.  Asia  Television Ltd. is the city’s other
incumbent free-to-air broadcaster.  Support Ratings  Public discontent in Hong Kong has soared in the past four
years as  home prices  doubled to a record, and Asia’s worst
wealth gap widened. While Leung has raised minimum wages,
increased spending on the elderly, and imposed property curbs,
opposition lawmakers have criticized him for a lack of integrity
and transparency.  Leung’s support ratings fell 4.1 points to 44 on a scale of
0 to 100 after the Oct. 15 license decision, according to a
survey of 1,018 people from Oct. 18 to 24 by the University of
Hong Kong Public Opinion Programme.  Hong Kong Television, founded by Ricky Wong, said it would
cut about 320 jobs after the application was rejected, spurring
the workers to organize protests against the the government.  The applications were also assessed based on the market
capitalization and profit levels of applicants and their
parents, Leung said yesterday.  PCCW is controlled by billionaire  Richard Li  while I-Cable
is a unit of billionaire Peter Woo’s  Wharf Holdings Ltd. (4)   Wong started City Telecom Ltd. in the 1990s to challenge a
monopoly on long distance calls. Last year, he sold the
telecommunications assets to CVC Capital Partners Ltd. for HK$5
billion ($645 million) to fund his television operations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Lee in Hong Kong at 
 slee936@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hwee Ann Tan at 
 hatan@bloomberg.net  