-- Orange Not Going Down Bouygues’s Discount Path as Stock Dips
-- B y   M a r i e   M a w a d
-- 2013-11-06T09:55:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-05/orange-not-going-down-bouygues-s-discount-path-as-shares-slump.html
Orange SA (ORA) , whose shares fell after
Bouygues Telecom introduced a no-frills broadband Internet and
phone offer in  France , said it has no plans to change its
pricing structure.  “We’re maintaining our high-end strategy because we’ve
seen consumers are willing to pay more for faster speeds and new
services,” Delphine Ernotte, head of France for Orange, said in
a telephone interview.  Orange dropped for a second day in Paris after France’s
smallest fixed operator unveiled a 15.99-euro ($22) monthly
tariff for stripped-down broadband and telephone services. The
move prompted questions on whether rivals will follow suit with
fixed-line price cuts, and shows how French carriers are moving
further apart in their strategies to win and retain customers.
Orange will continue to compete for users who want cheaper
options with its Sosh brand, Ernotte said.  Orange has shifted focus in the past year back to its
fixed-line business from mobile in its home market as price wars
weigh on its wireless earnings. Discounts in France continue to
cut into profits almost two years after  Iliad SA (ILD)  started selling
mobile subscriptions starting at 2 euros.  Bouygues Telecom, a unit of  Bouygues SA (EN) , joined the low-cost fray, pulling some services out of its fixed packages under
the B&You brand to cut in half the 30-euro average monthly
market price for broadband, phone and Internet services grouped
together.  ‘We’re Covered’  Bouygues’s tariffs could cut Orange’s earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization by about 110
million euros a year, Jefferies analysts projected yesterday.
Orange is expected to generated 12.7 billion euros in 2013
Ebitda, which may drop to 12.2 billion euros in 2014, data
compiled by Bloomberg showed.  Orange is betting that it can attract customers and charge
more by including innovative services such as a high-end  TV
remote control . To stop consumers from moving to discounters,
the Paris-based company also started a separate brand called
Sosh, which offers at cheaper prices.  “We’re covered at both the high and the low ends of the
spectrum,” Ernotte said. “The current agitation doesn’t change
our perception of the market.”  The shares slipped 0.5 percent to 9.70 euros at 10:53 a.m.
in Paris, adding to yesterday’s 3.9 percent decline. They are
still up 16 percent this year, valuing the company at 25.7
billion euros.  Orange has predicted that pressure on its profits in France
will gradually ease next year, helped by the spread of more
expensive offers based on speedier Internet technologies -- 4G
in mobile and fiber in fixed. While the company has expanded
worldwide into markets including Spain,  Egypt , Poland and  Kenya ,
it still makes more than half of its sales in France.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marie Mawad in London at 
 mmawad1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  