-- Toronto Mayor Ford to Stay in Job After Using Crack
-- B y   G e r r i t   D e   V y n c k
-- 2013-11-05T22:47:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-05/toronto-mayor-rob-ford-to-stay-in-job-after-admitting-crack-use.html
Toronto Mayor Rob Ford vowed to
continue as head of  Canada ’s biggest city and said he will run
in the next election after admitting he used crack cocaine.  “I want the people of this great city to decide whether
they want Rob Ford to be their mayor,” he said today at a media
conference at city hall that was broadcast by CP24 television.  Ford, 44, said he has “nothing left to hide” and these
“mistakes” would never happen again.  “I love this city, I love saving taxpayers money and I
love being your mayor,” he said at the conference.  Ford’s vow to press on followed his admission today at an
earlier media conference that he smoked  crack cocaine , likely in
one of his “drunken stupors.”  Pressure is mounting for Ford to resign after Toronto
police said last week they had found a video that showed him
appearing to inhale from a glass pipe. The Toronto Star and U.S.
website Gawker were the first to report on the video in May,
sparking a five-month police investigation that included
airplane surveillance and cameras mounted on poles tracking
Ford’s movements.  At the time, the mayor said he didn’t smoke crack and that
he couldn’t comment on a video he had not seen.  Ford’s lawyer Dennis Morris said on CP24 today he didn’t
think Ford had consulted with anyone, including him, before
admitting to crack use.  Not Quitting  Ford, who apologized on Nov. 3 for being “hammered” at a
street party in August and for being in his office at 2 a.m. on
St. Patrick’s Day with a half-empty bottle of brandy, vowed to
curb his drinking and get a driver. He has repeatedly said he
wouldn’t resign.  “I feel like a thousand pounds have been lifted off my
shoulders,” Ford said at the second media conference today. “I
can’t explain how difficult this was to do.”  Several city councilors and at least three Toronto
newspapers had urged the mayor to step aside before today.  Councilor Jaye Robinson repeated that call today.  “Right now, he does not have a shred of credibility,”
Robinson said at  city hall  in an interview on CP24. “If he
really cares about Toronto and he really wants to do what’s in
the best interest of Toronto and himself and his family, he
needs to step aside.”  Ford was elected in October 2010 on a promise to “stop the
gravy train” at city hall amid support from Toronto’s outer
suburbs, parts of which became known as “Ford Nation.”  ‘Moody’s Praise’  He cut council budgets and outsourced half the city’s
residential waste collection to private industry. Ford also
eliminated a vehicle registration fee and waged a battle to
expand the public transportation system through subways as
opposed to surface transit.  Toronto is in the midst of a building boom with hundreds of
high-rises under construction. It has overtaken  Chicago  as the
fourth-largest North American city with a population of 2.79
million, according to a statement from the city in March. Home
to the country’s five largest banks, two of the biggest insurers
and its largest wireless operator, Toronto’s economy is driven
by financial services.  While Ford’s time as mayor was marked by controversy and
has been lampooned by late-night U.S. talk-show hosts including
 Jon Stewart  and Jimmy Kimmel, the city’s finances were praised
by Moody’s Investors Service.  Debt Progress  In 2012, Toronto cut spending for the first time since it
was amalgamated with five surrounding suburbs in 1998, Moody’s
said in a May 15 report. Its debt burden is half the average of
other Canadian cities.  The city’s net debt to total revenue is 37 percent,
compared with an average of about 65 percent to 70 percent for
Canadian cities, Moody’s said in its annual review on the city,
a day before the video allegation broke. That compares with
 Montreal ’s at 97 percent and  Quebec City  at 127 percent,
according to the most recent data, Jennifer Wong, an analyst at
Moody’s, said by telephone in May.  It is this budgetary progress that has helped Ford maintain
backing.  Support from his base was holding fast before Ford’s
admission today, according to a  poll  by Forum Research Inc.
While 71 percent of downtowners polled on Oct. 31 disapproved of
Ford after police said they found the video, 54 percent in the
eastern suburb of Scarborough and 44 percent in Etobicoke said
he was doing a good job, according to the poll. Forum Research
questioned 1,032 voting-age Torontonians; the poll had a margin
of error of plus or minus 3 percent 19 times out of 20.  Investigation Details  “We know Ford Nation is really loyal,” Lorne Bozinoff,
president of Forum Research, said by phone from Toronto
yesterday. “They’ve stuck with the mayor through thick and
thin.”  Councilor Robinson said the city can’t take any legal steps
to remove Ford.  “I looked at every possible option and measure and city
council can not remove him from his chair,” Robinson said.  Ford hasn’t been charged with any crime and police said
there wasn’t enough evidence in the video to warrant criminal
charges.  The province of Ontario may need to take action to remove
the mayor, Richard Leblanc, an associate professor of law,
corporate governance and ethics at  York University  in Toronto.  “For any leader to be doing hard drugs while in office,
it’s a non-starter,” Leblanc said. “The right thing to do is
to resign and get help. If he digs in and refuses to go, then
appropriate measures need to be taken.”  Trim Waist  A  500-page police document  filed in court last week
detailed an investigation that followed up on the initial news
reports about the video. The document described how Ford met
multiple times with Alexander Lisi, who has been arrested on
drug and extortion charges. Ford has called Lisi a friend.  After one of their meetings, in which Lisi put a manila
envelope in Ford’s black Cadillac Escalade while Ford was inside
a gas station, Lisi employed “counter-surveillance maneuvers,”
driving quickly and dodging through traffic, police said in the
document.  Drugs and drunkenness haven’t been Ford’s only
controversies in office. In January, he won an appeal of a court
ruling that had found him in conflict of interest over donations
collected for his high school football charity. He has been
photographed reading briefing notes while driving on a city
expressway and gave up on a public weight-loss campaign he
dubbed “Cut the Waist” to trim his frame, which once clocked
in at 330 pounds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gerrit De Vynck in Toronto at 
 gdevynck@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jacqueline Thorpe at 
 jthorpe23@bloomberg.net  