-- OSX Bondholders Said to Hire AlixPartners as Bankruptcy Looms
-- B y   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o   a n d   C r i s t i a n e   L u c c h e s i
-- 2013-11-05T18:43:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-05/osx-bondholders-said-to-hire-alixpartners-as-bankruptcy-looms.html
Bondholders of  Eike Batista ’s
shipbuilder  OSX Brasil SA (OSXB3)  hired AlixPartners LLP to advise on
the possible restructuring of $500 million in bonds, said two
people with knowledge of the matter.  AlixPartners, which advised General Motors Co. on its
restructuring when the automotive giant filed for Chapter 11
bankruptcy protection in 2009, will advise a group representing
holders of OSX’s dollar-denominated notes due 2015, the people
said, asking not to be identified as the contract is private.  The New York-based financial consulting firm will work with
Bingham McCutchen LLP, the  law firm  advising OSX creditors, they
said.  OSX, which Batista founded in 2009 to supply vessels and
services to oil firms including sister company  OGX Petroleo &
Gas Participacoes SA (OGXP3) , said on Oct. 31 it may exercise its right
to request bankruptcy protection. Those comments followed OGX’s
decision a day earlier to become the first Brazilian oil
producer to seek shelter from creditors. OSX’s 2015 bonds, which
are backed by a contract to lease a platform to OGX, fell to a
record-low 74 cents on the dollar on Oct. 9.  Tim Yost, a spokesman for AlixPartners, declined to
comment. OSX’s press office said it wouldn’t comment on a
contract made by its bondholders.  Bingham was approaching prospective financial advisers on
behalf of the creditor group after investors hired the law firm,
two people briefed on the arrangements told  Bloomberg News  in
September. Timothy DeSieno, a partner at Boston-based Bingham,
didn’t reply to an e-mail and voice-mail seeking comment.  OSX and OGX were the only two of Batista’s six publicly
listed companies that had issued  bonds  in international markets.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Juan Pablo Spinetto in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net ;
Cristiane Lucchesi in Sao Paulo at 
 clucchesi5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  