-- OSX Said to Plan Bankruptcy Filing by Early Next Week
-- B y   C r i s t i a n e   L u c c h e s i   a n d   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o
-- 2013-11-06T15:28:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-05/osx-said-to-plan-bankruptcy-filing-by-early-next-week.html
OSX Brasil SA (OSXB3) , the shipbuilder
controlled by former billionaire  Eike Batista , is planning to
file for bankruptcy protection by early next week, according to
two people familiar with the matter.  The decision to file has already been made, the people
said, asking not to be identified because it hasn’t been made
public. While a judicial recovery petition, as the proceedings
are known in Brazil, may be lodged as soon as this week, it’s
more likely to take place next week, one of the people said.  A filing would put $500 million of dollar bonds into
default after Batista’s oil company and OSX’s biggest client,
 OGX Petroleo & Gas Participacoes SA (OGXP3) , sought protection on Oct.
30 in  Latin America ’s largest corporate debt debacle. OSX
reported total debt of 5.3 billion reais ($2.3 billion) at the
end of the second quarter.  “If the company decides to go for that, it’s the best
decision for shareholders and for the business to continue
forward,” Rogerio Freitas, a partner at hedge fund Teorica
Investimentos, said by phone from  Rio de Janeiro . “There’s
short-term fear, but the business is much more sustainable in
the medium term. We like OSX.”  In an Oct. 31 statement, the shipbuilder said it was ready
to seek  bankruptcy protection  if management decided that was the
best way to protect its interests. OSX continues to study the
measure, a press department official said by phone yesterday,
asking not to be named in line with company policy.  Last IPO  OSX and OGX were the only two of Batista’s six publicly
listed companies that sold  bonds  in international markets.
Batista either relinquished control of, or agreed to sell key
assets and stakes in, the four other startups. OSX was building
three vessels for OGX before the explorer’s tests uncovered an
absence of oil in a series of non-commercial wells.  OSX, the last of Batista’s companies to undertake an
initial public offering, was created to profit from  Brazil ’s
local content rules, which limit the use of imported equipment
and services by the oil and gas industry. The company’s shares
never recovered the March 2010 IPO price even as Batista
promised to create “the Embraer of the seas,” referring to the
world’s largest regional-jet maker.  Until Sept. 2012 the company was saying it had firm orders
for vessels worth $7 billion. Since then, OSX has been shrinking
projects, firing staff and putting units on sale after contracts
were canceled and losses mounted. In March, OSX shelved plans to
sell a second international debt security amid a rout in its
securities, according to a memo from underwriters obtained by
Bloomberg News at the time.  Bank Deal  Shares of OSX  lost  95 percent in the past 12 months,
reducing its market value to about 200 million reais. The stock
fell 14 percent to 55 centavos at 1:25 p.m. in  Sao Paulo .  OSX extended the maturity for a year on a 461 million-real
loan from state-run Caixa Economica Federal, which is guaranteed
by Banco Santander SA, according to a regulatory filing today.
Since Aug. 18 state development bank BNDES has been pushing out
maturities on a loan for 518 million reais.  OSX’s dollar bonds due 2015, which are backed by a contract
to lease a platform to OGX, have fallen 24 cents this year to 80
cents on the dollar yesterday. The notes rose to 83.6 cents at
9:48 a.m. in Sao Paulo today. Holders hired AlixPartners LLP to
advise on a possible restructuring, according to two people with
knowledge of the matter.  Bondholder Adviser  AlixPartners, the New York-based firm that advised General
Motors Co. on its restructuring when the automotive giant filed
for bankruptcy protection in 2009, will work alongside the
creditors’ legal adviser Bingham McCutchen LLP, said the people,
asking not to be identified as the contract is private.  Tim Yost, a spokesman for AlixPartners, declined to
comment. OSX’s press office said it wouldn’t comment on a
contract made by its bondholders.  Bingham approached prospective financial advisers on behalf
of the creditor group after investors hired the  law firm , two
people briefed on the arrangements told  Bloomberg News  in
September.  Timothy DeSieno, a partner at Boston-based Bingham, didn’t
reply to an e-mail and voice-mail seeking comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cristiane Lucchesi in Sao Paulo at 
 clucchesi5@bloomberg.net ;
Juan Pablo Spinetto in Rio de Janeiro at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  