-- Lotos to Buy Centrica’s Oil Assets for $175.8 Million
-- B y   M a c i e j   M a r t e w i c z
-- 2013-11-05T09:21:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-05/lotos-to-buy-centrica-s-oil-assets-for-175-8-million.html
Grupa Lotos SA, Poland’s second-biggest refiner, agreed to buy  Centrica Plc (CNA) ’s oil and gas
exploration assets in the Norwegian part of the  North Sea  for
$175.8 million as part of its foreign expansion.  The state-controlled refiner will buy 14 stakes ranging
from 5 percent to 50 percent in licenses linked to the Heimdal
hub, the Gdansk, Poland-based company said in a regulatory
filing today. Three of the fields already produce oil and gas
and their output accounting for Lotos’s stake is about 5,000
barrels a day, or almost double the company’s production.  Lotos has been on the lookout for exploration assets in
 Norway  to reclaim losses it made on the North Sea Yme oil field.
In the previous two years the company  wrote down  a total of 1.18
billion zloty of the value of its 20 percent stake in the Yme
license after it failed to start production due to a crack in
the platform. Today’s acquisition will allow Lotos to regain
about two-thirds of the 1.07 billion-zloty tax it paid for Yme
by 2016, Lotos said in the statement.  “Due to the unclear future of Yme, we believe that this is
the right strategy for Lotos to pursue in order to be able to
monetize its tax assets within the foreseeable future,” Robert Rethy, an analyst at Wood & Co., said in a research note today.
The deal “may be taken positively by the market, as it should
finally put an end to the speculation regarding Lotos’s
Norwegian strategy.”  Lotos shares jumped 4 percent to 40.24 zloty at 9:56 a.m.
in Warsaw, trimming this year’s decline to 2.7 percent and
valuing the company at 5.2 billion zloty ($1.68 billion).  The acquisition comes two months after PKN Orlen SA, its
bigger domestic competitor, agreed to buy Canada’s  TriOil
Resources Ltd (TOL)  to gain access to foreign  oil deposits .  The stake in Heimdal gives Lotos access to additional 9
million barrels of oil equivalent of proven and probable
reserves.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maciej Martewicz in Warsaw at 
 mmartewicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  