-- Overreaching Prosecutors Poison a Federal Law
-- B y   N o a h   F e l d m a n
-- 2013-11-05T17:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-05/overreaching-prosecutors-poison-a-federal-law.html
Carol Anne Bond tried to poison her
husband’s girlfriend. Nothing wrong with that, right? Or at
least nothing wrong as a matter of federal law, which ordinarily
doesn’t concern itself with private assaults that take place in
a single state.  Federal prosecutors in  Pennsylvania   thought otherwise . They
charged her with violating the 1998 Chemical Weapons Convention
Implementation Act, passed by Congress in fulfillment of U.S.
obligations under the treaty known as the Chemical Weapons
Convention -- you know, the one that makes it illegal for
dictators to gas civilians. Bond got six years -- and now the
U.S. Supreme Court must decide if the law properly applied to
her.  As a matter of the prosecutors’ discretion, the decision to
charge Bond under the law is outrageous. She had spread
potassium dichromate and an arsenic-based chemical on doorknobs
and door handles that her rival was likely to touch, and she
managed to give her victim a rash on one thumb. Local law
covered it -- and anyway, it cheapens a law passed by Congress
in fulfillment of our international treaty obligations to apply
it to petty disputes.  But as often happens by the time you get to the  Supreme
Court , an important legal principle came into play that no one
anticipated when the case got started. The principle here can be
stated simply: Does Congress have an independent power to enact
laws derived from binding treaties signed by the president and
approved by the Senate?  War Tribute  This question has a fascinating history that is almost a
century long. The Supreme Court first addressed it in 1920, in
Missouri v. Holland, a landmark opinion by Justice Oliver Wendell Holmes Jr. The U.S. had signed an early environmental
treaty with  Canada  that regulated hunting of migratory birds,
and Congress had passed an implementing law. At the time,
Congress’s power to regulate interstate commerce was still
interpreted pretty strictly, and no court had held that Congress
could lawfully regulate birds flying between the states because
of its effects on interstate commerce.  Holmes, writing for the court, held that Congress had an
independent power to make law, outside the commerce clause of
the U.S. Constitution, because there must be some way to make
the treaty apply domestically. “It is not lightly to be
assumed,”  he wrote  with characteristic brio, “that, in matters
requiring national action, ‘a power which must belong to and
somewhere reside in every civilized government’ is not to be
found.” It would be ridiculous, in other words, if the U.S.
could make treaties but couldn’t enforce them. If federalism
blocked treaty making, the U.S. would be a  banana republic .  Holmes acknowledged that it was hard to find this
independent power in the text of the Constitution -- but he
didn’t care. The founders, he wrote, “called into life a being
the development of which could not have been foreseen completely
by the most gifted of its begetters.” Originalism was bunk.
What was more, Holmes had fought, was injured and lost his
closest friend in the Civil War, a conflict that he believed had
changed the constitutional structure of the country. “It has
taken a century and has cost their successors much sweat and
blood to prove that they created a nation,” he wrote. The
modern federal government was a tribute to the Civil War dead.  If that gives you shivers, it was supposed to. Yet the
issue of congressional power to make law pursuant to treaties
wasn’t closed. In 1957, in a case called  Reid v. Covert , the
court considered the cases of two military wives who killed
their husbands abroad, one in  Japan  and one in  England . Each of
them was tried by court-martial pursuant to treaties the U.S.
had with the host countries; unsurprisingly, the all-male
military juries convicted them.  Rights Infringed  This time, the Supreme Court, with Justice Hugo Black
writing a plurality opinion joined by three of his colleagues,
said that the women’s right to due process and trial by jury had
been unconstitutionally infringed by trying them in a court-martial. The treaty made no difference, he wrote, because
Holmes’s opinion in Missouri v. Holland only applied when it was
a matter of giving Congress a power that would otherwise be
reserved for the states.  Black’s plurality opinion tells you how the poisoning case
should come out. None of Carol Anne Bond’s fundamental
constitutional rights were violated. She got due process and a
trial before her peers. And Holmes was right that a civilized
country has to be able to pass laws that make its treaties into
more than empty promises.  But there’s also an important lesson here about prosecutors
gone wild. In the shadow of the massacre of Syrian civilians
using chemical weapons, the  Barack Obama  administration must be
very unhappy to find itself in court defending its right to pass
laws under the Chemical Weapons Convention. Valuable government
resources are being spent to defend a constitutional principle
whose logic has been clear for 50 years. All this is happening
because federal prosecutors in Pennsylvania wanted to do
something cool and use a federal statute to reach crimes of the
kind to which they had not been previously applied.  As Holmes said, federal law is not some free gift. It was
hard won by sweat and blood. No one should disrespect it --
especially those charged with its enforcement.  (Noah Feldman, a law professor at  Harvard University  and
the author of “Cool War: The Future of Global Competition,” is
a Bloomberg View columnist. Follow him on Twitter at
 @NoahRFeldman .)  To contact the writer of this article:
 Noah Feldman  at  noah_feldman@harvard.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Tobin Harshaw at  tharshaw@bloomberg.net . 