-- Reports of Europe’s Recovery Are Greatly Exaggerated
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-11-05T04:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-05/how-to-avoid-europe-s-next-economic-crisis.html
Recent stirrings of optimism about
 Europe ’s economy have been interrupted: New jobs figures and
signs of a  slide into deflation  have ended some very premature
celebrations. The region’s economic crisis isn’t over. The
danger of a relapse into recession is real.  At its policy meeting Nov. 7, the  European Central Bank 
ought to recognize this threat by cutting interest rates and
taking other steps to ease monetary policy. The European Union’s
leaders, meanwhile, should look hard at their long list of
unfinished crash-prevention business and get on with it.  Until last week, the mood had been  improving , if
tentatively. Euro-area manufacturing picked up in the summer.
Measures of confidence improved, stock markets were up and the
euro strengthened against other currencies. Analysts
congratulated the region’s troubled economies for bolstering
their public finances and reforming their sclerotic labor
markets: See, adjustment is working.  Then came last week’s inflation figures: Consumer prices in
the euro area rose by just 0.7 percent in the year through
October, the slowest rate since 2009. Financial markets weren’t
impressed.  Ask  Japan  what happens if a country gets locked into a
deflationary spiral. Falling prices raise real  interest rates 
and severely tighten monetary policy whether the central bank
likes it or not. The real burden of debt starts growing, making
it harder -- if not impossible -- for struggling debtors to mend
their balance sheets. Europe has plenty of struggling debtors.
Avoiding deflation is vital.  The  latest jobs figures  were terrible as well. Euro-area
unemployment in August was revised upward, to a record 12.2
percent from 12 percent, and that number showed no improvement
in September.  The ECB’s benchmark interest rate stands at 0.5 percent.
With inflation far below the central bank’s 2 percent target and
falling, the central bank should cut the policy rate to 0.25
percent or less this week. With short-term interest rates so low
already, however, that won’t suffice.  The U.S. Federal Reserve and (belatedly) the  Bank of Japan 
are buying assets on an enormous scale with the aim of lowering
long-term interest rates. This quantitative easing has risks,
but in both cases, the evidence suggests it has worked. The ECB,
though, has largely refrained. It bought bonds at the height of
the crisis but neutralized the effect of the transactions on the
 money supply . It also undertook a big program of short-term
lending to banks, but that’s winding down. No doubt there are
legal and, above all, political impediments in the EU to Fed-style asset purchases, but these must be overcome, and the ECB
is best placed to make the argument.  It isn’t just in the case of QE that politics has stalled
progress. Almost any proposal for effective action raises that
politically freighted question: Who pays?  The  most important  stalled reform is in banking. Another
round of bank “stress tests” has just been announced -- and
this time, the ECB says, it’s serious. But there’s still no
agreement on what happens to the banks that fail the tests. It’s
universally agreed that the euro area needs not just a single
bank supervisor -- which it now has in the form of the ECB --
but also a  single bank-resolution mechanism . That won’t fly,
because  Germany  and like-minded countries won’t hear of bailing
out failing banks or their financially stressed national
governments.  This reluctance is understandable. But without a single
bank-resolution mechanism, the euro project remains fatally
flawed. The toxic link between distressed banks and distressed
governments will remain. So long as that’s true, recovery will
be held back and the euro area’s supposedly integrated  capital
market  will be at risk of further splintering into separate
zones. If the euro is to survive and its member countries
prosper, a real banking union is indispensable.  The need for more effective cooperation in Europe isn’t
confined to banking. Last week, the U.S. Treasury Department
 complained  that German economic policies were slowing Europe’s
recovery -- arguing, in effect, that the euro area’s members
ought to set their economic policies with the interests of the
wider euro area, not just their own, in mind. The timing of this
complaint, which coincided with the scandal over the tapping of
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s phone, was awkward, but the
substance was right nonetheless. Avoiding deflation in the euro
area calls for a bit more inflation in Germany than Germany
would wish. If Berlin vetoes that and the euro area falls back
into recession, Germany won’t escape unscathed.  Europe’s economy is still in a bad way -- and in peril of
falling into an even worse slump. Forceful monetary easing and
real cooperation on financial and fiscal policy can’t wait any
longer.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 