-- Mozambique’s Renamo Says Army Plans to Kill Dhlakama
-- B y   W i l l i a m   F e l i m a o
-- 2013-11-05T18:45:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-05/mozambique-s-renamo-says-army-plans-to-kill-dhlakama.html
The  Mozambique  National Resistance
Army, the opposition group known as Renamo, accused the
government of planning to kill its leader, Afonso Dhlakama.  The government on Oct. 21 attacked the main base of Renamo
in the central Sofala province and there have been a series of
clashes since then. A military official, who asked not to be
identified because an announcement hasn’t been made, has said
that 58 people, including 17 soldiers, died in a battle at
Maringue in the province on Oct. 28.  “Since last week a large quantity of weapons was moved to
Sofala to start a big military raid in Gorongosa and Maringue
mountains to chase and kill President Dhlakama,” Fernando Mazanga, a spokesman for Renamo, said at a press conference in
the country today. Edson Macuacua, a spokesman for the
Mozambican presidency, didn’t immediately respond to calls to
his mobile phone.  Renamo, once backed by the white-minority governments of
Rhodesia, which is now Zimbabwe, and  South Africa , fought a 17-year civil war against the Front for the Liberation of
Mozambique, or Frelimo, until signing a peace agreement in  Rome 
in 1992. Renamo last month said the peace agreement had ended
after its base was attacked.  The attack followed earlier clashes that disrupted public
transport in Sofala and the movement of coal by rail to the
coast from mines owned by  Rio Tinto Plc (RIO)  and  Vale SA. (VALE5)   Army Ambush  Four soldiers were killed and 19 injured in an attack by
Renamo militia today in the Vunduzi region of Sofala, Lusa, a
Portuguese news agency, reported, citing people from the region.  State-owned Televisao de Mocambique and privately owned
Soico Telvisao reported that there had been two separate attacks
including an ambush of military vehicles. The television
stations showed footage of bodies and soldiers being admitted to
Beira Central Hospital.  Some of the injured are in a critical state although most
are stable, Cesar Macome, director of the hospital, said in an
interview with Bloomberg.  Talks Rejected  Renamo also rejected a call by Mozambican President Armando Guebuza for talks in Maputo, the capital, on Nov. 8, because it
had been communicated via the media and attacks on the
opposition group haven’t stopped.  “That invitation is simply a joke,” Mazanga said. “That
is poisoned candy or political propaganda.”  Dhlakama is currently in hiding.  The Mozambican army is supported by troops from  Zimbabwe 
and  Brazil , Mazanga said.  Zimbabwe’s army helped Frelimo in its civil war against
Renamo in the 1980s.  Zimbabwe’s army is on “high alert,” the state-controlled
Herald newspaper reported yesterday, citing Sydney Sekeremayi,
the country’s defense minister. Sekeremayi told the newspaper
that no Zimbabwean troops have been deployed to Mozambique.  Brazil’s presidency and defense ministry didn’t immediately
respond to e-mailed queries.  Mozambique, the site of the largest natural gas discovery
in the last decade, plans to open a liquefied natural gas
terminal in 2018 that will be the second-largest export site in
the world after Ras Laffan in Qatar. Anadarko Petroleum Corp.
and Eni SpA are among companies investing in gas production in
the country.  To contact the reporter on this story:
William Felimao in Maputo at 
 wfelimao@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  