-- Mozambique’s Chissano Starts Campaign to End Poaching
-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 2013-11-05T14:13:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-05/mozambique-s-chissano-starts-campaign-to-end-poaching.html
Poor Mozambicans must make an income
from conservation so they don’t join the army of hunters who’ve
helped take  rhino  poaching in neighboring South  Africa  to a
sixth successive record, former President Joaquim Chissano said.  Chissano, 74, is setting up a foundation to work with the
government to establish a special anti-poaching force and to
help develop commercial projects so local residents can benefit
from conservation work. He’s seeking $1.2 million in startup
costs and $6 million per year from public and private donors.  “Extreme poverty encourages poaching,” Chissano said in
an interview in the capital, Maputo, yesterday, after the
official start of his initiative. “Humans have to know they
have something to gain.”  A record 790 rhinos have been slaughtered in South Africa
this year already. Most of these were killed in the Kruger
National Park, where poachers slip through the porous 350-kilometer (217-mile) border from Mozambique. The horn is then
shipped to  Vietnam  and  China , where it’s more expensive than
gold by weight and buyers believe it can heal ailments and
improve one’s libido.  Next door to South Africa, which has the continent’s
biggest economy, Mozambique is the world’s 20th poorest nation,
according to the  International Monetary Fund , providing a large
pool of people willing to risk their lives by hunting rhinos.  Mozambican men are hired to shoot the rhinos, risking
clashes with armed game wardens in Kruger. Thirty-six have been
killed in that way this year, Chissano said.  Rhino Population  The global rhino population will probably start decreasing
by 2016 if the trend continues, Chissano said. South Africa’s
roughly 20,000 rhinos represent about 90 percent of the world’s
population. Most of the rest is spread across sub-Saharan
Africa.  “We’re at a scary place with the level of poaching at the
moment,” Jo Shaw, the rhino coordinator for the  World Wildlife
Fund  in South Africa, said in a phone interview from
Johannesburg on Nov. 1. “It’s going to be vital to work through
transit countries like  Mozambique  if we’re going to bring this
under control. There is lots to improve.”  Rhino horn can sell for as much as $95,000 per kilogram for
consumers in China and Vietnam. Those countries must also take
stronger action to combat the scourge, Chissano said.  “If the rhino horn can cure, we need to keep it alive,”
Chissano said.  Sanctions Risk  Mozambique risks sanctions on wildlife-product exports from
the  Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species  if
it doesn’t turn possession of rhino horn from a misdemeanor to a
criminal offense by January. The body in March also identified
the nation as a “highly important entrepot and transit
country” in the rhino-horn trade.  Mozambique in August agreed to coordinate their anti-poaching work with the Chissano Foundation and a month ago set
up the National Agency for Areas of Conservation, which will
centralize operations from various ministries.  International sanctions would harm Mozambique’s image as a
tourist destination, where since the end of a 17-year civil war
in 1992 visitors have increasingly flocked to lie on Indian
Ocean beaches and feast on seafood, Chissano said.  “Mozambique needs efficient punishment for all those
involved in poaching,” Chissano said. “We need imprisonment
and heavy fines.”  Chissano served as Mozambique’s president from 1986-2005.
He helped establish the  Peace Parks Foundation  in 1997, which
sets out to improve conservation in southern Africa, by opening
national borders in some areas.  Great Limpopo  This led to the creation of the Great Limpopo Transfrontier
Park, linking Kruger with parks in Mozambique and  Zimbabwe ,
which jointly cover 37,572 square kilometers (14,507 square
miles), or nearly the size of the Netherlands. The agreement
allows visitors cross-border access at some points in the zone.  Only 67 rhinos were poached over the past seven years in
Mozambique itself, most of which had wandered across the border
from Kruger, according to Cites. About three elephants are
killed every day in Mozambique’s northern Nyasa reserve, where
the 13,000 pachyderms make up 80 percent of the nation’s
population of the animal, according to the Wildlife Conservation
Society.  After a number of measures such as deploying the army in
Kruger failed to slow the epidemic, South Africa’s cabinet in
July decided to push for Cites to legalize the trade in rhino
horn, allowing it to regulate the commerce.  Market Forces  South Africa’s Department for Environmental Affairs said in
a July report that said some experts “argue that in a market
where rhino horn could be traded freely, market forces would
automatically drive horn prices down, obviating the need for
syndicates to face risks associated with poaching.”  Along with buffalo, elephants, leopards and lions, rhinos,
which weigh as much as 4.5 metric tons, are part of the so-called Big Five group, which attract tourists. Tourism
contributed 84.3 billion rand ($8.3 billion) in South Africa
last year, according to the government. The industry employs 4.5
percent of all working South Africans.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Franz Wild in Maputo at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  