-- Packers’ Aaron Rodgers Week to Week After Breaking Collarbone
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2013-11-06T05:00:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-05/packers-rodgers-breaks-collarbone-in-loss-to-bears-espn-says.html
The  Green Bay  Packers are in a
“week-to-week mindset” after quarterback  Aaron Rodgers 
fractured his collarbone in a 27-20 loss to the  Chicago Bears 
two days ago, coach  Mike McCarthy  said.  Rodgers will miss about three weeks after tests showed a
small fracture in the bone that connects the shoulder to the
base of the neck, ESPN reported yesterday. The 2011 National
Football League Most Valuable Player may miss home games against
the Philadelphia Eagles (4-5) and Minnesota Vikings (1-7), and a
visit to the  New York  Giants (2-6).  “I’m relieved,” McCarthy said in a news conference last
night about the potential length of Rodgers’s absence. “We
don’t have our hands around the timeline yet. I know Aaron is
very optimistic and he’ll do everything he can to get back in a
timely fashion.”  Seneca Wallace, who completed 11 of 19 passes for 114
yards, one interception and no touchdowns after replacing three-time Pro Bowl selection Rodgers in the first quarter against
Chicago, will start against the Eagles on Nov. 10, McCarthy
said.  “I’d look for him to improve with a week of preparation,”
McCarthy said. “Third down was our Achilles’ heel. He’ll have a
week to get some timing with the receivers, specifically in
those third-down situations.”  Wallace, 33, was taken by the  Seattle Seahawks  in the
fourth round of the 2003 NFL draft. He spent five years with
Seattle, starting 14 games and completing 333 of 556 passes for
25 touchdowns and 14 interceptions. In two seasons at the
 Cleveland Browns , he started seven games and went 119-for-208
for six touchdowns and four interceptions.  “It’s my responsibility and the coaching staff’s
responsibility to make sure our game plan fits his skill set,”
McCarthy said.  Left Shoulder  Rodgers was injured after he was sacked by Chicago’s Shea
McClellin on the opening series in Green Bay, Wisconsin. Rodgers
landed on his left, or non-throwing, shoulder, walked off under
his own power and went into the locker room for evaluation.  “It was considerably more pain than I’ve felt in a long
time,” Rodgers said in an ESPN radio show yesterday.  Rodgers led the league in passer rating in 2012 and 2011.
He’s thrown for 2,218 yards this year with 15 touchdowns and
four interceptions. His 108 passer rating is second to  Peyton Manning  of the  Denver Broncos .  The Packers also placed tight end Jermichael Finley on
season-ending injured reserve with a neck injury.  “It was in the best interests of him as a man, as a father
and as a husband,” McCarthy said. “Everybody agreed that he
should not play football this year.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  