-- Platinum Giants Ready to Stare Down Union Over Pay Demand
-- B y   A n d r e   J a n s e   v a n   V u u r e n
-- 2013-11-06T14:58:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-05/platinum-giants-ready-to-stare-down-union-over-pay-demand.html
Rising costs and falling prices may
prompt  South Africa ’s largest platinum mines to stare down a
union threat to halt 70 percent of global production over pay
demands, pushing the industry toward a prolonged strike.  The Association of Mineworkers and Construction Union, the
largest at the platinum mines, has rejected pay offers exceeding
South  Africa ’s 6 percent inflation rate. An AMCU-led strike
would halt operations at  Anglo American Platinum Ltd. (AMS) , Impala
Platinum Holdings Ltd. and  Lonmin (LON)  Plc, which together employ
about 150,000 workers and contractors on the world’s richest
deposits of the precious metal.  “The health of the industry is already in question,”
Tyler Broda, an analyst at Nomura International Plc in  London ,
said by phone. “It is going to be very difficult to give much
more. The companies are unfortunately heading toward a path
where they will take their chances with a protracted strike.”  The three companies have all in the last year either turned
to investors for funds, set plans to shut mines or cut
production and scaled back on  capital spending  to confront a
slump in the price of platinum, down 16 percent from its highest
level in 2013. Anglo Platinum, the largest producer, and  Lonmin (LMI) 
reported losses in their previous financial years, while profits
at Impala, operator of the biggest mine, fell by 76 percent.  The AMCU is demanding that pay be more than doubled for
some miners and has voted for a strike at Impala without setting
a date. It will next week start last-ditch arbitration talks
with Anglo Platinum, the company said yesterday. Negotiations
with Lonmin are in deadlock after the union last week rejected a
pay offer.  ‘Unaffordable Increases’  “If the platinum industry on the whole settles for double
digits, it will send a hell of a negative message,” said Sean Ashton, chief investment officer at Anchor Capital in
Johannesburg. “They can’t afford those kind of increases.”  Entry-level monthly wages average about 8,700 rand ($850)
and include benefits such as accommodation allowances and
pension fund contributions. The AMCU is demanding basic monthly
pay of 12,500 rand, before benefits.  Impala (IMP)  has offered lower-paid workers an increase of 8
percent in the first year of a three-year agreement.
Johannesburg-based Anglo Platinum, or Amplats, and Lonmin have
offered 7 percent. Production costs at Amplats and Impala
climbed by more than 20 percent last year because of higher
labor expenses and lost production caused by strikes.  Biggest Worry  At Lonmin, costs rose by 13 percent in 2012 and the London-traded producer said its wage bill alone would rise by 11
percent in the 2013 fiscal year. Lonmin settled with workers to
end a six-week strike last year, during which at least 44 miners
died, including 34 killed by police in a single day near the
Marikana mine in North West province.  At least a further five union members have died on the
platinum belt this year as the AMCU usurped the  National Union
of Mineworkers , a member of the ruling  African National
Congress ’s Cosatu trade union federation ally, as the biggest
labor group on the mines around Rustenburg. Percy Letanang, a
former NUM official and Lonmin employee, has died after being
shot seven times earlier this month, the union said today.  “Our biggest worry is violence and intimidation,”  Johan
Theron , a spokesman for Impala, said yesterday in an e-mailed
response to questions. “Nobody wants to see anyone getting
hurt.” Spokesmen for Amplats and Lonmin declined to comment.  The price of platinum, mostly used in jewelry and catalytic
converters that reduce harmful emissions from passenger cars,
rose 0.8 percent to $1,464.15 an ounce by 4:48 p.m. in
Johannesburg. Its highest level for the year was $1,736.80,
reached Feb. 6.  Closing Mines  Amplats had undrawn debt facilities of 6.6 billion rand at
the end of June as it implemented plans to consolidate five
mines into three at its Rustenburg complex. Impala issued two
fixed-rate bonds in February, one for $200 million and another
for 2.6 billion rand, while Lonmin concluded a $817 million
rights issue in December last year.  A strike at the three biggest producers wouldn’t
immediately support platinum prices, according to  Standard Bank 
Group Ltd., Africa’s largest lender. “Platinum miners have
stockpiles in anticipation of potential stoppages,” the bank
said in a note on Oct. 31. Most mines will be able to supply key
customers for at least six weeks, Impala’s Theron said.  Inventories of the metal held at factories or in exchange-traded products are equal to about 1,000 days of usage, Standard
Bank said. Miners anticipating shortages may have about one
month’s worth of stockpiles, the bank said.  December Holidays  It’s possible that a strike may not take place at all this
year, according to New York-based consultants Eurasia Group.
Wage disputes with the companies are at different stages and
“AMCU leaders are concerned about worker discipline ahead of
the December holidays,” Mark Rosenberg, a Eurasia analyst, said
in a note.  National Union of Mineworkers members started a strike over
pay at  Northam Platinum Ltd. (NHM) , a smaller producer, on Nov. 3. The
union said yesterday it had received a revised pay offer from
Northam, which it would put to its members tomorrow.  Platinum companies face the added risk that workers could
abandon the AMCU should the union achieve a lower-than-expected
pay deal, leading to further labor disruptions, Kobus Nell, an
analyst at Stanlib Asset Management, which manages about $50
billion in assets in Johannesburg.  Complex Dynamics  “The dynamics are very complicated,” Nell said by phone
yesterday. “Both sides have a lot to win and lose.”  The AMCU will let its members decide whether and for how
long they want to strike, Jimmy Gama, the union’s treasurer and
a spokesman, said today by phone. “Our members are prepared to
fight” should the producers not improve their offers, he said.  The balance sheets of the three companies are strong enough
to withstand a strike, said Albert Minassian, an analyst at
Investec Ltd.  “Companies are prepared to do a lot more than previously
to hold out in a strike,” Investec’s Minassian said by phone
from  Cape Town . “I think they’re determined to reclaim control
over the assets.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andre Janse van Vuuren in Johannesburg at 
 ajansevanvuu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  