-- Platinum Producers May Avoid 2013 Strike, Eurasia Says
-- B y   P a u l   B u r k h a r d t
-- 2013-11-05T13:03:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-05/platinum-producers-may-avoid-2013-strike-eurasia-says.html
The Association of Mineworkers and
Construction Union, the biggest union in  South Africa ’s platinum
mines, will probably not go on strike over wages at the world’s
top three producers in 2013, Eurasia Group said.  “We believe these strikes are unlikely before year’s end:
the wage disputes at each company are at different legal stages,
and AMCU leaders are concerned about worker discipline ahead of
December holidays,” Mark Rosenberg, an Africa analyst for the
New York-based consultants, said in a note to clients.  Lonmin Plc (LMI) ,  Impala Platinum Holdings Ltd. (IMP)  and  Anglo
American Platinum Ltd. (AAL) , or Amplats, are in wage negotiations
with the union. AMCU members voted to strike at Impala last
week, action that “could happen jointly” with other platinum
companies, union Treasurer Jimmy Gama said on Oct. 30.  The AMCU is seeking basic monthly wages for underground
workers of 12,500 rand ($1,235) from the three largest South
African producers.  The union got permission to strike at Impala after talks
failed at the Commission for Conciliation, Mediation and
Arbitration. Amplats is scheduled to start talks at the CCMA
with the union on Nov. 13, Mpumi Sithole, a spokeswoman for the
company, said today. Lonmin spokeswoman Sue Vey didn’t
immediately respond to questions on the status of talks.  The  National Union of Mineworkers  started a strike Nov. 3
over wages at  Northam Platinum Ltd. (NHM) ’s Zondereinde division and
plans to hold a mass meeting with members on Nov. 7 to discuss
the latest offer from the company, the union said in an e-mailed
statement today.  There is a 25 percent chance that simultaneous strikes led
by the AMCU could occur this year “if companies take harder
lines than AMCU expects or if the rival National Union of
Mineworker’s strike at Northam is especially successful,”
Rosenberg wrote in the note, sent yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Burkhardt in Johannesburg at 
 pburkhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  