-- Prince Charles May Enjoy Unfair Tax Advantage, U.K. Panel Says
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2013-11-05T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-05/prince-charles-may-enjoy-unfair-tax-advantage-u-k-panel-says.html
The heir to the U.K. throne, Prince Charles, may enjoy an unfair advantage as revenues from his
estate are exempt from some taxes even though they include
profits from commercial activities, a panel of lawmakers said.  The  Duchy of Cornwall  is a private estate that funds the
public, charitable and private activities of the  Prince of
Wales , as Charles is officially known, and his family. Charles,
64, who also holds the title of Duke of Cornwall, gets income
from about 53,000 hectares (131,000 acres) of land in 24
counties.  The estate’s enterprises include vacation accommodations
and food. Its organic biscuits, meat and cider are sold
primarily in high-end supermarket Waitrose Ltd. The duchy
produced a surplus of 19.1 million pounds ($30.5 million) in
2012-13 on which no  corporation tax  was paid, Parliament’s
Public Accounts Committee said in a report published today.  “The duchy enjoys an exemption from paying tax even though
it engages in a range of commercial activities,” opposition
 Labour Party  lawmaker  Margaret Hodge , who heads the panel, said
in an e-mailed statement. “This  tax exemption  may give it an
unfair advantage over its competitors who do pay corporation and
capital-gains tax.”  Hodge said the Treasury should examine whether the duchy’s
tax exemption creates an “unlevel playing field.” The panel
also said the transparency of Charles’s tax payments is limited
by the fact that income tax and value-added tax, a levy on
sales, are reported only as a combined total. The figures should
be disclosed separately, the panel said, so it becomes clear how
much income tax is paid by the prince, and at what rate.  The duchy estate was created in 1337 by Edward III for his
son and heir, Prince Edward. The duchy’s primary function is to
provide an income from its assets for the heir apparent,
separate from that of the monarch. The holder of the duchy is
not allowed to touch the estate’s capital, only to spend its
income.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  