-- Proposed Accord Would End Supreme Court Housing-Bias Case
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 2013-11-06T17:48:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-05/proposed-accord-would-end-supreme-court-housing-bias-case.html
A New Jersey town council may vote as
early as today on a proposal to settle a U.S. Supreme Court case
that has threatened to undercut the Obama administration’s
crackdown on lending discrimination.  A  notice  on the town of Mount Holly’s website says its
council will hold a special meeting at 7 p.m. tonight to
consider what it called a tentative settlement in the housing-bias case.  An accord would avert what might have been a sweeping
change in the enforcement of the 1968 Fair Housing Act. The town
has asked the court to rule that people suing under the law must
prove intent to discriminate and not just show that a policy has
had a disproportionate effect on racial minorities.  President  Barack Obama ’s administration has repeatedly used
what are known as “disparate impact” arguments in lawsuits
against banks over housing and auto loans.  Bank of America
Corp. ,  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  and  SunTrust Banks Inc. (STI)  have agreed to
pay at least $480 million to settle claims since December 2011.  “This settlement is basically a stay of execution for an
essential part of our civil rights laws,” said Deepak Gupta, a
Washington lawyer who filed a brief for current and former
members of Congress supporting the disparate-impact theory. “At
least for now, the law will continue to prohibit discrimination
in housing and lending even where there’s no smoking-gun proof
of bias.”  The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau has also embraced
the disparate-impact approach under a statute with similar
language, the Equal Credit Opportunity Act.  Roberts Court  Eleven courts of appeals have ruled on the issue, and all
have said the Fair Housing Act allows disparate-impact claims.  The Supreme Court under Chief Justice John Roberts has cut
back legal protections for racial minorities in other contexts.
In June, a divided court struck down a core part of the 1965
Voting Rights Act, which opened the polls to millions of
Southern blacks.  The Mount Holly case is on the Supreme Court’s calendar for
argument on Dec. 4. A settlement of the dispute would mark the
second time the high court has agreed to rule on the issue, only
to see a case disappear. A dispute involving St. Paul,
 Minnesota , was scuttled in 2012 when the city dropped its appeal
at the Obama administration’s urging.  Mount Holly officials, including Mayor Richard Dow, didn’t
immediately respond to phone messages and e-mails seeking
comment about the meeting and proposed settlement. Olga Pomar,
the lead lawyer for the suing residents, didn’t respond to an e-mail.  Redevelopment Plan  The housing case stems from an effort by Mount Holly to
redevelop what it said was a blighted, high-crime area. Known as
the Gardens, the neighborhood was originally built to provide
homes for returning World War II veterans and their growing
families. In more recent years, the Gardens was the only
predominantly black and Hispanic area in town, with 75 percent
minority residents in 329 residential units.  The town began buying homes in the Gardens, in most cases
paying between $30,000 and $50,000, until only 70 remained in
private hands. The redevelopment effort has since stalled, even
as the town has destroyed scores of homes and accumulated $18
million in debt. No new houses have been built, and the
remaining structures now form a patchwork amid vacant lots.  A group of current and former residents sued, claiming the
effort had a disparate impact on minorities. A federal appeals
court said the case could go forward.  The case is Township of Mount Holly v. Mount Holly Gardens
Citizens in Action, 11-1507.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  