-- Puerto Rico Researcher Seeks to Fill Government Data Gap
-- B y   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 2013-11-05T12:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-05/puerto-rico-researcher-seeks-to-fill-government-data-gap.html
The slow pace of  Puerto Rico ’s
official release of economic and fiscal data often leaves
investors in the $3.7 trillion municipal-bond market starved for
information and that led Antonio Sosa Pascual to create REOF
Capital’s three-person research team to help plug those gaps.  About 50 companies have expressed interest in REOF’s
products, less than a month after he set up the team, Sosa, the
founder and managing director of the San Juan-based firm, said
by telephone. He discussed the potential language barrier and
the sudden drop in prices for Puerto Rico debt for today’s
Bloomberg Brief: Municipal Market newsletter.  Q: Why start researching Puerto Rico municipal bonds now?  A: We saw an opportunity in the muni market in providing
timely and objective information regarding the Puerto Rico bond
market, which is undergoing a difficult and challenging time.
There’s a gap in information between the U.S. investment
community and what the government is providing.  I’m not happy about it. In a way, I wish there wasn’t a
need for this. There’s sometimes a two-year time lag in issuance
of financial reports, financial statements, and minutes of board
meetings, which actually typically are not made public. Part of
the job is to bridge that time gap between issuance of
information and the time when people need it. That’s our
challenge.  Q: What advantages do you get from being based in Puerto
Rico, and how does that show up in your research?  A: A lot of things happening on a daily basis at the local
level are conducted in Spanish, and some local media platforms
don’t necessarily make it to the mainland. The main newspaper
down here is in Spanish. Reports eventually make it to mainland
media, but there is a time lag.  For government presentations like the one they did for the
investor webcast on Oct. 15, that information is the summary of
the summary of data, and a lot of that data takes a while to
move up the bureaucracy.  We’re not only looking at what top management is saying,
but we’re also looking at what the middle management at the more
technical level is saying to understand what’s really going on.  Q: Would you say that reports in Spanish are the biggest
barrier to fully understanding Puerto Rico’s politics and
finances?  A: Language is an issue, but it’s not the only issue. It’s
also understanding how these bureaucracies behave. The way that
politics here works is really different. We know the different
players, pressure points and leadership at different levels, not
only from the entities themselves, but also the trade
associations that influence the different entities.  It’s culture as well. The way media here communicates is
not in the same way that it communicates in  New York . You have
to know what’s being said, and you have to determine out of
those things what actually matters.  Q: Do you include buy and sell recommendations in your
research?  A: At this point we’re not making recommendations. We’re
just issuing information and pure research.  The way we’re doing that is through two products. One of
them is an executive report, which is a four- or five-page
document with our framework regarding our analysis. We’re giving
weight to management at the entity level, and also factors like
rating-downgrade possibility and credit-default possibility. We
also are going to be looking at some policy issues that may
influence the decisions of these entities. We’re also issuing an
index report for institutions that need more information.  Q: What are you researching now?  A: We started with the recent Prepa revenue-bond issue, and
we followed with Cofina. And now we’re looking at general
obligations.  We look at the legal documents that make up the instrument.
That’s our starting point, because in essence that’s the promise
to pay. And then from there, we look at some official data, not
only from local governments but what’s reported at the federal
level. And then we use that to build our own conclusions.  Q: Do you think the  sharp decline  in Puerto Rico bonds that
began in September was merited?  A: There’s a bit of hysteria. The financial condition of
the commonwealth is not new. Most people knew that something was
going on, something wasn’t right. Since last year, you’ve seen
that some investment managers and buy- and sell-side people were
issuing warnings to their clients.  I think what happened was anxiety over Fed policy suddenly
combined with the Detroit bankruptcy and the issuance of the
Prepa revenue bonds. The Prepa revenue-bond issue certainly had
much higher yields, so that was a warning to the market that
something wasn’t right.  There was a perfect storm of things happening at the
mainland level, and at the local level, the government’s issues
were still being figured out. They probably didn’t expect this
tsunami.  Q: Do you think Puerto Rico officials are doing all they
can to stabilize the situation?  A: They’re trying really hard, and they’re really good,
honest people. They’re trying to do the right thing, but the
problem is they have a ship that is seriously damaged.  What needs to be done are some serious structural changes,
not only at the local level in terms of restructuring the
agencies, but also in terms of the relationship between Puerto
Rico and the  United States . The way that’s structured right now
does not provide the tools to get out of the situation.  Q: Will Puerto Rico’s debt have to be restructured?  A: There shouldn’t be a need for that. I don’t think the
government is going to not pay. That’s what the governor has
been emphasizing and what the objective is. He’s going to do
what they have to do to make sure people do get paid.  Puerto Rico has never defaulted, so there’s no reason why
we should do it now, but the truth is it’s a very fragile
situation and in order to get out of it, it’s not just about
pouring more money into it. It’s not restructuring debt. You
need to look at structural issues because that’s the only space
of opportunity that has not been explored.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Chappatta in New York at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  