-- Race Favorite Fiorente Gives Waterhouse First Melbourne Cup Win
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-11-05T06:52:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-05/race-favorite-fiorente-wins-australia-s-melbourne-cup-horse-race.html
Fiorente won the 153rd running of the
A$6.2 million ($5.9 million) Melbourne Cup, improving on a
runner-up finish 12 months ago to give Australian trainer Gai
Waterhouse her first victory in the nation’s richest horse race.  Ridden by Damien Oliver, who claimed his third Melbourne
Cup win, 6-1 favorite Fiorente surged past British-trained Red
Cadeaux and Mount Athos in the 3,200-meter (2-mile) handicap at
Flemington Racecourse to secure the A$3.6 million first prize.  Fiorente became the first Melbourne Cup favorite to triumph
since Makybe Diva won for the third straight time in 2005. The
victory made Waterhouse, 59, only the second woman to train the
race’s winner after Sheila Laxon in 2001.  “It’s very exciting and I can’t even describe it,” said
Waterhouse, who had trained the runner-up on three previous
occasions. “I’m just so thrilled for the owners, because they
bought the horse a year ago and it ran second the first time it
goes around in the Melbourne Cup and then comes back and wins.”  Tabcorp Holdings Ltd. (TAH) , Australia’s largest racecourse
betting company, paid A$7 for a winning A$1 bet and A$2.60 for a
top-three place on Fiorente, which finished second to Green Moon
last year. Red Cadeaux paid A$11.10 for a place and Mount Athos
returned A$5 for finishing third.  Today’s race, which marked the 20th anniversary of Vintage
Crop’s Melbourne Cup breakthrough win for a northern hemisphere-trained horse, attracted nine European-trained runners including
2011 winner Dunaden, which finished 11th carrying the top weight
of 58.5 kilograms.  Owen’s Horse  Brown Panther, co-owned and bred by former Liverpool and
 England  soccer player Michael Owen, finished eighth. Owen said
on Twitter the result was “pretty respectable” after his horse
was struck into by another runner during the race, which was
watched by 104,169 people trackside.  Irish-bred Fiorente spent his early career with British
trainer Michael Stoute before transferring to  Australia . Oliver,
who was last year banned from racing for 10 months after betting
on a rival horse that won a race in which he was riding, brought
his mount from midfield to make his challenge with about 300
meters to go.  “There’s a lot of emotions going through my body at the
moment,” said Oliver, who previously won Melbourne Cups on
Doriemus and Media Puzzle. “I’m so rapt that I could be part of
Gai’s first one. She was one of the first people who got behind
me when I came back from suspension.”  Red Cadeaux, trained in Newmarket, England by Ed Dunlop,
was 3/4 of a length back to finish as runner-up for the second
time in three Melbourne Cup appearances, having been beaten by a
nose by Dunaden two years ago. Mount Athos, trained by U.K.-
based Luca Cumani, improved on last year’s fifth place.  Simenon, bidding to become the third Irish-trained horse to
win the Melbourne Cup after Vintage Crop and Media Puzzle,
finished fourth ahead of English stayer Dandino.  French mare Verema, owned by her breeder the Aga Khan, was
euthanized after fracturing a right foreleg, race stewards said
in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  