-- Traders Face Curbs on Speculation With CFTC Vote on New Limits
-- B y   D a v e   M i c h a e l s
-- 2013-11-06T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-05/traders-face-curbs-on-speculation-with-cftc-vote-on-new-limits.html
Traders would be limited in the
positions they can hold in oil, wheat, gold and other
commodities under a proposal approved by the U.S. Commodity
Futures Trading Commission.  The CFTC proposal, approved on a 3 to 1 vote yesterday,
would cap the number of futures contracts a company can hold in
28 commodities. The limits were sought by Congress after
airlines, trucking firms and consumer groups blamed speculators
for surging fuel prices in 2008. Among the measure’s supporters
was Commissioner  Bart Chilton , who yesterday announced that he
would soon step down from the agency.  The vote marks the CFTC’s second attempt at a position-limits rule, after a federal judge rejected an earlier version
on grounds that the agency failed to show why the limits were
needed. Industry groups have successfully challenged other Dodd-Frank Act mandates by arguing that policy makers misread
statutes or failed to consider business impact.  “It is critically important that these position limits be
established,” CFTC Chairman  Gary Gensler  said. “The agency has
historically interpreted our obligation to include ensuring that
markets do not become too concentrated.”  The CFTC’s vote releases the proposal for 60 days of public
comment. In addition Gensler and Chilton, the measure was
supported by Mark Wetjen, a Democrat. Republican  Scott O’Malia 
opposed the proposal.  Congress included the speculation-limits rules in Dodd-Frank after commodity prices soared in 2008, when wheat reached
a record of $13.495 a bushel and oil rose to $147.27 a barrel.
Related consumer prices climbed as well, and airlines and other
businesses sensitive to commodity prices blamed speculators. The
CFTC’s rulemaking effort generated 13,000 public comments.  Consumer Impact  Chilton said he waited to announce his resignation until
the agency voted to propose a rule curbing the size of positions
in speculative commodity trading, which he has blamed for
driving up consumer prices for gasoline. He didn’t state what
he’d do after leaving the commission.  “Definitely, oil was the big issue,” said  Tyson Slocum ,
energy-program director at  Public Citizen , which advocated for
position limits. “It’s kind of like an antitrust rule. It just
limits the ability of one or a small handful of players to
dominate a given market.”  The CFTC’s previous rule relied on an interpretation that
the law didn’t require it to show position limits were needed to
diminish or prevent excessive speculation. The agency still
asserts Congress required it to impose the limits, which the
CFTC says may be established without a study showing they are
needed.  Mixed Results  Academic research examining the relationship between
speculation and commodity price volatility shows mixed results,
Gensler said. Some studies show the level of speculation affects
price movement while others conclude it doesn’t and some draw no
conclusion, he said.  “I find that if a third of the studies say that does have
an effect and a third say it doesn’t, that it’s better to err on
the side of caution,” Gensler said.  The position limits would regulate the activity of
speculators, or traders who buy and sell futures and swaps but
don’t use the underlying commodity for commercial purposes. The
limits apply to 28 physical commodity futures and their
financially equivalent swaps, according to a CFTC summary. Those
include contracts for corn, wheat, soybeans, oats, cotton, oil,
heating oil, gasoline, cocoa, milk, sugar, silver, palladium and
platinum. Approximately 400 firms may be affected by the trading
limits, the agency said in the summary.  Spot-Month Limits  The regulation would limit traders to 25 percent of
deliverable supply in the month when a futures contract matures.
The spot-month limits apply separately to physically settled and
cash-settled contracts.  Cash-settled contracts will be subject to a different
regime. In that case, traders will be permitted to hold
contracts equal to five times deliverable supply as long as they
stay out of the physical-delivery spot-month contract for the
same commodity, the CFTC said in the fact sheet.  Outside the spot month, the caps limit traders to 10
percent of the first 25,000 contracts of open interest and 2.5
percent of amounts beyond that.  Senator  Carl Levin , a Michigan Democrat who has blamed
speculators for driving up commodity prices and manipulating
prices in some cases, said the CFTC’s rule “will help fill a
big hole in the needed protections against such abuses.”  New Exemptions  The CFTC’s plan adds new exemptions to the position limits
for bona fide hedging, which would benefit utilities and royalty
owners, according to the summary.  The position limit rules will affect about 400 firms, the
CFTC says. The limits are set high enough that only a few mutual
funds or exchange-traded funds will be affected, said John T. Hyland, chief investment officer of United States Commodity
Funds, which manages $2.5 billion through 12 exchange-traded
funds.  A separate proposal outlines how firms would account for
trading at affiliated entities or subsidiaries for the purpose
of complying with position limits. A firm could separately count
trading at an affiliate in which it holds an ownership interest
of less than 50 percent as long as the affiliate’s trading was
independently managed, the CFTC said in the summary.  Big Wall Street banks such as  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) 
would have to track their commodity positions across different
legal units and account for any hedges to comply with the total
trading limits, Hyland said. Some banks may shut down less
profitable units in order to stay under the limits, he said.  Added Expense  “If you are a place like Goldman, you can have half a
dozen different entities within your firm that for the house
account are buying and selling futures contacts on
commodities,” Hyland said in a phone interview. “This is a
headache for the big banks because of the logistics of keeping
track of it, which is an added layer of expense.”  The earlier CFTC proposal was overturned after two Wall
Street lobbying groups, the International Swaps and Derivatives
Association and Securities Industry and Financial Markets
Association, sued the agency in December 2011.  “SIFMA will review the proposed rule with our members and
provide comments to the CFTC once we have fully assessed this
proposal,” SIFMA president  Ken Bentsen  said in a statement.
“SIFMA steadfastly believes that any new regulation should not
adversely impact liquidity, price discovery and the ability to
hedge in the commodities and broader derivatives markets for
end-users and all market participants.”  While agreeing that Dodd-Frank authorized the CFTC to limit
trading in over-the-counter commodity swaps and exchange-traded
futures, U.S. District Judge Robert L. Wilkins ruled in
September 2012 that the agency failed to consider whether limits
were necessary or appropriate.  The CFTC appealed Wilkins’ ruling. Chilton said on Oct. 31
that he expects the agency to withdraw the appeal after issuing
the new proposal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dave Michaels in Washington at 
 dmichaels5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  