-- Rafael Nadal Beats David Ferrer at Men’s Tennis Finals in London
-- B y   B e n   P r i e c h e n f r i e d
-- 2013-11-05T16:24:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-05/rafael-nadal-beats-david-ferrer-at-men-s-tennis-finals-in-london.html
Rafael Nadal  defeated fellow Spaniard
 David Ferrer  at the ATP World Tour Finals, bringing him one win
away from finishing the year as the top-ranked men’s tennis
player.  Nadal won 6-3, 6-2 at the O2 Centre in London. He came into
the season-ending tournament needing to win two matches to
retain the No. 1 ranking he took from Serbia’s  Novak Djokovic 
earlier this year.  Ferrer beat Nadal three days ago in Paris but struggled
today to hold his serve. Nadal, who has now won 21 of their 26
meetings, took six of his seven break point opportunities in the
1 hour, 14 minute Group A match. Ferrer also had 33 unforced
errors.  The win gives the 27-year-old revenge for his straight sets
loss to Ferrer, 31, at last week’s indoor Paris Masters event.  The 13-time Grand Slam singles champion is trying to win
the season finale for the first time in this his sixth attempt.
Yesterday he said that holding the tournament on indoor hard
courts for the eighth-successive year is unfair on players like
him who prefer outdoor conditions and surfaces like clay.  The Tour Finals, which bring together the top eight men’s
tennis players, began yesterday with Stanislas Wawrinka
defeating Tomas Berdych in Group A and Juan Martin Del Potro
beating  Richard Gasquet  in Group B. Tournament favorite and
defending champion Novak Djokovic meets six-time winner  Roger Federer  in their opening match in Group B later today.  The two players with the best results from each group
qualify for the semifinals. World No. 4  Andy Murray  isn’t
playing while he recovers from back surgery.  Today in an earlier doubles match, India’s Leander Paes and
Radek Stepanek of the Czech Republic defeated Alexander Peya and
Brazil’s Bruno Soares 6-3, 5-7, 10-8.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Priechenfried in London at 
 bprie@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  