-- TransCanada Profit Rises on Higher Electricity Prices
-- B y   R e b e c c a   P e n t y
-- 2013-11-05T21:50:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-05/transcanada-profit-rises-on-higher-electricity-prices.html
TransCanada Corp. (TRP) , the Calgary-based
company seeking to build the Keystone XL oil-sands pipeline,
said third-quarter profit rose 30 percent as it took advantage
of higher electricity prices.  Net income increased to C$481 million ($461 million), or 68
cents a share, from C$369 million, or 52 cents, a year earlier,
the company said in a statement on Marketwired today. Excluding
one-time items, per-share profit exceeded the 59-cent average of
11  analysts’ estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  The company got 34 percent of its  revenue  last year from
power generation, and the rest from transporting oil and natural
gas on its more than 60,000-kilometer (37,000-mile) pipeline
network. TransCanada is supplying more electricity from the
Bruce Power nuclear plant in Ontario as all eight units at the
site returned to service this year for the first time in two
decades.  “There were some pretty strong power prices in the Alberta
market and pretty healthy capacity auction prices for the U.S.
power business,” Patrick Kenny, an analyst at National Bank
Financial in Calgary, said in an Oct. 30 phone interview.  The capacity  price  for  New York City  was $14.80 a kilowatt-month in the summer this year, up from $11.70 a kilowatt-month
in 2012, according to the  New York  Independent System Operator.
TransCanada’s Ravenswood power plant in New York, its largest
power facility in the U.S., is able to provide 21 percent of the
city’s power, according to the company’s website.  Review ‘Hijacked’  TransCanada expects a U.S. ruling on its proposed Keystone
XL pipeline connecting  Canada ’s oil sands to U.S.  Gulf Coast 
refineries in the first three months of 2014, Alex Pourbaix,
president of energy and oil pipelines, said Oct. 16. The
pipeline is expected to be in service two years after the
company has its presidential permit, it said today.  Russ Girling , chief executive officer of TransCanada, has
been critical of the U.S. government’s Keystone XL review,
saying on Oct. 30 the process has been “hijacked by
activists.”  The $2.3 billion lower leg of Keystone XL from Cushing,
 Oklahoma , to the Gulf Coast will start transporting crude “near
the end of 2013,” the company said today. That segment, which
is now 95 percent complete, didn’t require a presidential
permit.  TransCanada, which has 11 buy and six hold  recommendations 
from analysts, released results before the start of regular
trading on North American markets. The shares rose 0.2 percent
to C$46.98 in Toronto.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rebecca Penty in Calgary at 
 rpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  