-- Red Sox Give Three Free Agents $14.1 Million Qualifying Offers
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-11-05T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-05/red-sox-give-three-free-agents-14-1-million-qualifying-offers.html
The World Series-champion Boston Red
Sox tendered one-year, $14.1 million qualifying offers to three
of their free agents: outfielder  Jacoby Ellsbury , first baseman
 Mike Napoli  and shortstop Stephen Drew.  The $14.1 million figure is the average of the 125 richest
player contracts in Major League Baseball, under terms of the
sport’s labor agreement with its players’ union. Thirteen free
agents were given qualifying offers before yesterday’s deadline.  If Ellsbury, Napoli or Drew signs with another team as a
free agent, the Red Sox would get a compensation pick following
the first round of the MLB draft. Players have until Nov. 11 to
accept or decline a qualifying offer, while MLB teams can
negotiate new contracts with any free agents, regardless of
whether an offer was made.  The Red Sox didn’t make qualifying offers to catcher  Jarrod Saltalamacchia  and pitcher Joel Hanrahan.  The New York Yankees yesterday made qualifying offers to
second baseman  Robinson Cano , outfielder  Curtis Granderson  and
pitcher Hiroki Kuroda, the team said.  The Texas Rangers made a qualifying offer to outfielder
Nelson Cruz, who was suspended by MLB for the final 50 games of
the 2013 regular season for his connection to Biogenesis of
America LLC, the Miami-area clinic accused of supplying players
with banned performance-enhancing drugs.  Other free agents to receive qualifying offers were
outfielders Carlos Beltran of the St. Louis Cardinals and Shin-Soo Choo of the Cincinnati Reds; catcher Brian McCann from the
Atlanta Braves; first baseman Kendrys Morales from the Seattle
Mariners, and pitchers Ubaldo Jimenez of the Cleveland Indians
and Ervin Santana of the Kansas City Royals.  Last year, none of the nine MLB free agents who were
offered qualifying offers accepted them.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  