-- Regulator Chilton to Step Down After Battling Wall Street Swaps
-- B y   D a v e   M i c h a e l s
-- 2013-11-06T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-05/regulator-chilton-says-at-last-in-announcing-he-ll-leave-cftc.html
Bart Chilton, a U.S. regulator who
pushed for tighter regulation of swaps and derivatives, said he
will step down from the Commodity Futures Trading Commission.  A member of the CFTC since 2007, Chilton, 53, attracted
attention for using pop music lyrics and other colloquialisms to
explain the impact of derivatives and commodity trading on
consumers.  Chilton’s announcement during an agency meeting yesterday
comes less than two months before CFTC Chairman  Gary Gensler , an
ally and fellow Democrat, is to leave the agency. With one seat
on the five-member commission already vacant, departures by
Chilton and Gensler would leave the panel with just two members,
Republican  Scott O’Malia  and Democrat Mark Wetjen.  “I wrote to the President early this morning and said I’ll
be leaving in the not-too-distant future,” said Chilton, whose
term as a CFTC commissioner expired in April, although he could
continue to serve until December 2014 or a successor is
confirmed.  Chilton said he waited to announce his resignation until
the agency voted to propose a rule curbing the size of positions
in speculative commodity trading, which Chilton has blamed for
driving up consumer prices for gasoline. He didn’t state what
he’d do after leaving the commission.  `At Last'  Sticking with his custom of peppering speeches with pop
culture references, Chilton referred to Etta James’ song, “At
Last,” then tacked on a reference to The Eagles.  “Here we are finally, at last, today, and we are going to
take it to the limit one more time,” he said.  A leading candidate under consideration to fill Chilton’s
spot is securities lawyer Sharon Y. Bowen, according to four
people in the financial industry who said they were briefed by
administration officials. Bowen, a partner with Latham & Watkins
LLP in  New York , is acting chairman of the Securities Investor
Protection Corp., which works to restore funds to investors who
lost money in bankrupt or financially troubled brokerage firms.  Bowen didn’t respond to telephone calls seeking comment.
The White House press office didn’t respond to requests for
comment sent after normal business hours.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dave Michaels in Washington at 
 dmichaels5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  