-- Renault-Nissan Expands Mitsubishi Cooperation on Vehicles
-- B y   M a t h i e u   R o s e m a i n
-- 2013-11-05T15:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-05/renault-nissan-expands-mitsubishi-cooperation-to-vehicles.html
The Renault-Nissan alliance will
expand carmaking cooperation with  Mitsubishi Motors Corp. (7211)  as the
manufacturers add partners to expand their model lineup while
holding back spending.  Japanese automakers Nissan and Mitsubishi will widen an
existing partnership building Kei small cars for the domestic
market to develop vehicles for sale abroad, and Mitsubishi will
introduce two sedans based on  Renault (RNO)  cars, the three companies
said in a statement yesterday. They didn’t provide a time frame.  Carlos Ghosn , who is chief executive officer of both French
carmaker Renault SA and Yokohama-based Nissan Motor Co., is
targeting 4 billion euros ($5.4 billion) in cost savings for the
alliance by 2016 to boost profitability. The partnership is
expanding production in  Russia  with local carmaker  OAO AvtoVAZ (AVAZ) ,
which appointed a new CEO yesterday, and it’s working with
 Daimler AG (DAI)  on the German manufacturer’s Smart city cars,
Mercedes-Benz delivery vans and engines.  Renault and Nissan “are doing the right thing by trying to
expand their collaboration further and by involving other
original-equipment manufacturers into the project more deeply,”
Erich Hauser, a London-based analyst with International Strategy
& Investment Group, said in an e-mail. “We should see marginal
benefits from the greater volume leverage,” though Mitsubishi’s
small size in the global industry will limit its role.  Partnership Savings  Renault, based in the Paris suburb of Boulogne-Billancourt,
has been  Nissan (7201) ’s partner in sales and production since 1999 and
 owns  43 percent of the Japanese manufacturer, which in turn
 holds  a 15 percent stake in the French carmaker. The alliance
generated 2.69 billion euros in savings for the two companies
last year.  Cooperation with Mitsubishi will be limited to
manufacturing rather than any stake investment, Ghosn said in a
Nov. 1 interview. “There’s a product collaboration. There’s a
regional collaboration, but nothing which can be considered a
capital alliance,” he said.  Nissan slumped 10 percent at the close yesterday in Tokyo,
the steepest drop since December 2008, after cutting its full-year profit forecast by 15 percent last week because of slowing
demand in  emerging markets  and mounting recall costs. Renault
fell as much as 4 percent to 58.75 euros, the lowest intraday
price since Oct. 2, in Paris trading.  Electric Models  The two-year-old Kei-model venture of Nissan and Tokyo-based Mitsubishi, dubbed NMKV, will be deepened to develop an
entry-level car that will have an electric version to be sold
globally, the companies said.  The three manufacturers plan to “explore several new
projects covering shared products, technologies and
manufacturing capacity,” they said. “Strategic cooperation
between Nissan and Mitsubishi could be expanded across the
broader Renault-Nissan alliance,” and the carmakers intend to
share technology for electric models.  The first Mitsubishi-badged sedan based on a Renault
vehicle, to be marketed in  North America , would be manufactured
at the Renault-Samsung plant in Busan,  South Korea , the
carmakers said. The second Mitsubishi-badged sedan is meant for
the global market and its manufacturing location is under
discussion.  Renault and Nissan are in the process of acquiring indirect
74.5 percent control of Togliatti-based AvtoVAZ, the maker of
Lada cars, as part of their expansion in Russia. AvtoVAZ
yesterday appointed Bo Andersson, a Swede who was formerly head
of purchasing at General Motors Co., as its new CEO as of Dec.
31.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathieu Rosemain in Paris at 
 mrosemain@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  