-- Romania Reaches Agreement With IMF on $300 Million Loan Tranche
-- B y   A n d r a   T i m u   a n d   I r i n a   S a v u
-- 2013-11-05T10:47:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-05/romania-reaches-agreement-with-imf-on-300-million-loan-tranche.html
Romania  reached a staff-level
agreement with the  International Monetary Fund  on the first
review of its third loan accord since 2009.  The government must continue with state asset sales and
maintain fiscal rigor to unlock a tranche of 194.7 million
Special Drawing Rights ($298 million) from the 2 billion-euro
($2.7 billion) loan provided by the IMF, Andrea Schaechter, the
lender’s mission chief to Romania, told reporters in Bucharest
today at the end of a two-week review. Romania doesn’t plan to
draw on the money.  The second-poorest European Union nation agreed this year
on a 4 billion-euro loan equally split between the IMF and the
EU to protect itself against market shocks and help reduce debt
financing costs. The government has drawn up next year’s budget
under the lender’s guidance, targeting a deficit of 2.2 percent
of economic output, Prime Minister Victor Ponta said yesterday.  “Romania has met all the performance criteria for end-September, including the budget-deficit target and the arrears
target,” Schaechter said. “Revenue was weaker than anticipated
because of weak internal demand and low profitability of the
banking sector.”  The IMF revised this year’s economic-growth forecast for
Romania to 2.2 percent from a previous estimate of about 2
percent, according to Schaechter. Expansion in 2014 will also be
2.2 percent, mainly driven by a rebound in internal demand.  Minimum Wage  Romania plans to raise the  minimum wage  to 900 lei ($273)
in two stages next year, increase pensions by 3.8 percent and
allocate more money for investments, according to Ponta. It may
also cut some social contributions paid by employers by 5
percent starting July 1, depending on budgetary revenue, Finance
Minister Daniel Chitoiu said yesterday.  To bring in more revenue, the government will introduce a
tax on fuel prices of 7 euro cents per liter and increase
royalties for  mineral resources  by 25 percent, excluding oil and
natural gas, Chitoiu said.  The cabinet has pledged to sell a 15 percent stake in
hydro-power generator Hidroelectrica SA and a majority holding
in Electrica SA next year. It must also approve a restructuring
program for rail-freight carrier CFR Marfa SA by December and
complete its sale in 2015.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andra Timu in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net ;
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net ;
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  