-- Romania Cuts Main Rate to Record With Inflation at 16-Month Low
-- B y   A n d r a   T i m u   a n d   I r i n a   S a v u
-- 2013-11-05T10:26:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-05/romania-cuts-main-rate-to-record-with-inflation-at-16-month-low.html
Romania  cut its benchmark interest
rate to a record for a fourth meeting as inflation slowed to its
lowest level in more than a year.  The Bucharest-based  Banca Nationala a Romaniei  lowered the
rate to 4 percent from 4.25 percent, according to an e-mailed
statement today. Fourteen of 16 economists in a Bloomberg  survey 
predicted the move, while two saw a half-point cut. Central bank
Governor Mugur Isarescu will hold a briefing at 3 p.m. local
time today.  After leaving  interest rates  unchanged for more than a
year, policy makers began to cut the benchmark in July to take
advantage of the lowest inflation rate since May 2012. The
central bank wants to trim borrowing costs to speed  economic
growth  that slowed between April and June after reaching its
fastest in 1 1/2 years in the previous three months.  “This low- inflation (ROCOPYOY)  environment allows the central bank to
continue the rate-cutting cycle with the purpose of supporting
leu lending,” Rozalia Pal, an economist at Garanti Bank Romania
SA, said by e-mail. “Cheaper leu loans could be one of the
engines for boosting the economy in 2014.”  The leu is this year’s best performer against the euro
among 24 emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg with a
0.1 percent gain. It was 0.1 percent lower at 4.442 per euro at
12:23 a.m. in Bucharest.  Regional Differences  Eastern European policy makers are diverging as their
economies show varying degrees of recovery.  Hungary ’s central
bank cut its benchmark rate to a record-low 3.4 percent on Oct.
29, while policy makers in  Poland (POREANN)  and the  Czech Republic  will
keep rates unchanged this week, two Bloomberg surveys show.  Romania’s central bank today left minimum  reserve
requirements  at 20 percent for foreign-exchange deposits and 15
percent for leu deposits. Lending rose 0.5 percent from the
previous month in September to 223 billion lei ($68 billion),
declining 3.3 percent from a year earlier.  Inflation slowed to 1.9 percent in September from 3.7
percent in August. Prices declined 0.6 percent from the previous
month after the government cut the value-added tax for bread to
9 percent from 24 percent.  The central bank is targeting 2013 price growth of 1.5
percent to 3.5 percent and currently predicts year-end inflation
at 3.1 percent. The government last week increased this year’s
economic-growth estimate to 2.2 percent from 1.9 percent amid a
bumper harvest.  “This cut is likely to mark the low of the easing cycle,
with disinflationary pressures proving resilient and activity
remaining weak,” Christian Lawrence, a foreign-exchange
strategist at Rabobank International in  London , said yesterday
in a note.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andra Timu in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net ;
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net ;
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  