-- Rosengren Says Fed May Keep Interest Rate Near Zero Until 2016
-- B y   J e a n n a   S m i a l e k
-- 2013-11-05T15:34:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-05/rosengren-says-fed-may-keep-interest-rate-near-zero-until-2016.html
The  Federal Reserve  will probably
keep its main  interest rate  “quite low for quite some time,”
possibly until 2016, amid languid economic growth, Boston Fed
President  Eric Rosengren  said.  “You could easily imagine if we have relatively slow
growth in the overall economy, even though it picks up from
where we are now, that it could be 2016,” Rosengren, who votes
on monetary policy this year, said today on CNBC television.
“You’d certainly need to have growth 3 percent or faster if
you’d want to see short-term rates rising at that point.”  The Fed is trying to push down  unemployment  that stood at
7.2 percent in September and boost the  U.S. economy  by keeping
its  target interest rate  near zero and by buying $85 billion in
bonds each month.  “My expectation is the Fed funds rate is going to remain
quite low for quite some time,” said Rosengren, who is a
consistent backer of bond buying by the Fed to spur growth.  Fed officials’ median estimate for the benchmark lending
rate is just 2 percent at the end of 2016, a year when policy
makers expect growth as fast as 3.3 percent, inflation of 1.7
percent to 2 percent, and the  unemployment rate  at 5.4 percent
to 5.9 percent, according to their central tendency estimates
released in September.  Policy makers have said they’ll taper the asset purchases
once the labor market shows sustainable improvement, and they’ll
keep the interest rate low as long as unemployment is above 6.5
percent and inflation isn’t forecast to exceed 2.5 percent.  Low Inflation  “I would expect that we would be getting certainly below
6.5 percent, which is the threshold we’ve provided, but my
expectation is that we’ll still have a very low inflation rate
at that point,” Rosengren said today. “As a result, we’re not
going to need to be in much of a hurry to raise short-term
rates.”  The Fed’s preferred gauge of inflation, the personal
consumption expenditures index, rose 1.2 percent in August.  Gross domestic product growth, which stood at 2.5 percent
annualized rate in the second quarter after 1.1 percent
expansion in the first, remains below the 3 percent Rosengren
said would allow the labor market to return to full employment
in “a reasonable time period.”  The economy grew at a 2 percent annualized rate in the
third quarter, according to the median forecast of 87 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg before Commerce Department figures due
Nov. 7.  Rosengren, 56, became president of the Boston Fed in 2007.
He has only dissented once from a monetary policy decision when,
in December 2007, he favored a more aggressive  interest rate  cut
to shore up a weakening economy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanna Smialek in Washington at 
 jsmialek1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  