-- Rostelecom Preferred Stock Jumps on Buyout Report: Moscow Mover
-- B y   K s e n i a   G a l o u c h k o
-- 2013-11-05T12:17:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-05/rostelecom-preferred-stock-jumps-on-buyout-report-moscow-mover.html
OAO Rostelecom’s preferred shares
rose to the highest level in more than two months on bets
 Russia ’s state-run telecommunications operator will make a new
buyout offer at a premium to the market.  The preferred stock gained 2.1 percent to 76.78 rubles by
2:32 p.m. in Moscow, the strongest advance on the Micex Index,
which fell 0.3 percent. The amount of shares traded was
equivalent to about 1.5 times the three-month average.  Rostelecom plans an extraordinary general meeting in the
“coming weeks” to approve spinning off of mobile assets and
will have to buy out shareholders who vote against the proposed
reorganization or abstain from voting,  Vedomosti  reported today,
citing two people familiar with the plan. The buyout price will
be similar to this year’s offer, Vedomosti reported, citing a
person close to the board of directors. Rostelecom spokesman
Andrey Polyakov declined to comment on the report by phone.  “Most likely, we’ll see Rostelecom offer a premium to the
market in its buyout and shares are rising on that,” Alexander Vengranovich, an analyst at Otkritie Financial Corp., said by
phone from Moscow. “Preferred shares are more sensitive to the
report because they trade at a discount to ordinary shares and
have more room for upside.” Vengranovich forecasts that the
buyout will happen no earlier than in the first quarter of 2014.  Rostelecom bought back shares from investors who didn’t
vote or voted against its merger with parent company OAO
Svyazinvest between June and August, setting the buyout price of
136.05 rubles per common share and 95.24 rubles for each
preferred share.  Rostelecom’s ordinary shares traded down 0.1 percent at
117.07 rubles today. The premium for ordinary shares compared
with preferred stock reached the highest level since April 2012
on Oct. 29, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Rostelecom’s preferred shares are down 14 percent this year,
compared with a drop of 2.7 percent for its ordinary shares.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ksenia Galouchko in Moscow at 
 kgalouchko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  