-- Royal Brunei Air to Pick Airbus or Boeing for Short-Haul Jets
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-11-05T11:59:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-05/royal-brunei-air-to-pick-airbus-or-boeing-for-short-haul-jets.html
Royal Brunei Airlines’ board of
directors will reach a decision on modernizing its short-haul
fleet this month as the oil-rich kingdom’s flag carrier seeks
planes to tap new markets, including  India .  Boeing Co. (BA)  and  Airbus SAS (EAD)  short-haul jets are in the
running, Deputy Chairman Dermot Mannion told reporters today at
the World Travel Market in London. “We have an active short-haul campaign that will reach a climax in the next couple of
weeks” with a board decision this month, he said.  Royal Brunei has taken delivery of two of five Boeing 787
Dreamliners to replace 777-200s on lease from  Singapore Airlines
Ltd. (SIA)  and plans to start London services with the new jet next
month. The short-haul expansion should allow extension of the
regional network.  “We have been looking at southern India for some time,”
Mannion said. “We need more short-haul aircraft to support that
operation.”  The airline, which currently operates six A320-family
narrowbodies will seek to expand its short-haul fleet to
“double digits,” he said. First deliveries should take place
in 2015, he said.  Royal Brunei may purchase current-generation Boeing 737s or
Airbus A320s, although the long-term goal is to operate the more
modern, reengined models now in development at the two
planemakers, the 737 Max or A320neo, Mannion said.  The short-haul planes may also be used to fly to Australia,
he said. Royal Brunei already plans to begin 787 service to
 Melbourne  in March once its third and fourth Dreamliners are
delivered. Timing for handover of the final jet is still under
discussion with Boeing, he said.  Mannion said regional operations with the 787s in recent
weeks to prepare crew have gone smoothly, despite setbacks other
Dreamliner operators have experienced. The carrier is
“confident but not complacent” when it comes to 787 service,
he said, adding that  Air France-KLM Group (AF)  has been tapped to
provide worldwide support.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  