-- RSA Tumbles as Windstorms Push Profitability Below Target
-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 2013-11-05T17:37:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-05/rsa-tumbles-as-windstorms-push-profitability-below-target.html
RSA Insurance Group Plc (RSA)  tumbled after
the U.K.’s biggest non-life insurer by market value said it will
miss its profitability target in the wake of last week’s
European windstorms.  Wind damage in Europe and continued adverse weather in
 Canada  will push return on equity below 10 percent for the year,
compared with a previous target range in August of 10 percent to
12 percent, London-based RSA said in a statement today.  RSA, which insures cars and homes in the U.K., the  Nordic
countries  and  emerging markets , slid as much as 8.2 percent, the
most since Feb. 20. It fell  6.3 percent  to 121 pence at the
close in London, giving the company a market value of 4.4
billion pounds ($7.1 billion). Windstorm Christian, also called
the St. Jude’s Day Storm in the U.K., battered homes and felled
trees from  England  to the Baltic Sea last week.  “2013 is proving to be an exceptionally tough year for
weather events,” Chief Executive Officer Simon Lee said in the
statement.  RSA estimated the windstorms will result in losses of as
much as 65 million pounds, mostly in Scandinavia, where
Christian generated the highest wind speeds ever recorded in
Denmark. Willis Re said on Nov. 4 that the storm’s damage may
cost insurers as much as 1.3 billion euros ($1.8 billion).  Adverse weather losses will be about 1.5 percentage points
above the company’s planning assumption if there are no more
major events, RSA said. The windstorms follow flooding in Canada
that included the country’s worst natural catastrophe on record
in June in Alberta and the third-worst on record in July in
Toronto, which resulted in a combined loss of 83 million pounds.  The insurer also said today that nine-month net written
premiums rose 7 percent to 6.7 billion pounds. The company said
its medium-term guidance remains unchanged and its investment
income is “comfortably on track” to reach about 470 million
pounds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in  London  at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  