-- TSA Ponders More Security Beyond Checkpoint After Killing
-- B y   J e f f   P l u n g i s
-- 2013-11-05T18:23:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-05/tsa-ponders-more-security-beyond-checkpoint-after-killing.html
Last week’s killing of a
Transportation Security Administration officer in  Los Angeles ,
after other airport shootings, shows there are safety gaps the
agency must resolve, its deputy administrator said.  “There are folks out there that want to do bad things,”
John Halinski said at an aviation-security conference in
Arlington,  Virginia , today. “The problem is that front side of
the airport is not as strong as it could be. So we have to look
at ways to prevent that.”  The agency will meet with aviation-industry stakeholders
next week to evaluate how to improve security beyond screening
checkpoints, he said.  Among options the agency will consider is  expanding  use of
its Visible Intermodal Protection and Response, or VIPR, teams
that conduct random searches at subway stations, bus terminals
and sporting events in cooperation with local  law enforcement .  Representative  Scott Garrett , a New Jersey Republican, has
introduced legislation to ban those searches outside airports,
calling them “security theater.”  “We have to look at things in a different way -- a large
partnership with our law enforcement folks, with our airports
and a partnership with federal, state and local,” Halinski said
in an interview. “That’s the way to look at it.  ‘‘I don’t want to put any kind of political bent on this at
all because it was a security issue,” he said. “We need to
analyze it and need to do a better job of correcting it.”  ‘Deeply Disturbed’  As the TSA and other policymakers evaluate responses to the
Los Angeles shooting, which targeted agency screeners, they’re
running up against limits on how much more can be done without
adding hours of waiting time for travelers.  The alleged Nov. 1 shooter, identified by authorities as
Paul Ciancia, 23, left a note in which he wrote of wanting to
kill TSA agents, the  Federal Bureau of Investigation  said.  “This particular individual was deeply disturbed,”
Halinski said. “There’s no way you can try to analyze deeply
disturbed people.”  Officer Gerardo Hernandez, 39, was killed in the shooting,
becoming the first TSA employee killed in the line of duty.  TSA Administrator  John Pistole  said Nov. 2 the agency is
discussing airport security issues “writ large” with Congress,
including whether its officers should be armed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Plungis in Washington at 
 jplungis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  