-- Saudi Property Stokes 3-Times Bigger Bond Gains: Islamic Finance
-- B y   S a m u e l   P o t t e r
-- 2013-11-05T08:17:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-05/saudi-property-stokes-3-times-bigger-bond-gains-islamic-finance.html
Dar Al Arkan’s Islamic bonds have
returned more than three times the regional average as the
property developer benefits from Saudi Arabia’s plan to build at
least 500,000 new homes.  Dar Al Arkan Real Estate Development Co.’s $450 million
sukuk due February 2015 earned more than 7 percent this year
including profit rate, the most among Islamic bonds in the Gulf
Cooperation Council, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Dubai-based  Emaar Properties PJSC’s (EMAAR)  2016 sukuk was second-placed
with a return of 5.7 percent. The average gain was 2.1 percent.  Real estate companies in the Gulf are profiting as economic
growth accelerates, with yields on sukuk from Emaar and Nakheel
Properties PJSC tumbling amid surging Dubai property prices.
Saudi Arabia’s construction program, part of a plan to avoid
unrest that toppled governments in  Egypt ,  Tunisia ,  Libya  and
Yemen, helped Dar Al Arkan pay a $1 billion sukuk last year,
easing concern over its finances.  “There have been some major projects coming to the Saudi
real estate market, and Dar Al Arkan is one of the companies
that has benefited most,” Ahmed Shehada, head of trading at
Qatar National Bank Financial Services in Doha, said by phone
Nov. 3. People know the scale of real estate developments in
Saudi and how property companies will gain, he said.  Yields Slide  The yield on  Dar Al Arkan’s (ALARKAN)  2015 percent notes tumbled 130
basis points this year to 4.8 percent at 12:13 p.m. in Dubai,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The yield on Emaar’s
$500 million 2016 notes fell 80 basis points to 3.61 percent.
That compares with an average 81 basis-point, 0.81 percentage-point, jump to 3.73 percent on Nov. 4 for sukuk from the six
nation GCC, according to HSBC/Nasdaq Dubai indexes.  “This is a 2015 maturity, and we’re getting close to
that,” Samer Mardini, Dubai-based vice president of fixed
income at SJS Markets, said by phone yesterday. “Investors in
Saudi who are aware of the company and its strategy, and the
prospects for being repaid, are happy to hold to maturity.”  Dar Al Arkan,  Saudi Arabia ’s third-biggest real estate
developer by market value, repaid a $1 billion sukuk in July
last year. The price for the debt fell below 70 cents on the
dollar in 2009 on concern over the company’s financial position.  ‘Walk Out’  Now could be the time to sell the 2015 sukuk, QNB’s Shehada
said. A market rally following the Sept. 18 decision by the
 Federal Reserve  to maintain bond buying, boosted by the U.S.
Congress’ October deal to raise the debt ceiling, pushed the
yield on the Islamic bond 134 basis points lower.  “This is a great opportunity to walk out,” Shehada said.
“The U.S. problems remain, they have just been pushed down the
road. For those who bought when the price of this debt was low,
there is no reason to take a risk over what will happen next.”  Dar Al Arkan’s  cash and equivalents  declined 17 percent in
the third quarter from the previous, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. Profit fell 17 percent from a year earlier to 183
million riyals ($49 million) amid lower margins on property
sales and finance charges, the company said in a statement.  While Dar Al Arkan’s cost of funding has improved, the
company pays more than many Saudi borrowers because of its  cash
flow , Mardini said. The company is rated B+ by  Standard &
Poor’s , four levels below investment grade.  Needing Development  Dar Al Arkan’s 2015 notes were sold in 2010 with a profit
rate of 10.75 percent. The company raised a further $450 million
by selling sukuk in May that pay 5.75 percent. The notes
currently yield 6.41 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Saudi Arabia needs to build 85,000 homes a year to keep up
with a population of 28.4 million that’s growing 2.5 percent
annually,  Mike Williams , head of MENA research at CBRE, wrote in
a March report. Dar Al Arkan’s pipeline includes the Al Qasr
project in  Riyadh  that will provide homes for 13,000 people, and
the Shams Al-Arous project near Jeddah that will include more
than 10,000 units.  “The prospects will be good for Dar Al Arkan, because real
estate works in the long term,” Mardini said. “Investors will
judge that the company will be around a long time because it’s a
Saudi real estate company and Saudi needs a lot of
development.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Samuel Potter in Dubai at 
 spotter33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  