-- HSBC Said to Reject Euribor Probe Deal as EU Readies Fine
-- B y   G a s p a r d   S e b a g   a n d   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 2013-11-06T01:01:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-05/hsbc-said-to-reject-settlement-in-eu-s-euribor-antitrust-probe.html
HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  dropped out of
talks to settle a European Union antitrust probe into rigging of
Euribor lending rates, according to a person familiar with the
investigation, as regulators prepare to hand out fines to
settling banks as soon as next month.  HSBC, Europe’s biggest lender by value, pulled out of the
negotiations because the discussions stumbled over the possible
size of a fine and liability issues, according to a second person
who, like the first person, asked not be named because the talks
are confidential.  Barclays Plc (BARC) ,  Credit Agricole SA (ACA) ,  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ,
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  and
 Societe Generale SA (GLE)  also entered into settlement talks with the
European Commission, and at least one of those may have also
pulled out of the discussions, the person said.  Regulators around the world are investigating whether more
than a dozen firms, including Deutsche Bank, colluded to rig
various benchmark interest rates to mask their true cost of
borrowing. By refusing to settle with the commission in the
Euribor probe, banks are giving up the chance of a 10 percent
discount in fines in return for admitting that they colluded to
manipulate benchmarks.  “The commission may be trying to overstretch its
allegations and drive people into admitting to things that they
simply did not fully participate in,” said Rony Gerrits, a
lawyer at Morrison & Foerster LLP in Brussels. A non-settling
party may think it has “a better chance of limiting exposure”
in front of the courts, said Gerrits, who isn’t involved in the
cases.  December Fines  Banks settling with the EU will agree to admit to collusion
over the manipulation of Euribor and may face fines as early as
December, one of the people said. HSBC, and others that reject a
settlement, would be separately sent a formal statement of
objections, likely stretching the process into next year.  Joaquin Almunia, the EU’s antitrust chief, has described
allegations of rate rigging as “quite shocking” and has warned
that any fines would “not be one euro.”  Antoine Colombani, a spokesman for the European Commission
in Brussels, declined to comment on the case. Brendan McNamara,
a spokesman for HSBC in  London , declined to comment.  Representatives of JPMorgan, Credit Agricole, Deutsche
Bank, Barclays, RBS and Societe Generale all also declined to
comment.  To gather information, commission officials raided banks,
including Deutsche Bank and  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS) ,
that offered financial derivatives linked to Euribor in 2011,
saying they were investigating possible collusion. The EU sent
questionnaires to Barclays and HSBC earlier that same year.  Trading Positions  Barclays,  UBS AG (UBSN)  and RBS are among firms that have been
fined about $3.7 billion for rigging the London interbank
offered rate, or Libor, the benchmark for more than $300
trillion of securities worldwide.  Rabobank Groep, the co-operative formed in 1898 to lend to
Dutch farmers, was last week fined 774 million euros for its
involvement in rigging benchmark interest rates, the second-largest in the global investigation.  Almunia has said regulators are convinced that traders of
interest-rate derivatives colluded to manipulate the Euribor and
Libor rates of the banks to influence them and obtain a benefit
in their own trading positions.  The EU’s antitrust chief has been vocal about his desire to
settle both probes by the end of the year and he pointed out
what would happen to entities not wishing to play ball.  That would mean facing a formal antitrust complaint, a so-called statement of objections, which would pave the way to a
fully-fledged fine.  Reduced Penalty  Settling parties would also receive a short statement of
objections, to which they would be invited to merely confirm the
content, before the reduced fine would be issued.  The 10 percent reduction “isn’t necessarily considered as
an incentive to enter into talks” to settle, Adrien Giraud, a
lawyer at Willkie Farr & Gallagher LLP, said in a phone
interview.  The “two main drivers” for entering into settlement talks
with the commission are to shorten the duration of the
infringement and lower the value of the sales -- or proxy of
sales in this case -- taken into account to calculate the fine,
Gerrits said.  These discussions “can lead the commission to adopt a
decision with a fine that is probably lower than what it would
have been in a contentious procedure” as there is more of a
negotiation, Giraud said. During bilateral talks the parties
“can try to soften the commission’s argumentation.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gaspard Sebag in Brussels at 
 gsebag@bloomberg.net ;
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  