-- Scene Last Night: Kravis, Schwarzman Set for New Mayor
-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 2013-11-05T13:04:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-05/scene-last-night-kravis-schwarzman-set-for-new-mayor.html
On the eve of Election Day, guests at
the  New York Public Library  gala buzzed about the next mayor as
they paid tribute to the outgoing one.  Mayor  Michael R. Bloomberg  received a Library Lion medal
along with composer and lyricist  Stephen Sondheim  and writers
 Junot Diaz , Katherine Boo and  Marilynne Robinson .  Guests included  New York  comptroller  John Liu ,  Boaz Weinstein  of Saba Capital Management LP, Christopher Kojima of
Goldman Sachs,  Henry Kravis  of KKR & Co. and “Girls” actress
Allison Williams.  “Everybody should vote,” Bloomberg said as he walked
around the Rose Reading Room after dessert.  As for the result, “Whoever the next mayor is, they both
grew up using the library and they’ve both visited us here,”
Anthony Marx, president and chief executive of the library said
of candidates Bill de Blasio and Joe Lhota. “We look forward to
a great relationship.”  Humorist Calvin Trillin, presuming a de Blasio victory, had
an idea to get the new mayor comfortable at a library gala.  “Get a lot of tall people,” Trillin said. “Don Marron,
for instance.”  Marron, who is 6 feet 6 inches tall and the founder of
Lightyear Capital LLC, recently met de Blasio.  “He’s smart,” Marron said. “I don’t agree with
everything, for sure.”  Scholars, Homeless  An undisputed fact last night was the central role of the
public library, a space “where scholars and the homeless” come
together, Boo said.  “The city’s been terrific for the library and the
library’s been terrific for the city,” said  Steve Schwarzman ,
chief executive of Blackstone Group LP. “Libraries serve so
many people in the middle class and with lower income. They are
a core part of what makes New York New York.” Schwarzman is a
trustee and also gave $100 million to the library, whose
flagship building is named after him.  “Every mayor understands the library is critical to an
informed intellect and to a city full of people who will rise
above their station in life,” said trustee  Gordon Davis , who
has seen mayors at library galas as far back as John Lindsay.  It’s not all smooth sailing. In July, de Blasio stood on
the steps of the New York Public Library’s flagship asking for a
cost audit of the Central Library Plan.  Sidewalk Protest  Last night, members of  Citizens Defending Libraries  and the
 Committee to Save the New York Public Library  stood on the
sidewalk on Fifth Avenue, to protest -- in front of gala guests
paying $2,500 a ticket -- the plans to sell branches and to
remove some of the book stacks.  Inside, author  Jonathan Franzen  said he once relied on a
branch library in Jackson Heights, Queens, and appreciates that
de Blasio is concerned for smaller library facilities.  “He seems like a mayor who’s going to be committed to the
branches and dispersing the money raised at an event like this
across the whole system,” Franzen said.  The gala organizers say it supports free services at 91
NYPL locations across the Bronx, Manhattan and Staten Island.
(Queens and Brooklyn have their own library systems.) The
library depends on both private and public funding.  “The mayor of New York City is our partner,” said trustee
Abby Milstein. “There’s no question he’s essential.” Support is
required when there is so much discussion about the library’s
future, said  New York City  Council member Dan Garodnick. Catie
Marron, former chairman of the library, said the key to making
the next major welcome at the gala is “simple: be friendly.”  “Every mayor tries to do the right thing for the city,
Schwarzman said. “There’s an election tomorrow and we’ll see who
it is.”  Bloomberg’s 12-year tenure as mayor ends Dec. 31. He is the
majority owner of  Bloomberg News  parent Bloomberg LP.  ( Amanda Gordon  is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon in New York at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter at @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 