-- Schorsch Shakes Off Stock Decline With Biggest REIT Deal
-- B y   B r i a n   L o u i s
-- 2013-11-05T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-05/schorsch-shakes-off-stock-decline-with-biggest-reit-deal.html
With about $5 billion in takeovers to
complete and his company’s stock down more than 30 percent,
Nicholas Schorsch had his hands full. That didn’t stop the chief
executive officer of  American Realty Capital Properties Inc. (ARCP) 
from making his biggest real estate bet.  American Realty agreed last month to buy Cole Real Estate
Investments Inc. for almost $7 billion in a bid to become the
largest owner of U.S. single-tenant buildings. The purchase, the
country’s biggest of a real estate investment trust in two
years, followed a failed attempt by New York-based American
Realty to buy a Cole predecessor company just seven months ago.  The Oct. 23 announcement of the deal came as such a
surprise that Daniel Altscher, an analyst at FBR Capital
Markets, said he had to look at the press release multiple times
to make sure he was reading it correctly. For Schorsch, it
extends a buying spree that will triple American Realty’s
portfolio of single-tenant, or net-lease, buildings, and comes
at a time the REIT’s stock has fallen on concern that rising
interest rates will increase costs and growth may be limited.  “He’s always said his goal was to become the largest net-lease REIT,” Mitchell Germain, an analyst with JMP Securities
in  New York , said in a telephone interview. “I don’t think
anyone thought it was going to happen after six months.”  Schorsch’s company had about $15 billion in pending
acquisitions at the end of last month, including Phoenix-based
Cole, according to Bloomberg Industries. American Realty agreed
in May to purchase  CapLease Inc. (LSE)  for about $2 billion, and in
July said it would acquire American Realty Capital Trust IV in a
transaction it values at $3.1 billion. The deal for New York-based CapLease is scheduled to be completed this week.  AR Capital  Those transactions follow the purchase of American Realty
Capital Trust III Inc. in February for more than $2 billion in
cash and stock. That company, like ARCT IV, was a nontraded REIT
formed under AR Capital LLC, which is led by Schorsch.  AR Capital is the largest fundraiser for nonlisted REITs,
which don’t trade shares on  stock exchanges  and mainly attract
money from individual investors. Schorsch helped build his
fortune leading that firm and he’s currently chairman of at
least 10 companies that are part of or were spawned from it.  American Realty, which was formed out of AR Capital and
went public in 2011, will have a projected enterprise value of
about $22 billion after the pending deals close, compared with
$135 million two years ago. The REIT probably is done with major
purchases, at least until the current ones are completed,
Schorsch said in an interview.  “We’re taking a break,” he said. “We’re going to finish
what we started. Execute deliberately and prudently and then
we’ll see what’s next.”  Biggest Deal  The proposed deal for Cole is the biggest acquisition of a
U.S. REIT since AMB Property Corp. bought Prologis for $16.5
billion in 2011, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The combined
company will have 3,732 properties in 49 states and  Puerto Rico ,
according to the Oct. 23 statement. Along with the CapLease and
ARCT IV deals, American Realty’s portfolio will have increased
from about 1,180 buildings in June.  The largest U.S. single-tenant REIT is currently Escondido,
California-based Realty Income Corp., which has more than 3,800
properties. Its enterprise value was about $13 billion in the
third quarter, Bloomberg data show.  In March, American Realty tried to buy Cole Credit Property
Trust III, then a nontraded REIT, in a deal valued at about $5.7
billion at the time. American Realty claimed that a plan by Cole
to buy its sponsor and go public was enriching management at the
expense of shareholders. Cole, which said the bid undervalued
the company and would have required an unsustainable level of
debt, proceeded with its purchase and listed its  shares  in June.  ‘Shocking’ Acquisition  A tie-up between the companies after their hostile clash
was surprising for most people, “definitely for me,” said
FBR’s Altscher, based in Arlington, Virginia. Cole’s acquisition
just months after going public was “shocking,” he said.  American Realty is paying more for Cole now, Simon Yarmak,
an analyst at Stifel Nicolaus & Co., wrote in a report. He
estimated that the deal is 7.4 percent higher than the previous
offer.  Schorsch said American Realty is paying 3 percent or 4
percent more. The price is higher now because it is a friendly
deal and Cole is a public company with more transparency, he
said.  The acquisitions of Cole and ARCT IV are being funded
through cash and stock, with perpetual securities added to the
ARCT IV deal after a plunge in American Realty’s share price
forced the company to adjust the terms. The stock fell as much
as 32 percent from a May high as part of a rout in single-tenant
 landlords  on the prospect of rising  interest rates .  Drugstore Chains  Net-lease companies, whose tenants range from drugstore
chains to restaurants, make money on the spread between their
cost of borrowing and the yield, or capitalization rate, on the
property they buy, making them sensitive to increases in
interest rates, said Paul Adornato, an analyst at BMO Capital
Markets in New York.  “The whole business model depends on getting accretion
from acquisitions,” Adornato said. “If there’s a rise in
interest rates, stocks could be expected to decrease, therefore
the deal economics could become less favorable.”  Shares of American Realty have climbed 8.9 percent from the
low for the year set on Sept. 30, and are little changed since
the Cole deal was announced.  American Realty is getting $2.75 billion of financing from
Barclays Plc for the Cole purchase. Shareholder value won’t be
reduced because of the added revenue from Cole properties and
the estimated $70 million of savings in the first year, Schorsch
said.  “It’s definitely not dilutive,” Schorsch said. “We’re
picking up so much revenue.”  Lower Debt  American Realty said the Cole deal, scheduled to close in
the first half of 2014, will lower its ratio of net debt to
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization
to 7.7 from 9.1 by the end of the year. The transaction will
help offset the debt load that was anticipated to increase with
the acquisitions of CapLease and ARCT IV, Yarmak of Stifel
wrote.  “It de-levers us massively,” Schorsch said.  American Realty’s newly enlarged portfolio could make
external growth harder, Michael Gorman and Timothy Feron,
analysts at Janney Capital Markets, wrote in an Oct. 23 report.
The REIT expects to make $2 billion of property purchases next
year, according to an investor presentation.  Any benefits of the Cole purchase may be countered by
“substantial equity overhang” tied to the complexities of
integrating multiple transactions that will be completed in the
next two to three quarters, they wrote. The analysts maintained
their neutral  rating  on the company.  ‘Moving Parts’  “It’s created a lot of moving parts in the story,” Gorman
said in a telephone interview. “As that settles out, you could
see some improvement in their relative valuation, but it remains
to be seen.”  Integrating the acquisitions won’t be difficult, partly
because there won’t be any mass layoffs and the people who
manage the properties will work for the combined company,
Schorsch said.  “It’s like buying a bond portfolio,” Schorsch said in a
telephone interview. “It’s not complicated.”  American Realty’s acquisitions will make it the 14th-largest U.S. REIT by market value, which should boost liquidity
and price support for investors and increase research coverage
by analysts, according to the company’s investor presentation.
 Realty Income’s (O)  price relative to 2014 estimated funds from
operations, a REIT measure of  cash flow , is about 16 times,
according to the average of 12 analyst FFO projections, while
American Realty’s is 13 times, based on four  analysts .  “At the end of the day it’s trying to get a higher
multiple,” said Jeffrey Langbaum, a senior analyst with
Bloomberg Industries. Schorsch is “trying to set himself up as
one of those major players in the REIT space.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Louis in Chicago at 
 blouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  