-- Scotiabank Rebrands ING Direct as Tangerine
-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2013-11-05T19:13:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-05/scotiabank-rebrands-ing-direct-as-tangerine.html
Bank of Nova Scotia (BNS) , which bought  ING
Groep NV (INGA) ’s Canadian online bank last year, is renaming the
business Tangerine in a move that sheds the last vestiges of its
former owner.  “Tangerine really captures the essence of what we wanted
to do,” Peter Aceto, chief executive officer of Scotiabank’s
ING Direct unit, said today in a telephone interview from
Toronto. “We wanted to maintain what we’ve built for the last
16 years and why customers chose us in the first place, which is
around being innovative and simplifying things.”  The rebranding, which includes the word Tangerine in orange
punctuated by an arrowhead, will be rolled out in four to five
months, Aceto said. Scotiabank, the country’s third-largest
lender by assets, spent C$3.1 billion ($3 billion) in November
2012 to buy the Amsterdam-based company’s Canadian operations,
gaining an online banking platform with C$30 billion of deposits
and 1.8 million customers.  ING Groep opened ING Direct in  Canada  in 1997, the first of
many branchless banking ventures in countries including the U.S.
and  Australia . The company gained prominence with its orange
lion logo and television commercials featuring Dutch actor
Frederik de Groot, who urged Canadians to “Save your money” in
a series of ads.  “People are there because they want the highest  interest
rate  on the street,” said  Barry Schwartz , who helps manage
about C$540 million including Scotiabank shares for Baskin
Financial Services Inc. in Toronto. “As long as they keep that
I don’t think people care if it’s ING or Joe Blow’s Bank
Company.”  Profitable Unit  ING Direct pays 1.35 percent on its investment savings
account with no minimum balance, according to its  website , while
Scotiabank’s  Money Master Savings  account pays 0.2 percent for
balances of more than C$5,000 and 0.1 percent for accounts with
less than that amount.  ING Groep, the biggest Dutch financial-services firm, was
required to sell some foreign units and other businesses as the
lender sought to repay government aid received during the
financial crisis. In February 2012, ING sold its U.S. online
bank to McLean, Virginia-based  Capital One Financial Corp. (COF) ,
which renamed the business Capital One 360.  Scotiabank’s ING Direct, which offers mortgages and mutual
funds in addition to high-interest  savings accounts , falls
within the lender’s Canadian banking division. Canadian banking
is Scotiabank’s most profitable unit, with a 36 percent return
on equity this year, according to financial statements.  Credit Card  ING Direct has attracted 80,000 additional customers in
Canada since January, Aceto said. Scotiabank forecasted in
September 2012 that the business would have 3 million clients in
five years.  “This has been a year of some transition and we expect a
significant increase in the trajectory from a customer
perspective in the years ahead,” Aceto said. “We have a
longer-term plan that still aligns with the numbers we talked
about.”  The lender is also planning to add a Tangerine  credit card 
by the first half of 2015, Robin Hibberd, Scotiabank’s executive
vice president of retail products and services for Canadian
banking, said in today’s interview.  “There’s no doubt it’s going to be part of our future
product offering,” Hibberd said. “We’re going to do something
that’s certainly simple and easy and transparent and great
value.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Peter Eichenbaum at 
 peichenbaum@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  