-- Senate Democrats Pause From Obamacare to Push Labor Bills
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r
-- 2013-11-05T19:59:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-05/senate-democrats-pause-from-obamacare-to-push-labor-bills.html
U.S.  Senate Democrats  are packing the
calendar this month with bills appealing to the party’s base as
they seek a distraction from Obamacare’s troubled start.  The strategy kicked off yesterday with a vote to advance
legislation extending protections from employment discrimination
to lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender workers. Proposals to
raise the federal  minimum wage  and to boost domestic
manufacturing probably will follow.  The measures stand little chance in the Republican-led
House. Devoting floor time to the bills is intended to give
Democrats an opportunity to burnish their standing with
organized labor, the  American Civil Liberties Union , the NAACP,
women’s groups and others that support the party’s candidates.  All of the measures have strong support from the AFL-CIO,
the nation’s largest labor federation, which has been a reliable
top contributor to Democratic Senate campaigns.  Democrats want “to shift the conversation” from the
Obamacare woes, said  Julian Zelizer , a professor of history and
public affairs at  Princeton University  in  New Jersey .  “Certainly they don’t want the problems with the rollout
being the story going into the midterm elections in 2014,”
Zelizer said.  Labor’s ‘Influence’  The AFL-CIO plans to use its “influence to sway those
members of Congress who will be instrumental in the bill’s
passage,”  Richard Trumka , president of the labor federation,
said in a blog  post  on the group’s website about the anti-discrimination legislation.  Such measures also are useful to interest groups, as they
provide a list of senators that have sided with them on major
issues. Groups often use such information to target campaign
donations and other forms of electoral support.  Labor political action committees have given 87 percent of
their $12.1 million in contributions for the 2014 elections to
Democrats, according to the Center for Responsive Politics, a
Washington-based research group that tracks campaign giving. In
the 2012 campaign cycle, 90 percent of their $60.5 million in
donations went to Democrats, according to the center.  Democrats are defending 21 Senate seats in 2014, compared
with 14 for Republicans, who need at least a six-seat net pickup
to gain the chamber’s majority for the first time in eight
years.  Seven of the seats Democrats are defending are in states
Republican presidential nominee  Mitt Romney  carried in 2012,
while Maine is the only state won by President  Barack Obama  last
year where Republicans are defending a seat.  Base Messages  “What Democrats seem to be trying to do is play key
messages to their base even though the legislation is likely to
not go anywhere,” said Republican strategist Ron Bonjean, an
aide to former Senate Majority Leader Trent Lott. “They’re
trying to get some political votes out of the way now to try to
set things up for the 2014 election, and they’re trying to do
this in order to affect fundraising.”  Later this month, Democrats are considering bringing up
legislation to raise the minimum wage. The federal wage floor,
set at $7.25 an hour, hasn’t been increased since 2009.  Senator  Tom Harkin , an Iowa Democrat who is chairman of the
Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee, has introduced
a measure to increase the  federal minimum wage  to $10.10 an hour
and index it to inflation.  Senate Democrats will meet privately Nov. 7 to discuss
legislative options for a minimum wage increase, Majority Leader
 Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat, told reporters today.  “We’re going to try to bring it up,” Reid said.  Manufacturing Boost  Democrats also are crafting a package of bills to boost
jobs in the manufacturing sector. Senate leaders haven’t
released details, though Trumka issued an Oct. 29 statement
supporting the effort.  “A revival of the manufacturing sector is a crucial
element for restoring balance to our economy by creating middle-class jobs,” he said. “This has to be a top-level goal if we
are to put the economy back on track.”  Democrats’ proposal aimed at barring employment
discrimination based on sexual orientation has drawn support
from major companies, including  Bank of America Corp. , Bristol-Myers Squibb Co.,  Chevron Corp. (CVX) , Citigroup Inc., Microsoft
Corp.,  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  and Yahoo! Inc.  Several of the Senate Republicans who voted yesterday to
advance the legislation are from Democratic-leaning states. They
include Maine’s  Susan Collins , who is seeking a fourth term next
year, and Nevada’s  Dean Heller .  Judging Skills  “This bill would affirm the principle that individuals in
the workplace should be judged on their skills and their
abilities and not on extraneous criteria like sexual
orientation,” Collins, a longtime sponsor of the legislation,
said yesterday in a speech on the Senate floor.  Senate Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell , along with fellow
Kentucky Republican Rand Paul, is sponsoring an amendment
designed to curb requirements that workers join or pay dues to
labor unions as a condition of employment.  “It’s basic fairness,” McConnell said today. “Over the
years, big labor has come to care more about its perks and power
than the workers it’s charged with protecting.”  Employment Bias  Twenty-one states and the  District of Columbia  have passed
laws banning employment bias based on sexual orientation, while
17 states and D.C. also prohibit gender-identity discrimination,
according to the Human Rights Campaign, a Washington-based
advocacy group. The bill would apply a uniform standard
nationwide.  A similar measure last came up for a Senate vote in 1996,
when it narrowly failed on a 50-49 vote with five Democrats
opposing it. The Senate yesterday voted 61-30, with 60 votes
needed, to advance the measure.  “Times have changed and their actions reflect that,”  Jim Manley , a former Reid aide, said of the growing Senate support
for the measure.  Reid said today that “one federal law protecting all
Americans from discrimination, instead of a patchwork of
ineffective and inefficient state and local laws,” would be
“simpler and less confusing for businesses and employees.”  The Nevada Democrat chided House Speaker  John Boehner  of
 Ohio  and other Republican opponents of the measure, calling
claims the bill would hurt business “untrue” and “callous.”  A Columbia University  study  estimated that majorities in
all 50 states support the theme of the anti-discrimination
legislation, compared with majorities in 36 states in 1996.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  