-- Slovenia Braces for More Austerity on Budget Gap Widening
-- B y   B o r i s   C e r n i
-- 2013-11-05T11:22:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-05/slovenia-braces-for-more-austerity-on-budget-gap-widening.html
Slovenia will probably need more
austerity measures to rein in its budget shortfall because a
plan to rescue its banks may push the gap to more than twice the
European Union’s allowed ceiling.  The deficit will widen to 7.1 percent of gross domestic
product next year, from an estimated 5.8 percent at end-2013 and
from 3.8 percent at the end of last year, the European
Commission said in its Autumn Economic Forecast released today.
GDP will shrink 2.7 percent and 1 percent this year and next
before recovering in 2015, the report said.  Slovenia is struggling to heal a banking system burdened
with bad loans representing more than a fifth annual output that
has pushed the Adriatic state to the brink of joining  Greece  and
other euro area countries in needing a bailout. Officials have
said aid may be an option once the cost of recapitalizing
Slovenia’s lenders is known by end-November.  “Much more austerity is needed and the Commission is
taking a more critical stance than local authorities,” Gunter Deuber, head of research at Raiffeisen Bank International in
Vienna, said in an e-mail. “It’s pretty obvious that with such
forecasts the external pressure is increasing on Slovenia to
speed up economic and banking sector reforms and possibly to
apply for an external support package.”  The yield on Slovenia’s dollar-denominated bonds maturing
in 2022 dropped 1 basis point, or 0.01 percent, to 6.18 percent
at 11:25 a.m. in Ljubljana, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Credit default-swaps, derivatives that mirror the
nation’s perceived creditworthiness, were little changed at 312
after reaching a record-high of 359 in June, data shows.  Bank Repair  Slovenia’s bond prices “have been in line” with other
countries as “everyone is waiting for stress test results,”
Abbas Ameli-Renani, an  emerging markets  economist at Royal Bank
of  Scotland  in  London , said by phone yesterday.  Prime Minister Alenka Bratusek, in power since March, has
pledged to support state-owned banks including Nova Ljubljanska
Banka d.d., by raising capital and shifting non-performing loans
to a bad bank. The government has estimated the bank rescue will
cost 1.2 billion euros ($1.6 billion).  After pledging to cut spending and sell unprofitable state
firms that are a drain on the budget, the euro member state “is
certainly not necessarily heading toward a program on the
condition that it maintains this recent determined action” and
“rapidly and effectively” completes repair of financial
system, European Economic Affairs Commissioner Olli Rehn said at
a news conference in Brussels today.  Slovenia’s public debt is set to reach 63 percent of GDP by
year’s end and 70 percent of output in 2014, the European
Commission said. Public debt stood at 22 percent in 2008, a year
after Slovenia adopted the euro.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  