-- Small Steps on Code Can Guide Budget Talks: Taxes
-- B y   L y d i a   B e y o u d
-- 2013-11-06T22:53:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-05/small-steps-on-code-changes-seen-as-guide-in-budget-talks-taxes.html
Lawmakers seeking an accord on a
government  budget  should tackle incremental revisions to the
U.S.  tax code  even if their talks fail to achieve the type of
large-scale agreement on fiscal issues that has eluded
 Washington , a Treasury Department official said.  An accord on even limited modifications to tax law would
help create momentum for the more significant revamp of Internal
Revenue Service rules that leading lawmakers in both parties
have endorsed, said Mark J. Mazur, the Treasury Department’s
assistant secretary for  tax policy .  “It may just be some small steps that are confidence-building and that allow you to take bigger steps later” is the
best route to follow, Mazur said at the Commerce Department’s
SelectUSA 2013 Investment Summit in Washington on Nov. 1,
Bloomberg BNA reported.  The budget panel was formed as part of the congressional
agreement that ended last month’s 16-day partial government
shutdown. The 29-member panel, facing a self-imposed Dec. 13
deadline to offer ways to resolve the fiscal disputes that
helped spur the shutdown, met last week and continued a clash
over policies.  Representative  Paul Ryan , a Wisconsin Republican and
chairman of the House Budget Committee, said a push to raise
taxes will result in stalemate. Senator  Patty Murray , a
Washington state Democrat who heads her chamber’s Budget
Committee, said that any agreement to trim Social Security and
Medicare benefits must be tied to added revenue.  Democratic Support  Many Democrats see tax code revisions that include ending
or modifying some tax breaks as a politically acceptable way to
generate revenue.  While the Obama administration would prefer comprehensive
changes that address all aspects of the code -- both corporate
and individual income tax -- currently the only consensus that
can be reached appears to be on the corporate side, Mazur said.
A full revision would also address the individual side, through
which the majority of small businesses conduct operations as
pass-through entities.  Senate Finance Committee Chairman  Max Baucus , a Montana
Democrat, has announced he would release discussion drafts on
overhauling the tax code within the next two weeks. Lobbyists
following the issue say that at least one draft would target
international taxation.  Camp’s Plan  House Ways and Means Committee Chairman  Dave Camp , a
Michigan Republican, has been conferring with Baucus for months
on revamp plans and stressed his commitment to that goal. Camp
has proposed lowering the top corporate rate to 25 percent from
35 percent, and reducing the top individual rate to 25 percent
from 39.6 percent. He wants do that without shifting the tax
burden across income groups and without losing or gaining
federal revenue.  President  Barack Obama  has also laid out a framework for a
redraft, and Mazur said “there’s a huge amount of overlap” on
proposals for changing the corporate rate.  “That’s one where you can imagine making some progress,”
Mazur said. “Once you do that, you can imagine moving on to
harder areas, potentially tax reform of the individual income
tax.”  Mazur was more equivocal on whether the administration
would consider agreeing to an income repatriation holiday to
prod the tax revision effort.  “I think the literature is pretty clear on the effects of
a repatriation holiday being not that great,” Mazur said,
referring to the 2004 tax break for offshore profits when
significant amounts of income held overseas by U.S. businesses
were “brought home” at a bargain rate.  Plan Needed  “Not that much was really invested in productive
activities,” he said. “However, when you think about
transitioning to a new reformed tax system, you have hundreds of
billions offshore; need to figure out what to do with those,”
he said.  Camp has “had some very clever ideas on how you could go
about making that transition from the current system to a newer
system. And that’s an area where you really want to have a
conversation about what’s the best way, what’s the most
effective way to have that transition occur,” Mazur said.  A one-time tax at reduced rates on offshore earnings
“would be one possibility there,” Mazur said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lydia Beyoud at  lbeyoud@bna.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Cheryl Saenz at  csaenz@bna.com  