-- SocGen Said to Lift Newedge Stake in Swap With Agricole
-- B y   F a b i o   B e n e d e t t i - V a l e n t i n i
-- 2013-11-06T11:43:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-05/socgen-said-to-increase-stake-in-newedge-in-swap-with-agricole.html
Societe Generale SA (GLE) ,  France ’s second-largest bank by market value, may become sole owner of the
derivatives brokerage Newedge Group, two people with knowledge
of the matter said.  The Paris-based bank plans to swap part of its stake in
asset manager Amundi Group to  Credit Agricole  SA for the 50
percent of Newedge it doesn’t already own, the people said,
speaking on condition of anonymity because the matter isn’t
public. An announcement may be made as soon as tomorrow, when
the banks report earnings, the people said.  Societe Generale and Credit Agricole, which tried to sell
Newedge in 2011, are poised to unbundle the almost six-year-old
partnership, the people said. Credit Agricole’s corporate and
investment-banking unit is exiting the brokerage joint-venture
after shutting down its equity derivatives business to comply
with stricter capital rules. Societe Generale will reduce its
stake in Amundi to about 20 percent from 25 percent as part of
the transaction, boosting Credit Agricole’s holding in the  fund
manager  to about 80 percent, the people said.  “Credit Agricole is retreating from an activity with very
low profitability,” said Alex Koagne, a Paris-based analyst at
Natixis SA. “For Societe Generale, over the long term it can be
a winning deal, provided that the restructuring is carried out
well.”  Officials at Credit Agricole and Societe Generale declined
to comment when reached by phone. Le Figaro reported the
information yesterday.  Earnings Estimates  Societe Generale rose 0.2 percent to 40.43 euros by 11:46
a.m. in Paris, valuing the bank at about 32.3 billion euros
($43.6 billion). Credit Agricole, France’s third-largest bank by
market value, gained 0.7 percent to 8.81 euros.  Newedge had net income of 14 million euros in 2012, down
from 33 million euros a year earlier, as sales fell 10 percent
and it booked costs related to a job-cutting plan for the Paris
office, according to its financial report. Newedge said in
December it would cut costs and jobs to counter declining
volumes and new regulations. The plans included splitting trade
execution and clearing services for futures and options in two.  Societe Generale and  Credit Agricole (ACA)  are both slated to
publish third-quarter results tomorrow at 7:00 a.m. Paris time.
Earnings at both banks will probably rebound from year-earlier
levels, when they were hurt by losses tied to the sales of their
Greek units, Bloomberg surveys of analysts show.  No Goodwill  Net income at Societe Generale will probably show an
increase to 635 million euros from 90 million euros a year
earlier, according to the average estimate of eight analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg. Credit Agricole may report an 879
million-euro profit, compared with a net loss of 2.85 billion
euros a year before, a survey showed.  Both banks said in February they have no remaining goodwill
on their books tied to Newedge following writedowns last year.
 Societe Generale  also had no goodwill on its balance sheet
related to its asset-management activities, while Credit
Agricole had 2.03 billion euros of goodwill on its fund business
at the end of 2012, the companies’ annual reports show.  While writing down goodwill doesn’t deplete capital, it
reduces profit and signals a company overpaid for acquisitions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fabio Benedetti-Valentini in Paris at 
 fabiobv@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ; 