-- South Korean Bonds Fall for a Fourth Day on Outflows; Won Gains
-- B y   Y e w o n   K a n g
-- 2013-11-05T07:15:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-05/south-korean-bonds-halt-decline-on-fed-speculation-won-advances.html
South Korean bonds fell for a fourth
day, pushing the 2016 yield to a three-week high, as foreigners
sold the nation’s assets amid concern the U.S. will cut stimulus
that’s buoyed  emerging markets . The won rose.  Global funds  sold  more local bond futures than they bought
for the fifth day today and pulled $124 million from stocks this
month, exchange data show. Federal Reserve Governor Jerome
Powell said yesterday the central bank will probably sustain $85
billion in monthly debt purchases for some time, while Boston
Fed President  Eric Rosengren  said more needs to be done until
the U.S. labor market improves.  “Foreign investors have been selling bond futures and
stocks,” said Moon Hong Cheol, a fixed-income strategist at
Dongbu Securities Co. in  Seoul . “Despite the dovish comments
from the Fed presidents earlier, speculation exists that the Fed
may start tapering earlier than expected.”  The yield on the government’s 2.75 percent sovereign bonds
due June 2016 climbed two basis points to 2.89 percent, the
highest level since Oct. 14, according to Korea Exchange Inc.
prices. The rate earlier fell one basis point, or 0.01
percentage point.  The  Federal Open Market Committee  maintained its bond
purchases on Oct. 30, noting the world’s largest economy is
showing signs of “underlying strength.” U.S. data released
Oct. 31 showed a drop in jobless claims, while a gauge of
business activity jumped the most in three decades. Economists
surveyed by Bloomberg Oct. 17-18 had predicted the Fed would
begin paring stimulus in March.  Record Reserves  South Korea ’s foreign reserves rose $6.3 billion in
October, the most in two years, to a record $343.2 billion,
according to  Bank of Korea  figures released today.  “The rise of the reserves indicates authorities bought
dollars in October in an effort to curb currency gains,” said
Han Sung Min, a foreign-exchange trader at Busan Bank in Seoul.  The won rose 0.2 percent to 1,061.15 versus the dollar in
Seoul, snapping a three-day decline, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. One-month implied volatility, a measure of
expected moves in the  exchange rate  used to price options,
dropped eight basis points to 5.96 percent.  South Korea is capable of easing currency-market volatility
with policy tools, Finance Minister Hyun Oh Seok said yesterday
after trading hours. The nation’s exports are less sensitive to
the exchange rate than before, he added.  The won has strengthened 5 percent in the past three
months, the best performance among 11 Asian currencies tracked
by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yewon Kang in Seoul at 
 ykang51@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  