-- Steinmetz’s BSGR Queried on Payments to Guinea Officials
-- B y   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h   a n d   A n d y   H o f f m a n
-- 2013-11-06T11:40:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-05/steinmetz-s-bsgr-queried-on-payments-to-guinea-officials.html
Guinea  asked BSG Resources Ltd.,
billionaire Beny Steinmetz’s mining company, to provide details
of gifts and payments to officials as a review into ownership of
one of the largest untapped iron-ore deposits nears completion.  The final hearing of a government committee probing how
BSGR acquired the ground will be held Dec. 10 in the capital
Conakry, according to a letter sent to BSGR’s venture in Guinea
this week and seen by  Bloomberg News . It asks BSGR to clarify
responses to allegations made last year, and denied by BSGR,
that payments and gifts were given to senior government and
military officials from 2005 that helped it to obtain the site.  BSGR has described the review as part of a smear campaign
by Guinea and an attempt to “expropriate illegally” its mining
rights, including the Simandou deposit. Steinmetz,  Israel ’s
richest person with a net worth of about $7.8 billion according
to the Bloomberg Billionaires Index, was interviewed by Swiss
authorities last month at the request of Guinea, according to
his lawyer Marc Bonnant, as part of a widening probe involving
at least five countries.  The Guinean government “can make the same allegations over
and over again but it doesn’t change the answers that we have
already given them,” BSGR said yesterday in a statement. “This
is their latest attempt to damage our reputation in an effort to
illegally seize our private property.”  Guinea is seeking to make a ruling on the license review by
early next year, a person with knowledge of the matter said last
month.  Rio Stripped  Rio Tinto Group (RIO) , the world’s second-biggest mining company,
was stripped of two of the four blocks of land making up the
Simandou deposit in 2008. Rights to the ground were subsequently
transferred to BSGR, which sold 51 percent of its stake to
 Brazil ’s  Vale SA (VALE5)  in 2010 in a deal valued at as much as $2.5
billion. Rio said in August it would be interested in regaining
control of the disputed iron-rich ground.  The government’s letter dated Nov. 1 expands on allegations
initially put to the company last year and asks for a response
within eight days of next month’s hearing. It asks for details
of any gifts or payments made to the now deceased President
Lansana Conte, senior military figures, former Mines Minister
 Mahmoud Thiam , who was once an adviser to UBS AG and Bank of
America Corp., and Conte’s fourth wife.  U.S. Probe  Since the original 25 allegations were detailed in a letter
to BSGR dated Oct. 30, 2012, the company and its operations in
Guinea have attracted the attention of authorities in the U.S.,
 Switzerland ,  France  and Guernsey.  In April, a U.S. grand-jury investigation began looking at
whether bribes were paid by a man linked to BSGR, Frederic
Cilins, to the wife of former president Conte, Mamadie Toure.
Prosecutors say Cilins and others visited Toure in Guinea when
Conte was in office to offer $12 million to her and senior
members of the government for their help in securing the
Simandou mining rights.  Cilins has pleaded not guilty. He was denied bail in July
on the grounds that he presented a “serious risk of flight”
and is awaiting trial on charges that he interfered with the
grand-jury probe.  Statements made by Cilins as part of the U.S. investigation
are in conflict with previous responses given by BSGR, according
to Guinea’s letter, which repeatedly chides the company for
providing “vague and imprecise” answers.  Clarify Interactions  The Technical Committee was set up last year to review
ownership of Guinea’s mineral deposits. It demands BSGR clarify
its relationship and interactions with three individuals:
Cilins, Toure and Thiam.  The letter also requests that BSGR provide details of what
gifts were offered by Cilins to Guinean officials and their
loved ones. It said it was “surprised” by BSGR’s responses
concerning Toure. In particular, the committee said it’s
interested in BSGR’s statement that Toure wasn’t a spouse of
Conte.  The company’s previous responses to allegations that
Steinmetz met Conte close to his death at a hospital in Geneva
and that he’d discussed the project with Glencore Xstrata Plc
were also labeled as vague and imprecise. BSGR has said
Steinmetz only met Conte in Conakry and that he had no contact
with Glencore relating to Guinea, nor offered to sell mining
rights to the Baar, Switzerland-based company.  Guinea Meeting  On this point BSGR was asked to provide details of all
contact between Steinmetz and Conte, including naming the other
participants at the meeting in Guinea. The government also
requested records and dates of meetings between Steinmetz, a
former BSGR executive and representatives of Glencore on matters
not relating to Guinea.  Glencore has had no business dealings with Steinmetz or
BSGR, according to a person with knowledge of the matter, who
asked not to be identified citing the confidentiality of
Guinea’s letter.  The letter references allegations that BSGR provided Thiam
with the use of a corporate business jet and paid for hotel
rooms, including the Mandarin Oriental Hotel in Geneva. It asks
the company to explain the direct or indirect role Thiam played
in its operations in Guinea.  The government also says in the letter that BSGR never
sought its approval for the sale to Vale.  BSGR said in March that Guinea was preparing to remove
mining rights from its venture with Vale, which plans a $10
billion mining operation at Simandou.  Geneva Searches  Steinmetz told Geneva’s prosecutor he wasn’t involved in
bribery or corruption, Bonnant told Bloomberg News Oct. 30. The
billionaire declined to give further information because he
objected to Guinea’s involvement in the investigation, the
lawyer said. His Geneva home and a jet were searched by Swiss
police in August following a request by Guinea’s government.  Steinmetz amassed his fortune initially in the diamond
trade, according to his personal  website . Working from a base in
Antwerp,  Belgium , in the 1980s and 1990s, he joined forces with
his brother Daniel to conduct business deals in  South Africa ,
 Namibia ,  Botswana  and  India . Beny Steinmetz and his family moved
to Geneva in 2010, according to the website.  In addition to diamonds, mining and mineral assets, the
Steinmetz family has interests in real estate, financing and the
oil and gas industry.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jesse Riseborough in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net ;
Andy Hoffman in Geneva at 
 ahoffman31@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  