-- Suwaidi Says U.A.E. to Eye Credit Growth Amid Growth
-- B y   D a n a   E l   B a l t a j i
-- 2013-11-14T07:46:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-05/suwaidi-says-u-a-e-to-eye-credit-growth-amid-growth.html
(Corrects Abu Dhabi property price increase in the 10th
paragraph of story originally published Nov. 5.)  The  United Arab Emirates  is studying
macro-prudential policies to regulate credit growth as the Arab
world’s second-biggest economy is set to expand at the fastest
rate since 2006.  One of the things “we are looking at is the ratio of
credit growth versus GDP growth,” central bank Governor Sultan bin Nasser Al-Suwaidi said at a news conference in Abu Dhabi
today. “This has been discussed for a long time, and is being
discussed” with the  International Monetary Fund .  The central bank is imposing borrowing curbs and tightening
rules on loan-to-value ratios for mortgages to avoid a repeat of
the 2008 credit bubble that helped cause the biggest economic
slump in about two decades. The economy of the U.A.E., which
holds about 6 percent of the world’s proven oil reserves, may
grow 4.5 percent this year Economy Minister Sultan Al Mansoori
said in September, the most in seven years.  The country’s currency peg to the  U.S. dollar  limits the
central bank from using  interest rates  to target loan growth.
The central bank hasn’t changed interest rates since February
2009, when it cut the repurchasing rate by 50 basis points to 1
percent.  The central bank will release revised limits for lenders’
exposure to government-related debt within a week in the
official gazette, and the changes will take effect a month after
publication, Suwaidi said. Banks will have five years to adjust
at a rate of 20 percent per annum, he said.  Mortgage Rules  “I think the rated bonds and sukuk will be excluded from
the large exposure loan limits,” he said. Commercial,
standalone government-related entities will also be excluded
from the loan exposure limit, Suwaidi said.  The central bank in April 2012 said that banks must not
lend more than 100 percent of their capital to local governments
and the same amount to government-related entities to help
reduce risk. There was no limit under previous rules.  The central bank is also working with banks to impose
mortgage lending rules, setting a maximum length of a mortgage
at 25 years. The value of a mortgage shouldn’t exceed eight
years annual salary for an expatriate borrower and seven years
for a U.A.E. national, according to the regulations.  While Suwaidi didn’t specify when the rules will be
enforced, U.A.E. Banks Federation head Abdul Aziz Al Ghurair
told reporters yesterday “it should be before the end of the
year.”  Property prices in  Abu Dhabi  and Dubai, which account for
more than 85 percent of the country’s gross domestic product,
are surging. High-end villa prices in Dubai climbed about 32
percent so far this year, and those in Abu Dhabi  13 percent 
during the same period, according to Cluttons LLC data compiled
by Bloomberg. Dubai and Abu Dhabi’s stock markets are among the
world’s top 10 fastest-growing indexes this year.  “I don’t think its possible that there will be a bubble in
the real estate sector,” Suwaidi said. “The mortgage law will
balance the whole issue; it won’t permit banks to over extend
themselves. We can sleep at night.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dana El Baltaji in Dubai at 
 delbaltaji@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  