-- Swiss Private Banks Need to Double Assets, KPMG Reports
-- B y   G i l e s   B r o o m
-- 2013-11-05T17:50:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-05/swiss-private-banks-need-to-double-assets-kpmg-reports.html
Swiss banks need on average to double
the assets they manage in order to remain in business as mergers
increase among the wealth-management companies, according to a
 KPMG   study .  About two-thirds of 39 banks surveyed expect survival to
depend on a two-fold increase in client assets, the Zurich unit
of the accounting and business advisory firm KPMG said today in
an e-mailed statement. Banks need to grow beyond a minimum 10
billion Swiss francs ($11 billion) of managed assets to cope
with more complex requirements from clients and regulators,
according to the study.  “Many private banks need to grow substantially,” KPMG
said in the  statement . “Private banks will need to compensate
for low profitability through consolidation and the related
economies of scale, through international expansion and through
investment in technology.”  Julius Baer Group Ltd. (BAER) , the third-biggest Swiss private
wealth manager, is boosting assets this year through the
acquisition of Bank of America Corp.’s non-U.S. Merrill Lynch
wealth businesses, while Geneva-based Union Bancaire Privee
absorbed Swiss units of Lloyds Banking Group Plc and ABN Amro
Bank NV in the past two years.  UBS AG (UBSN) ,  Switzerland ’s biggest
bank, increased wealth-management assets to more than 1.7
trillion francs worldwide in the nine months through September.  More Deals  Wealth managers in Switzerland are expecting more deals
after “several years” of pressure on margins, according to the
survey, which was compiled by KPMG and the University of  St.
Gallen . While some of the larger companies are making purchases,
smaller firms need to focus on cost structure, build
partnerships with other managers and use more technology as
expenses increase, according to the report.  Wealth managers also said the nation with more than 300
banks is ending its tradition for financial secrecy, in response
to pressure from foreign fiscal authorities. More than 60
percent of respondents expect a system of automatic exchange of
information between tax collectors in different countries to be
introduced within three years, meaning banks would provide data
on cross-border client accounts that could be passed to
customers’ home tax authorities.  Most private bankers can expect pay to stagnate or decline
as more than 40 percent of respondents forecast employee
compensation to drop at least 15 percent by 2022, KPMG said.
Only 9 percent of respondents expect remuneration to increase
compared with today’s levels, according to the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Giles Broom in Geneva at 
 gbroom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  