-- Syria Rebels Thwart Plan for November Talks, Brahimi Says
-- B y   S a n g w o n   Y o o n
-- 2013-11-05T19:15:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-05/syria-rebels-thwart-plan-for-november-talks-brahimi-says.html
The goal of convening a Syrian peace
conference this month was thwarted by opposition groups that
aren’t ready to negotiate a political solution to the country’s
civil war, UN special envoy Lakhdar Brahimi said today.  “We were hoping that we’d be in a position to announce a
date today but unfortunately we’re not,” Brahimi told reporters
after more than nine hours of meetings in Geneva with officials
from the U.S., Russia, U.K.,  France ,  China  and humanitarian aid
organizations. “We are still striving to see if we can have a
conference before the end of the year.”  Until today,  United Nations  Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon
held out hope for holding peace talks in Geneva starting Nov. 23
toward ending the Syrian civil war that has killed more than
100,000 people, according to a UN official in Ban’s office who
asked not to be named because of the sensitivity of the issue.  Brahimi spoke after recent visits to Damascus, Tehran and
other Mideast capitals.  The envoy said he realized “over the last few weeks” that
all relevant parties aren’t ready to participate in the proposed
peace talks.  “We did not discover this morning that we were not
there,” he said, highlighting divisions within the loose
opposition coalition of some 1,200 groups. “The opposition is
one of the problems we are facing.”  Brahimi said he will again meet with U.S. and Russian
officials on Nov. 25, by which time the Syrian opposition will
have held a series of meetings about forming a single
“credible” delegation ready to participate in peace talks.  Assad’s Role  Talks during the envoy’s trip highlighted the Western-backed opposition’s unwillingness to participate in talks
without a guaranteed time frame for President Bashar al-Assad’s
departure and assurances that Assad’s ally  Iran  won’t attend a
peace conference, according to a second official in UN chief
Ban’s office who asked not to be named discussing confidential
negotiations.  The UN hasn’t yet concluded which countries and
organizations it will invite to a peace conference, and Iran’s
role in the process needs further discussion, Brahimi said.  Iran hasn’t accepted a 2012 international agreement known
as the Geneva communique, which calls for the establishment of a
transitional government mutually acceptable to the government
and the opposition, without explicitly describing the fate of
Assad in this process. The U.S. has said acceptance of the
process outlined in the Geneva pact is a requirement for
countries that want to participate in the conference.  Brahimi’s Departure  If the peace talks aren’t held soon, Brahimi is likely to
step down from the role he assumed in August 2012, the UN
officials said. If that happens, Ban or UN Deputy Secretary-General Jan Eliasson may have to take on the task of
resuscitating the peace talks, they said.  Brahimi, a former Algerian foreign minister, took the job
after a predecessor, former UN Secretary-General  Kofi Annan ,
resigned.  It doesn’t seem likely that a peace conference will be held
by the end of this year, the second UN official said.  Saudi
Arabia , Qatar and the  United Arab Emirates  -- three Gulf
countries that are funding Syrian rebel groups -- are
particularly against any talks with Assad, the official said.  The Saudis are angry that the U.S. and the international
community aren’t doing more to bring down Assad and are
concerned the Syrian president is gaining legitimacy by
cooperating with an international effort to eliminate his
chemical weapons, according to the first official. Saudi Arabia
rejected a nonpermanent seat on the UN Security Council last
month.  Without Conditions  Ban will watch the Syrian National Coalition general body’s
Nov. 9 meeting in Istanbul for a possible changes in the
opposition’s position, the UN officials said.  The coalition’s Turkey-based spokesman, Khalid Saleh, said
in a phone interview that the opposition will have a clearer
position on the proposed peace talks this weekend, while
stressing the need for Brahimi, U.S. and  Russia  to pressure
Assad to accept the Geneva communique and agree to a political
transition.  The Assad administration said on Nov. 1 that it would
attend a Geneva peace conference “without prior conditions,”
Brahimi told reporters after meeting with Syrian officials in
Damascus. Three days later, Syrian goverment’s Information
Minister Omran al-Zoubi  said  via the state-run SANA news agency,
that there will be no turnover of power as a result of any
planned peace talks.  “What is going to happen in Geneva is a political process
and not a handover of power or forming a transitional governing
body,” al-Zoubi said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sangwon Yoon in United Nations at 
 syoon32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  