-- U.K. Says Green Subsidies Remain Intact Amid Bill Row
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2013-11-05T20:08:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-05/u-k-promises-green-subsidies-to-remain-intact-amid-bill-furor.html
 U.K. Energy Secretary  Ed Davey 
reassured investors that renewable energy subsidies will remain
intact after Prime Minister  David Cameron  ordered a review of
green levies in household utility bills.  “The current review is not about changing investment
incentives for renewables,” Davey said today at a conference
attended by renewable industry representatives in Birmingham.
“These are essential for investor confidence in the renewables
sector and our commitments to a low-carbon economy.”  Davey sought to diffuse fears a review of environmental
charges levied on domestic bills may weaken state aid to the
industry. Cameron ordered the review last month after four of
the six biggest energy suppliers raised prices in an effort to
gain the political initiative after the opposition  Labour Party 
promised to freeze power prices if elected in 2015.  “Let me reassure you as clearly and unequivocally as I
can, the current review is not about changing investment
incentives for renewables,” Davey said, addressing delegates
including developers, financiers and manufacturers. “The level
of support will remain, as planned and as published.”  Britain has pledged support for low-carbon electricity
rising year-on-year to 7.6 billion pounds ($12.2 billion) in
2020. The U.K. is studying whether to fund green levies through
general taxation instead of power bills, Energy Minister  Michael Fallon  said Oct. 30.  Private investors have outlined 31 billion pounds of
renewable funding since 2010, Davey said today. He also
announced more than 2.5 million pounds to fund four projects to
reduce offshore wind costs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  