-- U.K. Services Growth Accelerates to Fastest in 16 Years: Economy
-- B y   E s h e   N e l s o n
-- 2013-11-05T11:22:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-05/u-k-services-growth-accelerates-to-fastest-pace-in-16-years.html
U.K.  services growth  unexpectedly
accelerated to the fastest pace in 16 years in October as the
economy showed signs of pulling away from the rest of  Europe .  A gauge of activity rose to 62.5 from 60.3 in September,
the highest since May 1997,  Markit Economics  said today in
 London . The report came as the European Commission forecast the
U.K. economy will grow 2.2 percent next year, twice the pace of
the euro area and more than Germany and  France .  U.K. manufacturing and construction also expanded last
month, and Markit said its surveys point to accelerating
economic growth. While the 17-nation euro region is struggling
to recover from a debt crisis, the brighter U.K. outlook may
prompt the  Bank of England  to raise its own forecasts when
Governor  Mark Carney  publishes new projections next week.  The composite U.K. industry reading “is suggesting that
fourth-quarter growth could rise as much as 1.5 percent,” said
 James Knightley , a senior economist at ING Bank NV in London.
“It is difficult to believe that any other major economy will
come close to that in the fourth quarter.”  The median forecast of 30 economists in a Bloomberg News
survey was for the services index to decline to 60. The gauge
has been above the 50 level that divides expansion from
contraction for 10 months.  The pound rose against the dollar and was trading at
$1.6048 as of 11:15 a.m. London time, up 0.5 percent from
yesterday. The yield on the benchmark 10-year U.K. government
bond climbed 6 basis points to 2.68 percent.  EU Forecasts  The European Commission said today that U.K.  gross domestic
product  will rise 1.3 percent this year and 2.2 percent next
year, more than previously projected. The euro area will grow
1.1 percent in 2014, less than the 1.2 percent forecast in May,
after shrinking 0.4 percent this year. The German economy,
Europe’s largest, will expand 1.7 percent, according to the
commission.  “The fiscal consolidation and structural reforms
undertaken in Europe have created the basis for recovery,” EU
Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn  said in a
statement. “But it is too early to declare victory.
Unemployment remains at unacceptably high levels. That’s why we
must continue working to modernize the European economy.”  U.K. Outlook  Britain’s economy grew 0.8 percent in the  third quarter ,
the fastest in three years, and both the  Confederation of
British Industry  and the National Institute of Economic and
Social Research lifted their forecasts this week.  Markit said the BOE will also probably acknowledge the
improving recovery in its Inflation Report on Nov. 13. It said
the BOE will probably bring forward its expectation of when
unemployment will fall below 7 percent, which it has set as a
threshold for considering raising rates. The central bank in
August said it may not reach that level until late 2016.  Markit’s services survey showed that new business rose by a
record in October and hiring increased at the fastest pace since
May 1997. Rising energy bills pushed up input-cost inflation to
the highest in eight months.  “The  unemployment rate  is on track to drop below the 7
percent forward guidance threshold well ahead of schedule,”
said Nida Ali, economic adviser to the Ernst & Young ITEM Club.
“We expect it by mid-2015, a year ahead of the Bank of
 England ’s current forecast.”  The central bank will probably keep the  benchmark rate  at a
record-low 0.5 percent this week, while the bond-purchase plan
will stay at 375 billion pounds ($602 billion), according to
Bloomberg surveys. It will announce its decisions on Nov. 7.  In its report, Niesr said its sees the economy expanding
1.4 percent this year and 2 percent in 2014. That’s up from 1.2
percent and 1.8 percent projected in August.  “After two years of stagnation, economic growth has
returned, underpinned by an increase in  consumer spending ,” the
institute said. “Consumer-spending growth is necessary for an
economic recovery in the U.K., but a consumer-driven recovery
will not be balanced.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eshe Nelson in London at 
 enelson32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  