-- U.K. Urges Water Firms to Limit Rises That Top Inflation
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2013-11-05T13:23:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-05/u-k-urges-water-firms-to-limit-rises-that-top-inflation.html
The U.K. pressed its biggest water
suppliers to hold down price increases as the clamor over
inflation-topping energy bills spread to water providers.  Suppliers should also offer price breaks to disadvantaged
customers, Environment Secretary Owen Paterson said today in a
statement. British water companies were urged as well to review
price increases after the regulator Ofwat asked whether
suppliers needed to apply the full rises allowed, he said.  Opposition Labour leader Ed Miliband said his party would
introduce new social tariffs in the water industry to lessen the
pain on the poor as he sought to address the cost of living
issue, including his plans to freeze energy prices until 2017.  Britain’s attempt to limit water bills comes after four of
the biggest six energy suppliers raised gas and power prices
last month at three to four times the inflation rate. Water is
the latest political battleground for the government over the
cost of living after Labour pledged a 20-month price freeze on
energy bills should it win the next general election in 2015.  Prime Minister David Cameron’s Conservatives trail
Miliband’s party by about 7 percentage points in opinion polls.  “We know that household budgets are under pressure, and
keeping water bills affordable is a crucial way we can help
hard-working people,” Paterson said. “That is why we are
pressing hard to make sure customers get a fair deal by
encouraging water companies to look closely at any price
increases.”  Social Tariffs  Severn Trent Plc (SVT) , the second-largest publicly traded U.K.
water utility, has social tariffs and said its price rise from
April will be 1.1 percent below the retail price index for
inflation. “It’s right we should do what we can to keep water
bills low,” Severn said.  Wessex Water Services Ltd., Bristol Water Plc and
South West Water Ltd. have also introduced social tariffs to
help vulnerable customers pay bills, according to the Department
for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs.  Average water and sewage household bills will rise 3.5
percent or about 13 pounds to 388 pounds ($623) this year,
according to Ofwat. Unlike energy suppliers where customers can
switch companies, consumers can’t choose their water provider.  Average increases in water and sewer bills since 2009 have
been in line with inflation and now cost just over 1 pound a
day, Defra said in a statement. This still “substantially”
outstripped rises in household incomes, it said.  Paterson also urged a crackdown on bad debt in water
companies, challenging the industry’s worst performers to match
the performance of the best.  Ofwat is undertaking a review that controls prices
companies can charge from 2015 to 2020. The next review, aiming
to spur water company efficiencies, may trim bills by 120
million pounds to 750 million pounds a year from 2015, according
to Defra.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Randall Hackley at 
 rhackley@bloomberg.net  