-- U.K. Outlook Raised by Niesr as Property Boom Feeds Spending
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2013-11-05T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-05/u-k-outlook-raised-by-niesr-as-property-boom-feeds-spending.html
The U.K. economy will grow faster
than previously forecast as a pickup in house prices stokes
consumer spending, according to the National Institute of
Economic and Social Research.  Gross domestic product  will expand 1.4 percent this year
and 2 percent in 2014, a 0.2 percentage-point increase for each
year, London-based Niesr said in a report published today.
Forecasts for annual house-price growth in 2014 were raised to 5
percent from 0.5 percent, adding about 0.5 percentage point to
spending projections.  “The housing market has thawed quite noticeably by almost
every measure you want to look at,” Simon Kirby, an economist
at Niesr, said at a press conference yesterday. “We’ve got
quite a buoyant housing market compared with the previous few
years. That feeds through and has a knock-on effect to our
consumer-spending growth forecasts.”  The impact of the government’s Help to Buy program, which
aims to help more Britons onto the housing ladder, is “highly
uncertain,” though it poses an “upside risk” to house-price
forecasts, Kirby said. Prime Minister David Cameron accelerated
the initiative last month, raising concerns that it’s stoking a
property bubble.  House-price growth picked up in October, rising 1 percent
from the previous month and 5.8 percent from a year earlier,
according to Nationwide Building Society. Hometrack Ltd. said
last week prices in England and  Wales  rose 3.1 percent from a
year earlier, the biggest gain since 2007.  Bubble Warnings  Help to Buy allows people to buy homes costing as much as
600,000 pounds ($957,000) with a 5 percent down payment. The
program began in April with interest-free loans for buyers of
newly built properties and the second phase -- mortgage
guarantees covering all homes -- was brought forward to last
month from January.  The plan has drawn warnings from the International Monetary
Fund, and former Financial Services Authority Chairman Adair Turner said last month that Britain risks a repeat of the debt-fueled binge that led to the credit crisis.  “I don’t think any of us are fans of Help to Buy,” said
Jonathan Portes, director at Niesr. Angus Armstrong, an
economist at the institute, said “the design of it is so
wretched, that’s what’s depressing about it.”  “Banks have an incentive to loosen underwriting
requirements for mortgages,” Armstrong said. “If you’re going
to intervene in the mortgage market there are a lot better ways
to do that,” such as through the mortgage-backed securities
market, he said.  ‘Unsustainable’ Growth  Growth based on consumer spending is “unsustainable”
because it’s based on the housing market rather than increases
in real incomes, and it’s coming at the expense of household
saving, Kirby said. Significant contributions from business
investment and trade won’t start until 2015 and 2016,
respectively, he said.  Unemployment, now at 7.7 percent, will fall below 7 percent
at the start of 2016, though there’s a one-in-five chance it
will reach that level in the first quarter of next year, Kirby
said. A 7 percent jobless rate is the threshold at which Bank of
England policy makers say they’ll consider raising the benchmark
interest rate, provided none of the three “knockouts” in their
forward-guidance policy are first triggered.  Kirby said that the knockout related to financial stability
risks will probably lead to a rate increase in the second half
of 2015. The caveats related to inflation forecasts and
inflation expectations won’t be triggered, as inflation will
drop to the bank’s 2 percent target in the first quarter of
2015, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  