-- U.S. Must Borrow as Deficit at 5-Year Low at Risk, Pierpont Says
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 2013-11-05T21:51:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-05/u-s-must-borrow-as-deficit-at-5-year-low-at-risk-pierpont-says.html
The U.S. will need to borrow more as
the smallest budget deficit in five years starts to expand amid
slowing economic growth and the expiration of short-term budget
measures, said Stephen Stanley at Pierpont Securities LLC.  “Short of a dramatic recovery or substantive policy reform
-- neither of which is expected -- the Treasury will have to
borrow more,” said Stanley, chief economist for the  Stamford ,
Connecticut-based firm. “Most of the factors that have led to
the dramatic improvement in the deficit have been the result of
temporary policy changes that are losing their effect right as
the economic outlook has dimmed.”  A lack of long-term spending cuts and an economy growing at
a sub-par pace mean the U.S. will have to ramp up borrowing
within the next two years, Stanley said. This comes amid the
largest spending decline since the Eisenhower administration,
the Treasury Department said on Oct. 30. Lower outlays resulted
partly from the across-the-board cuts, known as sequestration,
that kicked in March.  U.S. expenditures exceeded receipts by $680.3 billion in
the 12 months ended Sept. 30, the narrowest gap since 2008,
compared with a $1.09 trillion shortfall in fiscal 2012, the
Treasury said Oct. 30.  Department revenues have been bolstered by record profits
from Fannie Mae And Freddie Mac, which nearly collapsed during
the 2008 credit crisis. As the housing market rebounds from the
worst recession since the 1930s, the companies are required to
send almost all of those profits back to the Treasury. So far,
they’ve remitted about $146 billion.  Automatic Reductions  A bipartisan congressional committee has until Dec. 13 to
come up with a budget-cutting plan or another round of automatic
reductions will kick in in January.  Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew last month urged lawmakers
to “replace the corrosive across-the-board cuts known as
sequestration with fair and balanced deficit reduction
policies.”  “In my view, there is little chance of a big deficit
reduction deal, the so-called Grand Bargain,” Stanley said.
“While there is probably a small deal that could be hashed out
under the right circumstances, the bitterness of the most recent
episode is not likely to present those circumstances.”  The U.S. will announce tomorrow the amount it will sell in
three-, 10- and 30-year debt on three consecutive days starting
Nov. 12. The Treasury said yesterday it will borrow about 13
percent more this quarter than it projected three months ago to
boost the nation’s cash balance on Dec. 31.  Slower Growth  Issuance of net marketable debt will be $266 billion in the
October-to-December period, compared with $235 billion initially
forecast on July 29, the department said in  Washington . At the
end of December, the Treasury will have $140 billion in cash,
versus $80 billion projected before.  The 16-day partial government shutdown in October that
resulted from Washington budget gridlock led economists to lower
their estimates for U.S. fourth-quarter economic growth to a 2
percent annualized rate from a 2.4 percent pace before,
according to a Bloomberg survey released Nov. 1.  “The Treasury prides itself on being regular and
predictable,” said Stanley. “But at the end of the day, the
biggest concern is, do we get to the point where the U.S. loses
the ability to borrow at such low rates?”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cordell Eddings in  New York  at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  