-- U.S. Treasury’s Brainard to Step Down Nov. 8, Official Says
-- B y   I a n   K a t z
-- 2013-11-05T02:41:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-05/u-s-treasury-s-brainard-to-step-down-nov-8-official-says-1-.html
Lael Brainard, the U.S. Treasury
Department’s top international official, is stepping down on
Nov. 8, according to a Treasury aide who requested anonymity to
discuss personnel matters.  Brainard is likely to be nominated to the Federal Reserve
Board along with the renomination of Fed Governor Jerome Powell,
according to a person familiar with the decision who requested
anonymity. President  Barack Obama  has three governor vacancies
to fill on the Fed board.  As undersecretary for international affairs since 2010,
Brainard has been the department’s point person pushing Europe
and China to accelerate changes in their economies, from more
flexible exchange rates to fiscal policies that stimulate
growth. At the Group of 20 and other meetings of global finance
ministers, Brainard was the highest-ranking U.S. official after
the Treasury secretary.  Brainard and  Janet Yellen , the Obama administration’s
nominee for Fed chairman to replace  Ben S. Bernanke  after his
term expires Jan. 31, both worked as economic advisers in the
late 1990s under President  Bill Clinton . In the past three
years, they have represented the U.S. at meetings of global
finance officials.  Before a meeting of the Group of 20 economies in mid-July,
Brainard said the U.S. was coming to the talks at its strongest
position in four years and urged countries to take action to
spur growth.  Boosting Demand  “If you look across the global landscape, there are
reasons to be concerned that some parts of the world aren’t
doing enough to bolster domestic demand,” Brainard said, naming
Europe as one of the laggards.  She was a deputy director of the National Economic Council
under Clinton and involved in the U.S. response to the Mexican
and Asian financial crises of the 1990s and China’s access to
the  World Trade Organization . She was a top adviser at Group of
Eight summit meetings during the Clinton administration.  Brainard, 51, was a senior fellow and then a vice president
at the  Brookings Institution  in Washington from 2001 to 2009.
She taught applied economics at the  Massachusetts Institute of
Technology  in the early 1990s and was a business analyst at
McKinsey and Co. in her first years out of college in the early
1980s.  Brainard was chosen as undersecretary by Obama in March
2009 and wasn’t confirmed by the Senate for more than a year
after that because of questions about her taxes.  Tax Questions  She was approved by a 78-19 vote after revising documents
she submitted to the Senate Finance Committee to reflect late
payments of property taxes, according to a report by the
committee’s staff. The staff also took issue with how Brainard
deducted her home office expenses and completed paperwork for
household employees.  Brainard, who has masters and doctoral degrees in economics
from  Harvard University , is married to  Kurt Campbell , a former
assistant secretary of state for East Asian and Pacific affairs.  Brainard was born in Hamburg,  Germany . Her father was a
Cold War-era U.S. diplomat, and she spent much of her childhood
in Communist Poland and Germany, an experience she has said
“did profoundly influence my view about how America leads in
the world.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  