-- U.S. Freeport, Cameron LNG Export Rulings Seen in Coming Months
-- B y   J a c o b   A d e l m a n
-- 2013-11-05T02:22:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-05/u-s-freeport-cameron-lng-export-rulings-seen-in-coming-months.html
The U.S. could issue its next ruling
on exports of domestically produced liquefied natural gas in one
to two months, Energy Secretary Ernest Moniz said.  The estimate is based on the time it has taken officials to
evaluate past applications for exports to countries, like  Japan ,
with which the U.S. has no free trade agreement, Moniz said in a
Nov. 2 interview in  Tokyo .  The next application in line for evaluation is Freeport LNG
Development LP’s proposed terminal in  Texas ,  according  to the
Energy Department’s website. That facility will have the
capacity to process 1.4 billion cubic feet of gas per day for
export. The development of shale resources in the U.S. is
turning the world’s largest energy consumer from a major
importer to an exporter of oil and gas.  “We produced a string of licenses in about two month
intervals and we are now evaluating the fifth license,” Moniz
said. “But there’s never any guarantee that one of these
dockets doesn’t have a complication that of course extends the
evaluation period.”  A license for exports from the Cameron LNG project in
 Louisiana , which counts Japanese trading companies Mitsubishi
Corp. and Mitsui & Co. among its owners, would be expected about
two months later, Moniz said.  “If all goes according to recent experience, then one
could anticipate the Cameron license decision reasonably soon,”
Moniz said, adding that the partial U.S. government shutdown in
October slowed the approval process.  Moniz said he expects export terminal projects to begin gas
shipments about three years after securing approval.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jacob Adelman in Tokyo at 
 jadelman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  