-- U.S. Leverages Capital to Expand Aid During Budget Crunch
-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2013-11-05T22:27:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-05/u-s-leverages-capital-to-expand-aid-during-budget-crunch.html
A U.S. foreign aid program has
leveraged $1 billion in private capital for development projects
in the past two years, expanding an effort to bypass the
government’s increasingly tight purse strings.  The Development Credit Authority, a unit within the U.S.
Agency for International Development, said the pace accelerated
from about $2 billion of lending during the previous 11 years.  The authority encourages local banks in  developing
countries  to make loans to underserved businesses by pledging to
cover 50 percent of any losses. The loans are tailored to
support USAID’s projects in each country, including agriculture
and energy initiatives.  “Rather than building and paying for solar power plants,
we can attract private capital to pay for them,” said Ben
Hubbard, the authority’s director. “Rather than pay for water
wells ourselves, we can come up with a market-based way for
villagers to pay for it or companies to install them.”  The unit, formed in 1999, moved in 2011 to expand the
program’s reach.  “It took us 11 years to open the first $2 billion under
DCA and only two years to reach the next billion,” USAID
Director Rajiv Shah said in a statement. “That reflects a
fundamental difference in the way we’re working.”  Doing more with less is a priority in the current fiscal
climate. President  Barack Obama  requested $20.4 billion for the
agency in fiscal 2014, which started Oct. 1. That’s down from
$20.9 billion last year and $21.8 billion in fiscal 2012.  Risk Aversion  DCA administrators found that banks in developing countries
often sat on substantial reserves. Risk-averse lending policies
and an aversion to unfamiliar sectors often keep these banks
from lending to local farmers or construction projects, Hubbard
said in an interview. Experience has shown the banks’ concerns
about risk were largely unfounded, he said.  So far, of the $3.1 billion in credit facilities USAID has
set up with local banks around the world, $1.3 billion has been
utilized and 98 percent of those loans have been repaid,
according to the agency. DCA has taken in $12.7 million in fees
from participating banks and paid out $10.9 million in claims --
“a good track record,” Hubbard said.  To date, the program has helped chicken farmers to expand,
hospitals to buy equipment, and entrepreneurs to power Indian
businesses with renewable energy.  Banks have continued to lend in the new sectors once the
USAID commitment has ended, according to an agency study of 11
projects.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in  Washington  at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at   jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  