-- Huawei Targets Gradual Growth to Win European Smartphone Ground
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-11-06T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-05/huawei-targets-gradual-growth-to-win-european-smartphone-ground.html
Huawei Technologies Co., the third-largest smartphone vendor, is focusing on a gradual growth
strategy instead of acquisitions to chase  Samsung Electronics
Co. (005930)  and  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  for market share, its deputy chairman said.  “We’re not expecting an explosive development of our
smartphone business, rather we want to grow that business step
by step,” Eric Xutold reporters in  London  yesterday.
“Ultimately we want to be the leading brand worldwide in
smartphones, but it will take a while to get there.”  Xu confirmed Huawei’s smartphone growth target of 10
percent this year and next. The company is relying more on
handsets while it fights cybersecurity concerns that have
restricted its access in U.S. and Australian phone-equipment
markets. Huawei,  China ’s largest supplier of telecommunications
networks, isn’t planning an acquisition to bolster its position
because of potential product overlaps, he said.  The comments would damp speculation over a linkup by the
Chinese company with takeover targets such as  France ’s  Alcatel-Lucent SA (ALU)  and BlackBerry Ltd of  Canada . Huawei hasn’t held any
discussions with BlackBerry, said Xu, who is also acting chief
executive officer under a rotating arrangement set up two years
ago by the closely held company based in southern city of
Shenzhen.  European carriers are accelerating their expansion of
fourth-generation networks, and Huawei will focus on upgrading
existing customers in the region to faster services, Xu said.  As telecommunications operators move toward consolidation
in the region, Xu said Huawei has found operators prefer having
choices in their vendors, comparing it to the fashion industry
in that “customers’ needs are changing constantly.”  Long Run  Huawei shipped 12.5 million smartphones in the third
quarter, taking 4.8 percent of the global market, trailing only
Samsung’s 31 percent and Apple’s 13 percent, researcher
International Data Corp. said last month.  Huawei is closely trailed by  Lenovo Group Ltd. (992) , which held
4.7 percent of the global smartphone market in the quarter with
12.3 million units shipped, and LG Electronics Inc. at 4.6
percent with 12 million unit shipments, according to IDC.  “We don’t know if we can keep that spot next quarter and
we don’t care much about being No. 3 at any given quarter,” Xu
said. “We want to be an athlete in the long run and grow step
by step.”  Smartphones helped boost Huawei’s sales 11 percent in the
first six months this year to 113.8 billion  yuan  ($18.7
billion). Its 10 percent annual smartphone growth could raise
consumer devices to 25 percent of the company’s sales in 2017
from 22 percent last year, Deputy Chairman Guo Ping said in
April. Sales of network equipment will fall to 60 percent of
revenue in 2017 from 73 percent in 2012, Guo said.  A U.S. congressional committee last year said network
equipment from Huawei and  ZTE Corp. (763)  could provide opportunities
for spying by Chinese intelligence services. Huawei has denied
those claims and called for governments and industry to develop
globally consistent standards on cybersecurity.  The concerns “have had no significant impact on our
smartphone business in the U.S.,” Xu said. “What customers
care about most is a good smartphone.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Marie Mawad in London at 
 mmawad1@bloomberg.net ;
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  