-- Velti Wins Approval of Interim Bankruptcy Financing
-- B y   D a w n   M c C a r t y
-- 2013-11-05T20:33:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-05/velti-wins-approval-of-interim-bankruptcy-financing.html
Velti Inc., a provider of technology
for marketing on mobile devices, received court approval of a
loan allowing the company to operate while it’s in bankruptcy.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Peter Walsh approved the interim
financing today in Wilmington,  Delaware . The company, which
filed for bankruptcy yesterday, will return to court to seek
approval of the rest of a $25 million debtor-in-possession loan
from units of GSO Capital Partners LP, the credit division of
 Blackstone Group LP. (BX)   The $6.3 million in interim financing will be split between
the businesses. The U.S. units will receive about $2.2 million
and the remainder will go to the U.K. units.  Velti, a San Francisco-based unit of  Velti Plc (VELT) , listed
assets of as much $50 million and debt of as much as $100
million in Chapter 11 documents filed this week. Its Air2Web
Inc. unit, based in Atlanta, also sought creditor protection.
Velti Plc, which trades on the Nasdaq Stock Market, isn’t part
of the bankruptcy process.  The company plans to auction some assets with an affiliate
of GSO Capital Partners acting as the initial, or “stalking-horse,” bidder.  Proposed Sale  While the business lines of Air2Web’s  India  unit and
Velti’s U.K. operations, including Mobile Interactive Group
Ltd., are included in the proposed sale, those entities aren’t
part of the bankruptcy and are continuing normal operations,
Velti Chief Executive Officer Alex Moukas said in a phone
interview before the filing.  A hearing to approve bidding procedures in connection with
the sale of the business lines and approve GSO as the stalking-horse bidder in the bankruptcy auction is now scheduled for Nov.
18. The matter was on the agenda for today’s hearing and was
postponed at the request of lawyers for Velti to allow time for
a creditors committee to be formed.  Operations in the U.K., Greece, India,  China ,  Brazil ,
 Russia , the United Arab Emirates and elsewhere outside the U.S.
didn’t seek protection and business there will continue as
usual.  The case is In re Velti Inc., 13-bk-12878, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dawn McCarty in Wilmington at 
 dmccarty@bloomberg.net  