-- Vitter’s Demands Hold Up Compounding-Pharmacy Bill
-- B y   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 2013-11-06T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-05/vitter-s-demands-hold-up-compounding-pharmacy-bill.html
One lawmaker’s effort to alter
Obamacare is holding up final action by Congress on legislation
that would expand U.S. regulation of compounding pharmacies
linked to meningitis deaths last year.  The Senate is poised to approve the measure to broaden the
U.S. Food and Drug Administration’s oversight of compounding
pharmacies. Ninety-nine senators have agreed to pass the
legislation that the House passed without a roll call vote,
Democratic and Republican lawmakers said.  Republican Senator  David Vitter  of  Louisiana  wants the vote
on compounding pharmacies coupled with consideration of his
proposal to deny lawmakers and their staffs employer
contributions when they buy medical insurance on the exchanges
set up under the new health-care law. As a result, senators may
have to spend a week on work that could be done in minutes.  The bill, H.R. 3204, was written in response to a lethal
outbreak of fungal meningitis among users of an injectable pain-killing steroid last year. The deaths and hundreds of infections
forced the closing of New England Compounding Pharmacy Inc. in
the Boston suburb of Framingham.  “We’ve cleared it with everyone but Mr. Vitter,” said
Senator  Tom Harkin , a sponsor of the companion Senate measure
and chairman of the chamber’s  Health, Education, Labor, and
Pensions Committee .  One Vote  During the negotiations, Vitter refused Majority Leader
 Harry Reid ’s offer for a vote on his amendment provided he
promise not to try to attach the proposal to other bills, Harkin
said. Reid is a Democrat from  Nevada .  “We just don’t want this to keep bubbling up every darn
time in the future,” said Harkin, an Iowa Democrat. “You get
one vote, what more could you ask for? He wouldn’t agree to
that.”  Vitter is asking for floor time to debate and vote on an
amendment that would strip lawmakers and their staffs of the
employer contributions to their new health-insurance plans.
Under the health-care law, members of Congress and their staff
must drop their current plans with the Federal Employees Health
Benefits Program and can buy policies offered in the new health-care exchanges. The  Office of Personnel Management  ruled that
they could still keep the subsidies they had under the old
system.  Clarify Authority  Vitter also has proposed ending the employer-paid portion
of health premiums for the president, vice president and
political appointees in the executive branch, who would have to
obtain insurance from the exchanges instead of the program for
federal employees.  Lindsay Bembenek, a spokeswoman for Vitter, said she had no
immediate comment.  The compounding pharmacy legislation was drafted in
response to calls by the FDA to clarify its authority after the
agency was criticized for not acting quickly enough to close New
England Compounding Pharmacy.  The company was identified as the source of an outbreak of
fungal meningitis that killed more than 64 people last year. FDA
officials cited conflicting legal decisions to explain the
uncertainty about its authority to act sooner.  Republican Senator  Lamar Alexander  of  Tennessee , where the
Center for Disease Control  linked  at least 16 deaths to the
fungal meningitis outbreak, said he hopes Vitter will accept
Reid’s offer for a single vote on his amendment.  ‘Another Tragedy’  “The FDA administrator has told us if we don’t act there
will be another tragedy like the one that killed more than 50
people and made people sick,” Alexander said in an interview.  At a Bloomberg Government conference yesterday, FDA
Commissioner  Margaret Hamburg  called the bill “a step in the
right direction,” adding, “I don’t think it’s going to be as
comprehensive as we had hoped.”  In congressional testimony earlier this year, Hamburg
blamed a patchwork of state regulations over compounding
pharmacies that restrained action by the FDA.  The legislation would would bar some kinds of drug
compounding, a provision that may boost sales of medications
that now face competition from compounded versions of other
drugs, according to Brian Rye, a Bloomberg Government analyst.  For example, drugs to treat macular-degeneration such as
 Roche Holding AG (ROG) ’s Lucentis and  Regeneron Pharmaceutical Inc. (REGN) ’s
Eylea have faced competition from compounded versions of the
cancer medication Avastin, according to Rye’s Oct. 2 analysis.  The last time Reid was in this position -- facing a demand
from Vitter and other Republicans that time be spent on off-topic amendments -- the Nevada Democrat pulled bipartisan
energy-efficiency legislation, S. 1392, from the floor.  The No. 2 Senate Democrat,  Richard Durbin  of  Illinois , said
the majority party’s leadership is serious about wanting Vitter
to promise no reruns of his Obamacare amendment after it gets an
up-or-down vote on the pharmaceutical bill.  “There reaches a point there where this is not a
productive exercise but simply political harassment,” Durbin
told reporters.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Rowley in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katherine Rizzo at 
 krizzo5@bloomberg.net  