-- Washington Agency Is First Fined by SEC for Deceiving Public
-- B y   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 2013-11-05T18:54:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-05/washington-agency-receives-first-sec-fine-for-misleading-public.html
A public agency in  Washington ’s
Wenatchee Valley region that defaulted on its debt will pay
$20,000 to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, the
first municipal issuer fined for misleading investors.  The Greater Wenatchee Regional Events Center Public
Facilities District, which financed an events center and ice-hockey arena, defaulted in 2011 on notes issued in 2008. The SEC
said today in a release that the district in an official
statement claimed there were no independent reviews of the
center’s financial projections even though a consultant twice
raised questions about its viability.  “Financial penalties against municipal issuers are
appropriate for sanctioning and deterring misconduct when, as
here, they can be paid from operating funds without directly
impacting taxpayers,” Andrew Ceresney, co-director of the SEC’s
Division of Enforcement, said in the statement. He said offering
documents gave investors “a false picture.”  The SEC’s latest move is a sign that the agency, under the
direction of Chairman Mary Jo White, is intensifying its efforts
to crack down on state and local governments for not giving
investors accurate information about their financial condition
prior to bond sales.  Banker Fined  Illinois settled with the SEC in March over charges it
misrepresented its growing pension shortfall when selling bonds
from 2005 to 2009, though paid no fine. The agency settled a
similar case with New Jersey three years ago, also without a
financial penalty. That was the first time it targeted a state.  Along with the probe of New Jersey in 2010, the SEC in 2008
accused San Diego officials of failing to disclose key policies
contributing to its pension-fund shortfalls.  In this case, the Wenatchee district and others involved in
the debt transaction face financial charges.  Minneapolis-based  Piper Jaffray Cos. (PJC) , whose subsidiary
underwrote the $42 million note deal, will pay a $300,000 fine.
The lead investment banker on the offering, Jane Towery, will
incur a $25,000 penalty, according to an SEC statement.  The documents also omitted information about Wenatchee’s
limited debt capacity, the SEC said. Standard & Poor’s cut the
city’s general obligations two levels to BBB in December 2011
for failing to step in and help the district.  The SEC said it was the first time it had fined a
municipal-bond issuer. The Wenatchee agency, the company and
Towery neither admitted nor denied the findings, according to
the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Chappatta in  New York  at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  