-- Whittaker Chambers Versus Ayn Rand
-- B y   C a s s   R .   S u n s t e i n
-- 2013-11-05T14:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-05/whittaker-chambers-versus-ayn-rand.html
Whittaker Chambers and Ayn  Rand  are
two of the most important American conservative icons. Both
abhorred collectivism and spoke on behalf of individual freedom.
Chambers’ autobiography, “ Witness ,” is one of the defining
conservative documents of the 20th century. Rand’s most
influential novel, “Atlas Shrugged,” continues to inspire and
orient conservative and libertarian thought.  Here’s what history has largely forgotten: Chambers utterly
despised Rand’s novel. Their differences were fundamental, and
they involved both substance and sensibility. Those differences
have continuing importance, because they tell us a great deal
about divisions within contemporary conservatism. (Yes, there
are analogous divisions on the liberal side, but that’s a tale
for another day.)  Chambers’  devastating essay  on “Atlas Shrugged,”
published in the National Review, begins by acknowledging common
ground: “A great many of us dislike much that Miss Rand
dislikes, quite as heartily as she does.” For Chambers, the
problem is that Rand “deals wholly in the blackest blacks and
the whitest whites,” depicting a world in which “everything,
everybody, is either all good or all bad, without any of those
intermediate shades which, in life, complicate reality and
perplex the eye that seeks to probe it truly.”  Notice Chambers’ use of the verb “perplex.” Whatever  Rand 
was, she wasn’t perplexed. Whatever she thought of reality, she
didn’t believe it to be complicated.  Fairy Tale  In Chambers’ account, Rand created a fairy tale, “the old
one known as: The War between the Children of Light and the
Children of Darkness.” Rand’s Children of Darkness are
caricatures of identifiable figures on the left, especially
familiar to “those who think little about people as people, but
tend to think a great deal in labels and effigies.” Because
“ Atlas Shrugged ” doesn’t deal with people as people, Chambers
believed that it “can be called a novel only by devaluing the
term.”  Chambers goes so far as to link Rand with Karl Marx. Both,
he says, are motivated by a kind of materialism, in which
people’s happiness lies not with God or with anything spiritual,
and much less with an appreciation of human limitations, but
only with the use of their “own workaday hands and ingenious
brain.”  Chambers connects Rand’s arrogance with her contempt, even
rage, against those who reject her message. Thus Chambers’ final
indictment: “From almost any page of Atlas Shrugged, a voice
can be heard, from painful necessity, commanding, ‘To a gas
chamber -- go!’”  These are strong words, to say the least. If they are taken
literally, they aren’t exactly fair. Rand certainly objected to
them. William F. Buckley Jr., the founder and then-editor of the
National Review,  reported  that after Chambers’ review was
published, “her resentment was so comprehensive that she
regularly inquired of all hosts or toastmasters whether she was
being invited to a function at which I was also scheduled to
appear, because if that was the case, either she would not come;
or if so, only after I had left; or before I arrived.”  If Chambers’ gas chamber comment wasn’t an accurate reading
of anything that Rand actually prescribed, it nonetheless
captured some of the anger and violence that simmers in her
text. (Compare Rand’s cartoonish and sometimes brutal depictions
of romantic passion with Chambers’ account in “Witness,” at
once tender and thunderstruck, of falling in love with his wife,
Esther.)  In his review of “Atlas Shrugged,” in “Witness,” and in
countless other places, Chambers’ work is closely connected with
an important and enduring strand in conservative thought -- one
that distrusts social engineering and top-down theories,
emphasizes the limits of human knowledge, engages with
particulars, and tends to favor incremental change. This is the
conservatism of Edmund Burke, Michael Oakeshott and Friedrich Hayek.  Different Breed  It endorses the view of Judge Learned Hand, who said at the
dawn of World War II that the “spirit of liberty is the spirit
which is not too sure that it is right.” No political figure
wholly stands for this strand of conservatism, but during his
presidency, Ronald Reagan sometimes embraced it, and Senator
Orrin Hatch of  Utah  often captures its essence.  Rand was an altogether different breed. Armed with a top-down theory, and wielding a series of abstractions and a priori
truths, she did not see humility as a virtue. Ted Cruz is just
starting his career in the  Senate , but both his content and his
tone are sometimes reminiscent of Rand. He is apparently a fan,
having read from “Atlas Shrugged” during his September
filibuster on Obamacare. He began with the words, “Now let me
encourage any of you who have not read ‘Atlas Shrugged,’ go
tomorrow, buy ‘Atlas Shrugged,’ and read it.”  Senators are certainly entitled to offer book
recommendations, but here’s a better one, meant for
conservatives and liberals alike: Go tomorrow, buy “Witness,”
and read it.  (Cass R. Sunstein, the Robert Walmsley University professor
at Harvard Law School, is a Bloomberg View columnist. He is the
former administrator of the White House Office of Information
and Regulatory Affairs, the co-author of “Nudge” and author of
“Simpler: The Future of Government.”)  To contact the writer of this article:
Cass R. Sunstein at  csunstei@law.harvard.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 