-- WTI Crude Futures Near Four-Month Low on U.S. Oil Supply
-- B y   K o n s t a n t i n   R o z h n o v
-- 2013-11-05T13:47:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-05/wti-crude-little-changed-near-four-month-low-on-supply.html
West Texas Intermediate fell to trade
near the lowest price in more than four months amid speculation
crude inventories increased for a seventh week in the U.S., the
world’s biggest oil consumer.  Futures eased 0.2 percent after settling last week at the
lowest close since June. Crude stockpiles probably expanded by
2.2 million barrels to 386.1 million last week as production
climbed to a 24-year high, according to a Bloomberg News survey
of analysts before data from the Energy Information
Administration tomorrow. Libya is preparing to resume crude
exports at its Hariga terminal in coming days.  “We have Libya on one side, adding some support, although
they aim to resume some of the exports over the next week, and
at the same time we have pretty weak demand figures, with the
market looking ahead to tomorrow, to see what the status is in
the U.S. in particular,” Ole Hansen, head of commodity strategy
at Saxo Bank A/S in Copenhagen, said by phone.  WTI for December delivery was at $94.40 a barrel in
electronic trading on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange, down 22
cents, at 1:24 p.m. London time. It closed at $94.61 on Nov. 1,
the lowest since June 21, and was little changed yesterday. The
volume of all WTI futures traded was about 42 percent below the
100-day average.  Brent for December settlement gained 3 cents to $106.26 a
barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. The
European benchmark crude was at a premium of $11.86 to WTI,
compared with $11.61 yesterday.  Crude Supplies  WTI fell 5.8 percent in October, the biggest monthly
decrease in a year, as a surge in U.S.  crude production 
bolstered inventories. Output rose to 7.9 million barrels a day
as of Oct. 18, the fastest rate since March 1989, according to
the EIA, the Energy Department’s statistical unit.  “What’s happening with fresh U.S. supplies coming onstream
seems to have caught the market a little by surprise,” David Lennox, a resource analyst at Fat Prophets in Sydney, said by
phone. “We saw WTI react to that with a fairly sharp fall, and
now it’s stabilized somewhat.”  Gasoline stockpiles  probably declined  by 400,000 barrels in
the week ended Nov. 1, according to the median estimate of seven
analysts surveyed before the EIA’s report tomorrow. That would
leave supplies at 213.4 million, the lowest level since November
last year. Distillate fuels, including heating oil and diesel,
are expected to have dropped by 1.5 million barrels to 121.2
million, the survey shows.  Separately, the industry-funded American Petroleum
Institute is scheduled to release its own weekly inventory
report later today.  Libya Exports  Market participants are also waiting for the European
Central Bank’s monetary policy decision on Nov. 7 and the U.S.
monthly jobs data the day after for signals on oil demand,
Hansen said.  In Libya, the holder of  Africa ’s biggest crude reserves,
loadings at Hariga may resume next week, according to state-run
National Oil Corp. Members of Libya’s Petroleum Facilities Guard
have closed the eastern port and three other terminals since
July to demand more money and equipment from the government amid
allegations of corruption within the oil ministry.  Libya’s daily crude output was about 250,000 barrels on
Nov. 3, Mohamed Elharari, a National Oil spokesman, said
yesterday. That’s down from 1.3 million barrels in the first
half of this year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Shipments of North Sea Gullfaks for December are planned at
seven cargoes, unchanged from November’s total, a loading
program obtained by Bloomberg News showed. More North Sea
programs will be issued through tomorrow.  WTI may rebound as a technical indicator signals further
losses probably aren’t sustainable. The 14-day relative strength
index is below 30 for a third day, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. Futures advanced in April from about $86 a barrel when the
RSI was last below that level. Investors typically buy contracts
when the market is oversold.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Konstantin Rozhnov in London at 
 krozhnov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  