-- Yankees’ Rivera Chosen AL Comeback Player as Liriano Wins in NL
-- B y   R o b   G l o s t e r
-- 2013-11-05T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-05/yankees-rivera-chosen-al-comeback-player-as-liriano-wins-in-nl.html
New York Yankees reliever  Mariano Rivera  and Pittsburgh Pirates starting pitcher Francisco Liriano
were honored as Major League Baseball’s comeback players of 2013.  Rivera, 43, who retired at the end of this season after
compiling an MLB-record 652 saves in 19 years with the Yankees,
was selected as the American League winner.  Rivera, who helped lead the Yankees to five World Series
championships, had 44 saves and made his 13th All-Star team in
2013 after being limited to nine appearances, and five saves, in
the previous season because he tore a ligament in his right knee
in early May.  Liriano, 30, went 16-8 with a 3.02 earned run average this
season as his Pittsburgh Pirates reached the playoffs for the
first time since 1992. In 2012, he went 6-12 with a 5.34 ERA for
the Minnesota Twins and Chicago White Sox.  Liriano, who won the AL Comeback Player of the Year Award
in 2010, is the first player to win the honor twice since its
inception in 2005.  The awards were announced last night by MLB.  Rivera also won two honors last night in the Players Choice
Awards, presented by the  Major League Baseball  Players
Association. Rivera won the Man of the Year award as well as the
AL comeback player designation.  Liriano also won the Players Choice Award as the NL
comeback player of the year.  Third baseman  Miguel Cabrera  of the  Detroit Tigers  was
selected by his peers as the Player of the Year and the AL’s
Outstanding Player for the second straight season. Pittsburgh
outfielder Andrew McCutchen was chosen as the NL’s Outstanding
Player for the second consecutive year.  Also receiving Players Choice awards were: AL Outstanding
Pitcher: Max Scherzer, Detroit; AL Outstanding Rookie: Wil Myers,
Tampa Bay Rays; NL Outstanding Pitcher:  Clayton Kershaw , Los
Angeles Dodgers; and NL Outstanding Rookie: Jose Fernandez,
 Miami Marlins .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Gloster in San Francisco at 
 rgloster@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  