-- YRC Asks Union to Redo Contract for Trucker’s Refinancing
-- B y   T h o m a s   B l a c k
-- 2013-11-05T23:48:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-05/yrc-asks-union-to-redo-contract-for-trucker-s-refinancing.html
YRC Worldwide Inc. (YRCW)  surged the most in
almost six months as the struggling U.S. trucker sought union
contract concessions that Chief Executive Officer James Welch
said were critical to helping refinance debt.  “Some companies in our position have simply declared
bankruptcy,” Welch told employees in an Oct. 30 letter ahead of
a meeting with the Teamsters union leaders today. “We have all
worked too hard and sacrificed too much to go that route and
lose some of the industry’s best jobs.”  Lenders are demanding a renegotiated labor agreement as a
condition for refinancing  debt  that matures starting next year,
Welch wrote. He cited almost $1.4 billion in borrowings from
“numerous missteps” at  Overland Park , Kansas-based YRC before
he became CEO in July 2011, and didn’t specify any givebacks.  The stock  jumped  28 percent to $10.84 at the close in  New
York , the biggest advance since May 6. YRC has posted annual
losses since 2007 and twice had to rework credit accords, in
2009 and 2011, to avoid bankruptcy after more than $2 billion in
acquisitions. The current contract expires in 2015.  Chief Financial Officer Jamie Pierson declined to comment
after today’s gathering between YRC and union chiefs outside
 Dallas  in Irving,  Texas . Teamsters officials weren’t available
to discuss the session.  More Meetings?  More meetings are likely as YRC seeks labor savings to show
lenders it can cut costs, Brad Delco, a Stephens Inc. analyst in
 Little Rock ,  Arkansas , said in an interview beforehand.  “There’s nothing that can come out of this meeting that
says the union is going to accept any sort of concessions,”
Delco said.  Suzanne Dawson, a spokeswoman for YRC at LAK Public
Relations Inc., declined to comment on the letter. Galen Munroe,
a Teamsters spokesman, couldn’t be reached for comment. YRC has
about 32,000 employees, a majority of them represented by the
Teamsters, according to the company.  The company needs “a labor agreement with our Teamster
employees that extends beyond our current expiration and any new
debt maturities and increases our competitiveness before any
refinancing can be completed,” Welch wrote.  A deal-making spree last decade built YRC into the biggest
U.S. trucker before slumping sales during the economic crisis
toppled the carrier from that perch. YRC reported $4.85 billion
in revenue in 2012, less than half 2006’s peak of $9.92 billion.  Debt, Cash  YRC has about $396 million of  debt maturing  next year and
another $548 million in 2015, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg, while cash and near-cash items totaled $165.9 million
at the end of the second quarter. The company is scheduled to
report third-quarter results on Nov. 7.  YRC negotiated its current labor agreement in 2010 and
reduced wages by 15 percent for most union employees to cut
costs, according to a filing with the Securities and Exchange
Commission. Those savings will need to be maintained to win any
refinancing, Delco said.  “They’ll need some sort of continuation of these
concessions for this company to have a chance to fight back out
of the leverage hole they’re in,” Delco said. “If the union
clawed back everything they had prior to the last concessions,
that would not fly.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Thomas Black  in Dallas at 
 tblack@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  