-- 'Keystone Kops' Bungling Led to Costliest U.S. Pipeline Spill
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   M c G o w a n   a n d   L i s a   S o n g
-- 2012-07-24T16:39:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/-keystone-kops-bungling-led-to-costliest-u-s-pipeline-spill.html
The following is an excerpt from “ The Dilbit Disaster: Inside the Biggest
Oil Spill You've Never Heard of ,” a  seven-month investigation 
by  InsideClimate News , a non-profit news organization focused on climate change
and energy issues. To see a slideshow about the 2010 Enbridge oil spill,  click
here . An acrid stench had already enveloped John LaForge's five-bedroom house when
he opened the door just after 6 a.m. on July 26, 2010. By the time the building
contractor hurried the few feet to the refuge of his Dodge Ram pickup, his
throat was stinging and his head was throbbing. LaForge was excavating a basement when his wife called a couple of hours
later. The odor had become even more sickening, Lorraine told him. And a fire
truck was parked in front of their house, where Talmadge Creek rippled toward
the Kalamazoo River. LaForge headed home. By the time he arrived, the stink was so intense that he
could barely keep his breakfast down. Something else was wrong, too. Water from the usually tame creek had inundated his yard, the way it often
did after heavy rains. But this time a black goo coated swaths of his golf
course-green grass. It stopped just 10 feet from the metal cap that marked his
drinking water well. Walking on the tarry mess was like stepping on chewing
gum. LaForge said he was stooped over the creek, looking for the source of the
gunk, when two men in a white truck marked Enbridge pulled up just before 10
a.m. One rushed to LaForge's open front door and disappeared inside with an air-
monitoring instrument. The man emerged less than a minute later, and uttered the words that still
haunt LaForge today:  It's not safe to be here. You're going to have to leave
your house. Now. John and Lorraine LaForge, their grown daughter and one of the three
grandchildren living with them at the time piled into the pickup and their
minivan as fast as they could, given Lorraine's health problems. They didn't
pause to grab toys for the baby or extra clothes for the two children at
preschool. They didn't even lock up the house. Within a half hour, they had checked into two rooms at a Holiday Inn Express,
which the family of six would call home for the next 61 days. The LaForges’ lives had been turned upside down by the first major spill of
Canadian  diluted bitumen  in a U.S. river. Diluted bitumen is the same type of
oil that could someday be carried by the much-debated  Keystone XL pipeline . If
that project is approved, it would cross the Ogallala aquifer, which supplies
drinking water for eight states as well as 30 percent of the nation's irrigation
water. President Barack Obama rejected TransCanada Corp.’s initial pipeline
permit application in January, inviting them to reapply with an alternative
route, which it has. "People don't realize how your life can change overnight," LaForge told an
InsideClimate News reporter as they drove slowly past his empty house in
November 2011. "It has been devastating." * * * * July 25 marks the second anniversary of the nation’s most costly oil pipeline
accident—a rupture that dumped more than 1.1 million gallons of heavy crude into
Michigan’s Kalamazoo River, according to the U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency. The spill drove 150 families permanently from their homes. The U.S.
Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration proposed $3.7 million in
civil fines for Enbridge on July 2. The National Transportation Safety Board
(NTSB) recently cited the company for failing to properly maintain the pipeline
and chastised the pipeline safety agency for weak federal regulations. The spill happened in Marshall, a community of 7,400 in southwestern
Michigan. More than 1.1 million gallons of oil blackened two miles of Talmadge
Creek and almost 36 miles of the Kalamazoo River, according to the EPA’s most
recent  Situation Report  (pdf). The EPA’s estimate of the amount of oil that has
been collected exceeds Enbridge’s estimate of 843,444 gallons by 15 percent.
Enbridge spokeswoman Terri Larson told InsideClimate News that the company
stands by that number as accurate. Oil is still showing up two years later, as the cleanup continues. About 150
families have been permanently relocated and most of the tainted stretch of
river between Marshall and Kalamazoo remained closed to the public until  June
21 . The accident was triggered by a six-and-a-half foot tear in Line 6B, a 30-
inch carbon steel pipeline operated by Enbridge Energy Partners LP, a U.S.
affiliate of Enbridge Inc., Canada's largest transporter of crude oil. With
Enbridge's costs already totaling  more than $765 million , it is the most
expensive oil pipeline spill since the U.S. government began keeping records in
1968. "This investigation identified a complete breakdown of safety at Enbridge.
Their employees performed like Keystone Kops and failed to recognize their
pipeline had ruptured and continued to pump crude into the environment," said
NTSB Chairman Deborah A.P. Hersman in a July 10 press release. "Despite multiple
alarms and a loss of pressure in the pipeline, for more than 17 hours and
through three shifts they failed to follow their own shutdown procedures."
Enbridge restarted the pipeline twice in that 17-hour period, pumping through
oil that would account for 81 percent of the total spill, the NTSB said. Despite the scope of the damage, the Enbridge spill didn’t attract much
national attention, perhaps because it occurred just 10 days after oil stopped
spewing from BP Plc's Macondo well in the Gulf of Mexico, which ruptured three
months earlier. Early reports about the Enbridge spill also downplayed its
seriousness. Just about everybody, including the EPA officials who rushed to
Marshall in July 2010, expected the mess to be cleaned up in a couple of
months. What the EPA didn't know then, however, was that Line 6B was carrying
bitumen, the dirtiest, stickiest oil on the market. Bitumen is so thick—about the consistency of peanut butter—that it doesn't
flow from a well like the crude oil found in most of the nation's pipelines.
Instead the tarry resin is either steamed or strip-mined from sandy soil. Then
it is thinned with large quantities of liquid chemicals so it can be pumped
through pipelines. These diluents usually include benzene, a carcinogen. At this
point it becomes diluted bitumen, or dilbit. The National Resources Defense Council and some other environmental
organizations say dilbit is so acidic and abrasive that it's more likely to
corrode and weaken pipes than conventional oil. The oil industry disputes that
hypothesis. Enbridge and other companies say dilbit is no different from
conventional crude. No independent scientific research has been done to determine who is right.
But there is one fact neither side disputes: The cleanup of the Kalamazoo River
dilbit spill was unlike any cleanup the EPA had ever tackled before. The
National Academy of Sciences is conducting a research project into the “pipeline
transport of diluted bitumen” that meets for the first time this week. Instead of remaining on top of the water, as most conventional crude oil
does, the bitumen gradually sank to the river's bottom, where normal cleanup
techniques and equipment were of little use. Meanwhile, the benzene and other
chemicals that had been added to liquefy the bitumen evaporated. InsideClimate News learned that federal and local officials didn't discover
until more than a week after the spill that Line 6B was carrying dilbit, not
conventional oil. Federal regulations do not require pipeline operators to
disclose that information, and Enbridge officials did not volunteer it. Mark Durno, an EPA deputy incident commander who is still involved in the
cleanup in Marshall, is among those who were surprised by what they found. "Submerged oil is what makes this thing more unique than even the Gulf of
Mexico situation," Durno said. "Yes, that was huge—but they knew the beast they
were dealing with. This experience was brand new for us. It would have been
brand new for anyone in the United States." Jim Rutherford, the public health officer for Michigan's Calhoun County, said
he had "no idea what I was driving into," when he rushed to Marshall the day 6B
ruptured. "We just weren't ready for anything of this magnitude,” Rutherford said. “We
didn't even know the nature of the type of crude." Visit   www.bloomberg.com/sustainability 
 for the latest from Bloomberg News about energy, natural resources and
global business.    