-- ’Mad Men’ Chic, Brought to You by the Chemical Industry
-- B y   R e g i n a   L e e   B l a s z c z y k
-- 2012-07-24T16:27:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/-mad-men-chic-brought-to-you-by-the-chemical-industry.html
In the first episode of “Mad
Men,” on the AMC television network, the character  Don
Draper , an advertising executive, uttered memorable words
that captured the hearts of many viewers: “What you call
love was invented by guys like me to sell nylons.”  Those nylon stockings were invented by the U.S.
chemical industry, and embodied the high-tech dreams of the
postwar world that “Mad Men” visually expresses.  The chemical industry was one of the drivers of the
postwar economy, led by companies such as  Dow Chemical Co. (DOW) ,
DuPont Co.,  Monsanto Co. (MON) , Rohm & Haas Co., and Union
Carbide Corp. Following World War I, these firms invested
in synthetic organic chemistry and produced remarkable
innovations such as thermoplastics, man-made rubber and
man-made fibers.  DuPont famously introduced nylon, the world’s first
synthetic fiber, at the  New York  World’s Fair of 1939, as a
substitute for Asian silk used to knit women’s stockings.
During World War II, nylon was adapted to military
applications such as parachutes and rope. When peace
returned, DuPont expanded the market for synthetic fibers
with polyester, acrylic and spandex, creating a family of
fibers with a range of uses. They were wrinkle-resistant,
washable and mothproof.  Edginess, Sleekness  These miracle materials give vintage “Mad Men”
fashions their edginess. Synthetic fibers created a whole
new look for women. The voluptuous “natural” shape of Joan
Harris is sculpted by foundation garments made of stretch
nylon and spandex, and the eye-popping colors she wears
come from synthetic dyes. Stretch fibers are used in the
pantyhose worn by Peggy Olson and Megan Draper. The crisp,
wrinkle-free suits that Draper wears are made by blending
polyester and acrylics into traditional fine wool.  The sleekness of 1960s design -- think of the
streamlined interiors of the Time-Life Building featured in
the show -- is often associated with the modernism of the
German Bauhaus, but it owes much to American ingenuity. The
synthetic fibers in the carpeting, upholstery and plastics
seen almost everywhere in the show -- in offices, houses,
apartments, restaurants -- symbolize modernity. The clean,
colorful lines were the Space Age equivalent of the wooden
furniture, hand-woven carpets and fringed curtains of the
Victorian era.  One of these new materials, acrylic plastic, was used
during the war as a glass substitute in Allied and Axis
aircraft, and during the postwar building boom it became
the favorite material for backlit roadside and storefront
signs. McDonald’s Golden Arches and the Shell gas-station
logo were made from colorized acrylics, marketed by Rohm &
Haas as Plexiglas and by DuPont as Lucite.  These plastics are ubiquitous in “Mad Men.” Draper’s
office is illuminated with ceiling lights covered with
flat, white Plexiglas filter panels, and his colleague
Roger Sterling’s black-and-white space is furnished in
laminates. Olson has a bright yellow plastic phone in her
apartment; consumers who wanted something other than the
standard black handset provided by  AT&T (T)  in the 1960s could
pay a little extra for a pastel phone in a palette created
by a former DuPont color specialist.  Walls are painted in deep, solid hues using the new
quick-drying paints that evolved out of acrylic technology.
The palettes used were developed out of the paint-marketing
programs conducted by DuPont and PPG in the 1940s. These
programs applied the principles of color psychology to
factories and offices with the aim of improving people’s
moods and increasing worker productivity.  American Dream  Over the five seasons of “Mad Men,” Draper and his co-
workers at Sterling Cooper Draper Pryce have been selling
the American Dream. At the same time, the firm’s office and
the wardrobes of its staff demonstrate how much of that
dream is the result of mid-century innovation from the U.S.
 chemical industry .  The show’s creators seem aware of their aesthetic
debt: In the next season, we may see Draper and his team
pitching for the Dow Chemical account.  ( Regina Lee Blaszczyk  is a historian affiliated with
the  University of Pennsylvania  and the author or editor of
seven books, including “American Consumer Society, 1865-
2005: From Hearth to HDTV.” The opinions expressed are her
own.)  Read more Echoes columns  online .  To contact the writer of this post: Regina Lee Blaszczyk at
 reggie.blaszczyk@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this post: Timothy
Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 