-- ‘Modern Family’ Becomes ‘Family Feud’ With Actor Pay Suit
-- B y   P h i l   M i l f o r d ,   K a r e n   G u l l o   a n d   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2012-07-25T16:57:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/-modern-family-cast-sues-news-corp-to-void-contracts.html
“Modern Family” is looking more
like “Family Feud” after actors in the most watched comedy on
U.S. television sued producer Twentieth Century Fox Television,
threatening summer filming in a fight over pay and outside work.  Sofia Vergara, Julie Bowen, Ty Burrell and other cast
members are asking a California judge to void contracts that cap
pay and bar outside work just ahead of the show’s planned fourth
season, according to a complaint filed yesterday in Los Angeles
Superior Court.  A ruling is necessary “to avoid the hardship caused on the
parties by a protracted dispute and further delay” in light of
the new season, lawyers for the actors said in the complaint
against the producer, a unit of  News Corp. (NWSA)  The contracts violate
state labor law prohibiting some agreements for services lasting
more than seven years, according to the filing.  The suit pits the actors against a producer they claim bars
them from working elsewhere while locking them into single-digit
pay raises. The success of “Modern Family,” the biggest show
on  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s ABC broadcast network and central to its
effort to draw viewers to new shows in September, “has been
built upon a collection of illegal contracts,” the actors said.  Five Percent  The contract for Vergara, 40, limits per-episode
compensation increases each year to 5 percent, while cast
members Jesse Tyler Ferguson, Eric Stonestreet, Burrell and
Bowen are entitled to 4 percent more annually, according to the
complaint.  The actors, represented by Jeffery D. McFarland, a partner
with Quinn Emanuel Urquhart & Sullivan LLP in  Los Angeles , also
said they are barred from seeking roles outside the program
without Fox’s consent.  Chris Alexander, a spokesman for Twentieth Century Fox
Television in Los Angeles, declined to comment on the lawsuit.  Vergara’s contract began in 2007. In 2009, 20th Century Fox
sent her an amended contract that requires her television work
to be exclusively for Fox until 2015, according to the
complaint. Vergara contends she didn’t sign those amendments.  In 2003, “Sopranos” star  James Gandolfini  sued  Time
Warner Inc. (TWX) ’s  HBO  and the show’s producers in an attempt to void
his contract. The cast of six “Friends” stars, including
 Jennifer Aniston  and Courteney Cox, threatened to leave the NBC
show in 1996, demanding a fourfold salary increase from  Warner
Bros ., the sitcom’s producer.  News Corp., controlled by Chief Executive Officer  Rupert Murdoch , rose 30 cents to $22.05 in Nasdaq stock market trading
in New York at 12:42 p.m. Burbank, California-based Disney
gained 14 cents to $48.30 on the New York Stock Exchange.  The case is Vergara v. Twentieth Century Fox, BC488786, Los
Angeles County Superior Court (Los Angeles).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware
at   pmilford@bloomberg.net ;
Karen Gullo in San Francisco
at   kgullo@bloomberg.net ;
Andy Fixmer in Los Angeles
at   afixmer@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  