-- Macquarie Sees Second Securities Loss From ‘Tough’ Market
-- B y   A n g u s   W h i t l e y
-- 2012-07-25T06:57:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/macquarie-sees-second-loss-at-securities-unit-on-weak-markets.html
Macquarie Group Ltd. (MQG) ,  Australia ’s
biggest investment bank, said its securities unit will probably
post a loss for a second consecutive year as  Europe ’s debt
crisis dents investor appetite for trading and share sales.  Macquarie Securities “is unlikely to be profitable” if
market conditions persist for the year ending March 31, 2013,
the bank said in a statement today before its annual shareholder
meeting in Sydney. Macquarie reiterated a forecast that the
group’s result will improve from the prior 12 months.  “The securities group is suffering,” Chief Executive
Officer  Nicholas Moore  said on a conference call with reporters.
“You know the drought will turn, but you don’t know when.”  Describing the market as “very, very tough,” Moore said
he’s not expecting the European crisis to improve any time soon.
To offset the volatility, Macquarie is vying to buy the asset
management business of Brussels-based Dexia SA, according to
people with knowledge of the matter.  Macquarie  shares  today fell 1.8 percent to A$23.87 at the
Sydney close, trimming the year’s gain to 0.3 percent. The
benchmark S&P/ASX 200 index dropped 0.2 percent.  Macquarie Securities posted a A$194 million ($198 million)
loss last financial year. The unit employed 1,187 staff as of
March 31, compared with a group total of about 14,200.  ‘Weak Conditions’  While Macquarie’s overall earnings in the three months to
June 30 improved from the year-earlier period, they fell from
the previous three months, the bank said.  “Capital markets businesses continue to be impacted by
weak market conditions,” Moore said in the bank’s statement.  Macquarie Capital, which advises on takeovers, completed 99
deals valued at A$19 billion, a decline of 23 percent from the
first quarter of last financial year.  Profit at Macquarie in the year ended March 31, 2012, fell
24 percent to A$730 million as economic uncertainty weighed on
the units that trade securities, manage share sales and advise
on takeovers.  While Moore declined to comment specifically on the sale of
Dexia’s asset-management business, he said funds management is
attractive.  “We do like the funds management industry,” he told
reporters. “If we find businesses that will enhance what we
have, we do have the funding to actually step up.”  Macquarie’s group capital of A$12.4 billion is A$3.5
billion more than the minimum regulatory requirement, according
to today’s statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angus Whitley in Sydney at 
 awhitley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  