-- Lady Gaga Sued by Bratz Maker MGA Entertainment Over Doll
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2012-07-25T21:29:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/lady-gaga-sued-by-maker-of-bratz-dolls-over-contract-breach-1-.html
Pop star Lady Gaga and her
management company were sued by MGA Entertainment Inc., the
maker of Bratz toys, over allegedly failing to approve a line of
dolls in the singer’s image.  The  Van Nuys , California-based company, alleging breach of
contract in New York state court, is seeking more than $10
million in damages from the pop star, her management company,
 Culver City , California-based  Atom Factory , and Los Angeles-
based  Bravado International Group , a merchandising company that
works with musicians.  MGA Entertainment says in the complaint that it agreed to
produce dolls in Lady Gaga’s image in December 2011 at Bravado’s
“request and insistence” and paid the company a $1 million fee
in anticipation of shipping the products to retailers this
summer in time for the holiday selling season.  In April, Bravado Chief Executive Officer Tom Bennett, told
MGA’s chief executive officer, Issac Larian, that Lady Gaga, the
stage name of Stefani Germanotta, wanted to delay production and
shipping of the dolls until her new album is released in 2013,
according to the complaint. MGA says the defendants have
continued to withhold final approval in order to delay marketing
the dolls until next year and instead sell a licensed Lady Gaga
perfume called “Fame.”  ‘Bad Faith’  “Defendants’ conduct is egregious, in bad faith and is
pretextual, especially in light of the fact that MGA has, among
other things, paid Bravado a $1,000,000 advance, agreed to an
excessively generous royalty rate, invested millions in the
preproduction of the Lady Gaga dolls and put its reputation and
goodwill on the line in order to secure distributors and retail
shelf space,” MGA Entertainment said in the complaint.  New York State Supreme Court Justice Jeffrey K. Oing today
declined MGA Entertainment’s request for an order requiring
Bravado, Atom Factory and Lady Gaga to immediately approve the
samples that were submitted to them for review, said Amanda
Silverman, a spokeswoman for Lady Gaga.  Today’s ruling couldn’t be immediately confirmed in court
records. The two sides are scheduled to return to court Aug. 29,
when Lady Gaga will ask the judge to dismiss the lawsuit,
Silverman said.  ‘Merchandising Company’  “This is a dispute between  Universal Music Group ’s
merchandising company and MGA,” Silverman said in an e-mail.
“There was no legitimate reason for dragging Lady Gaga into
that dispute.”  Peter Lofrumento , a spokesman for Vivendi SA’s Universal
Music Group, the parent company of Bravado, said in an e-mail
that the claims in the suit are meritless and the company will
defend itself in court.  A telephone message left at the headquarters of Atom
Factory wasn’t returned.  MGA Entertainment estimated the Lady Gaga line of dolls
would yield $28 million in revenue for the fall 2012 retail
season, and had agreements with at least six distributors, with
orders coming from at least 10 countries, according to the
complaint.  MGA Entertainment last year won $310 million in damages and
fees from  Mattel Inc. (MAT)  in a trial over ownership of the rights of
the Bratz line of dolls. Mattel in February asked a federal
appeals court to reverse the judgment.  The case is MGA Entertainment Inc. v. Bravado International
Group Merchandising Services Inc., 652547/2012,  New York  State
Supreme Court ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  