-- Aflac Drops as Insurer Reports Losses on Spanish Holdings
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2012-07-24T23:07:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/aflac-profit-rises-76-to-483-million-on-investment-results.html
Aflac Inc. (AFL) , the world’s biggest
seller of supplemental health insurance, dropped in extended
trading yesterday after reporting losses on Spanish holdings.  Aflac fell 1.7 percent to $41.30 after the close of regular
trading in New York. The Columbus, Georgia-based insurer
reported after-tax realized investment losses from impairments
of $223 million in the second quarter, primarily from
investments in  Bankia SA (BKIA)  and the government of Catalonia.  Chief Executive Officer Daniel P. Amos is bolstering the
investment-management unit led by Eric Kirsch after Aflac’s
portfolio of about $100 billion suffered losses on European
holdings. Kirsch, who joined Aflac from Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
last year, hired  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) ’s Timothy Stevens as global head
of trading and Bradley E. Dyslin as global head of credit last
month.  “We expected to see volatility in  Europe , and that’s
exactly what we saw in the second quarter,” Amos said in a
statement yesterday. “While we still view Europe as an area of
potential  investment risk , I believe our portfolio is now
better-positioned to accommodate market volatility.”  Net income  increased 76 percent to $483 million, or $1.03 a
share, from $274 million, or 58 cents, a year earlier, the
company said in the statement. Operating profit, which excludes
some investment results, was $1.61 a share, matching the  average
estimate  of 19 analysts in a Bloomberg survey.  Aflac declined 2.9 percent this year through yesterday’s
close, compared with the 2 percent drop of the 24-company  KBW
Insurance Index. (KIX)   Japan Sales  Realized investment losses were $272 million, compared with
$453 million a year earlier when Aflac sold securities of
European financial firms at a loss. Book value, a measure of
assets minus liabilities, rose to $30.37 a share as of June 30
from $29.19 three months earlier.  Aflac will begin investing this quarter in dollar-
denominated public fixed-income securities and currency hedges
to the yen, Amos said in the statement. The strategy will help
diversify the insurer’s holdings beyond Japanese  government
bonds , he said.  New annualized premium sales in  Japan , the company’s
largest market, jumped 47 percent, after rising 54 percent in
the first quarter. In dollar terms, new annualized premium sales
were $664 million, compared with $442 million in the same period
a year earlier.  Aflac said sales in Japan will increase 22 percent to 25
percent this year compared to last, boosting an April forecast
that sales would rise 10 percent. Deals through banks, sales of
a hybrid whole-life product and an upgraded medical policy
offering helped increase Aflac’s Japan sales in the first
quarter, the insurer said at the time.  U.S. sales are on pace to match the company’s target for an
annual increase of 3 percent to 8 percent, according to the
statement. U.S. premium income increased 5.5 percent to about
$1.3 billion in the second quarter from a year earlier, Aflac
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in  New York  at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  