-- Halla Climate Falls As Visteon’s Bid Blocked: Seoul Mover
-- B y   R o s e   K i m   a n d   S a e r o m i   S h i n
-- 2012-07-24T06:42:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/halla-climate-falls-as-visteon-s-bid-blocked-seoul-mover.html
Halla Climate Control Corp. (018880)  fell in
Seoul trading after  Visteon Corp. (VC) ’s 913 billion won ($795
million) buyout offer was blocked by  South Korea ’s biggest
institutional investor.  Halla Climate fell 3 percent to 24,100 won at the 3 p.m.
close of trading on the Korea Exchange, after dropping as much
as 9.1 percent earlier. This compares with the 0.3 percent rise
on the benchmark  Kospi index .  National Pension Service, which owns  8.1 percent  of Halla,
rejected Visteon’s bid after reviewing the growth potential of
the Daejeon, South Korea-based maker of automotive air-control
equipment, the $320 billion fund said in a statement yesterday.
The offer for the 30 percent Visteon doesn’t already own needed
support from investors representing 95 percent of Halla’s shares
to succeed.  “There was speculation the deal won’t go through from day
one,” said Shin Chung Kwan, an analyst at KB Investment &
Securities Co. “The National Pension’s decision yesterday just
got rid of the ‘what ifs’ and made that a reality.”  The move is a blow to  Van Buren Township , Michigan-based
Visteon and fueled speculation the company may sweeten its bid.  Visteon has been seeking to buy out Halla’s other
shareholders and sell less profitable units to focus on its
operations in  Asia . The company’s shares slid 2.6 percent to
$30.53 in  New York  yesterday, the lowest closing price since
exiting bankruptcy in 2010.  Sweetener  Any revised offer may not happen until the end of the year
amid increased labor strikes by unions ahead of South Korea’s
December presidential election, said Shin at KB.  Halla’s union threatened to go on a strike if Visteon’s
offer was accepted, according to a statement on the labor
group’s website on July 6.  “Visteon probably learned that in order to succeed with
the takeover, they will have to consider the union, the politics
and how the National Pension will react to all this,” Shin
said. “Next time they will select a better time and a better
price.”  Visteon offered 28,500 won a share for Halla on July 4, a
premium of about 14 percent to the closing price that day.  In combination with Halla, Visteon said it would become the
world’s second-largest supplier of climate-control systems.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rose Kim in Seoul at 
 rkim76@bloomberg.net ;
Saeromi Shin in Seoul at 
 sshin15@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net ;
Allen Wan at 
 awan3@bloomberg.net  