-- Amazon Picks U.S. State Sales-Tax Winners Absent New Law
-- B y   K a t h y   W a r b e l o w
-- 2012-07-24T15:52:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/amazon-picks-u-s-state-sales-tax-winners-absent-new-law.html
When  Texas  sent  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  a
$269 million sales-tax bill in 2010, the world’s biggest online
retailer shrugged. As lawmakers forced the issue last year, the
company closed a warehouse near  Dallas , cutting 119 jobs.  Until April, Texas stood with 39 other states that don’t
get sales and use levies from Amazon for purchases made by their
residents. By one estimate, that will mean more than $11 billion
in potential revenue from Web merchants lost this year.  “Online is the fastest growth segment of the retail
economy,”  David French , senior vice president of government
relations at the  National Retail Federation , said by telephone.
The lost revenue has “exasperated” governors, he said.  On April 27, that changed for Texas. The company and
Comptroller Susan Combs, 67,  announced  that Amazon would start
collecting sales taxes from customers in the state this month
and invest $200 million to create 2,500 local jobs in four
years. In ending the levy dispute for an undisclosed amount,
Texas joined five other states that receive such remittances.  The accord followed a pattern for the company. Amazon has
made peace with states such as New Jersey while laying out plans
to create local shipping centers and jobs, a move that would
require the collection of their sales levies anyway. The
retailer plans to build 13 warehouses in 2012, after spending
about $4.6 billion to increase the number by a third last year.
Kerry Rice, a Needham & Co. analyst in  San Francisco , said
Amazon may be gearing up to accelerate deliveries in some areas.  Fox Smarts  “Amazon is smart like a fox,” said John Otto, a
Republican state representative from Dayton, Texas, who led
efforts on applying levies to sales by Web ventures last year.
“The minute you put a physical presence in the state, you’re
obligated to collect the tax.”  Under current law and a 1992 Supreme Court ruling, Web
retailers only need to remit sales taxes to states where they
have a physical presence. Seattle-based Amazon collects levies
on sales to Washington state residents, as well as on
transactions with customers in Texas, Kansas, Kentucky, New York
and North Dakota, according to the company.  “We’re actively working with the states, retailers and
Congress to get federal legislation passed,” Scott Stanzel, an
Amazon spokesman, said by e-mail.  Judiciary Committee  Internet sales  and use taxes were the focus of a hearing
today before the Judiciary Committee in the U.S. House of
Representatives. States have pressed Congress to act for years
without results, and for a decade, Amazon has publicly backed
changes in federal law that would ease Web sales-tax collection.  Committee Chairman  Lamar Smith , a Texas Republican, said in
an opening statement that the U.S. Constitution doesn’t allow
one state to tax other states’ retailers. As a result, “online
retailers, who maintain a very limited physical presence and use
common carriers to fill orders, enjoy a competitive advantage
over traditional retailers,” he said.  Smith said a bill, H.R. 3179, sponsored by Arkansas
Republican Steve Womack, would replace the physical-presence
rule with a requirement that state and local governments
simplify their tax policies if they want to collect sales taxes
from out-of-state retailers.  Tennessee Governor Bill Haslam, speaking on behalf of the
 National Governors Association , said more than $400 million in
annual sales taxes go uncollected in his state under current
law.  States’ Flexibility  “This is about states having the flexibility and authority
to collect taxes that are already owed by their own in-state
residents,” said Haslam, a Republican.  For governors and local lawmakers, deals that offer fresh
revenue and jobs are hard to refuse. In 31 states, governors and
legislatures closed deficits of $55 billion for the fiscal year
that began this month, according to the  Center on Budget and
Policy Priorities  in Washington.  Combs, a Republican, hasn’t said how much the state expects
to get from Amazon’s collections on sales to Texans, and won’t
say what if anything the company paid for the four years covered
by the $269 million bill. That averaged $67.3 million annually.
Amazon has said the settlement wouldn’t have a material impact.  Amazon, started as an online bookstore in 1995, reported
$48 billion in 2011 sales, up 41 percent from the previous year.
It offers 50 percent more items for sale than  Wal-Mart Stores
Inc. (WMT) ’s Walmart.com site, Rice said, another driver of its need
for more distribution space. Amazon also sells fulfillment
services to other retailers.  Opponents’ Views  Organizations such as  NetChoice , backed by  EBay Inc. (EBAY) ,
 Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  and  Facebook Inc. (FB) , say Amazon is trying to suppress
competition from smaller online merchants by requiring them to
comply with separate tax requirements in the 45 states that have
sales and use levies. NetChoice says low-volume sellers won’t
make much difference to state revenue. The Washington-based
group says the 500 largest Web retailers account for 93 percent
of unpaid levies.  States and cities won’t get $11.4 billion in taxes on
online sales this year, according to a 2009 study by University
of Tennessee economists William Fox and Donald Bruce, and LeAnn
Luna, who teaches accounting at the school. U.S. online sales
will reach $226 billion this year, according to  Forrester
Research Inc. (FORR)  in Cambridge, Massachusetts.  Republican governors, including Nikki Haley of South
Carolina and  Rick Snyder  of Michigan, are prodding Congress for
a national solution, along with groups such as the  National
Conference of State Legislatures  in Denver and the National
Retail Federation in Washington.  States’ Rights  In Texas, Governor  Rick Perry , a Republican who vetoed
compliance bills aimed at Amazon last year, backs a solution
that is “consistent across the country and that protects the
rights of the states,” Josh Havens, a spokesman, said by e-
mail.  Without a federal mandate, Amazon has been making
agreements with states where it plans to expand. Last year, the
company said it would spend $500 million on facilities and add
10,000 full-time jobs in California by December 2015, ending a
fight against a state law that taxes online sales.  It will start remitting the levies in September if Congress
doesn’t act, according to a statement from Governor  Jerry Brown ,
a Democrat.  New Warehouses  New Jersey will receive as much as $40 million in annual
revenue once Amazon begins charging state sales taxes in July
2013, Governor  Chris Christie , a Republican, said May 30. An
agreement with the company calls for $130 million in investment
and the creation of 1,500 full-time jobs, he said. Work on a
pair of new warehouses may begin next year.  Adding shipping centers near large metropolitan areas may
help expand same-day delivery, according to Needham’s Rice.
Amazon offers the service on some items in 10 cities, including
New York, Chicago and Boston, yet not in California or Texas.  “Amazon has in a very smart way negotiated good deals with
a number of states” on sales taxes to enable expansion, Anne
Zybowski, a vice president at consulting firm Kantar Retail,
said by telephone. “Customers want immediacy and convenience.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathy Warbelow in Austin at 
 kwarbelow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  