-- Man Group Rises After Doubling Cuts in Wake of Outflows
-- B y   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k
-- 2012-07-24T16:08:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/man-group-had-2-4-billion-outflows-in-half-cuts-more-costs-1-.html
Man Group Plc (EMG)  rose in London trading
after the world’s biggest publicly traded hedge-fund manager
doubled its planned cost cuts and said it would rely less on
products that are expensive to sell.  Man Group plans to reduce expenses by $100 million over the
next 18 months, adding to $95 million of cuts announced in
March, the London-based company said in a statement today. Man
Group also plans to sell fewer so-called guaranteed products,
which require the company to pay high fees to private banks and
have drawn subdued demand from customers.  The fund manager is revamping its sales strategy after
naming former Goldman Sachs Group Inc. executive Jonathan Sorrell as finance director last month. Man Group has lost 4
billion pounds ($6.2 billion) of market value since the end of
2010 after analysts cut their profit estimates amid losses at
the company’s flagship AHL hedge fund and client withdrawals.  “The one thing that is very much in control at Man Group
is their cost base, not the month-to-month performance of AHL,”
said Singer Capital Markets Ltd. analyst Steven Keeling, who has
a buy rating on the stock. “With a fresh pair of eyes through a
new finance director, they appear to be taking a sensible
approach.”  The  shares  rose 2.85 pence, or 4 percent, to 72 pence at
the close in London, giving Man Group a market value of 1.3
billion pounds. The shares earlier climbed as much as 12
percent. Before today, Man Group had fallen 72 percent over the
past year.  Client Redemptions  “We have made progress in the last six months to address
the costs across our business,” Chief Executive Officer  Peter Clarke  said in the statement. “The changes we have announced
today, together with progress we have already made, position us
well to protect and rebuild  shareholder value .”  Clients pulled a net $2.4 billion from Man Group’s
investment funds in the first half of 2012, according to today’s
statement. AHL, which relies on computer algorithms to spot
profitable trades, had the most outflows, at $1.8 billion.  AHL has been hurt by  Europe ’s debt crisis, as rivals that
also rely on computer models have had better responses to the
political decisions that spurred rapid changes in currency and
commodity prices.  ‘Not Easy’  “It’s not as easy as it used to be,” said RBC Capital
Markets analyst Peter Lenardos, who has a sector perform rating
on Man Group. “There is increased competition, there are no
trends, there is quantitative easing and there is political
intervention.”  Customers redeemed $9.6 billion from Man Group’s investment
funds in the half, compared with $7.2 billion of sales. Assets
under management fell to $52.7 billion from $59 billion at the
end of March. The outflows pushed assets under management lower
than Lenardos’s $53.4 billion estimate and the $52.8 billion
forecast by Societe Generale SA analyst Michael Sanderson.  Clarke, speaking on a conference call with reporters, said
Man Group would achieve the $100 million of cost cuts by
eliminating jobs, cutting back on business in certain countries
and moving away from guaranteed products tied to AHL.  Guaranteed products are so named because Man ensures
clients will get back their principal. The products also lock
clients in, charging penalties for redeeming in the first six
years of the investment.  Man Group will try to sell more open-ended products tied to
GLG Partners hedge funds, which allow clients to invest and
withdraw money at regular intervals, Clarke said.  The company may be signaling that it plans to discontinue
the guaranteed products business eventually, according to Singer
Capital’s Keeling.  Loss, Writedown  Man Group announced a pretax loss of $164 million for the
first six months of the year on writedowns for its GLG Partners
Inc. and fund-of-funds units.  The company is writing down GLG by $91 million after buying
the hedge  fund manager  in 2010 for $1.6 billion to lessen its
dependence on AHL’s computer models. The fund-of-funds unit,
known as Man Group’s multi-manager business, had a writedown of
$142 million.  In May, Man Group added to its fund-of-funds business by
buying London-based FRM Holdings Ltd., which managed $8 billion.
While the company will pursue further acquisitions that add to
existing businesses, investors shouldn’t expect anything
“big,” Clarke said.  AHL, which managed $19.5 billion at the end of March,
declined 4.4 percent in the first six months of the year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. AHL has performed
better this month, rising 4.3 percent through July 19, helped by
the euro’s decline against the  U.S. dollar .  Sorrell Appointment  The company announced last month that Sorrell would replace
Kevin Hayes. Sorrell joined Man Group as head of strategy in
August 2011 from Goldman Sachs. His father is  Martin Sorrell ,
CEO of  WPP Plc (WPP) , the world’s largest advertising company.  Man Group, which was removed from the FTSE 100 Index of the
U.K.’s biggest companies in June, has tried to improve AHL by
slowing the speed of trades, increasing the assets it buys and
sells, and hiring additional scientists to oversee the program.  The company remains under pressure because clients continue
to pull money,  investment performance  may not improve and Man
continues to use its “weakening” capital base to pay a
“generous” annual dividend of 22 cents a share, according to
JPMorgan Chase & Co. analyst Rae Maile.  “The bulls may enjoy the day, but the bears will not have
been silenced by this set of results,” Maile, who has a neutral
rating on the shares, wrote in a note to clients.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Westbrook in  London  at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  