-- Anadarko, Tronox Resume Trial Over $25 Billion Lawsuit
-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 2012-07-24T18:55:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/anadarko-tronox-resume-trial-over-25-billion-lawsuit.html
Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC)  and its
Kerr-McGee unit began presenting their defense against a
$25 billion lawsuit brought by the U.S. and Tronox Inc. in a
trial that resumed after settlement talks failed.  David Zott, a lawyer for the U.S. and Tronox, told U.S.
Bankruptcy Judge Allan Gropper in opening comments today in
 Manhattan  that the plaintiffs planned to enter one more document
before turning the case over to the defense. Neither the judge
nor lawyers for either side mentioned the settlement talks,
which were confidential.  The lawsuit, over environmental claims and tort claims
related to Tronox’s 2005 spinoff, tests whether money can be
recovered from a successor to a polluting company, even after a
bankruptcy ostensibly cleaned the slate. Tronox initially sued
Anadarko in 2009. The  Justice Department  took over the case on
behalf of the Environmental Protection Agency.  The government seeks to recover $25 billion to clean up
2,772 polluted sites and compensate about 8,100 tort claimants.  Anadarko’s defense will include testimony from George Christiansen, who formerly worked in its uranium mining business
and worked on setting reserves for environmental damages, and
Joseph A. Flake, a former vice president at Kerr-McGee’s
chemical business, according to transcripts of depositions filed
in court papers.  Christiansen testified that money was set aside for
environmental liabilities when it was decided a loss was
“probable” and “reasonably estimable,” and that he was never
pressured to lower them. Flake helped develop a growth strategy
for the company’s titanium-dioxide business, which eventually
became Tronox.  Environmental Liabilities  In its lawsuit, the U.S. alleged that the company didn’t
set aside enough money for environmental obligations to the EPA
and other agencies, and knew that the titanium-dioxide business
wouldn’t be strong enough to support the environmental debts
once Tronox was spun off.  The trial began May 15, with Anadarko facing testimony from
more than 50 witnesses, and was scheduled to run until at least
the end of July. On June 28, Zott said the plaintiffs had
presented their last witness, and asked Anadarko how it would
begin its defense.  Before Anadarko could present its side of the case, a
notice was filed July 12 saying the trial was being adjourned
for a week while the parties held settlement talks or engaged in
mediation. On July 19,  John Hueston , a lawyer for the U.S. and
Tronox, said in a phone interview that no settlement had been
reached, and the trial would resume.  Remains ‘Committed’  Hueston had declined to comment on whether further
settlement talks were possible, or potential amounts discussed
in the talks.  Anadarko remains “committed to resolving the Tronox
litigation through informal negotiations or other alternative
dispute resolution mechanisms,”  John Christiansen , a company
spokesman, said in an e-mailed statement the same day.  The government seeks $15 billion in assets allegedly
transferred in 2005, plus $10 billion in interest and
appreciation, according to a lawyer involved in the case.  Witnesses who’ve testified so far included bankers,
scientists and a mayor who said Kerr-McGee’s toxins destroyed
his town, as well as Luke Corbett, the Kerr-McGee chief
executive officer from 1997 to 2006, who now sits on Anadarko’s
board.  According to the complaint, Kerr-McGee was part of a two-
step transaction that defrauded the EPA of money to clean
polluted sites.  Toxic Sites  Kerr-McGee, founded in 1929 near  Oklahoma City , left a
toxic legacy that stretches from uranium mines in Navajo
territories in the western U.S. to wood-treatment plants in
Mississippi and  Pennsylvania , the EPA said in court papers.  After an internal reorganization started in 2001, Kerr-
McGee spun off its chemicals business and old environmental
liabilities as Tronox Inc. beginning in 2005. About three months
after the transaction was completed, Anadarko offered to buy
Kerr-McGee’s oil and natural gas assets for $18 billion.  Tronox filed for bankruptcy in 2009 and sued its former
parent, saying it was overburdened with billions of dollars in
environmental debts. The U.S., Tronox’s largest creditor on
behalf of the EPA, intervened, creating the current lawsuit.  Anadarko, based in The Woodlands,  Texas , said Kerr-McGee
reorganized to separate the chemical business from the oil and
gas business and maximize  shareholder value .  “All relevant parties believed that both businesses were
healthy,” lawyers for Anadarko wrote in court papers.  Anadarko Chief Executive Officer Al Walker said at an
energy conference on June 6 that the company wasn’t opposed to a
settlement.  The bankruptcy case is Tronox Inc., 09-10156,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  