-- Ancestry.com Jumps as Much as 20% on Buyout-Talks Report
-- B y   M a r k   M i l i a n   a n d   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e
-- 2012-07-25T14:38:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/ancestry-com-jumps-as-much-as-20-after-buyout-report.html
Ancestry.com Inc. (ACOM)  rose the most
since April after a person with knowledge of the matter said the
family-history research website is discussing a possible buyout
with private-equity firm Providence Equity Partners Inc.  The  shares  gained 14 percent to $31.07 at 10:36 a.m. in New
York, after climbing 18 percent for the biggest intraday advance
since April 26.  The person asked to remain anonymous because the talks
aren’t public. The New York Times reported earlier yesterday
that the company is in talks with Providence and other companies
to be taken private.  With stable revenue and relatively lower valuation,
Ancestry.com was “attractively priced,” Bank of America Corp.
analysts said last month in a research report. The New York
Times reported that the online genealogy website could be valued
at more than $1.5 billion, based on current talks.  Ancestry.com is scheduled to report earnings after the
close of New York trading today.  Besides Providence, Ancestry.com is in talks with TPG
Capital LP, and Permira, the Times said. Final bids are due
early next month, according to the report.  Ancestry.com has been working with  Frank Quattrone ’s
Qatalyst Partners LLC to find buyers, Bloomberg News reported
last month.  Subscriber Growth  Owen Blicksilver , a spokesman for TPG, Nathaniel Garnick, a
spokesman for Permira, and Andrew Cole, a spokesman for
Providence, declined to comment. Melissa Garrett, a spokeswoman
for Ancestry.com, also declined to comment.  Ancestry.com, which has posted a profit each year since
at least 2007, said it had 2 million paying subscribers as of
July 2.  The company lost almost a third of its market value amid
concern that the cancellation of a  television show  featuring its
genealogy research would crimp subscriber growth. “Who Do You
Think You Are?” showed celebrities such as  Martin Sheen  and
 Marisa Tomei  exploring their roots with the help of Ancestry.com
research and gave the service more exposure. The final episode
aired on May 18 on  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s NBC network.  Ancestry.com was founded in 1983 as a publisher of
genealogical books and magazines, and later digitized its
content.  The company’s first-quarter net income rose 51 percent to
$13.6 million, as revenue advanced 19 percent to $108.5 million.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Milian in  San Francisco  at 
 mmilian@bloomberg.net ;
Devin Banerjee in New York at 
 dbanerjee2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  