-- Apple Falls Short of Analysts’ Expectations on IPhone Slump
-- B y   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o
-- 2012-07-24T23:26:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/apple-falls-short-of-analysts-expectations-amid-iphone-slump.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s profit and sales fell
short of analysts’ projections for only the second time since
2003 as customers held off on iPhone purchases while waiting for
a new model to be introduced later in the year.  Net income  climbed 21 percent to $8.82 billion, or $9.32 a
share, in the period that ended June 30, Cupertino, California-
based Apple said today in a statement. Sales rose 23 percent to
$35 billion. Analysts had predicted profit of $10.37 a share on
revenue of $37.2 billion, the average of estimates compiled by
Bloomberg. Shares fell 6 percent in late trading.  While Apple outgrew its closest technology-industry peers,
the company’s sales climbed at the slowest pace since mid-2009.
As Chief Executive Officer  Tim Cook  prepares to overhaul the
iPhone, the 26 percent drop in purchases from the second quarter
shows how anticipation for the latest model can drag growth in
the near term. The iPhone is Apple’s biggest seller.  “We have become spoiled by Apple and what they have done
in the past,” said Daniel Morgan, senior portfolio manager at
Synovus Trust Co. “It’s just inevitable that you’re going to
have some numbers that disappoint people. Come down the road
you’re going to have a big upgrade cycle with the next iPhone.”  Apple, the world’s largest company by market value, fell to
as low as $565 in extended trading. The  shares  had slipped less
than 1 percent to $600.92 at the close in  New York , trimming the
year-to-date gain to 48 percent.  IPhone ‘Pause’  Apple is predicting further declines in sales and profit
for the current period from last quarter. The company said sales
would fall to about $34 billion, and that profit would fall to
$7.65 a share. That compares with  predictions  by analysts for
sales of $38 billion and profit of $10.27 a share.  The 26 million iPhones sold last quarter compares with 28.4
million, the average prediction of 19 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg.  Speculation that Apple is preparing a new iPhone “has
caused some pause” in sales, Apple Chief Financial Officer
 Peter Oppenheimer  said on a conference call.  Last quarter was the first full period of sales for Apple’s
latest iPad, which was released in March and has a high-
definition screen, stronger processor and works with faster
next-generation wireless networks from carriers such as  Verizon
Wireless  and  AT&T Inc. (T)   Apple sold 17 million iPads, compared with the 15.4 million
projected. Oppenheimer said sales were particularly strong in
education, with one school district in  Texas  alone buying 11,000
iPads for students and teachers.  Asia Decline  The company hasn’t been immune to the weak global economy.
Cook said sales were especially weak in  Europe , where countries
are grappling with high unemployment and a debt crisis. Sales in
the  Asia-Pacific region , which includes  China , slipped 22
percent from the previous quarter to $7.89 billion.  Gross margin , the percentage of sales remaining after
deducting the costs of production, was 42.8 percent in the third
quarter, and will drop to 38.5 percent during the current period
because of a product transition and a stronger U.S. dollar
value, Oppenheimer said.  Cook is following through on a pledge to return to
investors some of the company’s growing hoard of cash and
investments, which rose to $117.2 billion at the end of the
quarter. The company will pay a dividend of $2.65 a share to
holders of record on Aug. 13.  Apple sold 4 million Mac computers and 6.8 million iPods,
compared with 4.3 million Macs and 6.6 million iPods projected
by analysts in a Bloomberg survey.  TV Hobby  Cook also said the company last quarter sold 1.3 million
units of Apple TV, a set-top box that lets users play Internet
video on a TV set. That was almost triple the number from a year
earlier. The company continues to explore how it can do more in
the television market, he said.  “It’s still at a level that we would call it a hobby, but
we continue to pull strings to see where it takes us,” Cook
said.  Even as it missed Wall Street expectations, Apple’s growth
still contrasts with that of other hardware makers, such as
 Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ) , which are being hurt as customers opt for
smartphones and tablets instead of new laptops. Apple’s net
income compares with $2.83 billion reported by  Intel Corp . last
week and $1.92 billion Hewlett-Packard is predicted by analysts
to report next month. Hewlett-Packard’s net income projection
excludes one-time expenses.  Tablet Rivalry  With tablet sales predicted by research firm  Yankee Group 
to overtake those of personal computers by 2015, Apple is
preparing for challengers for its iPad. Microsoft later this
year will begin selling its Surface tablet, while Google last
month introduced its Nexus 7. Apple’s iPad will account for 62.5
percent of tablet sales this year, according to IDC. The company
also is preparing to introduce a model with a smaller screen,
people familiar with the plans said earlier this month.  Apple also is battling  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  for
leadership in the global smartphone market. While Apple has
debuted one new model iPhone every year, Samsung has released a
variety of handsets, including the Galaxy S III released in May.  Apple’s next iPhone will have an overhauled look and
include a larger screen, people familiar with the plans said in
May. The device also is predicted by analysts to have a stronger
processor and work with faster long-term evolution wireless
networks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Satariano in  San Francisco  at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  