-- Argentine GDP to Shrink First Time in Decade, Citigroup Says
-- B y   K a t i a   P o r z e c a n s k i
-- 2012-07-24T21:52:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/argentine-gdp-to-shrink-first-time-in-decade-citigroup-says-1-.html
Argentina ’s economy will post its
first annual contraction in a decade as tighter capital and
import controls contribute to a drop in output and confidence,
Citigroup Inc. said.  Gross domestic product will shrink 1.7 percent this year,
worse than the bank’s previous forecast for 1 percent growth,
New York-based economist Joaquin Cottani wrote in a note to
clients. With annual inflation Citigroup estimates at 25
percent, the country is experiencing so-called stagflation, he
wrote.  President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner  has stepped up
restrictions on dollar purchases and forced some companies to
repatriate export revenue since her October re-election in a bid
to stem capital outflow. She also restricted imports as she
sought to widen a narrowing trade surplus, and seized the
country’s biggest oil company from its Spanish parent company.  “The root of the current recession is not international
but domestic,” Cottani said.  Fernandez’s policies have worsened the outlook of
Argentines and international investors, Cottani said.  Consumer
confidence  fell 25 percent in July from a year earlier,
according to a survey released yesterday by Buenos Aires-based
Torcuato Di Tella University.  Argentina’s industrial production fell more than 4 percent
for a second straight month in June, the biggest two-month
decline in a decade, the statistics institute reported on July
20. Economic activity fell 0.5 percent in May from a year
earlier, the first year-on-year decline since July 2009, the
agency said in a separate report that day.  Cottani said his forecast for an economic contraction this
year is different than what he expects the government will
report. He predicts the government will say growth was 1.5
percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katia Porzecanski in  New York  at 
 kporzecansk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  