-- MarketAxess Expands Service for Bond Trades Among Bank Customers
-- B y   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g
-- 2012-07-24T16:22:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/marketaxess-expands-service-for-bond-trades-among-bank-customers.html
MarketAxess Holdings Inc. (MKTX) , the owner of an electronic bond and derivative trading system, has taken
additional steps to enable bank customers to trade debt among
themselves.  The company’s Market Lists feature allows active trades to
be shown anonymously to over 1,000 investors and broker dealer
firms, MarketAxess said in a statement today. The company has
traditionally concentrated on dealer-to-customer trading.  “Market Lists promotes investor-to-investor order matching
and trades are cleared through a participating dealer,” the
company said in the statement.  The banks and investors active in the $8 trillion U.S.
corporate bond market are shifting toward more electronic
trading as U.S. and international regulations take effect. The
U.S. Dodd-Frank Act’s Volcker Rule will limit the amount of risk
deposit-taking banks can take, reducing dealers’ willingness to
keep bonds on their balance sheet. Also, new rules from the
Basel Committee on Banking Supervision are forcing dealers to
increase capital for their trading businesses to protect against
another economic crisis.  The $37.49 billion of  corporate securities  held as of July
11 by primary dealers that trade directly with the  Federal
Reserve  is down 84 percent from the record high of $235.3
billion in October 2007.  Hedge funds  and money managers are also seeing an increase
in their ability to find each other to buy and sell bonds,
bypassing the traditional role of dealers as market makers.
 BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , the world’s largest money manager, has said it
plans to introduce internalized bond trading among its thousands
of clients.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  has begun a similar
internal trading system for its customers, called GSessions.  MarketAxess  fell  41 cents, or 1.4 percent, to $28.45 as of
11:41 a.m. in New York. The shares have gained 11 percent in the
past year. The new MarketAxess features were reported earlier
today in the Wall Street Journal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Leising in New York at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Alan Goldstein  at   agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 