-- Maruti Probe Narrows to 11 Union Leaders, Police Says
-- B y   K a r t h i k e y a n   S u n d a r a m   a n d   S i d d h a r t h   P h i l i p
-- 2012-07-24T18:31:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/maruti-probe-narrows-to-11-union-leaders-police-says.html
Indian authorities probing last
week’s violence at  Maruti Suzuki India Ltd. (MSIL)  are narrowing their
manhunt to 11 labor union leaders for their roles in starting a
deadly riot, a police officer involved in the matter said.  Arrest warrants have been issued for the 11 men --including
Ram Meher, president of the Maruti Suzuki Workers Union -- as
they have become the focus of the investigation, the person said
yesterday, asking not to be identified because he isn’t
authorized to speak to the media. None of those prime suspects
are in custody, the person said.  A general manager was killed and dozens of managers injured
in last week’s incident at Maruti Suzuki’s plant in Manesar --
the most violent riot in the company’s history. The current
stoppage is the carmaker’s fourth in the past year at the
factory, which accounts for about 40 percent of total
manufacturing capacity.  Puneet Dhawan, spokesman at Maruti Suzuki, said the company
has filed a complaint against 55 people. Of those, five are in
custody for questioning, the police official said.  S.A.S. Zaidi, public relations officer for Haryana Police,
didn’t respond to six calls to his mobile phone.  Meher hasn’t responded to calls to his mobile phone since
sending a July 19 statement saying that the dispute started when
a Maruti supervisor insulted a union worker because of his
caste.  K.K. Sindhu, police commissioner of Gurgaon district in
Haryana, the home state of Maruti’s Manesar plant, said July 23
authorities aren’t pursuing pressing charges against all of the
plant’s 3,000 union workers -- a pledge made by Deputy
Commissioner Maheswar Dayal days earlier -- and is mainly
detaining employees to obtain information about the incident.  The government of Haryana on July 23 appointed K.T.S.
Tulsi, a former additional solicitor general of  India , as
special prosecutor to help build and argue the case against
union workers.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Karthikeyan Sundaram in  New Delhi  at 
 kmeenakshisu@bloomberg.net ;
Siddharth Philip in Mumbai at 
 sphilip3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net ;
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  