-- U.S. Stocks, Commodities Drop on Greece Concern, Profits
-- B y   J u l i a   L e i t e   a n d   L y n n   T h o m a s s o n
-- 2012-07-24T20:50:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/asian-stocks-at-lowest-this-month-as-oil-wheat-drop-on-europe.html
U.S.  stocks  dropped for a third day
and commodities slid as speculation increased that  Greece  may
miss debt reduction targets and United Parcel Service Inc. cut
its profit forecast. German bonds fell after Moody’s Investors
Service lowered the outlook on the nation’s Aaa rating.  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  sank 0.9 percent to
1,338.31 at 4 p.m. New York time. Futures on the equity gauge
retreated 0.5 percent after regular trading as  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s
profit missed analysts’ projections. The euro depreciated 0.4
percent to $1.2069 and slid for a fifth day against the yen. The
 yield  on the 10-year German bund climbed six basis points to
1.24 percent after matching the record low of 1.127 percent
yesterday. A gauge of U.S. company debt risk rose for a third
day. S&P’s GSCI gauge of 24 raw materials fell 0.5 percent.  UPS, the world’s largest package-delivery company, and
Whirlpool Corp., the biggest appliance maker, declined after
reporting quarterly profit that trailed analysts’ estimates.
Moody’s lowered the outlooks on the Aaa credit ratings of
 Germany , the Netherlands and  Luxembourg  yesterday, citing the
“rising uncertainty” about  Europe ’s debt crisis.  “Europe continues to be less than positive,” Stephen Auth, the New York-based chief investment officer for equities
at Federated Investors Inc., which manages $363.6 billion, said
in a telephone interview. “People are looking at UPS as another
sign the global economy is in a soft patch.”  Apple Misses  Apple sank 4.8 percent after the close of U.S. exchanges.
The world’s largest company by market value posted profit and
sales that fell short of analysts’ projections for only the
second time since 2003 as customers held off on iPhone purchases
while waiting for a new model to be introduced later in the
year.  Moody’s left  Finland  as the only country in the 17-nation
euro region with a stable outlook for its top ranking.
 Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s government said Germany will remain
Europe’s haven during the financial crisis, pushing back against
Moody’s decision. The risks in the  euro zone  are “not new” and
Germany remains “in a very sound economic and financial
situation,” the  Finance Ministry  said.  The euro area is ready to act to help  Spain  as the
country’s borrowing costs soar, Luxembourg Finance Minister Luc
Frieden said. While Frieden said no work is being done for a
bailout of the Spanish government, policy makers in the 17-
country euro area must be prepared to move quickly.  Spanish Bonds  Spain’s benchmark 10-year bond yield reached a euro-era
record of 7.625 percent earlier. Italy’s 10-year bonds fell for
a third day after a report showed services and manufacturing in
the euro region shrank in July. Government debt from the
Netherlands dropped as its outlook was also lowered by Moody’s.
Ten-year  Treasury yields  slipped two basis points to 1.40
percent.  “Europe’s recession is deepening and spreading to the
core, including Germany,” said Kit Juckes, head of currency
research at Societe Generale SA in  London . “For investors,
fearful of downgrades even to core debt, the path of least
resistance will be to look outside Europe and hope that the U.S.
data is a little stronger.”  Stocks extended losses after a Reuters report cited
European Union officials saying Greece was seen missing targets
for reducing debt. German Vice Chancellor Philipp Roesler said
over the weekend that Greece was unlikely to be able to meet its
obligations under the bailout program.  The  S&P 500  pared losses in the final hour of trading after
the Wall Street Journal said the U.S. Federal Reserve is moving
closer to taking steps that may support economic growth. Fed
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  told senators last week that the
central bank is prepared to act to boost growth if the labor
market doesn’t improve.  Euro, Yen  The euro weakened 0.7 percent to 94.34 yen. The Japanese
currency rose versus all of its major peers as investors sought
safety even as the nation’s government said it’s ready to combat
its strength.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark used to hedge against losses on
corporate debt or to speculate on creditworthiness, increased
2.3 basis points to a mid-price of 115.7 basis points, according
to prices compiled by Bloomberg.  Investors watched second-quarter corporate  results . Sales
rose an average 2.9 percent in the second quarter among 147
companies in the S&P 500 that have reported results so far,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Only 40 percent of the
reported companies have topped analysts’ estimates on sales,
while 73 percent have beaten on profit, the data show.  UPS, Whirlpool  UPS (UPS)  slumped 4.6 percent. The company is seeing revenue
decline as it seeks to expand in Europe with the $6.5 billion
acquisition of TNT Express NV. Whirlpool retreated 7.5 percent.
The home appliance maker reported second-quarter earnings
excluding some items of $1.55 a share, missing the average
analyst estimate in a Bloomberg survey of $1.69.  DeVry Inc., a provider of education services, tumbled 25
percent after saying it plans to cut 570 jobs amid declining
enrollment.  The Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility Index, also
known as the VIX, gained 8.8 percent to 20.26, the highest level
since June 15.  The Stoxx 600 lost 0.5 percent. Elan Corp. sank 12 percent
in Dublin after an experimental Alzheimer’s treatment developed
with Pfizer Inc. and Johnson & Johnson failed to improve
symptoms of dementia in a study.  Corn futures fell 0.9 percent, soybeans slumped 3.3 percent
and wheat lost 3.7 percent. Rain may fall in parts of Iowa and
Illinois this week and next, and the Midwest might get showers
in the next 11 to 15 days, reducing severe moisture deficits,
Commodity Weather Group LLC in Bethesda,  Maryland , said in a
report.  Oil rose for the first time in three days as clashes in
 Syria  raised tension in the  Middle East  and a preliminary
reading of a Chinese purchasing managers’ index showed it would
be at the highest level since February. Crude futures gained 0.4
percent to settle at $88.50 a barrel on the  New York  Mercantile
Exchange.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julia Leite in New York at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net ;
Lynn Thomasson in New York at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Jeff Sutherland  at 
 jsutherlan13@bloomberg.net ;
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  