-- Kiwi Weakens on Europe Debt Concern; Aussie Erases Loss on CPI
-- B y   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a
-- 2012-07-25T06:24:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/aussie-kiwi-remain-lower-as-europe-concern-damps-risk-appetite.html
The Australian and  New Zealand 
dollars traded near the lowest in more than three weeks against
the yen as declines in Asian stocks and concern Europe’s debt
crisis is worsening weighed on risk appetite.  The so-called kiwi declined against all except one of its
16 major peers after borrowing costs for Spain and Italy rose
and speculation mounted that Greece may miss debt-reduction
targets. The Aussie touched a six-month high against its New
Zealand counterpart as traders pared bets the  Reserve Bank of
Australia  will cut  interest rates  next month following data that
showed core consumer prices rose in line with forecasts.  “The Aussie looks a bit pricey given the slowdown in the
global economy, weaker commodity prices and weaker equity
markets,” said  Sean Callow , a senior currency strategist at
 Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  in Sydney. The Australian and New Zealand
dollars “are very sensitive to the deterioration in global risk
appetite.”  The Australian dollar earlier touched 79.54  yen , the lowest
since June 29, before trading at 79.90 as of 4:09 p.m. in Sydney
from yesterday’s close at 79.92. It was little changed at
$1.0224 after earlier weakening as much as 0.4 percent. The
Aussie touched NZ$1.0377, the strongest since Jan. 9, before
trading at NZ$1.3066, 0.3 percent higher from yesterday.  New Zealand’s dollar touched 61.01 yen, the weakest since
June 12, before trading 0.3 percent lower from yesterday’s close
at 61.15. It lost 0.3 percent to 78.23 U.S. cents, after earlier
dropping to 78.08, the lowest since June 14.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  of stocks declined 1.3 percent
following a 0.8 percent drop in the  MSCI World Index (MXWO)  and  Thomson
Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index (CRY)  of raw materials yesterday.  European Debt  The yield on Spain’s 10-year debt yesterday climbed to a
euro-era record of 7.636 percent, while the rate on similar-
maturity Italian debt reached 6.598 percent, a level unseen
since Jan. 17.  Elsewhere in Europe, officials representing Greece’s troika
of international creditors -- the European Commission, the
 European Central Bank  and the  International Monetary Fund  --
arrived in Athens yesterday to assess how far from bailout terms
the country has strayed. German Vice Chancellor Philipp Roesler
told broadcaster ARD on July 22 that he is “very skeptical”
Greece can be rescued.  Australian Inflation  Australia’s consumer prices rose 1.2 percent last quarter
from a year earlier, the statistics bureau said in a statement
today. That compares with the 1.3 percent rise predicted by
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News and 1.6 percent for the
previous quarter. The RBA aims to keep annual underlying
inflation in a range of 2 percent to 3 percent.  The price data doesn’t give a “green light for the  Reserve
Bank  to move rates any time very, very soon,” Ivan Colhoun,
head of Australian economics and property research at  Australia
& New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ) , said in an interview on
Bloomberg Television. The market was “looking for a number that
said the economy is much, much weaker than the RBA’s thinking.
We didn’t get that in the number today.”  Interest-rate swaps  indicate a 57 percent chance the
Reserve Bank will lower its interest rate by 25 basis points at
its next meeting on Aug. 7, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. That compares with a 77 percent chance indicated a
yesterday.  Australia’s central bank reduced borrowing costs in May and
June as Europe’s sovereign debt crisis threatened global growth
and  China’s economy  slowed. It kept its key rate unchanged at
3.5 percent this month, citing stronger domestic growth
momentum.  ‘Good Shape’  Along with the inflation report, the Conference Board’s
leading economic index for Australia rose 0.4 percent in May to
123.6, according to a statement released today. Australian
Treasurer Wayne Swan said today inflation is “contained” and
the domestic economy is in “good shape.”  The kiwi declined even after a report showed New Zealand’s
annual trade deficit unexpectedly narrowed in the year through
June. Imports exceeded exports by NZ$747 million ($584 million),
in the 12 months through June compared with a revised NZ$876
million shortfall in the prior period, Statistics New Zealand
said today in Wellington. The median estimate of economists in a
Bloomberg survey was a NZ$1 billion deficit.  New Zealand’s two-year swap rate, a fixed payment made to
receive floating rates, was at 2.55 percent.  The  Reserve Bank of New Zealand  is scheduled to decide on
monetary policy tomorrow, with economists predicting that the
central bank will keep its benchmark interest rate unchanged at
2.5 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariko Ishikawa in Tokyo at 
 mishikawa9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  