-- Aussie, Kiwi Dollars Fall as Risk Appetite Wanes on Euro Concern
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2012-07-24T21:04:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/aussie-kiwi-dollars-fall-as-risk-appetite-wanes-on-euro-concern.html
The Australian and  New Zealand 
dollars declined for a third straight day against their U.S.
peer yesterday as concern  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis is
worsening damped demand for riskier assets.  The two South Pacific currencies erased earlier gains
against the greenback that followed an increase in a gauge of
Chinese manufacturing. China is Australia’s biggest trading
partner and New Zealand’s second-largest export market. Both
currencies fell versus the yen.  “There’s no doubt been a slight shift in risk appetite,”
Blake Jespersen, managing director of institutional foreign-
exchange sales in Toronto at Bank of Montreal, said in a
telephone interview. “There’s been a pretty steady stream of
negative headlines out of Europe.”  The Aussie fell 0.4 percent to $1.0221 in  New York 
yesterday, after earlier gaining as much as 0.6 percent. The
currency declined 0.6 percent to 79.92 yen after appreciating
0.4 percent.  New Zealand’s dollar, known as the kiwi, decreased 0.4
percent to 78.45 U.S. cents, after also rising as much as 0.6
percent earlier. The kiwi fell 0.7 percent to 61.33 yen.  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index of 24 raw materials
decreased 0.5 percent as commodities fell for a third day on
European skepticism that Greece will meet its debt-reduction
targets. Stocks fell, with the  S&P 500 Index  dropping 0.9
percent.  Australian consumer prices rose 1.3 percent last quarter
from a year earlier, a Bloomberg News survey forecast before the
Bureau of Statistics releases the data today. They gained 1.6
percent from January through March.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Robert Burgess  at 
 bburgess@bloomberg.net  