-- Aussie, Kiwi Dollars Rally After China Manufacturing Data
-- B y   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a
-- 2012-07-24T05:12:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/aussie-kiwi-dollars-rally-after-china-manufacturing-data.html
The Australian and  New Zealand 
dollars rose, snapping two days of declines, after an increase
in a private manufacturing gauge for  China  bolstered the export
prospects for the South Pacific nations.  The so-called Aussie and kiwi advanced against the yen
after  Japan ’s finance minister reiterated that he’s ready
counter currency strength. Gains in both currencies were limited
before  Spain  auctions bills today amid renewed concern that
Europe’s debt crisis is worsening. The 49.5 preliminary reading
for a Chinese purchasing managers’ index from HSBC Holdings Plc
and Markit Economics today compares with a final 48.2 for June.  “We’re all feeling a bit gloomy at the moment so the fact
that we ended up with a less gloomy number in China is quite
encouraging,” said  Annette Beacher , Singapore-based head of
Asia-Pacific research at TD Securities Inc. “The Aussie has
taken some heart from that.”  The Australian dollar rose 0.4 percent to $1.0304 as of 3
p.m. in Sydney from yesterday, when it dropped 1.2 percent. The
Aussie added 0.3 percent to 80.65 yen from yesterday, when it
declined 1.3 percent.  Australia ’s 15-year bond yields earlier declined as much as
3.5 basis points to 3.025 percent, the lowest rate on record for
the country’s longest-dated bond.  New Zealand’s dollar, known as the kiwi, climbed 0.6
percent to 79.21 U.S. cents from yesterday, when it lost 1.5
percent. The currency gained 0.4 percent to 61.99 yen.  China Data  Along with HSBC and Markit’s PMI gauge, the Conference
Board’s leading economic index for China rose 0.1 percent in
June to 234.9, according to a statement released today. China is
Australia’s biggest trading partner and New Zealand’s second-
biggest export market.  In a speech today,  Reserve Bank  of Australia Governor  Glenn Stevens  sought to ease concern his nation is vulnerable to
shocks from China, a domestic housing slump and global financial
stress, saying it remains a “lucky country” with a favorable
outlook.  Stevens said he expects Australia’s inflation in the second
quarter to be near 2 percent. Economists surveyed by Bloomberg
are predicting a 1.3 percent rise in consumer prices last
quarter from the same three-month period last year before the
Bureau of Statistics release its figures tomorrow. The RBA aims
to keep annual underlying inflation in a range of 2 percent to 3
percent.  Demand for the Aussie and kiwi was supported against the
yen amid speculation Japan will step in to weaken the nation’s
currency. Finance Minister Azumi said the yen’s gain is one-
sided and doesn’t reflect economic fundamentals.  “A factor that could be supporting the Aussie and the kiwi
is the increased rhetoric from the Japanese policy makers,”
said Greg Gibbs, a senior currency strategist at Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc in  Singapore . “Risk of intervention could be
a factor helping risk sentiment in  Asia , but the main concern is
still in Europe.”  Spain Concerns  The yen tends to strengthen during periods of financial
turmoil because Japan’s current-account surplus makes it less
reliant on foreign capital. A stronger currency hurts exporters
by making their goods more expensive overseas.  The  yield  on Spain’s 10-year bond jumped to as much as
7.565 percent yesterday, the highest since November 1996, while
the cost of insuring against default on the nation’s sovereign
debt also soared to a record. Moody’s Investors Service lowered
the credit rating outlooks for  Germany , the Netherlands and
Luxembourg to negative.  “Things in  Europe  are likely to get worse before they get
better,” said Hans Kunnen, chief economist at St. George Bank
Ltd. in Sydney. “The contagion effect is ongoing. We expect the
Aussie to remain close to parity over the next few months.”  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  