-- Austerity Olympians Evoke Milking Cows in Postwar London Games
-- B y   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e   a n d   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2012-07-24T23:01:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/austerity-olympians-evoke-milking-cows-in-post-war-london-games.html
Edna Child was too busy milking cows
in the British war effort to train more than a few hours a week
for the diving competition at the 1948  London  Olympics.  “I got one morning off a week, Saturday morning,” Child,
89, whose training diet was controlled by rationing rather than
coaches, said in an interview. “We were allowed an extra amount
of meat and that was a big thing, but no cheese and milk.”  Sixty-four years after Britain last hosted sport’s
quadrennial showpiece, spending on the games has proliferated
with athletes whisked to events down special highway lanes from
airports to their purpose-built village through parts of London
that still lay flattened by bombs in 1948.  The last games were organized for the equivalent of about
20 million pounds ($31 million) in today’s money compared with
this summer’s 9.3 billion-pound spectacle, which starts July 27,
according to  London 2012  officials.  Child finished sixth in the Empire Pool at Wembley in 1948,
on a diving board that was made out of two Douglas Firs given to
the cash-strapped London organizing committee by  Canada . At the
2012 Olympics, held in the same east London borough where Child
grew up, British diver Tom Daley will be going for gold at the
250 million-pound Aquatics Centre. He trains six days a week.  “We couldn’t even afford to build the venues and the Swiss
donated the gymnastic equipment,” London Mayor  Boris Johnson 
told reporters. “We didn’t even have an Olympic village in
1948. They had to bring their own towels and they had to bunk up
in school classrooms in west London.”  First Coke  Dutch athlete Nel Karelse, 86, remembers watching
television for the first time during the London Olympics, where
she finished fifth in the long jump.  “I also drank my first Coca-Cola, and was deeply moved by
a choir singing at the opening ceremony,” Karelse, who still
attends gymnastics classes, said from Breda, the Netherlands.
“The Olympics were an overwhelming event in my life.”  The London Summer Games were the first since  Nazi Germany 
held the 1936 Berlin Olympics. Four-thousand athletes from
fifty-nine nations took part.  Germany  and  Japan  were banned
because of their role in the war. At London 2012, more than
10,000 athletes will take part from 204 countries.  The 1948 games were dominated by Fanny Blankers-Koen, the
“Flying Housewife” from the Netherlands who won four track and
field gold medals. No woman has repeated her feat. The mother-
of-two was rewarded with a bicycle upon her return to Amsterdam.  ‘Biggest Star’  “Fanny was just an amazing athlete,” Karelse said of her
teammate, who died in 2004 at the age of 85. “She was under a
lot of pressure as world record holder on most of her events,
yet she delivered. She was undisputedly the biggest star of our
team, and of the entire games really.”  Dutch gymnast Geertruida Heil-Bonnet, 92, recalled handing
out butter and jam to the Austrian gymnastics team.  “Those girls were starving,” she said in an interview in
Varsseveld, the Netherlands. On the way to Wembley Stadium, the
Dutch team took the wrong train and ended up in Harrow-on-the-
Hill on London’s outskirts. “We just made it back in time.”  Tragedy struck the gymnastics competition, where Heil-
Bonnet, who later became an international gymnastics judge,
finished fifth with her team.  Shortly after the Czechoslovakia team arrived in London,
one of its members, 22-year-old Eliska Misakova, was taken ill.
A few days later, she died of infantile paralysis on the first
day of the team event. The Czech gymnastics team, which included
her older sister, Miloslava, still competed and won gold.  Black Ribbon  “We were all in tears as the Czech flag was hoisted at the
medal ceremony with a black ribbon, and her sister stood on the
podium,” said Heil-Bonnet. “They arrived in a pair, and only
one returned home. It was really tragic.”  Speaking at Times Square in  New York , American basketball
player Ray Lumpp, 89, recalled the hospitality of the British
people after a seven-day boat ride from the U.S.  “They were still recovering from the war,” said Lumpp,
who won gold in 1948 and later played for the  New York Knicks .
“You’ve got to admire the British for what they did and the
games that they put on. They shared everything that they had and
it was a great Olympics. But it was very difficult times.”  Lumpp, who was in the  Air Force  from 1943-46, has been
invited by U.S. coach  Mike Krzyzewski  to travel to London to be
with the current U.S. basketball team.  London Divers  Diver Sammy Lee, a Korean-American doctor, made history by
winning gold at the 10-meter platform. He successfully defended
his title four years later in Helsinki.  “It was the greatest feeling in the world,” Lee said at
Times Square in New York. “I hoped that other Asian-Americans
who were watching would realize that any goal you set you can
do, because you were born free.”  Born and raised in West Ham, east London, diver Child
overcame a chest infection called empyema in her childhood to
join the Land Army, an agricultural organization set up to
provide food for the nation that was made up of women who
replaced men at war.  She is looking forward to seeing 18-year-old Tom Daley at
the Olympic pool, a stone-throw from the house she grew up in
that was bombed during the war. As a competitor of the 1948
games, she’s been given two tickets for her event.  “I’m going to watch and I am going to enjoy it,
thoroughly,” she said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Spillane in London at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net 
Danielle Rossingh at the London sports
desk at   drossingh@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at   celser@bloomberg.net . 