-- Baidu to Consider Acquisitions to Boost Services, Li Says
-- B y   M a r k   L e e
-- 2012-07-24T04:18:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/baidu-to-consider-acquisitions-to-boost-services-li-says.html
Baidu Inc. (BIDU) , owner of  China ’s most-
used search-engine, will consider making acquisitions as the
company aims to offer new services to users at a faster pace,
Chief Executive Officer Robin Li said.  “In most cases, I would say I prefer buy to build,” Li
said in a conference call with analysts today after Baidu
reported earnings. The Beijing-based company will consider both
acquisitions and in-house development to offer a wider range of
services, he said, without giving details of potential targets.  Baidu is expanding in display advertising to win sales from
clients including  Procter & Gamble Co. (PG) , and aims to add mobile
users as more Chinese access the Web on smartphones. Second-
quarter profit rose 70 percent, beating analysts’ estimates, as
more small businesses in China bought keywords on Baidu’s
search-engine after the company stepped up marketing.  “The company is looking for the next growth driver,” said
Dundas Deng, an analyst at Guotai Junan Securities in Shenzhen
who rates Baidu buy. Baidu may purchase companies that offer
technologies for mobile users, Deng said.  Baidu’s American depositary receipts surged as much as 9.5
percent in extended trading after the earnings announcement. The
stock earlier fell 2.8 percent to $107.10 in Nasdaq Stock Market
trading.  Second-quarter net income climbed to 2.77 billion  yuan 
($434 million), or 7.86 yuan per American depositary receipt,
compared with 1.63 billion yuan, or 4.67 yuan, a year earlier,
Baidu reported yesterday. That exceeded the 2.5 billion-yuan
average of 10 analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Revenue
rose 60 percent to 5.46 billion yuan.  Travel Search Stake  Third-quarter revenue will be in a range of 6.25 billion
yuan to 6.41 billion yuan, Baidu said. That compares with the
6.39 billion-yuan average of analysts’ estimates compiled by
Bloomberg.  Last year, Baidu paid $306 million for a majority stake in
Qunar.com Inc., a Chinese travel search site.  Tencent Holdings
Ltd. (700) , China’s biggest Internet company, is also making
acquisitions and investments to add technologies and services.  Making acquisitions, rather than developing technologies
internally, “will give us time, and gives us competitive
advantages,” Li said today.  Marketing Program  Baidu had more than 350,000 customers for its online
advertising services at the end of the second quarter, 9.7
percent more than three months earlier, Chief Financial Officer
Jennifer Li said on the call. The company gained customers after
a marketing program last quarter, she said.  “The smaller advertisers are helping the company,” Dick Wei, who rates Baidu overweight at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in  Hong
Kong , said before the earnings release. Still, “it’s the bigger
customers who’ll drive growth,” Wei said.  In the second quarter, Baidu accounted for 78.6 percent of
China’s search-engine market by revenue, compared with 15.7
percent for  Google Inc. (GOOG) , according to researcher Analysys
International.  China’s online advertising market may expand by 39 percent
this year to 65.1 billion yuan, slowing from 46 percent growth
in 2011, according to a report by Nomura Holdings Inc. in June.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Lee  in Hong Kong at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  