-- Bankia Preferreds Plan Said to Offer Payout Near Face Value
-- B y   E s t e b a n   D u a r t e
-- 2012-07-25T09:41:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/bankia-said-to-propose-preferreds-redemption-close-to-face-value.html
Spain’s  Bankia (BKIA)  group wants to pay
holders of 3 billion euros ($3.6 billion) of its preferred
shares most of their money back, though not for years to come, a
person with direct knowledge of the matter said.  The preferred shares are loss-absorbing notes whose holders
must, under European Union rules, share the burden of rescuing
cash-strapped lenders to reduce taxpayers’ contribution to the
100 billion-euro bailout of Spain’s banking system. Forcing
losses on the investors is politically sensitive because most
were retail clients of the troubled savings banks merged into
Bankia group in December 2010.  Under the plan, Bankia’s preferred shareholders would
receive new securities with a lower yield straight away, plus
cash or shares in future years, said the person, who asked not
to be identified because the proposal isn’t public. The payments
would get close to the notes’ full face value, though spreading
them over time means they’re worth less, helping  Spain  comply
with EU rules limiting how much rescued banks can pay creditors,
the person said.  “It seems to be more marketing than anything else,” said
Arturo Bris, a professor of finance at the  IMD business school 
in Laussanne,  Switzerland . “A larger amount in the future is,
in reality, the equivalent of a smaller amount today, though it
could make it easier for retail clients to accept the haircut.”  Talks to Proceed  Bankia group proposed the compromise to the European
Commission, which will now negotiate with the Spanish government
and central bank, the person said. A spokesman for Bankia group,
who asked not to be identified citing the lender’s policy,
declined to comment.  Concern over the fourth largest euro-region economy’s
ability to fund the rescue of its banks and regional governments
sent Spain’s  10-year bond yield  surging to a record 7.751
percent today. The cost of insuring the nation’s debt also
jumped to an all-time high, with credit-default swaps on Spain
rising to 647 basis points, implying a 43 percent chance of
default over five years.  Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange
for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
borrower fail to adhere to its debt agreements. A basis point on
a swap protecting $10 million of debt for five years is
equivalent to $1,000 a year.  How much investors get under Bankia group’s proposal will
depend on what its preferred shares are currently valued at.
That’s because EU banks rescued using taxpayer cash can’t repay
preferreds or other junior debt at more than 10 percent higher
than where they’re trading.  Bankia’s preferreds, which were issued by the Caja Madrid
savings bank in 2009, last traded at 45 percent of face value on
July 11, according to the  Bolsas y Mercados Espanoles SA  stock
exchange. Most of the preferred shares of other lenders merged
into Banco Financiero y de Ahorros SA, or Bankia group, have
already been redeemed or swapped into new notes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Esteban Duarte in Madrid at 
 eduarterubia@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  