-- Barclays Commodity Strategist Sen Said to Leave Bank
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r o w n   a n d   C h a n y a p o r n   C h a n j a r o e n
-- 2012-07-24T16:13:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/barclays-commodity-strategist-sen-said-to-leave-bank.html
Amrita Sen, a commodities analyst at
 Barclays Plc (BARC) , left the bank this week, two people with knowledge
of the matter said.  Sen, 28, resigned from the London-based investment-banking
unit of the U.K’s second-biggest lender to study for a
doctorate, the people said, declining to be identified because
the information isn’t public.  She joined Barclays Capital in 2007 after earning a
master’s degree in economics from  Cambridge University  that year
and a bachelor’s degree in economics from the University of
Warwick in 2006.  Together with  Paul Horsnell , the bank’s head of commodities
research, Sen predicted on April 11 that a rally in gasoline in
the U.S. would probably stall below $4 a gallon, presaging a 16
percent decline through July 1. In March, she forecast a release
from the U.S. Strategic Petroleum Reserve in the coming months,
which didn’t materialize.  In January, Sen predicted an average price for  Brent crude 
this year of $115 per barrel. It has averaged $112 so far. The
Standard & Poor’s GSCI index of 24 raw materials fell 2.5
percent this year after gaining 85 percent in the past three
years.  Sen plans to enroll at the School of Oriental and African
Studies at the University of London and will be a research
fellow at the Oxford Institute for Energy Studies, the people
said.  The institute, attached to the University of Oxford,
specializes in research into the economics and politics of
international energy and is headed by Christopher Allsopp, a
former member of the  Bank of England ’s Monetary Policy
Committee.  Roxana Mohammadian-Molina also left Barclays’ commodities
research team this year. She joined Tiberius Asset Management AG
to work in  portfolio management , the hedge fund said on July 12.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Brown in London at 
 mbrown42@bloomberg.net ;
Chanyaporn Chanjaroen in Singapore at 
 cchanjaroen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  