-- Bard, Doctor Ordered to Pay $5.5 Million Over Implant
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 2012-07-26T00:46:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/bard-must-pay-5-5-million-over-vaginal-mesh-implants.html
C.R. Bard Inc. is liable for
$3.6 million in damages after a jury found one of the company’s
vaginal-mesh implant injured a woman in the first case over the
devices to go to trial.  Jurors in state court in  Bakersfield ,  California , concluded
July 20 that Christine Scott and her husband deserved the damage
award because of injuries caused by Bard’s  Avaulta Plus  vaginal
implant,  Elaine Houghton , one of the couple’s lawyers, said in a
phone interview yesterday.  The panel found Bard officials were negligent in their
handling of the devices, used to treat pelvic organs that bulge,
or prolapse, or to deal with incontinence, she said.  “They seemed to focus on evidence we produced showing that
Bard didn’t properly test the product before putting it on the
market,” Houghton said. The lawyer said she asked jurors to
consider awarding as much as $11 million in damages to the
couple over the implant.  The case is the first to go to trial among hundreds of
lawsuits alleging that implants made by  Murray Hill , New Jersey-
based Bard,  Boston Scientific Corp. (BSX)  and other companies caused
organ damage. The decision comes more than a month after  Johnson
& Johnson (JNJ) ’s Ethicon unit announced it would stop selling four
lines of vaginal mesh devices.  Total Award  In its verdict, the California jury determined that Scott
and her husband were entitled to a total of $5.5 million for her
medical expenses, pain and suffering and other damages.  The panel found Bard was 60 percent at fault for Scott’s
injuries while Dr. Tillakarasi Kannappan, who surgically
implanted the device in 2008, was responsible for the other 40
percent of the liability, according a copy of the verdict sheet
filed with the court.  The doctor wasn’t a defendant in the trial and isn’t
responsible for paying the $1.9 million in damages that made up
the remainder of the verdict, according to court filings.
Houghton said Scott’s claims against Kannappan were severed from
the Bard case last year.  Bard officials said yesterday they were disappointed with
the jury’s decision to hold the company liable over the implants
and would appeal.  “While we empathize with the complications suffered by the
plaintiff, those complications are not the fault of any conduct
by the company,” Scott Lowry, a Bard spokesman, said in an e-
mailed statement.  ‘Significant Benefits’  “We believe the evidence establishes that our Avaulta mesh
products, cleared by the FDA, are safe and effective and provide
significant benefits to patients,” Lowry said.  Dennis Thelen, a lawyer representing Kannappan, didn’t
immediately return a call seeking comment today on the jury’s
verdict in the implant case.  A U.S. Food and Drug Administration report in August 2011
found vaginal-mesh products should be classified as posing high
risk to patients based on a review of side-effect reports from
January 2008 to December 2010. Women’s groups are demanding that
the devices be recalled.  In January, the FDA ordered 31 manufacturers, including
Bard and J&J, to study rates of organ damage and complications
linked to the vaginal-mesh implants. The companies must conduct
three years of safety studies, regulators said. Some women
contend the devices eroded and shrank over time, causing pain
and injuries.  Federal Lawsuits  The following month, the Judicial Panel on Multidistrict
Litigation consolidated federal suits against pelvic mesh makers
before U.S. District Judge Joseph R. Goodwin in Charleston,  West
Virginia . The judge is overseeing evidence-gathering efforts in
cases against Bard, J&J, Boston Scientific Corp. and the
American Medical Systems unit of Endo Pharmaceutical Holdings
Inc.  The first trial in those cases is set for Feb 5 and
involves a woman’s claim that one of Bard’s Avaulta implants
injured her, according to court filings.  “We view this verdict as a promising outcome that
underscores the compelling case against the mesh makers and
promoters,”  Fred Thompson , a lawyer for women whose implant
cases are consolidated in federal court in West Virginia, said
in an e-mailed statement.  In the California case, Houghton said Scott got the implant
in 2008 and then had to have as many as nine surgical procedures
to deal with problems the device caused.  “The evidence showed the implant eroded and caused
incontinence and pelvic pain,” said Houghton, a former
Washington state appeals court judge who tried the case with her
husband, Bakersfield attorney  Eugene Lorenz .  Potential Risks  As part of their verdict, the jurors found Bard officials
knew or should have known that surgeons “performing pelvic-
floor repair would not realize the potential risks” posed by
the implant, according to verdict sheet.  Jurors wound up awarding $5 million to Scott for her
medical expenses and pain and suffering along with $500,000 to
her husband, Roy, a detective with the Kern County Sheriff’s
Department, for loss of consortium with his wife, according to
the verdict sheet.  Houghton said she intends to press forward with claims
against Kannappan over Scott’s implant in a later trial. She
added that she’ll argue on appeal that Bard is responsible for
the full $5.5 million the jury awarded.  The case is Scott v. Kannappan, S-1500-CV-266034-WDE,
Superior Court for Kern County, California (Bakersfield).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  