-- Berkeley Joins Harvard, MIT Offering Free Online Classes
-- B y   J e a n n a   S m i a l e k
-- 2012-07-24T07:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/berkeley-joins-harvard-mit-offering-free-online-classes.html
The University of California
Berkeley  will join  Harvard University  and the  Massachusetts
Institute of Technology  in offering free interactive online
classes to students around the world.  EdX, as the nonprofit venture is known, was announced in
December 2011 as an MIT experiment called MITx, an online
program of courses with homework, exams and discussion forums.
Harvard joined the venture in May and faculty from the three
institutions will offer a total of seven classes this fall, open
to anyone with  Internet access , according to a statement today.  The nonprofit is providing free and affordable classes as
young student-loan borrowers in the U.S. struggle to keep up
with rising tuition costs. The nation’s outstanding educational
debt reached about $1 trillion earlier this year, according to
the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau.  “We are deeply committed to public education and to making
courses available at the lowest costs possible,” Robert Birgeneau, Berkeley’s chancellor, said in a telephone interview.  Harvard and MIT’s focus on research and the nonprofit model
attracted Berkeley, Birgeneau said.  More than 120 universities have expressed interest in
joining the EdX partnership, Anant Agarwal, the nonprofit’s
president, said in a telephone interview yesterday. The group is
cautious about expanding too quickly and has yet to determine a
timeline for bringing in new partners, he said.  Gates Foundation  While EdX will initially offer class certificates free of
charge this fall, it will eventually introduce charges to cover
costs, Agarwal said. Fees will probably be about $100 per
certificate and may be reduced in lower-income countries.  Harvard and MIT, both based in Cambridge,  Massachusetts ,
have each pledged $30 million to the project. Berkeley, which
has cash-flow issues because of California budget cuts, won’t
contribute funds, Birgeneau said.  Additional funding comes from newly announced donations by
MIT alumnus Philippe Laffont, founder and chief investment
officer of Coatue Management LLC, and Harvard alumnus Jonathan Grayer, former chairman and CEO of Washington Post Co.’s Kaplan
Inc. and a founder of Weld North LLC. Agarwal declined to
disclose the amounts.  The Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation has also contributed
$1 million to fund an experimental “flipped” classroom, which
will pair in-classroom interaction at a community college with
edX lectures and will target lower-income students.  Coursera Inc., a start-up founded by two Standford
University professors last year, also offers free online classes
from prestigious schools. The four-university forum announced
earlier this month that it will add 12 new partners, including
schools like  Duke University , the  University of Virginia  and The
University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanna Smialek in  New York  at 
 jsmialek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lisa Wolfson at 
 lwolfson@bloomberg.net  