-- Best Fix for Postal Service Is to Take It Private
-- B y   P e t e r   O r s z a g
-- 2012-07-24T22:30:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/best-fix-for-postal-service-is-to-take-it-private.html
Those who believe in the usefulness
of government must be vigilant about making sure all its
activities are vital ones, since the unnecessary ones undermine
public confidence. With this in mind, Congress should now
privatize the U.S.  Postal Service .  Further evidence for why this should happen came last week,
when the Postal Service  announced  that it would be unable to
meet billions of dollars in payments that are coming due in
August and September for future retiree health benefits.
Privatization is not always the best way to improve efficiency,
but the problems facing the Postal Service will be difficult to
address if it remains within the government, and there is no
longer any sound reason for it not to go private.  The Postal Service faces three problems: First, Congress
has not given it the permission it needs to cut costs and raise
revenue -- and lawmakers seem unable to approve even modest
reforms. Second, its market has been declining for years, as e-
mail, electronic payment and other alternatives to traditional
mail have grown. Third, the economic slump has caused a further
drop-off in mail volumes.  The agency has been struggling to meet these challenges by
becoming more productive -- and has been more successful than
many people may realize. As the  Cato Institute  (hardly a bastion
of support for government operations) has  noted , a decade ago
sorting 35,000 letters an hour required 70 employees. Today, it
takes only two. Over the past six years, the number of career
Postal Service workers has  declined  by more than 20 percent.  Deeper Predicament  Unfortunately, this new efficiency has been outmatched by a
deepening of the Postal Service’s predicament. Over the past
five years alone, mail volume has fallen more than 20 percent,
and revenue has declined 12 percent. The post office lost $25
billion from fiscal year 2007 to fiscal year 2011. It now has
less than  $1 billion  in cash, a dangerously small amount for a
service with weekly operating expenses of almost $1.5 billion.
Of the roughly 32,000 local post offices across the country,
fewer than 7,000  generate  enough revenue to cover their costs.  Which brings us to privatization, a path already being
followed for postal services in countries such as  Germany , the
Netherlands and  Japan . Despite claims to the contrary,
privatized entities do not, on average, become miraculously more
productive than public agencies. Indeed, privatization can
sometimes turn out to be a disaster -- as has been the case with
the financially troubled U.S. Enrichment Corporation, which
produces enriched uranium for nuclear  power plants , since it was
unwisely pushed out of government by the Clinton
administration’s Treasury Department during the 1990s.  In the case of the Postal Service, though, privatization
has become the best path forward, mainly because it would take
Congress out of the picture. As  New York  Times columnist  Joe
Nocera  recently argued, “the problem is that neither the
management nor the workers really control the Postal Service.
Even though the post office has been self-financed since the
1980s, it remains shackled by Congress, which simply can’t bring
itself to allow the service to make its own decisions.” And
Congress won’t do so, as long as the post office remains part of
the government.  The Postal Service has many assets that could be managed
more efficiently, if Congress got out of the way. In addition to
its 32,000 post offices, it has  461 processing facilities ,
monopoly access to residential mailboxes and an overfunded
pension plan. These assets would attract bidders. Consider, for
example, that many processing facilities and post offices sit on
valuable real estate, and it may be smarter to sell many of them
than to keep them.  Arguments Against  Three counterarguments caution against privatization, but
none of them is convincing. The first is that Congress could
simply unshackle the agency. Legislation is currently pending in
both the Senate and the House that would give Postal Service
management additional flexibility. In an increasingly polarized
Congress, however, it is not clear if or when this legislation
will be enacted. And even if it were passed soon, it would
probably provide only temporary help.  The second argument against privatization is that only a
public-sector post office can provide universal service. Yet in
sectors from telecommunications to electricity, universal
service does not require government ownership. Privatization
could come with the obligation to provide universal service.
FedEx Corp. and United Parcel Service Inc. already deliver to
almost all U.S. addresses. For the hard-to-reach, unprofitable
routes, a subsidy could be provided. This would be more
economical than the vast and opaque cross-subsidies now used to
ensure universal service.  The final argument involves the postal unions, and this one
is not so easy to dismiss. Labor compensation accounts for about
80 percent of Postal Service costs -- a much higher share than
at FedEx or UPS. No one would argue that, in the midst of a weak
labor market, a large share of the Postal Service workforce
should immediately be shed. But it is also true that the agency
will one day need far fewer workers. Private ownership could
facilitate more generous buyout packages and other measures to
ease the transition to a leaner workforce.  The U.S. Postal Service has a long and storied history. Yet
it is now struggling because the world has changed and because
congressional sclerosis has prevented it from adapting to the
new realities. The best way to modernize it now is to move it
out of the government.  ( Peter Orszag  is vice chairman of corporate and investment
banking at Citigroup Inc. and a former director of the Office of
Management and Budget in the Obama administration. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on the  panic over Greece ; 
 Margaret Carlson  on  mothers in the workplace ; Clive Crook on 
central banks’  mission creep ; A. Gary Shilling on how to 
 remake university financing ; David Gordon and Sean West on why 
the  U.S. emerging-market moment  is over.  To contact the writer of this article:
Peter Orszag at  orszagbloomberg@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net  