-- Biogen Second-Quarter Profit Rises as Avonex Sales Increase
-- B y   M e g   T i r r e l l
-- 2012-07-24T20:10:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/biogen-reports-second-quarter-profit-rises-boosts-forecast.html
Biogen Idec  Inc., the third-largest
U.S.  biotechnology  company, reported profit that topped
analysts’ estimates as sales increased from its  top-selling 
multiple sclerosis medicine Avonex and cancer therapy Rituxan.  Second-quarter net income surged 34 percent to $386.8
million, or $1.61 a share, from $288 million, or $1.18, a year
earlier, the Weston, Massachusetts-based company said today in a
statement. Earnings excluding some items of $1.82 topped by 26
cents the average of 21 analysts’  estimates  compiled by
Bloomberg. Revenue beat estimates by about $90 million.  Biogen said profit this year is expected to be more than
$6.20 a share, 5 cents higher than its May 1  forecast . The
company has been increasing sales of Avonex, Rituxan and
Tysabri, another MS therapy, while developing new medicines to
introduce to the market.  “The quarter looks terrific, probably one of the stronger
quarters you’ll see in this earnings season,”  Eric Schmidt , an
analyst with Cowen & Co., said in a telephone interview today.
“It’s a blowout quarter, driven by the top line.”  Biogen rose less than 1 percent to $139.48 at 4 p.m.  New
York  time. The shares have gained 27 percent this year.  Sales Jump  Revenue in the quarter rose 18 percent to $1.42 billion,
beating analysts’ average estimate of $1.33 billion. Sales of
Avonex climbed 16 percent to $762 million, while Rituxan
increased 31 percent to $285 million. Tysabri revenue was little
changed at $280 million, Biogen said.  The company’s first pill for MS, BG-12, is being weighed
for approval by regulators in the U.S. and  Europe , and late-
stage data are expected this year on experimental medicines
being developed for  Lou Gehrig ’s disease and hemophilia.  “In the next six months, we go into a really interesting
period for Biogen Idec where the pre-launch activity for these
late-stage programs intensifies,” Paul Clancy, Biogen’s chief
financial officer, said in a telephone interview today. “We’re
in this unique situation where the company is blessed with four
pivotal readouts over the next nine months, and we’re doing
commercial preparations.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Meg Tirrell in New York at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  