-- BMW Bets Mouse Click to Win $48,500 Electric Model Buyers
-- B y   D o r o t h e e   T s c h a m p a
-- 2012-07-24T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/bmw-bets-mouse-click-to-win-48-500-electric-model-buyers.html
Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW)  will
sell cars over the Web for the first time as the world’s largest
maker of  luxury vehicles  seeks an inexpensive way to reach more
buyers to recoup spending on its electric models.  A direct online sales platform for BMW’s new I sub-brand
will be unique in an industry where, outside of small-scale
experiments, competitors leave Internet orders for cars to
dealers. BMW’s range of strategies for the models, including a
roaming sales force backing a limited showroom network, reflects
the challenge carmakers face as low-emission vehicles trickle
into dealerships to sluggish demand after years of development.  “There is considerable risk in BMW’s approach of promoting
the I brand so prominently,” said  Stefan Bratzel , director of
the Center of Automotive Management at the University of Applied
Science in  Bergisch Gladbach ,  Germany . “There is the image
risk, if they don’t succeed as quickly as expected, and then
there’s the main risk of costs, which can only be countered with
high deliveries.”  BMW is opening the I models’ first showroom today in
 London , although only prototype cars and informational materials
will be displayed at first because the vehicles themselves won’t
go on sale before next year. BMW is spending about $3 billion
developing the i3 battery-powered city car and i8 plug-in hybrid
supercar, according to an estimate by  Frost & Sullivan . Industry
sales of electric cars last year, at 43,000 vehicles, were only
57 percent of the 75,000 deliveries predicted by Sarwant Singh,
a London-based automotive partner at the consulting company.  Starting Prices  The four-seat i3, scheduled to reach the market in late
2013, will be priced at about 40,000 euros ($48,500), Bratzel
estimated. That compares with a 23,850-euro  starting price  in
Germany for the 1-Series, the cheapest BMW-brand car. The i8,
targeted for sale in 2014, will cost more than 100,000 euros,
according to  Ian Robertson , BMW’s sales chief.  Details of how I-model buyers, the website and dealerships
will interact are “still in the planning process,” and will be
communicated later, Linda Croissant, a spokeswoman at Munich-
based BMW, said by phone yesterday. Sales will be focused on the
world’s major urban areas, she said.  The online sales option is aimed at a generation of drivers
used to making daily purchases over the Internet, and will be an
extension of the car configuration that most automakers offer
customers to view models with desired options such as interior
colors, seat materials and roof styles.  Test Drives  The Internet platform may take a while to catch on because
“many customers will still want to go somewhere to look at and
drive the vehicle before buying,” said  Ian Fletcher , an auto
analyst in London at research company IHS  Global Insight .  “With new technologies, there may be even greater
skepticism about buying a car over the Internet as in many cases
you’ll have to win the confidence of customers that it works and
there is support for them,” Fletcher said in an e-mail.  The setup may help BMW reduce expenses:  Internet sales 
require less than half the cost of distributing through a
dealership, according to  Ferdinand Dudenhoeffer  of the Center
Automotive Research at the  University of Duisburg-Essen  in
Germany. That allows online car prices to be 5 percent to 7
percent less than showroom tags.  Still, BMW sees standard dealerships as “the backbone of
what we are doing in the interface with the customer” for the I
models, Robertson said in June at a press presentation at the
sub-brand’s  Park Lane  showroom in London.  Dealer Criteria  Outlets will be restricted to dealers with high BMW-brand
sales volume who have floor space as well as capacity to work
with I models’ powering technology and carbon-fiber body
material, Robertson said. The  carmaker  has chosen 45 of its
approximately 200 dealers in Germany to sell the i3 and i8, a
ratio that will probably be similar elsewhere, he said.  Dealers will be designated as agents for the I models,
which provides an “advantage” by keeping the vehicles on the
carmaker’s books, the association of BMW distributors in Germany
said in an e-mail.  Electric vehicles’ disadvantages versus conventional cars
include costly battery packs, limited ranges and the time needed
to recharge. Consumer reception to models like the  Nissan Motor
Co. (7201) ’s Leaf and  General Motors Co. (GM) ’s Chevrolet Volt has been
tepid.  “Currently available electric cars have a limited market
success because they are a big compromise,” said  Arndt Ellinghorst , a London-based analyst at Credit Suisse AG.
“Customers are not willing to compromise and spend a lot of
money.”  Carbon Fiber  BMW Chief Executive Officer  Norbert Reithofer  started
Project I at the end of 2007 as tighter emissions regulations
threatened the viability of sporty sedans. BMW chose to create
all-new vehicles that use expensive carbon fiber for a lighter
body to make up for the weight of the battery system.  The approach contrasts with a decision by  Daimler AG (DAI) ’s
Mercedes-Benz Cars division to convert existing models, such as
the van-like B-Class or two-seat Smart, to electric power.  To make its electric vehicles more attractive, Stuttgart,
Germany-based Daimler’s Smart brand offers to lease the battery
separately from the car. The automaker has a  target  of selling
more than 10,000 of the models next year, with a starting  price 
of 18,910 euros plus monthly battery rental at 65 euros.  The I models’ new technology poses risks for BMW, “but
they have no choice if they want to keep their premium and image
as an innovation leader,” Ellinghorst said.  The i3 and i8 will probably be among BMW’s lowest-selling
models through 2024, alongside the existing Z4 roadster,
according to IHS estimates. In 2014, the first full year of
production, BMW will probably deliver 31,380 i3s, compared with
564,760 of the best-selling 3-Series model and 18,101 Z4s, a
study by the research company shows.  BMW’s stance is that the models should produce earnings
from the start, sales chief Robertson said.  “We clearly, as a company, go into any product launch with
the view of making profit, which is no different with the I
brand,” Robertson said. “This is a car line just as every
other car line, and we intend to make profit from Day 1.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dorothee Tschampa in Frankfurt at 
 dtschampa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  