-- BP Engineer Loses Bid to Force Prosecutors to Specify Evidence
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k   a n d   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 2012-07-25T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/bp-engineer-can-t-force-u-s-to-specify-evidence-judge-says-1-.html
A former  BP Plc (BP/)  engineer charged
with destroying evidence sought for a U.S. probe of the 2010
Gulf of Mexico oil spill was denied his request to force the
government to immediately give details of its case against him.  Kurt Mix , who was charged with obstruction of justice for
allegedly deleting text-message strings from his mobile phone,
asked the federal court in  New Orleans  to order U.S. prosecutors
to identify which messages formed the basis of their
allegations. He also asked the court to force prosecutors to
show how the messages impaired a grand jury investigation.  “The indictment details the factual allegations and
provides the defendant with sufficient information to enable him
to prepare his defense and to avoid surprise,” U.S. Magistrate
Sally Shushan said yesterday in an order denying Mix’s request.  Mix, who has pleaded not guilty, faces a Feb. 25 trial. The
former engineer worked on internal BP efforts to estimate the
amount of oil leaking from the Macondo well.  The blowout and explosion on the Deepwater Horizon drilling
rig killed 11 workers and started millions of barrels of crude
leaking into the Gulf. Mix’s prosecution is the first criminal
case to arise from the 2010 spill.  The  U.S. Justice Department , which began investigating the
incident in June 2010, said in April it was weighing whether to
file more charges over the spill. The charges against Mix are
likely to be followed by others, U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder said earlier this year.  Record Deletions  A grand jury had been investigating the spill estimates,
 Federal Bureau of Investigation  Special Agent Barbara O’Donnell
said in a sworn statement in April.  “Mix deleted numerous electronic records relating to the
Deepwater Horizon disaster response, including records
concerning the amount of oil potentially flowing from the well,
after being repeatedly informed of his obligation to maintain
such records,” O’Donnell said in the statement.  Mix deleted the e-mails in October 2010 despite receiving
multiple notices from London-based BP in the weeks after the
spill, “which stated on the cover, in bold and underlined type,
that instant messages and  text messages  needed to be
preserved,” the U.S. said in its indictment issued May 2.  Mix brought the deletions to the attention of the
government, his attorney, Joan McPhee, said at his arraignment
in May.  “Mr. Mix saved thousands of e-mails and hundreds of text
messages,” McPhee said. The information saved includes flow-
rate data, work on the efforts to contain the spill and his
personal log notes, she said.  300 Message Strings  The criminal complaint alleged there were about 300
individual message strings Mix deleted, McPhee said in court
filings earlier this month. The indictment doesn’t refer to any
specific text message and the criminal complaint only to one,
McPhee added.  “As it currently stands, Mix does not know precisely which
specific text messages he must be prepared to address at trial,
unfairly compromising his ability to prepare his defense,” she
said.  The U.S. called Mix’s information requests improper and
irrelevant. Mix sought “information that is either extraneous
or which would divulge the government’s trial theories,”
government lawyers said in a court filing earlier this month.  Prosecutors said they provided Mix’s attorneys with almost
20,000 e-mails, text messages and documents that included “all
communications in the government’s possession” connected to the
defendant.  Mix’s lawyers said he wasn’t seeking to discover the
government’s theory of the case or its trial strategy with his
information requests.  “Mix is merely asking the government for basic information
to explain the nature and basis of the indictment’s two
obstruction charges,” McPhee said in a filing yesterday.  The case is U.S. v. Mix , 12-cr-00171, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of  Louisiana  (New Orleans).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net ; 
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Detroit at 
 mcfisk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 