-- Abuse of Brain Injured Americans Scandalizes U.S.
-- B y   D a v i d   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2012-07-24T19:15:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/brain-injured-abuse-at-for-profit-center-scandalizes-u-s-.html
Soon after Peter Price arrived at
the  Florida Institute for Neurologic Rehabilitation  to recover
from a brain injury, he pleaded for a rescue.  “Jess, they beat me up,” Price told his sister, Jessica
Alopaeus, in May 2009. “You have to get me out of here.”  Staffers at his new home held him down and punched him in
the face and groin, Price said. When Alopaeus’s efforts to
transfer him stalled, Price said his desperation led him to a
step aimed at speeding his release.  He swallowed five fish hooks and 22 AA batteries he’d
picked up during a patient outing at Wal-Mart. After emergency
surgery to remove the objects, he was allowed to transfer to
another facility.  Residents at the  Florida  Institute have often been abused,
neglected and confined, according to 20 current and former
patients and their family members, criminal charges, civil
complaints and advocates for the disabled.  These sources and over 2,000 pages of court and medical
records, police reports, state investigations and autopsies
contain an untold history of violence and death at the secluded
institute known as FINR, which is located amid cattle ranches
and citrus groves in  Hardee County , 50 miles southeast of Tampa.  Patients’ families or state agencies have alleged abuse or
care lapses in at least five residents’ deaths since 1998, two
of them in the last 18 months. Three former employees face
criminal charges of abusing FINR patients -- one of whom was
allegedly hit repeatedly for two hours in a TV room last
September.  Sparse Care  The complaints underscore the problems that 5.3 million
brain-injured Americans are having finding adequate care. Their
numbers are growing, according to the  U.S. Centers for Disease
Control and Prevention , as better emergency medicine and vehicle
safety mean that fewer die from traffic accidents, bullet wounds
and other causes of traumatic brain injuries.  The long-term ills range from  memory loss  and physical
handicaps to the inability to control violent anger or sexual
aggression. Yet because insurance benefits for rehabilitation
are scarce, less than half of those who need it receive it,
according to the  Brain Injury Association of America .  Organized as a company and operated for profit since 1992,
FINR has become one of the largest brain-injury centers in the
country, with 196 beds. Three rival providers say they know of
no place bigger. Multi-site operator  NeuroRestorative , owned by
a holding of buyout firm Vestar Capital Partners, handles more
patients.  FINR hasn’t grown by opening its doors to anyone who needs
rehabilitation, customers say. Rather, its marketing is focused
on the relative few who can pay bills that reach $1,850 a day.  Michigan Mandate  That includes those injured on jobs with generous worker’s
compensation benefits, and car-crash victims in  Michigan  --which
mandates  unlimited lifetime benefits  for automobile injury
coverage.  Those who have clashed with the company over the treatment
of patients say its efforts to keep costs down and extend the
duration of stays take priority over care and rehabilitation.  “All people are to them is a monetary gain,” said Jana
Thorpe, a professional guardian who removed one of her wards
from the company’s care in 2008. “They don’t care if they do
anything for them.”  Steven Siporin, another guardian, says he has placed
patients at FINR when no one else would take them, and doesn’t
expect to send more.  “Is this the best society can do? No,” he says of FINR.
“Is this the best under current options? Yes.”  Difficult Clients  Florida’s Department of Children and Families  has received
477 allegations of abuse or neglect at FINR since 2005,
including 36 that were “verified” by its investigations,
according to records released by the agency. The 36 verified
claims and others were referred to  law enforcement , according to
Erin Gillespie, a spokeswoman for the agency, who said she
didn’t know what became of the referrals.  FINR executives declined to comment for this story and
turned down a request to visit its  Wauchula, Florida , facility.
Owner Joseph Brennick said he “preferred to stay out of the
news” before ending a short phone conversation and directing
questions to a lawyer, who said he would not answer them.  On its website, the company calls itself a leader in brain-
injury rehabilitation. In past statements it has said it vends
“extremely high quality care to very difficult clients” aimed
at returning them to their homes, doesn’t use seclusion and has
“zero tolerance” for resident abuse.  Elbow Shots  Hardee County prosecutors have charged two FINR staffers
with abusing Danny Silva, a 21-year-old autistic patient. Video
of the alleged crime shows two large men flanking a smaller
figure on a sofa as they punch, elbow and slap him at least 30
times. The blows often come after moans from the man in the
middle, which appear to be making it hard for his assailants to
hear the TV.  “Shut up, man,” they say in the video, taped by a FINR
staffer, according to police. “You are getting on my damn
nerves,” one of the hitters tells the smaller man between two
elbow shots. A woman in nurse’s clothes shows up in the video to
give the alleged victim his medicine.  Defendants  LaKevin Johnson , 30, and  Landrey Johnson , 39, of
Fort Meade, Florida, have pleaded not guilty to the charges.
Their lawyer didn’t return calls seeking comment.  Employee  McKinley Scott  pulled autistic patient Gabriel
Allen up from his seat and threw him to the ground last December
in a second case, prosecutors say. A video in the case shows a
man identified as Scott pushing Allen away from him on a couch,
standing him up, kicking his legs out from under him and leaving
him curled up on the floor next to a blinking Christmas tree.
Scott, 48, has pleaded not guilty to an abuse charge. His lawyer
didn’t return calls.  ’Positional Asphyxia’  In an earlier incident, Michael Lieux, a brain-injured ex-
Marine from  Louisiana , suffocated when four FINR employees
pinned him face down until he couldn’t breathe, according to a
negligence lawsuit that won his family a $5 million jury verdict
in 2005.  It was homicide by “positional asphyxia,” according to
the medical examiner for Hardee County. The company denied it
was negligent and lost its  appeal in the case .  Two resident deaths at FINR that same year led to
confidential settlements of lawsuits alleging negligence and
care lapses that the company denied. In 2009, a FINR staffer
pleaded guilty to battery charges after punching out a resident
who had scratched him during a restraint.  Fiery Fist  More recently, Reginald Hicks was taken to the cafeteria by
a FINR employee and given solid food that lodged in his lungs
and killed him last December, according to his daughter, Heather
Hicks. Her father, a former mortgage-workout specialist injured
in a car accident, had a care plan that called for tube feeding
because he couldn’t swallow, she said. Autopsy findings cited
aspiration of food and pneumonia as causes of death.  FINR’s marketing appears aimed at acquiring tough
behavioral cases, including aggressive patients. Its website
 features an ad  dominated by a clenched, fiery-colored fist --
“One of the Subtle Signs That It’s Time for Neurological
Rehabilitation,” according to the headline.  The road to the company’s 900-acre spread in Wauchula
passes fields of grazing cattle and trees draped in Spanish
Moss. It houses 152 beds, with 44 more in nearby apartments and
group homes. The “secluded, pastoral” locale keeps residents
from trying to run away, the company has said. Other deterrents,
current and former patients say, are the alligators and snakes
roaming the property.  Family History  The facility was once part of New Medico Inc., a chain
founded by Charles Brennick, the father of FINR owner Joseph
Brennick. A 1992 Congressional investigation highlighted
allegations that New Medico staff abused patients and prolonged
stays to boost revenues.  Joseph Brennick, then a senior New Medico employee,
promised to block discharges to keep clients, the final
Congressional report said. If one wanted to leave, staffers
should “all jump all over him as a team until he stays,” the
report quoted a Brennick memo as saying.  Around this time, some of the facilities were transferred
to the elder Brennick’s sons, according to corporate and real
estate records. Joseph, who wound up with Wauchula, has
prospered as its owner, according to former staffers.  In 1995, he bought South Watch, a gated estate on 62 acres
near Sarasota that has a 9,000-square-foot home and is valued at
$1.7 million for tax purposes. Brennick bought 311 acres nearby
for $6.4 million in 2007. He owns four cars, one a 2004 Maybach
62 luxury sedan valued at $300,000. FINR’s main campus is valued
for taxes at $11.2 million.  ’Taken Down’  Ex-residents of FINR said they were frequently “taken
down” or knocked to the floor and restrained by staff, in a
routine often accompanied by beatings. They say the take-downs
were described by the company as a form of restraint called BARR
-- for Brief Assisted Required Relaxation. Blue mats sometimes
used for the purpose are ubiquitous at FINR, according to
patients and visitors.  “I was taken down at least once a week,” said Janet
Clark, who stayed at FINR from 2006 to 2007 after she was
injured in a car crash. Clark keeps a photo from her Wauchula
days in which she is expressionless and sports a black eye that
she said came from staffers.  “One time they had me down and one of the staff kicked me
in the eye with a boot,” said Clark, a former prison guard who
now lives on her own in Hillsborough,  North Carolina . “They
were saying shut up, screaming at me. I was hurting so much I
couldn’t stop. It was terrifying.”  $310,000 Bill  Clark, 55, had behavioral issues while she was recovering,
including times when she needed to be restrained, she said, but
not with the force or frequency that FINR used. She received no
psychological therapy there for her aggression problem although
she was paying the company $310,000 a year from a personal
injury settlement, she said.  “Immediate and consistent psychological counseling and
psychiatric treatment” were “clearly indicated” for Clark,
according to an outside evaluation she obtained from Sally
Kolitz Russell, a Miami psychologist, nine months into her FINR
stay.  The company relies on a network of guardians, case workers,
doctors and lawyers to find patients. It has exhibited at the
annual National Workers’ Compensation and Disability Conference
and the National Guardianship Association conference.  FINR also cosponsors events for the brain-injured in
Michigan, home of the lifetime auto-injury benefit. There were
20 Michiganders at the facility at one point last year,
according to court records -- one for every 10 beds at the
facility.  Country Club  Placements at FINR are often made by guardians in Michigan
and elsewhere who control the finances and treatment of patients
who have been ruled incompetent by courts.  “It’s human trafficking,” said Kenneth Aulph, a former
lumberjack who was hit by a car while walking across a highway
12 years ago.  Aulph said he received little psychological therapy, was
assigned useless tasks, and saw patient beatings after he was
sent to FINR by  Siporin , his court-appointed Michigan guardian,
whose practice handles about 120 wards.  “I wanted to stay in Michigan where my friends and family
are,” Aulph said.  A Siporin aide showed him a company brochure that “made
you think you were going to a country club,” highlighting the
lakes, swimming pool and library on the Wauchula grounds, Aulph
said. Siporin praised FINR’s brain-injury program and added a
threat, according to Aulph: If he didn’t go to Florida, Siporin
would get a court order to put him in a mental institution.  Sandpaper Alphabet  Siporin promised in June 2009 that Aulph would be back in
Michigan by Christmas, according to Cathy Kemper, his sister.
Instead he stayed two years. Siporin denied threatening Aulph
and said he made no promise about length of stay. Aulph went
willingly to Wauchula, Siporin said.  After breakfast at FINR, Aulph said would spend three hours
weeding in the greenhouse, followed by lunch, then a routine in
which he sanded down wooden letters of the alphabet that staff
tossed into the trash afterward. Aulph said he was capable of
more -- including the intricately carved birdhouses on display
in his Michigan apartment.  Patients Restricted  Patients were mostly restricted to the areas near their
cabins in the evenings and weekends, recreation was rare and the
swimming pool pictured in the brochure was filled with cement,
Aulph said. Patients say they were rarely allowed near the
lakes.  Kemper said she pressed Siporin almost as soon as her
brother arrived in Florida to get him out and wanted to know why
he wasn’t getting something better for the $900 a day his
insurer was paying.  “Ken was a cash cow,” she said.  Calls to Siporin’s office often went unreturned, and when
she did make contact, he assured her that Aulph was doing well,
she said. He stopped resisting a move only after she demanded to
know the name of the judge in Aulph’s case, Kemper said. Her
brother is now in a rehabilitation center in  Ann Arbor .  Siporin said he worked to return Aulph to Michigan, and was
unaware of any Kemper query about the judge.  FINR’s bills have also been paid by state governments and
the  District of Columbia . They’ve sent patients to Wauchula as
wards or when they qualify for state assistance.  21 Recalls  Over the last four years, D.C. has recalled 21 patients
from the facility. The pullout followed a  2008 investigation  by
the district’s designated disabilities advocate that found FINR
violated patients’ human rights and D.C. policies by improperly
secluding them in their rooms or using drugs as a form of
restraint.  The company denied those allegations in a letter to the
D.C. attorney general. It said patients weren’t restricted to
their rooms, only to their cabins.  In September 2010, the state of  Connecticut  placed Melinda
Jakobowski, 24, in the company’s care. Not brain injured, she
had been abused as a child and was one of seven mentally ill or
disabled patients the state had placed at Wauchula.  By February, Jakobowski was dead. Three resulting state-
level inquiries in Florida and Connecticut raised questions
about the quality of her care, injuries she received at FINR
before her death, Florida’s oversight of the company and the
accuracy of her autopsy.  FINR used BARR on Jakobowski 29 times during her five-month
stay -- compared to just five restraints in the prior five
months in a hospital in her home state, according to a report
last month by the  Connecticut Fatality Review Board for Persons
with Disabilities .  Busted Lip  Jakobowski complained that staffers were hitting her and
calling her names, the board said. She had a “busted lip” and
“what appeared to be bruising under her left eye” about a
month before she died, according to a sheriff’s office report on
a mistreatment allegation it had received. The officers
concluded she had not been abused.  Although she had a history of self-harm, Jakobowski wasn’t
showing suicidal tendencies at the end of her stay in
Connecticut, the fatality board said. She tried at least six
times to harm herself between September and January at FINR,
including attempts to hang herself with a phone cord and to wrap
a t-shirt and a bedsheet around her neck.  Not Breathing  The company’s plan of care for her required two staff
members to be watching her and within arm’s length at all times,
according to an investigation by Florida’s Agency for Health
Care Administration, or AHCA.  On Feb. 10, 2011, arriving morning shift employees found
Jakobowski in her bed just after 8 a.m., not breathing, with her
hair wrapped around her neck. She was later pronounced dead at a
Tampa hospital.  One of the employees tasked with watching her was asleep on
a couch, according to the Florida investigations. The other was
awake, but not observing Jakobowski for at least 15 minutes, the
Florida Department of Children and Families determined. Both
staffers were fired, the agency said.  A month before she died, Jakobowski told her caregivers it
would be easy for her to quickly kill herself because overnight
staffers slept, according to an internal FINR document cited by
Connecticut investigators. “It will only take like 3 minutes
and by the time they even know it, I’ll be dead and happy,” the
report quoted her as saying.  ’Obvious Flaws’  The medical examiner in Tampa ruled her death “Sudden
Ventricular Arrhythmia due to Schizophrenia.” The sheriff’s
office closed its investigation based on that finding, saying
Jakobowski died of natural causes.  The Connecticut report said there is no record of a
schizophrenia diagnosis for Jakobowski. FINR records indicate
she had bipolar disorder.  “There are obvious flaws in the investigations conducted
by Florida agencies and there appear to be weaknesses in the
system of oversight and monitoring of the FINR facility and its
program,” the report said.  Mary Mainland, the Tampa medical examiner who conducted the
autopsy, said she doesn’t remember how she determined Jakobowski
was schizophrenic. “It doesn’t really change the essence of the
diagnosis” because sudden cardiac death has been seen in other
mental illnesses, she said.  Florida’s AHCA found no violations of its regulations and
referred the case to the state Department of Health for further
review. The health department was unaware of the referral for
more than a year until Bloomberg News recently asked about it.  Wrong License  “We are working with AHCA to resolve this issue,” said
Victor Johnson, director of the department’s unit that includes
its  Brain and Spinal Cord Injury Program . FINR’s license doesn’t
allow it to treat mentally ill patients like Jakobowski who are
not brain injured, said Thom DeLilla, the program’s chief.  Meanwhile, Connecticut’s Department of Mental Health &
Addiction Services considers “FINR to be a safe and effective
placement,” according to James Siemianowski, a spokesman for the
agency. He said the treatment of patients is monitored monthly
and that clients must agree to be placed there.  Allegations that FINR limits residents’ contact with the
outside world have surfaced in court cases in which they sought
to oust Siporin as their guardian so they could leave the
facility.  Three Cases  In three such cases since 2010, patients were allegedly
blocked from traveling to Michigan for hearings after the
company or Siporin told the court they couldn’t be safely
transported, or that it would require too many staff members.  When patient Gabriealle Weakley’s lawyer called her at the
facility days before the hearing in her case, FINR imposed a
one-minute limit on their conversation, according to notes from
company employees that are part of the court record.  The notes indicate that privacy and liberties were limited
in other ways. A supervisor confiscated printouts of e-mails
Weakley received from outside because Siporin didn’t allow
communication with the man who sent them, the FINR notes say.
The man was a boyfriend who brought Weakley items she wasn’t
allowed, such as cameras and cellphones, according to Siporin,
who prevailed in court.  The notes include detailed quotes from patient
conversations with relatives, and discuss residents who were
prohibited by the company from making and receiving phone calls.
Several patients say they were blocked from sending mail from
the FINR, and that emails were barred or limited.  Prison Preferable  “You have more freedom in prison and at least there you
know when you are getting out,” says Elmer Cerano, executive
director of  Michigan Protection and Advocacy Service Inc ., that
state’s advocate for the disabled.  Michigan Protection represented Lori Johnson, a patient who
wanted to remove Siporin as her guardian and leave Wauchula. She
lost in court, where Siporin cited his years of experience with
the brain-injured and said FINR was the best place for her.  Price, 24 years old and brain-injured since a bicycle
accident at the age of eight, said he wanted to leave FINR after
he was punched in the face and groin there in May 2009.
Alopaeus, his sister and legal guardian, supported the move.
Siporin, who was co-guardian, opposed it.  FINR’s treatment of Price was “inhumane,” said Alopaeus.
Price had a “busted lip” and bruises that could have come from
BARR restraints, according to a sheriff’s deputy report dated
May 8 of that year. Price had been trying to fight with staffers
when they stopped him from leaving his cabin four days earlier,
the report said.  ‘Body Sheet’  FINR recorded his injuries in a “Body Sheet” diagram
Alopaeus said the company gave her. Under “location of bruises,
scrapes, scars, rashes etc.,” the diagram notes blue
discoloration around his left eye, one testicle larger than the
other, and other discoloration on his arms and chest. The
sheriff’s office concluded there was no evidence of abuse, and
said Price changed his story several times about which staffers
were involved in the incident.  Price was taken down more than 20 times and confined to his
cabin at FINR for weeks at a time, he said in an interview.
Residents are kept in as part of “Therapeutic Cabin Based
Programming,” used to protect them from hurting themselves or
others, the company has said.  Price had kind words for staff members who brought playing
cards and music to his room. Others were malevolent, including
one who allegedly placed a clipboard over his chest, punched him
repeatedly, and told him the method would not leave bruises,
Price said.  Fish Hooks  After one period of seclusion, he said he was allowed to go
to Wal-Mart, where he bought the batteries and fish hooks that
he later swallowed. Price also cut his belly and stuffed two of
the batteries and eight hooks into the wound.  “I planned this” as a way to get out of FINR, Price said.
“My plan wasn’t to die.”  It was a month before he recovered from the surgery to
remove the objects. He never returned to FINR, and Siporin
agreed to give up his guardianship. Price now lives in an
apartment run by a different center in Florida, where he is
monitored, but able to leave his apartment most days.  He said he goes on fishing trips, eats out, sees movies,
and has never been taken down at his new home.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
David Armstrong in Boston at 
 darmstrong16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gary Putka at   gputka@bloomberg.net  