-- Brazil’s Sugar Export Profit Seen Dropping as Local Price Rises
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2012-07-24T09:02:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/brazil-s-sugar-export-profit-seen-dropping-as-local-price-rises.html
Sugar exports from  Brazil , the
world’s biggest producer of the commodity, were less profitable
last week as local prices climbed, according to Cepea.  Shipping the sweetener was 8.8 percent more advantageous
than selling it in the domestic market, the University of Sao
Paulo research group said in a report yesterday. That compares
to an advantage of almost 12 percent a week earlier. Local
prices for crystal sugar climbed 5.8 percent to 58.52 reais
($28.90) a 50-kilogram (110 pound) bag in the week ended July
20, it said.  “Prices of crystal sugar in the Brazilian  spot market 
soared last week,” Heloisa Lee Burnquist, an analyst at Cepea,
wrote in the report. “The increase is attributed to the firm
behavior of mills in  Sao Paulo , which was based on the export
parity to determine prices of domestic trades.”  Exports have been more profitable than local sales for
seven weeks, according to Burnquist. Raw sugar traded on ICE
Futures U.S. in  New York  has climbed 13 percent so far this
month as rains delayed harvesting and shipments from Brazil. Dry
weather in India, the second-biggest producer, has also caused
concerns about a drop in production there in the 2012-13 season.  Sugar output in Brazil’s center south, its main growing
region, fell 29 percent to 6.7 million metric tons from the
start of the 2012-13 season through the end of June compared
with a year earlier, according to data from industry group
Unica.  India ’s monsoon, which brings more than 70 percent of its
rain, is set to be less than normal in the whole season for the
first time in three years, according to D.S. Pai, head of long-
range forecasting division at the weather bureau there.  Drier weather  Drier weather in Brazil over the past week has helped
accelerate harvesting and shipments. The amount of sugar waiting
to be loaded onto vessels at Brazil’s main ports dropped to 2.6
million tons as of yesterday, down from 2.9 million tons on July
20, Santos, Brazil-based consultancy SA Commodities said in a
report e-mailed yesterday.  “Mills in Sao Paulo are finally crushing without extended
halt periods,” Cepea’s Burnquist said, referring to the number
of times mills had to stop crushing because of rainfall.  Sales of sugar in Brazil’s domestic market last week were
35 percent more profitable than anhydrous ethanol, the kind used
to blend into gasoline, and 55 percent more advantageous than
hydrous ethanol, used in flex fuel cars, Cepea said. Both the
sweetener and the biofuel are made from sugar cane.  Crystal sugar, used in Brazil’s domestic market, has an
International Commission for Uniform Methods of Sugar Analysis
level of between 130 and 180, according to the Cepea website. A
lower level corresponds to a higher degree of whiteness. Refined
sugar traded on NYSE Liffe calls for an ICUMSA level of 45.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 Ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 Ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 