-- Brazil’s Scrapped IPOs Follow Worst Stock Rout in BRICs
-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i   a n d   L u c i a   K a s s a i
-- 2012-07-24T18:31:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/brazil-s-scrapped-ipos-follow-worst-stock-rout-in-brics.html
Brazilian companies are canceling
initial public offerings at the second-highest rate among the
biggest  emerging markets  as slowing economic growth makes the
country’s benchmark stock  index (SHCOMP)  the worst performer this year.  Three IPOs in Brazil were scrapped this year, while seven
were announced, compared with zero withdrawals in  China  and less
than a third of offerings this year in  India , data compiled by
Bloomberg show. One initial share sale was announced in  Russia 
as well as one cancellation. Brazilian companies raised a
combined 3.88 billion reais ($1.89 billion) in 2012 through
IPOs, down 40 percent from the same period a year ago.  Louis Dreyfus Holding BV’s  Biosev SA (BSEV3)  sugar-processing unit
became the latest company to scrap its initial share sale when
it canceled a 1.14 billion-real offering last week because of
“market uncertainties.” The Bovespa stock gauge has  dropped  23
percent from this year’s high on March 13 as Europe’s debt
crisis worsened, prices for commodity exports fell and analysts
cut their economic growth forecasts to the weakest since 2009.  “There was a lot of hype about Brazilian IPOs, but in the
end stock performance hasn’t given a reason for investors to
keep betting on Brazil,”  Ed Kuczma , who helps manage $31
billion at Van Eck Associates Corp., said by telephone from New
York. “Brazil may be a leader in  Latin America , but China plays
a major role in the global economy.”  Target Range  Two of the three offerings completed in Brazil this year --
from car-rental company  Cia. de Locacao das Americas  and
furniture-maker  Unicasa Industria de Moveis SA  -- were priced
below the lower end of the companies’ targets. Locamerica, as
Cia. De Locacao is known, has dropped 19 percent since the IPO,
while Unicasa is up 9.1 percent.  Eight out of 10 initial offerings in 2011 were priced
either below or at the bottom of the companies’ target range,
including sales by oil company QGEP Participacoes SA and health-
insurance broker Qualicorp SA.  Grupo BTG Pactual, the investment bank led by billionaire
 Andre Esteves , completed the biggest IPO in Brazil this year
when it raised 3.23 billion reais in April. The stock is down
8.7 percent since then.  Brazil’s economic growth will slow to 1.9 percent this year
from 2.7 percent in 2011, according to the median forecast in a
central bank survey of 100 economists released July 23. That
would be the second-lowest rate since 2003 even as policy makers
trim  interest rates , cut taxes and expand credit to spur demand.  Investments in Brazil aren’t as attractive as China because
the currency is overvalued and there’s too much government
intervention in the economy, said  Mark Mobius , the executive
chairman of Templeton Emerging Markets Group.  ‘Fast Growth’  “China is a huge economy now, and to keep having double-
digit growth is just not going to happen,” Mobius said in a
Bloomberg Radio interview on July 18. “But they’re going to
have high single-digit increases, and that’s very fast growth
for an economy that size.”  This year, 261 companies have announced plans to sell
shares for the first time in China, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. Shares of  People.cn Co. (603000) , the online business of the
Chinese Communist Party’s official newspaper, have climbed 75
percent since it raised 300.7 million  yuan  ($47.1 million) in an
IPO in February. The Shanghai Composite Index has slid 2.4
percent this year.  In India, six IPOs have been shelved, while 21 have been
announced. Shares in Max Alert Systems Ltd., a Mumbai-based
company that provides solutions for firefighting, have almost
tripled since it priced shares in an IPO on June 25. India’s
benchmark  Sensex (SENSEX)  index has gained 9.5 percent this year.  In Moscow, Interfax Russia announced plans for an IPO in
February, while engineering company EMAlliance canceled plans
for a sale. The Micex stock index is down 2.8 percent this year.  ‘No Rush’  Jim O’Neill , chairman of Goldman Sachs Asset Management,
coined the term BRIC to describe the biggest emerging economies
11 years ago.  Brazil’s high rate of canceled IPOs partly reflects that
companies have adequate funding and can afford to wait for the
right moment to carry out their sales, said  Nick Robinson , a
portfolio manager at Aberdeen Asset Management  “Cancellations may show that the companies are in no real
rush to list,” Robinson, who helps manage $15 billion in Latin
American shares in Sao Paulo, said in a phone interview.  Biosev planned to use proceeds to repay debt and expand its
sugar-cane output, according to a  prospectus  published on its
website. The company declined to comment on the cancellation.  Foreign Investors  Foreign investment in Brazil’s equity market is faltering
as the government taxes capital flows to weaken the real amid
what Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  called a “currency war”
between developing and developed countries. Policy makers in the
past two years raised taxes on foreign investors in the local
fixed-income market, boosted costs for domestic companies that
borrow abroad and imposed a tax on trading currency derivatives.  Foreign investors  pulled  2.6 billion reais from the Bovespa
in the second quarter, after pouring 4.78 billion reais into the
market in the first three months of 2012, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Foreigners bought 67 percent of shares
sold in Brazilian IPOs in 2011, according to Bovespa data.  “Brazilian IPOs still rely heavily on foreign investors,”
said Bernardo Rothe, the Sao Paulo-based executive manager of
 capital markets  at Banco do Brasil SA, the biggest underwriter
of Brazilian IPOs this year. “The country’s individual and
institutional investors are not large or numerous enough to
absorb an offering alone.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ney Hayashi in  Sao Paulo  at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net ;
Lucia Kassai in Sao Paulo at 
 lkassai@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos in New York at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net ;
Jessica Brice in Sao Paulo at 
 jbrice1@bloomberg.net . 