-- Bridgewater Sees ‘Dangerous Dynamic’ as Largest Economies Slow
-- B y   N a t h a n i e l   B a k e r
-- 2012-07-24T15:00:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/bridgewater-sees-dangerous-dynamic-as-largest-economies-slow.html
Bridgewater Associates LP, the hedge
fund founded by  Ray Dalio  that manages about $120 billion in
assets, said the global economy is facing the threat of a self-
reinforcing decline after the world’s largest economies slowed
in recent months.  Global growth has slowed to about 1.9 percent “in the past
few months” from around 3.3 percent as  Europe  deleverages and
 China ’s economic is cooling, the Westport, Connecticut-based
firm estimated in its second-quarter report, a copy of which was
obtained by Bloomberg News. Bridgewater also said the  European
debt crisis  has been poorly managed, bringing Europe closer to a
“debt implosion” or a currency collapse.  “The breadth of this slowdown creates a dangerous dynamic
because, given the inter-connectedness of economies and capital
flows, one country’s decline tends to reinforce another’s,
making a self-reinforcing global decline more likely and a
reversal more difficult to produce,” Bridgewater said in the
report.  Bridgewater, which had three of the industry’s 12 best-
performing funds last year, said Europe is in the “most
critical” stage of a global deleveraging process, as
deteriorating finances in France and differences with  Germany 
make it less likely that the region’s strongest economies will
pick up the tab to solve the region’s debt crisis.  The  International Monetary Fund  last week cut its 2013
global growth forecast to 3.9 percent from the 4.1 percent
estimate in April, as Europe’s debt crisis prolongs Spain’s
recession and slows expansions in  emerging markets  from China to
 India .  Moody’s Rating  Euro-area bonds fell today after Moody’s lowered the
outlook to negative for the Aaa credit ratings of Germany, the
Netherlands and Luxembourg. Moody’s cited “rising uncertainty”
over Europe’s debt crisis. It left  Finland  as the only country
in the 17-nation euro region with a stable outlook for its top
ranking.  “We think that the popular assumption that the Germans and
the ECB (which requires agreement of the key factions within it)
will come through with money to make all of these debts good
should not be taken for granted,” Bridgewater said. “We think
there are good reasons to doubt that the European bank and
sovereign deleveragings will be prevented from progressing to
the next stage in a disorderly way.”  Financial markets have begun to discount weaker economic
growth, as evidenced by the rise in credit spreads, fall in bond
yields and lower future earnings expectations, Bridgewater said.  Earnings Miss  United Parcel Service Inc., the world’s largest package-
delivery company, today cut its full-year forecast after a drop
in international package sales dragged quarterly profit below
analysts’ estimates. Yesterday, McDonald’s Corp. reported
second-quarter profit that trailed analysts’ estimates amid
slowing U.S. same-store sales and said the restaurant chain may
miss its full-year operating income growth target.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index has declined 4.1 percent
since the end of the first quarter, and global stocks are down
8.2 percent.  A “meaningful deleveraging for an extended period of
time” is now priced into the market, Bridgewater said. With
this pricing at a “midpoint of discounted expectations,”
individual markets have an equal probability of outperforming or
underperforming.  Bridgewater, which uses a macro strategy as it seeks to
profit from economic trends, placed diversified bets in 2011
after predicting a flight to safer assets such as  U.S.
Treasuries  and German bonds. Dalio’s Pure Alpha hedge fund made
$13.8 billion for clients last year helping the manager beat
rivals such as  John Paulson , who posted a record loss of 51
percent in 2011 in one of his biggest funds. Bridgewater money
for institutional investors such as pension funds, endowments
and foreign governments, according to its  website .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nathaniel Baker in  New York  at 
 nbaker14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  