-- British Banks Under Pressure to Estimate Costs of Libor-Rigging
-- B y   G a v i n   F i n c h   a n d   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 2012-07-24T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/british-banks-under-pressure-to-estimate-costs-of-libor-rigging.html
Britain’s biggest banks  are under
pressure to tell investors how much they expect the Libor
rigging-scandal will cost shareholders when they start to report
first-half earnings this week.  Barclays Plc (BARC)  was fined a record 290 million pounds ($450
million) last month for manipulating the benchmark London
interbank offered rate. Civil lawsuits may cost the bank a
further 626 million pounds, according to Morgan Stanley analyst
 Betsy Graseck .  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc ,  Lloyds Banking
Group Plc (LLOY)  and  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  may pay as much as 2.2 billion
pounds in fines and legal costs, Graseck said in a July 12 note.  Libor is the fourth scandal to hit the U.K. industry in the
past 14 months that may erode earnings. The country’s biggest
banks by assets have already set aside 6.9 billion pounds to
compensate customers improperly sold insurance. They are also
under investigation for mis-selling  interest-rate swaps  to small
businesses. Separately, HSBC may be fined for failures in money-
laundering controls that U.S. Senators say gave terrorists and
drug cartels access to the country’s financial system.  “We hope for some form of guidance on what the banks are
looking to provide for on Libor,” said  Richard Hunter , head of
equities at  Hargreaves Lansdown Plc (HL/) , a British stockbroker with
26 billion pounds of assets under management. “Where the U.S.
is concerned, you have the potential for litigation which can
take considerable time to get to the other side of.”  ‘It’s Coming’  Barclays has  tumbled  22 percent since the June 27 fine,
erasing 3.4 billion pounds of market value. RBS slid 16 percent,
HSBC 11 percent and Lloyds 8 percent in the period.  RBS, Lloyds, HSBC and Barclays are likely to resist calls
to estimate the costs of litigation and fines because the cases
are pending, according to four people with knowledge of the
banks’ thinking who asked not to be identified. Banks only have
to make a provision if the amount can be “estimated reliably,”
according to the  International Financial Reporting Standards 
used by U.K. firms. Officials at the banks declined to comment.  “They’ll say it’s a contingency, the amounts are unknown,
therefore we can’t deal with anything with certainty,” said
Prem Sikka, an accounting professor at the University of Essex,
 England . “I would say they should provision,” he said. “They
know it’s coming.”  Regulators in the U.S. and  Europe  are probing more than a
dozen banks worldwide over allegations they manipulated Libor,
the benchmark  interest rate  for more than $500 trillion of
securities. Investigators are examining whether traders colluded
to rig the rate for profit and whether banks understated their
borrowing costs to appear healthier than they were.  U.S. Decline  The  Libor probe  may overshadow an increase in profit before
one-time items at Barclays, Lloyds and HSBC as provisions for
bad loans ebb and costs decline. By contrast Wall Street’s five
biggest banks, including JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Goldman Sachs
Group Inc., posted the lowest first-half revenue since 2008 in
the first half of 2012 as trading and deal-making dried up.  RBS, Lloyds and HSBC may each be fined about 420 million
pounds by regulators, Morgan Stanley’s Graseck said. RBS may
have to pay a further 680 million pounds to settle civil
lawsuits, HSBC 224 million pounds and Lloyds about 38 million
pounds, according to Graseck.  Following the fine and criticism from U.K. regulators,
Barclays Chief Executive Officer  Robert Diamond , Chairman Marcus Agius and Chief Operating Officer Jerry Del Missier all stepped
down. The London-based lender is slated to report earnings at 7
a.m. on July 27.  Investors will be focusing on how the search for a
replacement for Diamond is progressing and for any details on
whether his departure may trigger a separation of Barclays’s
investment banking unit from its consumer operations, according
to Morgan Stanley analyst Chris Manners.  ‘Clear the Decks’  Still, “Barclays may take some sort of hit to clear the
decks ahead of a new CEO coming in,” said Alan Beaney, who
helps manage 200 million pounds, including Barclays shares, at
RC Brown Investment Management Plc in Bristol, England.  The lender may say pretax profit increased to 4.1 billion
pounds for the first half from 3.7 billion pounds in the year-
earlier period, according to the median estimate of five
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. The estimates exclude the costs
of the Libor settlement, debt-valuation adjustment, gains or
losses on acquisitions and other one-time items.  A reduction in provisions for bad loans and cost cuts at
the bank’s consumer unit will help to compensate for shrinking
income from the securities unit, Gary Greenwood, an analyst at
Shore Capital in Liverpool, wrote in a July 23 note to clients.  Lloyds Reports  Barclays’s investment banking unit’s net income before debt
valuation adjustments may drop to 5.95 billion pounds from 6.37
billion pounds in the year-earlier period, Morgan Stanley’s
Manners wrote in a note to clients on July 23.  Lloyds may say pretax profit climbed to 1.4 billion pounds
from 1.1 billion pounds in the first half of 2011, according to
five analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. The London-based lender is
slated to report results at 7 a.m. on July 26.  Impairments for bad loans will fall by almost 2 billion
pounds, estimated  Ian Gordon , an analyst at  Investec Plc (INVP)  in
London. Even so, net interest margin, the difference between
what the lender earns on loans and its cost of funding, is being
squeezed, Credit Suisse Group AG analysts led by London-based
Carla Antunes da Silva wrote in a note to clients on July 23.  Net interest margin may fall to 1.93 percent by the end of
the first half, from 2.07 percent at the end of June last year,
Antunes da Silva said. Lloyds CEO Antonio Horta-Osorio said in
May the margin will narrow to less than 2 percent in 2012.  Branch Sale  Lloyds agreed last week to sell 632 branches to Co-
Operative Bank Plc for as much as 750 million pounds to comply
with the terms of its 2008 government bailout. Lloyds may post a
loss of as much as 1.15 billion pounds on the sale after
agreeing to provide capital to Co-Op to complete the deal.
Credit Suisses’s Antunes da Silva said she’s seeking details on
how the sale will affect earnings.  Lloyds and its competitors may also have to increase the
amount they have set aside to compensate clients who were mis-
sold payment protection insurance. HSBC has already made a 770
million-pound provision, Barclays 1.3 billion pounds, RBS 1.2
billion pounds and Lloyds 3.6 billion pounds. Lloyds may have to
set aside a further 300 million pounds as more customers seek
redress, Manners said.  HSBC, which generates most of its earnings in  Asia , may say
profit rose to $12.95 billion for the first six months, up from
$11.47 billion in the first half of 2011, according to five
analysts. RBS, the recipient of the biggest banking bailout in
the world, may say next week first-half pretax profit slipped to
1.85 billion pounds from 1.87 billion pounds in the year-earlier
period, according to three analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. HSBC
reports results on July 30 and Edinburgh-based RBS on Aug. 3.  ‘Underwhelming Picture’  All lenders are facing a squeeze on profitability after the
U.K. economy slid into its first double-dip recession since the
1970s in the first quarter. Lloyds, Barclays and RBS have all
scrapped or delayed their profitability targets this year.  Lloyds’s Horta-Osorio said on Feb. 24 the lender won’t meet
the target it set last year of boosting its return on equity to
between 12.5 percent and 14.5 percent by the end of 2014. The
bank had a 6.2 percent loss on equity for 2011. Diamond said on
Feb. 10 that Barclays may fail to hit the 13 percent target for
ROE by 2013 after it fell to what he called an “unacceptable”
6.6 percent in 2011. RBS lowered its medium-term ROE target to
12 percent from 15 percent on Feb. 23.  “With limited scope for negative surprise on impairments
and with a predictable weak outlook for revenues, expect a
broadly underwhelming picture,” Gordon said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Howard Mustoe in  London  at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Finch in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  