-- Broadcom Third-Quarter Sales Forecast Tops Some Estimates
-- B y   I a n   K i n g
-- 2012-07-25T15:50:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/broadcom-s-third-quarter-sales-forecast-may-beat-some-estimates.html
Broadcom Corp. (BRCM) , a maker of chips
that help mobile devices connect to the Internet, forecast
third-quarter sales that may exceed some analysts’ estimates,
helped by strong demand from its smartphone customers.  Third-quarter revenue will be $2 billion to $2.15 billion,
the  Irvine , California-based company said yesterday in a
statement. Analysts on average  estimated  sales of $2.11 billion,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Broadcom’s largest phone customers are  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and
Samsung Electronics Co., which combined control more than half
of the smartphone market and have grown faster than competitors.
Broadcom’s chips provide Wi-Fi and Bluetooth connections in the
iPhone, iPad and Samsung’s Galaxy SIII handset.  “They’ve got the two leading customers and will benefit
from any growth,” said Betsy Van Hees, an analyst at Wedbush
Securities. “They are the safest derivative play to Apple.”  Broadcom rose 9.3 percent to $33.64 at 11:44 a.m. today in
 New York . The shares had gained 4.8 percent this year through
yesterday.  Altera Corp. (ALTR) , which -- like Broadcom -- is a supplier to
the mobile phone industry, surged as much as 18 percent, its
biggest one-day gain  since  2004, after predicting higher sales
yesterday.  Apple reported quarterly iPhone sales yesterday that fell
short of the average prediction of analysts, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Apple’s third-quarter profit and sales
missed analysts’ projections for only the second time since 2003
as customers held off on iPhone purchases while waiting for a
new model to be introduced later in the year.  IPhone Purchases  Second-quarter net income was $160 million, or 28 cents a
share, compared with $175 million, or 31 cents, a year earlier,
Broadcom said. Sales rose 9.7 percent to $1.97 billion.
Excluding certain costs, profit was 72 cents a share.  Broadcom was  estimated  by analysts to have second-quarter
profit before certain costs of 67 cents a share on sales of
$1.95 billion.  Broadcom saw strength across all of its business groups,
Chief Executive Officer  Scott McGregor  said on a conference call
with analysts. While growth was limited by weaker demand in some
regions, Broadcom is increasing market share by winning orders
from rivals, he said  “We’ve been able to offset some of the macro headwind with
the ability to take share,” McGregor said on the call.  Gross Margin  Demand for set-top box chips is growing as more consumers
outside of the U.S. and Europe subscribe to digital television
services, he said. Broadcom is also selling more chips for home
networking as service providers offer higher-speed  Internet
access  and more features in pricier routers and gateways.  In the current period, product  gross  margin, or the
percentage of sales remaining after deducting the cost of
production, will be “roughly flat” from the 52.2 percent the
company reported for the second quarter. The second-quarter
measure of profit was calculated excluding some items, and
compares with analysts’ average prediction of 52.5 percent.  Under McGregor, Broadcom is moving into the market for so-
called baseband chips used to connect phones to 3G cellular
networks, an area dominated by  Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM)  Broadcom has won
Samsung and  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  as customers for those chips.  Altera Surge  Altera, based in  San Jose ,  California , yesterday predicted
sales this quarter will increase 2 percent to 6 percent from the
previous three months.  That indicates sales of between $474 million and $493
million and compares with an average analyst estimate of $470
million, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Altera CEO John Daane told analysts yesterday that the
telecommunications and wireless business had lead his company’s
gains in the second quarter.  Shares rose $4.21, or 14 percent, to $34.88 in New York
trading. They had lost 17 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian King in  San Francisco  at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  