-- Ex-News Corp. Editors Brooks, Coulson Charged in Hacking
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2012-07-24T17:03:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/brooks-coulson-among-news-corp-journalists-charged-for-hacking.html
Rebekah Brooks and  Andy Coulson ,
former lead editors of the News of the World tabloid in Britain,
are among eight former  News Corp. (NWSA)  journalists being charged with
conspiring to intercept voice mail to get stories.  The group sought between 2000 and 2006 to hack the mobile-
phone messages of more than 600 people, including U.S. actors
 Brad Pitt  and  Angelina Jolie  and murdered British schoolgirl
Milly Dowler, who went missing in 2002, the  Crown Prosecution
Service  said in London today.  “There is sufficient evidence for there to be a realistic
prospect of conviction,” Alison Levitt, the top legal adviser
to Britain’s director of public prosecutions, said at a press
conference. The criminal cases are “in the public interest.”  News Corp., controlled by Chairman  Rupert Murdoch , a friend
of Brooks, is splitting the company to move on from the scandal
that resulted in about 60 arrests and revealed cozy ties between
the company’s U.K. publishing unit and politicians. Coulson
served as Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s press chief until last
year when questions emerged about his role in the scandal.  Murdoch closed the 168-year-old tabloid a year ago to
contain public outrage over the practice and resigned last week
from three of the New York-based company’s boards, including the
News International newspaper division in the U.K. He has said
the company’s planned split isn’t related to the scandal.  Thurlbeck, Mulcaire  The others charged are former managing editor Stuart
Kuttner, former news editor Ian Edmondson, former chief reporter
Neville Thurlbeck, former assistant editor Greg Miskiw, former
assistant news editor James Weatherup and former private
investigator  Glenn Mulcaire , who worked for the tabloid.  The journalists, who have been free on bail since being
arrested throughout last year, are being charged as they arrive
at police stations in London and are scheduled to appear in
court Aug. 16. The charges could lead to two-year prison terms.  The agency decided against charging three others who were
under investigation and will announce a decision later in
relation to two more suspects after the  Metropolitan Police
Service  asked for a delay. Prosecutors made today’s decision
based on evidence from police, who opened a new probe into
phone-hacking in January 2011.  “I am not guilty of these charges,” Brooks said today in
an e-mailed statement. “I did not authorize, nor was I aware
of, phone hacking under my editorship.”  Coulson said in a televised statement outside his home that
he didn’t do anything to harm the police probe a decade ago into
Dowler’s disappearance.  Simply ‘Untrue’  “The idea that I would sit in my office dreaming up
schemes to undermine the investigation is simply untrue,”
Coulson said.  Coulson quit as Cameron’s top media adviser in January 2011
over allegations phone hacking took place when he edited the
tabloid. The ex-editor was charged in relation to politicians
David Blunkett and Charles Clarke and reality-television star
Calum Best, the son of soccer player  George Best .  Six of the journalists, including Brooks, Coulson and
Thurlbeck, were charged in relation to Dowler. The revelation
that the News of the World hacked the 13-year-old’s phone
triggered public outrage that prompted Murdoch to close what had
been Britain’s best-selling newspaper.  Politicians, Celebrities  Thurlbeck, who was fired and arrested last year, was one of
the first people detained in the phone-hacking probe, known as
Operation Weeting.  “I have always operated under the strict guidance and
advice of News International’s lawyers and under the
instructions of the newspaper’s editors, which will be
abundantly clear when this matter comes to court,” Thurlbeck
said in a statement issued by his lawyer Henri Brandman.  Edmondson, who was fired in January 2011, said in a
statement through his  law firm  that he looks forward to clearing
his name at trial “when the truth finally emerges.”  “For the past 18 months my family and I have suffered in
silence,” he said. “I have not given interviews or spoken out
in order to get my points across or to correct reported lies or
inaccuracies.”  The group, aside from Mulcaire, was charged with conspiring
to intercept communications “without lawful authority,” the
CPS said. They each face separate claims related to specific
victims, including politicians and family members of
celebrities.  Previous Cases  This is the second time the scandal has triggered criminal
charges, though the first round in 2006 involved only Mulcaire
and the tabloid’s former royal reporter,  Clive Goodman . Both men
pleaded guilty in that case and served as much as six months in
prison in 2007.  “I am extremely disappointed by today’s decision, given
that in 2006 I was the subject of a comprehensive police
investigation,” Mulcaire said in an e-mailed statement. “I
intend to contest these allegations strenuously.”  Daisy Dunlop , a spokeswoman for News International,
declined to comment.  Operation Weeting runs parallel to investigations of
computer hacking and bribery by reporters and editors at the
News of the World and another News Corp. tabloid, the Sun,
Britain’s best-selling daily title, where the bribery arrests
have focused.  Brooks, who was chief executive officer of News
International, was also charged in relation to Andy Gilchrist, a
former union leader who sued the company in February alleging
his phone was hacked.  Brooks was previously charged in May with perverting the
course of justice by conspiring with her husband and others,
including her longtime assistant, to remove evidence from the
company’s archives and cover up the hacking scandal.  Sienna Miller  Weatherup was charged in relation to hacking the phones of
Pitt, Jolie, England soccer player  Wayne Rooney  and actress
 Sienna Miller , whose 2010 lawsuit against News International
uncovered evidence of hacking that triggered the new police
probe. He was also charged with hacking the phone of former
Beatle  Paul McCartney  and his ex-wife  Heather Mills .  Other victims involved in the latest criminal charges
include U.K. actor Jude Law, his ex-wife, Sadie Frost, former
Deputy Prime Minister  John Prescott  and John Tulloch, a former
professor who was seated next to a suicide bomber in the 2005
terror attacks on London’s trains and buses.  News International seeks to settle about 50 civil lawsuits
filed by victims before a joint trial scheduled for February. A
trial scheduled for earlier this year was canceled after a group
of dozens of initial victims settled, including Welsh singer
 Charlotte  Church.  “It’s not a day that reflects well on politics or the
press,” U.K. lawmaker  John Whittingdale  told Sky News
television. “But it’s a part of the process of ensuring that
this sort of thing can never happen again.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  