-- Cameron Is Said to Plan to Talk Syria With Putin at Olympic Judo
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2012-07-24T10:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/cameron-is-said-to-plan-to-talk-syria-with-putin-at-olympic-judo.html
David Cameron  aims to use a proposed
visit by Russian President  Vladimir Putin  to the judo event at
the  London  Olympics to discuss the worsening conflict in Syria,
two people familiar with the U.K. premier’s plans said.  The U.K. government is urging Putin, an ally of Syrian
leader Bashar al-Assad, to help secure a peaceful resolution to
the fighting between the government and opposition forces. The
conflict, which began in March 2011 as a largely peaceful
protest movement, has cost more than 19,000 lives, according to
the U.K.-based Syrian Observatory for  Human Rights .  Russia, whose ties with Syria’s ruling elite date to the
 Cold War , used its United Nations Security Council veto for a
third time last week to protect Assad from censure. China also
blocked the resolution threatening sanctions on the Syrian
regime unless Assad complied with a UN peace plan he has so far
flouted. Putin said yesterday any overthrowing of Assad would
push Syria into civil war.  Putin, who holds a black belt in judo, said last month he
planned to visit the London games in a private capacity to watch
the sport. He has yet to confirm the visit, according to one of
the people familiar with the British premier’s plans, who
declined to be identified because the meeting hasn’t yet been
officially announced.  Details of Putin’s “brief visit” to London are still
being finalized, Putin’s spokesman,  Dmitry Peskov , said by phone
today from the Black Sea resort of Sochi. The Olympic judo
events start on July 28 and run through Aug. 3.  Border Posts  Forces loyal to Assad are battling to save his government
after rebels took the fight to Damascus and Aleppo, Syria’s two
largest cities, and seized border posts with Turkey and Iraq.  Cameron has called repeatedly on Assad to step down from
power. Russia, which has its only military base outside the
former  Soviet Union  in the Syrian port of Tartus, says both
sides in the conflict should renounce violence and negotiate.  “The message to President Assad is, it is time for
transition, it is time for you to go,” Cameron told a press
conference in the Afghan capital Kabul on July 19, before the
most recent UN vote. When asked if he had a message for  Russia ,
he said that “it’s time for the UN Security Council to pass
clear and tough messages about sanctions and be unambiguous in
this.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  