-- Cameron Being Toff Turns Dour as Voters Question Competence
-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 2012-07-25T11:27:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/cameron-being-toff-turns-dour-as-voters-question-tory-competence.html
“Posh,” a play based on the
drunken antics of a fraternity called the  Bullingdon Club  that
once counted Prime Minister  David Cameron  and Chancellor of the
Exchequer  George Osborne  as members, has sold out two runs since
opening in 2010.  The show depicts an evening of the so-called Riot Club, a
fictitious Oxford University dining society resembling the
Bullingdon, getting out of hand as the alcohol flows. The
“Rioters” descend on a pub intent on getting “chateaued,”
vandalizing the place and then paying the landlord for the
damage. “I am sick” of poor people, one of the group says.  For Cameron, 45, and Osborne, 41, the satire may be an
unwelcome reminder of their own privileged backgrounds,
particularly after a string of policy U-turns allowed opponents
to say they were incompetent and out to help the rich. While the
next election isn’t due until 2015, a poll this month shows
voters see them as increasingly out of touch as the recession
deepens and their Conservative-led coalition drives through the
deepest budget cuts in British peacetime history.  “Being a toff is not the problem, even in a recession, as
long as you’re a competent toff,” said Ben Page, a pollster at
IpsosMori Plc in  London , referring to a colloquial term to
describe upper-class people, particularly those with a
condescending manner. “The problem will come if the narrative
is that they are incompetent and out of touch, and then the toff
factor becomes a problem.”  Pressure on the policy making duo mounted today with the
report that Britain’s recession unexpectedly deepened in the
second quarter. The economy shrank by 0.7 percent, the most
since 2009.  Aristocracy Abandoned  It’s a novel political handicap for Cameron because the
Tories -- who can trace their roots back to the English Civil
War in the 1640s -- largely abandoned aristocratic leadership
half a century ago. Britain’s last aristocratic prime minister
was Alec Douglas-Home, a Scottish earl who in 1963 gave up the
noble title he inherited from his father, and his seat in the
unelected House of Lords, to enter the House of Commons.  Cameron, the son of a stockbroker, traces his ancestry to
King Henry VII and at least seven earls. Osborne, whose family
owns a luxury furnishings company, descends from Anglo-Irish
nobility and is in line to become the 18th baronet of
Ballentaylor and Ballylemon in Ireland. The Tory ministers who
sit on the front bench in the House of Commons are described by
the opposition  Labour Party  as “millionaires’ row.”  Tory Parents  Their backgrounds contrast with recent Tory premiers, who
stressed their ordinary roots.  Margaret Thatcher ’s father was a
grocer and  John Major ’s a circus performer.  Cameron and Osborne have struggled with perceptions they
are out of touch since their budget in March cut the top 50
percent income-tax rate for the highest earners, while raising
taxes on pensioners and penalizing charities.  “There is a latent danger with issues like the top rate of
tax, which the opposition can exploit to make it resonate with
their backgrounds,” said Simon Baulner, a professor of politics
at the University of Sheffield. “This will continue to be an
issue while there’s not fair weather, particularly if the
economy stagnates or we enter a triple-dip recession.”  They drew the most criticism in the popular press for
imposing a value-added tax on hot takeaway snacks such as
Cornish pasties, a furor that became known as “pastygate.”  The backlash even saw fellow Conservative Nadine Dorries
deride Cameron and Osborne as “arrogant posh boys who don’t
know the prices of milk.” Many of the budget decisions
including the pasty tax have since been reversed.  Ridiculous Tax  “It was a ridiculous tax because people have got to eat,”
said Geoff Wade, a pensioner, as he walked out of a bakery in
Slough, a town two miles (3.2 kilometers) from Eton College, the
32,000-pound ($50,000) a year boarding school that Cameron
attended. “They lack real life experience. If you think about
it, you’ve Cameron, Osborne and the others, all rich, all
millionaires. What do they know about real life? They’ve not had
to struggle like normal people.”  Thirty-four percent of voters said Cameron’s attendance at
Eton made it harder for him to be a good prime minister,
according to a poll for ComRes Ltd. published July 22. The firm
surveyed 2,006 voters and no margin of error was provided. That
score rose from 20 percent before his election.  Cameron’s roots became an issue with voters as scores of
witnesses appeared before an inquiry into media ethics following
the  News Corp. (NWS)  phone-hacking scandal, highlighting the close
relationship between the prime minister and top officials at the
company.  Phone Hacking  Cameron said in March that he used to go riding before the
2010 election with Charlie Brooks, a childhood friend horse-
racing trainer and the husband of former News Corp. executive
Rebekah Brooks. The couple, who live close to Cameron’s country
home west of London, were charged in May with perverting the
course of justice in connection with the police investigation
into hacking.  Brooks was also among eight former News Corp. journalists
charged yesterday with intercepting voice mails to get stories.  Recent polls show the support for the Conservatives has
fallen to about 33 percent, 10 percentage points behind Labour.
More than half of respondents in a ComRes Ltd. poll for the
Independent on Sunday last month said Osborne is too posh and
out of touch with the needs of ordinary Britons.  ‘Out of Touch’  Fifty-nine percent thought Osborne is “out of touch with
the public,” 55 percent viewed him as “too posh to understand
the financial pressures on ordinary people” and 52 percent said
“he comes across as arrogant.” ComRes interviewed 2,014 people
online on June 13-15.  There is a danger for Labour if it seeks to exploit the
class issue too explicitly. In 2008, during a special election
for a parliamentary seat in northwest  England , Labour activists
dressed in Eton’s uniform of top hats and tailcoats and
described the Conservative candidate as a “toff.” Labour lost.  Both Cameron and Osborne have attempted to downplay
discussion about their backgrounds.  In the run-up to the 2010 election, Cameron said repeatedly
that he had “never hidden” his background and that “it
doesn’t matter where you come from” because he was aiming to
create a country where “you can rise according to your talent
and your ability.”  Osborne’s Irreverence  Osborne, more irreverently, told the Daily Telegraph
newspaper in 2005, when he was also still in opposition, that he
didn’t know how his family got its baronetcy before adding that
it must have given “money to the government. Some things never
change; suck up to the government and you get an honor.”  Still, playwright Laura Wade, who says “Posh” isn’t
intended to be political, said in an interview with Time Out
magazine on April 30 that class is an issue “deeply entrenched
in the British character.” It also reflects an anxiety of the
Conservative-led government that it’s hamstrung by the legacy of
the liberal values of the previous Labour administration.  “I feel like any normal citizen would be very unhappy with
the values they express,” Nigel Miller, a television executive
from London, said after seeing the play at the Duke of York’s
Theatre last week. “It’s a sobering reflection, a big social
metaphor.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  