-- Campbell Chases Millennials With Lentils Madras Curry: Retail
-- B y   D a v i d   W e l c h
-- 2012-07-24T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/campbell-chases-millennials-with-lentils-madras-curry-retail.html
To the average sushi-munching
Millennial,  Campbell Soup Co. (CPB)  is about as cool as a Buick.  Raised on arugula and free-range fowl by their foodie
parents, consumers in their 20s show little zest for soup in the
iconic red-and-white can.  So next month, Campbell will unveil Go Soup, a line of
ready-to-eat meals, including chorizo and pulled chicken with
black beans, in fuchsia-and-white pouches. As befits the
company’s first move upscale in about 20 years, Campbell will
charge $2.99 per pouch, or about three times the price of a can
of its chicken noodle soup.  The question is whether a population grappling with higher-
than-average unemployment will pay up for food in a pouch, said
Ken Harris, an independent consultant to Campbell and other food
companies.  “If they sold it for 99 cents, they would have a runaway
success,” he said. “But for that buyer group, paying extra for
an accompaniment to a meal may be a stretch.”  Turning around the soup business is vital for Campbell,
which has fallen 2.9 percent over the past 12 months, compared
with a 9.8 percent advance for the S&P Consumer Staples Index.
While the company also sells V8 beverages and Pepperidge Farm
snacks, soup remains Campbell’s most important product line.
Last year its U.S. Simple Meals unit, which is mostly soup,
accounted for 48 percent of the company’s $7.7 billion in sales
and 64 percent of its $1.3 billion in operating income.  In its last fiscal year, which ended July 31, 2011, sales
in Campbell’s Simple Meals business fell 6 percent to $2.8
billion and operating income dropped 11 percent to $657 million.  Gourmet Soups  Campbell’s share of the U.S. soup market fell from 52.6
percent in 2006 to 49 percent in 2010, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Unilever’s Lipton brand and a slew of
small, niche players selling organic and gourmet soups are
taking Campbell’s customers.  When executives began examining Campbell’s soup woes a year
ago, they discovered that though younger shoppers have little
money to spend, they nonetheless have high expectations for
their food. They eat out in restaurants twice as often as their
grandparents, said Darren Serrao, vice president of innovation
for Campbell’s North American business.  “Millennials grew up with many different options,” Serrao
said. “They’re foodies.”  College campuses today are surrounded by Thai and Indian
restaurants, sushi bars and so-called fusion eateries. As a
result, Millennials are “culturally connected,” said Chuck
Vila, Campbell’s vice president of consumer insights. “They’re
more experimental; they love to sample.”  Golden Lentils  Vila and his team invited younger consumers to their test
kitchens and sent researchers to their homes to watch them cook.
The younger consumers were asking for ingredients like coconut
curry and gouda cheese, ingredients that have never made it into
a can of condensed tomato soup. Hence such new flavors as golden
lentils with madras curry  Having traipsed to green markets as kids, Millennials
developed a taste for fresh ingredients. So Campbell ditched the
cans for pouches, which are already used to sell fresher food.  A group that typically never learned to cook wants
convenience. The gourmet soups can be heated in minutes, as can
a new line of Skillet Sauces, including Creamy Chipotle, which
can be simmered with fresh meat and vegetables.  Millennials typically aren’t as impressed with established
brands as their Boomer parents, according to “Trouble in Aisle
5,” a study done jointly by consulting firm AlixPartners and
investment firm Jefferies and Co., both based in  New York .  Blockbuster Product  To turn Go Soup into a blockbuster product, Campbell will
have to persuade them it’s worth spending $2.99 on a pouch,
according to Scott Mushkin, a senior food and drug retailing
analyst with Jefferies. If shoppers perceive Soup Go as an
appetizer, say, they may not bite, he said.  “They will pay for the product if it is positioned
right,” Mushkin said in a phone interview. “The problem with
soup is that it’s thought of as an accompaniment.”  Serrao sees it differently. Just as Starbucks persuaded
consumers to pay more for coffee, he says Campbell can charge a
premium because the ingredients are more gourmet and offer
something that isn’t really out in the market.  “Consumers are savvy enough to understand the value
proposition,” Serrao said.  Younger buyers haven’t bought much soup because most
varieties failed to cater to their finicky palates, he said.
While the price may seem lofty for soup, it positions Campbell
in a premium spot above the competition and is still affordable,
he said.  Campbell has also won over some Millennials with its Slow
Kettle Soups, which boast “extraordinary ingredients” and come
in microwave-safe cups, said spokesman Anthony Sanzio in a phone
interview. Also, the company’s Chunky soups typically sell for
more than $2, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Welch  in Detroit at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  