-- Canada Dollar Reaches Two-Week Low as Europe Debt Trims Demand
-- B y   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 2012-07-24T21:03:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/canadian-dollar-trades-at-almost-2-week-low-before-sales-report.html
Canada ’s dollar reached the lowest
level against its U.S. counterpart in almost two weeks as
concern  Europe ’s debt crisis is worsening crimped demand for
riskier assets.  The currency advanced briefly after a report showed retail
sales rose in May after dropping in April. Volatility rose for a
third session and options traders increased the amount they’re
paying for protection against a weaker Canadian dollar.  “The European situation is just getting started,” Aaron Fennell, a futures specialist at Scotiabank’s ScotiaMcLeod unit,
said by phone from Toronto. “Markets will start to hang more
and more on the U.S. election in November. I don’t anticipate
we’ll go through parity in a convincing way before the end of
the year.”  Canada’s currency, nicknamed the loonie, gained 0.3 percent
to C$1.0221 per  U.S. dollar  at 5 p.m. in Toronto, reaching the
weakest level since July 12. One Canadian dollar buys 97.83
cents.  Implied volatility for one-month options on the Canadian
dollar versus the greenback increased for a third day, rising to
7.47 percent, after falling to 6.22 percent at the end of last
week, the lowest this year. The five-year average is 12 percent.
Implied volatility, which traders quote and use to set option
prices, signals the expected pace of currency swings.  Options Data  So-called risk reversals show options traders are paying
more this week for protection against loonie weakness. The
premium for the right to buy the U.S. currency against the
loonie in three months, compared to the right to sell it, rose
to 1.47 percentage points today, up from this year’s low of 0.99
percentage points on July 20.  “Globally, we’re seeing risk appetite being challenged,
but in the  euro zone  it’s even more intense,”  Ian Stannard ,
head of European currency strategy at Morgan Stanley in  London ,
said in a telephone interview. “We expect the commodity
currencies to come under pressure from signs of a global growth
slowdown.”  Government bonds  rose, pushing 10-year yield down one basis
point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 1.58 percent. It touched
1.565 percent yesterday, the lowest yield since 1950, according
to  Bank of Canada  and Bloomberg data.  The 2.75 percent security maturing in June 2022 gained six
cents to C$110.72.  Debt Sale  Canada will sell C$2.6 billion of 10-year bonds tomorrow.
The securities mature in June 2023. The previous auction of 10-
year bonds, on June 6, drew an average yield of 1.765 percent
and a bid-to-cover ratio -- the amount bid relative to the
amount offered -- of 2.37 times, according to Bank of Canada
data. The five-auction average ratio is 2.43 times.  Odds that the Bank of Canada will cut  interest rates  by the
end of the year rose to about 33 percent today, from 24 percent
at the end of last week, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  “It comes down to interest rates,” said ScotiaMcLeod’s
Fennell. “As soon as they start raising rates, even if they
just talked about it, that would get the CAD moving. But that
doesn’t seem to be the situation now.”  Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney  has said since April
that tightening rates may become warranted, putting him at odds
with counterparts in Europe, the U.S., China and  Japan  who have
been adding stimulus. Carney reiterated his stance in the
statement accompanying the Ottawa-based central bank’s July 17
decision to leave its target overnight rate at 1 percent.  Consumer Spending  Retail sales rose less than economists forecast in May as
lower spending on gasoline partly offset gains at food and
clothing stores, government figures showed. Sales increased 0.3
percent to C$38.9 billion ($38.2 billion),  Statistics Canada 
said today in Ottawa. Economists surveyed by Bloomberg News
forecast a 0.5 percent increase, based on the median of 25
projections.  The euro fell for a fifth day against the yen, the longest
losing streak since May, amid speculation Europe’s sovereign-
debt crisis is threatening to engulf Spain and Italy. Moody’s
Investors Service cut its ratings outlook yesterday for  Germany 
and the Netherlands and LCH Clearnet Ltd. raised the extra
deposit it demands to trade some Spanish and Italian bonds.  “We’re still looking for fairly sharp losses in euro
generally in the near term,”  Shaun Osborne , chief currency
strategist at  Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD) ’s TD Securities unit, said
in an e-mail. “Seasonally, this is not a pro-risk time of year,
so I would expect the commodity currencies to struggle versus
the U.S. dollar and for the yen to gain.”  The Canadian dollar has gained 2.2 percent this year
against its nine counterparts, according to Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The U.S. dollar has risen 2.3
percent and the euro is down 5.6 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Fournier in Halifax at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Robert Burgess  at 
 bburgess@bloomberg.net  