-- Canada Gas Advances on Outlook for Above-Normal Temperatures
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   B u u r m a
-- 2012-07-24T19:19:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/canada-gas-advances-on-outlook-for-above-normal-temperatures.html
Canadian natural gas climbed on
forecasts of above-normal temperatures that may increase demand
for the fuel to generate electricity.  August gas in Alberta  gained 3.7 percent as Commodity
Weather Group LLC in Bethesda,  Maryland , predicted above-normal
temperatures in the central U.S through Aug. 7. Cooling demand
in the U.S. may be 7 percent above normal from July 30 through
Aug. 3, according to Weather Derivatives in Belton,  Missouri .  “It is becoming clear that the weather is again the best
friend of the natural gas market,” said  Martin King , an analyst
with FirstEnergy Capital Corp in Calgary. “Since the beginning
of June 2012, U.S. cumulative cooling-degree days are 23 percent
greater than average.”  Alberta  gas for August delivery gained 8.75 cents to
C$2.455 per gigajoule ($2.28 per million British thermal units)
as of 2:55 p.m. New York time on NGX, a Canadian Internet
market. Gas traded on the exchange is shipped to users in Canada
and the U.S. and priced on  TransCanada Corp. (TRP) ’s Alberta system.  Natural gas for August delivery on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  rose 7 cents, or 2.3 percent, to settle at $3.187 per
million Btu, the highest close since Dec. 13.  Cooling degree days are a measure of weather-driven demand
for natural gas and coal during the summer.  Hot Weather  The high temperature in Chicago on Aug. 5 may be 94 degrees
Fahrenheit (34 Celsius), 11 above normal, according AccuWeather
Inc. in  State College , Pennsylvania.  Volume on TransCanada’s  Alberta system , which collects the
output of most of the nation’s gas wells, was 16.2 billion cubic
feet at 3 p.m.  New York  time.  Gas was flowing at a daily rate of 1.95 billion cubic feet
at Empress, Alberta, where the fuel is transferred to
TransCanada’s main Line.  At McNeil, Saskatchewan, where gas is transferred to the
Northern Border Pipeline for shipment to the Chicago area, the
daily flow rate was 1.94 billion cubic feet.  There was no available capacity on TransCanada’s British
Columbia system at Kingsgate. The system was forecast to carry
2.056 billion cubic feet today, above the estimated capacity of
2.018 billion.  The volume on Spectra Energy’s British Columbia system,
which gathers the fuel in northeastern British Columbia for
delivery to Vancouver and the Pacific Northwest, totaled 2.81
billion cubic feet at 1:50 p.m.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Buurma in New York at 
 cbuurma1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Banker at 
 bbanker@bloomberg.net  