-- Caterpillar Slips From Dow Leader to Laggard on Economy
-- B y   S h r u t i   S i n g h
-- 2012-07-24T20:19:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/caterpillar-slips-from-dow-leader-to-laggard-on-economy-1-.html
Caterpillar Inc. (CAT) , the second-best
performer in the  Dow Jones Industrial Average  earlier this year,
has become one of the index’s biggest losers as slowing global
economic growth prompts analysts to cut  profit estimates .  While Caterpillar’s 26 percent rise in the first two months
of the year made it the largest gainer in the  30-company index 
after Bank of America Corp., the Peoria, Illinois-based
manufacturer’s 10 percent drop this year puts it fourth from the
bottom. At least nine analysts have cut their 2012 profit
estimates in the past four weeks, reducing the average
projection for Caterpillar’s earnings to increase 29 percent,
from 31 percent previously.  Caterpillar, the world’s largest maker of construction and
mining equipment, had nine straight quarters of  earnings growth 
as it rode a wave of investment by mining companies. In the
current quarter, Caterpillar’s strategy of expanding outside the
U.S. is coming under pressure as the rate of  China ’s economic
expansion decreases and Europe’s debt crisis drags on.  “The real question is: what does the forecast look like?”
 Stephen Volkmann , a New York-based analyst for Jefferies Group
Inc. who reduced his rating on Caterpillar to hold from buy last
week, said in a July 20 phone interview. “The concern is that
the growth trajectory has slowed.”  Retail Sales  In April, the company  forecast  2012 profit of about $9.50 a
share and sales advancing as much as 20 percent to $72 billion,
in what would be a  third year of gains .  Caterpillar’s global retail machine sales rose 11 percent
in the three months through June, according to a filing today,
matching the gain for March through May.  North America  led with
a 24 percent increase, compared with 31 percent reported
previously. Asia-Pacific sales expanded 16 percent, up from 5
percent.  Latin America  was down 3 percent.  “The data demonstrates that China and Brazil may be
bottoming,” Larry De Maria, an analyst at William Blair & Co.
in  New York , said in a note.  Caterpillar, considered a U.S. economic bellwether, is
scheduled to release earnings before the start of trading
tomorrow. The company is expected to report second-quarter
profit increased 33 percent to $2.28 a share, according to the
average of 20  estimates . Analysts project, on average, that
sales rose 19 percent to $17 billion.  There have been indications that demand for the company’s
signature yellow machines was cooling in some regions. Chief
Executive Officer  Doug Oberhelman  told investors in April when
Caterpillar reported first-quarter earnings that sales of
construction equipment in China and Brazil were down.  China Cooling  The global economic picture hasn’t gotten brighter in the
past month. Brazil’s economy is recovering more slowly than
expected from a contraction last year and economists in the
latest central bank survey lowered their 2012 growth estimates
for the 10th straight week.  Spain  said July 20 that its
recession will extend into 2013.  China’s economic expansion may cool for a seventh straight
quarter to 7.4 percent in the three months to September, Song Guoqing, a member of the People’s Bank of China monetary policy
committee, said last week. The Chinese excavator market is down
38 percent so far this year, according to estimates from William
Blair.  Jim Dugan , a Caterpillar spokesman, declined to comment.  While North America remains Caterpillar’s biggest market,
accounting for 36 percent of  revenue  in 2011,  Asia  and emerging
nations have become increasingly important for the company. A
decade earlier, about half of Caterpillar’s revenue was
generated in the U.S.  Ratings Reduced  Chinese companies are emerging as challengers to
Caterpillar, Oberhelman said July 17 at a conference in Aspen,
 Colorado .  Caterpillar fell 0.2 percent to $81.43 at the close in New
York. The shares have dropped 23 percent in the past year.  Caterpillar isn’t alone in being affected by macroeconomic
uncertainty. Jefferies last week also cut its ratings on U.S.
companies including tractor maker  CNH Global NV (CNH) , electrical-
equipment manufacturer  Eaton Corp. (ETN) , and  Parker Hannifin Corp. (PH) , a
producer of air-conditioner components.  U.S. exporters are also grappling with a stronger dollar.
The euro has fallen 16 percent against the dollar in the past 12
months while the British pound has dropped 4.8 percent.  Other U.S. manufacturers have reduced their guidance.
 Cummins Inc. (CMI) , a U.S. truck-engine and power-generator maker,
slumped 8.9 percent on July 10 after saying 2012 revenue will be
in line with last year, ditching an earlier forecast of a 10
percent increase.  ‘Moderating Growth’  Joy Global Inc. (JOY) , a Milwaukee-based mining-equipment maker,
on May 31 lowered its full-year earnings guidance. As well as
citing a contraction in the U.S. coal industry, Joy said global
uncertainty is keeping customers cautious about new projects.  Commodity prices, as measured by the Standard & Poor’s GSCI
Spot Index of 24 raw materials, have declined 12 percent from
this year’s peak in March.  Caterpillar’s U.S. dealers anticipate 2012 revenues will
rise about 10 percent, less than in a previous survey and the 16
percent mid-point of Caterpillar’s own forecast,  Brian Rayle , a
Cleveland-based analyst for Northcoast Research who has a hold
rating on the shares, said in a July 19 report.  Dealers historically have forecast more conservative sales
growth than Caterpillar’s North American businesses report,
Rayle said.  “The moderating growth outlook from dealers, which is
consistent with the slowing growth being reported in a number of
Caterpillar’s end markets, is evidence of the relative weakness
that the company is currently working through,” Rayle said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shruti Singh in Chicago at 
 ssingh28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  